

f
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3409
Wednesday, June 13, 1945
Price 6d»
Registered at the General Post. Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
AUDLEY END.
“TOO MUCH FOR A KING,” SAID REGAL JAMES I
A UDLEY END, near Saffron Waldon, in North Essex, was built
by Thomas, Lord Howard de Walden, on the site of the monas-
tery of Walden given to his grandfather, Lord Chancellor Audley,
by Henry VIII. This Lord Howard de Walden, who had taken
an active part in the destruction of the Spanish Armada, what
with holding the office of Lord Treasurer and receiving large
bribes, through his wife, from the Constable of Castile when nego-
tiating peace with Spain, amassed such a fortune that he deter-
mined to build a mansion larger and more magnificent than any
in England. The wooden model of the house ordered from Italy
alone cost £5OO, and the house when built was said to be worth
£190,000. James I, who created him Earl of Suffolk, wished to buy
Audley House ; but when he learned what it had cost he exclaimed
“Sy my troth, now, it is too much for a king, but it may do for a
Lord High Treasurer.” After the Restoration Charles II bought it
for £50,000, and in 1670 established his Court there. One day,
when there was a fair at Audley End, the Queen and her party,
including the Duchesses of Richmond and Buckingham, dressed
up as country lasses in red petticoats and waistcoats, and started
out to see the fair. But they had so overdone their costumes that,
as the old story says, “They looked much more like aritiques than
country folks,” and all the people at the fair followed them about.
The Queen wanted to buy a pair of yellow stockings for her sweet-
heart, and the “gibberish” of the royal party increased the train
of wondering and suspicious peasants ; until one man among them,
proud of recognising the Queen, whom he had seen, divulged the
secret. The Queen and her companions made off at once, followed
to the gates of the palace by the gaping crowd.


Learn
Journalism
ill HOnF
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
THE MISSING MERINOS.
By the time he got to the fence he could
see the sheep moving across from the far
corner. He went down towards, them,
keeping to one side. The dog was bring-
ing them on quietly. He went down after
a bunch that seemed to be getting behind
and brought them up. Once they got up
on the fence the sheep went along in a
compact mass. They made the dust rise
and he could hear them panting. They
moved along quietly. Then he saw the
gate. It was shut. He went out' round the
sheep, leaving them on the fence, and
dragged it open.. He went round back, and
the sheep, after milling a bit, went through.
That is ,a description, from a short story
in Peter Cowan’s Drift (Reed and Harris),
of a city man, on holiday in the country',
droving a flock of sheep to water. Mr.
Cowan is obviously writing with great
care, attempting in his short, flat sen-
tences to give the most realistic descrip-
tion possible; and because he really is
a conscientious craftsman, it is worth
analysing why the description is so weak
and so vague.
For weak and vague it most certainly
is. What do these sheep look like? What
breed are they? Are they heavy with
wool or have they recently been shorn?
Are they all the one age? Are they all
the same size? Are they hoggets or ewes
and lambs, or old ewes? Are there horned
rams among them? Are any of them
lame? Do some of them stumble, some
run faster than others, some sniff at the
dust, some snatch hasty mouthfuls of
grass as they run? Can the drover see
their tongues when they pant? Is there
a black sheep among them? Are there
some with long tails? Mr. Cowan has
observed none of these points ; merely
that they are “a compact mass”—and he
does not even say what color that mass is.
One cannot see these sheep. And noth-
ing is said about the smell of them ; not
one of them bleats. They “pant,” cer-
tainly ; but they are not described in the
act of panting.
The dog “brings them on quietly.”
He may have been described earlier in
the story, but in this paragraph—where,
if it is to be truly a realistic landscape,
the description must be recalled —he is
no breed, no color, no size, no shape;
his gait is not described, he never barks,
he doesn’t even wag his tail, if he has one.
Similarly with the man: he has been
described earlier, but he is not painted
as a living figure in this landscape ; one
does not even know what clothes he is
wearing. One is not told whether the
fence is plain wire, barbed wire or wire
and netting, nor whether it is new and
shiny or old and tumbledown. We do
not know whether,the gate is of wire or
of wood.
The only real piece of visualisation in
the whole paragraph is the observation
that the sheep “made the dust rise” ; and
here one is not told the color of the dust,
nor whether it rises in a cloud or in little
spurts from their hooves.
The writer’s task, Conrad said, was to
“make see.”
Here, for comparison, is a little sketch
of a flock of sheep from a Henry Law-
son story, “In a Wet Season”:
Small plain beyond, covered with water
and tufts of grass. The inevitable, God-
forgotten “timber” black in the distance;
dull, grey sky and misty rain over all. A
small, dark-looking flock of sheep was
crawling slowly in across the flat from the
unknown, with three men on horseback
zigzagging patiently behind them. The
horses just moved —that was all. One man
wore an oilskin, one an old tweed overcoat,
and the third had a three-bushel bag over
his head and shoulders.
Lawson wasn’t trying to write a “purple
patch” in this little paragraph ; notori-
ously, indeed, he avoided them. Probably
he hardly gave a thought to the descrip-
tion. But Lawson, being the master that
he was, just couldn’t help noticing things.
The sheep —and observed from a longer
distance than those in Peter Cowan’s story
—are not simply a .“compact mass,” but a
“dark-looking” mass. Everything is most
minutely observed: the timber is “black,”
the sky is “dull grey,” the rain is “misty,”
the men’s clothes are watched so closely
that we learn even the size of the bag the
third is wearing over his head and
shoulders.
Something more interesting than the
fact that Peter Cowan has removed too
many adjectives—and eliminated real
color and precision from those he does
offer—emerges from the comparison of
these two extracts. These are Lawson’s
verbs and participles: “crawling,” “zig-
zagging,” “just. moved,” “wore” ; and
these are Peter Cowan’s: “got,” “went,”
“moving across,” “bringing,” “getting,”
“brought,” “got,” “went,” “made,” “could
hear,” “panting,” “moved,” “saw,”
“went,” “leaving,” “dragged,” “went,”
“milling,” “went” —three “gots” and five
“wents”’ in one short paragraph!
Again, Peter Cowan does try ; “panting”
and “dragged” and “milling” are all
words that have action and color ; but
the repeated “gots” and “wents” and
“broughts” are not merely blemishes in
his prose style but, in writing that is striv-
ing for precision, are inert and vague.
Lawson’s sheep “crawl” across the plain,
and one sees them; Cowan’s “move
across,” and they might as well be in-
visible ; Lawson’s horsemen “zigzagged”
behind the sheep, and one sees them, but
one cannot see the man in Cowan’s story
who “went down” and “went out rodnd”
and “went round back.” How much
more vivid, as well as more accurate, to
say that he “rushed,” or he “ran,” or he
“strode” or even simply that he “walked.”
In the same story Cowan has a refer-
ence to cicadas; “There were cicadas
outside” ; that is all. In another story
there are crickets: “He could hear the
crickets and the quiet noise of the leaves
of the shade trees about the house.” The
writer knows enough about his craft to
realise that he must describe the noise of
the leaves—a “quiet noise” ; but for some
reason or other he refuses to describe the
clamor of the cicadas and the shrilling of
the crickets.
The result of these curious omissions
is that the Australian countryside in which
Cowan’s stories are set seems a cold,
empty, desolate place, vague and unreal.
Plenty of scenes observed much more
faithfully than the paragraph about the
sheep could be found ; but that is the
general effect—an unreal desolation in
which, like the shades in the Hades of
the Greeks, move shadowy and desolate
people. And the actions of these people
are kept as mysterious as possible, the
author usually revealing only on about
the fourth page of his narrative what his
story is all about.
These stories are essays in the conven-
tions of the day —that fashion of vague-
ness and misery in which Stephen Spen-
der’s short stories move, and the fashion
of carefully-illiterate prose practised by
followers of Hemingway. Mr, Cowan is
not setting down what he has observed
of Australian life but only that part of
his observation which fashion will permit.
He does not appear ever to have heard
an Australian laughing and, though there
is much earnest effort in his book which
one might admire as such, there is little
to enjoy; When he handles “taboo”
themes, as he does on a couple of occa-
sions, one does not feel that he
is really interested in his characters, but
that he is conscientiously doing his duty
as an orthodox modernist.
Since he is a “serious” —very serious-
young writer, and since there is undoubt-
edly promise in his work as well as, within
its limits, a creditable achievement,
Cowan should seriously consider whether
a “compact mass” is really an accurate
description of a flock of sheep, whether
short sentences full of “wents” and “gots ’
do in fact make a good prose style, and
whether Australia is indeed such a dolor-
ous place as overseas fashions (and per-
haps Lawson in his moments of depres-
sion) have taught him to say it is.
Poems from a Zoo.
When Australian versifiers talk to dead
gum-trees—which they do with extraordi-
nary frequency—they invariably remark
that the trees look like sentinels. Mr.
F. John Blight, twenty-five of whose
poems have been published by Dymock’s,
Ltd., under the title The Old Pianist,
has a rather different style of address:
How would you look in a steel-grey suit
With telephone cups for your pips, and a boot,
A tall jackboot of fresh black tar?
It is better you stand in the bush as you are.
There are faults enough in Blight’s
verse; but that stanza alone is sufficient
to indicate that he has one of the most
original minds to be met in contem-
porary Australian poetry. What other
writer, looking at “A Farmer, Fencing,”
would see him as a kind of spider, trap-
ping the cattle in his web of wire? And
what other writer, having chanced on
that fancy, would think of developing
it to the point where he sees the farmer
himself trapped in the country-wide web
of telephone wires, so that the poem as a
whole becomes a criticism -of a financial
system in which the farmer works for
some distant “city spider”?
What spinneret, freak organ or machine
Did you conceal, that eye had never seen?
You say, “A factory.” Ah, that implies
Some city spider trapped you with the flies.
Indeed, I noticed you ensnared inside
The web that’s spun about the countryside;
And though the lure of lissom gossamer
Will trap the best of flies, a wily spider
Lurks out of sight of web upon a thread
That links a telephone beside his bed;
He sets his net and seldom after toils,
But sleeps and smiles and feasts upon the spoils.
Blight is using the device known as the
“conceit” —which might be defined as
metaphor expanded to its limit; the ex-
treme elaboration of a fancy. A trick
of the Elizabethans and their immediate
successors—
Whenas in silks my Julia goes
Then, then, methinks, how sweetly flows
The liquefaction of her clothes
it has been exploited in modern times by
two Faber poets, Marianne Moore and
William Empsom.
The advantage of the conceit, of
course, is that it sets the poet free to
exploit to the full his powers of imagi-
nation and expression. The- danger is
that its exponent is liable to slip into
exaggeration, or obscurity, or mere
word-spinning, metaphor for the sake of
metaphor. In a poem about the Queens-
land canefields, for instance, in which
the countryside is pictured (vaguely) as
a woman dressed in “green ribbons” to
whom a laborer gives his heart, Blight
has the couplet;
He toiled, and in the hearsay of her bold green
fur
They called the priest and pegged his claim of
earth.
His general meaning is clear enough:
the wayfarer takes a job, or a block of
land, and becomes, as it were, married
to the canefields till death does them
part. But the metaphors are strained:
the beribboned lady, a suitable enough
figure for a conceit, has now become
covered with “bold green fur” and this
peculiar pelt is apparently able to “hear.”
Similarly, no fewer than three meta-
phors are packed into the deceptively
innocent-looking second line of the coup-
let: the wayfarer is married to his furry
friend, he pegs out a claim of earth like
a miner and also he marks out his burial
plot. It is not reasonable to ask the
reader to spend half a day disentangling
the metaphors of a couplet; nor is it
good art so to tangle them.
Another fault in Blight’s writing is
that the flights into metaphor seem to
tire him, so that when he comqs down to
earth again he talks flatly. In the poem
about the dead tree there is the couplet—
Yours is the battle no saint would gainsay,
To stamp in the sunshine for ever and aye—
which is technically vapid and, in the
first line, obscure because of mere un-
deftness. A poem faulty in a different
way is “The Hurricane Lantern,” in
which the metaphors, though attractive,
fall short of the image that makes poetry.
Blight offers in these poems a world
macabre and sombre, his “bedtime zoo”:
I have disclosed to you one half myself;
The masked exterior, the sly self.
You have not looked under, with me at nights,
This pallid splotch of skin, seen the sights
Of horrid grins in mirrors, grimaces
Of demons in a hundred fleeting faces.
No, I am the devil... or, I think, near enough
To frighten you, my dear . .. horned and gruff
As Balboa, and I’ve seen as much
The other side of life. As dead to touch
As frozen carrion. Oh, cast me off!
Do not number me among your friends, but
scoff
At the dying man with the greying locks,
One with ashes, trees and rocks;
Whom you may recognise only
If you be very lonely
And tired, and troubled, and too
See in your mirror his bedtime zoo.
A world of spiders and dead trees, of
harsh-voiced parrots, of the crow that
is undertaker to the brindle cow, of the
“Dark Room,” the bleak “Night in the
Park” and the farmhand who had lost
an arm; in its minor way, a descent into
hell to be measured against Dante’s
“Inferno:,” Coleridge’s “Ancient Mariner,”
Browning’s “Childe Roland to the Dark
Tower Came,” Eliot’s “Waste Land”
and Brennan’s “The Wanderer.”
The present commentator is not inter-
ested in going to hell with any poet unless
the journey is entertaining. There’s not
much fun in Eliot’s pilgrimage, nor in
Brennan’s ; but Coleridge and Browning
make a fascinating tour of it. Blight in
such poems as “The Song,” “Night in
the Park,” “The Bell,” “No Freedom”
and “In a Dark Room” is merely de-
pressing ; but when he offers his crows
and his termites, his spiders and his zoo,
he is worth going along with; there is
something to see.
When a man can see hell as a “zoo”
he is laughing at it, really, and it’s, im-
portant that Blight should realise this.
His talent is essentially humorous —not
the facile laughter of someone who has
never dipped below the surface of life,
but the deep strong mirth of a man who
has been down to the Dark Tower and
blown the “slug-horn” at it as valiantly
as Browning did.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Cauboy”: Going up in the lift to an
exhibition of works of a fashionable
painter I heard one be-furred patroness
say to another “I want to see his eyes.
They follow you about wherever you
move.” Momentarily I put this down to
interest of the fair sex in the artist, but
was disillusioned by the reply of her com-
panion—“ Yes, I have been told that is
the perfect test of a good portrait.” The
connoisseurs were repeating one of the
hoariest of fallacies. In any full-face,
forward-looking representations of the
human face the eyes appear to follow the
observer if he shifts his viewpoint, whether
the picture is by a third-rate painter or
Velasquez.
A show of New Guinea landscapes by
Douglas Pratt at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, gives evidence that this clever
draughtsmen has added to his skill with
the pencil some facility in water-color
and a good understanding of the elements
of oil technique. But his pencil work re-
mains most distinctive No. 15, “The
Climb to Mt Protheroe,” disposes of diffi-
culties of composition with ease. Mr.
Pratt seems to have set out to describe
New Guinea rather than to make art
out of it, and the work should be regarded
simply as a topographical record.
Using a familiar technique and an eye
attuned to South Australia’s picturesque
past of wooden pubs and old stone
houses, T. H. Bone (Leighton Galleries,
Melb.) paints water-color pictures that
nobody could object to. His sketches of
Eden Valley Township and the Onka-
paringa made one Adelaidean homesick.
“S.T.S.”: Let me second the claim of
“2B” (B. 25/4/’45) for an Australian
share in Britain’s national collection of
art works, there packed away, but here
lacking and coveted. Turner alone “left
to the nation 362 oils, 135 water-colors,
1757 color-studies and thousands of draw-
ings and sketches.” With a mission from
S.A. to inspect such things, I saw hun-
dreds of such treasures packed away at
the Tate, and begged for just a specimen
for Adelaide. Not a hope. We had a
similar experience at Birmingham. Kaines
Smith, bora in Adelaide, had just been
appointed director of that city’s gallery,
but he, too, though highly sympathetic,
had after inquiries to report that nothing
could be spared for Australia.
At the talkies:
“Kismet” (Sydney Liberty): The Edward
Knoblock play of the audacious Beggar King
of old Bagdad who schemed to wed his daughter
to a prince what time he helped himself to the
Grand Vizier’s glamorous favorite. Froth and
bubble in color.
“Man from ’Frisco”' (Sydney Civic); Routine
drama of the shipyards, the man concerned
being a shipbuilder with progressive ideas who
battles forcefully but with little tact against
a small community with a conservative outlook.
Chiefly interesting for the documentary shots of
the building of a pre-fabricated ship.
Adelaide Repertory, to meet the de-
mands of its 2000 members and the
public, has added a fifth evening to each
of its shows. Its latest effort, Bridie’s
“Storm in a Teacup,” is now entirely
Scottish, even though it had a German
original. A young reporter (pricker)
defies the Provost (Claridge) over a
about to be destroyed ; and, quite im-
probably, but legally, he gets away with
widow woman’s dog, impounded and
both the dog and the sheriff’s wife
(Dorothy Wilkinson) at the end. There
were some fine bits of support, but Meta
McCaffey and her clever small dog tended
to steal die show.
One-sex plays are sometimes like one-
way traffic roads —they lack the excite-
ment and variety that conflict gives them.
“Frozen Glory,” put on by Melbourne’s
Little Theatre, concerns six Englishmen
caught in a hut in the Canadian snow-
lands and forced to contemplate their
almost certain elimination by starvation.
Each reacts to the situation in a different
manner and there is a mysterious inter-
loping stranger who drops in, shares the
dwindling supply of victuals and dis-
appears, after functioning as that side
of every human being which wants to
rush the boats in a shipwreck but over
whom the leader of the expedition tri-
umphs. The play is not difficult to
understand because there is little to
understand in it. The intrusion of a
female would have relieved a slight
monotony which even the skilful acting
of the Little Theatricians failed to keep
out of the proceedings. To redress the
balance the L.T. will next stage The
Women.”
Contributions —to be addressed to the
Editor, Coast to Coast, c/o Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney—are invited for the 1945 Coast to
Coast. Closing date July 31.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE”
SCIENTIFIC, INDUSTRIAL, TECHNICAL
'Phone your order to M 2401 any time, day
or night, or mail your order, quoting the
item numbers of the books you require.
T sS
a
M
mm
m
i
mm
m
i
m
m
m
m
m
m
i
m
m
mmmm
m
B*S
m
w a 't
ma
m
■
m
msmmm
m
t****
;
*****
m
m
iili
mm
mmm
Q
mm
Jm
m
mi
Cl. SHEEP, by J, F. H. Thomas and Others.
A picture of the sheep and sheep farming
of Great Britain at the present time. Illustrated.
Price 23/9 (Postage 4Vzd.)
C 2. AUSTRALASIAN SHEEP AND WOOL, by
Alfred Hawksworth. From paddock to
loom; from shearing ' shed to textile factory.
Price 25/- (Postage lOVzd.)
C 3. GENERAL ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
Edited by Phillip Kemp. Four hundred and
torty-eight pages; 500 photographs and illustra-
tions. A complete survey for young men and
youths. Price 12/- (Postage OVad.)
C 4. FORD V-8 CARS AND TRUCKS: Construction,
Operation and Repair, by Victor W. Page.
Latest edition. Price 21/- (Postage 1/0 Vi)
C 5. CHEVROLET SIX CAR AND TRUCK. Con-
struction, Operation and Repair, by Victor
W. Page. Latest edition. Price, 21/- (Post. I/01/2)
C 6. ROPEWORK: Knots,* Hitches, Splices,
Halters, by J. M. Drew. 2/- (Postage, 3 V^d.)
C 7. RADIO PHYSICS COURSE, by Alfred A.
Ghirardi. Second edition, revised and
enlarged. Price 40/- (Postage \/ZVz)
CB. MODERN RADIO SERVICING, by Alfred A.
Ghirardi. 706 illustrations. 40/- (P. I/2V2)
C 9. THE PRINCIPLES OF FIELD DRAINAGE, by
H. H. Nicholson. A new book for Agricul-
turists, Surveyors and Engineers. 19/6 (Post., lOYzd.)
CIO. THE HANDYMAN AND HOME MECHANIC.
512 pages. 600 How-to-do-it diagrams and
photographs. Home repairs, decoration indoor
and outdoor, furniture construction; illustrated.
Price ... 9/6 (Postage lOV^d.)
Cll. HIGHER SURVEYING, by Arthur Lovat
Higgins. Price 46/- (Postage BYzd.)
Cl 2. HYDRAULICS, by F. C. Lea. For Engineers
and Engineering Students. 39/- (Post. BYzd.)
Cl 3. MARINE NAVIGATION, by P. V. H. Weems.
A most simple and practical treatment of
the entire field of marine navigation. 47/6. (P. 7Yz d.)
Cl 4. ELEMENTS OF YACHT DESIGN, by Norman
L. Skene, Naval Architect. Designing
yachts of all types for amateurs and professionals.
6th edition. Price 36/- (Postage 7Yzd.)
CIS. STEELS FOR THE USER, bly R. T. Rolfe,
F.I.C. Second edition, revised and enlarged.
Pricp 40/- (Postage 7Yzd.)
Cl 6. REED'S PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS FOR
MARINE ENGINEERS, First and Second
Class. Sixth edition. Price .. 55/- (Postage I/01/2)
Cl 7. RUBBER AND ITS USE, by Harry L. Fisher,
Research Chemist. Authoritative and Prac-
tical. Price 22/9 (Postage sVod.)
ClB. SOAP MANUFACTURE, by J. W. Wigner.
The Chemical Processes. 17/9. (Post. sYzd.)
Cl 9. INTRODUCTION TO NAVAL ARCHITECTURE,
by John P. Comstock, Assistant Naval
Architect, Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry
Dock Company. Price 38/-. (Postage 7V2d.)
C2O. A SILVERSMITH'S MANUAL, by Bernard
Cuzner. The designing and making of
the simpler pieces of domestic silverware .... 7/9
(Postage 6Yzd.)
C2l. CYANID ATI ON AND CONCENTRATION OF
GOLD AND SILVER ORES, by Dorr.
Price 38/9 (Postage 1 /OV2)
C 22. COVEL-HANCHETT SAW AND KNIFE
FITTING MANUAL. 58/-. (Postage 9i/ 2 d.)
C 23. raE PRACTICAL BUILDER. A modern
comprehensive book for the learner, the
apprentice and the ambitious craftsman, with over
500 drawings, diagrams, and photographs.
Price 15/3. (Postage 9V^d.)
C 24. PLASTICS, Scientific and Technological, by
H. Ronald Fleck. First edition, 1943.
Price 40/- (Postage SYzd.)
C 25. handbook of engineering PLASTICS,
by D. Warburton Brown. A reference book
for engineers. Price 21/- (Postage 6V2d.)
C 26. PLASTICS IN INDUSTRY, by "Plastes."
Chapters devoted to heavy and chemical
engineering, architecture, textiles, fancy goods, etc.
45 illustrations. Price 21/9 (Postage 5V2d.)
C 27. PLASTIC WORKING OF METALS AND NON-
METALLIC MATERIALS IN PRESS, by E, V.
Crane. Third edition. Price 45/-. (Postage lOYzd.)
C2B. AN INTRODUCTION TO THE CHEMISTRY
OF CELLULOSE, by J. T. Marsh and F. C.
Wood. Price 48/6. (Postage 9V2d.)
C 29. MERCERISING, by J. T. Marsh.
Price 55/- (Postage lOV^d).
C3O. A HANDBOOK ON COTTON WARP SIZING,
Price 7/-. (Postage 4V2d.)
C3I. ARITHMETIC FOR PRINTERS, by J. Wood-
ward Auble. Price .. 18/-. (Postage 51/ 2 d.)
C 32. FATIGUE OF WORKERS, and Its Relation
to Industrial Production, by National Re-
search Council Committee of U.S.A. 20/- (Post. 6^/2 d.)
C 33. AUSTRALIAN BUILDING PRACTICE, by
James Nangle, 0.8. E. A treatise for
Australian Students of Building Construction,
Builders, Architects, etc. Price 25/- (Postage 6i/ 2 d.)
C 34. ™E CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF FERROUS
ALLOYS AND FOUNDRY MATERIALS:
Modern Practice and Theory, by E. C. Pigott.
Price 48/6. (Postage 71/ 2 d.)
CSS. LIQUID FUELS, by Harold Moore. Their
manufacture, properties, utilisation and
analysis. Price 40/- (Postage lOV^d.)
C 36. HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATION. (A complete
treatise), by H. B. Hull, M.E. Fourth Ed., 1933.
Price ...• 38/- (Postage I/OV2)
C 37. TRIANGULATION. Applied to Sheet Metal
Pattern Cutting, by F. S. Kidder 27/-
(Postage 71/fcd.)
€3B. X-RAY CRYSTALLOGRAPHY, by M. J.
Buerger, Associate Professor of Mineralogy
and Crystallography, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. Price 7/6 (Postage I/OV2)
£39. BRIDGE AND STRUCTURAL ENGINEER'S
HANDBOOK, by Adam Hunter. 41/3. (lOVzd.)
C4O. BUILDING SCIENCE, by A. G. Geeson. For
students of Architecture and Building,
Chemistry, Physics, etc. Price 33/3. (Postage 71/ 2 d.)
C4l. CONCRETE PRODUCTS AND CAST STONE,
by H. L. Childe. Price 15/9. (Postage 71/^d.)
£42. AUDEL'S NEW AUTOMOBILE GUIDE, for
Mechanics, Operators and Servicemen, with
questions, answers and illustrations. 28/- (P. lOV^d.)
C 43. FOWLER'S ARCHITECTS' BUILDERS' AND
CONTRACTORS' POCKET BOOK. 13/-. (si/ 2 d.)
£44. HURST'S ARCHITECTURAL SURVEYORS'
HANDBOOK (Formulae, Tables and Memor-
anda). 17fh edition. Price .. 17/-. (Postage 4(/ 2 d )
£45. ARCHITECTURE, by R. M. Edmonds. An
introductory survey. Fully illustrated, 304
pages; stiff cloth binding. Price 2/-. (Post. 4V^d.)
£46. KNOW YOUR OWN TREES, by Reuben T.
Patton. A short introduction to the study of
our common eucalypts. Price, 3/6. (Postage 21/ 2 d.)
£47. THE PIG INDUSTRY. A modern guide book
for the Australian Pig Breeder. 8/6. (P. SV^d.)
£4B. THE OUTLINE OF WIRELESS, by Ralph
Stranger. 836 pages, 578 illustrations.
Price 17/6 (Postage 7t/ 2 d.)
£49. PROCTOR'S LEATHER CHEMIST'S POCKET
BOOK, by W. R. Atkin and F. C. Thompson.
Price 31/-. (Postage 71/ 2 d.)
£5O. TEXTILE TESTING: Physical, Chemical and
Microscopical, by John H. Skenkle.
Price 30/-. (Postage 71/^d.)
£5l. ARTIFICIAL SILK, by Dr. Franz Reinthaler.
Enlarged and revised edition, translated
from the German by F. M. Rowe. 41/3 (P. Qi/jd.)
£52. THE new metal worker pattern book,
by George W. Kettredge and Associates.
Revised and enlarged edition. 54/- (Post. I/71/2)
£53. THE MODERN HOUSE, by F. R. S. Yorke.
sth edition, 1944. Magnificently illustrated,
for home planners and architects. 30/- (Post. B^d.)
C 54. COPPER AND COPPER BASE, by R. A.
Wilkins and E. S. Burn. The physical and
mechanical properties of copper and its commercial
alloys in wrought form. Price, 38/9 (Postage l/ZVz)
C 55. INDUSTRIAL ELECTRICITY, by John M.
Nadon and Bert J. Gelmine. Fundamentals
of electricity, machine and controlling equipment.
Price 28/6. (Postage SV-jd.)
£56. THE ART OF ARCHITECTURE, by A. E.
Richardson and Hector O. Corfiato. Archi-
tecture from earliest times. 686 pages; 148 drawings,
471 photographs. Price 66/- (Postage 1/3V^)
C 57. THE UNIVERSAL SHEET METAL PATTERN
CUTTER, by William Neubecker. Illustrated
with 713 engravings. A comprehensive treatise in
2 volumes. Vol. 1 67/6
Vol. II 54/- (Postage 1/7 Y2 each Vol.)
C5B. THE STARRETT BOOK FOR STUDENT
MACHINISTS. Price 6/9. (Postage 3V 2 d.)
C 59. PILOTING, SEAMANSHIP AND SMALL
BOAT HANDLING. A complete illustrated
course on small boat work. 1944 edition, by
Charles F. Chapman, M.E. 17/6 (Postage 1/0
£6O. CLASSING THE CLIP, by Clarence E.
Cowley. A handbook on (Wool Classing.
Price 12/6. (Postage Si/jd.)
• Book Department —Second Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE BREAK-UP
By ISABEL KNOX.
MISS CANDY had engaging ways
for a teacher. At eleven o’clock
in the morning she used to take
her medicine sheltered behind the
door of the cupboard that opened out of
the wall. There would be a breathless
hush till she came out making a wry face
and shaking herself. Then the class
would let its breath go in a long, com-
munal puff.
“It’s only my medicine,” Miss Candy
would say defensively as they stared with
crude interest. On very good days she
ate a bit of orange after it.
Miss Candy was a great hand at send-
ing notes to other teachers, and the notes
were always worth looking at. Frankie
Mclvor had to take one down to Miss
Bradshaw in Grade VIII one day. As
soon as he got out in the corridor with
the class-room door safely shut behind
him he opened the note and read:
“What would you say right? Gave
to class for H.W. ‘On, Stanley, on.’
Merlie Dowsett (practically never wrong)
has parsed ‘on’ verb. Would you say
verb or prep.?”
There was enough gum left on the
envelope for Frankie to be able to stick
it down again.
“Don’t be silly,” had been Miss Brad-
shaw’s reply, not even stuck down.
Miss Candy had spent a crowded hour
tearing through the pages of Nesfield
and Aughterson, and even then the exer-
cise-books came back unmarked.
Miss s Candy’s father had a boot-
repairing shop near the school, a thing
that gave her low social standing in the
staff room, but that was not without its
ameliorations. If, for instance, the sky
suddenly became overcast an enterpris-
ing youth would start waving his hand
over his head with bird-like swooping
motions. Having attracted Miss Candy’s
attention he would say in ominous tone,
“00, Miss, it looks like it’s gonna ripe !'”
The class would add low moans of
apprehension. Miss Candy panicked at
once.
“M-m-m” .... giving herself a rapid
six-pennorth of dry shave. “An’ me
without a raincoat. There now, what a
nuisance, class. Whatever’ll Ido at
lunchtime?”
“I’ll go fer it. Miss,” roared Vox Populi.
But Miss Candy honorably chose him
who had first drawn her attention to the
state of the weather. She would write
on a half-sheet of exercise paper a mes-
sage to be given to her old dad as he
bent over his last, his mouth full of tacks:
“Please send r’coat, look in hall cup-
board. If not there try behind w’shouse
door.” And the messenger, seizing the
note, would rush violently away in his
perishing sandshoes.
In the drawing lesson Miss Candy was
particularly fascinating. “Your eye-
level,”-she would explain, “is the level
your vision rests on when the eyes look
straight ahead, neither raised nor
lowered.” (She had picked up a certain
amount of official jargon despite her un-
orthodox ways.) “Now, class, each one
find his or her eye-level—on me. For
some it may be here,” pointing to button
in dead middle of diaphragm. “For
others,” indicating a point somewhat
lower, “here.”' Sketching interesting arcs
with her forefinger she said, “For every-
one it will be somewhere about
h-e-r-e” . . . Perfectly unselfconscious,
she would pause while the army of eyes
fastened themselves with varying degrees
of motion to portions of her anatomy.
Miss Candy would stand for no mock
modest veiling of the eyes. “Dolly
Miller, you aren’t trying to find eye-level! ”
Naturally Miss Candy’s class was
marked as a goal while you were still
far down the school. Only a few swots
failed to enjoy their year with her.
WHILE she understood many sides
of school life Miss Candy had a
natural talent for break-up' days. Her
method here was simple and fundamental.
Merely it was decreed that everyone
should bring a pound of something to
eat. Pounder apples, pounder fruit cake,
pounder pears, pounder boiled lollies,
pounder lemonade (hee! hee! hee!)
pounder peanuts, pounder specks,
pounder stalies ... If anything vital
lacked. Miss Candy was quite capable
of producing the jink herself and send-
ing someone (with a note) round to “The
Biccy” to procure it.
There was something special about the
break-up day dawning on them. Miss
Candy’s curious scholastic ministrations
had this year born unique fruit. Every-
one had got his Qually. From crag to
crag the signal flew. Nobody could
understand it. “Perhaps it’s the war,”
people said enigmatically. “There’s a
war on, you know.”
However that might be, the class felt
entitled to eat itself into a syncone.
It could hardly believe that there
had arrived that unhoped serene men
called the holerdees. Superb heat
crowned the day of days. In fact, it was
a fair stinker. So it oughter be. Nobody
was more resentful than the children of
the indisputable fact that, despite the
agonised protests of the Weather Bureau,
the climate was subtly changing: and
that they were being deprived of the
hard, dry heat that was their birthright
and salvation. But today, early, the dust
haze already shimmered in the north,
and the flowers in the school garden
were fainting on limp stalks as the first
breath of the wind from the desert
caught them.
“Jelly-fisli fights tomorrer,” said the
class shuddering, stung in anticipation.
They climbed the stone stairs to Miss
Candy’s room, clutching their paper bags.
They looked out the windows, across the
roof tops, to where the waters of Hob-
son’s Bay shone green with presage of
the impending heat wave. In two days’
time no kid would dare to put a bare
foot to the bubbling pavements.
Miss Candy went behind the cupboard
door to consider whether she would
have the food piled into a gargantuan
heap on the table whence each might
grab for himself, or whether it ought to
be carried round in politer portions on
exercise-books. This would . entail work
but less disorder in the ranks. Last time,
she remembered, they had had the heap
and a little girl had been trampled under-
foot. Miss Candy had decided that the
exercise-book method was desirable and
was engaged in the selection of the more
competent among the female population
when the door opened and a little boy put
in an unkempt head.
“Mr. Moir said the raffle doll swon
by Betty Henrickson in the forph. I
gotta go roun’ the school,” he said im-
portantly and withdrew,
“Oh, dearie me,” sighed Miss Candy.
The class looked at her sharply. They
recognised the signs of distraction, which,
usually welcome, were not so now, if
food were to stand in abeyance for them.
“That does remind me of dear little
Elma,” said Miss Candy. She looked
up at the only mural decoration, an old-
fashioned photograph of a charming little
girl.
“ ’-11 we go on handing the things
round, Miss Candy?” suggested an over-
grown girl whose maternal look implied
that she- had already brought up a family
of boys. Her glance reproved Miss
Candy, bringing her firmly back to the
problems of Pound Day.
“Yes, yes,” Miss Candy replied. “Eight
girls to hand round. Biscuits and cakes
before fruit, Lollies last of all, remem-
ber. No cherry-bobs to be thrown until*
after ‘dismiss.’ Boys with strong teeth
may begin opening ginger-beer bottles.”
While she yet spoke she was moving
towards the picture on the wall. She
stood gazing at it. Behind her a preg-
nant silence betokened the imminence
of the onslaught. The serving-women
began mincing down the aisles. The
dull, throbbing note of concerted mas-
tication rose on all sides.
THE photograph at which Miss Candy
was looking was hung much too high
on the wall in a hideous frame with a dun-
colored mount. Underneath the figure of
the little girl there ran in gilt letters the
words:
In memory of Elma Jean Russell,
A member of Miss Candy’s Class,
Who died
10th December, 1918.
Miss Candy sighed again on the
words: “Poor little Elma.” Everyone
in the class knew about Elma. Miss
Candy always made a point of telling
the sad story of the little girl who had
died so long ago, the first victim in the
school of the dread scourge Spanish ’flu.
Elma had been quite well one day; the
next Miss Candy had sent her home
with a headache; and two days after a
telegram had come to the school: “Elma
passed away this morning.”
felma’s parents had given the photo-
graph of their little daughter so that she
might not be too quickly forgotten by
the children among whom she had
played. It was all a long time ago now ;
the children who had known her had
grown up and got children of their own,
but Miss Candy had loyally refused to
let the photograph be taken away.
Only one part of the story Miss Candy
censored. She never told about the young
teacher who had been eating his heart out
because he had not been able to rush off
to the war like J. D. Burns and get killed,
leaving behind him three immortal verses.
The young fellow had been moved like
a worrian when he heard that pretty fresh
little Elma lay disfigured and dying be-
hind her father’s ham-and-beef shop. He
wrote some verses and laid them on Miss
Candy’s desk.
THE CONQUEROR.
(For a Schoolgirl.)
As the pure note the minstrel struck
’Mid the shouts of barbarous joy,
Drifted its wistful, golden way
Suffering no alloy,
So, amid the warm, bright sands
Fast failing through her glass,
Discerning eyes might see a thread
Of love’s gold gleanings pass.
And though the morning glories must
Thus prematurely fade,
As embers in the ash, the glow
Of love will light' the shade.
And when the last sands fajter through
And the mound lies coldly still,
Say “Amor vincit omnia,”
Love climbed Calvary’s hill.
To Miss Candy' with her old-maidish
ideas there seemed to be altogether too
many references to love. So she tore
the sentimental little piece up, and the
young teacher waited in vain for a crumb
of appreciation. Then he, too, joined
the ranks of the departed by going to the
country, where he married a teacher of
the domestic sciences, who quickly cured
his asthma and his poetry. And Miss
Candy was left alone to keep green the
memory of Elma. So she' never failed
to tell the pathetic story in the first school
week of the year. The children always
had the same reactions. After a slight
pause someone would say :
“How long had you been teaching then,
Miss Candy?” hoping she would fall into
the trap.
They knew you began teaching when
you were about seventeen ; on to that
would be added the number of years Miss
Candy had been teaching when Elma
died; and on to that the great span of
years that extended between then and
now. And, 10, you would have Miss
Candy’s age, which would be almost as
interesting as seeing a girl’s pants. But
Miss Candy was too experienced to be
stonkered by that question. She never tolql.
“Did Elma get her Qually, Miss?” they
asked next.
No, it seemed that poor little Elma had
failed in arithmetic, never having really
mastered those nasty proportion sums,
but her untimely death had kept the truth
from her.
“Why did the raffle doll remind you
of Elma, Miss Candy?” Dolly Miller had
’left an enormous slice of Victoria sand-
wich and a Napoleon to come and stand
beside her teacher and gaze at the por-
trait with her. On every hand now there
rose strangled cries and muffled shouts
combining with scenes of gluttony and
exhibitionism. But Miss Candy and
Dolly stood oblivious to the unrefeened
tumult in the rear. Long experience had
inured Miss Candy, and Dolly was deeply
interested in Elma.
DOLLY’S had been an exception to
the general reaction to the Elma
story. Dolly had seen the possibilities in
Elma the first time she walked into the
room and had at once set out to exploit
them.
As others are born with a cowlick or
double-jointed thumbs, Dolly had been
born with a deep longing for love —for an
individual love that would comfort and
sustain and take her up when her father
and mother forsook her. Not that there
was any real danger of that. But her
parents were the parents of four children,
and they were often tried by practical
considerations, when their manner be-
came short and their expressions harried.
And though they supplied her with good
food and clothes there were many days
when Dolly felt she needed something
more.
And so she had exploited Elma. Fullest
understanding and friendship now existed
between them. When Dolly did badly in
class she looked up at Elma, who re-
sponded with smiling-eyed sympathy,
while Dolly silently offered Elma com-
passion in the matter of her hat, an
enormous, elaborate wash-up dish, the
deep crown pushing far down on the soft,
long curls, the huge, turned-up rim lined
with pleated satin. The utensil was
clamped more firmly on Elma’s head by
a huge bow of satin ribbon tied under
Elma’s chin. And so now, when Miss
Candy said “That reminds me of little
Elma,” it was a personal matter for Dolly.
“Why does the raffle doll remind you
of Elma, Miss Candy?” she asked again.
“Well,” replied Miss Candy, “there
was a doll raffled the day Elma went
home with her headache, and Elma’s
ticket was just one off the winning num-
ber. A very rude boy in the eighth grade
won the doll, and I always thought how
nice it would have been if Elma could
have had it even for two days.”
After all, Dolly had heard that part
of the story before, too. So she said
“Gee, Miss Candy, it’s gonna be funny
in the seventh grade. I wisht Elma’s pic-
ture was gonna be in there.”
Miss Candy bent her soft look on
Dolly. “Now I’ll tell you something,
Dolly,” she said. She glanced round at
the class to see that it was still engaged
in its primal orgies.
“Well,” she went on, “the last inspec-
tor we had was very keen on making you
children see the sunny side of life.” Miss
Candy did not dilate to Dolly on the
ruthless determination with which he pro-
secuted his method, insisting with cold
anger that the children be taught to look
pn the bright side, to keep their sunny sides
up, to ignore poverty, death and disease.
“You see,” she said, “he thought the
picture of Elma might be a morbid influ-
ence, so he told me it had to be moved.”
Miss Candy vaguely felt that the mov-
ing of Elma’s portrait would end an
epoch, so she had put it off till the last
possible moment. But it would have to be
done today after school had broken up.
Dolly stood dumb with misery and
shock. At length she breathed “Oh, gee.
Miss Candy, what’s gonna happen to her?”
“Well, Dolly,” Miss Candy said, “first
of all, I thought I’d take her home with
me. But then it’s such a big frame and
I’ve such a lot of pictures already, simply
crowds of them, I couldn’t really find
room for Elma. Besides, it wouldn’t seem
right for her to be anywhere else but on
the wall of Grade V 1... .1 don’t know;
but I think she’ll have to be put in the
incinerator.”
“Oh, gee, Miss Candy.... Couldden
I take her home?” But the words died
as Dolly said them. She knew Mummer.
No, you couldn’t hope to slip in with an
enormous, old-fashioned portrait of a
strange girl.
“They’re starting on the lollies, Miss,”
said an officious voice, recalling Miss
Candy to her duty.
“Oh, dear, then it must be nearly going-
home time.” Miss Candy began to pre-
pare her tearful little speech of farewell.
Nobody listened. They chewed lustily,
gathering up the crusts and banana-skins.
When the bell went they fled with a roar
like a blast furnace. Only Dolly remained.
‘ l l ’LL help y’ tidy up if y’ like,” said
1 Dolly. Together they put things
neatly in the cupboard, emptied chalf-box
and inkwells. At last all was tidy. The
emptiness and stillness of the school
almost spoke.
Miss Candy brought a chair and placed
it under Elma’s. portrait.
“You better hold on to it, Dolly,” she
said. “It’s a bit wobbly.”
With swift modesty Dolly shrank back
as Miss Candy’s large, firm calves brushed
against her. There was a short, sharp
struggle ill the upper ether, then all at
once Elma and Miss Candy subsided off
the chair together, Dolly made small,
half-hearted pluckings at Miss Candy’s
cardigan to help her regain her balance.
The back of the picture-frame was
covered in dust and cobwebs and the flies
had visited the glass. With deep interest
Miss Candy and Dolly looked at Elma’s
face. Close up, she was strangely dif-
ferent. You couldn’t say what. But
Dolly, absorbed in trying to define the
difference, almost forgot this was ariong
farewell. -> .
“You better carry the photo., dear,”
said Miss Candy. “I’ve got all this.” She
indicated a motley assortment that had
accumulated when they turned out the
cupboard.
For the first and last time Dolly gath-
ered Elma in her arms. One point of the
frame smote her under the chin, another
stuck into her bony little hip. With Miss
Candy dropping things—a Japanese fan,
the unspillable inkbottle, a bag of men-
thol jubes, a boomerang, a jar of cascara
tablets and the end of the marmite—with
rulers and pencils falling like hail, they
went. The grey sand that surrounded the
school was like molten lava. They walked
gingerly across to where the incinerator
stood near the pepper-trees.
Old Mr. Parsley was the high priest
of the incinerator. He welcomed them
with a gesture that said “Yea, beds for
all who come.” The fire was just start-
ing. It was thin and wan, as though it
could not compete with the fearful sun.
Pale-blue flames were just licking rouna
the half-dead hydrangea stalks, the count-
less filthy pages torn out of exercise-books
and somebody’s old bathing cap. When
Elma fell in with the sharp tinkle ot
breaking glass the flames retreated like
frightened lizards.
“Don’t worry,” said old Mr. Parsley,
starting to poke and pull at the debris.
“Her’li burn orlright,”


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3409
Wednesday, June 13, 1945
“ALL WE HAVE OF FREEDOM”...
“Australia and New Zealand Have had socialist Governments for years, to the great advantage of their peoples and with none of these dreadful consequences—there are
no countries in the world more free and democratic.”— Attlee, replying to Churchill.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J, E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
.. Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
NOT GOING LEFT.
Ontario had an election last week. First
of the nine provinces, with Toronto and
Ottawa among its cities, it has a popu-
lation equal to that of N. S. Wales and
Queensland combined, and its ideas on
local self-government and public borrow-
ing differ materially from those prevalent
in Australia. Its 3,800,000-odd people
are satisfied with a 90-member legislature
and a home-grown Lieutenant-Governor
who does not keep up an imitation court;
and the gross public debt on March 31,
1943, was $704,864,361, whereas that of
N. S. Wales, with its two Houses, on June
31, 1943, was £360,253,300, £154,343,000
being repayable in Britain and £11,864,000
in the U.S.A. Needless to say, Ontario,
though often threatened with a Labor
Government, has never had one nor any-
thing remotely resembling one.
In office since August 17, 1943, was a
Ministry of Progressive Conservatives,
with affinities to our U.A.P., now called
Liberals. Heading it was a soldier-lawyer,
Lieut.-Colonel Drew, and he had nine
colleagues ; Mr. McKell, with a million
fewer people to rule in the Labor fashion,
has 14. The 1943 electors refused the Pro-
gressive Conservatives a party majority,
giving them only 39 seats, five more than
the number bestowed on the Co-operative
Commonwealth Federation party, actu-
ally a Labor-socialist concern. The rest
of the House was made up of Liberals
and Independents. In spite of losses
at by-elections, divisions among his
opponents enabled Premier Drew to carry
on till two months ago, when they united
to send his Government to the country,
the voting being 51 to 36.
As is the case with their Australian
congeners, the C.C.Fs. received enthusi-
astic support from writing boys, employed
not only on Leftist publications but in
offices where the Policy of the Paper was
Rightist—an odd feature of contemporary
journalism, rampant in Sydney. Articles
predicting their capture of Canada
appeared not only in Canadian but in
U.S. newspapers and periodicals, the
good time coming when they would insti-
tute “people’s control” of the banks and
socialise this and that being enlarged on
for the special benefit of servicemen. But
in Ontario they got a dreadful doing.
With only delayed votes to be counted,
and not many of them, the Progressive
Conservatives had 66 seats, their greatest
number for many years, the Labor-
socialists only half a dozen. In no part
of the Empire has a Left-Wing party been
reduced from importance to insignificance
so suddenly.
A national election was held on June
11. Results were not known in Australia
when this page had to be sent to press,
but the defeat of the Labor-socialists in
Ontario, with its 82 seats in the House
of Commons (245 seats), and their
always bleak outlook in Quebec (65
seats), left them without a chance
of converting Canada into a Socialist
State. The Dominion, with its ten
chartered banks and its Bank of
Canada, which is “required to main-
tain a reserve in gold coin and bullion
not less than 25 p.c. of its note and deposit
liabilities,” has shown great financial
strength. Obviously, the people are not
going to imperil their national and
individual solvency and the sound-
ness of their currency by letting doctrin-
aires play ducks and drakes with the
banking system, which has had no failures
like that of the N.S.W. Government Sav-
ings Bank in 1932 and has served the
nation faithfully throughout the wars.
One great lesson of these wars which
should be obvious even to doctrinaires
is that the British way of life, using the
expression in its largest sense, has proved
superior ■ to every way of life in
which the State is all in all. From Parlia-
mentary government, maintained through-
out in so liberal a degree that every pro-
ceeding of the Administration was sub-
ject to criticism and alteration, the Ad-
ministration itself, in the words of the
leader, looking to the House of Com-
mons as the Grand Inquest of the Nation
—from the British form of government
and the British tradition and practice of
personal liberty, free enterprise, honest
public finance (exacting great sacrifices
but designed to preserve national solvency
and prevent inflation) and —yes—sound
banking, the British people drew material
and spiritual resources which carried
them over every emergency; and no
people has ever been more severely tried.
Almost single-handed Britain defeated
fascist Italy, and it contributed greatly to
the defeat of national-socialist Germany
and mustered armies, fleets and air forces
of growing immensity for the overthrow
of totalitarian Japan. All this while feed-
ing and sheltering its people despite fright-
ful shipping losses and destruction of
houses, policing far-flung parts of the
world and, privately as well as publicly,
sending assistance vast in volume and
variety to each of its more or less social-
istic partners on the Continent, above all,
to Russia. To Russia, the Socialist Sixth
of the World, which did not begin to
fight—and then only against Germany —
until the British had been at war for
nearly 22 months and —unlike Britain,
and with four or five times Britain’s
population—had within its own boun-
daries practically all the materials for
waging war on the grand scale.
Before the German war came to an
end, and with it the coalition, it would
scarcely have been believed that the Laboi*
party would in a few weeks propose to
socialise Britain on Continental lines, be-
ginning with “fuel, power and lighting”
and going on to “inland transport, iron
and steel,” with the land to come and with
political manipulation of money and
credit to supply the wherewithal for every-
thing. This is what has happened, and
the Labor leaders and newspapers are
very angry with Mr. Churchill for telling
the people in his inimitable style and with
his incomparable wealth of illustration
what it would all mean.
True, Mr. Attlee protests that his party
would “pay a fair price for everything,”
and he implies that it would pay in sound
money, since it is “determined not to
countenance inflation.” “Inflation,” he
allows, “is no imaginary danger” ; and
here he shows some intellectual honesty
imperceptible in the methods and man-
ners of the Labor Caucus at Canberra
since, with an equipment inadequate for
the running of a dead-marine round, it
decided to take control of banking and
currency and to allow no amendments of
its ill-considered measures and to de-
nounce all critics as obstructionists and
grinders of the faces of the poor. Never-
theless, the Attlee-Bevin-Morrison pro-
gramme is a serious threat to the liberties
and savings of the British people and so to
the future of their country and, through
it, the Empire. But in the lists of argu-
ment the authors of it have met far more
than their match in the Prime Minister.
“The Socialist policy,” Mr. Churchill
said, “is abhorrent to British ideas of
freedom. Socialism is inseparably inter-
woven with totalitarism in its abject wor-
ship of the State. The State is to be the
arch-employer, arch-planner, arch-admin-
istrator, arch-ruler and arch-Caucus-boss.
Socialism is in essence an attack not only
upon British enterprise but upon the right
of the ordinary man and woman to
breathe freely without having a hard,
clumsy, tyrannical hand clapped across
their mouths and nostrils.” Interspersed
with these sentences were short studies
of the ways of Labor-socialist politicians
which seem much of a muchness every-
where :
Look how even today they hunger for
controls of every kind, as if these were
delectable foods instead of war-time inflic-
tions ! '
A free Parliament is odious to them.
Haven’t we heard Mr. Herbert Morrison
descant upon his plans to curtail Parlia-
mentary procedure and pass laws simply by
resolution to be left to executives and
bureaucrats to elaborate and enforce by
departmental regulations?
The same hunger for “controls” and the
same methods of making laws which the
putative authors themselves never under-
stand are in operation at Canberra. We
have learned, too, that “no socialist sys-
tem can be established without political
police,” though in Australia the “political
police” have various other designations;
and there is a growing Labor-socialist and
Labor-communist intolerance of criticism,
often expressed in larrikin threats and
blackguardly attacks on private citizens
made in Parliament itself, part of the
process of “gathering all power to the
supreme party and the party leaders,
rising like stately pinnacles above their
vast bureaucracies of civil servants —no
longer servants, no longer civil.”
Remembering his association with the
Labor Ministers, and knowing that they
mean well, while realising that persons
who mean well have been the architects
of wretchedness and ruin everywhere, Mr.
Churchill is “sure our opponents would
be shocked if they could see where they
were going.”
They say “Let us nationalise everything
we can get hold of, and get the Bank of
England into the hands of trustworthy
Socialist politicians and we shall go ahead
and see what happens next.” You will in-
deed see what happens next! But once a
Socialist Government begins monkeying
with the credit of Britain and trying to
manipulate it to Socialist' requirements there
is no man and woman who by thrift and
toil have accumulated a nestegg who will
not run the risk of seeing it shrivel be-
fore their eyes... .We would rather place
upon all classes, rich and poor alike, the
heaviest burden of taxation that could be
borne than slide into the delirium of in-
flation.
We have that “heaviest burden of taxa-
tion” in Australia without any prospect
of getting the slightest relief from the
Labor-socialist Government, the maxi-
mum of taxation ministering to the maxi-
mum of extravagance. But crude and
savage as this taxation is, it is not nearly
enough for Labor requirements, so we
are also threatened with “the delirium
of inflation.” For the opponents of Mr.
Menzies, like the opponents of Mr.
Churchill, don’t know where they are
going, though it is doubtful whether some
of them would be “shocked” if they
knew. This applies particularly to two
Ministers from New South Wales, Mr.
Ward and Mr. Lazzarini, who championed
the “policy* that led to the closing of the
N. S. Wales Government Savings Bank
and the seizure, on constitutional warrant
(to their vast indignation), of N. S. Wales
State revenues to meet “interest payments
in default in London, New York and Aus-
tralia.” A pretty pair to be among the
arbiters of banking and currency, with
no appeal for anyone from any caprice
of their Caucus!
Replying to Mr. Churchill, Mr. Attlee
argued that other countries had gone in
for Socialist Governments, “to the
great advantage of their peoples and with
none of these dreadful consequences,”
and “there are no countries in the world
so free and democratic.” Australia, he
said, was one. The gentleman’s concep-
tion of what is “free and democratic” is
fairly challengeable; in refusing to con-
tinue the coalition on the terms offered by
Mr. Churchill he came out against the
referendum, “a device so alien to our
traditions which has too often been the
instrument of Nazism and Fascism.” In
Switzerland and in Australia it has
always been the opposite: an instrument
of real democracy. In Australia,
rightly used, it has not impeded
necessary reforms, such as those em-
bodied in the Financial Agreement, and
it has been a wholesome check on the
audacities of elected persons and their
non-elected coadjutors. Desiring an
extension of its immense war powers
beyond the war period, the Labor-social-
ist Government, supported by the com-
munists, asked for the extension at a
referendum last year and was refused it
by a great majority, obviously because
most of the electors were dissatisfied with
its performances and mistrustful of its
plans. With undiminished arrogance it
is behaving as if it had received a man-
date for socialism unlimited and for
getting round the Constitution by making
and implementing “full - employment”
agreements with foreign countries (a trick
which may have consequences undreamt
of by Dr. Evatt), which shows how much
less free and democratic Australia has
become.
Word Blitz on Japan.
As soon as VE-day was declared it was
announced from America that eight
broadcasting plants there were to be em-
ployed in what amounts to an attempt to
talk Japan out of the war. Since then
the word-blitz has been furiously waged.
Leaflets urging the Japs to give in have
been showered on their cities at the re-
ported rate of between 500,000 and
1,000,000 a day. Ammunition has been
passed along by the President and many
others, and in a variety of forms.
Something, apparently, has been learnt
from the effects of the propaganda which
told the Germans that whether they pre-
ferred to fight on or stop fighting their
treatment would be the same, and ruin-
ous. It did not require any great effort
of the Goebbels malignant genius to turn
into the rallying stuff of desperation what
Secretary - of - the - Treasury Morgenthau
conveniently supplied. German resist-
ance, at the time failing, revived, stiffened
and was prolonged. The cost in terms of
Allied lives will be weighed by historians.
The word-war approach to Japan is
different. “Unconditional surrender”
stands, but the meaning has been toned
down. “We have no desire or inten-
tion to destroy or enslave the Japa-
nese people,” were Mr. Truman’s words.
They contrast remarkably with the open
threats that many millions of defeated
Germans would be taken to other coun-
tries and used indefinitely as enforced
labor. Whatever wisdom there may be,
or necessity, in a revival of the old cus-
tom of using defeated enemies as slaves —
it may not actually amount to that, but
that is what the Germans weVe repeatedly
informed was in store for them —the pre-
scription is not being applied to the Japs.
Practically, the Japs are offered a
choice, whereas the Germans were not.
The Japs can acknowledge defeat but
remain a living nation, with the industries
of peace left to them, or else they can
face the certainty of national ruin, the
obliteration by bombs and fire of their
cities one after another, deflation from
the role of world conquerors to that of
one of the world’s degraded and insigni-
ficant nations. What is insisted on is that
their power to make successful war again
shall, as far as this is ever possible, be
removed ; but they will have the same
opportunity as any other nation to live
and even flourish in peace —provided
they surrender instead of fighting it out.
The word-blitzefs, according to U.S.
reports, are being encouraged by the
“peace feelers that keep coming out of
Tokyo.” As far as is known, these “peace
feelers” have not so far been official, and
it is possible enough that giving them any
value at all is only a reflection of wishful
thinking. Over - optimistic hopes are
probably being similarly encouraged by
the more substantial side of the word-
blitz. The big element in this part of
the propaganda attack is the emphasis
on the huge and increasing strength of
the American and British air, naval and
army forces, and particularly on the de-
struction being brought, and to be
brought, to Japan’s cities by air. It is
most confidently asserted —and results, as
reported, seem to give conclusive support
—that bombing will play an even bigger
part against Japan than it did against Ger-
many. The value of bombing has been
tremendously boosted since the actual
occupation of Germany showed whole
cities and vital industries wiped out of
existence. Von Rundstedt has credited
the Allied air forces with being the most
telling factor in the German defeat.
Considerably greater air power, it is
expected, will ultimately be hurled
against Japan than Germany had to en-
dure ; the target, it is pointed out, is
smaller, and hence more liable to utter
destruction; the “tindery” construction
of Jap cities is claimed, on results thus
far achieved, to be no mere vision of
wishful flunking. • “It may be stated
authoritatively,” a New York “Times”
report from Washington declares, “that
Array Air Force leaders are both amazed
and elated by two factors that have de-
veloped since the aerial war against Japan
began: first, the devastating effectiveness
of the fire-bomb attacks on Japanese
cities, which has far exceeded expecta-
tions, and, second, the relative weakness
of Japanese opposition.” In this regard
another lesson —one boding no good for
the Japs—would seem to have been
gathered from the air war against Ger-
many. There it was frequently claimed
that the American “precision bombing”
was more effectual than the British
“saturation” variety. The fire-bomb
attacks on Japan are officially admitted
to be “a departure from traditional
A.A.F. strategy, for they are closer to the
theory of area bombing than high-altitude
precision bombing, which the A.A.F.
always had advocated in Europe.” ,
Further, in the word-blitzers’ emphasis-
ing to the Japs the colossal weight of the
superior forces now to be turned against
Nippon, it is claimed that the air war
here will be accelerated much faster than
was possible against Germany. The
American Air Force alone reckons its
personnel at more than 2,350,000 and its
’planes at more than 75,000, including
more than 34,000 combat types. With
this huge force being retained and trans-
ferred as fast as possible to the Pacific, it
is hoped to bomb, burn and starve Japan
into defeat. It certainly adds up to a
picture of prospective destruction calcu-
lated to make any people in their senses
accept any at all reasonable alternative
—and, reading into many of the state-
ments in the current propaganda barrage,
such an alternative seems to be on offer.
That there will be disappointment, a
great let-down in present widespread
optimism, if the Japs elect to fight on to
the bitter end is certain. The Japs being
quite incalculable, and the safest rule in
war being always to expect the worst, that
is something to be prepared against, par-
ticularly because, as the more recent fight-
ing—on Iwo, Okinawa and Tarakan—
has only too tragically demonstrated, this
war in the Pacific must in that event go
into history as one of the most grim and
bitter ever fought. So far the Japs
response to what they are possibly in-
terpreting as feelers from this side has
been to announce the conversion of the
entire Naval Air Corps into a suicide force
and the building up of a home-defence
organisation, with every man, woman and
child in the country to be armed.
If that represents the Jap choice, the
mood that now appears prepared to ex-
tend reasonable leniency can be expected
to harden, and the result for Japan will
then be a visitation of destruction that
will make even the ruin in Germany
seem moderate. Meanwhile, it might be
as risky to count over-much on the word-
blitz as it was to count on the too early,
untimely “confetti” raids on Germany.
The tenor of military thinking m the
main command in Washington is that two
years, or more, of fighting in the Pacific,
rather than any sudden Jap collapse i
to be expected, and, notwithstanding
vigor with which the word-blitz is being
pushed, that military thinking is reported
to be “widely enough shared wfihm tn
Government to be called the official view-
point.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Four-Power Occupation.
“On his return voyage from Yalta,”
Demaree Bess has written in the “Satur-
day Evening Post,” “President Roosevelt
told three newspaper correspondents that
the U.S.A. was to take over ‘Southern
Germany,’ but gave no further details.”
Nor when this “Post” editor wrote had
any Senator, Congressman or business-
man “even suggested the difficulties in-
volved.” Himself marvelling, he out-
lined the position:
The United States Government bound us
at Yalta to take over a sort of mandated
colony in the centre of Europe, something
like one-fourth of Germany, with a popu-
lation of approximately 20,000,000 Ger-
mans; and we accepted the responsibility,
with no time limit.
We Americans are to govern our piece
of Germany as an almost independent unit,
while the Russians and the British are to
have similar independence in their respec-
tive areas. The French also are to be
granted an occupation zone, and there is
some idea of giving other countries little
occupation zones of their own.
But won’t these arrangements be altered
at the peace conference? To that Mr.
Bess replies that the “major peace settle-
ments have already been agreed upon.”
Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Churchill and Mar-
shal Stalin “carried the peace table
around with them,” adding clauses to
the peace treaty in Casablanca and
Cairo, Tehran and Yalta. At Russia’s
instance, and chiefly in its interest, “the
territorial provisions of the Atlantic
Charter have been abandoned”:
Russia moves west at the expense of Fin-
land, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland,
Rumania and Germany. Poland moves
north and west at the expense of Germany.
Rumania moves west at the expense of
Hungary.
And there are the unsatisfied claims of
the Yugoslavs, the French and the
Greeks, while the Czechs will no doubt
want part of Germany as compensation
for the loss of Ruthenia to Russia.
In respect of the zones of occupation,
Moscow drove a hard bargain ; “it asked
for and received a zone which envelops
the whole of eastern Germany, including
the raw-material tjpsources and rich in-
dustries of Silesia and the entire prov-
ince of Brandenburg, and continuing
westward to a line running west of
Berlin.” In that city “the Americans,
British and Russian occupiers will have
separate districts.”
It is now established that the Ameri-
can divisions that crossed the Elbe could
have reached Berlin before the Russians,
but were halted and recalled in deference
to Russian susceptibilities. Since the first
jovial Russo-American junction “there
has been no official liaison between the
Russians and Americans” and efforts of
the latter to cross into the Russian lines
on friendly excursions have been fruit-
less. They are now to retire a long way
west of the Elbe over territory they and
not the Russians had won.
General Eisenhower and Field-Marshal
Montgomery were in Berlin last week
for the first time, their mission being to
sign “the declaration imposing the rights
of conquest on Germany.” They left
“immediately” (“Times” correspondent)
and “irritated” (American Associated
press), Russian officials having “called on
General Eisenhower to say the Soviet
desired alterations in one article of the
declaration to avoid offending Japan”
(British United Press). Thereupon Mos-
cow came out with 4 map showing the
Russian zone as “covering about half
Germany,” with Saxony, Thuringia and
Mecklenburg, though with not a fourth
of the population. Food supply will be
a simple problem in the Russian zone;
in the Anglo-American zones, very diffi-
cult.
Mr. Bess was told by American army
officers that “we shall make a sorry
mess of our occupation zone.”
They suspect that we shall soon get tired
of frying to re-educate Germans, and that
we shall pull out of post-war Europe in a
comparatively short time. They cannot be-
lieve that the American people will agree
to operate and support a virtual mandated
colony in Germany for 15 years or so.
However, the signatures of Eisenhower
and Montgomery are on the document
by virtue of which Nazi Germany has
been taken over, and it remains only to
wish the Anglo-American governors luck.
Judging by what has been going on in
San Francisco as well as Berlin, they
will need plenty, and then some.
Stuff for a Novel.
Since the “futility-defeat” theme is so
popular among writers, the following out-
line or synopsis for an Australian novel
is offered free to any writer who wants it.
The hero is a Scot who worked as
a riveter on the Construction of the liner
Queen Mary. Having saved a bit he
decided to make a break for Australia,
a land where the strong and the enter-
prising could have an open go. Arrived
in Westralia, he leased a small farm, made
a fair do of it, sought for expansion and
went share-farming near Wongan Hills,
The owner of the land advanced him
money for super, and a big plough; the Scot
had a tractor, other implements and seed-
wheat. With a mate he got into it, work-
ing the tractor day and night in 12-hour
shifts (chance to work in union agitation
here). The season was good, the Scot
got a decent crop, squared up his accounts
and smelt success.
The blow falls in 1941 when, just as
he is about to cart fertiliser for the next
crop, a demand arrives from the Taxation
Department for £2OO-odd income tax on
his 1939-40 income. The Scot hurries to
Perth (work in tragic aspect of Scot and
Perth, if any), and tells tax blokes he has
no cash in bank and no income. Tax
blokes explain that payments for
machinery represented income. Tax must
be paid.
Scot explains he hasn’t any money;
can’t they wait until next crop for
payment? The answer is a demand for
payment at once and in cash. Scot ex-
plains that the only way he can obtain
cash is to sell his seed-wheat. The answer
is that the tax must be paid. Scot sells his
seed, auctions his plant and leaves the
land. Australia loses one settler on way
to success and gains disgruntled man
working in a city. Government gets its
money.
A good writer ought to make this hum
because the damned thing is true.
Public Houses.
Studies in two States:
Strange cries, one familiar long ago but
stifled when the early Labor passion for reform
gave way to deadly materialism, are being heard
in N.S.W. districts with “Labor” members —
“Nationalise the liquor traffic!” “Give us com-
munity hotels!” Districts without “Labor”
members are cynical, having their own notions
about “Labor’s” relations with the liquor traffic,
and recalling promises on which “Labor” has
slept for years; but there is no denying that'
some “Labor” members show every appearance
of being indignant with Bung and the Brewer-
Even Deputy Premier Baddeley, though occu-
pied with the tribulations of the Poor Man’s
Sport, has been known to suggest that there
may be something wrong with the Trade.
“I believe,” said Mr. Baddeley, “that most
decent citizens are nauseated by the conditions
under which they are forced to drink”; a state-
ment which leaves it pleasingly uncertain
whether the decent citizens who are not
nauseated have boiler-plated stomachs or have
completely lost the senses of sight, touch, hear-
ing and smell. “I have been informed,” Mr.
Baddeley proceeded, “that the present system of
drinking breeds drunkenness and vice. In civil-
ised communities liquor should be used under
conditions that do not debase and degrade.”
No prize pupil of the Band of Hope, sixth
grade, ever did better.
Unfortunately “there is a feeling in State
Ministerial circles that the Government is de-
laying action on liquor reform until the Premier,
Mr. McKell, returns from abroad.” And “the
Premier, Mr. McKell,” has gone to Brazil at the
invitation of a dictator, General or Field-
Marshal or Admiral Vargas, and “may not
arrive in Sydney until September,” in which
case “any legislation to amend the Liquor Act
may not be brought on until 1946.” However,
there is “an expert committee” at work, the
second of two expert committees, and expert
committee No. 2 is considering “the establish-
ment of community hotels.”
They have one in Renmark (S.A.), totally un-
like the dingy drinking dens which pollute
N. S. Wales, and on which Labor turned its
blind eye until this practice became politically
dangerous. Structurally and in every other
aspect modern, it is one of the most comfortable
places in Australia, established not to minister
to the tastes of uncouth persons who don’t
mind swilling like swine, but to satisfy in a
civilised way the simple and decent needs of
townspeople and visitors. A short history of
the Hotel Renmark is here set down for general
information’ and to prevent the courteous
manager, A. J. Thomas, being snowed under by
inquiries from N. S. Wales.
On its foundation by the Chaffey brothers 60
years ago Renmark was proclaimed a dry area,
and such it remained until 1897. By that
time, however, sly-grogging had arrived with
increase of population, and public resentment
was such that the prohibition statute was re-
pealed and a community hotel founded.
It was financed by a private loan of £lOOO,
guaranteed by residents, profits to be applied
“towards the improvement of the property, the
securing of a freehold title (subject to the
approval of the State Treasurer) and the
encouragement of science, art, literature and
the common good”—construed to mean the
hospital, the municipal council, sporting bodies,
benevolent institutions and the like.
All this has been done. Since the hotel was
established assets valued at £lOO,OOO have been
built up and approximately the same amount
has been distributed amongst the local institu-
tions mentioned. The hospital is thoroughly up-
to-date and is financially sound; the High
School has a library containing books rarely
found in secondary schools; the hotel itself
has beautiful gardens, nine links for bowlers,
lawn-tennis courts, a clock golf course, a library,
balconies, lounge, drawing-rooms, telephones in
bedrooms, a carpeted dining-room seating 200
guests, one of the largest and best-equipped
kitchens in Australia, and a first-class table.
Steam cookers, electric dish-washers, liquid-fuel
ranges, steam-heated service tables, air con-
ditioning, central heating, h. and c. everywhere,
hot-water bags in the winter, iced thermos flasks
in the summer, an electric elevator, lock-up
garages—all these things and others are avail-
able at reasonable charges, and nobody need
drink unless he wants to.
Control is vested in a committee of five citi-
zens enrolled as Renmark electors, and a com-
mittee-appointed manager. Committeemen are
“elected in rotation annually.” Of recent years
three neighboring Murray towns have followed
Renmark’s example, and are successfully oper-
ating hotels along similar community lines. “In
the light of our joint experience,” Mr. Thomas
says, “we wonder why other country districts
are without community hotels.”
Of a pub in one of the N.S.W. coalmining
settlement's it was said that on a Saturday (never
a work-day, always a race-day, unless rain washes
the racing away) a man who had gone broke
betting s.p. could get a pound for his seat at the
bar counter, secured in the rush when the doors
were opened. A change from this beastly en-
vironment to the civilised customs and surround-
ings of community hotel like the one at Ren-
mark would be like a change to another world.
TAKING IT LITERALLY.
“Continuance of the White Australia policy has a detrimental effect on Australia’s national prestige, not only in the countries inhabited by colored peoples.”
—The communist Thornton, at a union “rally” attended by the president of the Sydney Labor Council and a vice-president of the State A.L-P.
“Pliss, we want to be dink-um Aussies in terms of instruction laid down by Honorable Thornton—yes?”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
llaui
Pf
CTED
on afpe
LIME
ini
SSf^f
r«e
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with' over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
Russia was expelled from the League
of Nations, the ghost of which is still
gibbering, for making war on fellow-
member Finland. Should such a situa-
tion arise under the World Security
organisation, or should a small nation
complain that it is in danger of being
dismembered or extinguished by means
of a vaftiped-up civil war, expulsion can
be vetoed by the Big Power accused.
Though “no individual member of the
Security Council may prevent considera-
tion and discussion” —by the Security
Council, not the General Assembly—“of
a dispute or situation brought to its
attention,” it can, if it is the party ac-
cused, veto any investigation, any recom-
mendation for settlement and “any use of
force to maintain peace.” That is how
“the Big Five have settled their differ-
ences over the interpretation of the
voting formula agreed upon at Yalta.”
Whether the United States Senate will
accept this “settlement” is another matter.
With some “inhibitions,” Dr. Evatt has
admitted, what Menzies charged, that
tacking on “full employment” to the
United Nations charter may admit of his
crowd setting at naught the powers-
referendum result. In his own words, “it
would enable the external-affairs power
of the Commonwealth Parliament to be
used in some new aspect.” Thus it would
enable Canberra to enter into a full-
employment agreement with Chungking.
Then, if Canberra had full employment,
and Chungking hadn’t, the latter might
argue that the agreement would be lack-
ing in the fine flavor of fulfilment unless
Canberra agreed to admit Chinese un-
employed—say, half a million for a
start. There is such a thing as being too
clever.
Since October last year a section of
sugar-workers in Victoria has struck nine
times because neither the C.S.R. nor the
Arbitration Court will grant them a mas-
sive rise in hourly pay for work they
have been doing for years. The ninth
strike is still on. Asked about the result-
ant shortage, of sugar in Victoria, Min-
ister Holloway attacked the C.S.R. in the
Parliament at Canberra, accusing it of
harassing the public and its employees,
and threatening to “nationalise” it. The
C.S.R. is bound by Arbitration Court and
State Wages Board decisions, and is obey-
ing them- The men are equally bound
but won’t obey.' Holloway’s attack and
threat were followed by an appeal to the
company for a “compromise,” It refused.
The strong voice of Forgan Smith, now
chairman of the Queensland Sugar Board,
was heard again at the week-end denying
the Holloway assertion that C.S.R. policy
was to restrict supplies:
There is no shortage The failure is
entirely due to a series of stoppages by
a section of employees... .The C.S.R. is
subject to the industrial law of the country
and its contracts with my board are based
on awards Direct action is a return to
the jungle and the rule of force.
If his actions and statements are any
criterion, “poor old Holloway” is in favor
of the jungle wallahs. Maybe one of
them barked at him.
On Monday Sydney housewives arose
to prepare the breakfast and start the
washing and saw a morning of howling
wind and lashing rain. As they did what
they could about the family meal, sans
eggs, bacon, rolled oats and other things,
and peered gloomily out at the soaked
and sorry landscape, somebody brought
in the morning paper, and with it a ray
of hope that almost dispelled the gloom.
An Assistant Potato Controller had had
a great thought: he would “enlist the
aid of boys with billy-carts to deliver
potatoes from shops to homes.” If the
scheme succeeds in Sydney the Common-
wealth Controller will establish it in other
capitals. Australia has nothing to fear
while such minds control its destinies.
A pension of £5OO p.a., half from the
Commonwealth and half from N.S.W.,
should cease with A. B. Piddington’s death,
though it may not. It was exceedingly
generous, for Piddington’s services as
chairman of the inter-State Commission,
dead 25 years, and as N.S.W. Industrial
Commissioner, in each case for six years
or so, were requited with handsome
salaries, £3OOO per year in the second
case; moreover, he received fat briefs
and substantial royal-commission fees.
His resignation as president of the
Industrial Commission when the term
was runping out was his own affair;
he said he could not go on when
Governor Game had “unconstitutionally”
dismissed Lang. N.S.W. magistrates and
others with a far longer period of service
involving a real obligation on the State’s
part have been fobbed off with pensions
of £2 a week or so.
Attacks on Major-General Spears for
his work as British representative in
PRIVILEGED AND UNDER-PRIVILEGED.
“Gold passes for N.S.W. State members, good for free travel for life on Government trains,
trams and buses after nine years continuous ‘service,’ were proposed at a meeting of members
concerned. The proposal was strongly supported.”
Syria have been going the rounds of the
Leftist press and have been echoed
in Australia by 'Kurt Offenburg, whose
guiding principle seems to be that
“Tory” Britain is always wrong. There
was a bitter one in the New York
“Nation” on March 17. De Gaulle
seems to have read it before he
had his fling at the warrior M.P. in
which he asserted that Spears had been
recalled at his request. It brought him
a crushing rebuke from Churchill, who
said in the Commons that the major-
general had given up the Beirut post
to return to his Parliamentary duties,
not because of Paris protests, and
had been chosen for it by the P.M. him-
self, among his qualifications being “five
wound stripes gained as liaison officer
between the French and British Armies
in the last war.” In fact,
Sir Edward Spears is the last person on
whom General De Gaulle should make
reflections, because he personally secured
General De Gaulle’s escape to England
from Bordeaux in his aeroplane and motor
car in June, 1940.
It is very unfortunate that this dressing-
down should have been necessary, but
De Gaulle “asked for it.”
Labor hopes of an Empire-wide swing
to the Left were considerably dashed by
the voting in Ontario, taken a week before
the national election. It gave the Progres-
sive Conservatives 66 seats, the Liberals
11 and the Co-op. Commonwealth Fed-
eration only 6 ; there are 90 seats in the
one House, The C.C.F. is the Canadian
counterpart of Australian Labor, and at
the last election (August 4, 1943) it won
34 seats, the Libs. 14 and the Prog. Cons.
39. In office under Premier G. A. Drew,
the Prog. Cons, were defeated in April
on a no-confidence motion invited by
Drew; C.C.F.-Lib.-Ind. 51, Prog. Cons.
36.
It transpires that the warships “lent”
to Soviet Russia consisted of the
battleship Royal Sovereign, eight de-
stroyers and four submarines and that
they are operating in the Red Sea —why
there has not been explained. The ori-
ginal Churchill-Roosevelt intention was
that the warships should be Italian
but it miscarried —also for reasons not
explained. The mystery in which the
movements of the Italian Navy has been
enveloped since the surrender to Admiral
Cunningham has been lifted in a Man-
chester “Guardian” report, reprinted in
Melbourne “Herald.” Rejected for ser-
vice in the war against Japan it is “doing
important transport service—carrying
tens of thousands of Central European
refugees.”
Abram Landa, M.L.A. for Bondi
(N.S.W.), one of the enthusiasts for a
Second Front in 1942, is off to the Middle
East with the particular intention of
studying the situation in Palestine. It
has become an unhealthy part of the
world for a student to be at large, and
it is to be hoped nobody will open a
Three-Ball Front while Abie is there.
Having petitioned the City Council for
some improvement in the overcrowded
and inconvenient tram and bus services,
Brisbane citizens have been told that,
although the council owns the things and
pays all the running costs, it has no power
to fix running times, stopping places or
other essential details. That power is
vested in the Transport * Commission,
successor to the old Transport Stran-
gulation Board. The Commission is
composed of four members, all Gov-
ernment nominees, not one of whom
represents or is officially interested in
Brisbane or any other of Queensland’s
144 Local Government Authorities.
Of a pugilist cased in uniform and sport-
ing the A.I.F. badge it has been written
(Sydney “D.T.”) that he has been “dis-
charged from an army hospital” and “will
be fit to fight again in 10 weeks.” Fight
the Japanese? No, the fellow has never
seen one except, perhaps, in a laundry—
fight some other pug who has spent the
war period on the home front. Another
paper (“S. jVI. Herald”) vouchsafed the
information that the young man who has
never seen a Jap except in a laundry
“would consider a proposition for three
contests in South Africa.” Then in these
matters Wren must be running the army,
with the assistance of Ward.
Churchill, with a vision of the State at
which Labor-socialists and communists
aim, and to which “all are to be obedient
in every act of their lives”;
How is the ordinary citizen to stand up
against this formidable machine, which,
once in power, will prescribe for everyone
where they are to work, what they are to
work at, where they are to go [“I can
send you to Bourke if I like!”], what they
may say, what views they are to hold, and
within what limits they may express them?
The old master can rely, as doubtless he
does, on the spirit of the English-speak-
ing peoples, whose fathers and grand-
fathers and forefathers were not grounded
in obedience to the machine by being
serfs. This was indicated in a small,
though sturdy, way when the 1945 ration
cards were handed out in Australia.
Resolute.souls refused to accept the con-
dition that “occupational survey cards”
must be handed in at the same time. They
got their books and the officials didn’t
even examine the “occupational survey
cards”—the information demanded was
already available from tax returns,
identity cards, man-power and military
registers and the thousand and two forms
everybody has filled in at some time or
other.
On the morning of June 7 it was
announced that McKell had arrived in
Brazil. That afternoon it was announced
that Brazil had declared war on Japan.
Any imbecile is at liberty to believe that
it is a case of cause and effect.
During the one-sided and restricted de-
bate on the banking bill Chifley remarked
that “until Parliament throws it out the
Government has the legal right to
govern.” Then why doesn’t it?
Famine stares Europe in the face. Bad
enough now, it will be horrible when
winter comes. In France 110,000 acres
can’t be cultivated because of mines. A
third of Holland is under water. British
rations are cut to the minimum and
Britain proposes to increase land under
cultivation to nearly 15,000,000 acres,
dairy cattle to 2,870,000, other cattle to
4,750,000, sheep to 15,000,000, pigs to
2,500,000 and poultry to 41,000,000
within two years. And Australia, which
should be pouring meat, butter, eggs,
fruit and wheat into ships for Britain is,
its “Government” boasts, importing huge
quantities of stock feed from the U.S.A.
Again the charge has arisen, this time
in Newcastle, that communism is being
foisted on secondary-school pupils in
N. S. Wales and again Education Minister
Heffron has arisen to deny it. Heffron
always did protest too much.
Scrap of paper?;
South Australians will not give whole-hearted
support to the Clapp plan for unification of
railway gauges and building of extra railways
unless it is so altered as to include the honor-
ing of the 35-years-old Commonwealth agree-
ment to link Darwin with Adelaide by direct
railway. Returned to Adelaide from the confer-
ence on the Clapp plan, Railways Minister
Mclntosh announced that his State would not
sacrifice its rights under the N.T. Acceptance
Act, 1910, which gave the Commonwealth the
N.T. and everything in it, as well as the 3ft. 6in.
railway from Port Augusta to Oodnadatta.
There is still a gap of 600 miles.
The Clapp plan is for a line from Birdum to
Dajarra (Q.), which would connect the Territory
with the eastern and southern railway systems,
a distance of 645 miles. Mclntosh argues that
connection with Alice Springs would put Darwin
1383 rail miles nearer Perth, 1216 nearer
Adelaide and 800 nearer Melbourne than Bir-
dum-Dajarra, while Sydney would be only 46
miles further away. By the Clapp route it will
be 2297 miles Darwin to Brisbane, whereas
Adelaide-Darwin would be 1881 miles. Aus-
tralia has learnt to its cost how vulnerable
it's northern littoral is and how maddening
broken rail-gauges can be in war-time. If
Darwin is to be, as it should be, one of our
key defence centres in the future, the Mclntosh
figures cannot be ignored. In any case, there
is the matter of the still unfulfilled Common-
wealth agreement.


(Wcu 1^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Surgeon - Captain Lambert Rogers,
selected to convey the thanks of the sur-
geons of the British Pacific Fleet to the
Royal Australian College of Surgeons for
the t hospitality and co-operation of sur-
geons hereabouts to their British col-
leagues, is himself Australian. Back as
consulting surgeon to the R.N., and with
a world reputation as a brain surgeon,
it’s a bit of a coincidence that he learnt
pothooks 30 years ago at the beautiful
but leaky old Model School in Spring-
street, Melbourne, which let so much
rain in that pupils had to study under
umbrellas. A few years back the building
was demolished and replaced with the
new College of Surgeons h.q.
Alfred Skinner, retired from the Cus-
toms in S.A., claims a record in his 67
years of service. He is 82, but on join-
ing the Commonwealth Department of
Customs retained his former S.A. right of
not retiring as long as he was fit for the
job. He has many good stories of smug-
gling, including that of a large case from
Fremantle, which was opened at Port
Adelaide, and proved to have a live
Westralian ticket-of-leave man inside it
as an unpaid passenger.
“R. Volt” farewells a “King”:
The death from shock after a Japanese air
raid of Clunies Ross, the uncrowned “King”
of the Cocos group, removes the fourth of
the Ross dynasty to govern that romantic coral
atoll in the Indian Ocean. The first Ross, a
redoubtable Scotchman who married the girl
whose family gave him shelter when he was
bolting from a pressgang in London, endeavored
to colonise the uninhabited islands with im-
ported natives from the Dutch East Indies and
with the assistance, of Hare, an Englishman
with a taste for Eastern drugs, wenches and
banquets. Two men less fitted to share a desert
island could hardly be imagined than the dour
Ross and the flamboyant Hare, who subse-
quently departed with his harem and ended his
days beachcombing somewhere in the Dutch
East Indies. Ross planted coconuts, taught his
natives crafts and agriculture and made his own
laws, which were given official sanction after
the visit of a British warship. His successor
married a Javanese princess. It was on Cocos
that Darwin developed his theory on the for-
mation of coral atolls, which was revised by
Professor Wood-Jones at Melbourne University.
Appointed to an executive pbst to do
specialised work on the engineering staff
of Philips Electrical Industries, Don B.
Knock, The Bulletin’s radio editor from
1933 to September, 1939. Joining the
Army then, Don was commissioned in
the Australian Corps of Signals, and was
radio instructor at the Army School of
Signals, 1941-42. That was something
like old times —he had served in the
R.N.A.S.-R.A.F. from 1916 to 1919. A
major when he was recently released to
return to industry, Don has been in radio
since 1911, on both the amateur and com-
mercial sides ; is a member of the Insti-
tute of Radio Engineers (Australia), the
Radio Society of Great Britain and the
Wireless Institute of Australia; owned
and operated the internationally-known
private radio station VK2NO, and pro-
poses getting it going again as soon as
the ban on experimental transmission is
lifted. ,
“Shibli”: H. J. Kearney, Maoriland’s
oldest freelance journalist, continues
writing his dozen leaders a week in spite
of troubles that would stop most men.
Shortly after celebrating his 84th birth-
day last year he was holidaying in Napier
when a man ran amok with a shotgun,
and H.J.K. was among the several in the
way. Although plugged clean through the
shoulder, he did not keep his editors wait-
ing for copy that week. Recently fire
nearly destroyed his house at Karori.
Kearney had his writing fist badly burnt,
but once more he did not let his papers
down. That week he dictated his leaders.
He has been writing the leading articles
in the “Mercantile Gazette” for many
years, and is recognised a§ one of M.L.’s
soundest financial critics. One of the
most optimistic fellows you could meet,
Kearney’s a severe critic of anything de-
parting from orthodox methods of
finance. He hailed originally from South
Africa.
Harry Hodgetts, who told the Stock
Exchange in Adelaide that he is “unable
to meet his commitments,” is a man of
many educational and sporting interests:
prominent in St. Peter’s, St. Mark’s and
Girton colleges and member of the
Cricket Board of Control. It was he who
induced Don Bradman to settle in Ade-
laide, and Don had been in his office —
though not as a partner —ever since. Don,
who has had a seat of his own on ’Change
for years, is opening up on his own
account.
Victoria’s Town Planning Act is re-
garded by local experts as an uninspiring
piece of town-planning legislation, so
A. J. Brown, as chairman of the
Town and Country Planning Board, has
a hard job ahead of him. Born at
Whananaki, Auckland, in 1893, he started
in architecture in M.L., was wounded in
the last war and, invalided to England,
there won the Soane Medal of the Royal
Institute of British Architects. Then he
got the job of planning Welwyn Garden
City, Herts., visited France and Italy and
returned to plan Maoriland towns in the
making. From 1934 to 1936 he was presi-
dent of the Town and Country Planning
Institute in N.S.W.
Alan McNicoll, who wears a decora-
tion not many Australians have been
awarded —the George Medal he won in
1941 for a job of “delousing,” as he calls
it —joined the R.A.N.C. in 1922, and
after the usual four years went off to the
R.N. to continue his training. In 1930
he joined H.M.A.S. Australia, and whilst
in H.M.A.S. Canberra in 1932 he wrote
the series of poems in Sea Voices, the
choice little book that was printed
aboard that ship, with illustrations by a
COMMODORE ALAN McNICOLL,
G.C., R.A.N.
messmate, Lieut.-Com. Ingleton. Subse-
quently McNicoll returned to the R.N.
to specialise in torpedoes. ' He spent the
best part of five years in the European
war zone, in North Russian convoys and
the Sicilian and Normandy invasions,
and was promoted to commander in
June, 1943, from the battleship King
George V. Whilst in England his por-
trait was painted by William Dring,
A.R.A., and exhibited in the National
Gallery at a war artists’ show.
All Saints’ Church at Hunter’s Hill,
Sydney, gets in C. W. J. Gumbley a hard-
working vicar from St. Luke’s in the
poorest part of Adelaide, where he is also
president of the Rotary Club.
Queensland branch of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society has presented Governor
Leslie Orme Wilson with its highest
award—the Dr. J. T. Thompson founda-
tion gold medal. A high tribute to his
work for the State ever since his arrival
13 years ago was paid by Chief Justice
Webb.
Commander R. H. Courage, 0.8. E.,
D.S.C., R.N., has the distinction of being
the only naval officer to win the Grand
Military Gold Cup at Sandown Park
(Eng.). He rode his own horse, Young
Cuthbert, bred by his father, who is con-
nected with the Courage brewery firm.
General Lumsderi, who was killed while
talking to Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser when
an American warship was hit during the
invasion of the Philippines, was runner-
up. Commander Courage is on the staff
of the C.-in-C., British Pacific Fleet.
In South Aus., where they greatly
favor Old Diggers for important posts,
yet another of them has been given a top
job—Thomas Francis Rice, latest g.m.
of the Government. Produce Department,
which, incidentally, makes the third
T. F. RICE.
holder of that billet since 1941. A sarge
with the 11th Field Ambulance in
France in the last war, Rice is also chair-
man of three important Government
committees. He’s spent 35 of his 52 years
as a Government servant. Earlier he
played cricket and footy for West
Torrens ; these days he goes to the races.
It was Rice who, as auditor, helped get
the South Aus. R.S.L. on its feet when
it struck financial difficulties.
Selected from a host of contenders to
represent Smithy in the film Columbia
is making in Australia, Ron Randell
started his acting 12 years ago as a 14-
year-old in an A.B.C. children’s “session.”
Since then he has freelanced ov#r most
of the commercial networks and A.8.C.,
as well as graduating from mike to foot-
lights. On a trip to the U.S.A., repre-
senting Australia at the National Theatre
Convention, he co-starred with Nancy
Carroll in “Mr. pid Mrs. North,” and
appeared with Robert Young in the
broadcast series of Norman Korwin’s
RON RANDELL.
“Transport for Adams.” Randell, who can
put up quite respectable times over 100
yards, swimming or running, has two
brothers serving in the forces, and has
himself been discharged from the army.
Principal of Brisbane High for the
past 25 years, I. Waddle, M.Sc., is to
retire after 55 years with the State Educa-
tion Department. His first appointment
as a principal was at Charters Towers in
1915.
Wing-Commander Harry Purvis, re-
cently test pilot for the Southern Cross
at Canberra, was engineer for the same
famed ’plane when Smithy was barn-
storming round Australia. Purvis was
No. 1 pilot for W.A.S.P. Air Lines, tne
company that started the Narromine-
Sydney air service, afterwards extended
to Broken Hill via Nyngan and Cobar.
After leaving W.A.S.P. Purvis purchased
his own machine and did several years’
barnstorming before becoming captain in
New England Airways. Later he was
with A.N.A., then joined the Dutch ser-
vice flying to Australia, resigning to
join the R.A.A.F. in 1940. He was
for over 12 months senior instructor
in Lockheed aircraft, from which he
was appointed to command a trans-
port squadron at Townsville, with the
job of assisting in supply to New
Guinea. Holder of the A.F.C. for
his outstanding work, he is now
Deputy Director of Transport and Move-
ment under Group-Captain H. Ross.
Purvis reckons the Southern Cross fit to
take on any job, even to crossing the
Tasman.
Had a 60th birthday in Adelaide, R. S.
Richards, Leader of the Opposition. Born
of a Cornish family at Moonta, and
a keen Labor politician from boyhood, <
Richards has sat in the Assembly for
Wallaroo for 27 years, the last seven of
them as party leader. He had one brief
term as Premier in 1933.
Dr. G. Christensen, a former Brisbane
dentist, has been named professional
advisor to the R.A.A.F. Directorate of
Dental Services. In 1943 he was
appointed to a research position in avia-
tion medicine at Melbourne University.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 53, Ernest Melrose Angus,
chief electrician of the S.A. Fire Brigade, and
inventor of the “talk-alarm” which has aroused
interest throughout the world. He joined the
brigade in 1915, was chief electrician for the
past 20 years, and at the end was preparing for
the installation of his invention, which has been
patented by the S.A. Fire Brigades Board.
In Adelaide, at 81, Thomas Shuldham
O’Halloran, K.C., and former president of the
S.A. National Football League. Son of T. J. S.
O’Halloran, S.M., and grandson of the first
S.A. Commissioner of Police, he was called to
the Bar in 1887, took an active part ip the draft-
ing of the Industrial Code, Early Closing Act
and other important industrial statutes, and
became K.C. in 1924. He played with the S.A.
team against the All-England Eleven in 1882.
At 73, in Brisbane, A. V. Dodwell, one of
Queensland’s best-known motoring personalities.
He imported cars as far back as 1906.
In Hobart, at 64, Justice Phillip Lewis Griffiths,
who was Acting Chief Judge of New Guinea at
the time of the Jap invasion. Born at Stony
Creek (Vic.) and educated at Melbourne Uni-
versity, he was on the literary staff of Hobart
“Mercury” before starting a legal career. He
was Tasmania’s Solicitor-General from 1930 to
1939.
At Caloundra (Q.), at 75, Denis Nowland, a
grazier with wide interests, chiefly at Gunnedah
(N.S.W.), Quilpie and Wandoan (Q.).
At Palmerston North (M.L.)y Mrs. A. M.
Metcalfe, cousin of “Banjo” Paterson. Born at
Kiama (N.S.W.), she was one of Sydney’s
leading sopranos before crossing to Maoriland
50 years ago.
At Athens, Major John Mulgan, son of
Maorilander Alan Mulgan, poet, journalist and
author, and himself author of a M.L. novel
Man Alone. On the staff of the Oxford Uni-
versity Press at the outbreak of the war, Major
Mulgan went through the North African and
Italian campaigns, and lately was engaged in
administrative work in Athens.
At 89, in Brisbane, H. Raff, one of the
founders of the Queensland Institute of Sur-
veyors. His father was member for Brisbane in
Queensland’s first Parliament.
In Sydney, at 80, Walter Gale, banker and
astronomer, holder of the rare Jackson Gwilt
Medal, and discoverer of “five comets and
several double stars.” Born at Paddington
(Sydney) he got his grounding in astronomy
from his father. He was manager of the old
Government Savings Bank at Newcastle for
many years.
In an accident in the Middle East, at 38,
Major Desmond Patrick O’Brien, of the
N.Z.M.C., previously a leading Auckland sur-
geon.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), at 39, Air Com-
modore E. G. Olson, D. 5.0., one of the earliest
and best-known of Maoriland’s airmen. In
1925 he went to England at his own expense to
join the R.A.F., and in the German war he com-
manded the No. 75 (N.Z.) Bomber Squadron
in the heavy pounding of the Ruhr, Cologne
and Lubeck. 111-health forced his return to
M.L. early this year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo” : Of the taking of straw-vote polls
there is no end, and it was inevitable that
one would be conducted on the attributes
of the various delegates to the San Fran-
cisco conference, the voters being mem-
bers of the International Press Corps.
For the “most photogenic” delegate
Edward R. Stettinius was chosen. The
U.S. Secretary of State is certainly a
striking figure with his full head of white
hair contrasting with thick, dark eye-
brows topping a youthful face, though
Anthony Eden must have given him a
run for it. His manner of tossing around
apt Confucian sayings earned for
Dr. Wellington Koo choice as the
“most scholarly,” whilst Feisel of Saudi
Arabia, who presumably gets around in
a striped tent and tea-towelling chapeau,
was voted the “most colorful” —a term
which tips the hand of hooey. Dr. Evatt
was accounted the “most vigorous.”
(Apropos, I once saw a man give an
exhibition which for sheer vigor would
have put him at the top of any class.
For two hours he pulled a boat madly
up the river without noticing that the
craft was still tied to the bank.) Poor
old Frankie didn’t get a mention. Now,
had they included a section for the “most
platitudinous delegate,” the Capricorn ia
Wonder would have beaten the nearest
contender by at least 5000 cliches.
* * * *
“Wm. M.”; The convoy was nearing
the Heads. There was a big sea running,
but the liner rode it steadily. Suddenly
from the bridge we saw a corvette
coming out and making heavy weather
of it, staggering up the side of one
wave and pitching into the trough
of the next. Our skipper, a stickler
for naval courtesy, signalled: “Good
morning. Corvette. How are you?” Back
came the reply. “All right going uphill,
but going downhill —Oh, boy!”
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: The main reason why
circuses have slumped in Australia is the
law that any animal imported must be
quarantined for six months. In the
’seventies, ’eighties and ’nineties of
the last century Australia was visited
by excellent overseas circuses, notably
those of Fillis, Chiarini, Cooper and
Bailey and Harmston. These shows
introduced . equestrian acts now rarely
seen in the Aussie ring. There is no
Quarantine Act against imported acro-
bats, gymnasts or clowns, so that accounts
for shows featuring principally the talents
of these performers.
* * * *
“A Major”: I see that a Sydney ex-
ponent of “swing” music wants to give a
concert in the Conservatorium Hall, and
that he doesn’t anticipate a rebuff be-
cause this “modern music” has been
played in New York’s Carnegie Hall.
Well, why not? Percy Grainger has
defended “swing” because it is at least
alive and kicking; Gershwin has exerted
his talents in the idiom ; Iturbi, that in-
comparable player of Mozart, finds en-
joyment and relaxation in these intricate
and strongly-marked rhythms, a taste
shared by a very gifted Sydney pianist,
Isidore Goodman. In the House of
Music, as in that of pictorial art, there
are many mansions, and there is this to
be said for the modern dance-band
players, that they don’t propose to move
in and throw everybody else out of the
window. By all means, let them play at
the Con. —it will do that solemn institu-
tion no harm.
* * * *
“Zake”; Thornton, the communist boss
(imp.), who pulls ironworkers along by
the nose (though the number of noses
yielded for the operation is shrink-
ing ominously), stupidly stuck his neck
out by condemning the White Australia
policy, the only thing that protects the
workers he so loudly professes to cham-
pion from having to compete for jobs
with colored aliens who can live on a sniff
of mullet gut and traditionally live in
hovels that an Australian wouldn’t keep
his dogs in. It is a striking thing that
Thornton thinks in exactly similar terms
to the people who once tried to flood
Australia with Kanaka and Oriental dirt-
cheap labor on the cane- and goldfields
of the North. The rabbit, fox, starling
and crested bulbul have been regarded as
some of the worst of our imported pests ;
those unfortunate fauna shouldn’t have to
be classed with sponsors of a totalitarian
Oriental “philosophy” who would smash
Australian labor.
* * * *
“X.P.8.1.”: A war-time ' song that
should have caught on with the public,
but didn’t, is “Blarney’s Boys,” which,
although published, is unknown outside
the A.1.F., who still roar, it on route
marches and beer nights. The vigorous
words and tingling tune put it in a class
“Did I ever tell you how I Was nearly run down in a skiff by the Manly
ferry one Regatta Day , sir?
abovp the bloodless “patriotic” stuff that
pours from the assembly line of overseas
song factories. In October, 1939, the
composer, one of the happy crowd then
learning the intricacies of “slope arms”
in Melbourne Showground, sang it at
one of the nightly concerts. I don’t know
who he was, and I’ve never seen him
since, but his song was an immediate hit.
Commencing:
We’re all Blarney’s boys,
Sixth Divvy boys,
It was exclusively 17th Brigade until we
reached the M.E., where it quickly in-
fected the rest of the Sixth. Later divs.
took it up with their own divvy com-
prising the second line, but the Sixth
always looked on it as their song. There
was no false modesty about us in those
early training days:
Hitler we warn
We’re the A.I.F. reborn.
We’ll storm the Siegfried Line,
And we’ll toss him in the Rhine,
For we’re Sixth Divvy boys.
One couplet:
Just like Gunga Din
We can take it on the chin
was to prove true of the battered but
hard old divvy.
* * * *
“Nelson’s Blood”; I don’t grudge tugs
their swanky names (B. 16/5/’45). In
1903 I was in Portsmouth Harbor when
the old ironclad Neptune was being towed
to the naval boneyard at Rotten Row,
Stokes Bay. Towrope broke, and the
heavy ship drifted off and banged into
Nelson’s flagship Victory, moored off
Gosport. The Neptune’s formidable ram
took Victory amidships, and did damage
that gave the staunch wooden vessel a
list to starboard. Signals were soon flying
for assistance, and two powerful paddle-
wheel tugs came rushing out. They took
their stations, one each side of Victory,
and propped her up. From the quarter-
deck of Victory came the order to slip
moorings, then (to the tugs) “Go ahead.”
Victory was soon safe in dock.
* * * #
“Nakh”: My room in Melbourne is
infested with rats, and I have been waging
a war of extermination on them for
months with a most reliable poison.
If I put out a dozen baits they are de-
voured within five minutes, but there are
more rats than ever by the next night.
I have come to the conclusion that the
rats like the poison, though it kills them,
that they can detect it instantly at vast
distances and that my campaign is
merely attracting rats. The other resi-
dents in my street provide the rats with
all the sustenance they need for carrying
on the fight against me by putting leaky
kerosene-tins, lidless dustbins and parcels
of rotting foodstuffs wrapped in news-
paper on their doorsteps. The bright
lads of the C.S.I.R. should be able to
think up a blitz that will settle Mr. Rat.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I had my only glimpse of
Lloyd George in rather dramatic circum-
stances. It was the final of the English
Association Cup, possibly the most im-
portant sporting event on earth, since
each of the soccer clubs in Britain
feels bound to enter for it, and
one defeat means out. The final
is at Wembley Stadium, the only place
which can give 100,000 seats and a good
view, and these seats are sold out weeks
ahead. I had the luck as a visitor to be
given a seat a few rows behind the King,
who had with him Lloyd George and
Rudyard Kipling. Three big bands took
turns for two hours before the game,
finally massing for “Land of Hope and
Glory” and “Land of My Fathers” —
this last in compliment to Cardiff, in the
final with Woolwich Arsenal. The de-
fence was, as usual in the best soccer,
quite too strong for the attack ; till close
on time the Arsenal goal-keeper saved a
shot, then slipped down while running
out to kick it away. The ball came put
from under his arm and crept away like
a live thing to and just over the goal line.
Then the Welsh, part of the crowd went
mad, and Lloyd George led the cheering.
* * * *
“X.S.”: I know now where the far-
famed Australian accent of the rising
generation comes from. I attended a
conference of State schoolteachers to pro-
test against the iniquitous action of Mr.
Dunstan in making his tribunal to deter-
mine teachers’ wages and conditions sub-
ject to the Governor-in-Council. The
torrents of abuse of the “fat man in
Spring-street,” described as a dictator and
given credit for qualities of cunning, dis-
honesty and subtle scheming which would
fit a Machiavelli, were most of them
uttered in the prevailing diction. The
owners of the voices constantly express
concern about the way their charges
speak the King’s English.
* * * *
“Benbow”: Royal graciousness makes
monarchists of us all, even “Mat’s Mate”
(B. 21/3/’45). My old man dated his
zeal from 1880, when he recognised
Edward VII, and Queen Alexandra, then
Prince and Princess of Wales, driving
through an almost deserted London
street in an open carriage. Loud
“Hoorays” from a loyal subject aged
nine caused the Princess to smile and
Edward to remove his belltopper and
bow. The dynasty gained a thick-and-
thin supporter for the next 60 years,
* * * *
“Pip” on military misdemeanors:
There are so many ways of getting into strife
in the army that it is a rare and happy soldier
who has never had his name on a charge
sheet. Failure to observe “lights out” is
one of the commonest offences. Ten minutes
after the bugle an irate orderly-sergeant bursts
into the tent and demands “What’s this light
still doing on?” A meek silence and a hurried
popping into bed usually avert his wrath, but
too frequently some galah starts to argue and
next thing that happens is that the whole tent
is on an A. 4. To arrive late on parade, espe-
cially morning parade, is another way of step-
ping into hot water. If the ser.-major is in a
bad mood the offender is promptly “under.”
Most defaults are sih's of omission-f-not
shaving, dirty boots, missing buttons and lost
equipment. Camp standing orders are pitfalls
for many. Mosquito nets left rolled instead of
.being tucked in before dusk, wandering around
without gaiters, playing swye down behind the
showers and slipping off parade for a quick
spine-bash all bring the monotonous “You’re
under open arrest,” followed by a long list
of warnings and prohibitions. A.W.L. is one
of the grave offences, but for periods involving
only a few hours this is generally watered down
to “being absent from a place of parade.”
Minor derelictions bring a reprimand, small fine
or c.b. The average camp chap manages to
keep out of really serious trouble, sometimes by
luck, mostly by reasonable behavior. But, as
every soldier knows, it is waste of time looking
for legal loopholes in instructions. “Conduct to
the prejudice of good order and military dis-
cipline” tosses him every time. The wallah who
thought that one up was a genius.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Northcote, one of the “cities”
clustered round Melbourne, recently
staged a Festival of Arts, and its organ-
iser created a mild sensation by identify-
ing one of the exhibits, an unsigned pic-
ture, “The Battle of Trafalgar,” as the
work of Clarkson Stanfield, Who made
some success as a marine painter between
1794 and 1867, ending up as an R.A.
The discoverer issued a circular about
it, in which he recalled that he had previ-
ously been successful in tracing “The First
Primrose in Australia,” by Hopley, R.A.
Stanfield was an Irishman who served
before the mast and served his apprentice-
ship to art as a scene-painter after he had
been disabled by an accident at sea. .The
National Gallery in Melbourne has two
of his works.
* * * *
“Avon”: The acquittal of a
13 - year - old Maoriland boy
charged with the murder of his
mother and brother set some
legal problems for the trial
Judge. Evidence of insanity
had been given, and the
Judge (Blair, Acting C.J.), as re-
quired by law, asked the jury
whether it found the accused was
insane at the time he killed his
relatives, and if its acquittal was
on grounds of insanity. The
jury’s answer was that accused
was not guilty, due to temporary
insanity, on the second count
only (the murder of his brother).
Counsel for the defence argued
that this verdict endorsed a view,
put forward by him and not ex-
cluded by the Crown, that the
mother’s death was an accident.
The Judge accepted that argu-
ment and entered an acquittal
also on the charge of matricide.
But counsel for the defence went
on to contend that the jury's
original verdict on the second
count did not amount to a find-
ing of insanity, and that the
Judge had no right to ask for the jury’s
view on that point. The matters at issue
were referred to the Court of Appeal, the
acquitted lad being meanwhile (against
the strong protest of his counsel) com-
mitted to a mental hospital.
* * t- *
SAN FRANCISCO.
“Serene, indifferent of Fate”
(Bret Harte could write in ’6B)
“Thou sittest at the Western Gate.”
A fitting tribute doubtless when
You first appeared within his ken,
But what a change ’twixt now and then!
He obviously couldn’t guess
How differently you would impress
In eighty years or rather less.
When fifty nations meet to see
How far they can (or can’t) agree
There "won’t be much serenity.
Such range of tongues, such fervid flows
Of alien speech, do you suppose
Were ever matched since Babel rose?
Myriads of ears are Bent toward
You as a kind of sounding-board,
Where various views are yelled and roared.
No more “indifferent of Fate,”
You represent the place and date
Designed to put the future straight;
To usher in an era bright,
Scanning a war-torn world to sight
What’s out-of-joint—and set it right.
No more you strike the poet’s sense
As symbolising an intense
Detachment and indifference.
Transformed, beside the Western Gate
You sit, the scene-'of high debate
Where fifty nations pull (heir weight.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
THE OLD MAN OF THE SEA.
“Mr. Hughes described communism as Labor’s Old
Man of the Sea. Mr. Chifley denied that his party
had anything to do with communists.”
Old Sinbad the Sailor, it’s equally fair
To assume, would have hotly denied
Any truck whatsoe’er
With that grisly affair
Which chose on his shoulders to ride.
There are obvious reasons it can’t be avowed
Straight out, but it’s clear as can be,
It must be allowed
That the communist crowd
Are Labor’s Old Man of the Sea.
Disown or disclaim him as much as you like,
Who is there that isn’t aware
There’s seldom a strike
Announced, or a spike
In industry’s guns, but he’s there.
He’s heels that can goad and a whip that can
crack;
He’s a mixture of limpet and flea,
When he’s perched on the back
Of the Socialist pack,
Like Sinbad’s Old Man of the Sea.
He’s a sort of Black Care, vide Horace’s phrase,
That sits at the horseman’s behind.
He sticks and he stays
As long as it pays,
Or he feels in the slightest inclined.
And it’s not in his nature ill-feeling to show;
From petty resentment he’s free
When he’s branded de trop
By Chifley and Co.
Is Labor’s Old Man of the Sea.
Though Labor may jib at the communist’s goals
At least it’s instructive to note
When wavering souls
Are drummed to the polls
It’s cause to be glad of his vote.
Old Sinbad, I fancy, his incubus cast
In the end. Now how long will it be
Ere Labor, taxed past
Endurance, at last
Bucks off its Old Man of the Sea?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Clooter”; Recently Prices Commis-
sioner Copland told Victorian account-
ants that unless prfce '“stability” was
maintained Australia would suffer “de-
flation of prices and its inevitable accom-
paniment—the sort of unemployment,
depression and financial crisis which pre-
vented rehabilitation of the national
economy after the last war.” But it
wasn’t until eleven years after 1918 that
trouble arrived. From 1918 to 1928
was a boom time in this country —Gov-
ernments launched vast closer settlement
schemes, wheat and wool prices were high,
the building trade was thriving and the
motor industry, the cinema business and
even dairying and orcharding were doing
well. Racing, football, boxing and Test
cricket drew vast crowds. Sydney pushed
on with its Harbor Bridge. Melbourne
launched its electric-train service and
Sydney follpwed suit. Men slept under
trees beneath the legend “Don’t wake me
under £1 a day,” and a good time was
had by all. Then the depression spread
through the world. It hit this country
like the morning after the night before,
but, being young and then fairly Tree from
cranks, Australia was among the first to
recover.
* * * *
“Tuart”: I see that Brigadier Knox,
the Victorian Speaker, had to remonstrate
with raconteurs who were too noisy after
the evening refreshments :
After-dinner stories all round the Chamber
are doubtless interesting to those partici-
pating, but I am unable to hear the hon.
member for Evelyn.
I daresay there has never been a Speaker
or counterpart in any English-speaking
“It's General Blitzer. He Wants you to return at once—says youre
holding up operations.”
country who hasn’t had to administer the
same mild reproof. The post-prandial
buzz of chatter must be the oldest of
Parliamentary customs. I had my first
experience of it on my one and only visit
to the House of Commons before the last
war. John Dillon was speaking on a
Budget item concerning the salaries of
Irish schoolteachers. In flocked a score
or more of English members who had
dined well, and the yarns they told and
the badinage they exchanged nearly
drowned Dillon’s accents. He took it
well, apologising to members for occupy-
ing them with a _ ; r • which could
scarcely interest them v he added
shrewdly, be a very proper subject for
discussion in an Irish legislature, but Irish
legislature was none. When Dillon
sat down Carson caught the Speaker’s
eye, and continued the debate. Interrup-
tions came from Dillon, but in perfect
good temper; in fact, these inveterate
•opponents, of different races and reli-
gions, could not have been more polite
to one another if they had been pals
from boyhood. How different from our
Mr. Ward and Mr. Rankin!
* * * *
“Daleswood”: Apart from the valor
of the British and American armies, prob-
ably the biggest single factor in the speed
and completeness of victory in Europe
was the way in which oil fuel was kept
up to the advancing armies. Many
watching the vast battle wondered how
it was done. The answer, it is now re-
vealed, was “Operation Pluto,” whereby
a million gallons of oil a day was pumped
through pipe-lines that ran under the
Channel from England to France. It
began as long ago as April, 1940, when
Lord Mountbatten, then Chief of Com-
bined Operations, somewhat jocularly
asked Geoffrey Lloyd, Minister in Charge
of Petroleum Warfare, to lay a pipe-
line across the Channel. He was taken
seriously. A. C. Hartley, chief engineer
of Anglo-Iranian Oil, suggested that a
pipe could be laid by cable-laying ships.
Shortly a test line of piping was laid in
the Thames. It worked. Next step was
the making of two 30-mile batches of
3in. diameter steel piping, capable of
working at very high pressure, in 20ft.
lengths capable of being easily welded.
Across the Bristol Channel from Swan-
sea to Ilfracombe went the next test,
which also worked. R.A.S.C. men were
trained for the job, known as “Force
Pluto,” and by August 12, 1944, 61 days
after the Normandy landings, petrol was
being pumped into France. There was
a thousand-mile network of pipes from
as far north as Liverpool—from oil-tanker
on Mersey-side to the battle line. The
whole job, from first to last, was British
in conception and execution.
* * * *
“T.M.”: Yes, London’s beer was pretty
weak stuff during World War I. My
mate, Bat Billings, got an adequate
description of it when he asked the bar-
maid at the Cow and Crown for a “pint
of arms and legs.” “Whatcher gettin’
at?” asked the damsel. “I mean that it
ain’t got no body in it,” explained Bat.
* ❖ %
“Pawang”: The most thorough appli-
cation of diphtheria immunisation in
Melbourne has been made by Essendon
City Council. It started in 1939 by im-
munising 1843 children; and cases of
diphtheria in that year numbered 50.
During the 1941 epidemic there were 41
cases. Last year 550 were immunised,
and infections had declined to 7. In 1943
a start was made on children of pre-
school age. This year only one case of
diphtheria has so far been reported, and
there have been no cases in the six years
amongst children who have been treated.
* * * *
“Ji”; Bronte House, Bronte, still going
strong, must be one of the oldest in Syd-
ney’s Eastern Suburbs. Robert Lowe, the
gifted albino who was afterwards Lord
Sherbrooke, built it in 1842. While he
lived there it was the resort of the wit
and brains of the colony. Lowe, cautious
in all things, had a kind of defence post
rigged up in one of the turretted ends of
the building, with access by a stairway
that could be drawn up if bushrangers
came swashbuckling round. Where
“ Struth, I reckon me an you got off light compared with that poor coot.”
Bronte Park is was Lowe’s cabbage patch.
He set a good example by growing every
kind of native tree in his grounds. Lowe
left lovely Bronte in 1850, the colonial
field being too narrow for his ambitions.
He afterwards teamed with Gladstone in
his Cabinet. He was a great lawyer, but
he had his failures ; his defence of John
Knatchbull in the Jamieson murder case
was one of them. Lowe afterwards
adopted Jamieson’s children.
* * * *
“Looby”: Our ice-man, too, has heard
about those 1930 pennies. After a week’s
fruitless search for them he came into
the house one morning with a face like
the sun and moon in bright collision.
“Find one?” we asked. “No, not a
penny,” he said. “But I’ve found six 1930
ha’pennies. If the penny is worth ten bob
I ought to get five bob each for the
ha’pennies, don’t yer think?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: River Murray steamboat
traffic not getting enough Water till May
(B. 25/4/’45)? The locks must have
altered conditions remarkably. Adelaide
has always been the city to patronise
this delightfully lazy and truly Australian
river trip —Murray Bridge or Morgan to
Mildura and back. I have done it twice,
in the days before locking, and always
was told that the season couldn’t start
because there w'as “no river” till Septem-
ber began to melt the mountain snows
which feed the Murray at its source.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: A Sydney revival of Gold-
smith’s “She Stoops to Conquer” recalls
the Australian history of the play. Since
1880 playgoers have seen six notable
Kate Hardcastles. Best was Mrs. Brough,
with Mrs, Bernard Beere second and
Marie De Grey third. Others were
Louise Pomeroy, whose daughter is re-
sponsible for the recent revival; Mrs.
Brown Potter and Madge Mclntosh, Sir
George Macfarren used the play as
libretto for an opera which for some
years was popular in the U.K.
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”; Today my schoolboy
son announced that it was his birthday,
and his words recalled an incident of my
own boyhood. One morning when my
schoolmaster demanded why I had been
absent the previous day I replied: “It
was my birthday, sir”; whereupon the
dour old dominie regarded me sternly and
retorted: “I shall endeavor to impress
on your limited understanding, Bureau,
that yesterday could not possibly have
been your birthday. The recurrence of
the date of that —er—-unfortunate event
was the anniversary.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: The most unusual reason yet
supplied for inability to recognise drunk-
enness has come from a medical witness
in a case at Collingwood, Melbourne.
Asked whether a doctor could smell liquor
on the breath of a patient at a hospital
casualty ward at 10.15 in the evening, the
medico said he couldn’t. “Why not?”
asked the p.m. “The nose gets tired by
that time,” was the unexpected answer.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: People have told me after see-
ing the horror film of German concentra-
tion camps that they felt no emotion
whatever. In such cases it is likely the
reaction will come later, one of the com-
monplaces of psychology being the
phenomenon of delayed action. Street
accidents often provide examples, minutes
and sometimes hours after the crisis is
over. A young woman who assured me
that the film had produced no effect on
her subsequently informed me that she
had vomited her heart out in her home
an hour later. Children are in a diffeient
category from grown-ups. A thing can
only be understood in terms of experi-
ence, and few children have any experi-
ence even remotely related to what is so
badly shown in this film.
“Lao-dah” describes a Chinese “horror
camp”:
It was in Shanghai and there were square
miles of it. Tens of thousands of Chinese
families lived in sampans on the mud of the
Soochow Creek, in huts of bags and paper and
on the bare ground, in the beggars’ camps and
in boardinghouses, where 70 lodgers slept for
warmth under the same huge blanket, which
was lowered from the roof on the tenants at
a stated hour each evening. Holes to fit the
number of heads of the users were cut in the
blanket and if the number of heads exceeded
the holes that was just too bad. Beggars lined
the streets of the native city and the stairs lead-
ing to the temples exposing their sores
or mutilations, real, self-inflicted or merely
painted, to the gaze of tourists. This human
refuse was not permitted to overflow into the
foreign pale except when famine, flood, pesti-
lence and economic changes in the distant
interior made it such a formidable flood that no
barrier could withstand it. Then the European
taipan arriving at his office would find his steps
festooned with the sleeping bodies of men,
women and children and occasionally corpses.
Soldiers killed in the internecine conflicts that'
were generally raging somewhere violated the
neutrality of the foreign settlement by floating
down the Whangpoo past the business houses
and it didn’t seem to matter much whether they
were republican or rebel. Fires which some-
times swept away 10,000 huts and houses were
the only sanitary measures possible in this situa-
tion. International Shanghai was an oasis of
luxury, efficiency and comfort in this ocean of
misery and squalor, where Europeans could live
as unaware of what was going on around them
as if it were on another planet. If a horror film
had been made of Shanghai and shown in
Shanghai, 90 p.c. of the foreign population
would have been just as astounded at it as
Germans say they are at the revelations of the
Nazi regime.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Astrologers and other
fortune-tellers are dangerous, and if I
were a dictator one of the first things
I would do is to put them out of busi-
ness. Insensitive themselves, they don t
realise what damage they may do to sen-
sitive people. When I was a boy, like
most boys I was full of terrors. I had
an elderly relative who “told fortunes-,”
and she was perpetually asking me to let
her read my hand. “No, 1 won’t,” I
always said. “Yes, let me,” she would
insist. “I won’t, I won’t,” 1 used to shout,
and she would be annoyed with me for
my stubbornness. If she had read my
hand at that time and told me that this
or that would happen to me, or that I had
this or that sort of character, or that
something sinister was going to come into
my life at 20, she would have put a hoo-
doo on me. In Melbourne this year a
woman attempted suicide because of some
astrologer’s prediction about ill-fortune
coming to her.
STICK TO YOUR LAST.
“The clergy should keep out of political contro-
versies ; otherwise they risk losing their intiuence over
people who disagree with them politically.”
—English Bishop.
A wise old Bishop who those words let fall ;•
A bit of sound and shrewd advice, my
masters,
Well worthy the considering of all
Who rightly call themselves and whom we calf
Spiritual pastors.
And there are others whom we sometimes view
In this regard as regular transgressors.
Tve a conviction that I can’t subdue
The warning’s just as applicable to •
Uni. professors.
The banks to methods more direct have gone.
They have a rule demanding strict compliance
That none should mingle in the pro and con
Of party strife, lest they be treading on
The toes of clients.
Shun politics, the Bishop tells his kind,
You do but harm yourselves as faction-
squabblers.
And in a well-worn Latin tag I find
A tip for other trades that come to mind
Besides the cobbler’s.
“Stick to your last,” all you who earn your
fees
By weighty academic disquisitions,
You holders of diplomas and degrees.
Your metier clearly lies in paths like these,
Whereas no thinking man a dearth forsees
Of politicians.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Bo”: The Blackened Stump, a little
southern European with a mop of wiry,
untidy, black hair, was the station’s wood-
and-water-joey. Ever complaining of
some physical trouble or other, he spent
a fair portion of his wages on patent
medicines. The mob began to get
fed up with his eternal whinging, and
when one day he announced that he
couldn’t leave his bunk for the pain in
his Stomach Long Fred, dropping a wink
to the others, offered to go into the town-
ship and get a prescription made up for
him. The patient thanked him profusely
and Fred “departed.” An hour later he
re-entered the hut, followed closely by
the boys, and poured out half a pannikin
of the “medicine’—three parts whisky,
the other a mixture of asafoetlda, Epsom
salts, diluted sheepwash, hair oil and
vinegar. “Down with it,” he said kindly
—“it’ll put yer guts to rights in no time.”
The Blackened Stump downed it, gasped,
his face convulsed; then a smile slowly
split his face. “Good-a!” he said.
“Double-da dose, eh? Got da beeg thirst
today—p’raps da cook he put plenty salt
in da corned horse, yes?”
* * * *
“Gebla”; “Sister” (B. 30/5/’45) gave
a true and captivating description ; but
a Papuan “little creek” too often
hides death in its beauty. We were
camped on the rim of a donga through
which flowed a narrow stream. It spilt
over a rocky ledge into a granite basin
forming a most inviting-looking pool. The
floor of the pool was carpeted with a
scintillation of colored sand and pebbles
which made a shimmering mosaic behind
the reflections of the tropical plants that
grew in crevices between the rocks. Bril-
liantly-clad dragonflies skimmed the sur-
face like miniature skip bombers at prac-
tice ; and water-bugs glided over it swiftly
and aimlessly. Near by, rhododendrons
displayed their magnificent blooms. The
whole setting was in dazzling contrast to
the sombreness of the surrounding jungle.
The pool sparkled and twinkled tempt-
ingly as it heliographed the sun. But,
sweat and thirst as we did, we didn’t use
that pool, for a warning sign bore the
legend “Swimming and drinking pro-
hibited —this water is infested with hook-
worm.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The quickest and simplest
method of keeping a bullock down after
it had been thrown I saw demonstrated
by a half-caste at Carcoar (N.S.W.). He
divided the end of the tail, slid one half
around the near hind leg, put the other
half through the cloven part of the hoof
and knotted the two together. The opera-
tion didn’t take ten seconds in all, and
the bullock was as helpless as a man who
goes shopping with his wife.
* * * *
“Hanko”; The cows had eaten around
and into the old straw stack till the pile
assumed the shape of a huge mushroom.
The boss reckoned it was dangerous like
that, so we impressed the services of old
Nugget to pull the thing over. I stood
him up and gave hifn the word. As the
rope cut through the “stem” of the stack
the mushroom top tumbled backwards,
and Nugget went down on his knees.
“Gripes.” gasped the boss, “that’s pullin’
’em over,” and he turned to grin at
Choom. Then in our vast bewilderment
we stood goggling at a pair hobnailed
boots that were disappearing into the
straw. When we got Choom out he was
slightly dazed. “Happen I was crawlin’
out in t’ wrong direction an’ all,” he said.
“But how did you come to be under
there?’ the boss asked. There was a
hint of pained surprised in Choom’s voice
when he answered “I was helpin’ push
rick over,” he said.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Listened recently to an
argument as to what is the correct Aus-
tralian monniker for the Drunk’s Pet;
crayfish (cray for short) or lobster? No
drunk was there to settle the question,
but somebody produced an Official Year-
Book. The only references in it to the
florid, friendly supper companion who
goes so well with beer were in the name
of lobster. What is called a lobster in
England has big pincers on its front pair
of legs, similar to those worn by our own
freshwater yabbies. The French langouste
is without them, and its more classical
synonym of ecrevisse, of which “cray-
fish” is an obvious corruption, suggests
that the Year-Book is, for once, wrong.
Incidentally, our southern marine cray-
fish, Jasus lalandii, has the distinction of
being the most abundant of its kind in
the world, and is far more prolific than
the species found on the N.S.W. coast, J.
verrauxi. H. C. Dannevig, then directing
Commonwealth fisheries investigations,
tried, in 1909, to acclimatise it in N.S.W.
in the hope of increasing local catches.
The experiment was a failure. The
“Tha can keep toopence change, choom .”
world’s biggest freshwater lobster, Asta-
copsis franklinii, sometimes reaching
111 b. in weight, occurs only in a few
rivers of northern Tasmania.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; I can elaborate a little on
that “old legend of the Moira Lakes”
(B. 6/6/’45). When the story came to me
it was set on Lake Hattah, south of
Malice Cliffs, and the piece of artillery
was mounted on the prow of a duck-
punt as a swivel gun. The gunner, how-
ever, confined himself strictly to No. 2
shot, and the encounter with the law
came when a mounted trooper, hearing
the blast of the thing, made for the lake.
The shooter sighted him, weighted the
ducks in the boat and dropped them
overboard. The trooper insisted that he
dive in and retrieve ’em, and when he
did the law helped itself to a plump brace,
said “You better watch out using that
thing,” and departed.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; “Betcha’s” eye-witness
evidence of the wedge-tail carrying off the
live lamb (B. 6/6/’45) should be regarded
as an unique experience. I believe his
story and admire his sense of justice in
stating that not all wedgies “play havoc”
with stock, but he’s a bit at sea in speak-
ing of a pair beginning “ravishing,” as
though the wedgy had the same instincts
as the dingo and killed for the love of
it. All the lambs that all the wedge-tails
in Australia take in a year wouldn’t keep
a suburban butcher going, but all the
rabbits, hares, rats, bandicoots and other
pests that fall to the big birds each year
overwhelmingly compensate for lamb
losses. It doesn’t take a lamb more than
a week or so to grow too big for a wedgy
to lift, and all who condemn the big
birds should ask themselves what the
eagles live pn for the rest of the year.
* ( H: * *
“E. 2”: “I’m cornin’ acrost the swamps
one day,” said “Wanderin’ ” Willie, “an’
—strike me roan! —there’s a tiger-snake
an’ a big frawg starin’ into each other’s
eyes at erbout two inches apart. It seems
that Joe’s mesmerisin’ the frawg; but
no! Frawggie springs in an’ takes a grip
on the blake’s throat an’ pins him t’ the
mat. After a bit of thrashin’ round the
snake passes out. Well, that there frawg
was a good ’un, but his sons an’ gran’-
sons are even better still, an’ pretty soon
the swamps ain’t lousy with snakes any
more. Now, mister,” he whispered con-
fidentially, “y’ got a big river frontage
here, ain’t y’? An’ I’d like t’ do y’ a turn
an’ save y’ trouble from snakes. If y’
keep it under y’r hat y’ can have the best
pair of frawgs in me collecshun f’r on’y
a dollar.” Anyone interested may now
be done a turn with a picked pair from
their numerous progeny at a dollar,
freight extra.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: One recollection of a visit
to Rotorua (M.L.) was the large number
of big rainbow trout seen in a small, very
clear creek off the lake there. One pool
at the head was literally packed with fish
ranging to eight pounds or more, and a
good many could be seen on the sandy
bottom in the act of spawning. Here in
Victoria I’ve wetted a fly in many of our
best trout streams and found the annual
pilgrimage to the headwaters doesn’t
occur in these parts. Brown and rainbow
trout at the point of spawning have been
caught well downstream in the rivers,
and spawning time is spread over a num-
ber of months. Neglect of this custom
so typical of the fish may be accounted
for by the presence of so many suitable
spawning beds in the rivers; or is it be-
cause of climatic or other differences?
V * *
“B. A. Ker”: In contrasting the size
of the historic oak in Parramatta Park
(N.S.W.) with the gigantic tree at near-by
Fairfield “Eureka fB. 30 /5 / ’45) appa-
rently overlooked the fact that the trees
are of different varieties. The tree which
caused the vice-regal tragedy is an Eng-
lish oak, but the pride of Fairfield has
a different leaf, a smaller acorn ; and the
timber, though indisputably oak, is not
identical with English oak. Its botanical
name used to be on the tablet “Eureka”
mentioned, but not a letter remains visible
now. The theory that the tree is an
American oak has its followers. Climate
or soil has no influence, since an English
oak which stood less than a quarter of
a mile further along the creek grew so
little in the ten years I took particular
notice that I would not dispute the sug-
gestion that Dr. Bland planted both
acorns at the same time. Although for
years the local kids played Tarzans in
the low, massive branches, “the old oak”
was, ironically, a tree without a blemish
until the civic fathers awoke from their
slumbers long enough to acquire the land
on which it stood, form a small park on
the site and erect notices forbidding
climbing or swinging on the branches.
Then the veteran split down the middle,
leaving half the tree trailing on the
ground. At first the damage was attri-
buted to lightning, but a forestry expert
found that the phenomenal length and
weight of the boughs had caused a weak-
ness to develop which could kill the tree.
On his advice, the wound was sealed,
the branches propped and Fairfield’s one
claim to fame restored. Also at his sug-
gestion the dead timber was collected and
made into mayoral furniture.
* * * *
$
“Betcha”; These writers who have
been seeking the correct seat on a horse
prompted me to ask the opinion of Jim
Culhane, of Crooked River, recognised
as one of the best riders Australia has
produced. Once, during a bushfire, Jim
arrived at the top of the ridge and had
just slipped his girth and surcingle pre-
paratory to unsaddling when someone
pointed excitedly to a flying limb that
started the grass in the gully below.
Within a second Jim hit the saddle, and
with girths flying he made the steep rocky
descent in a plunging, skidding hand
gallop, arriving with saddle still in posi-
tion. At my query, however, the old
rider scratched his head and said “Well,
it’s like this. I always thought I could
sit a horse until a Tommy sergeant-major
made it clear that I was a clumsy amateur
who must have got his practice on a
merry-go-round. Did me good, too,”
grinned Jim, goodnaturedly, “But, the
correct seat? Yair, as I say, it depends.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: However much our abori-
ginal may have been pushed about in Asia
it has little to do with his possible land
journey to Australia (B. 2/5/’45). Nor
is there any evidence that he evolved on
this continent, any more than did his
fellow-traveller, the dingo, which is a
mammal, all our other quadrupeds being
marsupials. Our abo. arrived in the north
in three distinct waves; the Tasmanian,
the type known in northern W.A. as the
peedong, and the distinctly higher type,
such as the Bibbulmun nation of s.-w.
W.A. The Tasmanian was pushed right
on to the Speck. The peedong was split
down the centre in W.A. by the invading
Bibbulmun, the major portion being
pushed east into desert country, a frag-
ment west on to the islands of the coast
of the Kimberleys, These two peoples
had many distinct customs, the most dis-
tinctive being the practice of circumcision,
unknown among the Bibbulmun. More
having arrived in the north, it probably
took the abo. a thousand years or more
to reach Cape Leeuwin. This is demon-
strated in that he never got out to any
of s.-w. W.A. islands, though those islands
have so recently been cut off from the
mainland that they carry fauna only very
slightly different. Further, ethnologists
versed in the Bibbulmun tongue tell us
that their place-names invariably are those
of a people travelling slowly to the south.
% * * *
“Blime”: Where does “Prop’ get
all his ammo, for practice (B. 16/5/’45)?
My new boss buys under permit
one box of .22s a year, and they are
whacked up between us to keep down
the dingoes, foxes, crows, parrots, ’roos
and a few more pests. Traps, he says,
are good enough for rabbits and hares ; a
shovel or waddy all that’s necessary for a
wombat —and believe me I’ve hunted
those things so long I now sniff and
whinge if one comes within half a mile.
Urgent cases only are spared a bullet, as
for instance, the fox that’s been raiding
the turkey roost lately. “Y’ better get
that bloke,” the boss mentioned. “Got
a rifle?” “Too right,” I replied, “but
nothing to put in it. It’s a repeater.”
“Not as good as a single shot these days
—tempts a man to be extravagant,” he
explained, fishing in his pocket for his
box of cartridges. There were three left.
“There y’are,” he said, handing me out
one. “You’ll get him in the early morn-
ing, prob’ly. And don’t waste the ammo,
fer there’s no more. I want these others
for a couple of crows that’s givin’
trouble.” Something tells me I’ll be
leaving here shortly.
* H= * =l=
“C. E.”: Though wind and rain play
their part in altering the face of the
country, they have nothing on landslides
as levellers. Counted five small slides
on one East Gippsland (Vic.) range re-
cently over which the grass has not yet
grown. These, however, are as nothing
compared with the avalanche dislodged
from the same hillside some few years
ago, when many hundreds of tons of
earth and rock slid to new positions.
Commencing near the summit it roared
down, widening a narrow gap in its path,
piled boulders and rubble into small hil-
locks at the foot of the slope, and spread
a stream of sand and gravel over flat
grazing land a mile from its starting
point. The result is a useful tussocky
gully where once was a deep rocky
ravine.
**■ * *
“Creel”; The 16ft. tiger shark 13951 b.
heavy, mentioned by “Drum Net Edgar
(B. 23/5/’45), is not the biggest fish ever
landed in Australia. The world’s record
sun-fish was “hooked” by the steamer
Fiona 40 miles north of Sydney on Sep-
tember 18, 1908. The monster became
jammed in the framework of the port
propeller and in this fashion was
brought into Sydney, where it was re-
moved with iron hooks. Measuring 10ft.
2in. long, 13ft. 4in. across and 2ft. 6m.
thick. It weighed just on two tons. So
named because it delights in floating on
the surface and basking in the sun, the
sun-fish’s stumpy body has no tail shaft
and the monster has the appearance or
being cut off behind. It is harmless and
feeds on the tiniest organisms in the sea.
its toothless mouth being rarely more
than six inches long.
THE BAT.
N.S.W.
Well, strike me dead,
The fisherman said;
What was it whizzing
So close to my head?
A flittering thought
From the grey rocks wrought,
Tricky to follow,
Not to be caught,
I watched it skim
By Duckmaloi’s brini
Where Bindo towers
Craggy and grim,
A dance of delight,
A silver-grey sprite,
A light and companion
Of rock and of night.
O bat, little bat,
Come under my hat
And hang upside-down
If you like it like that,
For the willows fold
In the dark and the cold
Their autumn banners
Of dusky gold,
And lonely they roll
In the mind and the soul
The leagues of chill river
A man must patrol
With a d&nce and a dream,
With a glance and a gleam,
Something that flitters
By rock and by stream.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


“I tell you, ‘ abso-bloody-lutely ’ has TWO hyphens !”
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie, on the
lonely cross-track from Wycheproof to
Boort, pulled in at a tank to camp for
the night. He’d just got a fire going
when a figure appeared from the dark-
ness, and Charlie was astonished to see
Mulligan Burns, a sideshowman who had
disappeared from the show circuits.
“Turned it up,” he told Charlie. “This
free education an’ country schools an’
everythin’ did away with the mugs. I
had a few shekels, so I bought a bit of
a farm here an’ settled down. Why don’t
you come up t’ the house for the night?”
At the house Charlie found three other
acquaintances of his profession, “They
went broke,” said Mulligan. “Ain’t
enough mugs t’ go round these days.
They was always good blokes t’ me, so
now they work here. No other bloke
could trust ’em, but I can. You know,
Charlie, the old hands never take each
other down.” The night passed in
reminiscence, and sadly they recalled the
good old days. Thoughtfully the four
retired gentlemen listened to Charlie as he
told of the battle for a crust; how the
crowd worked average systems on the
sweat-wheel and limited their bets to
deeners and zacs ; how the police were
no longer tolerant, how some sports
committees debarred illegal games, how
the old hands were giving place to new,
well-spoken, well-dressed and smart
operators. “But you’re still going,
Curyo,” said Mulligan cheerfully.
“Yair,” said Charlie slowly. “I’m still
goin’.” In the morning, in a detached
silence, Curyo yoked his horse, murmured
farewell and drove down to the gate.
There he got out, tied the reins to the
wheel and walked back. “Listen,” he
said to Mulligan, “you’d better put me
name down. I wouldn’t mind sleepin’ on
the verandah if I have to.” Then he
went back to the buggy and started for
Boort.
* * * *
“Mallee Hen”: All marine monsters
(B. 6/ 6/’45) are sardines compared with
the creature that emerged from Lake
Corong one summer night and headed for
Hopetoun. Jack Anderson, white to the
whiskers and with protruding eyes,
brought the news. “Seen it as I come
over the bridge,” he panted. “About
anundered yards long an’ 20 hands
high. All. black an’ slimy an’ gruntin’
like a pig. Headin’ this way, it was, so I
put the hooks in an’ come up here like
anythin’.” Jack being a sober and truth-
ful bushman, the mob was inclined to
believe him, and an armed party started
for the lake while messengers went for
the police. “What d’ y’ reckon I can
do?” demanded the law on being told
the story. “Arrest the flamin’ thing an’
hold it on the vag.?” But he hung a big
revolver on himself and started down the
hill. He met the crowd coming back,
but had no time to question them because
they Were flat out for the Wimmera and
points south. The policeman peered
down the slope, and in the gloom saw
a monstrous .movement and heard deep,
grunting bellows. He fired twice, but the
Thing ignored him. He backed up the
hill, still firing, and was just beginning
to wonder whether it wouldn’t have been
better to have issued a summons when
the Thing stopped, upended itself, began
spinning madly and rapidly bored its
into the ground. If you go to Hopetoun
to this day they’ll show you the slight,
half-acre wide depression on the slope
above the lake where the Thing vanished.
It’s known thereabouts as the Corronga-
wong, a primitive form that died out with
the passing of the limestone trees on
which it used to feed, fossil remains of
which can be seen in the sub-cutaneous
rocks from which they built the Hope-
toun shire hall.
* - * ' » «
“Esk D.”; Miners on wages, there were
four of us in the smithy near the tunnel
entrance and the usual crib-time argu-
ments were in progress. Long Charlie
was tapping gingerly at a tiny piece of
gelignite on the bench and Joe was telling
him to put some weight on it if he
wanted to blow his silly head off. “Like
this,” he said; and, laying a full plug on
the anvil, he swung the drill-hammer aloft
and made to bring it down with all his
strength. The rest of us shot out of the
shed like startled rabbits and Joe didn’t
know what hit him. Charlie, colliding
with a corner-post of the delicate struc-
ture, brought down the roof.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When we started on
the road job all we had was about 4yd.,
our swags, what we stood up in and
about Hoz. of tobacco. Our credit was
guaranteed in the mess and we did all
right for tucker, managing the smokes
by rolling ’em toothpick size. On the
Saturday that ended our first week
some of the gang got ready for town. I
could see Mat was a bit restless and I
was a bit with him, so I was right behind
him when he breasted up to the foreman
and said, “Hey, how about some wages?”
The foreman looked at us coldly. “You
were told when you started that we paid
only by the fortnight. Your tucker is
guaranteed. We can’t break the rule
because”.... “Nobody’s askin’ y’ t’
break y’ rules,” Mat cut in, “but we’ve
worked half a fortnight. We’ve trusted
you for half the time t’ pay us, now you
trust us f’r the other half.” It got us a
quid each from the foreman’s own
pocket.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The skipper
prided himself on his pidgin. Even
though he was c.o. of a small naval sup-
ply ship and had a knowledge of New
Guinea botany and mosquitoes that
made his navigation to any nook along
that imperfectly, charted coastline easy,
all he boast > fluency for telling
his native (<. You talk along Masta
Jim "c wake:- ine,” or “you fight-
em rust along this fella.” This morning,
the old hooker, her anchor out and her
stern warped into the cocoanut trees of
some unheard-of village, was loading
bush-timber. The villagers swarmed
the decks while they lifted the poles
aboard, piccaninnies yelled as they swam
them out, and marys yabbered as, like
ants, they carried them to the water’s
edge. In his best pidgin the skipper
supervised everything; then to get away
from the pandemonium he took me
ashore duck-shooting. Beside a large
shallow lake the naval officer quietly
produced, from under his scarecrow-like
khaki shorts a pair of white under-
pants, which he hung on a bush presum-
ably as a mark. We then walked miles,
shot as many ducks as two boongs could
carry, and began hunting a crocodile,
until it was very doubtful as to who was
hunting who ; then we returned to the
ship. Loading finished, skipper was
manoeuvring to take the passage through
the reef when from the beach came cries
of “Pull-pull belong captain ’e stop.”
(Pull-pulls are grass skirts). “Pull-pulls,”
murmured the skipper as he rang “stop
engines,” “I don’t collect those rubbishing
curios” ; and in his best stentorian tones
he told the milling villagers so. But the
natives chorused “this fella pull-pull, cap-
tain ’e bring along Australia* captain ’e
wear ’em.” “Skirts, skirts ; / don’t wear
kilts. What are they talking about?” A
canoe was paddling out post haste. The
natives for’ard were waving something
white. It was the skipper’s underpants.
* * * *
“Gebla”: Army engineers built a very
comfy bathroom for the officers attached
to L.H.Q. at an advanced base. The
tiled floor was a pleasure to slip upon,
and the chromium-plated, swivel-type
showers shone with dazzling brilliance.
A tidy row of porcelain hand basins
adorned one wall. These basins had been
manufactured with installation holes for
two taps —hot and cold. In Dutch N.G.
Nature supplies cold water ; so the engi-
neers with an admirable sense of economy,
fitted but one tap to each basin. But
the inspecting officer considered that the
vacant perforation looked most un-
military. He ordered the installation of
the hot-water taps —as dummies ! Which
only goes to prove that it is better to be
an officer in a base job than a civilian
waiting on a spot of plumbing.
* ■ * * *
“Bo”: “The Duke,” a hatter who had
lived down on the river bend for 20 years,
was held in no small pride by the
township, for not only did he receive
visitors with a courtly grace but he spoke
in a cultured voice which seemed to con-
firm the legend that blue blood coursed
through his veins. When I chanced upon
him first he had just walked across from
his shack to a near-by tree. There he took
hold of a thick stick about 12ft. long, to
the middle of which was bound a hunk
of cooked meat, and reversed it so that
the end that had leaned against the tree
then rested on the ground. He glanced
keenly and with evident satisfaction at
"No thanks, mate —too noisy in them things!"
the top end of the stick and came back
to the shack. I had been yarning—
though he would have only admitted to
“conversing”—with him for about quarter
of an hour when he again went across
and reversed the stick. When I evinced
curiosity “The Duke” explained cour-
teously that it was a method he had
evolved for confounding the meat-ants.
They would laboriously make their way
up from the ground; when they neared
the meat the stick would be reversed and
the insects would then be on the top half;
they would then continue the climb and
reach the top, find no meat, and after
gnashing their eyelashes in rage would
hold a conference, re-orientate themselves
and start downwards. On nearing the
meat its owner would again reverse the
stick and the ants would be more or
less where they started. I remarked that
it would perhaps save him a lot of need-
less work were he, ignoring the flies as
heretofore, to suspend the meat from the
tree by a piece of wire. It was then that
“The Duke” drew himself up with dig-
nity, and with the nearest approach to a
gentle rebuke that was compatible with
his upbringing said “My dear sir, you
have overlooked one salient point: what
would I then do for necessary recrea-
tion?”
* * * *
“W. 0.2”: Queerest mollusc we en-
countered in N.Q. waters was at low
tide in a shallow reef-pool of the Great
Barrier, near North Direction Island, The
pool contained scores of delicate crabs
of all shapes and colors and midget fish
of fantastic hues, - which scuttled into
coral crevices at our approach. Only
one inhabitant of the gorgeous lakelet
disregarded our presence and continued
to crawl sluggishly over a patch of pure
white sand on the floor of the pool. This
was an odd pyramid-shaped creature, so
well camouflaged that only by removing
him from the pool could we discover his
identity. He was one of the Carrier
Shells ( Xenophora ), those queer marine
snails which have the habit, unique
among molluscs, of cementing the empty
shells of other molluscs to their own
shells as they grow. These shells are
always fastened on concave side upwards,
apparently so as not to impede move-
ment, and as more and more shells are
added the Carrier’s own shell, completely
obscured by the additions, takes on the
shape of a flattened pyramid. We counted
14 shells, all of the same species, fast-
ened to the top of the shell of the chap
we examined; they were so thoroughly
cemented together that it was impossible
to remove them without a knife. The
Carrier’s own shell is very thin and
fragile, and whether the foreign shells are
added as strengthening or to provide a
disguise is a mystery.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Sunday morning. With a
clatter and rattle an empty petrol-tin
came bouncing into the hut. “C’mon,
yer lazy cows,” yelled the cook. “Come
an’ git it.” Big Joe sat up in bunk ;
yawned mightily and reached for his
plate of dentures. An instant later he
gulped, gurgled alarmingly and coughed
the false teeth on to the floor. Mean-
while, Little Joe was gazing foolishly
at the teeth he’d been trying to wedge
into his mouth. “Them ain’t my tats,”
he sing-songed. “Them ain’t my tats.”
It was then that the full import of the
joke dawned on Jackie Snowflake, and
he let forth a roar of mirth. Fuming with
anger, Big Joe jumped out of bunk;
thrust a leg into his strides; hopped for
a while like a stricken wallaby; spun
around a time or two and then fell head-
long to the floor. The right leg of his
trousers was tied at the knee. The big
bloke was ropeable now, and Snowflake
dived for the door. Everyone pleaded
not guilty, and Big Joe, stumped in his
vengeance, was left to cool off. The abo.,
however, was too scared to come in to
breakfast; so, hungry and outcast, he
draped himself, still giggling, over the
horse-yard fence. Oozing a pent-up
merriment, the cook brought him a mug
of tea and a slab of buttered johnny-
cake. His petrol-tin reveille had afforded
the poisoner a perfect alibi.
COLD COUNTRY.
Winter abridges the hills; the grass is spare;
the bitter mortgage of our life forecloses.
The ploughland locks with frost, and the wild
briars
hurl their long whips of thorn on frenzied air,
bared of their lavish leaf and shallow roses.
Winter abridges us, who dwell on hills.
The branches of our blood put out' no bloom.
Wind with his scorpions drives our love indoors
and sleet comes chattering on the window-sills
while fire and we crowd closer in the room.
Wait till the martins bring their ritual
of life back to the empty nest, and plover
cries his wild gladness on the tide of morning;
and supplejack wears so much white that all
the creeks are lost in cloud. Wait; we’ll be
lover
and lover again; put on the looks of spring
as briar and willow do; go mad and run
like horses through the scent of grass. We’ll
live
till life break all the ice in the world and bring
the loosed heart like a river to the sun.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS can help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
registered TABLETS
FOR BLOOD. VEINS. ARTERIES, ETC.
fm
Thousands of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief—the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system 'or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins,, arteries, etc.
Results
,As a result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple: skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but«more fully in a free booklet
offered see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No signs of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”. Box 1552 E.
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting "Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
f/a4& Axav ymo fivwufa /
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEAV SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
I to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
sStSSSSI 'ZZfhLA,,.,lndia. 7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
d
SAVES
MANPOWER
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: The drought has hit the
stud sheep industry one of its heaviest
blows. That it is continuing with little
hope of relief during the winter kept many
buyers away and imposed caution on
those who attended. The drought was
evident, too, in reduced offerings, and
in the condition of the sheep ; despite irri-
gated pastures, rugging and housing,
many top studs carried a lot of dust in
their fleeces. In several flocks the red
dust was right down to the skin, and the
wool was short and bordered on hunger-
line. And now for details:
There were few rams of the type that lures a
buyer into four figures, but the sales opened
promisingly, top price of 800gns. being reached
in the first few minutes, paid by Ulah for a
big, plain-bodied Wahwoon ram with dense,
long-stapled fleece of medium quality. Wah-
woon and Burrabogi rams sold well, realising
700, 600 and 500gns. But rams that reached
the 500gns. mark were few and at times the
bidding was hard to follow. Occasionally,
after listless competition for a line of special
studs, the bidding would suddenly flare up and
a sheep classed as an ordinary stud would bring
a far better price than his more exalted
brethren.
Haddon Rig’s top was 700gns. but its aver-
age was good. Bundemar’s best was 500gns.,
for a very nice ram that in another year would
have made a great price A Boonoke ram
brought 600gns. Values see-sawed without
apparent reason. In the opening sale three
special studs were knocked down at 225, 600
and 150gns.; then in the studs, when nothing
seemed likely t'o reach three figures, one ram
shot up to 470gns., to the delight of the breeder.
There is a continued swing toward lessened
development. A few years ago a ram without
bold, well-defined folds in front would not
have been in the race. Today some popular
rams have no more front than a Polwarth or
Corriedale. The well-defined folds are giving
way to knotty, abbreviated frills that" start and
stop abruptly and give the sheep an appearance
of tightness in front as if he were an unde-
veloped hogget.
There was a good demand for top sheep
from well-known studs. Apart from that,
auctioneers had to work hard and many pens
didn’t get a bid. Fine wool rams were fewer
and demand even more limited. Lack of de-
velopment in some of these rams has now
reached a point where a superfine wool type is
almost indistinguishable in outer appearance
from a Polwarth.
S.A. was represented by Kanoona, Collins-
ville, Bungaree, North Bungaree and Strad-
brooke, with a variety of types, mostly strong
to ultra-strong wools. Kanoonas sold well but
lower grade S.A. rams fared no better than
others. One Riverina stud offered two polled
merino rams. They carried lin. scurrs in place
of horns. If polled merinos are to be recog-
nised—and there is no reason why they should
not be —they must have some pretensions to
quality in addition to hornlessness.
There was a wide range of Corriedales, both
as regards quality and type. Good competition
was evident for tops, which included some
splendid animals, but there was a tail and it
fared badly. Although top price—34ogns.
was not half of last year's record, it again went
to Wellwood, whose sheep were remarkable for
covering, scale, well-sprung frames and general
appearance. Djilla Dulla got next best price-
310gns.-—for one ram, but did not get a decent
bid for any others.
Well-known Corriedale flocks such as Bul-
gandra, Cullingral, Redbank and Neyliona met
a good demand but some newcomers fared
badly. Of these, Riversleigh deserved better
prices, one of their rams in particular being
a beautiful animal. Had he appeared under a
well-known brand he would have brought
several times as much. In all breeds a big pro-
portion was passed in on account of the high
"She had a shot at doin' the Cow-cow Boogie!"
reserves. Nevertheless, where breeders decided
to meet the market buyers got many bargains.
Stud rams changed hands at flock ram prices
while flocks sold at prices that barely covered
expenses.
British breeds numbers were reduced. Only
three Southdowns were offered and they sold at
lOgns. There were some Romneys but no sales.
Less than a score of Dorset Horns were sold
but they averaged well. Top price of 50gns.
was for a Dawkins (S.A.) ram and again for a
Broughton Brook Dorset. Demand for Border
Leicesters was patchy. Kelso Park (Vic.)
gained top price of 210gns.; next best was
105gns. for a Highland stud ram. Clearances
were fairly good and although the general
average price was down on last year’s it re-
mained at a payable level.
Increasing Fecundity.
“Graz.”; British veterinarians have
known for years that serum taken from
a pregnant mare and injected into an
empty ewe or mare would stimulate
fecundity when mating occurred four
days later, but Russian scientists, who get
much publicity on the cheap, now get up
to seven lambs from one ewe. The injec-
tion of a pituitary-gland extract four days
before the heat period causes multiple
ovary eggs to mature simultaneously in-
stead of normally only one or two.
In Russia hundreds of thousands of
ewes are treated with enough serum de-
signed to obtain two or three lambs per
ewe, and Prof. M. Zavadovsky says there
has been a 50 p.c. increase in lambings.
The idea might be all right in cheap-labor
countries, but would not pay under Aus-
tralian conditions. Just how the prof,
knows when a ewe is four days off heat
he doesn’t say, but no Aussie grazier is
likely to knock his sheep about every
second day trying to find out.
The professor quoted further “dis-
coveries” which have been known to Aus-
tralian woolgrowers for over 100 years.
Lambs from strong-wool sheep are more
robust than those from fine-wool stock ;
multiple-birth lambs require more atten-
tion than single-births; ewes suckling
twins (or more) need better feeding than
those with one lamb ; the better the feed
the bigger the increase in the weight of
the lambs ; lambs of large litters which
lose condition should be foster-mothered
or bottle-fed. Now, who’s going to pay
men 15s. per day to milk cows and bottle-
feed poddy lambs for four months?
Water for the Inland.
“B-gar”: Some of the best fattening
pastures in Australia are in country
flooded by the Diamantina, Georgina ancjl
Cooper in south-west Queensland, bult
because flood periods are irregular there’s
no security. Fat cattle this year might bf
dead next year because of no heavy rainp
up north. When those rivers do overt-
flow thousands of square miles are
swamped feet deep, and later on become
—for a few months—fattening pastures
without compare. That which is accom-
plished by Nature could surely be
achieved to a lesser degree by artificial
means. Why can’t the Georgina, the
Diamantina and the Cooper be dammed?
This isn’t to suggest that the damming
of these rivers would solve the problem
of water for the inland, but I do suggest
that some of the water that flows away
to waste every flood period should be
held back by dams, and thereby provide
the means of irrigating some areas and
providing permanent water for others. It
isn’t sense to permit flood waters to soak
away when by damming some of life
water could be retained.
“Experts” will raise the cry that it
would be impracticable and far too ex-
pensive, and so it might be to their minds.
But the scheme for irrigating the Murray
valley met the same criticism years ago.
It’s a pity that Australia does not possess
a body with the guts and vision of the
United States Bureau of Reclamation,
which has spent £150,000,000 and brought
5,000,000 acres under irrigation.
Irrigated Cotton.
“Nuffin”: Results of comparisons of
irrigated and non-irrigated cotton have
given conclusive evidence of the value of
supplementary irrigations in seasons
of such irregular rainfall as during the
four years of the experiment. In all four
years the availability of irrigation has
allowed of earlier planting which, with
more subsoil moisture and the application
of water during stress periods at mid-
season, gave improved yields of seed-
cotton, as shown in the following table:
Irrigation Cotton. Rain-grown Cotton.
Yield Yield
Time of Per Time of Per
Planting. Acre. Planting. Acre.
1940- Oct. 18 14561 b. Nov. 14 4201 b,
1941- Oct. 11 17211 b. Oct. 14 5641 b.
1942- Oct. 3 11371 b. Nov. 9 4891 b.
1943- Oct. 14 17411 b. Oct. 20 6531 b.
Mean yield lb', seed
cotton per acre.. 1514 531
The type of soil on which these experi-
ments were conducted is fairly typical of
the strip of heavy to medium loams
generally adjacent to the creeks in the
Callide Valley (C.Q.).
Hints far the Farm.
“Sarina”: An excellent method of dry-
ing corn-cobs during damp weather is
to suspend them in baskets made by twist-
ing chicken-netting wire into suitable
shapes. Hung from a tree where the
wind can get at ’em, the cobs dry quickly,
with little loss of corn through germina-
tion or rotting. After corn-cobs have
been stripped, partly burn the cobs to
make charcoal for pigs or plough ’em
in for fertiliser.
“Hortus”: Raw linseed oil is on its
own as a preservative dressing for timber,
no matter whether the latter is on the
outside or inside. Give a double dose to
all outside work. This will not alter the
color of the timber very much, and it
won’t alfect the natural grain. See that
the timber is absolutely dry before appli-
cation. Rub down surface well with
sand-paper. The smoother the surface
the better the wood grain will show up.
“Plane Creek”: Sudan grass is the
least poisonous of the sorghums (B.
25/4/’45), whereas Arabian millet (John-
son grass) is most poisonous. They are
very similar, but are easily recognised if
their roots are examined. Sudan grass
is a shallow rooter, Johnson grass strikes
deep. The latter should be eradicated as
a noxious weed ; if in large areas plant
some strong-growing grass, such as para
or kikuyu, to beat it. On the Darling
Downs (Q.) Sudan grass has been grazed
at all stages of growth without the cattle
showing signs of poisoning so long as
care was taken.
“Bill C.”: Heavy losses of stored spuds
can often be traced to careless handling.
Bruised or badly-forked tubers should be
set aside for pig or fowl feed. Sound
ones should be got into good, strong
sacks as soon as possible after digging.
Take no risks with sacks which have
previously held potatoes. Boil ’em for a
good five minutes beforehand and dry
in a place where the potato-moth has no
chance of re-infesting them. Most im-
portant, cover the sacks with a mothproof
cover after filling if you cannot move
’em from the field at once.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain: “Export or Die.”
(Condensed from a “Collier’s” article by
Edward P. Morgan .)
Englishmen have never been notorious
for overstatement, so when a manufac-
turer of airplane engines runs an adver-
tisement in the London papers saying
simply “Export or Die” you may be
pretty sure it is not wholly for dramatic
effect. Foreign trade is the very blood
in Britain’s body. Before the first World
War Britain’s foreign trade was equal to
62 per cent, of her domestic trade and
amounted to 35 per cent, of her total
national income. At the same time
Americans were getting only 5 per cent,
of their national income from exports.
During the years between the two World
Wars Britain’s exports made up a big but
declining share of her total production.
In 1924 her exports were 27 per cent, of
her total production ; in 1938 they were
down to 15 per cent.
The British standard of living is not
going to rise in the blitzed towns and
tired fields of the United Kingdom as
soon as the fighting stops. Britishers
don’t like to think about it, but the in-
escapable fact is that, aside from a few
bright superficial fillips here and there,
they are going to face the drab rigors of
austerity living for a long time after the
war.
Manufacturers must pour , everything
possible into export trade. That means
continuation of price controls, regulation
of supplies and even of man-power, for
years. The people will protest. But his-
tory has disciplined the British public,
and it moves, on the whole, in a docile
and orderly manner. The public will put
up with controls if convinced they are
honest and necessary.
Everyone knows that Britain has lost
most of her foreign trade during the
war ; it’s down now to just a shade above
one half its peace-time level. Before lend-
Jease was invented the British Govern-
ment had to finance nearly all its war
effort by borrowing and by liquidating
large blocks of its foreign assets. Britain
now owes about three billion pounds
abroad—more than 12 billion dollars.
Before this year is out the debt will be
upped another billion pounds. In addi-
tion, Britain had shed substantially more
.than a billion pounds of overseas hold-
ings by the middle of 1944.
In 1938 the last pre-war year, Britain
imported about $3,700,000,000 worth of
goods and exported about $1,900,000,000
worth. It’s true that nearly a billion
dollars in interest on foreign investments,
400 million dollars from shipping and
almost 150 million in commissions and
insurance helped swell the country’s in-
come from abroad. Allowing for cer-
tain addition miscellaneous items of
income from foreign sources, that still
left 222 million dollars’ worth of the
imports unpaid for ; and the money had
to come from Britain’s flesh and bone.
That was in 1938, remember. Today not
only interest but much of the capital
yielding these returns is gone, and
Britain’s ability to pay for purchases has
been reduced in proportion.
In the “City,” London’s Wall-street,
which keeps its trade secrets well, they
don’t tell you exactly where these assets
have gone or who got them. But India,
for instance, has become one of Britain’s
main creditors, to the tune of nearly a
billion pounds. Egypt, Canada, Eire and
Australia are also big creditors, while
New Zealand, Portugal, South Africa,
South America (notably Argentina) and
the Middle East are smaller, but still
important, ones.
A large part of the British merchant
navy lies at the bottom of the seven seas.
The Government’s war-effort white paper
revealed that the size of the ocean-going
merchant fleet (including tankers) under
the British flag when war began was 17|
million gross tons. At the end 0f1943
the total was million gross tons.
Loss: 23 per cent. By the end of 1944
the loss had been cut down considerably.
Then came the terrible wounds gouged
into the face of Britain by enemy air
action. Up to the end of September,
1944, more than four and a half million
homes —enough to house the entire popu-
lation of Mexico —had been destroyed
or damaged. In last summer’s Battle of
the Flying Bomb alone more than a mil-
lion houses were damaged, 27,000 be-
yond repair, and the damage has in-
creased since then to no inconsiderable
extent.
Factories not only took heavy punish-
ment in air raids but, as your banker
would put it: “There has been a severe
depreciation of capital resources” due to
inability to make expenditures for fac-
tory upkeep, repairs and new equipment.
When you add all these factors to-
gether —huge debts abroad, lost assets,
sunk ships, ruined houses, crippled in-
dustrial plants—cold statistics warmly
confirm the official contention that
Britain, to live, must not only restore her
export trade to the level of 1938, but
increase its pre-war physical volume by
50 per cent.
Russia Rewards Generals.
(from John O’Donnell’s N.Y. “Daily News”
column .)
Communist Russia, we are surprised
to learn, does much more in the way of
honoring her high-ranking war heroes
with such substantial gifts as cash, jewels
and favors than does capitalistic America
or Great Britain,
Diamonds, champagne, caviar and gold
plate greet the returning Red hero on
leave today, and when, after V-day,
Stalin’s conquering marshals return to
Moscow, each will find awaiting him a
full-length ceremonial cloak lined with
crimson velvet and a brand-new uniform
stiff with gold brain and insignia of honor
—and a thumping gift of cold cash.
Ralph Hewins, recently returned from
Moscow, where he was correspondent for
London’s “Daily Mail,” states these facts,
and adds that a Red Army marshal is
paid between $l4OO and s2ooo' a month.
(Eisenhower, MacArthur and other U.S.
five-star generals and admirals receive
$13,000 a year.) In addition, the Krem-
lin takes care of his insurance, rent, taxes,
etc.
The British correspondent reports that
Tolbukhin and Malinovsky, who were
promoted marshals last year and have
been continuously on active service ever
since, will receive the marshal’s diamond
pendant, worth tens of thousands of dol-
lars, which must be worn on all cere-
monial occasions and which recalls the
days of Potemkin and Suvorov (Catherine
the Great’s statesman and soldier), when
diamonds in showers proclaimed the
oriental wealth of a Russian noble. The
ceremony of decoration is traditionally
accompanied by a banquet at Marshal
Stalin’s expense.
“It is held in the Kremlin and runs
from 10 p.m. to the small hours. The
food is served on gold plate, and is of
astonishing luxury,” writes Hewins.
“Caviar in dozens of varieties and colors
is washed down with Crimean champagne.
“After an evening which the marshal
will remember all his life (if not the
details, at least the event!) he retires for
a real rest to the Red Army’s central
house, called Zik, in Kommune-square,
Moscow. This is an exclusive club. In it
each high officer is allotted one or two
rooms, luxuriously equipped, free of cost.
He will have the exclusive services of a
barber, a batman and a masseur.
“He can entertain either at Zik or at
the smart Metropole Hotel; he can sip
cocktails or drink pink Russian fizz in
the Pushkin Bar, while the balalaikas
play.
“In the Red Army Theatre (completed
1940) and at the Opera every marshal
has his own seat, marked with a plaque
letter in gold.”
Okinawa’s Value.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” war com-
mentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
Okinawa’s capture will have the follow-
ing results:
(1) The island bastion of the Ryukyus,
which has protected the East China and
Yellow Seas from American surface
operations, will have been penetrated, and
the other Japanese-held islands in the
chain will be neutralised by our air
power.
♦ (2) Surface ships, submarine and air
bases large enough to support hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of ’planes, hundreds
of ships, and scores of submarines, will
be available only 330 miles from the main
Japanese islands. There are at least eight
suitable bays, gulfs or anchorages on
Okinawa; others in its near-by depen-
dent islands can be prepared rather
quickly with minefields, booms and nets
as advanced naval bases, and new air-
strips can be built rapidly to add to those
available on Okinawa.
(3) Okinawa will enable us to step up
materially our air operations against
Japan. The B-29 blows will be doubled,
possibly tripled. B-24’s, medium bombers
and fighters, will be able to strike against
Kyushu, as well as against wide sections
of the Chinese coast. ’Planes will also be
able from Okinawa to maintain an aerial
patrol over the Strait of Tsushima and
will help in establishing a blockade
around Japan.
(4) Submarines based on Okinawa will
be able to make short, easy cruises to
their stations and back to their base,
thereby spending most of their time and
fuel destroying Japanese shipping rather
than in the non-productive business of
leaving from and returning to their
stations and far-distant bases. Penetra-
tion of Tsushima Strait into the Japan
Sea will be facilitated.
(5) Surface ships will also close in on
Japan, operating in almost continuous
relays off Kyushu, thus helping materially
to establish and maintain a close block-
ade.
(6) The great Japanese base of Formosa
will be outflanked and neutralised.
(7) Japan’s seaborne supply lines to the
south will be virtually completely cut,
except for submarine traffic.
(8) Okinawa will enable us to choose
alternative methods of approach to Japan,
or both of them. Capture of Okinawa
will open approaches to the China coast
from Foochow to Korea, in the area
closest to Japan. Chinese guerrillas con-
trol some parts of this coast; we can es-
tablish contact with them and funnel sup-
plies to them. If desired, we can also
seize coastal areas of China, to hold and
develop as air bases, or we can capture
some great port areas, with the object of
fighting a great continental campaign in
China.
The amphibious school of strategy in
the Pacific, however, seems to be in the
ascendancy, and Okinawa materially faci-
litates that strategy. From that , island
we can strike northward directly toward
Kyushu, for Okinawa has adequate land
mass to use as an advanced base for a
great invasion of the homeland of Japan
itself. The capture of Okinawa, there-
fore, will give us the choice of great stra-
tegic options and will leave Japan power-
less to halt the further development of
our strategy of victory.
The Pacific war, therefore, opens new
chapters. Stretching before Japan are the
sombre prospects of bombings many
times heavier than any she, has yet ex-
perienced, and of a sea, air and sub-sea
tight that her seaborne lines
of to the south will be completely
cut and even her vital links to the Asiatic
mainland imperiled. And, in time, when
this stranglehold has weakened her, she
faces the sure prospect of the invasion of
her home islands and/or of her vital con-
tinental holdings in China.
Truths on Poland.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by the
American authority on Eastern Europe and
Russia William Henry Chamberlin.)
In a fairly long experience as a jour-
nalist and publicist I cannot recall an
instance when ascertainable facts were
so consistently distorted, when so many
untruths were imprinted on the public
mind by such frequent repetition; as in
regard to Poland.
The motivation of this campaign of
slander against a nation that, whatever
its faults, weaknesses and misfortunes,
deserves some consideration as the first
to fight against Hitler, as a gallant and
steadfast ally, is varied. Communist
propaganda plays some part. General
ignorance of East European history, poli-
tics and ethnography is another element.
But the time for lifting the blackout on
truth about Poland and Polish-Soviet re-
lations is surely at hand.
How often is a large audience told what
is both true and important, that Stalin
concluded non-aggression pacts with
Poland and with his other Western neigh-
bors, Finland, Latvia, Estonia and
Lithuania, which, he broke at the first
convenient opportunity? I shall set
down eight of the innumerable distor-
tions of fact about Poland which have
impressed me because they are read and
heard so often: —
(1) “The so-called Curzon Line was a
fair arbitral settlement of Poland’s
eastern border.” But the Supreme Allied
Council, in announcing this line, inserted
the reservation: “Rights which Poland
may claim to territories situated to the
east of the abovementioned line are ex-
pressly reserved.” Surely here is proof
of the historical truth that what was in
mind was not a final frontier, but a tem-
porary demarcation line.
(2) “The majority of the people east
of the so-called Curzon Line are Rus-
sians.” Actually Russians constitute
about one per cent, of this population.
Before the war the Poles were the larg-
est single racial group east of the Curzon
Line, although they were a minority of
'the entire population, which included
about four and a half million Ukrainians,
about a million White Russians and a
million Jews. But, unless there would be
a free plebiscite, there is no reason to
assume that these groups would prefer
Soviet rule to Polish.
(3) “Poland took the territory which
the Soviet Union is now annexing dur-
ing the Soviet-Polish War of 1920.” But
when that war ended Poland obtained a
less favorable boundary than the line
which the Polish troops held at the be-
ginning of the war in April, 1920, a line
which the Soviet Government had been
willing to accept as a basis for peace
negotiations.
(4) *‘Poland before the war was a
feudal country where titled aristocrats
exploited and oppressed the peasants and
owned most of the land.” But Polish law
recognised no titles or privileges of
nobility, and over 80 per cent, of the
land was in farms of 125 acres or less.
(5) “The Polish Government in Lon-
don is composed of landlords, aristocrats
and fascists, and is a direct continua-
tion of the authoritarian ‘colonels’ Gov-
ernment that existed in Poland for the
last few years before the war.” There
is not an aristocrat or a landlord in the
Polish Government, and Poland was the
first country to resist Hitler’s fascism
with arms. The Polish Government from
the beginning included representatives of
the Peasant party and the Socialist party,
both of which strongly opposed the pre-
war regime of “the colonels.”
(6) “All Stalin wants in Poland (and
in other occupied east European coun-
tries) is what America wants in this hemi-
sphere, friendly neighbors.” This very
inaccurate analogy is an insult to the
Good Neighbor policy, to historical truth
and to commonsense. Even in the period
before the Good Neighbor policy had
gone into effect there is nothing in the
history of U.S. relations with Latin
American countries remotely comparable
with the mass deportations from Poland
into the interior of Russia. Nor would
it be easy to mention prominent Latin
American Socialist and Labor leaders
whom American authorities arrested and
killed in cold blood, as the Soviet authori-
ties killed the well-known Polish Jewish
Socialists, Henry Ehrlich and Viktor
Alter.
(7) “Because Soviet troops played a
leading part in driving the Germans out
of Poland Stalin should have the right
to annex as much Polish territory as he
may desire.” By this process of reason-
ing America and Great Britain would
be Entitled to annex large parts of France
and Italy. The war is a co-operative
enterprise. If Russian troops, with some
assistance from Polish nationalist forces,
drove the Germans out of Poland,
American, British and Canadian lend-
lease supplies, and the general war effort
of all the United Nations, certainly
helped to drive the Germans out of
Russia.
(8) “Poland’s record in political democ-
racy, social progress and treatment of
racial minorities was bad, therefore
Poland has no right to exist as an inde-
pendent natiorf.” Now no reasonable
Pole, no balanced foreign observer of
Poland, would deny the existence of
serious imperfections in pre-war Poland,
Political democracy had been largely sus-
pended. There were occasional mani-
festations of anti-Semitism, although dis-
crimination against the Jews was not
legalised by the Government, as it was
in Czarist Russia and Nazi Germany.
Polish statesmanship failed in the task
of working out the federal type of ad-
ministration that would have been most
suitable for a country with a consider-
able Ukrainian minority and with some
smaller non-Polish groups. The general
Polish standard of living was low.
But it is unfair to condemn Poland
without regard to historical background,
and to conditions in neighboring coun-
tries. Starting from scratch, in a war-
ravaged country that had been deprived
of independence for more than a century,
Poland made considerable progress in
industry, in shipping, in social legisla-
tion. Poland, like most East European
countries, had not achieved an Ameri-
can or British standard of political and
civil liberty. But in these fields it was
far ahead of the Soviet Union, if one
takes such standards of comparison as
the number of persons put to death or
sent to forced labor without trial.
In any case, faults and shortcomings,
from which no nation is free, cannot be
properly accepted as a justification for
brutally subjecting a people to the loss of
much of its territory and of its national
independence.
War Criminals.
(London "Nineteenth Century and After” edi-
torial comment.)
The “war criminals” will be brought
[terms of the Yalta Declaration] “to jus-
tice and swift punishment”—to “swift
punishment,” let us hope, provided it be
justice. The civilised conscience must
quail at the thought that there may be
no retribution for the atrocities sponsored


WORLD FOLLOWS HRLTALJVS LEAD
THE
mmmz
m
jTjS??3S£t-.*>-
r:.y;
sas®
as
...
"^*_"V. 'f " " :: ,»::<*;
£as?s&d3S^^
w,*
ML
JET PROPULSION
FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to- revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per-
fection in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of life amongst millions of
people and have been the, means of founding vast new
industries in Enjgland, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won,
the results of research and experiment during the war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
fd
• Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
C.B.E.
an officer of the R.A F.,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was
made in 1941.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics: Samuel Courtauld & Co , Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre^Fij^es^Ltd^O
as
STROMBERG-CARLSON PRESENTS
ADVENTURES INTO THE UNKNOWN:—
PROFESSOR PICCARD
Conqueror of the Stratosphere
Professor Piccard's famous balloon ascent, on August 18th,
1932, to a height of 10.07 miles speeded man's conquest
of the air by demonstrating the possibility of swift aerial travel through
the stratosphere.
To-day similar initiative is shown in Stromberg-Carlson s advanced
radio researches, which will ensure to post-war listeners the results
of scientific exploration in a higher sphere of realism and
world-wide entertainment.
STROMBERG-CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia.
50 YEARS OF COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING.
\l\
i
i
or perpetrated by the monsters who have
led the far-too-willing German people.
But it does not appear that any principle
or norm has been established for bring-
ing them “to justice.”
To try them for violations of inter-
national law is to misuse international
law, which is not concerned with crime
and punishment, to bring it into disrepute
and damage still further the already dam-
aged moral order in Europe. We are
constantly told that there must be no ven-
geance, only justice. It were better if
[“war criminals”] were punished through
an Act of State than sentenced by a non-
competent tribunal, in which the Judges
and the defence are but part of the pro-
secution, and under laws that did not
exist, or were irrelevant, when the alleged
crimes were committed. To avenge the
victims through an Act of State might
at least be “wild justice,” but to condemn
them with the help of a pseudo-judiciary
under spurious legislation would be in-
justice not merely to the accused but to
the international community.
There would, perhaps, be little cause
for misgiving were it not that ostensible
“punishment” of alleged “war criminals”
is being extended to persons accused of
political offences, some of them com-
mitted before the war began, and in no
sense “criminal” under any existing law,
and of “collaboration” arbitrarily defined.
It is being used not as a means of doing
justice but of destroying political rivals.
In some regions, in Bulgaria, for example,
this practice threatens to acquire the char-
acter of a massacre: it places the prac-
titioners in the same category of “war
criminals” and by condemning the inno-
cent with the guilty it gives guilt the
appearance of innocence and innocence
the appearance of guilt.
Chinese Coms.
(From an article in the “Christian Century”
by Rev. Wallace C. Merwin, Presbyterian mis-
sionary, who has spent several years in the
communist areas in China.)
I have frequently made the statement
that in my judgment the communists in
China had undoubtedly killed far more
Chinese than they had Japanese.
The common method of dealing with
a “traitor”—and a traitor was anyone
who remained in occupied territory, or
caught coming out of an occupied
town or with Japanese-sponsored puppet
money on his person, it might be only
10 cents—was burial alive,
There was open opposition to the Cen-
tral Government. Agents of that Govern-
ment who came mto communist territory,
even for rekef work, have been executed,
The claim that the communist regime
has met with popular approval in North
China is also false, to judge by my expen-
ence. . „ .
.gver a period of several years I talked
with hundreds of Chinese. With the
exception of communist officers, they
were openly unhappy about the commu-
nist rule, extremely fearful and distrust-
M of its leadership and unanimous
in their distress ovei their lack of tiee-
,
They were not pro-Japanese, but more
than one told me he would rather tall
into the hands of the Japanese than those
of the Reds and some of these people
had prison experience on both sides,
Dranet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
Sources.)
The ItaUans are a s(unned and dejected
peop i ej considering their usual buoyant spirits,
still, they seem more philosophical than either
the Germans or the French. They are busy
working to restore their wrecked homes, more
so than the French m Normandy. They still
can smde Unlike the Germans I saw, they still
love to congregate, sitting about the square and
in front of the outdoor cafes—just sitting and
gossiping in the sun, enjoying idleness. The
men seem to have less to do than the women,
j t j ust as everybody was taking time out.
xheir dictator played them for suckers, and
they seem to realise that now.— N.Y. “World-
Telegram” correspondent, visiting Italy.
Agric * ulture Department "forecasts
the biggest winter wheat crop in history for
1945. The crop-reporting service say production
of winter wheat will reach 862,515,000 bushels,
37,000,000 more than the previous record crop
of 1931 and almost 100,000,000 more than 1944
production. —Chicago “Sun.”
* * * *
An Australian officer who -was captured by
the Japanese at Singapore and later escaped
from a prison camp has cleared up the mystery
wbat happened to the American cruiser
Houston when it put out into the Java Sea on
February 28, 1942. From survivors of the Hous-
ton the Australian narrator learned that be-
tween Java and Sumatra the Allied squadro n
s j gbted two j ong co i umns Q f Jap transports and
cargo ships, 100 in all, and the Houston and
Perth sailed boldly between the two lines, firing
right and left, and sank no less than 22 enemy
vessels before they were overwhelmed and sunk
by the terrible fire of escorting Jap heavy war-
ships. Both Allied ships fired their last round
of ammunition before the order was given to
abandon ship. In the confusion the Japanese
warships fired upon and sank a number of
their own transport and cargo vessels. — Chicago
“Tribune.”
* * * *
It may be another century or more before
the nations of western Europe get back to the
standards of civilisation they possessed at the
end of the nineteenth century, Dr. Nicholas
Murray Butler, now in his 44th year as presi-
dent of Columbia University, declared on his
83rd birthday. “People do not realise,” Dr.
Butler said, “that the western nations of Europe
are on a decline, economically, industrially and
politically.” Oswald Spengler predicted this in
his Decline of the West 25 years ago, Dr. Butler
said, but he wasn’t taken seriously. “The war,”
Dr. Butler believes, “is illustrating that book in
an amazing fashion. Russia has shown herself
strong and able to express herself with vigor,
while the other nations have shown themselves
to be on a decline.” Dr. Butler declared that
“the war has been a symbol and effect of
underlying causes which must be controlled if
civilisation is not going to be allowed to disap-
pear entirely.” He said there were signs that
the old Latin tradition might be returning.
“Most of the books of importance in the last
20 years,” he said, “have been written in Italy
by Italian and Spanish writers. There have only
been a few of them, but nothing of like quality
has been produced in France or Germany or
eve» in England.”— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The House of Lords, debating Britain’s milk
supply, elicited an admission from a Govern-
ment spokesman, Lord Listowell, that “an
appreciable portion of British dairy cattle are
riddled with disease.” Lord Moran, Churchill s
physician, advocated raising the consumption
of milk to a pint a day per person against the
present per capita average of little over half a
pint. The Government agrees with this goal,
and hopes to raise the number of Britain’s dairy
cattle by one to four million, but unless disease
can be eliminated and the purity of milk
guaranteed such a target would be worthless.
Only during the war has pasteurisation of milk
been applied compulsorily on any large scale.
Much remains to be d6ne. before this practice
becomes universal. There has been consider-
able opposition to compulsory pasteurisation,
both from retailers, who fear they may be driven
out of business by the expense of the heat treat-
ment, and from the public, who think nutritive
value of the milk is affected, but this is one
instance where war-time controls can be use-
fully carried over into the peace.— London
correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The blackout on news from the Balkans is
so complete that only second-hand accounts
are available about what is happening in Ru-
mania. Whatever the situation, and whatever
explosive possibilities it may hold for the
future, it is clear that American prestige and
American responsibility are directly involved.
This is because, as a result of the Yalta Confer-
ence, the United States is officially aligned with
Russia and Britain in a three-Power policy
which is made specifically applicable to “the
former Axis satellite States of Europe”—of
which Rumania is one. This policy pledges all
three of the major Powers to help the people
of the satellite nations “create democratic in-
stitutions of their own choosing,” under “con-
ditions of internal peace.” it thereby rules
out the recognition of any Government estab-
lished by revolutionary methods, or any en-
couragement of efforts to establish such a Gov-
ernment. It further pledges the three major
Powers “to facilitate where necessary” the hold-
ing of free elections which will establish “Gov-
ernments responsive to the will of the people.”
— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
It had become almost an axiom abroad,
accepted by many in the U.S. as well, that
the material might of a nation could be mo-
bilised for war only by a totalitarian regime.
The production miracle of the United States,
which not only equipped its own armies, navies
and air forces but also supplied thirty-five bil-
lions of dollars worth of war materials to its
allies, has not only disproved this claim but
has also demonstrated the superiority of a free
economy over any other. Last to enter the
armament race, the United States has emerged
within a few short years as by far the greatest
armament producer in the world. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The famous British battleship Royal Sove-
reign and the speedy American cruiser Milwau-
kee are how operating in the Red Fleet under
the respective names of Archangelsk and Mur-
mansk. The Archangelsk is the largest capital
ship in the Soviet Navy. She is officially listed
at 29,150 tons, with a speed of 22 knots and
mounts 56 guns, eight of which are 14 inches,
larger than any other guns on Russian war-
ships. Several British and American war vessels
besides the Archangelsk and the Murmansk
have been turned over to the Soviet Union and
renamed and are now employed in the Red
Fleet. These include more than one [the exact
figure has not been published] destroyer of
what is known in the Soviet Union as the
Derskii class, weighing 1060 tons, with a speed
of 35 knots and carrying eight guns and six
torpedo tubes. These were furnished by the
British Navy. Similarly, the United States Navy
has given the Soviet Union torpedo boats, sub-
marine chasers and minesweepers. The British
Navy has furnished more than one submarine.
—Moscow correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
T’o say, as a recent writer did of the Polish
settlement at Yalta, that “to propose the re-
opening of the Polish settlement after the war
would be to disrupt Allied unity,” is to urge a
rigidity which no human arrangement will stand.
If Allied unity cannot admit the possibility that
some of the decisions of the current Big Three
will bear revision Allied unity is too fragile to
survive. It is hard to believe that a world
which has been through the horror of revising
itself by force will balk at the possibility of
revision by agreement. —“Saturday Evening
Post.”


Missing Friend.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of MAR-
GARET AITKEN (or Aiken) who was a daughter of
the Marriage of DONALD oAITKEN (or Aiken) and
BARBARA • ANDERSON MacLEAN who went from
Scotland to Australia about the year 1924 and who
was married to AXEL or of her sister
CATHERINE who married JOHN JOHNSTON whose
father had a Foundry in or near Sydney please com-
municate with MESSRS. WATT, SON & CO. Solici-
tors 183 St. Vincent Street Glasgow C.2. Scotland?
WILL any person knowing MISS JUNE MYLREA
please forward her address to BERTHA STEEVES,
9761 Tujunga Canyon Blvd., Tujunga, California,
U.S.A.?
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASEASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
ONLY
£l7/10/-
Built entirely in Australia by
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
THIS
DUPLICATOR
I Has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cf
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
■■ ' ■'■■■ ■■■■: -V : ■
'
( ■■■■■
siM StK/Xi\
Jm ’€M i
■ ,
mm..a'
m
,
... ;*b
Ji
I
r
r
: . '- : : : .
fl
/
■-
m
m
\
ms
.
tS
m
■-
ini
■ ■■
Wr
w
■
m
;
HB
v
i i
- mm
\
bp
WOULD YOU LIGHT THIS FINE MACHINE WITH HURRICANE LAMPS?
NO—THEN WHY ACCEPT ANYTHING LESS THAN .........
FLUORESCENT LAMPS?
Condor Fluorescent Lighting gives that type
of efficient illumination necessary for maximum
“see-ability.” A worker who can really see
his work loses no time poring over charts and
parts. Maximum production is attained with a
minimum of “spoils. All inspection jobs are
facilitated.
These factors alone warrant your serious study
of the improved lighting we offer. Then con-
sider the additional benefits—the virtual elimi-
nation of glare and shadows; the tubes are
cool—no danger of burning if accidentally
touched ; no additional heat in summer;
greater light output, three to four times as much
FLUORESCENT lamps
per unit of electricity consumed—hence, lower
operating costs for the same light intensity, or
greater light intensity for your present operating
costs; low installation costs —existing wiring
can generally be used, for Condor Fluorescent
Lamps operate on normal voltage, high voltage
is not used; continuous lines of light can be
installed following the layout of your plant;
replacement of lamps is simple—anyone can
do it, you do not need a “specialist.”
For full details on Condor Fluorescent Lighting
communicate with your nearest Condor repre-
sentative. He will be glad to assist you with
your lighting problems, and is in a position to
give you complete and satisfactory service.
Installations can only be made, with rare excep-
tions, in protected industries.
•:&
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY:
George Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd. Reg. Rose & Co. Pty., Ltd.
T. F. Stewart & Co. Pty., Ltd. Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd.
National Theatre Supply Co. (A’sia) Pty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd. A. J. Veall Pty., Ltd.
Howard Electrical & Radio Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
R. C. Woollatd.
CONDOR LAMPS (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD., 35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
fd
CRAVENA
tka/ke
smooth * fresh!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
fit
m
%
4
5787
SPECIAL L Y
EVE N I
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Selmer tenor saxophone L.P.—3644-
Information Sought.
Any war-time regulations regarding the send-
ing overseas of postage stamps?
No export licence is necessary to send stamps
to countries using English currency. Stamps
sent to Great Britain 'must be addressed c/o
The British Philatelic Association Ltd., London.
A permit for the amount involved and a
licence number are required for stamps to be
sent to non-sterling countries such as the U.S.A.,
Canada and Newfoundland.
Some information about the prices of Aus-
tralian kaolin?
Much of the material mined in Australia and
referred to as kaolin is a clay of a very inferior
type, the price of which ranges from a few
shillings to £2 a ton True kaolin commands
up to £5 a ton (current price for prepared
Cornwall kaolin). There is a keen demand for
this and other Australian white clays.
Names of Australian radio networks and the
stations comprising them?
The major broadcasting network (A.W.A.
Building, Sydney), consists of 2CH Sydney,
2AY Albury, 2GF Grafton, 2GN Goulb'urn,
2KO Newcastle, 3DB Melbourne, 3LK Lubeck,
380 Bendigo, 4BK Brisbane, 4AK Oakey,
4CA Cairns, 4MK Mackay, 4TCf Towns-
ville, 4WK Warwick, SAD Adelaide, SPI
Port Pirie, SMU Murray Bridge, SSE
Mount Gambier, 61X Perth, 6WB Ka-
fanning, 6MD Merredin, 7HT Hobart and 7EX
Launceston. The Macquarie network (Phillip-
street, Sydney), has in its hookup: 2GB Sydney,
2HR Newcastle, 2CA Canberra, 2WL Wollon-
gong, 2LM Lismore, 3AW Melbourne, 3CV
Charlton, 3HA Hamilton, 3TR Sale, 3SH Shep-
parton, 3BA Ballarat, 4BH Brisbane, 4BU Bun-
daberg, SDN Adelaide, SRM Adelaide, 6PR
Perth, 6TZ Dardanup, 7LA Launceston, 7HO
Hobart, 7BU Burnie and 7DY Derby.
Cause and cure of depraved appetite in
cattle?
Common causes are lack of bulk in the feed,
a deficiency of protein or minerals in the ration,
and an infestation with internal parasites. The
first may be corrected by the addition of a pro-
tein concentrate such as peanut meal or meat-
meal. The commonest mineral deficiencies, of
calcium and phosphorus, may be corrected by
the addition of ljloz. sterilised bonemeal to the
daily ration. The curing of an internal para-
sitical condition is more intricate. Information
on this subject can be obtained from the Agri-
cultural Dept, in your State.
Method of removing brown tip which remains
on the wool after a sheepskin has been tanned?
Immerse the skin for a few minutes in a cold
solution of Condy’s crystals, 2oz. to the gallon
of water. Rinse thoroughly and again immerse
in a cold solution of Boz. hyposulphite of soda
and loz. muriatic acid to the gallon of water
imtil all traces of the brown color produced by
the first bath have disappeared. Complete the
process by washing well in running water and
then leaving the skin to dry. Any remaining
discoloration can only be removed by clipping.
Method of restoring fading photography;
bromide prints?
First wash thoroughly, then bleach with sepia-
toning bleach. Next redevelop with any de-
veloper suitable for black-and-white prints,
washing, well before and after the operation.
Do not refix in hypo. Should sepia toning be
desirable, redevelop in a soda-sulphide solu-
tion and wash well to complete the process.
Brief Answers.
R.K.: In July, 1943, Springhall, a communist
organiser, was sentenced to seven years’ penal
servitude for having obtained information
from a girl clerk at the Air Ministry “for
purposes prejudicial to the safety of the State”
.... W.F.: Because his name is Archie W.M.:
The Sub-Treasury, Commonwealth Bank Build-
ing, Sydney, has copies of the Commonwealth
Electoral Act... .K.J.K.: No books can be
traced containing the words only of that class
of music D.E.K.: It will be necessary to
register your name with the original agents of
the make of vehicle you require before one
can be obtained from Army Disposals....
L.A.G.: The best method to eradicate kikuyu
grass, without harming stock, is to dig it out.
. ...H. L.: (1) The 100 metres running record
is 10.2 secs, and is held jointly by J. C. Owens
and H. Davis. (2) He appeared in one scene
only and his name was not on the cast
H.A.: (1) After paying the expenses on such an
estate it would not be regarded as taxable in-
come. (2) Only 5 p.c. of the lump is taxable.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. US. should be addressed to
the Editor.
0.W.: A drought poem, with lines such as
“Their plight our hearts intrude.” Why not
send us a sack of death adders, broken bottles
and razor blades?... .T.A.: Something in all,
but thin. Ballad spoilt by weak last stanza....
C.V.E.: Tobacco poem weedy...-S.L.R.: Too
much air up on that wall. Come down to
earth... .D.V.H.: “O gosh, O gee, can it be
me?” Well, it doesn’t sound very much like
Alfred, Lord Tennyson... : Seagulls
don’t really look very much like chips of starch
or exclamation marks... .W.R.W.: Trying to
forget “Remember”... .B.B.: “Sorry I lent my
typewriter to a friend.” Don’t apologise; but
lend him your pen, t 00... .0.C.M.: A “win-
some bloom” indeed... .F.8.D.: Conventional,
repetitive and labored... .A.N.H.: “’Tis only
human for to err.” Yes, but inhuman to err
steadily and remorselessly for 1128 lines
J.R.J.: “June’s eyes were lovely limpid pools.
His eyes sparkled like twin brown brooks.”
Waterlogged H.P.K.: Farce... .E.T.: Avoid
the long arm of coincidence... .P.McT.: Come
again E.F.: Cut, and try a woman’s paper.
A.D,.U.: Nautical language impressive;
story not J.O’M.: Wow ending S.K.:
Glad you said it was a satire... .8.V.C.: An-
other tale of the underground H.R.: So
sophisticated that the point fades S.R.S.:
Damon Runyon and water... .L.A.: Base it
more solidly on character... .BJ.T.S.: All right
as an essay on soil erosion, but not a story.


//
r/j
won t warp
If
/
&
Ever seen a piece of plywood? If you have,
you’ll know that it is made of any number of
thin sheets or veneers of timber . . . from three
to as many as twenty-one. These veneers are
strongly glued together so that the grain in
each is angles to that above and below
it. Whereas an ordinary piece of timber will
warp or twist due to variations in moisture in
the air, plywood stays put. Any tendency to
movement in the grain of one veneer pulls
against similar tendencies in the veneers above
jf and below, thus keeping the plywood flat, solid
and secure. In other words, it is the balance
of the plywood that counts. And remember,
too, the crossed grain in plywood makes it
infinitely stronger than plain timber.
f / #■///■
Ml
I'f. OF
/'the MATERIA 1 o
O NIIMI TED ,“fL
Usutftd by f
Tn AimiAUAn p.im’M board
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
TRADE MARK
“CELLOPHANE”
NOTICE is hereby given that British
Cellophane, Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England, Manu-
facturer, is the registered owner in the
Commonwealth of Australia of the fol-
lowing Trade Mark:
“CELLOPHANE”
which is registered under No. 40461 in
Class 50(3) in respect of Cellulose sheets
made from pulp and all products and
articles manufactured from the said
sheets.
The application of the word “CELLO-
PHANE” to goods of the above-men-
tioned class means that such goods are
the goods of British Cellophane Limited.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1934.. 205,087 9*fp.c.=3Bi,3i3* 4,689,940
I9 B s fc : n 273^7 bon ?| p?ci176,28i* B, S!Si
1930.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 11,064 4,668,830
1987.. 309,501 8 ~ ~ 297,000*12,501 4,680,831
loss.. 3i0j049 s ” ” 288,000* 22,049 4,702,880
1939 292 023 s „ „ 282 797* 9,226 4,712,106
From inner reserves, £25,000 .. 4,737,106
1940.. 266,106 8 p.c.= 261,000* 5,106 4,742,212
1941.. 237,012 s „ „ 263,625* 4,715,599
B,Oo.oeJoi9iooai2*8 ,O o.o e J 0 i9i 00 ai2*
tins.. 21311G7 e „ „ 194,250* 20,007 4 d 35!264
1944.. 195,864 6 „ „ 194,250* 1,614 4,784,878
* After deducting tax t includes 2 p.c. centenary
bonus.
A policy designed to achieve fullest
sx ueMgneu to acmevc luucsi
possible employment is both an economic
and a social necessity The point at which
emu cl suwicii XieeeBBuy ; me point di wiuvji
opinions begin to diverge is translation
of this policy into specific performance.
T, Ull £ 5 / A 1 specuic peiiui uicuivt..
The Federal Government s promise of
“full” employment for every man and
wolnTbKXimng.oLrT.sdes-
tmed ,0 prove a will-oMhe-wisp There
will always be some unemp oyment
brought about by cyclical and structural
causes. Cyclical unemployment will arise
from fluctuations in economic activities
which go under the rtame of the trade
cycle ; structural unemployment from the
necessity to adjust productive and other
activities to the needs of a market con-
stantly altered by technical developments,
by changes in income and in consumers
tastes and requirements. Neither Nazi
Germany nor Fascist Italy achieved full
employment in the absolute sense of the
term. What they did achieve was a htgn
degree of control and regimentation. They
put capital in a concentration camp long
betore the war. What is Australia going
to do with its monetary mechan.sm attel
the war? ...
Complementary to the Governments
policy of “full” employment is its policy
of economic conscription, based on Gov-
ernment controls and Government spend-
ing. The idea is an ambitious one, in-
volving control of both the trade cycle
and stm ctural economic changes, as well
as measures to regulate the rate of invest-
xnent, which represents the demand for
capital goods as well as maintenance of
consumption. Briefly, it amounts to cutting
adrift from the anchors of economic
democracy and tying trade and industry
to the wheel of bureaucracy, to be whirled
on at a pace and along paths which,
as experience has already shown,
increase the trader’s risk of loss and
hamper individual enterprise, which is the
ma i n S p ring n g G f progress.
The most powerful instrument of policy
in the Government’s new kit of economic
tools is its banking legislation. This sets
.. . , ~ , , - •
up a party-political dictatorship in money.
makes provision for hamstringing the
trQ j- „ „ n A omUilkhimr the
trading banks and lor embellisning tne
Commonwealth Bank, which is directed
to take as much of the other banks’ busi-
ness as it can get. The more-or-less auto-
rnmniK rnmmnnwMlth Rank hoard is to
riomous Gommonwealtft uanK board is xo
be replaced by a governor, who will be
(1) appointed by the Treasurer, (2) sub-
v j T / , dirprtion and m
ject to the Ireasurers direction, and t-ri
advised by a committee of the Treasurer s
that of the
choice—a position similar to that ol tne
German Chancellor before 1918. The
Hecnotie «et nn is to he
reason for this despotic set-up is to oe
found in the Government s probable need
for uninterrupted recourse to . large
amounts of centra, bank cred.t m the
future
Within the rest of the new legislative
framework lies power to take an iron grip,
when deemed necessary, upon the volume
and direction of private spending. Interfer-
ence m detail is not contemplated, but to
make sure that he public s money-trad-
mg bank deposits-ts spent mainly in the
dtreclton and volume desired by the Gov-
ernment, the Commonwealth Bank may
determine the policy in relation to ad-
Vances to be followed by the banks and
may give directions as to the classes and
purposes for which advances may or may
not b£ made, and each bank shall comply
with the directions so given.” Thus the
Government becomes master of the fate
of trade and .industry by appointing its
ag T fl , n f al KT °/ the “"“T ° £ TT
—the life-blood of commercial activity
and enterprise—that may be given or
withheld in whatever field pleases it. A
country’s monetary mechanism reflects
the economy it is called upon to serve.
Also the special war-time deposits of
the trading banks with the Commonwealth
—broadly, the increase in deposits since
war began —are to remain frozen, together
with such further amount as the Com-
monwealth Bank may direct. The limit
of further direction is the increase in a
bank’s assets after the new legislation
comes into force. And, except with per-
mission of the Commonwealth Bank, the
trading banks are forbidden to buy Gov-
ernment and local-Government securities
or securities listed on the Stock Exchange.
The idea is to preserve a free field for
the Commonwealth Bank in regulating
the open-market rate of interest.
The Government’s policy is one of
cheap money. The budgetary reason for
this is readily understandable. The lower
the rate on war-time borrowing the less
difficult will be the problem of dealing
with the interest burden after the war.
This problem of interest rates, however,
can be approached from opposite ends.
In peace-time one of the functions of
interest rates is to guide savings into vari-
ous types of investment. What needs to
be avoided is undue repression, while at
the same time obtaining for the nation
the benefits of reasonably cheap money.
Further, charges for advances and dis-
counts, etc., together with prices paid for
deposits by the trading banks, are all to
be fixed by the Commonwealth Bank,
which will also have power to compel
the other banks to hand over “excess
receipts of foreign currency.” By these
and a host of other controls the Govern-
ment seeks to insulate Australia’s internal
economy against the effects of. possible
price fluctuations, etc., in world markets.
As for material security and the stand-
ard of living, examination shows that
there are more minuses than pluses in the
Government’s algebra. And only the
Government can say what the future holds
for the trading banks. If it finally decides
that it has no use for them it will be in
a position to make their business unprofit-
able.
The ’Asia —its headquarters are in Lon-
don but the business is nearly all done in
Australia —stands for all that spells stabil-
ity in banking. It has never been forced
to close its doors since it first opened
them 110 years ago. And only twice dur-
ing that time (in 1847 and 1848) has it
failed to pay a div. Of its £4,500,000 of
paid capital, £1,000,000 was transferred
from reserves in 1920, being the amount
of premiums paid on previous new capital
issues, and another million gathered since
1920 brought with it £850,000 of share
premiums.
The contraction of £19,293 in last year’s
profit was due to provision for taxation.
Hitherto each year’s earnings have been
charged with the previous year’s tax bill,
no specific provision being made to meet
the bill when it arrived. The £195,864
of profit claimed was 4.3 p.c. on capital,
or 2.1 p.c. on shareholder’s funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined). The div.
was kept at a nominal 6 p.c., equal to
5.4 p.c. in Australian currency, after
allowing for English income tax at ss. 7d.
in the pound and exchange.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the impact
of the Government’s financial policy and
controls:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £4,500,000 £4,500,000 £4,500,000
Notes .. .. 2,732 2,668 2,669
Bills, etc 5,711,816 5,816,109 5,857,453
Deposits . . .. 40,921,527 56,106,503 64,278,000
Liquid assets .. 16,228,593 36,735,460 47,453,903
Bills, etc. . . 2,466,733 2,452,975 2,814,984
Advances .. .. 86,534,456 31,266,740 28,415,040
Premises . . . . 770,275 818,889 804,573
Last year’s growth of £8,171,497 in
deposits was accompanied by a contrac-
tion of £2,851,700 in advances and an
expansion of £10,718,443 in low-interest-
bearing liquids. Special war-time deposit
with the Commonwealth Bank was
£16,317,000 (up £4,327,000). Altogether
the position is one of considerable
strength but low-earning power.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 11,886 4 p.c. = 9,440 4578 77,397
1936.. 22,403 5 „ „ 12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 „ „ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 ~ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,155
1939.. 7,610 2},, „ 7,499 Nil 111 88,266
1940.. 20,048 4* „ „ 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
1941.. 17,334 3 ~ ~ 9,000 3289 5045 99,102
1942.. 12,751 2J ~ „ 7,500 5251 104,353
1943.. 12,710 24 ~ „ 7,500 5210 109,563
1944.. 17,290 4",, ~ 12,000 • 5290 114,853
1945.. 12,183 3 ~ „ 9,000 3183 118,036
The co.’s connections are mainly in the
west and sou’-west of N. S. Wales and
over the border in Victoria. Owing to
the growing importance of Newcastle as
wool- and livestock-selling centre, and
to protect its interests in the northern
half of the State, C. W. and P. bought,
at a cost of some £32,000, a substantial
interest in Nenco (New England, North
and North-west Producers Co.) in 1941,
and became managing agent for the busi-
ness in August, 1943.
Drought was the trouble last term,
especially in the N. S. Wales Riverina.
Despite extensive hand feeding, heavy
losses of stock occurred on many proper-
ties. In some cases breeding came to a
standstill, lambs marked showed poor
development and the outturn of fats
declined heavily, owing to lack of ade-
quate pastures. And the rabbit pest
aggravated the position. Speaking gener-
ally, the staple was dusty, lacked robust-
ness and bulk, with tenderness evident
in clips from the driest areas.
It all means a lower return to growers.
Average cut per sheep in N.S.W. for
1944-45 season is not expected to greatly
exceed 71b., compared with 8.61 b. for
the previous season and 9.111 b. for 1939-
40. At the same time handfeeding, agist-
ment and the rabbit pest, etc., combined
to bump up grower’s costs. Thanks to
the British wool contract the price of the
staple remains steady at an average of
15.4 d. per pound. The average price at
which wool has been appraised in Aus-
tralia this season is approx. 13.8 d. per
pound. So the industry will have a tidy
cheque to collect in equalisation pay-
ment.
C. W. and P. received 21,426 fewer
bales last term. But the quantity dis-
posed of was down only 13,945 bales,
reducing the carryover to 1794 bales:-
f Wool, Bales ■,
Year Dis- Carry-
Mar., Receipts. posals. forward. Sheep. Cattle.
1987 . . 133,267 124,305 10,745 624,133 30,394
1938 . . 131,326 122,262 19,809 644,445 28,841
1939 . . 113,668 125,089 8,378 608,566 20,272
1940 .. 141,996 135,311 15,063 519,345 26,859
1941 .. 130,581 139,954 5,690 559,141 18,059
1942 .. 132,026 131,901 5,815 536,126 14,372
1943 . . 111,864 111,962 6,717 522,324 16,697
1944 . . 122,025 120,246 7,946 471,580 15,224
1945 .. 100,599 106,301 1,794 459,670 13,611
For reasons already stated 11,910 fewer
sheep and 1613 fewer cattle were put
under the hammer. For the 10 months
to end April last Nenco handled 32,996
(down 4826) bales wool, 68,512 (down
5204) sheep and 4566 (down 304) cattle.
No inkling is given as to what div. the
subsidiary paid.
Gross earnings from all sources
(£161,553) fell away £15,347. Exes.
(£149,370) were pulled back £10,239,
leaving the net result £5107 lighter at
£12,183. That was a shade over 4 p.c.
on capital as against 5.7, 4.2 and 4.2 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. A point
was chipped off the div., reducing it to
3 p.c., and making the average 3.6 p.c.
over the last'decade. Until the outside
debt is substantially reduced only
moderate returns need be looked for.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
* Capital .. £299,980 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. 179,290 143,914 180,214 187,1/3
Overdraft, etc. 310,441 234,182 175,782 183,741
Provident fund 54,627 53,595 63,358
Freehold, etc. 479,028 498,846 494,083 491,893
Stocks .. 31,341 48,572 .30,727 25,042
Book debts . . 432,725 237,554 256,350 215,127
Cash, etc. .. 7,306 6,905 7,223 7,221
Shares subsid. ■ — 31,669 32,208 32,921
Advances subsid. —■ 20,000 25,566 25,748
Last term the staff provident fund
(£63,358 at previous balance) was appar-
ently handed over to trustees and dis-
appeared from the co.’s sheet. To enable


RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-duy for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 21Y), 343 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY
ACTS
LIKE THE HHHD
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
St
"s
Established 1808 in Reign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
PATENTS, —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt,
« * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
AGENCIES WANTED
FOR NEW ZEALAND.
The principal of a New Zealand firm of Manu-
facturers’ Agents, R. W. Sharp, Ltd., 164 Cashel
Street, Christchurch, will be visiting Australia
for the purpose of interviewing manufacturers
with a view to present and post-war trade.
Timetable: Sydney, June Bth to 15th inclusive;
and from July 6th to July 28th inclusive; Mel-
bourne, June 17th to June 27th inclusive. Corre-
spondence enabling interviews to be arranged
will be appreciated. Address letters to—
R. W. SHARP,
C/o Masonic Club, Sydney,
or C/o
Commercial Travellers’ Club, Melbourne.
f
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers;
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
c, THAT*
m
The *
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong- - Joseph Mitcbel
Manager— L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE S T > E E T , SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
, Ti/iie for his
CAPSTAN
We realise just how acutely are restricted supplies
of CAPSTANS felt by smokers under the strain of
wartime conditions—but we ask for your patience
restrictions can be relaxed. When rationing
ends there will be plenty of CAPSTANS for all.
In the meantime, continue to ask for CAPSTANS—
“The Empire’s Favourite Cigarette”
lt 9 s your fight—YOUß money is needed NOW*
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps .
this to be done book debts were reduced
by £41,223, and £BOO9 and £6959 were
added to the amount coming to the co.’s
bankers and sundry creditors respectively.
When the books closed the outside debt
exceeded more or less liquids by £64,855.
As for the coming season, the Riverina
remains dry, and though rains have given
partial relief elsewhere more falls are
required to ensure a satisfactory clip
from reduced flocks. And a lot of de-
ferred capital expenditure on improve-
ments to properties awaits the Govern-
ment’s pleasure in relaxing financial
controls.
Barrytown Gold Dredging (M.L.)
ceased operations at end May last, owing
to continued low recoveries and general
increase in operating costs. The
2,500,000 c.y. p.a. bucket dredge has been
moored in shallow dock and placed on
the care and maintenance list. Accounts
to the end of March have not yet been
sent out, but on the basis of monthly
returns the dredge turned over 2,157,000
c.y. (down 430,000 c.y.) for 45240 z, bul-
lion, worth £44,335, and gold tax and
export duty amounted to £6758. There
is only 2,400,000-odd c.y., about a year’s
work for the dredge, remaining to be
treated. Formed in 1934 as an offshoot
of Alluvial Gold —before the last-named
passed to English interests —to work
gold-bearing black sands about 19 miles
north of Greymouth (M.L.), the co. paid
only one div., 6d. a share, in 1941. The
recovery problem—the gold occurs in an
extremely fine state —and buried timber
in the overburden upset original esti-
mates. Then shortage of skilled labor,
and lifts in wages and prices of stores
and working parts bumped up costs. .
* * * *
Apparently rendered surplus through
tapering of the munitions programme,
large quantities of Australian base
metals are now going overseas, both
from current production and reserve
stocks. Compared with the corre-
sponding period of 1943-44, shipments
of lead in the form of metal and
concentrates increased by £2} million
for the nine months, ended March
last. Owing to better returns for refined
metal, zinc exports during the same period
maintained the high value reached in the
previous trade year. Temporary diffi-
culties of disposal in the local market,
owing to Government stock releases and
industrial controls, were mentioned by
Electro Zinc’s chairman some months
back. Export income from lead and
spelter over the war period has varied
as follows :
Export Prices N
Year /--‘-Exports* Pig Zinc
June, Lead Spelter Lead, Bars, etc.
£OOO £OOO Ton. Ton.
1940 .. 5570 1400 £22 £2l/7/-
1941 . . 3290 1235 22/1/- 21/14/-
1942 . . 6890 885 23/17/- 22/10/-
1943 .. 3820 1460 23/1/- 22/16/-
3944 . . 3760 2295 24/19/- 23/1/-
1945 f.. 5005 1800 26/17/- 29/13/-
* Metal and concentrates, t Nine months.
Britain has provided the chief market
under an agreement by which prices are
adjusted in accordance with specified
movements in costs. After Pearl Harbor
U.S.A. also bought strongly,
* * * :Jc
War-time decline of the Westralian
goldmining industry, as mirrored in offi-
cial returns:
Year Ore Yield Yield Hands Divs.,
Dec., Treated. Gold. Ton. Employed, etc.
’OOO ’OOO
Tons. Ounces. Dwt. £OOO
1940.. 4292 1155 5.38 14,368 1060
1941.. 4211 1105 5.25 12,929 830
1942.. 3226 846 5.24 8,033 424
1943.. 2051 532 5.18 5,048 630
1944.. 1777 473 5.31 4,584 815
Of the 60-odd co. members of the W.A.
Chamber of Mines at the outbreak of
war 25 have put in caretakers, while most
of the large mines still operating have
been reduced to working one shift,
despite drastic curtailment of develop-
ment.
Output of individual producers, respon-
sible for 90 p.c. of Westralia’s gold yield,
has behaved this way:
Mine 1941. 1943. 1944.
oz. oz. oz.
Lake View . . .. 170,550 87,196 90,990
Gre'at Boulder . . 93,216 63,302 64,878
Wiluna .. .. 72,586 52,377 -39,028
Central Norseman . . 53,913 27,089 29,675
North Kalgurlie .. 45,415 25,721 27,442
Big Bell . . .. 45,984 4,220
Sons of Gwalia . . 42,520 24,003 22,657
Boulder Perseverance 38,145 22,985 20,398
G.M. of Kalgoorlie .. 43,053 21,610 22,969
South Kalgurlie . . 27,467 19,136 15,603
Moonlight Wiluna . . 26,141 17,790 12,019
Paringa . . . . 22,460 17,104 15,446
Kalgoorlie Enterprise 22,495 16,110 9,490
Comet G.M 12,221 13,265 13,125
Norseman G.M. .. 26,220 11,734 6,837
Golden Horse Shoe •.. 12,421 10,732 9,219
Hill 50 . . .. 10,688 10,054 9,571
Emu G.M 3,119 7,049 4,539
Phconix G.M. . . 9,631 6,695 8,061
Edna May . . . . 9,367 3,332 4,271
First Hit . . . . 5,397 3,099 4,315
Youanmi .. .. 17,023
Rated as protected undertakings because
of the strategic minerals associated with
their ores are Wiluna, Norseman, Comet
and Edna May. Together they employ
nearly a quarter of the industry’s depleted
man-power. While the labor position
now appears to have stabilised, that with
regard to mine stores and spares has be-
come critical. Cyanide and copper sul-
phate are in particularly short supply.
Although licenses have been granted to
import six months’ requirements of
cyanide, delivery is contingent upon ship-
ping space becoming available,
* * * *
From the taxation angle, end of the
European war may have beneficial effects
upon the prospects for London-Australian
goldmines, especially in lightening the
load of excess-profits tax. This has
pressed severely upon mines which were
in process of expending their outputs pre-
war. Particularly affected in this way
have been Great Boulder, North Kal-
gurli and G.M. of Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop., Boulder Persever-
ance and Golden Horseshoe (New), three
London-controlled cos. operating on the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.), have
declared divs. of p.c. (3d. per share),
10 p.c. (4.8 d. per stock unit) and 8| p.c.
(3d. per share) respectively for the 12
months of 1944. In each case payment
is subject to English income tax of 10s.
in the pound, but 2|d. of Horse Shoe's
3d. is exempt from Federal income tax.
The distributions are all on the same basis
as for the previous term.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines’ managing direc-
tor, Bert Carroll, is reported to have told
union representatives that operations at
the co.’s mine would cease in eight to
twelve months’ time unless the man-power
authorities immediately released 100 men
for work above and below ground. Even
if this is done it is doubtful whether the
pioperty can go on producing much longer
than stated.


i ■
Sill
STANDS FOR
MUTUAI
HP HE Australian Mutual Provident Society is really
A mutual. It is a vast Co-operative Society be-
longing to its members. The surplus is divided
annually amongst the participating policy-holders.
On an average one family in three in the
Commonwealth is protected in some measure by the
Society. At the end of last year members had in-
vested 1,873,000 policies assuring themselves to the
amount of £450,000,000. In the last five years the
Society has paid out £43,000,000 in benefits to its
members or their dependents.
The A.M.P. way of providing protection for
your family and yourself is trouble-proof and certain,
but it has one limitation: It won’t work if you wait
too long before you make a start with it.
Join while you are in good health. It may be
too late next year.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
JL W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for No-w South Wale*.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N SW.
ACCUMULATED WISDOM
IX ADMSXISTKATIOX
TTHE experience garnered by a Board ol Directors, and a group of highly trained officers,
* in the administration of many estates, results in an aggregate wisdom that no one
man could ever acquire. For this reason the appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor must commend itself to you.
If you cannot arrange for a personal interview, write for particulars. A booklet,
"Your Executor and Trustee," covers the matter very fully. A copy will be sent you o
application.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. I. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £*62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street,
Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord's Place, Orange.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Envy, Not Injury
In its talk of socialising the finan-
cial functions of the country the Labor
party has given a good deal of attention
to the insurance companies, as well as to
the mutual life-assurance concerns, albeit
abysmally ignorant of the inner intri-
cacies upon which the successful opera-
tion of the latter depends. Although in-
surance, as opposed to assurance, is a far
simpler financial undertaking, there is
much popular ignorance concerning the
services rendered and the profits earned
by the companies carrying on insurance
business.
it has been well said that life assurance
is financial provision against an event
or circumstance that is bound to arise,
and that insurance is a provision against
a contingency that may happen. Life
assurance provides money in the event
of death or old age ; and death is un-
avoidable. In the case of insurance, the
provision is against something that may
never happen—the house insured may
never get burned down, the motorist may
never have an accident or the workman
may never have grounds for a claim for
compensation.
But whilst the life-assurance company
has to provide for claiips that are bound
to come in (as long as the assured keeps
his premiums paid up), whereas''the fire
and accident insurance concern charges
for contingencies that may never arise,
the premiums asked by the fire and acci-
dent concern are much less per £lOO
insured than is the case under a policy
of life assurance. The reason for this is
that in both the case of life assurance
and fire and other insurance the charges
made to customers are in proportion to
the risks undertaken by the offices. Com-
petition, including that of “co-operative”
concerns and Government insurance
offices in some States, has seen to it that
premiums charged in the insurance and
assurance business are fair and reason-
ab le.
In a recent year—that of 1941-42—the
insurance offices in New South Wales
paid out, in claims and expenses, 19s.
for every 20s. they received in workers’
compensation premiums. Workers’ com-
pensation is generally a barely-profitable
class of insurance for the companies to
handle ; in 1942-43 they again paid out
19s. for every 20s. received. The re-
maining shilling was hardly a high rate
of profit in view of the liabilities that
might arise in a year particularly notable
for industrial accidents,
Notwithstanding the fact that there is
no great margin of profit in workers’
compensation claims in the best of times,
insurance companies are the target for
much abuse from trade-union agitators,
noisy politicians and many members of
the public. “Compo.” has direct associa-
tions with trade-unionists, although they
do not pay any part of the cost; the em-
ployer pays the premiums, and the wage-
earner gets compensation in case of in-
jury. Sometimes he gets it in the case of
trumped-up injury. But insurance cos.
are attacked by demagogues in respect
of their workers’ compensation activities
just as much as they are in the case of
other types of insurance,
Motor-car insurance is another unpro-
Stable type of underwriting. In 1941-42
the N. S. Wales insurance cos. as a body
paid out 21s. Id. in claims and expenses
for every 20s. they received in premiums,
In 1942-43 they paid out 18s. 6d. in the
£1- Over the two years there was only a
shade of profit left to the underwriters
cfertainly not enough to justify large
dividends on the capital employed by
the insurance cos.
Anti-insurtnce-co. propaganda has had
very real effects. Some jurymen are in-
fluenced. There are persons who take
a keen interest in convincing those
who have been bumped by a motor-
car that they have suffered more than
abrasions, A case of “severe nervous
shock” may be worth a few hundreds or
a thousand to a person so involved,
if taken to court, though legal expenses
may be rather higher than the taxed
scale of costs.
If the insurance co. fights what it regards
as an unjust claim it usually has to put its
case before a jury, even though, legally,
it doesn’t appear in court, the owner of
the car being the nominal defendant,
Especially since third-party motor-
car insurance became compulsory in
some States, it has become generally ac-
cepted that an insurance co. covers a
car-owner’s liability in cases of accident
or damage, and there is at times a strong
tendency by juries to give an allegedly
injured party more than the benefit of
the doubt in contested cases. This is
because the insurance office is believed
by so many people to be a soulless cor-
poration, bulging with money, and housed
in a big, impressive building, while the
party bumped by the car is just ordinary
flesh and blood.
There are far more motor-car claims
paid promptly by insurance cos. than are
ever contested. But where an insurance
co. goes to law it has always to consider
the likely effect of the propaganda that
has been directed against the business in
which it is engaged.
It is necessary for insurance cos. to be
strong financially; the majority of them,
in the years of their foundation, with-
held dividends from their shareholders
so that they might grow into firmly es-
tablished institutions in which those tak-
ing out insurances might have the great-
est trust. But instead of the cost of in-
surance growing dearer with the increas-
ing security of the offices doing business
the tendency over the years has been for
it to grow cheaper.
In the instance of fire insurance, N. S.
Wales offices have been able to make a
higher margin of profit than in the case
of workers’ compensation and motor-car
insurance. In 1941-42, for every 20s.
taken by the offices in premiums they
paid out 16s. 3d. In 1942-43 losses were
heavier; they paid out 17s. 6d. in claims,
taxes, contributions to fire brigades and
in office expenses for every 20s. received.
In view of the service and security
offered, the profit margin here is not ex-
cessive, especially when it is realised that
the average premium charged in respect
of fire insurance is only 6s. Bd. in the
£lOO of cover. What the offices made
in this connection represents more in
their tills than it does out of the
pocket of the person insuring. In other
words, to take all the profit out of fire in-
surance would not mean a great deal
financially to the one seeking insurance.
Marine insurance during war-time is
not all it seems. Many claims cannot
be adjusted until after the war. In 1941-
42 the N. S. Wales companies paid out
13s. 6d. in the £ in claims and expenses,
while in the following year the figure
fell to under 10s. But marine business
is extraordinarily tricky, and premiums
must be high enough to ensure that ex-
porters sending vital war materials from
State to State or from Australia to other
countries will get their money even if
many shipments are lost at sea. So that
essential trade shall not be discouraged
by lack of adequate insurance facilities
during war-time, it is the usual British
practice for the Government to enter the
field. In Australia during the present
war most war-risk insurance has been a
monopoly of the Government, trading
through the brokers as the Marine War
Risks Insurance Board,
If no war-risk insurance were offering
two very disconcerting things might have
happened in this war. In the first case
overseas manufacturers might have re-
fused absolutely to dispatch goods by
the at-times perilous routes to Australia,
and the Australian exporter might simi-
larly have withheld vital raw materials
from Great Britain for the reason that
the risks were too great. In the second,
shipments that were made and which got
through wquld have to be “loaded” with
the cost of shipments that failed to make
port. Thus all sorts of erratic prices
might have resulted. As it is, with a
properly conducted insurance system,
losses are spread over all classes of goods
at an even rate of premium, and the
carrying-on of trade at uniform prices
for the same type of article is possible.
Insurance is an essential service. Like
banking, it has been a great factor in ex-
tending trade connections and raising
living standards all over the world.
Uncertainty is one of the greatest ob-
structions to trading activity, and both
insurance qnd banking have done much
to establish confidence in commerce
between people thousands of miles
removed from each other. They have
encouraged the investment of savings in
better types of homes, and the spread
of motoring has in no small measure
been due ta the insurance facilities
offered in respect of damage and claims
for injury. Life assurance, too, has be-
come one of the great social services of
modern times.
The critics of banks, insurance and
assurance companies are in the habit of
pointing with envy at the big head-office
buildings in which these institutions are
housed. But the buildings are usually
part of the security offering to prospec-
tive customers, and they have been
financed, in the case of insurance
cos., out of the surplus from under-
writing, as well as from income from
previously-invested surpluses. A con-
siderable, proportion of insurance profits
these days comes not from the people
who pay the preniiums, but from the
income won on the investment of in-
surance earnings that were not paid out
to shareholders in earlier years.
Injury to, or exploitation of, the public
by any form of commercial undertaking is
something deserving of adequate political
notice. Butwhere criticism is basedmerely
on envy, and where that envy blinds the
critic to the service rendered, political
intelligences have sunk to a very low
level. Too often it isn’t what people are
losing that worries them; it is what they
imagine someone else is getting. It is true
that big dividends are paid by some in-
surance concerns. But usually they have
been established a long while; and it
should be remembered that £1 invested
at 5 p.c. compound interest doubles itself
in 14 years. Interest on funds built up
by insurance cos. in past years so that
they would never be in danger of failing
to pay a just insurance claim accounts
for a large part of the dividends paid to
shareholders. In proportion to the risks
taken by the companies the dividends to
shareholders are extremely small.
Government insurance offices exist in
several parts of Australia. They have not
put any shareholder-owned concern out
of business. If Government-controlled
insurance were all it is cracked up to be
by insurance critics the commercial con-
cerns would have wilted under the com-
petition long ago.
C. J. Atkin, a senior officer of the New
Zealand Treasury, has revealed that the
Dominion was very close to a national
financial crisis in December, 1938. A
major run on the Post Office Savings
Bank had been in process, and the Gov-
ernment was unable to stop it. “Nobody
knew how bad circumstances were at the
end of 1938,” Mr. Atkin said. “Sud-
denly people began to withdraw money,
and we lost £9 million in a few months.
We were never able to trace the cause
of the run, though it coincided with the
introduction of the Social Security Bill,
and this may have been one contributing
cause.” An outcome of this scare was
the planning of the national savings cam-
paign, in order to fix public savings into
a term investment instead of a demand
deposit. The scheme was thus really a
pre-war measure, though legislation was
not introduced to Parliament until 1940.
Over £lO million has now been sub-
scribed, and the first instalment falls due
for repayment on June 30 this year. “I
do not know how many people will re-
quire their money,” said Mr. Atkin, “but
the Government has it ready.”
* * * *
After rising to over £2OO million, the
Australian note issue is now back to £lB6
million. Departure of United States
troops has had something to do with the
drop, and so have rifmors that big notes
might be called in for the purpose of
catching tax-dodgers. The rumors are
now given official confirmation. Before
the war the issue was generally under £5O
million.


n
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
D ADVA CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
dAKIVU SKIN MOTION 3/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever;
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need*
Refuse all substitutes* Remember;
the name DOAN’S,
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, P. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. T. C. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
1/
i
w
<RAVEi-
BV AIR
With the fearless few.
Study mankind in a birdseye view,
\ \ ] Trust the care of a knight of the air;
V I Seeing the world as a vista fair.
* Travel by air! but provide for chill.
Carry the treatment that "always will/*
Trust to the aid which will ease assure—
Cough-proof Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure.
First-aid for Coughs, Colds, Influenza:
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
93,000 TROUBLE-FREE
MILES IN A MERCURY
11
A 1939 Mercury Sedan, used night and day in all
weathers for essential hire-car work, has completed
92,000 miles without requiring any repairs. The
cylinder-heads and sump have not been removed and
the only replacements have been one set of spark-
plugs. The body-work is as good as new.
Small wonder that Mr. F. C. Burgess the satisfied
owner writes: “This performance has convinced me
of the car’s reliability and worth. As soon as possible
I intend to become the proud owner of the latest
model Mercury.”
FORD V-8 CARS, TRUCKS AND UTILITIES : ; MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
FORD
i
F4B-20Q
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc, in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic. 1
Newcastle (N.S.W.), the abode of
station 2HD, has had some excitement
over a couple of May Days. In 1944,
it appears, the Newcastle Trades Hall
Council May Day Committee collected
£4922 by selling buttons and other acti-
vities, and out of the net proceeds it paid
£2466 to the Australian Comforts Fund
and £2250 to the Newcastle Labor Col-
lege. A sum of £2045 raised at a race
meeting was paid direct to the A.C.F.
by the Newcastle Jockey Club. There
were protests that many people had sub-
scribed to the appeal for funds under
the impression that all the net proceeds
were to go to the Comforts Fund. When
the time came for a 1945 repeat perform-
ance a complaint by an officer of the
A.C.F. concerning this confusion, and a
comment about “truth in advertising,”
brought columns of Trades Hall vitu-
peration, a bellow that certain people
were “giving vent to their spleen against
the working class,” and a suggestion from
one union representative that the A.C.F.
“should conduct a purge amongst its
committee.” All typical of the resent-
ment shown by militant trade-union
interests against any legitimate inquiry
or criticism. It appears that 55 p.c. of the
1945 net proceeds go to the A.C.F. and
45 p.c. to the Trades Hall building fund,
allowing for certain commissions and ex-
penses on the part oforganisers. The
Newcastle council banned the use of Bird-
wood Park by the May Day Committee,
and there was a great deal of excitement
over that, though thousands of people
entered the park. A dodger issued by the
Ironworkers’ Committee for Democratic
Unionism demanded to know “Citizens!
Where is your money going?” and sug-
gested that the right place was “all to
the A.C.F.” Even unionism split over the
methods adopted by the Trades Hall, and
the controversy still goes on.
* * *
During the 12 months to November 30
last over 100,000 men and women were
released from the armed forces. During
the same period total employment in the
Commonwealth, excluding rural workers,
domestics and servicemen, declined by
3900 to 1,908,400. In view of military
releases, this fall is puzzling. A substan-
tial proportion of the men released from
the services went back into jobs that come
within the statistician’s classifications.
What, then, is happening in this man-
power position? Are the majority of
the men released going on the land, and
are some of the people formerly employed
in factories returning to rural industries
also? If that is the case, there seems
to have been very little improvement in
the food-production position to justify
this transfer of employment. The answer
to the conundrum is not that women |ire
being displaced by returning men to any
great extent. The drop in the total num-
ber of women employed during the year
was only 3400 (to 637,900). There is an
unpleasant odor surrounding the politics
of Australian man-power. Trade-union
bosses have too much say, and the Gov-
ernment is determined to play Santa
Claus to the civil service and other sec-
tions that might be regarded as a poten-
tial block vote at election time. There
has been a fall in the number of Govern-
ment employees—a decline of 18,500
occurred during the year to November 30,
leaving the total then at 521,700. But
it is still miles higher than at the be-
ginning of the war, and the number of
employees on the Government payroll
outside of factory jobs appears to be
increasing,
» * « m
Much of the goldmining industry in
Westralia was put on a “care-and-main-
tenance” basis early in the war with
Japan, and production of the yellow
metal has fallen to a shadow of its former
self. In 1938 the State produced
1,167,792 fine ounces, valued at over £lO
million Australian, In 1943 production
was no more than 546,575 fine ounces.
Before the war there were over 14,000
men in the industry ; the figure has since
fallen to about 4000. Scores of smaller
mines closed down through lack of labor.
Bigger shows, especially those on the
Kalgoorlie-Boulder Golden Mile, have
managed to carry on with fewer hands
and reduced output and development.
Many chemical and other supplies have
been short, while the Commonwealth
commandeered a good deal of plant
without worrying much about replace-
ments. Some big mines have put up the
shutters temporarily—Big Bell, closed in
January, 1943, intends to open after the
war. Youanmi has closed down and sold
its plant, while Triton gave up in August,
1942, but has kept slopes in good con-
dition. Wiluna is carrying on in a
limited fashion under Government sub-
sidy, recovering arsenic as well as gold.
* * * *
Despite the heavy war-time fall in pro-
duction, value of the Queensland sugar
crop compares well with the pre-war aver-
age, thanks to the increased quantities
passing into home consumption and im-
proved prices for the exportable surplus.
The gross cheque is shared approximately
70 p.c. by canegrowers and 30 p.c. by
millers. No statistics are available as to
the effects of restriction upon the net
incomes of growers ; but, before taxation
and co-operative rebates, profits in the
case of millers have been cut in two com-
pared with 1936-38. Though some im-
provement has since occurred, these
amounted, on average, to only 2\ p.c. on
capital employed in 1943:
Profit —36 Queensland and N.S.W. Mills.
Total Percentage
Year. profit. on capital.
1936 .. £937,785 4.69
1937 .. 967,264 4.84
1938 .. 792,764 3.96
1943 .. 489,009 2.44
The reduced volume of cane going
through the rollers has had the following
effect upon mill unit costs and profits in
the same period—the figures are based
on actual expenditure, plus a uniform
allowance of 3 p.c. on the replacement
cost of plant, etc., for depreciation:
Revenue and Charges per ton of Cane
Crushed.
Cost of
Paid to Manu- Milling
Year. Revenue. Growers, facture. profit.
1936 .. 44.35. 30.45. 10.55. 3.45.
1937 .. 45.55. 31.55. 10.55. 3.55.
1938 .. 44.25. 31.05. 10.45. 2.85.
1943 .. 60.05. 42.05. 15.35. 2.75.
Capitalised at £5 10s. per ton of average
cane production, the value of Queensland
sugar lands is put at £3O million. At
written-down values, some £Bi million
(excluding working capital of £2 million)
is invested in the milling side of things,
or about half the cost of replacement at
pre-war values.
* * * *
Colonial Sugar has reduced its dividend
from 8i p.c. to 8 p.c. Low sugar harvests
in Australia and Fiji and the man-power
shortage have resulted in smaller income
and higher costs. Last year’s production
of sugar in the Commonwealth was
645,000 tons, compared with 505,000 tons
in 1943 and 901,000 tons in 1939. The
co. is not a cane-grower in Australia.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has
got into a spot of bother from time to
time in matters of treatment of civilians
and civil property under National Security
Regulations, and it is not likely that its
problems are finished yet. Cane-farmers
in Queensland have had tractors and
similar machinery taken from them by
the Army and Allied Works Council, and
some have had returned to them lower-
powered units that cannot do the job
which the confiscated machine was able
to. In a great number of cases the
civilian who has had property confiscated
has lost badly on the transaction, as well
as having his means of livelihood dis-
turbed, There have been several High
Court cases in which an aggrieved person
who has had property confiscated and /or
business disrupted has been awarded
greater compensation than that tendered
by the Government.' Section 51 (xxxi) of
the Constitution provides that compensa-
tion, even in cases of confiscation under
the National Security Act, must be on
“just terms.” One of the first cases to go
against the Government was that where
Johnston, Fear and Kingham and the
Offset Printing Co., Victoria-street, North
Melbourne, claimed for loss of profits as
well as the value of the confiscated
property in the case of the taking by the
Crown of a color-printing press. Judg-
ment was given in August, 1943,
$ * * *
The chief bottleneck in Allied tyre
production is not the supply of planta-
tion rubber (which is still necessary in
the manufacture of tyres made largely
from synthetic rubber), but that of high-
tenacity rayon cord, which, unlike cotton,
resists the heat generated by synthetic
rubber in larger-sized tyres. There is a
serious shortage of rayon cord in the
United States.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Despite the assurance
given a few days after the Ninth Divi-
sion’s landing on Tarakan that Jap resist-
ance on that island had been broken, it
seems to have continued just as strongly,
and to have exacted just as numerous
Australian casualties as in the beginning,
right up till the last moment. At the
week-end, after some fierce, small fighting
during the week, an A.I.F. spearhead was
within 500 yards of the enemy H.Q.
There is a marked difference between
the fighting and its results in Tarakan,
where there were supposed to be only
4000 of the enemy, if the Australian
mandated areas, Wewak and Bougainville,
in which there were supposed to be. nearly
40,000 of the enemy. The Australian
casualties on Tarakan were said by one
authority on June 7 to be in the vicinity
of 1100, which probably means at least
one-third front-line strength, and the re-
mainder of the 4000 of the enemy were
still fighting at the end of five weeks.
In the Aitape area, on the other hand,
the Australians were reckoned to have
killed 3158 Japs for total casualties of
164 killed and 582 wounded to the begin-
ning of April, in over four months’ opera-
tions. On Bougainville the Australian
toll was reckoned at 171 killed and 674
wounded in return for 3193 Japs killed
in over four months.
Landing on Labuan
Throughout the week Tokyo has shown
nervousness about an extension of opera-
tions in Borneo. On June 5 it was re-
ported from Japan, following some com-
prehensive bombing of ports and defence
centres round the coast, that a landing
was being made at Sandakan, which is
on a deep harbor to the north of the
island, but nothing came of it. Probably
it represented a feint by the Allies, who
had other fish to fry and who, so soon as
they had attracted enemy attention to
Sandakan, shifted the centre of their
storm of bomb and bullet to the small
British island of Labuan and to Brunei
Bay, mentioned here last week as a likely
point of attack. , .
Labuan lies 43 miles from Brunei, off
the north-west coast, a low-lying islet
somewhat smaller than Tarakan, with neat
little Victoria harbor on the south,
abutted on one side by a swamp and a
sand beach and on the other by 300 ft.
hills.
Here there are a couple of airfields
which have been laid down by the enemy.
Their capture would give bases within
about 600 miles of the enemy naval base
of Camranh Bay, on the Annam coast,
strengthening the Allied control of the
air of the South China Sea.
Tokyo’s report declared on June 10
that, after a two-day bombardment by
Allied battleships, cruisers and 50 small
warships and powerful squadrons of air-
craft, a division of Allied troops, “pre-
sumably Australian,” landed on Labuan
on Friday afternoon, June 8.
This news of a landing in Jap-occupied
territory in British North Borneo was
confirmed by Mr. Chifley the same day. It
was officially stated that a large force of
Liberators had blasted the Labuan air-
fields on June 8, apart from other targets
on the island, and that Jesselton and
Sandakan, the two chief towns of the
British North Borneo residencies, both ot
which possess considerable airfields, were
being pounded.
Wewak and Bougainville
In both regions there was much small
activity. On the Bougainville southern
front the Australians had reached points
close to the Hari River, the last stream
before the main defence area of Buin,
after a tedious fight with tank traps and
unbridged creeks and very active Jap
frontal forces; but the main battle was
still to come. The Japanese are en-
trenched on a strong escarpment along
the Hari.
In the north of the island, where the
enemy seemed to be bent on sneaking
his forces out of the invested Bonis
Peninsula across the 15-mile-wide channel
to Buka, an Australian amphibious force
has been landed on the west of his posi-
tions, at Matchin Bay. A further Iqndmg
at Chabai, six miles from the top of the
island, was reported on June 10.
The landing parties were strongly re-
sisted near the Porton plantation as they
attempted to push eastward across the
peninsula to junction with another Aus-
tralian force moving from the base of
the peninsula. The objective of the junc-
tion was to seal off a lively Jap pocket
In the Wewak area, where it is claimed
that there are still 10,000 of the enemy,
the Sixth Division has pushed its attacks
inland along the hill tracks to within
seven miles of Maprik, taking a number
of bunkered positions softened up by
heavy artillery fire. But the enemy is
fighting desperately in small lots and
appears bent on holding a line of strong
foothill posts from Wewak to the west
Sepik.
End Near on Okinawa.
“Ek D.”; At the week-end the battle
for Okinawa was nearly over, after 10
weeks of bloody struggle, and with 66,000
Japanese reported killed, a remaining
15,000 able-bodied enemy troops being
pinned in the extreme southern tip of
the island.
It was the bloodiest and longest con-
tinual battle for so small a space of
ground in the history of the Pacific war.
On April 14 the American forces ad-
vancing southwards towards Naha were
stretched from coast to coast across the
island, from Ujidomai on the west to
Nakagasukai Bay on the east, the length
of their perimeter being about five miles.
The advance southward was at the rate of
about three-quarters of a mile per week,
with forces massed as closely at times as
a division per mile of perimeter, and
with seaward support such as no land
operation has ever known. Over 98,000
tons of shells had been fired from sea
and land artillery up to June 7, apart
from bombing.
In the last few days foul weather added
to the Americans’ difficulties, but the
rain had begun to clear away and the
advance was being pressed on,
Naha airfield, the main one on the
island —it lies south-west of the town
across an estuary on Oruku peninsula —
was overrun by June 4, after the Sixth
Marine Division had made a landing to
cut off the peninsula. On June 6 U.S.
spearheads were less than four miles
from the southern tip of the island, and
the next day it was discovered that the
enemy had massed his remaining mortars,
m.-gs. and artillery along the strong posi-
tion of the Yaejudake Escarpment, which
forms a wall, in places 500 ft. high, across
the southern tip of the island. The
enemy’s last line here runs between
Roman, site of another airfield on the
west, and Gusichan, on the east, and
might be said to form the base of' the
last triangle of land in Jap hands on
Okinawa.
By the week-end the Okinawa battle
had dwindled to the last phases of a
desperate cleaning-up operation.
As the grim facts continue to come
out they more and more point to the
idiocy of the view that the end of the
Japanese war is near. The whole atmo-
sphere of Japan breathes defiance and
satisfaction at the nature of the Okinawa
resistance. “Asahi Shimbun” announced
last week that the whole of the Japanese
coasts had been covered by interlocking
underground fortress areas of a new type.
There is little doubt, however much
there is of boasting and exaggeration in
the statements, that the Japanese have
studied closely the technique of the Caen
defences, which cost the British and Cana-
dians dearly, and have been far from
unmindful of the other lessons of the
European war. Moreover, there is sub-
stance in»the “Asahi” claim that opera-
tions since Guadalcanal have given the
enemy time to prepare for defence.
Suicide Technique
Perhaps the greatest mistake which the
enemy made was in unleashing at this
stage his suicide aircraft, since it has
enabled the Allies to devise counter-
measures before attacks on the Japanese
mainland have begun. The great fleets
assembled off Okinawa and Leyte were
a temptation too strong to be resisted.
Admiral Mitscher, who commanded
the Fifth U.S. Fleet during the heat of
the Okinawa operations, admitted last
week that, though only 1 per cent, of the
original kamikazes which attacked
reached their mark, they were to that
extent effective. He himself was bombed
off two flagships.
Since the beginning of operations on
Okinawa to June 6 U.S. aircraft claimed
94,405 tons of Japanese shipping as sunk
and 91,205 tons as damaged. Aerial
operations are being intensified all round
the southern Japanese coasts and south
to Formosa.
Bombing of Japan
Bombing of Honshu by heavies and
of Kyushu by carrier-based aircraft has
continued with increasing violence. Kobe,
Osaka and the Tokyo areas were hit by
main raids which were stepped up
until, on June 9-10, there were eight
attacks on five industrial plants and repair
bases, of which four were near Tokyo,
Paris Radio reported over the week-
end an admission by Tokyo Radio that
Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka and
Kobe had ceased to exist.
There was grimness rather than gloom
in Baron Suzuki’s declarations to the
Diet, which met on June 9, when a mes-
sage was read from the Emperor calling
on the Japanese people to fulfil the pur-
pose of the “holy war.” Premier Suzuki
said three times that the country must
fight to the last, and announced the
impending conscription of all men be-
tween 15 and 60 and all women between
17 and 30.
Fighting continued in the Cagayan
Valley, in N. Luzon and in parts of the
southern Philippines.
The Chinese front continues to have
its tales of victory in the south, where
further cities were occupied by the
Chinese—Lungchow only 12 miles from
the Indo-China border, Szelo 25 miles
from the border and Kushui in East
Hunan—with the Japanese in accus-
tomed flight, which they invariably appear
to make when the Chinese appear in any
force.
In the north Chinese communist troops
were filtering into vacant spaces, but the
Japanese themselves on June 8 opened
a fresh drive aimed to guard the Canton-
Hapkow railway south of Nanking in
Kiangsi. Much of the Japanese move-
ment appears to be seasonal.
Slow Work in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: To the beginning of the
month the main Japanese pre-occupation
in Burma seemed to be to filter out the
14,500 men of their 28th Army, who
remained west of the Irrawaddy, and
who had to be pulled out before the
monsoon was in full swing or perish under
the regular harassing of Admiral Mount-
batten’s growing forces.
Some of these 28th Army men had
tried to cross the stream opposite Prome,
there about a mile wide, but had been
heavily ambushed. Nevertheless, they
succeeded in establishing a bridgehead on
the east bank opposite Kama, 16 miles
north-west of Prome, and they worked
hard to stage their refugee units to the
west across the river through this open-
ing into the Pegu Yomas, the hills to the
east, through which one of their escape
routes lies. Their action was not passive
retreat. They showed great aggressive-
ness against near-by British-Indian posi-
tions, attacking again and again—seven
times in two days.
Towards the end of the last week in
May fighting increased in intensity as
more and larger bodies —sometimes nearly
at two-company strength were dis-
covered east of the river. As June came
in the bridgehead was almost clear, and
the Japs along the retreat trail represented
small units on the east bank and pockets
to the west which were being engaged at
close quarters and roughly handled or
wiped out.
On Toungoo Road
The mam fighting, however, was not
in the Prome area. It had moved east
to the road from Toungoo, on the main
Mandalay-Rangoon railway, about 90
miles due east of Prome, into the Shan
Hills. Here the Japanese were massed
as rearguards in sufficient strength to put
up a fierce resistance. The British-Indians
were across the Sittaung River. They were
pushing north-easterly up its valley to-
wards Thandaung, which lies on the lower
ground below the foothills, and were
moving forward along the axis of the
road by a series of hooks and flanking
movements which involved powerful
assaults in concentrated areas, supported
by mortar fire.
The type of resistance could be gauged
by that encountered on the three miles
of the highway between Milestone 11 and
Milestone 14. Near Milestone 11 the
flanking hook by the pursuing Fourteenth
Army men was supported by 10 mortars,
and the enemy was compelled to with-
draw from 60 bunkers. He was pushed
back six furlongs, where a road block,
strongly held, had to be dealt with. Here
two 47mm. a.-t. guns and a 75 were cap-
tured. This enabled an uninterrupted
advance to Milestone 12, troops linking
up, after they had cleared the road with
tanks for another furlong, with a second
British detachment which had pushed
south of the road to Milestone 13 and
plastered itself across the highway. In
the link-up another 75mm. and 47mm.
were added to the bag.
A couple of furlongs still further on
the wily Jap had planted 6001 b. of gelig-
nite surrounded by shells, from which
the electric lead made to a foxhole; but
the owner had decamped, and the intan-
try and tanks, with the assistance of tank
mortar support, were able to roll ahead
to the 131 milepost before there was
further delay through the tanks being held
up by a blown-up bridge. Then they
fought on to Mile 14. In the week ended
June 8 they covered another four miles.
Toungoo might indeed now be called
the pivot of the fighting, which is being
pushed eastward on every road beyond
the railway from Thazi, about 220 miles
north of Mokpalin, at the inner point of
the Gulf of Martaban, to the Pegu region,
which lies almost due west of Mokpalin.
Fighting North and South
In the Thazi region the British in con-
centration were about eight miles north-
west of Karw, beyond Kalaw, at the foot
of the “staircase” which leads into the
hills along the route from the main base
of Meiktila. The British apparently are
not across the main Japanese escape route
along road and rail to Tounggai but on
its flank. Last week they had been
stopped by heavy shell and mortar fire,
and it was obvious that they would have
to reinforce and bring up artillery before
they could make progress.
There was further fighting on a line 32
miles south of Toungoo, near Pyu, in
which nearly a company of Japanese was
wiped out. And more again nine miles
north-west of Pegu, at Bawmatgyi, where
a nosing Fourteenth Army patrol ran into
strong enemy forces, which pushed it
back to one of the firm bases which have
been established in the region for prob-
ing purposes.
The early monsoon already is on,
though not yet in full blast. The weather
has been bad enough to hamper ground
fighting in the Pegu area, and on all lines
of attack and blockage has ruled out
close air support for ground troops with-
out preventing carpet bombing by Libera-
tors of targets such as Moulmein, the new
main Burma base of the enemy, where
ack-ack defences, troop concentrations
and dump areas have been receiving con-
stant attention, along with the Siam-
Burma railway, which looks like a piece
of chewed string by reason of the con-
stant blasting and strafing to which it is
being subjected.
Apart from the 14,500 Japanese west of
the Irrawaddy on June 1, those east of
the Sittaung, many of whom are in strong
hill positions or lodged in forest and
swamp, are estimated at 55,000. They
will scarcely be cleaned up before Novem-
ber brings good fighting weather again
or what passes for good fighting weather
in the awful country of the Thailand
border and Tenasserim.
Japan's Main Potentials.
“Ek Dum”: Japan is now in process
of being softened up internally on the
scale applied to Germany’s crucial in-
dustrial areas, while Allied forces break
the outer erust of defence and build
bases from which to attack the Japanese
mainland and Chinese ports.
It is a dreadful task, one which would
have been impossible without huge naval
and mercantile marine resources, and the
burden on the shoulders of the navies
involved will increase day by day as pre-
parations mount to fortissimo, possibly
in the summer of next year.
The task of landing and supplying an
invasion force on such‘small islands as
Guam, Saipan and Iwo, is onerous
enough, but every mile nearer Japan is
a mile added to the distance supplies and
fighting men must be carried. It has
also to be taken into account that every
mile resistance will become stronger
until, at the end, the land war for
proper will be fought out at a point
where Japanese communications are
shortest, the Japanese urge to fight is
most furious and Allied forces are being
used on a large scale on the end of lines
5000 miles at least from front to factory.
At that stage there will be no room
for hitches in supply and no question of
any let-up in the effort to keep Japanese
factories and war industry disorganised
and Japanese roads, railways and canals
and shipping immobilised.
Enemy Difficulties
It is true that Japan is short of various
types of war supplies, of certain metals,
of timber, perhaps of petrol. It is true
also that Japan’s total industry is or was
closely massed on two of the rare na
expanses on its geologically turbulent
islands. The largest plain 18 that
Tokyo, about 5400 square miles, and
upon this and the others nearly 50 per
cent, of Japan’s population is crowde .
On Tokyo Plain there are six large mail -
trial cities, including Yokosuka, a ma
naval base, and Yokohama. ,
All this makes for economical and
effective attack from the air. The mm y
nature of domestic dwellings and or
many other types of building makes t
quick destruction. But against this P
is under low cloud for half the year and
the winter is intense and violent n
very well suited to accurate bombing,a
many of the industries have long g
underground in the hills. . jjcadvan-
Japan has some strategic disadva
tages in defence against modern a
The plains are coastal plains. dO
good landing beaches on the sonth®
side of Honshu, the mam island, an


Missing Friends.
COLLIS. —Would EDWARD WILLIAM COLLIS be-
lieved to have adopted the names of Edward Edwards
Edward Williams and William Edwards aged ap-
proximately 86 years or anyone knowing his where-
abouts please communicate with THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
401 Collins Street Melbourne?
CD
am
Kyushu, adjacent to the vital industrial
areas. The main railways imitate Aus-
tralian railways in that they run close
to the coast. The roads in the main are
not all-weather roads. Communications
with industrial areas in Asia are ham-
pered by the bitter winter, which freezes
in a large part of the sea and hides it in
cottonwool on the continental side.
Against this the Allies must be pre-
pared to put ashore, initially, enormous
quantities of stores and the means to
protect them wherever they land on or
within reach of Japan proper, and to
face the expanding supply needs of the
attack machinery, which every month be-
comes bigger, faster and more complicated.
Even two years ago it was reckoned
that 100,000 men making an initial land-
ing in the Mediterranean would need
80,000 tons of stores on landing, with an-
other 32,000 tons for the first month.
This scale of requirement has been multi-
plied many times since.
To keep 100,000 men in the fighting
lines, but not necessarily in the front
lines, means another 250,000 to 300,000
communication troops ashore at a mini-
mum. The total force would eat well
on to 1000 tons of food per day and use
1500 tons of water. It would require
for services something like 100;000
vehicles of one kind and another, using
perhaps 2,000,000 gallons of petrol per
week. Divisions in the front line need
1000 tons per day of supplies when ac-
tively fighting. All this must be handled,
first, on long hauls to main bases reason-
ably adjacent to the scene of operations.
Finally, it must be protected over the
last stages and put ashore in one of the
50-odd types of landing craft which
have developed from the original British
types—it is little known that the first
landing craft were developed by the
Royal Navy at the end of the last war,
and that they even embodied jet pro-
pulsion in place of propellers. *
The story of the development of this
war’s communications over long dis-
tances is the story of a desperate race
between growing requirements and the
growing facilities to supply them, usually
until the final stages of the major opera-
tions, with requirements leading by
more than a neck.
Unfortunately, it is normally impos-
sible to provide effective defence before
the enemy shows his hand. And the kind
of techniques which have developed in
air-sea warfare are those which the
enemy knew would at first create con-
siderable destruction of opposed major
units and then place a huge burden of
defence on those who had to prevent
further destruction or face defeat.
Battleship Defence
An example is to be found in the pro-
cesses which have touched battleships.
Japan’s success in naval warfare was not
so much in the destruction wrought
against battleships in Pearl Harbor and
in Malayan waters as in the immense
precautions which the Japanese forced
upon their foes in all future naval war-
fare. It is now an axiom that no major
landing or attack can succeed without a
barrage under any circumstances. And
this can be only provided from the sea
by capital or nearly-capital ships.
At the beginning of the war, when
naval aircraft attack was in its infancy
and the torpedo bomber had been used
little on any effective scale or not at all,
ack-ack defence was not regarded as a
remarkably onerous duty in a fleet. It is
safe to say that developments since that
day have called for the increase of at
least one-third in the total personnel of
ships, these extras being devoted almost
entirely to detection and protection
against aerial onslaughts. This makes
for more congested and uncomfortable
ships, greater difficulty in obtaining full
efficiency and sometimes greater loss
when successful enemy attack is driven
home. It calls also for great supplies,
medical assistance and base personnel.
By way of example of the increase of
aerial protection, Nelson and Rodney,
Britain’s most powerful battleships of
the pre-war era, used to boast half a
dozen 4.7 a.-as., half a dozen two-
pounder multiple pompoms and 16 other
guns of various degrees of effectiveness
against aircraft.
The most modern U.S. battleships
operating in the Pacific mount 16 five-inch
(38 cals) dual-purpose guns and over 100
lighter guns, in the main 40mm. Bofors
and 20mm. Oerlikons, apart from modern
rocket protection. All these new weapons
are rapacious of ammunition and of ser-
vice and man-power and hard in wear
and tear on both equipment and crews.
Moreover, the development of the large
aircraft-carrier and the need for its ex-
tensive use have added greatly to com-
munication burdens. Deck fighters cer-
tainly have reached such efficiency that
they can compete with land-based fighters
with some hope of success, and increased
space on carriers has raised the fast twin-
engined sea-based bomber from the ex-
perimental to the every-day practical
stage. But the developments have entailed
a more intensive training of pilots, the
use of more pilots and mechanical staffs
to deal with added complexities of main-
tenance and increased tankage, repre-
sented by the difference between 500-h.p.
engines and those of 2000-h.p.
Thus the technical strain is all the time
being built up on the shoulders of the
Allies. It is now nearly approaching its
naval maximum, as several fleets, which
are the real forward bases of this still
primarily naval war, get beyond the stage
where they can operate from land and
need to be tied to huge, slow, various
fleet trains, hard to maintain, continually
needing repair and recoupment of
material, and always onerous to defend.
The work of building up and keeping
up all this organisation is the more diffi-
cult because in the Pacific war it had to
be developed from the beginning. In civi-
lised continents there are labor, shelter,
room to move, factories to be taken over.
In the Pacific islands about all the prim-
aries available are land crabs, coral and
palm-trees. Materials, food, munitions,
docking facilities, local defence, airfields
equipment must be brought to pristine
islands apd built and operated by hun-
dreds of thousands of men to whom the
surroundings are almost as foreign as
those of another world.
Japan’s Advantages
Japan has none of these problems in
respect of homeland defence. It has an
immeasurable advantage in. the leeway
which its foes have had to make up before
they could shape up for the kind of
crucial operations which bring victory or
defeat.
The nature of those operations is this:
that the attackers must land sufficient
men to subdue a nation whose home
islands hold 75,000,000 people, fighting
for a homeland which they have held for
2600 years and possessed of a philosophy
which scarcely draws a borderline be-
tween life and death; whose fighters are
ready in thousands to go to deliberate
destruction in suicide aircraft or in carry-
ing bangalore bombs and time-fused shelis
into an enemy’s lines.
It is in this final and .decisive phase,
retarded by the enemy’s tactics, which
have forced the Allies to swell their equip-
ment to a maximum and load their com-
munications to the limit, that the Japa-
nese will be able to display their last and
most potent asset —the one which decides
wars and the length of them —almost un-
limited man-power with an unlimited will
to fight and die.
This mass of obedient humanity is
seated in a terrain which sweeps out of
the coastal plains, through slopes terraced
in paddy-fields knee-deep in sludge and
bound in by mud dams, to forested moun-
tains, volcanic, rugged natural fastnesses.
To these they can retire in their millions,
as they have retired in thousands in
Okinawa and Iwo and a dozen other fort-
ress islands of lesser power, and fight-till
they are burnt out, bombed out, smoked
out, blasted out and all the fight has
been driven out of them. This must be
counted on, and the Allies’ task is to land
sufficient man-power to maintain their
effort, fighting with their backs to a grey,
lengthy stretch of ocean which for several
months m the year is shrouded in the fogs
of winter. Very little of the interior is
suitable for mechanised warfare.
The Asian Way
It cannot be disguised that this task
bears some resemblance to that which
Germany faced in Russia, though it has
a different complexion by reason of
British-American technical ascendancy
and vast industrial creative power. At
the same time, Japan’s weapon, man-
power, even meagrely equipped, cannot
be despised any more than Russian man-
power could be despised, so long as the
Japanese warlords are willing to continue
the war.
The kind of tactics which pit superior
numbers of entrenched and burrowing
men or swarming hordes against a well-
equipped and armored attacker, sup-
ported by air-power, is one in which ter-
rible sacrifices are made. But, as in Russia,
it can result in the exhaustion of a better-
equipped attacker by forcing him to use
his ammunition to the point at which he
cannot keep up with the demand. He
kills till exhausted, but the residue of his
attackers come on.
This flooding of the enemy with man-
power sacrificed on the altar of battle
was apparently the means by which ill-
equipped Russians won many an engage-
ment at awful cost.
Those who hope that Japan’s leaders
will fall on their knees when the first alli-
gator runs ashore may be right. But they
are not prudent. The prudent attitude
to the Japanese war is that when it conges
near its crisis it will resolve itself into
tremendous, monotonous battles, in which
the defenders will rely on men and dis-
persed underground defence rather than
on materials, and in which they will not
be checked or held back by any con-
sideration for the lives of their forces or
those of their population.
It must be remembered, too, that this
determined Asiatic race, in nature so like
the Russians in many ways, has com-
mand, apart from its own resources in
native gun-fodder, of Manchurians, of
slaves in northern China and Korea;
some born to fight, all born to labor,
and none much in fear of death.
A few of these facts might be brought
to the notice of the careless souls at Can-
berra who believe that the war is nearly
over and that they can devote themselves
to the wrangles of peace and to the blithe
Sydney Labor politicians who are arrang-
ing victory celebrations.
In Darkest Europe.
“Ek Dum”: The first meeting of the
Allied Control Commission was held in
Berlin on June s—General5 —General Eisenhower,
Marshal Montgomery, Marshal Zhukov
and General de Tassigny. It had been
let out in London that the Russians were
expected to ask for an extension of their
zone in Germany, which would entail
the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It appeared
that ’it had been agreed at Yalta that
they should have this area, ' presumably
after they had conquered it, a task actu-
ally left to the Americans and the British.
Instead of asking for the added area,
the Kremlin announced new dispositions,
under which it would take all Mecklen-
burg in the north and extend westward
to include all Thuringia and Saxony in
the south, pushing back the American
occupation boundary 150 miles.
The results of this are interesting.
Two-thirds of Europe from the Baltic to
the Mediterranean, including Poland,
Hungary, Rumania, Czechoslovakia, Bul-
garia, most of. Austria and Yugoslavia,
with half Germany and all the Baltic
States, is virtually Russian territory,
blacked out from the world, there being
no freedom of the press.
The area of Germany which has been
taken over by the Rusisans holds only
about 1,5,000,000 of the total population
of 70,000,000. It produces the bulk of
Germany’s food. It will be a departure
if the Russians provide some of this
food to sustain the Germans in the Allied
zone.
They are at present leaving many thou-
sands of released Russian prisoners in
Norway to be fed by the hungry Nor-
wegians, part of whose territory, as well
as part of Denmark’s, they continue to
occupy with military forces.
In/ Berlin there was delay in the sign-
ing of the document which covers the
assumption of control of the Reich by
the occupying Powers, because the Rus-
sians wished to remove the word
“nationals” from a clause which brought
the “nationals” of any country at war
with any of the Allies within the ambit
of the declaration. As the clause read,
Japanese found in the Russian zone
would have been liable to be handed over
to the British, Americans or French. It
was decided to sign and leave the Rus-
sian reservation to be dealt with between
Governments.
The Russian Prisoners
Complaints from the Russians about
the slow return of Russian prisoners in
British-American zones brought a sharp
retort from the Foreign Office that the
slowness of repatriation was due to the
Russians, who had failed to send ships,
and that all Russians so far repatriated
had gone in British ships, diverted from
urgent war purposes, with the exception
of a single shipload carried in a U.S.
vessel.
Russian prisoners in the British zone
in Germany had been treated as well as
the very limited resources allowed, and
better than British prisoners rescued by
the Russians.
General Bradley, C.-in-C. of the Allied
12th Army Group, told reporters that in
France the Americans had captured
150,000 Russians fighting with the
Germans against the Allies, apart from
those captured by the British, Cana-
dians and the Poles in France and Italy.
For a nation which, we were assured
again and again, had no fifth column be-
cause of the absolute unity of its people
under the communist regime, it seems
rather a large number. Nobody seems to
have found any Britons or Americans in
German uniform.
In Vienna
On June 5 it was announced in the
Commons that a British U.S.-French mis-
sion had arrived in Vienna for prelimi-
nary discussions on the Four-Power ad-
ministration of Austria, but that it might
be some time before a control commis-
sion could be established there. When
that event took place it was hdped
that British press representatives might
be allowed into Austria.
The meeting of the Allied emissaries
in Vienna was followed by an angry out-
burst by a Soviet spokesman, reported in
some papers. He accused the British of
“trickery” in respect of the division of
Vienna, in order to obtain control of main
Vienna aerodromes. In Vienna a “People s
Government” has been “established by
the Russians without consulting their
Allies, The United States, without whose
assistance there certainly would be no
Russia today, was attacked similarly tor
its behavior in Germany:
They [U.S. emissaries] wanted to discuss
arrangements in Berlin before the United
States withdrew from territory which is
rightfully ours, but we insisted that the
Americans withdraw first. Our Government
is not pleased at the manner in which the
Americans allowed the German civilians to
'-flee in front of the Red Army. We hope
that when they withdraw they will force
the Germans to remain.
Trieste Settlement
A military agreement waS signed at
Trieste almost simultaneously with the
ratification of the Russo - Yugoslav
mutual assistance treaty. It provided f° r
the withdrawal of Marshal Tito’s forces
from disputed areas by June 12, save for
detachments of 2000 to remain under
Field-Marshal Alexander’s command —
the provisional demarcation line passes
from Trieste through Gorizia to the
Austrian border. Territorial claims are
to be left for the peace conference. Mean-
time, Marshal Tito and the world are
being told that a terrible American
Gestapo is harassing the poor Carin-
thians, who have been filched from under
the marshal’s humane protecting hand.
A lot of what is happening in Europe
is being concealed. The censorship on
all points has stiffened. The British
United Press correspondent at F.-M.
Montgomery’s H.Q. wrote at the week-
end that the news of at least one major
international development is being com-
pletely withheld from the public.
Meanwhile, in other matters Russia is
showing an attitude which bodes ill for
the future. Throughout the world com-
munists have begun a campaign against
the British colonial system, in which the
lead has been given to Moscow Radio ,
and Comrade Thornton has attacked the
White Australia policy.
The hope that Russia will join the
Allies in Asia seems no nearer being
realised. The only manifestations of
Moscow’s interest in the Asian war are
(a) an output of attacks calculated to
stir up discontent with British rule in
India, and thus interfere with the Indian
war effort, and (b) attacks on the Chiang-
Kai-shek Government in the interest of
Chinese communists,
A Communist Spy Plot
In Washington the F. 8.1. arrested two
State Department officials, a naval intel-
ligence officer and three private citizens
who were alleged to be obtaining highly-
confidential information for the Ameri-
can Communist party in six Government
departments. The private citizens arrested
included Philip Jaffe, a well-known sup-
porter of the Communist party, described
as a wealthy businessman; and-Mark
Gayn, a former employee of the Japanese
Domei Newsagency, who was arrested at
a moment when he was apparently on
the verge of flight to Japan, via India
and Russia.
Mr. Hoover, head of the F. 8.1., refused
to say to what sources outside the local
communists the information gained was
being sent, but, when pressed, admitteu
that “several Go\»ernment documents of
a highly-confidential nature were re-
covered.”


i*v
v\
*4
w
■
m
VsZ
**v
(T WON'T BE
—we hope, before you will be able to plan your
summer tour and see your own country in a big
way. But, meantime, give a thought to that
precious Masse battery. Call on your nearest
dealer for a fortnightly check-up. An occasional
re-charge may mean many extra months of
service.
‘Masse
AH I I 6 I I t
df
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
3-44
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON t CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
Every weekend on Melbourne tracks there’s a
short-priced Hurdle-Steeple double, and just
as regularly it comes undone on one “leg” or
the other. At Moonee Valley on Saturday Bay
David, one of the many of his products that
have put David in a class by himself as a sire
of jumpers, safely looked after the Hurdle part
of it. Ridden by L. Meenan, he was giving
the tearaway Night Life about 10 lengths after
they had gone a mile, but steadily made up his
ground, and beat Night Life by four lengths,
with Attorney—well backed down to sixes—
-10 lengths further back. Bay David started
at 5 to 4. A five-year-old gelding, he has now
won three times in four start's over the hurdles,
and his for the two miles stamps him
a definite Grand National -Hurdle possibility.
Meenan’s mount, Solecism, was also favorite
for the Williamstown Steeple, but failed when
driven along to try to take the lead from the-
topweight, Star Boarder, and steadily dropped
back. Victory went to John Milford, a lightly-
weighted, aged Spelthorne gelding, bought only
recently for 27£ guineas. With G. Godfrey
up, John Milford gave a nice exhibition,
to lead over the last fence, turn • for home
six lengths clear, and improve still further to
beat Star Boarder by eight lengths, with Cim-
randa, who returned a dividend of over 50
to 1, a handy third. The fact that Accelerate,
going for the lead, lost his rider at the first
fence probably affected both the way the race
was run and the result, which, altogether, did
not look a particularly striking Grand National
Steeple pointer, though Star Boarder performed
well in his attempt to lead all the way under
his 11.6.
One of the riding qualities that have put A.
Breasley at the head of the winning jockeys’
list is the patience of a Port Phillip fisherman,
and he never showed more of it than in ending
the long run of bad luck of the former Sycmey
performer Versailles in the six-furlongs Marine
Handicap. The Phaleron Bay-Du Barry four-
year-old horse’s most disheartening ill-luck cul-
minated with his losing to Drum Net on a pro-
test fit Flemington a week earlier. On that
occasion Versailles was ridden by an apprentice,
and Reperio was considered to have suffered
even worse than Drum Net in the interference
that led to the protest and a rest for the
apprentice. On Saturday Reperio and Ver-
sailles were in behind the leaders, Labrador and
Drum Net, till nearing the turn, Breasley keep-
ing his mount so close to the rails that he could
be billed for new paint. He counted on getting
an inside run, and when that duly came he
shot Versailles through and the race was all
over. Reperio, taken to the outside before
Versailles made his run, did well to finish
within a length and a half of the winner.
Audacity was a close third.
The Hellespont-Rebuked bay colt Sigeum,
ridden by the much-travelled Queensland jockey
G. Bougoure—since he set out on his travels
he has ridden in four States and been on
winners in three of them —finished too strongly
for Grand Act, Ski Wakee and the big field
of other two-year-olds in the mile Juvenile.
Lord Baden, who came from a seemingly im-
possible position to win over six furlongs on
the track a week or two earlier, was a disap-
pointing favorite. There was very good back-
ing for Mardi Gras, but interference appeared
to ruin his chance, and he finished nearly last,
this dubious honor going to, Breasley’s mount
Euxine.
One of the most solid and consistent of in-
vaders from the anchored aircraft-carrier across
Bass Strait, Night Fighter had a fine win over
Night Link (like the winner, by The Night
Patrol) and Codicil in the 10-furlongs Point
Cook Handicap, turning on a finishing run sug-
gestive of future distance wins. In Tasmania
he won at practically every distance from Si-
furlongs to H miles. Another of the very con-
sistent, Gala Chief, defeated Brace and Beau-
tara with even greater ease in the Esplanade
Welter, with the heavily-backed favorite, Chat-
field, unplaced.
* * * *
Obliged with the necessary break in a stormy
week-end, the Rosebery Club turned on seven
races at Rosehill on Saturday; and Rosehill
meetings just now should provide pointers for
near-future racing at “Headquarters,” the ten-
furlong track much more closely reproducing
Randwick conditions than does the cramped
circular running over the seven-furlong circuit
at Canterbury.
The Madagascar-Speed colt Blanmar
accounted for the six-furlongs Two-year-old for
colts and geldings, running a nicely-judged
race to beat' Don Giovanni a length, with Moon-
galba three lengths away next. Don Giovanni,
a smallish bay colt by the French sire Dark
Lover from Satea, seems to be returning to the
form he showed as runner-up to Magnificent
in the Breeders’ Plate. Moongalba (Torpedo-
Barrimoon) won a <jouple of good Q.T.C. two-
year-old events, but this was his best run so far
in Sydney, and the class of those finishing be-
hind him added little lustre to the performance.
W. Cook scored the first of a hat-trick of
wins on the Beaupartir-Newsgirl filly Belle
Femme, who beat a moderately good field of
two-year-old fillies by any distance —the judge
said eight lengths. Battalia (Agincourt-Lady
Pam) took second money—well earned by The
Maharaja of Baroda, who has in the past
scarcely received the encouragement of success
due to a man so interested in thoroughbred
breeding as to have starters in England, India
and Australia on the same day. The Mr.
Standfast-Golden S. filly Fasgold ran up to
recent fair form to take third money.
With the current crop of two-year-olds near-
ing the end of their season, many hitherto un-
raced are being produced. One of the best-
looking of these on Saturday was a burly, black
Golden Sovereign colt, Montrose.
Cook completed his treble on Magic Wand,
beating High Note and Man o’ Galway in the
nine-furlongs Trial Handicap, and Bramble, a
three-year-old by Le Grand Due from Corsage,
who beat Courier and Polar Star in a seven-
furlong handicap for maidens of that age. A
brown Pentheus gelding, Dieppe, having his
first run, turned in a sound performance, sure
to mean something at his next start in similar
company. He lead to the home turn, and then
finished fourth, well ahead of 22 others.
In the Flying it was age before Beauty past
the judge, John Halifax and Bruce Wood finish-
ing in that order to beat the four-year-old Star
Gold; but the youngsters had their turn in the
10-furlongs Rosebery Handicap, won by In-
victus from Right Royal and Brown Dragon.
The first pair were the only three-year-olds in
the race, and there was only one other starter
under six.
Salivant had a runaway five-lengths’ win in
the nine-furlongs Welter, with Bragger second,
followed by Gauntlet. Without going into
distressing details of the age of this lot, they
do form an interesting link with pre-war racing.
Plimsol staged a good run to finish fourth,
suggesting that he might score in weaker com-
pany. His prospects of finding weaker com-
pany are distinctly remote.
*, * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances).—June
Juvenile (fillies): Civic Pride, 1; Lakshmi Vallis,
2; Northern Pearl, 3. Encourage: High Ten-
sion, 1; Survivor, 2; Spearex, 3. June Nur-
sery (colts and geldings): Balmore, 1; Deed,
2; Alderman, 3. June Stakes: Vermeil, 1;
Silverelda, 2; Kingsdale, 3. Ellesmere Hand-
cap: Prince, 1; Wellesley, 2; Gauntlet, 3.
Royal Mile: Lunar, 1; Swan •River, 2;
Bragger, 3.
• * * •
On the strength of his unbeaten two-year-9ld
record, a hot Derby favorite from when betting
started, the Nearco-Rosy Legend black colt
Dante clinched the opinion of him as the best
youngster in England, and by far the best
from the North since beyond living memory,
by a two-lengths’ victory over Midas (Hyperion-
Coin of the Realm), with Court Martial (Fair
Trial-Instantaneous) a head away, and the Pre-
cipitation-Snowberry colt Chamossaire next.
Time was extraordinary—2.26 2-sths; three
seconds better than the previous best on the
track (Newmarket) and over seven seconds
better than the best for Epsom. Two-year-old
form proved similarly sound in the Oaks on
June 8, Lord Derby’s brilliant Sun Stream
(Hypefion-Drift) winning very narrowly from
Naishapur and Solar Princess. While Hyperion’s
repute as a sire could hardly be lifted higher
than it already was before Midas’s second and
Sun Stream’s win, the success of Dante must
greatly enhance the repute of Nearco, whose
stock hitherto had not been noted for getting
distance.
Also run at the week-end, in a near-quagmire
at Churchill Downs, the 71st Kentucky Derby
was won in runaway fashion by F. W. Hooper’s
Hoop Jr. (Sir Galahad 111-One Hour), from the
Calumet Farm’s Pot-o’-Luck (Chance Play-
Potheen), and Mrs. W. G. Lewis’s Darby Dieppe
(Foray 11-Le Croma). It detracts a good deal
from the result that the champion colt Pavot
(eight starts for eight wins as a two-year-old
last year and that year’s highest prizemoney-
winner $179,040) was not entered.
* * * *
One of the lesser known rules of racing was
invoked in error and in vain at a recent meet-
ing at Mowbray (Tas.). With only three
starters in a Jumper’s Flat, two passed the
post, but the third shed his rider early in the
piece. Thereupon a cross-country ridef called
on the judge to remain in his box, captured
the riderless horse, rode him over the course
and past the post, then went to weigh in and
claim third money. He was refused on the
ground that the judge had left the box and
only his assistant remained. There is a racing
rule covering the eventuality of a jockey being
unable to remain on his horse, and allowing
that the horse may then be ridden by any
person of sufficient weight and qualified accord-
ing to the conditions of the race, but this
applies specifically to hurdle races and steeple-
chases.
* * * *
A remarkable case involving a bookmaker
and an embezzling bank-teller ended at Hack-
ensack, N.J. (U.S.A.) with the jury bringing in
a finding by which the bookie was ordered to
hand over $18,831, the amount missing from
the bank. The sum had been paid to the bank
by an insuring company, which brought the
action against the bookie on the strength of the
teller’s admissions in the preceding embezzle-
ment case. Declaring intention to appeal, the
bookie’s attorney said that if the verdict were
allowed to stand it would be possible for a
grocer owed $lO by a customer to sue a book-
maker if he could show that the customer had
lost that amount to the bookie.
f $ $ *
“Lumby”: For the second “Victory”
Test on June 23 England is to be re-
inforced by Maurice Leyland, of York-
shire, now just on 45 ; G. H. Pope, the
Derbyshire all-rounder; and W. R.
Roberts, of Lancashire. Leyland visited
Australia in 1928-29, 1932-33 and 1936-
37 ; and on the latter trip scored 126 in
the first Test at Brisbane and 111 not
out in the third Test at Melbourne. Pope
scored 1242 runs and took 87 wickets
in 1937 ; 903 runs, 91 wickets in 1938 ;
1397 runs, 78 wickets in 1939. He was
in the English XI v. Australian XI at
Folkestone in 1938, but was belted for
2 for 101 and 0 for 64. Roberts has been
doing well in Second Counties cricket.
His 6 for 21 v. West Indies recently im-
pressed the selectors.
* * * *
Cricketers still active and effective can’t
often have the experience that has come
to Clarrie Grimmett. His only son, Victor
Clarence, has just gained the D.F.C.,
at 21.
* * * *
About the only match in the V.F.L.
programme on Saturday that promised
well was the Footscray-Essendon affair
at Footscray, the teams being old rivals
and generally regarded as about even
quality. But ’Scray, with speed and
cleverness, ran all over the Dons to a
12.15-7.14 win. All the other games fin-
ished as expected: South Melbourne
beat Melbourne, 12.16-9.4; Richmond
beat St. Kilda, 16.15-13.6; North Mel-
bourne beat Hawthorn, 16.10-10.8 ; Carl-
ton beat Geelong, 14.21-10.9 ; and Fitz-
roy beat Collingwood, 23.15-8.10.
Only four teams —South and North
Melbourne, Footscray and Richmond—
are showing consistent form in the V.F.L.
competition, and they are the four
leaders. Melbourne, once a power in
the land, seems unable to hold a team
together, and that goes for the rest. At
this early stage nothing seems likely to
undo the present four, though Essendon
or Collingwood might shove up a vic-
tory on a day when two of the leaders
meet. The game generally isn’t up to
high standard —stab kicking seems a lost
art, the play-the-ball rule ties up every-
body but the know-all barracker, and
most of the kicking is on the blind.
* * * *
Randwick remains the unbeaten Rugby
Union team. On Saturday the ’Wick
backs and forwards rose to the occasion
magnificently to lead all through and
rout their formidable University chal-
lengers 20-13. Uni. made a late burst
to make up the leeway, but the ’Wick
defence held. The match was played on
the bleak oval at Coogee, shelterless ex-
cept for a small stand. Sydney C.G.
should have been the venue, but that
historic ground, dedicated to amateur
sport, was given over to a City-Country
professional infliction so one-sided that
for once there was very little betting.
Though beaten for the ball in the scrums
Parramatta’s virile forwards prevailed in
the lineouts and the loose to give their
side a 9-6 victory over Drummoyne.
Gordon showed improved backline com-
bination to snatch a 19-18 win from
Manly. North, steadily improving, battled
grimly in the mud to narrowly beat West
5-3, Down 10-9 with minutes to go, East
staged a scoring burst that gave it six
points and success over St. George 15-10.
Randwick is four points ahead of Uni.,
with East, Parramatta and Drummoyne
next in that order.
* * * *
“M.C.”: Going on letters he has had
from overseas, British Empire Games
(Australian Division) chairman E. S.
Marks expects that the next Olympic
Games will be held in London, most
likely not till 1952. Some time before
then British Empire Games will be held
in Montreal, Canada. Switzerland and
the U.S.A. are having claims advanced as
settings for the Olympic gathering, but
wherever it takes place there will be a
complete remodelling to make it a big
amateur sporting festival, without the
sort of propaganda and other trappings
that went with the last one at Berlin.
Last year being the 50th anniversary of
the committee which instituted the
modern Olympic Games, there was a
three-day festival in commemoration at
Lausanne (Switzerland).
* * * *
Sid Knight developed such an offensive
against Danny Simmons at Leichhardt
that liberal odds were offered against that
fedder by sports with a contempt for the
betting laws. But from the fourth round
on it was Danny’s fight, and, flooring
Knight for seven seconds in the twelfth,
he won a well-received decision. Clem
Sands scored another quick knockout
w’hen he met Alf Hylands in what was
billed as another 12-rounder. Hylands
was down just before the first round
ended, and the first punch in the seojd
round knocked him kicking.
Hard put to it to outpoint George
Cook at the Sydney Stadium on May 12,
Jacky Kirkham had a much less diffi-
cult task in the return match. In the
fifth rosnd Cook emerged from a fierce
rally with his left eyebrow cut and
swollen. Afterwards the Melbourne
middleweight was the master, and after
being knocked for “three” in the eighth
Cook was so hopelessly beaten that
referee Joe Wallis then called a halt.
Henry Bowers stopped Jack Simmons
in the ninth round of the supporting bout.
The pair are heavyweights.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Last Wednesday the Wakehursts left
Sydney. They set off by ’plane from
Kingsford Smith aerodrome —the Gov-
ernor, Lady Wakehurst, the Hon. Hen-
rietta and Peter Lubbock. Behind them
the Governor and his wife left three
young sons. One, the Hon. Chris-
topher Loder, is a sub-lieutenant in
the R.A.N., the Hon. Robert will
soon follow his parents, but the Hon.
David has returned to Geelong Grammar,
where he will remain until the end of the
year. At the airport there were more
farewells. From Admiralty House
came Viscountess Clive and Brigadier
Schreiber. The Brigadier handed a final
farewell ihessage from the Duke of
Gloucester to Lord Wakehurst. Lieut.-
Governor Frederick Jordan and his wife
and Parliamentary importants were there
for a last good-bye ; so were the L. A.
Robbs and a little group of the press, who
felt they, too, were seeing off friends..
Chief Justice Frederick Jordan was
sworn in as acting-Governor of the State
last week. His' term of office will last
till the arrival of this State’s new
Governor. The Jordan lady, always a
great worker in charity and patriotic
causes, will now have still more calls on
her time. Her private secretary will be
Sheila Collett, who has been Lady Wake-
hurst’s private secretary for the last 12
months.
Last Thursday afternoon the vestibule
of the Town Hall was snug with the
warmth of radiators and bright with the
glow of poinsettia. The musicale for
the benefit of the Mayoress’s Relief
Fund was on. There was a whopping
Steinway concert grand to make the
singers and pianist Frank Hutchens feel
inspired, and there wasn’t an empty chair.
Mrs. Hope Gibson had arranged the
programme, and the atmosphere would
have done credit to a chamber concert
of the Medicis. Tenor Stanley Clarkson
opened and closed proceedings in fine
melodic style. Frank Hutchens played
Chopin, Debussy and Frank Hutchens
compositions. Fair - haired Lily Kolos
sang arias from “Butterfly” and
“Manon.” Margaret Dreyer, who has
been for some years in South Africa,
sang songs by Michael Head and Albert
Mallinson, with whom she had studied
in London. Margaret, who is a Sydney
girl, will shortly return to Capetown.
After Mayoress Neville. Harding had
thanked all concerned the doors between
the foyer and the Town Hall were
opened, and under the gallery just inside
the door long tables, strewn lushly with
pink camellias, were set for tea. The
Butters and Alexander Gordon ladies,
Mrs. Salenger, Mrs. Arthur Scrivener,
Mrs. George Parkes and other former
mayoresses, Mrs. Keith Morris, Mrs.
Victor White, Mrs. Maurice Gulson,
Mrs. Harold Bott, Mrs. Twigden, Mrs.
Persia Porter, Mrs. Grace, Mrs. Wunder-
lich, Mrs. Farley and Mrs. Denmark
were a few of Sydney’s well-known
music-lovers gathered together.
Outstanding feature of Gracie Fields is
her forehead. It is of an imposing height,
behind which the highest aspidistra in the
world might appear a dwarf plant. She
is fair-haired, has a slim, graceful figure,
the neatest of ankles. Her eyes sparkle
as she talks, which she does incessantly
once she gets going. She is irrepressible.
At the press reception last Monday morn-
ing, when E. J. Tait and Miss Stewart
were explaining the star and her tour,
she would cut across their sentences with
remarks pithy and neat.
The Gloucester room of the Australia
was crowded. It seemed as if every man
and woman connected with the press had
squeezed in. Members of the Australia
staff mingled with the throng. Gracie
declared that every song she sang was
her favorite while she was singing it. She
added that at American camps or hos-
pitals she had always by request to finish
with the Lord’s Prayer, while with British
boys Schubert’s “Ave Maria” was asked
for, as it was when she toured Lancashire
factories recently—“ ‘Ave Maria’ to the
whirr of the machines,” in her own
words.
She told how her husband, every once
in a while, when he was more than
usually pleased with her, gave her some
trinket, such as the one on the lapel of
her tweed suit. Then Gracie set about
the work of autographing cards, pieces
of paper and so on with complete im-
partiality. General - Manager Harald
Bowden helped the interview along by
mixing the human ingredients. All
the columnists were there: music man
A. L. Kelly, Jesse Collings and W. A.
O’Carroll among them. Max Afford and
his wife were specially introduced to Miss
Fields. Melbournite Dorothy Stewart,
J.C.W. representative in the U.S., has
brought the Elysian Fields to Australia.
The lift up to Mayoress Harding’s
rooms worked non-stop last Thursday
morning about eleven o’clock. Women
were crowding to a meeting called by
Mrs, Harding in the interests of the War
Veterans’ Fund. The idea was the form-
ing of a women’s auxiliary for the
W.V.A., which aims at enlarging the
home at Narrabeen, providing an up-to-
date hospital block at the home, together
with suitable accommodation for ex-
servicewomen, and establishing a com-
munity settlement for the old soldier and
his wife who are faced with lonely separa-
tion in old-age institutions. There was
immediate and warm response. Already
a series of money-raising ideas is being
discussed. The Roland Fosters have
promised to organise a Town Hall con-
cert in the cause.
When Gracie Fields goes to heaven she
won’t have her special and glittering halo
very long. True to her nature Gracie
will hover round the gate and pass it
quietly to some poor wretch shivering
at the portals because he’s about to be
turned away since the angels can’t find
one with his name on it. For Gracie
Fields just can’t help giving. And when
she gives she does it in the grand
manner. To Australia she comes with
gifts—the gift of her own warm per-
sonality and great talents. And not a
penny piece from all the concerts she
gives will go into her own pocket. Grade
is handing over all her takings to war
charities. J. and N. Tait, under whose
management the star is touring, decline
to make anything out of the tour either.
They have decided to give all their profits
to war charities. Such wholesale genero-
sity makes theatrical history.
Sydney is ringing with Gracie Fields
stories. But her own account of her
presentation at Court is as pretty as any:
Now I was going to see the King, and there
I was all dressed up, and going, to be a lady
under my married name, thinking no one would
recognise me under all the fine clothes and
strange name. But no sooner did I get near to
having my turn than the band outside the
audience chamber began playing my own music,
and I knew I wouldn’t get away with much.
One of the ladies ahead of me was much
admired, and to be sure she made a fine in-
tricate curtsey. But I thought I could do as
pretty. When it came time I walked up to the
King, and felt my petticoat slipping. I’d pinned
it up instead of sewing it, and I was sure I’d
trip. Then he looked up, and I saw that for
all my fancy name the King knew who I was,
and fun was glinting in his eyes, and I felt
he was just dying to see me stumble. But I
didn’t.
Grade arrived in Sydney on Saturday
evening by ’plane. She and her hus-
band Monty Banks had come from Bris-
bane. Inoculations had made one of her
arms very sore and aching, so it was a
light supper of milk for Gracie (that’s
her strongest drink) and bed. Sunday was
quiet, but Monday morning brought a
press reception in the Gloucester room
of the Australia, and late on Monday
afternoon the star beamed brightly at a
Town Hall reception given by Sydney’s
Mayor and Mayoress.
The legal expenses incurred by Sydney
artists Mary Edwards and Joseph Wolin-
ski in the case that erupted out of the
Dobell portrait of Joshua Smith may
be a few hundred guineas the lighter for
the exhibition now on view in Paling’s.
Yes, Paling’s, the State’s old-established
music firm, has now added an art gallery
to its cultural activities.
The opening was spirited and animated.
Members of almost every woman’s club
were there singly or in groups: the
Lyceum Club (president Mrs. J. Metcalfe
and vice-president Mrs. A. G. Thomas
together), Dolly Hollander Moore, Miss
Latimer and others of the Josef Kretsch-
man Club were in the throng.
The gallery and its first show of Aus-
tralian pictures were opened by the Halse
Rogers lady in a witty speech one after-
noon last week. In a very short time
nearly two hundred guineas’ worth of
art had been snapped up. Down in Mel-
bourne an exhibition for the same cause
is being talked oyer.
There were Forum, Macquarie and
Overseas club members. In short, it was
quite a social do, with the Henry Braddon
lady, who is president of the committee,
one of the attractive-looking. Her small
flat hat of kingfisher blue didn’t even try
to look useful. Mary Edwards and Joe
Wolinski were present in person, and
in pictures on the wall. Joshua Smith’s
father was there with Mary Gilmore.
Dora Toovey, one of the workers in the
cause, wore a lobelia-blue frock. The
wife of artist S. Goddard is secretary of
the show, which will continue till tue 19th.
Sydney Long’s painting, “The Old Bar-
racks,” was much gazed on. It is a gift
to Lady Wakehurst from the Australian
Art Fund, and as it was donated by the
artist the 75 guineas goes smack into the
general till; The picture will be on view
throughout the exhibition, and will then
be sent on to England. Another canvas
that catches the eye is a landscape of
Syria, practically head-line news.
Lieut.-Colonel Lance Fairfax, of
“Desert Song” renown, was joyfully wel-
comed by his family last week after five
years’ separation. Lance has recently
been busy arranging E.N.S.A. concert
parties on the Burma front, and before
that was concerned with E.N.S.A. enter-
tainment units in almost every British
war zone. A few weeks with his family
and then he must go back to the land
where Kipling declared “The temple bells
are calling.”
Mrs. Lagos Steiner (wife of the N.S.W.
chess champion and herself, as Edna
Kingston, six times N.S.W. woman cham-
pion) just failed in the last stages to estab-
lish a double unique in world chess his-
tory by winning the N.S.W. major chess
tourney, an event only next in import-
ance to the championship. It was another
woman who was her undoing, Mrs. Redies
holding her to a draw, which left H. Fal-
coner winner with seven points, Mrs.
Steiner being second with
Every spare shilling should spring
smartly in “Salute to Valor.” That’s the
compelling title of the A.C.F. Art Union
launched last week. It was launched on
the anniversary of D-day, and its aim is
£240,000, to be spent in the cause of
servicemen and servicewomen. First prize
is a sack of gold worth £20,000. Tickets,
are one shilling each ; a book of 24 costs
one pound.
From Melbourne
If the Duke of Gloucester at any time
wants reliable information about the
birds, beasts and flora of this country
very interestingly presented he won’t
have to go further than his own staff
now that Alec Chisholm, F.R.Z.S., is his
press liaison officer. Chisholm, a keen
observer and a sensitive Nature-lover,
was the first winner of the Australian
Natural History Medallion, has been hon.
lecturer on his subject to State schools
in various parts of Australia, is president
of the Field Naturalists’ Club of Vic-
toria and a Corresponding Fellow of the
Zoological Society of London. His books
range from one end of this continent to
the other.
A civic reception was given by Mel-
bourne’s Lud Mayor, to Captain Wil-
liam J. Kerr, who was captain of
the Leander in the technicolor film
“Western Approaches.” He stood on
a mock deck of his ship in a London
studio for two days while dressers sprayed
him with soapsuds to represent sea-spray.
The gallant tar, who is a merchant sea-
man on the India run, then had the morti-
fication of hearing that his courage and
devotion were all wasted because the
director didn’t like the effect and cut the
sequence.
When a portrait of Dr. Thomas Cherry
was presented to his school at Melbourne
University two years ago some members
asked “Who is Dr. Cherry?” although the
marvellous old man had been turning
up to carry on his work on cancer at his
laboratory at the veterinary school come
wind, come rain, daily for the previous
25 years and on other scientific subjects
for decades before that. Dr. Cherry was
the pure research worker. Many years
ago, as an agricultural scientist, he ex-
plored the white streak in butter which
was preventing export, and his discoveries
saved millions for Australia. He was
the first scientist in Australia to conduct
research into the then recently-discovered
bacilli of t.b. and diptheria, and the first
to study Widal’s reaction in typhoid.
Daryl Lindsay, unlike his brothers,
took to art late. Enlisting in 1915, he
served with the A.I.F. in France and was
commissioned. In 1919 he was intro-
duced to the proprietor of a gallery in
Melbourne as the youngest member of
the famous family. “Oh, so you’re an
artist,” said the art director. “I’m a
farmer,” said Daryl, “but I have a few
black-and-white sketches I made as a
soldier. Like to see them?” The dealer
said he would, liked them, opened an
exhibition and was sold out by lunch-
time. The farmer has gone some con-
siderable distance since then.
F, H. Gaunson, Australian lay-presi-
dent of the C. of E. Men’s Society and
sub-editor of the society’s monthly jour-
nal, has the rare distinction of appoint-
ment as a lay-canon of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne. A dentist, he
holds a lectureship in the Melb. Dental
School, from which he graduated.
The bell has tolled in Melbourne for
William Lynch, last of the Lynch Family
Bellringers. Henry Lynch, the father, and
his four sons, Harry, Robert, George and
William, started their sweet tintinnabula-
tions in 1867, and members of the
family of both sexes rang their bells
through Australia, Maoriland, U.S. and
Great Britain until 1931, when Henry
retired. William managed the show until
the outbreak of this war.
There will be an exodus of Rhodes
Scholars from Victoria after the war.
J. H. Chinner (1939) will leave when, as
Lieut.-Colonel Chinner, he gets his release
from the army. A son of the head of
Victoria’s “Hansard” staff, he was in the
Forests Department. Alan Treloar
(1940) son of the Director of the Aus-
tralian War Memorial at Canberra, was
a captain in the A.I.F. until he was re-
leased in 1943 to an appointment in the
Diplomatic Corps. Zelman Cowen
(1941) was a lieutenant in the R.A.N.V.R.
until this year. He was winner of the
Dwight Prize in History and Political
Science and the Wyselaskie Scholarship.
All have since married, but under a
special war-time dispensation the rule
that requires scholars to be unmarried
will be waived. Chinner’s wife is a
daughter of Premier Dunstan, Treloar’s
is a fellow diplomatic cadet who won the
Masefield Prize for poetry, and Cowen s
is a final year Arts student who goes with
him to Oxford.
Dead at Largs Bay (S.A.), Linda Wald,
a leading concert soprano for the past 20
years, and one-time winner of the Elder
Scholarship. She was one of the first to
be heard over radio in S.A.
One of the most kindly services the
U.S.A. Congress extends to blind citizens
of the Republic is that of the “talking
book.” This is really a supply of gramo-
phone records of books of yesterday, to-
day and tomorrow. The literature is
very up to date, and Congress makes pro-
vision for it. In England the private
/philanthropist has felt the responsibility,
and is making his thousands help the
sightless man and woman to wider hori-
zons. Lord Nuffield is a very generous
donor in this respect. Australia has this
service, but in a limited way, because,
expansion is hampered by insuffi-
cient funds. Great actors (Leslie Howard
was among them) and radio stars are
proud to be among the readers. Each
record takes about 50 minutes to run off,
and the listeners, except the very sick
ones, become adept in turning them over
for themselves.
A recent mail brought news of an
Australian writer who has hit the bull’s-
eye in America. She is Constance Julian,
and her new book Shadows over English
Literature promises to be provocative.
Constance is a granddaughter of Mel-
bourne pioneer John Tankard, Among
contributions to Australian and Maori-
land papers is a novel published in serial
form in Brisbane. This is said to be
based on her experiences in Sydney’s
Bohemia.
At Sadler’s Wells Australia’s Robert
Helpmann made ballet history. He
produced and took the tragic lead-
ing part in “Miracle in the Gor-
bals.” The theme is the return of
Christ—in the slums of Glasgow. Robert
Helpmann was responsible for the choreo-
graphy, which is starkly realistic, tragi-
cally arresting. The “Sunday Chronicle”
described this ballet as “a symphony of
movement, unforgettable, touched with
a grim beauty.” Christ is shown as a lad
working in a shipyard in Glasgow. The
slum crowds are fervid in the miracle
scene, ferociously animated when they
slash the young Christ to death with razor
blades. The story, by Michael Bentfiall,
is, according to all reports, perfectly in-
terpreted by Robert Helpmann’s move-
ment.


AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
r
f
Ip pi
feUiy
\
V
. . . into the ways of Peace,
you will be able to refit with
Olympic. Meanwhile
SAVE RUBBER !
IOLYMPiC
RUBBER
w
INSULATED
CABLES
Olympic TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD*
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA j
WHY NO SUGAR 9
in Victoria
Direct Action v. the Law.
C.S.R. Replies to Minister ...
The General Manager of the C.S.R.
makes the following statement:
The unprovoked attack on the Com-
pany made by the Minister for Labour,
Mr. Holloway, in Parliament recently,
was not conducive to getting sugar sup-
plies to those deprived of this, commodity
in Victoria.
Resumption of production at Mel-
bourne Refinery and the regular supply
of refined sugar to the public is the
natural desire and objective of this Com-
pany, but the Minister’s attack encourages
those employees who were responsible for
the hold-up of supplies, and who are dis-
regarding the industrial law of the land.
The Minister could have used his per-
suasive and, if necessary, other powers
to get the men back to work, instead of
encouraging them by making political
threats, which he attempted to support
by an irresponsible distortion of the facts
and by accusations under the protection
of the privilege of Parliament.
The hold-up of sugar supplies in Vic-
toria has been caused by persistent
strikes and “go-slow” tactics by employees
adopting Direct Action as opposed to
Arbitration.
The issue in this dispute is of grave import-
ance to all Australians, it is this:—
The C.S.R. is adhering to the principle of
Arbitration and is supporting the observance
of the Rule of Law.
WHILST
The employees are disregarding the orders
and refusing to abide by the Awards of the
Industrial tribunals.
Some of the Minister’s distortions call
for special comment. The Distorted
Facts and the Truth are set out below:
1. DISTORTED FACT: For some time
C.S.R. employees without stoppages had been
trying to obtain better working conditions..
TRUTH: For 30 years Melbourne Refinery
was free of industrial strife until October,
1944, since when there have been nine stop-
pages Or refusals of duty. In the present
dispute a section of the men claim waterside
workers’ rates for work which is neither
casual nor waterside.
2 ACCUSATION: The Company had been
rather careless of public interests.
TRUTH: This unsubstantiated and purely
political charge never was true and never will
be true.
3. ACCUSATION AND DISTORTED FACT:
If the C.S.R. intended to harass the public
and its employees and refused to stand by the
decision of the Court it might be necessary
for the Government to consider some other
forms of control.
TRUTH: The Company has not harassed
the public nor its employees and will not start
now. It is the men and the Union who are
refusing to stand by the decisions of the
Court and appropriate industrial tribunals ana
thus are harassing the public.
4. DISTORTED FACT: The policy of the
Company had been to maintain minimum
stocks and the slightest hitch always caused
a shortage in Victoria.
TRUTH: This has never been the Com-
pany’s policy. It is obviously absurd because
contrary to our own interests. Prior to the
stoppages we were unable to establish stocks
at the maximum desirable level because we
were not given the necessary man-power by-
Mr. Holloway’s Department, despite repeated
applications. Nevertheless, the strikes and
“go-slow” experienced would have caused
serious shortages irrespective of any stocks
that could have been built up; moreover, a
there had been no stoppages or “go-slow
Victoria would not have experienced shortage.
This statement is published by the
Company so that you will know the true
facts of the position.
It is good to learn, according to press
reports, that the Minister, now apparently
appreciating the true position, has urged
the men to return to work.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. f LTD .
SMOKE-OH!
“Lady, over 45, very light work, no kneeling.”
— ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
The employer will do that to get her
to stay on.
•p 'l* *3- *l'
“New and smoky fireplaces built.”
—Suburban paper advt.
Truth in advertising?
“Twenty-five per cent, of the world’s people
will not eat pork.”— ‘‘World’s News.”
Yet they always seem to bring home
the bacon.
“Learn make Men’s underpants protected
undertaking.”— “Great Northern:”
And the surroundings are bracing.
•I* •h 4*
Funny how a dream-girl can sometimes
make marriage a nightmare.
Easy!
“Bill O’Grady soon realised it was a letter
from a woman.” — Woman’s paper serial.
And how did this O’Grady know the
screed was from a lady? It was, he says,
too patent to confuse. Simply that it took
nine pages to explain, in halting stages,
that there wasn’t, no, there wasn’t any
news.
Yair.
“She would get new dresses, new swim suits,
new everything. She would have a glorious
bust.” — “Woman's World.”
Well, the swim suits and dresses would
look better on her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Roger had not seen the girl for months, but
now was delighted to find her looking so much
better.” — Story.
She had improved out of sight.
•J. •!* 4*
“Lost, panel van, going Mona Vale, noon
Sat. — “S. M.' Herald."
It probably took a wrong turning.
•i* 4* 4* 4*
Here Endeth. ...
“An A.L.P. spokesman, replying to an
Anglican statement that ‘the transaction in
Station 2HD stinks to high heaven,’ protests that
a condition of the sale to ‘Labor interests
was that ‘facilities should be given to church
organisations for free time on the air.
“This is 2HD Noocastle. Yer just
been lis’nen to Percy Pansey an’ his band
playin’ ‘The Barrelhouse Breakdown.’
Now. although the Anglicans are a bit
huffy with us over a little matter o’ the
way we come to get the station, we aren t
narrer-minded, so we’re goin’ to give this
religious gyvo some free time, irrespective.
“Before we give the weights an’ probable
riders for Canterbury Saturday an’ let
Ernie Dudpicker say his little piece about
prospects, I’ve an announcement to make.
The basis of Canon Goodfellow’s sermon
at St. Juke’s Sunday mornin’ will be the
parable o’ the Good Samaritan an the
Publican. An’, speakin’ o’ publicans, don’t
ferget that when you line up at the Bottle
an’ Glass fer yer schooner at knock-
off time you can be sure y’ get
full value in yer schooner. Mick Branni-
gan, the genial proprietor, sticks to his
motter: ‘No high collars—not even neck-
bands!’ Don’t ferget there’s plenty o’
beer always available at the Bottle an’
Glass. An’ remember, Mick flatly refuses
to serve a non-unionist.
(Ding, Dong, Ding). “Tomorrer night
at 8.15 on this station Joe Bung will give
an inter’sting talk entitled ‘Why Our
Workers Can Learn Everythink From the
U.S.S.R.’ Joe, who had a distinguished
career as a shop steward in a pickle fac-
tory, leading six unsuccessful strikes in five
weeks, is'well qualified to talk on his
subject, havin’ once spent two weeks in
Moscow as the guest o’ the Comintern.
The Comintern, o’ course, is now dead —
or is it? —ha! ha!
“Now what does death suggest but
burial? Have you thought who you
would get to plant yer Uncle Ben if he
should suddenly conk? Remember that
Be; ter Biers, Ltd., the modern morticians,
have the widest range of silver-handled
coffins in the Southern Hemisphere.
Don’t ferget, Better Biers, Ltd., make no
extra charge for o.s. clients, an’, more-
over, they loyally refuse to handle the
bodies of non-unionists. Now here is
Artie Shaw an’ his band playin’ in Cana-
dian three-step time for those who also
like to hoof it the working-class hymn
‘Lead, Kindly Light,’ singin’ by Kate
Smith and the Coconut Grove Cuties
“Before commencin’ the lesson fer
today, which will be from Isaiah, we wish
to remind lis’ners who are goin’ to the
big Rugby League match today not to
forget their bettors’ cards. For con-
venience o’ those who goes to the orses
or dogs, the name o’ the first try-getter is
always specially mentioned in the Sunday
papers. If it Isn’t in the racin’ it’ll be
under the astrology column.
(Ding, Dong, Ding). “Yer’ve just heard
the readin’ from Isaiah, Chap 46, 6.
‘They lavish gold out of the bag, and
weigh silver in the balance, and hire a
goldsmith; an' he make* it a god: they
fall down, yea, they worship.’ Well, there
do”
ring an’hTcan always be found at the
old stand. An’ don’t ferget, the popular
Norm will take any bet from the office
boy’s humble bob to a nodded ‘pony.’
An’ another thing-Norm, a loyal sup-
porter of workin’-class solidarity, never
bets with non-unionists....
mimr Done Dine) “On Sunday
mornirf' therelf' bea special missionary
rp - . ci. crvitViins tr> cnnnlv more
mcfdesf X the Flf River
natives. What the boongs do with their
cast-off clothing we don’t know. But we
do know that the old-established firm of
Mr. and Mrs. Woof (the purple-fronted
shop in Orange-street) will pay top prices
for your second-hand wardrobe. If you
have anything, from a pair of sox that
need re-treading to a suit of ‘tails,’ bring
it along to Woofs’. Even if yer old bowler
hat has the same deep green tint as forest
verdure it may still be sellable. Mr. and
Mrs. Woof will only purchase, of course,
from individuals who are financial on
the union books.
“Now an important announcement be-
fore we close down, lis’ners. On Monday
night the fight o’ the year will be on be-
tween ‘Plugger’ Moron (9.7) and Stepper
Dullard (9.5 i). The bleachers are sure
to be packed. Be certain you’re among
’em, as these classy lads slug it out toe-
to-toe. No non-unionist admitted. Amen.
“This station will close down after sing-
ing hymn No. 261.”
80.
Fidelity.
“Only four per cent, of men tried to kill
themselves because of love affairs, according to
a survey by the Metropolitan. Life Insurance
Company.”
So I was possibly the goat —
I thought you only meant to kid me
The time we quarrelled and you bid me
In biting tones: “Aw, cut your throat!”
Well even now, if you precede me
Into the shades. I’ll take a dose
Of something quick, and follow close
No matter where your ghost may lead
me.
And this is not because I hate
The thought of living desolate
Without your loving arms about me.
Too many handsome devils dwell
(/ should imagine ) down in hell
For me to trust you there without me.
P. M. LUSK.
Natural Enough.
“Professor still liked dachshunds.”
—‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
The students in his class agree
His lectures were a guarantee
Of headaches. That was true
Whether he spoke of frogs or wogs.
So, when his lectures were on dogs.
He liked THEM lengthy, too.
O'HELL.
Cycle.
What time the stomach, seething in
revolt.
Hurls back the fiery insults it has taken.
How sweet to fall asleep—and not to
waken
At 3 a.m. and call oneself a dolt.
HoW sweet if only one could ease the pain
By saying “It is just a passing sorrow ;
No doubt I will be well enough to-
morrow
To make myself a cot-case once again!”
T. W. NATHAN.
Resignation.
Whether it he too little or too much
That makes me feel unwell, ’twere hard
to say.
However, my predicament is such
That something must be done without
delay.
So, if it be too little, it would seem
That I must straightway pour the festive
cup;
But if too much, I fear there is no gleam
Of hope for me : 1 still will fill them up. l
NAT.


Public Notice.
I, JOHANN BAPTIST SCHOMBACHER, of German
nationality, bom at Gaimersheim, Bavaria, and
resident 13 vears in Australia, now residing at
A.W.C. Men’s Hostel, Alice Springs, N.T., intend .to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Level Crossings
Among all the schemes for railway im-
provement I have yet to read of a plan to
erect overhead bridges at all railway level
crossings in Australia.
For the last 90 years there has been a
never-ending series of level-crossing
smashes. Lives have been lost, property
has been destroyed, and after each acci-
dent the Railway Department has been
involved in costly litigation. Some acci-
dents have been on a major scale, causing
death and injury to a score of people.
The only way to eliminate these
tragedies is to erect overhead bridges. The
construction of bridges has been revolu
tionised in this war. Simple types can be
pre-fabricated in factories and erected
with a minimum of labor. Now is the
time for railway engineers to concentrate
on this problem, to study army methods
of bridge-building and to prepare blue-
prints to make our Australian railways
safe for the people who have to cross
them. — Wm. M. (R ? ,A.N.).
Houses for Soldiers
According to some Canberra authority
250.000 homes are required in Australia
How are they going to be built?
Most carpenters and bricklayers be-
tween the ages of 20 and 40 have speni
up to five years in the army and wil
require time to become efficient again
During the war no building of note, ex-
cept for defence purposes, has been
erected; consequently the growth of
apprentices into tradesrhen has been
almost nil.
Then there is the matter of timber. The
prices of all scantlings have rocketed out
of reach. Wages have increased. The
prices of trucks, tractors, spare parts
petrol, tyres, in fact, everything neces-
sary to obtain building materials have
advanced out of all reason.
But soldiers are only on 6s. 6d. a day,
plus deferred pay, and taxation has re-
duced the standard of living of moat
civilians. Who, then, can buy houses
built out of high-priced bricks and timber
and placed on land also enhanced in
value? The answer is, only those who
have profited by the war. Certainly the
ordinary serviceman can’t —and there are
800.000 of them, many of whom married
and hoped to begin life by settling in
their own home.
No! Housing for the soldiers on any
big scale is not practicable. Not because
the Government won’t Want to build
houses, but because servicemen won’t be
able to pay for them! Gartmore
(A.1.F.).
A.I.F. Equipment
Let me tell “1940 Sucker” (B.
23/5/’45) that at no stage did I imply
that the Tommy gun was superior* to the
Owen. What I did say was that Senator
Fraser would be surprised if he weighed
them (in view of his statement that the
Owen was much lighter). I did imply,
however, that the Yanks realised in 1943
the disadvantages of the awkward and
cumbersome Tommy, so sought some-
thing lighter and simpler and generally
more suitable for’the tropics.
With his basis wrong, “1940 S.” pro-
ceeds to condemn the carbine by a most
unfair comparison with the best indi-
vidual points of two other weapons! It
would be just as illogical for me to con-
demn our 25-pounder because it lacks
the range of a Long Tom and the rate
of fire of a Bofors.
With regard to’ fancy prices paid by
the Yanks for other weapons, “1940 S.”
surely knows their enthusiasm for
souvenir collecting ; they would pay £lO
for a Jap rifle and £lOO for a sword.
Does “1940 S.” seriously suggest that the
Yanks bought these weapons for use in
fighting? Further, in buying our wea-
pons for use they would have difficulty
in obtaining ammo, unless they loaded
themselves up at time of purchase.
I reiterate that it was my impression
that the Yanks had us whipped in prac-
tically every article of smaller and more
frequently-used equipment. —J. G.
Gunner (N.S.W.).
Preference to Aliens
In St. Kilda (Vic.) last, month 32 new
businesses were opened by aliens, includ-
ing two by former inmates of a Goulburn
Valley camp. Not one permit was granted
to a returned soldier.
In 1940 a large number of these aliens
were rounded up in England and deported
here, to be interned at the expense of
the British Government. At the termina-
tion of hostilities in Europe they were to
be shipped back. Many of them have
since been released. Some went into
labor corps wearing Australian uniforms ;
others were allowed to re-open businesses
closed by our men called into the ser-
vices.
There are aliens who can be seen round
the suburbs of Melbourne hawking suit-
lengths, etc., at black-market prices. They
are allowed to wear a badge of service,
are insolent and are an insult to our men
overseas. The most serious aspect is
the facility with which such aliens can
acquire businesses ex-servicemen,
notwithstanding financial assistance from
the Repatriation Department, are for-
bidden to take the first step toward re-
habilitation because of Man-power regu-
lations.
In disgust our men are compelled to
take jobs of the pick-and-shovel type. I
know of an ex-R.A.A.F. man, in civil life
a commercial traveller, who has been
tramping Melbourne for weeks looking
for a job. The only position offered
him by the Rehabilitation Commis-
sion was canvassing for weighing
scales on commission ; no salary. An-
other case I know of is that of an ex-
A.I.F. man, previously a clerk. The only
position offered to him was as a casual
gardener for three days a week.
We vowed after the 1914-18 war and
at the commencement of this war that
“ Definitely, not even HALF a pig below the ceiling price for her!”
these things should not be allowed to
happen; but the apathy and hostility
shown to returned soldiers by a certain
section of the community is appalling.
I suggest that the position would be
eased if the Government sent aliens
back to the countries where they belong.
—R. Dodd (ex- 17th Batt, A.1.F.).
Retain A.B.C.
Though formerly I was a commercial
broadcaster, I say that abolition of the
A.B.C. as proposed by “Central West”
(B. 30/ 5/ ’45) would be a retrograde step.
Musical tastes are irreconcilable. It is
impossible to select a programme accept-
able to lovers of Beethoven and Irving
Berlin, Toscanini and Tex Morton. The
much-advocated “middle-brow” com-
promise fails to give people what they
want, and succeeds merely in not giving
them what various sections specifically do
not want. The average man, it must be
remembered, “probably doesn’t exist,”
and a system giving the individual the
widest choice is to be commended.
Not only does the A.B.C. maintain
good orchestras in the capital cities but
it brings great artists to these shores.
Also, it provides the freelance writer
with a good market for single plays,
stories, talks and documentaries.
Commercial radio is governed by the
principle that a “session” is owned by its
sponsor and must be continued as long
as it has advertising value. This rules out
the freelance and limits radio writing to
the kind of person who can churn out a
serial story year after year.
There never was and never will be a
wholly impartial news service, and the
plea for one is a plea for a benevolent
dictatorship. We should develop our
critical faculties instead of being so terri-
fied at the prospect of letting politicians
or newspaper editors have their say on
the air. The only effective impartiality is
in the mind of the listener. — Mike
(R.A.A.F.).
Forecasting Droughts
Mr. Dedman has earned a pat on the
back by a recent unpublicised action.
Victorian farmers’ organisations and
private individuals, despairing of getting
the Stats Government to do anything
about it, made representations to Mr.
Dedman for some form of recognition
and assistance to S. H. Ebery, the retired
grazier who for some years past has been
forecasting the seasons from his private
station at Black Rock, on Port Phillip.
Mr. Dedman promptly replied that official
recognition would be given, conditionally
on Ebery’s methods and results surviving
official investigation, in which case the
Government would be prepared to issue
them as a public service.
In the meantime Ebery is to be given
everything he asks for in the way of
equipment and co-operation by the
Weather Bureau and the Air Force, as
well as a scientific officer of the Agricul-
ture Department to assist him in his re-
searches. Ebery is to continue his private
service, subscribers to which now exceed
160, with more coming in weekly. Ebery’s
position will be semi-official —he doesn’t
like the idea of becoming a civil servant.
Asa result of his 30 years of pioneering
in the realm of long-distance forecasts,
the Commonwealth hopes shortly to
establish a Research Division.
Ebery is perfectly happy in this
arrangement. The only thing he can’t
get is a telephone—the P.M.G.’s depart-
ment, which gives ’phones to s.p. bookies,
apparently doesn’t think seasonal fore-
casting is of comparable importance.—
Bumpkin (Vic.).
The Horror Films
Why exhibit atrocity films? They have
no place in entertainment, less in educa-
tion. They seem designed solely to start
a hatred campaign and thus sow the seeds
of another war. If it were clearly stated
that horrors perpetrated by certain (jer-
mans were, by all sane thinking, not the
wish of every German, then the public
might leave the theatre hating war and
sadism, and glad that the actual criminals
have been captured, yet still able to dif-
ferentiate between criminal German and
normal German.
To relatives of prisoners in Japanese
hands these films cause mental suffering.
In the rest of the audience they inspire
either simple disgust, hatred of the entire
German race or, thirdly, merely a lustful
pleasure—an exaggeration of the morbid
curiosity which causes civilians to rush
to see a ghastly road accident.
It’s nonsense to claim that the films
are intended to prove that re-education
of German youth is necessary and in-
tended as a salvation for the German
and a hope of lasting peace for the world.
If so, why not reserve the films for Ger-
man people?— Eve (N.S.W.).
Who Pays Subsidies to Farmers?
Recently over the radio, in the propa-
ganda session which follows the national
news, something like this was tossed to
a listening public: “The subsidies to the
primary producer have been so much, of
which £23,000,000 has been paid to the
dairying industry.” This gives the im-
pression, as is intended, that the big-
hearted politician has dipped into his own
pocket to help the struggling farmer. It’s
so neatly put that I nearly accepted it
myself. Then I analysed my own case.
The milk supply has decreased to an
untold extent. Drainage of man-power
for Government jobs took boys from
the farms. They are not going back
to real work when they get good money
for doing nothing. Then our concentrates
were cut out. The politician blames the
drought. Wisely, he never mentions tire
Government restriction on wheat-grow-
ing. Our main protein source is the
abattoirs. The politician never mentions
that he dare not ask the lords of Labor
there to work overtime or more than 22
hours a week. Cows on second-class
country cannot produce milk without
concentrates.
The Government handed out a subsidy
with the gesture of money-from-home.
Who pays that subsidy? I, and thou-
sands more like me, who never bought
a pint of milk in our lives, are taxed so
the city voter gets cheap milk. That voters
may receive high wages which industry
cannot afford on present prices, we are
taxed again that the Government may
claim kudos.—CocKY (Q.).
Unprofitable Dairy Farming
Atkins, M.H.A., and medico, at
Hobart, warning the Government of an
imminent milk shortage, said; “Fifty
dairymen in our municipalities have re-
cently gone out of business. Many others
are doing the same. In 1944 ten dairy-
farmers south of Oatlands proved that
their income was only £2Ol a year, while
their men were getting £4 18s, a week,
plus overtime and holidays.”
But the Labor Government of Tas-
mania can still see no reason for a short-
age.—E. & O.E. (Tas.).
The Exchange Rate
“Anti-Inflation” (B. 25/4/’45) misin-
terprets the symptoms when he says that
trade-unions are doing their best to ab-
sorb, by way of increasing wages, the
apparent prosperity derived from the
pegging of the exchange rate. The wage-
earners, along with every other section of
the community, are being forced by the
raised rate to pay higher prices for im-
ports.
Exchange in its present form is a sort
of taxation developed by banking in-
terests during the depression to build up
their London funds at the expense of the
Australian financial economy. Our
farmers have the idea that the 25 p.c.
added artificially to the value of their ex-
ported produce is a gift of the gods. They
forget that they themselves have to help
pay for that bonus in the added cost of
everything imported.
It is a curious fact that for 60 years up
to 1929 rates varied only from 3 p.c. in
our favor to p.c. against us. Yet that
period included the years of the upset
caused by the failure of many banks
(1892-93), the Boer War, the drought of
1902-3, when we lost over 50 million
sheep, and the years of the Great War.
The 25 p.c. exchange in the long run
does not benefit Australia, and the work-
ing man finds the cost of living higher
than when exchange was allowed to fol-
low the good old law of demand and
supply.
An inflated exchange-rate merely indi-
cates a need to restrict imports. That
would compel us to do more manufactur-
ing, thus giving greater employment and
creating the inducement for European
technicians and workers to immigrate to
Australia.—A. A. Baker (Q.).
Australian Books
“Digester” (B, 23/5/’45) asks why Aus-
tralian writers, instead of moaning, don't
have a shot at creating their own distri-
buting organisation. We don’t moan.
I have never written to a paper
about ourselves except to reply to
some stupid attack decrying Aus-
tralian books. And, by the way, on
this point, we have the word of two
visitors. Lieut.-Col. England from Britain
and Prof. Canby from U.S.A., that our
fiction ranks with the world’s best, and
should be available to overseas readers.
We have not yet asked for that, though
why Australian books should not be sold
in other parts of the Empire, as English
books are sold, is beyond commonsense
reasoning. We’ll have to dig deep into
the realms of mystery to find out why,
and then most likely the answer will be
too horrid to talk about.
As to setting up a distributing agency
of our own, it would be just as sensible
to suggest that broadcasters supply their
own radio plants. At least Australians
should be able to buy their own writers’
books in their own country. — Will
Lawson (N.S.W.).


oN
N'
»/'
V' r i
B
«; i
i»
&v I
yy
f?
Iw
V r \\m
Sa>
w\
r'i/ ,• 5
'\ U.\ X '
I ». \
SSKo
M\:,
* »s. •.>;'
(r\ > i. .
\Kr ’ { .'
,'W'V
i$ "i >
fcv ,
Li A
. , I fx, im
c „
:\:r
v :
i. V
-i7;
'7k"
I 11 1 1 '"
5? SC
i ,rj'“>
>7M
i
vi'M
mm
n
/’ih
•mi!','
ni".
si v .
MM
iuMMKi
U* J
umMmm
Philips developments in War
will benefit the World at Peace
Keep in touch with your
Philips Radio Dealer
Your radio today is a priceless
possession. Keep in touch with
your Philips Dealer and he will
keep it performing at its best.
There will be many marvellous
new Philips receivers when peace
comes, incorporating the latest
techniques made possible by war-
time development in electronics.
War is a cruel and inhuman taskmaster. It demands natural
resources and human toil only to hurl them to destruction in a
frenzy of strife. But because scientific discoveries and develop-
ments cannot be so destroyed, they are capable of living on into the
peace, no matter what part they may have played on the stage of war.
It is in this way that Philips scientists and engineers are today build-
ing for a world at peace, even though the products of Philips
factories in the free world are pouring out in a gigantic stream to
speed Victory for the United Nations.
And it is in this way that Philips are keeping faith with its millions
of customers all over the world. While Philips factories zealously
fashion weapons of vengeance against the aggressors, Philips
scientists are successfully exploring new fields of electronics which
will mean new conveniences and new aids to living in the home
after the war.
PHILIPS
PHILIPS
Lamps and Lighting- • Radio and Television Transmitting Equipment
Electronic Devices • X-ray Apparatus • Electrical Equipment for
Industry, etc.
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney . . • Melbourne . . . Adelaide . . • Perth . , . Brisbane
PL. 6-45
