

ROYAL
PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3433
Wednesday, November 28, 1945
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
INTERIOR OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.
THE English House of Commons, “the concentration of com-
munities ,” met at first in the refectory and later in the chapter
house of Westminster Abbey. In the time of Queen Victoria, her
Majesty’s faithful Commons met in a chamber seventy-five feet
by forty-five feet, and the green benches on the floor and in the
side galleries contained 194 fewer seats than there were members.
IThe Speaker’s Chair was, and is, at the north end of the House,
and in front of it was the Clerjk’s table, the resting place of the
Mace. Above it was the reporters’ gallery, while behind the higher
iron grille were the ladies’ seats. Peers and strangers were
admitted to the southern galleries. The party in power occupied
the seats on the Speaker’s right, the front bench being reserved for
Ministers, while on the left sat the Opposition. On the same side,
below the gangway, sat the Irish Nationalists of the day.


ŕ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
, —CUT HERE AND MAIL—» ~__
P leasg send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin."
Mp Mam tiff-1 B»*9* rr» f*f ft 9 9*9 9*
My Adifsss »»»*»•»»*»***»»»>•»••••••••••••»••»
St9i liS iiiiiir'ii-'iK tt tt , •!»•••»•. AQE
The Red Page
A STUDIO IN MELBOURNE.
Sixty-nine years ago, like a penny from
the kip, I leapt into the air; and, now,
back in the ring, begin to appreciate influ-
ences.... especially the Lindsays, their
Je-Victorianisation of myself.
Also, I recollect some of their adherents:
Randolph Bedford, Montague Grover,
Edward Dyson, Will Dyson, Ambrose
Dyson, Alek Sass, Marshall Hall, “Little”
Khuhr, somebody called De Burieau, J.
S. MacDonald, Meldrum, Henri Hoyle,
Ray Parkinson, Leon Pole, Jack Castieau,
M. T. MacNally, the two Hughies (Mac-
lean and Conant), For Lionel, especially,
Ernest Moffitt. These, and friends from
Creswick, incongruously mixed with
artistic clingers-on, squeezed about the
entrance to Parnassus, three storeys up,
over Collins-street,
Eyes, spangling under scarlet tar-
booshes ; and the moon of the Town Hall
clock theatrically misty through curtains
never washed least of all with tears.
Captain Kidd is dead. .,
Blood and gold are red. .,..
And the crew and the captain lying low,
Yo-ho! Yo-ho!
Captain Kidd is dead. ....
Lionel’s chanty, written and sung by
himself to his own accompaniment on
the banjo. (I dream this often.)
Smoke from clay pipes hazing the light
of a hurricane lamp; everybody’s rump
grafted to the floor —sometimes twenty
rumps. Smell of sweat, of rum and hot
water, the water heated by gas smuggled
through a hole from the dentist’s room
next door.
A chapter read out of Rabelais, or the
introduction to Mademoiselle de Maupin.
Norman, mug in one hand, brush in
the other—as well as drinking and talking
—works all night, so that at ten o’clock
a.m., when Mallet knocks for the rent.
Mallet sees, instead of fifteen shillings,
the picture of a naked lady ( scortillum ).
Sop for Cerberus —he will not ask
again.
But, next week, a Grand Signior’s
seraglio shan’t satisfy this wolf at the
door.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Gogarty and Grandeur.
The friend of W. B. Yeats and sup-
posed to have been the original of one
of the liveliest characters in James
Joyce’s Ulysses, Oliver St. John Gogarty
has lived in the grand style in the midst
of the grandeur of the Irish literary
renaissance; so that there is probably
some of his own emotion in the lament
for vanished glories he puts into the
mouth of one of his characters in Mad
Grandeur (Dymock’s):
Perhags at the bottom of all his troubles
was the fact that he was a remnant and a
freak. His ancestors should* have left their
land in the Flight of the Earls or have
spread a wing with the Wild Geese after
Aughrim’s fatal field. His friends origi-
nated from a different stock; Cromwellians
and Williamites, whom the ruinous genius
of the Old Land had caught and infected
with its put-of-date and heroic virtues —
liberality, prodigality and mad grandeur.
Their vigorous souls were spent. They were
gone, all gone, the gay companions, the
men who lived carelessly, the men of wit
and worth, of gallantry and figure—all
gone in a blaze of glory, like the young
chivalry of Homer, and their vigorous
souls were spent.
But when he has tried to reflect that
grandeur in his writings Gogarty has
never quite succeeded. He has come
nearest to it in some graceful and witty
verses; but his novels fall short. The
new one is a picture of Ireland during the
period after the French Revolution, when
aristocrats with euphonious names pro-
moted prize - fights and cock - fights,
gambled on cards and horses and rode
precariously through the political and
social turmoils of the day; while the poor
(it appears) spent some of their time being
cursed at, more of it being cudgelled and
most of it being hanged.
The novel appears to be carefully
documented. Too carefully, sometimes:
the description of a prize-fight in which
one of the champions lasts half a dozen
rounds after his jaw has been broken
reads, in its cold, meticulous factualism,
like something directly transcribed from
a poorish history of the period; it does
not come to life. Probably, too, Gogarty
assembled too much material before start-
ing the novel; there are incidents —such
as the anecdote of a bet in which the
stake was “nine wenches” —which are in-
troduced and then suddenly dropped ; as
if the author felt it was too good a bit
of history not to include but had no
idea how to fit it into the pattern of his
story.
Yet this —its apparent reliability as a
history of the period—is the novel’s chief
value. One leams, for instance, how a
condemned prisoner spent his last night
in jail—as guest of honor at his own
wake; or how the Curragh Plain looked
on the night before the great races:
It was stranger than the vision of Piers
Plowman to see this great plain full of
folk lying like troops bivouacked before a
battle, or like bodies prone after the pas-
sage of some battle-breaking lord. Here
on the Curragh of Kildare lay thousands
of men and women sunk in sleep. The
ribaldry of the few who were “sitting out
the night” and the drunken laughter or
curses of the grosser sort were resented
by those who, unaccustomed to the open
air, were trying to snatch a night’s rest.
But as fiction the novel is curiously
weak. Low-life or high-life, the
characters come out of stock, so that when
the tomboy heroine rides Green Glint to
victory in the big race and saves the
family fortune one does not feel that
here is the “mad grandeur” of old
Ireland but only that here is the romantic
convention of old Jeffrey Farnol.
For Bird Fanciers.
Michael Sharland’s Tasmanian Birds
(Oldham, Beddome and Meredith Pty.,
Ltd., Hobart) includes as charming a
nature photograph as the present bird-
watcher has ever seen; a picture of a wax-
eye (or white-eye or silver-eye) sitting in
its nest in the middle of a hydrangea
bloom —nestled in the flower itself. It
must have been a sight that old White
of Selborne would have crossed three
counties to see.
The book, though unassumingly pro-
duced, is excellent throughout. Mr.
Sharland’s idea is to tell Tasmanians (and
anyone else who may be interested)
exactly how to recognise their birds, and
to effect this he gives every relevant
detail; —
BANDED STILT—
Cladorhynchus leucocephalus.
13|in. Black and white, stilt legs, chest
banded.
Upper, head and neck white; broad
chestnut band across chest; wings and
abdomen blackish-brown; long legs red-
dish or yellow; bill black.
Rare visitor. Lagoons, marshes; wades.
Note, a plaintive whistle. Nest, on ground
at edge of water, islets in swamps; eggs
(4), olive stone, marked sepia and umber.
This bird has been taken at Sandford,
and is recorded in Tasmania at long inter-
vals. The band on the chest is not always
present. It is known to breed in Southern
Victoria, as well as the inland parts of Aus-
tralia. - *
And so on; right through the list of
native birds, visitors and immigrants.
Birds native to Tasmania, the author
says, are; dusky robin, forty-spotted
diamond bird, brown scrub wren, scrub
tit, Tasmanian tit, yellow-throated honey-
eater, black-headed honey-eater, strong-
billed honey-eater, yellow wattle-bird,
green rosella, masked owl, native hen,
black jay and black magpie.
The book can hardly be intended for
general reading, but it is nevertheless
very pleasant to take a peck at. Under
the pen-name “Peregrine” the author has
written nature notes for Hobart “Mer-
cury” for many years and he allows him-
self a line or two for general observa-
tions at the end of most of his descrip-
tions. Of the swift parrot, for instance,
he records: “Sometimes it will gorge
itself with nectar and fall out of a tree
in an ‘intoxicated’ state, then an easy
prey to a cat.”
A Planter from Fiji.
If should not be deduced from the
sentence “Our guests were in a fearful
stew” in Captain J. R. Grey’s World’s
End (Robertson and Mullens) that any-
body is being devoured by cannibals. It
is only that a launch has gone ashore on
a reef near Tahiti.
One might reasonably deduce, how-
ever, that Robertson and Mullens, like so
many other Australian publishers, does
not employ a sufficiently ruthless sub-
editor, Captain Grey writes as he talks,
and very few people talk literature. The
removal of cliches would have enorm-
ously improved this book.
Apart from that weakness, World’s
End is both entertaining and important:
it’s a picture of the life of a planter in the
South Seas, beginning in Tahiti but
chiefly located in Fiji. There is plenty
of color—fishing, sight-seeing, stories of
the natives and so on —but fundamentally
it is a serious work by a man very much
concerned about the future of the white
race in the Pacific. Giving facts and
figures about labor conditions and costs,
it is partly intended to serve as a hand-
book for anybody thinking of settling in
Fiji; and there is, consequently, a good
deal of constructive criticism of the Ad-
ministration :
I could get a better deal from any little
back-street store in Tahiti than I could
from the well-known and reputable British
firms [in Fiji] %
In Lau not one Fijian in ten could speak
English
Our policy has lowered the prestige of
the white man until it is now definitely
at a discount . .
The Fijian race has gone steadily down
the hill
This country is in the same position as
the American Colonies were before they
fought their War of Independence.
Admittedly there is a Legislative Council,
to which the taxpayers elect several
' members, but the elected portion is com-
pletely outvoted by those nominated by the
Governor (invariably officials) and so we
have no say whatever in our Government
or the spending of the taxes we pay.
The remedy? Captain Grey’s strictures
are modified to some extent by a post-
script added after a return visit to Fiji
during the war (he had been away with
the R.A.N.):
There are great changes, especially on the
main island, but the greatest change of
all is in the Fijian men, who have been put
into various military and semi-military or-
ganisations which compel a regular and
orderly life. The improvement in them is
almost beyond belief. They work well and
cheerfully, and their old fighting spirit and
pride in themselves as a race seems to have
enjoyed a revival. Copra is at a high
price... .The immediate future looks bright.
However, some of the criticisms doubt-
less remain valid. Captain Grey’s chief
complaint is against the appointment of
young and inexperienced District Com-
missioners:—
I am not an Australian so cannot be
accused of lauding my own kind when I
say that there are many fine young men,
well educated, of splendid physique, who
are accustomed to handling men on big
stations or other jobs, who would make
ideal district officers in these islands. We
need <men like C. A. Moncton, who, did
such splendid work in Papua.
Captain Grey has been chiefly con-
cerned with copra; but there is also an
interesting chapter on Fijian timber.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
One thing was missing in the Cup
celebrations this year. For only the
second time in 51 years Wirth’s- didn’t
keep its date with Melbourne, and no
ceremonial whip was presented to the
winning jockey. Actuated by. a Pavlov
“conditioned reflex,” a Bulletin man
wandered in a trance over Prince’s
Bridge with sundry well-worn phrases
circulating in his brain and the delicious
smell of the elephants and lions in his
nostrils and woke up to find Tex Mor-
ton’s Rodeo —Featuring the Finest Riders
and Horses in the Country headed by
Lance Skuthorpe—in possession. The big
top has been reported somewhere north of
Cairns, where the money is so good that
the Greatest Show on Earth won’t be
seen in Melbourne till December.
The theme of “Green Shutters,” a play
in three acts by William Dinner and Wil-
liam Morum, put on by Melbourne Little
Theatre, is our old theatrical acquaint-
ance the missing body. This time it is
buried in the village churchyard, and is
the origin of a plot of great complication
in which murder, love, insanity and black-
mail all play their part. A little less plot
would have made it easier to stomach a
play in which bits of characterisation
floated up like pieces of furniture from a
torpedoed liner. They were reasonably
well done by Jean Campbell, Ray
Edwards, Frederick McMahon, Vernon
George, Honor Daly and others.
Like so many efforts by unpractised
writers, O. D. Bisset’s “Over the Styx,” a
play by a Sydney author tried out by
Killara Theatre Guild, took flights of
fancy that even a Goethe would hesitate
to attempt. It was chiefly concerned with
a young doctor who was unhappily
married and a girl who wasn’t. The prob-
lem proving insoluble, the lovers are
killed off and transported to Another
World, where angels sit round and
drink nectar and reminisce, and where
everything smooths itself out beautifully.
The lovers meet Julius Caesar, Boadicea
and Frederick the Great; also the
enamored lass’s father, a professor who
has recently blown himself up for no
other reason, seemingly, than to indulge
in some shallow moralising at the drop of
the curtain. The play is billed as a
comedy-fantasy, but it might have been
called almost anything. Some genuine
humor in the early scenes suggested that
Mr. Bisset might be happier in a simple
family comedy, Joan Lord and Margot
Graeme acted well; as also did Mr.
Bisset, whose playing of the professor did
something to atone for his excursion into
authorship.
“Thunder Rock,” staged by the
National Theatre in Melbourne, has
points about it and was extremely well
acted by Peter French, Claude Thomas,
Eric Young, Les Matthews, Nell Hunt
and others; but, truth to tell, it has a
commonplace conclusion, and the atomic
bomb has already made it completely old-
fashioned, The final speech of the young
man who decides to return to the world
and fight in the war to end war sounded
like a leader-writer’s fantasy of the post-
war world which was blown to smith-
ereens at Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
At the talkies:
“Without Love” (Sydney St. James): Not at
all without love. It concerns a scientist who
marries for convenience but is aroused by
jealousy to a proper state of amorous frenzy.
The bright, romantic comedy is skilfully handled
by Spencer Tracey and Katherine Hepburn.
“Bring On the Girls” (Sydney State): Well-
dressed, well-staged technicolored musical with
galaxies of young ladies.
“The Horn Blows at Midnight” (Sydney
Empire): Alleged comedy about an angel who
comes to Earth with a trumpet to destroy it,
on orders from Higher Up. A feeble yawn-
provoker with a third-rate dance band.
To the surprise of old hands Mel-
bourne Tivoli’s current bill, “Beauty on
Parade,” is blessed with a ballet with
artistic pretensions. Some of the ladies
may be a bit unsteady on their pins, but
the principal ballerina dances with a
commendable mixture of grace and
abandon, and the general effect is grati-
fying. The inimitable George Wallace
and his fellow conspirator, Joe Lawman,
share the funny business between them.
A gent, who performs uncanny feats in
telepathy under the pseudonym of
“Argus” is not supposed to be named in
honor of Melbourne’s premier morning
daily, which failed to foretell the result
of the late election, but after the mytho-
logical creature which kept 50 of its 100
eyes open all the time, even when it was
sleeping.
“MacH.”: I’ll back the artist against
the photographer every time as a re-
corder of war after seeing the British
official exhibition of sea paintings by
Norman Wilkinson at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery. True, there is not
much of the drama of war in the tremen-
dous acreage of sea-water on view; little
of the human element; and true (except
in the foaming “Atlantic Convoy,” the
murky “Raider in Sight” and the cold,
nightmarish glimpse of the prison-ship
Altmark) Mr. Wilkinson is not a particu-
larly inspired painter. His seas are solid,
his ships static; and, as a British sailor
said to me, “You can’t feel the deck roll-
ing.” But great art was hardly the inten-
tion here: merely a record of the Navy
and the Merchant Navy in the war. And
as such the show is excellent. There’s
enough life in even a merely factual paint-
ing to keep a scene alive down the years;
photographs are dead things. I can
imagine a ship’s captain who was present
say, on D-Day, hanging one of Mr. Wil-
kinson’s oils in his cabin with pride and
pleasure; but I can’t imagine him keep-
ing company with a photograph of the
same scene.
Robert Campbell, one of the most
promising of Melbourne water-colorists,
has been showing Tasmanian landscapes
at Kozminsky’s. Not so stylised as was
Harold Herbert, he hits off a scene with
an economy of means very freshly.
“Stormy Weather,” “Children Paddling”
and “Spring Gales” look like first impres-
sions, and he has the rare capacity of
being able to suggest movement.
Charles Wheeler, who has been hold-
ing a retrospective exhibition of his
works at the Sedon Galleries, is head of
the National Gallery art schools and as
such is probably the leading exponent of
the academic creed in painting in Mel-
bourne. It is a cold creed and it seems
to grow on an artist. There is more
warmth in Wheeler’s earlier landscapes
than in his recent ones and much more
than in his large and chilly nude.
Joseph Post conducted the last of the
Celebrity concerts at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, and Harold Williams sang. The
poor attendance may have been due to
the bad weather or to the fact that Mr.
Post is a local conductor, local conduc-
tors and virtuosi always being given
charge of the tail-end of the season after
the imported celebrities have departed.
Music-lovers are apt to be affected by
these considerations. Yet Mr. Williams
is no slouch of a singer, and there was
also much virility in Mr. Post’s con-
ducting.


'WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
*\
V
II
W,
V
is®-
V.
nN
At
0
vu
lU
A- S i
I
#
«T
M
.
4#
V-
oOlCK>®
tet>i^ s -yjife
sw t: « 8/ "
ytvfe s v ...••* ’
3 •• ‘ ‘
„^rlS —■ «:♦» Street-
VJO^ d LsW q
Good s "" Pi* 4
AH SK‘ s oU „d fl° or ’
cb-O-
-m
Lo^ er
1
;
a
, vjib-
. v.e.rt&o-ti. , rt ftee\s-
•eyfenQ cy.es
t o t e ( fee® 0 pyeeb- c 5/'
Ms[° od ' 41 /6;
3iV» s ”
;S®'--
a
v ,y..
4^:- A V
P.od
* de Ovet;
r~s~
turn*
lde»
ie ce, W t .. 6
eaA '
C U loi v
fee
rtvtn 01
fen
-fe
dfe^ 0
9/9
-'••:.•• ; ****
fefe°f
>SS
II
I •:• ■ |
"J&
WZ„
■ ■
l^v
(H
K lone ' ' 5 cul>r n ecb, , n c
* . ct t and OS.
c y ’yiaxove-
ue , stree t.
strip o3- Gc-° r S C
j floo r »
Ground
ol oa^r^t
afe, ]f a V^ eT
. vs AP.fefe 1 ct it .
vT at ea '' er n fenQ^ 1 "’c,v it - n y
tnn cb o^ eia n ds- v,oai
Ca^ oe s - Mb°* e ; "dr? \ ls
***** ‘
W*23s>w. .......
at ?tfee • ploo r.
a W^ Sl , poii
THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS
OLt'.S*
C\vaV}®'
\vas
,dat c
th® D %' vdd - ,
W ieS, Mfhe©^ a -
ef Gtld BtS® ’ ‘
\]S^' S
POST TO BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)


STS®-
Tr” fro m the apP } 1 ‘
'i ajr Jf explained tha r „ on the
officers exp ld now carrV „ nd sale
the re bra n<W
manuiaeture rum. aP £ere nce 1»
of wTaislty* nine nt- war.
without sa tirfac-
same sa id the m lT3aP os-
W. & A. Gilbey Ltd. have much
pleasure in announcing that,
following the lifting of restrictions,
additional supplies of . . .
GILBEY'S WORLD FAMOUS GIN
will now be available.
m
sy~ , • •• ■
A
m\\.
Vf.
«P
■ %
*n
!U
i-yji
vM
KrM
%
r -m
.v/
&?•
%
•a*
s'*
AW
#«
?f
esM
■s§m
'/:& fa ' oil'd ■ lit <tl‘l*
!%%!%£&
Vi#
%
?»Cv\
s »
■
V'C
H
'■A\.'S.'*[i**i( J ’f''
<(*?
■
SS®*
--;< rV
Bs3g
r_^,v. «■
JUKI
t 'V;
KS
3»sS!*?®
II
M/
3®
S-<ivxSS
*• .».#££V,-
Mifc
X'
*SS
/* ,;
»i.. va
va • •/ft'.'ryi //#<. j *. •. ... >
THE STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED!


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—" No. 3433
Wednesday, November 28, 1945
THE MAN IN THE SADDLE.
"From the sharp political crisis aroused by the Communists’ challenge, General de Gaulle has emerged victorious.”— "S. M. Herald.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P• H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
„ Box 2521 B B; Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street,' Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.). Wellington.
London : . 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
THE INTERNAL ENEMY.
On the evidence of Brigadier-General
Thorpe, General MacArthur’s chief
counter-intelligence officer, “Australia’s
greatest security against Japanese espion-
age was the White Australia policy.” In
Asia and in the invaded islands Japanese
spies found things made to order for
them. They could do nothing in Aus-
tralia because the population, save for
the remnant of aboriginals, had been kept
white—“9B per cent. British” or near it.
One would expect that this authorita-
tive tribute to a policy which found uni-
versal acceptance before Communists
began to infest the country and Leftism
became journalistically fashionable would
be published and commented on in every
newspaper in Australia. It is a sign of
the times and of the contemporary con-
ception of news-values that it was almost
ignored. A search of newspaper files
failed to find any mention of it, except
in the Melbourne “Age” and the Sydney
“Daily Mirror.” Newspapers nowadays
show no particular interest in a White
Australia, form-at-a-glance supplements
and photographs of brazen brats, naked
except for parts which have to be skimpily
covered lest the police interfere, being
more in their line. So is the glorification
of bookmakers and racing publicans who,
though their supplies were reduced and
their prices fixed, and though income tax
ranged from £355 on £lOOO to £8155 on
£lO,OOO, less inconsiderable deductions
for wives and children, contrived to make
heaps of money out of the war, without
in any known case passing on the secret
to returned servicemen anxious about
their future.
To merchants of the journalism that
feeds the gambling craze and gratifies
the taste for smut, it would be foolish
to look for expressions of gratitude to
the men who shaped the White Australia
policy. Thoughtful Australians who read
what appeared in the “Age” and the
“Daily Mirror” will give those men the
honor that is richly their due. They were
real leaders, and they had loyal followers ;
and, thus supported, their work for Aus-
tralia was great. In the first dozen years
of Federation they gave it not only an
Immigration Restriction Act with a dic-
tation test which overcame foreign ob-
jections, but Defence Acts incorporating
the principle of national service, indus-
trial arbitration—on that they were so
keen that in 1904 the point whether State
railway employees should have access to
the Commonwealth Court led to three
changes of Government —and a protec-
tive tariff, source of industrial develop-
ments which were to be of immense value
in the recent wars. Some of these men
were Liberals, some Laborites ; and they
combined fruitfully in worthy causes.
Unfortunately the spirit which they
brought to their job of constructive states-
manship seems to have vanished with them.
They have been succeeded by men who hqve
made politics an ignoble trade, men who aim
no higher than at “giving the workers
everything they ask for,” and who are sus-
tained by a loyalty which is itself base.
At this juncture in the history of the
nation, the controlling power has passed
to Communists, inspired by hopes of in-
surrection and loot, who hate everything
for which the Labor and Liberal leaders
of 1901-1913 stood. They hate the White
Australia policy, Australian industry,
national service, and industrial arbitra-
tion. With apelike malignity they have
launched strikes in key industries
which are holding up the entire re-
employment, housing and export-trade
programme, causing not only industrial
havoc in Australia but carrying it
to Labor Maoriland. They set a
mob on an Industrial Commissioner
with the status of a Supreme Court Judge,
and one blow or kick might have resulted
in his being done to death. They ftave
vowed the destruction of B.H.P. for no
other published “reason” than that its
controllers, from whose plants comes
the cheapest steel in the world, and whose
eminent war services have been the theme
of Ministerial eulogies, refuse to take their
orders from a Communist-controlled
union deregistered for lawless larrikin-
ism. And they are waging war in their
cowardly fashion on Australia’s good
friends and allies the Dutch, committing
this white man’s country by divers out-
rages to support for armed mobs of
colored Communists in Java —savages,
with, in some cases, a veneer of culture —
who have engaged in slaughter and muti-
lation to prevent the British expelling
the Japanese, saving the lives of im-
prisoned Dutch and Eurasians of both
sexes and all ages and restoring order,
for which—as its P.M. and Foreign Secre-
tary stated last week —Britain has a man-
date from the Allied War Council;
specifically, from General MacArthur.
The Victorian Assembly elections have
shown how poor is the electoral support
these Communists command. Not 25 per
cent., as in France, where De Gaulle has
faced up to the Communists and beaten
them, but so small a fraction in a repre-
sentative State that one of the six Com-
munists candidates for carefully-chosen
constituencies lost his deposit and the
other five were hard put to it to save
theirs. Yet in its attacks on Australian
industry, industrial arbitration, the White
Australia policy and Australia’s inter-
national interests, Communist ruffianism
has not only encountered no resistance
from the “Government,” but in the matter
of “our Indernesian comrades” they may
plausibly claim that the -“Government’s”
sympathies are with the “comrades.”
Without let or hindrance from the
“Government,” Communists have flooded
the country with leaflets like the follow-
ing, “authorised by the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Council”:
BOYCOTT THE DUTCH.
Everything Dutch is Black.
If it’s good enough for R.A.A.F. men
in Bundaberg to declare the Dutch black
for their brutal treatment of Indonesians on
strike [“the brutal treatment” was charac-
terised as a Communist lie by the secretary
of the Bundaberg Trades and Labor
Council] it is good enough for all trade-
unionists to do the same.
Dutch soldiers and officers should not
get transport.
No Dutch munitions should be touched.
Repairs on Dutch ’planes, ships, etc., must .
not be done.
Dutch ships must not get coal. Tugs must
not be made available to the Dutch ships.
Food, stores, etc., must not be provided
to Dutch ships, officers’ canteens or per-
sonnel. Dutch officers and seamen should
riot be taken to and from ships.
In fact, everything Dutch is black.
These Dutch officials are swaggering about
our country protected by armed tommy-
gunners, threatening Australian unionists
on the Sydney wharves, using brutal •
methods against the democratic Indone-
sians right here in Sydney.
BOYCOTT’ THEM!
The, “swaggering” and the “threaten-
ing” are also Communist lies, but, with
the “Government” looking on in affright,
the programme has been carried out. It
was added to—the Government still look-
ing on in affright—when Dutch soldiers
aboard the Stirling Castle, members of
a Resistance Movement accounted the
most courageous in Europe, one of whom
risked his life many times to save
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. men who had
crashed in Holland, were refused the hos-
pitality of a landing in Sydney, renowned
for hospitality before Communist ruffian-
ism and pigeon-livered Laborism came
into the picture. And the Government
was inert when Communists tried to pre-
vent the departure of the Moreton Bay,
under British charter for N.E.I. service,
to which the Stirling Castle Dutch had
been transferred, by bringing the crew
ashore. Eleven seamen obeyed the Com-
munist summons ; the rest, under orders
from their British union, carried on. The
“Government” even permitted an irre-
sponsible paid out of the Department of
Information vote to attack United States
and British policy in the N.E.I. and side
with “our Indernesian comrades.”
The United States has attempted, like
Pontius Pilate, to wash its hands of the
matter..-.A large number of American oil
experts are now actually in Singapore and
Batavia. Many of them are married to
Dutch women and have a thoroughly pro-
Dutch outlook on the present dispute
The U.S. Government is in practice under-
writing the policy being currently pursued
by Lord Louis Mountbatten.
The official attitude of the British Gov-
ernment is that it is not interfering between
the Dutch and the Indonesians, but is
merely concerned to rescue prisoners of
war and disarm the Japanese. The ele-
ment of hypocrisy here is that these
British activities must inevitably have an
effect of gaining ports in Indonesia....
and establishing general conditions under
which the Dutch can re-assert their authority.
Six of the eleven deserters from the
Moreton Bay were arrested, preparatory
to being shipped home as distressed sea-
men when berths can be found for them.
From the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council came the gleeful announce-
ment that they had been released
at the instance of the Ministry of Ship-
ping, “acting on instructions from the
Prime Minister.” A representative of
the British Ministry of War Transport
pointed out that the men had “walked
off the Moreton Bay at the eleventh hour.”
and that Commonwealth National Secu-
rity Regulations “provided for their appre-
hension but not for their release.” He
added dryly that it would be “a pity if
seamen got the impression that they could
desert a transport at the last minute and
be treated like gentlemen.”
Though it is a serious matter for any
Administration to meddle with the old
law and practice of the sea. National
Security Regulations have been waived in
so many cases when Communists flourish
the big stick that the “Government” doubt-
less thought it could get away with another
surrender to the Communist mob. But it
couldn’t get away with the short-wave
broadcast. In that case it had Admiral
Mountbatten, a most determined char-
acter, to reckon with. Information of the
broadcast reached him at South-East Asia
Command headquarters, and “in a signal
received in Melbourne,” he characterised
the reference to him as “incorrect and
most unfair,” since the policy of which
he was the instrument was “the policy
of the British Government.” Mr. Chifley
was reduced to replying that he was “ex-
tremely sorry that you have been occa-
sioned any embarrassment or irritation”
by “a transmission” which “occurred
without reference to or knowledge of
the Government or the Department of
External Affairs” (no mention of the
Department of Information) “and does
not represent our views.” But the text or
pith of the broadcast had apparently
reached India, buttressed by reports from
Java that Australia was championing the
cause of “our Indernesian cqmrades,” and
had* been asked by them to intervene,
along with Russia, and in Calcutta there
were mob demonstrations, with blood-
shed, “against the trial of officers of
the Japanese-sponsored Indian ‘national
army,’ whipped by Communists into a
demand for Indian independence.”
Mr. Chifley may also have been “ex-
tremely sorry” when he learned from the
Sydney “Sun” or the Melbourne “Herald”
that Communists in the Seventh Division
were siding with Indonesians in Borneo.
The nasty story was told by Lieut. Bill
Hudson, formerly of the R.A.A.F., who
wrote that “within two hours of the Aus-
tralians landing at Pontianak, in South-
west Borneo, propaganda leaflets in
Malay, printed in Melbourne, were being
spread among natives,” and that “at a Free
Indonesian demonstration at Balik Papan
an Australian soldier joined the natives
and began to incite them against a Dutch-
man.” Since Dr. Evatt removed the legal
ban on Communist organisations and
publications, Communists have been
active among the hundreds of thousands
of servicemen kept in mainland camps
for years after all danger of a Japanese
invasion in force had passed. It was not
supposed that their propaganda had had
much effect among servicemen in the
islands, but evidently a few have fallen
for it, and more for newspaper stories of
the Russian war which depicted Red
Army soldiers, now hated for robbery
and rape in occupied Europe, as super-
men, made so by the Cpmmunist system.
On the ugly Borneo development Mr.
Chifley was silent.
At the week-end A.L.P. delegates were
gathering for their Federal conference.
In optimistic quarters it was suggested
that they might denounce and repudiate
the Communist conspiracy, but, seeing
that they welcomed Communists as their
allies at the powers referendum, and are
talking of another, that seems too much
to expect. liowever, if they don’t renew
their pledge of devotion to the White
Australia policy, and instruct their “Gov-
ernment” to place action at its service,
beginning with an abandonment of its
oafish hostility to the Dutch, they will
expose their movement to the contempt
of all Australians who place White Aus-
tralia first among their principles as
morally dead and damned.
S.-P. Betting.
Though illegal, though everybody taking
part in it is a lawbreaker, starting-price
betting is now flourishing as never before
and goes on expanding. It has become a
major industry. Thousands all over the
country have a vested interest in it. The
total capital involved runs into millions.
Scores of thousands, alike in the capital
cities and in country towns of a few
hundred inhabitants most of them
people who have never set eyes on the
animals they put their money on —wager
every week even greater sums than the
staggering amounts figuring in the reports
of course transactions.
In the big cities it is possible to place
bets ranging from shillings to many
pounds, either with agents or principals,
in almost any building holding a hundred
or more occupants. The same goes for
pubs, etc., where the customer is known.
And, as well, practically every regular
s.-p. punter has a telephone number he
(or she) can ring for placing bets. Most
of this wagering is on a small scale!
The bulk of the big money in the cities
is either bet on the courses, which has
legal sanction, or, illegally, at quoted odds
—as distinct from s.-p. odds—at sporting
clubs and suchlike institutions on the day
or night before the races.
In the country the industry is run on
slightly different lines. It is a poor coun-
try town of a thousand or more inhabi-
tants that hasn’t its own s.-p. merchant.
The larger towns will run to several.
Here the principal is readily accessible,
personally or by ’phone, though he may
employ agents in outlying hamlets. He
often handles wagers that would make
the mouths of many of his city brethren
launch another Tank Stream.
The industry, of course, could not be
in this flourishing condition without con-
siderable direct and indirect assistance.
For one thing, those whose job it is to
police the anti-betting laws have long
since given up making more than spas-
modic and half-hearted attempts to en-
force them. They have the excuse that
they get no lead from Governments and
that newspapers and radio stations are
actively on the side of the lawbreakers.
Sometimes they take “action” against an
agent, sometimes against an operator in
a very small way, never against one of
those who employ staffs to answer bat-
teries of telephones throughout Saturday
afternoons.
Probably the greatest indirect assist-
ance given to the industry comes from the
pretence that the pabulum provided for it
by newspapers and radio stations, on a
scale which has no parallel in any other
English-speaking community, and without
which it would disappear, is a high-
minded service to the community at
large, or at any rate to a par-
ticular newspaper’s readers or radio
station's listeners. This cover of’hypo-
crisy serves to foster the notion that the
laws relating to the s,-p. industry are,
which is true enough, mere dummies, and
that, therefore, no possible stigma attaches
to breaking them.
Evidently the organs and institutions of
enlightenment involved are not themselves
lawbreakers. A great deal of the relative
“facts” and speculation they publish
or broadcast could no doubt be defended
as a legitimate service to readers or
listeners who would actually be going to
the races dealt with and wouldn’t put a
shilling into the s.-p. industry if it was
given to them. That others, not so scrupu-
lous, might happen to read or hear would
not weaken this defence. Though essen-
tial to lawbreakers, the service itself is
permitted by law.
It is the hypocrisy of the thing that is
sickening; the pretence that the service is
given purely for the benefit or entertain-
ment of general readers and listeners, and
that if it by any chance should be true
that it is also the lifeblood of a wholly
illegal industry, run by lawbreakers and
supported by lawbreakers, that is most
unfortunate, but obviously unavoidable.
This Pecksniffian defence is to be seen
exposed at its thinnest in the actual nature
of much of the service being given both
by press and radio. For one thing, who
would set himself up to defend the great
bulk of Saturday-aftemoon broadcasting
of racing against a charge of being a
direct assistance to and an incitement of
s.-p. betting? Who in his senses affects
to believe that it can possibly serve any
other purpose whatever? A great deal
of it —as anybody can check up for him-
self by listening in for half an hour any
Saturday afternoon —is openly and un-
ashamedly devoted to giving “informa-
tion” and suggestions that can have no
possible value or interest to anybody at
all except s.-p. bookmakers end bettors.
An idea of the numbers of these can be
had from the rush of advertisers to air
their wares during these Saturday-after-
noon “sessions.”
In the printed organs of enlightenment
the hypocrisy comes out perhaps most
clearly in the sort of civil war raging in
Sydney on the issue s.-p. betting
figures. For years uncounted Granny
“Herald”, was venerated as the pur-
veyor and final arbiter in this hallowed
field. Latterly, it appears, upstart rivals
have been threatening her hold on the
business. However, there is plenty of
fight in the old girl yet, as shown in the
current hostilities when the “Telegraph”
came out with a broadside of starting
prices allegedly collected along the
assembly line of eminent Randwick book-
makers. Granny promptly featured the
headline “ ‘Telegraph’ Prices Wrong”—
an atomic bomb in this kind of warfare
—and called in some of the eminent
bookmakers to support her claim.
To suggest that Granny was thereby
asserting the legitimacy of her title as
Queen of the S.-P. Realm and that the
“Telegraph” was attempting to usurp her
place would probably be regarded by both
as downright insulting. Just as Granny
would no doubt consider offensive a sug-
gestion that the Sunday radio programme
of her starting prices is of service to no
others besides law-breaking s.-p. bettors
and is not unrelated to the fact that s.-p.
bookies in the country had lately been
paying on the figures given in “Terewth.”
Ultimately, of course, the whole thing
comes back to Government. Government
could if it wished reduce the s.-p. indus-
try to a shadow. By banning the publi-
cation of entries, weights and acceptances
except within the confines of racecourses
Government could stamp it out in one
act. But it has now grown to such pro-
portions, is so great a vested interest it-
self and is so linked up with other vested
interests that no seat-preserving politician
which is to say the major element in
Government—could now be expected to
touch it with a 40ft. pole ±


PLAIN ENGLISH
Premature Congratulations.
Victoria has another Labor Government,
but, like all its predecessors, it is a Gov-
ernment without a party majority. In a
House with 65 members only 31 have
signed the Labor pledge. Of the others,
18 are Agrarians, 13 are Liberals (three
are survivors of the breakaway faction
which, with an Agrarian and two Inde-
pendents, formed the luckless Macfarlan
Ministry) and three are Independents.
One of the Independents calls himself
Labor —though the election seems to have
left him with a grudge against the party —
and another has announced that he can-
not be counted upon to keep a minority
Labor Government in office.
When it looked to newspaper “com-
mentators,” who imperfectly concealed
their hopes, that Mr. Cain’s party would
get an absolute majority, Mr. Chifley
congratulated him on his “splendid” suc-
cess. If the Prime Minister chooses to
study the complete returns, he will find
no particular reason for elation.
Mr. Cain owes at least four seats to
division among his opponents. Mr.
Zwar elected to stand for Preston as an
Independent Liberal. Lacking the full
support of his party, he failed against an
unusually strong Labor candidate. Major
Ruthven, V.C., but only by 143 votes in
an effective poll of 21,569, In the coun-
try electorates of Hampden, Goulburn
and Mildura, the Labor candidates were
well behind their opponents’ totals on
the first count; in Mildura the deficiency
was 1391 in a poll of 10,985. In each case-
preferences were so divided that the
Labor man got in. In Allendale, on the
other hand, Mr. Denigan, a Labor mem-
ber with a good record, was unseated
because 2533 out of 2692 Liberal pref-
erences went to Mr. White, C.P.
Considering that the redistribution de-
prived the country of six seats which were
transferred to the metropolis, the Country
party did very well. The secession of
Mr. Mackrell, one of the Macfarlan Min-
isters, and Mr. Allnutt cost it two more
seats, but those gentlemen fared so badly
that they are unlikely to be a source of
any more trouble. Nor is there any in-
dication that Mr. Dunstan’s influence in
the country was weakened by his alli-
ance with Mr. Hollway. That gentleman
had an excellent majority in Ballarat, and,
all things considered, the Liberal vote
was strong.
Indeed, a repetition of State election
voting would make things very nasty
for Federal Labor next year. And Vic-
torians had no grievance against Mr.
Cain and his party. They have a crow
to pluck with Mr. Chifley and his crowd.
S.A. Makes a Move.
South Australia is the first of the States
to take definite steps to tackle soil erosion.
Under a bill now going through the Par-
liament at Adelaide, the American system
of setting up conservation districts, with
boards to administer them, will come
into operation.
These districts will be set up on
a petition by at least three-fifths of
occupiers declaring that soil is being
lost and that corrective measures are
necessary.. Occupiers will include public
authorities such as councils, branches
of the Railway Department, and so
on. In a district thus gazetted, a board
of three to seven members will be appoin-
ted and empowered to do whatever is
considered necessary to stop over-grazing
or -clearing, faulty farm practices and the
like. The board will have authority to
enter and order conservation and recla-
mation works on particular properties.
Provision is made for affected persons to
lodge objections and bring evidence
against the orders.
The system has worked successfully in
the U.S.A. Farmers were at first sus-
picious of it, but when they discovered
that they were to constitute the boards
and control the works their sentiments
changed. It should work well enough
here, but the difference—and a most im-
portant difference it is—is that whereas
the American soil-conservation pro-
gramme is under a single national author-
ity, the Australian programme will be
controlled by the States, with the usual
variation in costs, progress and achieve-
ment which multiple control causes. Soil-
saving is possibly the greatest single
national job confronting Australia. It
should be under a single national author-
ity.
Mean and Shabby.
“Jasby”: The discharged serviceman’s
first introduction to civil life is not a
very good augury for his future treat-
ment at the hands of a Government pro-
fessedly solicitous of his interests.
Procedure at demobilisation depots is
thorough and, in my experience, as
speedy as can reasonably be expected,
and the staff are courteous and efficient
—a rare combination in any Army estab-
lishment. But after passing through their
capable hands the soldier leaves the last
desk clutching the precious piece of paper
he has been thinking of for months, and
if he pauses to think he realises they have
been too efficient.
He is now a civilian. His discharge
bears the current day’s date, despite the
fact that he has at least 30 and possibly
as many as 100 days’ leave due. His pay-
book has been credited with pay, sub-
sistence and deferred pay for the period
and presumably the time will also be in-
cluded in reckoning up his gratuity. If
he has dependants their allowance will
continue to be paid right up to the end
of his leave period. Yet he is not on
leave. He is not even in the Army. He
is a civilian with all the rights and privi-
leges of a civilian.
Fair? On the surface, yes, but on
examination surely the shabbiest and
pettiest trick a Government could con-
trive with which to bilk the ex-service-
man.
Although still on the Army payroll the
soldier is no longer on its strength, and
has no claim on it for sickness (except
malaria) or accident during his leave
period. If he is knocked down by a tram
or one of the swarms of gangsters that
have spawned and flourished during his
absence,, the loss is his —or more accu-
rately, his wife’s.
It seems incredible that a Government
should, in effect, back-date its discharges
for the shabby purpose of evading the
few claims that would arise in this way,
but no other explanation seems possible.
This is the main objection to the “pay-
in-lieu-of-leave” system, and fortunately
its results are visited upon a relatively
FREE, AND CONSTITUTIONAL.
Mr. Chifley to Admiral Mountbatten; “I am extremely sorry if you have been occasioned
any embarrassment or irritation by a recent short-wave broadcast from Australia... does
not represent our views.”
"Take a good swig, m’Lord, and hand back the bottle .”
small number of cases —the unfortunate
few who fall sick or meet with accidents.
Another injustice, less burdensome on
the individual- but just as iniquitous and
affecting a far larger number of people,
is that the wearing of uniforms during
this leave period is expressly forbidden.
True it is permissible to wear portions
of uniforms “provided that all color
patches, ribbons, badges of rank and
chevrons are removed therefrom.”
So the serviceman walks out of the
demob, depot with his discharge. If
everyone does his duty the neo-civilian
will be arrested immediately he passes
out through the gate for wearing a uni-
form while not a member of the defence
forces. If he steps on to a tram and
through force of habit tenders a penny
for his fare the conductress will probably
accept it, but if an inspector asks for
proof of his bona fides, as he is quite
entitled to do, the unfortunate soldier-
citizen may find himself up on a charge
of wearing a uniform to which he is not
entitled and attempting to defraud.
He goes to the railway station and asks
for a ticket to Suburbia. The clerk hands
him a service ticket. Again he is foul of
the law. Comes race-day. He has no
civilian clothes and no hope of getting
any for weeks or months. He goes to the
ticket window. “Other gate, Dig,” the
race official tells him. “Men in uniform
free,” Impersonating, defrauding, etc.,
etc.
The writer was discharged in Melbourne
on Cup eve, and within 24 hours had
committed all the heinous crimes
enumerated above. He intends to go on
committing similar offences until his leave
expires some time in January, as until
then he is on the Army payroll and sees
no reason why he should not be treated
the same on his final leave as on all
previous leave periods.
For years the Government, through its
Minister for the Army and his deputies,
has been impressing on him the neces-
sity of preserving the dignity of the
King’s uniform and insisting on his being
regimentally dressed at all times and in
all places. It has paid squads of able-
bodied provosts to patrol city streets to
ensure that he obeyed dress regulations
while on leave. It has “crimed” his
mates for appearing on parade with
twisted bootlaces or with a shirt button
undone. Habit dies hard, and he refuses
during his final leave to rip off his badges
rank, patches color, ribbons campaign
and chevrons service. He refuses to
appear in city streets wearing portion of
a uniform.
It is not too late for the Government
to remedy this silly state of affairs. All
that is necessary is to date the Certificate
of Discharge as at the end instead of the
beginning of the leave period. If neces-
sary an interim certificate could be issued
similar to the present “living-out” certifi-
cate, and the final discharge could be
posted on its due date.
This would spare the rest of the forces
the nasty taste in the mouth of those
already demobbed —all of whom feel they
are the victims of a mean and shabby
trick.
An Immigrant's Son.
Mr. Calwell, who holds as Minister that
Australia can’t accommodate more than
70,000 immigrants p.a. and can’t begin
taking them for two years, could scarcely
go into the family history of Private
Tom Starcevich, the fifth Westralian V.C.
in the late war, without risk of damage
to complacency about his precious
“ceiling,”
The V.C.’s father is a southern Slav.
He arrived in Westralia in the ’nineties
of last century, worked with his brawny
hands on the goldfields and married a
Westralian girl. With his savings he took
up land at a place called Grass Patch,
between- the mining township of Norse-
man and the neglected port of Esperance.
Pioneering was a bitter business in those
days, and* by Riverina and Wimmera
standards Starcevich’s farm wasn’t much
of a place, but on it the Starcevichs
reared nine children, seven boys and two
girls, who grew up healthy and patriotic
young Australians. All who were eligible
enlisted in the late war. Tom, at 25, is a
veteran of the Middle East, as well as
Borneo; another brother served in
Borneo, a third has been reported at
Morotai and a fourth has returned from
captivity with the Eighth Division.
Had Calwell ideas prevailed in the
’nineties, Starcevich, senior, might never
have come to Australia. If a “ceiling”
had not intervened, that “Labor” prin-
ciple to which Mr. Ward is apparently
returning, “No immigration until all Aus-
tralians,” the work-shy included, “are in
steady jobs,” could have dished him. For-
tunately, Westralia had then in control
of its affairs John Forrest, a public man
of a very different stamp from the Cal-
wells and Wards, and Forrest’s views
were transmitted to his successors. bo,
although the population was a mere
65,000 in 1893, in the 10 years 1894-1903
inclusive 339,456 people came into the
country. They didn’t all stay, for there
was a natural drift back to the Eastern
States of men who had done well, as
also the inevitable proportion of failures,
but the net excess of immigration for the
10 years was 139,131. In one year, 1896,
it was 35,891, more than half the Calwell
“ceiling” for all Australia —the Australia
which has a population of 7,300,000, and
which, if good use is made of lessons
learned during the war at Whyalla,
among many other places, is capable of
industrial developments to which no limit
can be fairly set; and that is leaving
atomic-energy possibilities out of the
argument.
It would do Mr. Calwell good to have
a half-hour’s talk with Private Starcevich,
V.C. He might arrange to have the young
man’s story and that of his family made
the subject of a short-wave talk which
would be really useful to Australia in-
stead of being an outrage on it, full of
invidious Leftist impertinences. An im-
mediate difficulty is that the V.C., whose'
fighting history dates from El Alamem,
is detained at Borneo for lack of points,
though one of Mr. Ward’s favorite pugil-
ists, who spent the war on the home front,
and who has since been with the Army
Medical Corps at Wewak, expects to be
“home by Christmas.”
A Sweated Profession.
“Galenus,” from his consulting-room:
For many years Australia’s country hospitals
have provided a service which for general
efficiency could not be bettered anywhere else
in the world. They have been the means of
saving thousands of Australian lives, of reliev-
ing untold bodily suffering, of assuaging anxiety
and fears for loved ones amongst countless
families of the outback. They form the key-
bases for the Flying Doctor and Bush Nursing
Services which, with the help of pedal wireless,
have done so much to ameliorate the conditions
of outback life. They are an essential factor
in the settlement and development of rural Aus-
tralia, present and future.
The; most important factor in securing effi-
cient operation of any hospital is the work of
the nursing staff. Without the help of well-
trained nurses to carry out the intricate detail
of modem methods of treatment the work of
the surgeon and physician cannot be performed
effectively. Theirs is an arduous occupation.
It involves broken hours and night work; it
carries heavy responsibility; it offers few
amenities or opportunities for recreation; 'in
country hospitals it often has domestic drud-
gery combined with it. In comparison with
other occupations open to women nowadays,
it is grossly underpaid.
The war years have taught young women of
today to observe and consider such details be-
fore choosing nursing as a vocation. The Lady
of the Lamp romance is outmoded in this
materialistic age. Why waste the best years of
your life as an underpaid drudge in a dull
country hospital when you can get better pay
for far easier work in a city shop or office,
with all the amenities of life at hand, and in-
finitely better chances of meeting the Right
Man? The answer is to be found in a rapidly-
growing shortage of trainees, and the closing
of country hospitals on account of increasing
depletion of nursing staffs. It is going on all
over Australia. Unless it is stopped, and soon
at that, it will interfere gravely with settlement
and development, present and future.
Yet, our all-too-numerous “Governments”
have the remedy for this dangerous state of
affairs ready to their hands. They need only to
put into practice those elementary principles of
a fair wage, reasonable working hours and
proper working conditions about which they
are always ready to blather interminably as
the sacred rights of every worker. If the
States cannot agree on a uniform line of action
in the matter, there is nothing to prevent Can-
berra from adding a suitable amendment to the
present free-bot£le-of-medicine legislation. But,
however the thing is done, rates of pay for
nurses in country hospitals should be raised at
least one-third, duties defined in a way which
will exclude routine domestic drudgery from
nursing duty, provision made for annual leave
on full pay and for transfers for special train-
ing, for amenities such as a reception-room for
meeting friends, a free library service, including
works of professional reference, and a subsi-
dised superannuation scheme to provide for old
age if the Right Man does not appear.
It is a matter of vital importance to every
outback dweller. Consider what it will mean
if, in case of sudden serious illness, a ruptured
appendix, a perforating gastric ulcer or a com-
plicated labor, there are no hospital facilities
nearer than a city or big town. A very few
hours may mean the difference between life and
death. Get in touch with your local members,
you people of the outback, and impress upon
them what a serious and urgent matter this is.
They will find good talking material in it. And,
a final detail; if or when you get your hospital
staffed again with more contented nurses, try
to make the spare time of their busy responsible
lives a bit more cheerful. For a city-bred girl
the outback is a lonely place at first. Nurses
enjoy a dance, or a game of tennis, or a
friendly chat just as much as other healthy
young women —indeed more, by contrast with
the tragedies which they encounter in their
daily work.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
fj£. 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Making
lit!
ii!
in'!
nil;
PF
time
&
By
t HE Pk&h
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Do you need a t
Jhm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medicaland dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
nimlEank
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
By a 5-to-l judgment the Full High
Court dismissed a Commonwealth de-
murrer against an action brought by the
Victorian Attorney-General, who asked
for a declaration that the Pharmaceutical
Benefits (Free Bottle of Medicine) Act
was invalid and for an injunction to
restrain the Commonwealth from bring-
ing it into force. The Victorian Attorney-
General was Macfarlan, now out of Par-
liament, and there is no obligation on
his Labor successor. Slater, to proceed
with the action. But the Chifley Gov-
ernment immediately became prey to a
great Ifear for the validity of all its
“social-security” measures, and imme-
diately asked a party of barristers for
opinions. The money this mob has spent
in briefing barristers would have sufficed
for a fleet of coasting ships.
One result of the Government’s reverse
on the free-medicine racket was a state-
ment that the Federal A.L.P. delegates,
who are having a conference in Mel-
bourne, would press for another referen-
dum, covering “social security” and all
the powers refused in 1944, voting to be
“early next year.” Since Parliament is
out of action and three Labor Ministers
and three private members are abroad or
about to go abroad, there can be no vote
“early next year,” Legislation would be
necessary, and, under section 28, at least
two months must elapse after its passage
through both Houses. A referendum
concurrent with the general election is
more likely, and it might be made attrac-
tive.
“I have held the view, and I expressed
it quite freely during the referendum
campaign, that there is doubtful constitu-
tional authority for most of the social
legislation being operated by the Com-
monwealth,” said Barnard, M.H.R., chair-
man of the Commonwealth Social
' Security Committee, at Launceston. There
is also doubtful authority for the belief
that some of the social legislation will
lead to social security worth tuppence.
“S. M. Herald,” receiving a cable an-
nouncing de Gaulle’s' victory over the
French Red Fascists, put up the heading
“Communists Settle French Crisis,” The
leader-writer had to correct the cable
editor.
There were two McDonalds in the last
Victorian Assembly, both C.P. men, and
the redistribution obliged them to stand
for electorates altered in name and
composition. Alexander McDonald, an
Ararat grazier, failed to get in for Ripon,
but it was a close thing. John Glad-
stone Black McDonald, a Sheppartoft
orchardist, carried Shepparton by a sub-
stantial majority. Minister of Water
Supply and Electrical Undertakings in
Dunstan’s Cabinet, he has now succeeded
Dunstan as C.P. chief, and that means
that he will lead the Opposition, Dun-
stan was not one of the candidates. He
says he needs a rest.
Four of the six Victorian Ministers at
Canberra, Cameron, Holloway, Keane and
Drakeford, are elderly, and the others,
Dedman and Calwell, are no chickens.
Perhaps with this in mind, the Victorian
State Labor Caucus excluded nearly all
its old hands from the State Ministry, the
only exception being Slater (Chief Secre-
tary, Attorney- and Solicitor-General);
and Slater (55) is young compared with
Cameron, Holloway, Keane and Drake-
ford. Galvin (Lands and Water Supply),
Stoneham (Transport, Development and
* Decentralisation), Fraser and Coleman
(Ministers without Portfolio) are new
men. Cain, who is 58, is the oldest
member of his Ministry.
The announcement that Wilson, the
Wimmera “Independent,” was retiring
for “health reasons” was followed —
earlier than anticipated at Canberra —by
his being appointed Administrator of
Norfolk Island by Ward. Presumably
this will be the final payment for Wilson’s
vote —another item was a power-alcohol
factory which fell into the category of
white elephants even before it was com-
pleted. It amounts also to a rotten breach
with the tradition that the Norfolk Island
post should go to a serviceman. There
are hundreds, thousands, of servicemen
whose health has been impaired to a far
greater extent than Wilson’s —if there is
really anything wrong with him —by
operations against the enemy in the
Middle East and the tropical islands.
Any one of these men has infinitely
greater claims to the position than those
of a politician of no importance who
talked a great deal of nonsense about
banking, of which he knows less than
nothing.
“The Commonwealth Government is
aware of much of the work done in
London by me, and Commonwealth
Ministers know of my belief that the be-
ginning of migration need not be de-
layed as long as some people think,” said
Premier Cooper to the Queensland
Parliament. A Commonwealth Minister,
a Mr. Ward, has since derided that belief
by publicly stating that no immigrant will
be encouraged here until everybody in
Australia has a job. Which can only
mean no immigrants.
Unless the arrangements have gone
west, there are to be elections in Brazil
on December 2, the first since 1930. That
was the year of what London “Times”
described in a recent article as “the
Vargas coup d’etat”:
Dr. Getulio Vargas led a revolt against
the alleged fraudulent election of a President
from Sao Paulo. With the help of discon-
tented politicians from Minas Geraes, whose
candidate, like himself, had suffered elec-
toral defeat, Dr. Vargas marched to power
from his native State of Rio Grande do
Sul. In 1937 he formed the Estado Novo,
or “New State,” by promulgating a new and
rigidly authoritarian constitution, under
which he has since governed the country;
the Estado Novo suppressed all political
parties, Right, Left and Centre.
A decidedly queer character for an Aus-
tralian “Labor” Premier to visit as his
guest, as did McKell, of Redfern and
Macquarie-street, Sydney, McKell has
been very silent about his trip to Brazil,
but perhaps he found Vargas, if not a
kindred soul, one with mutual interests,
such as lotteries and trotters.
At a meeting of the Australian Wheat-
growers’ Federation it was resolved that
“returned servicemen should receive
special consideration when new wheat-
growers’ licences are being considered.”
So the A.W.F. wants to continue the
licensing of wheatgrowers. Considering
the results —among them a great falling
off in wheat production not caused by
drought—the A.W.F. should get its brains
brushed.
Senator Keane announced that shop-
keepers might now wrap parcels, restric-
tions on wrapping having been lifted. For
housewives it means that they can now
trudge from shop to shop and admire
the brown, grey and green paper tied
round their mounting loads. Keane’s
troubles about housewives, except at
election-time!
Four Libs, and two Labs, contested the
Toorak (Vic.) seat, and retiring-member
Thonemann looked like getting in with
5672 No. 1 votes. Allocating of prefer-
ences gave R. B. Hamilton, also a Liberal,
the winning place with 11,813 votes, his
No. 1 total being almost trebled by
electors who, for no discernible reason,
wanted to put Thonemann out. Hamil-
ton is an architect, and he must have been
the most astonished man in Melbourne.
Sabotaging of key industries by Com-
munists is having specially cruel effects
in Westralia. The heavy industries in that
State have for the first time received
orders from India and Ceylon. But they
are dependent on B.P. for coke, pig-iron
and steel; and the indications are that
they will lose the contracts and their
employees their jobs.
On a thousand Communist platforms
and in a thousand Communist articles
Menzies has been called “Pig-Iron Bob,”
and credulous people who are not Com-
munists or fellow-travellers have accepted
and repeated the impeachment. Actually,
scarcely any pig-iron was sent to Japan
in the Menzies Government’s time, and
the amount of scrap exported was only
a fraction of what the U.S.A. supplied
until Washington, which dictated the
policy, dictated a change to the ojher
extreme. Menzies must be smiling grimly
at a message from Auckland;
Because of fhe Australian steel industry
strike the N.Z. engineering indus|ry faces
its worst crisis for 30 years. At least 14,000
men are in danger of losing their jobs.
The supply of pig-iron from Australia is
cut off, and because of the shipping
shortage it is impossible to obtain any from
India.
“Yah, ‘Pig-Iron Ben!’”
Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” seemingly
astonished, reported that the “Acting
Minister for External Affairs (Mr.
Makin)” had “refused to state Common-
wealth Government policy on the Indo-
nesian situation.” It is understandable
that Mr. Makin should refuse to be
stampeded into an answer before consult-
ing the framers of the “policy.” At the
time they were busy on the wharves and
in Communist party rooms.
On November 20 the Adelaide Lord
Mayor’s Food for Britain appeal had
passed £51,000 in cash and South Austra-
lians had weighed in with over 70,000
food coupons. The Sydney appeal had
realised a trifle over £ll,OOO and nothing
was heard of the Melbourne one, which
had reached £17,000 a week before. The
entire population of S.A. would fit into
either of the Big Cities and leave room
for the population of Westralia.
“We must summon such detachment
and intellectual integrity to our task that
this trial will commend itself to posterity
as fulfilling humanity’s aspirations to do
justice.” From Justice Jackson’s very
eloquent opening address at the Nurem-
berg trials, quoted with admiration and
as an example to the world by the
“S.M.H.” correspondent in Nuremberg.
Then the young man turned on the words
“Julius Streicher, notorious Jew-baiter,
smiled maliciously his yellowed evil
face expressed open delight” as his own
idea of “detachment and intellectual
integrity,”
Though they never carried more pas-
sengers, Sydney’s Government-run tram
and bus services are suffering “serious
financial losses” and the Commissioner
is worrying the Labor Government for
Ijigher fares, tipping a loss of £300,000 for
the year. Higher fares, of course, would
be a much easier way of correcting the
drift than cutting down costs or dealing
with “scalers,” who are reckoned to get
away with £50,000 a year in unpaid fares.
For some strange reason they don’t have
these troubles in other cities,
Victorians may not have thought much
of the Dunstan-Hollway Government,
but their opinion of the nine members
who joined with Labor to vote it out,
and of Macfarlan who then twisted on it
and took five of its wreckers into a
“Ministry” was positively ferocious. The
nine were Haworth, Gumming, Michaelis,
Maltby and Everard (Liberals), Mackrell
and Allnutt (C.P.), Hughes and Hollins
(Independents). Only Michaelis, Maltby
and Everard scrambled back, in each
case on preferences thrown to them as
the lesser of two evils; the others, with
Macfarlan, were horribly defeated.
The fact that Canberra had decided to
recognise the “Government” of Poland,
in reality only another of Moscow’s
agencies in Eastern Europe, was let out
in London four days before Australians
heard about it. Even then the news was
not spread officially, save to Moscow and
its Polish instruments. Perhaps the
wandering Minister was not altogether
insensitive to the effect it might have on
American estimations of his greatness as
a champion of “democracy” and of
oppressed nations.
The bushfire season is approaching in
Victoria—over 20 fires were spotted on
a recent hot day. These fires, most of
them burning-off blazes, are apt to burn
right through the summer, and need only
a 60-mile gale and 115 in the shade —
conditions which prevailed on the dread-
ful day in 1939 when numbers of people
perished and millions went up in smoke —
to start a major conflagration. At the
same time has been announced a
20-year scheme for making the forests
safe and productive. It is to cost
£20,000,000 to £30,000,000 in the first
decade. Yet there is no central over-
riding authority to control the half-dozen
departments concerned.
Federal bureaucrats now occupy just
short of 1,000,000 square feet of office
space in Melbourne. Annual rental is
£261,258, and, as if this were not enough,
another 83,000 square feet is to be requi-
sitioned. The public was told that this
war-time invasion of Melbourne was a
temporary measure, and the city would
be evacuated as soon as the war was over.
Meantime, ex-servicemen with business
interests can’t get going.
A press censorship worthy of Moscow
is to be proposed by the Queensland
A.L.P. at the Federal Labor conference:
A statutory newspaper commission to be
set up to appoint, supervise and, when
necessary, discipline or dismiss the editor of
every daily or weekly newspaper with an
average circulation of 50,000. The commis-
sion to consist of a Judge or other ex-
perienced lawyer nominated by the’Univer-
sity Senate and members nominated by the
P.M., the Opposition-leader, editors of all
newspapers and the A.J.A.
It is inconceivable that any Judge, uni-
versity Senate, Liberal or C.P. leader
would have anything to do. with this
monstrous development of the union
mind, though a briefless barrister of the
required color might.
Haylen, one of the three Labor poli-
ticians who were sent to the 1.L.0.
palavers, with salaries going on and every-
thing else found, reports Another Austra- (
lian Victory—a resolution approving of
“a fortnight’s holiday for all workers in
dependent territories.” 7 Haylen, who
writes plays and hopes to get them pro-
duced in a “national” theatre, said “the
debt to the Fuzzywuzzies would Have to
be paid.” Neither Haylen nor any of
his crowd will do any paying.
Victoria’s Railway Department has
lost six trucks and the Commis-
sioners will be pleased if anyone know-
ing their whereabouts will disclose the In-
formation. It is suspected that the trucks
are hidden among weeds covering lines
which have passed into desuetude since
N.S.W. coalminers decided to stick to the
programme of no work between meals.
During the depression of the ’thirties
Queensland fared much better than any
other mainland State, obviously because
of its comparatively well-distributed
population, and the healthy condition of
Canada, evidenced by its impressive war-
effort and loan subscriptions, which latter
dwarf Australia’s, may be attributed in
part to the same cause. Canadian cities
are small by Australian Big-City stand-
ards Montreal, 903,000; Toronto,
667.000 ; Vancouver, 275,000 Winnipeg,
221,000; Hamilton, 166,000; Ottawa,
154,000; Quebec, 150,000; Windsor,
105,000; Edmonton, 93,000; Calgary,
88.000 ; London, 78,000 ; Halifax, 70,000;
Regina, 58,000 ; Victoria, 44,000 ; Saska-
toon, 43,000. These are 1941 census
figures —Australia, so extravagant in a
hundred ways, has had only one census
since 1921.


A BLONDE IS SAVED.


Quickly
relieved with
e/HP/us
- -* ,
GIN PILLS strengthen weak kidneys—
help them to banish excess uric acid
and other impurities from the system—
relief from Rheumatism soon follows.
As soon as y'ou experience the first
signs of Rheumatism you should com-
mence at once with Dr. Sheldon’s GIN
PILLS. Gin Pills contain no harmful
ingredients and can be taken by any-
one.
27 pills 1/9
60 pills 2/9
DR. SHELDON'S
YL
!V
m
v %
M
mm
■ m
THE COMMONWEALTH/ OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Wanted': A Healthy Self-interest
For the good of Australia it will be
well if its people exhibit a healthy, intelli-
gent self-interest in quick time now
that the war is over. There must be an
attempt soon to regain production equili-
brium, to restore industrial confidence and
commonsense, to revive incentives for
thrift. The people as a whole will be
better off when they start taking a prac-
tical attitude in improving their living and
educational standards. The sooner the
home-making interest can be made to
blossom throughout the land the better
it will be for the progress of the country
in many ways. Just now there is a morbid
kind of self-interest abroad that is con-
cerned mostly with class envies, jealousies
and economic fallacies. The people are
far from being organised in the most effec-
tive way to rehabilitate themselves
economically, mentally and physically.
Nobody in their senses would say that
economic conditions in the Common-
wealth at present are satisfactory. We
are still in the aftermath of war, and of
war-time politics. Production, transport
and finance are still out of gear, inside
Australia and beyond its shores. Our
living standard is much below that estab-
lished before the war, and politics, law
and order are in a strained condition.
There has to be a restoration of stabil-
ity and order in all these things before we
can hope to set an industrial course that
will, with any certainty, provide the living
standards, housing facilities and economic
security that is the aim of all peoples,
and for which, or to maintain which,
some have been led into war. Many Aus-
tralians are still taking a breather to
recover from the burdens, mental and
otherwise, that they have borne during
the recent conflict. In the meantime
organised trade-unionism is very active,
and is making demands that obscure
present and future living standards. Sec-
tions of the population which have borne
a far greater proportion of war’s burden
are slower in reorganising their affaiis
to meet the changed circumstances —
changed both in regard to personal and
national considerations.
But trade-union selfishness is not going
to have everything its own way piuch
longer. The long and wasteful strike in
the Sydney job-printing trade was a
failure. There is a side to industry which
sees that mere regimented selfishness on
the part of wage-earners is no good to
anybody—not even to wage-earners them-
selves in the long run. In the interests
of everyone there must soon be taken a
stand in Australia against all obstruc-
tions to a general recovery in living
standards.
There are Communist and militant
trade-union rats which are gnawing con-
tinuously at the foundations of democ-
racy, and which no more desire to see
an enlightened and economically indepen-
dent people any more than Hitler and
Mussolini in the past desired to see it in
their own particular countries, or the
Soviet Government desires it today. But
Australia is fundamentally a democracy,
and those people who really fought for
democracy during the war will turn
their attention to problems in their own
country before very long.
What are these problems? To begin
with, there is the problem of getting in-
dustry into a position to produce the
goods required by the population and that
are within its means to buy. Before the
war industry was on its toes to produce
what the people wanted, and there was
generally a surplus of production rather
than a shortage. Promoters of new busi-
nesses were eager to set up fresh enter-
prises to turn out new types of goods and
meet shortages of other goods. Under
these conditions houses could be built at
what is now realised to have been a very
reasonable price, with good workmanship
and a wealth of conveniences. There was
an abundance of high-quality clothing,
plenty of food—butter, sugar, tea, meat,
etc., in unrestricted quantities—a wide
variety of liquor and “smokes,” local and
imported, at prices far lower than are
paid today, ample stocks of new motor-
cars and a second-hand car market in
which vehicles could be bought at a heavy
discount when only a year or two old, and
adequate transport facilities, including
hotel and boarding-house accommodation.
The proprietary side of industry is still,
in the main, ready to do all it can to bring
about a return of pre-war industrial con-
ditions, provided it will be reasonably
compensated for its efforts. But many
difficulties stand in the way of a return to
full production. Firstly, there is the
question of raw materials on which to
work, or with which to work. Some of
these are short because they have to be
imported, and there may be transport, ex-
change or other difficulties. Others are
short because of labor troubles within
Australia —the go-slow policy on the N. S.
Wales coalfields, when it doesn’t amount
to an actual strike, is holding up manu-
facture all over the Commonwealth, coal
being the vital fuel that drives nearly all
the machinery of the continent.
In addition to raw-material problems
there is the labor problem in factories
themselves. A number of industries are
finding it difficult to get the hands needed
—the clothing and textile trades are
chronically short of staff, and many addi-
tional vital functions in the industrial
system are similarly afflicted. In other
industries there are strikes and reduced
production, with a general restiveness and
demands for wages, etc., in excess of the
capacity of many industries to pay. The
net result of the labor problem is that
the necessary productive capacity is not
yet in sight, even if, in the number of
wage-earners available, there should be
very near the required capacity. Without
unjustified retaliation by employers, wage-
earners will have to become used to doing
a fair thing in the near future if living
conditions are to be restored within a
reasonable time. Adequate coal output
is one vital factor in the building-up of
living standards, and steel production is
another essential.
The need for houses may compete to
some extent with the rehabilitation of the
manufacturing industries, which will
make calls upon the building and struc-
tural supplies available. There will be
other clashes of interests along these lines,
and the best that can be done is to be
prepared for them and to endeavor to
make a fair sharing of short supplies in
the public interest. A short view of the
public interest might be that all supplies
should be made available immediately
and put into the hands of the people for
their consumption or use ; but if industry
is denied what it requires for repairs, re-
placements and expansion there may be a
major failure of supplies for all purposes.
These are some of the internal diffi-
culties confronting a return to a rational
peace-time way of living. There are a
number of external problems as well. The
British Empire is short of dollars, with
which it buys American goods, and the
British Empire, especially the Old Coun-
try itself, has been far more severely hit
on the production side, by actual war
damage and associated circumstances,
than has the United States. Thus the
Empire is having difficulty in building up
its export trade to a level high enough to
obtain sufficient foreign currency, includ-
ing dollars, to pay for essential goods
obtainable satisfactorily only outside the
Empire.
Lend-lease was brought to an abrupt
conclusion very soon after actual war
with Japan ended, and the enormous pro-
duction potential of the United States is
no longer of assistance to the Empire
unless the Empire has the dollars with
which to pay. So far any discussions in
Washington have not revealed a desire
on the part of the United States to help
the Empire obtain the necessary dollars by
building up its export trade. This dollar-
exchange problem, in addition to the
problem of high American tariffs on most
goods which Australia produces for
export, is likely to have a serious effect
on the speed of our post-war economic
recovery. The Bretton-Woods currency
plan is at present dormant, and is claimed
by U.S. banking interests to be unwork-
able.
In the midst of so many circumstances
over which Australia has not complete
control we find our Government and sec
tions of the people creating home-made
difficulties that are almost insanely ob-
structing to a return to prosperity in this
country. Revolutionaries are at the
bottom of much of the obstructionism.
There were only 252,000 subscribers —
one in every 29 of the population —to the
Fourth Victory Loan, even after two
extensions. Receipts were £86.2 mil-
lion. Biggest public response to an
Australian war loan was in October,
1943, when 567,700 people and in-
stitutions put up £126 million be-
tween them. But that operation was
hardly a success either. All through
the Pacific war too much bank credit
figured in the filling of war loans. It is
probably the fact that the Labor party
has discouraged the investment spirit over
many years that has had most to do with
our public loan failures; but the Bank of
Adelaide’s chairman (knight Howard
Lloyd) has a comment to make on interest
rates: —
The low rates offered for war loans
have not attracted the number of small
individual investors so desirable when ex-
penditure by the Government is so lavish,
and it is feared, judging by the Common-
wealth Bank’s and the Commonwealth
Savings Bank’s largely increased holdings
of Commonwealth Government securities,
that substantial portions of the loans were
financed by central bank credit. This has
contributed largely to the monetary inflation
that has occurred.
Low interest rates are conducive to the
liquidity of a country’s financial position,
as they tend to keep funds idle awaiting
investment; funds of this nature are poten-
tial ready spending power and further
aggravate the present inflation.
It is quite true that existing interest
rates on Consols are flattering to the
Canberra Government’s credit. But it is
doubtful whether a mere lifting of in-
terest rates would rectify the position.
More to the point would be a strengthen-
ing of the Commonwealth credit by im-
proved administrative methods and a
scrapping of political pandering and
favoritism. Small investors are more in-
terested in general financial and political
confidence than they are in fractional
movements in interest rates.
* * * *
There is a little more activity on the
Stock Exchanges following some post-
war lifting of price ceilings. There have
been a few falls in prices, and a number
of front-rank stocks, including Electro-
lytic Zinc, Cumberland Paper, Associated.
Newspapers, Pitt, Son and Badgery, North
Broken Hill, South and Zinc Corp. had an
active market last week. Koitaki Rubber
has relaxed, following announcement of
labor difficulties in Papua under Eddie
Ward. But most bank scrip is in keen
demand, and 8.H.P., A.C.1., Tooth, Carl-
ton, Castlemaine - Perkins, Bradford
Cotton, Colonial Sugar, British Tobacco
and most shipping issues are pressed
hard against the prices ceiling. The Com-
monwealth Government has not yet clari-
fied its policy with regard to control of
Stock Exchange prices. The legal posi-
tion appears still to be that Common-
wealth powers of control will expire six
months after the end of the war. The
war is generally considered to have ended
at the beginning of September.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Q
as
ŕ
ŗ
ř
. . . what a difference in
strength and endurance
Steels all look alike; performance in service shows you the difference,
when high tension steels are used.
Not only in nuts, bolts, and studs, but In many other engineering
applications, Comsted High Tensile Steels completely meet the needs
of today’s engineering developments. Lighter weight with extra
strength, because smaller cross sections can be employed; greater
resistance to stresses; maximum rigidity; these are some of their
outstanding properties.
For your production today the equipment you are planning to
manufacture in the future it may well be that those steels offer the
solution to many of your problems.
COMSTEEL
High Tensile Steels
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED . Steel Manufacturers . Head Office & Works: Waratah, N.S.WI
Branch Warehouses:. Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
Inflated Buying Power
Between June, 1939, and June, 1945,
the purchasing power available to the
people increased from £613 million to
£1357 million, according to Common-
wealth Bank estimates. It makes its
comparison as follows:
June, June,
1939. 1945.
£million. £million.
Notes in hands of public .. 33 170
Deposits of public with
Commonwealth Bank and
all trading banks* .. 334 620
All savings-bank deposits .. 246 567
~613 1357
* Excluding deposits of Governments, other
banks -and savings banks.
The increase there is £744 million, which
is more than a doubling of the pre-war
purchasing power. In addition, the
central bank regards £65 million of war-
savings certificates as partly a spending
reserve; it is not necessary to find a
buyer in order to cash them. Another
factor may also enter the picture. Some
part of the reduction in overdrafts since
war began, while not an addition to avail-
able purchasing power, represents a
possible source of credit re-expansion
later on. Apart from public investment
in Commonwealth loans (also a possible
basis of credit expansion) public savings
during the war seem to have been in the
vicinity of £9OO million.
Referring to its own estimates the cen-
tral bank says:
The dimensions of credit expansion
during the war should make it clear that
in order to maintain reasonable price
stability during the post-war transition
period there can be no speedy and complete
relaxation from the discipline, both self-
imposed and imposed by authority, under
which the Australian citizen has passed
these critical years. The payment of war-
time gratuities and deferred pay to ser-
vicemen will also swell the volume of
accumulated purchasing power which, as
available information demonstrates, has
been kept in a large measure in liquid
form of bank deposits. The existence of
this substantial total of readily spendable
savings will be potentially dangerous to
price stability during the transition period
in which material shortages of one kind
or another can only gradually be relieved.
No apologies are made, therefore, for the
reiteration of the need for continued re-
straint on spending. The increased pur-
chasing power must be prevented from forc-
ing up the prices of goods in short supply
if inflation, hardship and gross inequality
of sacrifice are to be avoided.
For a variety of reasons Australia stands
confronted with this inflationary problem,
a problem anticipated and forecast by
The Bulletin as long as four years ago.
It represents a clear answer to that in-
credible humbug H. P. Lazzarini, who
once referred to “inflation talk” as “in-
sidious propaganda intended to stampede
the Labor people against the Govern-
ment.” This same maker of idiotic mis-
chief once accused the banks of “counter-
feiting cheque pounds” because they
conducted a cheque system of exchange,
Australia’s present economic position
demonstrates the truth of the warnings
given by people possessing financial com-
monsense as well as the falsity of the
contentions made by Labor and Leftist
currency Franks for years past. Our
difficulties now call for hard work, com-
munity co-operation, economical Govern-
ment expenditure and the re-establish-
ment of financial confidence.
For the four months to the end of
October Australia’s “war” expenditure
was far above the rate forecast by Mr.
Chifley in his misleading Budget speech.
The Prime Minister and Treasurer spoke
of an outlay of £360 million for the
year, whereas spending for the four
months has been £152 million, at the rate
of £456 million p.a. It may be that ex-
ceptional expenditure is occurring now,
especially in the clean-up of the lend-
lease hangover; but this paper, at the
time of the Budget’s presentation, pointed
out that analysis of the figures showed
the estimated “defence” outlay for
the year was more like £4OB million than
£36o‘million, and that there appeared to
be political humbug behind the whole
thing. The four months’ war expenditure
was financed, as to £7l million, out of
taxation, and, as to £Bl million, out of
borrowed money. The Budget forecast
of borrowing for the whole 12 months
was £152 million, so that, in four months,
more than half the proposed loan-fund
assistance has been drawn on. The bal-
ance between revenue and borrowing may
come more into line later, but the Gov-
ernment is again relying on bank credit
for portion of its finance. That is apart
entirely from the assistance given by
savings banks in filling “public” loans.
The poor support by individuals to the
Fourth Victory Loan suggests that bank
credit in one form or another will be
used extensively this year if the Gov-
ernment can’t find some means of re-
ducing its extraordinarily high “war”
expenditure.
* * * ♦
The fundamental need in world trade
problems is for trade to balance in the
long run. In order for trade to balance
each country must buy from the rest of
the world as much as it sells to it. There
may be items of an investment nature
going on internationally at the same time
which must also be taken into account
in striking a balance; but it should be
plain to all that it is necessary for other
countries to be prosperous in order for
the United States to sell to them. Never-
theless, it would seem from much of the
financial bargaining that has been going
on in Washington that there are quite a
few Americans who believe that it is
possible for Britain to be deprived of her
export trade and at the same time forced
to buy heavily from the United States,
• ,
Even Americans should suspect such
Americans. Sectional exporting interests
m the U.S.A. may be quite happy to see
the U.S. Treasury advance Britain bil-
Lons of dollars on loan regardless of any
consideration other than that of opening
up British markets more freely to sec-
tions of American industry. Such sec-
tional selfishness is scarcely unknown in
any country. During the decade that fol-
lowed the 1914-18 war Britain lent money
freely to Australia, much to the delight
of British exporting interests but hardly
to the benefit of this country’s credit or
industrial strength in the long run. The
ultimate result of it all was a tight re-
striction on all imports during the de-
pression because of shortage of overseas
funds and the heavy cost of paying in-
terest on boom-time borrowings.
. • • • • •
If the United States aims to lend Britain
billions of dollars merely for the purpose
of buying its way into Empire markets
without opening up U.S. markets on a
corresponding scale then it is merely post-
poning the day of economic chaos that
has been threatening the world since long
before World War II began. The pet-
tiest of political considerations seem to
have prompted much of the preliminary
bargaining at Washington. It is not too
much to say the American view in many
quarters was miserably shortsighted. This
is possibly because of the queer financial
non sense that has captured the imagina-
tions of many u.S. citizens under the in-
struction of Mr. Stuart Chase and others
of the anc j possibly, too, because
of the makeshift financial arrangements
which Roosevelt used in the earlier years
of his New Deal. Americans who accept
the fi nanc i a l methods of the New Deal
as b eing something of permanent, uni-
versal va i ue could quite easily convince
themselves that the British Empire could
borrow its way back to prosperity and
at the same t i me gi ve its markets away
to the United States,
* * ♦
. A j
According to Minister Dedman, man -
facturers may now make any type or
furniture provided the quality is satisfac-
tory. Prices will still be under the con-
trol of the Prices Commissioner. Furni-
ture, like housing, remains in very short
supply, and the quality generally is not
marvellous, notwithstanding Mr. Dedman.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jamwood”: It is nothing new for
John Francis Barnes, Esquire (Bunda-
berg), to be suspended by his fellow-
Assemblymen for a fortnight, with loss
of pay, but his latest suspension had novel
features. Brother Louis Joseph Barnes,
Esquire (Cairns), voted for it, and the sus-
pended member of the family was evicted
from The Lodge, which is maintained at
Parliament House for the use of mem-
bers, and, by all accounts, is as com-
fortable a dosshouse as you could find
anywhere. In this Queensland is peculiar,
as it is in the official description of mem-
bers, here quoted from the Parliamen-
tary publication—in no other “Hansard” I
know does a legislator get the old courtesy
title. All the Ministers and the Speaker
are Honorables and all the rank-and-file
Esquires. The existence of a Lodge in
Perth would have been convenient for an
Assemblyman I knew long A dun
pursued him with blue paper, and he
elected to seek sanctuary in the legisla-
tive halls and sleep on one of the benches.
He held the fort for a couple of weeks,
but, venturing out for a breather one hot
night, he was nabbed by his relentless
pursuer and did not return to his uneasy
couch. It never occurred to him to take
proceedings “the Bundaberg Bomb-
shell,” I see, is suing one of the detectives
who “thrun” him out, claiming £2OO dam-
ages, with extras, for assault.
* * * *
“J.E.M.”: That reference to the re-
appearance of peace - time grey on
warships (B. 24/10/’45) neglected the
return of a more significant custom
—the Union Jack flying from its
staff on the foc’sle. K.G.V. flew hers
proudly on berthing in Sydney and
Melbourne. Night and day at sea during
the war the white ensign streamed from
the mainmast gaff, but because of its foul-
ing the for’ard guns when firing dead
ahead, the Jack and its heavy stanchion
were stowed away for the duration. Now
truly a symbol of a fight won and over,
all ships of our navies run it up as the
anchor slips.
» * * *
“E.D.”: Humorless themselves, the
Communists are the cause of humor
in others. Their W.A. sheet, whoop-
ing on the occasion of the 25th
anniversary of the Movement, said
“Westralia has contributed many grand
pages to Australian Labor history,
and notable leaders of the working-class
struggle from miner ‘Ten Foot Ned’ to
John Curtin.” So far from being a miner,
“Ten Foot Ned” was a Weld Clubber.
He was knight Edward Wittenoom, who
died not so long ago full of years. When
one of Forrest’s Ministers, Wittenoom
framed a regulation providing that when
gold was found on anybody’s property all
the yield below a depth of 10ft. reverted
to the owner of the property. The regula-
tion caused an uproar, and was mainly
responsible for a wild day at Kalgoorlie,
on which Forrest was prodded in the
stomach by a one-legged demonstrator.
The regulation was withdrawn, but ever
after that Wittenoom, an M.L.C. who
interlarded his speeches with Latin
(incidentally, he fathered a second family
at a very ripe old age), never lost the
ironic title of “Ten Foot Ned” bestowed
upon him by irreverent newspapermen of
the day. Thus is history mutilated by
people who are so often quoting examples
of history to justify the follies they pro-
pose to commit in the future.
* * * ♦
“Overproof”: How many of the thou-
sands who rush for the trams each morn-
ing as they leave Sydney’s ferries ever
heard of the Bon Accord bridge? It
crossed at the foot of Pitt-street, which
did not then reach to where it does now.
The Tank Stream ran over a sandy bar
into the harbor, whilst another stream
joined it from the direction of Nock and
Kirby’s old store, and the bridge allowed
pedestrians, on payment of a halfpenny
toll, to cross the stream on to what was
then known as Semi-circular Quay. Once
across the bridge the pedestrian heard the
cry “Keep the smallest half of your
ticket” from the old chap at Prince’s
Jetty, whence the ferries left for Flat
Rock and Bantry Bay. Who knows where
either is now?
* * * «
“W.L.” on an aged recruit:
The Anna Maria was a stern-wheeler built at
Newcastle of Lowmoor iron. In the Maitland
“Mercury” of 1853 she is reported as steaming
up the Cedar River —now the Hunter —to land
goods at Horseshoe Bend, otherwise Port Mait-
land. Today a punt would stick in the mud
there. No other ship ever had engines like
the Anna’s. They were controlled by a device
called a “loose eccentric,” with one lever to
“Care to make a fourth for bridge ?”
manage all movements. Her rudder was in
front of her paddle and she steered erratically.
The cedar trees vanished, farms took the place
of forests, but the Anna Maria never altered.
Once she was reported missing with all hands,
but she was only hiding up the Williams River,
away from a flood. After the Great War motor
lorries collared most of the Hunter River trade.
The Anna had a long, wide hatch suitable for
loading railway iron, and she carried it from
rolling mills in Newcastle to build the North
Coast railway. One day, when so loaded,
she was heading for the open span of Dun-
more bridge. A ship’s length from the bridge
she suddenly swerved to port and went clean
under the fixed part of the bridge. Old Jerry, the
bridge-master, shook his fist and yelled “You
old swine, why in hell didn’t you do that
40 years ago? And me opening this damn
bridge for you all the time.” About 1930 the
Anna left the Hunter for a job on a northern
river, towing barges piled with sugarcane.
Early in the Japanese war she was loaded with
munitions and towed to New Guinea. For the
Milne Bay operation she carried troops. The
Anna Maria made a number of trips, hut then
one day as she backed clear of the mangroves
Japanese ’planes came over and a bomb got
her fair and square.
V <• * *
“McN.”: My black-marketeer is noth-
ing if not frank, “I was looking for a
drop of gin or something for Christmas,”
I hinted. He shook his head. “Looks
like bein’ tough. There ain’t much methy-
lated about,” he said.
* * * #
“Freedom”: When they could, over-
come their annoyance the people of Adel-
aide did get a laugh out of the tram-
men’s strike. When it began the
tramway authorities didn’t seem very wor-
ried about it. Later, when the railway em-
ployees staged a one-day strike in sym-
pathy the authorities seemed quite cheer-
ful. When the strike was a fortnight old
the disputes committee of the Trades and
Labor Council ordered a one day’s
general strike—and someone blew the
gaff. With Adelaide’s coal stocks in such
a desperate position the strikes were im-
proving the coal position. The tone of
the tram-men changed. They put on
their uniforms again, and coal consump-
tion increased to danger level once more.
♦ * * *
“Gunroom”: These times when with
a bracing of padded shoulders I try to
batter a way into a bar I usually heave
a sigh for the A.C.F. Club at Tel-
Aviv —the “Aussie Club.” Old Middle
Easters will remember its cafe and beer
garden and the relief to drop in there
after the chaotic queues of the unit wet
canteens. Perhaps somewhere in some
Australian city there’s a Bung who saw
and remembers and will see what he
can do.
* • • •
“Stern-Wheeler”: One memorial Adel-
aide could well add to its no small collec-
tion is one to those two pioneers of the
River Murray trade, Randell and Cadell.
When first they went up the Murray few
bullockies had taken stores to or from
the Riverina for two years, having been
kept nearer to Melbourne and Sydney
by the rich freights of the gold - rush
periods. The value of holdings along the
rivers doubled when the Mary Ann and
the Lady Augusta first chopped the water
.above Swan Hill with their paddles, and
South Australia was able to gain the
whole of the Riverina trade (today, of
course, she has hardly a fraction of it).
Goods poured upstream from South Aus-
tralia, and wool, at good freight rates,
poured down. The central State must
have been, in the long run, the gainer by
some millions of pounds from the open-
ing up of the river trade — ) yet, although
Randell has a lock named after him, and
the home-made boiler of his first boat is
on display at Mannum, and a settlement
along the Murray is named after Cadell,
the capital city has no memorial to either.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: His Honor in Divorce
sympathised recently with a wife whose
husband had not spoken to her for 14
years although they had been living in
the same house, and found for her on
grounds of “technical desertion.” Non-
speakers have been greatly in evidence
in recent divorce cases, but the old record
—27 years of silence observed by a hus-
band who considered himself insulted
by his wife’s remarks about his non-
bathing habits, and had vowed not to
speak to her again until she apologised—
still stands. Also what ’Sonah described
as “one of the worst cases of mental
cruelty heard by this Court” —that of a
doctor who for years had never spoken
directly to his wife; when he had any-
thing to say to her he called the dog and
gave it a message to “tell your mistress.”
* * * *
“T.P.”: There are many Bulletin
regulars who will join in the welcome to
the returning “Bellerive” (B. 7/11/ ’45).
In days that the locust has devoured we
all looked forward to his weekly out-
pouring. Honor to Mrs. “Bellerive” for
saving him from the “shadow of the
trees.” May the shadow wait for him a
long, long time!
» * * ♦
“Jurumudi” remembers:
Little mention has been made during all the
“Indernesian” troubles of the two leading poten-
tates of Java, the Sultan of Jokjakarta and the
Susuhunan of Solo. Both are descended from
the founders of the empires which once
lorded it in those seas. The Modjopahit ex-
tended its sway over most of the vast archi-
pelago apd carried fire and sword into Malaya
and Siam. The Chinese khans sent ambassadors
to its court and they returned with tales ot
great luxury and splendor. Portuguese archi-
tects built palaces for its sultans, rococo-look-
ing places, one of which had a water garden
with a subterranean kiosk where, on tropical
aftembons, the sultan retired with his harem.
The Dutch East India Company obtained its
grip over the island by allying itself with o
prince or another, and when peace was estab-
lished it installed its allies in enormous krato
with handsome revenues and a shadowy s^ rv 5"T
lance over the surrounding country. The kraton
of the Sultan of Jokja harbored upwards ot
15,000 of his retainers, pangirans, wives ana
families and a ballet composed of his own
children, who were trained with the extraordi-
nary severity of the Russian imperial ballet but
on the principle that it is just as hard to dispense
with movement as to make it. His stables,
managed by an Australian trainer when 1 saw
them, housed Australian walers, and his garages
were filled with Rolls Royces and lord mayors
coaches. His daulat, or spiritual power, was
so excessive that anybody who approached him
in an upright posture was theoretically stricken
with paralysis, and anybody who touched his
regalia was smitten with dermatitis. Nail of the
Universe was one of his official titles. An
even holier personage was the Susuhunan,
though his establishment was slightly smaller.
He is the spiritual head of Islam in the islands.
On the strength of a letter given to me by the
late S. H. Prior, of The Bulletin, I was
allowed to approach to within 30 yards of the
Susuhunan without sustaining any damage. In
fact, he turned out to be a very friendly person
who had been educated in Holland, and he in-
vited me through his prime minister to partake
of the hospitality of his mountain villa.
* * * *
“Traintrav”: How do the Victorian
and South Australian railways prepare to
meet the challenge of air travel? The
timetable of the “express” that runs be-
tween Adelaide and Melbourne has been
altered, for the worse, by 20 minutes.
The naive explanation is that it is done
to ensure that the express runs on time
more often!
* He ♦ *
“Laetitia”: I found a companion to
“Surd’s” individual, who believed him-
self specially favored by the fickle jade
(B. 14/11/’45), in the Dutch engineer
officer on the Bontekoe, N.G.-bound in
the worst days of 1942. Crammed with
Australian troops, the old Bontekoe was
a target for Japanese ’planes. The Dutch-
man must have sensed my uneasiness.
“This ship can’t get hit,” he told me. “It’s
lucky because I’m on it.” When the raid
was over I learned that he had beaten
the Germans out of Amsterdam by 20
minutes, had been on the only survivor of
a particular flotilla at Dunkirk and had
lain alongside the Macdhui at Moresby
when the Japs blasted her. This was his
fourth escape in the Bontekoe. The ship
survived that particular raid and many
others during the bad days of that next
year.
“M e 1 b n”: Melbourne’s
Lud Mayor Connelly got
himself into hot water
through his advocacy of
beer gardens and Sunday
entertainment. There are
people in Melbourne who
are far less perturbed at the
possibilities of atom-bomb
warfare than at the thought
of having a drink in the
open air. However, the
Musicians’ Union is all in
favor of the Lud. Mayor’s
notion of a brighter Sunday.
It has written him a letter
envisaging the establishment
in the post-war world of a
city symphony orchestra and
looks to the co-operation of
the City Council in bring-
ing it to fruition in the
belief that open-air entertainment would
be of the greatest value. It isn’t quite
clear whether the union favors a wet
or dry cupboard for its Sabbath music.
* * * *
“Bargee”: That idea of broaching
beer kegs by squeezing them with a
Spanish windlass until they leaked (B.
31/10/’45) was crude compared with the
method used on Murray River boats in
my mis-spent youth. A hoop was knocked
up, a half-inch hole bored in the keg, the
beer run off, a bit of wood plugged into
the hole and rasped off level, and the
hoop tapped back over it.
*** * ,
“Sixenale”: Those “blank walls” the
police encounter are never quite as blank
as they seem to the uninitiated. An under-
world character was badly knifed, and
died without disclosing the identity of his
attackers. Not a word could be got from
anyone else, and nobody apparently had
heard any sounds of a struggle. Within
24 hours the cops had the right man under
lock and key. He had sent a suit to a
cleaner, and although a rough attempt
had been made to get rid of the blood,
there were still stains which tallied with
the blood of the dead man. The police
require all laundries and dyers and
cleaners to hold any blood-stained gar-
ments brought to them until the oppor-
tunity to examine the stains is given ; even
people like butchers and slaughtermen
occasionally find the return of their
laundry delayed. Besides, laundry marks
on the clobber of many mysterious
corpses have helped to identify them; in
fact, laundries are a very useful agency
to the police in their clean-ups.
A PRESIDENT’S PREFERENCES.
“In a resolution attacking President Truman for
his attitude towards drink and gambling, a Baptist
General Convention in Texas placed it on record that
‘no man, not even a President, can be a good Baptist
who plays poker and drinks Bourbon.’ ” — Cable.
How fierce the light, says some sagacious poet
(Shakspeare, I think), that beats upon a
throne;
And many a monarch has good cause to know
it,
Including quite a late one of our own;
And here is cogent evidence to show it
Doesn’t apply to kings and queens alone.
It’s what all powers that be perforce have got
To face, hereditary ones or not.
It matters not how high a man may measure
In statesmanship and all therein that lies,
His recreations in the hours of leisure
Must be exposed to interested eyes
To furnish comment or provoke displeasure
And give occasion for his enemies
To frown censoriously and interject
“Tut-tut” —and other words to that effect.
Myself, I’m not particularly curious
Whether stern moralists believe or no
That Winston’s huge cigars are too luxurious,
Or if the vodka swigged by Uncle Joe
At banquets is regarded as injurious
Not to his system but his status quo,
Weak’ning the tie that otherwise exists
Between him and his co-religionists.
To like a tiddley after all is human,
Notably when it bears a famous brand;
And who is there to say that the acumen
Developed as one’s poker cards are scanned
May not be advantageous to Truman
When next he sits him down to take a hand
Where the Big Three, with all the skill it takes,
Are met to play a game for higher stakes.
Ah, let world figures rest from their exertions
In any fashion that their tastes commend.
It’s no-one’s business to throw aspersions
On aught conducive to that needful end
Or sourly criticise the pet diversions
In which the great and the near-great unbend.
Outside of working hours each should be free
To choose his favorite amenity.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“V. Cluse”: At our little social club
the speaker for the evening discoursed on
the interpretation of dreams, and when
question time came did his best with some
of the samples put before him. Jirnsen
and his missus continued the discussion
on the way home and over a pre-bunk
cup of tea, until Jirnsen dropped the tea-
pot and smashed it, the milkjug and two
cups. Came the dawn and J. was still
interested. “Wonder what that dream
bloke would „make of my dream last
night?” he wanted to know. “Dreamt I
was playing billiards and scoring cannons
all round the table, only the balls were
cups and saucers.” Mrs, J. sniffed. “So
that’s what you were doing under the bed
with the coat-hanger. I thought a cat
must have got in or something.” The
Js. have decided to give dream-lectures
a miss in future.
* * * *
“A.W.”: Add to “Pookie’s” refreshing
list of postposed prepositions (B. 7 /11 / ’45)
this by a nurse who was reading aloud
to a patient: “What do you choose this
kind of book to be read to out of for?”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: It wasn’t only new
types of land mines that put the Ginger
Beers’ nerves on edge (B. 31/10/’45). The
laying of even the familiar kinds could
be given a new twist, and the Hun engi-
neer wasn’t lacking in ingenuity. In some
cases hand-grenades were placed centrally
beneath the mines with the pin out, and
more than one sapper has laboriously
scraped away the earth, discovered the
grenade and removed it carefully, only to
find, too late, that it in turn was attached
to a further device. The job of “delous-
ing” one of our own minefields, with a
map and instructions for accurately plac-
ing each mine—they were invariably laid
in a pattern—was no sinecure. Some-
times a piece of match stick was sub-
stituted for the shear-pin, and the tension
of the spring was almost sufficient to
shear it. Possibly the most hated and
feared mine in the M.E. was the “Gyppo,”
made for the Egyptian Government. It
contained about 81b. h.e. The striker
spring was dispensed with, the falling
weight of the massive striker, held in
position by a shear pin, being sufficient
to touch off the detonator. The detonator
was pushed in with a piece of soft wood,
whittled to shape with a knife, which
was left in place to facilitate removing
the fuse. The mine was laid in country
infested with white ants, and when the
field was “deloused” the sappers found
the wood eaten away and no possible
method of extracting the detonator.
There was also the possibility that the
shear pin had been wooden, too! There’s
still a big job ahead for someone in
North Africa. Several large unmapped
minefields —enemy and our own —are
known to exist. In that vast sea of shift-
ing sand they may be uncovered one day
and inches —or more —deep the next.
* * * *
“Hist”; The scramble to buy antiques
(B. 14/11/’45) is an economic symptom.
Antiques, pictures, books, postage stamps
and the like have a standard of value
which has proved extraordinarily stable
through wars and depressions. Moreover,
it is an international value realisable in
any civilised country. That is the reason
why Governments have found it neces-
sary to impose controls on their import
and export; they offered a loophole in
the prohibition against the transfer of
funds? Most of today’s buyers have no
interest in aesthetic values—l am not
arguing whether the things have, or should
have, any—but are desperately anxious
to put their cash into anything likely to
maintain its worth in a shaky world. The
buying wave is world-wide. I admit , that
“Now, who was it Wanted twin girls ?”
prices being paid are fantastic —for
instance, a rare French postage stamp
which cost me 4000 francs pre-war is now
marketable in Paris at 60,000 francs if I
could get it there—but past experience
has shown that the fall, when it comes,
will not be as severe £s the rise.
* * * *
“Dutigalla”: In Melbourne recently
Acting-Judge Cussen, in sentencing a
vicious young brute to three years’ im-
prisonment with 10 strokes of the birch
for robbery with violence, warned him
that if he were again convicted of a
crime of violence he might be ordered a
flogging with the “cat,” “which is a very
different thing.” In this case the victim
had been attacked from behind, dragged
into a lane, pounded and kicked into a
state of helplessness and robbed of £9.
Unlike Sydney, Melbourne has had no
great outbreak of violent crimes, and
if young larrikins know in advance
what to expect such a wave of lawless-
ness may be avoided. Pity is that N.S.W.
doesn’t see fit to give the “cat” a trial.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Mick Paul (B. 14/11/’45)
was hailed as another Phil May in his
youth, but never trained on. In middle
life he turned to color work, in-
cluding portraiture, with occasional
success. He stayed for some years with
Harry Meatheringham, whose many ex-
ploits included the seizure of the old
Manly (N.S.W.) police station as a home
and a long fight with Authority over pos-
session. Mick, who hated paying rent
in the ordinary way, gave his host a num-
ber of paintings instead. For people who
are interested in the Bohemia of a genera-
tion that is fast fading out, they are in-
teresting. There are portraits of writers
and artists; one of Chidley, the apostle
of semi-nudity; another of Shirlaw,
“ Asters! Thought you said youd planted six bottles o’ beer!”
Chidley’s lieutenant, on whom his mantle
fell when he died. Shirlaw himself died,
quite recently, but he had long aban-
doned the public prosecution of Chidley’s
ideas. There is one of Curtis, too, an Oxford
graduate and a newspaper seller, who
wrote a life of Chidley which the Mitchell
Library preserves, Mick Paul made a
death mask of Chidley, replicas of which
were sold amongst the campaigner’s sup-
porters. He also painted portraits of
Fred, of the “Cafe de Fairfax” pie-stall,
Brunton, the Peanut King, and other
“characters,” all intended as entries for
the Archibald Prize; the subjects, he
argued, were within the category of “pro-
minent Australian personalities.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The aeroplane is knocking
half the romance out of the life of the
virtuoso. A musician now resident in
Australia, who 40 years ago was cele-
brated in Europe and toured Russia and
other countries as a juvenile prodigy of
the piano, delights to reminisce about his
travels —the receptions at wayside stations,
the tumultuous scenes at the big cities
where he was pulled to his hotel in a
carriage, the long stays on the estates of
great landed aristocrats like the Ester-
hazy s, whose ancestors entertained Beet-
hoven and Mozart —and about how he
got mixed up with revolutions in Europe
and the Black and Tans in Ireland. That
is all as dead as the dodo. The Tait firm
announces that Yehudi Menuhin, who is
playing in Moscow now, will fiddle twice
in Sydney and twice in Melbourne in
December, and can’t stay longer because
he is due to take a bow on January 4 in
Boston.
* * * *
“Hamfat”; Salesmen are used to
handling the ordinary objections of the
customers, but are likely to be nonplussed
by the unexpected. The musician who
was known on programmes as “Signor
Alberto Torzillo, Australia’s Premier
Harpist,” and was “Bertie” to those who
knew him, booked for a tour of M.L. and
decided that a new cabin-trunk was neces-
sary. An adroit salesman led him from
the cheap article that had caught his eye
to the alps of costliness. Bertie protested
that the cheaper article would do.
“But this trunk is really cheaper,” per-
sisted the salesman. “It will last a life-
time.” “B-b-but,” retorted Bertie, “how
d-do I know that I’m g-g-going to live a
lifetime?” The salesman let him off with
the cheap trunk.
“Bohemian”: “Jackson’s Folly,” the
grandest mansion in Hokitika (M.L.), has
been pulled down at last. It had been
unoccupied for 70 years. Jackson, a con-
tractor, chose a large corner section in
the suburbs, and commenced building an
ornate three-storey residence, with beau-
tiful gardens, two fountains in the front,
rose bowers and a windbreak of poplars.
When it was nearly finished Jackson
came a financial thud and ordered the
builders to stop until he had retrieved
his fortunes in Australia. For years he
paid rates, but at last these payments
ceased, and Jackson was heard from no
more. It was said that he went to
America. As the years rolled on vandals
looted the buildings. Windows were re-
moved bodily, pieces were wrenched
from the partially-built grand staircase
and doors were removed. Latterly the
structure had shown signs of collapse,
and its demolition was ordered.
* * * *
“Billjim”: Some months ago a house-
wife in our suburb with strong anti-
racing predilections heard a voice at the
other end of the wire. “Is that Mr. So-
and-So? No, well it doesn’t matter;
here are his good things for tomorrow.”
The lady’s annoyance increased after
several such experiences. At last she was
ready for the caller. A few weeks back
she answered the inquiry with “Mr. So-
and-So’s dead.” She hasn’t been bothered
since,
* * ♦ ♦
“Curtain Raiser” on child prodigies:
U.S., which produces new medical miracles
once a week, seems to be equally prolific in
child prodigies. The latest is Merrill Kenneth
Woolf, of Cleveland, who spoke his first com-
plete sentence at the age of four months, played
a Liszt Rhapsody at 22 months and graduated
from Yale at 14. He has composed several
sonatas and whipped off a 175-page score of a
septet in ten weeks. His achievement is over-
shadowed by that of Phillipa Schuyler, who
started playing the piano, at four, had written
100 opuses by 11 and recently witnessed a per-
formance of her “Manhattan Nocturne” for 100
players at the Philharmonic children’s concert
in New York. Phillipa lives on raw fish and
rump steak, and her parents believe her diet is
responsible for what she has done; but are
these precocious talents as remarkable as we
think them? A friend told me the other day
that he had heard over the air a sonata written
by Mozart when he was six and it seemed
incredible to him that a child of that age
could compose music at all. But music in
Wolfgang’s family was a sort of language which
everybody spoke, metaphorically speaking, as
they did in the families of Beethoven and Bach.
He learnt the musical idiom much in the
same way as he learnt German, and when he
came to compose he would simply have used
the musical ideas current at the time.
* * * *
“Uramao”: War prisoners in German
camps showed the same spirit as did the
prisoners of the Japs. At a camp in
Westphalia peopled largely by Maori-
landers it was made known to the guards
that a crazy Englishman had made a bet
that he would push a tennis ball round
the edge of the camp with his nose. . He
bandaged his knees and hands in prepara-
tion, and as it took some six hours to
do the circumference of the camp interest
among the sentries was spun out. The
undertaking accomplished, the sentries
found that a group of p.-0.-w. had made
a successful getaway.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Philosophising on the
housing shortage (B. 14/11/’45) Senator
Armstrong remarked that, although a lot
of people who were vociferous in de-
manding homes had to be content with
half a garage, the limb of a tree or shar-
ing a cottage with their mothers-in-law,
when houses became plentiful they would
find it much cheaper to live where they
were and wouldn’t want the new homes.
This, he claimed, was human nature. I
wish —oh, how I wish —Senator Arm-
strong had to live with my mother-in-
law!
# ip * *
“Bo”: For centuries in France, when-
ever disaster has overtaken the country,
there has been shrieked in white anger
one invariable cry “We are betrayed!”
Immediately upon which divers French-
men have stood on street corners and
with oscillating beavers and flailing arms
have volubly denounced the sacred pigs
responsible. But that is Latin Europe.
In Latin America, whenever an internal
upheaval comes upon them, the inhabi-
tants still wave their arms about—nowa-
days usually lease-lend tommy-guns —but
the invariable cry is “The national peter’s
been ratted again!” And that bitter cry
generally has a lot of truth in it. Most
Presidents of Latin America republics, it
is estimated, devote 5 p.c. of their time
to governing, the other 95 p.c. being de-
voted to feathering their nests against the
time when they will be shot out —or at.
Presidents who possess first-rate judg-
ment or employ skilful soothsayers are
usually able to beat the incoming rebel
vanguard to the back gate of the palace
by a safe margin, in the calculation of
which the handicap of a bulging leather
case is allowed for. Three seconds
after the Treasury strong-room door
swings open and a significant absence
of coin of the realm is apparent, the rebel
leader gnashes his moustachios prior to
voicing the age-old cry.
THE HEADLINE HUNTER.
“Criticising the Government for its lack of a
coherent foreign policy, Mr. Menzies said it had long
been an open secret at Canberra that ‘no other
Minister has the slightest idea of what Dr. Evatt is
going to do or say next.’ ”
Till Evatt hits the headlines
There’s none his secret shares
Or ventures a selection
Of what precise direction
We’ll take in world affairs.
His mates at home are busy
With local needs and strikes,
Which means that overseas he’s
Free to say what he pleases
And do just what he likes.
When Evatt hits the headlines
His say-so sure appears
As forceful as the capers
Of Calwell cursing papers
Or Eddie chasing cheers.
His views on various questions
Across the wires come hot
Before we’re ever going
To have a chance of knowing
Whether they’re ours or not.
When Evatt hits the headlines
With those who meet and mix
In amicable missions
To register decisions
On foreign politics,
We find we have a mouthpiece
Into such deeps who delves
Aglow with zeal and zest for us,
And clearly knows what’s best for us
Much better than ourselves.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Barwell had had a row with
Manton over the monotony of the tucker.
Some home truths flew around and Bar-
well was fired. A few days later he was
passing Manton’s bottom paddock on his
way into the township when he heard the
sound of axe on timber. He went over.
A young fellow was making an awful
hash of trying to chop a bluegum down.
Barwell, suppressing a grin at the many
amateurish gaps which extended over an
area of about four feet of the trunk,
learned that he was Manton’s new hand.
He was just up on his first time away
from the city. Barwell pointed out he’d
never fell the tree the way he was going
and sent him back to get extra tools. That
afternoon Manton on his return from a
trip to the township came down to the
paddock to see how his new employee
had fared. He couldn’t see him at first,
and then he noticed the small crater dug
around the tree. The new hand was
down in it, and his head was below
ground level. Manton wanted to know
what the adjectival hell he was doing.
“I’m trying to get at the tap root, of
course,” replied the sweating hand. “A
cove told me you had to sever that first
before it would come down. Trouble is,
I don’t know which one of them it is!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were standing out-
side the Workers’ Club in Mildura when
a young woman came along pushing a
pram wherein lolled an infant. The
mother glanced at Mat, then pushed the
pram handle into his hands and said
“Mind it a moment, will you?” Mat
looked astonished, and somewhat im-
patiently she snapped “You’re a married
man. You understand,” and rushed off
somewhere. He stood there, stricken,
while the kid gurgled up at him, and
some of our acquaintances stood about,
moved to mirth at the sight. Mat looked
desperate, until two women came by,
whereupon he shoved the pram at them
and said “Mind it a moment, won’t y’?”
They appeared slightly disconcerted,
whereupon he snapped “You’re married.
You understand,” and grabbed me by the
arm and rushed into the club. “Under-
stand what?” I asked inside. “Howinell
do I know,” he replied ; “but it worked,
didn’t it?”
“Smoke”: To “B. A. Ker” (B.
14/11/ ’45) is extended the hand of friend-
ship and the requested correction. In
tram, bus, lottery, etc., ticket cribbage
5,5, 5,5, 5 makes 40. With cards this
hand is also possible. My explanation
is simple, but I once had a flush
(in a different game from cribbage) with
two fives in it. The pack was new, but
crook. So was I when the betting finished.
* * * *
“Lub”: Rabbit skins had reached a
record price, and there was a war on
among trappers for paddocks to work.
Big Tim and I decided to knock over a
few bunnies. He’s got one of those high-
power rifles with a lot of fancy gadgets
and is more interested in showing off his
prowess than collecting skins. Near a
clump of scrub a good way off we sighted
a kero.-tin lying in the open; Jim, after
some argument with himself about wind
allowance and elevation, took careful aim
and fired, raising a flatter as the slug
ripped through the tin. Whereupon an
apparition burst from the scrub and beat
the air with its arms. “Blast yer!” it
roared. “I got permission t’ trap this
paddick! ”
* * * *
“Cadney”: That “friendly feeling” on
S.A.’s north line (B. 14/11 /’45) is not
really experienced until Quorn has been
placed between oneself and the City of
Churches. When Oodnadatta was the
northern terminus I often used the track.
The first sign of really genuine hospitality
was brought to notice at Hawker, where
the two rival publicans never failed to
have horse-drawn vehicles, suitably adver-
tising the particular brand on tap, await-
ing the arrival of the train. Para-
chilna was another settlement where a
northern thirst could be suitably dealt
with, in full view of the Law. On my
first trip a fellow-passenger suggested we
follow the crowd across to the pub and
wash some of Centralia down, I hesi-
tated a moment, but was quickly put at
ease. “Don’t be afraid of missing the
train,” he said ; “they always take the
guard and the driver with them.” He
was right—up to a point. In the jostling
mob fighting for possies along the counter
I noticed the fireman as well.
“Mem”: Tell “Nuffin” (B. 24/10/’45)
that Gula Malacca is not distilled from
coconut-trees. In Malay language Gula
means sugar and Malacca a cane ; the
name is self-explanatory. G.M. is simi-
lar to our brown sugar, but with more
flavor. The concoction, usually made up
in the form of small round cakes looking
something like toffee, is then partially
wrapped in cane huskings and placed, to
dry out on the sidewalk 1 in front of the
foodshops, attracting all the flies in the
“Get back, you mug!”
vicinity, plus the dust afid germs from
the roadway. In spite of this, it is favored
by natives and Europeans when melted into
a sauce as an accompaniment to a plain
sago shape, a “soother” after a pungent
curry. The pudding is well known in
Malaya as Gula Malacca Kwe.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: From an old disused well
on the Grey Range, just where it crosses
the border of Queensland and enters the
n.-w. corner of N.S.W., I obtained the
fossil remains of a small cephalopod, a
coiled shell after the model of the present-
day nautilus. This shell, somewhere
around 30,000,000 years old, exhibits the
original nacre in the most brilliant hues.
Instead of the subdued beauty of pearl
shell we are all familiar with, this one has
the arresting glory of the opal at its best.
Unfortunately, the lovely shell is so
fragile that any shaking or the least touch
breaks it into the tiniest fragments. My
specimens, packed in cotton-wool, suffer
every time I exhibit them.
* * * *
“Munja”: The Toaripi (N.G.) boongs
could always collect a good haul of fish
while our mob was scrounging for “sur-
plus” hand-grenades. Getting curious, we
found their method was to choose a fresh-
water creek into which the sea flowed at
high tide. After the ebb an elderly native
took a piece of tuva root and-a hardwood
stick, walked to the middle of the creek
and soaked the root for a few moments.
In the meantime the whole village lined
the banks and, hawk-eyed, watched the
water. Up and down the creek wandered
grandpa, striking the root and dipping it
frequently until a shout from the bank
stopped him. As the stupefied fish sur-
faced belly up men, women and kids
tore into the water and heaved them well
back from the banks before swift re-
covery, Narcotising effect on the fish is
transient, non-poisonous and without the
slightest effect on the consumer. We wit-
nessed the evening feed with popping
eyes. The catch, 258 fish weighing 4001 b.
approximately, was gobbled up in a
couple of hours by 32 adults and 15 kids,
followed by a dessert of messy sago and
baked bananas,
* * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: If I ever took
on beachcombing my pick, at any rate in
New Guinea waters, would be Manam.
From a reef-fringed blue sea gently slop-
ing hills shaded by high mons, galups,
carpiacks and other trees rise to a grassy
fall at the foot of the crimson clifflike
face of the 5000 ft. crater. On the 32
square miles of the island housing and
canoes are cheap and fish, fruit and game
are plentiful. There are no jungles, no
snakes, practically no mosquitoes; and
diseases, other than yaws, caused by the
silica from the volcano, are rare. Of
course there is no running water and not
a decent anchorage, but what odds to a
beachcomber? These two factors have
kept the paradise free from white man’s
residence other than a missionary or two.
Polynesians, with distinct traces of Malay,
the 4000 islanders are a cheery, friendly
lot, though inclined towards laziness,
probably caused by the easy growth of
such luxuries as betel-nut, tobacco and
galup nuts, which they trade to mainland
villages for their food requirements. And
in looks, figure and carriage the Marys
surpass most of their N.G. sisters. But
it takes years of courting the head villager
and the father—the girl doesn’t come into
it —before you are given the privilege of
buying a “wife” for something like a
couple of cases of “bully-moo-cow,” rice,
a string of dog’s teeth, sea-cockatoo
feathers and the inevitable pig.
“Edjudina”: Dilating on the wonderful
feed he had had at Barney’s, “Sur Cingle”
(B. 24/10’/’45) got in a bit about wild
peaches, “about the best stewed fruit you
can get in this world.” Now what did
he mean by wild peaches? In my bush-
whacker days the wild peach was the
quondong and, although I’ve partaken of
that “fruit” many times and even assisted
in the piaking and the eating of quon-
dong jam, I wouldn’t class it very high
in the way of either flavor or succulence.
For the quondong even at its best is little
more than a rather dry rind surrounding
a large nut. How our early fathers
stretched the imagination to include it in
the peach family is still a puzzle to me.
* * * i
“Old-timer”: Blue and Dutch had
struck a tough patch out in the Wangan-
ella country. They were out of every-
thing except hope; the evening was cold
with a slight drizzle ; as far as they could
see on the wide plain there was no shelter
of any sort except a solitary van standing
on a railway siding. They decided to get
into it if the door was open, or under
it if it wasn’t. As they tramped towards
it in the gathering dusk a car swung in
beside it from the north. A man carried
something to the van, remained inside it
a few minutes, reappeared and dis-
appeared in the car. All this while Blue
and Dutch drew ever nearer. When they
reached the van a pleasant smell tickled
their nostrils, and Blue dropped his swag
and investigated, “Gripes,” he called, “it's
a horsebox, and there’s a nag in here
feedin’ on hot bran mash with swede tur-
nips and carrots in it!” Ten minutes
later, replete, they stretched comfortably
on the cushioned seat under the interested
gaze of the rugged thoroughbred whose
meal they’d shared. “Gee whiz,” Dutch
reflected, “makes y’ think, don’t it?
Blasted animal there livin’ on the fat
the land .an’ you an’ me starvin’.” “Garn,
Blue retorted, “I’d sooner be me than him
any day. Gotter wait for blokes t’ get
his tucker, gotter go where they take him,
do what they say. Not for mine. Go
where I like an’ when I like” “Not
on your ruddy life! ” roared a new T voice.
“You get t’ hell, an’ you get now. Whadda
y’ mean by” But Blue and Dutch,
always alert for such surprises, were
already through the other door of the van
and vanishing into the darkness.
* * * *
“Oliver Overproof”: Wasn’t the store-
keeper correct in complaining (B.
26/9/’45) that his “verbal orders” were
not worth the paper they were written
on? Verbal orders are simply orders in
words, be they spoken or written. The
restriction of “verbal” to the meaning
of “oral” is a common mistake.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Strange that, while man
reaches his highest development in the
temperate zones and fades off in the
tropics, the reverse applies to insects and
birds. Among the lads in New Guinea
were scores of ardent butterfly collectors
whose previous efforts in entomology had
been restricted to swatting flies, while the
array of horned, whiskered and spurred
bugs and beetles far surpassed anything
we’d seen at home. Pigeons, parrots and
flycatchers all grew more gaudy as you
peeled off your clothes, and the least spec-
tacular of the Paradise family—our rifle-
bird —is the one found furthest from the
Line. Some beauties are not seen until
the latitudes are low—the lovely little sun-
bird, for instance ; incidentally, he is re-
placed across Wallace’s Line by a flash-
ing gem with blood-red head, breast and
back, and the rest dead black. Our grey
butcher-bird of the south gives way to
the pied member in northern
N.S.W. and Queensland and to
a larger fellow still in the islands;
but the daddy of the tribe was
found nesting beside the strip at
Biak. Jet-black head, neck, wings
and tail, with snow-white body
and nearly as big as a magpie,
he was snapping up the corre-
spondingly large beetles and
bashing them on branches in
approved butcher-bird fashion,
while his few clear, strong notes
clinched his identity. In one
respect only do fowls and
humans agree: you must go to
the cooler climes for rich and
varied melody. These steamy regions are
not conducive to song.
* * * *
“Groper”: Of all the world’s small
fish the catfish seems to have the largest
eggs. Was camped out one time with a
sportsman who believed in making the
most of everything he caught. Fish roes
was his specialty. From a catch of even
small whiting he would salvage anything
up to half a pint of epicurean delicacy.
With the larger fish, snapper and jewies,
he had a roe from each almost the size
of his hand. With such roes and the
livers, and a hot panful of fat —well, he
was one of those who larded the lean
earth when he walked. But his Waterloo
came when we lifted a drum-net filled
with gravid catfish. As he dumped these
eggs, each one the size of a grain of
tapioca, into the hot fat they exploded
like a series of bombs, shooting right out
t into the fire. Not to be defeated he re-
sorted to boiling. Anyone who com-
plained of the fishy flavor of grilled cat-
fish (B. 24/10/’45) should have a go at
boiled catfish roes.
♦ * * *
“E. 2”: The stove in Mrs. Dan’s kitchen
had given long service and was now a
thing of fits and sulkiness. Dan, after
some calculations on the wood it was
burning, promised to get another, bought
an old stove at a sale and installed
it. Mrs. D.’s troubles really began
then. Dan munched leathery scones and
top-heavy cakes and maintained stoutly
“it’ll be a real good stove when y’ git into
the way of it. I c’d manage it meself.”
Finally, after a batch of scones the fowls
wouldn’t (or couldn’t) eat, Mrs. Dan pre-
pared the makings of another lot, told
him to fire away and departed hurriedly
to a neighbor’s. Dan approached the
stove cheerfully with a pile of kindling
and a bottle of kerosene and proceeded to
light up. The fire flared awhile and lapsed
into smoking blackness; successive
attempts brought the same results. After
an hour’s futile battle with it Dan stag-
gered but through the smoke and investi-
gated the chimney, which he found stuffed
with odd pieces of rag. Whereupon he
pondered deeply on the diverse ways of
stoves and women and wandered inside
to the catalogue and cheque-book left
conveniently on the table.
THE MEN RETURNING.
The aged postponed their easy years
To till and sow the mould;
Now stalks of wheat stand up like spears
Beflagged and barbed with gold,
And on the harvesters again
Are men come back from war,
The warriors of Alamein
Kokoda and Johore.
The soldier on the tractor seat
Bumps o’er a yellow plain
And feels the desert’s burning heat
And flying grit again.
The humming of the thresher drum,
A beafer vane that clanks —
He almost sees the Jerries come
Deploying in their tanks.
No battle lust his sinews grips,
He opens up the bin
And feels with tranquil fingertips
The saffron wealth within.
Around a roadside waterhole
The midday camp is made;
The thirsty kelpies splash and roll,
The sheep spread in the shade.
Full length below a kurrajong,
The perfume of new hay
Drifts to the drover sweet and strong;
But he recalls h day
When with his haggard mates he crawled
Along a track of dread,
Forced on where foul miasmas sprawled
And clutched the envied dead.
Less life no beating heart could feel,
Such hell few souls may know,
Yet these men laughed beneath the steel
And marched through Borneo.
r.a.a.f. •
R. H. WEBSTER.


“Not bad, eh, blokes? Bull's-eye first shot!"
“Blime”: Only knew one bullocky
who had religious ideas, and he was a
foreigner. Years ago he set up on the
road in opposition to old Ned. He hadn’t
been going long when the drought set in
and feed became unprocurable. Unable
to continue carting, he pulled his team
in on the far end of the creek flat where
Ned was camped pending a break. It was
Ned’s morning custom, after searching
the sky, to curse steadily in his best style,
then shoulder an axe and set off up the
slopes to forage for sheoak or anything
edible for his team. Now, he paused
daily to listen to his opposition, who,
pinning his faith to prayer, worked over-
time in an all-out effort. “Lord,” he be-
seeched, “two of my best bullocks hast
Thou taken ; spare me the others.” Next
morning Ned paused for a further pro-
gress report. “Lord,” it came, “four of
my beasts hast Thou taken ; spare me the
others, I beseech.” The voice resumed
each morning, the only difference being
in the number of beasts taken, which rose
steadily till the day Ned heard: “Four-
teen of my beasts hast Thou taken, Lord ;
spare me the remaining two.” Ned spent
the day on the hills and at night re-
turned his weak team to the creek, where
the old alien stood beside his wagon,
watching them string past. The follow-
ing morning the supplicator altered it to
“Now what good to me do You think is
one staggy old brute that never was
nuthin’ but lazy? Y’ might as well take
him, too!”
♦ * * *
“Wonk”; When Burkie first came to
our East Gippsland district and began
work on his rough block, the locals
smiled in various ways at his original
methods. His idea of clearing a rough
slope for grazing interested me particu-
larly. The area was covered mostly with
scrub and small saplings of four to six
inches, and when taken off it was pulled
round in rough rows across the face of
the slope. No attempt was made to burn
it, and to all comments on the eyesore
Burkie replied that locals didn’t realise
the damage of soil erosion. Two years
later the top sides of the small trunks
were levelled $y a trickling of dead leaves,
sand and rubbish, and in a few more
years the whole slope was covered.
Result, a good grazing hill, enriched with
enough decaying vegetation to encourage
the native grasses into strong, healthy
growth.
* * * ♦
“Betcha”: Mac was having the
seasonal trouble of procuring shearers.
“Y’ might get my team soon’s they cut
me out,” volunteered old Nixon, “only
I warn y’ they’re mates, an’ll stick
t’gether. Y’ know, y’ lost a couple last
year through chippin’ a bloke. Y’ got
t’ be careful with ’em,” he went on, “be-
cause even if this mob is rough as blazes,
cripes, they’re better’n none.” Mac
heaved a long-suffering sigh, made
arrangements with the men, and the fol-
lowing week began shearing. He
smothered sighs as he watched the sheep
going out decorated with tufts and wool
patches, the crutch unfinished and the
lower leg untouched. Then a stray wether
was discovered in a catching pen, and
Mac instructed that it be turned out un-
shorn. “Better raddle his head,” he
called to the rousie about to shove the
wether through the chute. The rousie
looked surprised, but complied. Half an
hour passed, the smoke-oh bell rang, and
machines were clicking out when another
stray was noticed ; and under similar in-
structions to leave it unshorn the rousie
moved forward. “What’s the idea put-
ting the raddle mark on their heads?” a
shearer asked idly, as he straightened up
and gave the rousie free access to his
chute. Mac looked across wearily. “Just
so I’ll know,” he explained, “which ones
ain’t done,”
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: An Afghan, horsetailer
to a mob of travelling cattle on the
Birdsville-Marree track, was brought to
the hospital with a foot swollen to the size
of a small football. Like many others,
he had camped during the heat of the
day in the shade of the one lone tree on
that particular landscape and been bitten
by kangaroo ticks. These ticks, which
live normally in the ground at a site
favored as a camp for ’roos, suck the
blood, drop off and get back into the earth
until hunger and the presence of another
restful body above them start things
again. Result of the bite is often exces-
sive and painful swelling, slow to sub-
side, and the actual place of the bite per-
sists as an ulcerous sore for months after.
“Roley Poley”: It looks as if the
“Eirdsville Track” is coming into its own
again as a droving route. Within a month
12 mobs of cattle, totalling around 8000
head, have come down this 370-mile-long
track from western Queensland to the
trucking depot at Marree in S.A. Five
mobs at the one time were on the stretch
from Ooroowillanie to Canuwaukaninna
—which must be close to a record. Most
of the stages are waterless, and the
drovers have to contend with sandstorms
that have to be seen to be believed. It
is the one part of Australia where salt
beef and damper still remains the staple
diet for weeks on end —shared by the
flies in their myriads.
* * * ♦
“City Lights”; Was in a doctor’s wait-
ing-room recently when they brought in
an emergency case: a mug who for a
small bet had placed a billiard ball in his
mouth and then couldn’t get it out.
Luckily the doctor had suitable forceps
and a few minutes later the “patient”
emerged looking rather sheepish and
carrying the billiard ball. Reminded me
of old Coolgardie days when a shrewd
nut used to • scratch a sort of a living
going around the billiard saloons taking
bets that he could perform the feat. He
always found plenty of takers and not
a few competitors, most of whom ended
by a visit to the nearest doctor. Just
why a billiard ball will slip readily enough
into the mouth yet refuse to come out
is a bit of a puzzle. Trying to hook it
out with a finger, as is usually attempted,
merely aggravates the case, the finger
taking up what little room there is left.
But the “artist” used to get them out
easily enough, though he would never
disclose his technique—when disgorging
he bowed his face into his hat and, presto!
the ball was out.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: When the puppa grass
is thick along the channels of Queens-
land western rivers those abos who
haven’t lost the art of providing for
themselves will find work for the gins.
I picture those ladies, each with a dilly-
bag suspended over her shoulders, hang-
ing from a strap on her forehead, gather-
ing seed, laughing, cursing, straightening
up to see “Benjamin belong-it me not
look-it.” Then the grinding of that
minute seed in a crude pestle and mortar
made from ribbon-stone if possible. The
mixture of grit and seed and stems,
the winnowing with the human breath
“Easy to see you ain't moved in ’igh sassiety. Usin' a tumbler for sherry!"
and the spraying from the mouth with
water over that rough flour to make
bread. And I’m thankful I haven’t to eat
the filthy stuff.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The little
H.M.A.S. Potrero was moored in the
shade of towering coconuts to the high
bank of the Sepik River village of Euwa-
rima when a native approached the
skipper and asked if he had soap to sell,
The skipper, seated on the upper deck
talking to an army officer who had served
in New Guinea, replied “No-got.” After
all, despite his scarecrow-like khakis, he
was a naval man and not a trader. Then,
remembering that the natives hadn’t seen
European commodities since before the
Japanese infiltration, he instructed his
personal boy Eduart to give him
the only kind available —a stick of
shaving soap. The native in return handed
Eduart a shilling. Eduart gave it
back saying “Soap ’e no good fella soap.
Captair/ ’e no like sellem. Captam ’e
givem you soap along nothing.” “Me
savee,” protested the villager. “All the
same me like givem captain shilling.”
There seemed no end to this passing the
shilling, no end to this pidgin explanation,
in spite of the army officer’s assistance.
Then at last the old New Guinea officer
advised exasperatedly “Look, Skipper,
take the shilling. The coon’s made up his
mind he -has to back your present.” For
conversation’s sake the skipper took the
shilling, throwing in two more sticks of
soap for good value. But that didn’t im-
prove matters at all. The whole village
came storming aboard to buy soap at
“three fella stick one shilling.”
* * * *
“Agric”: “Scribe” (B. 31/10/’45) won-
ders that nobody thought of an automatic
weed-killer before railway engineers in
Maoriland. A farming journal recently
received from England reports that the
“Weedkiller” run by the London, Mid-
land and Scottish Railway had returned
to its peace-time operations and
completed a 3500-mile tour of branch
lines. It comprises an engine and a
number of tank wagons carrying 2700
gallons of chemical concentrate and two
specially constructed tenders, which carry
7000 gallons of chemical in solution.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: If these fancy stock-
breeders want to do something really
useful why don’t they get to work at
developing more tails on a bullock? In
spite of its high proportion of bone —
and even that is much appreciated by
our boss-mong, Dillinger—an oxtail is
the cheapest, most flavorsome and most
generally useful part of the beast. Stewed
gently for an hour and a half it yields
an excellent gravy from which there
separates on cooling a fine fat which is
better than butter for cake-making. With
the gravy returned, together with salt,
carrots, an onion or two and, later,
potatoes, and simmered for another hour
and a half, it produces the world’s best
stew, one so tender that it needs no chew-
ing. By using more water at the first
stage a bowl of soup such as gourmets
dream of can be added to the menu. Me
for the six-tailed bullock!
* * * *
“Bo”: Pigweed, consisting of a dozen
or so galvanised-roofed shacks huddled
around the general store and the shanty
pub, lay at the foot of four low hills
desolate with miles of ringbarked timber.
A rutted clay road winding crazily oyer
one hill seemed like a fragile lifeline
which connected the hamlet with some
distant civilisation. It was just on mid-
day, and the waves of heat shimmered
just above, the level of the only street,
As two or three deadbeats gasped in
the stifling air, asprawl on the burn-
ing boards of the pub verandah, there
hove into view a horseman. A scarecrow
spectacle with about a week’s growth on,
he sat astride an ancient bony moke
which ambled along at a half-mile-an-
hour gait. As he drew abreast |of the
pub and listlessly looked at the loungers
one of them rose on to his elbow, said
“If you’re the noo Master of the ’Ounds
y’d better ’urry—the ’unt’s startin’ in a
few minutes.” Then, as the nag came to
a slow stop and stood on three legs, the
man who had spoken gently lowered him-
self down and dropped asleep.
THE MAN FROM FURTHER OUT.
He came from somewhere further out, where
runs the border-line,
And reached our camp at Dingo Scrubs be-
yond the Condamine.
A long, lean, wiry chap he was, sunburned to
halfrcaste tan,
With quiet speech and friendly smile that spoke
the “outside” man.
“This crimson crocodile,” said he (referring to
his steed)
“And I are natives of outback, the dinkum
sunset breed.
We come from where the ways are wide, a
kindly, spacious land
Where curlews share a camp with you and
dingoes lick your hand.
“It’s my philosophy,” he said, “to *find the
best in life;
To seek the track of soul-content and dodge
the way of strife.
I look for elbow-room and peace; and yet,
through all my days
I’ve felt the urge that comes to men to study
city ways.”
Now we were in a quiet spot—just distance,
plain and scrub —
The homestead close on thirty miles from us,
the nearest pub
Another forty; yet we all had been where
bushmen go
When hearts are young and cheques are big
—old Sydney city, so ...
We told of packed-out theatres, the swirl of
city bars,
Of lights that turn night into day and dim the
glow of stars;
Of hectic, roaring revelry which knows not halt
nor cease—
Until the stranger reared aloft and spoke his
little piece:
“I thought I’d yank my hide along and taste
a city’s joys;
But, spare me days, you’ve cured me, mates —
with all those crowds and noise,
I’d find no spot to ruminate, no place to rest
my frame.
It’s best to wheel my old prad round and go
the .way we came.”
He saddled up at break o’ day. We fancied
even then
He’d yank his hide to Sydneyside and mix with
city men.
But as the sun looked through the trees he
made a final jest,
Then climbed his crimson crocodile and turned
him to the west.
MX.
C. H. WINIER.


RAYONS
for loveliness
that lasts . . .
•k jew clothes are an event
these days and it is wise to
buy for quality.Tou will there-
fore find it advantageous to
purchase dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayons.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yarns provide quality and
service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity is
restricted.
ww
mm
r
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT :
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
181 Clarence Street.
Mi
Si
We haven’t had much fun during the 5| years of
war making sound shoes, but not the styles we
wanted to make. Fighting our way through coupons,
restrictions, substitute materials and labour short-
ages, we continued to get as much fashion as we
dared into 5J million pairs of shoes. Now we are
looking forward to making the kind of shoe we show
here a type of shoe that will yield nothing in
comfort, fit and strength, but gain much in gaiety
and charm that will be fun.
W
m
Clarks of Street,
Somerset, England.
makers of Ladies and
Childrens shoes for
more than a century.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Stand Guard on the Japs.”
(From a speech by U.S. General J. M. Wain-
wright, who spent years in Jap captivity .)
“I believe that the Japanese spirit
emerges from a smallness in their way of
life —from a narrowness of outlook which
has never comprehended modern tools
which have been put in their hands.
Although their soldiers fight with guns and
grenades and artillery, their thoughts are
back in the days of spears and pikes and
flaming arrows.
“Those mass banzai charges and the
Kamakazi suicides are not the tactics of
men who have been brought by orderly
process to live confidently in the ways of
the Twentieth Century.
“The sheer brutality their men prac-
tised on us is a throwback to days long
since outgrown by civilised nations. It is a
product of the time when a defeated
enemy, however noble his birth, became
an object of contempt and was sentenced
to slavery as long as he might endure it.
“That is the spirit which pervaded the
Japanese I dealt with throughout my cap-
tivity. That is the people we have now
defeated by the force of American and
Allied arms, and I pray God that Ameri-
cans will understand from what a fate
they have been spared.
“I know you will understand me when
I say that we should stand guard over the
Japanese until we are certain that their
evil thoughts have been blunted and
surely turned to a sincere desire for peace.
“How long this will require I do not
believe any man can say. From what I
have seen, I am not hopeful that it can be
quickly accomplished. The attitude of this
vanquished people has been co-operative
and that is important. It has saved Ameri-
can lives. But we would be short-sighted
indeed if we believed that it has already
given evidence of sincere repentance on
the part of either the Japanese leaders or
the people they have so shamelessly
spurred to destruction by their lies and
their lust for conquest.
“In defeat the Japanese are subservient
and servile. What thoughts that exterior
masks I do not know. But until we
understand the Japanese character thor-
oughly and know that its sting has been
removed for all time, we must keep our
guard, we must never be careless of that
nation’s intentions again.”
British-made Hong Kong.
(Condensed from an article by Walter Robb in
the “Christian Science Monitor” supplement,
published in Boston .)
The first glance at Hong Kong from
the economic view convinces you of the
fact that Chinese are the primary benefi-
ciaries from Britain’s dominion. If a
British fortune is made at Hong Kong,
it is left in the ruck by ten or a dozen
Chinese fortunes. If a Britisher finds
life in Hong Kong comfortable, and en-
dowed with well-being, at least 1000
Chinese around him make a similar dis-
covery. Perhaps it is Hong Kong effi-
ciency as an entrepot that gives rise to
misleading judgments of the place—mis-
leading snap judgments.
Most ships that call at Hong Kong are
freighters, rusty tramps of the Pacific
and the Indian Ocean. Others that fre-
quently call at Hong Kong divide their
interest between freight and passengers.
That is as high as the categories of ships
run in the western Pacific littoral. The
usual stay at Hong Kong of a visitor there
is limited to a few days—often no more
than two, often merely one—during which
his ship is unloading imports for China
and -loading exports from China.
It is such brief opportunity to observe
the life of Hong Kong that leads visitors
to think the colony extremely posh ; to
assume, for example, that Topside is an
arrogant suburb from which Chinese are
arbitrarily excluded, which is not the case;
or to assume that the usual run of oppor-
tunity is monopolised among the British,
a conclusion as far from the mark as that
Topside is colonially aristocratic.
Almost the precise opposite of all this
is the actual sociological situation at
Hong Kong. It is to the British that
opportunity is limited and to the Chinese
that it is thrown wide open ; for Chinese
are the workmen, and democracy pre-
vails, and the man who starts at the
bottom, who is always a Chinese, finds
no obstacle in his way as he rises toward
the higher rungs of chance and fortune
and industry. Sir Robert Ho Tung, of
Hong Kong, Chinese and a multi-million-
aire, told me he began as a workman
and gained the status of a comprador,
where he laid the solid foundations of his
wealth.
Innumerable careers of Chinese at
Hong Kong are similar to that of Sir
Robert Ho Tung. Chinese are the big
Hong Kong property-owners, by and
large, not the British. Indeed, the general
welfare of the Chinese at Hong Kong is
a reminder of the objective of the British
in founding the port a century ago. It
was done when the Emperor at Peking
followed a reactionary isolationist policy
that made China’s foreign trade an out-
law commerce. England’s sole purpose
was to found a port where international
commerce would be lawful and under
legal regulations.
England exacted Victoria Island from
imperial China, and founded Hong Kong,
to end, so far as it had concerned Eng-
land, an involved and iriegular com-
merce. It is good commercial and police
law in Hong Kong that explains its re-
markable growth from barren crags to
the modern city and world port it is
today. In time this growth entailed the
use of Kowloon Peninsula, on which a
lease was procured. This addition, how-
ever, chiefly signified additional opportu-
nities for Chinese to enjoy employment,
personal security and excellent invest-
ments of their savings and business profits.
Hong Kong also serves China well in
the political sense. It has been a refuge
for Chinese leaders. Often Hong Kong
was a secure retreat to Dr. Sun Yat-sen,
whose work, largely formulated at Hong
Kong—and there, as elsewhere, with
“General” Cohen, a Britisher, as his body-
guard—ended at last the Manchu dyn-
asty, the power really responsible for
China’s amoral addiction to opium, and
to squeeze, illicit monopoly, and corrup-
tion in national affairs.
It will be some years before the basic
utility of Hong Kong yields the palm to
a truly national China and better all-
round arrangements. Until that time is
at hand, it is well enough to have Hong
Kong precisely where it now is—in British
hands—thanks to the defeat of Japan, and
to her capitulation. The free world would
serve itself no good turn by making
assaults on established means of inter-
national intercourse and commerce before
better means are at hand to replace them.
There is no perfection at Hong Kong.
It is even far from being up to date with
a number of things. But with all that
granted, and more, Hong Kong is the
best convenience at hand for the welfare
of South China; and Hong Kong is none
of those evil things that it is far too often
said to be.
25,000,000 Homeless.
(From London “Times” Parliamentary report,
27 / 10/ ’45.)
Speaking in the House of Commons
debate on conditions in Europe, Mr.
Bevin, Foreign Minister, said that there
were millions of people in Germany and
in the east who had been displaced. There
were something like 4,000,000 Germans
who had left the new Poland down to
Stettin. Czechoslovakia, Hungary and
other countries added large numbers —
probably 4,000,000 to 4,500,000. That
was a total of about 9,000,000, and about
2.000. to 2,500,000 were moving
into Poland. Then there were about
3.000. Sudeten Germans being moved
over into Austria.
So, Mr. Bevin said, there were anything
from 14,000,000 to 15,000,000 all moving
at once, some one way and some the
other, and there were about 10,000,000
displaced persons, largely forced labor, to
move out of Germany.. A rough estimate
was that they had to handle a total not
far short of 20,000,000 to 25,000,000
persons.
Nobody but the Russians, Mr. Bevin
added, knew how many Germans had


One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth, . . . Their judg-
ment has made (Eruaaiirr (Klntlj the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty 6f design and long life,
(Cruaaiu'r (flnllf is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
foaik (flotlj
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED* NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
oSs
m
m
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Here’s the winning bid ...
Have a Coca-Cola
- r
X
... or a way to keep the game
going refreshed
There’s always a time to
pause in a bridge game. Ice-
cold Coca-Cola can make it
the pause that refreshes. Every-
one welcomes its life and
sparkle, the tang of its taste.
‘Have a Coke’ can be your
invitation on any occasion,
if you remember to have a
supply of Coca-Cola in your
refrigerator. In homes every-
where, Cola-Cola has made
the pause that refreshes a
family custom ... a happy
interlude for friendly refresh-
ment.
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular narries to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, ILS.A*
(Liability Limited)
SYDN e y
gone from Germany to work in Russia.
So as people moved into the western zone
one got an overwhelming majority of
women and children, but no men. That
was a terrific problem to be faced. If
one imagined 60 per cent, of the popu-
lation of the British Isles suddenly having
to be turned out of their homes and
driven somewhere else one had a picture
of what was going on —and they were not
all going one way.
When he came out of Berlin to go to
the airport there were as many refugees
going out of Berlin as were going in. It
was a pathetic sight to see the streams of
perambulators and little vehicles filing
along—nearly all women and children,
and very few men. One could not help
saying “My God! This is the price of
man’s stupidity—of war.” It was almost
beyond human capacity to solve this
quickly. He could only say “We will do
our best.”
Red Army “Democracy.”
(From a N.Y. “Post” article by Edgar Ansel
Mowrer, both the writer and the paper sup-
porters of Left-wing politics. Evidently Russia’s
methods in “liberated” European countries have
become too much for them.)
To all countries they entered, except
Finland and Austria (possibly postponed
for a later date), Soviet tanks and horse-
drawn artillery brought economic revolu-
tion.
This revolution consists everywhere of
two measures: (1) division of large land
holdings among the landless ; (2) nation-
alisation (or permanent State control) of
basic industries. In some cases it goes
much farther.
Apologists argue that these measures
are not “Marxist” or “Communist.” But
they were the measures adopted in the
The Gallup Poll’s British division fore-
cast the Labor triumph with an error
averaging only one per cent, for all
parties. That is hairline accuracy in the
eyes of pollsters, a three per cent, mar-
gin being considered excellent shooting-
Using the same methods, Gallup’s can-
vassers sounded out opinion in Britain
on various Socialist proposals advanced
by the Laborites, and in the United
States on similar proposals. Here is
what they found: In Britain, some
weeks before Labor’s victory, public
opinion was 70 p.c. for nationalising
the railroads and 30 p.c. against; 80 p.c.
for nationalising the coal mines and 20
p.c. against; 63 p.c. for nationalising
land and 37 p.c. against; 66 p.c. for
nationalising the Bank of England and
34 p.c. against. In the United States at
present, Gallup finds, the picture is
almost the exact opposite: 77 p.c.
against government railroad ownership
and 23 p.c. for; 69 p.c. against govern-
ment bank ownership and*3l p.c. for;
63 p.c. against government ownership of
power companies and 37 p.c. for. Further,
says Gallup, U.S. sentiment for govern-
ment rail ownership has dropped 11
points in the last nine years, for govern-
ment bank ownership 10 points, and for
government power company ownership
six points — “ Collier’s.”
Soviet Union after 1917 as the “first
steps” toward Communism.
Communists everywhere must serve
Marshal Stalin —or get out. Tito of
Yugoslavia, Bierut of Poland, Anna
Pauker of Rumania, Georgiu Dimitrov
and Tsola Dragoychova of Bulgaria are
as much instruments of Moscow as if
they had been born under the shadow of
the Kremlin.
The difference between socialisation in
Britain or Czechoslovakia and socialisa-
tion under Red Army dominion lies in
the all-important matter of respect for
democracy and law. In Czechoslovakia,
socialisation is occurring by legal process
under a democratic Government. In
Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary,
Yugoslavia, uncompensated expropriation
has been carried out by revolutionary
regimes installed by the Red Army.
Doubtless there were groups in all these
countries favorable to revolution. In
Poland, Rumania and Hungary, the case
for land reform and the breaking of
feudal patterns was strong. But in Bul-
garia and Yugoslavia there were few or
no large landed properties. There was
no feudal aristocracy, there were no pre-
ponderant capitalists. Instead, there were
over-population and poverty which the
division of arable land into minute peasant
holdings will hardly eliminate. Indeed,
the Soviet-inspired pattern of land reform
divides the land into such small pieces
that many think it is a deliberate scheme
for forcing the. normally individualist
peasants into Soviet-type collective farms
as the “next step.”
What the Titos and Bieruts have got
to prove is that the peoples of eastern
Europe wanted economic reform even at
the price of a new Communist-dominated
tyranny —or cease claiming to be “demo-
cratic.”
Naturally, these rulers resent remarks
like this. They claim to be following the
will of their several peoples. There was
something comical in Molotov’s insist-
ence that Allied supervision of the coming
Greek elections would not be “demo-
cratic,” and in “Izvestia’s” discovery that
“interference in the internal affairs, of
Rumania, which is an independent
sovereign State, is inadmissible.”
It was Soviet interference in Rumania’s
internal affairs that put Peter Groza into
the Premier’s seat and enabled Anna
Pauker to move into a Bucharest man-
sion. It is the Red Army that keeps the
Communists in power in eastern Europe.
If this statement is wrong, they can
easily disprove it. Let them postpone
elections until the Red Army moves out.
Open the concentration camps and let out
the hundreds of thousands of political
prisoners. Allow all “dissident” soldiers
abroad to return and exercise their appro-
priate political influence. Do away with
the various secret political police forces —
Russian model. Finally, give a vote to
everyone—and abide by the result.
Finland’s rulers met this test. Czecho-
slovakia’s Benes does not fear it. Why
should Tito and Groza and Dimitrov and
the others sidestep it —if their peoples are
behind them?
The answer is, their fate is linked with
that of Soviet Russia, Wholesale looting
of friend and foe alike by Red soldiery
has certainly not increased local respect
for Russian civilisation. Moscow’s seizure
of whole industries as reparations has
deepened the fear of Communism.
Revolution by the Red Army, in total
defiance of civil liberties and national
independence, is probably more than any
European people can swallow willingly.
“Good Old Harry”
(As seen by N.Y. “World-Telegram” Washing-
ton correspondent.)
Franklin D. Roosevelt was sort of
Jovian, as was Winston Churchill. He
stalked through the clouds and tossed the
thunderbolts about. There was a heroic
quality about him suited to the times,
suited to the crisis of a great domestic
emergency and the following crisis of
war. But the people get tired of that.
The war is over. And now we have
good old Harry, as they refer to him
fondly in the crowd at a ball game. Good
old Harry. Or, as a visitor to rock-ribbed
Republican Vermont who questioned the
folks there reported: “They like him.
They say he is one of us.”
It’s hard to get mad at Harry Truman.
It’s hard to make him the sort of villain
some people created for themselves in
Franklin D. Roosevelt. There he is, just
good old Harry, a fellow you can under-
stand.
Whatever he says, whatever he stands
for, you just can’t get anywhere much by
trying to make people believe that Harry
Truman is out to destroy the American
system, the American way of life.
President Truman, himself, has done
much to assist the change of atmosphere
and psychology. The brain trust, always
a target, has disappeared for more solid
and sober-minded gentlemen, many of
them from Congress. The President, him-
self, lived long with Congress. He knows
them. He knows how to be nice to them.
Personaffy, as a political figure, he is
helped, too, by the fact that Conserva-
tives cannot be boiled up into a great
fever about him because they trust that
Congress will stop too much New Deal-
ism, while to New Dealers and progres-
sives he has the efficacy of his own record
and beliefs.
Republicans know they are up against
a tough one in good old Harry.
Report on India.
(Condensed from a Chicago “Sun” article by
Capt. Michael Fielding.)
Two conclusions emerge from a care-
ful study of the Indian problem made on
my recent trip to India:
(1) The Hindu-Moslem communal dis-
pute, which has persistently poisoned re-
lations between the two major Indian
communities, can and will be solved —
either by unity or partition.
(2) The Attlee Government in Britain
is sincere in its desire to honor the inde-
pendence pledge of the 1942 Cripps offer
as soon as possible.
Thus, India can, I am convinced, look
forward to complete freedom in the near
future, within or outside the British Com-
monwealth structure, according to her
own preference. Most Indian leaders
with whom I talked thought it would be
within this framework, but there is still
some doubt on this point.
A logical question is what India’s pros-
pects are of being able to build the coun-
try into a strong, economically sound unit
of a world family of nations.
Embittered Indian leaders find it a
popular pastime to use Britain as a whip-
ping boy for all of India’s troubles. But
there are many factors that hold a coun-
try back and keep it poor, factors over
which the British exert only partial con-
trol. And to that degree British rule has
unquestionably improved the lot of the


THIS FLY-SPRAY
IS DIFFERENT
AND SO YOU USE IT DIFFERENTLY
It is wasteful and inefficient to mix D.D.T. with ordinary fly-spray and
then spray it into the air in the usual way.
Ordinary fly-spray works by filling the air of the room with tiny drops
of spray. {You can see them.) These suffocate whatever flies are
actually present in the room at the time. Afterwards, these drops float
down to the floor, but DO NOT KILL FLIES that enter the room after-
wards.
But Taylor's Number IB D.D.T. Insect Spray is different. You spray it
directly on to any surface where flies settle. YOU DO NOT HAVE
TO SUFFOCATE YOURSELF. The killing is done by a film of
D.D.T. on the surface of walls, curtains, rubbish tins, etc. It
kills by contact, and one spraying will keep on killing any insect that
touches it for weeks afterwards.
With Taylor’s Number 13 D.D.T. Spray, you spray the surface only.
Don't spray it into the air from where it would only float slowly to the
ground and be wasted.
Hold the spray-nozzle an inch away from the wall, curtain, etc., and
spray lightly. Then a little will go a long way—and IT KEEPS ON
KILLING FOR WEEKS ail flies, mosquitoes, silverfish, moths, sandflies,
ants, cockroaches and bugs.
Made by Taylor’s
Paints Pty. Ltd.,
Sutherland Ave.,
Paddington,
N.S.W. (PA 2125).
ŕ
Available in N.S.W.
only for the time
being, due to limited
supplies.
"Taa |lW
NUMBER 13
MAXIMUM CONCENTRATION
D.D.T. SPRAY
“UNLUCKY FOR FLIES!"
8.5
..V .» 1 • I
Bags and
flashlight'
batteries
MUST be
fresh
V
LOOK FOR THE
DATE LINE
The fresher they are when you get them the
longer they’re going to last. The Eveready
No. 950 is the first and only flashlight battery
stamped with a date that clearly tells you it’s fresh.
It’s your constant guarantee of light—any time—
anywhere. Look for that date line along the side.
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
ŗ
77?ey /c/sf /onger because
fbe/'re o/ivays /res/?/
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT." 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
Indian, the verdict of rabid Indian poli-
ticians to the contrary notwithstanding.
The progress achieved must be weighed
against a background of nearly
300.000. people, comprising a hodge-
podge of races and creeds, speaking 150
different languages and living in an area
less than half the size of the United
States; of an economy in which 89 per
cent, of the people live by agriculture ;
of a caste system among Hindus com-
prising 71 per cent, of the population and
made up of 2000 rigidly circumscribed
castes and sub-castes, together with
60.000. outcasts who are virtually de-
prived of all rights of social contact with
their Hindu countrymen; of a militant
minority, among many, of 90,000,000
Moslems who differ widely in religion,
temperament and social outlook from
their Hindu brethren.
Under these seriously limiting difficul-
ties, India’s advancement under British
rule is graphically illustrated by a few
unchallenged statistics.
From government without representa-
tion, Indians have progressed rapidly
towards self-rule; in the provinces, vir-
tual administrative autonomy under
popularly elected Indian leaders; at the
centre, a Viceroy’s executive council
made up of 11 Indian and four British
members, with all decisions based on
majority vote. The Viceroy’s veto power,
to which the Congress leaders objected
so violently at the time of the Cripps pro-
posals, has not been exercised since 1879.
Elsewhere in Government and social
services Indianisation has gone ahead by
leaps and bounds. Of every 11 Judges in
India only one is British. In the police
forces, which are wholly under Indian
control, there are 189,000 Indians to 600
British. In the civil medical departments,
the proportion is 6000 Indians to 200
British ; in the forestry services 16,000
Indians to 240 British ; in the engineering
divisions, 7500 Indians to 500 British ;
and in the Indian railways, 800,000
Indians to 3500 British. In the general
administrative branches of government,
comprising commissioners of divisions,
district officers and the like, there are 630
British out of a total of 5500 officials.
And in the army the number of King’s
commissioned Indian officers has jumped
to 9000 from a total of 400 in 1939.
Contrary to a popular misconception,
India pays not one cent of tribute or tax
to Britain, with Indian economy entirely
autonomous, and Indian-imposed tariff
laws hitting British imports just as hard
as those of other nations.
Irrigation is a vitally important con-
sideration in a country in which 89 per
cent, of the people are agriculturists.
Government-sponsored irrigation projects
now feed 53,000,000 acres of soil, or 22
times the area covered by similar pro-
jects in the United States. The number
of educational institutions has risen from
150,000 in 1896 to 237,000 today, with the
literacy rate —in the sense of being able
to read a letter —increasing 70 per cent,
over 1931 for the whole population.
There are now 4000 hospitals.
Yet in spite of this excellent advance-
ment in Government economy and social
welfare, India remains a poor* country.
The mass of her people live in medieval
squalor, underfed, diseased, illiterate and
slaves to religious superstitions.
What makes and keeps India poor?
A broad answer can be found in the
country’s low productivity. And that in
turn is due to a number of widely dis-
persed causes. India’s mineral wealth
enjoys legendary rather than actual fame.
It consists principally of coal and iron,
manganese, mica and bauxite. But its
coal and iron are badly distributed,
nearly all being concentrated in Bihar
and western Bengal. It is as though all
of Europe’s coal and iron resources were
concentrated in the Balkans.
Agriculturally, India is seriously han-
dicapped by uncertain rainfall. And,
although irrigation has done much to
overcome this, a great deal yet remains
to be accomplished. Another severe com-
plication arises from the smallness of
Indian land holdings, further aggravated
by progressive fragmentation of a man’s
estate on his death, age-old custom call-
ing for equal division of his land among
his sons.
The smallness of the holdings is well
illustrated by taking one representative
province. In the Punjab, for instance,
22.5 p.c. of the farmers cultivate one
acre or less; 15.4 p.c. cultivate between
one and two and a half acres, and 20.5
p.c. between five and ten acres. Minute
yields are perpetuated by backward farm-
ing methods, with the farmers themselves
resisting all efforts toward scientific tech-
niques. As a result, the Indian farmer
finds himself constantly in the hands of
the Hindu moneylender, who charges
usurious rates of interest.
Over-population is another difficulty.
In spite of a relatively high death rate,
population figures show an increase of
50,000,000 during the last 10 years. And,
lacking adequate industrial development,
these added millions are made dependent
on an agricultural system that is back-
ward and insufficient in yield to feed them
properly. . ,
The war gave Indian industrial de-
velopment a tremendous boost. Indeed,
the country’s steel and iron industry
boasts the largest foundry in the entire
British Commonwealth of nations, the
Indian-owned and operated Tata works
at Jamshedpur. But what has been
achieved represents only a drojp in the
bucket. Main obstacles to rapid indus-
trial development are found in three basic
weaknesses: lack of skilled labor and
technical experts, lack of cheap power
and adequate communications and lack
of capital. Indian industrialisation still
demands huge expenditures in capital
outlay with no prospects of immediate
return.
But the chief reason for India’s present
backwardness must be sought in the re-
lationship between her leaders and the
Government. The ardent political ele-
ments among the Indians, who might
have devoted themselves to social and
economic reforms, have instead spent
their energies on fighting British rule.
With independence in immediate pros-
pect, these same elements will have the
chance to show their mettle in a construc-
tive and progressive way towards over-
coming those limiting obstacles that have
impeded the country’s march towards a
future destiny in which India, given wise
and mature leadership, could quite con-
ceivably emerge as one of the world’s
great Powers.
Liquidating the League.
(From a “Collier’s” article by George Creel.)
The League of Nations may have
dropped from its peak—sB nations in
1938 —but 44 countries still belong and
are interested enough to put up between
six and seven million dollars for the 1945
budget. Moreover, a full score of non-
member nations, by solemn treaties, have
conferred powers and duties on the
League in connection with broad pro-
grammes of international co-operation.
Sixty-four States are signatories to
conventions for controlling the traffic in
opium and other dangerous drugs. Only
Ethiopia and the Argentine stand aloof.
Through a Permanent Central Board and
a Supervisory Body, the League super-
vises the licensed manufacturers of nar-
cotics, seeing to it that production and
sales are kept down to correspond closely
to the world’s medical and scientific
needs.
Many non-member countries con-
tribute annually to the support of the
International Labor Organisation, the
League agency created to raise living and
working standards and promote social
justice throughout the world. Non-mem-
bers have also brought complaints before
the Permanent Court of International
Justice and join in maintaining the Health
Section that develops plans for the con-
trol and prevention of disease.
The United States is the one nation
. that has never belonged to the League,
and yet it is neck-deep in various League
activities. The 1.L.0. and the Central
Opium Board both have offices in Wash-
ington, and as late as 1939 Secretary of
State Cordell Hull declared that “the
League has been responsible for the de-
velopment of mutual exchange and dis-
cussion of ideas and methods to a greater
extent, and in more fields of humani-
tarian and scientific endeavor, than any
other organisation in history.”
He might have said more: that the
League, for example, exercises full super-
vision over all mandates granted after the
last war. As the first instrument of inter-
national trusteeship for politically unde-
veloped populations and regions, its
operation brought Iraq to the stage of
emancipation as a fully developed State.
It is the League that still stands guard
over the Ten-Power Treaty that provided
for the non-fortification and neutralisa-
tion of the Aaland Islands; and it is to
the League that Turkey makes regular
report on the administration of the Dar-
danelles.
In addition to these high responsibilities
that cannot be taken away by the scratch
of a pen, there are the League’s physical
properties. The plant itself represents
an international investment of $20,000,000,
but it is not possible to estimate the value
of donations of art and furnishings or of
the 24,000 volumes that fill the shelves of
the library wing, dealing with every
aspect of international fife and co-opera-
tion. Logically the United Nations
should fall heir to this great establish-
ment, but Russia has already declared a
deep distaste for Switzerland as the seat
of the new world order. So what if the
offer of the Geneva plant is rejected?
Who inherits the buildings, the priceless
furnishings and decorations, and the
library?
Considering everything, liquidating the
League is not the simple business that


THE ALEXANDRA SCHOOL,
ANTHONY STREET, ASCOT, BRISBANE.
BOARDING SCHOOL for Children 3-9 Years.
Under Supervision of Trained Kindergartner.
A School Especially Suited for Small Children
with a Home Environment.
Enrolments Now Being Made for 1946.
Principal; MARION HENRY, B.K,T,C.
Telephone; M. 5486
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANS EASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
r
Smartness of style, comfort
and long all-weather life, com-
bine to give utmost satisfaction
to the wearer. . . .
You’ll be pleased with the
smooth, fine finish of these
Australian Pure Fur Felt hats.
AKUBRA
kcds
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND BONDS
r I Illy,
boo
70
A
600
*"V
500
aoo
1109
900
400
700
n
1200
300
1000
»»BC
600
200
1300
PE t
MOO
noo
IBS
500
UNUEIT
r\
1500
J2OO
400
Taming
Temperature and Pressure
. . . the Terrible Twins
Steam at normal atmospheric pres-
sure has a temperature of 212°F.—
but raise the pressure for reasons of
industrial economy and efficiency
and you immediately raise the tem-
perature ... for temperature and
pressure are complementary ... a
couple, dangerous in the higher rat-
ings, that materially increase the
complexities of boiler design and
construction.
Very largely the history of the de-
velopment of the modern high pres-
sure, steam generating unit is the
history of the taming of these terrible
twins^—a taming which began effec-
tively in 1915, when a Babcock boiler
was commissioned to operate at 273
lb. per sq. in.—a pressure then con-
sidered high. Thereafter Babcock &
Wilcox progressively upped boiler
pressures to 400, 630, 800 and
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS—INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS—REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch 'Offices and Agencies In all States.
1,500 lb, per sq. in. in under 18 years
and raised temperatures from some
300°F. to over 900°F.
Thus, the benefits of to-day’s high
boiler operating economy and effici-
ency stem back to Babcock pioneer-
ing, research and development-and
this vigorous tradition is backed by
Babcock experience of local fuels
accumulated during sixty years ol
building steam generating units for
Australian users.
Looking to to morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built ip Aus
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques. '
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation . . . maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost
TIME HAS I’HOT El) THE S E HI-1 C E OE BA HOOCH BOILER
PL A IST
'
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH VICTORY LOANS.
San Francisco’s optimists imagined. The
first difficulty is that there is no provision
whatsoever for the dissolution of the
League. On the contrary, at the time of
joining, each State gave solemn pledge
that it “would not hereafter enter into
any engagement inconsistent with the
terms of the Covenant.” Forty States,
by signing up with the United Nations,
have violated that pledge.
These, naturally enough, will be eager
to vote the League out of existence. But
how about Sweden, Ireland, Switzerland
and Portugal? What if these countries,
not parties to the San Francisco agree-
ment, decided that they did not want to
dissolve the League? if some States stay
in and others move out, who gets the
assets?
The disposition of the Secretariat also
presents a tricky problem. By common
consent, here is the most competent and
highly trained group of international ex-
perts ever gathered together. Picked from
every quarter of the globe after careful
investigation and rigorous examinations,
all have ceased to be servants of
their respective countries and have
taken oath that they will act only
in the interests of the League. To assure
continuity of service, a pension plan was
inaugurated, officials contributing five per
cent, annually, and the League a like
amount. What about the contracts with
these people, and their pension fund?
The Permanent Court of International
Justice is still considering cases brought
before it by nations of the world. What
will the new Court do with the old Court
and with these cases? Even greater com-
plications are presented by the two or
three hundred treaties that confer specific
powers and duties on the League of
Nations. Will the United Nations agree
to assume them, and can a quick way be
found for their transfer? If not, it
means the convening of Parliaments and
Congresses for the negotiation of new
treaties.
There is, of cotirse, little question that
some method of amalgamation will be
worked out, for two international organi-
sations are unthinkable.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“In Yugoslavia food production is limited,
because, for some reason 1 cannot understand,
they are maintaining a great army of 400,000
to 600,000 men, I think it would be better if
the army went back to grow food for next
year.”— Foreign Minister Ernest Bevin, in the
House of Commons, 26 /10/’45.
* * * *
It is not difficult to demonstrate the utter
lunacy of the Allies’ policy toward Germany.
It must be becoming apparent that to com-
press 50 to 60 million people into a territory
roughly the size of Britain and then totally de-
industrialise it can lead only to the collapse
and the disaster we are witnessing. The example
of Ruhr coal, without which European industry
is all but paralysed, is only a first example.
The truth is that the prosperity of western
Europe has depended to a great extent on the
existence of a great wealth-producing industrial
concentration in the Ruhr. All Germany’s
western neighbors are bearing the consequences.
—London “Economist.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
Russia’s stooges in the United States are now
running smear campaigns against two of our
ablest World War II generals—Douglas Mac-
Arthur and George S. Patton. If someone in
Russia should start a smear campaign against,
for instance, Marshal Zhukov, he would last
only until the N.K.V.D., or Russian secret
police, could get to him and shoot him without
trial. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * ♦
Reports reaching Washington say that misery,
disease and starvation are getting out of con-
trol of the military authorities in Germany.
One report tells of signs posted in army messes
ordering the men not to give uneaten scraps of
food to the civilians, but to throw them into
garbage cans. This is not due to heartlessness
but to prevent any rioting over the scraps. —
William Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
♦ * * *
“The Soviet reporter is free,” according to
“Pravda,” “because he is immune to outside
influences. The Soviet newspaperman is an
official worker. Does even one foreign journal-/
ist know such freedom? Abroad, journalism
is a career —here it is a battle post. We stand
at this post preserving the interests of our
nation.” There is no use in arguing the ques-
tion of freedom thus raised; freedom is ulti-
mately a subjective state, and if the Soviet news-
paperman feels freer standing chained to his
“battle post” and grimly fighting for the in-
terests of his nation than does a Western news-
paperman pursuing what he humbly regards
as a useful civil career, that ends the matter.
What is significant is the chasm revealed be-
tween the two points of view.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * ♦
Even Left-Wingers are now saying that unless
the peasants and workers of Japan get a higher
standard of living the Allies will eventually en-
counter trouble. This means Jap workers must
find more profitable employment—-in over-
crowded Japan—than in the past, and without
both industries and a large export trade that
will be impossible. And if Jap workers aren’t
thus employed Jap farmers can’t sell their rice.
The same principle, it is argued, alsq applies to
the Germans. Whether or not we hate the
Germans and the Japs, presumably it is Ameri-
can policy to make a just and lasting peace in
line with the Atlantic Charter. The one chance
of such a peace, these observers agree, is a
world in which all peoples have a chance
' to live and work at a decent wage and main-
tain some degree of human dignity. Less than
that will lead to —not prevent —World War 111.
—Washington correspondent N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
Despite all the confident predictions last
autumn that isolationism was defeated at the
polls, despite all the loud protestations during
the war that the United States was at last to
play a leading role in world affairs, United
States public opinion today, as reflected in Con-
gress, is just about as isolationist-minded as it
was in 1920. — U.S. syndicate writer David Law-
rence.
* * * *
Returning to London after many months as a
correspondent with the armed forces on the
Continent, I am heartbroken to find bewildered
and half-starved people queuing up for hours
with no certainty of obtaining the articles for
which they are standing in line. There is a
pathetic apathy about these people that defies
description. The war is over, yes—but con-
ditions here are worse than they were during
the war and worse even than they are on the
Continent—iV.T. “Sun” correspondent.
* * * *
Tire post-war policies of the Soviet Union
lead Soviet statesmen into the paradoxical
position of insisting on the formation of an
association of closely-knit States around their
own frontiers, for the better protection of their
own country, while opposing any close associa-
tion of Western European States as being neces-
sarily anti-Soviet in character and therefore
dangerous to Soviet security. Thus, in effect,
the Russians say to the Western States: “You
must trust us, but we do not trust you.” Upon
the dissolution of this paradox depends fo a
great extent the future security of the world. —
Major George Fielding Eliot; N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
Because everybody and everything must now
be retested and revaluated in atomic terms there
will be new questions about the Sahara Desert.
The head of the U.S. Soil Conservation Service
has said that there is no available surplus of
good farm land in the world as a whole, and
if we let erosion have its way there will soon
be a shortage of arable land. From other
quarters we have been frequently warned against
exaggerated notions about the “vast” reserves
of crop land in the thinly-populated countries
—Australia, Siberia, Brazil, Canada. But does
it matter now, when a couple of hogsheads of
spilt atoms may be enough to irrigate all of
the Sahara? The wafer will come from wells
hundreds of miles deep if there is water at
that level. If not, there is the salt water in all
the seven seas. The problem of distillation
becomes a trifle when the energy from a cupful
of mercury may pull 125 loaded freight cars
45 times across the United States at 200 miles
an hour. This leaves out of account the whole
question of directly producing food by trans-
mutation from the earth and the air.— N.Y.
“Times.”
* ♦ * •
Mass expulsions of the kind that have been
going on in Czechoslovakia are a reversion to
barbarian peacemaking. They are what Lord
Curzon described after the last war as “a
thoroughly bad and vicious solution.” To
be sure, they were sanctified by the Potsdam
peace, and, in view of fifth-column activity
before and after the war, it was difficult to
oppose such a policy. But the policy becomes
quite intolerable when done in the Czechoslo-
vakian manner. Indeed, it has been contrary
to the Potsdam terms. At Potsdam the peace-
makers declared that “any transfers that take
place should be effected in an orderly and
humane manner.” The responsibility for deal-
ing with the incomers was given to the Control
Council, which was to govern the entries
according to the absorptive capacity of Ger-
many. We can imagine that what has been
going on in Czechoslovakia has become a head-
ache for the Control Council. — Washington
“Post”
* * * *
Going by the polls, the majority of Americans
have been reluctant' to see a loan of several
billion dollars made to Britain. For every person
found in favor in a poll survey two were
found opposed. The greatest opposition comes
from manual workers. They register a 3-to-l
vote against a loan. This is ironical, in view
of the fact that Britain is now being run by the
Labor party whose programme is the improve-
ment of the living conditions of the working
classes. Harold Laski and others in London
have said that, in order to obtain American
assistance, the British Labor party must con-
vince American businessmen and upper classes
of the rightness of its socialistic programme.
Actually, it is the working classes in the
United States who need the most convincing.—
George Gallup; Director, American Institute
of Public Opinion.
* * * ♦
Union leaders frequently cite statistics of in-
creased profits earned by industry during the
past few years to support wage increase de-
mands. Larger earnings show an ability to pay
higher wages, it is argued, and hourly rates of
pay should be lifted accordingly. But profits
statistics of the abnormal war period are in
no way indicative of what the future will bring.
What a corporation earned in 1940 or 1944
may bear little or no relation to the hourly
wage rates it can afford to pay in 1946 or 1947.
Selling prices of a company’s products, its
volume of production and the efficiency of
labor are the three dominant factors which will
determine the wage rates that it can now pay.
Far-reaching changes are now taking place in
these factors. These changes may make diffi-
cult the maintenance of existing wage rates,
let alone higher wages that unions are seeking.
• — N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCJC, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, • HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
KILL the RABBITS with
& 7* * ~wv -y- *r~%. A A —but it’s the Buzacott
I YANOItAS ““ w “ lh,t “ k “ “ ■
VJ* •**.> oAo“ 1 Lr n r.sf
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, slb. tin, 13/9 j 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
FOOT-PUMP
o cheap and
Obtainable
front ’ all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
r
EFsaghts
.•V
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Nciting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mz
*& ...... A
m m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
quality Guaranteed.
Obtainable-*from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney,
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Consumption.
“Graz”: In 1938 processing works in
Britain absorbed 2,250,000 bales of wool;
in 1944 this had fallen to 1,500,000. Civi-
lians used 65 p.c. less wool during the
war. Neither in Britain nor America
will mill output in 1945 reach pre-war
levels for civilian goods. However, U.S.
mills in the first third of this year ab-
sorbed 1,170,000,0001 b. of greasy wool —
a record for a four-month period. These
mills are now using 35 p.c. home-grown
wool, and while this is 7 p.c. more than
in 1944, it means large supplies of good-
length, light-conditioned, medium-quality
imported wools will still be needed.
American mills have ample labor and
the annual output of military and civilian
woollens and worsteds is 150,000,000 yd.
greater than pre-war. Owing to the short-
age of skilled hands, British mills are not
working to capacity, and a lot of tech-
nical training of labor and new mill con-
struction will be needed before the U.K.
can. reach the objective of exporting 50
p.c. more products from wool than in the
pre-war years.
A reduction has been made in prices
charged to users of medium and coarse
crossbred wools ranging up to 2d. per
lb. for the coarsest types. With the
slump in military demand prices for these
wools was dropped to encourage other
uses. Growers will be paid the appraised
rates agreed to at the beginning of the
selling season, but next season these wools
will probably be appraised at lower rates.
Coastal Dairy Pastures.
“H. Early” r South Coast N.S.W.
dairy farmers who try to break away
from the übiquitous paspalum grass and
establish balanced pastures are too prone
to go the whole hog on perennial rye,
sometimes throwing in a bit of white or
red clover seed for luck. On the flats
that may be a fair investment, as suffi-
cient moisture ensures a good sward in
spring. This carries the herd until pas-
palum take£ over, when warmth and
moisture of late spring and summer make
it hard for the cattle to keep paspalum in
check and palatable. What is wanted is
a pasture suitable to the steep slopes of
rich soil on these coastal dairylands.
Few of those whose family tenure goes
back to early days think in terms of
nutritional and specialised pastures. An
example is a 40-acre stand of perennial
rye on sharply sloping hillsides. Cocks-
foot at 61b. to the acre, or more, should
have been the backbone of that pasture.
It stands well the summer dryness in-
separable from such a slope. Wimmera
rye (21b.) will help the winter grazing, and
some sheep’s burnet with a sprinkling of
white clover would ensure balance,
clover (21b.) would do well in the winter
warmth and moisture.
There are patches on these coastal
slopes where good soil in a depression or
dip ensures a wonderful cover of peren-
nial rye. Right down on to the flats it
thrives ; so does Phalaris tuberosa. The
more progressive dairymen have realised
the immense value of phalaris as a winter
pasture and a spring source of hay or
silage.
These are the men who have sufficient
stored fodder to tide them over a dry
summer like the present. They get it
from the early phalaris and oats, with
lucerne, if some stray showers come along
before the full impact of drought and
summer heat pulls up all progress.
Spud Growing and Storing.
“Bill C.”: There is no need to manure
potato land heavily unless it is known to
be very poor (B. 7/11/ ’45). New land
”Y’ should be ’ere in the spring when all the gum blossoms are out”
is almost certain to be naturally rich
enough to grow a good crop. However,
the land must be well prepared. Plough
to full top-soil depth and harrow at once.
Second ploughing two or three months
later should be shallow and should put
the land in very good shape for planting
a fortnight later.
I prefer greened whole seed, but speci-
mens exceeding 2|oz. in weight should
be cut. A dusting of super, or meatworks
fertiliser along the drills is recommended
because it accelerates early growth. Heat-
ing fertilisers should, however, be used
with care on dryish soils. There’s little
sense in leaving the crop in the ground
after the plants have died otf, since wire-
worms will ruin the tubers or rain cause
rotting or sprouting. Store ’em in a shed
in clean sacks or heap ’em on thick straw
in a tapering pile, cover with straw and
finally with a quantity of earth. Remove
potatoes from one end of the heap as
required and close the end afterwards.
Rotational Cropping.
“E. 2”: R. H. Hayman, acting manager
of Rutherglen Experiment Farm, has an
article in the Victorian “Journal of Agri-
culture” on what he terms “clover-ley
farming,” the rotation of clovers and
allied plants with cereals and others. The
idea is to restore land worn out by cereal-
growing with nitrogen, supplied to the
soil by clovers, and the organic matter and
minerals deposited by grazing animals.
After several years under pasture the
paddock is returned to cereal-growing for
a season or two and is then spelled by a
further period of grazing.
It is argued in favor of the system that
worn-out soils are brought back to culti-
vation greatly enriched and maintenance
of fertility is continuous. Further, the
diseases of cereals, potatoes, flax, etc., are
dispelled in the grazing periods and,
alternately, the eggs of parasites which
affect stock are destroyed in land under
cultivation. Possibly many diseases of
stock, deficiency-caused and otherwise, on
land used continuously for grazing could
be eliminated by this system in practice.
Results at the Rutherglen Farm with
wheat in a very dry season showed:
After five years of “clover-ley,” 24.3
bushels per acre; after “volunteer”
grasses, 19.6 bushels; on old cultivation,
14.1 bushels.
These crops were grown on fallow, but
Hayman points out that fallowing may
be omitted except in very dry seasons,
thus ensuring a measure of grazing and
possibly extra fodder conservation up till
sowing the crop.
From what I’ve seen in Victoria and
parts of N.S.W. in the past few seasons
rotation on these lines, with the use of
deep-rooting leguminous plants suited to
the particular districts in the off-cultiva-
tion periods, has everything to commend
it. Cropping on land worn out by cereal-
growing or using land worn out by graz-
ing for the same purpose continuously
has not generally proved economic farm-
ing. The wider use of the “clover-ley”
system may, perhaps, result in more mixed
farming, though the trend is already that
way and, by management of paddocks
so that cropping and pastures are main-
tained each year, a steadier income should
be assured.
The Future.
“F.S.C.”: The man on the land has an
undreamed-of future before him. Syn-
thetics may well demand a complete over-
haul of the wool industry. Air transport
can simplify the distribution of fruit and
vegetables, particularly those which de-
teriorate quickly. Such things as paw-
paws and tomatoes could be allowed a
greater degree of natural ripening before
being picked, which would enhance their
flavor as well as improve their health
value. New methods of planting, ferti-
lising and pest control will considerably
shorten working hours, while improving
crops. The farmer who closes his mind
to the possibilities of science in today’s
world will be left standing.
N.Q. Legumes.
“Sarina”: The C.S.I.R. is interested in
butterfly pea, a pasture legume which is
already established in parts of the
Queensland north. This lucerne-like plant
looks a good thing for propagation in
districts where rainfall is moderate to
heavy, and it is well liked by stock. In
fact, they have been largely responsible
for its failure to spread right through the
N.Q. coast grazing country. The ex-
perts are of opinion that it would make
good hay if it were allowed to grow
freely, |
N.Q. pastures are notoriously deficient
in protein because legumes that succeed
in the south do not thrive in the tropics.
The most successful legume on the tropi-
cal coast is Townsville lucerne, but
Queensland Department of Agriculture is
trying out the Kudzu vine at its South
Johnstone (N.Q.) research station. It is
not very hopeful that the Japanese creeper
will be a safe investment in any but warm
districts with an annual rainfall of 40in.
Mistletoe.
“C.H.”: Increase of mistletoe pest (B.
8/8/’45) can be attributed to the prevail-
ing Australian short-sightedness concern-
ing the value of fauna. Killing off of
thousands of possums for their furs was
bound to have repercussions. These
animals did a fine job for the forests and
the farmers by thriving on the seeds of
the mistletoe and thus saving thousands
of good trees.
With the possums gone, the berries are
eaten by birds, which void them into other
trees over areas miles removed from the
point of intake. Voided seed rarely fails
to germinate, germinates quicker and pro-
duces plants lustier and longer-lived than
seeds sown ordinarily. This method of
distribution is the root of the trouble, and
makes the problem a tough one to tackle
biologically. A. S. Le Soeuf, former
curator of Taronga Park Zoo, says the
pest will be brought under control once
the possum gets a fair chance to increase.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pat O’Day”: The newly-born calf
should be left with the dam for at least
three days before it is taught to drink
from the bucket. It is desirable to keep
the calf tied up for a few hours each day
for a few days, a shelter-shed being pro-
vided for it in the paddock. Back the


Mi
H
r:
O’
x
fQ
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY’S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs .of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies-are
all banished. Approved by Board o
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax ana
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES —
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS . .8N.5.44
EYE LOTION
Jbr Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose& Co., Pty, Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food —50/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
J.E.LONG&CO
Wallangarra.
'drynvZ?
jgrpr^J*
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“There were Reservoirs
and Grand Canals...”
“7 saw a vision in days gone by and would dream that dream again —
Of the days when the Darling shall not back her billahongs up in vain.
There were reservoirs and grand canals where the dry country had been
'And a glorious network of aqueducts and the fields were always green.’
—Henry Lawson.
That vision of a glorious future for Australia can become a reality in the
peaceful days to come. Back from the fighting fronts and with an amazing
knowledge of modem tractors and 1 earth-moving equipment, our men could trap,
into great dams, billions of gallons of water now flowing needlessly to the
sea. Then with similar equipment they could build canals and ditches to take
this water to millions of thirsty acres. 'So would our land become a land of
plenty ... a land fit for heroes to live in. All this can be done with Caterpillar
Tractors and Caterpillar Earth-Moving Equipment at a fraction of the cost and the
time of older methods.
_ f.JfT
■
/y - K - „;#i- x "; Vi
mst -c
Laying a pipe line with Caterpillar
Tractor and Sideboom
Mai.
|K
“vael
"" * H %
:£M
Jt
m
"rTrrrrftß
CAT !• _ TFRPIL , AR earth-moving equipment
C A * * r a rTH MOVING EQUIPMENT
- , r ATERPILEAR EARTH MU’
TRACK-TYPE “ N Sou* W- "tiMITEO
WAUGH & JOSEPHS© G ,,„„edah-
Brisbane — none,
CT3-33-43
1 1 m
V-r*
-x
calf into a corner holding it in position.
Then hold the pail in one hand, dipping
the fingers of the other in the milk, and
while the calf is sucking the fingers bring
its head down into the milk, then gradu-
ally withdraw the fingers. Feed twice
daily, half to one gallon per day undiluted
cow’s milk, warmed,
“Farmer Bill”: Loss of weight in pigs
is often due to worms. To prevent spread
of infection, spray the yards with a solu-
tion of lib. bluestone to Igal. water.
Drench the pig with 1 c.c. of oil of cheno-
podiurp for every 251 b. liveweight in 2oz.
of castor oil. Starve for 12 hours before
administering.
“E. 2”; A car magneto can be used to
supply current for an electric fence. It
may be possible to use a waterwheel or
wind propeller to keep the mag. turning
over slowly, though some sort of gover-
nor might be needed. Join a lead from
the positive terminal to the wire and
make a good earth to the negative. It
will provide a sharp lesson to stock when
turned by hand.
“Broncho”: When blight attacks
tomato plants the first sign is when the
leaves turn brown, then they gradually
wilt and the whole plant will wither and
die. Spray affected plants with lime sul-
phur wash at a strength of one in 50.
I have always found this effective. Mulch-
ing is very important. Any material such
as well-matured manure, grass or leaves
should be spread around the roots to
protect them from the heat of the summei
sun,
“Pat O’Day”: Paspalum cannot fulfil
its purpose for pasturage in winter, as
frosts render it dry and unpalatable to
dairy stock. Therefore, farmers on
N.S.W. coastal areas, by having an alter-
native supply of frost-resistant grasses
and clovers to see them through the
winter months (when danger of a diminu-
tion in milk supply must be avoided), are
not then forced to adopt costly stall-
feeding.
“Bennie”: Grow giant sunflowers if
you want fowls to keep up their pro-
duction. They are easily cultivated and
yield well. The seeds are an ideal feeu,
having a far greater nutritive value than
wheat. Almost any soil grows sunflowers,
and they do not need a lot of manuring
or weeding,
“A.G.R.”: Two perennial climbing
beans useful for domestic purposes are
the Tongan and the Madagascar. Both
need a good strong trellis about sft. high.
Plant 6ft. apart early in spring or in
autumn to avoid bean-fly; the plants are
immune to this once they are well estab-
lished. With three plants of each of these
varieties, green beans will be available
most of the year. The Madagascar bean
may be left to -mature on the vine and
shelled and used like lima beans. They
do best in a good soil, well limed,
although the Tongan bean will# bear well
under poor conditions. In coastal Queens-
land they are not affected by frost, and
are practically free from all the usual
bean pests and diseases which make it un-
profitable to grow French beans during
the warm weather.


\\ * e
sic
u
V* V
\^\Ch
mm
i
(r^
/
iP
Z~
V
m
/,
V
rC*
Ws/i
J/A'V
ROMANCE —It is delightful to
dally with memories of the de-
licious past and to dream of
pleasures yet to come.
ROMANCE fitting gift for
charming companion choice,
gracious compliment for an anni-
versary occasion.
ROMANCE
>
(ROMANCE,
OLD GOLD.
GOLDEN GLORY -S
three famous chocolate
assortments remem*
hared for their
QUALITY! ••
w
PROTECTION during Peace and War is
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE,
throughout Australia.
ECHERSICV a SONS PTY. LTD.
35-103 CLARENDON ST.. STH. MELBOURNE SCS
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
“Maudie was a fat girl who always looked
rather dusty.” —‘‘New Idea.”
Her complexion, of course, was dusty-
pink.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A woman doesn’t need to be driving a
car to run her neighbors down.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The man who steps into a breach often
lands himself in a hole.
“Don’t allow children to eat much of the new
season’s fruit.” — Woman’s paper.
Unless you’re prepared to mortgage
your home.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lady, alone, flat on tramline, Double Bay,
requires help.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Attempted suicide?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Chemists in the U.S. have produced an arti-
ficial mink fur from plastic.”—“ World’s News.”
But artificial women have long pro-
duced real fur from plastic admirers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Culinary Note.
“Her husband becomes a ‘wild man’ when he
drinks snakejuice, a woman told the Chicago
Divorce Court.”
,The preparation of this beverage, which
is almost a lost art, involves a great deal
of skill, not to say risk.
When the snakes have been carefully
caught by the gills and tied up in bunches
of. ten, it is necessary to carry out the
juicing operation on each one separately.
This can be done (though not easily) on
an ordinary domestic lemon-squeezer, but
the more efficient method is by hand. The
snake is folded neatly in two, grasped
firmly in both hands and twisted until
it is thoroughly wrung out. The husk or
rind should not be discarded ; it makes
a nourishing soup for the children.
An alternative method is that of alco-
holic extraction. Each snake is dipped
for ten seconds in half a gallon of rum,
cate being taken not to allow the snake
to absorb too much of the spirit—besides
wasting rum, this has been known to
revive extremely dead snakes. The flavor
of snakejuice prepared in this way is said
to be superior to the expressed variety.
Common grass-snakes produce a mild,
refreshing summer beverage; a stronger
“Whaddaya mean by tearing around like mad and disturbing everybody?"
brew can be made from black, tiger and
coral snakes; and extract of cobra is
recommended only for the seasoned
palate.
The most intoxicating beverage of the
lot was an extract I prepared from a
bundle Of purple, pink and ultramarine
snakes that somebody left at our place
after a four-day party. Some of its
potency may have been due to the juice
of a green elephant, a leopard-turkey cross
and nine assorted fantods, which kept
getting into the juicer.
Plum.
Oh Yeah?
“The Melbourne University law lecturer whose
broadcast criticising Britain and America for
their handling of the Indonesian situation pro-
voked a protest from Lord Louis Mountbatten
is not to broadcast again over the short-wave
service. It was officially announced that this
decision had nothing to do with the inter-
national stir caused by his broadcast.”
Stating that, owing to the excessive
publicity he was getting—there was never
less than a column of hero-worship every
morning in the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
on his mammoth betting —he had
decided not to punt again on any
racecourse, Manny Ikestein, the
well-known Leviathan Punter, denied that
his fear of too much publicity was bound
up with the increased interest the Taxa-
tion Department was taking in his affairs.
“It ith thimply,” Manny told a sobbing
“D.T.” reporter, “that, apart from me
being by nature of a retiring dithpothi-
thion, I have an uncle —not vun of the
vuns you patronithe—who venever he
theeth my name in print geth an attack
of Thaint Vitith Danth. Theeing him
thyake maketh me thtart, too, tho I
thought it would be bethth for both of
uth if I kept out o’ the paperth.”
Interviewed after the announcement of
his retiring from the ring, which was made
by his trainer after he had been beaten
in the first round of his bout with Joe
Wallapar at the Stadium—his 11th knock-
out in a row —“Slugger” Dumbell said
“It ain’t nuttin’ to do wit’ me takin’
another stiffener, see? Wit’ me outside
business int’rests gittin’ so big I just can’t
afford the time for trainin’. I ain’t made
up me mind yet whether 111 be joinin
the board of a big public company or
swingin’ a mad mick in me ole roa
gang.” * .
Asked if the reason why he was pulling
off his much boosted “extended season
stage show less than a week after the
opening night was that it had proved a
“flop,” the producer was emphatic.
“Certainly not!” he said. “Actually,
the show has to date been a brilliant suc-
cess, despite what the critics said. My
action was dictated purely by considera-
tion for the public. The jokes put over
by the comedian were so good that the
audiences were constantly in hysterics.
Such sustained emotionalism is liable to
cause people untold harm; rather than
feel that I was responsible for this I
decided to ‘kill* the show.”
Requested to comment on the peculiar
fact that at the close of the exhibition
of his surrealist paintings not one of the
120 canvases had been sold, Reggie Rat-
bagge claimed he was delighted. The one
thing he dreaded most was the possibility
that any expression of his genius might be
bought and perhaps hung somewhere
where it might catch the eye of the un-
believer in the New Art. “I would sooner
starve! ” the painter declared, dramatically
throwing back his hair, “than accept 5000
guineas for one of my works if I thought
the prospective buyer could not interpret
the inspired outpourings of my sub-
conscious self! ”
Hotly refuting an innuendo by a cus-
tomer, who sarcastically observed that the
only time in two years he had sold any
bottled beer, in daylight anyway, over
the counter was to two investigating Cus-
toms officers, the proprietor of the
Mugs’ Rest Hotel claimed that it was
purely a coincidence.
The fact was that he was unaware of
their identity; he denied having received
a warning ’phone ring from the publican
further up the street that they were on
their way. When he saw the desperate
expressions on the faces of the men when
they asked for the beer he feared if they
didn’t get it they might commit suicide.
He happened by a strange chance to have
two bottles on hand, his only supply in
months. To prevent a tragedy he sold it
to them at the fixed price.
Denying suggestions that the reason
why he would take no action against
lawless industrial elements was that he
didn’t have the guts to stand up against
Red Fascist union bosses, Mr. Chifley
said he refrained from taking such action
solely because of the acute fish-supply
position in Footscray, Until this * im-
proved sufficiently to enable low-income
workers to buy sea-foods cheap he
would resist all attempts to stampede him
into precipitate action. It might be that
even after the fish position improved a
nutmeg shortage or a threatened fly-veil
famine might prevent him from taking
disciplinary measures. The last thought
in his mind was the possible hostility of
his supporters.
80.
Procrastination.
“The vicar of Clitheroe Church, Lancashire,
says the average time for a bride to be late at
the church is 25 minutes.” —‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
Though, given time, the victim might
Before the altar
Palely falter,
And from the halter shy in fright,
The bride’s relations who attend him,
If he should quail
And hit the trail,
Would scarcely fail to apprehend him.
But while a bride can safely tarry
Upon the way.
Some others may
Not risk delay who plan to marry ;
For in the race a man to win ifs
Patent, one fears.
That some poor dears
Are late by years, not merely minutes.
P. M. LUSK.
Development.
“Sometimes the fantastic desires of childhood
persist in adult life.” — Psychologist.
When young I often wished that I
Could raise my childish hands afar
Amid the wonders of the sky,
And fondly grasp a star.
Now I’m no longer young and green,
Yet still I wish that I were able
To grasp a lovely star —I mean
A gorgeous one like Grahle!
NAT.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^e'^xxlZeix/n.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
8„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£l9O
a
■ i
6 nr*
iVSfi
mm
THERE IS NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
mm
g
PLAN NOW TO
Garry out
Post-war
Farm
Repairs
pi*AN NOW to carry out post-
war rebuilding and repairs in
steel-strong Lysaght’s Galvanised Iron.
Unequalled for all farm constructional
work because of its great tensile
strength, low cost and exceptionally
long life, it is particularly valuable
where water conservation and fire
protection are important factors.
Deliveries in standard
lengths from 6ft. to 12ft.,
and in both 8 and 10
three-1 nc h corrugated
widths will soon be ade-
quate for all require-
ments.
John lysaght (aust.) pty. ltd;
'’Sydney . Melbourne - Brisbane - Adelaide £ pehtml
trioagsnA
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
District Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & 00. Pty.. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Illustrated literature from
ŕ
ŗ
Ue ' ,
VJORLO BOOKS
% e Wow 1 11
' *t 5/9 A/
I
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
June MEMOIRS OF A MOUNTAINEER _F. Spcncei Chapmen
July CLOUDLESS MAY _ _ _ _ Storm Jamieson
Aug. BEING MET TOGETHER _ _ Vaughn Wilkins
Sept. CRICKET COUNTRY _____ Edmund Blunden
Oct. THE SMALL BACK ROOM— _ _ Nigel Balcbin
Nov. CLUNY BROWN ______ Margery Sharp
Dec. SO MANY LOVES _ _ _ Leo W’alipsley
Jan. THE RAZOR’S EDGE Somerset Maughair
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MTHS £l-17-6 12 MTHS £3-15-0 (Inc.)
WORLD
BOOKS’*
is a book club
which releases a
selected modern
book in a special
Oe-Luxe Edition
to members each
month. These
• books cost only
5/9 each, ir-
respective of the
regular selling
price of the
book, and are
members' own
property.
MORGAN'S BOOK SHOP. 9 Costlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of "World Books." I enclose £ /
My Name Is -
Address - - -
o
t T !z:
z Z
When wonderful, world-wide Radio
Programmes sweep away the memories of
war and brighten your well-earned leisure
—how important then, to have
“His Master’s Voice”
RADIO
řr
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD. (Inc. in England). HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
RB/48.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy parts XXXV and XXXVI of A
Critical Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus, by
J. H. Maiden.—3678.
Information Sought.
Some facts about the founding of Sydney
University ?
The University, which was the first in Aus-
tralasia, arose out of the Sydney College.
The proprietors in 1849 petitioned the N.S.W.
Legislative Council to convert the college into
a university. In 1850 an Act provided for the
appointment of a Senate of 16 Fellows and a
grant of £5000 annually. Chairs in classics,
mathematics, chemistry and experimental physics
were founded in 1851, and the university was
inaugurated in 1852. In 1855 a block of 141i
acres at Grose Hill was dedicated for educa-
tional purposes and provision was made for
four colleges. St. Paul’s (C. of E.) was founded
in 1854, St. John’s (R.C.) 1857, St. Andrew’s
(Presbyterian) 1867, Wesley (Methodist) 1910,
and the Women’s College (non-sectarian) in
1894. The training college for teachers was
opened in 1920.
* ♦ * ♦
How can Sturt’s desert pea be grown in Syd-
ney suburban gardens?
This native trailing plant ( Clianthus dampierii )
requires careful handling. If needs dry con-
ditions, and there must be no manure or fer-
tiliser in the soil. Leave the plants severely
alone after they germinate. Results are often
obtained by soaking the seeds in hot water for
ten minutes before sowing and then burning
leaves, grass or brambles over the bed, the ashes
supplying potash.
Brief Answers.
A.W.: An old-age pension would not be
affected if a relative' were to pay off a mortgage
on the pensioner’s home A.McW.: Canary
seed, whch is used solely as bird seed, has been
high priced owing to poor seasons and a more
attractive price ruling for other crops. Limited
supplies are grown in north-western N.S.W.
G.B.: About 10s Prospector: Try any
big public library... .E.G.8.: Tanning and
dressing crocodile skins is beyond the scope of
an amateur. If you have only one or two skins
that you wish to keep as souvenirs, Mr. H.
Anderson, Tanning School, John-street, Water-
loo, Sydney, will do the work free of charge.
J.O.N.: Send name and address
Reader: Presume you refer to the International
Exhibition opened by the Marquis of Nor-
manby on October 1, 1880. In that year
Grand Flaneur won the Melbourne Cup from
Progress and Lord Burghley... .C.H.:
Mister is a corruption of master A.W.8.:
Know of no firm that makes the machines.
Contact the Department of Patents... .E.S.: If
the skin was pickled before drying, it is not
surprising that it has absorbed moisture.
Immerse it in an infusion of wattlebark con-
taining half pound of salt per gallon and leave
until the liquor has penetrated right through the
skin. Then wash thoroughly, treat it lightly
with neatsfoot oil on the flesh side, and allow
to dry E.J.: Furnished houses are covered by
National Security (Landlord and Tenant) Regu-
lations. You can apply to the Court' for an
eviction order if you have given an appropriate
notice to quit. Consult a solicitor M.H.;
The Wonthaggi State coalmines normally
employ 1300 men, but owing to manpower
shortages the number is now 990 D.A.:
Lands becoming available for settlement' are
notified in the “Government Gazette,” which
is available from the Government Printing
Office. Contact Department of Lands for in-
formation regarding the war service land settle-
ment scheme T.D.M.: First at St. James’s
Park, London, £22 Is. 2d.; second at New-
castle, £283 165.; third at Birmingham, £lO7
ss. 3d R. 0.: Negotiate with florists’ shops,
giving the amount you can supply, and when.
Careful packing is essential and the blooms
should be of good quality; only long-stemmed
flowers are saleable. The sorts always in re-
quest are roses, carnations, zinnias, dahlias,
chrysanthemums, gerberas, heuchera, antirr-
hinums, stocks, aquflegias, candytuft, sweet peas,
delphiniums, asters. Any of the blooms from
bulbs are also always in demand.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.H.W.: “What fiendish game is fate play-
ing with me?” Tempting you into melodrama.
... .S.T.: Thin A.K.C.: “The Last of the
Dora-Doras” is very like “The Last of the
Mohicans”... .C.McM.: Lady who discourses
on art throughout breakfast is either incred-
ible or monstrous.,. .R.K.: It may be true,
but you don’t make if convincing... .M.S.A. :
“A Story of Rome” is full of Hollywood Nazis
and incredible Italians J.H.S.: Thin; but
good idea in last two lines R.L.: The ship-
wreck loses much of its drama in the flash-
backs A.M.L.: Try & womans paper....
J.J.: Don’t explain your jokes so conscien-
tiously... .D.C.: Come again... .G.G.J.: Fair
description of a journey: but not a story....
E.J.N.: Characters lifeless M.L.A.: The cat
comes back L.H.E.: Use your own words,
not' Henley’s H.W.: Like a newchum driver,
it leaps for one yard, stalls, leaps, stalls....
W.S.F.: Usual remarks about war.


d
Another major contribution
to Better living .. . the
in-line-bathroom
/ FORMING ONE WALL OF YOUR_ BEDROOM \
m
I - -
T
SHOWER RECESS . . LAVATORY . . . TOILET . .
Here is a further ingenious and highly practical idea from
overseas to make your home more efficient and comfort*
able. It is called the “In-Line-Bathroom.” It can either
be made part-and-parcel of a new home or it can be added
to any large bedroom in an existing. house. As in most
ideas for the modem home. Masonite is the ideal con-
structional material.
Scheme, primarily, is to end bathroom congestion and give
added convenience by providing duplicate facilities at end
of master bedroom. This is accomplished by partitioning
4ft. of one end of bathroom with Masonite and providing
separate compartments for
shower, lavatory, and
toilet. Useful storage
space for bulky
articles is built
in on top of
Masonite “In- ||w
Line-Bathroom.”
PRESDWOOD ... TEMPRTILE
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
2
«P
iiL'v
m
't
Manufactured by:
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.), LTD.
AUTHORISED N.B.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
A. C. Saxton & Sons, Ltd., Pyrmont; John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney*
B. H Corke & Co., Sydney: Australian Window Glass Ply., Ltd., Alexandria;
Sorby’s Pty., Ltdi., Newcastle; Andrew Cook A Sons Pty., Ltd., Newcastle.
“THE HONOR OF THE PEOPLE”
By JOHN FOUNTAIN.
IT was dark and cold and snowing
I heavily outside the Kriegsgefangenen
Lazaret at Adlersberg p.-0.-w. camp,
but inside the top ward it was warm,
nJ e ifhT r the H°, Ve ’ became ,OCk
de loSTant 0 ” 8
extra coal trom the de-lousmg plant.
Jock was playing cards on his bed with
a few of the “up” patients when big
Rikki and another orderly carried Paul
Matahiki in on a stretcher. Paul’s plump,
brown face was streaming with sweat,
™ a ,h k
ously sprinkled with feathery flakes
of snow, looked as though he had just
stepped from under a shower bath ;
otherwise he didn t look very sick, except,
perhaps, for the queer look which kept
creeping into his soft brown eyes.
They put the stretcher down near the
Stove. Another Maori came in • with
Paul’s gear, a greasy haversack and odds
and ends of belongings stpred in Red
Cross boxes and tied up with string. He
left the door open and Salem, the young,
hawk-faced Frenchman from Algiers,
who had been sitting on a stool, as near
as was possible the fire, raised an in-
dignant howl of courant a air!
Rikki held his blue hands up to the
warmth of the stove. His broad face
looked as if it had, just been polished
carefully, and his teeth were displayed
in a wide, happy smile. But if some-
thing was said to hurt his feelings his
mouth would droop and his one eye
would dim like a scolded child’s. Then,
in a matter of minutes, he would forget
all about it, and roll and chortle with
fat laughter again.
“Eh, Jock,” he drawled in his soft
voice, odd contrast to his vast, brawny
bulk, “t’at snow near freeze me legs
’way, eh.” He gurgled and shook like a
jelly at the excruciatingly funny idea of
his, Rikki’s, legs being frozen off. He
glanced over at the other orderly, making
up the bed. “Don’t be fussy wit’ t’at
bed,” he advised. “Paul not used to it in
t’at ol’ workin’ camp, eh.”
“You’re right there,” Paul Matahiki
said grimly. He spoke perfect English,
with only a richer sound of the vowels to
distinguish between his speech and that
of a white man.
“Eh, Paul,” Rikki said curiously,
“what you do after I go in hospital?
I ask all t’ boys but no one know. Just,
‘Paul gone to workin’ camp,’ eh.”
“I went to Gosdorf,” Paul said. “A
canal job, pick and shovel work.”
“You’ll be orright here,” Rikki said
confidently, “not bad ki, eh, Jock?”
“Not bad for you, you fat cow,” Jock
said unpleasantly. “You’ve put on a
stone since you volunteered for orderly.”
Rikki rocked with laughter. “No, no,
Jock,” he protested between gurgles.
“Only after I dish it out, eh. Jerry
rations, see. Sometimes I take round a
Kiibel of cabbage an’ spuds, eh. Stomach
cases can’t eat ’em. Sometimes they stink
a bit, eh? You don’t like ’em. Orright,
I eat ’em, eh?”
“They always stink a bit,” Jock said,
“but we always eat ’em, And you still
get fat.”
Jock came from Glasgow. He was a
middle-aged, craggy-faced Irish-Scot with
sunken eyes and a jaunty moustache. A
week before. Cole, the M. 0., had warned
him that if he didn’t stay in bed he would
be dead within a month, but Jock
thought he might last for two months,
and he didn’t stay in bed. “What’s the
good?” he said to Cole. “At the best. I’ll
be dead in a year, so why stay in bed
and be miserable?”
So Jock had had his way. For a month
now he had cared for Young Horne,
who lay like a fevered skeleton, gasping
his life away. Jock’s blunt, navvy’s hands
could be incredibly gentle. A high color
waxed and waned in his cheeks, and his
temper would flare up suddenly and die
as quickly, but he was rarely gloomy,
except about the politics of Great Britain
and the future of Soccer in Scotland.
MATAHIKI must have dozed off after
Rikki went, because he woke to find
Cole bending over him.
Cole had a bald, egg-shaped head, a
leathery, deeply-lined face and a friendly
grin. Faded blue eyes twinkled tolerantly
from behind gold-rimmed spectacles. He
looked the perfect type of general prac-
titioner from some small country town —
one of the reliable, undistinguished
plodding kind.
“How are you, son?” he asked “Been
sleeping O.K. at night?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Do you sweat much?”
Paul nodded dumbly, and the queer,
bleak look came back into his eyes.
“Have you got a cough?”
“No, not much.”
“H-mm. Let’s have a look at you any-
way. Take that jacket off,” He leant
over and applied the stethoscope to Paul’s
brown, still heavily-muscled chest.
“Now a deep breath. In —out. That’s
it.” Cole traced the length of a long
white scar across Paul’s right pectoral
with a curious finger. “Bayonet, eh?
Where did you get this—Crete?”
Paul looked up, almost shyly. “Yes,
_ • 99
sir.
Cole’s lopsided grin stretched wider.
“I saw that little show you chaps put
on. I had a dressing station near the
end of the village, in an old white shed
with a little stone wall around it. There
was a big poster on the wall advertising
wine, remember?”
Paul’s dark eyes kindled. “I remem-
ber,” he said softly.
“0.K., I’ll see you in the morning,”
Cole turned to Jock. “Tell Rikki to take
the usual tests first thing in the morning,
will you, Jock?”
They walked to the door and Cole lin-
gered for a moment before facing the
cold. “Have you noticed any change in
Young Home?” Jie inquired.
“No,” Jock said. “Blackbeard was bad
today. Do you think he’ll die tonight?”
“All those Serbs will die soon,” Cole
said wearily. “I gave him a shot of heroin
when I gave Young Horne his ; we’ve got
enough for them anyway, poor devils;
but if we don’t get some drugs from the
Red Cross 500 n.....” He trailed off into
a worried silence, rubbing the grey-brown
stubble at the nape of his neck and star-
ing at Jock with puzzled, faded eyes.
“How long do you think Young Horne
will last now, sir?” Jock asked.
“I’m damned if I know. By rights he
should have been dead long ago. Might
go on for days yet.”
“What about the Maori?”
“Matahiki? Oh, he should be O.K.
once he settles down. A week’s rest and
good food; then well see.”
%
PAUL opened his eyes early next
morning to find Jock busy with
Young Horae. He had rested a small
basin of warm water on the edge of
Horne’s bed and was sponging his gaunt,
waxen face. Jock was already dressed, his
scanty hair brushed straight back and a
speck of blood on his freshly-shaven
cheek. Twice a week was the best most
of them could manage with blunt, much-
used razor blades, but by some minor
miracle Jock was always clean-shaven.
In the far corner a Serb was sitting up
rubbing his eyes, and near the door two
Frenchmen were lying back in bed,
blankets hugged to their chins, talking
in the swift patois of the Midi. There
was an empty bed, stripped of its bed-
ding, three beds up to Paul’s left. He
looked at it in surprise. “Hullo,” he
called to Jock. “There swas someone in
that bed last night. A Serb with a big
black beard.” He paused and his voice
changed. “Did he die last night?” he
asked. •
Jock nodded. “Early this morning. They
took him away straight after,” he said.
PAUL was very quiet all day. Every
time Jock looked over towards him
he was lying in the same position, on his
back, staring at the ceiling or out the
window opposite, watching the snow-
streaked roof of the de-louser on the
other side of the barbed wire which
fenced off the hospital compound. Mostly
his eyes were blank, but when Jock
looked closely he thought he saw the old,
queer look brooding and lurking in their
soft depths.
The death of the Serb must have fright-
ened him, Jock thought, but that did not
explain the way Paul’s brow would
suddenly crinkle and knit in a network
of little hard lines or the way he
would shift his gaze, unexpectedly,
from the ceiling or the window to some
other object, to the cold stove or to
Rikki, bustling half-heartedly around the
ward ; a puzzled, almost bewildered look
came scuttling into his eyes then, as
though he were struggling, actively but
hopelessly, with some problem which was
too intricate and too vast for him.
‘<|’D like to know what’s worrying
* Matahiki,” Cole said before he left
that night. “He’s not nearly as sick as
Young Horne, but” .
“He’s scared,” Jock said.
“Maybe,” Cole leant his back against
the door and stared across the room at
the two faces, one brown, the other
waxen-white beneath the direct glare of
the electric light.
“Tell Rikki to fix that light, Jock.
Put paper or something round it.” He
stared into space. “You know, Jock,
to the average soldier there are two big
fears, above the fear of death. The fear
of fear and the fear of never getting
home.”
“Same thing,” Jock said, making pat-
terns on the floor with the toe of his boot.
“No,” Cole said. “It’s —it’s ; hell, I
don’t know. Put it like this, the fear of
death is physical, and training, discipline,
tradition can change it. In action you
may never know it, for excitement may
take you by the throat and shake it out
of you.” He smiled crookedly, half-
apologetically. “But,” he continued,
“with these Maoris —I just don’t know.
They’ve got me guessing.”
“They’re fighters,” Jock said.
“They are,” Cole said thoughtfully.
“I’ve seen them. But what do they think
about?”
Jock made no reply.
“With a white man,” Cole said, speak-
ing slowly, as though to himself, “I’d
make a rough guess as to what the
trouble was, but these fellows have a
different slant on life. I don’t know New
Zealand, and I don’t know the Maoris,
but I’ve been round the world a bit and
I’ve seen similar cases. I’ve seen natives
lie down and die just for the hell of it.”
“You think Matahiki might?”
Cole shrugged. “I’m damned if 1
know. I can’t get into their minds.”
Jock started tracing patterns again.
“You know that song of theirs, sir, the
‘Maori Battalion’?” he said, and Cole
nodded. “I think you’ve got their philo-
sophy summed up there. ‘You take the
honor of the people with you,’ it says.
That’s what they all worry about, I
think; what the home village will think
of ’em.”
“Maybe you’re right, Jock. Tribal
warrior idea, eh? Thousands of miles
away.” He yawned, “Well, good-
night.”
JOCK woke with a start, alert in an
instant, and lay rigid, staring futilely
into the velvet darkness, 'straining to hear
a threatening sound. The wind shook
the wooden buildings, sweeping down,
with a rising howl, down from Adlers-
berg Schloss and the high mountains
beyond, down through the sleeping village
and into the snow-clad forest behind the
Stalag, where it spent its lunatic fury
in a crackle of falling fir-trees. From
every portion of the ward came heavy,
regular breathing
Then Jock heard the sound again. He
slipped out of bed and over to Horne,
scarcely noticing the icy touch of the
boards beneath his bare feet. Horne
was restless, and one hand, like a pale,
restless ghost, was plucking at the blan-
kets, but he was asleep. Jock blew his
match out and turned to go when a deep,
tearing gasp from the blackness of Paul’s
bed halted him, *
“What’s to do?” Jock whispered.
There was no answer, only the steady
breathing of sleeping men. He struck
a match, and as he blinked in the vivid
spurt of light he had a fleeting glimpse
of Paul’s wide eyes, wild with pain, in a
flickering background of leaping shadows.
“Damn!” Jock said loudly when the
flame burnt his fingers and went out.
Someone tossed and turned over with
a creak of protesting bed-boards, then all
he could hear were the familiar sounds of
sleeping men and the sound of the wind


“3
'-r
f
C
H
mtM
M
ws
£
‘Despatch is the Soul of Business”
So Lord Chesterfield wrote, two
centuries before air mail added real
dispatch to business communica-
tions. Air mail offers nation-wide
delivery overnight, reaches other
continents in just a few more
hours. It cuts waiting time for an-
swers. It speeds sales orders, con-
tracts, all other forms of business
or personal mall.
Yet think of the advantages if all
first class mail moved by air. Not
local letters, or from city to sub-
urbs, of course, but all first class
material moving more than, say,
150 miles.
Modern planes have the capacity
to carry the mail loads which
would result. Wright Cyclone en-
gines give them the load-lifting
power. Time saved would range
from several hours to a matter of
weeks. At ordinary surface rates,
the extra mail revenue would pro-
vide increased air transport service
with national benefits. And both
the business world and the general
public would gain- from this type
of mail service and the increased
speed which it would bring.
THE SHAPE Of PLANES TO COME
On world oir routes you will see the
Martin JRM-1 Mors transports, an-
other type of Cyclone-powered plane
for passengers and cargo. Long-
range, heavy-capacity flying boats,
the Mars transports can include in
their cargo over 20,000 pounds of
mail 'per plane. The power: four
Wright Cyclone 18’s of 2,200 horse-
power each.
m
%
'try
\
m
•c
L II Jl \»
-CrCIONE ENGINES PAY TH£IR WAY—
WRIGHT
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL CORPORATION
Paterson, New Jersey, U. S. A., A Division of Curtiss-Wright Corporation
REPRESENTATIVES: AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E*. L HEYMANSON & COMPANY. MELBOURNE
racing through the forest. He lit another
match, and he had a ridiculous feeling of
relief when the menacing darkness faded
a little.
Paul was lying in a twisted pattern,
knees bent and with his head almost slip-
ping from the bed. The odd sound, a
sigh or a groan, trickled from his slack
lips again, and he began to breathe
rapidly to a quickening tempo, in painful,
heaving mouthfuls. A curtain of sweat
covered his face, fresh sweat welled from
every pore on his thick body, and his thin
grey singlet had climbed up above the
bayonet wound on his shiny brown breast.
“What’s to do, lad?” Jock repeated.
“I—can’t—breathe,” Paul panted.
Jock picked the blankets off the floor
and wrapped them round him tightly.
“Keep these on,” he said urgently. “No,
don’t push them off, keep them on.”
He fumbled his way to the middle win-
dows and flung them open, drawing a
deep breath as the cold rush of air scat-
tered the foul vapors of the overcrowded
sickroom. “How’s that?” he said. “Here,
let’s fix your head—there, that better?”
Paul tried to speak, and the effort sent
new rivers of sweat down his face and
down the sturdy brown column of his
neck, painting growing dark patches on
his singlet. “Water,” he said at last.
Jock found a water-bottle and held
Paul’s wet head up in the crook of his
arm while he drank greedily, with bub-
bling, gulping noises. The Maori was
as helpless as a baby, an inert dark mass,
only his mouth and throat seemed to have
passionate life.
Jock fumbled under his bed for his
boots, missed them and cursed with
emotional, blasphemous fervor. He found
them, pulled his trousers on hastily,
struggled into his great-coat and tiptoed
across to the side door. Outside he leant
into the tearing wind and ran down the
frozen roadway to Cole’s room,
“Just in time, Jock,” Cole said amiably
when Jock shut the door on the howling
night. “I’m making some coffee.” It was
characteristic of him, Jock thought, to
show no surprise when one of his worst
cases popped into his room in the middle
of the night.
Jock collapsed on the bunk, his knees
suddenly weak. His shoulders had gone
slack, there was a burning pain in his
chest, and his heart was pounding like
mad, sending two hot pulses throbbing
and jumping in his throat and choking the
vein on/his high forehead with blood
so that it bulged, blue and swollen against
the tight white skin. A wee run, Jock
was thinking, and it does this to me that
played with Celtic against the Rangers
with all Glasgow looking 0n.....
“It’s Matahiki,” Jock said. “He’s bad.”
“Drink this,” Cole commanded. “When
you finish go back to bed. Do you under-
stand, Jock? Straight to bed. You’ve
had enough for one night.”
He was cleaning a_hypodermic needle
while he was speaking, squirting a thin
stream of clear water from the eye of the
needle.
“And thanks, Jock,” he said as he
closed the door.
JOCK saw Cole’s bulky figure bending
over Paul’s bed as he walked to his
own. He snuggled under the blankets
gratefully and pulled the collar of his
greatcoat up around his frozen ears. He
could hear the soothing rumble of Cole’s
voice. Then in a moment he was asleep.
The sound of raised Voices woke him
again. Someone had switched the light
on, and Cole’s bald head gleamed palely
underneath its direct beam, and its radi-
ance danced back from the glass of his
gold-rimmed spectacles like the sun from
the headlights of a car on a dull day.
His tired grey eyes were sober, and his
lopsided grin had vanished. Rikki stood
at the foot of the bed, huge and awkward.
“Do you remember, Rikki?” Paul was
saying. “Do you remember how we stood
on the sunken road, waiting to go in?
Just outside the village, eh, Rikki?” His
face was a knot of muscles, and his full
lips barely moved. He spoke flatly, un-
emotionally, as though he were repeating
a lesson. “I was nervous, and I smoked
all your cigarettes. I said I didn’t think
I was cut out to be a soldier, eh, Rikki?”
Rikki shuffled. “Aw, you showed us,
Paul. You showed us, orright, all t’
company.”
“I said to you, maybe the Jerries don’t
like cold steel, eh?”
Rikki grinned, but there was no real
joy in it. “An’ I said, maybe no one like
t’ cold steel much, eh?”
Paul raised his head a fraction from the
pillow, and for the first time warmth came
into his voice. “We did the Haka then.”
“I bet a’ Jerry thought we were all t’
Army when he heard us, eh?” Rikki said.
“We felt good arter t’ Haka.”
“Strong and hot inside,” Paul said. “We
found the first Jerries in a ditch beside a
stone culvert. Choked with weeds it was,
up to your waist, like the flax behind
Ihaki’s whore where we used to fish, eh, 1
Rikki? I stabbed one Jerry, two Jerries
and your Jerry screamed.”
“Like a pig,” Rikki said. “An’ his face
was mussed up Jike a baby cryin’, an’ I
said ‘Poor bastard,’ like that.”
“And I poked my bayonet at your
throat,” Paul said in a clear voice, making
a brief gesture with brown, clenched fists.
“And I said ‘None of that, Rikki, or I’ll
kill you.’ ” He hissed the last words
through clenched teeth, and his eyes
glowed.
Rikki dropped his before them. “I was
orright after t’at, Paul. I just felt sorry,
just for t’ minute, eh?”
Paul paused for breath. “Yes, Rikki.
You killed the next one, near the orchard ;
the tommy-gunner who killed Ben. You
were good after that.”
Rikki chuckled. “Remember, Paul, you
chase t’ big Jerry roun’ an’ roun’ t’
church, eh? I nearly die laughin’. Roun’
an’ round’ t’ church t’ey go, an’ t’en t’
Jerry go way for t’ hills an’ you arter
him like a cattle-dog. When you come
back bout an hour’s time 1 say ‘where t’
Jerry, Paul?’ An’ you say T knock up,
he, got away.’ So I say ‘Why didn’t you
shoot ’im, Paul?’ ”
Paul smiled. “I wanted to use the
bayonet,” he said simply.
JOCK looked through the window.
The dawn had come so swiftly he
hadn’t noticed it. Outside the hospital
wire he could see the de-louser and the
barrack buildings looming plainly and
greyly above the snow and beyond them
the stark, dark outline of the Postern
tower against the lightening sky.
“Rikki.” Paul said, in a new voice,
like the crack of a whip. He broke into
Maori, a torrent of swift, rich, rolling
words, and all the time he stared
earnestly, searchingly, at Rikki. Rikki
listened, his one eye wet and his great fists
clenching and unclenching. Now and
again he answered something in Maori
in a husky voice.
“I will ask you,” Paul said, turning to
Cole and Jock. His voice was strong;
so strong that it filled the room and rolled
back from the wooden walls like the
mellow echo of a great, deep-toned
gong. “Rikki knows my pa, and Rikki
knows my people. We have hunted
and fished there, all around our pa. And
we feasted, too. Roast pig and koomera,
eh, Rikki? And a dance after with all
the wahines and everyone dancing and
singing and laughing.
“Rikki will tell you,” he said, and
there was a ring in his voice. “I was the
first man into the village.” /
“Tat right,” Rikki said solemnly.
“Couldn’t catch him. Out in front,
fighting and stabbing and yelling blue
murder, eh.”
“And I was the first man into the cafe
and I killed the gun-crew, eh, Rikki?”
Jock felt a wild desire to laugh. Then
he looked into the brown depths of Paul’s
eyes, burning with a terrible sincerity,
and he wanted to cry instead, like Rikki,
who was sobbing unashamedly.
“Through the door I came,” Paul said,
and his eyes narrowed and his full lips
set in a firm tight line, “round a marble-
topped table and straight for the window,
where they all crouched behind the gun.
A fed-haired German with a bandage
round his forehead threw a stick-bomb
at me, but he missed. He reached for his
rifle, but he was too late. I’m on him and
I stab him —once —in the belly. I turn
round quick and a bayonet flashes over
my shoulder. Quick it comes back, like
a flicker of light, but I beat it down
and then up with my butt, eh, and down,
bang, and as he falls, in with the bayonet
and out again quick.”
He was sitting straight up, twisting
and hunching his shoulders with every
. word, the knuckles of his clenched fists
showing whitely beneath the brown skin
and the* lust of battle sparkling again in
his brown eyes. “Then another one
come, and I step back and quick I ”
The outstretched arms wavered, the tense
arc of his body stiffened and he fell
back.
Rikki gplped and turned a lighter
brown. “Paul,” he said. Then again,
tearfully, “Paul.”
Paul opened his eyes. “What will the
pa think?” he said. “Will they say I
have done my duty as a man from my pa,
and as a soldier?”
“Aye, lad,” Jock said, blinking, “that
you have.”
“They’ll be proud of you, son,” Cole
said.
A splendid light dawned in Paul’s
brown eyes and his whole face lit up in
a smile. “ Kapai he said, and the light
failed.
Cole sighed and pulled the grey
blanket up over the blank face. “He’s
lucky,” he said, turning towards Rikki,
“lucky to go that way. He died happy.”
COLE came in to see Jock after the
post-mortem. “Nothing seriously
wrong,” he said. “He needn’t have died,,
just fed up, I guess.”
They both looked over at Horne, toss-
ing feverishly in his sleep.
“He won’t go so easily,” Jock shid.
“No,” Cole said, and sighed.


NOWMTCAN BE TOLDf
\>
M V R A PAN A
was the
FIRST CONVERTED
ill
m.
■
rnmmm
With the introduction of these ships there is no
record of a concentrated U-Boat attack on a
convoy under their protection—A real triumph
of improvisation.
You can be sure of SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Great Britain).
SHELL TANKERS
converted to
AIRCRAFT CARRIERS
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŕ
ŗ
'SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. senes. serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 149,651 6 p.c. = 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ ~ 162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ ~ 162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 7J „ ~174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 6i„ ~ 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 6J„ ~ 151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 6J „ ~ 151,134 40,118 648,759
1943.. 190,938 6} „ ~ 151,134 39,804 688,563
1944.. 191,103 6J „ ~151,134 39,969 728,532
1945.. 191,287 6*,, ~151,134 40,153 768,685
As the eye sweeps down the profits
column in the* table it is necessary to
remember that since 1939 earnings have-
been subject to war-time conditions and
controls, and that a very different set of
circumstances are at hand from those
prevailing pre-war.
The co.’s fleet of 29 vessels, six pas-
senger and 23 cargo, aggregating 76,807
tons gross, is still under Government con-
trol. One of the smaller ships, on
charter to the Navy, was lost last term,
and compensation was received. Charter
and management fees, taking from tugs,
lighters and engineering shops, etc., are
supplemented by returns from a wad of
outside investments. These include Gov-
ernment securities, cash, etc., £1,340,509,
over half a million shares in J. and A.
Brown and Abermain-Seaham Collieries
(div. 5 p.c. p.a. for last four years), con-
trol of Waratah Tug and Salvage Co., and
Treleaven and Brown’s carrying business
(Port Adelaide), an interest in Newstead
Wharves and Stevedoring Co. (Brisbane)
and in National Airways.
Exactly how much investments turn in
these days isn’t mentioned, but appear-
ances are they contribute half, or there-
abouts, of the profit shown in the table.
Last term’s £191,287 (up £184) was 8.2
p.c. on capital. It was written after pro-
viding for depreciation of fleet and plant,
and includes £20,000 added to insurance
account (£435,000) and a like amount to
repairs, renewals and replacement reserve
(£333,500), treated herein as genuine
profit. The div. remained at p.c., and
it is difficult to say when better might be
expected.
The larger passenger and other ships
under charter to the Navy have not yet
been returned, and won’t be until their
war service, including return of person-
nel and equipment from operational
areas, is completed. Meanwhile, the
Prime Minister has announced that the
Government will continue to control
inter-State shipping freight and charter
rates, passenger fares, routes and times of
sailing. With possible Ministerially-
approved exceptions, the coastal trade i>
to be reserved for Australian-built ships,
which will not be licensed after they be-
come 25 years old. It looks like socialism
entering by the back door, and means a
rise in capital cost as well as in freight and
passage money. This to cover increased
operating charges and the extra cost of
maintenance, insurance and depreciation
on the high price of locally-built tonnage.
Government war-time charter rates have
been inadequate to meet the increased
cost of maintenance and repairs (which
have more than doubled since 1939), plus
depreciation. What the Government
needs to realise is that any policy which
results in overcapitalisation, or which
tends to consume capital by denying the
owners of it means to provide for its
replacement, must ultimately impair effi-
ciency and enterprise and weaken ,the
mainspring of progress. Operating costs
have rocketed, owing to lifts in wage rates
and prices for fuel, stores, etc. And at
sea working hours have been reduced
from 56 to 44, and the 50 p.c. war-risk
bonus added to wages is still being paid,
while in the background is the ever-
present spectre of recurrent strikes, with
consequent delays in sailing schedules and
further rise in costs. The weakest link
in Australia’s economic armor is the high
and rising level of costs.
The co. is well equipped financially-
-1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors.. 240,677 135,713 150,128
Provident fund . . 97,614 104,792 112,080
Steamers, properties m
etc 1,450,293 1,197,080 1,126,150
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 83,377 80,208 79,179
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 774,411 720,810. 755,070
Consols, cash, etc. 948,984 1,240,956 1,340,509
The compensation payment already re-
ferred to, together with the year’s surplus
earnings and £14,415 added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, enabled cash,
etc., to be strengthened J>y £99,553 last
term. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£2,049,050) was
£lll,OBl.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
. To Nominal
June. Profit Dividends. Reserves. Reserves*.
£ £,£>£>
1935.. 23,045 4 p.c. = 20,000 3,045 66,301
1936.. 34,006 5 „ „ 25,000 9,006 75,307
Unexplained reductions, £1126 .. 74,181
1937.. 55,936 6 p.c. = 30,000 25,936 100,117
1938.. 52,115 74 „ „ 37,500 14,615 114,732
Special depreciation, £10,000.. .. 104,732
Pref. Ord.
7i P-c.
£ £
1939.. 67,403 10,547 p.c. = 37,500 19,358 124,088
Unexplained addition, £29,775.. .. 153,863
Written off shares, £2OOO .. ~ 151,863
Sale of Far East patents, £50,000 .. 201,863
1940.. 39,230 8,438 6 p.c.= 30,000 792 202,655
1941.. 31,263 8,438 4 „ ~ 20,000 2,825 205,480
1942.. 22,550 8,438 2* „ ~12,500 1,612 207,092
1943.. 25,572 8,438 4 ~ ~ 20,000 204,226
Written off shareholding, £2,426 .. 201,800
1944.. 30,312 8,438 4 p.c. =20,000 1,874 203,674
1945.. 18,198 8,438 4 „ ~20,000 193,434
* Subject to intangibles, now £lB,OOO.
Before the war this co. turned out
reinforced concrete pipes for water
supply, drainage, irrigation and sewerage,
as well as paving slabs, septic tanks, light
standards, etc., from a string of factories
scattered throughout the Commonwealth
and Maoriland. War changed the direc-
tion and nature of public spending, and
for the last half-dozen years the business
has been engaged almost entirely on de-
fence and essential service orders, which
were less profitable than the old peace-
time public works and other contracts, as
a glance at the table shows.
The wide fluctuation in declared net
earnings over the last couple of years
has been due largely to allowances for
taxation and partly to tapering of
defence orders and shortage of labor
and rising costs, especially in Maoriland.
The apparent spring in the 1944 figure
was due entirely to an abrupt drop of
£21,500 in the allowance for taxation
(£7500), because of overprovision previ-
ously. Last term the allowance was
£14,000 (up £6500).
For the 12 months to June 30 last
operations in Maoriland resulted in a
loss; and “reasonable” profits are not
expected until the manpower position and
selling prices both improve. In Australia
trading was more profitable. Further, sales
could have been increased by 50 p.c. during
the last half of the term had suitable
labor been available, the board says. The
£18,198 of profit covered the p.c. pref.
diy. and approx. 2 p.c. on the half-
million of ord. capital, compared with
4.3, 3.4, 2.8, 4.5, 6.1 and 11.3 p.c. back
to 1939. In anticipation of better times
to come,. the div. was kept at 4 p.c.,
reserve being tapped for £10,240 to do it.
As the transition period merges into
the post-war era Government and local-
body expenditure on water-supply
schemes, etc., is expected to keep the
co.’s expanded plant employed at capa-
city, with consequent benefit to costs.
Half a dozen new works sites have been
acquired—two each in Victoria and Tas-
mania, and one each in N.S.W. and
Queensland. In each case Hume Steel is
to put up a factory alongside, the idea
being to further reduce overhead. Still,
while selling prices remain more or less
controlled, it may be difficult to pass on
all, or part, of any increase in costs.
Mainly because of this the market prices
the f.-p. pound ords. at par or there-
abouts.
Hume Steel, in which H.P. holds all
the 250,000 £1 ords., paid 4 p.c. for the
year to end Sept, last, as against 2\ p.c.
for the three preceding terms. To cope
with increased business the steel co. is
offering 100,000 new £1 1\ p.c. cum. prefs.
at a premium of 7s. 6d. each. Any scrip
not applied for by existing pref. share-
holders in the steel co. is to be offered
to those on H.P.’s register.
Hume Pipe (Far East), taken over by
this parent co, in 1938 for £112,500 in
p.c. cum. prefs.—three for every two
Far East shares —has been in enemy-
occupied territory for the last 2<\ years.
At Singapore the co.’s buildings are in-
tact, but some plant and stock is believed
to have been removed. However, a lot
of new equipment and material have been
bought locally, and, together with a
nucleus staff, will be despatched to Singa-
pore as soon as permission to do so is
received. Obviously, much will depend
upon the cost of rehabilitating this section
of the business and upon compensation
yet to be received. For 11 years prior to
absorption the Far East Co. paid divs.
averaging 9.5 p.c. from profits averaging
19.8 p.c, on capital (£75,000),
Here are the parent’s balance-sheet
figures:—
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £608,900 £612,500 £612,500 £612,600
Liabilities . . 113,385 209,863 86,892 210,797
Freeholds, etc. 73,862 75,854 80,844 88,991
Building, plant,
etc 189,442 147,520 121,613 117,398
Stocks . . 95,773 82,138 99,459 100,321
Uncompleted
work . . 40,659 15,921 8,865 15,470
Book debts . . 112,973 147,506 78,953 85,619
Advances subsid. 94,244 189,389 147,101 236,057
Cash, etc. .. 25,589 14,733 22,267 25,303
Shares in other
cos. & invests. 67,919 69,019 63,469 63,469
Shares in sub.
cos 168,900 281,537 277,529 277,529
Asbestos deposit 22,256 27,184 30,792
Last term the board went to its bankers
for £112,123 and increased the advance
to the steel co. (£182,379) by £88,980. It
is doubtful whether the Maoriland
asbestos deposit will turn out to be worth
much. The Dominion Government is
being asked to assist in further develop-
ment. Excluding the asbestos deposit,
book value of the more or less liquid
surplus (£592,971) was £17,785 less than
at the previous balance,
Foy and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends
Year Net Pref. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. . Ordinary. serves, flcit.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £12,319 12,319
1937. .41,303 8,092 6J p.c. = 11,906 1 ftl9 ,
Interest payment vendor, £10,693 3 AU,OIZ
Reserves.
1938. .43,031 13,500 6i p.c. = 19,330 10,201 8,494
1939.. 40.001 13,500 5* „ „ 19,439 7,062 15,556
1940.. 40.621 13,500 64 „ „ 19,483 7,638 23,194
1941.. 34.961 13,500 64 ~ „ 19,484 1,967 25,161
A.R.P. expenses, £5691 19,470
1942.. 47.155 13,500 54 p.c. = 19,484 14,171 33,641
1943.. 43.165 13,500 54 „ „ 19,484 10,181 43,822
To superannuation fund, etc., £2OOO .. 41,822
1944.. 46.503 13,500 6 p.c. = 21,256 11,747 53,569
To superannuation fund, etc., £2OOO ~ 51,569
1945.. 48.026 13,500 6 p.c. = 21,256 13,270 64,839
To superannuation fund, £3OOO .. 61,839
This Perth retailer’s connection with the
big Melbourne parent co. of the same
name, which owns its own woollen mills,
has meant much when, owing to ration-
ing, controls and diversion of production
to war requirements, it was more diffi-
cult-to get than to sell goods. Imports,
which used to comprise many of the co.’s
leading lines, dwindled to a trickle, leav-
ing it and other Westralian retailers de-
pendent upon manufacturers in the
Eastern States for most of their supplies
of merchandise. Orders were treated on
a priority basis, and so was their trans-
port, owing to shortage of shipping. How-
ever, expanding turnover and the Govern-
ment’s stabilisation scheme helped to
compensate the effects of increased taxa-
tion, wages and other costs.
Last term the co.’s mark-up on a
number of lines was reduced by Price
Control authorities, while costs continued
to climb, thus further reducing profit mar-
gins on lines concerned. But the effects
of this were more than offset by expan-
sion of turnover. Gross earnings
(£208,026) sprang £BBO7. Including
£28,501 (down £404) put aside for the
taxgatherer, exes. (£160,000) made off
with £5592 of the gain. Allowing for
minor adjustments in the 1944 figure, the
net result benefited by £1523, reaching
£48,026, the best since the present co.
took over the business in 1936. It was
enough to pay the prefs. their 6 p.c. and
show 9.7 p.c. on the £354,263 of ord.
capital, compared with 9.3, 8.4, 9.5, 6,
7.6 and 8.3 p.c. back to 1939. With one
eye on the future, the board kept the div,
at 6 p.c.
Now that the war is over a different
set of circumstances, and with them a


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
towners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—-No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
■without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22K), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
cyTotei
FHCING H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a pari . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
LH
.nep
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, 1 Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
Public Notice.
ACCOUNTANTS—SECRETARIES.
The Society of Commercial Accountants (England)
invite applications for Fellowship, Membership, and
Student Membersliip. Member of Council just arrived
from London. Write —N.Z. Secretary, 64 Clifford
Street*.Gisborne. New Zealand.
1835
Telephone:
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ms
OF CANTON. LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand. ,
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
. 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
<b ,
P b 'V
A
v
v:iiE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—Janies Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
P, T. W. Black. Manager—D. S. Phrker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE ST > BET, SYDNEY
PHONE: R 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
XNIW
NVWTIIH
THE WORLD'S MOST
SUCCESSFUL LIGHT CAR
i poST-WAR
T 0 ensure early
model write T °
AND WELL WORTH WAITING FOR
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
JOHN McGRATH LTD., Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(temporary address).
Resident Representative t
C. H. HORDERN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A PRODUCT OP THE ROUTES CROUP
buyer’s market, can be expected to de-
velop as controls are relaxed and pro-
duction is stepped up. Main difficulty
underlying production at the moment is
shortage of suitable labor, **coal and
materials, aggravated by recurrent strikes.
The spectre at the feast promises to be
rising costs. If a rigid ceiling is main-
tained over selling prices and at the same
time costs are permitted to rise, produc-
tion of some lines may become unprofit-
able, and turnover in others will need
to substantially increase if a reces-
sion in wholesale and retail profits, and
unemployment, are to be avoided.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances:
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £577,762 £579,263 £579,263 £579,263
Liabilities . . 45,023 59,322 29,499 30,577
Tax reserve .. 28,905 29,500
Freeholds ..369,298 359,551 358,953 358,953
Plant, etc. .. 42,479 54,156 40,496 36,814
Stocks .. 164,065 211,994 155,088 191,274
Debtors ■ . . 59,740 50,424 4,038 5,958
Cash, etc. .. 33,517 27,579 151,403 129,556
Stocks (up £36,186) are reported “sound
and readily saleable.” The strong holding
of cash, etc. (down £21,847) places the
management in a position to take advant-
age of buying opportunities as they occur
—lines of more appealing design and
quality will become available as condi-
tions improve. The more or less liquid
surplus (£281,030) was £28,905 stronger
than at the previous balance,
Hercules Steel Products (Aust.), Ltd.
This co. has been registered at Sydney
with a nominal capital of £50,000 in £1
shares, of which 30,000 are offered, pay-
able 2s. each application and allotment,
and the balance as required over the
next nine months, or thereabouts. The
co. will go to allotment when the issue is
fully subscribed.
The idea is to set up in the toy manu-
facturing business, where an opportunity
exists to cater for a large section of the
trade which pre-war was filled by Jap-
anese and German imports. With the
growth of the kindergarten movement the
attitude toward toys is changing. The
emphasis is now upon toys that make for
constructive play and research, which has
introduced a more scientific aproach in
manufacture. Although there is still a
market for old type toys —realistic rep-
resentation of animals, etc. —it is being
realised that they have little creative play
value. The need in Australia is for a
higher aesthetic standard of design than
hitherto, combined with quality.
A factory, estimated to cost £ll,OOO, is
to be put up at Port Kembla, on land to
be bought from the Government for
approx. £l2OO. Dies, etc., to produce 30
different types of strong, steel-pressed
toys to retail at from 3s. 6d. to 275. 6d.
each, are to be bought from Hercules
Steel Products, Ltd. (Maoriland), which is
to apply for 4000 shares. The £30,000 of
capital asked for is to be used £3OOO
equity in land and buildings (leaving
£9200 to be raised on mortgage), £14,000
plant, £llOO etc., and £ll5O
preliminary exes., leaving £10,750 for
working capital. There is no promoter’s
consideration, or goodwill payment, etc.,
to weigh down earning power.
On the board are L. W, Taylor, soli-
citor ; W. H. L. Nicholas, sales manager;
N. J# Suckling, co. manager; D, J.
Richardson, manufacturer; H, M.
Christie, co. director. The two last-named
are also directors of the Maoriland co.,
which has recently exported a consider-
able quantity of toys to Australia. Mr.
Richardson is, to be g.m. for five years
at £1250 p.a., plus a commission of 1 p.c.
on turnover in excess of £50,000 p.a.
For year to June 30 last Maude and
Yellow Girl, Glen Willis (Vic.), treated
10,215 tons (up 48 tons) for 3540 fine oz.
(down 139 fine oz.) gold. The drop in
average grade (6.9dwt.) was o.3dwt.
Profit was £1656 (up £648). That was
after taking credit for a.tax refund of
£5190, of which £3650 had been received
when the books closed, and charging
£7122 (up £4785) for development. Those
on the register received 6d. a share
(£2250), as against 2s. for the previous
term. To finance a programme of shaft-
sinking and plant adjustment in accord-
ance with recommendations made by J.
C. Coldham, 27,000 new £1 shares were
issued during the last quarter of the term,
and paid to 2s. each at close of accounts.
In addition 2000 f.p.’s were handed out in
part payment for three leases, totalling
183 acres, in the centre of the reef zone.
That made issued capital £119,000, of
which £50,771 was in hand, leaving
£68,229 at call. A feature of the mine is
that the proportion of pay-ore to length
of reef varies from 41 p.c. at No. 5 level
to 60 p.c, at No. 8 level. Ore shoots are
said to continue along the strike for some
20,000 ft., but are irregular in size and dis-
tribution, and the reef is faulted. The
main shaft is being deepened from No. 8
to No. 10 level, and, as manpower be-
comes available, the board plans to bring
ore extraction into line with present mill
capacity of over 20,000 tons p.a., on a
three-shift basis. At June 30 ore reserves
were put at 53,300 tons, of which 26,855
tons were classed as probable.
:): * * *
Central Gold (in vol. liq.) will pay
a second div. of sd. a share on Dec. 6
first payment, 6d. a share, was in 1942.
The co. held a quarter interest in Cox’s
Find, Erlistoun (W.A.), which, like many
other auriferous deposits, was attractive
enough on the surface but failed to live
at depth. The other partner in the ven-
ture was Western Mining Corp. Central’s
shareholders are now invited to apply
their sd. div., plus Id. cash, in taking
up, before Dec. 6, 400,000 6d. shares (one
for one) in New Central Gold Mines,
N.L., whose £lO,OOO of capital is to be
underwritten at a commission of 5 p.c.
The new co. has acquired the right to
participate in the “projected flotation of
an established and profitable mine in
W.A. which has been closed down since
1942.” It is also “negotiating for a
prospecting area near Coolgardie,” and
has “three other propositions under
offer.”
*** * '
Westralia’s latest gold rush is
on Hampton Plains, Block 59, a few
miles south-east of Coolgardie. Ninety
areas are said to have been pegged, and
“all active prospectors” are reported to
be breaking payable stuff. In one ven-
ture floated in Adelaide the 1000 shares
of £lO each were underwritten and over-
subscribed. Grab samples from the work-
mgs ot this show are said to assay 55dwt.
gold a ton. Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment, Yellowdine Areas, Western
Mining Corp., De Bernales Group and
other cos. are stated to be interested in
the field, but to what extent is not dis-
dosed.
Golden Horse Shoe, operating at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), will return Is. a share
(£55,000) on Dec. 13. That will reduce
paid capita | f rom £165,000 in 3s. shares
tQ £ 110;000 in 2s . shares. A like amount
of ital was returne d in 1932. The
. b ; hand is retreatment of Lake
J v; , N , dlimn e e t i mat ed to con-
‘ f t • .
ta “ ahcrat half a million tons of material,
which it is expected to put through in
about a year. Negotiations for retreat-
ment of other dumps are proceeding.


FIRE VERSUS WATER
R r ater 9 Captained by “GrinnelV* always wins
X
3&
*
y
as 2
■
a ■ ■-
X
- V:.:
rs
■
i
■
-
/■• ■
I >■
< life
1
"Grinnell's" Imposing Record over 59 Years!
From the first 'save’ in 1886 to 31st December,
1944, 1,212 fires have been controlled by
“Grinnell” in Australia and New Zealand.
The average loss per fire
originating within "Grinnell"
protected buildings is just
over £144
This remarkably low loss figure includes all
claims paid for fire, smoke and water damage.
In many "Grinnell” saves, damage was so
slight that no claim was made on Insurance
Companies. Concrete proof of “Grinnell’s”
ability to strike and kill at the very heart of
a fire.
Behind every "Grinned” Automatic
Sprinkler Installation in Australia and New
Zealand is the Wormald service . . : a service
that carries with it the accumulated knowledge
of more than half a century’s experience in Fire
Protection. It is a guarantee that "Grinned”
is on duty twenty-four hours every day of the
year.
GRINNELL
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD.
(Incorp. in N.S.W.)
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
BRANCHES IN ALL AUSTRALIAN STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


C yOd*^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Maybe it’ll look like loafing later on,
but the programme for the Australian-
Maoriland visit of Field-Marshal Lord
Alapbrooke, Chief of the Imperial Gen-
eral Staff, seems lively enough to go on
with. The advance itinerary read: Leave
Manila for Darwin on November 24 (last
Saturday); reach Laverton (Melbourne)
next day, possibly having a look at
Healesville Sanctuary that afternoon and
chewing a bone with the G.-G. that night;
on November 26 attend special meeting of
Defence Committee; next day (yester-
day) head for M.L.; be back in Australia
next Sunday; head for Malaya next
Tuesday.
There’s no question about the fighting
blood in the family to which Field-Mar-
shal Alanbrooke belongs. Those who
joined him in a family dinner at the
Cavalry Club in London earlier this year
included his nephews Rear-Admiral Sir
Basil Brooke, Lt.-Gen. Sir Bertram Ser-
giston Brooke and Captain Sir Basil
Brooke, Prime Minister of Northern
Ireland. The C.I.G.S. himself was six
times “mentioned” in 1914-18, and in the
fater war commanded the 2nd Army
Corps of the 8.E.F., collecting a knight-
hood for his work in the Dunkirk evacua-
tion. He’s of Ulster breeding, but was
born in Franco.
Over many years Dr, H. M. (Paddy)
Moran contributed occasionally to The
Bulletin. His last letter to it was
written from Cambridge on August 10 ;
it was an appeal from one “with a voice
in extremis, one almost in articulo
mortis ” for “considerate treatment of the
Polish people who are seeking to emigrate
to Australia.” Dr. Moran died at Cam-
bridge on November 20. He was a grand
Australian: an eminent Sydney surgeon
and cancer specialist who gave a great
deal of his time to hospital work
and never looked for payment when
a private patient was poor; an in-
ternational Rugby Union footballer,
captain of the 1908-09 Wallabies (a for-
ward from Newcastle, he scored four
tries on that tour) and a writer of dis-
tinction, whose Viewless Winds was one
of those books on which thumbs tighten.
He was preparing another volume for
publication when stricken down by a
rare and incurable disease. Dr. Moran
saw service in the two German wars and
had friends and admirers among a dozen
nationalities.
S.A. lent its youngest Judge, Ligert-
wood, to preside at the Bennett inquiry
in Melbourne. Ligertwood, who lately
succeeded Parsons on the S.A. Bench,
was educated in Adelaide at “Scotch”
and the Uni., had a good grounding as
associate to Way, C.J., and then was Act-
ing Master of S.A, Supreme Court and
also of the local Law Society.
John Gladstone Black McDonald, who
replaces Dunstan as leader of the Vic-
torian Country party, is a farmer who
came from the Land o’ Cakes as a boy
(he is now 46) with his widowed mother,
who had decided to set her family of four
up as farmers in Australia. The indomit-
able lady started dairying in the Goulburn
Valley, lost her entire herd in the drought
of 1914, and started again. This disaster
made son John a strong believer in irri-
gation, and he was one of the pioneers
of it in the district. An under-age soldier
in the last war, he was severely wounded,
and returned to a soldier-settlement block
adjacent to his mother’s. Becoming Goul-
burn Valley’s member in the Leg. Assem-
bly, he was Government Whip in 1938
and Minister for Water Supply five years
later. Like his old chief, he is an uncon-
ventional politician and a prodigious
worker.
Salvationist Brigadier F, L. Inglis has
become president of Tasmanian Council
of Churches, Victorian-born, he donned
the blood-and-fire uniform in Melbourne
in 1917, subsequently putting in five years
in Westralia, seven years’ missioning in
China and a term in Ceylon, then back
to be secretary of a Melbourne youth
organisation and committeeman on the
Council of Religious Education. Recently
he has been Salvarmy Divisional Com-
manding Officer in the Apple Isle.
Here pictured by Scorfield, Colonel
L. Moore Cosgrave, who made world
news when he signed in the wrong place
on the surrender document at Tokyo,
where he acted for Canada. A soldier,
and a good one, Cosgrave divided his
education between the Royal Military
College, Kingston, and McGill Univer-
COL. L. MOORE COSGRAVE.
sity, Montreal; was commissioned in the
Canadian Field Artillery in 1914, was by
1916 a major with the D.S.O, and bar,
three “mentions” and the Croix de
Guerre, and finished that war as O.C.
Ist Canadian Artillery Brigade. He put
some of his experiences into After-
thoughts of Armageddon. From 1937 to
1942 Cosgrave was his country’s Trade
Commissioner in Melbourne, then for the
rest of the war was its Military Attache,
going to Manila in August this year in
command of a Canadian p.-0.-w. re-
covery unit. This hieroglyphic
is the signature that caused all the fuss
at Tokyo. It was written on a card for
Bulletin war correspondent John
Brennan at the surrender ceremony.
“Ex-M.L.A.”; R. W. D. Weaver, be-
sides his unorthodoxies recorded in B.
14/11/’45,‘ was heterodox in another
strange way—he never took a rise in his
screw until after the election following
the increase. As a result considerable
sums reverted twice to the Treasury. This
self-abnegation by no means enhanced
Weaver’s popularity with members, they
thinking, or pretending to think, that it
was a stunt to indicate the good boy of
the family. Strange to say, the public
never seems to take much notice of such
rare and really high-principled actions
either. One campaigning Minister, ac-
cused of raising his own screw, said “Well,
at least you can’t say we are not able
to look after ourselves,” and was re-
elected.
The Bank of Adelaide, which has
branches in all the other States and also
in London, has had an 80th birthday,
with Howard Lloyd, who has been on
its board for 30 years and chairman for
the last 18, re-elected. Lloyd married the
grand-daughter of Henry Ayers, a South
Australian Premier who was one of the
founders of the bank, in 1864 and him-
self its first chairman of directors. Also
the Lloyd family were noted English
bankers a century back, particularly in
the Birmingham district.
Two Maoriland priests, Fathers O. N.
Snedden and J. J. Flanagan, have re-
ceived 0.8.E5. for Empire services in
Rome during the war. Both Aucklanders,
they were studying for the priesthood in
Rome when Musso. ran amok. Though
as British subjects they were under sur-
veillance, they helped the Allied cause in
many ways, Father Snedden speaking to
the world over Vatican Radio, often
three times a day, and both of them
tracing missing soldiers and visiting and
helping prisoners-of-war. Back‘in M.L.,
Father Snedden is assistant editor of
Catholic “Zealandia” and Father Flana-
gan assistant sec. to Bishop Liston.
Thomas William Bearup, to represent
A.B.C. in London, was an Amalgamated
Wireless seagoing operator as a youth,
then joined the shore staff. When 3LO
made its first hesitating steps as a private
company he was studio manager with
nothing but a telephone to manage. In
1930 he became manager for the Com-
mission in Victoria, and toured the world
to investigate the latest gadgets. He has
been acting g.m. since 1943.
H. H. Page, now officially listed as dead
among the tragic losses in the Monte-
video Maru, sunk with all hands on July
1, 1942, was a brother of Earle Page.
Eight years younger than “the Doctor,”
he went into the public service after his
brother went into medicine and from
medicine into politics. His career in-
cluded Education Department (N.S.W.),
then Commonwealth public service; an
interregnum of war (1915-19), when he
rose to the rank of major in the field and
won the D.S.O. and M.C., and after that
public service in New Guinea from 1923
on. He was Government Secretary and
Deputy Administrator when the Japs
came in.
Most of the characters in Mrs. Gunn’s
We of the Never Never died and were
buried in various isolated part of the N.T.
Through the initiative of Brigadier Dol-
lery, of the A.M.F., their remains were
lately gathered together and reinterred in
a cemetery near Elsey station. Still active,
Mrs. Gunn lives at Hawthorn, Melbourne.
Elsey has another link with Melbourne.
The station where the Australian classic
was written is part owned by Harold
Thonemann, M.L.A., who maintained his
hold on Toorak at the State election.
Here pictured, one of the youngest
youngsters to get into the 1939-45 war —
Flight-Sergeant Ross Ball, In 1943, when
he was convalescing at Heidelberg (Vic.)
Military Hospital after three years’ ser-
vice in the A.I.F. (Middle East and New
Guinea), it was discovered that he was
still under age, and he was passed out
accordingly. Still, it was only a matter
of waiting a few months before he turned
18, whereupon, on that birthday, he en-
FLT.-SGT. ROSS BALL.
listed in the R.A.A.F. for flying duties.
Mcßeath sketched him as he looked when
lately lined up for his R.A.A.F. discharge,
after nearly two years’ flying as an air
gunner.
Had an 80th birthday at Auckland,
Archbishop A. W. Averill, retired C. of
E. Primate of M.L. Born at Stafford
(Eng.), he has been in M.L. since 1894,
and in retirement since 1940, up to when
he had 51 years’ service to his credit.
Judge Gore, of Papua, who was evacu-
ated in 1942, plans to return to Port
Moresby, and has been given plentiful
farewells in Adelaide. He has been
Deputy Crown Solicitor for the Com-
monwealth there since arriving in S.A.
Three top Queensland officials —H. J.
Henchman, Solicitor-General and Master
of Titles since 1937 ; State Government
Insurance Commissioner J. A. Watson,
who succeeded to the position in 1920 ;
and secretary L. J. Grealey, of the same
office —will retire under the age limit on
December 31. George Porter, Registrar-
General for the last 24 years, will follow
them in February, after 51 years of State
service, 50 of them in the department of
which he is now head.
The jet ’plane in which an Englishman
(Group-Captain Wilson) broke the world’s
speed record, and which got into the news
last week when one was reported pinched
from Moles worth R.A.F. station in Hunt-
ingdonshire, was originally the invention
of another Englishman, Frank Whittle.
Having worked on the idea from when
he became an R.A.F. cadet. Whittle took
out his first patent in 1930, From then
on he unsuccessfully hawked it to indus-
trialists and others who might have
helped, and was so discouraged that when
the.temporary patent lapsed he failed to
renew it. A couple of other R.A.F. men
got interested, raised the necessary to
help the inventor, and the first engine for
ground testing ran in April, 1937. The
first flight was made in 1941.
The estate of George Connibere, of
Melbourne, one of three brothers who all
dressed alike and who were known as
“the Santa Clauses” of local benefactions,
has been declared at £323,350. During
his lifetime Connibere helped to give away
over £200,000, one of the biggest gifts
being £40,000 for a maternal and infant
welfare building at the Women’s Hospi-
tal. All the estate goes to surviving
brother Ernest, on the assumption that
he will continue the family policy of
giving.
Into the silence:
At Edmonton (N.Q.), at 77, Jim Byrnes, old-
time contributor to The Bulletin and other
papers, chiefly under the name of “Rambler.
In England, S. A. Dismore, secretary of the
Handley Page pioneer London-Paris air service,
later in top positions with Imperial Airways.
He visited Australia in 1933 in connection
with the formation of Qantas and the launch-
ing of the first England-Australia service, and
again in 1938 when the Empire flying-boats went
on to that run. He was an R.F.C. and R.A.F.
pilot in 1914-18.
At Wellington, Dr. Charles Edward Adams,
Maoriland’s Astronomer for 20 years.
In Sydney, at 77, Nat McDonald, for over
half a century on the committee of N-S.W.
Rowing Association, later coach of State crews
and a selector of the Australian crew which
won at Henley (Eng.) in 1912. He used always
to get a great kick out of deciding the winners
of the G.P.S. championships on the Parramatta
and Nepean amid the din of the youthful
barrackers.
In Brisbane, victim of a street-traffic acci-
dent, Barbara Sisley, pioneer in amateur and
repertory theatricals in Queensland, and leading
teacher of elocution, drama and stagecraft for
more than 25 years.
In Adelaide, at 78, Dr. W. Gregerson, who
moved from Melbourne when a young man to
become house surgeon at Adelaide Hospital.
Later ho continued his studies in England,
but before the start of the century was back
practising in Adelaide.
At Hampton (Vic.), E. A. Arnold, who, with
the late James Mackay, was associated with
mining for 20 years, the partnership administer-
ing the Deborah and South Deborah, Curnows,
New England and Butler’s concerns.
At Echuca (Vic.), at 65, Francis Carl Mueller,
barrister and one-time prominent athlete. He
beat Arthur Duffy, the American champion,
over 100 yards at Melbourne C.C. in 1905.
In Sydney, at 81, W. C. Penfold, head of the
old printing and stationery firm of that name,
and foundation member and several times presi-
dent of the Master Printers’ Assoc.
Suddenly, in Sydney, former Senator James
Patrick Digger Dunn, who was given the first
two of his baptismal names in Liverpool (Eng.),
and acquired the other as a nickname after
First A.I.F. war service and had it legalised.
As a New South Wales elect, he was Govern-
ment Whip in the Senate in 1929-31. Subse-
quently getting into holts with Labor on re-
turned soldier issues, he was expelled from the
party after he last stood for Parliament —unsuc-
cessfully a couple of months back in the Manly
by-election. In the 1914-18 war he was wounded
and gassed.


i
OF THE FUTURE!
Your 3 Days Air Trip from
r
Sydney to London
To-day, the Empire’s immediate post-
war needs have priority on Australia’s
overseas air routes.
But, in “to-morrow’s” Age of Flight,
thousands of air-minded travellers will
fly in comfort by speedy, modern
Qantas airliners from Sydney to
England in less than seventy hours!
m
im
z
QantM
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
iiiil
■
P
■m
m
i usmmm
mm
** y-
Pi
?£f
Hi
PREVIEW
A peep into the future of post-war homes
reveals that Feltex on every floor is the
choice of discerning young couples who
wish to combine economy with comfort and
good taste ... They feel they really have
a home to be proud of when they invite
their guests to the restful luxury that only
Feltex can give.
a
FELTEX
* Inshf on genuine
FELT EX look
for the name .
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
MANUFACTURERS OF PLAIN AND MARBLED FELTEX
THE SERVICE MAN
Bringing Them Home.
Mr. Forde having backed and filled
on his various promises as to how many
servicemen in New Guinea and the
islands, from The Treasuries to Labuan,
would be brought back to Australia,
and when, his leader entered the field
last week with particulars of arrange-
ments designed to “accelerate” the job —
presumably if the sanction of Com-
munist workstoppers is obtained.
From August 15 to October 31
29,000 Army and Air Force personnel
and 13,000 p.-0.-w. (these from “Malaya,
Siam, Japan and other areas in the Pacific
and Asia”) were repatriated, Mr. Chifley
said. Another 31,000 were booked for
return in November, and the same
number in December. That leaves, on
Mr. Chifley’s figures, 36,000 to come.
They’ll be back, he promises, by mid-
February. But with that lot home there
will still be 82,000 men in the islands,
“required for the time being” for garrison
duty and as guards for Japanese troops.
Other parts of the programme:
An occupational force in Japan, 10,000
strong. (There are growing doubts, as to
whether they will ever see the cherry-
blossoms.)
A force of 25,000 soldiers and 4000
airmen in Borneo, to be relieved “eventu-
ally” by Britons. In New Guinea,' New
Britain and the Solomons, 40,000 soldiers
and 3000 airmen.
There are estimated to be 343,000 Japa-
nese in the areas Australia has to gar-
rison, and the date of their final depar-
ture (with shipping the way it is, and
seems likely to be) has been put down
as February, 1949! So 82,000 Austra-
lians are required, and Mr. Chifley says
he can send 10,000 recruits who have
been training on the mainland. For the
rest —if servicemen already in the islands
are to get any opportunity to return to
their homes and to civil life —Mr.
Chifley or the Army or somebody will
call for volunteers from uniformed men
still serving and from civilians on “con-
ditions” to be “available at an early
date.” They will need to be very attrac-
tive. And, since compulsory militia ser-
vice in the islands south of the Equator
is still legally in force, the reference to
“civilians” is astonishing.
Most significant in Mr. Chifley’s
statement was the revelation that his
Government’s schedule for the “accele-
rated” return of troops, already overlong
delayed in the case of men with years of
tropical service, was “the result of negotia-
tions between the Australian and British
authorities.” While the Katoomba was
held up by the Communist-controlled
Seamen’s Union for three weeks, the R.N.
generously offered ships, among them
the aircraft-carriers Implacable, Glorious
and Formidable. This came as a godsend
to the Government responsible for the
Katoomba holdup and the Esperance
Bay “diversion,” and a godsend, too, to
servicemen. Two thousand of them came
from Balik Papan, so delighted with their
treatment —they slept on mattresses, got
tea in bed and had the flight deck for
their sports—that they clubbed in £2OO
'to show their appreciation to the crew.
And the R.N. has been just as generous
in its supply of ships and comforts for
the merciful job of returning prisoners
of the Japanese to their homeland,
A godsend, yes! It undoubtedly in-
fluenced Mr. Chifley in his apology,
abject, but not over-gracious, to Admiral*
Lord Louis Mountbatten for the raw
deal served up to him in that Depart-
ment of Information broadcast —the one
that likened the U.S.A. to Pilate and
Britain, as it were, to Pecksniff —for which
everyone is now disclaiming responsibility.
Indonesia and Australia.
Prime Minister Attlee put the British
position in Java clearly and tersely dur-
ing his visit to America. The Allied Wa i
Council, he said, had assigned to Britain
the task of clearing the Japanese from
Indonesia, releasing internees and restor-
ing order.
“We took on this job,” Mr. Attlee said,
“and we intend to carry it through.”
And it is being carried through despite
the efforts of what the British Field Com-
mander in Java, Major-General D. C.
Hawthorn, has described as “frenzied,
bloodthirsty and uncontrollable mobs.”
In a tribute to the heroism of Dutch
women internees in Soerabaya during the
recent fighting, he said there had been
“scenes reminiscent of pictures of the
French Revolution.”
In Soerabaya the British forces were
quickly in complete control of the mili-
tary situation. Once a clearly-defined
front line was established patrols could
move “without hindrance or loss, and
units move forward into new areas how,
when and where they please.” But, out-
side the area of British control, burn-
ing of warehouses, looting of goods and
terrorising of women and children, who
had already suffered almost beyond en-
durance under the Japanese, still went
on. And long-range artillery, handed over
to the rebels by Japanese in defiance of
orders and in some cases manned by Jap
gunners—their bodies have been found
in positions which British troops have
occupied—fired into the British line? with-
out causing much damage. The Tommies
are following a policy of reducing posi-
tions by concentrated artillery and mortar
fire before moving in to clear snipers.
Elsewhere in Java there is similar
trouble from other armed mobs. At
Ambarawa, in Middle Java, a group of
Indonesians burnt a R.A.P.W.I. (Re-
covery of Allied Prisoners of War and
Internees) camp and 12 persons, some of
them women, were killed. There were
disturbances at Magelang and Semarang
and continued troubles from looters and
gun-proud Javanese in Batavia.
And on the outskirts of that city, only
six miles from where the so-called Indo-
nesian Government has its headquarters,
there occurred a frightful massacre of
men in British uniforms. A R.A.F.
transport ’plane came down with engine
trouble. It caught fire on landing, but
from the air some of the crew (five, all
Britons) and passengers (20 Indian
soldiers) were seen to get out. A searcfi
party from Batavia found only the dis-
membered bodies of two Indian soldiers.
It was fired on from a village, which
was burnt, 15 Indonesians with British
equipment being captured.
Jikampek was the scene of another
barbarity. Eleven Gurkha guards on a
train carrying relief supplies were mur-
dered by a howling mob.
Next day orders for the destruction
of the radio stations at Jokja and Soera-
karta, in Central Java, were issued by the
British commander. R.A.F. Mosquitoes
did the job with rockets. They dropped
leaflets first, then went in to raze the
buildings.
The “Cabinet” which has replaced
Soekarno’s, though Soekarno is still
“President,” seems to exercise only a
shadow of control. It has found diffi-
culty in getting even its own members
together, the gentleman named “Minister
of Social Affairs” having explained that
he has “too many worries of my own” in
Banjoewara, East Java, to accept the
office. From Soerabaya Radio, still in
the hands of the insurrectionaries, came
a threat of death to all the members of
the “Cabinet,” who were classed as re-
actionaries.
On the day of the butchery outside
Batavia a “National Convention” began
deliberating in the city. One of the dele-
gates was a representative of “the Indo-
nesian seamen from Australia” who were,
shipped in the Esperance Bay, with
guards aboard and a Tribal-class de-
stroyer handy, by the “Labor” Govern-
ment and farewelled from Sydney and
Brisbane by cheering crowds of Com-
munists, bearing from Brisbane a flag
presented by the Labor Council. Thus,
as was here stated (B. 14/11 /’45),
“Labor” was “the means of sending rein-
forcements to the Jap collaborators Soe-
karno and Hatta, thus weakening the
position of the British holding force in
Java and adding to the peril of every
white prisoner and woman and child.”
And “S. M. Herald’s” Mr. Eager has
reported from Batavia, for what the in-
formation may be worth, that “Austra-
lian officers are trying to establish the
fate of more than 2000 Australians miss-
ing in Java.”
In Australia for most of the week Com-
munist backers of “the Indernesian fight
fer freedom” did a little less roaring than
usual. They scored when six of the eleven
British seamen they had pulled out of the
Moreton Bay were released on bail by
the “Government,” whose “leader” took


There have been saddening crashes of
R.A.A.F. machines during recent months.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO CECIL OWEN JENKINS a member of the
Australian Imperial Forces —TAKE NOTICE that
STANLEY EDGAR LEHMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 503 of 1913 on the ground of his- wife’s
adultery with you If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 28th of January
1946 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from DETTMANN AUSTIN & MACLEAN,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney, Australia.—
(i,.b.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HARRY MOSTYN YORK late of Oastlereagh
Street Singleton New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN YORK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3429 of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 28th December 19 45 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from CHARLES M. ORAN-
ITCH Solicitor 297 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce. ___
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO LAWRENCE MERVYN TEASDALB (otherwise
known as Stansfield) late of Port Kembla and late
NX 34256. —TAKE NOTICE that MONICA MYR-
TILLA TEASDALE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2483 of 1945 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th of December 1945 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from J. R.
THOMAS Solicitor 39 Martin Place Sydney.—(n.s.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Tenders.
The Agricultural Bank of Tasmania
WAR SERVICE LAND SETTLEMENT
TENDERS FOR CLEARING LAND
ON KING ISLAND
Tenders, endorsed “Pegarah Clearing” and accom-
panied by deposit of one per cent., are invited and
will be received at the office of the undersigned up
to the 20th December, 1945, for the first stage of
the development of the Pegarah Settlement area on
King Island in seven blocks totalling 29,000 acres.
The work comprises the cutting, carting and stack-
ing of fallen timber suitable for firewood and fencing
timber at specified depots; the clearing and burning
of all other fallen timber, standing shelly stumps,
scrub and other vegetation and the levelling of earth
mounds.
Separate tenders are required for each of the seven
lots which range in area from 2,280 to 5,820 acres.
Specifications of the work and plans of the area are
available on application to the undersigned.
Inspection of the area and travel priorities may be
arranged on application.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Deposit may be forfeited if tender withdrawn.
S. K. ADAMS,
Chairman, Closer Settlement Board,
Hobart, Tasmania.
BOOKS TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
u
SU£P
Restful sleep tvorks wonders
for the human system. You
know how just one really good
night’s rest can make you feel
a new person. Here is a
pleasant way to encourage
sound, refreshing sleep EVERY
WIGHT I
★ ★ *
Each evening before “lights
out” drink a cupful of delicious
Cadbury’s Bourn-vita. Thou-
sands of people who have been
in hospitals and convalescent
homes have done this on the
advice of doctors and nurses.
The Calcium and Phosphorus
in Cadbury’s Bourn-vita soothe
the nerves. The reason, how-
ever, that you sleep so well
following a cup of Boum-vita
is that it supplies your body
with quick nourishment. It
is a scientific fact that the
body uses up more energy in
the first hour of sleep than in
an ordinary waking hour.
When you have had your meal
hours before, there is often
insufficient nourishment in
your stomach to supply that
energy, so sleep is slow in
coming, and often fitful. A
cup of Cadbury’s Bourn-vita
supplies that extra nourish-
ment you need. Made-from
eggs, barley malt, full-cream
milk, and chocolate, Cadbury’s
Bourn-vita is highly nutritious,
yet light and easily digestible.
★ ★ ★
Buy some Bourn-vita and
drink it every night (it
is simple to prepare just
stir two teaspoonfuls of crisp
Bourn-vita granules into a
cup or glass of hot milk).
You’ll sleep better and feel
better for regularly drinking
Cadbury’s Bourn-vita.
BOURN-VITA
EVERY NIGH T BEFORE BED Bvpio
/
A POST-WAR PLAN FOR
LIFT INSTALLATION
ecf if out ten yet Ztjo
The lifts or escalators you order
now will embody the latest
advancements and practices in the
field of vertical transportation.
Our engineers will advise you in
drawing up the specifications to
ensure you obtaining the best type
of lift to suit your business and
anticipated traffic conditions.
Lift and escalator installations are at present
restricted to essential undertakings*—but to
those of you who are looking ahead and
anticipating future needs we provide a post-
war Plan to save you delays and disappoint-
ments.
The Plan is simple. In brief—'you place your
order now*—and all we ask is that you do so
in good faith. No payment is requested until
work commences on your behalf, and we will
accept cancellation at any time till then
should conditions necessitate. Costs will be
based on to-day’s rates, with variations either
way to your account, and. the moment
restrictions are lifted, your order will be
executed in the sequence of a Priority
Certificate issued you.
Meet the future now *— call your nearest
Waygood-Otis office for details of this prac-
tical. forward-working Plan. No obligation
whatsoever.
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY, LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE » BRISBANE * ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION
no notice of objections to interference
with British Commonwealth practice in
the case of seamen who take French
leave. The “leader” was busy apologis-
ing to Lord Mountbatten on the score
of his having been included in the De-
partment of Information attack on British
and. American policy respecting the
Netherlands East Indies, and passing the
buck, according to And there
were official or semi-official or semi-demi
official statements “on Australia’s posi-
tion” which were as clear as mud.
At the week-end Communist attempts
to prevent Lascars from Sydney complet-
ing the manning of one of the Dutch
ships held up in Brisbane for manjr weeks
had South Brisbane railway station for
theatre. There was a most unexpected
sequel, A ‘‘prominent union official” was
run in on a “disorderly” charge. All hell
started roaring again.
With a remote relation to the campaign
for “our Indernesian comrades,” but with
a more direct bearing on the concurrent
plague of Communist strikes, was a re-
buff administered to the Red bosses of
the Ironworkers’ Federation at N.S.W.
Labor Council headquarters, a favo-
rite Communist stamping-ground. By
182 votes to 137 the council decided
to “request” the Red bosses to seek re-
registration of their nearly-broke union,
of which unions not Communist-con-
trolled, the A.W.U. especially, are dead
weary. Only a straw, but it shows how
the wind is blowing. Whether it will
blow the “Government” into an appear-
ance of action is doubtful.
The “Government”' must have had a
nasty taste in the mouth when it read a
report of Mr. Bevin’s speech in a foreign-
affairs debate, in which he again chal-
lenged Moscow to put all its cards on the
table, “face up.” Turning to the Indo-
nesian business, and supporting Mr.
Attlee’s statement on the British man-
date in stronger terms, Mr. Bevin said
“We cannot desert the task which General
MacArthur has given us.” Mr. Chifley,
though not recently, has professed the
utmost admiration for and devotion to
General MacArthur.
Criticism by Melbourne “Herald” brought
from Minister Drakeford a statement that
there had been 64 accidents from VP-day
(August 15) to September 28, responsible
for 25 deaths and- 21 other casualties, all
to R.A.A.F. personnel. In a further state-
ment at the week-end Mr. Drakeford
listed “total accidents” as 26 in “three
months” from VP-day; “killed” 69, and
“missing, believed killed” 28. In the
most tragic affair a courier ’plane on a
fight between Rabaul and Jacquinot Bay
hit a 7000 ft. mountain peak in New
Britain. It was carrying ten Indians,
recovered p.-0.-w., eight A.I.F. men, a
R.A.A.F nursing sister and five R.A.A.F.
personnel, besides the crew of four.
Whether there are any survivors will not
be known until a rescue party makes its
way through the wild jungle country to
the scene of the crash. From London
R.A.F. Transport Command reports 20
crashes in the last month and 150 killed
in five weeks.
* * * *
“Recco”: Number Three Squadron
R.A.A.F. is back in Australia with a
record close to that of No. 1 of the last
war. The first squadron to leave Aus-
tralia after the outbreak of war, it was
originally an Army Co-operation unit. It
arrived at Tewfik on August 2, 1940, and
took part in the fighting through the first
Libyan campaign, Syria, the second
Libyan push and in the advance from
El Alamein to Tunis. It was in on the
invasions of Sicily and Italy. It flew
Lysanders first, and, when converted to a
fighter squadron. Hurricanes, then Kitty-
hawks. When cease-fire sounded the
squadron’s kills numbered 217 L It had a
remarkable sequence of outstanding com-
manding officers. First was Squadron-
Leader lan McLachlan, D.F.C. (now
group-captain), followed by Squadron-
Leader Peter Jeffrey, D. 5.0., D.F.C. (also
now group-captain); Squadron-Leader
(now Wing-Commander) Alan Rawlin-
son, D.F.C. and Bar; Wing-Commander
(now Group-Captain) D. R. Chapman ;
Squadron - Leader (now Wing - Com-
mander) Bobby Gibbs, D. 5.0., D.F.C.
and Bar; Squadron-Leader (now Group-
Captain) Brian Eaton, D.S.O. and Bar,
D.F.C.; Squadron-Leader Murray Nash,
D. 5.0., D.F.C.; Squadron-Leader R. H.
Bayly, D.F.C. ; and Squadron-Leader
Nash again. At the end it was flying
Mustangs.
* * * *
“J.E.M.”: King George V is a gun-
nery officer’s dream. No need now to
guess the enemy’s approaching speed;
a boy of 18 in the bowels of the ship
twisting a knob and peering into a
fluorescent radar screen will tell you the
exact speed to a yard a minute. The
enemy’s range, which before was a mean
of half a dozen rangefinders, is passed
by the same youth, geometrically correct;
and when the broadside lobs he will ■
“ping” on the water-spouts and judge to
the yard how far they are short or over.
Radar sets are as numerous on K.G.V.’s
superstructure as Lewis-guns were years
ago; eachpiece of armament has its aerials,
from the 14-inch monsters and s|-inch
a.-a. guns to the two-pounder Bofors and
pompoms. When the captain sights his
target he turns with one hand a small
instrument called a bearing indicator ; the
director control tower and three massive
turrets move, and are on the bearing in
a matter of seconds. Ordered to de-
molish a former musical instrument fac-
tory outside Tokyo, then producing ’plane
parts, K.G.V, ranged the target and let
fly. An American in the spotting ’plane
overhead signalled delightedly: “Gosh
dammit, sir, you’ve smothered the target
first go. Keep ’em coming!” I felt
absurdly pleased a Yank was up there
to see that shooting.
* * *
The Eighth remembers:
A committee of Eighth Division men is
working on the establishment of an A.I.F.
Nursing Scholarship for Chinese in Malaya.
It was something that was talked about' during
the dark days at Changi camp, and the idea
blossomed immediately after the Japanese sur-
render. It is intended as a permanent gesture
of appreciation of the help given to Australian
p.-0.-w. by Chinese —“many of us,” the com-
mittee says, “would not have returned to our
families had it not been for their sacrifice,
service and suffering.” The committee was first
formed in Singapore by Brigadier Galleghan. It
recommended the establishment of a fund to
provide for the bringing to Australia for train-
ing in midwifery and infant welfare (not avail- ,
able in Malaya) suitable Chinese women who
have already graduated in general nursing. The
fund is controlled in Australia by a commit-
tee headed by Major-General Callaghan. A
Malaya committee composed of the Director
of Public Health, the Australian Trade Repre-
sentative, the chairman of the Chinese Chamber
of Commerce and the Secretary, Chinese
Affairs, makes the selection. Aji amount of
£15,000 is aimed at, and to start the fund off
it’s suggested that every member of the Malayan
Force put in four days’ pay (£1 for privates,
£l3 for a major-general), which can be collected
at Army Pay Offices. Anyone else may sub-
scribe, too; the address, A.I.F. Malayan
Nursing Scholarship Fund, C/o Victorian
Public Trustee, 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.


TOP DOG
MENS WEAR
*
BISKS TROUSERS
★
SOVEREIGN
HATS
Top Dog Men’s Wear Is worth looking for, and when
you obtain it see that you give it the care that means
long wear! In fabric, cut, and every detail of finish,
Top Dog Men’s Wear is thoroughly sound. That is why
it keeps its shape, always looks smart, and gives such
long wear. It returns full value for every shilling of
its cost.
So speed the day of unlimited civilian supplies by invest-
ing in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
*ox
V
BREKS TROUSERS AND SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
Bui You Mu*l First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that thera
la something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
fend filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
bf dangerous Impurities, these tubes become
fclogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
Swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
byes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
fcmarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don't delay and don't experiment. Go to
kour chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before It is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
BACKACHE glfiNBY BIBBS
SPORTING NOTIONS
Favorite at 6 to 4 for the Eclipse Stakes at
Caulfield on Saturday, the Gay Lothario-Miss
Devlin colt Don Pedro put up one of his best
performances in winning from Tranquil Star and
Logical. V. Hartney, in front from the start
on Tranquil Star, kept the pace down for six
furlongs or so, but it was on for the rest
of the journey, the winner covering the mile
and a half in 2.30|. As well as Don Pedro,
the other two are also Gay Lotharios, Logical
a four-year-old.
Probably it was the best plan for Tranquil
Star to try to make a pace to suit her, but it
was asking a lot of the grand old mare never-
theless to lead all the way with 8.13, giving
weight to all the rest, and only 11b. short of a
stone to Don Pedro. That, however, does not
detract from Don Pedro’s run. The colt car-
ried 51b. over w.f.a., and the time indicates
that it was a sound enough testing of him as
a stayer, about which there seems to have
been some doubt', particularly after Magnifi-
cent beat him in the Victoria Derby. Back a
little early in the seven-horse field, Don Pedro
moved up very easily into second place when
Preston urged him along nearing the turn,
joined the pacemaker in the straight, and,
after a short head-and-head contest, came away
to win comfortably.
As good a line as any on the merit of Don
Pedro’s win was the failure of Gay Lad, one
of the next-best colts of the
season, and near-winner of the Williamstown
Cup. Gay Lad carried 71b. under w.f.a., had
every chance, and could not fill a place. Don
Pedro emerges from this test an apparently
much stronger rival for Magnificent in the St.
Legers than the Derby running might have sug-
gested, and, apart from that, has proved him-
self a tiptop handicap candidate. Tranquil
Star’s second brought her stake winnings to
over £28,000. She is now rising nine, but
according to reported plans she has not finished
with racing yet.
The Sirdar, in beating Greensborough and
League in the mile Pelham Handicap, improved
on his close win at Flemington the previous
Saturday and made Dhoti’s position still better
in the season’s sires’ list. The Sirdar put in
such a strong finish under pressure that he
should win at least good middle-distance
events. A. Breasley, who had the mount on
the topweight, Morbell (favorite), was kicked
before the race, but that probably made no
difference to the result. If it did, Breasley
had completely recovered by the time of the last
race, the six-furlongs Rosstown Plate, in which
he drove Aggressor home in a severe finish to
defeat Kindergold and Oxford Street (favo-
rite). Oxford Street struck more than his share
of trouble.
Even with his allotted 9.8, Crown Gem
would probably have added yef another win
to his own and Dhoti’s splendid records in the
Stansmore Handicap for two-year-olds had he
been fit to run. Withdrawn because of an
indisposition, he left the way clear for the
next topweight, the Law Maker-Cimbo colt
Woodrow, to win nicely from Nanna and
Hawa Rani. Woodrow has been one of the
most consistent of youngsters, and this, and the
closeness of the finish, suggests early wins for
the other placegetters. That may go especially
for Hawa Rani, another of the Dhoti breed
(from Air Queen), as is Nanna (a filly from
La Modiste). Hawa Rani was not well away
at the start, but came very fast to head
off Woodrow. The Dhoti colt had had enough
before the finish, but the breed is not one of
stoppers.
J. Purfell, who rode The Sirdar, made it a
double by winning the five-furlongs Maiden
Two-year-old on the Agincourt-Lightness filly
Sun Glow, with Adrian (a very promising Hel-
lespont colt) and Flashed (The Marne-Lady
Marconigram) close up in the places. The other
event of the day, the Ormond Handicap, was
restricted to apprentice riders, young Mc-
Comskie (still in the 71b.-allpwance class) win-
ning it on Gay Revelry from Hartnell and
Antares.
* * ♦ •
However long the present racing boom may
be destined to last, at the moment betting
and other transactions are on a fantastic scale.
One of Sydney’s most “dashing” bookies —
apparently he accepts £lOOO wagers with the
nonchalance of a Scot finding a fiver —recently
held over £9OOO on an ordinary welter handi-
cap, and on Saturday at Raiidwick he was
reported holding a similar amount as a virtual
skinner when Craftsman won the Flying.
Meanwhile tote figures continue to improve.
For this second day of the A.J.C. Warwick
Farm meeting, with its six races including the
Kirkham Stakes, which had only four runners,
£130,942 went through the tote, compared with
£130,484 for seven races on the same day last
year. Attendance was 30,000, exclusive of ser-
vicemen.
Still more of the average run of punters will
probably turn to the tote if Sydney bag-
swingers don’t improve their odds. A fair
example of their generous reckoning was given
in the Warwick November Handicap, which
had eight starters, two of whom started at over
7 to 1. In the Camden Handicap, with nine
starters, only four were at over 7 to 1, and in
the Encourage six were quoted at less than
double figures.
About the outsider of the day, Craftsman,
25 to 1 was available, but his owner, a Queens-
lander, reported that he was offered fifteens!
He refused it, put his £3O on the tote, and col-
lected £927 —almost 30 to 1.
Apart from the Newcastle winner Denali, a
field of maiden two-year-olds contested the
Hoxton Park Juvenile, and it looked a very
open affair, with Concise the street-corner tip.
Though previously unraced and beaten in a
barrier trial by Driffield, who was also en-
gaged, Concise was backed like the certainty
he proved to be. Ridden try A. Mulley, Con-
cise dwelt at the start apd took a while to
settle down, but, finding his legs in the straight,
he won by half a dozen lengths, running right
away from Te Tana and Brilen.
Denali, a grey colt by Roxborough, finished
close to the place-getters after running a good
race and leading at one stage in the straight.
Probably Denali is not in the same class as the
winner, but he was harshly dealt with under
the conditions of the race, having a 71b.
penalty for a win in much weaker company.
Another interesting also-ran was Uranium, the
first son of High Caste to sport silk. He ran
a moderate race without ever being a chance.
By Double Remove from Lady Silvius, Con-
cise was a 1000-guinea yearling. He’s in the
hands of last season’s leading trainer, B. R.
Payten, who, with the Breeder’s Plate winner,
Havoc, and another good colt, Vigaro, also
in his charge, has a strong hand in coming
two-year-old events. The win brought Payten’s
score for this season to 13 winners, nine seconds
and two thirds; the next best, P. Riddle, has
seven winners and three seconds.
Payten and D. Lewis, both Randwick
trainers, certainly have the best of the
youngsters between them. Three of Lewis’s lot
—Prince Standard, Concerto and Superfort—
were nominated for the Kirkham, but Superfort,
who may be the best of the three, was with-
drawn. Persian Prince and the Titan colt
Tragedy made up the field. After being given
half a stone and a hiding by Persian Prince
last start, Prince Standard (W. Cook) was
not favored to beat the Manitoba colt at level
weights, and Persian Prince started an odds-on
favorite. Prince Standard apparently thrives
on work; he won more decisively than Per-
sian Prince had previously beaten him. Per-
sian Prince made a fair race of it part of the
way, but was weakening at the finish, and Con-
certo took second money. Tragedy was out
of his depth in the company.
Vermeil, a hard horse to beat when he’s in
the mood, has shown marked improvement at
recent starts. In the Camden Handicap (about
seven furlongs) he was well away, trailed Prince
Hua to the home turn, took over from there,
and showed the way down the straight. Chal-
lenged by Craftsman, he still battled on well,
but was fairly outstayed and beaten nearly a
length. War Effort cut Prince Hua out of third
place.
Craftsman was rather an unknown quantity,
having been bred and done most of his racing
in rural Queensland, but he won recently at
Newcastle and is reputed to have won at 16
of his 31 starts. A five-year-old entire, he is
not strikingly bred, being by Brutus from
Lady Craft,, but he traces through his dam to
the Sydney Cup winner Scarlet and through his
sire to Windbag. Ridden by McGrowdie, he
covered the shade over seven furlongs in 1.25.
An 111 b. penalty for her last start «win did
not prevent Lady Marie from repeating the
performance in the Warwick November Handi-
cap (about 11 furlongs). The very good appren-
tice G. Podmore got the best out of her with
a change of riding tactics. Usually a front
runner, she was restrained behind Spear Patrol
and Invictus in the early stages, moved up
with Invictus when the latter tackled Spear
Patrol at the half-mile, and coming into the
straight took charge. Challenged by Invictus
and Shining Night, she held them off to win
from that pair in a stirring finish, with a head
and a neck separating the placegetters. With
another pound or two the handicapper will have
the winner’s measure.
By the last race the books had raked in so
much that they were in a position to bet 10 to 1
bar one, the one excepted being King’s Glen
(A. Ward), who duly came home, downing
Chatlock and Fort Denison. Earlier, the
Farm Encourage (also at about a mile) went
to Wellington (J. Coutts), who beat Mentone
and Manakau, the latter a five-year-old gelding
by the N.Z. sire Croupier, sire of High Play,
now racing in Melbourne. Manakau had run
some moderate races, though still a maiden,
and those game to give five bob a fly on the
off chance were returned £2l 16s. 9d. on the
place tote. That’s more than 86 to 1; the
books had him at 50 to 1 for a win.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Maiden Nursery: Tengur, 1; My Hero, 2;
Beau Brummel, 3. Flying; Cragsman, 1; Gay
King, 2; Victory Lad, 3. Novice: Sonning, 1;
Chatster, 2; Huamight, 3. Summer Handicap:
Invictus, 1; Wellesley, 2; Shining Night, 3. Of
the two-year-old fillies having their first run
in the Juvenile Stakes, Sleigh Bells and Chan-
son Gai have done well in trials, and F. W.
Hughes is represented with five Titan fillies.
Whichever of the latter becomes the stable-elect
should be close to the money.
* * * *
Weighting them for the Villiers, to be run
at Randwick on December 22, the handicapper
has expressed a high opinion of the Queens-
lander Bernborough, not yet raced in Sydney,
by giving him top weight, 9.2; Hall Stand
next, 9.0. Cragsman (8.11) and Victory Lad


THIS
DUPLICATOR
ONLY
AGENTS
*£l7/10/- M
relyjn Au
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cl
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
Vutli tnnreiyjn /\ustrana oy SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE -
If your
dog’B coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course.
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
r
ŕ
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/f
SKIN EOXION 8/1
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/U
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Personal.
ESTATE of JAMES CULLEN.
Would the relatives of James Cullen, formerly of
Midland Junction, West Australia, and an ex-member
of the Royal Australian Navy, please communicate
with the District Public Trustee, Invercargill, New
Zealand.
ŗ
CIGARETTE CASE OF
GENUINE CALF
It’s capacious and practical, neatly made of soft
brown calf on a light metal frame that protects the
cigarettes from crushing or bending. Fastened with
a sturdy press stud, it holds approximately 20 cig-
arettes. It’s a gift for the smoker !
Price 17/6, post 6d. extra.
H2MARK.ET ST. SYDNEY,
Watchmakers and Jewellers.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
they make you feel brighter
1
mm
I
Precision takes on a new meaning
through latest addition to ultra-
modern fI.T.L equipment
As specialists in super-
accuracy, A.T.L. has long
foreseen that interchange-
ability with its attendant
precision will attain even
greater significance in post-
war production than it has
reached during the war.
A.T.L. equipment and tech-
nical resources have been
developed accordingly. En-
quiries concerning the sup-
ply of production essentials
requiring the finest margins
of accuracy will be
corned.
Latest addition to A.T.L. equipment for
super-accuracy in jig-boring —the Newal! Jig Borer.
Accurate to .0001 of an inch, this machine is
universally regarded as a major achievement of
British engineering.
FOR
JIGS . . . FIXTURES . . . MOULDS
PRESS TOOLS...DIES...GAUGES
m
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . , PERTH , , .BRISBANE
........ - , i .
IF IT’S A PRECISION JOB, IT’S A JOB FOR A.T.L.
' '■ l . ATJU4-4ili
(8.9) seem well in for the mile. In the Summer
Cup (Dec. 26) Craigie has 9 3, Bernborough
being next with 9.0. Last year’s winner, Easter
Time, has only 7.9, while Prince who should
get the distance, has a comfortable 8.0.
* * * «
A solid, typical effort by Barnes, the
N.S.W. captain, saved the side in the first
innings v. Queensland at Brisbane.
Barnes scored 200 out of 338, knocking
them up in 304 minutes (one sixer off
Lockie and 12 fourers). He was caught
by Rogers when forcing the pace as the
tail-enders came in. Of the rest, only
Moroney (29) and Saggers (25) made
decent efforts. Most of the new players
suffered from “grandstand shock.” Watt
(3 for 30), Cook (2 for 28) and
McCool (3 for 110) took the wickets.
Don Tallon’s ’keeping was superb. He
caught three and stumped one, and the
sundries were four no.-balls and two leg-
byes. Queensland scored 210—Brown 84,
W. Morris 46 (both run out) and Lockie
20. Toshack justified his selection' with
4 wickets for 69, making him look
the best left-hand bowler N.S.W. has
known for years. At the end of the second
day N.S.W. had lost 3 for 51 ; on Mon-
day it was 7 for 103.
* * * *
The Services match v. East Zone (India)
was played in the riot-troubled atmo-
sphere at Calcutta, exuberant factionists
invading the ground and holding up the
game. For the first time the bowlers
came out on top. Services scored 107
(Hassett and Workman 25 each) and 304
(Hassett 125 and Cristofani 69). East
Zone did better with 131 (Price 3 for 14,
Cristofani 4 for 46, Roper 1 for 11,
Pepper 1 for 37) and 8 for 284 (Williams
2 for 55, Cristofani 2 for 65, Roper 2 for
51, Pepper 2 for 78). English Test player
D. Compton scored 101 in East Zone’s
second innings and did most to help the
side win by two wickets, the first con-
cluded match of the six played on the
Indian tour. Hassett has struck rare
form. His figures are 73 ; 187 and 124
not out; 53 and 11; 95 ; 25 and 125 —
693, averaging 99.00.
* • * * *
English cricket lost a notable player
when Percy Perrin, of Essex, died last
week at 69. Bursting into county matches
when he was 20, Perrin belted fast-bowler
Tom Richardson (then in his prime] for
52 not out, and after that was never out
of the team. Perrin scored a thousand
runs 18 times in first-class cricket, with
343 not out v. Derbyshire in 1904 his
highest innings. He piled up a total of
29,709 runs in 918 innings, -92 not outs,
average 35.96, yet he never gained a place
in English rep. cricket. In later years
Perrin was a member of the M.C.C. Board
of Control and selector for England in
Test cricket.
* * * *
Turning on a brand of tennis that might
have toppled any world player, “Dinny”
Pails caused the biggest surprise in the
game for years by smothering Bromwich,
6-1, 6-2, 6-4, to take the N.S.W. singles
title at the White City on Saturday. Pails
hadn’t a weakness. His service carried
a sting; he hit cleanly and accurately
down both wings ; and he repeatedly un-
leashed a low-skimming crosscourt fore-
hand which left Bromwich standing. The
Davis Cup man was obviously in need
of match practice ; but even at his best
he’d have had a job to stop Pails.
# " * * ' *
In the men’s doubles final Pails and
Crawford won the first two sets, 8-6, 6-3,
but the Victorians Harper and Brodie,
by dogged play and splendid serving, took
the next three, each 6-4. It was
high-class tennis. Mrs. Bolton (the
former Nancye Wynne, holder of the
Australian title) beat Mrs. Hopman 6-3,
6-3 in the women’s singles, and the hard-
hitting N.S.W. girls Miss Bevis and Miss
Fitch beat Mrs. Bolton and Mrs. Long
6 : 2, 6-3 in the women’s doubles.
« * * *
Bobbing about like a cake of soap in
a bath-tub. Jack Hiles outpointed Sid
Kiiight at Leichhardt. An early win for
Knight seemed lively when his right to
.he chin floored Hiles in the second
round. Regaining his feet at nine,
Hiles galloped all over the ring, with
Knight in pursuit, until the eighth
ended. Hiles ffhen began to fight back,
and Knight seemed to go all to pieces.
Reeling around the ring as if groggy
(some of the customers were incredulous,
but Leichhardt is like that), Knight was
an open target for Hiles’s right, which
floored him twice for “eight,” in the 11th
and in the 12th. This grandstand finish
gained Hiles the decision (some of the
customers seemed to be still incredulous).
Since coming to this country the Royal
Marine middleweight Alec Buxton, who
j s colored, has been very successful over
mediocre, though boomed, opposition,
Sydney Stadium he knocked out Les
sioan in the fifth round. Inches taller
anc j longer in the reach, Sloan should
won jf were h a if as go0( j as he
had been claimed to be, but Buxton
bust i ed him all over the ring, and had
him very tired at the end of the fifth
round. Then Buxton rushed out with
a right to the chin, and another right to
t h e same spo t knocked Sloan out of time
and out c f t h e game. This Sloan an-
nounced in his dressing-room, ruefully
stro ki n g the chin.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
That pin-up boy of the British Pacific
Fleet, Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser, said fare-
well to Australia last Sunday. In a radio
broadcast that mingled humor and pathos
—the sort of speech the Englishman
makes so well —he thanked Australia for
its help and its hospitality. In particu-
lar he mentioned feelingly the Red Cross,
the women and girls of the Anzac
Buffet, the 'British Centre and the many
hospitality groups and committees. It
was a sincere message, and the listener
felt that it expressed the feeling of the
entire fleet from quarter-deck to foc’s’le.
The admiral told two delightful stories:
one of how an airman, standing with him
in a King’s Cross newsreel queue, insisted
on buying him his ticket when at last he
recognised who his fellow-queuer was
(“It was a shilling ticket, but the kindli-
ness of the thought was infinite”); the
other humorously recounted a trip in a
m.t.b. around Sydney Harbor. They
came to the boom. The admiral pointed
to it and asked innocently “What is that
bridge?” The lieutenant in charge shook
his head, professing ignorance. “I’m a
New Zealander,” he explained slyly.
The second of the Isador Goodman
farewell recitals attracted a bumper house
at the Conservatorium on Saturday night.
The pianist was in splendid form, and
gave a spirited and generously long re-
cital which included works by Brahms
and Chopin, Prokofieff, Ravel and
Debussy.
H.M.S. Implacable, Cheshire and the
hospital ship Wanganella were seacraft
that won rounds of applause as they
entered Sydney Heads last week. They
were bringing some more Australian
soldiers home —long-service men, p.-0.-w.
and some of our sick. All will feel better
now they are back in their own land.
The crew of Implacable, with the true
hospitality of the R.N., treated their pas-
sengers like star boarders they were
even given early-morning cups of tea in
bed. The Australians responded with
grace, and among them raised £2OO for
the ship’s fund.
Ex-p.-0.-w. Lt. Sydney Smith, of Chats-
wood, married Second-Officer Nell Pem-
berton, W.R.N.S., last Saturday in St.
Mark’s, Darling Point. The bride was
one of Mr. Churchill’s staff at the first
and second Quebec conferences. She is a
Lancashire lass, the youngest daughter
of the S. Pembertons, of Birkdale. The
two met on the ship that was bringing
her to Sydney and service with the British
Pacific Fleet, and bringing him home
after being a prisoner-of war in Germany
since his capture in Greece in 1941. Pier
wedding frock was blue, her flowers red
roses.
The president and committee of the
Lyceum Club featured the afternoon
party to Lilian Frost last week. Lilian,
who is a foundation member of the club,
was being congratulated on her 50th
anniversary as organist of the Pitt-street
Congregational Church. This is one of a
series of lunches, teas and concerts which
have celebrated the popular musician’s
jubilee, and Lilian, tall and serene in
larkspur blue and one of the new hats
decked with field flowers, received
eulogies and red roses.
Another guest at the party was Com-
mandant Elizabeth Larke, of the Austra-
lian Red Cross Field Force. Miss Larke,
who is Lyceum’s memorial member 1945-
1946, spoke in gripping fashion of her ex-
periences among sick and wounded Aus-
tralian soldiers. The reception-room was
crowded with members and massed with
flowers. Elizabeth, who was presented
with a spray, mentioned that it was the
first time in six years that she had worn
flowers. President Mrs. Metcalfe was the
afternoon’s hostess. Dame Mary Gilmore
was also a guest.
Forty-eight graduates of the Kinder-
garten Training College at Waverley re-
ceived their diplomas at the Town Hall
last week. The young teachers .all wore
white frocks and carried early-Victorian
posies, and they received their letters
patent from Mrs. K. H. Bailey, who is
president of the Canberra Kindergarten
Society and deputy-president of the Aus-
tralian Association for pre-school child
development. The Town Hall was rather
like a Kindergarten itself, for the gradua-
tion ceremony was really the opening of
an exhibition dealing with the training of
the baby’ mind. The exhibition, which
was open till Friday, was great fun for
hundreds of small visitors, who came
with their parents.
They rode baby bikes and played with
toys, and got busy with plasticine. They
pointed out to soldier fathers the small
tables set for lunch —the tables of the
tinies surrounded by chairs to each of
which a bib was tied. On the tables of
the somewhat older babies there were
table-napkins tucked into linen envelopes,
while the table-napkins of the really
mature were rolled into rings. There was
even a model washroom where washers
and towels were hung, each washer and
towel embroidered with a different animal.
“See, daddy,” cried one little visitor, “this
is what we do,” and she ran up to a
peg, detached washer and towel, showed
the embroidery to him and then ran back
and hung them up again.
Sydney greeted 59 war brides of Aus-
tralian servicemen with a cold wind but
a warm welcome. The girls, all very
young, had arrived by the Umtali, which
had called in at South Africa. With the
company came 24 children, 10 of them
being new citizens for this State. West
Australia, South Australia, Victoria and
Queensland are the destinations of 38 of
the wives; the other 21 will remain
here. The wife, of Private P. J.
Quirk, A.1.F., rejoined last week in
Brisbane the husband she had not
seen for five years. During one long
year of the five she had not even received
a letter from her husband, who was in
New Guinea. A happy day at Manly as
the guests of the Red Cross was spent by
the war brides who were journeying on to
other States.
Friends throughout Australia were
shocked at the news of the death of
Lieut.-Colonel H. M. Moran, R.A.M.C.
To an earlier generation he was better
known as a Sydney University and New-
castle forward and captain of a famous
international team. He died at Cam-
bridge, England, his wife and brilliant
son being with him. In the 1914-18 war
Dr. Moran served in Mesopotamia. From
1939-1945 he was president of Medical
Boards, Eastern Command, Colchester,
England.
Of interest to parents throughout the
State is the news that the good JRoyal
Alexandra Hospital for Children is to be
made even better by the addition of an
outpatients’ wing, costing £lOO,OOO. The
scheme was the subject of speeches at the
hospital’s annual meeting. Work on this
wing will commence in the New Year.
Another proposed extension will include
a school for teachers in spastic centres.
It is hoped that the mothers of spastic
children could also be instructed at this
school, which, if possible, will be built
in the hospital grounds.
Four visitors from Manila representing
the Y.W.C.A. arrived in Sydney last
week. They had been attending the
recent National Y.W. convention in Mel-
bourne. In their own national dress, with
its full stiffened lace sleeves and bright
silk skirts, these four ardent workers who
kept Y.W. aid going, helping as much as
possible the war widows and p.-0.-w.
through the Japanese occupation, were an
attractive group. They are Mrs. Josef a
Martinez, general secretary of the Manila
Y., Mrs. Paz Cuerpocruz, chairman of
finance committee, Miss Nena Floren'do,
director of group work, and Mrs. Angela
Ramos, board member of the Manila Y.
since its formation in 1926. The associa-
tion’s well-equipped building in Manila
was burned down by the Japanese, but
plans are already in progress for its re-*
building. They were the guests of honor
at the World Fellowship afternoon at the
Y.W. last Monday.
From Eleanor Maclaine, House of
Pittyvaich, Dufftown, Banffshire:
Editor, The Bulletin, — I have today re-
ceived a parcel sent by our kind Australian
cousins ex the Victoria League. May I ask
you to print my thanks and that of many others
for the touching gift from unknown friends
afar. And while writing may I pay a tribute
to the bravery of the gallant Australians in all
the theatres of war.
From Melbourne
It would take more than Melbourne’s
weather to wreck a garden party attended
by Royalty. Guests for the big one held
at Government House included members
of the Consular Corps and the Diplo-
matic Service as well as leaders of a host
of organisations which have done such
splendid work for men and women of the
services. Although the rain held off it
was chilly and blustery. However, there
were many brilliant spots of color noted
in the suits and hats worn by women
guests. To the roll of drums the Royal
party, accompanied by Sir Winston and
Lady Dugan, appeared, and the A.D.C.
presented many well-known Victorians.
Mist-blue was the color chosen by the
Duchess for her frock and to this she
pinned a beautiful floral brooch of dia-
monds and added a silver fox cape for
warmth. Her large black straw hat was
turned up at one side to reveal white
lilac and pink roses. Lady Dugan’s long
coat of lapis lazuli covered a frock in
slightly lighter tonings. Pink flowers and
veiling trimmed her blue hat. Wearing a
cherry-red coat over her frock of red and
white patterned crepe, the Viscountess
Clive added an ice-blue floral hat for
contrast. She was wearing the famous
Clive pearls which Clive of India gath-
ered for his daughter.
With Air-Commodore U. Ewart was
his wife, attractive in a well-cut tailored
navy-blue suit, with navy accessories.
Mrs. Tom Fogarty made a gay splash of
color with her deep cerise cloth coat and
matching flower hat. With Lieut.-Com-
mander George Gill, recently returned
from England, was his wife, artist Esther
Paterson, who set off her fair coloring
with a floral frock and pale-blue hat.
Mrs. P. W. Ettelstone featured an attrac-
tive black hat which had four pale-pink
set in a nest of veiling ; with
it she wore a black crepe frock with the
new peplum note. Mrs. Everard Baillieu
chose pale aquamarine-blue crepe for her
frock and contrasted it with a brown
coat and brown accessories. With Mrs.
H. S. Wootton, smart in bl&ck, were her
daughter Marjorie, about to be discharged
from the W.A.A.A.F., and her daughter-
in-law, Mrs. Harold Wootton, wearing a
dusty-pink ensemble. t
Miss Helen Macdonald suited the day
in a black frock with a yoke decorated
in tiny black beads ; her hat was wide
and featured the new flat brim. She was
among those presented. Once again the
young Princes were in the picture. Prince
William wore a blue coat and matching
beret almost the color of his eyes.
Valerie Purves, pictured here, was
another of the Government House garden
party guests. She chose a flower-laden
hat to top off her smart patterned frock.
Valerie, who has been honorary ameni-
ties officer for Land Army girls, is noted
for her smait dressing.
A magnificent sight greeted guests when
they entered the Town Hall for the Vic-
tory Ball given by the Melbourne City
Council. The stage had been completely
transformed with a replica of the gardens
of the south side of the Yarra near the
Henley staging. In the foreground, rising
from the floor, was a grassy bank with
the word Victory picked out in Rosy
Morn petunias. On either side steps led
up to a path which encircled a garden, in
which vfere seen lawns and flowerbeds,
with calceolarias and petunias predomi-
nating. The centre bed was massed with
hydrangeas in shades of mauve and pink
and in the centre a fountain sent up a
feathery, spray. On either side was a tall
poplar-tree. Depth was effected by a
series of backcloths, and by clever light-
ing it seemed as though the river gently
flowed.
During the evening the scene changed
from sunrise to sunset. At ten o’clock
the lights were dimmed and a new moon
rose just as the lights in the windows of
all the buildings came on. Then the clock
in the Railway Tower struck the hour,
and when that had ceased the bells in St.
Paul’s Cathedral pealed. Onlookers
could even see the bells in the belfry
swing to and fro. The standard lights
along Batman-avenue gleamed and a
burst of applause came from the en-
thralled audience. The ball for the first
time in many years had royal guests, and
over the dais where the official party
stood and chatted royal-blue velvet hung,
contrasting with the red and gold velvet
and satin in which was centred the Royal
coat of arms. Pennants hung at inter-
vals from the balcony around the hall.
The Governor of Victoria and Lady
Dugan, with their suite, arrived. Five
minutes later the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester, accompanied by Lord Mayor
Connelly and Lady Mayoress Mrs.
Bernard Heinz and Town Clerk Harold
Wootton, entered the hall to the roll of
drums and a fanfare of trumpets.
The petite and dainty Duchess was ex-
quisitely gowned in a pre-war Hartnell
model which she wore for the first time
in Australia. Fashioned of white and
faintly pink brocade, the gown was long
and ship-fitting. With it she wore a
diamond brooch, the gift of the late King
George V on her wedding day. She also
wore a diamond necklace, a small
diamond tiara and a ruby and diamond
bracelet. Another dainty figure was Lady
Clive, whose white gown had the bodice
embroidered in a gold leaf design. She
matched her gown with gold shoes. Her
ornaments were diamonds and pearls.
Lady Dugan was a regal figure in a gold
lame, slightly trained, and she wore a
diamond tiara, Mrs. Bernard Heinz was
gowned in heavy white slipper satin made
with a long, full skirt heavily trimmed
with diamente, and. with it she wore a
fragile matching net and lace jacket with
softly draped sleeves. A corsage of
gardenias was pinned to one shoulder,
and she, too, wore a diamond tiara.
Councillors and their wives were pre-
sented ; among them the Gengoult Smith
lady, who was lady mayoress when the
Duke of Gloucester paid his first visit to
Melbourne. The Duke is godfather to
her small daughter Marian. Mrs. H. S.
Wootton favored a heavy black crepe
frock encrusted with silver and silver-fox
cape. Mrs. John Cain, wife of the
Premier, wore a mist-blue and silver lame
frock, the fullness of the skirt drawn into
a slight bustle at the back and with a
draped bodies. , Her one ornament was
a diamond brooch.
The frocking was very lovely, and
among those who attracted notice was
Mrs. Eric Avery, in a midnight-blue
sequin frock. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s
black gown was covered with a full-
length white fox cape. White was a
popular shade, and among those who
chose it was Sylvia Green, whose long
full skirt was allied to a bodice em-
broidered in white pearls. Mrs. Alex.
Finlay also chose pearls to embroider her
white gown. Mrs. T. J. Ryan was in
japonica pink. With her were her son-
in-law pianist Raymond Lambert and
wife Jill, attractive in black with a spray
of gardenias at the shoulder. Most of
the men wore formal dress or uniform,
but a few took advantage of the invita-
tion to wear a lounge suit. Among them
was Minister for Post-War Reconstruc-
tion Dedman, who was accompanied by
his wife. Over 2000 guests were present
and arrangements for their comfort and
catering were perfect.
Nursing sisters of the Heidelberg Mili-
tary Hospital have every reason to be
proud of the dance they organised recently
for the Florence Nightingale Trust Fund
for Victorian Army, Navy and Air Force
NurSes of this War. These sisters worked
well, and their organisation was perfect.-
An appeal for flowers brought a wonder-
ful response from Melbourne citizens,
and an army truck which stood at
Flinders-street station was soon filled
overflowing with glorious blooms culle<f
from suburban gardens. Later the sisters
decorated the St. Kilda Town Hall artisti-
cally. At this dance, one of the most
successful of post-war functions, the
sisters of the Heidelberg Military Hospital
were assisted by sisters attached to No. 6
R.A.A.F. Hospital. The Trust Fund,
which has been organised to assist any re-
turned service nurse who may later in
life require assistance, will be helped
greatly. There were over 1000 dancers,
and these included many servicemen in
uniform; the sisters added to the color-
ful scene by wearing their formal mess
dress. Army sisters wore grey dresses,
scarlet capes and white veils, whilst the
R.A.A.F. sisters were attractive in their
dark blue uniforms and white veils


If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Let’s Have More Strikes
Why all the fuss about strikes? There
is only one thing to do about them, and
that is nothing. The great mistake is to
make a fuss. Union bosses like nothing
better than to have Cabinet Ministers
and learned Judges tagging after them.
Some businessmen have begun think-
ing along dangerous lines. They propose
that when a firm is declared black simi-
lar firms should sack every employee in
sympathy. This principle of “One black,
all black” could be the death of strikes,
and I hope it will never be applied. I
want bigger and better strikes much
oftener. I want more and more people
inconvenienced.
Just as there is a tendency in Victoria
and S.A. to become independent of
N.S.W. coal because of the succession of
strikes, so there is a tendency in the
home towards self-sufficiency. If only we
have enough strikes it will not be long
before suburban homes are installing
wind-driven generators for electricity sup-
plies. A few more milk strikes and people
will be keeping their own cows. As for
bread strikes, 4he more the better. We’ll
make our own—have to, unless some in-
terfering Government stops the strike by
the usual process of giving in to the union
bosses.
You can’t keep cows in the city very
easily, but you can in the country, On
the other hand, you can have a nice big
strike in the city very easily, because
you can inconvenience a thing called “the
Public.” Strikes aren’t so easy in the
country because they inconvenience Tom
Jones and old Mrs. Murphy. They be-
come too personal.
The drift to the cities is almost over.
A few more really good strikes and the
drift to the country will begin. Strikes
may be the saving of Australia. They
will surely be the downfall of the unions.
—Wigwag (S.A.).
Decentralisation
Large-scale industrial decentralisation
in Australia (B. 14/11 /’45) will not be
possible until there is a flat rate for rail
transport. When railway freights get
higher the farther inland the goods have
to be hauled, they act as a tax on inland
production. There will be no progress
towards a wider spread of secondary in-
dustries until the producer of processed
foods at Dubbo (say) can place them at
city warehouses as cheaply as the
suburban producer.
The Commonwealth Government has
a string of now-unwanted munitions
plants in country towns. It was expected
that industrialists would take them up
and use them for normal peace-time pro-
duction. Here and there something has
been done, but very little. The munitions
factory at Forbes (N.S.W.) is being used
as a lecture hall, the subject wool-
classing. I visited the plant a couple of
years ago when munitions production
was at its peak. It was a godsend to the
neighborhood, where landless young folk
were looking for a chance to make a
decent living. There were high hopes that
all kinds of requisites for housing would
be produced in this factory when the
war was over. Lectures on wool-classing
are estimable projects, but they don’t em-
ploy local people or give Forbes the in-
dustrial backbone which its future pro-
gress, in common with that of every other
country town, demands.
The whole industrial economy of Aus-
tralia needs reshaping along decentralised
lines, but the manufacturer who might
otherwise “go west” is daunted by the
added cost of production in competitive
lines. The problem of decentralisation
needs a positive and, if necessary, an arti-
ficial approach. The drift to the cities
when the industrialisation of Australia
began was largely artificial, and there is
no “natural” answer.
One thing is certain —decentralised in-
dustry means a healthier, better-housed
and therefore more efficient industrial
population in the rural towns. Both from
the standpoint of defence and social pro-
gress Australia can scarcely pay too high
a price for decentralisation. Had the Japs
paralysed Newcastle and Sydney—by no
means militarily impossible—Australia’s
capacity to resist invasion would have
sunk below zero. —D. (N.S.W.).
Let Japan Pay
Why not hold the Japanese Govern-
ment responsible and make it pay the
pensions to widows of p.-0.-w. and to
p.-0.-w. entitled to pensions? The in-
juries or deaths were primarily due to
the barbarous treatment meted out to our
prisoners, and were not directly caused
by war.
When a soldier is killed or wounded
in action that is an unfortunate happen-
ing which has to be accepted when his
country is at war, and the responsibility
for pension rests with the soldier’s Gov-
ernment. But ill-treatment of p.-0.-w. is
against all laws of humanity and decency,
and the Government of the country re-
sponsible should be informed that it will
be expected to pay pensions due as a
result of inhuman treatment in p.-0.-w.
camps. Such a punishment would be a
constant reminder to the Japanese people
that their crimes have had to be paid
for. It is a reminder that would continue
whilst any person eligible to pensions
lived— P. H. Simpson (A.1.F.).
Service Immigrants
During the last two, three or four years
Italian p.-0.-w. have been employed on
Australian farms. Many of them came
from towns and cities, and those from
rural districts were accustomed to an en-
tirely different type of farming; and
there was, of course, a language difficulty.
Yet farmers trained thousands of these
men to become useful farmhands.
This could be done on a larger scale
in the case of ex-servicemen from Britain.
Why shouldn’t the Government invite a
specified number to come to Australia
"A pound of butter, Fishface, and be sharp about it—shopkeepers aren't
the only ones who can be rude, see!”
, , , „
and b f P laced on approved farms to
stud y the local conditions and methods?
The immigrant would state his prefer-
? nce > whether for mixed farming, dairy-
in 8’ orcharding, etc., and serve an
apprenticeship of one or preferably two
y ears - Afterwards, with the advice of the
Department of Agriculture to help him,
he would be read y to set out on his own
account.
The scheme would bring us fresh
settlers from the best source and put
them where they are most needed—on
* be land. Wessex (Tas.).
r „ u . :
Lamp Housing
While the housing shortage is still acute
there will be numerous camps near the
capital cities which will be left empty
when demobilisation is complete. They
are already adapted for community life,
Most of them have picture theatres, play-
ing fields and tennis courts. They can
house thousands of people, even taking
i nto accoun t the fact that a civilian needs
more room for himsel£ and Us clothes
t * laa OCS ( h c Serviceman.
tt a. ■» j i i* * j j • , ««
J“" s c ° u ‘ d be *«ded into small
J Sb °* (^ vlded '
J? ave bccn us .®. d
“nations for years would not find
? ‘°° B re at a hardship to continue living
m way untll they could *?* houses ;
Why not turn these camps into civilian
bos^s f°. r young people in need of a
bome while training or starting in new
jobs? A small rate could be charged for
their board ; enough to provide the hostel
with a matron, cooks and general
cleaners. Provided it was run under
Government control and without the idea
of profit-making, the cost need not be
great. The young people could arrange
their own entertainment, and without ser-
vice restrictions camp life would be en-
joyable and not irksome.
In this way the switchover from service
to civilian life could be made much easier
for many troubled servicemen and ser-
vicewomen. It would assist in their re-
habilitation in a practical and sympathetic
fashion. They would retain the happy
companionship of the war years without
the harshness of discipline. Their spare
time would be amply filled in the interests
of a community life. —D. J. L. (R.A/A.F.).
Loyalty to Wool
“Long ’Un” (B. 3/10/’45) complains
that squatters’ children wear tennis suits
of silk or cotton in preference to wool.
Ireland has a remedy for a like want of
patriotism.
The Gaelic League, founded in 1893
and still an active national stimulus,
strictly enforces its rule that no competi-
tor may appear on the platform at any
feis (competitions in song, music, story,
drama, dancing) unless every outward
article of clothing worn is of Irish
material and manufacture.
This restriction materially' helps the
leather, wool and linen industries, and the
embroideries on the plainer materials lead
to the development of Irish decorative
art. , ® .
Similarly, competitors in Australian
public games should be encouraged to
popularise the use of Australian wool. •
G. L. (Vic.).
Communism and the Atomic Bomb
The bargaining power of the atomic
bomb is underlined in the story told
by a member # of the American dele-
gation to the Council of Foreign
Ministers. At a dinner party Molo-
tov, who never tells funny stories,
said: “Mr. Byrnes doesn’t need to per-
suade anyone. He just has to hold up
a little bomb.” That same little bomb
may now remove from the minds of the
Allies that dread of Russia engendered
by Communist undermining of othei
forms of government in pre-war years.
U.S. press reports suggested that the
secrets of the bomb might be shared with
Russia. Mr. Truman has declared flatly
that they won’t be. Two atomic bombs, and
not Russia’s belated intervention, ended the
tide of Japanese conquest which swept
from East Asia to the shores of Milne
Bay. Those suspicious of the good faith
of Moscow may comfort themselves with
the thought that Russia has been left
standing in the race to develop new forms
of frightfulness.
Experience has shown that new
weapons are not developed from scratch
except in time of war. True, the Ger-
mans copied and improved on Allied
weapons between the wars; but those
weapons had been widely used and their
principles were public property in 1918.
The limited use of the atomic bomb and
the extraordinary subdivision of its secrets
may well deter the Russians, preoccupied
with the reconstruction of their country,
from attempting atomic research.
The surrender of Germany left Russia
with the whip hand in Europe, and left her
Allies wondering whether her post-war
plans included the financing of that inter-
national propaganda which had for so
long aroused the suspicion of her neigh-
bors. The bomb that devastated Hiro-
shima just as effectively demolished the
Russian grip on Europe, a fact reflected
in M. Molotov’s grim jest. Dadnx
(A.1.F.).
Surplus War Goods
I Now that so many military and Air
Force camps have been closed, what has
happened to the office equipment used in
them? Thousands of soldiers are anxious
to set themselves up in business and office
equipment—typewriters, duplicators, filing
cabinets, tables —is unprocurable. I have
carefully watched all disposal advertise-
ments, but have not yet seen any of these
items offered for sale, either by auction
or tender. The ex-servicemen should be
given preference for this class of goods,
and a special disposal centre established
where they can buy it at fixed prices.—
Contact (N.S.W.).
Change of Gauge
Is it an Australian characteristic to ac
on incomplete data? Estimates for the
trans-Australian railway line showed tha
the cost had only half been considered
and the cost of the Sydney Dock wa
about three times the estimate. Now
we have before us an estimated cost for
change of gauge of £207,000,000. If the
estimate runs true to Australian form the
ultimate cost will be around £400,000,000
and the information, even apart from the
estimate, is grossly incomplete.
Mr. Ward called for a report on
change of gauge,' and Mr. Clapp
supplied it, but the report dealt only with
railways, which are fast becoming the
slowest of all forms of transport.
Reports should have been called from
men concerned in railless trains, roac
transport with trucks and cars, roac
transport with gas turbines, motor-
ship transport, steamship freighting
and ’plane-carrying per gas turbine
and jet. Railways were admitted by
the Society of Railway Engineers of
the U.S.A. to have been on the decline
ever since 1901, in which year they
reached their peak. Other means of trans-
port have been giving the railways a run
for first place, and have left the railways
behind in most cases.
The railways still hope to hold the field
in the matter of heavy freight, such as
wheat, but it will not pay to spend
£400,000,000 on hastening wheat trans-
port, which, in any event, does not go
over inter-State railway systems. ,
It appears that the report on which Mr,
Ward is trying to work is dangerously in-
complete. Australia, on an interest and
depreciation basis, will be called on to
pay over £25 per family per annum, all
for the sentimental fad of some dreamers
who think that unity may be achieved by
adding one foot to the width of some
lines and taking eight inches from others.
—Xylonite (W.A.).
Public and Police
Crime is the result of a mental disease,
and calls for long-range as well as im-
mediate treatment. One essential is a
campaign to educate the ordinary citizen
to the understanding that he is not an
indifferent neutral standing carefully
apart from the conflict between police
and crime. Crime has gained immeasur-
ably by the public attitude of isolation
from (or even active hostility to) the
police force.
A democratic people should realise that
the law is its instrument for the regulation
of society, and the police force its own
creation for the application of that in-
strument. Co-operation between public
and police is essential to success. Law is
bound to break down unless supported by
a majority; and something is necessary
to create a sufficiently high regard for
order to ensure its stability. —G. A. B,
(N.S.W.),
Colored Crews?
Belatedly our Government has an-
nounced its intention of building up an
Australian Merchant Navy, this to be
done by constructing ships and controlling
inter-State fares and freights. The prob-
lem of making sea-carriage overseas
profit-earning is passed over with a few
vague and hopeful generalities.
I have wandered over the Seven Seas
for many years and have yet to see a
cargo vessel manned by a white crew on
decent wages and conditions running to
Asiatic ports on a paying basis. Those
without colored crews are either heavily
subsidised or are on some special
mission. As it doesn’t seem likely that
conditions will be altered —-they are likely
to grow harder —why not employ colored
seamen and firemen from our own terri-
tories and meet competition on an equal
footing?
Natives from some of our island pos-
sessions are born seamen and good
workers, equal in every way to Lascar,
Javanese and Chinese crews. Shipboard
work, especially below decks, in the
tropics is not suitable for white men. —
Sailor Joe (N.S.W.).


i i
» Wr^S
m
«
ft
s*i»
:»l : ■
lipili
* i
si
Fun* Australian
Virgin Wool
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
nMM
W
11
B
> •■ '■■« ■ ■ ; /, ■
*' * ' ' / - -
mmm
!®s»
: ■*
.■; i-;-
; v-i
>
i
X-.
i >
ilia
I
t m I mm
jJJf* "U ■•>«
||||||||
=t M f f• H ## s
||#a||||#|}|:l|tl
%• «•>£ .-f>« -f*f
11
■•v-'-r-
-■" ' : :: ■-■:•; -
mMM
••-■:• «*«C
tei
SK
' .
m
lifiiifflltii
■•••■,. ' :
- •■ :
■ •;•':• >
vXx ; v
ft i
V s * * vJs*V % % \ %y\
:"V
.&% || -. !• s W \ y-
... y \ x y: ? %fj|'/';y > w >C »
:
m
■MB I
x*sr& s v' v -v.
IMM
< - ' >:
ipipiil*;
iiiiiiiiiii
A MHI
i>,-'v
■ :
: ■
Min
liilll
li
iiiiii
m
mm
s
, V ,:•;■■■
iiiiiili
liii
;
n
: w:'
x;:;- : vKS<;V : L
Hi
m
- 1 g-sa
I|
iiiiiiiiM
:lii
Hill
■
|a s
: ;
■
Hi
i : -
aMM
