

A
The Bulletin
i<fh e Bulletin,” Vol. 66- No. 3418
Wednesday, August 15, 1945
Price 6d. •
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
CARNARVON CASTLE.
CARNARVON CASTLE occupies ’ the entire west end of the
town of Carnarvon, North Wales, and is washed on two sides
by the waters of the Seiont and Menai Straits. It was begun by
Edward I in 1283, and is the masterpiece of his architect Henry de
Elreton, and one of the most imposing and extensive medieval
fortresses in Europe. The castle is built entirely of hewn stone ;
its walls are from eight to fourteen feet thick, strengthened by
several polygonal towers surmounted by turrets. The most inter-
esting portion is the Eagle’s Tower, in which Edward II is generally
supposed to have been born ; the chamber is small and has no
fireplace, but its .discomfort was modified by the hanging of tapesty
on the walls, a custom introduced into England by Queen Eleanor —
there are still to be seen traces of where the tapestry was fixed.
Happily for the King his son was born at Carnarvon, for that fact
enabled him to practise his well-known deceit upon the Welsh
Chieftains at Rhuddlan. He began his harangue to the assembled
Welshmen by saying that in consequence of their often-expressed
wish to have a prince of their own country, if they promised obedi-
ence to the one he named he would indulge them by nominating
a person whose life had hitherto been irreproachable, one that was
born among them and could speak no word of English. The chief-
tains eagerly assented to his offer and swore obedience, when the
King presented his own son, born a few days before at Carnarvon
Castle. “This,” said he, “shall be your future prince. Well eich
dyn!” (Behold your man!) According to another tradition, it was
outside the Queen’s Gate of .Carnarvon Castle itself that the baby
prince was exhibited to the astonished Welsh assemblage. Since
the time of the Restoration Carnarvon Castle has belonged to
the Crown.


Ttory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovl obligation, your Jfew W
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, *
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245
The Red Page
FERGUSON, VOL 2.
Bibliography of Australia 1831-1838
(Angus and Robertson) is the second
volume of a work by Mr. Justice J. A.
Ferguson, which can only be described
by the use of all the outworn super-
latives —staggering, monumental, colossal.
It is also a credit to the publishers in
style and appearance ; it is of the first
importance and of inestimable value;
and genuinely deserves half a dozen
similar cliches. In short, it’s a beaut.
On page 66 there is an account of the
first novel printed in Australia, Henry
Savery’s Quintus Servinton, in which the
forger-author, once a prosperous and
fashionable sugar-baker of Bristol, told
the harrowing story of his life.
On page 124 there is recorded James
Busby’s “Journal of a recent visit to the
principal vineyards of Spain and France,”
reminding one that, as Eric Ramsden re-
cently recalled, New Zealand’s first Resi-
dent was also the pioneer of the Aus-
tralian wine industry.
On page 208 there is catalogued the
pamphlet that told “A full and Horrify-
ing Account of a most Dreadful Ship-
wreck of the Neva, Convict Ship, Which
sailed from Cork for New South Wales
in May last, containing 241 Souls on
Board, consisting of 150 female Con-
victs, 9 free Women and 55 Children,
all of whom perished except 6 ; and 9
of the Crew; with an Account of the
dreadful Sufferings of those who were
saved, while staying on a desert Island.”
On page 250 are echoes of a dispute
between John Dunmore Lang and the
Rev. Henry Carmichael, in which Lang
uses (meaning “antagonism”) the excel-
lent word “antagony.”
On page 387 there are cannibals.
On page 389 is told the full story of
the “pirating” of The Pickwick Papers
in Tasmania:
This famous edition was printed and
published by Henry Dowling... .The illus-
trations, which are signed “Tiz” in imita-
tion of “Phiz” of the London issue, are very
good copies of the originals; they are gener-
ally considered to. have been the work of
Jack Briggs, a servant of Dowling the
publisher. Wainwright the poisoner, who
had been transported to Van Diemen’s
Land is, however, sometimes put forward
as the artist. . . Sets of the 25 original parts
in colored wrappers are extremely rare.
Only one complete set is known, namely,
that in the collection of Sir William Dixson
in Sydney.
All of which indicates that, as in the
previous volume, the author not only
offers a record of everything concerning
Australia that was printed here or over-
seas during the years surveyed, but has
paused to add notes and comments on
occasions of special interest. The book
needs no recommendation to libraries,
bibliophiles and historians; but one
might point out to historical novelists
and playwrights that here are plots by
the score and full information on where
to find the original documents relating
to them. The work cannot be intended
for general reading ; but, because it is a
history as well as a catalogue, it is hard
to put it down once you have started
dipping into it.
Australian Poetry, 1944,
The show-piece of Australian Poetry
1944 (Angus and Robertson ; edited by
R. G, Howarth) is Robert Fitz Gerald’s
“Heemskerck Shoals,” reprinted from
The Bulletin. Lyrics by Judith Wright
and Rosemary Dobson necessarily
slighter than Fitz Gerald’s venture into the
dramatic monologue of Browning—are
also outstanding.
A possible fault in the selection is that
the war poems by Kenneth Slessor, Eric
Irvin and Shawn O’Leary are made to
essentially the same pattern, each work-
ing up to a “shock” image of death in
the last line. The repetition of the pathos
theme in the anthology is not, however,
a criticism of the poems in themselves.
Irvin’s and O’Leary’s are both good;
Slessor’s technically captivating in its use
of a musical internal half-rhyme:
Softly and humbly to the Gulf of Arabs
The convoys of dead soldiers come;
At night they sway and wander in the waters
far under,
But morning rolls them in the foam.
Fitz Gerald has something more than
war’s pathos to convey;
Though that
was what the thought in his mind was biting at:
the necessity in men, deep down, close cramped,
not seen in their own hearts, for some attempt
at being more than ordinary men,
rising above themselves. It was an urge
that swung from wars to follies, being the purge
of stagnation from the veins, and violent when
there was little to work it off against; but was
man’s only greatness also.
Thrust into tragedy, the soldier poet
sees —or, at any rate, writes about —only
the tragedy ; Fitz Gerald has looked deep
into the soul of man for the cause of war
and sees that it is one form —though the
most regrettable—of “man’s only great-
ness.” Also, when not altogether con-
vincingly he credits Abel Janzoon Tas-
man with the authorship of the White
Australia policy, he perceives that war
may be necessary:
There was one place—
only the south was left —where spread clear
floors
for feet of the European. He’d have it the test
of southern citizenship how much the need
to preserve it so by battle and vigilant doors
was sacred in men’s bone, immutable creed.
Fitz Gerald is, as he says of Tasman,
“a practical man.” To turn for contrast
to a less practical kind of poetry, here
is Rosemary Dobson walking up to a
gate on a fine morning in the country
and finding someone leaning on it- —an
“affable stranger” who turns out to be
Morning himself:
Who went before through the gate—this affable
stranger
Who touches the topmost rail and leans to
dazzle,
Spinning his hat for greeting? Morning,
Golden and rakish, who stole his shirt from the
scarecrow
To shroud the fire at heart. Good Morning,
Swing back the gate, good fellow.
Swing back the gate! There is nobody there.
The sunlight
In golden footprints runs up the ridge of the
hill.
There’s more than a little of W. H.
Davies in that poem; not in technique,
but in feeling. It’s a song to make glad
the heart. Fitz Gerald’s poem, far more
important though it is, could do with
some of its warmth and color and life.
Norman Lindsay said in The Bulletin,
while paying tribute to its strength, that
“Heemskerck ’Shoals” lacked the “half-
dozen lines of description that would
bring the sea, the ship and Tasman fully
to life,” and that was an exact criticism.
Fitz Gerald is the accepted leader in Aus-
tralian poetry today, and “Heemskerck
Shoals” is a significant step in his develop-
ment. By it, with some evident hesitation, he
advances from the comparative remoteness
and staticism of philosophical poetry to
the arena of life and action—Shakspeare s
world and Browning’s; the creation of
character, its revelation and dramatisa-
tion in event. He takes Abel Tasman at
a moment of supreme crisis, when his
ship is nearly wrecked on a reef off Fiji,
and in the flash of that moment, “all in
the span of a breath and gone in a
breath,” sums up the man and his life;
a plain man with a deep excitement in
him, a practical man masking a dreamer ;
one who has learnt by hard experience
that
you must keep your face indifferent, lest
you betray the excitement of gold.
When a poet writes about men and
their behavior he enters into competition
with the novelist and the short-story
writer, and here there are certain elemen-
tary rules he must observe. “Make see! ”
said Conrad; and again, “Wring the last
ounce out of your subject.” Fitz Gerald’s
quiet style is deceptive ; he has done more
to make the reader “see” this near-ship-
wreck than may be apparent at a first
reading. If all his descriptions of the
sea, widely separated in the poem, are
brought together one finds a pretty fair
ration of salt-water:
A pack
of snarling reefs and jagged islands
the sea’s rankest mood
in the emptiness of the forties
You could not hide in a bag
thousands of miles of tfafficable seas.
A day’s advance
through blue uncertainty, a desperate chance —
like that these minutes back, which taught the
feel
of coral running inches under the keel.
collect opinions on the apparent shrinking
of twenty degrees of Pacific toss and fall.
It was well
a council hadn’t been needed when disaster
boiled all about them —a committee on sinking
the vertical course to coral.
And there is personality also in the
poem. Not a single glimpse of Tasman’s
features, it is true ; only outlines of the
crew’s faces and the faces of the board of
the East India Company back in Batavia ;
but at least those outlines —the sailors
have “death’s cast for faces” ; and
What one could guess,
however, was faces round the boardroom table
growing graver and longer as the report showed
less
and chiller prospect of profit.
Fitz Gerald’s restraint is almost a kind
of arrogance—that honest and justifiable
pride of the artist who knows he is master
of his craft. “Describe a shipwreck?” he
says, “I can do it for you in a line —
‘coral running inches under the keel’;
what more do you want?” And really,
when one has read the poem closely, one
wants very little more.
But that little is important; more ship,
more water, a handful of whiskers. Tasman
is not. as much present in this poem as is
the fantastic figure of Morning in Rose-
mary Dobson’s poem ; the appearance of
the sea is not shown as clearly as the
campfire in Judith Wright’s lyric (“Bul-
locky”), the sound of waves is certainly
not heard as are her exquisite cattlebells;
while past the campfire’s crimson ring
the star-struck darkness cupped him round,
and centuries of cattlebells
rang with their sweet uneasy sound.
Restraint has its virtues, admittedly;
but —too much restraint, and you have
no poem at all : make your face too “in-
different” and it’s blank. Fitz Gerald
undoubtedly has a poem, and a good
one —
You could not hide in a bag
thousands of miles of trafficable seas —
but it cannot be taken fully as a re-crea-
tion of Tasman and his near-shipwreck,
but rather as a commentary on them. As
such, is is masterly. It has the dignity
and spaciousness of major poetry. If the
thought is difficult to follow in a casual
reading that is only because we are ac-
customed to a certain woolliness of ex-
pression in poetry and Fitz Gerald writes
with the utmost clarity and precision ;
and if anyone finds the thought difficult
to swallow, that is also because we are
more used to soft-thinking than to hard.
A discussion of all the contributions
to Australian Poetry 1944 would lead,
of course, to the inevitable minor
complaints about omissions and inclu-
sions. But the quality on the whole is
high, and Mr. Howarth has obviously
given fair consideration to all schools of
poetic thought. Underlying the mass of
the verses one feels a vigorous stirring
of national life ; which leaves the impres-
sion (only to be verified, of course, by
comparing the various numbers poem by
poem) that this is the best issue of the
antholo'gy yet published.
Prizes for Playwrights .
Lux Radio Theatre, 65 York-street,
Sydney, is offering a first prize of £2OO
for a radio play, with two other prizes of
£5O each. A fee of £25 will be paid for
non-prizewinning entries selected for
presentation.
It appears from the printed conditions
that the competition is open to Australian
writers only, New Zealanders —unless
living in Australia —being excluded. It
seems a pity that Lux has not followed
here the lead of the A.B.C. and The
Bulletin (in the S. H. Prior Memorial
competitions) and invited New Zealanders
to compete: especially as “the right to
the first broadcast in Australia and New
Zealand” is claimed in respect of the
winning entries. Otherwise the condi-
tions, by present standards, are excep-
tionally generous.
The competition closes on November
30, 1945. Details and entry forms from
Lux Radio Theatre.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Curtain Raiser”: Australia will see
next year its first full-dress grand opera
season since 1934 if plans now being
hatched under the Tait hat come to
fruition. In that year Benjamin Fuller
tried the experiment of opera —largely
with Australian singers, one of whom was
Austral—delivered in English. It was
somewhat disconcerting to hear the lead-
ing lady in a well-known Puccini opera
referred to as “the spinster known as
Butterfly” and to hear that scoundrel
Pinkerton accosted, with “You’re infatu-
ated” and melodiously retorting “Per-
haps, maybe—it depends on what you
mean by in-fat-u-at-ed.” Nevertheless,
it was about the best “Butterfly” ever
released in Melbourne. The 1946 co.
will be brought here from the U.S. by
Mr. Fortune Gallo ; chorus, orchestra and
some of the principals to be Australians.
After a record 13-weeks’ run of variety
mixed with a murder story, Melbourne
Tiv. has lifted the intellectual strain im-
posed on regular patrons by returning to
its old vaudevillean traditions. If any
murders are committed in the new bill
they are not of the sort that get their
authors into jail. Jennie Howard makes
melodious and unmelodious noises with
equal gusto, and the Tiv. lovelies offer
a valuable suggestion for popularising the
National Gallery by appearing in flesh-
and-blood reproductions of famous paint-
ings.
“J.F.”: I suppose the average literate
Sydney resident is firmly convinced that
the flesh and blood theatre is dead here,
or at best exists in a state of suspended
animation: and this despite crowded
houses, because he knows that nowaday:
people will pay to see a lively
And it is extremely unlikely that he will
travel all the way to Killara just to see a
play, but if he does he may well revise
his opinion. I saw “George and
Margaret” done by the Metropolitan
players for Kuringai Theatre Guild. The
play was only light fare, but the sur-
prisingly large audience obviously enjoyed
it. The acting and May HoUinworth’s
production made the evening remarkable.
Of the seven major characters the easiest
thing to say is that they were all good,
and one, O. D. Bissett, very good
indeed. Generally speaking, the shows put
on by the Guild compare favorably
with professional productions. It seems
a pity Killara can’t be moved closer-to
the city.
“Cauboy”; In the sixteenth century a
choirmaster could hardly get a 'job unless
he had published some compositions and
he had to provide a good deal of the
music performed at church services. To-
day churchgoers would frown at a choir-
master who presumed to impose his own
or other contemporary compositions on
them and conductors or virtuosi who do
the same are regarded as not quite the
thing. Professor Fritz Hart, in his first
concert at Melbourne Town Hall, made
his audience feel slightly awkward by
interpolating three of his own composi-
tions. They sounded charming especi-
ally “Shenandoah” —and there is no
reason to believe that they were neces-
sarily inferior to the two Elegiac Melodies
of Grieg and the Mendelssohn overture
that received much louder appreciation,
Probably his hearers couldn’t quite be
persuaded that a conductor could or
should do anything so ordinary as write
music,
William Kapell, the young American
described by Eugene Ormandy as one of
the great ones, has all the essentials-
intense seriousness, concentration and
what looks and sounds like effortless ease
at the piano. The featheriest of touches
in a Debussy number changes to an
ability to pound the piano with an
astounding accuracy and decision in a
Brahms or a modern composition. In
Grunfeld’s transcription of Strauss
waltzes, re-arranged still further by the
performer, the swiftness of his move-
ments made his hands look like a mist
hovering over the piano, and he has feel-
ing as well as technical proficiency. He
captured his audiences at Melbourne
Town Hall, first in conjunction with the
symphony orchestra and then in .solo
appearances that gave him scope for a
display of versatility that isn’t common.
At the talkies;
“Fiddlers Three” (Sydney Victory): Projec-
tion of the twentieth century back into early
Roman days—not new but handled with fresh-
ness. Tommy Trinder is brighter than usual,
and as a superbly-voiced Nero the bulky stage
actor Francis Sullivan makes him work hard
to hold the show. Sullivan should make a
good Falstaff.
“Dark Waters” (Sydney Empire): Another
study in fear of insanity, this time set in the
merry swamps of Louisiana. Thomas MitcheU
dominates the film as a conscienceless killer with
a patience to match his suavity.
“The Mask of Dimitrius” (Sydney Plaza):
Eric Ambler’s novel, handicapped in its screen
translation by the excessive use of the flash-
back technique. Those parts of the spy and
murder story that are blessed with clarity are
made enjoyable by a neat bit of characterisa-
tion by Peter Lorre, and by Sydney Greenstreet
in another sinister fat-man role.
J. Carrington Smith, an exhibition oi
whose oils and water-colors has been a:
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, rank?
with Roland Wakelin as one of the firsl
Australian converts to the gospel accord
ing to Cezanne. Of the sincerity of bi-
purpose there has never been room foi
doubt, and his loyalty to his artistic prin-
ciples has remained unshaken over a very
long period. He is especially intriguer
with light on open water, with the effect
of fog, distance and moonlight, ant
attempts the creation of visual illusion
of these appearances while eschewing tni
means whereby such impressions are for
malised by painters trained in “academic
schools. To appreciate the results require
a good grounding in Modernist meta
physics.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
122 Years of Service
Pair 5-light Candel-
abra, 18 ins. high.
Price, £136/10/- pr.
m
C*
'
yyyyyyyy
yy *- . -
■ ■Ss'/.
Fruit or Cake Comport.
12£ inches across handles,
5£ inches high, £47/10/-
Rose Bowl, diameter 6 ins.,
ins. high .. £l3/10/
iTHe various objects illustrated
are of Solid Hall-Marked Silver.
They would make appropriate
trophies for sporting events or
for presentations where a high
grade article is required.
[• Fine Arts —Fourth Floor.
Monteith Rose or Punch Bowl with ring
handles and Lion Masks. Heavily
ornamented in high relief. Diameter
10 ins., height 7 ins £145
'«lWm . C'/Ss.
/ /xs
;'•;
mi
*
V-
ws
u
m
xr
r
./a
• .?*
y ,y-.y.X.
Z/^iT;
///■/?/■/y S//,
t-y
’/-.■/y/jy.
.' / /
/ y
k
*/
\\n
Racing Cup, 16 ins.
high £42/10/-
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
Two Handled Lov-
ing Cup, height 9
ins. Width of bowl
4i ins. ... £26/10/-
Silver Goblet shaped
Cup, height ins.
Price .... £4/10/
0
0
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Along the Numa Numa Trail
By JOHN BRENNAN.
EASTWARD of Cape Torokina and
Empress Augusta Bay the Numa
Numa trail winds a way through
river valley and across the moun-
tain range to Bougainville’s east coast.
Rough, broken and ill-defined, it was the
only path across the centre of the island.
When in the Easter week of 1944 the
Japanese mounted a large-scale counter-
attack against the Torokina perimeter
their forces in the main were brought
across the trail from the headquarters
areas about Numa Numa and Kieta.
Before that time the Americans had
been content to hold a very tight
perimeter about the area of their Em-
press Augusta landing, the primary ob-
jectives of which had been the establish-
ment of airfields at Torokina and Piva
for the reduction of Rabaul. They had
ventured short distances north and south
along the west coast in small-scale raids,
and a battalion of Fijian infantry under
New Zealand officers had penetrated
along the Numa Numa trail to positions
overlooking the plantation areas on the
east coast. The battalion was established
there for some months, ambushing the
Japanese along communications lines and
attacking outposts. It was supplied solely
by air, and its casualties were evacuated
by Piper Cub from a tiny landing strip
carved from the jungle at its “firm base.”
This battalion had been withdrawn be-
fore the Easter attack began. When the
attack was broken the American forces
followed the Japanese along their line of
retreat. They established themselves in
the valley of the Laruma, climbed the
2000 ft. Barge’s Hill and pushed some little
distance along the line of the ridges.
There was still no full-bodied attempt
to drive the enemy clear across the island
into the sea. The action was limited to
harassing attacks on a minor scale which
inched him from his defensive positions.
Artillery fire maintained a constant pres-
sure on his forward elements.
• Towards the end of the year Australian
troops took over the American positions.
The 9th Battalion was in first. It
battled the enemy from off Little George,
Artillery Hill and Pearl Ridge. The 9th
was followed by the 31/51 Battalion, and
that in turn by the 27th Battalion of the
23rd Brigade, Each battalion was re-
stricted in its action. Nevertheless, they
pushed slowly out along the ridgetops,
following the trail and occupying the
Japanese positions as the artillery drove
the enemy out.
By early June this year the forward
troops were twenty miles in a direct line
from Torokina. They could look down
from Berry’s Hill to Numa Numa plan-
tation eleven miles away.
The 27th Battalion was relieved by the
7th, also from 23rd Brigade ; and the 7th
was given a slightly more elastic role. It
was the battalion’s first chance in action.
The 23rd Brigade originally formed
part of the Bth Division. Its battalions —
2/21 st, 2/22nd and 2/40th —were lost;
two in Singapore and the 2/22nd in the
defence of Rabaul and New Britain.
Brigade Headquarters was established at
Darwin early in 1942 with the 7th, Bth
and 38th Militia battalions under com-
mand. With the 27th replacing the 38th,
the battalions went later to Lae and Wau
in New Guinea. They were promised
action, but it never came.
♦ Later the brigade garrisoned the outer
islands. It relieved New Zealand troops
on Green Island and on Mono and
Sterling in the Treasuries, and Americans
on Emirau and at Munda. The 7th
Battalion saw its first Jap on Mono
Island, a sickly, undernourished fugitive
who was taken prisoner after hiding for
ten months in the jungle.. It still had no
combat experience.
NEAR Mapia, on the Numa Numa
trail, Private “Noisy” Mcjtwen, of
Melbourne, shot the first Jap claimed
by the battalion. He had his .rifle
in position, with a Bren-gunner, “Darkie”
Atkinson, at one end of an ambush.
Two Japs came slowly along the
track, stopped at a corner in the
trail just before the ambush as if
suspicious that all was not well, had a
look at the trail and returned the way
they had come. A little time later they
were back again, still hesitant.
McEwen and Atkinson argued in
whispers whether they should open fire
before the Japs could change their minds
again. The argument became more
heated, and the Japs had moved close
enough to hear it. They started back, and
McEwen waited no longer. He shot one.
Atkinson got the other with his Bren.
The 7th found itself engaged in a battle
for a series of knolls and features running
along the ridgetop. In a small way it
was typical of the worst of jungle war-
fare everywhere. Here were the same
difficulties of terrain as had been en-
countered, and are still being en-
countered, in New Guinea. It is country
similar to that of the Torricelli Moun-
tains, though there the ridges are jammed
closer together.
A road that will carry truck traffic had
been built out along the Laruma Valley,
from Torokina to the foot of Barge’s Hill.
It crosses and recrosses the rivers a dozen
times, bumping a way over stony fords.
It clings precariously to the sides of the
mountains, dips and climbs to fight a
way forward. Barge’s Hill is an effective
end to it. The hill rises almost sheer*
2000 ft., an impassable barrier to any road.
Before the 7th came engineers had
taken a small bulldozer to the top of
Barge’s. It had been winched up the steep
side of the hill by its own power, hauled
from giant tree to giant tree. Some days
it was hoisted only a few feet up the side
of the hill, but at last it reached the top.
A jeep was hauled up after it. There were
others which were dismantled and carried
up the hill by native laborers. The
“boong” line carried up the hill food, am-
munition, medical supplies, everything.
At 351 b. per man the natives could
manage only four trips up each day.
From the top of the hill a jeep road
follows the crest of the razor-backed
ridges. It winds crazily, climbs seemingly
vertical knolls which anywhere else at any
other time would be reserved solely for
motor-cycle hill-climbing contests. In
many places the crest of the ridge is just
sufficiently wide to take the track. It falls
away for hundreds of feet on either side
to the giant trees and tangled vine and
shrub and bamboo of the jungle.
From the heights the roof of the jungle
is like a flat mat covering the features.
Beneath is a maze of ridge and gully, of
tumbling, rocky mountain streams and
waterfalls. South and north are the
two stable features in all the land, the
volcanoes Bagana and Balbi, the latter
rising to over 10,000 ft.
THE 7th Battalion began a war of patrol
and ambush. It pushed one company
out along the trail to the high ground
by the Wakunai River junction. From
a firm base there it could harass the
enemy’s lines of communication. It was
four and a half miles from the coast, five
miles in a direct line from the battalion’s
main elements, but in covering that five
miles twelves miles of signal wire was
laid and the track crossed rivers and
streams 35 times. Supply was possible
only by air dropped from the “biscuit
bombers,” and the company needed to
exercise the utmost care in avoiding
casualties. Walking wounded had to
make their own way back along the trail,
and stretcher cases meant a two-day trip
for the native bearers.
By ambushing his small parties the
company patrols forced the enemy to
cease using many of his supply trails.
Sergeant L. J. Clohesy, of Rochester
(Vic.), took 14 men on an extended patrol
to the east coast. He established a base,
where he left his signalmen and medical
orderly, and with the other nine men laid
an ambush on the main Jap coastal road.
While the party was gone a force of
some 20 Japs attacked the base. The five
men held them off for a time, killed one
of the attackers and probably another and
wounded four, but eventually were forced
out of their position. They had to leave
the radio gear and the patrol supplies.
Sergeant Clohesy heard the fire from
some miles away and returned with the
rest of his party. They reached the posi-
tion about two hours after it had been
occupied by the enemy. Clohesy recon-
noitred to the top of the knoll. With
another man he crawled through the
undergrowth to within seven yards of the
enemy ; then the Japs opened on them
with a light machine-gun, Clohesy
attacked the position with grenades. He
killed the machine-gunner, then wriggled
forward and wounded another Jap. The
rest of his men were supporting him then,
and after a brief fight the Japs were
driven from the ridge. The radio gear
and supplies were still intact. Clohesy
got his men back without a casualty.
Another company operated in the Sisi-
vie and Tokua area, making things un-
happy for the enemy in the gardens he
had established around there. The 7th
Battalion had a force of Papuan Infantry
under command, using them on long-
range fighting patrols and for reconnais-
sance of positions. The ' Papuans are
splendid fighters in attack, fearless and
tireless. In the jungle they can creep un-
seen to witlrn a few feet of enemy posi-
tions. They’re cunning and determined.
An autol or sergeant named Borasi
had the habit of setting up his Bren gun
on a target and then calling the Japs’
attention so that he could get them lined
up before he opened fire. On one occa-
sion he crept up the side of a razor-back
ridge to within ten paces of a party of
11 Japs who were sitting talking in a
small clearing on the crest of the ridge.
He set up his Bren, then tossed a grenade
into the clearing. It failed to explode
and the Japs did not notice it. Borasi
grunted, and again the Japs did not
notice. He grunted a little louder and
was heard. As the Japs turned he fired
a complete magazine into the midst of
them ; and all 11 were killed.
BESIDES the Papuans, who were
operating as a regular section of
the Australian Army, Bougainville natives
were used as guides and scouts. The work
of patrol and ambush would be very nearly
impossible without their help. They know
the country seemingly instinctively, and
they can smell out the Jap and locate him
in the thickest undergrowth.
One in particular, Keopili, operated for
many weeks with the forward platoons.
Unarmed, he would pass from man to
man, pointing out where Japs were hiding.
He was usually the first man to charge
into a position in an attack. He was
killed by a sniper when trying to draw
fire to determine if a Japanese position
was still occupied.
But it was along the Numa Numa Trail
itself that the 7th found its first real
battle action. There in a series of assaults
it drove the enemy rearguards from a
succession of knolls and features —•
Wearne Hill, Centre Hill, North Hill,
Cameron’s Hill, the last-named after the
captain who commands C Company. The
Jap contested every piece of rising ground
along the ridge. He was dug in with
bunker and pillbox, and when driven
from one position he had another to fall
back on. His positions were concealed
with all the cunning he has always dis-
played in the choice of defensive ground.
Where the trail narrowed to a mere foot-
pad perched on the very crest of the ridge
he would have a covering position for a
machine-gun—a narrow, slitted dugout
covered with brush and vine. It would be
linked by crawl trenches to other positions
covering the approaches up the steep
slopes of the ridge. It was possible to
walk up on to the positions without hav-
ing noticed them, and it was necessary
to probe and thrust and hammer at the
enemy until he was driven out.
A mountain battery of 75-millimetre
pack howitzers was hauled up Barge s
Hill. It laid down harassing fire along
the ridges and joined with the mortars
in a barrage before the assault. As the
shellfire tore away the undergrowth the
positions were revealed. There were
times when it was necessary to call on the
R.N.Z.A.F. Corsairs to bomb a position
before the enemy could be winkled out.
It was nerve-racking warfare, typical
of the jungle. The forward platoon was
practically in constant touch with the
enemy. The standing patrols had him
always just ahead. The men lived in
holes, in shelters they had built from the
rain. There were times when for weeks
at a stretch they did not see the sun
except as it was altered palely through
the roof of the jungle. When after they
had driven the enemy from a position
they dug in on the ground he had occu-
pied the forward patrols were already m
contact with him on his next position a
couple of hundred yards ahead.
It became a highly personalised war.
There was one big, red-headed Jap with
black-rimmed glasses who was seen on
a number of occasions. He was an excel-
lent rifleshot, and he caused a number of
casualties. Many fellows had ago at
him, but none could be sure that he had
been hit. Lately he has not been seen,
but since his body has not been found
he may have been relieved.
The enemy on Bougainville has fought
well. He is in good condition and amply
supplied with ammunition, though he
seems to be short of food. He has held
his fire until the attacking troops are
within a few feet of his positions, and
he has fought viciously and with determi-
nation until his position is untenable. He
has been turning the noses on his cart-
ridges in their cases to give them a dum-
dum effect. But he has been gradually
inched back.
In seven weeks the 7th Battalion drove
forward 4000 yards. It claims 142 Japs
counted dead, another 15 probables and
10 wounded.
Angau-controlled native laborers have
moved forward to supply the forward
troops. The “boong line” is recognised
as the lifeline to the battalion. It’s still
a two hours’ walk for a fit man from
the head of the jeep track to the forward
company. The way leads down over
Berry’s Hill, with its 900-odd steps cut in
the track. All food and ammunition have
to go that way, and the “boongs” carry
the wounded out back along the same
trail. They’ve earned the respect and
admiration of the 7th. And the 7th
itself, disheartened and despairing of ever
seeing action when it went into Bougain-
ville, has learned a new respect for itself.
The Turnip.
Otxce weeding, when I pulled a skull
Out of the earth —or might have- done;
Though looking down, a turnip spied—
I laughed. What man has ever cried
At killing plants? I mused how dull
A skull would seem to anyone
Who’d cultivated for his own
A turnip such as I had grown.
To pull a skull with locks as mad
As turnip tops ... the grim chance chilled
Me. Yet, upon whose roof I gardened.
Remembering, the image hardened.
If Mephistopheles once had
Some semblance of the truth fulfilled,.
Some heads now buried in a row
Would like my fattened turnips grow.
Would then, I mused, my fingers grope
To pull some friend’s head? For I knew
The turnips owned my friendship, too.
Weeks on their welfare I would spend;
And they, fulfilling every hope.
Would at my pleasure meet their end:
One with my enemies, the ants.
But who has qualms at killing plants ?
In true perspective then I saw
A turnip face-down on the earth;
Its wild hair matted since its birth.
A physiognomy so weak
—No forehead and no lower jaw —
There never was a soul so meek :
I dragged it by a lock of hair.
And for its fate I took no care.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
Jungara.
I rest my eyes on the green hills
and I see that this land is fair.
No man strides here with' brazen voice,
the sounds that fill the air
are spaced and mellowed
by the listening distances —
peewit call; creek chatter ;
ploughman urging his team —
and these are elements in a spacious life
in whose timeless waters
the clamant world is drowned.
Here, in this valley
virginal as a dreaming maid
stretched on the warm hillside,
Time’s seed, surely, shall swell the womb
and birth bring forth the children of
content.
Here could be cradled cities of tomorrow,
here spring a manhood
armed for the wars of peace,
a people rise
whose weapons are the plough,
the quiet voice, the pen,
within whose hearts are heard and heeded
ever
echoes of the valley’s secret song —
peewit's call; creek chatter;
ploughman urging his team.
A.I.F.
PETER MIDDLETON.
Middle Harbor.
The hour’s a graven depth; all images
gather
To a giant balance, a level climax and
height.
You speak of color—here’s where all
color sleeps
Misted by the breathing of wedded dim-
ness and light.
Each poised oar trails its phosphorescent
feather,
The curving brilliance leaps
And shivers back to the dark lungs of
the water.
The scales are even and tremble; the glass
' trembles;
The image ripens, shudders away and
tumbles
Down long furrows of perspective to the
eye.
Perfect impact of peace, undone fool apart.
O fingers of thought, not captive to the
heart,
Why jangle these chords of loveliness for
a theme.
With a bird, a quiet fisher, a twitching
gleam,
So many .swaying lyrics to cry
You have been well paid : take up your
purse and go ?
Surely in hopelessness I will cast down
The Jacob’s coat of a few jaded colors,
be plan
Of the etching, not a shadow of discord
thrown
By the wiry hands of a mumbling
moralist ;
Be one with the cormorant, or the fisher-
man,
Nothing for the head but a haul, a line
for the wrist,
Everything positive and past concern
Speechless with flight, to leave all thought
crumpled there.
Motley cast down beside the marble stair.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3418
Wednesday, August 15, 1945
LITTLE MAN, WHAT NOW?
“Take your choice! The end of war or the end of everybody and everything."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
. Box 252J88; Phone 87971.
V ictoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queen si and: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London. F..C.4.
LIKE A THUNDERBOLT.
We know now what Mr. Churchill had
in mind when, leaving No. 10 Downing-
street for ever, he said that “all plans
and preparations” had been made “for
the defeat of Japan,” and that “results
may come much quicker than we had
previously been entitled to expect.”
Dreadfully explained is a passage in the
Potsdam ultimatum, which the Japanese
Government rejected, noting in its self-
delusion that Marshal Stalin’s name was
“conspicuous by its absence”—“the full
application of our military power, backed
by our resolve, will mean the inevitable
and complete destruction of the Japanese
armed forces and, just as inevitably, the
utter devastation of the Japanese home-
land.”
Explained also are the German over-
tures for a separate peace with Britain and
the United States, the refusal of which led
to the swift and orderly surrender of the
greatest masses of armed men ever in-
volved in a capitulation. The German
leaders must have divined that Anglo-
American scientists, outstripping their own,
had, with the combination of Anglo-
American industry, evolved a weapon
which would end the war suddenly and
horribly, and that neither the weapon nor
the formula was in Russian hands.
Though their Wehrmacht had been badly
mauled, and their Luftwaffe nearly
wrecked, along with so many of their
cities, by the Anglo-American forces,
they seem to have thought they could
hold their own with the Red Army in
straightout fighting. Possibly they saw
in the world-wide publicity given to their
horror camps a preparation of the demo-
cratic mind for the employment of the
appalling invention against Germany.
Be that as it may, on August 6, a date
of terrible significance in world history,
an American aeroplane dropped on Hiro-
shima a bomb which, in President
Truman’s words, had “more power than
20,000 tons of TNT, more than 2000
times the blast power of the British twelve-
tonner,” previously “the largest bomb used
in the history of warfare.” The Presi-
dent described it as “an atomic bomb,
a harnessing of the basic power of
the universe” per medium of uranium,
of which Australia has deposits, neces-
sarily small. Other names have been
found for it —the apt term “uranium dis-
integration bomb” was used by Wing-
Commander Pither, the R.A.A.F. Direc-
tor of Radar, in a lecture at Melbourne
on July 17, a report of which, reaching
the United States, was taken to mean that
the Wing-Commander had blurted out the
most closely-guarded secret of the war.
That he wouldn’t have done if he had
been in the secret, which was not the
case; but he said in more precise terms
than others had used * that the Germans
had been working on uranium disintegra-
tion bombs and that “the timely and suc-
cessful invasion of Europe,” with its cap-
ture of flying -and rocket-bomb bases,
had “saved England from possible anni-
hilation.”
Whatever the thing may be called, and
however much first reports may be dis-
counted, the effect on Hiroshima was
frightful beyond description and imagi-
nation. It wiped out a great part of the
city, and, within the area reached by the
explosion and blast, every living thing.
A second bomb dropped on Nagasaki had
results equally or more terrible. Against
so fearful a demonstration of scientific
invention in its deadliest form no human
agency could avail. The bomb flung and
exploded anywhere near its target, there
was safety for neither the strong nor the
weak, above or below ground, within a
range of half a mile. All were involved
in one blinding, searing, shattering catas-
trophe.
Since war is war, and since the struggle
against the Axis had to be won in the
laboratories as well as in the contests
of armed men, it may be held to be a
crowning mercy to mankind —history will
be the judge —that the democracies won it
there. Had our enemies been first with
the atomic bomb they would have used it
as ruthlessly as they used their only less
deadly instruments of slaughter and de-
struction against Rotterdam, London,
Coventry, Birmingham, Moscow, Lenin-
grad, Manila, Darwin and scores of other
places, and in their pirate war on the
seas, preparatory, as they thought, to
establishing an Axis dominion over the
world.
Before giving their dread decision our
war leaders must have debated and hesi-
tated long. * In arriving at it they were
influenced by the immense war-weariness
in Britain, by the serious American losses
on and about Iwo and Okinawa, by the
knowledge that the invasion of Japan
and China would involve far more serious
losses to all concerned, not only the fight-
ing forces but also the great bodies of
prisoners in Japanese hands, by the sinis-
ter spread of Russian imperialism ; above
all, by the certainty that recourse to the
irresistible weapon would bring an im-
mediate offer of surrender from the
Japanese. That it did, and therein lies
their justification.
All the same, it is impossible for any
person bred in the Christian faith and
morals to be easy in his or her mind
over the atomic bomb and the manner in
which it was employed. Devilish
cruelties can be charged to the Japanese
account, but the criminals, who must as far
as possible be sought out and brought to
trial and punishment, are all men. Many,
probably most, of the inhabitants of Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki were inevitably
women and children. The women, all
voteless, had no part in bringing about
the war, and children, in the fine saying
of General Eisenhower, are of no nation-
ality. Granted that where there is no
responsibility criticism is easy, it is a
thousand pities that the atomic-bomb
visitations were not reserved for island
fortresses and preceded and followed by
a rain of leaflets, as were other Super-
fortress raids on specified cities.
And though a speedy end to the war
was certain from the moment the
first atomic bomb was exploded lethally,
who can say that there will not be
other and terrible consequences? What
will be the reactions among the colored
races, who greatly outnumber the whites?
May not private or mob wars be started
by men crazed with hate? And could
the atomic bomb be used to prevent or
stop Communist civil wars, which are
threatened even in English-speaking coun-
tries? Could it be resorted to if bands
headed by mad scientists sprang up in
dismembered countries, using perhaps
even more terrible weapons, mechanical
or chemical? To the invention of things
that kill no limit can be set. And if the
view takes hold that existence on this
planet has become precarious, what will
be the effect on the criminal and near-
criminal classes and on behavior in
general? The poet who was “majestic”
in his “sadness at the doubtful doom of
humankind” would have greater reason
for sadness if he lived today.
Fifty-two hours after Hiroshima was
destroyed Russia came into the war. In
1942 or 1943 this interposition would
have been welcome, and could have been
defended by the arguments which Russia
has often employed when breaking with
partners ; but, occurring when it did, the
war being virtually won by other hands,
it seemed unimportant and rather ridicu-
lous, except to Communists. The ex-
pected allegation was made that Russia
had an old score to settle with the
Japanese, but the score, if any, was settled
when Molotov and Matsuoka signed the
Treaty of Neutrality and Friendship in
April, 1941, to which were added fisheries
agreements which assured the Japanese
of ample supplies of their staple food.
To people who are not boys of the Left-
ist breed intervention in August, 1945,
had only the appearance of a false and
predatory Power coming in for its cut.
With the mixture of cunning and
clumsiness which characterises Soviet
diplomacy, Moscow revealed that the
Japanese had asked it to mediate between
them and the Anglo-Americans in June
and July. Significant months!
June saw the beginning of a world-
wide Leftist agitation for the removal
of Mr. Grew, the U.S. Assistant State
Secretary. Mr. Grew deserves well of
his country, for when he represented it
at Tokyo, studying the Japanese mind
and character to good purpose, he warned
it to be ready to meet a sudden and
treacherous blow like that delivered at
Port Arthur—this when the correspon-
dents’ corps was braying that the Japs,
having only “top-heavy” warships and a
“pushover” air force manned by half-
blind and dizzy dwarfs, would never dare
to fight Britain or the U.S.A. But Mr.
Grew was furiously and persistently
attacked, partly because he had had a
parcel of Leftist writers, and with them
two State Department officials and a
Navy lieutenant, arrested on an espionage
charge, but chiefly because he was,
and is, in favor of letting the beaten
Japanese keep their Emperor, since only
by using the Emperor could the Allies
secure the cessation of fighting, the de-
liverance of the prisoners-of-war and oc-
cupation without disorder.
The attacks on Mr. Grew were still in
progress when the Japanese offered to
surrender conditionally on the Emperor
being permitted to remain on the throne.
Then came the cry that the terms s h
be refused and the Emperor seized and
hanged as a war criminal. To a great
many creeping creatures the lives of ught-
’ing men and prisoners-of-war were ot
small account compared with the con-
version of Japan into a Communist Mate,
To the chagrin and concern ot a cer-
tain party, the invention of the atomic
bomb was communicated to no other
country, and Britain and America should
keep the secret as long as they can.
And they should certainly- fish the
Atlantic Charter out of the ash-barrel in
which it was deposited without reference
to Congress or Parliament. Marshal
Stalin gave his adhesion to it at Tehran
and Yalta, and whatever promises of
territorial aggrandisement may havedbeen
made to him by men responsible to Par-
liament and Congress, which will have the
final say on the peace treaties, he should
be held to his signature. Some of the
principles of the Atlantic Charter have
been written into the Charter signed at
San Francisco and ratified by the United
States Senate, Others will have to be
embodied in the peace treaties if they
are to be worth a row of pins:
No territorial changes that do not accord
with the freely-expressed wishes of the
peoples concerned. Ihe right of all peoples
to choose the form of government under
which they will live; and restoration of
sovereign rights and self-government to
those *who have been forcibly deprived of
them. ,
The enjoyment by all States, great and
small, victors or vanquished, of access on
equal terms to the trade and raw materials
of the world which are needed for their
economic prosperity.
On the moral plane the Atlantic
Charter is the greatest instrument that
has come out of the wars, just as the
atomic bomb is the most appalling on
the material plane. ' *
Diggers as Civilians.
With the Jap war ending the Chifley
Government will have on its hands the
huge job of demobilisation, for which
it has obviously been caught as flatfooted
as it was by the ending of the war in
Europe. Only last Wednesday, after the
first atomic bomb had been dropped and
the effects were being discussed every-
where, Mr. Chifley joined the rpiks of
the prophets to declare that he thought
the war would still last about another 12
months.
In view of this, apart from much of
the rest of the Labor record in dealing
with Digger requirements and problems,
demobilisation is probably doomed to the
maximum of bungling, and perhaps to
the minimum of expedition. This will
mean that the Diggers’ own individual
qualities will have an even greater strain
put on them in making the change-over
to civilian life than would have been the
case had the Government been well-
informed and ready. . Fortunately, the
Diggers have always had the sort of
qualities that will be required.
Though it can be noted all the year
round, one day in particular —Anzac Day
—strongly demonstrates an important
fact about the Old Diggers that has a
direct bearing on the New. The great
bulk of thfe men who march or assemble
at the now traditional services in cities
and towns throughout the land not only
wear civilian rigouts but are in the most
complete sense of the term civilians.
They are part of the general community
—men running their own businesses, men
on the land, men in civil employment of
all kinds.
Like another great force of soldiers —
Cromwell’s men —they fought their war
and afterwards vanished as troops and
blended into the national life. Not all
of the Diggers did so quickly or easily.
War service affects men in different ways.
Some it leaves so unsettled that they
have to wander, if it is only from job to
job, trying to find again what they feel
they have lost. Some who have been
through its worst hell are so upset and
unnerved that they may take many years
in making their recovery, though they
may seem apparently normal. But apart
from these and the badly injured there
remain others —probably these were and
will be again the great majority—who
welcome'coming to grips with the new
fight that getting back into civilian life
must represent to the lot of them.
By one route or another the great bulk
of those at all moderately fit to do so
find their way back to normal civilian
existence. Take away the badge and the
average Old Digger is indistinguishable
from the average civilian of about his age.
The old service life is no longer all-import-
ant to him. At the most it is little more
than a memory, a memory that may have
been a handicap once but now has the
strength of a helpful background. The
New Diggers will no doubt in time ex-
perience this complete change back as
the Old Diggers have done.
They will no doubt come to realise,
too, as the Old Diggers who can’t be any
longer distinguished from average civi-
lians now realise, that the making of the
way back is, after all has been said and
done, the individual’s own job. Nobody
else can do it for him. The Government
cannot, nor can the country nor his ex-
service organisation. They can all, up
to a point, help him ; but the job will
still remain one for himself alone. His
choice is simply to become a misfit or a
part of the normal life of the com-
munity ; what has been called a profes-
sional ex-soldier or a general civilian.
The evidence provided by the Old
Diggers on that choice is as good as
unanimous. All over the country there
are businesses and other places of em-
ployment in which nobody, unless it
might be a Keeper of the Roll, could say
positively which of those on the staffs are
ex-service and which are not. The im-
portant thing about it, too, is that the
blending represents the Diggers’ own
choice. They are, as they always were
even when soldiering, above all, men of
the country they belong to. They did not
fight for a special place in it. Many of
them, no doubt, were not particularly
aware of what they fought for, except
perhaps vaguely that it was for their
country. What they all probably were
aware of in some degree or other was
that their country was or could be made
one of the best on earth. If they have
had a dream at all it has probably been
on some such line as that. The imme-
diate thing on hand —which they faced
and did as well as they had done their
fighting—was the job of finding their feet
again in the country’s ordinary life.
One danger in much of the discussion
of ex-servicemen’s problems, re-estab-
lishment arrangements and the like-
necessary as such discussion may be—is
that through it the emphasis is put not
on the many but on the comparative few.
Also it tends to emphasise what must be
done for ex-servicemen, with less about
what they must do for themselves. In
that the Old Diggers represent a lasting
example to the New, if such an example
were needed, which, the breed being no
different, it won’t be. The New have
done at least as well as the Old in the
fighting: Old Diggers serving again have
been heard to say that the New have
done even better than the Old did. It
seems as good as certain that they will
do as well eventually in the struggle back.
They must be given all the assistance and
encouragement possible, but that is a dif-
ferent thing from building up any dole
frame of mind. The great bulk of service-
men do n6t want to be treated as their
country’s or anybody else’s paupers. They
ask nothing more than a fair opportunity.
It must be given to them ; but it is to the
great credit of the breed that most of
them will make it for themselves, in any
case.
Nobody—certainly nobody who has
had the experience—questions that get-
ting back into normal life again has its
difficulties for all and very great diffi-
culties for-some. The fact still stands
that, despite whatever difficulties, the
great bulk of them make the change by
sheer individual strength of character and
personal effort. Because the adjustment
to many is difficult they can even gain in
strength of character in the process. As
they were good—th,at is, willing—sol-
diers, so they may be the best of civilians.
Probably most of the Old Diggers
found, and the New may find in turn,
that the measure of difficulty in the
transition is a matter of personal out-
look, War service can give a man the
feeling that, having done what he did
there, he can now do anything he sets
his mind to. In the great majority of
cases a statement on his own country’s
servicemen by the Surgeon-General of
the U.S. Army, Major-General Norman
T. Kirk, is every bit as applicable here:
The average soldier returning to civilian
life is basically the same man he was when
he went away. True, the rigid training, the
disciplined life, the experiences far from
home have matured him. But to feel that
each returned soldier is a “problem child”
is to underestimate the character of our
manhood. The large majority of these
men can take their experiences in their stride
and can* return to their homes, their families
and their jobs finer citizens, ready and able
to shoulder their share of responsibility in
the civilian world.
The truth of that is demonstrated here
in the number who have done so. Of the
Old Diggers many thousands now hold
posts of responsibility in all branches of
the nation’s life, and those of the fit
among them who have not successfully
readjusted themselves are a very small
minority. A danger for the New Digger
to be on his guard against is being led
to take too literally the truism that the
country can never discharge its debt to
him. It never can ; and simply because
of its utter impossibility it is safest dis-
missed with all other impossibilities. The
country certainly can do much for him,
and must do all that it can, but, as every
Old Digger worth his salt realised, and
as the discharged New Diggers are com-
ing to know, this is a two-ways traffic.
Encouragement and general helpful treat-
ment of those who will have done the
fighting must be as generous as the
country can afford ; but when all that
has been seen to the new civilians will
find that they can still do more for their
country than it can ever do for them,
and that it will always need everything
from them that they can do for it.


rj E Webb, Cecil Mann, David Adams and
Malcolm Ellis, of 252 George-street, Sydney,
sign for any matter with a bearing on the bre-
mantle by-election.]
PLAIN ENGLISH
All Eyes on Fremantle.
There is nothing like a by-election to
spur an inert Labor Government into
activity or the appearance of activity.
The by-election for Fremantle, ttye late
Prime Minister’s electorate, necessitated
unusual efforts in this direction, there
being palpable and continent-wide signs
of discontent; and the unusual efforts
came with a rush. One week’s issue while
the war was still raging:
Mr. Forde had 1939-40 soldiers brought back
from the islands in such a hurry that many
arrived shivering in fheir jungle greens.
Mr. Drakeford waxed copious on the theme
of R.A.A.F. “releases,” specifying “the closing
of further units” in four States.
Mr. Ashley announced an increase in the
petrol ration “to private motorists and certain
other classes.”
Mr. Dedman revoked 25 war-time controls,
notably in respect of “toys, baby carriages,
types of glassware, pastrycook goods, motor-
cycle spare parts, dry-cleaning, refrigerator and
radio services,” intimating also that corsets and
elastic material would figure among 30 to 40
other “controls” to be revoked before the end
of the month.
Mr. Keane “lifted import licensing restrictions
on more than 100 articles from countries within
the sterling group.”
Mr. Ward “eased road controls relating to
taxis, ‘drive-yourself’ cars, funeral vehicles,
laundry, fruit, vegetables, flowers and eggs,”
and wiped- the rail-priority system as from
Sunday, August 12 —six days before the Fre-
mantle people go to the polls.
These favors concern practically every-
body with a vote, and it is hoped that
the electors will be properly grateful.
They are more likely to get fewer than,
more trains, for “coal reserves have fallen
seriously since April” and the peace ta’ks
coincided with another outbreak of strike
fever; and it will be months and months
before' there can be increased sup-
plies of nearly all the commodities on
the Keane and Dedman lists ; but in the
compass of a few days the electors are not
expected to be awkwardly curious on this
score. And Dr. Evatt, a whale on “con-
trols” before the powers referendum, now
finds it “unthinkable that there shdVild
be a continuance of controls in the post-
war years,” while Mr. Chifley, recalling
in a Fremantle speech that “there was a
dictatorship that ruled monetary affairs
in 1930,” and referring complacently to
the political one he has set up, swears
that there will be no depression.
On another subject, housing, bushels
of promises have been forthcoming from
Mr. Lazzarini and other Ministers ; but
here the Government is beset with diffi-
culties. So many thousands of people
are houseless and so many thousands
more see themselves doomed to be in that
condition that mere words and figures
and plans, stupidly reiterated, produce
only anger and despair. The situation is
so bad that there have been lawless
seizures of empty dwellings by ex-service-
men, imitating bands of so-called vigi-
lantes in Britain. In that country the
scarcity was brought about by German
bombers, not, as in Australia, by the
ghastly failure of the Government, which
has had at its disposal money, materials
and man-power, everything but imagina-
tion and energy.
Mr. Lazzarini talks repeatedly about
building 24,000 houses by the end of June.
At this the building trades laugh bitterly,
partly because the target is absurdly
small, but chiefly because, with Mr. Laz-
zarini and his swarm of theorists doing
the shooting, there is no chance of hitting
it. Realising that his dull colleague made a
blunder which may have serious reactions
at the general election, due only a few
weeks after June 30, Mr. Ashley came
out with a desperate attempt to gain time.
He suggested “a referendum to determine
whether the Commonwealth Government
should carry out an Australia - wide
housing scheme.” The reference to Par-
liament and the people would take six
months, as did Dr. Evatt’s constitutional
venture which crashed last year, and even
in the doubtful contingency of a majority
vote there would have to be another long
interval for legislation and administration
and provision of materials and manpower
and lots of other things before houses
could be erected.
There was no talk of a housing ffrefer-
endum at the end of the last war. Then
the Commonwealth Bank, as recorded in
its history, built 1771 homes for soldiers
and bought 5179 more, and six years after
the end of hostilities the War Service
Homes Commission had built 14,000 and
bought 12,000 (in a biting comparison
Wing-Commander White, M.H.R., said
“With a director and six deputy directors
the War Service Homes Department has
built 31 homes since the beginning of the
war”). Servicing of civilians was .left to
private enterprise, which in Greater Mel-
bourne alone built 10,337 houses in 1922-
23 and 10,409 in 1923-24. It was not
then believed that housing should be the
sport of Ministerial duds and doctrin-
aires or that people who asked for homes
could be fobbed off with hot air.
" 'Black 1 For All Time."
There is more shearing trouble in
Queensland, As before, Communists are
at the bottom of it, and thousands of
sheep will die because of it; but, though
the thing is an outrage on industrial arbi-
tration and National Security regulations,
Labor Governments merely look on.
One of the worst features is that land
men who somehow found labor to crutch
their sheep when the last strike was on,
and when uncrutched sheep died in thou-
sands, have been declared “ ‘black’ for
all time.”
George Devries, Labor M.L.A. for
Gregory, characterised the strike as a
“direct challenge to constitutional autho-
rity,” and the United Graziers’ Associa-
tion sent a telegram to the Prime
Minister.
Shearing in chaotic and deplorable con-
dition.;. .Element styling itself a strike
committee dominating the A.W.U. and
whole of the industry by intimidation and
acts which are totally subversive Proper-
ties have been declared “ ‘black’ for all
time” Request you receive deputation
earliest possible date.
After some days Mr. Chifley announced
that he was too busy to receive a depu-
tation. He asked for “a statement,” and
said he and his colleagues would at all
times endeavor to bring about continuous
employment. Earlier in the year, when
Communists held up shearing in N.S.W.,
a request for an audience with the late
P.M. got similar treatment.
Mr. Chifley was “busy” trying to in-
duce the Fremantle electors to vote him
another “colleague.”
Fremantle Liberals, after buying time
on a Labor-controlled radio station,
found all references to Communists domi-
nating unions cut from the script. So that
at least one form of “shearing” is coun-
tenanced. _
Immigration Plan.
Mr. Cooper, the Queensland. Premier,
temporarily submerged in the British
election excitement, came to the surface
for an hour or two at & place called
Urraston, a Manchester suburb. There
he was told that Urmston was willing to
subsidise the migration of 50 Lancas-
trians to an Australian “satellite” town
if such a town could be found, and if
the satellite town would reciprocate by
arranging for their settlement, the main
idea being that people will be more will-
ing to migrate "to distant parts of the
Empire if they can be assured of being
among friends on arrival.
Mr. Cooper, for his part, was reported
as being fairly enthusiastic, and “hoping
that Mackay, Cairns, Toowoomba and
other thriving Queensland centres will co-
operate.” Glasgow, Edinburgh and
Leicester are named as likely to adopt
the plan if Australians show enough
interest.
Save for the fact that Australia has no
satellite town as the term is understood
in Britain, the Urmston notion has its
points. But in the past Premiers and
other people too often and too blithely
entered upon such schemes without re-
card to hard facts. The Westralian group
settlements are a case m point. They
failed expansively.
Hard facts concerning country towns
which might be made suitably for the
introduction of people like the La
castrians are that few of them contain
secondary industries capable of expansion
under existing conditions and that very
few have been able to support their own
natural increase. In 1921 2, 4 09,151 o
the Australian population of VW/
lived in the six capitals. In 1944 the
figures were 3,647,000 and 6, 1 4 q?
Estimated 1940 populations, with the 1921
census totals in parentheses, are illuminat-
ing:—
Ballarat 37,400 (34,600), Bendigo (29,000
(25,600), Broken Hill 26,900 (26,300), Ips-
wich 22,400 (20;500) Rockhampton 29 000
(24 000), Toowoomba 26,400 (20,700),
Townsville 25,800. (21,300>, Goulburr.
14 800 (12,600), Lithgow 13,400 03,200),
Maryborough 11,400 (10,600), Bathurs
10 400 (9442), Bundaberg 11,400 (9200),
Cairns 12 000 (8000) Charters Towers
6900 (9500),’ Kalgoorlie 17 ’ 00 ° < 1 6f5?6300)'
more 11,700 (8600), Mackay 10,600 (6300),
Orange 9600 (7300), Port Pme 11,600
(9800), Wagga 11,600 (7600).
Actually no country town increased
its population by more than 6000 in 20
years, and such increases as were recorded
were made partly at the expense of lesser
places such as Mt. Morgan and Clon-
curry Very few towns that had a popu-
lation under 5000 20 years ago have
shown any addition, and a great many
have fallen away. Increase of war-time
populations in places like Lithgow,
Orange, Wollongong, Maryborough and
Mackay will mean nothing if the condi-
tions that operated between the wars are
permitted to operate again.
The truth is that, with the exception
of Whyalla (S.A.), there is no provin-
cial centre that could be called thriving
in the sense that it has grown rapidly
and will keep on growing. And though
the. populations of the six capitals in-
creased by 1,300,000 in 20 years, those
of the provincial and rural cities and
towns gained only 500,000. There is a
strong argument for immigration, or
course, but before touring Premiers talk
glibly about settling large groups of
British people in our country centres they
should firid out why Australians won’t
stay in them. The main reason lies in the
fact that in a variety of ways connected
with railways, ports, housing, sewerage,
schools and hospitals, they have gone in
for centralisation, not decentralisation.
ANTI- (OR ATOMIC) CLIMAX.
“Why, if it isn’t Uncle Joe opening a Second Front!”


TheATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
Of Eft'
w
t
ffi ..
H
With
Gap
Bed
k
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
SCHLESINGER
STANDARDS
of
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all "MARS” Lathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibratloniess running of “MAKS”
Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert
& Co. Pty. Ltd,, 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.,
2S Market St.. Melbourne.
STOCKISTS:
Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
OUTSTANDING NEW BOOKS
The Book of Pottery and Porcelain. The most
complete hook on the subject, by Warren E.
Cox. 3000 illustrations, with complete tables
of marks. Two vols, 75/- (post 1/8).
The World Was My Garden. Travels of a
Plant Explorer, by David Fairchild. Large
handsome volume, with 127 pages of photo-
graphic illustrations. Fascinating as a
travel book; lavishly and superbly illus-
trated. 27/6 ((post 1/6).
T.V.A. Adventure in Planning. By Julian
Huxley. T.V.A. stands for Tennessee Valley
Authority—the largest and most successful
planning scheme in the world. Illustrated
with about 150 photographs, the majority of
which have now been published. 13/9 (post
Id.).
Back Words and Fore Words. An author’s
Year Hook, 1803-1045, a selection in chrono-
logical order from the Plays. Poems and
Prose writings of Laurence Housman. 16/9
(post 4d.).
5000 Quotations for All Occasions. Arranged
and edited by L. C. Henry. 7/6 (post 4d.).
Biographical Roundup. By Dale Carnegie,
author of How to Win Friends. 17/6 (post 6d.),
The Fire on (he Snow and The Golden Lover.
Two plays for Radio, by Douglas Stewart.
This book is the winner of the S. H. Prior
“Bulletin” Prize for Literature. 5/- (post 3d.).
The Twenty Years’ Truce, 1919-1939. By R. M.
Rayner. 19/6 (post 6d.).
Innocent Merriment. A comprehensive collec-
tion of the most entertaining of English and
American light verse—old and new, selected
by P. P. Adams. 13/6 (post 6d.).
A Guide for the Bedevilled. By Ben Hecht.
8/6 (post 4d.).
The Gay Illiterate. The amusing memoirs
of an American reporter in Hollywood. By
L. O. Parsons. 8/6 (post 4d.).
In Search of Sensation. Thirty years of a
London journalist’s life. By Theodore Pel-
stead. 18/3 (post 6d.).
Gideon Planish. A novel by Sinclair Lewis.
8/6 (post 3d.).
The Cousin from Fiji. A novel of Ballarat in
the ’nineties. By Norman Lindsay. 9/6
(post 4d.).
Kurrajong. An Australian novel by Jane
Lindsay. 7/6 (post 4d.).
The Signpost. An excellent novel by E. Arnot
Robertson, 8/6 (post 3d.).
Science Year Book of' 1944. The best scientific
writing of the year. It brings science up to
date with stories of remarkable discoveries
in laboratory and workshop. By John D.
Ratcliff. 17/6 (post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.. 89 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Freedom! To be your own boss oncb
again. What a thought! Go where you
like, do what you like, come home when
you like. That will be the thought of
every R.A.A.F. chap I knew in New
Guinea.”—Letter from one of them to a
Melbourne paper. And -the echo from
the Labor Government is “What a
thought! ”
“The Japanese offer to surrender pro-
vided the Emperor’s prerogative was not
changed was entirely unacceptable to the
Australian Government,” said a statement
broadcast in the name of Dr. Evatt.
That was how it appeared in the morning
papers. The same Government falls over
itself to accept “offers” from union mobs
that wage war on the community, and
never boggles at the “prerogatives”
claimed by Communist leaders’, of the
union mobs.
What is the matter with Dr. Evatt?
When the Potsdam ultimatum was pub-
lished he came out with two objections:
(1) Australia hadn’t been consulted ; (2)
the terms seemed too lenient to Japan
(“the slightest sign of any tenderness
towards Japanese imperialism is entirely
misplaced”). On Monday, it seemed, he
was against the Japanese surrender offer
on the terms stated, but in favor of the
U.S. State Secretary’s reply provided
Hirohito was held responsible for “poli-
cies of aggression or for barbarous atro-
cities.” Australians are not interested in
mere political objections. They want to
get the war over, their servicemen out of
islands, ships and bases, their 18,000
prisoners safely and speedily delivered
from Jap camps. Hirohito is the only
man living who can give the necessary
word. If the island fighting goes on, and
if p.-0.-w. are not only refused liberation
but become exposed to fresh dangers,
this country may turn very nasty and go
looking for political scalps.
Among the items listed for the Pre-
miers’ Conference on August 20 is “De-
centralisation of Industries.” It is No.
5 on the programme. The bursting of
the atom bomb in Hiroshima should pro-
mote it to first place, bracketed with
Housing,
Descending to an electioneering level
so low that only Mountjoy could go
lower, Makin claimed support for the
Labor candidate in Fremantle on the
ground that his department had spent a
lot more there than the Menzies Govern-
ment, which went out of office four
months before Pearl Harbor—£B,s2l,ooo
in four years. He had the face to include
“expenditure incurred in respect of R.A.N.
personnel and civilian staffs” as coming
under “one of two main headings.” As
usual when this crowd refers to war
expenditure, details were withheld, except
that “advances of pay approximating
£1,000,000 were made available to R.A.N.
personnel through the Navy Office at
Fremantle.”
Wise, the new Westralian Labor
Premier, will have two former Labor
Premiers, Collier and Willcock, sitting be-
hind him as private members, something
which never happened before. He has
taken on two departments, Treasury and
Housing, the latter being a sign of Labor
perturbation on that subject. The new
Minister is Marshall, the member for
Murchison, who is to look after Mines,
Railways and Transport, Marshall was
promoted from / the Chairmanship of
Committees, a post in which he was rather
lost, being a robust (or robustious) de-
bater, Hawke, who was a South -Aus-
tralian M.L.A. before he crossed the
border, moves up to Deputy Premier,
being also Minister of Works, Water
Supply and Industrial Development.
By ail accounts, Dargin, the Portland
(N.S.W.) butcher, who stood up alone
against a mob of strikers bent on ruining
him unless he accepted their dictation as
to whom he should employ, is being
hard pressed by the co-operative butchery
set up with special favors from the mob-
flattering Government at Canberra. He
has the grim satisfaction of knowing that
a kindred co-operative concern at Cess-
nock has had a strike “as a protest
against the appointment of a secretary
who was not a member of the staff.”
One result was that this other coalmining
community hadio go on short commons ;
and there was nothing the mob-flattering
Government or the Communists could
do about it. Wells, the Communist presi-
dent of the Miners’ Federation, attended
a conference of co-operatives, held to
celebrate the centenary of the Rochdale
Pioneers, and gave them his blessing—
for what his blessing is, was or could be
worth.
NOT FOR IMMEDIATE USE.
“Mister, here’s your hat. But nobody’s to wear ’em till I’ve hanged Hirohito.”
Swift sequel to the installing of a
family in an empty house in Melbourne
by self-styled vigilantes, a bill giving
municipalities power to let untenanted
houses for a reasonable period was intro-
duced in the Assembly. A clause admits
of the suspension of building regulations
so that suitable houses may be altered
or subdivided. These proposals were
made months ago by responsible persons,
but it takes a lot to move Australian
politicians.
Moan of a Sydney Sunday paper:
News that the Big Four had accepted
Japanese surrender came as a complete
surprise to correspondents in all the Allied
capitals.
Consistent, at any rate. Correspondents
“in all the Allied capitals” have been
wrong from the beginning to the end.
Sydney “Sun” reports that Russian
movements have had the effect of “en-
casing” 1,000,000 Japs in Manchuria.
Previously the butcher had a monopoly
of that word with respect to his sausages.
Slyness masked as rugged frankness is
becoming the new Labor fashion, and
Johnson, now Minister for the Interior,
has given a nasty exposition of it in a
Fremantle election speech. Going to
Perth in July, 1942 —nine months after
his party took office and four months
after General MacArtbur’s arrival —and
intending to proceed to the north-west,
he was told by Major-General Plant that
it was no use, as instructions had been
received to abandon all the north-west:
“with the forces and equipment at my
command there is no alternative”:
The general said that the most northern
defence line would be Moore River, which
is 65 miles north of Perth as the crow
flies It was then that I advised the
Government of the position in Westralia.
Johnson said all that and more in the
House on September 23, 1942, and
“Hansard” recorded it on page 645. In
Fremantle, with clumsy effrontery, he
asserted that “the policy of abandonment”
had been “laid down by the previous
Government.”
Menzies, replying to Johnson:
The electors of Fremantle will not be
deceived by such sorry rubbish, nor will
they take seriously the idea that Mr. John-
son has been nursing this explosive story
in his bosom for three years and has been
•compelled to disgorge it only by anguished
contemplation of the approaching polling
day. The 1 only defeatist party in Australia
for many years was the Labor party—which
had no Defence policy and was the con-
stant opponent of all real Defence measures.
If Mr. Johnson is really worried about the
attitude of my own Government, let me tell
him quite brutally that if his party had
been Sn office on September 3, Ivj9, there
would have been no A.1.F., no Empire
Air Scheme, no Australian naval partici-
pation outside of Australian waters, no uni-
versal military training inside Australia,
and no munitions effort under such captains
of industry as Mr. Essington Lewis.
He rounded it off with a comprehensive
denial; “It can be said once and for all
that the Menzies Government had no
plans for the abandonment of any Aus-
tralian territory.”
“Borderland,” an area of 20,000 square
miles, running roughly from Benandarah
(N.S.W., South Coast), east to Kiandra,
thence south through Kosciusko and
Omeo to the Gippsland Lakes, was pro-
posed as a new State at a local-govern-
ment conference at Moruya (N.S.W.). In
the whole area, it was said, there are no
high schools or railways, no big water
or electricity schemes and only poor
roads. And if the inhabitants don’t wake
up Sydney will pinch their Snowy River.
Sydney “Sunday Sun,” displaying its
usual flare in these matters, ran five large
photographs down its front-page centre
column under the heading “Pacific War
Leaders.” On top was “General Apana-
senko, Cossack leader of the Far East Red
Army”; the others were Nimitz, Mac-
Arthur, Mountbatten and Bruce Fraser,
in that order. In “Fact,” the “Sunday
Sun’s” “up-to-the-minute Australian news-
review,” there was a lot more about
Apanasenko, there described as “Supreme
Commander in the Far East,” with inti-
mate touches: —
Over a glass of vodka he fold how as a
cavalryman he had struck down 200 of his
country’s enemies with his own sabre.
And over only one glass of vodka. Next
day Moscow announced the Russian
commanders: Vassilivesky (C.-in-C),
Meretskov, Pukayer, Malinovsky, Yuma-
shev. Apanasenko wasn’t mentioned.
Professor Bland, a stout opponent of
bureaucratic tyranny, got off a neat one
when he heard that fellow-Professor Cop-
land had asserted that the Prices Depart-
ment was “still vigorous.” “Vigorous
growth,” said Bland, “is characteristic of
most parasites.”
The atom bomb awoke Lazzarini even,
of No-Housing celebrity, who said he
intended to “retain a nucleus civil-defence
organisation in the post-war years.”
Training wardens to recognise an atom
bomb when they see it so that they can
run round and put out all the
should be an interesting occupation.
Evidently fearing nasty reactions to
his veto on Fadden’s proposal for a Par-
liamentary vote of thanks to Churchill,
Chifley, arrived in Fremantle, hastened
to say that he took nothing away from
“the great Mr.- Churchill as the war
leader of Britain and the Empire”—
pause, in which cynics waited for the in-
evitable words —“but he made one fatal
mistake.” The “fatal mistake” consisted
in Churchill not hurling himself into
Labor politics, like Chifley, Ward, Calwell,
Laski and Aneurin Bevan and other
worthies. In other words he could never
bring himself to believe in redistribution
of income by taxation and political con-
trol of banking and credit. He went
down saying that if this political control
led |o devaluation of post-war credits,
gratuities, pensions and bank balances
it would be criminal.
Another from Chifley at Fremantle;
If the Labor movement finds that vested
interests stand in the way of the majority
of the people getting what is best in the
interests of the people those interests will
be pushed and thrown aside. Very often
these vested interests are in the Labor party
itself—pressure groups.
A long-range telescope disclosed no
noticeable disturbance on the N.S.W.
coalfields, the Sydney wharves or Queens-
land sheep stations, but meteorological
instruments recorded gales of ribald
laughter.
Considering that the area of Westralia
is nearly 1,000,000 square miles, Labor
Westralia must be the world’s worst case
of decentralisation. As an example, the
electoral population of Fremantle has
since 1931 increased from 49,000 to
73,000, while beyond the obese metro-
polis the population is stationary where
it has not sharply declined. Speaking
at Geraldton, which since 1917 has had
ex-Premier Willcock for member, Oppo-
sition-Leader Watts pointed out that “in
the pastoral areas and in the north-west”
—that is, the greater part of the State—
“the population today is only 30 per cent,
of what it was 30 years ago,” and it was
pitifully small then.
The Dean of Canterbury, whose un-
solicited advice to this country was that
it should cede North Australia to the
Japanese, has been touring Russia and
Russian Poland with the old Red monocle
clamped on his one seeing eye. He, of
course, found everything won-der-ful and
everybody happy, even German prisoners,
and, among other miracle-workers, he met
a Professor Tsitsin, who has “produced
ears of wheat more than double the size
of earlier ears and is now putting into
large-scale production perennial wheat
which comes up in three successive years
for one sowing.” Any Australian farmer
who sits in on a gamble like that will be
sorry.


Keep the home lights burning
Take every possible care of the Exide Batteries of your house-lighting equipment. Refer
regularly to your wall chart. Should the need for expert opinion arise, repo*«. ine
matter to your Exide distributor or write to us immediately. By taking care of your
Exide house-lighting, car and radio batteries, you not only get months of longer service
from them, but you help Fight-
ing Services, who need all the
batteries that Exide are able
to supply.
ý
HOUSE
Vi i
m
■i.ii
: :
■ '■ •
* % | v %
•to' •:’:>•
mmmm
y|j um
FWM • 1 I 885
wov* g1, / V \
o-.. ... -
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN
THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Balkans anti-malarial campaign,
for control of which knight R. W.
Cilento, Director-General of Health for
Queensland, was picked by U.N.R.R.A.
from a world wide selection, has had to
be temporarily abandoned because of the
disturbed and lawless condition of the
country. Pending restoration of order,
Cilento has taken up other U.N.R.R.A.
health work in Central Europe, with
headquarters in London.
Though Isaac Isaacs, who has passed
his 90th milestone, wanted to be a lawyer
at five and became a pupil teacher at 12j,
his most important honors came at an
age when most men have decided to call
it a d*y. He was knighted at 73, became
a Chief Justice at 75 and Governor-
General at 76. He spent his birthday
defending—successfully—a case in which
his brother Jack’s will was disputed. Fifty
years ago he and Jack were fellow-mem-
bers of the Victorian Assembly.
In Sydney on leave after an absence of
four and a half years, Lieut. P. C. Evatt,
R.A.N.V.R., nephew of Dr. H. V. Evatt.
Commissioned in England, Lieut. Evatt
has been with submarines operating
mainly in the Mediterranean from Malta,
though his D.S.C. was won when his sub.
Tapir sunk a German U-boat off Nor-
way. Leaving England in May, he made
the trip back here per submarine. An
unassuming young chap, he reckons he’d
like to make the Navy his post-war
career.
Phil May walks again:
“MacH.”: He was dark, thirty-fiveish, in-
clined to weight, smoothly dressed and smooth-
spoken in the quieter American manner. “I’m
Phil May,” he said. “I know,” 1 agreed;
“I’m Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.” But it
appears he really is Phil May; and a black-
and-white artist. Now purser on a Liberty ship
visiting Sydney, he had called in to The Bulle-
tin office to make inquiries about his celebrated
namesake. His full name is Phil May Kurman,
but he truncated it to Phil May when he was
running an advertising agency some years back
and kept it at that when he broke into the aft
world four years ago—not knowing then that
there had been another Phil. His work has
appeared in leading U.S. newspapers and
magazines and for a time during the war he
was official artist for the Kaiser shipyards.
Now, when Phil May is not pursing or talking
about Phil May, he sketches the life of his
ship and such other aspects of war as meet his
eye; for which purpose he wears on his belt
under his coat a lethal-looking holster loaded
with pens, pencils and brushes ready for instant
use. Phil May has a healthy respect for the
art of Phil May, but his style is altogether
different. He specialises in “pen-pressions,”
meaning “pen-impressions,” meaning lightning
sketches of a tap-dancer in the act of tapping
or a ballet-dancer in the process of whizzing.
If he can do anything with a journalist with
his brain whirling he won’t have to go far to
find his subject.
Resigned as Auditor-General in S.A.,
John William Wainwright, who had been
Deputy-Director of War Organisation of
Industry, has a full-time job in the De-
partment of Post-War Reconstruction.
He began as a State schoolteacher.
Not long after his release as a p.-0.-w.
Corporal R. L. Hoffman, well-known
in journalism in Sydney, Perth and Mel-
bourne, died in London at 40. He served
with the A.I.F. at Bardia and Tobruk and
in Greece and Crete, was captured and
spent four years in a German p.-0.-w.
camp. On his release he joined the
“Argus” as a correspondent, and had
been covering the liberated Channel
Islands. His father. Bob Hoffman, of
Perth, also a pressman, with a talent for
versemaking, fell on the Somme in
1916. Caught in a hot spot, and realis-
ing that death was near, he wrote a mov-
ing last letter to his people.
Melbourne’s most picturesque identity.
Constable Leslie Roy Boyd, the Whistling
Copper, has left his traffic duty possie
to become a weaver. Boyd’s whistling
so entranced the Yanks that generals
would order their chauffeurs to drive close
to the singular John Hop to find what
he was up to, and was the subject of
a special illustrated article in the U.S.
Army paper “Down Under.” The
always cheerful pointsman was a Digger
of the last war, and came out of it suffer-
ing from arthritis of the spine, got in
Egypt. His whistling actually was a
solace for intense pain.
Just a hundred years ago the John
Shannons (husband a Hunter River
pioneer, Wife the first white child born
on the Maclntyre River) arrived at Rock-
hampton (Q.). In 80 years (1865-1945)
the Shannon family register has totalled
142, and only nine have died in the
interim. Two of the deaths were casual-
ties of the present war. Of the surviving
Shannons 98 per cent, were born and
bred in Central Queensland; of one
family of 11, 10 live at ages of from 58
to 79 ; 50 are the fourth generation of
native-born Australians.
Lewis Ronald East, chairman of the
Victorian Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission, has come into prominence, very
unusual for a man in a high Government
position, by bluntly declaring that there
wasn’t the slightest chance of the
Commission being able to carry out the
Government’s £25,000,000 programme
while it was hamstrung by the over-riding
LEWIS RONALD EAST.
control of the Public Service Board. Born
in 1899 and educated at a State school
and “Wesley,” East graduated with honors
in civil engineering from Melbourne Uni-
versity and joined the Commission. In
1931 he was awarded the Coopers Hill
War Memorial Medal for a paper on
Australian irrigation problems by the
Institute of Civil Engineers, London, of
which he is a member. In 1936 he be-
came chairman of Rivers and Water
Supply. He represents Victoria on the
River Murray Commission.
J. W. Langsford, a member of Perth
Y.M.C.A. for 56 years, a director for 30
years and chairman of the house and
hostel committee for 25 years, celebrated
his 80th birthday by preaching in Clare-
mont Methodist Church. He went to the
West from S.A. 60-odd years ago, has
been Mayor of Claremont and M.L.A.
for the district. A life member of the
A.N.A., for years treasurer of M.L.C. and
superintendent of Wesley Church Sunday
School.
A battery in Bougainville:
Supporting the drive along the Numa Numa
Trail is the 2nd Australian Mountain Battery,
which claims direct descent from the Sudan
campaign. It had a contingent in the Boer
War and was represented in France during the
first German war. Major Stevenson, the present
commander, came from the 2/sth Field Regi-
ment to reorganise the battery when rt got
its 75mm. guns. Before going to the Numa
Numa Trail the unit was in action in the island s
northern sector, where two of its officers—-
Captain R. K. Blackby, of Parramatta, and
Lieutenant A. J. Forbes, of Sydney -were
awarded M.Cs. Blackby came to the unit from
the 2/sth with Major Stevenson. Forbes is a
son of Brigadier Forbes, who commanded the
battery in the early 1930’s when it was the
First Field Cadre. Sergeant W. Cranston, whose
gun-crew did outstanding work in an attack on
Tsimba Ridge, had been 17 years with the bat-
tery. There are two other sergeants with 17
years’ service—M. Hayes and A. R. Davis but
the sergeant-major claims they still know no-
thing about gunnery, and won’t till they ve been
with the unit a little while. He, R. C. Brogan,
has had 25 years’ service himself, since 1920.
The time he had in the A.I.F. as a youngster
in 1918 he doesn’t count, since he wasn t with
this battery then.
“Cauboy”: Pietro Mascagni, dead in
Italy at 81, at 27 leapt from ob-
scurity and poverty to fame and wealth
with “Cavalieria Rusticana,” whose
brutal realism started a new fashion in
grand opera. He never followed up his
early promise, though he wrote dozens
of operas in which he either drowned a
pretty story in big drum orchestration or
lavished soft and tender music on a melo-
dramatic story. He anticipated Puccini
by writing “Iris” round an unsavory
Japanese plot, but it flopped when pro-
duced in London. Most succeeding com-
posers. Puccini included, were influenced
by Mascagni.
The war gave his opportunity to Dr.
Erich Heyman, appointed Associate Pro-
fessor in Physical Chemistry at Mel-
bourne University. It was largely his ex-
perimental work which made the produc-
tion of optical glass possible in Australia.
He has won the T. H. Smith Memorial
Medal for chemical research and the
Grimwade Prize for research in industrial
chemistry.
“Ek Dum” on a tough breed:
The Mackinnon of Mackinnon, who is nearly
100 years old and who turned up at Lord’s
the other day and asked permission to handle
a ball with which he played in an historic Test
75 years ago, has some relatives of equally
tough fibre in Australia. Among them is
Donald Mackinnon, once known as a leading
amateur rider, and later as a man who did more
than perhaps any other to mount Indian cavalry
on walers. Even a few years ago Donald
Mackinnon represented to Indian cavalry messes,
of which he was usually a member, the pnly
Australian ambassador they knew. Well on into
the seventies, he still makes his annual pil-
grimage from Melbourne to Sydney to buy at
the yearling sales. One of his sons was recently
Captain of H.M.A.S. Warramunga: The other,
John, saw * the greater part of his second
great war through with the Queen’s Own
Cameron Highlanders. He lost a foot in Africa,
persuaded the Army that he was still serviceable,
was sent to West Africa, got torpedoed on the
way and, with a handful of fellow survivors,
spent several tropic days on a raft amid a ring
of sharks, was rescued, and by moving heaven
and earth was still able to persuade the War
Office that his day was not done. He finished
the war as brigade-major in a famous British
division.
T. B. Haffer becomes g.m. of the Bank
of New South Wales. S. J. Gandon
takes over the Senior Chief Inspector
post.
Lately giving his home town, Adelaide,
a look-over, Colin Bednall started in ink
as a copy-runner on the Adelaide “News”
at 15s. a week 16 years ago. He’s now
assistant; Seditor of London “Daily Mail.”
Going to London, where he married Miss
Abbott, daughter of the N.T. Adminis-
trator, Bednall eventually became air cor-
respondent of the “Daily Mail,” and his
stories of his 14 operational flights won
bim a reputation on both sides of the
Atlantic. He’s been back in Australia to
organise a Pacific news bureau for Lord
COLIN BEDNALL.
Rothermere and the “Mail.” A brother
is a journalist in Melbourne, and a grand-
IS a journalist in meiuuuine, aim a g
father was a sub-editor on tne olu
Register.
Old Digger and successful Queens-
i„_j f A Staker has disnosed of
and grazier E. A - P tak . er " as J IS P°
his properties, which included
at Am by. He jackerooed in the Western
Riverina (N.S.W.) and had his own prop-
erty at Canberra before heading north.
Staker saw three years’ service in World
War I, and his only brother was killed in
the great push at El Alamein.
Colonel A. E. Colvin, C.8.E., M.C.,
M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.S., M.L.C., formerly
Wurth’s and now Funnel’s representative
on professional advisory manpower com-
COLONEL ARTHUR COLVIN.
mittees, has given long service to the medi-
cal profession since he graduated from
Sydney Uni. in 1908. Member of the
N.S.W, Hospital Commission since its
inception and chairman since 1934, he
has been a member of the N.S.W. Medi-
cal Board since 1937, and is a foundation
Fellow of the Royal Australian College
of Surgeons. He won his M.C. in the
1914-18 war.
“Dick Tafone”: Australia’s new Con-
troller of Footwear bears a name which
has been famous for generations wherever
the voices of bushmen have been raised
in song:—
There was a wild colonial boy,
Jack Dolan was his name,
He bounded on his parients
Wot lived in Castlemaine.
Brigadier Noel Simpson, whose mother,
on his behalf, was lately invested with the
D.S.O. and bar by the Governor-
General, earned the decoration when in
command of a unit of the 20th Brigade at
El Alamein. At the time he was so off-
color that the average soldier would have
sought the M.O’s advice. Simpson carried
on. The bar was gained in New Guinea.
His twin brother, Grosvenor Simpson, a
bank officer in England when the war
broke out, was killed when commanding
a battalion of Shropshires at Anzio.
Still celebrating birthday anniversaries
at Invercargill (M.L.) after ten and a half
decades, Thomas Barrett had his 105th
last month. Suggesting that the life of
a coachman is a very healthy one,
Barrett, who was born in Tassie, did 10
years at the brainy end of the reins on
the Ballarat-Bendigo trip, starting at 17.'
Moving to M.L. in 1868, he continued
driving till he outlived his occupation.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 77, Alfred Evans, formerly
with the Joint Stock Bank (Australia), and
later with the Bank of Commerce. He was
establishing manager for the Primary Producers’
Bank in S.A., N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania.
Always a keen sport, he was selected to go to
England with a cricket Test team in his young
days.
At Dandenong (Vic.), at 83, leading Victorian
Jersey-breeder Alexander Malcolm McLellan.
His people were pioneers of the district.
In a traffic accident in Melbourne, at 70,
Charles Hanley-Knight, for 40 years one of
Australia’s best-known showman. He toured
this country(*md M.L. with Pavlova and Mefba
and was Dante’s publicity agent in China and
Japan.
At 71, George McEwin, like so many other
leading S.A. men the son of a parson.
Admitted to the Bar in 1899, he joined the old
firm of Baker and Barlow, and rose to be head
of it, sticking to the office while Parsons, Napier
and Ligertwood rose from it to the Bench.
Eric Millhouse of the R.S.L. is head of it now.
McEwin was alderman of the city for many
years, but somehow would never accept the
mayoralty. He was keenly interested in forestry,
was the first president in Adelaide of Rotary,
chief of the Caledonian Society and, as a young
man, captain of the Adelaide Rowing Club.
In Adelaide, suddenly, Frank Blarney, who
three days previously retired after 28 years as
manager of Bagot’s Executor and Trustee. A
Victorian, he was 19 years with Trustees, Ex-
ecutor and Agency in Melbourne before moving
to S.A. He was a life member of the Federal
Institute of Accountants.


Society
“Datum”: A flood of awe-inspiring
generalities, garnished with a spate of
“popularised” scientific jargon, has been
published about the atomic bomb, but
curiously few figures have been given.
The weight of the bomb, it has been
alleged, is 4001 b. or 5001 b.; of the ex-
plosive charge, 81b. or 101 b. Only one
“authority” gives a clue as to the area
such a visitant can devastate, and he is
precise—6,195,000 square yards. That
works out as a circle having a radius of
a little over 1400yds., and fits in with the
information that three-fifths of the area
of Hiroshima was blasted. On the basis
of these assumptions it can be estimated
that one of these bombs dropped in Syd-
ney’s Martin-place would wreak havoc
as far south as Anthony Hordern’s, as
far north as Fort Macquarie, as far west
.as the further bank of Darling Harbor
and as far east as King’s Cross. A Syd-
ney newspaper’s theory that Mascot and
Alexandria would be overwhelmed credits
the new explosive with selective powers
it cannot possess.
“Bo”: The two old ladies in the train
were discussing the new world-shattering
(the expression, it is hoped, will remain
purely figurative) invention. “The man
over the wireless,” remarked one, “said
that the stuff they put in the new bomb
is exactly the same as what the sun
draws all its heat from!” “Just fancy!”
said the other placidly. Then slowly a
worried look settled. “Dear me,” she
went on. “Poor Harold! That’s my
nephew, you know,” she explained.
“He’s in the Air Force—on the ground
staff. Now I suppose he’ll have to go
lifting those awful new bombs into the
’planes. He’s got that very fair skin that
freckles easily, and he’s sure to get ter-
ribly sunburnt!”
* * * *
“P.R.”: Ballarat is once more experi-
encing its annual ghost. Every winter for
years past this fear-instilling institution has
been functioning. The apparition, which
never twice favors the same locality, is
supposed to carry on its reign of terror
in various guises, one of the latest being
that of a hooded woman with a razor in
one hand and an electric torch in the
other. Sometimes it rides a bicycle,
leaping off now and then to send some
luckless girl screaming into the nearest
house. But usually it just sneaks along
in running shoes, startles its victim and
dashes off. In the newspapers appear
letters demanding that someone do some-
thing. Men lie in wait, women give de-
scriptions, but without avail. As to
whether some half-wit is playing pranks
or one or more practical jokers exploit
the rumors or whether the whole thing is
imagination there are various schools of
thought.
“A Major”: The death at 82 of Pietro
Mascagni ends the career of one of the
most eminent of the “one-opera com-
posers.” He wrote many other operas
after the short “Cavalleria Rusticana,”
but in none did he even approach the
freshness and originality of that first
essay. Leoncavallo, whose “Pagliacci”
came two years after “Cavalleria” and
soon became inseparably linked with
Mascagni’s first opera, was another whose
initial success was not repeated, Gounod,
though he wrote operas for 30 years,
was so infinitely higher than his norm in
“Faust” that the canard still persists that
he stole the score from one of his pupils.
Bizet in “Carmen,” Balfe in “The
Bohemian Girl,” Wallace in “Maritana,”
Flotow in “Marta,” Herold in “Zampa,”
Charpentier in “Louise” and Thomas in
“Mignon” are other cases, and in comic
opera there is Gustave Kerker’s one suc-
cess, “The Belle of New York.” Beet-
hoven (“Fidelio”), Schubert (“Rosa-
munde”) and Debussy (“Pelleas and
Melisande”) gave evidence of genius in
other musical spheres for so many years
that they cannot be cited among those
who were just at one period visited by
inspiration.
* * ♦ *
“T. McN.”: Those purveyors of town
halls and public parks who may have
begun to despair at the paucity of mugs
should cheer up, Ed. and I found our-
selves aboard Clapp’s Spirit of Progress,
sharing our compartment with two charm-
ing and apparently sophisticated young
“He Wants a discharge, sir. Reckons he's a five-year man.”
women bound for Sydney. Aboard the
Spirit smokers are provided with hand-
some metal ash-repositories which stand
about 2ft. high on rounded, weighted
bases that prevent them being knocked
over. As the train pulled into Albury
Ed. and I gathered our bags and pack-
ages and Ed, looked humorously at the
receptacle and said, “Who’s going to
carry that.” “I dunno,” I said, “it’s
probably worth a fiver.” I meant that
anyone removing it from the train would
be fined that amount, but one of the girls
asked, “Did you pay that much for it?”
Seriously, Ed. answered, “Well, no. We
got it cheap. But it’s probably worth
that much.” Whereupon we grinned
secretly and left the train. After the
bustle of settling into the other train we
were idly standing on the platform when
our two acquaintances appeared and one
said, “We saw a lot of those stands in the
other compartments. Was there a sale of
them in Melbourne today?”
• * * ♦
“Clooter”: The owner of our one-man
suburban grocery is inclined to favor the
housing shortage. “It keeps people in
one place,” he remarked. “One time
they could run up a bit of a bill, then
float off to some other suburb an’ leave
a man whistlin’ for his money. Not now.
They’re fixed, an’ if you cut down on
’em they not only can’t go to the other
bloke, because he’s got his regulars, but
they can’t float some night. I never had
me books in better shape.”
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”; Before Governments talk
about nationalising this or that they
should take a run out to the Melbourne
suburb of Sunshine, There is a ’bus
service from there down to Footscray.
For a while it was run by a private
operator; then the Victorian Government
Railways put a couple of ’buses on the
same run. But the locals stick to the
private man, so that any day along the
Ballarat-road you may see a V.R. ’bus,
practically empty, closely followed by the
private bus, jammed full, and it in turn
followed by another practically empty
V.R. ’bus. The fares are the same and
the suburb is regarded as a good Labor
one. v
* * ♦ ♦
“Jasby”; Papers and general public
have been taking a keen interest in the
discharge of long-service men from the
Army but their interest is barely luke-
warm compared with that of tne men
themselves. Any rumor of sailing dates
is sufficient to bring a seraphic grin to the
face of a Five-year Planner, Every man
knows his order of priority on the regi-
mental list and the points score of every-
one above him on the roster. One of our
originals, in fact the first man due to
walk aboard the discharge ship, wan-
dered a little too far from his own area
and was fired on by a nervous sentry.
He ducked to the ground as Owen gun
bullets whizzed overhead and shouted out
in anguished tones “For the luvamike
don’t shoot. I’ve got 290 points up! ”
“J.K.”: “Melbn” (B. 1/8/’45), when
nominating the post in front of the
Brighton pub as the sole remaining
A. L, Gordon memorial .in Mel-
bourne, overlooked Mountford’s £1650
statue of the poet in Spring-street.
Another memorial is a bronze plaque
on the wall of the Wilson Hall,
Brighton, placed there to mark the
fact that Gordon joined the Brighton
Artillery Corps in 1869. Besides, there
are a great many wattletrees in the
suburbs grown from seed from the tree
that at one time grew over Gordon’s
grave. “S.T.S.’s” assertion that Gordon,
during his police career, was stationed
at Robe is not borne out by records,
which show that the poet joined the
mounted police on 17/11/1853 and was
posted to Mt. Gambier seven days later.
A little later he was transferred to
Penola, where he was stationed when he
resigned on 4/11/1855. It was at the
Caledonian Hotel, Robe, that the poet
met Maggie Park, whom he married (the
building is now a guesthouse); it was at
Robe, too, that Gordon’s only child was
born (3/5/1867) and baptised. She died
at Ballarat (14/4/1868) and was buried
there. In 1918 her body was transferred
to Brighton to her father’s grave.
Jfc * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Public Library has
had a gift of ancient documents from
Miss Maria Muir of Broad Bay, M.L., a
great-grand-daughter of Thomas Allen,
first keeper of Adelaide’s Botanic Garden,
after having been gardener to royalty in
England. The most interesting of the
papers is probably the oldest thing
printed in S.A., Governor Hindmarsh's
proclamation that any criminals of the
new province, if and when they occurred,
would be transported to N.S.W. and
V.D.L.
* * * *
“Ada Lee”: In Port Adelaide police
court money orders to the value of
£6l I Os. were piled on the table. This
represented accumulated rent from a
tenant who every Monday posted his
landlord 30s. in money orders. For ten
months the landlord retained the orders
and then sued the tenant for rent, on the
score that money orders are not legal
tender. “But the rent has been paid,”
protested the tenant’s lawyer, pointing
to the pile of money orders. “We deny
that’s legal tender,” maintained the land-
lord’s counsel. The Bench mildly sug-
gested that the evidence before the Court
could very easily be turned into indubit-
able cash, and dismissed the case,
* * * *
“Taieri”: “Uramoa” (B. 4/7/’45) did
not mention that in the construction of
the Cave (M.L.) memorial church no
nails were used, everything being held
together with wooden pegs. Another
very interesting little Maoriland church is
that on the shores ot Lake Tekapo. It is
tiny, seating only 20 or so, and the door
is opened by a key about a foot long.
Behind the altar is a large plate glass
window framing a view of the snow-clad
Alps and the glacier, a scene of breath-
taking grandeur.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A London cable
reports that England is amused because
the U.S. Hays Office has banned the
British film version of Shakspeare’s
“Henry the Fifth” until such phrases as
“Norman bastard” and “damned” are
altered. If that is all they found to object
to the British censor must have already
been at work before the film reached
them. *John Masefield aptly describes the
play as “a chronicle or procession eked
out with soldiers’ squabbles” and the
language of camps in the Bard’s day was
much as it is today. Hollywood’s atti-
tude is childish,-but not more so than
was that of listeners to an A.B.C. broad-
cast of “King John.” The next day the
studio’s postman was loaded down with
indignant letters protesting against the
use of the substantive the Hays Office
objects to. As one of the principal char-
acters in the play is Philip the Bastard,
and bastard was the official and honored
title of the natural sons of nobility and
even royalty in King John’s day, it is
difficult to know what A.B.C. could
have done about it.
*•* * ♦
“Jay”: Sydneysiders will be sorry to
see the last of Mistress Macquarie’s Wish-
ing Tree. It first struck its roots on
Norfolk Island, and was transplanted to
old Government House in Bridge-street,
near the site of the present Education
Office. Seeing that it was languishing
there, Macquarie’s gentle lady had it re-
moved to the roomier surroundings of the
Botanic Gardens. There’s a legend that its
reputation as a wish-granter commenced
when a young woman approached the
Governor’s lady and begged a free pardon
for the man of her choice. “Take a can
of water to the tree just planted in the
Gardens. Walk three times round it and
wish,” said Mrs. Macquarie with an eye
to the well-being of the newly planted
pine, A word in His Ex’s ear fixed the
pardon, and the Wishing Tree was estab-
lished in public esteem.
* * * *
From John Brennan:
The tramway which now hauls supplies up
Barge’s Hill on the Numa Numa Trail in Bou-
gainville was built by the Ist Platoon of the
23rd Australian Field Company. It took nine
weeks over the job, cutting a path out of the
jungle and bedding down the track, bridging
some of the worst pinches with treble bridges.
The trucks make the climb in two stages; the
cable winches are powered by V 8 motors. Ike
first stage takes them 927 feet up the hill with
a steepest grade of three feet in one. From
the Harrisville loading dock at the foot of the
hill the climb looks almost perpendicular. The
second stage makes 1023 feet to the top of the
hill, but the grade is not quite so steep. It
averages something over two-feet-in-one for the
entire climb. The siding halfway up the hill
is named for the platoon commander, Lieut.
Searle, of Brisbane. The tramway is haul-
ing some 12 tons of supplies per day, and it
can do better if the need arises. It carries
everything that goes forward —ammunition and
rations, fuel for jeeps and flamethrowers and
kitchen ranges. It will carry a jeep itself dis-
mantled, It has meant a tremendous difference
to the men in the forward companies. At times
they have had fresh eggs for breakfast before
making an attack.
JUDGMENT DEFERRED.
“Mr. Chifley said a great deal had been made
of statements by the late Prime Minister about
socialisation, but the people would have the oppor-
tunity next year to give their opinion on that. They
need not fear that-something had been done on which
they could not pass judgment.”
You say, since Socialism we contracted
To set aside until the war was won.
We should feel cheaper for the way we've acted
And hang our heads in shame for what we’ve
done.
Well, to say one thing and to do another
Is somewhat reprehensible, no doubt;
Still, if you feel that way about it, brother,
The day will come when you can bump us
out.
You say we won to power by false pretences
And promises to flim-flam that amount;
Still, for all such and similar offences,
You have thg chance to call us to account.
Remember that you’re not debarred from deal-
ing,
Where it will hurt us most, a hefty clout;
When next for votes our crowd are found
appealing
It’s obvious that you can boot us out.
You say we’ve given evidence conclusive
We’re not, in truth, what Ministers should be;
But why be so unpleasantly abusive
When your own hands contain the remedy?
If you would register your disapproval
You have one method that we may not flout,
That is, by engineering our removal,
In other words, by emptying us out.
You call us —so a hostile press alleges—
Twisters and double-crossers, slippery birds
Who whistle down the wind their platform
pledges
And calmly eat their pre-election words.
They find it hard to estimate the measure
Of pur delinquency, sour critics shout;
But lots of ways of voicing their displeasure
Surely await them —when our term runs out.
It should be pikestaff-plain we’re not affording
The opportunity for anyone
To say that he’s prevented from recording
Judgment on anything we may have done.
Waiting the people’s will you’ll ever find us.
It beats me what the pother is about.
Twelve little months will soon be left behind us,
Then, if you want to, you can toss us out.
252 GEORGE-ST,, SYDNEY.
C. W. A. HAYWARD.
BOOK-BANNING.
We’ve reached the stage, it surely looks,
When, though the task be painful,
Our country must be screened from books
Some know-all reckons baneful.
None learns what passages have gone
To waken wrath censorious,
But at his nod one more goes on
Index expurgatorius.
None learns what title he has got,
What training or what gumption,
To spot af sight just what is not
Quite seemly for consumption.
Mayhap he’s one who’d never try
To write a book or plan one;
But any jumped-up bloke or guy
Who sits aloft can ban one.
His job’s to guard the common herd
From harmful mental diet.
There’s no appeal against his word,
No questioning his fiat.
Oblivious of protesting pleas
He regularly quarrels
With any book wherein he sees
A menace to our morals.
Ah, had he lived in ages past
When writers claimed more freedom,
What classics he’d have found to blast
If he’d the time to read ’em!
With what fierce gusto borne away
Would he have put his hammer on
The ribald jests of Rabelais
And censored the Decameron!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Tuart”; Admirable was Churchill’s
statement on the atomic bomb. Graphic
on the historical side and generous to all
concerned, it closed on a deep note:
This revelation of secrets of nature long
mercifully withheld from man should arouse
the most solemn reflections in the mind
and conscience of every human being cap-
able of comprehension. We must indeed
pray that these awful agencies will be made
to conduce to peace among the nations,
and that instead of wreaking measureless
havoc upon the entire globe they may be-
come a perennial fountain of world pros-
perity.
Truman’s statement, though informative,
was on a lower plane. The impression
made by the noble Churchillian sentences
contrasted sharply with that produced by
q film tqVcn wbcn tbc now rejected PM
wa fi s making Msmostdeceptivetriumphal
uroeress ZoueTthltonstitoenctef In
that he looked and spoke like a very old
Q n A vorv wmw man He the lord of
seeded m have’difficulty in
finding words; certainly he did not make
his meaning plain. Perhaps Peter Fraser
saw and was moved by that “talkie short”
before he came out with a generous tri-
bute to “the lekder in these glorious
wars,” a tribute which our Mr. Chifley,
in the paltriest party spirit, refused.
*** * .
“Sans Changer”: A one-time Professor
of Engineering made the Electrochemical
Society of Chicago sit up when he bored
a hole throhgh hard steel with a jet of
water, capping the feat with the assertion
that the hardest of metals can be drilled
in this manner. In the demonstration the
jet of salt water was propelled from a
glass nozzle and directed to a steel plate.
This nozzle was connected by a sealed-in
wire with the negative pole of a battery,
the positive pole being connected with
the’ plate, thereby setting up an electrical
circuit from the battery to the plate, up
through the jet and back to the battery.
The salt in the water greatly increased its
conductivity. The metal torn off by the
electric current, instead of being deposited
on the other electrode, was washed away
by the stream of water. Thus the jet
wore its way through the metal.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Touching the Freudian
theory of the interpretation of dreams,
the Viennese psycho-analyst would be
surprised if he returned to earth and
found what has happened in eminent
medical circles. Shock treatment with
kardiazol and insulin has almost com-
pletely taken the place of the psychology-
cal methods he regarded as the only means
of curing mental cases. Any average
practitioner can learn the kardiazol tech-
nique in a fortnight as easily as he can
learn how to use quinine for malaria,
and there is even a new word for this
modern school of physicians. A friend
told me that a relative was having delu-
sions and I asked him how she was being
“That the Robinson Matrimonial Agency? Complaints
department , please!”
treated. “Oh,” he said, “we sent her to
one of these whatd’yecallem electricians.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A native “murder” case in
S.A.’s far north gradually faded down as
the Protector of Aborigines explained it
to a Port Augusta court. Frank had
speared Alec, below the knee, and death
resulted. In court it appeared that Alec,
the camp bully, had assaulted Frank’s
small’sister and was properly punished
according 4 to tribal law by Frank (who
could just as easily have killed him).
Furthermore, he died only as a result of
“misadventure,” through delay in getting
the gangrenous patient to Alice Springs
hospital. So Frank had pleaded guilty
to a charge of malicious wounding,*
though quite unable to understand why
jje be arrested for only doing his
He had been under arrest
P lUctl ULy- , , . ,
for three months, and, said 1 rotector f cn-
hall, “Long absence from the tribe
usua H v has a bad effect on natives, who
* tribal control So
appear to throw off tribal control, so
Judge Mayo said “Seven days.
„, A type o£ ‘ oncret e
, . j , hnat vmilrler
block mvented by a llnstene
18 hailed by ci 1 g contributions
as one of the moSt notable contributions
to the building industry in the last quarter
of a century. It provides an insulating
cushion of a,r^ n e ‘" e t e h ”l,°"!.“ “taTof
walls. 1118 reckoned that a borne built or
these ; “air-flow”
a !•«£ ■»“ ‘“"feu" a modern
considerably lest than tack. K modem
factory is go ng up, and portable
are being built_for_use: m the Mimtry. It
» estimated that on ®. sl^ a “
skilled men can wi
the ™lls of a house in a week.
“L.H.P.”: Judging by past standards
the ices charged to hear Gracie Fields
at s yc j ney Showground were pretty stiff.
1891 s ydney paid 10s. for reserved
d _ c and front sta p s> f or back stalls,
4g £ or f am ii y c i rc i e and 2s. 6d. for gal-
j ‘ tQ see Sarah Bernhardt and a fine
p renc h dramatic company in plays
already familiar to the public in Eng-
jish V e rs i ons> Tliis was at Her Majesty’s
theatre, the one that was burnt down
- n 19 q 2 ’ Ristori appeared in a round
c | a ~ j c p i ays a t the old Victoria
eatre pitt-street, in 1875, to a tariff
of d _ c js s f ront s t a lls 10s., family circle
’ it ‘ 4s ’d gallery 2s.
os ” pi * I *
“Spokeshave”: A visiting conductor
w j lG has a preference for Debussy found
a very receptive public in Melbourne but
j t wasn ’t always so. Debussy sometimes
used the scale he got from Balinese music
heard at an international exposition in
p a ris, and it sounded strange to Euro-
pean ears. Melba introduced some
Debussy into a Melbourne Town Hall
programme. Next day she was waiting
a telephone call and, the lines
crossed, overheard a conversation. “How
did you like Melba’s singing of Debussy? ’
said one feminine voice. “Didn’t like it
a t all,” said another. “Melba has a won-
derful voice but she sang fiat.” Then
the two staggered females heard the
voice of the great diva saying: “I did not
sing flat! ”
*** . „
“Chevroford : A bequest of ,120,000 has
come the way of the Melbourne Botam-
cal Gardens from Miss Maud Gibson,
a daughter of the founder of Foy and
Gibson’s. It is to be spent on “botanical
research and improvements to the gar-
dens” and there are certain elements of
danger in that. The gardens are located
on what was a swamp formed by the old
bed of the Yarra. A man of unusual
imagination, Guilfoyle moulded this un-
prepossessing site into a beautiful arboreal
landscape. Largely owing to the efforts
of Frank Clarke successive curators have
respected Guilfoyle’s intentions. With
£20,000 to play with later directors will
"Get back on the horse , stupid—you're out of focus!"
have to be exceptional people not to
make a mess of Guilfoyle’s picture. The
best way to use Miss Gibson’s bequest
would be to buy with it an annexe where,
if botanism and aesthetics came into con-
flict, it wouldn’t much matter.
♦ * * *
“Pip” on the Army’s tastes in card
games:
The pack of cards has proved the most useful
solace of this war. Every time there is a few
minutes to spare somebody produces the
‘•broads” and organises a “round or two for
a pound or two.” Long nights are passed
contentedly around a couple of smoky hurricane
lamps, and those periods of waiting before the
paddock pictures, and on pay and inoculation
parades, are whiled away quickly. Of the
games that can be played collectively
Baccarat is the most popular. “Slippery
Sam,” sometimes called “Swedish Banker,
rivals it—it is the quickest way of losing money
known to man. Poker, of course, is a standard
pastime, games ranging from small show hands
to two-bob blind and no limit. And Bridge
is played regularly by all ranks in all units.
Five Hundred was popular earlier in the war,
but Bridge has ousted it completely. Solo
is almost equally popular, the Auction variety
being played generally rather than “prop, and
cop.” Occasional Euchre tournaments are run,
but the game is confined to those who like a
game of cards without having to think. Cribbage
has many adherents. Crib boards are often
unavailable, but holes made with a nail in a
length of washing soap provide an effective
substitute. Every soldier knows at least half a
dozen forms of Patience, and can cheat him-
self to his heart’s content. Cards are not easily
come by up north and in the islands, and a
pack is never discarded until the spots are
hidden beheath layers of grease, or all players
can name the face of the card after a brier
scrutiny of the back.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: It has been decided by an
Adelaide court that for a woman to say
loudly of (and to) detectives “They are
just things,” is an insult, and costs the
speaker 'los. Perhaps to say the same
about Judges might be defended as a
compliment. It seems to depend on the
inflection.
**. * *
“Lao-Dah v ; A link with the terrible
old Tzu Hsi, for 47 years the self-
appointed Empress and Empress-Dowager
of China, has been discovered in Seattle
Art Museum. An elderly Sinologue and
traveller, Hugh Matier, whooped with de-
light when he saw it—the priceless
jade Imperial Seal of China. The tradi-
tional story is that the Old Tiger was the
daughter of an obscure Manchu official.
She became the Emperor’s favorite,
requited him with poison, got a eunuch
to pinch the seal and used it to issue an
edict making herself and the Empress co-
regents for a slave boy she had pur-
chased, He became Emperor when the
Empress had been disposed of. The seal
vanished after the international force,
which did a lot of looting, entered
Peking during the Boxer Rebellion, after
Tzu Hsi had ordered the execution of
every foreigner in China. The Manchu
dynasty went out in 1912 when Sun Yat-
sen’s republic was established, the
Emperor announcing in an abdicatory
edict that he would contemplate from
his retirement “the consummation of a
perfect Government” —a piece of irony
that deserves a place in history. The
American museum picked up the seal at
an antique shop for a few dollars,
* * *
“Maleesh” on the Allied debt to Dutch
shipping:
I don’t know whether the escape of Dutch
merchant ships really affected German plans
for the invasion of England (B. 1/8/’45) but a
high percentage did get away, and they were a
help to the Allies in various ways. In 1939 the
Netherlands had about 3,000,000 tons of sea-
going merchant navy ships. When the Germans
invaded Holland in May, 1940, all Dutch ships
at sea and in foreign ports received instructions
by radio to proceed as quickly as possible to
Dutch harbors outside Europe or to Atuea
harbors. This was done, and m addition a
number of Dutch vessels in their home ports
at the time managed to escape to England.
Thus Holland added 500 ships of all classes,
totalling about 2,750,000 gross tons, to ou
mercantile strength. All things considered,
Holland hasn’t done badly. During the years
of the battle of the Atlantic she lost half ot
her ships and half of her men. When the Japs
attacked the Netherlands Indies her eastern
merchant navy suffered heavily. After the tail
of Java the remaining part of this fleet came
more directly under Allied control, taking part
in every operation in the South Pacific, including
the landings in Milne Bay, Dutch New Guinea
and the Philippines. From August to the end
of October, 1942, roughly 65 p.c. of troop and
supply ships entering Milne Bay were Dutch.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Asked to ring a certain num-
ber, I got an initial greeting in a brisk
female voice: “Post-war.” “What’s
that?” I said, “Post-war,” said the same
voice crisply. “What’s Post-war?” I
said. Then I took a tumble. For a
moment I had the eerie feeling that I had
got in touch with the Hereafter.
* * * *
“Zake”: Were I ever to become a
Cabinet Minister I would go in for bigger
and better bans. Also, I would come
down heaviest of all on members of my
party. Thus I would ensure, after the
beautiful splurge of inexpensive publicity
kindly supplied by the'dailies (especially
the intimate photos of the victims taken
in their homes and references to their
enormous sympathetic fan mail), that
nothing but benefit would accrue to all
concerned, banned and banner. Particu-
larly to the banner, for a subsequent dis-
play of magnanimity is invariably a
winner.
* * * *
“Snoop” with a tabloid of rocket war-
fare :
As the rocket weapon originated in Asia it is
a wonder the Japs were not the first to employ
them in the present war. It was the British,
who have taken some nasty pastings from
rockets (one used against them in India in 1799
is on record as having killed three and wounded
four), who pioneered their use among western
nations. Sir William Congreve evolved one
which was launched against the French with
effect, and its use as an auxiliary to or
a substitute for field artillery and ships’ guns
was established. Rockets gave good service in
European campaigns, including Copenhagen
and Walcheren, and a British Rocket Brigade
distinguished itself at the Battle of Leip-
zig. In the Anglo-American war rockets broke
the defence and led to the capture of the city
of Washington. However, while they had a con-
siderable range, accuracy was never a strong
point, and with the adoption of rifled artillery
they were gradually discarded. But not alto-
gether. An unusual combination, a padre
sporting a pilot’s wings and an M.C., whom I
struck with the R.A.F. in England, told me
that he had flown a ’plane armed with rockets
against Zeppelins in World War I. Accuracy
seems to have been achieved now, and rockets,
in all sizes and fired from boats, ships, tanks,
’planes and the reliable infantry shoulder, are
well on the way to displacing artillery.
* * * *
“Bump”: One of the most remarkable
enterprises in Australia is a bee-farm
about 140 miles north of Melbourne. The
owner reclaimed exhausted land by plant-
ing belts of wattles and other flowering
trees and rabbit-netting his large holding.
In the second year of the late drought
his trees looked as if they had perished,
all the leaves having died. But the third
drought year, although it was worse than
the second, found them bearing a finer
foliage and a« bigger crop of blossoms
than ever, while on the Crown lauds
adjacent all is death and devastation.
Inside this apiarist’s netted fences plants
have appeared that had not been seen
in the district for 50 years. The business
is prospering.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Koalakin”: According to a Readers’
Digest, one H. Kogle, wandering about “in
the interior of New South Wales,” found
a baby native bear, which he adopted
and reared. One day, “in the interior,”
he was caught in a bushfire which came
roaring upon him with terrifying speed.
Flinging himself on the ground, “breath-
ing what little oxygen was still left close to
the earth,” he was sure his last moment
had come. Then he became aware of a
koala. ,*“He would run up to me, nip my
clothes, then run off a little way.” Dazed
as he was, the wanderer sensed that the
bear wanted him to follow. “In a few
hundred feet we came to a small lake
which I had not known existed. I plunged
in, the koala riding on my shoulder.
During .the hours that the fire raged we
stayed there ; I ducked myself and the
koala completely whenever the heat be-
came too intense. But for the wisdom
and faithfulness of that little bush bear
I should not be alive today.” Good old
Kogle! And no doubt after the danger
was over and he had shaken the bear
gratefully by the paw Billy Bluegum said
casually: “Think nothing of it, pal. It’s
a pleasure!” After which he went and
stalked a dingo,
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; I have worked
it out that bobtail lizards and quail , have
one affinity—they’ve the same scent. A
young gun-dog, of course, will work
lizards, larks, rabbits, or anything on the
ground, but the remarkable thing is when
that pointer or setter comes of age by
some inherent instinct he gives up run-
ning everything except quail. However,
out shooting on the windswept, treeless
plains at Tmara, near Narracoorte (S.A.)
—the home of the bobtail lizard—an old
gun-dog I’ve found invariably follows the
scent of a bobtail, and the canine’s, sur-
prise when he comes’ 1 up with the scaly-
back discloses his action is unintentional.
Still, you know when the dog is on a
crawler, for the path of the scent travels
too straight for a quail.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Here’s a quotation from
a real authority on rifles: “With the
badly-balanced regulation rifle, a stock
which is not fitted, a heavy trigger pull
and a black front-sight, the soldier has
a combination with which it would puzzle
the best shot in the world to make good
snap-shooting.” Winans might have
added that nobody but a fool would wil-
ffilly fit a blade fore-sight to a sporting
rifle (B. 18 /7 / ’45), As for the aperture
back-sight, beloved of the lie-on-your-
belly-and-squeeze brigade, anyone who
has tried to use it, as I have, in forest
light when after fallow deer will know
how practical that is. Also, in his eager-
ness to show off his shooting, “8.4”
doesn’t explain how he’s going to get on
“following” and squeezing the trigger for
half an hour if his target is moving fast
through thick undergrowth. . Finally, I
don’t care if three field marshals and an
admiral told “8.4” to use a geometry
exercise. I’ve never seen expert ’roo-
shooters using either patent spider web
targets or army sighting diagrams. And
I’ve yet to meet the man who, with “a
perfectly sighted rifle,” can avoid all
lateral error, unless he favors the side of
a house for a target.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The psychologists are getting
busy on the animal kingdom now. Dr.
Petersen, of Minnesota University, has
discovered that cows are acutely self-
conscious and that a scrawny, unattractive
bovine can become aware of its owner’s
dislike for its appearance and refuse to
yield milk, while in England it has been
demonstrated that cows react favorably
to music broadcast over the 8.8. C. net-
work. Probably it is the milker who is
affected. Listening to Sinatra’s crooning
he may feel relaxed and in his relaxed
state pulls the teats with a tenderer feeling.
The man who hates the look of his cow
is in the reverse state, and animals soon
pick up a person’s feeling. Nervous indi-
viduals produce nervous horses, confident
individuals confident horses. The nervous
person who goes into a stall is much
more likely to be kicked to death than
the confident individual.
* * * *
“Two Gulfs”: F. W. Moorhouse, S.A.’s
chief inspector of fisheries, has been look-
ing into the chances of deep-sea fishing
off the S.A. coasts and likes ’em. He
says that as well as the whiting, mullet
and ruff shoals, big schools of mackerel,
tuna and sardines appear in their seasons.
“I see by the three tapes on your sleeve you've been in the Army for
three months .”
In a survey by air from the Glenelg
mouth to about 200 miles west of Ceduna,
in company with a C.S.I.R. man, Moor-
house saw many sardine shoals between
Port Lincoln and the head of the Bight,
and there were tuna, though the season
was on the wane. Further west were sar-
dines, mackerel and salmon, sometimes
covering 100 miles. There is a small fish
cannery at Port Lincoln, but the poor
catching system keeps it short of sup-
plies. Three things needed are bigger
boats, a deep-sea consciousness and capi-
tal.
* * * *
“Heresone”:. That fox of “Kelpenya’s”
(B. 18/7/’45) was a most unnatural beast.
Usually a whiff of smoke will fetch any
fox, and even a vixen with young will
come through the fire if there is no other
way out. Or a long piece of wire with
a hook on the end, pushed past the fox
and pulled back to prod it on the nose,
will often do the trick. Also, it may be
pulled out with a piece of old wire broken
to leave a jagged end which is twisted in
fits fur. The same methods will work
with hares. But a possum will be burnt
to death or torn to pieces rather than
leave its hollow. Binghi’s only way with a
possum was to chop a series of holes up
the trunk till he could reach it with a
spear.
“Betcha”; For pests such as the rabbit
I regard fire as more humane than traps.
Admittedly, there are the rare exceptions
of an accidental get-away to a lingering
death, but provided reasonable care is
taken fire will usually dispose of a home
of rabbits in a hollow tree in a few
minutes, whereas trapping means broken
and mutilated legs through long freezing
nights of agony. Rabbits are just as
scared of traps as they are of fire. Fre-
quently they migrate to the far end ot
*the paddock after the first few squeals or
trapped brethren in their neighborhood,
and it is common for them to remain in
a burrow to the skin-and-bone stage rather
than face the dreaded possibility of a
trap outside. Strychnine poisoning offers
no solution to the problem against cruelty,
and even if one could find sufficient man-
power and ammo, for mass shooting,
there is no guarantee that bunny wouldn t
be shot through the middle and take a
fortnight off to conk out.
♦ * * *
“Fang”: Can’t agree with “Jemalong
Jim” about cod always moving upstream
(B. 18/7/’45), otherwise I’d confine my
frog-drowning expeditions to the head qf
the river where the finny tribe would
eventually congregate. Cod generally
keep to the holes when summer level is
on the rivers, moving out with the floods.
Sometimes during floods some of the big
fellows are stranded in lagoons or even
beached in the paddocks as the water falls
rapidly, probably taking refuge in the
shallows after being half-suffocated by
the muddy water,
* * * *
“E. 2”: Spinney was about the slowest
cove you’d ever strike at coming to the
point. He pulled into Dan’s one day and
started yarning about the shortage of
stock feed. An hour later they were hotly
discussing the price of store wethers. An-
other hour drifted by, and Spinney
squinted at the sun and s’posed he’d
have to go. “Aw, cripes,” he sud-
denly remembered, “how many cows d’
y’ reckon that crick flat’d run t’ the acre,
Dan?” “P’raps one or two in a good
year,” Dan said. “Why?” “Nuthin’
much,” said Spinney. “But I reckon
them forty head of starvin’ baldies that
were runnin’ on the road are too many
for y’re five-acre crop of oats. I came
t’ tell y’ they broke in as I rode past.”
* * t * *
“Sou’-west”: Ted as a fish-spearing
enthusiast reckoned he’d found perfec-
tion when he set four straighten ed-out
snapper hooks in the end of a 6ft. length
of conduit by means of melted lead. And
he certainly did make some good catches.
Watching him one day poking around a
W.A. sandbank, we were surprised to see
him leap suddenly out of the water, emit
a loud yell, then, losing his balance, flop
full length into the brine. He had evi-
dently speared something, for his spear
now seemed endowed with life as it
swayed here and there around, dipping
and bobbing up again. Joe, ever helpful,
rushed in to retrieve it before it should
be carried out to deep water. But the
moment he grasped the shaft he repeated
Ted’s performance. Bert, however, knew
something. Snatching his wife’s rubber
bathing cap he dashed in, seized the spear
and brought it and the impaled sea deni-
zen to the land. “Just a numbie. If you’d
had a wooden shaft to your spear you
wouldn’t have been hit so hard.” Lying
on the sand the electric ray, not more
than 2ft. long, emitted shock after shock,
though each one grew gradually weaker.
When half a dozen of us joined hands,
one end of the chain placing a bare foot
on the ray, the other end grasping the
spear, the shock ran right through along
the line. Science has yet to explain how
the ray obtains its power,
* * * *
“Lub”: Wally, discharged from the
army, was taking a walk round the farm
when he came on Alf, his brother and
partner, straining a fence. Something
familiar about Alf’s ragged coat and
patched trousers drew his attention. “Hey,
ain’t that the new suit I bought just before
I went into the Army?” he asked. “Yair,”
Alf said. “Y’ had it stuck away in the
wardrobe where the siiverfish might’ve
got at it. Least a bloke could do was give
it a turn or two in the fresh air an’ look
after it for y’.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: In view of the obvious
shape future wars will take, there is much
to be said for the Eskimo igloo form
of house, especially if such a low-lying
dome were built of reinforced concrete
20ft. thick. Anyway, such forms eventu-
ally must obtain; so it-is possible to
vision the city of the future as being
under ground, the earth from such exca-
vation, apart from the stone used in the
concrete, being spread across the tops of
the domes as camouflage. Upon this
crops might be grown, which would give
protection from pin-point bombers, jet-
flown at 1000 miles per hour. During
periods of peace the populace will emerge
from underground to till their fields. So
will be produced on earth the replica of
Wells’s First Men in the Moon, in which
the Lunar populace dwelt underground,
emerging only for food-growing.
* * ♦ *
“Evergreen”: The fishtrap most
favored by the P. 8.1. of my acquaintance
is of the cylinder-funnel variety, said by
some to resemble the drum net of the
Murray River. Take a couple of hoops
(bicycle rims will do), half a dozen laths
or anything that will act as ribs. Splice
these on the hoops, one hoop at each
end, so as to form a cylinder frame any-
thing from 4ft. to 6ft. long. Then around
this roll wire netting, chicken gauge for
preference ; if only large mesh obtain-
able, put around several times so that
the openings are made small enough
to retain any sizable fish. Then in
the end, or both, make a funnel
opening. Bait with fish heads or lightly
boiled liven. The advantage of such a
trap is that it can be put down secretly,
the only betrayal of its presence being
the line to which it is fastened; but even
this can be dispensed with. Dropped into
likely water, the trap can be left indefi-
nitely and then fished up with a line and
grapnel, which adds to the sport, for at
times it is apt to be elusive. Besides catch-
ing all sort of fish, such a trap will bring
in crabs and even crays.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Nancy kept house for her
father, the station blacksmith, and Little
Joe was a constant visitor to the natty
cottage by the homestead orchard. On a
fateful evening Joe swore he could detect
orange blossom in Little Joe’s violently
violet hair oil. Only Bailey, the food-
spoiler, laughed. Suspecting nothing, Little
Joe swaggered away on his last visit to
the cottage. He gave a final preen to
himself on the porch, and jiggled the
knocker. Nancy opened the door. Little
Joe made to sweep off his cady with a
cavalier flourish; instead, he gave a wild
yelp, let forth a string of lurid oaths and
collapsed in a tub of fishbone ferns.
Nancy slammed the door. Little Joe
came rampaging back to the hut wanting
to smash everyone and everything, but
. the only thing he smashed was his bottle
of hair oil, or rather, seeing that it
contained mostly liquid glue, his hair-oil
bottle.
**. * *
“Puffinus”: Our S.Q. black cockatoos
must be of a different breed from those
which, according to “Bad Australian” (B.
25/7/’45), never leave the big timber of
the high ranges except for an occasional
straggler. As I write 11 Yellow Tails are
“Koo-ree-ya”-ing at the top of their col-
lective voices within a quarter-mile of
this cliff-edge, two miles from the Pacific
coast and little over 500 ft, above sea-
level. The nearest high-level main range
country is well over a hundred miles
away. They arrived three days ago with
the first really cold westerly of the sea-
son, and, as they have done in many past
winters, will stay for the next few weeks.
Largest of all the world’s cockatoos, their
incessant war on the larvae of tree-
destroying insects puts them amongst the
most valuable of all forest-saving birds,
Has any member of the Council ever
managed to bring one up in captivity?
If so, how did he catch it, and what die
he feed it on?
THE CALL.
Old Bill has gone to Steeple Flat;
He caught the train on Fridee.
He had a new band on his hat,
His swag was neat and tidy.
“It’s me for them Monaro hills” —
His eyes were bright and glowy—
“Where wild the mountain water spills
Along the rushing Snowy.”
The Snow Queen sings on the ringing wind
Old Kosciusko’s song,
Where the lone fox falters, lean and blind,
On the granite’s barren prong.
Old Bill has gone to Steeple Flat,
His hair is white and failing,
His ancient ribs are packed with fat,
His old joints slightly ailing.
It’s fine he’ll look on rock-bound tracks
Where hill-blasts, cold and sleety,
Make mountain cattle turn their backs
To snowstorms white and sheety.
They are iron teeth that the wild winds bare
\V4ien August’s ice-breath Wows,
And the, cold is pain on the mountains there
Whence the Snowy River flows.
Old Bill has gone to Steeple Flat.
Oh, cheerful was his humor,
And I can guess just what he’s at
Twixt Bibbenluke and Cooma.
On some high spur he’ll face the wind
And meet its challenge fairly,
And be the man he went to find
And stand firm-set and squarely.
The red blood leaps to the storm wind’s cry,
When Monaro’s under snow;
And there’s a song in the wild, white sky,
* Only the hill men know.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”: Old Mac. had no sooner
arrived in town than he was met by the
police sergeant. “You’ll have t’ go on
the Bench this morning, Mr. Mac.,’’ said
the sergeant. “There’s two cases, a drunk
and a dog-licence one, an’ you’re the only
J.P. I can find about the place.” Mac.
was annoyed, being busy with a bit of
crutching and anxious to get back with
the tin of oil he’d come for. “All right,”
he grunted. He fined the drunk a dollar
or the rising and called the dog offender.
“You plead guilty?” demanded Mac.
“Well, no,” was the reply in a hesitant
voice—“y’ see I” “Don’t waste me
time,” snorted Mac. “Are y’ goin’ t’
license the hound or ain’t y’?” “Well, I
don’t quite know where I stand, your
Worship. Y’ see, it ain’t a matter of re-
newal at all.” Mac’s temper gave out.
“Look, y’ knew your licence was run
out —expired, didn’t y, an’ ” “That’s
just it, your Worship, the dog’s expired,
too.” Mac sat back on the Bench; then
in a slow, furious voice he said “I got a
blanky good mind t’ fine y’ for contempt.
Sergeant, close the court and get me a
form to make out me resignation from
this silly job.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: jSheep are the most gregarious
of animals, but I have encountered one
hermit. At an early age this wether was
dropped by mistake into a neighboring
paddock, where for a long time he roamed
up and' down the fence fretting to get
home. A year or more later, when
shoved back through the gate, he had
evidently developed a preference for his
own society. He’s a full-mouthed old
warrior now, but if the mob are grazing
on the south end of their run it’s a safe
bet you’ll find his nibs in a north corner.
Defying the dogs and refusing point
blank to be driven, he has occasionally
been heaved on a nag and dumped in the
yards with the rest of the mob. There he
seeks the quietest corner, the only thing
except force that can shift him being a
surge of woollies in his vicinity.
* » * *
“Gryllus”: Gayest and sprightliest of
all bushland elves, a pair of diamond
birds forsook their treetop concert plat-
forms six weeks ago to make a home for
the coming family. A remarkable work it
“ There's a bicuspid that should come out, too."
was for such tiny sprites, neither of them
longer than the width of one’s palm. First
they drove a two-inch tunnel for a couple
of feet or more into the solid red soil of-
a bank-cutting in the garden. At the end
of it they excavated a spacious nursery,
big enough to hold them both and the
family as well, and furnished it with a
bulky bed of soft grass. A thoughtful
husband took his share of the egg-warm-
ing while the wife went out for meals
and fresh air. Now they are working
hard again, this time to feed the hungry
young family in their subterranean
nursery, wheeling amid the trees after
insects and carrying the quarry swiftly
home. By September they will be teach-
ing the youngsters to fend for themselves,
and with that duty done will lead care-
free lives once more through summer
and autumn until the mating urge comes
on them once again. Sensible sprites they
are in getting their family cares over and
done with long before most other bush
birds.
% * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Many native
boys and Marys in northern New Guinea
are rope-trick artists; and their only
“prop.” is a 12ft. length of native-woven
cord knotted so as to form a loop. Hold-
ing this looped cord, as one would a skein
of wool, a village Mary will by deft mani-
pulation of the fingers work a ferret-net-
looking design in a matter of seconds,
then smile, release an end and the “net
’e finish.” Then at lightning speed she will
go on with the next turn, a cluster of
stars, then a native drum, a canoe, a
face, a mask and numerous other inter-
pretations symbolic of village life. But
a double act is the more spectacular.
Facing one another they clapped hands,
then one looped the end several times
round the other’s neck, who “gammoned”
to choke until, with a flick of the cord, it
all comes adrift. And there seems no
end to their repertoire. Old New Guinea-
ites tell me a percentage •of natives in
every village can “workem rope”—they
squat for hours outside their huts of an
evening practising —and that this quaint
art was handed down to them for
countless generations before the coming
of the white man to their island.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: As to the jigsaw puzzle
of man’s origin (B. 11/7/’45), consider
the Melville , and Bathurst islanders.
Racially, they are Australian aborigines,
yet they know nothing of the boomerang
or woomera, their chief weapon being a
heavy spear thrown by hand direct. They
practise earth burial in contradistinction
to most of the tribes of Australia’s
extreme north, and erect curiously-
worked grave posts which have an odd
resemblance to the totem posts of the
Indians of British Columbia.
* * * *
“Wippegong” draws a comparison:;;—
Back in the times when a bloke wandered
where he wished a spell in Gippsland was some-
times capped with a trip to Walhalla, preferably
by the narrow-gauge railway. Leaving Moe
and the industrial echoes of Yallourn, you
crossed the Latrobe, now slow and weary after
its haste through the ranges behind Noojee,
and, entering the hills, sighted the little pub at
Gould, snug in its old orchard, and where, if
you stay, the Tyers will sing you to sleep.
The creeks beyond there are lined with clumpy
blackwoods, but nearing Erica the sawn timber
waiting on the sidings told you the big hills
were not far off; and after leaving this town-
ship you entered them in earnest. Through dark
gullies and round sheer bluffs the little engine
grunted and heaved, sometimes stopping at a
signboard to drop a couple of cream-cans and
a parcel or two, while, if you wished, you could
alight and gather big blackberries; then you
crossed the Thompson and rumbled into the
town of ghosts and poplars, not so much nestled
in a gorge as wedged into a great cleft in the
ranges. If you wished, you could wander on
to McGregor’s Lookout, and on still over the
rattling Aberfeldy to the tiny Baw Baw pub,
and down over the Thompson t'o the mills on
whose loads of mountain ash you could ride
back to Erica.
All those memories were stirred the other
day when we left the Old Burma Road at
Lashio and headed for another mining t(^wn —
Namtu —where the mills are just now as cold
as Walhalla’s, but for different reasons. The
road wound and twisted and climbed in much
the same way; but instead of treeferns there
were miles of matted bamboo; instead of
crimson parrots and wongas and coachies there
were junglefowl, hoopoes and woodpeckers, and
for blackberries and apples were mangoes and
bananas. At the town a motley population was
straggling back —Indian, Chinese, Gurkha, Shan,
Kachin —partly for jobs, partly for the rice
we’d flown in for them; and in charge, restoring
order, were an Australian and a Cousin Jack~
Oswald Pryor beard and all. Went on their
2ft. gauge railway, clinging to hillsides, up one
spiral climb and over two reversal points,
covering the 12 miles in \\ hours and finally
stopping at a little siding shaded by a gumtree.
No wallaby hopped up the hillside, but the
native police were just setting out to carry in
a young bison one of them had shot five miles
out. Then back we rolled, looking down on the
swift Namtu on its way to the Sittaung, and
thinking how good it will be when on such
trips we can again take a swim anywhere with-
out worrying whether we swallow any of the
water, and eat the fruit from the roadside stalls
without first washing it in weak Condy’s.
“Naturala”: Like “Zake” (B. 11/7/’45)
I have never seen a gull nor, indeed, any
sea bird drink. But fish, their food, con-
tains a lot of water. Take half a dozen
of any small fry, place them dry in a
jar, cover with dry salt. Inside 48 hours
they will be covered with water, the salt
all dissolved. The only place that water
could come from would be out of the fish.
* * * *
“Zake”: Nugget, the young city-bred
chap just settling in to his first station
job, developed a raging toothache on
Sunday, and it would be Wednesday be-
fore the dentist visited the township.
After trying a few methods to stop it,
without success, Nugget hearkened to the
advice given by Long Jim, the shearers’
cook. “Y’ know the corn on the inside of
a horse’s leg,” said Jim ; “well, y’ pare the
hard part away until y’ come to the soft
core. Cut a bit off that and shove it in the
holler tooth an’ it’ll stop achin’ right
“ Look —a trey-bit!"
away.” Nugget departed for the horse-
yard. A few minutes later there came a
squeal from the yard, followed by a
double thud and the sound of galloping
hooves. Five minutes later the boss was
bending over Nugget, who was stretched
out groaning on a bed. After the iodine
had been applied to a bruise the size of
a soup-plate on his side and the boss had
opined that no ribs were broken, Nugget
looked up and saw the bab. “You an’
yer blanky remedies! ” he gasped—“a
man oughta job y’ one! ” Jim looked at
the stricken one. “How’s y’r toothache?”
he asked calmly. Nugget put his hand
to his jaw and then he registered amaze-
ment. “Cripes, it’s gone! ”he said. Long
Jim leaned down and patted his shoulder.
“Y’ see,” he said. “Always stick to my
advice and y’ll never be far out.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were building some
sheep-yards on contract when a young
bloke arrived with a swag and asked for
a job. Mat, always sympathetic towards
anyone up against it, persuaded me to
agree to putting him on. Our assistant
didn’t know much about the work, nor
was he anxious to do much, and on
the second day Mat chipped him. “Look,
Joe, get a wriggle on with them rails. Me
an’ me mate is standin’ waitin’ for ’em
half the time, an’ that’s no good.” The
assistant was undismayed. “What’s the
blanky hurry?” he asked calmly. “Rome
wasn’t built in a day, y’ know.” Mat
sighed; then he said “I’ve heard that be-
fore. I’ve wondered about it a bit, an’
about the only conclusion I can come to
is that it was because me an’ me mate
didn’t get the contract. But we got this
one an’ I’m runnin’ it an’ you’re out o’
work. Common up t’ the camp an’ get
your money.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: We were yarning on the
verandah of Bunglebung’s only pub when
an ancient tourer coughed and sputtered
down the street to the bowser. Followed
the usual pantomime of Fred bustling out,
unlocking the pump and saying “ ’nother
frost t’night” ; then the crock purred away
on the highway like a good ’un. _ “Hell!”
ejaculated Brady, as the usual thick cloud
of blue smoke failed to issue from the
exhaust pipe, “Fred must be mixin’ petrol
with his karaseen! ”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Always used to con-
sider the Queenscliff fishermen, who
slash their 30ft. half-deckers through
tidewhipped Bass Strait, were the best
small-boat handlers in Australia, but I
now give the belt to the Torres
Strait natives from Darnley Island. These
fine boys, on their picturesque mountain-
top island at the northerly end of the
Great Barrier Reef and about 140 miles
north-east of Thursday Island, were sail-
ing-canoe artists till a Swedish ship s
carpenter settled there —he married an
island girl and started shell-buying. The
old windjammer hand began building the
natives 16-foot clinker open boats on
the lines of Yorkshire cobbles. Cutter-
rigged, they sail like Balmain 18-footers,
and are fine boats in a seaway. Last
year I watched Jimmy Pau, the Queens-
land Government native schoolteacher
at Darnley, beat home 17 miles from
Stevens Island against a fierce sou’-
easter. In these engineless open boats
the islanders also work the reefs
for miles out. Old Toby Cedar and his
son, with a 10-foot dinghy in tow, often
beat 26 miles to lonely Anchor Cay in
the exposed Coral Sea, and on the 500
acres or so of detached reef on which
that small, almost awash, barren sand-
bank sits these two, in three or four
days, load 16cwt. of trocus, worth around
£BO today. Then, picking their weather,
they sail back to Darnley quite uncon-
cerned, Asked about it, Toby said “Oh,
if the weather gets too rough we simply
dump our shell and go back for more
sometime.”
“Anthropo”: The primitive abo. artist
was highly decorative, considering the
stubbornness of his material and the
poorness of his tools, a sharp stone
or fragment of shell or the glow-
ing point of a hardwood stick,
while even his animal drawings are by
no means to be despised. But with the
form divine he was a failure. And the
most curious point is that when he did
start to depict a face he never gave it
a mouth. Why, is one of the riddles that
have passed with him.
CONVOY ON THE OVERLAND.
Y’re gettin’ round at daybreak in a pair of
dusty shorts
While the sun is rubbin’ sleep out of ’is eyes;
Y’ starts t’ warm y’r engine, but she splutters
an’ she snorts,
Then y’ rev her, and'she takes it. Then she
dies.
Y’ snatch a bite o’ breakfast an’ a scaldin’ cup
o’ tea,
Then leam about the road that lies ahead;
Y’ gather round the skipper with ’is map-board
on ’is knee
And the track y’ got t’ cover marked in red.
Now they’re rollin’ in their order and they make
a pretty sight
As they slowly string along the windin’ track,
A hundred yards between ’em in the early
mornin’ light,
Their engines burnin’ oil and belchin’ black.
They stretches out before y’ in a never-endin’
line '
That snakes along the clearin’ through the
trees;
They dips into the gullies with a loud, reluc-
tant whine
An’ staggers up the incline with a wheeze.
Y’ slip into the rivers with y’r engine runnin’
slow,
And y’r tailboard pointin’ straight towards
the sky;
Y’ creep across the river-bed and slam her into
low —
Y’r foot slaps on the floorboards an’ y’ fly.
Then again y’re in the open an’ y’ slowly roll
along
With y’r feet up on the screen, an’ throttle set,
An’ y’ try to drown the rattles of the chassis
with a song
About a sheila in Jerusalem y’ met.
Then it’s lunchin’ in the timber and y’ see the
curlin’ smoke
As they’re stokin’ up to make the billy boil.
Y’ swing in close beside ’em with the everlastin’
joke ,
That y’ stopped t’ see the sheila at the
“Royal.”
Then y’ add y’r share of water an’ they starts
t’ brew the tea
While y’ opens up a tin o’ bully beef —
An’ y’ view the sordid contents as y’ lean
against a tree
An’ express eternal sentiments o’ grief.
An’ y’re dousin’ out the fires an’ y’re gett'in’
under way
For another twenty miles or so of dust;
And there’s gullies, sand an’ melon hole like
ev’ry other day,
An’ at times y’ swear y’r engine’s gonna bust.
For half an hour there’s panic when y’ reach
the biv-ou-ac;
Y’re fillin’ up y’r tanks an’ greasin’ springs;
Then y’ head towards the river with y’r razor
an’ y’r pack,
An’ y’ changes from y’r shorts to cleaner
things.
An’ y’ feel a different feller when y’ve had a
plate of stew
An’ y’ roll y’ blankets.out and take a spell;
Y’ sort d’ fall t’ thinkin’ o’ them other days
y’ knew— .
An’ y’ come to the conclusion war is hell.
There’s a clamor from the workshops where the
lamps are all alight,
Preparin’ for another hard day’s push;
An’ y’re lyin’ in y’r blankets in the blessed
peace o’ night,
Listenin’ to the noises of the bush.
A.I.F.
STEWART JAMES.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON SJOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTy.
%
(L
y
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ỳ
Jhe safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
OnogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
c
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
pf any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Mules and Manchester.
“Outback”: Although over a million
sheep in central-western Queensland have
been successfully “Mulesed” «s a preven-
tive against blowfly, many graziers still
refuse to treat their flocks. Government
veterinary officers, after several years’
experience with the operation, are en-
thusiastic regarding the immunity it
affords, and desire to see it become a
routine procedure on every sheep station
at lambmarking time.
If ewe weaners'were subjected to it each
year it would require only about four
or five years before a whole flock had
been treated. After a few hours’ tuition
any sheep man can treat up to 1000 per
day, so it cannot be claimed to be too
arduous. Officers of the Department of
Agriculture give full demonstrations at
field days or when visiting properties.
This service is not being availed of to the
extent which the value of the latest scien-
tific method of the operation warrants.
“Sheepo”: When I first saw the Man-
chester method fpr fly immunity a grazier
objected to it because it made “sheep look
like hairless monkeys,” but even if the
after parts of treated sheep do look like
that the loss of wool counts for naught
if its removal beats the flies. During
paddock treatment of crutch-struck sheep
with shears hundreds of bales of wool are
probably left to blow away annually.
With the Manchester method the first loss
is the only one, and if further tests
amongst dense-woolled wrinkly types
achieve the same success as has resulted
amongst plainer-bodied sheep in Queens-
land, success in minimising crutch strike
is assured,
A number of possibilities arise from
the Manchester method, the chief and
most important one being that with a bare
crutch offering no retention field for
urine, and thus little or no attraction for
flies, treated sheep will hardly prove
attractive to flies at all. Thus body strike
may be greatly reduced. It is not to be
expected that flies will pass by Man-
chester-treated sheep, but with the natural
magnet about the crutch missing it is
obvious that the sheep will not have the
same attraction for primary flies, and
they’re the pests that initiate a strike. .
Soybeans.
“H. Early”: Much has been made of
the soybean and its alleged insurpassable
virtues as both a fodder crop and a
source of protein food for both humans
and animals, but most of its publicists
seem to forget that it comes from a region
rather lean in nutritious crops. Further,
it has been exploited in a land of harsh
winters and hot summers, as an annual,
where much better perennial crops such
as lucerne cannot be grown successfully.
In Manchukuo the soybean is grown
mainly for its seed, which is turned into
a meal of protein in many forms to a
meat-hungry people. The Japanese made
it a staple diet, and converted it into by-
products of 'an amazing range. Many
of those same by-products can be made
equally well from peanuts, and Kingaroy
"Look, Mumma —the boy's caught his first ’roo!"
(Q.) peanuts are equal to any in the
world.
Soybeans cannot be grown herewith any-
thing like success. All the popular Ameri-
can and Canadian varieties have failed.
Only one has succeeded in Australia,
and. that one (a South African) proved
a success on the New England tablelands
(N.S.W.). There it brought good returns
to growers during the war period. In-
spired by that success, an envoy of the
Commonwealth Government, an en-
thusiast with a grand agricultural record
but little knowledge of the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture’s tests, has been
combing the Americas for seeds of proven
varieties. They are already here, have
been tried and found wanting.
Australians, like Americans, have not
taken kindly to the bitter taste and thin,
hard texture of the soybean seeds in tins
for household use. They prefer the older
and now popular “Boston” or Little Navy
beans, which have proved a successful
war-time crop in New England as well
as other Australian climates and soils. In
that they show good sense, because we
have a big protein ration in meat, with
peanuts, broad beans, green peas and even
the common garden nasturtium growing
wild by the roadside as a prolific source
of protein when needed.
Save the Fodder.
# “Pat Ater”: It has been a “green
winter” from Bourke to Bega (N.S.W.)
and beyond, with reports of similar con-
ditions in Victoria, S.A. and Queensland.
Once the warmth of early spring hits
this new growth the response is rapid. It
looks like a repetition of 1943, when
cereal and pasture growth was prolific.
But in 1943 no manpower was made
available to store it, and it went up in
fires or rotted on the ground. Then
came the drought, and the result we
know.
In England, under similar circum-
stances, troops were requisitioned. They
gathered in a precious national asset in
three weeks. In our 1943 camps troops
in thousands were eating their hearts
out with ennui. But officials, when
appealed to for labor to cut hay, were
adamant. “No manpower for meadow
hay,” they reiterated, as if this life-giving
substance sent magically in the middle of
a year-old drought was just wayside
offal.
Later ships were sent to New Zealand
for meadow hay, and only the combust-
ible nature of the cargo baulked that
venture. One ship nearly burnt out, and
companies refused to handle the stuff.
Our own stuff went up as bushfire tinder.
Rye-grass, phalaris tuberosa, cocksfoot,
clovers, trefoils and paspalum, as well as
some of the succulent panicums,' peas
and less nutritious native danthonias,
were amongst that wasted fodder. Even
lucerne and oaten-hay could not be
gathered.
We must offset the periodical bad times
by conserving some of the super-abund-
ance sent along in the lush. Because we
don’t do it droughts have been so costly*'
Annual average rainfall figures mean*
nothing when a 47-inch belt can get more
than half in a few terrific downpours.
Those thousands of tons of hay, if cut
and stored, would have spelt grand relief
and saved our wheat. What is the pro-
gramme ahead this year in manpower
provision to cut and store and stack the
lucerne, oaten, wheaten, phalarisan and
other succulent hay and silage and so
build a reserve against possible drought?
“Oat crops are so lush on the Hunter
that they can’t be grazed.” Don’t let us
be caught again.
Rhodes and Cotton.
“Sans Changer”: Apropos of “Nuf-
fin’s” commentary on the Queensland
cotton, situation, the benefits accruing
from the Rhodes grass-cotton rotation
are remarkable. Where repeated cotton
planting has been the practice the soil
receives an excessive supply of nitrate
nitrogen, thereby causing a rank growth
in the event of a wet mid-season. Rhodes
grass reduces this condition to an ex-
tremely low level, besides improving the
porous condition of the soil, thereby im-
proving quantity and quality of the grass
and the resultant output of butter-fat per
acre.
Bileola Research station produced 3?
tons of air-dried hay from a second-year
crop following a three-year cotton crop.
Such hay is extremely rich in milk-pro-
ducing proteins and is more palatable to
grazing stock. Additionally, cotton-seed
meal, one of the many by-products of the
cotton plant, is a stock food of high pro-
tein value.
Investigation at Bileola into irrigation
has produced amazing results. After a
three-acre inch spray irrigation, 1741 b. of
seed cotton was obtained against 65311 b.
of rain-grown cotton, whilst another test
of five varieties yielded 18221 b. minimum
and a maximum of 19271 b. per acre.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Segregate the sow some
days before she is due to farrow —in an
individual pen or paddock with a shelter-
shed. Keep up the green food or bran,
with water or separated milk to aid bowel
movement. Make a safety zone for the
young pigs by fixing rails to the walls of
the farrowing pen, leaving clearances of
9in. from the floor and 7in. from the
wall. During the pre-farrowing period
treat for skin parasites by spraying with
crude petroleum oil or used engine oil
with a handful of sulphur added.
“Nuffin”: Many Queensland graziers
are using sulphanilarnide ointment for
controlling cattle blight. One breeder
claims that all affected cattle will be cured
after three applications.
“F. 8.”; To get rid of a white-ants’
nest make a hole. 1 Sin. wide in the side
of the nest until you reach the centre.
Then with a crowbar drive a hole down
the centre from the top to act as a chim-
ney. Make a fire in the side hole, get it
going and your work is finished. The fire
will do the rest by smouldering until there
is nothing left but ashes.
“Nedher”: When mixing whitewash for
the cowsheds, stables or poultry pens, dis-
solve the whiting in separated milk and
add a pound of glue to each two gallons
of wash. This wash will resist moisture
to a great extent, lasts longer, does not
rub off easily and does not discolor under
weather changes.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Wandering Horde in Europe.
(From an article by N.Y. "Times” corre-
spondent John MacCormac.)
“Non-repatriables” is the term in which
officialdom cloaks one of the greatest
problems the European war has left us.
The problem is posed by a million per-
sons who, having fled'or been driven from
their homes, are unable or unwilling to
return to them. It has left Lithuanians
hiding in Germany, Cossacks wandering
with their wives, children and horses
through the passes of northern Italy, Poles
enrolling in what looks like a British
Foreign Legion, Yugoslavs seeking sanc-
tuary in British prisoner-of-war camps or
a new home in labor-hungry France.
Some Poles do not wish to return to
their homes because these are east of the
Curzon Line, and thus to go back would
mean to become Soviet citizens. Dislike
of Soviet rule is also the motive which
makes many expatriated Lithuanians,
Letts and Estonians unwilling to be swal-
lowed up as their countries have been.
And the reluctance of absent Yugoslavs
to return is the result of the civil war
between the forces of Tito and Chetnik,
adherents of Mikhailovich.
Baltic sources in London have esti-
mated that several hundred thousand
Lithuanians, Letts and Estonians, but
mostly Lithuanians, either fled before the
Russians or were taken by the Germans
into Germany and will not want to return.
If this is right most of these people must
either have been uncovered by the Red
Army or gone underground in Germany.
Comparatively few have been discovered
so far by Shaef, which may be just
as well, since the maintenance in self-
imposed exile by the Western Powers of
too many unwilling citizens of the
U.S.S.R. can have its complications.
Only some tens of thousands of Yugo-
slav civilians have been discovered by
Shaef in labor camps in Germany.
The real Yugoslav repatriation problem is
presented by the Chetniks —the number
is not known —who surrendered to Gen-
eral Alexander’s forces and were interned
in northern Italy. They had been fighting
against Tito in the name, they said, of
King Peter, and they were genuinely sur-
prised when their British captors dis-
armed them. Tito’s Government, which
desires the return of all Yugoslavs and
has promised pardon to Chetniks not
guilty of war crimes, has been recognised
by Britain.
The Allied armies found some 80,000
to 100,000 Russians in France who were
members of General Vlasoff’s White Rus-
sian Army, which fought with the Wehr-
macht. There were more in the German
Todt Organisation, which did engineer
work for the German war machine.
Moscow, after first exhibiting little in-
terest in the fate of these captives, an-
nounced finally that it would welcome
them back as Soviet citizens. It was
agreed at Yalta to return them, and they
are being shipped from Marseilles to
Odessa. Many went against their will,
and were in doubt about the genuineness
of the welcome promised them.
Most of the dissident Russian emigres
are Ukrainians and Cossacks, When the
Eighth Army drove up from Italy into
Austria it found 24,000 Cossacks crowd-
ing the mountain roads with their wooden
wagons and horses. This division of 8000
soldiers with their 16,000 wives and
children had taken nearly a year to tick
from the Don to the Alps.
Small in number but difficult to pro-
vide for are the expatriated Jews. By a
recent decision of Shaef they are to
be treated, even though of German origin,
as if they were Allied nationals. This
means that they will not be sent home
against their will.
Few German Jews, it has been learned,
wish to return to a Germany whose cities
have been destroyed. Few Austrian, Ru-
manian or Hungarian Jews want to go
back to those countries if they are to be
dominated by Russia.
What Jews in Germany will want to do
is one of the unanswered questions which
make the whole future of that country
an interrogation point.
U.S. Pacific Bases Claim.
(From "United States News.")
The United States is taking Pacific
islands at a high price. The cost to date
approximates $10,000,000,000 and not far
from 200,000 casualties. That is the price
just to recover the mandated islands.
The job of defeating Japan herself still
lies ahead and the cost is certain to be
steep.
This experience explains the U.S. Army
and Navy insistence that this time the
U.S. cannot surrender its investment, as
it did after the war with Spain in 1898
and with Germany in 1918. The Army-
Navy attitude is receiving strong support
in Congress. President Roosevelt never
questioned it and President Truman is
even less inclined to modify the policy.
Pacific areas definitely to be under U.S.
supervision include the Japanese man-
dates in the Marianas, the Carolines and
the Marshalls, and the Bonins and Vol-
canoes, Japanese territory now being con-
quered. That is regarded as the mini-
mum chain of islands needed by the
United States to guarantee future peace
in the Pacific and to fulfil U.S. commit-
ments for security of the Philippines.
The United States has also spent
money and lives in establishing bases in
the Solomons, the Admiralties, the Gil-
berts and New Guinea. Except for the
Gilberts, those islands, too, were taken
from Germany under mandate in 1919.
The Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernments, in the Canberra Agreement
signed last year, state that this outlay
does not entitle the United States to any
territorial claims in that area. A con-
siderable group in Congress, however,
believes that the U.S. could rightly insist
upon future access to these bases in view
of the effort put forth to reconquer them
and to establish a foothold for the move
against Japan.
Rising China.
[Part of the widespread Leftist reporting of
world affairs is the “bad press” which Chiang
Kai-shek gets as compared to the favorable Press
accorded the Northern China Communists. The
report on China here given is from a statement
by American leader in China Lieut .-General
A. C. Wedemeyer, interviewed for “Colliers. ]
China is on the way to a unity, a
strength and an efficiency that will make
her an aggressive and dependable ally.
A hard, toilsome way, _ still thick w’ffi
obstacles, but the climb is steady. In the
final decisive stages of the war, when we
will need a continental force to close with
the enemy, I have the deep conviction
that Chinese armies can be counted on
for valuable contributions to the com-
mon effort.
These predictions have firmer base
than hope or optimism. Today the
Chinese military establishment and the
American military establishment, the
Chinese Government and the American
Embassy in Chungking are a team
pledged to teamwork. Chiang Kai-shek
is keeping that pledge, for in our daily
contact I have yet to meet with a failure
in complete co-operation; a strong man,
rigid in many respects, but owning an
open mind and the courage to buck
tradition.
With his full consent and backing, the
Chinese army is in process of reorgani-
sation, a new merit system is putting
competent officials in key places, and the
ancient supply service is being over-
hauled. Thanks to Donald Nelson and
oth'er American experts, China has a
War Production Board, and order is
being brought out of a well-nigh incred-
ible chaos. “Squeeze,” long regarded as
a perfectly legitimate practice, now meets
with severe punishment, and bureaucracy
is also feeling the Generalissimo’s heavy
hand. He has dismissed 19,000 em-
ployees from the conscription service and
has cut the number of offices in half.
In my position I cannot discuss China s
political conditions, but I can say that
when the Japanese advance threatened
the vital area between Kweiyang and
Kunming I requested a release of troops
from the so-called “blockading army of
the North,” supposed to number 150,000.
The Generalissimo, without discussion,
authorised me to take as many as I
needed. I decided on 60,000 men as the
number that could be flown down from
Sian. They were regarded as the pick of
Chinese fighting men, but medical exami-
nation eliminated some 23,000.
The remainder stopped the Japanese
drive toward Chungking, and they, re-
inforced by the United-States-trained
troops from Burma, have been respon-
sible for driving the Japs back toward
the South China coast and severing the
Jap-held rail line to Indo-China and
Thailand.
Do not understand me as saying that
China’s problems have been solved. Far
from it. Progress is bound to be slow
heartbreakingly slow in all likelihood •
and there is the chance that conditions
may get worse before they get better.
You don’t change a country over from
medievalism in a few years, and war-torn
years at that. China started from miles
behind scratch and, in spite of advances,
is still behind scratch. But the people
have the spirit, and their leadership has
the will.
Proof is afforded by the record. A
pacific, totally unprepared nation has
stood up against a powerful enemy for
more than seven years, pitting inadequate
and obsolete equipment against modern
armies, and enduring horrors of devasta-
tion. And throughput that same period
of sack and massacre the Generalissimo
has never once given ear to the peace
offers that the Japanese have made with
increasing regularity.
The supply picture, as a whole, is still
far from rosy. The railroad situation
is bad, the main highways are not as good
as our rural roads, and trucks remain a
headache. At last count there were only
6000 in all Free China, and the newest
of them was three years old.
To meet the lack of mechanical trans-
port the Chinese have built up what they
call “stage lines.” But for the pluck
behind them they would be laughed at
by the most backward American com-
munity. Rafts, junks and carts are pulled
by men and animals —horses, mules,
donkeys, camels. Where no roads or
waterways are available but only rough
trails human carriers are used, packing
as much as 901 b. per man, and covering
20 miles a day.
It is in connection with the military
establishment, however, that the greatest
reforms are foreseen. Through the cen-
turies, for instance, Chinese armies have
been drawn from the peasantry and
herded into uniform at the point of
the bayonet. Military service was scorned
by the better classes, and honor was for
the scholars. Now China has a Selective
Service Act much like our own, and an
Educated Youth Corps of 100,000 drawn
from China’s 61ite is nearly ready for
the field. Chiang Kai-shek’s son and the
sons of high officials are in uniform,
sharing dangers and hardships side by
side with soldiers of the coolie class. I
have asked the Generalissimo several
times to let me have his son for staff
duty, but he refused to take him away
from combat. . .
It used to be that a soldier received
about $1.50 a month, out of which he
had to pay for his rations. Today he gets
$3O a month, and his food and clothing
are furnished by the Government. Medi-
cal care was not even a promise a few
years ago, but now there are field and
base hospitals, training schools for
nurses and blood banks.
From what I have seen with my own
eyes I have no -hesitation in saying that
the Chinese have fought, are fighting and
will keep on until Japan’s complete de-
feat. Adequately armed and trained,
properly fed and well officered, they
make as good soldiers as any in the
world. This is not my own unsupported
judgment. Ask General Dan Sultan,
who has had 75,000 of them with him in
the Burmese jungles.
It is untrue that the first three battles
of Changsha were sham affairs, the
Japanese advancing only to gather the
crops, and then retreating. In each of
the battles, as I have studied them, the
Generalissimo followed much the same
pattern. Road wrecking immobilised the
enemy’s mechanised units, while mines,
planted under heavy aircraft fire, pre-
vented Jap warships and auxiliary vessels
from coming up the rivers. Then, in-
stead of offering frontal resistance, the
Chinese withdrew, and, under cover of
intense retreating action, shifted strong
forces to the Japanese flanks and rear.
After “sucking in” the enemy, they
attacked and won decisive victories.
I think the Chinese a great people with
a bone-deep love of country and an in-
tense ambition to take their place in the
family of nations. In China today there
is the upswing of a new, modern spirit,
and plain evidence of a determination
to cast off the medievalism imposed by
centuries of Manchu rule. And I have
come to esteem the Generalissimo as a
great leader, a real patriot and an inspir-
ing, unifying force.
Proof of it, to my mind, is furnished
by the fact that when the opposition is
asked to name a man for his post, in
event of deposition, all disavow any
thought of replacing him. From my
conversations with him, I know that he
counts the days until a congress, elected
by the whole people, can frame demo-
cratic laws for democratic government.
With such a people and such a leader
how can China be counted out?
Luxury Aloft.
(The U.S. President’s luxurious ’plane, as de-
scribed in N.Y. "Herald Tribune.”)
President Truman has all the comforts
of home when he travels by air. The
Presidential ’plane is equipped with every-
thing from an electric refrigerator to an
elevator.
The huge converted C-54 transport
probably is the most luxurious thing on
wings. The interior is sound-proofed in
a new scientific way, which is so effective
that the four powerful motors barely can
be heard when-the ship is breezing along
at 250 miles an hour. Normal conver-
sation is as easily audible as in a hotel
room, and the music from one radio can
be heard throughout the ’plane
The central room is the President s
stateroom. It is entirely upholstered in
tan fabric and leather, even the walls, in
this room is a handsome glass-toppea
mahogany table bearing the Great Seat
of the United States. Each corner is
studded with inlaid ashtrays. Thcr® 18
a wide couch upholstered in bright blue,
the color of the curtains, which bear the
emblems of the four armed services. A
large bed comes out of the wall over the
couch. , ,
The stateroom also has two large up-
holstered chairs which can be turned and
tilted in any. position on special metal
tracks. By the President’s chair is an
elaborate radio set and telephone facili-
ties for communicating with any member
of the crew or party aboard. Navigation
instruments are set- in a wall panel.
Tucked into the radio compartment is the
President’s oxygen mask for high-altitude
flying*. The stateroom also has a clothes
closet and a bathroom. . ' , ~
There are sleeping facilities in told-up
berths for five other passengers, plus two
bunks forward for the pilot and co-pilo|.
For daytime travel the ’plane has super
comfortable seating facilities for 15 per-
S °The kitchen or galley would be the
delight of an efficiency apartment de-
signer. Into one small section of the
crew quarters in the nose of the ship have
been tucked a stainless-steel sink, a two-
burner electric stove, a good-sized electric
refrigerator, lockers for food, pots and
pans, an electric toaster and a specially-
designed electrically-heated locker m
which pre-cooked food can be kept oven-
fresh and warm for 24 hours or more.
The ’plane has its own water system.
The elevator, operated by an auxiliary
gasoline motor or by batteries, was placed
in the rear of the ship for the benefit o
Mr. Roosevelt. The elevator is so de-
signed that it folds up into the floor of
the ’plane and no part of it is visible
inside or outside the ’plane when not in
US The ’plane has a range of about 4000
miles, with a cruising speed of 220 miles
an hour. Its equipment includes a locKer
packed with parachutes.
Lend-Lease Conjuring.
(From an article by S. H. Scheibla, staff corre-
spondent of N.Y. "Wall-street Journal." )
When American artillery mowed down
coconut trees on Guadalcanal that was
just war. But when bulldozers knocked
down more of them to make room for
an airfield that was reverse lend-lease.
When the U.S. took over the Cairo
Hotel in Egypt at a price so embarrass-
ing that it’s still called a “military secret
that wasn’t extravagance. It was reverse
lend-lease.
Altogether, officials of the U.S. Foreign
Economic Administration calculate that
America has received $5 billion of reverse
lend-lease. Yet the trick has been done
without a penny of currency crossing the
seas.
Reverse lend-lease is a bookkeeping
device. It comes in handy at times,
though occasionally its ramifications aie
a public accountant’s nightmare.
This sort of repayment has been made
in thousands of ways—by turning over
to U.S. armed forces 50 p.c. of all French
railroad capacity; by giving them the
use of most Belgian docks, unloading
facilities and warehousesby feeding
them Australian food; by housing them
in British hotels.
Reverse lend-lease totals grow by can-
cellation of what would otherwise be
U.S. debts. Those Guadalcanal coconut-
trees, for instance, would have cost
America $1 apiece, since their destruction
was not caused by outright combat.
The British Government, which has
sovereignty over the island, assumes this
debt to the natives, and U.S. chalks up
reverse lend-lease credit to Britain.
Lend-lease swung into reverse when
American fighting men first went over-
seas, and presumably will continue until
they come back. At the beginning,
F.E.A. spokesmen say, U.S. soldiers were
a little hazy as to how the programme
was supposed to operate. Some of them
in foreign lands walked into stores and
selected whatever merchandise took their
fancy. Australian shopkeepers, having
heard of the new system of lend-lease in
reverse, started out by telling the sol-
diers everything was free. They kept
track of what they gave away, however,
and presented their Governments with
bills for things like fancy handkerchiefs,
perfume and jewellery. Such shopping


4
FOR THF WAR TODAY..
SAND TYRES
These specially designed
and constructed tyres,
used with such marked
success in desert warfare,
were evolved in 1950 by
DUNLOP
FOR THF WORLD TOMORROW/
Before the war Dunlop foresight
made possible many of the inven-
tions which subsequently helped to
outwit the enemy. During the war
Dunlop research and inventions have
continued to contribute towards
victory. Out of all these enterprises
today are being born new ideas
and new ideals for tomorrow. When
peace returns you will feel the full
benefit of all that has been achiev-J
ed by Dunlop technicians in war.
DUNLOP
Sssior busses austbalia limited
Just like 9 H
and
Flashlight Batteries
must always be
Fwm nowon...
LOOK FOR me
Flashlight batteries last much longer when they’re fresh!
Now—on every Eveready No. 950 flashlight battery you
will see a dateline guaranteeing its freshness telling
you the exact period in which it should be used. You’ve
seen datelines like this on other things. But it’s far more
important to see it on your flashlight battery, because
your safety and your comfort and your peace of
mind can depend on the battery in your flashlight.
eVEREADy
trade-mark
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
They last longer because you always get them fresh .
sprees ended abruptly when the Army
set up a system of strict accountability
for everything purchased under reverse
lend-lease.
Often U.S. representatives have seemed
over-liberal in the reverse lend-lease credit
they have been willing to assign to the
property furnished their forces. The
Cairo Hotel is cited by War Department
officials as a case in which the U.S. may
have been “gypped” in the bookkeeping
arrangement.
Some U.S. officials see no point in
strict economy in purchases under re-
verse lend-lease unless luxury buying
creates scarcity in the Allied nation in-
volved. They argue that the U.S. will
never receive full payment for lend-lease
aid anyway, and that it will do well to
get whatever it can in reverse lend-lease.
The U.S. lend-lease bill to some Allied
nations, however, is overbalanced by
what has been furnished in reverse lend-
lease. Lend-lease exports. to Australia
and New Zealand last year were valued
at $366,456,000, while reverse lend-lease
from these countries was valued at
$437,842,000.
The United Kingdom owes the U.S.
the biggest lend-lease bill, and it has fur-
nished the major share of reverse lend-
lease aid. Up to January 1, 1945, ‘Great
Britain had spent $3,352,000,000 for sup-
plies and services for the U.S. This was
in addition to $2,000,000,000 of supplies
and services Britain supplied to the other
United Nations. During the same period
the U.S. sent $11,960,625,000 of lend-
lease goods to Great Britain.
The F.E.A. does not have much to
say on the matter of reverse lend-
lease from Russia, which received
$8,409,695,000 of lend-lease goods from
the U.S. up to April 1, 1945. Here is an
official statement on the subject. “Until
last year no U.S. forces were stationed
in Soviet territory and the occasion for
reverse lend-lease which the Soviets were
in a position to furnish did not arise ex-
cept services for U.S. merchant and
naval vessels in Soviet ports. During the
past year, however, shuttle-bombing
bases were established in Russia for the
U.S. air force. The Soviet Union pro-
vided as reverse lend-lease many of the
supplies and services needed for these
bases. This aid has included much of
the material and labor used in building
these bases, part of the equipment, much
of the food for crews and mechanics,
and many other operational supplies and
services.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
A majority of the French people are pro-
foundly grateful to Gen. de Gaulle for his
leadership at a moment when French national
honor seemed to be shadowed. They fail as
yet to grasp that the suspicion of every move
emanating from Washington which Gen. de
Gaulle has consistently shown is almost psycho-
pathic. Gen. de Gaulle persists in belittling the
aid which the United States has rendered the
French people. He has seemed to have no
desire to clear up misunderstandings between
the two Governments. He appears seriously
to believe that the best way to obtain assistance
from the United States is through an exhibition
of bad manners or through pressure tactics.—
Former U.S. Under-Secretary of State Sumner
Welles.
* * * *
The U.S. House Military Affairs Committee,
reporting to Congress on its investigating of the
commissioning of communists by the Army,
said: “Since 1919 communists have been every-
where at work within this country, supported
and financed liberally from abroad, and if they
are able to do so they will penetrate within the
armed forces on which we rely for security.”
It said that the aim of overthrowing the Govern-
ment in order to set up a communist State has
not been visible in communist propaganda since
the day Germany invaded Russia. It added,
however: “Groups of determined communists
here have not' changed their ideas, and will con-
tinue, with or without outside aid, to plot such
a revolution as they think will realise the Marx-
Lenin dream, and will stop at nothing to accom-
plish their aim.”— U.S. “United Press.”
• * * *
Royal Automobile Club officials estimated
that approximately 1,000,000 pleasure cars
thronged English highways on the first Sunday
filter restoration of the basic gasoline ration
of four gallons monthly. But the motorists
found that the old ’bus wasn’t what it used to
be. The main roads were dotted with broken
down automobiles. — N.Y. “Times.”
* ♦ * ♦
With the danger of air raids ended and
shelters being closed the “Bun Special” trains
which provided canteen service for Londoners
sleeping in subway shelters ran for the last
time on May 3. _ Impromptu parties were
held in some shelters as occupants gave up
bunks which they have occupied for a long
time. At Holborn station the “Bun Special”
ceremoniously served Mrs. George Ramsay,
who had slept there since 1940. —“Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
The surging feeling of patriotism and inter-
national goodwill among people of the United
States is reflected in their demands on the
country’s flag makers. At present the sustained
demand for sets of United Nations flags, which
reached its peak at the beginning of the Con-
ference at San Francisco, is most noticeable,
The demand for American flags reflected heigh-
tened public feeling after June 10, 1940, nine-
teen months before the attack on Pearl Harbor.
When President Roosevelt made his “dagger
in the back” denunciation of Italy United
States flag makers were affected immediately.
The demand for American flags of all specih-
cations soared An overwhelming demand for
flags began after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
It reached the peak in 1942, m wffich year one
company manufactured more than 25,000,000.
The biggest customers were the Army and Navy.
It costs about $l2OO to equip a battleship with
the 200 flags and pennants if requires, including
two sets of Code signals of forty
pennants each. The United Nations flag most
difficult to manufacture is that of Saudi Arabia.
This flag has a green background on which are
superimposed m white Arabic characters an in-
scnplion which, when translated, reads: There
is no god but God, and Mohammed is the
prophet of God. Christian Science Monitor ■
* * * *
The Russian plan is to build up the military
machine, construct a powerful navy and indus-
trialise the country. To carry out such a
programme the Soviets will need outside finan-
cial help. That is where the United States
comes in. Either to lend the money for a major
part of this programme, or to put up funds for
feeding, clothing and housing the civilians, while
their money is diverted to building up the
“might” of Russia. Which is one-and the
same. It would be difficult, if not impossible,
for Russia to carry out the programme on her
own .-Financial editor, N.Y. Journal-Amen-
can '
* * * *
Thirty years ago in New York a district attor-
ney confronted a lean, shabby inventor who had
been hailed into court on charges of using the
mails to defraud. The prosecutor held up before
the jury a glass gadget which looked like a small
electric-light bulb with wires protruding from the
top. He accused the defendant, Lee De Forest,
of claiming that this “worthless” device might
some day transmit the human voice across the
Atlantic Ocean, and stated that gullible investors
had been persuaded by such preposterous claims
to buy shares in De Forest’s company. He
urged prison sentences for this man and his
SS,
t ' f Oll J ll6 It is the loundation
of today’s four-bilhon-dollar electronics xndustty.
Less than two years after the trial De Forests
scorned audion tube did carry the human
voice across the Atlantic Ocean. From an
Argosy article by Harland Manchester.
* * * *
For American businessmen India is one of the
mightiest potential markets on the globe, about
to enter upon an industrial era that will release the
latent energies of one-fifth of the human race.
She will want machinery for farm and factory;
she will want tens of thousands of products
that America can provide. We of America
have a stake in India. For oui own well-being,
if for no higher reason, we can no longer trunk
of India as outside our world. We cannot deny
her our interest or leave her alls and misfortunes
to others to cure. N.Y. Times.
* * * *
The Great Powers wiU be constantly on trial
na[jons in their custod i an .
f the world ’ s pea ce. They can expect the
ful f suppor£ of these nations, we believe, only
foll " ing the principles which Mr. Stettinius
oatlined as the basis of American policy-the
.. of justice and fair dealmg for all
£ Jes States large an d small,” together
» al rights an d self-determination” for
ad xbat j s by no means an American whim,
j \ the bardest; kind of realism, which realises
since our power mus t henceforth be
thrQ ’ wn into the scales constantly in the effort
tQ rve peace an d freedom, our interests,
stettinius says, necessarily “extend to the
. , * world » Xbe defence of these interests
js and must be the touc hstone of American
fore - po ii cy . The United States will gladly
atten^pt me diate between other Great Powers
when there is disagreement among them, but we
can never abdicate leadership in behalf of our
own interests, or delimit these interests to special
“spheres,” on the theory that this is the best
way to avoid running counter to the interests
of other nations. Such spheres could easily
become mere armed camps, m preparation tor
another test of strength. _ Ihe best hope ot
peace lies in conlident and generous co-opera-
tion by the Great Powers on a world basis,
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
h forces in j to revolt
& . t the tyranny above them they might
surrender in confidence that we [U.S.A.] would
not maltreat 100,000,000 people who, after all,
have never had enough to eat. But there is no
sign that such forces exist; no sign that the
shoguns and the chauvinists would not prefer
to sacrifice the whole nation rather than yield
their own domestic power. There can be no
secure peace in the Pacific until either the lap-
anese aggression cult is uprooted or completely
deprived of its economic power to wage war,
or b oth. And if there is no security in the
Pacific there is no security anywhere.— Chicago
“Sun.”
* * * *
„ Both foxhole religion and the prob i em 0 f
S' rtnVal .o°“
going to manifest a religious conscious-
J \ h battlefield, and those who were not
f „ Pn prallv won’t be Of course,
wiu b who Jjy discover re .
jjgj on at the f ro nt—just as there will be some
wbo w jjj j ose it—but I wouldn’t want to base
hope for a religious revival on it. The men
had the same general experiences in the first
World War yet afterwards, instead of a religious
revival, the world went the other way. ’ Right
Rev. Henry Knox Sherrill, Episcopal Bishop
of Massachusetts and last-war padre, after a
recent four of U.S. bases abroad.


:
CHARTS
Circular Chart* lot oU tYpen cl
Recording Instrument* for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
| METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STBSIt PTV. LTO. BRISBANE. O LD.
STOPvou»Rupture
Mark ® locaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
whore you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROCSSEJL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syoney.
HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us to
be copied. We enlarge, colour and
frame. We will be glad to give a quote
on any work, and the greatest care will
be taken with your original; pack your
originals in cardboard.
Our address is: —
6 Goldie Place,
G. O. KEVIN. Melbourne Cl.
Legal Notice.
RUTTLEY ELSIE (possibly known as ELSIE CLEM-
ENTS or by another name) formerly of Adamstown
near Newcastle N.S.W. a daughter of and a bene-
ficiary under the Will of the late JAMES RUTTLEY
of Adamstown Colliery Proprietor By Order of sth
November 1943 in suit in Equity No. 238 of 1943
between John Leslie Adam Plaintiff and Frederick
Paul Ruttley and others Defendants the Supreme
Court of New South Wales has directed the Master
in Equity to inquire who is entitled to the share in
the residuary estate of the late JAMES RUTTLEY
which was bequeathed by his Will to his daughter
ELSIE RUTTLEY Any person who has any infor-
mation as to the present or past whereabouts of the
said ELSIE RUTTLEY or any information which
may lead to her discovery or which may show or
tend to show that she is alive or dead or any infor-
mation as to whether she ever married or as to the
whereabouts of any husband or child or grandchild
of the said ELSIE RUTTLEY is requested kindly
to advise the undersigned without delay and particu-
larly on or before the 28th September 1945 AND
NOTICE IS THEREBY GIVEN to the said ELSIE
RUTTLEY and to all persons who may claim to be
entitled to her said share in the said estate that she and
they respectively are to send by post prepaid to the
undersigned at the address given below so as to
reach them on or before the 28th September 1945
their full names addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims in default whereof she
and they may be excluded from the benefit of the
said proceedings unless the Court or the Master in
Equity on application otherwise orders Any claimant
to the said share not residing in New South Wales
must send with the said particulars of claim the
name of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent Claimants are
to attend personally or by Solicitor before the Master
in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street
Sydney on Tuesday the 30th October 1945 at 11
a.m. being the time appointed for proceeding in the
said inquiry and for adjudicating upon the claims
which must be supported by proper evidence.
PERCY L. WILLIAMSON & CO., Solicitors, 375
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BOOKS TECHNICAL..
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Phvsi™
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Buies
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Have a “Coke . . .
a phrase of friendship
mam
/#
hi Wm
mFjj
1W
SSi=
,4?:
S \Y'N
.. .or celebrating a Scotch
ship-launching.
Have a ‘Coke’ is a phrase
of friendship that is
being heard, more and
more, wherever English
is spoken. In many lands
around the globe, Coca-
Cola is spreading the cus-
tom of the pause that re-
freshes has become a
symbol of refreshing
good will, just as it is
when served at home.
&
i r M
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE
COCA-COLA COMPANY, U S.A.
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
CRAVENA
OB
... Me mays
smodb+fiestt!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
;
*
m
4A
Kgjft:
1
ili
I
i '&
1
I :
' i
«- *
made specially to prevent sore __t_h_r_o_a_t
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Australian soldier on active service would
like to hear of someone prepared to care tor
mss., press cuttings, etc., until his discharge.
3640.
To buy After Many Days, by Fetherston-
haugh.—364l.
To buy An Outline of Australian Literature,
by Green, Modern English Literature, by Wyatt,
and Clay and Daniel Jones’s Pronunciation of
English. —3642.
Information Sought.
(I) Is a permit necessary when travelling from
Australia to M.L., and to whom must applica-
tion be made? (2) Would the visiting of relat-
ives have any priority? ,
(1) A permit has to be obtamed from the
Commonwealth Passports Officer before an
Australian resident is allowed to leave the
country. (2) No.
Jjt : * *
Some /acts about the defeat of two British
forces in Argentina in 1806 ? . -
In 1806 a force of 1600 men under Admiral
Sir Home Popham marched unopposed into
Buenos Aires. The residents rallied and drove
them out. A second force under General While
lock came in July, 1807, but was repulsed,
and had to surrender. It retired from Argen
tina in the same year.
* * * * . .
How many trade-unionists are there in Aus-
In 1940 union membership totalled 955,862.
No official figures since.
* * * *
What is wrong with a dog that walks with his
head cocked so that one ear is lower than the
other, is continually shaking his head as if t fl-
ing to dislodge something from its ear/"
This is a case of Otorrhoea, commonly mis-
named ear canker, and is caused either by the
presence of wax, dirt and water in the ear, or
possibly eczema. Apply with a camel hair
brush a solution of 1 drachm of oxide of zinc
ointment and loz. almond oil, as far down th
canal of the ear as possible. Next day clean
out the ears with some medicated wool twisted
around a bodkin or a manicure stick; repeat
the first operation immediately after cleaning.
This treatment should be continued for a weelc
in order to effect a cure. But follow instruc-
tions or perforation of the ear-drum might
follow.
* * * *
Names of Australian cricketers who have
taken all ten wickets in an innings in first-class
cricket?
W. Howell, 10 for 28, for Australia v. Surrey,
at The Oval, 1899; T. Wall, 10 for 36 for
South Aus. v. N.S.W., at Sydney, 1932-33 , C.
Grimmett, 10 for 37, for Australia v. York-
shire at Sheffield, 1930; A. Mailey, 10' for 66,
for Australia v. Gloucestershire, at Cheltenham,
1921; G. Giffen, 10 for 66, for Fourth Aus-
tralian XI v. The Rest, at Sydney, 1883-84.
(Figures from Wisden.)
Information Supplied.
Re Caterpillar Club qualifications (B.
25/4/’45). To become a member of the Irvin
Club, a compulsory jump ( i.e ., in order to save
life) must be made in an Irvin type chute,
irrespective of manufacturer or country. It a
person made a jump in a parachute manufac-
tured by, say, the G.Q. company and the
’chute embodied Irvin type characteristics, he
would be eligible for the Irvin Caterpillar Club.
—L.I.C.
Brief Answers.
M.H.: Possible causes of the death of your
dog are bowel impaction due to worms or
'poisoning... .D.M.: It would be an infringe-
meat of copyright to print the words without
publisher’s authorisation; the song can be
bought for 3s. at most music stores....h.P.:
Winston Churchill is the grandson of the 7th
Duke of Marlborough P.S.: Populations
are: Japan 105,000,000 (including depen-
dencies); China, 491,000,000 (including de-
pendencies); India, 389,000,000; U.S.A.,
138,000,000 S.J.A.: A vet. should be con-
sulted J.G.W.: If it is reproduced word for
word a claim can be made... .A.A.P.: The seed
is obtainable as perennial pea ( Lathyrus ) from
Gill and Searle, Melbourne, and from A. Yates
and Co., Sydney, as perennial pea (. Latifohus).
D.L.: The record is not in the Australian
catalogue; cannot trace a copy of the song....
T.L.T.: The effective catchment area of the
Lachlan River is approx. 20,160 sq. miles, while
above Cowra the catchment area is approx.
4270 sq. miles. There are no main towns above
Cowra, but Boorowa, Crookwell and Gunning
are within the catchment area .. .E. 8.8.: Raw
linseed oil is the basis of boiled linseed oil, the
conversion of one to the other is_ a process re-
quiring expensive plant and specialised skill.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted j and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor,
N.C.C.: Promising.. ..H.A.8.; Handwriting
might disguise a masterpiece—for all we know.
...T.L.: Try a daily... .L.McC.: “This is a
long short story of the Australian bush, woven
with tragedy, human effort and futility, and
the sombre background of the brooding hills,
with a scarlet thread of sardonic laughter run-
ning through the tapestry.” It’s long, anyway.
G .C.: Flashbacks fatiguing* J.B .H.:
Pathos overdone... .K.N.: A jungle of ad-
jectives A.M.; Concentrate on a single
theme P.H.: If you must write an historical
romance, make the history plausible T.D.:
, , auc . Cppnic descriotlon
elementary sort .of way—you need to do a lot
of reading... .S.K.C.: Putting a thin little
thought into italics doesn’t make it any stronger.
A O L.: Agree about the banning; but it would
be better if that poem were forever embers....
E.R.: “Shout hurrah and hurrah for this
tat-a-tat-tat.” Tut-a-tut-tut... .A.M.: f
morn I reached the summit of the hill. You u
have to come off it, read some contemporary
poetry, and start all* over again.. • -O-M-G. -
Don’t want material that has been bioadcast.
N.C.: Spoilt by commonplace moral in last
two lines. ..


m
2ft
What Would You
Do?
If you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 67 years’ experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
The Trustees Executors
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and at 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sit Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
and'Agency Company Ltd.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
iiiiiPiim iiiltiiiiiiiiiliriuTi I
- ]. i. <.:.. > jj . i i!. ■! m ; r;! •■ • ■ frrr“- jT^rTTir:—
j
ttJ
LiiUiS
SLIDE RULES
Each of the three Cal Slide Rules listed
below carries the following Scales A, B,
C, D, Reciprocal of C, Sine, Tangent and
Log. Log. These rules are useful for a
wide variety of calculations.
No. 1. —Handy Pocket Size (sin.) Scales
recessed into white celluloid mounted on
Ivory Wood screwed to all-metal flexible
spring back. In soft leather case.
Price, 30/- , -
No. 3. — Ted-inch. Scales printed and pro-
tected by clear celluloid mounted ,on
solid wood stock and slide. A popular
rule. Price, 25/- in case.
No. 3. —Ten-inch. Scales recessed in white
celluloid mounted on Ivory wood
screwed to all-metal flexible spring back.
In case, 40/-.
Book of Instructions with fifty practical
examples, 1/6. Send remittance by
Postal Note, Money Order or Cheque.
Money refunded if not satisfied.
CAL RULE CO. (Dept. 15),
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Unexplained addition res., £86241
From Accident Dept., £20,000 ( .
1938.. 652.463 1,413,983 521,285 83,903 f Uoou.aro
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
From Accident Dept., £20,000 .. 1
1939.. 769.186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 }■ 1,654,504
Superannuation Fund, £ 1000 .. J
From Accident Dept., £20,000..]
1940.. 864.411 1,502,362 504,588160,417 1 i c 7fi n ,.
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. \ ’ ’
To Contingency Reserve, £140,000]
• From Accident Dept., £20,000..]
1941.-4,032,329 1,636,258 507,526 71,204 (. , 79fi R
Superannuation Fund, £5500 .. f ’
To Contingency Reserve, £105,000 ]
From Accident Dept., £20,000..]
1942.. 258.762 1,758,646 533,048 68,282 } 1,913,786
Superannuation Fund, £5OOO .. j
From Accident Dept., £ 20,000 .. ]
1943. 1,816,732 572,825 61,7584 2,ft82,923
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. 1
From Accident Dept., £ 27,500 .. ]
1944. 1,877,865 649,323 65,933 \- 2,456,087
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 ..]
Industrial Department.
- Written
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.*
£££ £ 4 £
1937.. 916,293 254,552 246,612 1,261 ]. , , 97
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. ) ,0 ’
Added Guarantee Fund, £B5O ]
1938.. 981,657 351,217 252,852 2,131 \ 4,903,026
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. )
Added Guarantee Fund, £l9B .. ]
1939.-1,026,215 447,864 263,059 3,762 1 5,213,854
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ... J
Added Guarantee Fund, £BBO .. |
1940-1,062,516 479,343 276,797 19,710 ] 5,500,500
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
•1941-1,106,727 527,046 291,428 5,558} 5,722,118
Added Guarantee Fund, £1,078 .. |
1942- 537,029 320,495 6,615 £ 6,098,070
Superannuation Fund, £5,000 ..]
Added Guarantee Fund, £3,151 .. 1
1943- 626,017 342,381 5,934 \ 6,389,797
Superannuation Fund, £5,000 ..]
Added Guarantee Fund, £2,072 .. 1
1944- 713,905 344,273 5,230 1 6,675,217
Superannuation Fund, £6,000 .. J
* Includes Contingency Funds, etc.
The crop of actuarial, investment and
other problems which war and war-time
controls produced have bitten into the
bonus-paying ability of all life offices.
Of the three chief sources of surplus in
these offices —the margin between actual
and assumed rates of interest, savings in
budgeted cost of handling the business
and lower-than-allowed-for mortality
rates —interest is the one from which the
cos. scored heaviest in the past. The
margin from this source has been sub-
stantially reduced by the Government’s
policy of cheap money, combined with
high taxation.
Since 1939 the life offices have invested
the whole of the increase in their funds,
and more besides, in war loans on terms
which have been increasingly favorable to
the Treasury. Together with heavier
taxation, this has reduced the net return
from current investment to a level which
leaves little, if any, margin in excess of
the rates of interest at which premiums
have been calculated. And since these
war loans are medium- and long-tenn
investments, their effect upon the average
yield from all investments is likely to be
felt for some time yet.
Here is the Colonial’s investment port-
folio so far as the published accounts
show it:
1943. p.c. 1944. p.c.
Public securities
and debentures £19,627,312 55.7 £22,859,179 60.0
Mortgages .. 9,890,230 28.0 9,448,376 24.8
Freeholds, etc. .. 2,968,202 8.4 3,098,785 8.1
Doans on policies 1,682,117 4.7 1,601,001 4.2
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 342,632 1.0 358,205 1.0
Cash and deposits 515,113 1.4 562,010 1.5
Other assets .. 189,199 0.8 165,080 0.4
At end of 1944 public securities (up
£3,231,867) represented 60 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total, compared with 48.4
p.c. four years earlier. Over the same
period the gross interest return on the
mean assurance funds of the three depart-
ments combined stepped down from
£4 10s. lOd. p.c. to £4 6s. Hd. p.c., and
the net effective return (after deducting
taxation) from £4 3s. 9d. p.c. to
£3 17s. Hd. p.c. Although some
amelioration of both these trends can be
expected post-war, when relaxation of
financial controls permits more profitable
investment of funds and the burden of
taxation is lightened a little, a return to
the pre-war rates of bonuses to policy-
holders need not be looked for.
The co. continues to value its policy
liabilities on a 3 p.c. net premium basis,
and the life and accident funds (together
£36,073,511) have the support and assist-
ance of £850,000 of contingency reserves
and £20,594 of guarantee funds. Sur-
pluses available for distribution among
policyholders (excess of funds over policy
liabilities) compare as follow;
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£/ £, £> £
Ordinary .. 836,577 999,009 1,014,619 1,163,663
Industrial . . 121,758 122,838 130,643 135,498
Accident .. 46,083 47,789 42,562 53,553
Total .. 1,004,418 1,169,636 1,187,824 1,352,709
The improvement in last year’s surpluses
was £149,044 ordinary, £4850 industrial
and £10,991 accident; total, £164,885.
Bonuses to policyholders—there are no
shareholders —were on the same scale as
for each of the previous war years.
The amount of new business put on the
books last year was £14,091,963 (up
£3,896,603), of, which £11,214,332 (up
£3,431,354) was in the ordinary and
£2,877,631 (up £465,249) in the industrial
department. Group assurance, which has
become a prominent feature of staff
superannuation schemes of commercial
undertakings, accounted for much of the
increase in ordinary business.
Including accident business, the co.
gathered £5,073,459 (up £529,934) in net
premiums. Interest, rents, etc., turned
in £1,472,476 (up £74,941), making total
income £6,545,935 (up £604,875). After
paying all legitimate claims and exes, and
sending £32,000 to the staff fund and
writing £63,951 off the book value of
securities, £2,759,150 (up £370,805) was
added to the life and accident funds.
Since the outbreak of hostilities claims
paid on account of war casualties total
£675,000. Still, the mortality experience
has been well within the limits allowed
for under the tables used.
Leaving taxes and amounts written off
out of the reckoning, exes, took 13.4 p.c.
of last year’s net premiums in the O.D.
as against 12.9 p.c. in 1943. The large
amount of new business written was
responsible for the increase. On a similar
basis, exes, in the I.D. took 28 p.c. of net
premiums as against 29.7 p.c. for the
previous term,
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serve#.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 31,338 8 p.c. = 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 ~,, 20,000 1,957 9.845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~ 20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 „ ~ 20.000 2,955 12,690 305,515
1939.. 34,117 8 „ ~ 20,000 3,135 10,982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 „ ~20,000 4,993 11.641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 ~,, 20.000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,073 8 „,, 20,000 14,930 325,862
Added insurance reserve, £8325 .. 334,187
1943.. 19,688 8 p.c.= 20,000 2,899 830,976
Added to reserves, £11,675 .. .. 342,651
1944. . 32,037 9 p.c.— 22,500 ] - oq-i 040 4^9
To staff fund. £5OOO .. S ’ 343,452
Unexplained addition reserves, £5,800.. 349,252
1945.. 29,590 10ip.c.=22,500* 1,812 5,278 854,530
* 4 p.c. on £250,000 and p.c. on £200,000 of
capital.
During the last half of the term 4s. per
pound share (=£50,000 was returned to
those on the register, reducing paid capital
to £200,000 in 250,000 shares of 16s. each.
This will have little effect upon the co.’s
earning power, thus making payment of
a higher rate of dividend on the £200,000
an easier matter. On the other hand,
shareholders will have difficulty in find-
ing equally profitable employment for
their money.
The board, however, is still faced with
an embarrassment of riches. Consider
these figures:
1940. 1942. 1944.. 1945.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £200,000
Sundry crs. .. 49,110 51,442 21,854 26,628
Tax provision 24,262 29,417 35,946 46,297
Freeholds and
plant .. 62,102 57,906 24,964 13,405
Stock.. .. 161,962 154,318 126,780 96,461
Book debts . . 59,468 56,683 38,984 26,959
Cash .. .. 39,225 44,670 52,563 47,186
Investments .. 388,753 353,144 425,863 455,943
Despite the return of capital, last term’s
surplus earnings, together with allowances
for depreciation, taxation, etc., and con-
traction of £30,319 in stocks, £11,125 in
debtors’ balances and £5377 in cash,
enabled investments (mainly Government
securities) to be strengthened by £30,080.
When the books closed investments and
cash together were over two and a half
times greater than capital as it now stands.
The amount coming to outsiders was well
covered by book debts and stocks. And
put into the crucible the “Wild Cat” has
no doubt that assets would assay more
than their book value.
The board gives no hint as to what it
ultimately intends to do with the money
for which it has thus far been unable to
find employment in the business. Mean-
while, return from outside investments
provide a handy contribution to the pool.
Appearances are that it provided half
or more of the amount distributed as
dividend last term. Capital and reserves
combined need now turn in only a shade
over 4 p.c. to show 11} p.c. on capital
alone.
The roots of the business are em-
bedded in Queensland’s early pioneering
days. Growth since has kept step with
the development of agricultural pastoral
and mining activities in the central and
central-west parts of the State, with which
merchandising connections have been
built up from Rockhampton headquarters.
There is also a branch at Brisbane and
another at Sydney, where the manage-
ment withdrew from the difficult dry-
goods trade about three years ago.
Since war began demand on defence
account largely offset the effects of ration-
ing, the price ceiling, rising costs and
transport and other difficulties. Here is a
summary of p. and 1. figures since the end
of the boom in the late 1920’5:
G ross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1929. . £128,432 £81,456 1940. . £106,144 £69,510
1981.. 92,044 74,472 1942.. 106,185 79,112
1933.. 81,2 9 8 5 7,882 194 3.. 72,17 8 52,491
1936.. 87,592 55,789 1944.. 77,082 44,995
1938.. 101,091 65,446 [ 1945.. 87,871 57,781
Last term still-hungry civilian demand
more than offset diminishing defence re-
quirements. Gross earnings sprang
£10,339. Including an unspecified allow-
ance for taxation and bad debts, etc., exes,
took all the increase and £2447 besides.
The £29,590 of profit claimed—it was
below pre-war level of net earnings—was
14.9 p.c. on capital as it now stands.
Same amount was distributed in divs. as
for the previous term, but the rate ad-
vanced from 9 p.c. to Hi p.c., owing
to reduction of capital. Prospects of the
Hi p.c. being maintained are encour-
aging.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 10,473 4 p.c. = 6,6 2 5 3,848 1 3,073
1936.. 12,248 5 ~ „ 8,281 3,967 17,040
1937.. 15,189 6 „ „ 9,93 8 5,25 1 22,291
1938.. 15,952 7i „ „ 12,4 2 2 3,53 0 2 5,821
1939.. 14,979 7J „ „ 12,422 2,557 28,378
Unexplained reduction, £8260 .. 25,118
1940.. 9,255 5 p.c. = 8,281 97 4 26,092
1941.. 11,567 6 „ „ 9,93 7 1,63 0 27,722
1942.. 11,087 6 „ „ 9,9 3 7 1,150 28,872
1948.. 10,716 5 „ ~ 8,281 2,435 31,307
1944.. 9,983 5 „ „ 8,281 1,7 0 2 83,009
1945.. 14,585 7 „ „ 11,593 2,992 36,001
The spring of £4602 in last term’s net
earnings—the best since 1939 —was due
to a saving of £4945 in exes, (£112,086,
which includes an unspecified allowance
for taxation, etc.). Gross earnings
(£126,671) were £343 short of the pre-
vious year’s figure, which suggests that
turnover was maintained on a fairly even
keel. The net result was 8.8 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 6, 6.4, 6.6, 6.9, 5.5 and 9 p.c.
back*to 1939. The div. was lifted a
couple of points, raising it to 7 p.c., and
making the average over the last five
years 5.9 p.c. compared with an average
of 6.2 p.c. for the preceding quinquen-
nium. The £2992 of the year’s net earn-
ings that remained lifted the lay-by
£36,001 in excess of goodwill (£22,110),
not treated as an asset hereiri.
The co. specialises in the sale of sport-
ing goods of all descriptions, and does a
large turnover in tobacco, radios, hair-
cuts and a variety of oddments as well.
It runs a chain of shops throughout the
city, and has strong connections among
suburban retailers and sporting bodies.
The rationing of tobacco, restriction on
use of rubber in sporting goods and
dearth of other lines, such as radios and
fishing tackle, and ban on sale of fire-
arms and ammunition have both reduced
turnover and eliminated much of the cut-
throat competition that was a feature of
this class of business pre-war. Though
substantial savings were made in those
items of overhead over which the board
had control, imposition of the price ceil-
ing meant that subsequent lifts in costs
narrowed profit margins.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures illustrates, among other
things, the difficulty the co. has had
in maintaining stocks —down £16,434 last


BRANDADERrS
PS
m
\V
t*'**
poi
at
te
Cti
ran
do not experiment with imitations,
a beajioadbk * at. m. hrmisuham. khg
PENS
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course -
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARK*'
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotiot
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Oog Soap.
y
o
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1 '
SKIN LOTION 2/!
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ->•
SOLD BY Ml .DfHiOTC
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
uich fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start, because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary,
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get DOAN’S,
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Giiffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Auvt.
«-• * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. CoUim
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Anvi,
Position ’ Vacant.
A Large Australian Company with Houses in all
States requires the services of a SALES & ADVER-
TISING SUPERINTENDENT. Applicants for this
position must have had experience in organising
large sales campaigns utilising all advertising
channels, and must be able to prove that success has
been achieved in this sphere. Applications, which
will be treated confidentially, should state age and
full details of previous experience and present em-
ployment, and be accompanied by copies of testi-
monials and a recent photograph. Commencing
salary, £l5OO per annum. Apply in writing to
No. “ 851 NATIONAL SERVICE OFFICE, 473
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
■This position is one of exceptional possibilities,
and the attention of your friends in the Services
with the necessary qualifications should be drawn
to this advertisement.
Standard Gillette Blades are not yet
available in large quantities, b«t the
factory, despite war difficulties, is
maintaining reasonable supplies. Ask
your retailer for Standard Gillettes
... by name. They are worth
“shopping” for!
Ground for Victory! And not only well and
truly ground, but fine steel finely tempered. That s
Gillette in battledress the Gillette Standard
Blades which have temporarily taken the place of
the Blue Gillettes. They infiltrate tough beards. A.
bit elusive, perhaps but well worth finding!
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
The will to SAVE is the will to WIN. Buy War Savings Certificates.
G2/125
CHAMPION/
RUBY
TOBACCO/
-
1 0m
ms
Z2O9D-B.it
term, making the contraction £78,058
over the last three years:
1938. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital., £166,008 £166,004 £166,000 £166,000
Mortgages .. 130,207 118,664 118,664 118,664
Other liabilities 102,981 91,553 62,301 56,485
Tax reserve.. 9,053 17,387 31,220 18,833
Freeholds .. 212,915 191,212 191,431 191,468
Plant, etc. ~ 19,288 11,577 6,109 3,498
Stocks.. .. 102,433 123,774 62,150 45,716
Book debts .. 105,517 98,224 29,347 22,868
Cash, etc. . . 543 3,490 127,126 140,714
The strong cash holding, etc, (up £13,588
last term) places the management in a
favorable position to stock-up with what-
ever it considers good-selling lines when
they become available. Such controls as
were recently eased aren’t likely to bene-
fit the co. much. Reports from its over-
seas and other buyers, the board says,
give no grounds for optimism regarding
early deliveries.
Whi|e present price ceilings remain
the management may find it difficult to
make much, if any, profit on new im-
ported lines, owing to the rise in costs of
imported goods. costs of produc-
tion haye also risen. Maintenance of a
rigid ceiling over selling prices, when all
cost factors are not brought under con-
trol at the same time may remove all
profits in the production and/or distribu-
tion of certain commodities, and thus
impede supply. The approaching problem
of post-war prices thus threatens to bring
about much trade stagnation unless
handled with more vision and expedition
than the Government has so far achieved.
Adjustment of Australia’s internal
economy to the economy of other coun-
tries with which it impacts through ex-
ports and imports promises to be a harder
nut to crack than was stabilisation under
the isolation of war-time conditions.
Atomic Bomb and Uranium
Apart from its explosive power and
destructive effect, which are greater than
that of any other force hitherto har-
nessed, the public knows little about the
new atomic bomb, nor is it likely to
until the waf ends. However, if pub-
lished accounts are correct, there can be
no doubt about its effectiveness as an
instrument of destruction. Hence the
crop of speculative forecasts as to the
possible effects of further development of
such a weapon upon the course of inter-
national politics, and indirectly upon the
social and economic structure of society.
Construction of the atomic bomb is
based primarily upon the theory that
annihilation of a small amount of matter
produces an enormous amount of energy.
Scientists discovered that by splitting an
atom of uranium—one of the radio-active
elements—an enormous amount of energy
was liberated. The problem of using this
or similarly liberated energy as a war
weapon meant devising simplified means
of releasing it within the form of a mis-
sile and in such quantities as to cause
catastrophic explosion. After much re-
search and experiment, a team of
scientists solved the conundrum by pro-
ducing what is now known as the atomic
bomb. The exact nature and composi-
tion of the charge, and the method of
ignition or ‘explosion, are, of course,
closely-guarded secrets.
Uranium is believed to be one of the
ingredients. It occurs in small quantities
in combination with a number of rare
minerals, and constantly undergoes
atomic disintegration on its own account.
Chief ores of uranium are (1) uraninite
(pitchblende), a complex compound of
uranium, lead, thorium, etc.; (2) torben-
ite, a hydrous phosphate of uranium and
copper; (3) autunite, a hydrous phos-
phate of uranium and calciurrf; (4) car-
notite, a hydrous vanadate of potassium
and uranium. All these carry minute
quantities of radium, a millionth part or
less of the whole. These ores appear
principally in quartz veins and as im-
pregnations in sandstone, sometimes also
in pegmitite veins.
Chief deposits of these uranium ores
—mined pre-war mainly for their small
radium content —occur at Ratanga (Bel-
gian Congo), St. Joachimsthal (Czecho-
slovakia), Colorado (U.S.A.), Ferghana
(Soviet Russia), Great Bear Lake
(Canada), Cornwall (U.K.) and Mt.
Painter and Radium Hill (South Aus.).
To date metallic uranium has been of
little commercial importance. It is pre-
pared by reduction of its oxide with car-
bon in an electric furnace. The oxides
have a ready market. From them is
derived a group of uranium salts, used in
glassmaking to tint the highest grades of
glass. Other outlets are photography,
pottery and special kinds of steel.
At Mt. Painter in the Flinders Range,
94 miles from Copley on the Adelaide-
Alice Springs railway, the deposits occur
as autunite and torbenite, with radium
present as always in proportion to the
uranium. Work here was carried on
intermittently over a period of about 20
years until the early 1930’5. Capital was
never more than enough for hand-to-
mouth operations. Still, the venture
came to grief through the high cost of
recovery, not mining. Radium was then
worth about £13,000 a gramme. A trial
parcel of high-grade screened ore from
the property assayed 40 milligrammes
radium per ton —ore from Great Bear
Lake at that time assayed 132 milli-
grammes radium per ton. The “Wild
Cat” has no record of assay results of
Radium Hill ore. Near Olary, on the
Adelaide-Broken Hill railway, carnotite
has been found as a yellowish incrus-
tation on ironstone, while at Moonta
(S. Aus.) both pitchblende and autunite
have been found in small quantities.
A year or so ago Britain asked Aus-
tralia to examine its uranium ore de-
posits and investigate treatment methods
with a view to production for strategic
purposes. The result was an estimated
output of 20 tons annually from Mt.
Painter, Since U.K. authorities were not
interested in anything less than 100 tons
per annum, production and treatment
were not attempted. The cost of the ex-
ploratory programme was about £59,000,
and the British Government foots the bill.
Pre-war Union Miniere, the Belgian
co., with mines in the Belgian Congo,
was the world’s chief producer of radium.
The ore was shipped to Antwerp for
treatment. Each 1 p.c. uranian content
in this ore gave a reduction of 2\ milli-
grams radium per ton.
Rehabilitation of mining in Westralia
has been discussed between representa-
tives of the Government, mine-owners
and workers. Mines compelled to cease
production because of war-time difficul-
ties are being maintained, so that opera-
tions can be resumed as early as pos-
sible. The Commonwealth Government
has agreed to provide a further £50,000
for this purpose. Exploitation of blue
asbestos deposits in the Hamersley
Ranges is expected to assist development
of the north-west. A copper smelting
plant is being established at Ravens-
thorpe; further financial assistance has
been provided for the search for oil, and
efforts are being made to increase coal
production at Collie.
* * * *
Westralia’s best State battery crushing
for a long time, was recently put through
the mill at Cue, where 387 tons from
Mountain View, near the old Great Fin-
gall, at Day Dawn, yielded 30980 z. gold.
Previous crushings from this show have
been good, but nothing like as rich as
the one just mentioned.
* * * *
From London: The Court of Appeal
has dismissed the application of Nether-
lands Finance, Ltd., to have thq, order of
Mr. Justice Vaisey, made on March 26
last, for compulsory windi’ng-up of
Youanmi Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), dis-
charged or varied.


BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890.”)
As at Close of Business on 30th Jimte, 1945.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital— *
300.000 Preference Shares of £lO each ..
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares fully paid* in cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid in cash to 10s. per share
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Final Dividend proposed payable August, 1945
Balance of Profit and Loss A/c
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Depositors, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
Taxation and Contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to Other Banks ..
£6,602,522 10 8
provisions fca’
68,143,564 9 6
6,174 0 0
254,635 16 10
£75,006,896 17 0
Contingent Liabilities £2,238,761 12 10
(As per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand Notes and Cas/h
at Bankers .. J.
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Public Securities—
(At or under market value)
Australian Government £4,614,644 17 6
Other Government 3,551,320 14 7
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities .. .. 195,606 17 10
£B,
Special War Time Deposit Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia 28.
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. .. .. 1.
Stamps .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ....
£7,722,054 15 9
1,477,409 111
81,895 4 4
3,020,000 0 0
.361.572 911
148,000 0 0
754,814 12 5
18,369 2 7
£50,584,115 611
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted 23,141,186 0 1
(After deducting provision for’ Debts considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank premises, Furniture and Sites .. 1,281,595 10 0
(At cost less amounts written off)
£75,006,896 17 0
Contingent Assets £2,238,761 12 10
(Comprising Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
• Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra)
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1945.
To Expenses—Head Office, 424 Branches and Agencies £910,139 14 10
(Including Directors’ Fees, £3125)
~ Income, Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 258,973 3 11
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down 252,422 11 10
£1,421,535 10 7
To amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends —
Interim paid February, 1945
i Final, proposed payable August, 1945
„ Balance carried forward
£25,000 0 0
£109,013 13 4
117,347 0 0
226,360 13 4
117,825 10 8
£369,186 4 0
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commissions and Other Income
after deducting Interest Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the credit of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which Accounts provision for all Bad and
Doubtful Debts has been made) £1,421,535 10 7
£1,421.535 10 7
Net Balance brought forward 116,763 12 2
„ Net Profit for the Year .. .. .. t 252,422 11 10
£369,186 4 0
By Balance
£117,825 10 S
I PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve, the Exchange
Adjustment Reserve and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, Shipowner. Melbourne: WILLIAM
HOWELL SWANTON. Merchant, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne; WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour Miller,
Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to- be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 20th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-five.
Before me—H. F. CLARKE. A Commissioner for taking Declarations and . P. F, G. GORDON.
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We, JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON and WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do
hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of affairs, and that
the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
Dated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1945. On behalf of the Board: JOHN L. WEBB,
W. H. SWANTON
To the Shareholders of AUDITORS’ REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS. W. j. BYRNE.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA. LIMITED. , Melbourne 26th Julv 1945
Ladies and Gentlemen.— ' Meioourne, goth July, 1940.
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended 30th June, 1945, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results of the business
of the Company for the year, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
• The Loudon Office figures to the same date, have been accepted by us on cabled advice from the London Auditors, Messrs. Jackson, Pixley and Co., and the Assets and Liabilities
at the Branches taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants.
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank and they have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have required.
.. . We are, Ladies and Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
E. FOOKBS I
WM. S. PHILIP J
Chartered Accountants, (Australia)*
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Morale of the People
There is a belief widely abroad in the
land that the Federal Government is not
playing fair with the people in matters
of taxation, restriction on production and
distribution, confiscation of property,
promises of “full employment,” trade-
union disputes, observance of the con-
stitution, nationalisation of industry and
interference with private enterprise. It
is felt in many places that the response
to the call for an all-in war effort against
Japan has been treated cynically in some
respects —as an opportunity, for instance,
to further Labor-party (sometimes Com-
munist) politics, to spend money extrava-
gantly and politically, and to glorify medi-
ocre (or worse) Cabinet Ministers. Decent
people, too, have felt that their obvious
rights have often been flouted by official-
dom at a time when so much tax-evasion,
black-marketing, wharf-pillaging and
other crime goes on infamously.
While the Government exercises great
arbitrary power, there is an impression
there is not enough justice in the country
and a scarcity of plain truth. Political
beggars set not on horseback but in fluid-
drive Chryslers may imagine that there is
nothing odd in their riding luxuriously
when others are reduced to walking with
the soles out of their shoes; but even worse
than this is the lack of Ministerial respect
for justice, for the traditional rights of
free Capital and free Labor, and for the
simple truth. One of the biggest forces
and, at the same time, biggest problems
in the world is human nature. Human
nature grows in a warped fashion when
justice, truth and freedom are treated
with disrespect in high places. There has
been a decline in political and economic
morals in Australia over the past few
years which many people believe to be
attributable to the bad example of the
Federal Government.
Australia has seen the victimisation of
Peter Dargin, the Portland butcher, for
political reasons. It remembers that Eddie
Ward was returned to the Labor Ministry
after his untrue “Brisbane Line missing
document” charges. There was the cen-
sorship of metropolitan newspapers
political, not security, purposes. There
was also the discreditable Government
referendum campaign of a year ago, with
irresponsible promises of “no depressions”
provided additional legal powers were
granted to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. A strange system of granting
“priorities” to inter-State and overseas
travellers has also caused concern, as has
a taxation method that sometimes
■demands more than 20s. in the £ of in-
come. There has been an attack by a
Minister on the Judges of the High Court.
A costly “social security” and “free medi-
cine” scheme is being put into operation
on a blatantly political rather than a
sound social and financial basis.
While the Labor Government has time
and again promised to “prevent depres-
sions” after the war, it has shown, even
during a period of war-time manpower
shortage, that it is unable to maintain full,
useful employment. The number of men
being kept on in worked-out jobs now
is bringing disillusionment to those who
believed the Government could carry out
its “full employment” promises in a repro-
ductive wav.
Mr. Chifley, as leader of the national
Government, has not come to office with
a record for political forthrightness be-
hind him any more than his predecessor.
It was Mr. Chifley who confused the
position surrounding the “lag” year in
income tax; he denied that there would
be any “surcharge” during the past
financial year on salaries and wages, and
he refused to enter into any “disputation”
on the question of whether, legally, there
was a lag year. It was commonly be-
lieved at the time that the advice of the
Solicitor-General was sought on the legal
position, but what he reported, if any-
thing, was not made public. Instead, the
Government proffered the opinion of
Professor Bailey, which happened to suit
it, though another professor publicly re-
futed the conclusions of Professor Bailey.,
The majority of taxpaying Australians
have found during the past year that they
have had heavy extra taxation to meet as
a result of Mr. Chifley’s surcharge, and
it would be useless for that gentleman to
come forth now and plead that there had
been no 25 p.c. loading. It is equally
futile for him to contend that the nat-
ionalisation of the banks anfl airlines, of
which he is, figuratively at least, the chief
sponsor, is not a repudiation of a party
pledge given by Mr. Curtin before the last
election.
Mr. Chifley, like Mr. Curtin before
him, is a good party man. From the
national viewpoint, however, he has too
often shown himself to be a shuffling
politician to inspire confidence and re-
spect where those priceless commodities
are most needed. Generosity (even jus-
tice) to political opponents and to insti-
tutions ndt within the party’s scope of
political adherence does not come from
his side of the House.
Apparently Mr. Chifley is not aware
of the degeneration in public morals,
brought about in a great degree by lack
of confidence in the capacity for fair and
firm dealing by the Administration, that
has already resulted in a weakening in the
rule of law. Likewise the Prime Minister
does not appear to possess the back-
ground or the vision to' see what chaos
lies ahead for this country if the rule of
law is displaced by arbitrary official
power, and if the cynical disregard for
pledges shown by the Government and
the contempt for fair-dealing are accepted
as proper standards of morality by the
people. When shame ceases to be a check
to law-breaking the courts will be con-
gested with offenders.
Mr. Chifley is by no means the arch-
offender against public confidence within
his party. But he is the leader of the
party, and, like'AJr. Curtin, he has already
been made into a sort of figurehead.
A Government that has been entrusted
with the powers at present exercised by
the Chifley Ministry should feel imposed
upon it a great responsibility to the
people, not only in respect of winning
the war but also of preserving the
nation’s credit and social structure for the
time when peace comes. It will be a sad
day for all if we finish the war with the
country in a run-down state morally,
socially and economically. The suprem-
acy that party politics and political ex-
pediency hold in the actions of the Fed-
eral Labor Government makes this danger
very real.
In pre-war days the people came in
contact with the Government, through
officials, comparatively rarely. Today,
through rationing, much wider taxation,
control over the liberty of the sub-
ject and over industrial ventures and
in many other ways the public has daily
contact with officialdom in almost every
aspect of its livelihood. Where there is
unfairness, inefficiency or seeming hum-
bug on the part of the Government,
as seen in departmental officials or
otherwise, the effect on the public
mind is noticeable. People become
inclined to take their cue as to their
behavior from what they see the
Government and its servants doing.
Where they feel that they have been the
victims of hard treatment at the hands of
the Government the tendency is to sink
their principles to the same level in self
defence.
People have suffered shocks to the
depths of their beings as a result of the
death and destruction that have followed
the actual path of this war. The loss or
maiming of friends and relatives in com-
bat, the sheer brutality seen in political
and racial conflict in Europe and Asia,
have had a tendency to shake human
faith in everything. In the circumstances
it is disturbing to see mere political am-
bition, opportunism or larrikinism as the
motive behind so much that passes for
the “government” of this country today.
It was once hoped that Australians could
have faith in themselves, if in nothing else.
Including additions of interest, savings-
bank deposits increased by £14.8 million
during June. At June 30 total deposits
were £567 million, compared with £245
million at the outbreak of war. Increase
during the financial year was £95.4 mil-
lion, compared with £113.5 million in
1943-44 and £83.8 million in 1942-43.
Heavier taxation has had an influence
on last year’s total. Employment figures
and overtime earnings have also shown
some decline of late. The increase of
131 p.c. in savings-bank deposits during
war-time—in the preceding six years the
growth had been only 21 p.c.—shows
how fictitious “savings” and “wealth” can
become during a period of war-time infla-
tion.


Announcing
A Practical Course in
AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION
One of the qualifications for appoistment
as pilot in civil air lines is knowledge
of aircraft navigation. To provide the
necessary training the College of Civil
Aviation, which was established in 1939
for tuition in aeronautical subjects, is
commencing classes to train for examina-
tions for Aircraft Navigator’s Licences.
The training is in the hands of experi-
enced ex-R.A.A.F. personnel. Home
study lessons will be issued to any part
of the Commonwealth. Regular lectures
will be held in Metropolitan centres.
For Syllabus and Full Particulars
Apply to
COLLEGE OF
CIVIL AVIATION LIMITED,
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Phone 8W5482.
m
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort mala
•uppon for every man’*
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
4
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
THAT*
£h e *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become Incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
IuKECTOBS—Janies Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mltchei
P. T. \V. Black. Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901. Box 543 ©-P-0., Sydney.
T
Khis tube’s
business is
picking up
(r.
V
r,
y-
\
/ Tv
. . . picking up dust, of course . . «
for it is one of an assortment of Steel Tubes that
forms part of every vacuum cleaner. The range of
uses for Steel Tubes is as wide as the needs of mankind,
though the full benefit of their adaptability must await
the time when there is no longer an urgent priority for
gun-sight components and other pre-
cision munitions at British Tube
Mills ( Aust .) Pty. Ltd., Kilburn,
South Australia.
PRICtSIOM
mwiYi
R Sc Me.
893
Economically, a great deal appears to
have been hanging in the balance on the
point of whether surrender of Japan
would come through attack on the home
islands or whether it would be necessary
to eliminate opposition island by island
in the Pacific and country by country on
the Asiatic mainland. There was a pretty
fair indication of what the latter course
of action implied in the case of the
Borneo invasion. There the oil installa-
tions of Balik Papan were knocked about
severely both by the Japanese and the
Allied offensive measures. If the same
sort of destruction continued through
Java, Sumatra, the Federated Malay
States and Thailand great damage to oil,
rubber, tin and many other kinds of
property could be expected. On the other
hand, if these places were surrendered by
general capitulation from Tokyo it might
not be very long before the benefit of
the natural resources of Malaya and the
Dutch Indies became available to the
Allies for peace-time purposes —rubber, in
particular, is wanted by nearly every one
of the Allied nations, the synthetic pro-
duct still presenting great difficulties in
processing and in use. There is no know-
ing what isolated bodies of Japanese
might do in the way of destruction before
laying down their arms, but it is highly
likely that a command from the Em-
peror would be respected, he representing
so much in their fanatical fighting up to
date. Australia awaits with great interest
news of the condition of the tinmines,
rubber plantations and oil-wells of Malaya
and the N.E.I. It has an investment
interest in the tinmines as well as an
urgent interest in rubber and oil.
* * * *
With its great housing shortage and
acute problems of organisation of in-
dustry and re-employment left almost
entirely to nebulous political planning,
Australia faces the post-war period in
pretty poor shape. The Government, bent
on changing the “social and economic
order” rather than doing something
sensible and practical about the real
problems of the nation, is out in the wet
halfway along the road to nowhere. In
spite of a lot of mealy-mouthed talk over
the past 12 months the Administration
has shown a shocking disregard for the
interests of those who have created and
given jobs in the past and who have
organised a production system far more
fruitful than that which we now see under
Government “control.” The kindest
thing that can be said of this Administra-
tion is that it is grossly deficient in eco-
nomic commonsense. It is toying with
“nationalisation” and other sinful non-
sense while an'avalanche of real economic
problems descends upon it.
* * * *
An extraordinary situation has arisen
on the board of Olympic Tyres. Knight
Frank Beaurepaire, chairman and manag-
ing director, has circularised shareholders
asking them to increase the number of
directors from five to seven at the next
annual meeting. The four other present
directors have sent out a second notice
in which it is stated that “the chairman
did not take us into his confidence re-
garding the circular.” These four direc-
tors also say that the question of increas-
ing the board had been previously dis-
cussed “without finality of agreement
being reached because of differences of
opinion upon one aspect.” It is in respect
of the nature of the appointments that
the difference arises. The four directors
say in their circular:
In our opinion no appointments to the
board should be made except of men who
are entirely free and independent so that
' their one regard may be the interests of the
whole of the shareholders and whose know-
ledge, experience and proved ability are
such that their services will be of undoubted
benefit to the company.
We are firmly of the opinion that if
the interests of the company as a whole
are well and faithfully served, then the
interests of the chairman and his family
will not suffer.
In the circumstances the request that
shareholders refrain from committing
themselves to the chairman’s suggestion
“until clarification of the position has
been made” seems entirely reasonable.
» * ♦ *
The new banking legislation is tipped to
come into operation on August 20, with
deferment of the sections dealing with
gold, foreign exchange and interest rates
to a later date. Under the new law the
Commonwealth Bank board will be re-
placed by a governor, who will, in the
final analysis, be answerable to the Treas-
urer of the day. The central bank will
have power to dictate the general policy
of the trading banks.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
Chifley, in Perth, addressing a gather-
ing of trade-union officials, said “We must
learn to control and govern ourselves as
Well as control and govern Australia.”
The day before the Prime Minister had
expatiated on the claim that the Labor
Government in its four years of office
had “done more in regard to social secu-
rity than was ever done by any Govern-
ment in 10 years.” Mr. Chifley may live
long enough to realise that if we had
learned to “control and govern ourselves”
more before launching the vilely political
social-security programme now before the
people the country might really be in the
process of going forward in matters of
economic stability and social security
instead of backward.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers’
£2,250,000 debenture issue carrying £3
17s. 6d. per cent, was fully subscribed by
over 2650 applicants. The term of the
debentures is 20-25 years, at the com-
pany’s option. The rate of interest offered
was cut extremely fine, and there was a
good deal of speculation in financial
circles as to whether the issue would
“float” fully. In N. S. Wales stamp duty
on the transfer of debentures is a heavy
item, making any attempt at “stagging
the issue unlikely.
» * * *
A deputation of Maoriland business-
men, which was met by Government and
Opposition members in Wellington, ob-
jected to Government control ot the Bank
of New Zealand in strong terms. A
charge by T. C. A. Hislop got under
Finonee Minister Nash’s skin. Said Mr.
Hislop:
Whatever may be said by the Minister of
Finance, no reliance can be placed on Mr.
Nash’s prophecies. He has had to eat his
words and change his mind and bend be-
neath the big stick of Mr. Langsfone and
his friends on this very question before the
party conference.
The Minister of Finance said publicly,
not long ago, that there was no necessity in
the public interest to take over the Bank of
New Zealand, that there was no advantage
to be gained by taking over the bank, and
that the Government, even if it had owned
the bank, could not have done a better job
than the bank has done. Now the Minister
changes his mind and seconds a motion to
lake over the bank. Why? He does it be-
cause Mr. Langstone and his friends have
presented an ultimatum to the Minister and
he must say “yes” or go. He says “yes.”
Mr. Nash declared that Mr. Hislop’s alle-
gation about an ultimatum was a lie ;
Mr, Hislop then asked for an apology.
Mr. Nash said he would give the Govern-
ment’s reasons for taking over the bank
“at the right time.” Ultimatum or no,
Mr. Nash does seem to have somersaulted
on his banking policy.
« * * *
Canada, in order to assist private in-
dustry to carry the responsibility of pro-
viding employment after the war, intends
to remove tax penalties on enterprise and
to investigate the effect of taxation upon
the taking of risks. The Government
will supplement private investment in lean
years. The Dominion Administration is
up against a uniform-taxation problem
similar to that in Australia; it is asking
the provincial Governments, in peace-
time, to give up their rights in the income-
tax and death-duty fields for a subsidy
of at least 12 dollars a head. The Ottawa
authority also proposes to pay an old-
age pension of 30 dollars a month to all
citizens over 70 years of age regardless of
their means.
« * * *
Some figures on one aspect of a mag-
nificent war effort:
Canada has extended financial aid valued at
more than $5500 million (£1,528 million Aus-
tralian) to the United Kingdom since the out-
break of the war.
Incomplete figures indicate that a large part or
this total is made up by an outright gift of
$lOOO million (£2BO million) and goods and
services supplied under the Canadian Mutual
Aid Act for which payment or reciprocation was
not requested.
Canadian aid to Britain has been made pos-
sible by taxation of Canadian taxpayers and
by Canadian war loans. Per-capita cost of
mutual aid to Canadian taxpayers has exceeded
cost of land-lease to citizens of the United
Stales. Canada has not participated in United
States lend-lease assistance, nor has the United
States participated in Canadian mutual aid.
War-time transactions between the two countries
have been on a cash basis.
Latest figures available on Canadian mutual
aid to Australia show that Canadian goods and
services valued at more than £2O million have
been supplied to the Commonwealth.
The magnitude of the Dominion’s aid
to the Mother Country is best judged
when it is realised that, computed at
£1528 million Australian, it is equal to
just on three-quarters of Australia’s total
expenditure on war since September 3,
1939. Canada has financed the cost of
its own fighting effort in addition to its
aid to Britain and other countries.
* * * *
Both price control and uniform taxa-
tion are functions administered by the
Commonwealth Government by virtue of
the National Security Act, which expires
six months after the end of the war. At
a Premiers’ Conference to be held in Can-
berra shortly continuance of Common-
wealth control in these matters will be
discussed. Uniform taxation was intro-
duced in 1942 only after the validity of
Federal legislation had been tested by
various States in the High Court. The
desirability of one income tax under a
Commonwealth authority vested with
more wisdom and financial competence
than that revealed by the present Admin-
istration is obvious to those who had to
wrestle with the tangle of overlapping
tax authorities prior to 1942. The need
for some form of price control for at
least a year or two after the war will
be denied by few people. But the Labor
Government has not built up a happy
reputation with either buyers or sellers
in its carrying-out of this function dur-
ing the war.
* * * «
It is expected that 10-h.p. and 12-h.p.
motor-cars in Britain will cost at least
double the pre-war price. In Australia it
is computed by W. 0.1. that a cottage built
for £913 before the war will now cost
about £1267 —an increase of 38 p.c. (a
greater increase is estimated by other
authorities).* These figures give some indi-
cation of the depreciation in the value of
money that has occurred during the war.
In the case of housing there is also a
pointer to the depreciation in the quality
of labor during the war —of the £354 by
which the cost of the cottage increased
£lO6 is attributed to higher labor costs,
£76 of this figure being because of reduc-
tion in output per man. The W. 0.1.
directorate considers that a reduction of
£l4B on 1945 costs may be expected
when supplies and quality of materials
and labor come back to near normal.
* * *
The cost of the Axis war to Aus-
tralia during the six financial years ended
on June 30 last was £2lll million. Of
this £1386 million was met by borrowing
and £725 million was paid for out of
taxation. Taxation has met about 34.5
p.c. of the total war bill. In 1944-45 the
proportion was 42 p.c., compared with
31 p.c, and 28 p.c. in the two preceding
years.


THE SERVICE MAN
A Comet and Its Tail.
“Ek Dum”: On August 6 a U.S. air-
craft dropped a bomb on Hiroshima,
Japan.
It was a very small bomb as bombs
go, and it was dropped in a casual, un-
spectacular manner by a crew of whom
only three out of eleven knew what they
were about. The pilot flew a machine
which he had named after his mother.
Hiroshima looked good in the sunshine,
so the bomb bay opened. There had
been no flak. The aircraft had a clear
run. His job done, the pilot opened the
throttle and left “for the lick of his life.”
To the Japanese who saw, first, what
they no doubt took to be a reconnais-
sance machine and then a single pill
coming down on a parachute, the whole
affair must have looked very small.
The old fellows who sit in hot baths, the
workers in the big war factories, the mili-
tary command in the depot, the squads
going about their morning fatigues, the
tripping girls, the children playing
in the city’s beautiful gardens, all no
doubt took a momentary interest in
the not unattractive phenomenon of a
silver ’plane in flight at a great height
leaving for parts unknown and the bil-
lowing parachute coming down into the
heart of Hiroshima, Then they ceased
to take an interest; for they had also
ceased to be there.
The silver ’plane was buffeted by two
sharp slaps as if heavy flak had burst
near it. There was a blinding flash which
challenged the sunlight. And over four
square miles of Hiroshima, covered with
streets, houses and factories and filled
with people, a huge cloud, whirling
and multi-colored, shot up eight miles into
the firmament. What was inside no man
saw for well over a day. Neither the
eye nor infra-red photography could
pierce the dreadful fog.
But statements from Mr. Churchill and
Mr. Truman made it pretty clear what
would be found there, and observation
confirmed their forecast when possible.
The atom and the welkin had been split
together.
Exit Hiroshima
Over that four square miles of Hiro-
shima nothing lived. The workers, the
soldiers, the old, the young, the women,
the children, the animals, the flies and
probably all the smaller minutiae of living
things had gone up in one flash, not
liquidated but often gassified by the stellar
temperatures of an atomic bomb. The
crucial element of the bomb was
said to weigh eight pounds ; the blast-
ing power was put on a level with
22,000 tons of TNT— i.e., sufficient to
produce the energy to lift 15,400,000,000
tons weight a foot off the ground: even
TNT detonates with a velocity 22,000
yards a second, produces 924 calories
of heat per gram.
It was extremely difficult to believe that
so much as a blade of blackened grass
or a hairpin would remain to tell that the
horrible charred 2500-odd acres there had
once been a city. All the observer
aircraft could see when they looked
down was something like the planes of a
newly-formed lava-bank, diversified by a
few blackened hulks of concrete air-raid
shelters, in which the humans must have
been grilled to a cinder as surely as if
they had been put suddenly into a coke
oven in full blast.
Britain’s Initiative
The statement of Mr. Churchill (issued
by Mr. Attlee) took the development of
the means by which this picture was
painted back into the history of British
research, as far as 1939. He might, for
that matter, have traced it straight
through British sources to 1815, land-
marking it with the work of a dozen
scientists until it began to reach fruition
at Cambridge with Maoriland’s Ruther-
ford and Ills group, Professors Soddy,
Chadwick and C, D. Ellis, the first men
in history who really succeeded in effect-
ing radioactive transmutation of atomic
particles.
The idea of an atomic bomb had been
in the minds of British experts for more
than a generation. In 1921 Lieut.-Col.
C. D. Crozier, R.G.A., formerly Director
eff Explosives Inspection, and Dr. Farmer,
Chief Chemist to the Munitions Depart-
ment, had written that advances in ex-
plosives in the future would mainly con-
sist in improvements of present mixtures
“unless some method should be discovered
whereby the enormous energy of the dis-
integration of atoms could be released at
will.” They added:
This cannot be said to be within si?ht,
and it is perhaps well that such stupendous
forces should be withheld from human con-
trol until a greater sense of international
responsibility is developed in mdhkind.
From Mr. Churchill’s statement it
appears that British scientists, while not
ready in 1939 to predict that an atomic
bomb could be created by 1945, saw that
the scheme had potentialities, which ap-
pealed so much to Mr. Chamberlain and
his supposedly stupid colleagues that they
“thought it right that research should be
carried on, despite the many claims of
scientific manpower.”
The work undertaken by Cambridge,
Oxford, London, Liverpool and Birming-
ham Universities sucked in as well the
results of research by Danes and Ger-
mans. It was co-ordinated under Sir
George Thomson, Professor of Physics
at the Imperial College of Science, and,
as the American atmosphere became hos-
tile to Germany, there were exchanges of
ideas with U.S. scientists.
Thus it came about that in August,
1941, at a period when all the press and
most radio uncles were shouting about
Russian victories—the Russians were re-
treating and losing hundreds of thou-
sands of men —and demanding that some-
body should send for Timoshenko to
replace the “Blimps” who were running
Britain’s war. Sir John Anderson, one of
those men of Munich, placed before
the Chiefs of Staff Committee the
recommendations of Lord Cherwell, Pro-
fessor of Experimental Philosophy at
Oxford, which led the committee —so de-
spised by editors—to order “immediate
action by maximum priority.”
A special division was created under
Mr. Akers, head of Imperial Chemical
Industries The list of those who took
part in the researches which followed
reads like a directory of all the genius of
Britain in physics and mathematics, and,
incidentally, seems to explain why a ban
was placed on certain scientists going to
the Moscow scientific conference held a
few weeks ago.
Transferred to U.S.A.
In October, 1941, Mr. Roosevelt sug-
gested co-ordination of British and
American effort. Thus several of the
leading scientists concerned went to the
United States, which provided greater
room for a good honest experiment in
large-scale blowing up of natural features
without blowing up too many citizens in
case of accident.
Apart from this, with the channelling
of virtually all main war campaigns in
progress at that time through Britain,
save that in the South-west Pacific, it was
impossible to add another large-scale and
highly-dangerous industry to those of
the crowded United Kingdom, apart
from the enormous risks involved. And
uranium, the material most needed, was
most abundant in Canada, which shares
with Britain and the U.S.A. in the patents.
So the burden of the industrial and
financial side, which, according to Presi-
dent Truman, involved an expendi-
ture of £625,000,000, was taken over by
Uncle Sam. In the scientific co-ordina-
tion Britain was principally repre-
sented by Rutherford’s associate. Sir
James Chadwick, a Nobel prize-winner ;
Lyon Jones, Professor of Physics at
Liverpool; Professor Cockcroft, Jack-
sonian Professor of Natural Philosophy
at Cambridge ; Professor M. L. E. Oli-
phant, an Australian, Poynting Professor
of Physics at Birmingham (born, educated
and married at Adelaide, he is one of the
great group of physicists who have made
Adelaide University illustrious in the
scientific world), and Professor Feather,
of Cambridge, esteemed as the first
man to split the oxygen atom in 1933.
With these were associated in the General
Policy Group, Dr. J. B. Conant, president
of Harvard, and Dr. Vannevar Bush,
president of the Carnegie Institute.
There were also several German refu-
gees, and in earlier developments ex-
tending over ten years there had
been Professor Peter Kupitza, of Cam-
bridge; but in 1935 Professor Kupitza
had visited his native land of Russia
and had not come back. Also, there
had been the Japanese Nagaoka, who
claimed to have produced gold from
water by radioactive methods. His claims
were never substantiated.
While the group in America worked
for dear life. Professor Niels Bohr, a
Dane who had won a Nobel Prize for
atomic research, was collecting data on
the German progress with the atomic-
bomb idea which the enemy was develop-
ing at the centres of heavy-water produc-
tion in Norway. When he had learned all
that was to be learned he escaped to
England. R.A.F. bombers and Nor-
wegian patriots then knocked the German
effort to pieces just in time.
For only a month or two before the Ger-
man war ended the enemy was report-
ing that he had a horror in train which
in three months’ time would win the war
by destroying England ; and it seems that
he was not jpoasting idly.
President Truman’s Promises
President Truman said that the atomic
bomb harnessed “the basic power of the
universe... .the force from which the
sun draws its power,” and that this had
been loosed against those who brought
war to the Far East:
We are now prepared completely to
obliterate, more and more rapidly, every
productive enterprise the Japanese have
above ground in any city. We shall com-
pletely destroy Japan’s power to make war.
The ultimatum issued from Potsdam was
intended to spare the Japanese from utter
destruction but the Japanese leaders re-
jected it. The atomic bomb is the Allies’
answer to that rejection, and the Japanese
may now expect a train of ruin from the
air the like of which has never been seen
on earth. Sea and, land forces will follow
this attack in such numbers and with such
power as the Japanese have never witnessed.
The President added that but for the war
everything discovered about atomic
energy would have been published, but
the knowledge must now remain a secret.
And he hinted that “the actual harnessing
of atomic energy may in future supple-
ment the power which now comes from
coal and oil and dams.” It is to be noted
that he did not say “replace.”
“Excitement was Intense”
It was said that when the first atom
bomb burst in the United States it
knocked down men 10,000 yards away,
and was felt arid its flash was seen 300
miles away. Judging by the press re-
action, it was fell much further than that.
It appeared to addle heads from the North
to the South Poles. Busy journalists
rushed round exhibiting queer-looking
atoms which sometimes were composed
entirely of neutrons or protons and
sometimes wholly of electrons. The im-
pression seemed to be that what had hap-
pened was that the scientists had caught
a number of atoms, enclosed them in
bombs and by means of a cyclotron or
something had split them with a resound-
ing bang, each atom producing an enor-
mous cataclysm.
The fact is that it has been possible to
split atoms since Sir James Rutherford
began to do it in 1902. The process is
relatively simple —in theory—very much
indeed like destroying a cancer by deep-
ray therapy. You simply bombard the
atom with electrical particles in the same
way that you might bombard the Jap
coast with artillery or a comedian with
a custard pie, and when the nucleus of
the atom is hit it breaks up —if it is hit
hard enough and with the right sort and
weight of particles.
The trouble is that an atom is a sort
of miniature universe with its own planets
revolving round the nucleus and held
together by a tremendous force ; and the
nucleus is a very minute and elusive
thing indeed. So that while it is quite
easy to bag one of the planetary par-
ticles “on the outer,” even a tin-hare
punter could until recently have made a
fortune betting against the chance to
smacking an alpha particle into the
nucleus. And when it had been done the
results had been disappointing.
Explosions are caused in ordinary
detonation by sudden expansion of
matter in the course of changing its
nature under some external influence.
And the process by which an atom bomb
works —though the elements may be dif-
ferent —cannot be far different from
those which operate in an ordinary ex-
plosion, except in force and more par-
ticularly in heat. The job apparently is
done by hitting the atoms of one of the
uranium isotopes with “deutrons,” heavy
hydrogen particles, and thus smashing the
uranium nucleus and allowing the attend-
ant particles to leave their moorings with
a loud noise and reassemble in fresh
groupings with breathtaking suddenness.
What takes place does so with a force
which transmutes and disarranges what-
ever other atoms or materials are within
reach, creating enormous expansive force
and heat.
The results are simple enough—the
nearest thing to complete destruction of
life and matter which has been so far
possible. But the processes by which the
potential was packed into an 81b. parcel
involved mathematical calculations be-
yond the power of the human brain. They
were carried out with integrators and the
work of 75.000 persons in a secret city
in the wilds of New Mexico, aided and
abetted by the whole physical and natural
philosophical eenius of two continents,
including the Bing Crosby Research Insti-
tute.
The bomb that fell on Hiroshima was
followed 48 hours later, after Japan had
refused another invitation to surrender,
by at least one more dropped on Naga-
saki, the chief Japanese port for traffic
to China.
This should have produced far more
interesting physical results than the first,
of which the target was somewhat undis-
tinguished. But in the meantime several
things had happened.
Something of the real horror of the
awful thing had penetrated the brains
even of editors of morning and evening
papers.
The Comet’s Tail
And it had been possible to welcome
to the headlines once more Marshal
Stalin and numerous old friends—Cos-
sacks, charging tanks and all the para-
phernalia of 1941-44, all “hurtling for-
ward.” Without them front pages had
looked as naked as a pin-up girl.
Seven Days.
“Ek Dum”: No war in history has had
its complexion altered so swiftly, de-
cisively and amazingly as the war in the
Pacific.
On April 5 few knowledgable men, even
those in positions of high authority, be-
lieved that there was any hope of a
main attack on Japan beginning before
October or of the war ending before next
summer (about July or August, 1946).
Even on August 8 Mr. Chifley said that
he thought the war would last for 12
months. And 24 hours later he put its
probable duration at two to six months.
On August 5 the normal process of
softening Japan was continuing with a
raid in which 580 Mariana-based Super-
fortresses dropped 3850 tons of incendi-
aries and h.e. on Nishinomiya-Mikage,
which merges into Kobe, Imbari, Saga and
Maebashi.
Events from then onwards:
August 6: At 9.15 a.m. the atomic bomb was
dropped on Hiroshima, a few miles from the
great naval base of Kure, which had been the
venue of serious raids before. Why Hiroshima
was chosen with so tempting a major target
within sight of it is not clear.
August 7: It was reported that in the largest
attack made on a single target from Okinawa
factories and wharves in Karumizu, on Kyushu,
had been pinpointed and the city virtually
wiped out by 400 machines. On Honshu, 750
tons of bombs were dropped on the Tayokawa
naval arsenal.
August 8: At noon 225 Superfortresses from
the Marianas dropped heavy demolition bombs
on the iron and steel works at Yawata, in
Kyushu, which were among the first targets
attacked by Superfortresses from China almost
exactly a year ago. General MacArthur’s
Eastern Command spared an incendiary force
to set flames raging through the fourth-largest
city of southern Kyushu, Miyakonojo, while
200 bombers and fighters also hit Kagoshima,
South Kyushu’s principal city.
Russia Comes In •
During the day Foreign Commissar
Molotov received the Japanese Ambassa-
dor, Naotaki Sato, and handed him a
declaration to the effect that after the fall
of Germany Japan remained the only
great Power insisting on a continuation of
the war; that the demand for the uncon-
ditional surrender of the Japanese armed
forces had been rejected by Japan and
that the Russian Government’s offer to
mediate in the Far Eastern war had be-
come baseless.
From this it was clear that (1) Russia
went into the war after knowing for some
time that the Japanese realised they were
beaten and were prepared to give in ; (2)
Russia was prepared to mediate terms for
Japan less drastic than absolute uncondi-
tional surrender.
The statement continued:
Taking into consideration Japan’s refusal
to capitulate, the Allies addressed to the
Russian Government an offer to join in the
war against Japanese aggression, thereby
shortening the duration of the war, reducing
the number of the victims, and assisting in
the restoration of general peace.
From this it was clear that Russia had
not acted on its own initiative, but upon
a firm invitation issued only within the
previous ten days ; since that time only
had elapsed after the Japanese had made
their attitude to the Potsdam declaration
known.
There has been no explanation as to
why the Anglo-American allies believed
(as suggested by M. Molotov) that the
entry of Russia into the war would
“shorten its duration and reduce the num-
ber of victims.” All the declarations by
the Anglo-Americans suggest that a full
year ago they were able to say that on
August 6, 1945, they would begin to blast
the whole of Japan out of existence, with
one bomb to one city
M. Molotov’s declaration was strangely
out of accord with President Trumans
statement that “it was to spare Japan
utter destruction that the ultimatum of
July 26 was issued from Potsdam." The
President had added that the Japanese
had rejected the ultimatum and that if
they do not now accept our terms they
may expect a rain of ruin from the air
the like of which has never been seen on
earth.... We are now prepared to
obliterate every productive enterprise
the Japanese have- above ground in any
citv.”
It was obvious from the results of
Hiroshima that a Russian attack would


Public Notice.
T FORTUNATO FARNERO, of Italian nationality,
born at Canero, in the Province of Treviso, Northern
rtalv and resident 23 years in Australia, now resid-
ing Vl 09 S East Sydney N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I ANGELO COMINOTTO, of Italian nationality,
bom at Sedegliano in the Province ot Udine, Italy,
and resident seven years in Australia, now residing
at Greenfield Road, St. John’s Park, New South
Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY BETTY STEWART formerly of Coff’s
Harbour, and RONALD GORDON formerly of the
same place.—TAKE NOTICE that ALAN HENRY
STEWART the husband of you the abovenamed
Dorothy Betty Stewart has filed a Petition in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales No. 2997 of
] 944 praving for a divorce on the ground that you
the abovenamed Dorothy Betty Stewart have com-
mitted adultery with you the abovenamed Ronald
Gordon Each of you may enter an appearance on or
before the 15th of October 1945 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS. ALLAN
UTHER & MANSFIELD Solicitors 350 George Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
—ln Divorce.
TO MAXWELL LESLIE GEORGE HARVEY formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania last heard of at Sydney in
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to vou to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of MAY ELIZABETH KINGSHOTT
HARVEY of 123 Chapel Street St. Kilda in Victoria
praying for a dissolution of marriage In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereto AND T AKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aioresaid within thirty (30)
da vs after the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart. —(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal Regis-
trar.
Tim
not save life. It would indeed result in
considerable numbers of unnecessary
deaths by producing unnecessary lighting
—that is, if there was any Russo-Jap
fighting.
However, no sooner had the first atomic
bomb shown what was going to happen
to Japan than the Russian Government
became convinced that its new determina-
tion to associate itself with the Allied
declaration of July 26 was “the only
means capable of bringing peace nearer
and of freeing the people from further
sacrifices.”
The fact that it continued in discussion
with the Japanese through its ambassador
in Tokyo showed that it knew Japan was
finished before it added itself to the
Pacific war —the Japanese suggestion of
mediation weeks before must have made
that evident. There was considerable re-
semblance between its action in Bulgaria
and its action in Japan.
It was declared that from next day
Russia would consider itself at war with
Japan. In effect, the enemy was given
several hours’ notice of Russia’s inten-
tions. Real old-world courtesy!
Nagasaki Is Atomised
The Russians struck across the Man-
chukuo border about 1 a.m. on August
9 with a few bombers. At 3.30 a.m. two
ground forces, one from Hunchun, in
the Possiet Bay region, near the border
of Korea, and the other along the Trans-
Siberian railway, in the Monchouli region,
in the far-west, struck across the border.
Harbin was lightly bombed, along with
Kirin and Rashin,
At noon a second atomic bomb, de-
scribed as even more powerful than that
dropped on Hiroshima, fell on Nagasaki,
the great port on the west of Kyushu,
opposite Shanghai. Nagasaki, a frail
mass of buildings, lies in an amphi-
theatre which would be bound to con-
fine and concentrate so great a blast.
There seemed to be little doubt about
what would happen with this awful
example before the eyes of the Japanese
Government.
That afternoon it was announced that
on August 10 a meeting of all the elder
statesmen of the Japanese Totalitarian
party would be held to decide policy “for
presentation to the Government and the
High Command,” following decisions to
be reached immediately regarding
counter-measures.
A peculiar fact in the evolving situa-
tion was the careless assumption that the
atomic bomb had no influence upon
Japanese action. As late as the night of
August 12 fearsome tales were being
published via Shonan Radio of horrible
defeats of the Australians on the Serim-
ban perimeter, in Buka and elsewhere,
and the dire results of raids on Okinawa
and its adjacent shipping ; but the great-
est respect was being accorded the Rus-
sian drives —which in the west and north
were obviously not being pushed forward
with any fighting of consequence, in view
of their rate of travel.
Tokyo descriptions of the Russian pro-
ceedings were unique—they might have
been the work of a friend rather than an
enemy.
Meanwhile another blast had begun
on the Ryukus from the British and U.S.
fleets and from the Far East air forces.
Over 500 tons of bombs were dropped
on Fukuyama, east of Hiroshima, And
the Third Fleet —which had been prac-
tising the art of shooting up towed
targets close to the Japanese shores —
began bombarding Kamaishi, the steel
town on the n.-e. coast of Honshu, last
hit on July 14, and other points.
The Ryuku forces blasted Matsuyama
(one of Japan’s major aerodromes on
Shikoku), Saishu Island, Shanghai, Indo-
China and Malaya.
Fleets in Action
August 10: The fleets continued to
plaster Japan in conjunction with the Far
Eastern Air Force. About 1200 carrier-
based machines were used, apart from
escorted, S.Fs. aimed at the Amagasaki
oil refinery. The main targets were air-
fields, from which aircraft were sup-
posedly being organised for dispatch to
Manchuria. For the first time in the
close-in operations, Japanese aircraft
attempted to attack the warships, and
many were shot down, though there were
slight ship casualties.
At the end of the battle it was an-
nounced that the joint British-U.S. naval
air forces had destroyed 147-odd Japanese
machines and damaged 173. Meanwhile,
attempts to make a reconnaissance of
Nagasaki had failed, the city being
covered by an impenetrable smoke pull,
with ugly fires raging round its edges.
Tokyo’s Offer
Towards evening Moscow Radio re-
ported that the Russian ambassador in
Tokyo, with whom the enemy had not
severed diplomatic contact, had been
approached with a peace offer, which was
also being conveyed to Britain and
America through Switzerland and
Sweden. *
Domei said that “in accordance with
the gracious command of the Emperor,
ever-anxious for world peace and de-
sirous of bringing about a cessation of
hostilities to save mankind from the
calamities incident to a continuation of
the war,” Japan had several weeks before
asked the Soviets to use their good offices
in restoring peace. It continued that,
these efforts for peace unfortunately hav-
ing failed, the Japanese Government was
ready to accept the terms enumerated
in the joint declaration of Potsdam on
July 26 by the heads of the Governments
of Great Britain, the United States and
China, and later subscribed to by the
U.S.S.R., with the understanding that
“the said declaration does not include
any demand which prejudices his
Majesty’s prerogatives as sovereign ruler.”
The Allied Terms
The points which were thus conceded
as conditions of surrender were elimina-
tion of those leaders who embarked
Japan on her present disastrous policy ;
occupation of crucial points by the
Allies ; limitation of Japanese sovereignty
to the four main islands and such minor
islands as the victorious Allies might
decide ; Japanese forces to b£ completely
disarmed and war criminals to be tried ;
Japanese industry to be controlled and
limited consistently with their power to
produce reparations, the establishment of
a democratic Government, the eventual
participation of a much chastened and
reformed Japan in world trade and un-
conditional surrender of all Japanese
forces.
It was, in fact, a plan which called for
the largest scale sort of ham kiri among
Japanese leaders.
The garbled and sensational manner in
which the facts about the offer were in-
troduced to the Australian public by
A.B.C. and radio stations in general led
to a false assumption that the war was
over and to sorry types of celebrations
in various Australian capitals, which con-
tinued next day and the day after.
But the fact was that at that stage the
heads of the Allies, except for Moscow,
which was behaving as if it had achieved
a victory over the Japanese single-handed
and which was sedulously avoiding men-
tion of such diversions as atomic bombs,
had not yet received the Japanese pro-
posal.
While the Sydney orgies were proceed-
ing Japanese broadcasting stations at
Singapore and elsewhere were shouting
the defiances of “an official spokesman,”
who was affirming his country’s “deter-
mination to fight to the bitter end, even
to the death.”
On August 11 the Strategic Command
at Guam announced that no Super-
fortresses would leave for Japan that
day. Though there was a lull in Navy
operations, this was due to “an advance
plan” and had no relation to Japan’s offer
to surrender.
The main announcements regarding
fighting came from the Russian theatre —
reported from Moscow —and from China
where, it appeared, the Japanese were
being chased in panic in Kwang-si.
The Allies by this time had received the
Japanese note.
At the equivalent of 12.30 a.m., Sydney
time, Mr. Byrnes, the U.S. Secretary of
State, delivered the Allied reply through
the Swiss Embassy. The Japanese terms
were accepted subject to conditions:
From the moment of surrender the
authority of the Emperor and the Japanese
Government to rule the State shall be sub-
ject to the Allied Supreme Commander, who
will take such steps as he deems proper to
give effect to the surrender terms.
The Emperor shall be required to author-
ise and secure the signature of the Japanese
Government and Imperial H.Q. to the
surrender terms necessary to carry out the
Potsdam declaration, and shall issue his
commands to all Japanese military, naval
and air authorities and all forces under
their control, wherever located, to cease
active operations and surrender their arms,
and to issue such other orders as the
Supreme Commander may require to give
effect to the surrender terms.
On August 12 the blows against Japan
continued while Sydney hoodlums were
lighting fires in the streets, jerking the
poles from trolly-wires, smashing limb-
less soldiers’ kiosks, rooting up one of
the poplars sent from France to flank the
Cenotaph, defiling Cenotaph wreaths and
generally behaving like the old-time
pushes. The British-U.S. fleets cruised
off Japan with guns and aircraft manned,
and clouds of aircraft raced for the enemy
coast. In Soutn Kyushu Kumamoto was
attacked by 500 machines from Okinawa.
Tokyo Radio reported a heavy Fortress
raid on Matsuyama aerodrome area on
Shikoku, Mining and other operations to
prevent the sending of supplies and tieip
to Japanese troops in Manchukuo went
on.
Meanwhile, Japanese radios issued a
communique from Imperial H.Q. timed
at 3.30 p.m.—4.30 Sydney time. This
recorded respectfully the Russian ad-
vances in Manchukuo ; claimed the sink-
ing of three U.S. ships in a raid south of
Okinawa ; claimed the knocking out of the
main strength of Australian forces attack-
ing the Samarinda oilfields and reported
counter-drives which had prevented the
feeble fellows of the Seventh Division
from re-establishing their broken line. On
Buka, north of Bougainville, Australians
were supposedly having a tough time in
jungle warfare. On Flainan 400 bandits
were reported to have been wiped out.
In two days, it was declared, 92 Allied
aircraft had been shot down over the
main home islands and 91 damaged, the
whole including a fair prop-, .ion of four-
engined machines.
Shonan Shouts Defiance
From the “Shonan Provisional Govern-
ment” at Singapore came a savage tirade
by an Indian gentleman against the "in-
discriminate murder of a whole popula-
tion” at Hiroshima, the “greatest crime
in human history,” and a warning that
India awaited a worse fate at the hands
of the British-Americans. The “Shonan
Provisional Government” stressed the
need to fight to the death to avert the
consequences of “British - American
brutality.” There certainly was little
surrender spirit or feeling of kindness
abroad in Singapore.
Late at night Chiang’s Government in
Chungking protested that the Japanese in
the north had begun to surrender to
Chinese Communists, a position which
seemed curious in view of the fact that the
Russians, who appear to have been given
the continent of Asia for their own play-
ground, were in conference with the
Chungking Government’s Premier Soong,
who has almost lived in Moscow in the
past six weeks, and with Wang, the
Chinese Ambassador.
There wqs no answer to the surrender
note up to late on August 13, but Tokyo
Radio announced that the “Yomiuri,” one
of the authoritative newspapers close to
the Palace, had called the Japanese people
to await a great command from the
Throne. The whole of the Tokyo press
was gloomy, but Domei remarked sud-
denly that Japan had no Badoglios,
receiving its orders from an exalted source
above. There was a general desire to
“ease His Majesty’s mind by quickly
solving whatever is troubling him.”
Behind the despondency there was a
note of resistance. It began to be asserted
that the results of the atomic bombing
had not been so bad as at first expected.
At Singapore the “Provisional Govern-
ment” suddenly produced again a procla-
mation from the Japanese War Minister,
which had been heard earlier in the week,
declaring the “grim determination of the
Imperial Army to fight this sacred war to
the bitter end.”
And Domei publicised a communique
which said that “in response to the Im-
perial command to defend the sacred
Empire, the Imperial Army and Navy
began an offensive on all fronts against
the Allied enemy armies.”
It was quite plain that matters were
“slightly mixed” in Japan.
The Allied air fleets continued the
bombing of Japan on August 13, and it
was obvious that there would be no let
up till surrender was agreed to.
The Russians were still “hurtling on”
in “lightning drives” with “unprecedented
heroism.” They were well over 400 miles,
inside Manchukuo on their fourth day
on the west, and they were reported to
be travelling 20 miles a day down the
Sungari from Khabarovsk. Two other
drives were being made —north of Vladi-
vostok and south-west into Korea, where
the Jap ports of Rashin and Yuri had
been surrendered, obviously without resist-
ance worth the name.
Even if the Japanese intended to fight,
however, the Brives were only passing
through little-populated country —most of
it carrying less than 12 persons to the
square mile and it was unlikely that
maifi resistance would be met until there
was an actual approach to Harb:n. On
April 13 it was taken for granted that all
was over.
War in the South.
“Ek Dum”: On August 6 it was stated
by a spokesman in Manila that the
military situation in Borneo was static.
Despite fearsome reports from Tokyo
of a great slaughter of the Seventh
Division, that intrepid force, having
counted 1690 dead and taken 59
prisoners in the Balik Papan campaign,
was advancing its patrols towards
Samarinda, meeting only small numbers
of Japanese.
On the other side of the island patrols,
when last heard from, were in contact
with the Japanese 10 to 15 miles be-
yond Miri on the road to Kuching ; but
broken ground and good cover occupied
by the enemy meant that the advance was
slow and the probing cautious. The
Tarakan area was almost clear of Japs.
The air war continued strongly from
the Halmaheras northward and westward.
The first Australian-built Mosquito
squadrons made their first strikes.
On the Wewak front and on Bougain-
ville the pressure was kept on by patrols.
The greatest blast came from the loud
speakers telling the enemy what he might
expect. This propaganda produced
surrenders by small parties on the Wewak
front, where the Sixth Division drives
were making progress.
From Burma it was announced that,
though Maorilanders would be allowed
to join the R.A.F., the 1000 Australians
serving with the British squadrons would
be withdrawn and sent home. They have
done a grand job. Some of them have
had four years’ continuous service.
The Twelfth Army finished the war
against the Pegu Yoma escapees in the
Sittaung Valley by the slaughter of a
further 5000, Lord Louis Mountbatten
announced in London that in the recent
Burmese campaign 128,000 of the enemy
had been destroyed.
The occupation of Malaya and tne
N.E.1., where there are estimated to be
20,000 p.-0.-w., including 5000 Austra-
lians, will be implemented by British
troops, who, it is to be hoped, will include
representative detachments of the A.LF.
Later Dutch troops —not now available
will take over the N.E.I.
But there were still fears, when this
was written, that isolated sections of the
Japanese in the south and the New
Guinea area might carry on the war until
they were actually able to see an Impena
rescript ordering surrender.
In brief:
A XJ.S. navy communique from Washington
on August 12 announced further losses ot 1U»
U.S. warships and 108 landing cratt, bringing
American ship casualties to 437. Among the
108 were three destroyers, a 10,000-ton attack
transport, two destroyer escorts, four sub-
marines and 46 t.b.ds. Total ITS. losses in
eluded one battleship—the old Arizona, sunk
at Pearl Harbor—ll carriers, six heavy cruisers,
three light cruisers, 69 destroyers and 50 sub
marines.


urns
ms
nil!
1
]
Vfe 19
c °0 0 .
&
I-TiTIPTI
JE
I Lcdthe
vdhve ,
Pre*e
m 3
c
■
&
~A r
*so FOR
«»4?/U
FOR
NUGGET’
SHOE POLISH
OVER 50 YEARS ... A POLISH
SPORTING NOTIONS
“All good punters eat doughnuts!” is the
very confident claim of one of (he barrage of
food and soft-drink vendors who line the route
and lighten the punter’s half-mile hike from
the railway to the track at Canterbury. After
watching every favorite take a hiding at Sydney
Turf Club’s meeting at that course on Satur-
day a good few punters were prepared to
admit that whatever they had eaten had certainly
lacked the miraculous qualities ascribed to the
doughnut. However, well supported second
favorites won three events, and fine finishes in-
cluded four with a winning margin of a half-
neck or less.
W. Cook rode in great form. From five
mounts he scored wins and (wo seconds,
beaten half a head and half a neck respec-
tively. Also in good form, apprentice B.
Robards, still receiving 71b. allowance, brought
home the first two winners very nicely in half-
neck finishes.
The 11-furlongs Lord Mayor’s Cup, with
£lO5O added money, had twice been cancelled
by rain, and the slowish times for this and
other events indicated that the track, apparently
difficult to drain, was still a little heavy. With
three recent front-running wins under his belt,
the Hua horse Turn Again, a very sound gal-
loper, went smartly to the front - of the Cup
field, and passing the leger the first time round
was setting up a handy lead, with Moorland,
Ascertain and Kiaree best placed of the rest.
Turn Again showed them the way round, but
inside the distance Accession and Allan Veil
had his measure and fought it out to the post,
where the hardy old Veilmond horse, receiving
201 b. from Accession, was a half-head in front.
Though a well-beaten third, Turn Again was
lengths better than any of the others.
The first of three races open (o this season’s
three-year-olds was a 71-furlongs Maiden for colts
and geldings. About the best performer in the
field, the Coronation Day gelding My King was
the early leader, but Brazen Brueghel took over
with six furlongs to go and made most of the
running from there, with Black Pentheus handy.
Nearing the home turn the Brazen gelding was
still in front, but ran wide, and a Genetout
colt, Guiding Light, went well clear. Mean-
while Black Pentheus, having dropped back,
was coming through Che bunch again, and just
caught the leader on the post, winning by a
half-neck from Guiding Light, with another Pen-
theus gelding, Sluma, third. None of the place-
getters had ever previously run a place and all
paid solid tote dividends.
The other Maiden, for three-year-old fillies,
provided the best finish of the day. With a few
placings each (o their credit, Lisp and Stefanova
seemed the likeliest prospects, and they headed
the betting in that order, but neither gave
much of a show. The promising Brueghel filly
Volley, Allcrag (Felcrag-Alabama) and Invest
(Golden Sovereign-Mantilla) crossed the line in
that order with a half-neck and a head between
(hem.
In his day one of the best of Sydney jockeys,
E. Bartle seldom takes a mount of late, though
still riding his share of track work. He had
a couple of rides on Saturday, and on the Le
Grand Due colt Monmouth, in the much better
class three-year-old field of the nine-furlongs
handicap, he went as near to winning as he’s
been in a very long time. Coming into the
straight the Hua filly Questing moved up from
the handy position she had held throughout to
take the lead from King Lear and the favorite
Chaytor. Second-last at this stage, Bartle urged
Monmouth into a long and very impressive run,
failing by two lengths to catch Questing, but
right to the post making up ground on her.
Chaytor plugged on into third place.
Cook, who rode Questing, scored* his other
two wins by taking the first division of the
Flying Welter on John Halifax, who beat Bruce
Wood and the favorite, Warlock, and the
second division on Pufiham, beating the Picca-
dilly gelding Oberon and Fermanagh. Cook
brought a change of luck for two of his mounts;
Pufiham had run three seconds and a third in his
previous four starts and Questing a second, two
thirds and a fourth at her only four outings.
Cook’s other mount. Leading Man, a strong
favorite for the Welter, was narrowly beaten
by the outsider Rainglare, and a protest was
dismissed. Marabelle was third.
* * * *
Winterset kicked a fellow-competitor and
had a lash at another before the start of the
Australian Steeplechase at Caulfield on Satur-
day, and so ended his career in ignominy by
being barred henceforth. A pity, because at his
top he has been the best and boldest-jumping
performer Australia has had for years. Still,
his career may have been in its winter, anyway.
His regular rider, L. Meenan, suggested as
much when the old fellow failed in the National,
and on Saturday, down in the weights, he was
in a winning position when Night Life, tiring
out in front, pecked at a fence or two. Tente
very quickly passed Winterset, and, as if that
wasn’t proof enough, Victory March also came
on to relegate (he former champion into third
place.
Tente’s was a sound form performance, he
having dead-heated for first at his previous
steeplechase start. But the soundest on the day
was that of the Solar Bear gelding Solray in
the mile Chatsworfh Plate for tmee-year-olcls.
Solray started his winning only a few weeks ago
and he has been a rare model of consistency,
and somewhat of versatility. He began it from
right at the bottom of the weights, as a com-
plete outsider. On Saturday he was second
topweight, with 8.12, and dead-heated with the
lightly-weighted Big Shot; in third place Mac-
ready. In his three previous starts Solray had
won at six and seven furlongs and at a mile.
Solvent, who had been favorite for the
National Hurdle and bad had good backing
since without returning a dividend, was again
solidly backed in the Arkaringa Hurdle, this
time amply justifying those who had had the
patience to stick to hiih by winning by 15
lengths from Illumination and Priority. Bay
David, who should come up one of the best
of them next year, was made favorite, but his
National run must have taken the best out of
him for the time being; he finished a long way
back.
La Patrice promises well for the spring racing.
The four-year-old St. Magnus mare had a very
hollow win over Lunar Lynx, Princess Amy and
a big and fairly good field of others in the
seven-furlongs St. Aubin Handicap. Other
winners were the Law Maker colt El Banco,
from Drama and Euxine, in the Chatsworth
second division; the Enfield gelding Bisley,
from Field Balloon and Arduli, in the 11-fur-
longs Malakoff Stakes; and the Kinderscout
gelding Kindervale, from Reynard and Hartnell,
in the nine-furlongs Cambria Plate for four-
year-olds.
* * * ♦
An aged gelding by Windbag-Demostress,
Bragger won the first leg of the big annual
Newcastle (N.S.W.) double by defeating the
two locals Homeleigh Dick and Earl Pentheus
in the seven-furlongs Cameron Handicap.
Though a winner at the last Randwick meeting,
with three seconds shortly before that, Bragger
had the easy weight of 7.9, but the field in-
cluded some good ones, among them Abbeville
and Enthuse. .
* * * *
Adelaide Racing Club has got its lease of a
long slice of the parklands renewed by the City
Council for 21 years, the Hat has to remain
free to the public, and rent goes up from £lOOO
to £1500; however, the club last year received
£2500 from other clubs which used the course.
The A.R.C. is now so popular that it has had
to close its membership list.
* * * ♦
S. W. Ferry, who has passed on in Adelaide
at 67, was for many years a stipendiary steward
and instructor of the school for apprentices in
S.A. On his first mount in a race, his father’s
Norma, he won the 1888 City Handicap.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances)—
Three-year-old Novice (colts) Brazen Brueghel,
1; My King, 2; Mt. Howitl, 3. Fillies: Lisp,
1; Volley, 2; Invest, 3. Frederick Clissold
Handicap: Vermeil, 1; Tahmoor, 2; Twice
Royal, 3. S.T.C. Handicap: Ascertain, 1;
Night Parade, 2; Moorland, 3. Three-year-old
Handicap: Monmouth, 1; Chaytor, 2; Don
Giovanni, 3. Welter Handicap; Marabelle, 1;
Pufiham, 2; Leading Man, 3.
* ♦ * *
The fourth “Test”:
The drawn fourth “Victory Test” at Lord’s
was much in favor of England. With two
wins in hand out of three matches the Aus-
tralians had first use of the wicket, and ambled
along for seven hours to knock up 388. Miller
batted finely for 118 in 3hr. 15min., the only
player of either side to get two centuries (105
in the first “Test”). Sismey scored 59, Pepper
57 and Whitington 46. Pope (4 for 83), Pol-
lard (4 for 145) and Roberts (2 for 39) shared
the wickets.
England’s innings was closed at 468 for 7
wickets, the seasoned players Washbrook (116),
Hammond (83), Edrich (73 not out) and Fish-
lock (69) getting the bulk of the total. The
Australian bowling was sorely tested, and the
wicket's were split up among Williams (3 for
109), Pettilord (3 for 62) and Ellis (1 for 80).
There seemed a lack of punch in the attack.
The Aussies had practice in the second innings
with 140 for 4 wickets (Pettiford 39, Miller 35
not out and Stanford 33 not out). Pope took
2 for 42, Pollard 1 for 58 and Wright 1 for 23.
England’s 468 for 8 wickets is the highest
score of the series; Australia's best was 455 in
the second innings of the first “Test.” In
aggregate totals Australia has scored 1944 runs
for 64 wickets, averaging 30.37; England 1923
runs for 66 wickets, averaging 29.01.
A mishap to wicketkeeper Sismey helped Eng-
land’s innings by 57 sundries —a record for all
Test cricket. Workman tried to do the job,
but failed; then Hammond sportingly allowed
Carmody (substitute) to take the gloves, and
the avalanche was stayed. The match alto-
gether was a record for “Mr. Sundries,” total-
ling a century. The mishap to Sismey recalled
the Test at The Oval in August, 1934, when
Ames was injured after allowing only four byes
in a total of 701 runs; then Australia got 50
sundries in the second innings. There were
also 50 sundries in the Test at The Oval in
1938, when England amassed 903.
One striking aspect of the current “Tests”
has been the way Miller’s energy has been used.
He has batted splendidly, and in the foui
matches has bowled 101 overs for 9 wickets,
averaging 24. Australia has had a few good
all-rounders in Tests —Gillen (1238 runs, 103
wickets), Armstrong (2172 runs, 74 wickets),
Noble (1905 runs, 115, wickets), Jack Gregory
(941 runs, 70 wickets) and Hugh Trumble (838
runs, 141 wickers), for instance —and if Miller
is not overworked he may yet get in this circle.
# * * ♦
Though South Melbourne had to do
without Nash, star of this year's Mel-
bourne football season and a match-
winner on his own, the team played with
the ease and precision that keeps it ori
top and never gave North Melbourne a
chance, winning 21.8-10.16. Every other
leading team was stoushed on Saturday ;
even weary old Melbourne downed Foots-
cray, 12.18-12.9, making Footscray’s
fourth successive defeat. There was a
ding-dong go between Carlton and Col-
lingwood, and ’Wood finished with a
terrific late run, but lost by six points,
13.11-13.5. The fourth champion down
was Richmond; sadly mauled by the
despised Hawthorn the week before, the
Tigers went to Essendon and a 14.22-
10.13 licking. Meantime Hawthorn wal-
loped Geelong, 14.21-9.13 and Fitzroy
swamped St. Kilda, 17.27-8.14.
It’s South, ’Wood, ’Scray and North
in the V.F.L. competition, with Richmond
and Carlton just behind, and Hawthorn,
though away down, the list, threatening
to be a headache. Hawthorn belted Rich-
mond and then Geelong. Now Foots-
cray, with four defeats in as many games,
has to beat Hawthorn next Saturday or
lose its place in the four.
* ♦ * *
Port Adelaide, which had won every
match (Australian Rules) all tire winter
and was openly discussing the chances
of a “whitewash” season without a loss,
was at last unaccountably beaten by Sturt
(7 won, 6 lost) by 19.20 to 10.7.
* * * *
Great Public Schools v. Royal Military
College, played at North Sydney, was, as
usual, a thrilling Rugby Union game.
After the first half (G.P.S. 6-3) both sides
flung the ball about in spectacular
fashion, with the R.M.C. Maori centre
Poananga shining in penetrative bursts.
R.M.C. scored four tries to one, but three
penalty goals kicked by “Shore” half
Burns snatched victory for his team;
G.P.S. 15, R.M.C. 14. Other games:
G.P.S. II 14, Hawkesbury Agricultural
College 5. C.B.C. Waverley 19, G.P.S.
11l 9.
On Sunday Combined Services scored
five tries to four against Metropolis, but
a superb field goal and penalty goal by
full-back Creer, who played a grand game
as well, won it for Metropolis, 19-17.
Hodgson, who scored two tries for Ser-
vices, was omitted from the team to play
Queensland, though the selectors included
Stone, also a veteran, instead of a younger
man such as Greg Smith, of Drummoyne,
♦*♦ ♦ ✓
The blue ribbon event of Brisbanes
Rugby Union, University v. Combined
G.P.S., was won by ’Varsity 14 -nil,
and all the scoring was done in the last 20
minutes. A striking feature of the Uni.
team was that Downlands College, Too-
woomba, a non-G.P.S. but powerful R.U.
nursery, provided four Old Boys for
the XV.
“P. McM.”: Bill Cerutti has equalled
Cyril Towers by playing his 233rd R.U.
first-grade game. He also holds the
record for most representative appear-
ances, 63 —17 for Australia and 46 for
N.S.W. Beginning his career with
Y.M.C.A. thirds in 1925, BUI filled
in the intervening 20 years playing for
Glebe-Balmain, Drummoyne, Parramatta,
Eastern Suburbs, and is now captain,
coach and selector of St. George firsts.
A well-preserved fellow, he still plays a
vigorous, intelligent game as a break-
away, and in dribbling rushes has no
superior.
* * * ♦
The R.A.A.F. Eight (B. 25/7/’45) had
its first rowing victory at Hammersmith,
beating the Barnes Rowing Club in a
great race by a canvas. The N.Z. crew,
lacking condition, was third, five lengths
away. Barnes was stroked by Bert Barry
(now 42), the former world’s professional
sculling champion.
* ♦ ♦ *
Two featherweights, Joe Bissaker and
Leo Robbo, furnished a thrilling 12-
rounder at Leichhardt. Bissaker back-
moved Robbo’s leads and countered with
spectacular punches, having Robbo very
sick in the sixth, but being himself groggy
at the bell. After that he continually
beat Robbo to the punch ; however, the
ten-years-older warrior did so well in the
11th and 12th that Pearson, the referee,
decided on a draw.
A tougher lightweight than A 1 Stock has
never made the trip across the Tasman.
His tactics are simple and as old as pugil-
ism itself, being expressed in the words
“Take a punch to give a punch,” and
opposed to Reg Tozer at the Sydney
Stadium he took plenty. But he didn’t
land often or powerfully enough and was
beaten on points. Stock’s cheerful game-
ness pleased the crowd immensely.
Throughout the last two rounds he tried
to put over a convincing punch, but the
Sydneysider was too good.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne received news of the im-
minence of peace with thankfulness but
not a great deal of excitement. A crowd
of hoodlums, male and female, ran amucK
in Collins-street in the small hours of
Saturday morning, broke shop windows
and commenced looting. Street repair
barricades were used to feed bonfires,
and a “good” time was had by the
revellers till the police reckoned the orgy
had gone far enough and extinguished it.
Very soon this city will have a new
Mayor and Mayoress, but the present
holders of office will long be remembered.
A very successful tea party was hostessed
by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice
Campbell, in the large reception room at
the Town Hall, gay with bowls of glorious
flowers, when she entertained the metro-
politan candidates for the “Miss Aus-
tralia” competition. Over 60 of the 82
girls were present, and were received by
Mayor Nettlefold and Mrs. Campbell.
Vaughan Marshall, chairman and
honorary director of the competition,
urged the girls to work to the utmost to
make the competition a success, for
money was urgently needed by the A.C.F.,
not only to send comforts to the fighting
fronts but to assist in rehabilitation work
among returned men.
Among the many candidates was Roma
Rainford, who has been nominated by
the Army. Her fair hair and coloring
were enhanced by a bright red wool coat
and flat beret. Verna Treloar, nominated
by the National Theatre, was in a teal-
blue coat with a fox fur collar and match-
ing hat. The A.N.A. nominee was trim
and smart in her air-hostess uniform.
Onlookers were impressed by the good
looks, smartness and poise of the girls.
When Admiral Keyes visited Mel-
bourne he was invited to inspect Navy
House. In his speech of congratulations
to the committee he said “In 52 years of
naval service I have never seen a better-
run hostel for sailors.” Within its walls
countless naval ratings have found a tem-
porary home. Following on Lady Royle’s
departure, Mrs. H. A. Showers, wife of
Commodore Showers, 2nd Naval Mem-
ber, was elected president of auxiliaries
and the good work was continued. Up
to the end of June, 1945, 165,000 meals
had been served and 3000 beds provided.
At the Hawthorn annexe 8000 meals
were served and 3000 beds provided. An
outstanding feature of the year was the
loan of 7000 square feet of ground floor
space in the warehouse of the Australian
Estates Co. This has been furnished
with 200 beds and designated Navy
House Annexe No. 3. The total capacity
of beds now stands at 450, At the outset,
in 1940, only 20 beds were provided.
Many letters of appreciation have come
to the committee in praise of the hospi-
tality of Navy House.
The Naval Wivds’ Auxiliary for Little
Ships has also done a fine job. They
knitted many garments in the early part
of the war and are now concentrating
on supplying reading matter for the Navy.
Up to June, 1945, 2000 books and many
thousands of magazines were mended,
covered and dispatched to the “little
ships” and shore establishments. The
hospitality sub-committee arranged pic-
nics, dances and billeting in private
homes. D. York Syme is the busy chair-
man of the executive committee and
among the many distinguished men and
women on the committee is Lieut.-Com,
G. H. Gill, R.A.N.V.R. He has been
away on special duty and has just re-
turned to this city. His wife, known in
art circles as Esther Paterson, and her
sister Betty have just published another
of their attractive books for children.
The drawings illustrative of nursery rhymes
may be colored by the youngsters. All
the proceeds go to the R.A.A.F. Welfare
Fund and to the Funds of the W.A.T.C.
Janet Bowen Pain has taken on
another war-time job as secretary of
the Women’s Group of the Royal
Empire Society. So that members of the
group might have an opportunity to meet
each other for a friendly chat, Janet gave
a late-aftemoon party in the Matthew
Lang Cellars. Soft candlelight gave
atmosphere to the reception room, which
is full of history. The Dixon lady, presi-
dent of the group, assisted Janet in receiv-
ing the guests. Mr. Pain was laid low with
a bad cold, and Mr. Holt, who has been
associated with the Royal Empire Society
for many years, was the only male guest.
He spoke of the history of the society and
its ideals. The toasts were “The Mother
Country” and “Australia,” Mrs, N.
Shepherd is treasurer and the Barret lady,
Miss Linda Byron Moore, Mrs. A. E. V.
Richardson, Mrs. Talbot Hill and Mrs.
Claude Couchman are members of the
committee.
Some years ago Grace Joel bequeathed
£5OO to the trustees of the National Gal-
lery of Victoria to found a scholarship
for painting the nude. This scholarship
will be* awarded for the sixth time at the
end of the year; value £5O. Competitors
must be students attending the Gallery
school or some other school approved by
the trustees, and must be under 28 on
December 4 next, date for sending in
paintings. Copies of the rules can be
obtained from the Acting-secretary,
National Gallery, Melbourne.
Many people in this sixth year of war
seem to think the Red Cross is purely a
war-time activity. The chairman of the
Red Cross Roll Call Committee empha-
sised that it is a permanent institution,
while urging the necessity for a greatly
enlarged membership. Robert Knox is
at the head of a hard-working group of
men and women who are inspiring others
to go out and bring in new members. The
goal this year is a membership of
250,000—t0 re-enrol last year’s 180,000
and bring an additional 70,000. Pictured
here is Rhoda Taylor, a very energetic
lass, who for the last two and a half
years has been with the U.S.A. Govern-
ment Information Library. Now she has
become publicity officer for the Red Cross
Roll Call drive. Gracie Fields was one
of the first to join up with Red Cross
Roll Call, and prior to leaving Australia,
made a film to help the good cause.
Miss Guthrie, in a talk to women at
Melbourne Y.W.C.A., graphically de-
scribed the arrival of the first Clipper
from San Francisco, and with the aid
of a large map showed that the Philip-
pines and Australia were Pacific neigh-
bors. They should, she said, also be good
friends. Miss Guthrie, who has been
working for the Y.W.C.A. in India since
the invasion of the Philippines, is on her
way back to Manila to resume her
Y.W.C.A. duties.
The Philippines was an ideal country
for women before the invasion, accord-
ing to Miss Guthrie. All professions were
open to them —they were even allowed to
buy seats on the Stock Exchange.
Filipino ladies, for their part, had com-
plete charge over money matters in the
home. Miss Guthrie quoted a case of her
own stenographer. This lass said that as
her husband lived close to his work she
did not have to give him money for trans-
portation. He also lived near enough to
his home to go home for his lunch, so
again was spared spending money on
his midday meal. “But,” this girl said,
“I sometimes give him money to buy
cigarettes.”
Somebody on the Australian Wool
Board is showing imagination in urging
the use of still more wool. In one of the
latest publicity sheets this country’s
womanhood is told about a French
fashion expert who is making “dainty
roll-on belts of elastic lace with a
front pannel of warm flannel.” Well,
the winds of last week made the
flannel sound good, but years of
doing without, or almost doing with-
out, just make any sort of elastic sound
like a fairy tale. A sporty touch on the
roll-ons is the wearer’s monogram em-
broidered in any color. Brassieres in fine
wool mousseline should make strong
appeal. Gres (formerly Alix) is quoted
as choosing fine wool jerseys in pastel
shades for beach dresses and romper suits.
These might easily prove lighter than
some heavyweight cotton material. Since
the prosperity of this land and the wool
cheque are so intimately associated any
designs that make wool-wear charming
deserve applause.
From Sydney
Peace spread her wings over the Pacific
last week, but as her pinions did riot bear
the official stamp, she was not per-
mitted to soar blithesome and cumberless
over this State. The main parking
place she found for her olive branch in
this city was, apparently, King’s Cross.
“The Cross” let itself go nightly, and
there was an ugly exhibition of larrikin-
ism in Martin-place. As the last period
was put to this screed workmen were busy
putting up stages about the city ways-
Martin-place, one at each end of Hyde
Park, University Park and so on, the idea
being that on the official word “go” radio
performers in their hundreds would play
and sing and disport thereon. Loud-
speakers were all set to blare forth dance
music so that the populace might step out
in the streets; Two days of holiday were
proclaimed, and a march of thousands of
servicemen and -women was being
planned.
Generous in his appreciation of others,
as well as being a talented pianist, U.S.
visiting musician William Kapell has, by
his recommendation, opened up a new
horizon for Sydney’s gifted eighteen-year-
old pianist Richard Farrell. A scholar-
ship with Mrs. Samaroff-Stokowski,
Kapell’s teacher, awaits him either at the
Juilliard school in New York or at the
Curtis Institute, Philadelphia. Richard
came from Maoriland to Sydney when
he was a small boy, and over the years
has become a favorite with A.B.C. list-
eners. He has played with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, conducted by the
Canadian Ernest MacMillan, and recently
gave a recital at the Conservatorium under
A.B.C. direction. Tomorrow night again
at the Conservatorium he and William
Kapell will give a two-piano recital.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt is proud of the
latest achievement of her nephew Patrick
Alfred Moran, B.Sc. Sydney, B.A. Can-
tab, son of Dr. and Mrs. H. M. Moran,
formerly of Sydney, who has been
awarded the Bayliss Research Studentship
in Mathematics at Cambridge. He has
just been released from war service and
will shortly take up residence at St. John’s
College. He was educated at St. Stani-
slaus College, Riverview and Sydney
University.
This is Catherine Connor, secretary of
the Young Contingent of the Victoria
League in this State. Its club for the
officers of the Royal and the Merchant
Navies is an old-established institution at
167 George-street —that is to say, old in
its activities during this world upheaval.
In addition to the good work which the
Young Contingent does in entertaining
the Navy, its members have now adopted
five Pacific islands, and advanced units
of the Pacific Fleet stationed on these
islands will be supplied by the Y.C. with
books and magazines. Other comforts
will be sent with all speed.
The Port Welfare Services office, grati-
fied by the League’s immediate response
in the matter of islands, has now asked
the League to adopt the Fleet train. As
a result, 100 ships are now being adopted
by 100 individual members of the League.
Each girl will save her daily papers, Bul-
letins, magazines and so on, and will
thus supply her ship with reading matter.
This is a large order, and the League
hopes that the public will show its interest
in the men by forwarding parcels of
books and magazines to general secretary
Catherine Connor.
Grade Fields’s entrance to the Theatre
Royal on Saturday was greeted with
cheers. As she took her place in the stalls
some enthusiasts started “For She’s a Jolly
Good Fellow,” and everyone took it up.
In the interval of “The Desert Song” she
came on to the stage and told the audi-
ence how much she had enjoyed her tour
and Australia. She was plainly interested
in the dancing in the show, and said,
taking a few dance steps, “None of us get
very far without a bit of this.” Then
she and her party went off to the Town
Hall and the N.S.W.- Police Association’s
ball for the War Veteran’s Appeal and
the Police Boys’ Club.
The visit of the Queensland State String
Quartet caused great interest in Sydney.
Its recital at the Conservatorium last week
netted an audience great in numbers and
varied in the arts. The leader, Ernest
Llewellyn, is a violinist well known to
Sydney, and listeners like consistent con-
certgoers Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Scammell
found his work even richer than they had
remembered. The Ernest Lashmars, too,
in the interval, spoke to him. All the
musicians are playing on strings by A. E.
Smith, noted Sydney violin maker. Mrs.
Harald Bowden was one of the many
enthusiastic over the inclusion of the
Alfred Hill quartet.
Dr. and Mrs. Bainton were at the con-
cert, people keen on the growth of an
Australian drama, a smattering of, the
Navy, Some U.S. servicemen and crowds
of ordinary Australians lured by the
thought of good music. To one listener
the playing brought irresistible thoughts
of “The Venetian Glass Nephew,” break-
fasting on candied chestnuts and cham-
pagne to the strains of delicate music.
Anyway, under the influence, the cold and
barren Conservatorium faded away, and
time slipped back to an age of candle-
light and polished floors and the velvet
of leisure.
As this Letter was just about to be
slipped into the post the Lyceum Club, of
which $"75 is a foundation member, was
holding reception in honor of Dame
Mary Gilmore. It was Mary’s eightieth
birthday, and the cake was a very im-
portant one. All ready to hand over, too,
were a dry point of an old English village
by Pearl Sheldon and some super
flowers. Tomorrow the Society of Women
Writers is having Mary for its guest of
honor at a lunch in the Chelsea Club.
Dame Mary is the most colorful character
in Australian letters today. Her poetry
is vital in that it springs from the emotions
and from an experience of life rich in the
joys and sorrows of those davs with the
New Australia idealists in South America,
of the many years between when she
championed the cause of Labor, the abori-
gine and the small be-furred wild animals
of the land she loves. For even as Shak-
speare, as Hardy and as Housman have
loved England, so Mary has loved Aus-
tralia.
India’s Trade Commissioner Saksena
made a stirring impression on the
members of the Australian-American
movement by his speech at their lunch
last week. In less than half an hour Dr.
Saksena told in brief the history of India
—he spoke of it as India’s contacts with
the West. He told of the imprint
made On his land by the Phoenicians, the
Greeks, the Arabs, the Portuguese, the
Dutch, the French, the British. He told
how Hiram of Tyre had traded with India
for gold and ivory for the adornment of
Solomon’s temple and palaces. How
India’s women, from having equality with
men, retired to the four walls of the
house, and the protection of the veil; the
reason for the child marriages (now an
outworn custom), and a description of
the joint family system (as many as 50
or 60 people living under the same roof)
were but a small part of the arresting
discourse.
Imogen Whyse, clever entertainer from
England, whose one-woman shows are
already known to Sydney, was the second
speaker. Sweden and South America were
the countries of her discourse. Miss
Whyse, who was in Sweden throughout
the war, told that the food rationing there
was even more stark than that of Eng-
land. Sweden, too, was a friendly refuge
for Norway’s escapees. When Miss Whyse
went to America after she left Sweden
the choice of food bewildered her. But
that was in contrast, for in Sweden she
had seen meagre supplies of vegetables
and scarcely any fruit. Mrs. Florence
Taylor, president of the group, was an able
and graceful hostess. Secretary Mrs. Ted
Scorfield was an effective A.D.C.
The north side of the Harbor has a
new theatre movement, and Mosman has
developed a drama club. The first per-
formance will be in the Mosman Town
Hall next Thursday, when “George and
Margaret” will be staged. May Holling-
worth will be the producer. The second
play will be “Our Town” and the third
will be Max Alford’s “Mischief in the
Air.” There are already over 100 sub-
scribers. The idea seems to be to run
a play one night each week, the play to
be changed every month. As time goes
on it is hoped the movement will include
all the theatre arts.
Married on location last week at Alice
Springs, leading girl of the film “The
Overlanders,” Lance-Corporal Daphne
Campbell, A.A.M.W.S., to Stephen E.
Calder, D.F.C., former Typhoon pilot.
He is now a pilot with Connellan Air-
ways.


BRYICREEM
by Jove/ some chaps
are lucky/"
I#
m
A
mm
Yes, the chaps in the
Services certainly are
lucky! They’re getting
all the Brylcreem nqjv
available. However, it
may not be long before
Brylcreem will be in full
supply, and there will
be plenty for everyone.
Made hy
FORD SHERI NOTON
LTD
iiii
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers cf
GLOB IT E Travel Casesi
• • . but you can be confident that, as
soon as possible, Olympic Tyres will be
made available without restriction. To
help speed that day, SAVE RUBBER!
Olympic TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA |
OLYMPIC
INSULATED
CABLES
SMOKE-OH!
“Pay book, Royal Navel, lost Thursday, 2nd
August.” —Daily paper.
Finder please return to British Centre.
“Teddy bear left train, Strathfield-Wynyard.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
It probably had no room to hang on.
Never go out with a girl with an unsightly
stubble on the face.” —Radio advertiser.
Insist on her being neat and trim.
-i- -I- *i*
Postal authorities in Czechoslovakia once
issued a special triangular stamp marked
“strictly personal” to ensure privacy in corre-
spondence.”—“WorlcFs+News.”
Any correspondent desiring to make
doubly sure that a letter to Mrs. Hen-
pecker would be read by her would
address it to her husband.
•I* 4*
Night Thought.
Tis a terrible thing when your slumber
is deep
To be wakened by somebody snoring;
But it’s worse if that somebody talks in
his sleep
And his talk is excessively boring !
Nat.
•i*
Correspondence Course.
“A Coventry man claims he once wrote a
love-letter of 100,000 words.”
—“Daily Telegraph
This almost equals the correspondence
1 had with a girl who was employed as
a proofreader.
As she was able to read aloud at about
500 words a minute, and silently at double
the pace, she used to complain that my
22-page effusions were too short, I,
therefore, put in for a month’s leave and
set out to write her a letter that would
keep her busy.
At the end of the first 50,000 words 1
had sketched briefly my honorable inten-
tions, relating several lengthy anecdotes
to illustrate my notable character. By
the time the tally reached 100,000 I was
warming to my theme, and had begun to
introduce a few terms of endearment in
a casual way.
After the first week I entered into a
weekly hire arrangement with a type-
writer agency, as my own machine fell
to pieces quite suddenly, and I began
what I playfully entitled “Book 111, Con-
crete Proposals,” with a new lease of life.
In this I first broached the subject of
marriage, and managed to introduce a
little padding in the shape of the complete
text of the marriage service, plus the ser-
vice for burial at sea, due to turning two
pages at once.
With a cool half-million words done,
however, I found my month at an end,
and had to draw to a close. I finally got
the whole thing bound in red vellum, and
sent it to her by registered post, as it now
seemed to me a fairly valuable piece of
literature.
She certainly found it so. Read aloud
to an extended session of the Court, it
wrought her £lOOO for breach of promise.
Plum,
4* •I'
“Wanted, woman over 45 years for toasted
sandwiches.”— “S. M. Herald-’’
A temporary job only. No woman has
ever been kept on toast for long.
*t* ❖
“Through all the years, of dark adversity,
through all the bitter vicissitudes of his life,
Ray had always clung to his indomitable optim-
ism.” —Short story.
A Ray of hope?
•j. 4.
Sign of the Times.
Letter to the Editor.
Sir, —Now that the immediate menace
has been dispelled we must more than
ever beware of complacency. We know
the enemy is skilful and resolute, and will
not be deterred by one defeat, and we
can be quite sure that, sooner or later, he
will again invade our homeland. We
may expect new secret weapons, as ter-
rible as the hurricane deliveries of Lar-
wood and Bowes, a defensive power equal
to Hammond and Sutcliffe at their prime,
and, greatest danger of all, that aggres-
sive spirit which is the legacy of the
famous W. G. Grace. There* is no time
to be lost. We must devote all the re-
sources of our nation to the raising of a
company of heroes among whom will be
found the matchless brilliance of a second
Bradman, guile not inferior to that of a
Mailey or Grimmett, the power and dash
of a Gregory, all owing allegiance to a
leader as subtle and wily as the great
Armstrong himself--Yours, etc..
Pro Bono Publico.
Foregone Conclusion.
“The craze for beer shampoos among women
is spreading rapidly. In Cleveland (U.S.A.)
women have to take their own beer to the hair-
dresser.” —“D.r. v
Evidence in the case of Dripp v. Dripp
was heard by his Honor Mr. Justice Wigg.
The grounds alleged were extreme mental
and physical cruelty.
Outlining the case for Mrs. Dripp, Mr.
Drivel, K.C., said the treatment his client
had received at the hands of respondent
could have had few parallels in the annals
of domestic discord.
Mrs. Dripp had been the possessor of
a magnificent head of almost natural
blonde hair, as photographs which he
would submit would prove. One day his
client decided to shampoo her hair in
beer, a practice which had become popu-
lar with women, it having displaced the
old-fashioned method of shampooing with
some aromatic mixture.
Novelists had often written of a hero
becoming “intoxicated” after he had bent
over the perfumed tresses of his beloved.
With a shampoo made from modern beer
he could never become intoxicated; the
only “kick” he could get would be a sort
of faint nostalgic sensation as his mind
was wafted perhaps to some far-off
brewery, perhaps causing him to emit<
a faint gurgle. The advantage of a beer
shampoo was that it tinted the hair a
delightful shade of amber, whilst “up-
swept” hair-dos w'ere held in place by a
natural foamy “collar.”
It had been immediately after the
beer shampoo that respondent had
inflicted the cruelty complained of.
He had practically gone berserk. The
result could be seen now that his client
had removed her hat. In place of what
the poet had called woman’s crowning
glory his client, the Court would observe,
had now only a mangy-looking hirsute
stubble.
Mrs. Dripp had tried to get a wave into
it. With his Honor’s permission he
(counsel) would say that the result was
more like a dumper. The only way his
client could now wear a hat was straight
on her head. In effect, she was compelled
to walk along the street underneath it.
As the prevailing mode was to wear the
hat over the left ear this caused her great
humiliation in the presence of other
women. It was degrading, and brought
her into public contempt. If ever insen-
sate cruelty demanded a severance of the
conjugal bonds, this example certainly did.
For the respondent Mr. Bounce, K.C.,
outlined the facts. His client had stood
in a queue for an hour and a half during
the morning on which the alleged cruelty
was supposed to have taken place. When
within three of the head of the queue
a notice appeared on the bottle depart-
ment door “Sold Out.” As he was having
a few friends over that night for solo
whist he was compelled to pay a taxi-
driver ten shillings for two bottles of beer.
At home he had put them in the refrigera-
for. Some little time later he went to
have a look at them, purely for senti-
mental reasons, and they were gone.
One could readily visualise the frantic
state of mind his client would naturally
enough be in at this loss. He began an
immediate and feverish search, which
eventually led him to the bathroom. The
horrific sight that met his gaze might
well stagger the mind! His wife had just
finished tossing down the sink the beer in
which she had shampooed her own tresses,
and she was in the act of giving her Peki-
nese a shampoo from the other bottle!
Mr. Dripp had succeeded in rinsing the
imitation dog out and straining the beer
through the coffee strainer, recovering
most of it. But the sight of his wife’s hair
still dripping glorious beer naturally called
for prompt measures. He could not run
her hair through the wringer to salvage
what beer soaked up into her hair while
it was still attached to her scalp. He did
the only possible thing—he 'cut it off.
There being no scissors handy, he had
used the first implements which were to
his hand, which happened to be a knife
and fork. Put through the wringer, the
erring wife’s locks yielded half a cupful
of beer.
His client had merely exercised his
rights as a husband and a beer fancier.
No man who had red blood in his veins
and an unimpaired set of tonsils could do
less and retain his manhood.
At this stage his Honor, who had been
fascinatedly viewing the empty beer
bottle on the table marked “Exhibit A,’
said he had heard enough. He dismissed
the petition, which he described as being
in the circumstances extremely frivolous,
with costs against the petitioner.
Bo.
Dilemma.
Though Plato, James and Schopenhauer,
Spinoza, Kant and Hegel use
Logistic arguments of power.
They differ vastly in their views.
Where mental giants disagree
’Twere vain for me to dogmat.sc,
Embracing one philosophy
And stating all the rest are lies.
And yet, if judgment I suspend,
I’m taking an opposing view
To those the giants would defend,
And that is dogmatising too!
So what the hell am I to do ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Paradox.
When Bill has had too many ales
He goes home to his wife
And tells her all the torrid tales
He’d heard throughout his life.
His wife, a rather simple prude,
Can’t comprehend why “Dad,”
Who has a memory so good.
Should have a mind so bad.
BRIAN BUREAU.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTie'^tdleix/rL-
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
ale: -C-l A A
12 months .. •• ..*l4O
6 „ •• •• 12 6
3
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. . • • • 15 0
6 * ®
3 „ 40
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands—B months .. ~ £1 9 0
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Obsolete Plant
It has been argued by correspondents
that Australia cannot afford to scrap
railway systems in favor of air transport
on account of the loss of capital that
would be suffered. No more dangerous
doctrine than this could be applied to
Australian industry. If costs are to be
lowered and greater production obtained
there must be ruthless scrapping of obso-
lete plant no matter what capital is in-
vested in it. Probably more than 65 p.c.
of Australian plant is more than ten
years old, and has been depreciated in
the books at 5 p.c. p.a. This almost cer-
tainly means that such plant could not
approach the productive capacity of post-
war plant. It is still valued at about 60
p.c. of its original value, with its owners
timid about scrapping it because of the
capital loss.
There must, in future, be a much more
vigorous policy of writing off plant
annually and of charging such deprecia-
tion and obsolescence to cost and the
customer. At present the policy is adopted
by manufacturers from the scale approved
by the Commissioner of Taxation, which,
after all, is to protect revenue, not to im-
prove production.
There are no scales for obsolescence,
but the best answer to an inquiry on that
subject was given by an American manu-
facturer : “We don’t keep plant long
enough to find out how long it will last.”
When plant is discarded as obsolete it
should be broken up. No one should be
allowed to buy it and use it for produc-
tive purposes. The use of obsolete plant
could only result in a struggle by its users
against the more efficient plant bought to
replace it, and a continuous series of
failures. Whether trade associations
should impose this condition, as would be
best, or whether the Commissioner for
Taxation should disallow depreciation on
secondhand plant, it must be done.
Where manufacturers tend to hold their
plant too long their trade association
should inspect their production records
and their costs, and, if thought fit, require
the scrapping of obsolete plant.
The Prices Commissioner might also
take a hand and require costs to be re-
duced to conform to at least half the
difference between lowest and highest
costs in the trade.
The result would be lower prices, w,hich
would include the power to replace obso-
lete plant within its economic life. The
Australian consumer, the trade unionist,
and the manufacturer must all be made
to see that the sacrifice of capital invested
in obsolete equipment is to the national
good.— Aust. (Vic.).
More “Forgotten Men”
Must the remnants of the R.A.A.F.
still in England be added to the list of
Australia’s “Forgotten Men”? Here is
an extract from a letter dated July 13
from a lad who has been out of this
country for more than three years, dur-
ing which he made 43 operational flights
over Europe before being shot idowp last
August. He was released from a prison
camp by Russians, and flown back to
Britain by Americans. This is what he
says about the R.A.A.F. concentration
camp at Brighton;
Things are in a bit of a shambles here
at the moment and everyone is very dis-
satisfied. They have postponed our depar-
ture indefinitely and we are all pretty mad
about it. We have been all racing about
like madmen trying to get everything
straightened out, and they are packing us
off tomorrow on another 14 days leave,
which none of us want.
—Pop (N.S.W.).
Youth and the Vote
Should boys and girls have the vote
at 18?
Youth Has great and admirable quali-
ties, but, taking it in the mass, is never
on guard against the would-be exploiter
of its credulity, its “intolerance.” It is
the mature mind which sees through the
doctrinaire and the bureaucrat, the
mature mind which values liberty. ‘ The
fierce, exultant vision of a world in which
all things are possible” was the very thing
cultivated and exploited by Hitler, and
the result was the “Horst Wessel” song
(in praise of a murderous larrikin) and
the agony of the world today.
And in this country we have the para-
dox of educationists urging an exten-
sion of the school-leaving age because
youth is ill-informed, and politicians toy-
ing with the notion of giving the franchise
to ill-informed youth.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Those Radio Bans
Now that the ban on certain radio
entertainers is remembered only as a
storm in a teacup the matter can be dis-
cussed dispassionately.
I have done a bit on the air; I hope
to do a bit more; so I can speak from
both sides of the mike.
Say, just to state a case, the entertainer
took the stand that he or she would not
put over stuff which might be considered
objectionable. Where would that land
him or her? If the stuff was put over
the P.M.G. might retort with a ban ; if it
wasn’t put over the performer might get
tho sack
Who then should be banned when
there’s cause for banning? I say it should
be the chap in the swivel chair, the fellow
who reviews all script and is paid to keep
the air clean. — Radio (Q.).
An Ageing Community
The Commonwealth Year-Book shows
that our low birth-rate and diminishing
death-rate are producing an ageing com-
munity. The proportion of people over
65 rose from 4.43 p.c. in 1921 to 6.48 p.c.
in 1943. If the trend is not reversed the
proportion will be 25 p.c. some time in
the 1960’5, thus placing a tremendous
burden on the working population at that
date.
It is clear that destruction of forests,
siltation of rivers, overstocking and
erosion of pastures and profligate use
of a not unlimited artesian supply
are combining to impair the vitality of
the’land. If this is matched by a corre-
sppnding devitalisation of our people we
are in for trouble, nationally and (for
those who will live for the next ten or
twenty years) individually.
Australia, could be developed fully and
successfully by a vigorous and growing
“ Cripes , someone'll get into a row over that rope!"
community. But not by a population
that contains too many men who want
to be able to do less work, and too many
women who want to bear fewer children
or none at all. —I. G. M. (R.A.A.F.).
Why Spend Money on Railways?
The so-called experts who advocate
railway extensions claim that huge ex-
penditure is needed to make the railways
ready in case of war, for transport of
troops and material. But the last two
wars have proved railways to be the most
vulnerable type of transport. Passengers
and freight consignors are weary of
stoppages, late arrivals and anxiety about
coal supplies. Obviously, road transport
is preferable to fixed rail transport, for
passengers and goods are taken by these
means direct to destinations.
It is sincerely hoped that the taxpayers
will be allowed to express their opinion
before more labor and material is wasted
on railways. A moot point now that
decentralisation is the vogue is whether
the State should furnish people with the
means of flitting hither and thither. Small
self-contained communities or townships
in Europe and elsewhere have been very
happy and successful, especially where
central markets have been established.
Anyway, the future of transport lies in
the air and on the open roads. — Pelm
(Vic.).
Psychology and Squealers
If State schoolteachers are inhibited,
frustrated, underpaid, overworked, policed
by school committees and degraded by
school inspectors, why did “E.A.” (B.
18/7/’45) allow himself to be dragged
into such misery in the first place, and
being in, why does he continue to endure
it? It certainly is a protected occupation,
buf the services or Manpower could easily
provide another refuge for him.
A long and extensive acquaintance
amongst Queensland teachers in country
districts has failed to reveal to me any
of the hardships of which “E.A.” speaks.
On the contrary, X have heard many of
them express satisfaction at a fortunate
choice, since their life-job provided recog-
nised social standing, often a comfortable
house at very moderate rental, a sufficient
salary,, regular and moderate working
hours, three months of paid holidays
annually and a retiring allowance for
old age.
“E.A.’s” picture of the young teacher
being invariably (as he implies) “buried in
some bush school, often miles from a
store, telephone or radio,” overworked
and underpaid, bullied by a school com-
mittee, is equally misleading. Only a
proportion of young teachers ever sees the
real back country, and if they behave as
decent, sensible young Australians they
will be hospitably welcomed by the warm-
hearted people of the outback. Putting
the teacher in his place” is the qatural
reaction to the other kind once they begin
exhibitionism in the intellectual superior-
ity line.
As for the annual departmental inspec-
tion being a “degradation,” how other-
wise can the quality of a teacher s work
and his fitness for the job be assessed.
School inspectors are experienced, con-
scientious men, selected from amongst
successful teachers for their special quali-
ties of knowledge and judgment. Many
a young teacher has not lost heart, as
“E.A,” mournfully claims, but gained
ambition and content from an
inspector’s advice and report.
Anyhow, how does “E.A.” propose to
go about his proposal of having psy-
chology “applied to” teachers in order to
overcome the dreadful complexes from
which he apparently suffers as a result
of taking up the work? The cpld, unalter-
able fact is that unless a young man is
level-headed, fair-minded, considerate to
others, free from silly conceit yet confi-
dent in himself, the teaching profession
is no fit place for him. Psychology can
only determine the presence or absence
of those qualities in any individual i
cannot create them. — Qwertyuiop (Q-)-
Answers to Correspondents
In reply to “Sarge” (B. 11/7/’45),
though The Bulletin's replies are pithy,
they are better that way. An editor must
receive loads of amateurish work, work
that at once tells an experienced person
the witter will never make good in the
line. Isn’t it better, then, for the beginner
to be discouraged?
When a farmer sows a crop it would
save him much time if someone in a
position to know could tell him the crop
was doomed to failure. His activities
could then be turned profitably into
another channel. As for encouragement,
if there is promise of improvement that
editorial “come again” is as a shower on
thirsty soil.
A writer must welcome criticism so
that he may discover his weak points and
profit thereby. It is better to grow good
cabbages than write bad stories, and
probably the bluntness of editorial com-
ments is responsible for many good cab-
bages.—A Beginner (Vic.).
The Exchange Rate
“Tintax” (B. 18/7/’45) has not denied
nor disproved my assertion (B. 13/6/’45)
that “exchange in its present form is a
sort of taxation developed by banking
interests during the depression to build
up their London funds at the expense of
the Australian financial economy.”
It did not require an exceptional know-
ledge of finance to recognise in 1929 that
there would be extra demands by Aus-
tralia for sterling credits in London to
meet interest commitments, Government
needs and repayments of overdrafts.
This position was brought about by a
cessation of Government borrowing and
a decline in the prices of our exports,
beginning in the middle of 1928 and be-
coming rapid from the early part of 1929.
Is it any wonder that there developed an
“outside” market of entrepreneurs specu-
lating on our necessity, acting as brokers
and offering higher rates, thus compelling
the Commonwealth Bank, along with the
Bank of N.S.W., to raise-their rates in
order to meet the market?
Towards the end of 1929 the exchange
rate with sterling had risen above the
gold export point and Australia had defi-
nitely left the gold standard. Trading
banks were prepared to sell London
funds to their customers at a sate some-
what higher than par; in the effort to
preserve the rate they rationed exchange.
But I still maintain that exchange is a
direct charge on all imports into Aus-
tralia, paid by the Australian people,
and is only a temporary advantage to
the farmer who receives it in the first
instance.—A. A. Baker (Q.).
“Teaching” the Army
From 1939 onwards Communists and
other Left-Wingers have been busy in-
stilling their poison in the minds ot ser-
vicemen, and Army organisations are
not free from Leftist influences.
Who hasn’t been exposed to the A.L.b.
lecturer with a Left-Wing bias? Should
a soldier protest the lecturer blandly
denies that his comments are colored by
his own political views.
And there is “Salt,” the “Army Educa-
tion journal.” It has a political commen-
tator, “O. Pip,” who sees world events
through spectacles of the fashionable
color. And in the June issue it had a
“feature” article, “The Science Behind
Soviet Strength,” which could have
appeared in any Communist rag. It re-
ferred to “the countless tanks that blasted
the Hun from Stalingrad to Berlin” as
Russian (where were they in 1941?) with-
out mentioning the great Anglo-American
contributions to Red Army weapons,
munitions, supply and transport.
Left-Wingers have been quick to
realise that troops in forward areas must
rely on “Salt” and the A.E.S. for inter-
pretation of world events, and they are
making the most of their opportunity.
Gunner (A.1.F.).
Mud Brick Houses
Having had experience of two mud
brick houses, both of which fell qown,
“H.C.8.” (B. l/8/’45) naturally doesnt
like them, and sceptically suggests that
my observations of rmfd bricks ceased
when I saw them drying in the sun. He
asks for instances of a building erected
and found worthy. , f
I can supply him with photographs or
the one I am living in and helped
to build ten years ago. It is built partly
of mud brick and partly of pise (rammed
earth). Its exterior walls have been sub-
jected to the vagaries of Victorian
weather and its interior walls to romp-
ing children, and there are no signs yet
of its needing renovation.
As is suggested by the fact that die
builders tried ,to strengthen them with
cement—quite unnecessary if they were
properly constructed —“H.C.B.’s” houses
must have been built by persons with no
experience of the method, like the studio
of a Melbourne artist, since dead, which
washed into the creek after the first
rains. . ~ „ ,
Leaving out the centuries-old French
chateaux, there are dozens of mud brick
houses, in the Riverina built by an archi-
tect who exploited the material. One is
a 23-room mansion built for a wealthy
family, which wasn’t likely to put up
with shoddy. As another example, a
workman told me the other day that he
had to remove the mud brick fireplace
of a house he helped to build 25 years
ago, and the bricks were so-hard that
he had the greatest difficulty in getting
them out. , ,
The claims I made for mud brick
houses were based on the assumption
that they would be communally built.
If the trades had anything to do with
them they would be as ridiculously ex-
pensive as the new post-war houses.
With a small amount of equipment and
a dozen unskilled workers, shire councils
could make sufficient bricks in three
weeks to build 20 houses, and a person
of average intelligence can be taught
jiow to lay them in ten minutes. I have
just been watching a boy of 12 building
hijnself a workshop of mud bricks and
a solider job couldn’t be wished for.
Objections would come from the trade
unions and the big building interests, and
they would be very similar to “H.C.B.’s.”
If the method was unpractical it would
not have been revived in England by Sir
Edward Lutyens.— Bumpkin (Vic.).


i : ::
1-, f. ■■■:,
I, :
m
t a .V
5 'V 'F
I'fSSSSSS
si*
- ;-v>.
safe®
/
PFACF
HPODAY it is still a race for Victory. In
1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
ATURALLY, we are still fulfilling service demands. The race has not yet been
1 * run and won. *
J 3 UT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
U swing into the raqe against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
Y ARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
* reaching plans made for the widest presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
m
i-K'or ■ -
M
X
>
P
m
JP
m
M
m
*
C --:AV-
m
YaHRA FALLS
ttenomed for tie excellence Worsted
Manufactures, att made from Australian virgin wool.
ABBOTSFORD • VICTORIA* AUSTRALIA-
T
Js
. 1
