

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 342 C
Wednesday, August 29, 1945
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MOUNT EDGCUMBE.
IyfOUNT EDGCUMBE, opposite Plymouth, was built upon in
A the sixteenth century by Sir Richard Edgcumbe. In 1742 his
descendant was created Baron Edgcumbe, after having held several
important public offices under George I and George 11. His grand-
son was created Viscount Mount-Edgcumbe and Valletort in 1781,
and eight years later Earl Mount-Edgcumbe. During the wars
with France in the reign of Mary I he had quite made up his mind
to reserve Mount Edgcumbe as his own portion of the conquest.
William IV stayed here for some time, and, in later times, Napoleon
111, the Emperor of Austria, and the Emperor of Germany when
he was still prince. In the August of 1846, when Queen Victoria
was at Plymouth with Prince Albert, she left the royal yacht and
landed at Mount Edgcumbe. “There were crowds where we landed,
and I felt so shy and put out without Albert”—the Prince Consort
had gone to Dartmoor that morning—“l got into a carriage with
the children” —the Prince of Wales and the Princess Royal—“and
Lady Mount-Edgcumbe, Lord Mount-Edgcumbe going before us,
and took a lovely drive along the road which overhangs the bay,
commanding such beautiful views on all sides.”


ikl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin, 3 ’
My Name
My Address
S 3. 245 AGE
The Red Page
THE FLESH AND THE SPIRIT.
It is long now since great daemons walked on
earth.
Staining with wild radiance a country bed,
And leaving only a confusion of sharp dreams
To vex a farm-girl—that, and perhaps a feather
Some thread of the Cloth of Gold, a scale of
metal,
Caught in her hair. The unpastured gods have
gone,
They are above those Aery-coasted clouds
Floating like fins of stone in the burnt' air,
And earth is only a troubled thought to them
That sometimes drifts like wind across the
bodies
Of the sky’s women.
The lines are from Kenneth Slessor’s
“Earth-Visitors,” a poem dedicated to
Norman Lindsay. The gods, he says,
came down to earth in legendary times ;
they don’t now. Except that
There is one yet comes knocking in the night
The drums of sweet conspiracy on the pane,
When darkness has arched his hands over the
bush »
And Springwood steams with dew, and the stars
look down
On that one lonely chamber. . .
She is there suddenly, lit by no torch or moon,
But by the shining' of her naked body.
Her breasts are berries broken in snow; her hair
Blows in a gold rain over and over them;
She flings her kisses like warm guineas of love,
And when she walks the stars walk with her
above.
She knocks. The door swings open, shuts again.
“Your name, child?”
A thousand birds cry “Venus!”
No other Australian artist has appealed
to Australian writers in this way, that
poems should be written about him and
his work. From the very beginning, from
the days when Hugh McCrae saw him as
a beacon blazing in the mountains “Up
Springwood way, across the skies” to the
week when this article is written and a
novel about Tobruk by Lawson Glassop
with a Lindsay foreword is on display in
the bookshops, Norman Lindsay has been
sought out by the writers.
His friendship with McCrae, the inter-
change of images and ideas that resulted
in some of the finest of McCrae’s lyrics
and the finest of the artist’s pen drawings,
is a matter of history. He rode with
“Banjo” Paterson. Kenneth Slessor and
Kenneth Mackenzie both acknowledged
his services by dedicating poems and
books to him. He decorated Leon
Gellert’s Songs of a Campaign.
In his foreword to Lawson Glassop’s
novel he mentions how the author came
to him with the manuscript of his first
novel; scores of beginners—some who
have failed, some who have made big
names —have come to him over the years
in the same way. He was largely respon-
ible for the establishment of the En-
deavor Press t by The Bulletin, and was
associated with the whole group of
novelists brought out by it, I know
of several of Australia’s best short-story
writers who have put themselves under
his tutelage in the last few months before
embarking on the long and difficult
voyage of the novel.
Not all Australian writers, of course,
have come to him. And some who have
come have come to quarrel. That is in-
evitable. But it is beyond question that
the majority of Australian writers —and
especially the poets—have accepted him
from the beginning not only as an artist
but as' the fountain-head of the Aus-
tralian culture in our time. In that fact
lies the clue to the meaning and signifi-
cance of his work.
It is an astonishing thing, when you
pause to consider it, that the writers of
this country should have accepted a
paiftter as the leader of cultural life.
Certainly, he is a good painter. But so
was Gruner a good painter; and so was
Streeton ; and so was Lambert; and so
were Blamire Young and Hilder: yet
nobody would suggest they ever rivalled
Lindsay in his unique position at the
head of cultural affairs. Why is it that
the writers have turned to Lindsay?
One obvious reason is his skill as an
illustrator. But that is hardly a sufficient
explanation when nine-tenths of the
writers who have approached him did
not expect or wish their manuscripts to
be illustrated.
There is the magnet of his fame. “The
name, man, the name!”, Eve Langley
wrote to me once when we were discuss-
ing a project for a book of her poems
(still unpublished) to be illustrated by
Norman Lindsay. But that still doesn’t
explain how the artist happened to ac-
quire the particular kind of “name” that
would move a poet to outcries of delight.
Of course there is thejfact that Lindsay
himself is a writer as well as a painter
and that, though his books have never
been much discussed by “serious” critics,
he has an amiable habit of tossing off
minor classics as a relaxation from the
brush and easel. But he has preferred to
figure in this country as a painter rather
than as a novelist.
His critical writings may have had
more influence in attracting the writers
to his studio. When he talks to a young
writer about the novel he talks with the
twofold authority of a practitioner and a
critic a novelist with a score of books,
published and unpublished, to his credit,
and a critic who has read and re-read the
masters, particularly Dickens and Con-
rad, till he knows everything that can be
known about them. When he talks about
poetry to a poet it is with the assurance
of a critic who has written on the subject
in The Bulletin, in “Vision” and “The
Lone Hand” and who is an expert on the
men he most admires, Shakspeare, Burns,
Byron and Browning.
Writers undoubtedly come to him, too,
not only because of the understanding he
can bring to their work but because of
the tremendous enthusiasm with which he
receives it —if it is good. Bring him but
twenty lines—but eight lines—of good
poetry and he receives it as lesser men
would receive first prize in the lottery.
The writer who brings him a single short
story with “the real thing” in it is likely
to leave his studio committed to writing
a novel, reassured that he has the power
and rather convinced that
he has a duty to do it.
His skill as an illustrator, his name, his
place as a novelist, his authority as a
critic, his enthusiasm for anything that
helps the movement of culture in Aus-
tralia, these are some of the reasons why
the writers seek his company. But the
real, the basic reason lies deeper. Be-
yond anything else Norman Lindsay is, a
painter; and surely it is his paintings that
have drawn the writers to him.
There is some quality in his work —
not to be found in the same measure in
the work of any other Australian painter
—that calls to the novelists and the poets.
And there’s not much doubt about
Miat distinguishes his works from other
men’s: he paints women.
Well, he could paint women badly; he
could paint them as if they were she-
apes' or dishcloths ; he could paint them
as propositions in geometry; he could
paint them in the manner of the pre-
Raphaelites, as if they were made of
ectoplasm: but I don’t think any of these
methods would bring the writers to him
for the privilege of his companionship
over the long and perilous mountain track
of literary endeavor. He paints beautiful
women with all the beauty he can: that
is closer to the solution.
It is more than that.
She is there suddenly, lit by no torch or moon,
But by the shining of her naked body.
He paints women as if they were
goddesses.
I don’t think enough attention has been
paid in this country to the religious im-
portance of Norman Lindsay’s paintings.
For surely it is a religious thing to say
to the women of this earth, as these
paintings do, “Your spirit is divine and
your body is divine; these things are of
the gods.”
As to the divinity of his women in
some of, though, of course, not all his
paintings, there can hardly be any ques-
tion. I take for an example in this volume*
the nude he has called “Reverie.” That
woman, naked on the couch, her body
one flowing nobility, her head thrown
back, is more than mortal. Could you
say to such a being “Get dressed, we will
go out to lunch”? The thought is a
profanation. Could you offer her
flowers, jewels? She is perfect as she is.
Could you offer her love? Perhaps, but
the secret of her being would elude you;
she could never be possessed body and
soul; she is beyond us, the eternally un-
attainable, the star that Shelley’s moth de-
sired ; timeless, calm, curiously and
supremely cool as if the chill of space
was upon her, a goddess.
For me, at any rate, this is the finest
of Norman Lindsay’s oils ; the finest be-
cause in it I see most clearly the flesh
become spirit. The artist seems to have
been able to perceive this strange, timeless
calm —which I believe to be the very
heart of the mystery of women —in only
one of his models ; and every time he has
painted that girl he has achieved the same
effect. She is the girl of the “Mantilla” ;
the figure on the left swathed in silk like
a green moonlight in the picture entitled
“Two Models”; and the fine lady of
“Rita of the ’Nineties.” Nearly always,
it is worth noticing, the artist has painted
this girl half in shadow—the eyes in
shadow in the ’Nineties oil, lovely
face in shadow in the “Mantilla.” She
is a woman half of this earth, and half
of the shadows. We do not know her.
She is beyond us. She came down out
of space.
When I see Norman Lindsay’s paint-
ings from this model I recall what John
Cowper Powys wrote about the women
of Conrad’s novels, “their shadowy and
abysmal reserve”:
I think the secret of it is to be looked
for in the amazing poise and self-possession
• of these women; a self-possession which is
indicated in their moments of withdrawn
and reserved silence.
They seem at these times to sink down
into the very depths of their femininity,
into the depths of some strange sex-secret
of which they are themselves only dreamily
conscious.
They seem to withdraw themselves from
their own love, from their own drama,
from their own personality, and to lie back
upon life, upon the universal mystery of
life and womanhood. This they do with-
out, it might seem,#knowing what they are
doing.
They all, in these strange, world-deep
silences of theirs, carry upon their intent
and sibylline faces something of the mys-
terious charm—expectant, consecrated and
holy—which the early painters have caught
the shadow of in their pictures of the
Annunciation.
In this group of his oils Norman
Lindsay has painted a mystery. In those
of the others in which spirit is manifest
he has painted an incarnation. Like all
heavens, his has two kinds of angels—
not the “good” and the “bad,” those are
dangerous words, but at any rate the
white and the dark—and in the painting
called “Sisters” we see the two side by
side. That dark woman of the “Sisters,”
the swarthy woman of “Crete,” and the
dark, rich, fiery creature in the centre of
the “Pilgrimage to Venus,” they are the
dark woman who has come down the
ages in literature-, the Medea of Euripides
and Shakspeare’s Cleopatra ; they could
be brides for Lucifer, or they could repre-
sent spirit earthbound ; they are full of
struggle and hate and tremendous, pas-
sionate vitality. They are the eagle ; and
the white lady, she is the dove, she is all
loveliness, all melting sweetness. She
shines out of the “Homage to Balzac”
and the figures of The earth stare after
her in lust and astonishment. She blazes
like white fire out of the “Don Juan.”
To do this, to reveal the spirit shining
white or glowing dark through the flesh
of man or woman, is the supreme
achievement in art. And it is, particu-
larly, the task and burden of the poet.
All the arts, as far as I can see, have one
great purpose: to reveal the existence of
spirit. The art of the novelist, which is
essentially an art of humor, reveals spirit
chiefly by implication: the “message” of
the great humorists such as Fielding and
Dickens (and, incidentally, of Norman
Lindsay’s Comedies in paint) is that we
might as well enjoy the comedy of life
while we are living it, for it is only a
passing show. The higher arts of poetry,
painting and music bring the world of
spirit to us by direct revelation.
Sometimes poetry and painting talk to
us in the language of pantheism: the art
of a Wordsworth and the art of a Hilder
revealing .the beauty of nature, showing
that the earth itself is spirit or is visited
by spirit. When a nature poet such as,
W. H. Davies brings us a tree that stands
still in the moonlight “with all his mil-
lion leaves,” time itself seems to stop
still; we are in the presence of eternity.
Sometimes the revelation is mystical, and
we have the early religious painters that
Powys wrote about or the poetry of a
Blake or an Eliot; direct assertion of the
existence of spirit.
In nature or in mysticism we find two
of the great traditional pathways to the
gods. Poets and novelists know that the
third great pathway, which seeks to find
the gods and the devils in man himself,
revealed in human passion, is the hardest
of all to travel. Offer a good description
of a storm and anyone will say “Yes,
here the winds of heaven are blowing” ;
but how hard to describe the passions
of a man so that he and they will seem
equally sublime and terrible. Look at
the sunset, and clearly it is the manifes-
tation or at least the image of some
supernatural beauty; but how hard to
see that the girl from next door, both in
her physical beauty and in the long, the
unearthly-lighted, the endless reaches of
her spirit, is also a visitor from the sky.
We know each other too well, that is the
trouble. Seeing so much of each other,
we see nothing.
The hardest and the highest achieve-
ment in paint or words is to see man
with fresh eyes. It is as if the artist him-
self had to step down out of the skies,
out of some dimension of profound
and shining tranquillity, and observe the
world of men for the first time. If he
can do that he peoples the earth anew.
Before he came there was only the vague
blur of humanity: now there are these
men and women towering and burning
in their uniqueness, these bewildered
Hamlets, these doomed Macbeths, these
delicate Juliets, these violent Cleopatra,'
these great fat Falstaffs, grotesque and
pitiable and merry. Showing us all kinds
of men in all ages, he shows us Man-
kind, And seeing man freshly, as if he
had never been seen before, he shows us
his passions raging like the winds, storm-
ing to infinity, divine and diabolical.
Norman Lindsay’s is an art of this
kind; a world art, a universal art. It i s
more clearly localised in Australia than
may be generally realised—his novels
alone, from Saturdee to Redheap, are a
portrait of Australian man from infancy
to old age—but its real significance in
the Australian culture is far more subtle
and profound. Like the Elizabethan
dramatists, Lindsay has searched all times
and all lands for his themes and yet—
what is more typically English than the
Elizabethan drama? —the future will
probably discover that he has been paint-
ing Australia all the. time: painting, that
is, the theme of man upon the earth as
seen by a great Australian,
Douglas Stewart.
* This essay is to be printed in a book, Paint-
ings in Oil, by Norman Lindsay, which will
be published this week by Shepherd and New-
man, Ltd. Reproduced letterpress, the book
contains an essay, “Paint and Primitivism,” by
the artist, 14 plates in color and 16 in black-
and-white. A de luxe edition of 115 copies also
contains 14 pen drawings, and two pen drawings
are included in the ordinary edition, limited to
1000 copies.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
While it would not seriously overtax
the intelligence of a marsupial mouse,
Terrence Rattigan’s “Love in Idleness”
—concerning an adolescent who objects
to his mother’s living in “sin” with a
Cabinet Minister—made a pleasant bit
of light comedy at Sydney Minerva. As
the youth addicted to hair-oil and noble
sentiments, Ron Rousel played without
the usual caricaturing: which left one
impressed with his restraint but with the
melancholy reflection that adolescents are
really interesting only when caricatured.
Kathleen Robinson gave her best per-
formance to date, capturing an anima-
she has lacked. Richard Parry, who
carried the show and made the most of
Rattigan’s amusing lines, was so good as
the Cabinet Minister that he seems to be
wasting his time as an actor.
A play by Priestley:
Interest was sustained throughout the three
acts of “The Long Mirror” at Sydney Inde-
pendent Theatre. As J. B. Priestley makes free
with mental telepathy and other vague matters,
this says a great deal for the cast of five.
Convalescing from a serious illness, Branwen
Elder begins to “see things”—all sorts of inti-
mate things about someone she has never met,
Michael Camber, a musician of the stock
stormy type. Far from resenting this sort of
psychic eavesdropping, Camber —when he does
meet the woman—wants to elope with her.
The idea of being “outside time” is by no
means new. Kipling used it in The Brushwood
Boy and made a charming and delicate romance
out of it. Priestley has made a sombre play,
gripping enough, but with two abnormal princi-
pal characters. John Alden played the part of
Michael Camber competently. Not much
could have been done with him. Elaine
Foster, as Branwen, was good. Dark, and
intense and fey. She was a trifle stiff at
first, which was understandable on a first night;
and the hefty chunks of philosophy she was re-
quired to get off her chest so early in the play
didn’t help. Audrey Blaxland, as Valerie,
Camber’s wife, was less satisfactory, but the
other two characters, Mrs. Tenbury, a pleasant,
comfortable woman, and Thomas Williams, a
Welsh innkeeper, were well done by Haydee
Seldon and Edgar Yardley. Yardley’s sing-song
Welsh voice was particularly effective.*
Recent art shows in Melbourne include
Harald Vike’s at George’s, William
Rickett’s at the Technical College and
Ambrose Dyson’s at Australia-Soviet
House. Harald Vike lavishes pigment on
canvas with a vigor that isn’t always tem-
pered with observation, but some of his
landscapes have feeling. Arthur Ricketts,
the man who has the dream of collect-
ing all the Australian abos. in a vast re-
serve of bush, river and mountain in
Victoria and directing their energies
towards reviving their own crafts and
arts, including music and dancing, and
co-ordinating them with modern influ-
ences, has been showing more of his clay
sculpture of Binghi folklore. Ambrose
Dyson reproduces his distinguished
father’s style so faithfully that his car-
toons could be incorporated in a book
of Will’s drawings and nobody would
notice much difference even in the sub-
ject-matter and the attitude towards it,
the father’s Fat Man reappearing as the
Fascist monster. A display of Soviet
war art shows that the modern Russian
artist is much more traditional in his
outlook than his counterpart in any
European country, but within the limits
of the convention he tells the sombre
story of his country’s spoliation with
force and feeling. There is solid crafts-
manship in Amalie Colquhoun’s exhibi-
tion at the Athenaeum and sensitiveness
in her landscapes.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE”
PICTORIAL HISTORY
Of
RUSSIA ;
I |H*’M ViUHh V - TAiiN l
.lie. I-
- "- : ii
..... ..... ......
by m Has sHr Howard
AN n ERNEST NBWMAN
vvrmov *< ! } «1I ~\V(%1 I<>NS
YAPS ANH CHAM P's
Kail
■
MANUAL OF
MASSAC 11 AND
MOVEMENTS
l <!sth ;M, Prosser
m ■ '
WORKSHOP
(iPU *.->$ vvmnu rnfvvtw* *■**
I i
|||i|l||||
*
USEFUL AND INFORMATIVE BOORS
ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS
Posted to any Address in Australia and Territories at the postage rates quoted.
Phone your order to M 2401 any time
day or night, or mail your order on
the coupon attached, quoting the item
numbers of the books you require.
1)1 PICTORIAL HISTORY OF RUSSIA from -Hunk I®
Stalin, by Alexander Howard and Ernest Newman
Over 500 illust.ations, maps and charts .. (P-, o/za-J
no PILOTING SEAMANSHIP AND SMALL BOAT HAND-
LING, by Charles F. Chapman. A complete illustra-
ted guide for owners and masters of motor boats, .yachts
and other small craft. 1944 edition. Hundreds of illustra-
tions. Price 17/6 {Postage, 1/oVfe)
f)o MANUAL OF MASSAGE AND MOVEMENTS, by Edith
M. Prosser. The technique of various massage
manipulations and the use of passive, free and resisted
exercise is discussed and illustrated with simple match
diagrams. Price 21/9 (Postage 7i/ 2 d.)
n, THE HOME WORKSHOP. An invaluable companion
to those who make and mend useful articles in
the home. 384 pages, 900 illustrations. Price 10/- (P. 8/2d.)
fIS HUTCHINSON'S TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC
* ENCYCLOPAEDIA. Complete in 4 volumes 2,400
pages, illust'ated by thousands of diagrams and plates
Price, £lO/3/6 set of 4 vols. (Postage, 6/6; Freight extra)
(As illustrated at foot of page.)
UDfi RULES FOR COMPOSITORS AND at the
University Press, Oxford, by Horace Hart, M.A.
p rice 4/- (Postage, 2i/2d.)
IkT POCKET READY RECKONER. Published by Nelson 6
Sons. Fits the vest pocket. Weal for commercial
travellers and buyers. Price 4/3 (Postage, 2 / 2 d.)
1)« AUTHORS' AND PRINTERS' DICTIONARY. A guide
for authors, editors, printers, correctors of the press,
compositors, and typists. With full list ofabbrevulions.
By F. Howard Collins. Price 5/3 (Postage. SVfcd.)
IfcQ GOULD'S POCKET PRONOUNCING MEDICAL DIC-
* * TIONARY of the principal words used in medicine
word?" p C ricl ater . Ql . . S . C . i r nC . eS :.. W . it . h . aP I6 S /- (PosS 4vS )
Din THE MOTOR CYCLIST'S WORKSHOP, by "Torrens."
with a section on Turning for Speed and Efficiency
Illustrated. Price 4/- (Postage, SVfcd.)
1)1 I BETTER THINKING, by G. B. Castle. How to make
the most of ’ your mind. Price, 2/7 (Postage, 3 / 2 d.)
1)12 SURVEY OF THE ANCIENT WORLD, by James
B oosted. Includes chapters on Earliest Man, The
Orient, The Greeks, The Romans-a comprehensive his ory
Well illustrated with maps and drawings. 18/- (Post., 7/2a.)
1)12 WOOD WORKER'S TURNING AND JOINING
MANUAL. Simple and direct instructions anyone
can follow, to make -end tables, chairs, benches, boor ra-ks-
cabinets and other furniture. Price ... 9/- (Postage, Syfcd.)
1)14 1,200 CHINESE BISIC CHARACTERS. An element-
” l ary text book adopted from the Thousand Character
Lessons—edited by W. Simon. Price .. 23/9 (Postage, 4t/ 2 d.)
1)15 THE ROYAL ENGLISH DICTIONARY and Word
Treasury, by Thomas T. Maclagan. Clear type. A
Nelson publication. Price 9/6 (Postage, 7Vfcd.)
1)1 ft THE PSYCHOLOGY OF NERVOUSNESS, by Wm. A.
Mcßae. This book aims to show the causes under-
lying nervous anxieties, explaining that the mind in conflict
can produce physical disorders of a mental origin.
p rice 5/- (Postage, 4i/2d.)
1)17 DRAKE'S REFRIGERATION SERVICE MANUAL, by
* H. P. Manly. An instruction and reference book
covering maintenance, trouble shooting and repair. Domestic
and commercial systenjs. Puce 15/ (Postage, 4/?d.)
I)l« THE INDIVIDUALITY OF THE PIG, by Robert
Mo rison. Its breeding, feeding and management.
Illustrated. Price 6/6 (Postage, 7V 2 d.)
Dl<) THE OUTLINE OF WIRELESS, by Ralph Stranger.
Covers the whole subject of wireless reception. 836
pages, 578 illustrations. Price 17/6 (Postage, 71/ 2 d.)
1)20 THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN CYCLOPEDIA OF
* FORMULAS. 15,000 Receipts, etc. Edited by Albert
A. Hopkins. P ice 45/6 (Postage, I/OV2)
1)21 EVERYBODY'S FAMILY DOCTOR. A reference book
‘ which will enable the readers to recognise warn-
ing symptoms and so procure medical assistance in good
ti m e —also to maintain their own health. 576 pages—sub-
jects arranged alphabetically for quick reference—many
illustrations. Price 10/-. (Postage 7i/ 2 d.)
1)22 COMPLETE BOOK OF HOME CANNING, by De-
metria M. Taylor. Including Preserving, Pickling,
Dehydration and Jelly Making. Proper use and care of
equipment are explained and many helpful hints given.
Price 16/- (Postage, 5V2d.)
1)23 A.B.C. OF POULTRY RAISING, by J. H. Florea. A
complete guide for the beginner or expert. An
American expert's book. Full of new ideas. Beautifully
illustrated. Price 20/- (Postage si/ 2 d).
1)24 NETMS.KING for seamen, yachtsmen, Boy Scouts
and others, by P. W. Blandford. Drawings and
photographs by the author. Price .... 5/3 (Postage,
|)25. SILOS AND SILAGE, by H. I. Moore. Written in
non-technical language, embodying the latest in-
formation on the subject and outlining those methods which
personal knowledge and experience have shown to be
sound and practical to all farmers. Price, 5/9 (Post. 3>/ 2 d.)
))2<S HAMMER AND NAILS CARPENTRY—How to make
things at home with few tools and without elabor-
ate joints. Clear diagrams. Price, 5/3. (Postage, 2i/2d.)
1127 BETTER EYES WITHOUT GLASSES, by Benjamin G.
Hauser. A complete course in Eye Training for the
elimination of astigmatism, hear sightedness, far sighted-
ness and other optical afflictions. Price, 10/- (Post., 4i/ 2 d.)
D2B FORTY POWER TOOLS YOU CAN MAKE—Time and
labour saving machines constructed at low cost,
such as midget circular saw, scroll saw, drill press, disc
sander, hacksaw, milling unit, etc. Well illust-ated.
Price 7/- (Postage 41/ 2 d.)
no<| WOODEN BOAT AND SHIP BUILDING, by Richard
M. Van Gaasbeck. Written for carpenters ana
other woodworkers who desire to engage in boat or s ip
building. Many diagrams. Price ....15/ (Postage 5/2 ■)
nvA HOW TO STUDY AND WRITE CHINESE CHARAC-
TERS, by W. Simon. Chinese radicals and phone-
tics with an analysis of 1200 Chinese basic characters.
p rice 33/3. (Postage SVfed.)
nai SHORT CUTS TO CHINESE, by Herbert A. Giles. A
primer of the Chinese language —how to learn
without a teacher —includes vocabulary—phrases pronun-
ciations. 200 best characters. Price. 14/-. (Postage, 4V 2 a.)
Tift 2 THE COMPLETE SELF EDUCATOR, contains courses
in ten vitally important subjects., Each course is
given, by a recognised authority—subjects such as bnglis ,
French, Physics, Chemistry, Economics and History, etc.
p rice ' 9/6. (Postage 6y 2 d.)
D 33 THE WESTMINSTER DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE, by
Prof. John D. Davis. An entirely new ( l944 edition
of the well-known and universally accepted Davis Bible
Dictionary." Rewritten and brought up to d S*?™ ,1 i/j i
Henry Snyder Geharan. Illustrated. Price, 22/9 (P., 11/2d.)
U 34 PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS FOR ALL, by Herbert
McKay. The whole range of mathematics is pre-
sented in a single volume from simple addition to calcu-
lus. Price 10/- (Postage, si/ 2 d.)
AN INTRODUCTION TO NAVIGATION, by W. Mack
Angos and P. V. H. Weems. A treatise made for
and from the yachtsman's viewpoint for use on smgll
boats. Price «/“ (Postage 4i/ 2 d.)
IJ3« PRACTICAL NURSING, including Hygiene ,£ nd , i , e / t :
etics, by W. T. Gordon Pugh. Price, 23/9 (P., I/IV2)
Hfl7 A SHORT HISTORY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE, by
Emile Legouis. The work of a French scholar of
the highest distinction, carried out with characteristic
French acuteness and lucidity of statement. Illustrated.
p rice 7/3 (Postage 6i/ 2 d.)
Tlflft CASH FROM YOUR CAMERA, by Arthur Nettleton.
Deals with the taking of photographs liicely to
appeal to the weekly press, trade and specialist periodicals,
7/6. (Postage 4V?.d.)
BI3Q HOUSE WIRING MADE EASY, by John J. Smith.
Describes and illustrates proper methods of plan-
ning, layout and installation of indoor and outdoor wiring
for electric lights and appliances. Price. 8/- (Postage, 4 / 2 d.)
H4O COLOURING, FINISHING AND PAINTING WOOD,
by A. C. Newell, and including the finishing of
metal. Illustrated. Price 38/6 (Postage, lOV^d.)
H4l AUDELS NEW AUTOMOBILE GUIDE for mechanics,
operators and servicemen. Questions and answers
on the theory, construction and servicing of motor vehicles,
including diesels. Illustrated. Price, 28/- (Postage, 10i/ 2 d.)
D 42 DICTIONARY OF METALS AND ALLOYS, edited by
F. I. Camm. An alphabetically arranged Dictionary
of metals and Alloys. Price 12/6 (Postage, 3i/ 2 d.)
1143 THE RUNNING AND MAINTENANCE OF THE
MARINE DIESEL ENGINE, by John Lamb. For
marine engineers and others qualifying as engineers of
motor vessels, giving practical suggestions from sea ex-
perience. Illustrated. Price 47/6 (Postage, 10V 2 d.)
D 44 MAKING NURSERY TOYS, written and illustrated
* by Nancy Catford, Organiser of the Nursery Equip-
ment • Workshop for Nursery School Association of Great
Britain. Price 5/-. (Postage 3i/ 2 d.)
H 45 RADIO HANDBOOK (9th Edition), by Editors and
Engineers. Deals with all aspects of Radio work.
640 pages. Strong binding. Price ... 16/6 (Postage, lli/ 2 d.)
D 46 PAPER HANGING. A practical, fully illustrated
manual by W. H. Cantrill and W^. G. Sutherland.
Price 1/8. (Postage 2i/ 2 d.)
f!4T. A SHORT HISTORY OF SCIENCE to the Nineteenth
Century, by Charles Singer. Published by Oxford
University Press. Illustrated. Price .. 17/- (Postage, 6(/ 2 d.)
H 4« UNDERSTANDING THE YOUNG CHILD, by W. E.
Blatz, M.A. M. 8., Ph.D. A new book first published
in 1944, written primarily for parents; published by Uni-
versity of London Press. Price ........ 9/6 (Postage SV^d.)
9)49. ARITHMETIC. A complete Arithmetic with numer-
ous Examples and Exercises with answers, by A.
E. Layng, M.A. Over'soo pages. Cloth Bound. Special
price 3/6 (Postage, BV^d.)
D5O. BREEDING AND MANAGEMENT OF LIVE STOCK
(Cattle, Horses and Pigs). By A. W. G. Lipscomb.
An Australian book for agricultural students and young
farmers. Illustrated. Price 8/6 (Postage BV^d.)
ORDER COUPON (D)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please send me the hooks whose numbers
I list below:
Name
Address
Cash, £ enclosed, \ Strike out
Charge to my account. S One
Signed
ANTHONY HORDERNS*
Famous Low Prices
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


:
■■
" ,: ‘ ' '■'■,■■
~ 1|&\I ®
Hm f% 3 ■» -vw
IHHHKk\\ ■■ ■ ass -■■
„: ■' ■■■ ■■, -
T<V-
! -
X&Xc. .- > -•••
P«» ■-■
;//w „ * , ClfX^XX ' X.
; ■ iff
i f:
'
■
i*
BBSS Sfesss
W<SBBsS>aidsiß - - Cf. -
':M:M
i
I Hn
B ff f f VV; * "
'■-fff ; jjy&l#'.'- -
K : :-;Sa«
<&**? dsv
' |f ;
'- y ~j\ % '
H W-''-'f -ff ••■f■
<3ap*^,'^.^;
'■■■■■■ ]< .i
sm.
f
m
f
VsSs
,
H ■
J
if:
■
f m
/JR
A d
Md’.
W,...... Mm Wes Mm mm mmm
mmm
i
fX'-
aißi
mf
m k
: .-if
c !
y
n
I
m
iiP!
:■
r
MBI
• ,’ •-
\ 5
' ' , ' "' ’ '
r / V?
4 a. *
ms
m
’■■■ ;
iil
■■
■
:-
SsS&i
H
: ::f .
J?
5- m
m
jgj
; Jg ] llillll
M/ /jv|BH|i
*/' * ' i- '*- |i* I
■ x .■/ / n m I m™ *vi
/£M tmMiß-
ii*ipilii®
*
Mfli
I jfjn
i .r ', v'fTf
‘■f .if ** 3K * ♦JPftji *S’ -? <tiUsC' ■’Ss- v\
i
i i
nil - :
mi
lias |
s i
Pips
■ ..
64Sj»1| -’■#, v
’ fi Sk f
mat Bi «E I *- En
lr
ftf f X:(f il- ~
■
II
R;:i' :: 'l
|K«K
v*
i .
f"
Mil. - . U\, ,^..^..'Ci^3
t W*m w. m,
n
I
%L
mWix SH&m 'ML wni&Ji
For nearly 60 years we have co-operated with Industry
and Insurance, successfully reducing fire risk to its
minimum.
From the first “Grinnell” save in 1886, 1212 fires have
been controlled in Australia and New Zealand by the
“Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
The average loss per fire was £145. This unbelievably
low figure covered all claims for fire, water and smoke
damage.
This wonderful record of “saves” in “Grinnell” protected
buildings over the years represents the sum of
materials of outstanding quality, accumulated knowledge,
backed by painstaking service rendered by a substantial
organisation.
The name “Grinnell” is a registered trade mark and
applies only to the “Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and
Fire Alarm System.
Wormald Bros. Pty- Ltd.
{lnc. in N.S.W. ).
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889.
Sydney: Melbourne: Brisbane; Adelaide: Perth; Newcastle: Hobart: Wellington: Auckland: Christchurch.
Note: A complete Fire Protection Engineering Service operates at all branches.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3420.
Wednesday, August 29, 1945.
TOKYO CHORUS.
If you want to know who we are,
We are gentlemen of Japan;
We figure in lively paint
On many a screen and fan:
Our attitude’s queer and quaint—,
You’re wrong if you think it ain’t, oh!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J, E. Webb
P* H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
„ Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.O.), Wellington.
EXIT, ANOTHER DICTATOR.
When the British had settled accounts
with Mussolini and Hitler a would-be
dictator shot up in their own country in
the person of a Left-Wing Jew. His
name is Laski, and as Professor of
Political Science at London Univer-
sity he has influenced a great many
young shavers, Australians among them.
He is also a prolific contributor to news-
papers, British and American, and a tire-
less talker. By dint of these activities
he wangled his way into the chairman-
ship of the British Labor party.
In this capacity Mr. Laski saw fit to
issue instructions to Mr. Attlee when that
gentleman, as leader of the Labor party
and Deputy Prime Minister, was invited
by Mr. Churchill to accompany him to
the Potsdam conference. The Laski
instructions were that Mr. Attlee was not
to bind the Labor party to any respon-
sibility for the decisions arrived at. He
was, on the contrary, to be bound by
whatever decisions the Labor party— i.e.,
Mr. Laski—chose to make. He must
understand that the Labor party— i.e.,
Mr. Laski—would make its own foreign-
policy decisions, and that he would be
expected to implement them as a servile
instrument. Mr. Attlee refused the part
assigned to him, and went to Potsdam as
Mr. Churchill’s coadjutor, becoming the
chief representative of Britain, with Mr.
Bevin as his colleague, when Mr. Churchill
decided, very properly, that Mr. Attlee
and Mr. Bevin must speak for their
country in the concluding phase as the
choice of the constituencies.
During the election campaign Mr.
Laski had perforce played a minor part,
being chiefly occupied in wrangling with
newspapers. The election over, and many
of his disciples in the Commons, among
them journalists of a type familiar in Aus-
tralia, he became more arrogant than ever.
Embarking on a tour of Europe, and
mingling there with congenial spirits, he
talked and wrote as if the Government
were a collection of Laskis, chosen by
him to give shape and substance to his
prejudices and caprices.
The Government will, if necessary, bring
economic pressure to bear on Spain to
realise the political unity of the Republican
forces in a coalition Government.
It is our intention to give a new Italy,
if democratic, full assistance in the eco-
nomic field, and in matters of foreign
policy.
Labor counts on sending a delegation to
Russia to propose full political and econ-
nomic unity of the working classes.
We must prevent the birth in the Far
East of economic and strategic imperialism
to the advantage of any single Power. We
must protect the Chinese against the semi-
Fascist forces of the Right Wing.
I hope British relations with the United
States will continue under the sign of
friendship. This will largely depend on the
attitude of American finance towards the
Socialist experiment in Britain.
The capitalistic system has had its day.
Victory remains to be won over reactionary
and revolutionary movements, not only in
Europe but in the Far East and Africa,
and in the big capitalistic nation of
America.
Such talk to Americans at such a time,
with lend-lease in danger (it has been
abruptly cancelled) and Britain in sore
need of almost everything but national
spirit, was crazy. As proud as they are
generous, the Americans know very well
that but for the efforts of their “big capi-
talistic nation” neither Hitler nor Hiro-
hito would have been defeated. Some
of their writers had commented sarcasti-
cally on previous Laski eruptions to the
effect that the capture of Tobruk by
Rommel revealed the rottenness of capi-
talism, whereas the success at Stalingrad,
sequel to El Alamein and the Anglo-
American blows in north-west Africa,
both of which campaigns greatly relieved
the strain on the Russians, demonstrated
the superiority of the Soviet system.
While Mr. Laski was insulting and
threatening America, Mr. Herbert Morri-
son, who can see a hole through
a ladder, was assuring the Ameri-
can people, in an effort to allay
their doubts touching the “nationalisa-
tion” of the Bank of England and the
coalmines, that “there is no question of
our taking away private property without
compensation.” It was left for Mr. Bevin
to make it clear that the policy of his
Government, though differing from that
of the Conservatives on some domestic
issues, would be one with theirs in its
world outlook, Mr. Laski notwithstanding.
Mr. Bevin outlined this policy in his
first speech in the Commons as Foreign
Secretary, which brought cheers from the
House and compliments and assurances
of support from Mr. Eden. While he did
not refer to the Laski programme, he left
Parliament and the nation in no doubt
that he rejected it at every point.
Of Spain Mr. Bevin said that, although
the Government would adhere to the
Potsdam decision not to admit Franco's
country among the United Nations until
the right of the Spanish people to free
election of their own form of govern-
ment was accepted, he did not desire
“permanently to penalise the Spaniards,”
and was “not prepared to take any steps
which would promote or encourage civil
war.” He was satisfied that foreign inter-
vention would “have the opposite effect
to what is desired” by Mr. Laski, the
Communists and the Left Wing press;
“it would probably strengthen General
Franco’s position.”
Of Poland he said that when at Pots-
dam he and Mr. Attlee had thrice made
representations to the Provisional Govern-
ment in the interests of the exiled Poles,
and had been assured that all returning
Poles would be granted full ’rights as
property-owners and citizens. As to the
Russian occupying forces, he had sug-
gested to Generalissimo Stalin that they
should be withdrawn, and was told that,
save for “the small number required to
maintain communications with Soviet
troops in Germany,” withdrawn they
would be. This should mean that
there will be no Red Army domi-
nation of the Polish election. As for
the boundary quesetion, it was not
finally decided at Potsdam—“it must be
settled at the peace table,” and it would
“largely depend on what population is
returned to Poland.” He and his Labor
colleagues in the national Government
had “always supported Mr. Churchill’s
view of the danger of the Poles going 100
far west.”
They also supported and would adhere
to the Churchill policy in Greece, furi-
ously denounced by Communists and
other Left Wingers throughout the world.
In Britain’s view, there would have to
be an election in that country as soon as
possible, and the Dominions would be
asked to join with the British in super-
vising it. This Australia and New
Zealand should certainly do, if only as
a mark of friendship for a people which
so many of their servicemen hold in high
esteem. Moscow, which had Red Army
“elections” in three extinguished Baltic
republics, has sourly refused to take any
part in the proceedings, “Izvestia” having
the effrontery to assert that the sending
of “election observers” to Greece, where
“terror” is being “spread by reactionaries,
monarchists and Fascists,” would “under-
mine democracy” and be “incompat-
ible with Greek independence and
sovereignty.” Yet the principle of the
thing and its application to Poland were
accepted by Generalissimo Stalin at Yalta.
The Moscow agent Tito has alleged
on divers occasions that “the Greeks are
firing across our frontier trying to pro-
yoke us,” and “oppressing the Slay people
of Macedonia.” “Reports received from
British troops,” Mr. Bevin bluntly de-
clared, “do not substantiate the Yugoslav
charges,” to which Mr, Eden added that
“they would not bear a moment’s exami-
nation.” The position in Yugoslavia,
according to a “Times” correspondent,
is that “the vast majority of Serbs are
maintaining an attitude of sullen oppo-
sition to the [Tito] regime,” and there
have been resignations from the “Govern-
ment” since Tito abolished the monarchy
by word of mouth; but Mr, Bevin did
not go into these matters.
The “Governments” of Bulgaria,
Rumania and Hungary, Communist-
controlled like that of Yugoslavia, he
summed up in a sentence: “They do not
represent a majority of their peoples.”
For this reason Britain refuses to recog-
nise them ; and, in concert with Washing-
ton, it has informed the Bulgarian
“Government” that it will ignore the
result of polls “held under the conditions
now obtaining in Bulgaria.” What these
“conditions” are has been described by
a “Times” correspondent: “complete
Communist sway”; extermination of
political opponents (“between 1500 and
2000 politicians, administrators, profes-
sors and journalists have been sentenced
to death and executed, as well as 15,000
to 20,000 people murdered in villages”),
and persecution of the Communists’ poli-
tical allies: “the leader of the Agrarians,
the largest party in Bulgaria, was put
under house arrest, accused of defeatism,
pacifism and —an unpardonable sin these
days in Bulgaria—of being a sympathiser
with Britain.” And “the method used in
Rumania is almost the same.” The
Rumanian king, goaded into risking
Russia’s displeasure by the outrages of
the Communist mobs, has asked Britain
and America for “aid in the formation
of a more representative Government,”
including Russia in the “request,” though
he must have expected a sullen Russian
refusal.
Russia recognises and has exchanged
Ministers with the Bulgarian “Govern-
ment.” From Moscow went the leaders
of the Communist minorities who, in Mr.
Bevin’s words, are “replacing' one kind
of totalitarianism with another” in the
Balkans and trying to effect the substitu-
tion in other countries. “This,” Mr.
Bevin said, looking steadily towards Mos-
cow and speaking straight, “‘is not what
Britain understands by that overworked
word democracy” ; nor, he added, will
Britain “allow the idea to develop that
the liberated countries can lie down and
rely on the Allied countries for continu-
ous support: there is a limitation to what
U.N.R.R.A. can do.”
With Italy Mr. Bevin desires “a treaty
on fair terms,” conditioned by Parlia-
mentary government and free elections.
With France he is “anxious” to be on
“the best terms,” but here there will have
to be talks “to clear away difficulties.”
As for the Germans, “if we can only
eliminate the war mind from Germany
there will be a chance of unity where
no conflict need exist.” For Persia, an-
other country in which Communist mobs
have been performing, Mr, Bevin be-
speaks a withdrawal of troops, British
and Russian ; and, though he asked the
House not to press him about Moscow-
pressed Turkey or the Dardanelles or the
internationalisation of waterways (a
White House notion), he promised “care-
ful study” of these matters, the supreme
fact being that the Mediterranean and
the Middle East are “vital areas, affect-
ing the British Commonwealth and
Empire and world peace.”
“Our foreign policy,” Mr. Bevin said
in conclusion, “must be worthy of our
people and its immense sacrifices” ; the
people that “held the fort and preserved
the soul of mankind.” As he has bodied
it forth, it is worthy, and he has added
cubits to his stature as a statesman by
lifting it above party, in the process
squelching a dangerous Left-Wing in-
trigue. It is a policy with which the
Dominions can fairly associate them-
selves. The British Commonwealth indeed
should have a common foreign policy
and a common defence policy, both lifted
above party and joined to a friendly
understanding with the United States.
Demobilisation.
In getting the men back to Australia first
preference appears to have gone—where
every Digger would agree it should go—
to those who have been prisoners-of-war.
Exactly what shape those held at Singa-
pore and elsewhere will be in is not yet
known. Some Americans who had been
prisoners since the fall of the Philippines
were found in quite good health. Still,
the effects of existing for so long under
Japanese prison conditions in bad cli-
mates must in many cases have been
severe. There is provision for special
treatment of Jap-held captives in the
Re-establishment Bill, which, on pro-
clamation, will replace the various war-
time regulations dealing with ex-
servicemen. There is one thing to be
grateful for; all those who have survived
the bitter ordeal will be back home a
great deal sooner than they would have
been if the yelps of Communists and
others against using Hirohito to help end
hostilities on all fronts had been heeded.
About another aspect of demobilisa-
tion there should also be little difference
of opinion. It is not a question of prefer-
ence in this case, but merely of conveni-
ence. Pending the arrival back of all at
present away whatever method of
preference may be adopted in getting
them back—those already in Australia
who have seen service and who have jobs
they previously held waiting for them
should be handed their discharges as fast
as it can be done. Practically to a man
they wish to get out now that the war
job is finished. On that account, because
they have earned the right to it, they
should be attended to without any back-
ing and filling about the “priority” nature
of their previous employment.
On another ground—the country’s in-
terest ; getting the wheels going again im
all sorts of industry—discharges might
well be given also to those who have not
seen active service but who have
previously-held jobs waiting. The sooner
the much-dislocated country can be put
on a general working basis again the
better; and these contributions to that
end could be made without prejudice to
those who ended the war in the thick of
it still carrying on the fighting part.
Preference in getting these back and dis-
charged, if such preference is necessary,
would appear fairest to the Diggers
themselves if based, above all, on length
and nature of service. That is the idea
on which the American “points” system
is mainly based. There a high rate of
points goes for total and for combat ser-
vice, for battles engaged in and for de-
pendent children.
Whatever method is employed here the
Re-establishment Act appears to ensure
that all jobs previously held, where still
available, must go back to their original
Digger holders. Unlike the preference-
in-employment section, which will prob-
ably lead to trouble, the provisions for
replacing discharged men in their old jobs
seem sound enough. Relevant references,
as given out when the Bill was introduced
by Mr. Dedman, included:
An employer must make employment
available to an applicant for reinstate-
ment on the date on which he will be avail
able for work or at the earliest possible
opportunity thereafter.
The applicant is entitled to reinstatement
in the occupation in which he was em
ployed immediately before commencing
service and under conditions not less favor-
able than those which would have been
applicable if he had remained in employ-
ment.
Applicants were given up to 28 days
after discharge in which to apply for their
old jobs, the period, however, open to
extension at the discretion of reinstate-
ment committees. There would then be
a further eight weeks’ period in which to
tell the former employers the date on
which the applicant could start back at
work, which, in any case, unless a re-
instatement committee decided otherwise,
would have to be at some time within
the eight weeks. Other provisions and
safeguards were included. On the vital
point Mr. Dedman was most definite;—
After five years of war many employers
have almost completely new staffs and
have been faced with applications for rein-
statement in positions which had been held
during the past three or four years by war-
time employees. The reinstatement pro-
visions now make it quite clear that such
an employee must make way for the ser-
viceman. v
Doing something for the many who
must thus be thrown on the employ-
ment market is one of the numerous jobs
in this complex business that the Gov-
ernment has ahead of it. Many of these
replacements are youngsters below en-
listing age who got in and took good
wages while the going was good, a lot
of them leaving school to do so. Judging
on behavior and on the general public
service in the meantime, they have learnt
little since. Their jobs have been com-
paratively soft because there has been
little or no opposition. They amount to
a big demobilisation job on their own.
When the Re-establishment Act is pro-
claimed the war disabled should be fairly
secure. Pensions and indefinite treatment
are, of course, provided for, as well as
other expenses and re-employment allow-
ances. It was also stated, when the Act
was first mooted, that any class of em-
ployers might be required by regulation
to “employ a specific number of disabled
persons or a number proportionate to
the total number on their payroll.” In
America private companies, like the Ford
motor people, have for years made a
specialty of fitting ajl manner of disabled
people, including tlie blind, into worth-
while jobs. The right sort of appeal could
produce the same result in Australia, with
emphasis necessary on the point that the
men thus fitted in will need to feel that
they are wanted there.
For those who do not want to go back
to the old job—probably these will be
very few —and for those who had no set
job before enlisting, special training
facilities in technical colleges, universities
and going business concerns and factories
have been promised, with payments up
to £5 ss. a week to keep them going. It
will probably be a wise man who will
take what’s on offer in this respect to refit
him for civilian life, which is a struggle
in itself, lacking the risks and discom-
forts but calling for every bit as much
character as the soldiering life.
Also, discharged men who have no
immediate jobs to go to, and who have
no wish to take advantage of the helpful
training plans, can apply for payment of
allowances while unsuccessfully trying to
obtain employment. The quality of the
Digger being what it is, there should not
be many of these, unless general chaos
becomes war’s aftermath. To get the
allowance the applicant must be “willing
to undertake employment”—which postu-
lates a willingness to find it for him by
the Government —and must not be unem-
ployed “as a result of participation in a
strike.”
All of this should clear up a consider-
able number of the men who will now
be getting their discharges within the
period which Mr. Dedman estimated at
up to 18 months. Others are expected to
volunteer as occupation troops for Japan,
and, as far as the Government’s designs
are as yet known, for general service in
Australian defence establishments and the
future policing of Australian-held islands.
This is probably highly optimistic, but
may help a little. There will also be man>
who, showing the Digger quality, will have
the initiative to look after themselves.
How many the balance will amount to
is hard to estimate, and their lot under
the Government’s shifty “preference
arrangements is likely to be harder. There
has been trouble already on the question
of Digger priority in jobs into which they
have been fitted, and, that being so wiU
comparatively few back, there is sure to
be worse trouble later on. This could
have been forestalled by a Governmen
with the nous and the guts to adopt the
Returned Soldiers’ League recommenda-
tion for outright preference, but—giving
all credit for the valuable provisions oi
the Re-establishment Act, when pro-
claimed and carried out—the present
Government failed to rise above part>
interests in that respect.


PLAIN ENGLISH
More Coal Larrikinism.
Though thousands of Australians would
be glad to get a bath-house in which
to live, miners at the Rhondda pit
(N.S.W.) had a sit-down strike because
theirs wasn’t to their liking, or so it was
said. Neighboring miners struck “in
sympathy.” Then Scanlon, Communist
vice-president of the Northern Miners’
Federation, led a bunch of coalies
to Rhondda. There, under his direction,
they tore down an old bath-house and
used the iron to put a partition in the
one which “caused” the strike, hang-
ing around because “the police might put
on something and if there is going to be
a battle we want to be in it.”
This display was only to be expected
from a quarter in which men have been
taught by Communists to care nothing for
anybody but themselves, and to feel that
they can get away with anything. It mat-
tered nothing to them that rail services
had to be cut again, that Commissioner
Mighell had to warn industry to prepare
for shortages, that thousands of other
workers might have to lose days or weeks
of work, that the evil results might extend
to housing and the return of servicemen
to civil employment or that production for
the year was already down a million tons.
Minister Ashley (Supply and Shipping)
made the belated discovery that “anarchy”
existed on the coalfields and that
miners were “holding Australia to ran-
som.” He had, he said, invited the Coal
Commissioner to take whatever steps he
thought fit to deal with “trivial stoppages.”
It is a matter not for the Commissioner
but for the Government, which entered
upon its career with full powers and
issued litters of regulations which it
never enforced. Had it enforced them
Australia would have a lot more coal and
might have been able to spare a few mil-
lion tons for Britain, facing another dark
and bleak winter, and Europe —it had a
big coal-export trade before larrikinism
became a “settled” and “settling” policy.
People are sourly remarking that the
latest coal outrage was timed for after
the by-elections.
A "Bitter Struggle."
In September, 1939, Mr. Beasley was of
opinion that Australia should fight the foe
with “our foodstuffs and other require-
ments,” his party being opposed to “the
dispatch of expeditionary' forces” (mean-
ing chiefly the A.1.F.) and to conscrip-
tion, especially for the defence of Aus-
tralians and their wards in Papua and
mandated New Guinea and Bougainville.
“That view,” Mr. Ward said in February,
1944, the “view” that Australia should have
taken as “the most effective role it could
play that of the great supplier to the Allied
nations, has been proved to be correct.”
The German and the Japanese wars
over, Mr. Beasley’s belligerence asserted
itself, and, according to friends in Sydney
newspaper offices, fortified by Canberra
communiques, he and his crowd won a
Great Victory over the British.
The testimony of Mr. Beasley’s news-
paper friends varied in vehemence accord-
ing to the taste and temper of the witness.
S. M. “Herald” was comparatively mild:
The Commonwealth Government deserves
the congratulations of all citizens for its
resolute insistence upon the presence of
separate Australian contingents in the occu-
pation forces and of Australian delegates
to sign the instrument of surrender. Mr.
Beasley’s statement implies that the Govern-
ment’s determined stand has assured that
others, too, of the Allies with interests in
the Pacific will no longer be merely
“observers,” but actual signatories of the
surrender instrument.
On July 27, when everyone but those
in the atomic-bomb secret thought that
the war against Japan would drag on
till 1947, the leader of Mr. Beasley’s Gov-
ernment, so “determined” and “resolutely
insistent” when it was over, announced
that the A.I.F. in the south-west Pacific
was to be reduced from six divisions to
three divisions and the R.A.A.F. from 53
squadrons to a probable 36 squadrons,
and that it had “also been proposed that
a token force should be associated, if
possible, with British forces in the opera-
tions for the recapture of Singapore.”
The Beasley statement conveyed that
much more than “a token force” would
be sent to Tokyo.
The Australian contribution to the forces
of occupation will comprise a naval task
force under Commodore Collins; two Army
brigades, numbering about 10,000 men, and
an air force of three squadrons.
More quotations from the testimony
of Mr. Beasley’s newspaper friends, neces-
sarily condensed:
Sydney "D-T With the moral sup-
port of America, Australia has won her
fight for recognition a? a principal Power
in the Pacific. This recognition came only
after a bitter behind-the-scenes battle with
Whitehall, [begun] just after Dr. Evatt de-
nounced the failure of Britain to acquaint
Australia with the terms of the Potsdam
declaration. Foreign Office diehards were
prepared to instruct... .Britain again
objected Britain argued that one brigade
for Tokyo would be enough [and so on].
Sydney "Sun”: Australia Wins Her Fight
to Sign Surrender in Tokyo. This decision
to include Australia followed representa-
tions made by the Government concerning
our rights, Mr. Beasley said. During the
past few weeks a bitter behind-the-scenes
diplomatic struggle has been going on be-
tween the Australian and British Govern-
ments.... on the military side also. The
Australian viewpoint was that Britain was
relegating her to the position of a fourth-
rate Power. So Australia again turned to
America.
Sydney ",Daily Mirror’': Fight for Sur-
render Rights. America Backs Australia.
Astonishing Lie in Londra. Behind yester-
day’s announcement lies an amazing
story.... There is considerable perturbation
in political circles in Canberra at the atti-
tude displayed by the English Government.
Labor members are frankly astonished that
an effort should have been made to fob
Australia off with the excuse that the U.S.
objected. This was obviously false....
There is no escaping the position that some-
body in England lied about the U.S. atti-
tude, in an effort to prevent Australia
being present at the surrender.
The term “English Government,” used
six times in the “Daily Mirror” and car-
ried into “Terewth,” is an odd throwback
to the days when Sydney Labor members,
associates of Mr. Beasley, successfully
exploited the Wrongs of Ireland.
From the “English Government,” there
being none, there was no reply, but one
came from the British Government
through the Labor Secretary of the
Dominions, Lord Addison:
Attention has been called to reports re-
ceived from Australian press channels that,
the British Government had not supported
Australia’s,; desire to be represented m the
Japanese surrender and armistice negotia-
tions. Arrangements for these matters are in
- the hands of the United States Government,
but any suggestion that the British Govern-
ment did not fully support Australia’s re-
quest with the United States is totally un-
founded. The British Government, on the
contrary, took the initiative in pressing for
Australia’s representation.
This prompted the “Daily Mirror” to
go fishing in the gutter, and out it came
with an article headed “Lord Addison
Told a Lie.” And Dr. Evatt moved to
the centre of the stage from behind the
scenes, asserting that “the so-called
United Kingdom ‘initiative’ was quite
unsatisfactory” and had necessitated
an appeal to General MacArthur and
the U.S. Acting Minister at Can-
berra. Repeating that he had not been
consulted about the Potsdam declaration
and that his “very strong submissions as
to the treatment and immunities of the
Emperor” had been rejected (fortunately
for the fighting men and the prisoners-
of-war), and leaving it to be inferred
that the British were wholly to blame,
though the decision in each case plainly
rested with President Truman, this Min-
ister, so very kind to Communists, pro-
ceeded in the same disingenuous way to
belittle the British part in the war against
Japan. This he did without mentioning
the work of the Merchant Navy, the
R.A.F. victory of April, 1942, in the skies
above Ceylon—hailed by General Eisen-
hower as a turning point in both wars—
or the long and bloody campaign in
Burma.
On the other side of the Tasman Mr.
Fraser dismissed the subject in a few
statesmanlike words. He said there was
“no reflection on Australia or New
Zealand”; “the important matter” was
that “our unity with the United Kingdom
should be maintained above everything,”
and for his part he would maintain
it: “as long as the present Government
is in office New Zealand is not going to
quarrel with the Mother Country.”
No member of the House should say any-
thing that would start even a divergence
between ourselves and the United Kingdom
on foreign policy.
, In times still perilous, and with Britain’s
position full of difficulties, immensely in-
creased by the cancellation of lend-lease,
this Labor Prime Minister’s attitude is
manifestly right: wise and generous. It
is far above the level to which the Min-
isterial squealers at Canberra have de-
scended; they and the writing boys who
echo and fawn on them.
A "Banjo " Paterson Statue.
“J.H.M.A.”; The people of Yass, in the
part of N. S. Wales where A. B. Paterson
was born, have decided to raise a statue
of the poet.
And why not? Henry Lawson is in
Sydney Domain, and Jack Moses’s Dog
sits on the Tucker-box near tJundagai.
Surely the author of “The Man from
Snowy River” deserves as much as either
of those good Australians; the man who,
from the day he began contributing to
The Bulletin, wrote so much that has
stirred haunting memories in the soldiers
of three generations:
Oh rocky range, and rugged spur, and rivet
running clear, , , ...
That swings around the sudden bends witn
swirl of snow-white foam,
Though we, your sons, are far away, we some-
times seem to hear
The message that the breezes bring to call
the wanderers home.
There is no single item in Paterson’s
best-known book that isn’t worth quoting
—collectively its contents are alive with
humor, manliness, sanity and beauty.
Nothing decadent, nothing that is
not wholesome and there are not
many modern poets, in or out of Aus-
tralia, of whom this may be said with
truthfulness.
For humor of a distinctively Australian
sort Paterson has no superior. Many
years ago the “S. M. Herald” commis-
sioned him to write a series of articles
describing the condition of outback N. S.
Wales under a drought, one of the worst
in the experience of white men. Of a
certain pastoral district he noted that it
wasn’t quite so badly off as others, for
it was possible to come across people
there who could talk with bank managers
on terms of equality! That single sen-
tence, long lost in newspaper files, gives
a key to the brand of humor that is
peculiarly Paterson’s own.
You will find it in “Saltbush Bill,” in
“An Idyll of Dandaloo,” in “Been There
Before,” in “The Geebung Polo Club,” in
a dozen other sets of verses.
In “Frying Pan’s Theology” a white
youngster asks his companion, a “shock-
headed blackfellow,” to explain the origin
of falling snow on the Monaro uplands,
and gets this reply:
What parson tellin’ you,
Ole Mister Dodd,
Tell you in Sunday-school?
Big pfeller God,
He drive His bullock dray,
Then thunder go,
He shake His flour bag —
Tumble down snow!
{Continued on page 8.)
DESIGNS FOR VICTORY STAMPS.
“The Sydney Labor Council, to which all the N.S.W. Common ist-controlled unions send delegates, is expected to endorse a
proposal that 400,000 special stamps he issued to symbolise victory in the fight against Fascist aggression.”


YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, I/TD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary,
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
FIVE REMARKABLE BOOKS
THE AMERICAN WOMAN’S COOK BOOK.
New edition of the handiest, most complete cook book ever published. A real kitchen
encyclopaedia, 1,000 pages, thumb index, 5.000 recipes and helpful suggestions. -Hundreds o
instructive illustrations, including 32 photographs in full color. 20/- (post., 1/-).
CAESAR AND CHRIST. n _ „ _...
A history of Roman civilisation and of Christianity from the beginning of A.D. 3-o. By vvu
Durant, author of “The Story of Philosophy." Maurice Maeterlinck says: “This book is a
magnificent success, worthy of the greatest histories of mankind. It is as complete as a
encyclopaedia.” 768 pages. 38/- (post., 1/-).
SPEAK TO THE EARTH.
An inspiring story in the great tradition of the Australian countryside. By Elyne Mitchell,
author of “Australia's Alps." Large, handsome volume. Size x7i inches, finely produced
and beautifully illustrated from 25 full-page photographs. Wonderful value. 12/6 (post,, ea.).
T.V.A. ADVENTURE IN PLANNING.
By Julian Huxley. T.V.A. stands for Tennessee Valley Authority—the largest and most
successful planning scheme in the world. An area about the size of England was replanne
and turned from one of America’s most distressed regions into one of life and prosperity.
With about 150 photographs, the majority of which have never before been puhlisneu.
13/9 (post., 5d.). the years of victory.
By Arthur Bryant, author of “The English Saga. The Years of Endurance.” A handsome
volume. 15/- (post., 6d.). This epic of man’s endeavour is superbly recounted, and no one
can arise from the reading of this moving pageant without being thrilled to the marrow.
The background of the struggle is of England and the English people.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Superb ; and so is the last stanza of “The
Man From Snowy River”:
And down by Kosciusko, where the pine-clad
ridges raise
Their torn and rugged battlements on high,
Where the air is clear as crystal, and the
white stars fairly blaze
At midnight in the cold and frosty sky,
And where around the Overflow the reed-beds
sweep and sway
To the breezes and the rolling plains are wide,
The Man from Snowy River is a household
word today,
And the stockmen tell the story of his ride.
There is little likelihood that the story
of the ride, as “The Banjo” tells it, will
ever cease to be a household word with
all good Australians. By all means, let
Yass have its Paterson statue, and I trust
it will be worthy of him.
POLITICAL POINTS
August 22 saw the end of lend-lease,
together with “all outstanding contracts,
except where Allied Governments are
willing to accept the responsibility or
where it is in America’s interest to com-
plete them.” This does not mean that
U.S.A. will refuse its associates further
assistance by the loan route ; all the same,
cancellation is fearfully embarrassing, to
Britain, above all, and the White House
is suspected of “deliberately placing dif-
ficulties in the road of the Labor Gov-
ernment.” The President and his advisers
are incapable of that, but they would
not be human if they did not resent the
impertinences of Harold Laski.
Laski, professing to speak for British
Labor, threatened that it would turn
nasty unless Americans financed its
“Socialist experiment,” while holding
itself free to oppose “reactionary and
counter-revolutionary movements in the
big capitalist nation.” The fellow has
been repudiated as a self-constituted
architect of British foreign policy, but
the repudiation should be extended to
all the mischief he has done by dismiss-
ing him from the party chairmanship.
The blow from Washington has, it
seems, so staggered the British that they
are taking scarcely any notice of the prod
from Canberra—which is just as well for
the prodders. It would be awkward if
J. Bull were in a state of mind to ponder
on the coincidence and to decide,
wrongly, that it was concerted.
Ward made a sorry mess of the rail-
standardisation business at the Premiers’
Conference. It was silly to ask the
States, two of which have to rely on
Commonwealth grants for making ends
meet, to bear four-fifths of the huge cost
—£76,000,000 for the first part —and
when they objected he lost his temper and
was snubbed. He had to be content with
a reference of the thing to two com-
mittees, one of which may possibly go
into the bearing of the atomic bomb and
the transport plane on a plan which
ignores them. Then Ward came to light
with a proposal for “a transport ad-
visory council,” having previously de-
nounced the reference of things to ex-
perts. He failed again, again lost his
temper and again was snubbed.
Playford on the Clapp plan, as pre-
sented by Ward:
More important to South Australia is a
north-south railway. There is. a legal obli-
gation on the Commonwealth to carry out
the joint agreement made with the State on
this issue. South Australia swapped the
Northern Territory for a railway that has
never been built.
Ward didn’t try to answer the unanswer-
able.
Some of the gentlemen at the Premiers’
conference talked as though we were living
in 1919 not 1945, having apparently learned
nothing in between. An A priority pro-
gramme of works to cost £192,889,000,
and to be exclusive of housing and unifi-
cation of rail gauges, was approved of. No
doubt things like schools, railway rolling
stock and waterworks need urgent atten-
tion ; but many of the projects mentioned
were apparently just written down,
planning being dispensed with—this was
suggested by the Westralian Wise. The
general idea was “to make employment
available for discharged servicemen and
others,” whereas the aim should be to
place them in permanent and productive
jobs. Except for caretakers and the like,
“works” have a distressing way of pro-
ducing only permanent debts.
Amidst all the welter of conflicting
authorities concerned with housing, the
shire of Frankston, on the shores of Port
Phillip, has thrown in a bright notion.
It offers to build 100 houses within 12
months if given a bulk permit. Plans
have been_ drawn up by city architects
and land is available. The scheme en-
visages the employment of returned
Frankston servicemen and trades in the
district. It looks worthy of extension
and continent-wide application.
The British Home Guard was fare-
welled by the King in person, his Majesty
taking the salute and delivering a moving
speech. Our V.D.C. is being disbanded
per newspaper par. and radio blah convey-
ing Forde’s profuse thanks. Presumably
a “Commonwealth Gazette” notice will
follow.
A Communist-owned sporting sheet
has been cast in £6OO damages for a libel
on three racing-club directors —one the
Labor M.L.A. (and former M.H.R.)
Cunningham. The blow came when the
Corns, were mourning the loss of three
by-election deposits and had been struck
“It’s no use, my man — you’ve nothing big enough.
all of a heap by Bevin’s rejection of the
Leftist foreign policy manufactured and
put forth as the party’s by Laski. After
the British election Bevin was a hero to
Corns., it being their confident expecta-
tion that he would come out as a Mos-
cow stooge. Now they can find nothing
too bad to say about him.
“Feng-Shui”: According to “authori-
tative sources,” Manchuria is to come
under Chinese sovereignty with the pro-
viso that the Russians will acquire 50
p.c. control of the Chinese Eastern and
South Manchurian railways. When I
passed through Manchuria in 1914 en
route from Vladivostok to Moscow,
Stalin’s predecessor, the Czar, had con-
trol of the Chinese Eastern railway and
a slice of territory on each side, and he
might have owned the lot to all intents
and purposes. Russian guards, their wives
and children, tumbled out of their block-
houses every few miles, and the guard,
a farmer turned soldier, with a large hold-
ing, stood to attention and saluted as
the train passed, knowing full well where
his authority came from. The cities, the
station staffs and most of the industries
were Russian, as later they became
Japanese. It was a Russian statesman
who stated the principle that if you own
a country’s communications you own the
country.
Funnell, the Director-General of Man-
power, announces that while some
“undertakings” will remain “protected,”
others are now “deprotected.” Some, of
course, have been “unprotected,” and
there is the chance of the “deprotected”
being “reprotected” and later “redepro-
tected,” By that time the average em-
ployer, not being sure or having for-
gotten or overlooked the 718th form,
won’t know whether to fire the office-boy
or send him to Canberra.
Beasley, coming out for immigration
and against Communist efforts to work
color into it, said “Australia has 74-
million people” (it hasn’t —yet), “a popu-
lation approximating to that of Norway.”
A notion which may account for his
“foodstuffs and other requirements” offer
to Britain in September, 1939. Actually
Australia has more than twice the popu-
lation of Norway, reckoned at 2,937,000
at the end of 1939. Possibly Beasley
said or meant Sweden, but Sweden,
too, has fewer people than Australia
(estimates at December 31, 1941,
6,406,400 and 7,137,200). So have
Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Chile,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Finland,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland,
Iraq, Liberia, Luxembourg, Nicaragua,
Panamh, Paraguay, Peru, Salvador,
Switzerland, Uruguay and Venezuela.
Perhaps Beasley and colleagues need a
post - graduate course in population
statistics.
Expectations of easy money for every-
one raised by Labor plans for the
“nationalisation” of the Bank of Eng-
land was soon dashed. Whether because
of American doubts or as the sobering
effect of coming to grip with realities, all
that is now proposed is to buy out the
stockholders, who are promised fair com-
pensation. “The money policy pursued
for some time is to be continued,” and
Lord Catto is to remain governor, certi-
fied by the Labor Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer as “a great public servant and a
man of wide commercial experience.”
Whatever Chifley and Caugus may con-
template in Australia there is to be no
“constant Governmental interference
with day-to-day working” of the Bank
of England.
A new form of hold-up developed on
the Melbourne waterfront when wharf-
laborers unloading a shipment of hay
from Westralia made for home clutch-
ing and tearing at their clothing, the
fodder being infested with millions of
minute insects. If there is anything in
the Hindu doctrine of transmigration of
souls, there may- be some truth in the
suggestion that they are demobilised
bureaucrats at their favorite pastime of
gumming up things.
There is a Nemesis which shapes our
ends, rough-hew them as we may. The
closing down of the multitudinous de-
partments is resulting in every section,
sub-department and committee passing
its unfinished cases, causes, complaints
and applications on to Post-war Recon-
struction. Post-war Reconstruction will
probably have to take a year off merely
to catalogue them.
First shot in the battle over the
nationalisation of pills and potions has
been fired in Melbourne, where the
validity of the Commonwealth Pharma-
ceutical Benefits Act is to be challenged
in the High Court. A writ was taken out
by the State Attorney-General “at and
by the relation of John Dale, Peter
McCallum and Roy Fallowes Watson.”
Dr. Dale is city health officer and presi-
dent of the B.M.A.
A curiosity of political journalism is
the change that has come over the Hearst
papers. Excluded from Australia during
the last war as pro-German, they are now
distinctly pro - British. The ’Frisco
“Examiner,” agreeing with Senator La
Follette that “the Russian Soviet Gov-
ernment’s present imperialistic policies in
Europe have violated Stalin’s pledges and
are a menace to any lasting peace,” chided
him for “applying the word ‘imperialistic’
to Mr. Churchill’s course in Greece”:
What England did in Greece was to pre-
vent Russian domination of that country
through a Communist party directed from
Moscow. Tire Greeks today are an inde-
pendent, self-determining people because
of Churchill’s quick action in saving them
I from the fate of Poland, the three little
Baltic republics and Rumania.
Closing words were “If we do not want
to see the whole of Europe surrender to
Russian oppression we have got to sup-
port England.”
One of the many honest men who are
targets for the abuse of Leftist writers is
Carlton Hayes, the U.S. Ambassador at
Madrid. He has been called everything
from Fascist to Tammany politician.
Actually he was Professor of Modern
European History at Columbia Univer-
sity, and his writings {Essays on National-
ism is the best-known) were all on the Nazi
blacklist. In a very difficult situation, he
did excellent work for the democracies.
Reviewing it in “Harper’s Magazine,”
two publicists of repute, Ernest Lindley
and Edward Weintal, gi ve Hayes the
credit for “bringing about a reorientation
in Spanish policy which favored and
assisted the objectives set by Allied mili-
tary leaders.”


BATTtWI
yji
This man is completely nuts* He’s got a
crazy notion that by increasing his idling
speed he charges his battery! And oh! how
it eats up petrol coupons.
The wise way to keep your battery in tip-top
shape is to get a fortnightly check-up and an
occasional re-charge from your nearest Exide
dealer. It will give you many extra months
of service.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited)
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The uniform-income tax case was
auspicious for three of the counsel en-
gaged. Ligertwood, K.C., and Fullagar,
K.C., have been raised to the Supreme
Court Bench, in South Australia and Vic-
toria respectively, and Dunphy, K.C.,
who was Westralian Crown Solicitor at
30, has succeeded Walter Dwyer as Presi-
dent of the State Arbitration Court, with
the “status, salary, pension and privileges
of a Supreme Court Judge.” Still only
38, he was a member of the legal firm
of which Dwyer was head.
Sydney jeweller William T, Kerr, who
is 80, has one record he wouldn’t swap
for an earldom—timekeeper at Sydney
High School athletic championships since
their inception 60 years ago, and at
which he has again officiated this year.
Between business and athletics Kerr runs
a few racehorses, among them Modula-
tion, the 1943 A.J.C. St. Leger winner.
Wing-Commander R. K. Bazley, C.O.
No. 1 R.A.A.F. Personnel Depot (Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground) for the past five
years, has in that time had an average of
80,000 R.A.A.F. personnel a year in transit
(either going or coming) through his
hands. Now he’s tackling the tidy job of
handling all Victorian R.A.A.F. dis-
charges. M.C. and bar from the last war,
WING-COMMANDER R. K. BAZLEY.
he served in the famous old 6th Brigade
alongside cobbers whose names are now
household words —Savige, Bruce Plant,
Norman and John Gellibrand.
“Dhas”: I met Horace Keats a few
years ago at his Mosman flat overlook-
ing Sydney Harbor, He had been corre-
sponding with the novelist John Cowper
Powys, showed me the letters and then,
while his wife sang, played a song from
Powys’s Wolf Solent, “Yellow Bracken.”
It might have been Keats’s English origin
that had aroused his interest in Powys,
but I think it was more likely his many
years in Australia; for Powys’s wild
vigor had always been better appreciated
here than in his native land. That same
afternoon we had Keats’s settings of
Shaw Neilson’s “The Orange Tree,”
various Hugh McCrae lyrics and, I think,
a poem by Kenneth Mackenzie; all of
which left the impression of an appropri-
ately Keatsian richness. Horace Keats
had a pleasant, easy-going personality,
unusual in a musician: altogether the
right sort of man to be playing McCrae’s
songs on a sunny afternoon above- the
Harbor, Dead at 50, he had won a lead-
ing place as an accompanist and an en-
during name for his songs. His musical
comedy “Over the Hills Came Love” was
presented by the 8.8. C. in 1937.
Gerry (“Lucky”) Nolan has tremen-
dous faith in Queensland and wouldn’t
give a square 'foot of it for a thousand
acres anywhere else. He runs one of
the biggest chemist shops up that way
(at Ipswich), and has another at Rose-
wood. He’s a State Councillor of the
Pharmaceutical Society and has become
a State committeeman of the Federated
Pharmaceutical Guild. He’s also a direc-
tor of Baxter’s Veterinary Supplies, which
probably arises from his love for a good
horse. Born in Ipswich 48 years ago,
son of that J. W. Nolan who, now 82,
is still timekeeper for Ipswich Amateur
Turf Club and was its starter for 30 years,
Gerry has racing in his blood. His
father and the late P. Nolan once owned
Splendide, a great mare of the ’nineties
that won a Queensland Derby, two Bris-
bane Cups and a Queensland Cup. She
cut four seconds off the Queensland
Derby record and held it for 17 years.
Gerry himself makes racing and surfing
his hobbies.
Ernest Turnbull, who, as Hoyt’s man-
aging director, arranged the pooling of
interests with Arthur Rank, of the British
film industry, for an Anglo-Australian
company to produce high-quality films in
Australia, was president of the R.S.L. in
Victoria for seven years. He got into
fillums at the inception of the talkies and
was one of the men who strove for dis-
tribution in Australia of British films at
a time when they were as rare as the
dodo.
MacPherson Robertson, K.8.E., who
passed'on the other day in Melbourne,
learnt the confectionery trade in his
father’s bathroom with an old nail-can
as equipment. He left a huge industry
covering 35 acres and worth at least two
million. Born in Ballarat' of Scottish
parents, he gave a great deal of his for-
tune away. The Macßobertson Girls’
High School, the Herbarium and the
Grange-road bridge were the result of
his Centenary contribution to the State
—£loo,ooo. Macßobertson Island in the
Antarctic got its name from the gift of
£lO,OOO which made possible the last
two Antarctic expeditions under Douglas
Mawson. The prize of £lO,OOO for the
Centenary Air Race gave a tremendous
fillip to international aviation, as well as
aircraft construction. The State requited
the donor by forgetting to give him an
invitation to the reception to the com-
peting airmen,
Tom Elder Barr Smith, junior, of Adel-
aide, is taking to public life more keenly
than did his namesake father or his
grandfather Robert, who were content
with commercial life. Elder Snjith and
Co., and the Uni. Council. The present
member lately retained a seat on Adelaide
City Council with 713 votes, his two
opponents making a local record by both
losing their deposits, with only 53 and 46.
“Mac Hoots”: Oh, verra guid, then ;
the name’s Roberton. If, as ye inseenu-
ate, I have written a parragraph for The
Bulletin about Hugh S. Roberton, presi-
dent of the N. S. Wales Farrmers and
Settlers Association and have spelt the
mon’s name “Robertson,” then nae doot
I wad be willing to record the fact that
the name should be Roberton. Lacking
the “s,” ye ken. But dinna ye ask me to
apologise, Roberton Roberton wha
ever haird o’ sic a name? Oh, it’s a
verra important clan, or sept o’ a clan,
nae doot; an’ if my friend Ronald Mc-
Quhaig may spell himsel’ Ronald Mc-
Cuaig, an’ some misguided Stewarts spell
themsels Stuart, I wullna quarrel with the
Roberto ns. But apologise? Hoots, awa
wi’ ye, mon!
Before he passed on in Sydney at 84
Neville W. Montagu had put up some
distance records that will take matching.
He had been since its foundation for
half a century hon. solicitor of the Hos-
pital Saturday Fund. A life member of
City Tattersall’s Club, he was its hon.
solicitor for over 40 years ; ditto for a
long stretch of the N.S.W. Bowling Asso-
ciation, as well as being a life member
of the old Civic Club, the Masonic Club
and Kensington Bowling Club. Back in
1884 he was one of those whose urging
led to starting evening lectures at Sydney
Uni. Soon after that he temporarily lost
his eyesight, but recovered it a year later,
and was then in journalism for a while.
Montagu acted for Phil May when that
artist joined up with The Bulletin, and
a few years back he presented this office
with the original contract.
Pictured here by Scorfield, last-war
Digger Harold Rabling, with the distinc-
tion of being the first Australian appointed
chairman and managing director by
Vacuum Oil. A B.M.E. of Melbourne
University, he has served the cp, at New-
castle (N.S.W.), Melbourne and in
HEAD OF VACUUM OIL CO.
America. In New York, where he be-
came resident director, he was picked in
1942 to chair the Anzac War Relief Fund,
which sent $200,000 per annum in cash
or supplies to the fighting forces. In the
new job he replaces C, K. Gamble, now
back in New York. Originally of Clunes
(Vic.), Rabling won an entrance scholar-
ship into Melbourne Uni., twice repre-
sented successfully in inter-uni. boatraces,
and in his final year was captain of both
the rowing and rifle teams.
William Lauchlan Sanderson, trans-
ferred from Elder Smith’s Westralian
office to succeed T. E. Field as g.m. at
head office in Adelaide, hailed originally
from Oamaru (M.L.), was educated at
Scotch College, Perth, is a foundation
member of the Australian Wool Board,
has been on the Australian Aerial Medical
Services Committee since its inception,
and was executive officer of the West-
ralian Pastoralists’ Association, 1923-36.
In the last war Sanderson took part in the
great Light Horse charge aga;nst The
Nek at Gallipoli, where he gained his
commission, and in France he com-
W. L. SANDERSON.
manded the 111th Howitzer Battery, col-
lecting the M.C. and Croix de Guerre. In
the early days of the present war he com-
manded the 16th Battalion (Cameron
Highlanders), A.M.F.
Retiring after nearly half a century in
the telegraph service, and settling in
Adelaide, F. G. Simmons started in
Geelong, and was stationed before
Federation at lonely Eucla, on the Wes-
tralian-S.A, border, where the two States
used to exchange wires. He went on to
become Superintendent of Telegraphs in
Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney.
America likes Mountford;
The position of C. P. Mountford, the Adel-
aide amateur ethnologist who used his spare
time and money in exploration of some of the
most primitive tribes of the Centre, has com-
pletely changed since he took fwo colored films
of his own making to the U.S.A. on a Depart-
ment of Information tour. He gave 40 lec-
tures, one, before an audience of 4000 at the
National Geographic Society in Washington,
eliciting the otter of a handsome grant to con-
duct an expedition with an American scientist
to record the customs, folklore, art and legends
of the little-known tribes of Arnhem Land,
where Mountford has already made several ex-
peditions on his own hook. Another, before the
Explorers’ Society brought an offer to make him a
member, though he had never previously thought
of himself as an explorer. He has lately been
making for Information an 80-minute film of
Australia, covering its cities, primary industries,
wildflowers and fauna, and a hitherto unex-
ploited feature —its unique gems. After these
professional excursions are completed he intends
to get back to investigating practically un-
touched tribes in the Nor’-West and other
remote places. Mountford is the author of
The Art of Albert Namatjira, and one of his
projects is a film in color of his abo. friend at
work and his paintings.
Prof. C. G. Waterhouse, of Sydney
Uni., is visiting S.A., where an ancestor
was long ago Premier (and pulled off the
odd double of becoming Premier of M.L.
afterwards). The prof.’s holiday task is
hunting up the many species of camellia
grown in the foothills at Adelaide’s back
door, to add to his collection at Gordon
(N.S.W.).
Lieut. (Temporary Captain) L. K.
Searle, who hr 3 the M.C. for “great
courage and leadership in dangerous un-
dertakings” in New Guinea, belongs to
one of the pioneer families of Too-
woomba (Q.) and was educated at Too-
woomba Grammar, fine nursery foy Aus-
tralian officers. Before the war he
managed a plantation in New Guinea.
Returned from a tour of art inspection
of Britain and U.S., Victorian National
Gallery Director Daryl Lindsay brought
back a group of conteirr orary paintings.
He was the first director to import into
the sacred precincts ir Swanston-street
examples of “modern” painting and to
encourage the buying of Works of the
schools of Van Gogh, Cezanne and others
who gave his predecessors the horrors ;
so the latest consignment is likely to cause
a lot of controversy. Daryl was born at
Creswick (Vic.), like his brothers, but at
first took to sheep and cattle instead of
art. He served with the A.I.F. in the
last war, got a commission and didn’t take
up art till he was 30 and footloose in
England. Shortly after he was hung on
the line at the R.A.
Into the silence:
At 75, Henry John Hayward, owner of 60
M.L. theatres. He started out as a child
violinist and got early into the talkie business.
In Rockhampton, at 92, W. H. Charlton Mc-
Lean, a pioneer of the Dawson Valley (C.Q.).
He once took a mob of 2700 bullocks from
Rotherham Park, near Cookfown (N.Q.), to
Wellington (N.S.W.), a distance of 1800 miles,
without losing a beast.
In Sydney, at 80, Alfred Knight, in his day
one of the best of Australian racing writers.
He was “Musket” of the old “Sunday Times”
and “Sydney Mail” and later with “S.M.H.”
At Victor Harbor (S.A.), Edward Guy
Stirling, architect and top-notch country golfer,
with an Australia-wide reputation as a putter.
Eldest son of the late knight Lancelot Stirling,
he served with the Grenadier Guards in 1914-18.
At 72, in Adelaide, Col. Walter Dollman,
formerly of the editorial staff of the “Adver-
tiser,” and president of the R.S.L. in S.A.,
1929-30. He commanded the old 27th Bat-
talion, and was always a friend of the Digger.
At 79, at Euroa (Vic.), Rev. Dr. William Bor-
land, minister emeritus of Scots Church, Mel-
bourne, and a former Moderator of the Presby-
terian Church of Victoria. He conducted the
service at Melba’s funeral.
At 76, Tasmania’s oldest Tasmanian-ordained
Anglican priest, the Rev. Arthur Edward Hut-
chinson. He was ordained by Bishop Mont-
gomery, “Monty’s” father.
Atnkobart, at 101, William Richard Boucher,
the fourth Hobart centenarian to die in two
months.
In a car accident at Rockhampton, at 67,
Alexander Chisholm, for long prominent in
business, philanthropic and R.S.L. activities in
Queensland. He was G. 5.0.2 of the Anzac
Mounted Division after Gallip.
In Adelaide, at 73, Frank McCabe, a fighting
Scot who had been a prominent Labor man
before coming to S.A. about 20 years back. A
son is dead in New Guinea, and the late James
McCabe, an Adelaide lawyer, was another son.
At Paradise (S.A.) W. H. Ind, whose grand-
father settled as soon as the State was founded
on the alluvial soil on the Torrens behind Adel-
aide, and built up a big orange-growing business
at a period when Australia usually left that
kind of thing to Chinamen.


f g'
n, &******** i
State Express
“THREE-THREES” CIGARETTES
X295D-BJS
A r
%
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mltchel
P. T. W. Black. Manager—E. S. Parker.
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STM ET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP i 44.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Price Control
The Premiers have agreed to ask
their Parliaments to transfer price-control
rights to the Commonwealth for three
years after the expiry of the present
Federal powers. The Commonwealth
sought a five-year extension. Mr. Chifley
said he was considering control of prices
only of goods in short supply; when
supplies were ample demand would con-
trol prices. Without price control the
banked-up war-time spending power and
the money that would be in circulation
as a result of the “full-employment”
policy would destroy the stability of the
price level and add to the costs of Gov-
eminent. Housing and public-works
costs would rise enormously, the P.M.
contended.
He added that the Commonwealth
could not continue payments of sub-
sidies if it did not retain its authority
over prices. Senator Keane said that in
round figures £2O million had been paid
out in price subsidies, including £8,5 mil-
lion on butter, £1.5 million on milk, £2.5
million on potatoes, £2.2 million on tea,
£2.5 million on jute products and £2.5
million on fertiliser. These subsidies had
assisted considerably in keeping the price
ceiling at or below the April, 1943, aver-
age.
The necessity for keeping prices down
was not confined to internal problems,
Rising prices would bring inflating
wages, which would affect our export
position. Both primary and secondary
industries depended upon stable costs for
their chance of competing in world’s
markets. Though the Senator’s conten-
tions may seem to be at odds with Gov-
eminent concessions to militant wharfies
and seamen who are still drawing their
war-risk bonus although the war is over,
there is no doubt that inflating costs could
have a disastrous effect on our export
trade, which is vitally important to all
industries, even where they do not them-
selves export.
The need for some sort,of price con-
trol for a period after the war—perhaps
not for as long as three years—seems to
be definite enough. But it should be
applied only in cases of clear neces-
sltY- Furthermore, price control should
have little to do with profits con-
trol, the whole objective of price control
being to prevent unfair prices being
charged for commodities that are essen-
tial but scarce. Professor Copland has
insisted that profits control is necessary
in a system of price control. This may
be so to a degree in a selected business
where an overall view is taken of earn-
mgs from the handling of goods that
range from unprofitable arid barely pro-
htable to highly profitable. But the rate
of allowed should always have a
relationship to turnover, not to capital,
It is mostly where a business concern
applies for a subsidy or other assistance,
or where it is selling to the Government,
that there have been suggestions of
profits control. In attempting to main-
tain the prices ceiling it would be
better temporarily to subsidise the prices
system in one particular line of goods
out of taxation rather than attempt to
pass the effect of excess costs on to other
industries or departments through a corn-
plicated system of adjustments. There
should be no uneconomic controls that
merely maintain an index number.
As a general thing profits control is
undesirable, and the sooner we are rid
of it the better. It tends to destroy the
incentive to employ, efficiency and
retards output. The spinning of worsted
yarn, an essential product in very short
supply, is said by members of the indus-
try to be held up because of unreasonable
price restrictions. In the broad scheme
of price control, even where profits con-
trol is absent, two things are still neces-
sary. One is more expedition in the
dealings of the Prices Branch with the
business community, and the second is
a right of appeal against decisions of the
Prices Commissioner,
The governing idea behind price con-
trol during its closing years should be
that it is an emergency measure designed
to smooth off the really rough edges of
the price structure during a period in
which inflation is a very obvious danger.
Certainly it should not aim to aid any
Government policy of near-socialisation,
nor should it be used as an antidote to
incorrect Government finance. Problems
of Government finance must be tackled
at their root.
Lend-lease has come to a sudden end
in the United States. There is Washing-
ton speculation as to whether the abrupt
termination is intended to embarrass
Britain’s new Labor Ministry—Britain
faces a cut in food and clothing rations
almost immediately. But Britain in any
case has very real economic problems to
meet, and they won’t be helped by the
“policy” of Professor Laski, The ending
of lend-lease raises great issues, political
and economic, for the whole world. There
is no international currency fund yet
operating, and there will be an awkward
gap before it does —if it ever does. Gold
will now become more prominent in
world affairs.
* * * *
Dr, Dalton, Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, has told the Commons that pri-
vate stockholders in the Bank of England
will be replaced by Government owner-
ship, though there will be no “constant
Government interference with the day-
to-day workings of the bank.” Lord
Catto, who last year succeeded Montagu
Norman as governor of the “Old *Lady,”
will continue in office long enough to in-
augurate the new control. It is consid-
ered unlikely that there will be any im-
mediate change in the functioning of the
bank, which has been dominated by the
Treasury for years. Lord Catto, though
elected by the stockholders, has had a
long record of Government service in
addition to private commercial activities.
* ♦ * *
The Banking Act and the Common-
wealth Bank Act came into force on
August 22. The first places the trading
banks under the general supervision of
the Treasurer and Commonwealth Bank.
The second places control of the Com-
monwealth Bank under a governor and
an advisory board, both answerable to
the Treasurer. The board of the Com-
monwealth Bank, which, under the chair-
manship of Robert Gibson, prevented
E. G. Theodore (as Treasurer) from com-
mitting the country to a policy of infla-
tion, has now ceased to function. Some
sections of the legislation, such as those
governing interest rates and foreign ex-
change, and those requiring trading banks
to refuse Government business, are being
held in abeyance for the moment. Though
the Government is exhibiting great haste,
if not much speed, in “freeing” private
enterprise, its real attitude is revealed in
what it has done to banking and what it
is trying to do to the airlines.
* * ♦ *
The Premiers’ Conference decided that
building materials, including imported
materials, would be allotted to the States
by joint decision of the Commonwealth
and States. Once allotted to a State, that
State would decide what would be done
with its quota of materials.
Control of building was referred to by
Mr. Baddeley as a “hot brick.” Mr.
Chifley retorted that when the Common-
wealth had full responsibility for housing
controls the brick was much hotter. That
is hardly true. Now that “the peace is
on” Chif. will find that his troubles are
really only beginning.
Among the many post-war building
problems will be the question of what
essential materials can be allocated for
factory purposes and what for housing.
There will be urgent demands from both
quarters. It may be that, in order to
shorten the job in the long-run, prefer-
ence will need to be given to factories
capable of rapidly increasing their output
of essential materials.
* * * *
Chifley, P.M. and Treasurer, says that
control of capital issues will continue
“indefinitely.” But he is allowing issues
of £lO,OOO in any one year to be made
without Treasury permission, and appli-
cations for permission for bigger issues
will be favorably received if the money
is wanted to finance enterprises approved
by the Government. Exemption of con-
trol of £lO,OOO issues was made by
National Security Regulation, which calls
to mind that the whole matter of capital-
issues corltrol comes within the National
Security Act. This expires six months
after the end of the war. The date of the
end of the war has yet to be defined.
* * * ♦
Several days after the “relaxation” of
various “controls,” including those relat-
ing to manpower and housing, rele-
vant departments in Sydney pleaded that
they had not yet been notified officially
from Canberra. The rush to get the “re-
laxation” into the press (including a
wrong list of affected industries) was
apparently prompted by “By-election
Saturday.”
* * * *
Appreciation of the prompt relaxation
of some Government controls alter the
end of hostilities with Japan has been
followed by scepticism as to its real
value. In the main, the end of direction
over manpower seems to mean no more
than that an adult may now be idle if he
or she wishes, but, except in certain in-
dustries, he or she is not free to take a
job without Manpower permission.
Though a person may now spend up to
£l2OO on a house without W. 0.1. sanc-
tion, this does not mean very much to-
ward the building of. worthwhile homes
with building materials and labor as
scarce and dear as they are
* * * *
The Cotton Textile Manufacturers’
Association has put a plan before the
Secondary Industries Commission for the
outlay of more than £7,000,000 on fac-
tories, etc., to meet the shortage of cotton
goods in Australia. The idea is to raise
Commonwealth output from th j pre-war
figure of 10-12 p.c. of requirements to
40 p.c. Some additional tariff protection
is being sought. Leaders in the Australian
industry are Bradford Cotton, Davies
Coop, Sydney Cotton Mills, Bond’s In-
dustries and Stirling Henry. H. B. Dickie
is interested on the towelling side.
* * * *
B.H.P. and its subsidiaries showed a
profit of £1,030,266 last year, a drop of
£162,285. In taxation £1,226,602 was
paid or reserved. Coal strikes and man-
power shortage affected steel output.
Dividend to shareholders femains at the
low figure of 5 p.c. There is £13,884,902
of B.H.P. capital to spread profits
(£759,367) over. The co. is maintaining
the strength of its vital undertaking by
writing off adequate depreciation.
¥ * * *
Though the National Security Regula-
tion requiring employers to take back
ex-servicemen formerly on their payroll
has been revoked (B. 22/8/’45), the obli-
gation is reimposed under the Re-estab-
lishment and Employment Act. This
legislation has not yet been proclaimed.
* * # *
While fluid-drive Chryslers transport
redundant Cabinet Ministers an average
of thousands of miles every month, Aus-
tralians still suffer the harshest petrol
rationing in the Allied world. And the
quality really smells.


Do you need a
TmonaUom?
Haunting bills and money worries, in-
cluding medical and dental expenses,
can be disposed of through the Per-
sonal Loans Department of the Rural
Bank. Old debts may be merged and
small loans for any approved pur-
poses are made at a discount of, at
present, only 5 per cent.
Repayments from one to three years,
to suit the convenience of the bor-
rower, e.g., 9/Bd. weekly repays £25 in
one year, including discount.
Call in for a personal discussion of your
requirements.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
tM
FCTA/BlB*s
YOU GAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
tout You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
hnd filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to bei
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
[Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
Clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
teyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
hess. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
jyour chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
[BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day*
MAASEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’a
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
t
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
Approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Com-
monwealth Reconstruction
Training Scheme.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, '42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. 1 can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— I7th May, '42; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelraan principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
Increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
• The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
jvoman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and sloverify
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
[There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name ..
Address a
151
A Vision Splendid Now?
What sort of a place is Australia going
to be to live in without a war on? To
many during the war, with the Govern-
ment changing the political and economic
face of the country, the Commonwealth
seemed an extremely good spot to get out
of when transport became available and
it was possible to transfer money abroad.
It appeared that the Government was
aiming at reducing the majority of Aus-
tralians to a state of addle-headed men-
dicancy. With the desire to work in
disrepute, with taxation on enterprise
and thrift most oppressive, and with
respect for law and order a diminishing
quantity, the stars of Australia were on
a steep decline in many eyes. One of
the greatest shocks was the trade-union
attitude to the merits and rights of fight-
ing men, at war or returning to civil jobs.
Australia, after the war, will be the
sort of place its inhabitants make of it.
It is foolish for many people to toy with
ideas of leaving the country ; not many
are in a position to do so. The correct
attitude is for all to turn to and set our
political problems right. One of the
greatest dangers within the country is the
political apathy which exists, and this is
seen even within the Labor movement,
where politics have been degraded into
almost pure vote-buying. The answer
from the other side should not be com-
petitive vote-buying, but a demonstration
that real prosperity and economic secu-
rity come from good industrial, economic
and political management. There surely
can be a “vision splendid” ahead of this
nation even yet, with rewards for spirit,
enterprise and hard work. Labor paints
no “vision splendid.” It is more con-
cerned with putting the nation on a
variety of “national welfare” doles —with
redistributing a declining national income
rather than with a natural distribution of
a vigorous and increasing national in-
come.
The Australian climate is generally an
excellent one in which to live. The con-
tinent is, on the whole, dry, but water-
conservation could probably work won-
ders. There are great N. S. Wales coal-
fields which have been waiting 30 years
to be worked sensibly and economically,
and our steelworks are among the most
efficient in the world. Power, whether
derived from water or from coal, and steel
are important factors in any nation’s
economy. Our water-power resources
may not be inexhaustible, but we have
scarcely tried to tap them so far. Wool
seems assured of a high position in the
textile trade in spite of all competition
from synthetics. There will be a world-
wide demand for food of nearly all kinds
for two or three years at least, and this
is a great food-producing country. Metals
and minerals of most kinds will also be
in keen demand. For all who want to
work, and who do not simply desire to
make their particular industry a vested
interest either for owners or wage-earners,
the future is full of opportunity.
The first post-war task in Australia is
the restoration of adequate civilian pro-
duction. That involves the return of as
many servicemen as possible to the jobs
they know or putting them into jobs to
which they can adapt themselves. It also
involves the restoration of plant, the plan-
ning of factory output along fines in sym-
pathy with public requirements, the using
of heavy industries so that they can assist
the reconstruction of factories, public
utilities and building trades, and the
speedy rehabilitation of the land indus-
tries. Tied up with this job of restoring
production is the housing of the people.
Also intimately connected with it are the
National Security Regulations under
which and financial activity
have been “controlled” for war purposes.
Removal of repressive controls is
urgently needed now that the war danger
is past. In a state of war emergency
many restrictions, however clumsy and
economically retrogressive, may be suf-
fered for military reasons. But after
several years of these restrictions, which
usually place industry under “remote con-
trol” that takes no notice of particular
problems, the tendency is towards in-
dustrial breakdown. That controls have
worked all right from a military point of
view for two or three years is no indica-
tion that they will work much longer
from that or another point of view.
Public finance in Australia needs to be
reformed in many directions. Where the
Government has inescapable obligations
to outsiders or to its own people (whether
the latter be “bondholders” or pensioners)
it should levy taxation to meet them.
Where national works need to be carried
out by Government authority the money
should be borrowed internally at the
lowest possible rate of interest; the money
should be spent carefully and the under-
taking planned and constructed with
skill. But the most successful Govern-
ment remains that which does the most
good at the lowest cost in taxation or
borrowed money.
In particular, taxation becomes an ob-
struction to national progress when the
burden of its collection becomes more
than the blessing of its expenditure. Tax-
ation has long been a deterrent to im-
migration into Australia, especially in so
far as this country collected tax without
rebate on income derived in other parts
of the world. The taxation position in
the Commonwealth will need to be exten-
sively overhauled early in the post-war
period in order to restore the incentive to
production that has been so noticeably
absent in the country for several years
past, to attract new industries from
abroad and to attract new migrants. Re-
gardless of vested trade-union interests
Australia will, within a few years of the
end of the war, be needing all the white
population, indigenous or imported, that
it can get.j
Youthful Australians want to feel that
they have a chance of getting on in the
world. They do not want merely to feel
that the harder they work the greater
number of “Government dependants,”
deserving and undeserving alike, they are
paying for. They do not want to feel
that they are paying heavily for admini-
strative waste and political bribery. The
majority will be ready and willing to con-
tribute to the welfare of the genuinely
unfortunate and the indigent aged, but
they will at the same time take the view
that there should be some better
machinery whereby people must make a
direct contribution during thfeir working
lives to a fund for pensions during unem-
ployment and old age.
Australians must get out of the habit
of believing that while the sun shines and
the surf calls everything is all right.
There must be more encouragement of
the population into country areas, though
it is unlikely that much will be achieved
just by cutting up holdings—in the wool
country the strength of the industry some-
times depends on the size of the hold-
ings. Encouragement should come in the
form of internal development on a
regional or national basis. Above all,
throughout the land there must be accept-
ance of the principle of a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay, there must be a
sinking of selfish and envious sectional-
ism that is based largely on ignorance,
there must be a. return of tolerance and
good humor as national characteristics,
and there must be a pride in the way
people live together and work together.
Today, if a man makes £5OOO out of
baking a better kind of bread he is looked
at with distrust; if he wins the same
amount at the races or in a lottery he is
a “good sport.” In such whims and pre-
judices Australians are doing themselves
untold harm.
The effects of last year’s heavy taxation
exactions and reduced war outgo and
borrowing is seen in this comparative
tabulation of the Commonwealth’s 1942-
45 expenditure and income:
Expenditure.
1942-43. 1943-44. 1944-45.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
War 562 544 460
Civil 108 142
670 686 610
Revenue and Loans.
Taxation 230 2701
Business, income, etc. 37 39/
Loans 403 3f7 267
670 686 610
The peak year of war expenditure was
1942-43.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“F.V.”: The atomic bomb couldn’t
have come as a surprise to C.S. and
I.R’s able David Rivett. Delivering the
Macrossan Memorial Lecture at Brisbane
University, Rivett made these prophetic
remarks:
Without doubt there are developments
coming, greater than any we have yet
witnessed, which will bring with them
possibilities of harm at which one can only
shudder. It is well known, for example,
that for some years the problem of making
available the energy that is stored within
the nuclei of atoms has been occupying the
attention of physicists in all the more ad-
vanced countries of the world. Whether or
not success will be achieved, and when,
only the future will tell; but if the end now
being sought is attained we shall get into
our hands available energy of a new order
of magnitude for all those purposes for
which we require and use it It is not
just idle speculation that this new source
of energy may sooner or later be avail-
able to us, with corresponding increase in
our potential achievements in its application.
Date, June 15. Thdi first atomic bomb
fell on August 6.
“C. Pipe”; It doesn’t take long. “You
want t’ keep away from that sheila,”
advised the elder brother at the welcome-
home dance. “She’s atomic.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A bunch of charities
will benefit by life assurances A. M.
Loewenthal (B. l/8/’45) took out in their
favor. Loewenthal was almost a fanatic
in his enthusiasm for assurance. In his
late ’teens his father’s death left him as
breadwinner of a large family, an experi-
ence which colored his feelings on the
matter. Loewenthal did so well in busi-
ness that he was able to retire in early
middle age, but he found inactivity irk-
some and joined the A.M.P. staff, becom-
ing its star agent.
* * * *
“Tarry Ropes”: Amongst the curious
clubs of Sydney is one whose members
call themselves “the monthers.” They
are veterans who deserted from the ships
that brought them to these shores, serv-
ing a month in gaol as penalty. This
form of immigration has been going on
since the early days. The growth of
coastal and inter - State ship traffic
created a demand for sailormen under
conditions which mariners from over-
seas regard as luxurious. Not all the
deserters continued as sailors, however.
At pre-war club gatherings there was
usually a collection to help any deserting
seafarers who might be found in prison.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Apart from a small metal
plate set in a rock at Botany Bay the
first memorial to Cook was a milepost.
In 1854 the road between Liverpool and
Campbelltown was repaired and it was
decided to place milestones along the
road, the starting stone at Liverpool
being a replica of the obelisk in Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney. Because Liverpool
stood at the navigable head of George’s
River a memorial inscription to the
memory of Captain Cook was engraved
on the upper part of this monument. It
was moved in recent years and now
stands near Liverpool railway station.
* * * *
“Jerboa”: Because strafing by Allied
’planes had become a menace to p.-0.-w.
in Nazi hands they carried white flags,
vigorous waving of which warned the
avengers to hold their fire. German
guards, their own safety in mind/ were
not slow to remind captives if flags were
forgotten. With Aussie casualness the
Digs, were liable to cast off their emblems
when these became soiled or torn.
Towards the end many Australians es-
caped and, walking through German
towns and villages, they wondered at the
cryptic smiles evoked by sight of their
flags. Sixty miles from Munich and
much nearer the advancing Yanks than
the Australians supposed, a skinny Hun
explained the joke: “It is ve, not you,
who should be carrying dem flags.”
* * * *
Tintab”: In a Stakes for Age for
church bells that in St. Mary’s Denham
Court, near Ingleburn (N.S.W.), should
be well to the fore. Captain Richard
Brookes forsook the sea for squiring at
Denham Court, and the church, now well
over the century mark, is his memorial.
The bell, which once struck watches
aboard ship, is inscribed “Earl St. Vin-
cent, 1809.” The peal of old St. Phillip’s,
in Sydney, is scattered. One bell has be-
come a museum piece at History House,
Another is claimed to be at St. Jude’s,
Randwick. Yet another old bell is in the
Methodist chapel at St. Mary’s (N.S.W.).
Till 1817 it called the godly Anglicans of
Parramatta. Then St. John’s got new
bells and Parson Marsden whisked the old
bell off to his farm at Mamre, where for
“See if you can croon him with Whisky For My Johnny,'Prendergast—
he seems upset.”
years it summoned the convict laborers
to work and to prayers. Finally, when
the Marsdens went from Mamre and the
old homestead fell into ruin, the bell was
taken to St. Mary’s for its second spell of
church service.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Said our charlady: “Mark
my words, all this talk about the
emperor is bunkum. They’re keeping the
real truth from us. He’s committed
harry-karry. He knows he’s too old-
fashioned for these days of atom bombs
and suchlike, believing he’s a sun-god and
all that stuff, and he’s committed harry-
karry. And why shouldn’t he? He’s
been advising his subjects to do the same
thing all his life, hasn’t he?”
* * * *
“Pip” on social occasions in Army life:
Because of the meagre grog issue it is almost
impossible these days to organise a party in the
Army. The weekly two bottles are usually
downed immediately after issue on the assump-
tion that an earthquake might come unex-
pectedly, or a falling star hit the area. Occa-
sionally, however, a few of the fellows get
together and save up three or four weeks’
supply for a good old-fashioned binge. It is a
memorable occasion. Huge supplies of tinned
tongue, spaghetti and asparagus are bought
from the canteen. Parcels from home are
broached, and a fire built outside the tent for
making toast and roasting yams. The rest of
the company watch proceedings with an envious
eye and regret their own improvidence. Many
of them are asked to drop in for a while, but
an unwritten law demands that having had one
glass they must excuse themselves and leave.
The formula is strictly observed of offering a
second glass, but an immediate plea of fatigue
or letters to be written is accepted graciously.
The drill never varies. Visitors disposed of,
the revellers settle in for a steady session. After
five years every soldier has a lengthy repertoire
of popular army songs and stories, passed
down probably from the Boer War, or even tne
Crimean campaign. Until “light's out songs
and stories and arguments make the air progres-
sively more merry. Then the Orderly Sergeant
appears, is inveigled in for a drink, and departs,
after making sure the light is put out. ine
rest' of the grog, if any, is consumed in sl *®P ce
and darkness, and everybody stretches out bliss-
fully for a solid sleep. Next day the camp
hears once more those almost forgotten words
“Never again.”
* * * *
“Hist”: Possibly some of the service-
men in British North Borneo associated
the place with recollections of schoolboy
stamp collections. While most colonies
were still adhering to the tradition, set
by. Britain, of depicting the sovereign’s
head on their stamps, 8.N.8. endeared
itself to the hearts of small boys by
issuing a steady stream of pictorial de-
signs—fine, large, gaily colored, beauti-
fully printed stamps depicting the island’s
fauna and flora. There were Dyak
warriors, orangutans, crocodiles, tapirs,
honey - bears, hornbills, megapods,
argus pheasants, sago-palms and “travel-
ler’s-trees.” Furthermore, to bring these
wonders within reach of slender pocket-
money the 8.N.8. post office was
obligingly ready to postmark them
to order and sell them as used stamps
at a substantial discount below their face
value. Doubtless the colony’s revenue
benefited, but I feel that the guardian
angel of small boys chalked up a good
mark to the official who had this bright
idea.
* * * *
“Bo”: With all the panicky and pessi-
mistic talk about the possibility of man
blowing his universe as well as himself
to blazes with a new bomb, I find a com-
forting note struck by the Astronomer-
Royal, That gentleman, calm and de-
tached as one must necessarily be who
day after day and year after year sees
other worlds flashing by in their correct
and ordered note, with never a one pushed
off its course by as much as a miserable
million miles, despite the din and detona-
tion that is now an integral part of life
on our planet, has calculated that our
day is becoming longer by .0037 seconds
per century. Does that bespeak an early
end to our muckheap? Decidedly not!
The statement has about it the ring
of reassurance; far from anticipating
that we will fly off our axis and bump
into the sun or something, we are to be
allowed a slightly longer time each day
to indulge in murder and mayhem. The
A.-R’s pronouncement is expected to be
received with whoops of joy by Syd-
ney Government slaughtermen, who have
been compelled to stage their last three
strikes on the same excuse. The point
will not escape their leaders that the
A.-R. mentions that only the day is
getting longer by .0037 secs, per century
—nothing about the night you will note.
Which means that they’re working that
much longer per diem (in proportion)
than is allowed for in the award. I’m
expecting ’em to come out next week.
s? * * *
“Zake”: I noted with amazement a
cabled statement that the 8.8. C. had de-
cided against the use of female an-
nouncers on the ground that they tend
to “infuse a personal note” into their
voices. I would like to hear a voice
having no “personal note”-—even the
monotonous drool of a tally-clerk has it
And isn’t it the infusion of tonal and
other characteristics which lends a voice
distinction? When big news breaks—
and a lot of it has broken in the past few
months—l switch straight at news time to
an announcer who I know will, in ring-
ing, resonant tones, extract the last ounce
of dramatic value from it—l refer, of
course, to Heath Burdock—and I’ am
never disappointed. And that is why a
woman’s voice—unless its owner were a
14-storte basso with a blue chin—will
always be inadequate to retail dramatic
news over the ether. In any case, few
women can achieve dramatic effect with-
out a rising inflection which brings the
voice perilously close to a squeak.
* * * *
“Oyster” recalls a forgotten war against
Japan:—
Tell “Macedonian” (B. 4/7/’45) that the
Euryalus men won their V.Cs. in Japan for
bravery, intelligence and daring in the capture
of a stockade. Those were the days when the
roar of the Daimyo lions was taken up by
Ronin jackals and “Down with the foreigners”
became their cry. Outrages were committed
m the Yokohama Edo districts and life was
cheap. In 1863 Britain demanded an indem-
nity of £lOO,OOO for the murder of Charles
Lenox Richardson and the wounding of his
companions by two-sworded retainers of a
Daimyo, Shimazu Saburo, father of the Prince
of Satsuma. The indemnity was paid, but that
was only for the affront to the dignity of
Britain. On a demandrfor £25,000 being made
for division among the relatives of the mur-
dered man and his wounded companions, the
Shogun and his Ministers said that as the out-
rage had been committed by Satsuma the
Britishers had better go and collect it from Sat-
suma. Thereupon Colonel Neale, Charge
d’Affaires, embarked the whole of his staff on
the flagship H.M.S. Euryalus, 35 guns, and with
the Pearl, 21 guns, Perseus, 17 guns, Argus, six
guns, Coquette, four guns, Racehorse, four guns,
and Havoc, two guns, gave orders to proceed
to Kagoshima to tame the turbulent province
of Satsuma. The fleet arrived in the Gulf of
Kagoshima on August 11, 1863, and the follow-
lowing morning anchored off the town itself.
Letters w.ere exchanged between Colonel Neale
and Minister Kawakami Tajima, but as no
satisfactory solution was reached the admiral
was instructed to go ahead. The flagship passed
Fort No. 7 at point-blank range. A lOin. shell
from the fort hit the bridge, killing the cap-
tain and commander and just missing the
admiral. Kagoshima was set alight and, with
the aid of a high wind, was destroyed in a
very short time. The action was over by 5 p.m.,
and next day the fleet departed. About a month
later Colonel Neale got a surprise when two
Satsuma officials arrived in Yokahama to an-
nounce that they were prepared to pay the
indemnity, to apologise and to make diligent
search for the murderers. The money (bor-
rowed by Satsuma from the Shogun’s Govern-
ment and never paid back) and the apology
were accepted, but nothing more was heard
about the murderers.
* * * »
“C. 8.”: The South Australian returned
soldier who went to Broadview to inspect
a block he owned and found a house
being built on it for someone else recalls
a similar case in Melbourne. A Mallee
farmer bought a suburban block and
forgot all about it. Twenty years later he
was in Melbourne and thought he might
as well go and have a look at his prop-
erty. He found a denominational school
flourishing on it. As the owner be-
longed to the same denomination there
was no difficulty in coming to an agree-
ment about compensation.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The usual orgy of
window-smashing broke out im Mel-
bourne when the news of the Japanese
surrender reached the city, every third
or fourth Swanston-street shop front being
splintered from Flinders-lane to Little
Collins-street; but there was an absence of
assaults on trams, a popular form of mob
expression in former peace celebrations.
The electric tram is a tougher proposition
than the old cable tram, which was so
light and so slow as positively to invite
playful attentions. On one occasion a
young man, a prominent athlete and lead-
ing runner, who had just popped the ques-
tion in a suburban parlor and been ac-
cepted, left his girl’s house in the highly
elated state of the fortunate lover, and
suddenly saw the young lady amble past
him in one of the old contraptions. Wav-
ing his hat madly in the air, he raced
round and round the car until it reached
the corner.
* * * *
“Deebee”: At a naval air station
“somewhere in Australia” a young officer
was giving final ordejs to half a dozen
men about to take ten days’ leave. He
warned them to the minute at what time
their leave expired and gave them advice
as to what they should do if taken sick.
A train whistled in the distance and they
shuffled impatiently. “And remember, ’
concluded the flight-lieutenant sternly
before dismissing them, “no going to
England! ”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An American soldier of
58, who seems otherwise normal, is in
an Adelaide hospital, having about 18
safety-pins, each three inches long and
open, removed from various parts of his
interior. He says he bought and swal-
lowed them while feeling depressed aftet
pleurisy.
WAR—ANCIENT AND MODERN.
“Farewell, fair fight,” the caveman said
In some dim prehistoric fray
When the primeval arrow sped
Along its swift insidious way,
Unseen, unheard, unheralded.
First sign to usher in the day
When slaughterous hands should strike
From near and far alike.
Disconsolate, he doubtless eyed
His own out-moded armoury;
Sensed how inadequate beside
This new development would be
The stout stone axe till now his pride,
The club he’d swung with savage glee.
And then, as well he might,
Muttered “Farewell, fair fight.”
“Farewell, fair fight,” one seems to hear
The knights of old take up the tale
When powder outed sword and spear
And muskets banished coats of mail,
When skill of fence was made appear
Like strength of arm of scant avail
To turn a bullet’s flight,
“Farewell,” they said, “fair fight.”
And so it went through every span
Of ways of war first deemed unfair,
All science could contrive to plan
Of blows from land and sea and air.
One wonders now what waifs for man,
What may his ending be and where
Till nought is found in war
Waged in the old style or
The new, except to abhor.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Clooter”: Nobody outside his family
knows much about Boodleberry except
that he disappears at intervals and re-
turns to a sort of salvo of welcome. His
family comprises his wife, a son and
daughter, a red setter, a snapping Pom.
and a half-bred Persian cat. When
Boodleberry appears in the street on one
of his returns the entire household turns
out to greet him, and the street is treated
to the spectacle of the setter embracing
him while the wife leaps upon him and
tries to lick his hands, what time the kids
snap angrily at other kids and the
Pomeranian and the Persian hang on to
his coat-tails. Then they go inside and
from the house emanate joyful sounds
and there is much singing and the setter
and the Persian gambol on the Boodle-
berry lawn. This goes on for from two to
three days, after which a foreboding
silence falls, the kids sneak mournfully
off to school, the hounds cringe and
whimper and the cat’ spends its time on
the roof. Presently there’ll be the sound
of a female voice in anger and Boodle-
berry goes dejectedly away and is seen
no more for a few weeks. The explana-
tion is simple enough. Boodleberry owns
a thriving business in another State. He
won’t sell it and his wife won’t go there
to live. That’s what the row’s about
when his welcome is worn out.
*•* * *
“Curtain Raiser”; One of the minor
tragedies of the peace celebrations was
provided a week before the event by Min-
ister for Information Calwell. He was
billed to broadcast over a Melbourne com-
mercial station on the measures being taken
by his Government to see that the victory
was properly celebrated when an urgent
message came over the ’phone—Mr.
Calwell was to be told that peace had
been declared. The statesman imme-
diately included the news in his discourse.
It came from his own Department of
Information.
* * =s *
“Listening Insect”: Something ought to
be done to prevent our leading broad-
casting concern from demeaning Aus-
tralia’s greatest singer. I listened-in the
other evening to a Melba broadcast. The
announcer prefaced it by speaking feel-
ingly of the diva’s birdlike notes and then
put on a record. There was an awful
squawking from the ancient disc. The
next record was a modern one by an aver-
age Melbourne singer and, compared to
Melba, she sang like an angel. The
modern generation has forgotten Melba
or only knows her as a name, and to
reiterate broadcasting records which bur-
lesque her voice is idiotic.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: So old Charlie Coborn is
still alive; his 93rd birthday was
thought worth a cable. The man who
achieved fame as writer and producer—
“ The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte
Carlo” and “Two Lovely Black Eyes”
were among his hits —has had his story
done into a film, “I’ll Be Your Sweet-
heart,” title of another of his successes.
Coborn made a flying tour of Australia
at the beginning of the century. He has
been entertaining soldiers in England dur-
ing the war. He’s got seven daughters to
cheer his old age, and he reads the lessons
weekly in a Maida Vais church.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Melbourne’s
alwqys-flourishing rat population seems
to be more numerous and active than
ever. Its latest demonstration of numbers
and voracity was on the body of a man
who died suddenly in “Little Lon.” In
five hours or so between death and dis-
covery the body was torn and disfigured
by rat-bites to an extent which shocked
even the horror-hardened attendants at
the city morgue. Other recorded feats
of Melbourne rats include cases of dis-
figuring, and even fatal injury, to babies,
fires from gnawed electrical leads and
gaspipes, flooding of buildings from
gnawed water-pipes, destruction of
banknotes, fatal accidents from gnawed
“Silly of them to stop the war before I've finished this sock!”
ropes of goods and produce hoists and
irreparable damage to bales of silk and
other costly textiles. Parliament House
was rat-infested for years, and one of
King O’Malley’s most flaming oratorical
displays resulted from a rat having eaten
holes in his best sombrero as it reposed
in his locker.
* * * i=
“Becar” on a notable historical exhi-
bition :
If was staged by the S.A. branch of the
Royal Geographical Society in celebration of
the branch’s sixtieth birthday. Probably few
people outside Adelaide have heard of the
branch’s library, founded by the purchase of
the York Gate Library in London, to which
have been added the Gill and Benham collec-
tions and many gifts. Displayed on tables and
in glass cases are volumes printed as early as
1523, including the writings of Strabo, six-
teenth-century editions of Herodotus and Claudii
Ptolemaei and medieval geography as shown in
the writings of Alfred the Great in the Saxon
script, describing Europe as he knew it. There
are very old books of the voyages of Columbus,
Vasco de Gama, Marco Polo and Phillipi
Gluverii, and Mercator’s Atlas. “Facsimiles of
Three Mappemodes” dated 1536, 1546 and 1550
are shown, with the first depiction of the “Great
South Land” we know as Australia. The stories
of the voyages of Mendana 1592, DeQuiros
1606 and Tasman 1642 include a journal in the
last-named’s own handwriting. Dampier leads
the Australian section, followed by all the names
which figure in the foundations of Australian
history. Among the precious documents is the
original Diary of Sir Joseph Banks and his
Newfoundland trip. The rarities include the
collection of Deßry, unique in that there are
two complete sets in English, one in German
and one in Latin; Lewin’s Birds and Insects of
New Holland, of which there may be five others
in existence ; wonderful sets of water-colors
by George French Angas, depicting Rio de
“And you can have your pick of either of us for a wife if you win!"
Janeiro, South Africa and Australasia, t(nd a set
of Gould’s bird books. Then there are collec-
tions of pamphlets of Australian origin, in-
cluding the autographs of the First Commis-
sioners of South Australia, of June 4, 1832;
relics and materials such as sample* of cloth
collected by Captain Cook on his voyages;
bronze pieces from the Ab'rolhos, and personal
belongings of nearly all the Australian explorers.
Miss L. K. Symon did a wonderful work in
arranging the exhibition.
# tii * #
“Melbn”: A returned Victorian p.-0.-w.
was asked how he had been treated by
the Germans. “Oh, terrible, terrible,” he
said. There were murmurs of indigna-
tion. “But nothing like as badly as
they’re treating me here,” he added.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” looks back to another
V-Day;
The morning of Armistice Day 1918 found
me in London with 3s. 9d. in my pocket' and a
hope in my heart that Peace might be delayed
until I had more adequate means for greeting
her arrival. I joined other Diggers who streaked
out of Horseferry Road and into Scrutton’s
Ground, where the pub at the corner knocked
back our money and turned on whisky (double)
for the party—the first time I had known an
English publican to shout. My share in the
day’s orgy was a vague memory next day of
being mobbed by gangs of excited feminines
who kissed us and hung our uniforms with
victory badges and ribbons ; of being whirled or
shouldered into pubs and finding liquor in my
hand and, amongst other things, of some adven-
turing with a Tommy colonel. With no idea
at all about how I had got home, I awoke
next morning to find myself lying fully-clothed
on my bed, my uniform covered with red, white
and blue ribbons and victory badges. And,
believe it or not, my 3s. 9d. was intact.
JK * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The Bush Brotherhood,
in which many a prelate-to-be served a
hard apprenticeship, can hardiy recog-
nise itself in its new motor churches.
These are of the dimensions of a motor-
coach, with a differently designed interior.
The doors at the end can be opened wide
so that a congregation under a tent
attachment (which goes with the outfit)
ean be included. There are a harmonium
and a radio set, and the vehicle provides
living quarters for the parson. The old-
time Bush Brother’s pulpit was his saddle,
and there are still parishes which can
only be served by a padre on horse or
afoot. Doubtless there will be mobile
chapels on caterpillar treads to carry the
Gospel to such places in the near future.
* * * Jj!
“X.P.8.1.,” with a reminiscence:
Whenever the unit -landed the holiday of a
week’s guard at A.I.F. H.Q. in Gaza a couple
of us would sneak away in the evenings to one
of the little Arab cafes (strictly out of bounds)
and absorb local color. It didn’t matter to us
that Jews in Tel Aviv had mass-produced the
gaily-hued deal tables where old greybeards, in
dingy shapeless clothes, gurgled contentedly at
their hubble-bubbles, and young Arabs argued
over their own special kind of chess, and fat
businessmen, in baggy suits and red fezes, pored
over Arab newspapers. We hardly noticed the
soda fountain, consisting of two huge bottles
of orange and lemon drink, the leaky taps
emitting a steady drip that attracted millions
of excited Hies. We ignored the patriotic
British designs on the cracked, chipped coffee
cups—half-effaced portraits of Queen Vic-
toria, almost obliterated scenes of English lawns
and stately mansions, and worn willow pattern.
We drank the black, syrupy coffee, served with
a glass of water, as we saw the Arab's do it,
washing down each sip of the sluggish stuff with
a mouthful of water, and felt for a while like
T. E. Lawrence. Coffee was all we ever had,
although once we bravely ordered ice-cream;
no one was game to touch the greyish mass,
like ambergris, that turned up decorated with a
pink biscuit. We kept off the flamboyant
pastries, and the piles of dazzling sweets, solidly
cemented together with the heat'. Despite having
to watch for the provosts, the nightly cup of
coffee enabled us to feel that we had paid our
respects to the fascination of the immemorial
East.
* * * *
“Colbun”: What may be a forecast in
miniature of post-war immigration pros-
pects from Britain is provided by 37
children from Britain brought to Queens-
land in the dark days of 1940. Two
joined the Air Force, one the R.A.N. and
one girl is in the Land Army. Twenty-
five will be returning to Britain when
passages are available. Eight will remain
in Australia permanently, all of whom
will be joined by their British parents as
soon as communications permit. In
nearly every one of these cases the Aus-
tralian foster-parents have offered oppor-
tunities for the reunited families to settle
here with an assured living from the start.
After all, a reasonably-assured living is an
essential feature of any immigration
scheme if it is to succeed. It should be
worth the while of many a large holder
of pastoral land to pick out the bits most
suitable for farming or dairying and start
immigration schemes of their own. Hous-
ing is a difficulty, but plenty of army
tents should be available to make a start
with.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A recent exhibition by a Mel-
bourne “modernist” evoked ecstatic com-
ments from critics of the same persuasion,
phrases like “new forms” and “contem-
pojary idiom” being thrown about in
great style. All I could personally see
in the pictures was pleasing blobs of color,
but any blob of color on canvas looks
pleasing. The constant striving aftei
“new forms” instead of more understand-
ing has produced a crop of pseudo-Joyces
and T. S. Eliots in every country, includ-
ing this one, a lot of flat-iron buildings such
as the Communists built in Russia, and
a mass of paintings by artists who can’t
even copy their own pictures ; but how
much genuinely original art, architecture
and poetry has resulted? Modern art
and literature generally present a surpris-
ing variety of forms, but an equally re-
markable monotony of ideas and feel-
ings. If Nature behaved like most
modern artists and poets she would per-
petually be trying to improve men by
giving them two left legs or putting ears
in place of noses. Instead, she goes on
persistently repeating the same old human
form that Adam and Eve had ; but the
variety she gets is amazing.
* * * ♦
“Melbn”: “J.K.” (B. 15/8/’45) hasn’t
mentioned a single A. L. Gordon memo-
rial in Melbourne in the sense I obviously
meant it. The statue in Spring-street
isn’t a souvenir of the poet; it is a
souvenir of the academic training of the
sculptor that made it. It is a bit far-
fetched to bring in the wattles that have
sprung from the seed of the tree that
once grew on Gordon’s grave. The only
benefits that accrue from preserving
relics of distinguished individuals are
that they may conjure up memories that
may be an inspiration or that they have
aesthetic value. The cottage in the Fitz-
roy Gardens, which Cook possibly never
lived in, and, to a lesser degree, the
Gordon cottage at Brighton have the
latter advantage and the hitching-post
outside Gordon’s favorite pub may have
the former, though possibly not'to the
anti-liquor people or to university pro-
fessors who like poets to be genteel.
BUREAUCRACY.
“The system of ruling by means of Government
officials.” —Dictionary definition.
“The tumult and the shouting dies,”
From war’s grim tasks perforce we cease
To shepherd beaten enemies
Into the pleasant paths of peace.
And surely, too, the time has come
To set a patient nation free
From shackles of officialdom
And trammels of bureaucracy.
Bureaucracy—a word of ruth,
A mouldy, misty theorem
To give some few the right, forsooth,
To run the people’s lives for them;
To let some jacks-in-office rule
Curricula for you and me.
As dominies for kids at school—
That best describes bureaucracy.
Times there must be, one can’t deny.
When, howsoe’er the process vex,
The good old sains populi
May well be held supreme lex;
But stubbornly our rulers cling,
Though danger’s past, to any plea
Or pretext for continuing
The pin-pricks of bureaucracy.
The Hun lies smitten hip and thigh;
The Jap has met his long due fate;
The clouds of war-time years roll by;
A brighter dawn is ours to wait.
But still I’m hearing querulous
Voices demanding when we’ll be
Shut of this blasted incubus,
The burden of bureaucracy.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Wednesday in Caragabal,
a one-pub hamlet on the Forbes-Coota-
mundra line (N.S.W.), and the only sign
of life the horse and sulky hung up to
a post opposite the pub, with the inevit-
able dog drowsing beneath the vehicle.
Far in the south a long hoot announced
the approach of the mixed, and after a
drowsy interval it pulled into the siding.
Nobody appeared in the street, neither
horse nor dog displayed any interest. On
the siding the guard descended, man-
handled a bundle or two, waved a hand
at the loco, driver and the train pulled
out. At its farewell hoot the dog stirred,
yawned, scratched desultorily, elevated
itself and drifted to the horse’s head.
Horse and dog spent half a minute or so
in silent communion ; then the dog ambled
across to the pub, put its head in the bar
door, barked twice, withdrew, carefully
inspected a verandah post and went lazily
across to the sulky. There it flopped in
the shade, head on forepaws, and watched
the man who emerged from the pub as
he walked to the siding, retrieved a parcel,
returned, threw the parcel into the
sulky, spoke briefly to the dog, and
returned to the pub. Dog and horse
appeared to fall asleep again. Time also
fell asleep. Presently the dog awoke,
ambled into the sun and peered blearily
up and down the road, then went to the
horse’s head. There was more silent com-
munion, then the dog ran across to the
pub, gave three urgent barks and headed
up the road. From the pub came the
man, to unhitch the horse, climb into the
sulky and drive up the road in the wake
of the dog. What was left of Caragabal
slept on.
* * * *
“Betcha”: More evidence for the
wedge-tail admirers. Sandy and Bill,
working on the road out Reedy Creek
way, came on a pair of the big eagles
attacking a two-year-old steer that was
grazing on the roadside. The men stopped
to watch the unusual contest. Persistently
the birds swooped, harassing the beast,
then would land on his back. Frequently
one occupied a rump position while its
mate made a head attack which was
parried by the tossing horns. Getting
madder every minute, he presently gal-
loped over the hill in a rush to
escape. Some little time later the road-
men again caught up with him, sheltering
as best he could beneath a stunted grey-
box and blowing badly. They chased off
the eagles still hovering in the vicinity.
The steer was unhurt, but had he been
in a weak, drought-stricken condition and
collapsed under the attack—well, I
wonder!
*****
“B. A. Ker”: The psychologist who
attempts to psycho-analyse the horse is
inviting a headache (B. 15/8/’45). I
know of no animal so individually per-
verse v Once came upon a youth trying
vainly to induce a sulky pony to cross a
bridge. My assumption that the bay was
afraid to step on the loosely-spiked
planks was proved incorrect. A pool of
blood, mute evidence that a dog had
been run over by a car, was the cause of
the animal’s fear. Repeatedly the pony
shied away from the spot, although we
tried every artifice from backing to cover-
ing the grisly mess with dust and blind-
folding the trembling creature. Coaxing
and mild punishment were equally ineffec-
tive. Just as the youth was reconciling
himself to a long, long drive back to
another bridge his eye fell on the weir
that spanned the river. The pony that
had recoiled in terror from a pool of
blood calmly walked across a weir just
wide enough to take the sulky wheels,
though moss on the masonry made the
foothold perilously slippery and water 12
inches deep swirled past his legs to plunge
into the churning pool five or six feet
below.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Mat, slightly elevated,
was standing by the carriage door as the
train ran through the railway yards at
Horsham (Vic.). For some reason the
driver kept up a fairly high speed, and
just when it looked as though he intended
to go on through the station he slammed
on the brakes and brought the train to
a sudden stop, which dislodged Mat and
landed him on the platform. A hand
grabbed him and a voice demanded
“Here, here! What are you trying to
do?” It was the stationmaster. Mat
drew himself up. “What place is this?”
“Horsham.” “Well,” thundered Mat,
“didja see what the bloomin’ driver did?
Nearly ran fight through the place! ” The
s.m. looked coldly upon him. “Well,
if you’d kept your seat you’d have come
to no harm,” he declared. “Never mind
about that,” came back Mat. “Can’t y’
see if he’d run right through he’d ha’
knocked a bloomin’ great hole right
through the place?” And, bending an in-
dignant look on the astonished s.m., he
headed back to his seat.
* * * * *
“Kelpinya”; Those possums that will
burn to death in the hollow log rather
than come out (B. 15/8/’45) must be a
different breed from sohie I encountered
south of Balranald (N.S.W.). Part of my
emu-bobbing contract was the firing of
hollow, dead trees. The possums came
out of the hollows and jumped to the
ground. Caught two by holding a chaff-
bag open as they jumped.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Best advertis-
ing gag I saw was adopted by a variety
show playing in a Victorian country
town. The publicity agent had carefully
placed lengthways on the council lawn
in the main street an ordinary oil-drum
painted white. The uppermost side of
the drum, however, was neatly removed,
and over this hole was secured a strip of
netting. On each of the container’s white
sides was painted in black lettering “Dan-
gerous Live Snakes. Not to be Touched.”
A notice near by also directed: “Keep
Away.” Hardly a local walked past with-
out sidling over to gape into the bottom
of the empty drum and read “Blank
Brothers’ Follies. Best Show on Earth.
Showing in the Mechanics’ Hall To-
night.”
“Gryllus”: The crested bell-birds are
courting now, and their soft, melodious
tinklings drift up to this cliff-edge with a
curious ventriloquial vagueness of uirec '
tion. A good pair of glasses revealed
their secret haunt amongst the suc.veis
growing from a stump. Next month I
will sneak down there to watch again
their extraordinary use of big, hairy cater-
pillars for protection of the nursery.
Directly the cup-shaped bark nest is
finished they will begin bringing the hor-
rible-looking things to arrange around
and in it, and will renew the supply regu-
larly until the family of three or four are
able to look after themselves. They
never eat the repulsive creatures, but
apparently disable them in some way to
prevent them from crawling away.
Stranger still, if the youngsters are dis-
turbed when the parents are absent they
will stretched out their necks, close their
eyes and sway their naked, feather-
spotted heads in an exact imitation of
the waving march of a string of proces-
sionary caterpillars. Than which, as every
furred and feathered epicure knows, there
is nothing less appetising or attractive.
* * * *
“Neil”: The claim that the aborigines
did not migrate in the cold weather (B.
25/7/’45) is not correct as to the Monaro
(N.S.W.) natives at least. These cold-
country abos. departed from the high-
lands to warmer coastal climes during
the winter. The coastal tribes evidently
tolerated this migration but apparently
confined the migrants to poor hunting
grounds, as they invariably returned in
an emaciated condition in spring, in
time to feast on the mature but still
dormant Boogong moths, which they
found in rock crevices. On this No. 1
delicacy they quickly regained condition.
When the feasting was finished and more
robust hunting was resumed the gins
would carry singed moths with them
much as their white sisters carry choco-
lates. ■
* * * #
“Lub”: Jud took me out for a look at
the new shed he’d put up, a fairly big
structure, and it looked all right except
for a couple of solid props on each side.
“Better take the props away now you've
got it together,” I said. Jud treated me
to a condescending smile. “Left ’em
there a-purpose,” he said proudly. “Ever
notice when a shed’s been up 20 or 30
years it gets a bit of a lean on an’ y’ve
got t’ prop it? Well, I figgered I’d save
meself all that bother by stickin’ the
props up with the buildin’.”
* * * *
“Wonk”: Jerry slid off the saleyard
fence as Matthews came up, “How many
ewes in that pen o’ yours I bought, Mat?”
he inquired. “Five-twenty-five,” was the
reply. “Want to count ’em out now?
I’ll give y’ a hand.” Jerry swung the
gate, sent a dog in and began counting.
“Five-twenty-four,” he announced a bit
later. “Five-twenty-five,” came from the
other side of the gateway. “Ain’t no use
arguin’,” decided Jerry, “We’ll run ’em
back.” Ten minutes passed ; then “Five-
twenty-four,” he declared stoutly. “Five-
twenty-five,” was Matthew’s unshake-
able conviction. Jerry’s eyes narrowed.
“Hanged if I’m gonna pay extra just ’cos
y’ can’t count,” he snapped. ‘Tetch ’em,
Blue.” At the end of the third count
both men glared resentfully. The fourth
found them openly hostile, and the fifth
brought a grim determination for justice.
Over an hour later Matthews reeled back
from the last jumbuck. “N-nine-eighty-
t-two, or somethin’,” he mumbled
stupidly. “Hey, Jerry, s-s’pose we split
the difference?” He turned to where
Jerry was still nodding weakly at the
empty gateway and counting mechani-
cally. “Eh?” He raised glassy eyes.
“D-do me. C-come an’ have a drink.”
Staggering slightly, they had reached the
pub verandah when the stock agent hailed
them. “Hey, you two,” he called. “The
drovers taking your ewes aren’t satisfied
with the count. They want you to run
’em through again.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: The lad they sent to teach
school at Messmate Valley rode up the
track on a borrowed horse. Bluey, the
cattle-hound, watched his progress inter-
estedly and, as he drew up, slid in behind
the horse and took a quick nip at a heel.
The horse jumped to the side, and the
schoolie sailed off and landed with a
squashy noise in the drain. We picked
him up, scraped mud from his natty rid-
ing outfit, settled him back in the saddle
and pointed him for home. Bluey wore
a wide grin for the rest of the afternoon.
* * * *
“Flight”: Ornithologists ' generally
designate the jabiru a soundless and soli-
tary bird. Yet, following a wet season
on the Georgina (Q.) I have often seen
up to four of the birds. Flushed at a
water hole they have emitted a hoarse
grunt as they took to the air.
* * * *
“Blime”; For over a year Robbie had
been waiting for someone to give him a
hand with the road fence, so he was
thankful when “Hefty” Mullins worked
round to the job. Span by span the old
structure came down, and the new one
rose so fast that Robbie came to regard
the fencer as something from a past age.
Then it dawned on him the big bloke
wasn’t pulling his weight at meal times.
He wasn’t cutting his whack of the bread.
Seated opposite, he waited for Robbie to
hack off a slice, then helped himself to
the second half. Robbie dawdled experi-
mentally. “Hefty,” it appeared, was in
no hurry either. Robbie got up for tea
and inspected the weather. “Hefty” de-
veloped a thirst that kept him sipping
contentedly. Next night Robbie grabbed
a book, and, seemingly absorbed, seethed
in silence while the fencer read the jam-
tin label and nibbled crumbs. Between
meals Robbie planned new schemes, and
grew madder each time they misfired. He
even tried going without bread, but
“Hefty” was, apparently, not hungry at
-such times. Then a week later old Charlie
I ran into the modern Hercules making for
town. “What,” he gasped, “not walkin’
out on a busy man with his fence all
'down, are y’?” “Hefty” stopped. “Ain’t
my fault,” he answered. “The beggar’s
mad. Ran amuck las’ night at tea, slung
sme a week’s extra pay, an’ told me t’
get to hell out of it afore he started on
,me with the bread knife! ” 4
* * * *
“Kasl”: “Nakhoda” (B. 18/7/’45) still
clings to an old fallacy. The Pitcher
plant is not carnivorous from choice.
During the wet season the Pitcher be-
comes filled with water, the “lid” shuts
down and the plant uses this supply for
its own requirements during the dry
period. Any insects or small creatures
found in the pitcher are purely incidental,
trapped whilst exploring the “innards”
of the plant.
# * * *
“Fang”: Snakes are choosy feeder^
in so far as they catch their meals fresh
and surround them on the spot —“sur-
round” is used advisedly, for generally it’s
a case of snake fit meal, not the
reverse. Joe doesn’t fancy leaving the
table once he’s ready to dine. Struck a
black snake with a large frog, and it
wouldn’t budge. When hit with a stick
it backed into a tussock with a firm grip
on the frog, and didn’t relax the grip
while being finished off. Another, a
brown with a young blue-tongue lizard,
stuck up and fought it out over the in-
tended dinner. Stumpy was paralysed
but still alive, whether from the effects
of a bite or the battering he’d received I
couldn’t say, but he passed out a couple
of hours later.
“Munja”: “Horseless Horseman’s”
fluid-emitting snake (B. 8/8/’45) would
be considered quite a cissy by its cousin,
the three-foot cobra of Borneo. This
reptile when disturbed can spit out a
spray of venom for a distance of six feet
with uncanny accuracy. Harmless on the
bare skin, effect of the venom on the eyes
is disastrous. Speedy hospitalisation is
necessary or blindness is certain. The
Dyak tribes call this reptile the ular
sendok (spoon snake). It is the most
feared of all the hundred known species
of snakes infesting Borneo. The king
cobra ( Hamadryad) is *much more
deadly. Its bite may cause death within
four to five minutes. When mating, this
reptile will not only attack human beings
on sight, but will also chase them for a
considerable distance. The Dyaks never
stay to argue the right of way with the
king cobra ; leaving hurriedly for parts
unknown, the tribesman will shed a gar-
ment as he goes, knowing the reptile will
stop to attack it viciously.
FORGOTTEN POETS.
In countless weed-grown corners of the earth,
Their fleshless faces turned towards the sky,
A race apart, of small estate or worth.
The forgotten poets of the ages lie.
Doubtless reflecting on their own lives’ dearth.
These were the singers who, in their own time,
Fell just so short of greatness, or were lost
In a massed flowering, a golden prime.
Less erudite, less froward? or just tossed
Too scant a leisure for recourse to rhyme?
Theirs was the thinner note, the briefer lay
(Sweeter, perhaps, for its humility);
Just something in the changing light, one day
It lingered longer, or a tint they’d see
Deepening on a withered autumn spray.
O tragic change we know as Death, you wrought
Unspeakable decay upon these men,
Cramping the fingers that through mazed hours
brought
Home to the last rich line the racing pen;
Crumbling the ode and yillanelle to naught.
And yet not one of them but some vast chord
Would strike within us if, from their deep
nooks,
They could reach out to us with sudden word
And tender to us their forgotten books,
Close-packed with stanzas we have never heard.
For there was never bard beneath the sun
But in one beatific hour was fired
By some keen, lightning thought that would
outrun
The other children of his brain, inspired,
Illumining all else that he had done.
Their minds were often cast in curious mould;
Some of them loved the world too much,
some wine;
They quarrelled frequently, or seemed too cold,
Walking apart today, yet half-divine
Tomorrow with the joy of tales new-told.
Places were dear to them: curve of a stream,
Voice of a waterfall... A mountain pass
Sought to hang signs of welcome from each
seam.
As glad home-comers they would reach the
grass,
And sink upon it in nostalgic drdam.
Against their leaning headstones do not rest
Red roses of regret, or sprigs of rue,
But through the world of bookshelves make <
your quest
In search of those lost rhymes they matched
for you.
Seek them among the well-remembered Blest.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


“ Don't forget —l got a good memory, too!"
“The 0.D.”; Was cutting across the
sandhills north of the road when I found
poor old Benton, holes in his left arm
running blood and another in his right
foot. He was out to it, so I swamped the
wounds from the water-bag, tied ’em up,
dragged him into the shade and bathed
his face till he came to. Picked up his
.22 rifle and wondered what all the gad-
gets on the rear-sight were for. Then
noticed his pocket-book in the sand and
opened it. The pages were pasted up
with Bulletin cuttings, all headed “Pro-
palong,” “Narrin,” “8.4,” “M.U.R.” and
so on, and all blowing about sighting,
lateral error, squeezing the trigger, snap-
shooting, aperture and notch sights.
Benton was barely conscious, so I made
him comfortable, then pussyfooted away
and ran to the town, where I ’phoned
the ambulance and told it where to find
him. Next I rolled the swag and went
down to the station to await the first train
out, for the last cutting in that book
was headed “The 0.D.”
$
“Bo”: Legseleven, the station abo.,
had a boneshaker that was the wonder
of Barrel Flat —the wonder being why
it didn’t fall to pieces every time he got
on it. .His pride in his possession was, if
anything, enhanced by the queer assort-
ment of makeshift parts strung all over
it when inability to get spares forced
him to improvise. Long since had gone
every nut, the substitute being fencing
wire. A piece of bent wood had been
driven into the broken Major Taylor
handle-bars, and that it faced the wrong
way didn’t seem to trouble the abo. When
the irreplaceable inner tubes could be
patched no more rabbit skins had been
stuffed into the tyres, which were bound to
to the rims with hoop-iron. Legseleven was
sitting in the shade of a gum one Sunday
morning whittling away at a piece of pine
with a knife when Joe, the shearers’ cook,
happened to pass. Curious, the bab asked
him what he was making. “A seat for
the bike,” replied Legseleven. “Git too
many blasted splinters off the ol’ hard-
wood one I had. By cripe, this one’ll be
Comfortable—l’ll be able to sink into it!”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Fire, properly applied, may
be more human than traps for “pests such
as the rabbit” (B. 15/ 8/ ’45), but it’s a
dreadful thing just the same. Much better
to hunt the bunnies into their holes and
then dose ’em with cyanide gas through
a fumigator. It can be done with hollow
trees or logs if the holes and cracks are
properly plugged beforehand.
* * * *
“Walker”; Bidgee was so short it was
never necessary for him to open more
than the bottom half of, the stable door
when he went in to fork out a new layer
of bedding or replace the salt lick in the
loose boxes. But to get there from the
yard gate was a matter of circumnavi-
gating a big black and a flighty chestnut,
both mighty handy with their incisors or
hind hooves, whichever happened to be
nearer to the hapless abo. Luckily for
him, there was an aged pear-tree at
the bottom of the yard which the black
had ringbarked from ground level to a
full neck above his 14 hands. In season
the pears would drop, and on hearing the
thud both horses would wheel and gallop
for the fallen prize, making access to the
stable a comparatively safe affair. Bidgee
would often stand for an hour outside
the gate, rake in hand, waiting for one
of those pears to drop.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Camped at Haunted Creek,
we put in Sunday morning loafing in the
sun and yarning. Young Purdie hadn’t
been about the bush much before, and
it was a bit of a job to wean his thoughts
from flappers, milk-bars and the dances
he’d be missing. Still, I thought I had
him when a lyrebird started up in the
gully and, after a few bars of its own,
gave us some superb mimicry. Purdie
listened a while in silence, yawning;
then he sprang up with a start,
raced into the hut and began to twiddle
the knobs of the little wireless set. “Just
remembered,” he said. “There’s a Frankie
Sinatra session on about this time. He’s
luvly,” he added dreamily.
* * * *
“Zake”: Ben Gorrick got wearily off
his horse. He’d been in the saddle prac-
tically all day, a thing he would have
accounted nothing at all 30 years before.
He was about to unsaddle when he saw
his neighbor, Grassick, coming towards
him. “Saw y’ come in,” said Grassick.
“Miss Stringer, the postmistress, ’phoned
to say there’s a urgent telegram waitin’
for y’ at the post office.” “Did she say
what was in it ?” asked Ben. “No, y'
know what she’s like —a proper crank,”
replied Grassick. “She ain’t playin’ speaks
with me any more than she is with you.
Looks as if y’ll have to go an’ get it.
Hope it ain’t anything gone wrong with
yer missus or the youngsters —they’re
away for a coupla days, aren’t they?”
Ben nodded, swung back on his hack,
supposed he’d have to go an’ see and
went off. It was dark when he got back,
and ten minutes after he’d lighted up
Grassick was over. “Crook news?” he
asked. Ben tossed him over the telegram.
After his neighbor had read the thrilling
tidings from Millie Gorrick that her sister-
in-law had won the prize of a d’oyley for
the best sponge dike at Swingle bar's
church bazaar, he looked at Ben.
“Gripes!” he said. “To think that in the
old days y’d have had to wait several days
for a letter tellin’ y’ of that! ”
• * * •
“Munja”; I saw the abos. of Walcott
Inlet (Kimberleys, W.A.) get good results
by throwing heavy kylies into schools of
yellow-eye mullet (B. 8/8/’45). This tribe
used the kylie to secure a feed of man-
grove crabs on the Artesian Range side
of the inlet. Working as a team of five,
two abos. would hunt for feeding crabs
along the top bank. Hawk-eyed, missing
nothing, Binghi could bowl over the feed-
ing monsters with ease at 50 paces. A
second pair would search for crab-holes
at water-level, armed with light spears.
Number five watched the Inlet to pre-
vent attack by the 20ft. crocodiles that
infest these waters. A spear gently in-
serted into a likely hole would be attacked
viciously if a crab was in residence. A
quick thrust and Binghi had the crusta-
cean messily impaled. Superior to the
“blue manna” crab of the south in
flavor, the mangrove crab runs to size.
I swapped an ounce of tobacco for ten
of them, and they filled a kerosene-tin.
Several were as big as a dinner plate.
“C.V.S.”: Fishing with grenades on
the outer reef of the Madang-Alexishafen
Harbor, we were accompanied by our
faithful “boong.” Great was his mirth
when we scrambled hastily into the laka-
toi as sharks appeared. He went down
15ft. for blown fish while sharks com-
peted for the catch. His explanation was
that the sharks wouldn’t touch him while
there were still dead fish about. Once
one of our lads took the risk. We were
watching him swim in crystal-clear
water. He was holding a large fish in
both hands and looking up, so he
did not see the shark that made straight
for him and nosed round his legs before
gliding off. If that soldier had looked
down he would be out of the army now
with a weak heart.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: George turned up at
Perks’s clearing sale and cast a disin-
terested eye on proceedings till a heap of
junk from the old mines was put up, and
he got the lot for 10s, Among this he
souvenired a battered sheet of copper, an
old battery plate used with a coating of
quicksilver for the amalgamation of fine
gold. The next I saw of the relic it had
been reduced to blue crystals by sulphuric
acid in a wooden tub, and George was
dissolving the bluestone in water. As the
sludge settled he siphoned off the liquid
carefully and added fresh water ; the pro-
cess was repeated until f all traces of blue
sulphate had left the sediment. It was
then dried and smelted, and George ran
a slug of over an ounce into the mould.
The gold had become impressed on the
copper during amalgamation ; the plate
had not done overmuch work, which was
probably the reason why it had been
neglected.
“Third floor. Millinery and ironmongery to the left; underwear and
equine accessories to the right."
“Notaden”: It is a fortunate thing for
us that the primitive breathing apparatus
of insects keeps their size down to pre-
sent dimensions. Had they developed
lungs instead of stopping at mere spiracles
no other kind of creatures would have
had a chance against them in the evolu-
tionary struggle. Ouly today the despair-
ing squawks of a frog, obviously in
serious trouble, provided another example
in proof, as I mused —the disrespectful
female child of the house would have
said “loafed” —on the creek bank. At
the shallow edge a huge brown insect,
fully three, inches long, was grasping a
frog in its powerful forelegs and driving
a sharp proboscis into the soft flesh where
a hindleg joined the victim’s body. Its
own oar-shaped, hairy hindlegs moved
like propellers to keep the prey aground
and provide purchase for the thrusting
beak. The frog’s struggles weakened and
ceased ; the Giant Fish Killer, largest of
all the worli’s water-bugs, rested on the
body sucking the juices from it. Water-
dweller though it mostly is, the killer is
a powerful flier as well, and can travel
long distances by air, usually at night.
Had Lethocerus indicus managed to grow
to six feet instead of three inches as an
average length, a suit of armor and an
Owen gun would be the only safe wear
for loafing—l mean, musing—on that
creek bank.
» * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: Mrs. Blank clas-
sified our new neighbor as henpecked
because his wife didn’t know corncobs
would burn. Said cynical Mrs. B. “If he’d
been game enough to go out to work
just once without chopping the wood it
wouldn’t have taken her 30 years of mar-
ried life on Darling Downs farms to
know that she could eke out her wood
supply with corncobs.”
* % * #
“B. A. Ker”; To Teddy girls were crea-
tures to be reverenced from afar. Some
months after he’d started to work for
Brannigan the boss invited a niece up
to spend a holiday. At her first dance
the city girl made a killing with the local
bloods, but, to their chagrin, the only boy
that interested her was the shy youth, who
would not venture away from the door-
way. The way she worked him away
from the others wouldn’t have dis-
credited a kelpie. From then on
they were often together, Brannigan
noticed the blossoming romance and
offered no objection. Then, on the
last day of her holiday, something went
wrong. Teddy didn’t come for tea until
long after Flo had left the room ; neither
did he show himself in her presence again.
Many months later, in one of those con-
fiding moods that come when two men
are sitting staring at the fire and the rest
of the gang have gone in to town, Teddy
told the story; “It was a hot afternoon,
remember? I was sweating at the wood-
heap, and, not thinking, I pulled my shirt
out for coolness (my old man always did
it). All of a sudden I looked up and she
was standing there. Well, a man couldn't
face a respectable girl again after stand-
ing in front of her in his shirt-tails, could
he?” Doubtless poor Flo often wondered
how she had offended Ted as, back in
Sydney, she bent over her machine run-
ning up the hems of shirt-tails.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”; Have Middleton and
Elizabeth reefs, those grim graveyards
of the South-western Pacific, claimed yet
more victims during the years of war?
About 30 miles apart, they lie northward
of Lord Howe Island, about 300 miles
from the coast of northern N.S.W.
Twenty known wrecks are recorded from
them, beginning with a whaler, the
Britannia, in 1806 on Elizabeth Reef.
The worst tragedy was that of the Nor-
wegian barque Errol in 1909 on Middle-
ton Reef. She broke in three, the master
was eaten by sharks, his wife went mad
and died, and their four children dis-
appeared. The five survivors were rescued
by the steamer Tofua. Two years earlier
the 1400-ton barque Annasoma had piled
up but with no loss of life. Her broken
steel hull still remained as a seamark
when I last sighted the reef in 1938.
SWANS AT NIGHT.
Oh, westward tonight the wild swans are flying
Epr over the mountains where white vapors
lie;
The sound of their bugles is calling and crying,
The beat of their pinions a pulse in the sky.
And, far above darkness where white light is
flaming,
They pass through the glory that streams
through the height;
And I know where the goal is for which they
are aiming,
Where wide swings the river they’re seeking
tonight.
It lies in the moonlight, its cool waters gleaming
By soft pools of silence where black shadows
fall;
And there in the quiet the still trees are dream-
ing
By hidden back-waters where shy herons call.
I see them in fancy as, downward they’re
planing,
The rush of white water from each homing
breast;
The long necks are busy as, bending and
craning,
The leader swims through them with pride in
his crest.
His course he had set by the last banner furling
When day went away from the land for a
space;
And onward he, led them, while red planets
whirling,
Flashed once and were lost in that high, lonely
place.
He led them by sky-tracks only he could be
knowing,
Through forests of stars on the hills of the
night;
He dipped in salute to the Cross at its showing,
His high bugle ringing through far fields of
light.
Oh, silver-tipped wings through the star-splendor
beating,
Carry me now to the plains of the west;
The grey’s in my hair and the swift years are
fleeting,
What’s left for the roamer but homeward to
rest?
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRITAt/VS LEAD.,
m
m
mm
mm
fillip
ggggg
*»S«bbsbi
Hi!
i3al=s*
sss=
t S
7S
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
THE telephone, most useful and übiqui-
tous of modern instruments in business
and social life, was invented by a British
engineer.
In the forward march of civilisation
British inventions and discoveries have
always played a leading part. Particularly
in the realm of textiles, the British record
is one of continuous progress, and no single
firm has contributed more to raising the
standard of living than have Courtaulds through
the development of rayon.
In the course of a mere generation, untiring
research and experiment carried out by Court-
aulds succeeded in establishing rayon as a
recognised and valuable addition to textile pro-
duction throughout the world, and in the
creation of a vast new industry not only in
Britain, but also in the United States, in Canada
and elsewhere. Courtaulds rayon yarn and the
beautiful fabrics made from it have brought
luxury and variety into the lives of millions in
almost every land.
Today, unfortunately, the demands of total warfare
leave only a limited amount of rayon fabrics available
to the public; but present research and development
will place an even wider variety of lovely rayons
within the reach of everyone when normal times return.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries originated
within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns:
, Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry, England.
ALEXANDER
GRAHAM BELL.
Born Edinburgh in
1847 and settled in
Canada. Invented and
exhibited in 1876 the
apparatus from which
the modern telephone
has been developed.
a
In spite of all wartime difficulties —restrictions on style—
lack of leather—coupons—labour shortage—purchase tax —
blackout —bombs— ‘ doodle bugs ’ —we have produced over
a million pairs of shoes every war year for the home market.
The number of pairs we have been allowed to send to
Australia have been a mere drop in the ocean. Soon
we hope you will see more Clarks shoes in Australian
shops —shoes like the sample illustrated —made without
restriction in a world where craftsmanship and style will
come into their own again.
C & J. Clark Limited, makers of Ladies and Childrens shoes for more than a
centurv at Street, Somerset, England.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. in the Pacific.
(From “United States News .”)
Control of the Pacific Ocean above the
Equator is to go to the U.S. without chal-
lenge. In co-operation with Great
Britain, Australia and New Zealand that
control will extend below the Equator
as well.
This decision, vital for the defence of
the U.S., has been made.
After the first World War islands that
went to Japan cut squarely across the
U.S. supply lines to the Philippines and
to sources of rubber and tin in the East
Indies. Military men responsible for the
defence of the U.S. are determined that
no arrangement shall result from this war
that will place a similar handicap upon
U.S. freedom of operation over the vital
sea and air lanes of the Pacific.
Outright ownership of a number of
key islands mandated to Japan after the
first World War is to be sought by the
U.S. Some of these islands were cap-
tured by American forces. Saipan and
Tinian, along with Guam, which belonged
to the U.S. before the war, have been
transformed into permanent bases that
will make the Marianas a second Pearl
Harbor. The Volcano Islands, with Iwo
Jima, and the Bonins and Marcus Island
are expected to be developed into a chain
of bases with which to box in Japan. If
the U.S. gets outright ownership it will
be solely responsible for these islands and
will administer them in the same manner
as other territories. No outside coun-
tries will have access to them and no
report on these islands will be made to
the United Nations.
The result is that the U.S., directly or
indirectly, will control the entire Pacific
Ocean.
Largest War Contribution.
(From an article by Lord Halifax in “Britain.”)
The conception of lend-lease perhaps
made a larger contribution to victory
than any other. It would be hard to
overestimate what that mighty reinforce-
ment of American supplies meant to the
British Commonwealth and other Allies.
Lend-lease was not a form of charity.
When the preamble to the Lend-lease
Act described it as “an Act to promote
the defence of the United States,” its
authors were doing no more than telling
the literal truth. The U.S. was not merely
being kind and helpful to Britain or
Russia. In 1941 lend-lease saved Britain,
Russia and China ; but it also saved the
United States.
It is all right for anyone to criticise
lend-lease if he has taken the trouble to
acquaint himself with all the facts. But
criticism is purely mischievous when it
takes the form of suggesting that lend-
lease was merely a trick by which a lot
of greedy people tried to pick the bulg-
ing pockets of Uncle Sam.
Money to Burn.
(From an article by a N.Y. “World-Telegram”
Washington correspondent.)
After Pearl Harbor the U.S. Govern-
ment called in all the currency in Hawaii
and replaced it with special Hawaiian
Islands money. That was so that if the
Japs did invade the cash would be no
good to ’em anywhere else. Stafford
Austin, manager of the Honolulu Plan-
tation Co., has since told that when the
experts decided to call in the regular
money in Ha waii they issued dollars with
the word “Hawaii” printed on the backs.
The regular currency piled up in small
mountains in the back rooms of all the
banks.
“The U.S. Treasury people decided that
it was too costly to ship this money back
to the mainland,” Mr. Austin said. “They
thought they’d better burn it. They took
it out to a cemetery and stoked up the
crematorium, but that money turned out
to be almost fireproof. It came in tight
packages, and they would char, but they
wouldn’t burn.
“The firemen nearly burned out the
crematorium trying to burn that money.
Then they wondered if the furnaces in
our sugar refinery might do the trick.
“These have strong drafts and big com-
bustion chambers to burn bagasse, which
is the refuse of the sugarcane after the
sugar has been squeezed out, and which
doesn’t burn much easier than money.
I told ’em I’d be glad to let ’em try.
, “They came out next day with theii
money trucks, their military guards and
their sirens howling. We fired up the fur-
naces and stoked ’em with millions of
dollars and sugar production never was
better. One morning we burned
$9,500,000. I burned $20,000 in new fives
myself with one throw. It was quite a
sensation, I can tell you. We kept burn-
ing money for about two weeks. The
Treasury never would say how much we
burnt, but, estimating how many bills you
can get on one shovel load, we figured we
must have burned about $70,000,000
worth.
“The youngsters in the Army who
served as guards took this as their chance
to light cigarettes with $lOOO bills. They
wanted to have their picture taken doing
it, but the Treasury said nothing doing.
Some kind of law against it.
“The x refinery returned eventually to
using cane again for fuel. That is, until
it began to look like those Japs weren t
going to invade Hawaii after all. The
Treasury began calling in the war money
and trading it back for regular and our
refinery began again—loading up the fur-
naces with the special money.
“The sugar it has turned out,” con-
cluded Mr. Austin, “is no sweeter than
the regular kind.”
Russia in the Far East.
{Condensed from an “American Mercury
article by David J. Dallin, author of “Russia
and Post-war Europe” and “The Real Soviet
Russia.”)
Moscow made its bid for a share in the
Far Eastern spoils of victory —in the re-
vision of the map of Asia and the Asiatic
power pattern. A clear-headed, unsen-
timental appraisal of Soviet aims in that
part of the world is essential.
Edgar Snow, an American journalist
who has chosen to serve as an exponent
of the Soviet viewpoint on Far Eastern
affairs, long ago informed us that Russia
would intervene in the Asiatic conflict,
but “not till Japan is nearing collapse”
—which was just another way of saying
not till its help was no longer vitally
needed. The time when Soviet interven-
tion could be militarily decisive passed.
In Europe Soviet Russia’s course is by
this time fairly obvious. Taking back
the lost lands of the former Russian
Empire as well as acquiring additional
territories, Moscow has also set up in
neighboring countries “friendly” regimes
which are in effect Soviet-dominated.
Historical claims and the dictates of
national security have had to serve as jus-
tifications for this unprecedented expan-
sion of the Soviet sphere of influence.
If these justifications are valid for
Russia’s western borders they have even
more validity regarding its eastern
borders. The one certainty in the Far
Eastern picture is that Moscow will apply
the same concept’s, policies and pro-
grammes in Asia and on the larger Asiatic
scale as in the Baltic area, in Poland and
the Balkans.
Many disappointments will be spared
by recognising this inescapable fact:
China is cast for a role similar to that of
Poland. There have been hints that at
Yalta the Soviet Government obtained a
free hand in Manchuria and Korea, just
as it secured the right of way in Poland
and the Balkans at the Tehran Confer-
ence. But with or without the blessings
of the other members of the Big Three,
Stalin can be expected to collect on tne
claims he staked long ago in the Far
East.
As Mr. Snow put it in the “Saturday
Evening Post,” “Soviet intervention
against Japan inevitably means Soviet in-
tervention in China.” In this connection
the intensified propaganda barrage for
the Chinese Communists and against the
Chiang Kai-shek Government, set off by
Mr. Snow and his colleagues, is clearly
reminiscent of the propaganda offensives
against Mikhailovich and the Polish Gov-
ernment which prepared the ground for
Soviet unilateral activities in Yugoslavia
and Poland.
It should be remembered that Soviet


jir
W
m f ■
m
fWwm
THE
NAME IS
CALTEX
{Jcbmeifly -&houm, te x aco)
CALTEX PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD.,
r* OF ENGLAND
in War as in Peace af the service of the Empire
e le
Cjo
m
iSi
H
m
m
i
111
m
made it
possible/
Hostiles, bearing 194, height 10,000 back went
the warning and fighters raced to intercept. From
many miles away Radar plotted the enemy’s exact
position, and brought the defences hurtling into action.
The science of electronics made it possible, for at the
One of the
OSRAM VALVES
specially de-
veloped for Radar
-.an ACT 20
which will find
many peace-time
applications.
heart of every Radar installation lies the valve.
OSRAM VALVES have been in the forefront of
electronic development during the war, and will bring
to the pursuits of peace many well-tried electronic
devices to speed, smooth, and make safer our way of
life.
PHOTO CELLS
&S.C.
CATHODE RAY TUBES
o« s
(Sole Australian Representative of the G.E.C.' of England .)
3 YDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd,
aspirations in Asia are no more of Com-
munist origin than its ambitions in
Eastern Europe or the Near East.
The Chinese and Far Eastern territories
which have been part of the Russian
sphere in the twentieth century begin at
the frontiers of Afghanistan and stretch
to the Japanese Sea, including Sinkiang,
Outer Mongolia, all 'of China north of
the Great Wall and —to a certain extent —
Korea.
In thinly - populated Sinkiang, or
Chinese Turkestan —a region larger than
France—the Chinese are a minority
among the multi-national peoples. Its
ties, geographically and economically, are
much closer to Russian Turkestan than
to China proper. Separated from Sin-
kiang by the Gobi desert, China is
scarcely in a position to enforce its claim
on this vast border province. Sinkiang
came under Soviet domination in the
early 1930’s ; though the Russian grip was
relaxed in 1942 it can be tightened when-
ever Moscow finds it politic. The pre-
requisite of “popular movements” in that
region has begun.
Outer Mongolia was taken over from
China by Czarist Russia in 1911-12. Ex-
cept for the chaotic period of the Russian
civil war, it has remained a Russian prov-
ince in all but name. Despite the fact
that Moscow has repeatedly acknow-
ledged Chinese sovereignty over Outer
Mongolia, the Mongolian People’s Re-
public is completely a puppet of Russia.
As for Korea, it became a, sphere of
Russian political, military and economic
penetration in 1896 and remained under
strong Russian influence until after the
Russo-Japanese war.
In 1899 Russia and Great Britain con-
cluded an agreement on railroad con-
struction in China, which amounted to
the emergence of a big Russian sphere in
the northern provinces of China. Russia
obtained as her exclusive domain all ter-
ritories north of the Great Wall, com-
prising Manchuria, Chahar, Jehol and
other great territories. While the Russian
Government was forced to relinquish a
part of them in 1905, it did retain
dominion over the northern half of Man-
churia until the revolution.
Manchuria today, even more so than
in the past, is the most precious portion
of the Russian imperialist stake in China.
Half a century ago it was a backward
province with a population of some ten
millions. Japanese enterprise transformed
it into a vital industrial and agricultural
region—the most important foreign eco-
nomic base in China. Japanese develop-
ment made Manchuria, which now has a
population of some forty millions (more
than in Siberia and Russian Central Asia),
a network of railroads and important new
industries. Whoever controls the new
Manchuria —or better still, the immense
Siberian-Manchurian potential will
doubtless hold a club over the rest of
China.
From the Soviet vantage point, Man-
churia is also of immense strategic im-
portance if expansionist tendencies pre-
vail in Russian foreign policy. The
Chinese-Eastern railroad is the best
means of transportation to Vladivostok
on the Sea of Japan. The ports of Port
Arthur and Dairen, in the south, are vital
bases for a future Soviet Navy in the
Pacific. With Nipponese naval power
extinguished, Vladivostok and Port
Arthur command a huge segment of the
ocean.
Taken together, these territories form
one continuous expanse from Afghani-
stan to Korea. Much of it is desert; the
richer sections lie in the east. But it all
adds up to a continent within a continent,
with a population of seventy millions and
almost limitless room for growth. That
the Soviet Government is determined to
dominate this territory is beyond all ques-
tion. The only questions are as to the
nature and the extent of that domination.
Soviet foreign policy in Europe has
made a sharp distinction between lands
populated by Russians or other Soviet
nationalities and those in which non-
Soviet peoples are in the majority. Eastern
Poland, for instance, with its Russian-
Ukrainian majority, was included out-
right in the Soviet Union ; a large part of
Bessarabia was simply attached to the
Soviet Moldavian Republic. On the other
hand, in Yugoslavia and Poland proper
technically independent States “friendly”
to Russia have been created.
As far as ultimate effects are con-
cerned, the difference is small. But it is
a difference to which Stalin may be ex-
pected to adhere, since it is an important
feature of his system of solving nation-
ality problems. Control of all-Chinese
areas through local puppets rather than
through actual absorption may therefore
be expected as a future “solution.”
A “friendly” Chinese Government—
roughly like the “friendly” Lublin Gov-
ernment installed by the Kremlin in
Poland —is a necessary prerequisite for
a Soviet solution of its problems in the
JFar East. And it is here that the Com-
munist Government of the Border
Regions of China enters the picture.
This Government and its army have
been in existence for nearly ten years
and have become increasingly stronger
during this time. It is a regime that has
been glorified by Communist-inspired
propaganda in the same measure as the
Kuomintang Government, centred in
Chungking, has been vilified. If Stalin
can force Britain and the U.S.A. to throw
their weight into the scales of this regime,
as they did in the case of the Tito group
in Yugoslavia, Moscow will be in a posi-
tion to gather most of the fruits of vic-
tory over Japan. There is little that
Russia can take from Japan which does
not, in actuality, belong to China.
From its beginnings in 1922 until
today Chinese Communism has been inti-
mately connected with Moscow.
The Chinese Communists, like the
French or American, have followed every
turn in the Soviet party line. Dissidents
have been purged on the Russian model.
Internal discontent has been branded as
“Trotskyism” or “Rightist deviation” and
liquidated in the usual Communist style.
Not once in all these years of war did
the Chinese Communists dare to criticise
any Soviet action and policy—not even
Stalin’s recognition of the frontiers of
the Japanese puppet State of Manchukuo
or the Soviet-Japanese non-aggression
pact. \
To the student of international Com-
munism the attempt to portray the
Chinese movement as less totalitarian,
less subservient to Moscow and gener-
ally more nationalist and “democratic”
than other Communist movements makes
no sense.
Yenan, the Red capital, and its region
constitute a separate Chinese State, with
its own Government, administration, law,
political police and army.
The most significant fact about the
Communist underground forces of China
is their geographical location. Northern
Shensi and Shansi are their strongholds,
although they are also powerful in the
other northern provinces—Manchuria,
Shantung, Hopei, Jehol, Chahar, as well
as in northern Kiangsi; they are expand-
ing into Honan in Central China. With
Manchuria these areas constitute northern
China, bordering on Russia and con-
nected with her in more than one respect.
Their “Government of the Border
Regions” is the “friendly Government”
which Moscow needs in China, and their
army could readily be integrated into the
Red Army of Russia.
The official American aim of this war,
reflecting prevalent American sentiment,
has been the creation of a really united
China, independent of Japan and Russia.
It was assumed from the start that the
defeat of Japan would not be followed by
the expansion of another great Power
in the Chinese vacuum. As far as official
announcements go, that is still the
American policy.
Pessimists point out that in Europe,
similarly, American policy had not aimed
at the substitution of German domination
by domination of another great Power;
and that most of Eastern Europe is falling
under Russian control notwithstanding.
They fear that this recent history may
repeat itself in the Far East. ,
Not only the destiny of Asia but the
question of world peace hinges on the
Soviet intervention in Pacific affairs and
the political demands that Russia will
make at the expense of China.
Rise of a War Leader.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Major George Fielding Eliot.)
General Eisenhower l was only a lieu-
tenant-colonel of infantry when the war
started, in an Army containing some 400
lieutenant-colonels senior to himself, to
say nothing of some 700 full colonels and
nearly 150 general officers. How did he
get up to the top so fast, just when he
was needed?
The man responsible is the Chief of
Staff, General of the Army George C.
Marshall. President Roosevelt left the
choice of America’s war leaders entirely
to General Marshall, exercising no inflm
ence on the matter himself, so that leaders
were chosen by a soldier.
Having made a list, General Marshall
proceeded to put each officer on that list
through a period of trial and test as ruth-
less and soul-searching as he could make
it. He piled burdens on them ; he shifted
them suddenly from one post to another
of increased responsibility; he worked
the very hearts out of them, and he judged
them strictly and impartially by the results
they produced.
Dwight Eisenhower was on that list.
When it was first prepared he was execu-
tive officer of the 15th Infantry at Fort
Lewis, Washington. He was made chief
of staff of the 3rd Division at the same
post; making good in that job, he went
to the 9th Corps, also as chief of staff;
from there he was transferred to Lieu-
tenant-General Walter Krueger’s 3rd


A Musical Amenity ....
By the People . . . For the People !
\ r
MS
f eatu.rina
EVALD TONDI
AND HIS STARS OF INDUSTRY BAND
with Guest Artists from Mills> *
Factories, Workshops and Offices
4BH, 2GB-2HR, 2CA, 3AW-
3GV, 3SH, SIR, SDN-SRM,
6PR-6TZ, 7HO, 7LA, 7BU
EVERY FRIDAY „
9.30 P.M.
Sponsored by
Thomas Hardy H Sons Limited
Makers of TINTARA WINES d
R iS Me
Fathered by
Life Assurance
A COMFORTABLE home. Three meals a day. Good
**clothing and other necessities of life. Above all,
Security.
These are a. few of the things that Life Assurance
means to tens of thousands of Australian homes that have
lost their breadwinners.
Have you ever thought how it comes about that a life
assurance office can afford to pay a substantial sum—
perhaps a thousand pounds or more—whenever a policy
holder dies, even though he may have paid but a few
pounds in premiums?
This apparent miracle is accomplished simply by co-
operation. The premiums that all the policy holders pay
make up a great common pool from which the families of
all of them draw their benefits as their breadwinners die.
Australia can be proud of the thrifty and far sighted men
and women whose sacrifice of present comforts provides.
Immediate security for their loved ones, through Life Assurance,
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
Listen-in to “HERE’S HEALTH”!
A Series of Dramatic Broadcasts presenting information and
advice upon Health Problems of Every Day.
Broadcast by the Macquarie Network and Associate Stations
Each Week.
SPONSORED BY THE LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA.
Army, again as chief of staff, and served
with that officer through the Louisiana
manoeuvres of 1941. Then he was
abruptly shifted to the War Department
general staff as assistant chief of staff for
operations. There, under General Mar-
shall’s own eye, he served the final months
of his stern apprenticeship for the com-
mand of 3,000,000 American soldiers,
until the day when he was summoned
from his desk to Marshall’s office to hear
his chief say: “Eisenhower, I’ve got to
send somebody to Europe to command
our forces there. I’ve picked you for the
job. How soon can you leave?”
•j. .j. .j.
(From an ‘‘American Mercury” article by Major
H. A. de Weerd.)
Because of his great attainments as a
military administrator, there has a
tendency to disregard Eisenhower’s role
as a strategist or general. His studied
“selflessness” doubtless encourages this
tendency, but it does not do him justice.
He is not simply a good-natured chair-
man of the Shaef board of directors.
As supreme Allied commander, he
alone was personally responsible for the
major decisions of the campaign in
France. It could not be otherwise. He
had to decide at the last moment whether
or not the invasion should be postponed
two weeks until the next predictable
“good weather” period. With lowering
clouds, heavy winds and choppy seas, but
on the strength of meteorological reports
of clearing weather, Eisenhower gave the
command to carry on after a day’s delay.
Had he taken counsel of timidity and
postponed the operation for two weeks
the great storm of June 19-22 would have
struck our transports and beachheads with
disastrous results.
One key to the success of the Allied land-
ing in Normandy must have been the Ger-
man sensitiveness to the threat of a land-
ing in the Pas de Calais. They had exten-
sive robomb installations in this area, and
the direct route it offered to sources of
German military power must have con-
vinced the enemy that the main effort
would be made in this region. In any
event, their strongest forces were de-
ployed to defend it, and when Allied air-
power disrupted their communications
they could not effectively counter the
landing in Normandy.
In planning and carrying out the cam-
paign in France Eisenhower did not
fritter away his resources in diversionary
feints or attacks; he threw the mass' of
his strength straight at his initial objec-
tives on the Contentin peninsula. And
by an unexpectedly thorough application
of the principle of concentration he
achieved a measure of strategic surprise.
When the capture of Cherbourg on
D-day, plus 21, made our hold on the
Continent secure Eisenhower cancelled
the original plan for a second landing on
the Brittany peninsula between Nantes
and St. Nazaire. The success of the Allied
sweep through vindicated this decision.
In view of the complicated character of
modern war and thb detailed planning
required to meet supply schedules, the
pressure on a commander not to change
previously agreed-upon plans is terrific.
Eisenhower’s willingness to cancel the
second landing showed a real flexi-
bility of mind and a willingness to accept
major risks.
All Eisenhower’s supreme decisions up
to the end of 1944 aimed at decisive
results. When the question came up as
to whether Allied forces should be used
immediately to open up the port of Ant-
werp or should be flung at the northern
anchor of the Rhine and Siegfried lines
he chose the latter. A more orthodox or
conservative general, influenced by supply
considerations, might have chosen another
course. Thus, when the brilliant stroke
of the British airborne forces at Arnhem
could not be exploited Eisenhower found
himself in a situation parallel to that
which followed the failure of his effort
to take Tunis in the autumn of 1942.
It can safely be said that no military
man, German or Allied, could have pre-
dicted the character and course of the
war in France after July 25, 1944. Opera-
tions from that time on were conducted
by the Allied armies on lines of bold im-
provisation and on the basis of pursuit.
When, by a mighty effort, the Germans
made their stand on the Siegfried line a
period of reorganisation was necessary
before the next phase of the war could
be conducted.
The Allied bag of 865,000 German
troops captured in the period from D-day
to the end of January, 1945, was one of
the largest in history. In another war
our adversary might have thrown in the
sponge, but the Nazi leaders were fighting
for their lives.
If the Germans had been fighting a
traditional war an attack in the Ardennes
with the forces at their disposal in De-
cember, 1944, would hardly have been
undertaken. But the Germans in late
1944 and early 1945 were not fighting a
traditional war. They had. already lost
any chance they might have had to win
such a war. Like the Japanese, they were
fighting a fanatical rat-like battle against
a fate already clear. With such adver-
saries nothing should be ruled out on the
grounds of irrationality.
The Gotterddmmerung of death and
destruction which the Nazi fanatics
brought upon the German homeland by
their senseless resistance after all hope of
military success had vanished messed up
the outward appearance of Eisenhower’s
spectacular victories in the West. But
when history clears away the rubble and
the outlines of this campaign stand out
more clearly than they now do it will
rank among the greatest military feats of
all time.
Eisenhower has grown in stature im-
mensely since he left Washington in 1942.
He has not permitted his important posi-
tion or great power to turn his head. He
laughs too often to be capable of serious
self-deception. Posing like stout Cortez
on a captured promontory is definitely
not in his line. Those who frequently see
him say that he is almost totally unaware
of the fact that he is a world figure.
Modesty and commonsense are so genu-
inely a part of his make-up that they pro-
tect him from the most baleful and insidi-
ous influence in modern life —the publi-
city racket. He is not only a great soldier
but a great man as well.
Credited to Peace.
(From N.Y. "Times.")
Someone has said that if men could
only learn to spend on the works of
peace the colossal sums which they freely
spend on war it is hard to put down in
words how life would be made richer
and happier for everybody!
It is the ancient regret and the ancient
reproach. It is the thought which must
have sprung up every little while during
these last long years of war when people
read in their daily newspaper the stupen-
dous money arithmetic of war. And, aside
from the money arithmetic, people often
ask in self-reproach why cannot we do
things as well in peace as we do in war.
The answer in part —there can be no
complete answer —is that, aside from the
supreme sacrifice which men make in
war for country and cause, and of which
there can be no question in peace-time,
peace -does have its efforts and its sacri-
fices for the common weal; only they
are not so dramatically manifest as in
war. They are spread over long periods
of time ; spread thinner. For instance,
Great Britain in the 20 years between the
two wars did build new homes for half
her people. But the billions gush out
incomparably faster in war than in peace.
As to how well people do things in war
and in peace, it may be interesting to set
down -a few scattered credit items on the
side of peace. Most of them are com-
monplaces. In peace;
(1) We look better after our children
of school age.
(2) We do incomparably much better
for our young men and women of col-
lege age.
(3) We safeguard more successfully the
lives of our women in this air war era.
(4) We maintain a higher standard of
public health. '
(5) We write better books and plays.
The best war books and plays are written
after a war.
(6) We make greater progress in
science. We have just been reminded
that the remarkable gains in war surgery
and other branches of war medicine will
not compensate for the long time loss of
scores of thousands of doctors and re-
search workers diverted from their regu-
lar pursuits.
(7) We practice greater democracy. War
inevitably encroaches on personal free-
dom. In war we fight to defend democ-
racy. In peace we practise it.
(8) The mental life of the common
man opens up to wider horizons in peace.
In war there is only one subject in
people’s minds. There is only one topic
of discussion.
Essays on Soviet Russia.
(Condensed from a review by William Henry
Chamberlin in the “Wall-street Journal.”)
There are two reasons why this collec-
tion of essays, The Yogi and the Com-
missar, by Arthur Koestler (Macmillan),
is one of the definitely important books
of the year. The first lies in the mind
and personality of the author. The
second is to be found in his amazingly
keen and penetrating analysis of the
State and social order.
The author does not storm or rave or
rant, although his narrative is lit up with
flashes of quiet irony, of which the fol-
lowing are good examples:
Progress had recovered its lost religion:
Soviet Russia became the new “Opium for
the People.”
If, as Soviet propaganda assures us.
the success of the Russian armies in 1944
is a proof of the excellence of Stalinism
and its superiority to other social systems,
then we may also assume that the victory ot
1815 proved the excellence of the Tsanst


//
?/
//
111/
r/ £
f///
V /
seisSi
nUiuH
SQS^
y
mm J
■■■
11
- ft
Worthy of a place in Ripley’s famous column is
Plywood . . . the constructional board that is many times
stronger and tougher than solid timber.
Through the use of special glues, pressed in a hot press,
the thin fragile veneers which comprise each Plywood
hoard can also he rendered waterproof ... a feature of
incalculable value to Australia at war. Waterproof Plywood
—which, by the way, can be boiled without separating the
plies—is used in aircraft construction, in the building of
ships and for many other purposes requiring a waterproof
material of great strength, lightness and durability.
The outer walls and roofs of houses . . . any construc-
tional expanse exposed to the weather, can safely be
entrusted to Plywood.
Mi
1
»
it
in'
OF
material
//
TH
h“ m,ted . 0 £
' Inserted by
THE AUSTRALIAN PLYWOOD BOARD
v 0 U Rs
; &
into
r, (■
PO S r- W A R
{
a
M
It
&N
Si
m
See the AGA Cooker . . . biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The AGA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modern science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee,
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue, RB.
AGA
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 18S2 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros.
Ltd., Perth. The Qld. Agents:
Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
OIJ.
system and the superiority of serfdom over
the principles of the French Revolution.
The radio, newspaper and public speakers
of the whole Soviet Union echoed the
miraculous achievements of young Stak-
hanov with an excitement only comparable
to the effect of the apparitions of Berna-
dette of Lourdes. (Stakhanov was a miner
who was utilised as a peg on which to
hang the introduction of a system of in-
tensive speed-up and division of labor in the
Soviet factories.)
Finally, one might add the quotation
from Amiel, so profoundly wise and so
applicable to the substitution, in some
minds, of secular cults for the religious
beliefs of the past: —
The unbelieving epochs are the cradles of
new superstitions.
Koestler is one of the most brilliant
and searching, if not one of the most
profound, intellects of our time. He is
avowedly a man of the Left, a theoretical
Socialist in his political and social
sympathies. He humorously, yet fairly
accurately, describes himself as one “of
that bunch of homeless Leftists whom the
Stalinites call Trotskyites, the Trotskyites
call Imperialists and the Imperialists call
bloody Reds” But in spite of, or perhaps
because of, the depth of his sympathy with
the underdog, he is horrified and de-
pressed by the spectacle of a triumphant
Stalinite Communism emerging as the
. ■ *■ f • rj,,-, xjo.
dominant force in Europe. He knows
what this system means both from per-
sonal residence in Russia as a correspon-
rjpnj- jn flip Aorlu thirties and from ob-
aent in tne eariy mimes ana rrom od
servation of Communist tactics in the
European revolutionary movement. What
especially repels him is the mixture of
rvnif-ictn nnH nnnnrtnrmm that is the in-
cymcism and opportunism mat is me in
evitable moral aftermath, of far-reaching
indoctrination with the idea that the end
justifies the means.
RnostW’s demolition of the mvth of
Koestler s demolition or tne mym oi
the Soviet Union as an advanced
humanitarian society, where none, has too
little and none has too much, where
Imperialism and exploitation are non-
existent, is the most impressive and un-
answerable job of its kind I have ever
read What the author does is simply to
cite one Soviet decree after another, one
Soviet newspaper excerpt after another,
to create the documented picture of the
comnlete totalitarian State. He quotes
, f c • <- ,
chapter and verse from Soviet sources to
prove beyond the shadow of reasonable
doubt the following facts, so seldom men-
tioned in contemporary Willing about
Russia :
/ \ That Soviet citizens possess no free-
f within their own
dom ol movement WitUm
country.
(M That the innocent wife and children
- Soviet citizen who flees abroad to
° i orro ii,, pH
avoid military service are legally treated
as hostages, subject to exile for five years
j n remote regions of Siberia.
( c ) xhat the death penalty may be
a ppi] ed to children at the age of twelve,
xhat a lieutenant in the Red Army
g ets a hundred times the pay of a private,
( e ) Xhat in the years before the war
(which certainly brought no improvement
in t h e standard of living) food prices in
Russia bad increased much more than
es by compar ison with pre-war
Cities ’
His chapter “xhe End of an Illusion,”
should be required reading for every
American and British statesman. What
he writes about tbe proS pect of indefinite
Soviet expans i on i n Europe is confirmed
in the newspaper headlines every day.
-
Dragnet Digest,
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Nine out of every ten workers on collective
farms in the Soviet Union are women. On
very many farms and in many villages no man
ha / H ve d for three or four years. More than
that, a large proportion of the machine and
tractor stations which supplied mechanical labor
for the farms has been destroyed or c ose
down since most of the tl , actor drivers went
into the tan ks, and the tractor factories were
destroyed in the west or turned over to tank pro-
duction in the east. Girls learned to drive, but
the tractors are few and far between, the re-
suft is that agriculture in the Soviet western
areas and even farther east has slipped back to
, a condition worse in many ways than it was 10
or 15 years ago. Ploughs are pulled, by cattle
or b 'y women. The destruction in the towns
and industrial areas j s st in plainer to see. Ten
y ears was t be lowest estimate given me for the
time required for basic reconstruction, even
in an all-out effort. Many would say that
,p omaUc correspon-
* * * *
During the war it was thought convenient to
attribute heroic virtues to any who shared our
= >
for f ur ther concealment. If, when the truth is
published, it is revealed that the regime of
Marshal Tito has all the characteristics ot
Nazism—a secret, political police, an unscrupul-
QUS p ro p a g anc j a bureau, judicial murders of
political opponents, the regimentation of children
into fanatical, hero-worshipping gangs, the arrest
and disappearance of civilians for no other
reason than that they spoke English and had
exchanged civilities with British troops, the
kidnapping of political opponents on Allied
territory, the arrest and disappearance of a
national leader who came under safe conduct
to discuss co-operation; that great numbers of
priests whose only offence was popular esteem
have been done to death, religious houses closed
and religious associations abolished; that the
elaborate and violent machine of party propa-
ganda is employed to vilify the religious and
that no expression of opinion is possible outside
the party machine—if these things are true, the
[British] nation will see where its duty lies
towards people threatened with an extension of
this regime. We have been obliged to make
many painful compromises with justice during
the past 10 years, some of which seem irre-
parable; here is a question where we have the
power to do right.— A British soldier lately in
Yugoslavia writing in London “Times.”
* * * *
When the war broke out fears were enter-
tained that as the supplies of imported foods,
which amounted to nearly two-thirds of the
amount consumed in Britain, were reduced
there would be a food shortage which would
seriously effect working and fighting efficiency.
However, though the national diet was less
palatable and more monotonous, the working-
class population was better fed from the point
of view of health than in pre-war days. The
rate of growth of children of the poorer classes
increased. In Glasgow boys of 13 are nearly
■Jin. taller and three pounds heavier than the
average of the pre-war quinquennium. In that
same city only 14 per cent, of children five
years of age were free from obvious dental
defects. How 45 per cent, have good teeth.
Mothers and children had priority for milk
at a reduced rate or free. The consumption of
milk among the poorer part of the population
increased by over 40 per cent. There was also
an increase in the consumption of other home-
produced foods, especially potatoes, vegetables
and oatmeal. The people of Britain have had a
Spartan diet, but they made the best possible
use of their supplies.— British doctor and food
authority Sir John Orr.
* * * *
Returning French war prisoners in many cases
proved to be an element of unrest and of
violence. Many of them returned in impaired
health; numerous others mentally unbalanced.
Shrewd Nazi propaganda among these men and
women who had been cut from outside contact
for many months or even years has had its
effects. More than once they have used violent
means to obtain what they thought due them.
Anti-Semitic outbreaks in France have become
more frequent since repatriation of prisoners
and deportees got under way.— Staff correspon-
dent “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
The value of maintaining price ceilings until
the competition normal in peace times has had
an opportunity to bring prices into line is
widely appreciated in America. In a nation-
wide survey we asked the question, “Do you
think the Government should take off all price
ceilings as soon as the war is over, or do you
think they should be kept for a while. Both
men and women were in tavor of keeping
them for a while, but the women who are
closer to the problem were more strongly in
favor of it than the men .—Elmo Roper, who
conducts the “Fortune (IJ.S.A.) public-opinion
polls.
* * * . . " „„„
The effects of a long term in prison, to say
nothing of five years of propaganda by the (jer-
mans against the Allies, are visible in all t e
liberated countries of Europe,_ but nowhere
has captivity left such scars as in Erance. As
the greatest nation to suffer the fate of the
conquered, she emerges from the depths of
humiliation thinking more of salvaging her pride
than of serving her interests. Isolation has
narrowed the peoples perspective and made
them uncertain of themselves and suspicious of
their friends. But a partnership between the
Western democracies is not only vital to the
existence of two countries [Britain and France]
indissolubly wedded by geography, ideology and
contiguous interests all oyer the world. It is
essential to the preservation of demociacy i
-Europe and the only hope France has of re-
covering the weight she, has lost in the intei-
national balance. N-Y. limes.
*** . *
Ships carrying lend-lease to Russia actually
turned around and started to head back to
the United States at one time after the German
W ar ended, before orders were changed and
shipments went on their way.— “ United States
Flews.”
* * * *
a tacit' agreement has been reached with the
British that the value of the pound in post-
W ar shall remain at $4 to the pound.— “ United
States News.”
* * * *
Economic illness, want, starvation and unrest
- n Germany can ] e ad to political instability,
and sucb a condition long continued can be just
as dangerous to the peace of Europe and the
wor j d as political instability elsewhere on the
Continent. An economic cancer anywhere in
E uro pe, especially so great a one as that which
m j g j lt be created by following merely negative
policies of restraint, and not positive policies of
rehabilitation in Germany, is dangerous to
Europe. In other words, whether we like it or
no t, the Germans, though conquered, are still
j n Europe. We must, therefore, make it possible
f or the Germans to live, not necessarily as a
German nation, certainly not in ease and luxury,
but to live as people and to hope with time for
better living. Punishment of actual war
criminals, strict control of all German industry
and complete elimination of aircraft manufac-
turing, etc., the abolition of the German General
staff, the combing-out of Nazis and a long-term
occupation of the Reich are all essential to the
future. The punishment must fit' the crime, but
it should be sharp, short and decisive. Coupled
with these negative and preventive measures
must go positive and constructive ones; we
must control, direct, guide and educate the Ger-
mans to the responsibilities of living and make
it possible for them to live. Anything less
means sooner or later trouble m
Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y. “Times.’


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
R £G/STE*EO
TABLETS
FOR BLOOD. VEINS.
ARTERIES. ETC.
What is ELASTO? ... What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed ...
Here is how ELASTO Works
It has long - been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries.
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
. This is more fully explained in
simple language in a free book-
let— see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said;
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££?4&r ■ 'l/-QU,' fitrusTtdd /
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
df
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SV3OMO
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
c
0*
Sterilised
bone flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Brisbane Beef Show.
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Outback:” There were record entries
for the show, but at the sales prices
generally were not as good as those of
M^iKl^t^d 2 - 1
«.e
paraded the largest number ever seen in
one class in the Commonwealth. There
were too many of low quality, and the judge
(J. Sparkes) was critical of “nasty colors.”
Breeders are getting too much black into
the stock, and some are getting a brassy
stripe down the backs. S. B. Reynold’s
Ennisview Beaucaire was champion, with
E. J. Connolly’s Mvall Safeguard as re-
serve. '
mafie 6 and™ wkh
p i , Q p - v , ° t char acter.
y Sugar S?' ad Ibe junior
champion, Bexley King Cup. There
weren t many Hereford females, and
Cootharaba Miss Agnes 23rd, from J. J.
Galloway’s stud, beat the Fenwick Bros.
entry, Myall Dainty Bess, for the
honors. Fenwick Bros, won the Breeders’
Group, but Wilson and McDouall won
both Exhibitors’ Group and Sires’ Pro-
K r _ .. Tr .„
geny Stakes with the get of Golf Hill
Resolute, a Sydney champion of 1942.
PnllpH WsrofArrio ■ j- f _
~ ed Herefords indicated the progress
this breed has made, and was the best
exhibit the State has seen, increased
jV r,
numbers not affecting the quality. Barton
and Elliot’s Moolboolaman Victory was
champion bull, a handsome animal with
a j . . , .
plenty ot depth and a good sire s carnage,
Victory earlier won the Rockhampton
championship. Reserve champion was
Mrs. U. M. Hordern’s (N.S.W.) Milton
Alnwick by the famous Woodrow Ist
(imp.) Mrs. Hordern also won prizes
with Milton Kinsman and Milton Selector.
b. A. Plant had the champion female,
Trevanna Lovely 23rd (by Milton
u
- Th ® Sh ? rth ° rn section was big
f ° r P ueensland > and some magnificent
Caughey’s Patrol was
Sg
Junior champion was N. J. Green’s Gun-
nigalderie Barnone. Turanville Beauty
48th, champion in Sydney, was the best
cow.
D. H. Robertson, Turanville, Scone,
showed the Poll Shorthorn champion,
Albinia Robbie Burns 2nd, and the
Net berby (Q.) blind breeder, Jim
Scrymgeour, won the honors in the
female class with Netherby Welcome
Top entries in Aberdeen Angus were
we n U p to standard of former shows, but
others were not showing good con-
formation and fleshing. H. G, Munro’s
Booroomooka Nectar was champion bull,
and W. E. Webster, Sarum, Kingaroy
(Q-), had the best female, Sarum Netta
3rd.
THE SALES.
Although prices for the aristocratic Here-
fords did " ot reach tbe hi s b fl ® ui : e !, ° £
year, breeders appeared to be satisfied with
them. “Sensational” prices are never satisfac-
tory in the long run and an average price of
just over £l4O for 131 Hereford bulls—an aggre-
gate of £lB,36o—must beconsidered reasonably
good.
Highest price—63ogns.—was paid for a bull
which was unplaced in fhe show, Bexley Radium
2nd, bom Sept., 1943, owned by Hays Bros.,
Bexley, Narrabri (N.S.W.), sold to A. H. Mace,
Tordla. ( CQ.) S B. limes, Barolin stud Bunda-
berg (Q.), paid 590gns. for Moorland s Admiral,
sold by s. B. Reynolds, Moorlands, Oakey (Q.).
F° r Woodlands Sandow, the Camboon Pastoral
o ffiJds M^enmount be SP') E ‘ E ‘ D ‘ WhltC ’
eSkST ResS“r Mnner of the 6-10
months bull class, realised 400gns. from A. H.
Mace and the same price was paid for Golf
jSS„£j^S&
and Beau Ideal to A. Nixon, Drillham. The
reserve junior champion, Blandford Oscar, made
375gn5., bought by Camboon Pastoral Co.
On the second day competition lagged and all
breeds* suffered, Aberdeen Angus showing the
least decline. Highest price for the day was
400gns. paid by W. G. and I. Anderson, Tober-
morey, Urandangie, for the Polled Hereford
champion, Moolboolaman Victory. Milton
Alnwick made 330gns.
Thirty-three Aberdeen Angus bulls averaged
about 91gns„ top prices being about 10 p.c.
down on last year’s prices. Abington Beaufort
was sold by Norman L. Foster, Abington
(N.S.W.), to Terrica Station (Q.), for 250gns., and
the Aberdeen Angus judge, C. Gill, Barmundu,
Dingo (Q.), paid 230gns for the reserve junior
champion, Sarum Granny Chief, sold by D. E.
Webster, Sarum stud, Kingaroy. The champion
A.A. bull, Booroomooka Nectar, cost Winter
HOgns 3nd Robertson ’ Ambo Statlon (Q-)»
Shorthorns and Poll Shorthorns on the third
day made satisfactory prices in view of the
general decline in values on the previous two
days. Albania Robbie Burns 2nd realised
feref S ra E ’mJSSJS
Scrymgeour paid 90gns. for Albinia Victor
Snowdrop 3rd, both sales being on account of
“After you’ve finished there, Chudleigh, Would you come over to the
mess? There’s a bottle of whisky missing!”
D. H. Robertson, Albina stud, Turanville,
Scone (N.S.W.).
Thb junior champion Poll Shorthorn, F. S.
Simpson’s Gunnawarra Headstrong 24th, was
sold for 460gns. to Coreena Pastoral Co.,
Clermont (Q.).
The champion Shorthorn bull, Coonong
Night Patrol, realised 500gns., being purchased
by Cobbold and O’Brien, Listowell Downs (Q.).
Australian Estates, Ltd. paid 260gns. for a Peel
River-bred bull, Peel Recorder, and the same
company paid 200gns. for Albinia Hiker, bred
by D. fl. Robertson.
Butter Production.
“E. 2”: Replacement of drought losses
and slaughtered dairy cattle will need
every worth-while heifer than can be bred.
To meet the demand strict culling of herds
is bound to be modified, and it may be
that the standard will depreciate sharply
for a time. But economical production
depends largely on high-grade milkers,
and dairymen should guard against
decline and quality.
For getting good dairy cattle line-breed-
ing in itself is not sufficient; herd-testing
has as much bearing on the breeding of
good cows as pedigree. The idea*! is a
bull proven to get good stock mated with
cows of high test. If you have to buy
an unproved bull choose one of a strain
in which the males got high-test daugh-
ters ; the dam must show a good record
j n herd tests. When a high standard has
b reached in the herd culling will main
. . uumg wm main-
*. .. . , , -
Ihe Individual farmer owes it to him-
self and the industry in general to raise
production figures as high as possible
Most of the prosperous dairymen I know
. t u„ formation of tb«; v. a Know
the tormation ot their herds in a
small way by adding several good heifers
and a good bull to the nondescripts they
started with, and by judicious breeding
cu ijj n „ anc i c | ose attention to l-h *
culling and close attention to herd-testing
reached a particularly high standard. The
importance of herd-testing in herd im-
provement cannot be too highly stressed.
and where this isn’t available steps should
be t to have a group formed.
. , _ „
Conserving the Soil.
“ M / rrhee ” = In t .• -port on a soil con-
servation competition in the Goulburn
Valley (Vic.), R. G. Thomas (Victorian
Soil Conservation Board) and W. D.
Al ) dr ew (Victoiian Department of Agri-
culture) were impressed with three points.
The first was that all leaders in the com-
petition had almost complete control of
One hill paddock of: 4001 acres
on a strath Creek property (Yea), for-
merly carrying 100 dry sheep, now carries
350 head 5 3500 rabbits were destroyed at
A-
the P st digging-out. Allowing seven
rabbits as equal to one sheep, the total
stocking of the paddock was equivalent
‘°*?J 1 lf p - Now, carrying 31 times
“ pas £ °™ el L th f
” a f all >' ” uch more ,
The second P omt was that where cattle
were carried there was a better propor-
ti°n of grass to clover in the pastures,
leaving enough dry feed to protect the
surface soil in summer. Safest ratio of
cattle to sheep in the catchment appeared
to be one to ten.. This enables economic
use of the pastures by stock and main-
tenance of a satisfactory grass-clover
relationship in the pasture,
Third point was the possibility of de-
veloping pastures in the valley to a much
higher capacity. The need for rational
stocking, however, was stressed. Further
exploitation occurs where an endeavor is


ONCE LIFTED FROM BED & CHAIR
At 76 Still Rides and Works
FREE FROM PAIN OF
RHEUMATISM
Once again a letter tells about
wonderful relief from pain
brought by R.U.R. to a sufferer
from excruciating rheumatism.
This time 76 years old Mr. H.
R. Jones writes as follows:
"Rheumatism became so bad
that I could not sleep at night
and my joints began to swell
. . . when I sat or lay down I
had to be lifted up until one
day I gave R.U.R. a trial. At
76 I am now able to ride and
do my usual work again with
sheep and cattle.”
Many other people suffering from
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, kidney
troubles and similar ailments do not
realise that most of such disorders
owe their origin to faulty elimination.
But many more have found a safe,
natural remedy in R.U.R., which helps
reduce uric acid formations and
cleanses the bloodstream of disease-
spreading poisons and wastes.
R.U.R. has succeeded in many mar-
vellous cases such as that of Mr.
Jones. It is the only treatment which
at the same time contains a laxative,
liver stimulant, kidney cleanser, blood
purifier and acid corrective. R.U.R.
is bound to do you good. Take
R.U.R. regularly for a while. Smaller
size, 4/- the money-back guaranteed
full treatment, 7/6. Obtainable at
all chemists and stores.
TPLKE 8.U.8. am BIGHT YOU ABE
~fts a"pHshover"/or a
CATERPILLAR
n
v'AV/S v s
; ■ .
fg&m.
",4Vi li
■
# • *:*l
» #,* *
» imm
*«•**
*« «MM
♦ <MT*
-
H
'<••■- :
SiKjMjK
m
m
fm
m
m
' f OV
m
m
t- V ■'
-A.vk.tv
«*&
1
i' '>
• - . •'.s=; •. •
• ~;■' ■ f > .',« .■ -
■y
m
Mmmm
M
ms.
1S&
m
There's only one "Caterpillar" l
The name "Caterpillar” is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the (jldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
CaterpSJF
Wherever there’s a big job
of earth-moving to be done, at
record low cost and in the quickest
possible time, it’s just a “push-over”
for a Caterpillar. Its amazing work''
capacity and its giant diesel power take
everything in their stride, turning the work of years into the work of
months, weeks, or even days.
While “Caterpillar” helps to hasten the road to Victory on all fighting
fronts, hundreds of these world-famous tractors, with thousands of work-
ing hours to their credit, are holding the fort on the home front in the
production of essential foods to feed the nation. We look forward to
the day when we will be able to take care of qll civilian requirements.
CATERPILLAR
TRACK-TYPE
■E6. U.I. PAT. OFF
TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING
Distributors for New South Wales and Ciueensland:
EQUIPMENT
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd. St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LAS32l. Marquis St.. Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Enalneers; Mr. J. A. Rathbone. 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
•Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall. 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone—2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
eftifi c a t e s
CT .6.33.44
made to obtain a maximum immediate
return from the increased growth by
overstocking after topdressing with super.
This produces clover dominance and, if
the pasture is heavily stocked during the
summer, little protection remains for the
soil at a critical period. Where cattle and
sheep are carried and the owner has been
satisfied at times to allow a certain ap-
parent waste of feed, the result from top-
dressing has been that over a term the
average carrying capacity has been main-
tained at a high rate, a good type of
mixed pasture has developed and ade-
quate soil protection has been given. So
long as the natural processes of soil de-
velopment are imitated by allowing a
residue of growth to remain and decay
each season, a policy of soil development
by pasture improvement, use of super,
and stimulation of clover growth can be
followed.
Salt.
“H. Early”: The loss of many thou-
sands of fruit trees, which earlier bore
commercially abundant crops, and the
slower retrogression of hundreds more
have stirred up scientific interest in the
problem of salt deposits in irrigation soils.
It is not new' nor peculiar to Australian
conditions. Americans have struck similar
trouble in areas watered .by the Great
Boulder, Coulee and other dams. We
may have seen a warning in the soda-
impregnated waters in inland artesian
belts. But that water came from the arte-
sian strata at much greater depths than
it appeared possible to tap by continuous
floodings through irrigation channels.
The remarkable fertility of the M.1.A.,
its record of fruit and rice production
under war-time demands, and crops of
dried fruits, etc., from Mildura raised
high hopes for our arid spaces. All that
was wanted, it seemed, was water. In
these areas of low annual rainfall and
high evaporation the sodium salts are
not leached out of the topsoils as they are
in wet districts, where soil becomes “acid”
or sour as a result. Most of the dry
country soils are neutral to alkaline.
That the concentration of salt cannot
be very far beneath irrigation area surface
sofl has been shown by its rising to the
surface as the water-table rises. This,
of course, was brought about by heavy
floodings.
When the underlying water rises so
does the salt. Into the fibrous feeding
areas it comes in columns, to sicken and
kill healthy trees. Nothing much can
be done about it yet. The salt is there ;
how to get rid of it is the problem. There
will be need for much concentrated
thought and energy to overcome this
enemy.
Poisoned Stock.
“Bill C.”: Though there may be no
sure remedy for forage poisoning (B.
6/6/’45) a poor stockman is he who
won’t try to help his stock. If the
can swallow, give a purgative drench to
open the bowels and repeat in 24 hours
if there is no improvement. Whether
the animal can swallow or not, give
enemas containing a little raw linseed oil.
Keep it as quiet as possible and give
plenty of drinking water.
In Queensland there are numerorfS
plants that are known or suspected causes
of sickness in cattle and horses. A good
preventive of poisonous plants is the en-
couragement of good grasses by reason-
able stocking. If a good growth of grass
is maintained fewer weeds will grow and
stock won’t eat ’em. Where the grasses
are naturally poor try replacing,’em with
proved grasses. Kikuyu and Rhodes are
good for dry slopes, couches and pas-
palums for wet paddocks, giant couch
and water couch for swampy country.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pat O’Day”: If bare patches are de-
veloping in grazing paddocks break the
surface with plough or cultivator, apply a
liberal dressing of dung, harrow it in and
sow a mixture of grass and clover seeds.
Do not apply the dung to a hard, baked
surface. Where animals camp species
such as perennial rye, cocksfoot, Phalaris
tuberosa and while clover often thrive.
“Nuflin”: The theory that it is risky
to allow brood mares to graze on crops
such as oats or barley prior to foaling, as
it caused a percentage of mares to slip
their foals, has been exploded. At
Queensland’s famous Alma Vale stud at
Greenmount, on the Darling Downs, a
large area of barley is grown, some of it
for grazing, the balance for grain. Brood
mares are grazed on the barley, but are
introduced to it gradually, giving them
an hour the first day, one and a half
hours the second day and so on.
“Kaypee”; “Plane Creek” (B.
11/7/ ’45) in his failure to kill native fig-
trees with arsenic pentoxide has either
not used a strong enough solution or not
made the cuts deep enough before pour-
ing it in. A solution, of a pound to the
gallon of water killed a Port Jackson fig,
the trunk of which had a girth of ten
feet, while the branches spread quite 70
feet. Let “P.C,” build a fire round the
tree. ScmbfqQers in NO don’t bother
to fall fig-trees. When the fallen scrub is
burnt off the fig-trees do not survive.
“Farmer Bill” : You can t beat the
Boomeralla (Myoporum platycai puiti) for
hedges in dry areas. A hardy native,
drought- and frost-proof, all animals steer
clear of it. Shorn of all other green m
the recent drought, homes around White
Cliffs (N.S.W.) retained their emerald
strips of it. It’s also attractive as a small
tree which reaches 20ft. in height. It
is common to the western plains and
western slopes, and Dubbo Forestry
nurseries can supply seedlings.
“P.R.A.N.”: A good way to plant
sweet-potato cuttings is to throw up
ridges with a plough 3ft. apart. With
cuttings dropped at 2ft. intervals thereon,
remove some earth with one hand, place
the middle of the cuttings in the hole thus
made, replace the soil and press it down,
leaving both ends of the cutting exposed.
Under atmospheric influence the ends will
become sealed and the sap retained. Very
few misses occur, ,
“Bennie”: Try grease-banding when
ants invade trees and plants. Place a
band of greaseproof paper saturated with
grease round the trunk or stem, some
distance from the ground. Make sure no
branches are touching the ground.
Branches that cannot be removed and are
touching the ground must have a band
also. Sulphur and petroleum jelly is effec-
tive if applied the same way.
“Myrrhee”: Try this for painting the
trunks of fruit-trees as a guard against
ring-barking by rabbits and hares: Heat
one gallon of linseed oil to 470 deg. F.,
when a bluish vapor is given off. Do
this out of doors, as there is a risk of the
stuff catching fire. Remove the heated
oil from the fire and stir 12oz. of
powdered sulphur, a teaspoonful at a
time, into the oil. Take care here or a
foaming of the oil might occur. The pro-
duct is a black, evil-smelling liquid.


d
//X
r
Q
[V
9
$
rS
ft
•''>Xv: v--v &,*#&?■.«»«? i
'«v' , 1 , ‘ 1 I '<\< I .-I ' i/\ Vl' . '"
'■ >' ..'m lv, •, /y I ll*/' 1 '/
TREAT AS TREASURE
What the artist means, of course, is that you should
take the greatest care of your self-stropping Valet Razor
nowadays. For one thing, no more are available at the
moment. And for another, it gives you weeks of perfect
shaving from every single blade. You can buy Valet
Blades more freely nowadays but you must still treat
them with care. Even a Valet pays for a little coddling.
So remember: Never let the strop get gritty or
dusty. Scrape it clean occasionally with the back
edge of a used blade and work in a little strop dress-
ing or lanoline to keep it smooth and supple.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
SMOKE-OH!
“Why don’t they make stockings with open-
work panels, so we could get away with a few
ladders occasionally?”— Womans paper.
The ladders would be rung-in, so to
speak.
“If the bookies are only up to their knees
in the surf they’ve had a winning day.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Leaving the punters to do the plunging.
..x, , L t * * *
Man s boys top coat, like new.”
—Hornsby ( N.S.W- ) “Advocate.”
How quickly they grow up these days!
*l*
A man may carry more than one woman in
his heart.”—' “New Idea.’'’
Not if he consults his Auricle.
•h *t* 4*
Ihe woman who smiles all the time is sure
to be dumb and using it as a defence.”
—“New Idea."
So don’t dismay if your cutie one day
Wears a haughty and truculent frown ;
Just brace up and grin and go in to win
While the lady’s defences are down.
A. S. A.
‘Police Chief Alec Duncan was surprised that
• Vigilante leaders and members have not dis-
closed their names.”— Melbourne “Sun.”
Another extraordinary feature of Mel-
bourne life these days is that house-
breakers do not sign the Visitors’ Book.
•I- d* -I-
Roughing It.
“End of the war in Europe will bring no
relief to the corset industry, warns Mr. Arthur
Burley in “Berlei Review.”
My Aunt Annie, resourceful and
sprightly old soul that she is, doesn’t give
a hoot. During the war years
become independent of the beauty in-
dustry.
When a series of muffled explosions
somewhere beneath the black bombazine
informed her that her foundation gar-
ment was abandoning the unequal
struggle with her torso Aunt soon found
a substitute. With the aid of some sheet
steel and an easily suborned foreman at
the munitions factory where she worked,,
she constructed a snappy little number,
secured with bolts, turnbuckles and
counter-sunk rivets. Some of the bolts
fastened so ingeniously that it generally
needed three strong nephews with a
monkey-wrench to release her at night,
and once we had to call in an armorer's
apprentice.
Aunt Annie found all sorts of little
gadgets from the factory useful in pre-
serving her youth and beauty. She made
a serviceable pair of curling tongs from
some discarded pliers, and used to mani-
cure her nails on an old emery wheel,
which she mounted in the bathroom. As
Aunt was inclined to be careless with
her fingers, manicuring her nails took
less and less time after each momentary
aberration.
Aunt’s resource even carried her
through the shortage of cosmetics. She
found that a paste of powdered slag had
a remarkable effect upon her complexion,
“Cripes, I thought We'd ha been at the top o’ the hill by now!”
and that axle grease made a good foun-
dation for second-hand powdered kalso-
mine.
No, the return of beauty aids isn’t
going to make much difference to Aunt
Annie. She said so herself, regretfully,
when she looked in the mirror this
morning.
Plum.
•J* •h *l*
“Unique is the woman who can telephone.”
— Woman’s paper.
In under half an hour.
•J* •£«
Washington Drivel-dazzle.
(This week’s splurge from the great
columnist Brew Beerson .)
It can now be revealed that an ugly
incident in Potsdam threatened to wreck
the Big Three Conference even before
it got under way.
Marshal Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin,
who has all the bubbling humor of a
knockabout comedian, and dearly loves
to guy his friends, had turned up at the
airport to greet Winston Spencer (“Sour
Puss”) Churchill. As soon as the Eng-
lishman stepped from his ’plane the great
Soviet leader wrapped the P.M.’s podgy
hand in his own horny fist, tensed his
tremendous biceps and pumped the
Churchill mitt for a full minute, the while
he grinned broadly. Then when he re-
leased it, and before Churchill could get
any feeling back into his fingers, Joe
pressed a cigar into that hand ; of course,
the Britisher dropped it —in the mud!
It is no secret that Churchill, in com-
mon with most Englishmen, hates to have
motheaten dignity ruffled. He is very
touchy, too, and quick to sense a slight
even when one is not intended, especially
if he thinks the honor of his precious
Empire is at stake. On seeing a perfectly
good cigar ruined, the P.M., who has
never been noted for his sweetness of
temper, savagely snapped out something
which he thought was under his breath.
but which was sufficiently audible to be
heard by a keen-eared interpreter, who
shortly whispered something to Stalin.
Whatever it was he said, a deep scowl
immediately settled on the Marshal’s face
and stayed there until Churchill had to
make way for the Right Hon. Clement
Richard Attlee. That the mighty ruler
of all the Russias continually kept
pulling hairs out of his see-saw moustache
was evidence that he was deeply offended
at something. There undoubtedly was
no intention to humiliate the P.M., but
nevertheless it must have been a certain
source of satisfaction to the sometime
Georgian revolutionary and hater of blue-
bloods to put a descendant of Marl-
borough in such an invidious position.
They say that when the 1 figures in the
British elections were announced there
was no copious shedding of tears in the
Kremlin.
Discerning ones have never been de-
ceived by the many published photos of
General Dwight David Eisenhower and
Field-Marshal Sir Bernard Law Mont-
gomery in seemingly happy juxtaposition.
Those in the military holy of holies are
well aware that underneath this outward
guise of friendship a bitter enmity exists.
For all Monty’s photogenic, hail-
fellow-well-met air, studiously cultivated,
according to those who know him inti-
mately, he is not without a waspish spite-
fulness. It has always rankled with him,
too, that he, a proud field-marshal, should
have had to knuckle down to taking
orders from a mere general. On Ike’s
side, there is something about his sharp-
featured field commander that rubs him
up the wrong way.
Monty’s boorishness was made start-
lingly evident on one occasion in France
when Ike was visiting the irascible Irish-
man’s headquarters, and it caused tongues
to wag among the staffs. Apparently Mont-
gomery got the huff because he couldn’t
hog all the limelight. With an oily sort
of hospitality, Monty put his chief up for
the night. Next morning, when Ike got
up, he stretched and yawned quite a bit.
Observers point to the strong possibility
that Monty had given him a lumpy bunk
to sleep in! Anyway, according to report,
relations were distinctly cool thereafter,
for Monty gave more attention to his pet
canary than to his chief. And if cold
burgoo and watered whisky are the signs
of Hibernian hospitality, then Ike now
knows what it is.
General Chiang Kai-shek, balding, slight,
erect, ascetic, pigeon-toed, suave, water-
wing-eared, eyebrowless, quiet-spoken,
had met and admired for his courtly com-
mand of the social graces tall, handsome,
monocle-twirling royal ex-playboy and
dilettante Lord Louis Francis Albert
Victor Nicholas Mountbatten, C.-in-C.
S.E. Asia. But the Kipling tag still held.
Also, despite his apparent charm of
manner, Mountbatten, acutely aware of
his royal connections, is very thin-
skinned.
It soon became evident that in these
men of different race, color, background,
traditions, creed (the spoilt darling of
Mayfair has never had much time for
Methodism) a mutual animosity, which at
one stage threatened all Allied operations
in the Far East, was springing up, and
color was lent to this by the very warmth
of their handshakes, in their too-easy, too-
natural conversation. Lord Louis is a
practised, wily diplomat, but he was as
wax in the hands of the wilier Chiang,
who, despite the continued absence of
Madame (that rift, it seems, is ever
widening) can stand on at least one foot
of his own. At any rate, Chiang, so it is
said, gave a dinner, and the sight of the
elegant Lord Louis desperately trying to
hoist a grain of rice with a pair of chop-
sticks did much to restore Chiang’s
wilting prestige among his Kuomintang
followers. Those in the know say that
Lord Louis has never forgiven the
’issimo for this hurt to his patrician pride.
80.
Change.
All things are flowing in a state of change;
Nothing is stable, nor will ever be;
Reality is just a mighty range
Of movement forging onward endlessly.
And yet. amid this vast, eternal flow,
/ seem to hear a controversial elf
Whisper within my brain “If this be so,
Then how can change be permanent
itself?”
/ therefore think I would be wise to
state
I’ll solve this problem at a later date.
T. W. NATHAN.


Missing Friend.
TO JOHN HENRY VELLENOWETH formerly of 11
Speight Street Thornbury in the State of Victoria
Salesman but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MARJORIE EVELYN VBL-
LENOWETH has instituted proceedings for a divorce
on the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or
before the Nineteenth day of September 1945 the
case may proceed in your absence IF you intend to
defend the suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the Twenty-ninth day of Sep-
tember 1945 AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
the sealed copy petition and copy citation in this suit
may be inspected at the office of the Petitioner’s
Solicitor, JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
BRANDAUER5
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
'PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
Announcing
A Practical Course in
AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION
One of the qualifications for appointment
as pilot in civil air lines is knowledge
of aircraft navigation. To provide the
necessary training the College of Civil
Aviation, which was established in 1939
for tuition in aeronautical subjects, is
commencing classes to train for examina-
tions for Aircraft Navigator’s Licences.
The training is in the hands of experi-
enced ex-R.A.A.F. personnel. Home
study lessons will be issued to any part
of the Commonwealth. Regular lectures
will be held in Metropolitan centres.
For Syllabus and Full Particulars
Apply to
COLLEGE OF
CIVIL AVIATION LIMITED,
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Phone 8W5482.
BOOKS TECHNICAL. ..
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry-
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding:
Woodwork
Yachting:
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
>'■ s
* - -m.
J
V :
cs
137,000 “OFF-THE-ROflD” MILES-
VITAL PARTS AS GOOD AS NEW
There is no tougher test for a truck than carting
timber in heavy forest country. This “off-the-road”
work has been the daily job of a 1937 V-8 truck
owned by Mr. Alex McHamish of Collie, W.A., who
writes, “During eight years’ service the truck was idle
no more than two weeks. Cost of repairs has been
very light.”
The truck was inspected recently after doing 137,000
miles and the service man reports, “The crown-wheel,
pinion and gear-box parts are as good as new.”
Ford dependability has kept thousands of operators
on the job during the difficult war years . . . the
same inbuilt quality will be available in ybur future
Ford car, truck or utility.
FORD V-8 CARS. TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
fORD
F5O-20C
Look forward to your future Ford
Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
■«
CRAVENA
ikeybe ahvMfs,,
smooth * ftedt!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
y.& x-». v
m
m
m
5787
OATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Jolliffe’s “Andy” book. 3645.
Information Sought.
Would a war pension of £65 affect eligibility
for an old-age pension?
If the recipient of the war pension is un-
married, has no other income, and the value
of his property (including bank credit but ex-
cludihg the home in which he permanently re-
sides) does not exceed £59, he is entitled fo an
old-age pension of 40s. a fortnight. If the pen-
sioner is married, and provided that neither his
nor his wife’s assets (same conditions as above)
exceed £ll9, he is entitled to a pension at the
maximum rate.
(1) Does ‘‘lumpy jaw” affect the tongue of an
infected animal? (2) What period of time
elapses between infection and manifestation ?
(3) A method of treating the disease?
(1) “Lumpy jaw” ( Actinomycosis ) infects only
the jaws; Actinobacillosis invades the lymph
glands and tongue. (2) Time varies according
t'o the amount of infection and as to whether
there is a suitable site for the establishment of
the disease. It may take over a month before
signs are visible. (3) Treatment, which should
be carried out by a veterinary surgeon, requires
injection of sodium iodide in the vein of the
neck. As “lumpy jaw” is very contagious, treat-
ment should be carried out early or the animal
disposed of before the lumps break, as dis-
charge from the broken lesion may infect other
cattle.
Where and when did Eddie Bonis ( B.
27/6/’45) play for Australia in international
Rugby Union football?
Against M.L. at Sydney (2) and Brisbane,
1929; at Auckland, 1931; at Sydney (2) and
Brisbane, 1932; at Sydney (2), 1934; at Welling-
ton and Dunedin, 1936; at Sydney, 1938;
against South Africa at Capetown, Durban,
Johannesberg, Port Elizabeth, Bloemfontein,
1933; at Sydney, 1937; against Great Britain
at Sydney, 1930; against Maoris at Palmerston
North, 1931 and 1936.
Brief Answers.
R.E.P.H.: Your edition of Moby Dick is
worth 215.; Murihika should bring 42s
W.L.F.: The book has no commercial value.
. ...R.F.: Only the first edition of Fergus
Hume’s Mystery of a Hansom Cab is valuable;
give dates of publication of the books G.C.:
The Kennel Club, 33 Macquarie-place, Sydney,
may be able to help you... .L.E.D.L.: Lord
Killearn (then Sir Miles Lampson) was appointed
British Ambassador to Egypt in 1936
F.T.8.: (1) A member of the House of Com-
mons receives a yearly salary of £600; a Com-
monwealth M.P. gets £lOOO a year. (2) State
Premiers’ salaries vary for different States from
£1450 to £2445 a year, State Governors are
paid £5OOO a year (Queensland, £3000). (3)
The Governor-General receives £lO,OOO a year.
(4) The Rt. Hon. H. V. Evatt, D.Litt. (Syd.),
M.A., LL.D., was born on April 30, 1894, and
educated at Fort-street, High School and Syd-
ney University. M.L.A., N.S.W., for Balmain
1925-30, K.C. 1929; Justice Federal High Court
1930-40, M.H.R. for Barton since 1940, Attor-
ney-General and Minister for External Affairs
since 1941 E.A.: Hardness is probably due
to the first stages of decomposition of the
rubber proofing; there is no way of repairing
the damage... .E.J.: Admiral Ernest King was
born at Lorain, Ohio, in 1878, graduated from
Annapofis Naval Academy in 1901, was pro-
moted to rear-admiral in 1933 ; admiral, 1941;
Commander-in-Chief U.S. Atlantic Fleet, 1940;
Combined Fleets, 1941; Chief of Naval Opera-
tions, 1942 C.H.: The Superannuation Act
makes no provision for a lump-sum payment
in the circumstances described S.J.M.; On
the 4th Sept., 1936, two proposals were put
to the electors for alteration of the Constitution
in relation to the extension of powers of the
Commonwealth in regard to ia) industry and
commerce and ( b ) essential services. In each
case the vote was hostile... .A.S.: The Tongkah
Harbor Tin Dredging Co. N.L., A.M.P.
Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Hobart.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
F.L.: Air Force slang is no improvement on
English for general purposes P.McI.: No-
thing is more boring than laborious “naughti-
ness” J.0.R.: Piling on adjectives such as
“majestic” and “awe-inspiring” and varying them
with “titanic summits and breath-taking pano-
ramas” doesn’t make your hills and valleys any
better; what color are the darned things?....
K.S.: Weepy T.W.: Scandal-loving old
ladies are overdone... .J.O’F.; “Wow” ending.
B.V.C.: “Please be brutally frank and tell
me just what you think of ‘Dulcie’s Holiday.’ ”
That would be too brutal... .R.H.D.: The
machinery of the plot can almost be heard
creaking... .F.K.: Come again... .N.W.: Life-
less J.8.H.: The characters are there, but in
trying to make them funny you have turned
them into caricatures G.H.: Try a daily....
R. : Conversation stilted... .0.8. M.: Suit-
able material for a special article L.A.H.,
S. and C.M-: Horrors of peace M.F.L.:
Try prose Author of “Churchill’s England”:
Would that the poem were as illegible as the sig-
nature R.J.D.: Makes the sonnet easier,
doesn’t it, to rhyme “joy” with “joy”?
P.L.T.: Vague and high-falutin’; observe closely
and record your observations H.T.: Bridle
that galloping Pegasus... .T.C.A.: Pleasant in
a timid and conventional way... .C.McB.: Well,
you’re cheerful... .E.H.M.: Not funny....
J.M.: Lost in a morass of polysyllables
8.E.F.: Promising; write out of your own ex-
perience and don’t be doleful... .H.P.: Try it
on Mother Bellerive: Come in again:
THE GRAVE OF CLARENCE WHISTLER.
Melbourne General Cemetery, Carlton.
[Clarence Whistler prevailed in his time as one of
America’s foremost light-heavyweight wrestlers who,
having vanquished Professor Miller and other top-
notchers during his Australian tour in the mid-
’eighties, developed a fatal illness and died at Her
Majesty’s Hotel, Melbourne city.]
’Twas the afternoon
Of a calm fine day.
To Whistler’s grave I
Did wend my way.
Former great wrestler
And popular sport.
Whose span of life
Was sadly cut short.
In dreamless death
Friends laid him low,
The great wrestler
Of the long years ago.


THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.d.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
m
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to Schlesinger Standard's of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
f
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. 139 Clarence Street, Melbourne.
Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbou .
STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney
LUNAR'S GLORY-BIRD
By J. H. MELVILLE.
NO songbird ever shamed the bush
with such a variety of piercing,
wavering discords as sound out-
side Rab Bowen’s barber shop.
Their model —remote and elusive—is the
bell-bird’s call, and their purpose to tor-
ment the timber merchant over the road.
Normally, the barber ignores them.
But sometimes, when he has in his chair
a customer from beyond the range of
township gossip, he feigns a response so
energetic for a man of his bulk that it
is puzzling—a trick to open the way for
a gleeful, wheezing explanation;
“Lunar’s glory-birds,” he chuckles,
loping across the saloon to whisk the cur-
tain from a fly-specked window.
There, across the road, next to the
hotel, Lunar Carey’s house and timber-
yard, with its long shed, stands behind
a fence of corrugated-iron. The bird imi-
tators —youngsters with schoolbags on
their backs, and stockings hanging over
their boots —are pressed against peepholes
in the fence as they whistle, watching
for action in the yard.
“See ’em?”
Rab’s commentary never varies much.
“Just you wait, now.”
Then, all being well, the watchers from
the saloon see the kids go scurrying up
the road, and a second or so later hear
a block of wood thump against the back
of the fence. By the time Lunar’s long,
gaunt face rises up his tormentors have
dodged out of sight.
“Cheeky young devils,” is the gist of
Rab’s observation. “But I reckon they’re
teachin’ Lunar not to try to put it across
a poor silly cove like Danny.”
The barber doesn’t waste a description
of Danny on anyone who can be assumed
to have seen Lunar Carey’s squat,
swarthy rouseabout wandering through
the township morning or night, driving
Carey’s cows between their shed and the
leasehold behind the cemetery. For that
matter, there’s not much about Danny
that Rab Bowen or anyone else in the
district knows to tell. True, there are his
occasional social flings ; proudly sport-
ing a double-breasted suit and a great pin
flashing in his tie as he enjoys a concert
with Mrs. Carey and Lunar, indulging
all the while in a vacant, beaming survey
of all that’s going on in the hall. His
patched dungarees lie forgotten in his hut
then, and he revels in his equality. But of
the past Danny maintairfs a grim silence.
HE’D been given work and a home at
Carey’s under an agreement with
some welfare society, who had taken him
away from a job somewhere up north.
Rab Bowen had spotted his arrival;
there was little the barber didn’t see.
“First look, I’d have swore it was Rod
Gow the traveller that he came with,”
he said afterwards. “.Same blue ca>*,
bowler hat, and all.”
That would have meant no more than
most other scraps of the barber’s chatter
if it hadn’t been for the affair out on the
cemetery road a few weeks after Danny
had come. Gow had stopped his car to
ask a direction from Danny, who gave
him one terrified stare and then bolted
madly for the nearest fence. He’d been
caught in the barbed wire and had hung
there helpless with fear until, hearing
the traveller’s startled assurance, he’d re-
laxed and mumbled something about
thinking Mr. Anderson had sent for him.
He lapsed into mentioning Anderson’s
name several times after that. Some-
times on a winter evening as he sat
hunched in the basket chair beside the
fire in Bowen’s saloon, lost in abstrac-
tion, the barber or one of his cronies
would startle him out of his mood.
“I was wondering about Mr. Ander-
son’s dogs,” was the wistful excuse he’d
give.
No amount of kidding ever induced
him to say more. If pressed further
he’d just push out his bulging lower lip
and hang his head.
Allowance made for his strange fear
and reticence, he fitted easily into the
life of the township, favored because of
his shyness and good nature.
Then after his first haymaking season
with Carey’s Danny found a new pre-
occupation. He began to worry about the
stack behind Carey’s long shed.
“What’ll it be like for feed?” he’d
ask miserably. “Mr. Carey made us stack
it too wet; he should have waited.”
Only Lunar refused to concede that
point, and he only because he’d let a
hasty, arrogant denial of Danny’s advice
overrule commonsense. The stack, mean-
while, was sinking ominously as he
scoffed at warnings.
“That’s Lunar’s funeral, isn’t it?” the
barber would grunt, getting more irri-
tated each time he heard Danny harping
about Carey’s hay.
Obsessed as he was with the need of
pleasing Lunar, Danny found poof con-
solation in the barber’s reasoning. And
if Lunar was displeased there was always
the possibility of a return to the sort of
conditions that made him fear for
Anderson’s dogs. His devotion to Lunar
fell to a new level of servility.
Danny needn’t have worried about the
hay being used for feed. Heat, generating
in the heart of the stack, burst out late
one night in a conflagration that shone
over the township.
Rab Bowen, lying awake in his room
over the shop, had heard the chattering
and laughing of the mob going home
from the pictures, when in a flash the
room was charged with a dancing, red
glow'. He struggled into his clothes and
went lumbering across the road and down
Carey’s yard. He wasn’t the first. Ahead
he saw Danny working feverishly in the
light of the blazing stack.
A patchy hedge running up to the shed
had caught. Silently the barber joined
Danny, beating together with sacks in
the heat until the hedge was out.
“Well have to watch it,” Rab said.
“This wind’s bad.”
The expression on Danny’s face was
fierce as Rab saw him turn for the first
time into the glare. Trickles of sweat were
washing through the grime on his face.
“Too wet!” he cried out in disgust. He
held out his blistered hands. “Stacked
too “wet.”
His answer was the crackling of the fire.
A fringing glow circled the stack and
lay heaving fitfully on the grass, gulping
wildly with each burst of flame ; swing-
ing shadows across the back of the hotel
and conjuring willows out of the darkness
along the creek. Converging figures came
running out of the smoke.
The jabber of frightened birds came
from an aviary behind the house.
Lunar Carey and- his wife came
through the yard gate ; Mrs. Carey wore
a fur coat. Their approach was un-
hurried, almost indifferent. They were
met by a group of onlookers who were,
for the most part, fumbling and inarticu-
late in their sympathy.
Danny broke harshly into their em-
barrassment: “I told you it was stacked
too wet!”
“He’s right, Lunar,” someone said
quietly.
That wasn’t enough. For reasons of
his own Danny was primed up to de-
mand exemption. “I told you, didn’t I?”
Lunar’s admission would have met with
the understanding of the men standing
there with the firelight in their faces. The
evidence was final enough.
But instead Lunar’s pride drove him to
a counter-charge. With the harshness of
restraint rasping across the face of his
words, he turned to Danny and asked
“Why didn’t you take the tarpaulin off
before you lit it?”
The barber jumped in with “Did you
see him light it up?”
“I didn’t need to.”
Danny stood aghast, his eyes wide. His
flash of spirit died.
“I didn’t do it, Mr. Carey! I saw it
from my hut. I didn’t do it! ”
Indignation flared .up among those
gathered round, but Lunar didn’t wait to
answer protests. With his arm round his
wife he walked away ; and Danny, plead-
ing and pawing at his arm as he followed,
was ignored.
“A fine thing,” Mat Crae the builder,
a cocky little blowhard, was declaring to
anybody who would listen. “A fine thing
for the church this is, when a lay-preacher
comes at a dirty trick like that. I’ll take
damn good care it comes up at our next
meeting.”
Mat’s censure was prompted more by
a personal grudge than by concern for
either Danny or the church. Memories
of the mug’s share of Lunar’s business
deals rankled.
“What’s got into the man?”
“Spontaneous combustion,” Rab said,
proving that he, too, could toss off the
catchwords of the night.
Eventually the sensation was talked
out. Every man in the paddock was
Danny’s champion by the time the mob
dispersed and left for home and bed.
Hours later a light went on in a side
room of Carey’s house, shining out under
a raised blind and showing Danny hang-
ing motionless over the yard gate. He
was staring out into the paddock, where
for most of the time dense smoke hid the
smouldering ruin of the stack.
“Danny?”
He turned and saw Mrs. Carey, wrapped
in her fur coat, standing behind the hedge.
“I didn’t do it, Mrs. Carey.”
“I know you didn’t,” she said. “It’s
going to be all right. Now you let me
see you get round to your hut this
minute.’”
“I couldn’t sleep unless I knew.”
“You know now,” she said. “You
won’t feel much like getting out for the
cows if you stand here all night.”
She walked back across the lawn. When
she looked back from the door Danny
had gone.
WHAT was left of the stack was still
smouldering on Sunday afternoon
when Danny passed the barber sitting on
his doorstep in the sun.
“She’s still goin’,” Rab called, waving
his paper at the smoke drifting up from
behind the shed.
Danny’s big mouth hung open in a
grin. “It doesn’t matter now; Mr. Carey
says he’s forgiven me.”
“Forgiven you what?”
“Just forgiven me, that’s all.”
Rab brought his hairy brows down in
a frown. “But you told him you didn’t
fire his stack?”
Danny nodded.
Exasperated, the barber smacked his
paper against his leg. “Well, hell’s teeth,
Danny, what’s he forgiven you for? For
savin’ his hedge?”
“He said he’s forgiven me for setting
fire to his haystack,” faltered Danny.
“So he’s going to send for the man in
the blue car if you speak out of turn,
eh?” the barber concluded wryly.
Danny didn’t reply. He went on his way.
He left the huddle of shops behind
him, houses thinned out to homesteads,
and pasture land streched away green to
the hills on one side and to the stunted
tangle of the swamp on the other. From
among the clump of oaks and evergreens
ahead, through which a patch of the
church’s red roof showed, there came the
full, mellow music of a bell-bird’s call;
then childish cries of speculation.
Danny stopped for a moment to listen
before he tiptoed along under oaks over-
hanging the road, his boots scarcely dis-
turbing the leaves underfoot. Furtively
he breasted the hedge fronting the
grounds of the church. He looked over.
Two unoccupied forms stood among
the bushes. Over in the shade of a butt-
ress, their occupants, Lunar Carey’s
Sunday-school class, were crouched be-
hind their teacher and keenly scanning a
big macrocarpa that flanked the far side.
Danny saw a chance to help. “Have
you lost something, Mr. Carey?”
The class swung round and laughed
with their teacher at seeing Danny there.
“There it is!”
The watchers, as their cry went up,
were pointing excitedly at a bird that
had flown out of the hedge.
Lunar took no notice of Danny. He
led his class back to their seats and re-
sumed the lesson. Lunar was a bird-
lover, and the bell-bird’s visit gave him his
subject. The attention of his class strayed
to the movements of a couple of
rabbiters and their dogs working across
the paddocks ; but Danny, hearing analo-
gies and virtuous examples glibly twisted
from the bird’s habits, listened entranced.
Biblical allusions came readily to Lunar’s
tongue.
Then Lunar stopped talking, to delight
his charges by asking “Wouldn’t you like
to sit in with the kiddies, Danny?”
Danny shook his head and shuffled back.
A disturbance broke out in the class.
“He didn’t; Dad said the hay was wet
as muck, and what else could you ex-
pect,” a wild-haired spokesman retorted,
flooring the opposition.
“Now, now,” their teacher chided.
“Forgive and forget.”
Danny smiled and moved away, his
lips working mutely.
SITTING by the fire in Bowen’s saloon
next evening, Danny was again
whispering to himself, rehearsing the
same phrase over and over.
“Rab?” he said, and his lips curled
smugly.
“Well, what’s crawlin’ on you now?”
Danny hesitated and then blurted it
out: “You don’t know what’s a clarion
of glory?”
The barber was arranging blocks in
the hearth. He squinted up. “Sounds
like Lunar’s talk.”


Australian-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
From War
to Peace
□k
37*
raw
S2gimirn®
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BENSON WHEELS
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
2907
Spanish beauties mixed powdered flint and honey to keep their teeth
white and shining. The formula that really gets results is half an inch
of Kolynos on a dry brush. Kolynos is a concentrated dental cream.
Kolynos has been awarded the Gold Seal of the London Institute of
Hygiene for consistent purity and quality your guarantee of the
health value of Kolynos.
h,
m
'
K
s**
Egyptians of Pharaoh's day
treated dentists with as much respect
as priests. Kolynos Dental Cream
is made directly from the formula
of one of the most bril-
liant dental surgeons the
modern world has known
Dr. N. S. Jenkins.
8S
PI
■a.
When a baby cuts its first tooth
in the New Hebrides there is a
special ceremony, parents present-
ing pigs or providing a feast.
Dull dental plates
sparkle after just
one brushing with
Kolynos Dental
Plate Cleanser.
Daily brushing will
keep dentures as
clean as the day the
dentist made them.
ft
&SJL
SSSS
In Crete the people used to tear
a living bull to pieces with their
teeth as parr of a religious ceremony.
Use your toothbrush like a clothes
brush! Put half an inch of Kolynos
on your toothbrush and clean your
teeth with an up-and-down move-
ment. Kolynos is an active dental
cream. As soon as you start brush-
ing, Kolynos swirls away on its own
account, cleaning out food deposits
from out-of-the-way crevices that no
toothbrush could ever reach. Switch
to Kolynos to-day —it’s sold by your
local chemist or store.
df
Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutchman and
naturalist, was the first man to see bacteria. One
day he scraped tartar from his teeth, mixed it
with water and examined it under a microscope.
The scientific way to get rid of tartar is by
brushing your teeth regularly with Kolynos Dental
Cream. Kolynos will freshen your mouth and
antiseptically clean your teeth.
GET THE BEST FROM
SHED MANAGEMENT.*
YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
* 3s. 6d., POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
“It flies about,” Danny prompted.
“Shouldn’t be surprised,” Rab said,
“You never know what’s flying about
nowadays.” He straightened up, and the
exertion left his face even more mottled
and purplish than usual. He gave a tug
at the hair jutting out over Danny’s
collar. “Get into the chair there, and
I’ll give you a trim ; you’re gettin’ shaggy
as an.old dog.”
The barber’s ignorance amused Danny,
He wasn’t going to be cheated by evasion
either.
“It’s a bell-bird, Rab ; that’s what a
clarion of glory is.” There was condes-
cension in Danny’s tone. “I heard Mr,
Carey telling the boys and girls in his
Sunday-school class,”
The barber grunted and rammed the
ends of his sheet down Danny’s neck,
A bow-legged man in an oilskin cape
stamped into the shop, blowing his hands,
Rab nodded a greeting. “You’re just
in time,” he said, “to hear Danny tell us
all about Lunar’s glory-bird.”
The bow-legged man winked and asked
what weight it was carrying.
“It’s a bird.”
“A what?”
“A bell-bird,” Danny said, and launched
rashly into an attempt to justify himself.
His version of Lunar’s lesson was hesi-
tant enough without having the bow-
legged man interrupting to insist that
Lunar was secretly running a racehorse.
Danny stammered on gamely for a
while and then, disappointed and resent-
ful, he lapsed into silence.
“You’re taking Lunar’s glory-bird stuff
too serious,” Rab said, when he was
brushing Danny down.
But Danny refused to be coaxed out of
his sulky mood. He slid out of the chair
and left without saying a word, only
pausing at the door to poke a face at the
bow-legged man sitting on the couch.
Over at Carey’s he promptly sought
Lunar’s assurance, and was deeply im-
pressed by a text that boded ill for the
scoffers of Bowen’s saloon.
Furthermore, Lunar returned from his
class the following Sunday to hearten
him with news of a happy vindication of
faith—the bell-bird had come again. Fol-
lowing on the singing of hymns, its call
had been clearly audible inside the hall.
“Tuned to the innocent voices of
children,” as Lunar put it, gladly spread-
ing the news.
Danny took this new evidence across
the road, and again he was rebuffed by
the ribaldry of Bowen’s saloon. He gave
up in shame. The basket-chair by the
fire, when it was used, creaked under the
weight of alien occupants ; and he gave
no sign of recognition as he passed the
barber sitting on the doorstep,
SUNDAY after Sunday Lunar’s pupils
carried home reports of hearing the
bell-bird’s call. It attended Lunar faith-
fully—too faithfully to be mere accident,
some said.
' Lunar was inspired to write a charming
piece for the paper. There was a lot of
talk in the township, too, with opinions
varying widely.
The most noticeable effect was seen in
Lunar himself. His manner was chang-
ing. The banalities that passed as a
sense of humor were forgotten, and his
brisk formality gave way to a mystic
sort of serenity. He hinted vaguely at
becoming receptive to “messages,”
Then came something in the nature of
a test: “The Sign” was the subject
chalked on the church notice-board
among the trees, and underneath was
Lunar’s name as lay preacher for the
evening service.
Lunar, however, would commit himself
to nothing, and the sceptics saw a shrewd
loophole in the arrangement. Darkness
would be falling as he preached, provid-
ing him with a ready-made excuse for the
defection of his glory-bird. His reaction
to such distrust was pained and indulgent,
Ihere was no more attentive member
of his congregation that Sunday evening
than Mat Crae, who sat at the end of a
pew beside the door. One hand was in
his pocket, fingering the switch of a torch.
From the organ to the heavy beams
crossing overhead Mat’s beady eyes had
noted every detail that might yield a
clue to Lunar’s trickery.
“Maybe got one of his own birds
up there in the roof,” he suggested to his
wife. “Listen hard, Bessie,”
Mat was somewhat hard of hearing and
spoke loudly. She silenced him with an
elbow swung vigorously to the ribs.
“Or a wire worked with his foot,” he
mumbled to himself,
After the first hymn Lunar stood
trifling with the buttons of his coat, casu-
ally waiting for the call. It came, muffled
but fairly distinct.
Even before his wife had let out an
indrawn gasp Mat was out through the
door. He crouched against the wall and
waited. The call was repeated—from the
macrocarpa hedge—and it was obvious
there in the open, even to Mat’s hearing,
that it was no more than just a fair imita-
tion.
Noting the spot in the hedge, he made
a stealthy detour through the bushes, in-
tending to approach unseen. But he had
misjudged his distance. When the next
call sounded it was a yard or so in front
of him. He propped and then plunged,
sweeping aside the foliage and thrusting
in with his torch shining.
There, snug in a nook laced with
branches, Danny sat goggling. Two fingers
were in his mouth, under a cupped hand,
“You can come out now, Danny,” Mat
said.
Danny struggled out, with debris cling-
ing to his hair and dungarees.
“They never knew it was me!” he burst
out, under the stress of weeks of forbear-
ance. “I got in from the back; and I
practised up the hill first so they wouldn’t
know, and they didn’t.” He was chuck-
ling with eagerness to have his triumph
acknowledged.
“You’re sure Lunar didn’t put you up
to this?”
Danny was jealous of the credit due to
him, “1 made it all up myself,” he
asserted. “Mr. Carey wanted the bird to
come back, and when it didn’t I came in-
stead to please him because he was so
wild about the stack going on fire. And
he never knew. Nobody ever knew.”
Mat’s comment was deceptively bland:
“You know, Danny, I think somehow
that Lunar’s going to be wilder yet.”
“I wonder what he’ll say?” Danny
asked, growing suddenly anxious. Conse-
quences were something he’d overlooked.
“Not too much, I’m thinking,” the
little builder pondered, as his satisfaction
was being matched against certain items
on the credit side of Lunar’s ledger.
“You’ll always be his glory-bird.”
AN OLD RECORD.
The books have devised a setting fit for us.
Some documented stage-convention claims
Its candle a tangle of shadows laid thus
and thus,
Stapled with tricks of color as in our
vague dreams;
The metronome like that inquiring clock
Niched in a heart’s grey tower, as I might
sa y>
Allotting its due of panic to each day.
Huge traffic of life and death, the lapse
and shock
Of derelict thought, event.
And on fresh tack
I thread spent hulls, reefs of the future,
and danger,
Pirate of peace, to a port of drift and
slack,
I ring you with mountain-minutes, dead.
silver singer.
For properties—l am the shadow and
glimmer;
My clean-poised thought like an otter will
strike after
Some warped glint in the depths, a silver
tremor, _
Still careless if all it finds be a stone in
the water.
In this powdering light on the shaken
yellow beach
I finger a salvage-shred, bleached waxen
shell
Still shivering with fugitive passion of a bell,
R.A.A.F.
Epic of drama and storm passed out of
reach —
Yet death, hungry for fragments, switches
back a long
Tentacle from that storm: the bell swept
out so far
Is quarry for the throttling wind; so
your fading song
Swings out in cadence like a falling star.
This jaded earth props and staggers—
give me meaning
For spur, or a call from the garbled scrub
of the night;
Beauty, I tell you, seems almost past
sustaining;
Baffled by maniac hands that bluff the
light
So few, like Roland at the crumbling
wall
Circling God knows what perils, will wind
OU f
a rusted note of challenge, and jauntily
wait
p or an ec ho—so much as a simple flint
to fall.
And now that leit-motif, that last note
curls
Q ut f Q the thronged ditches and valor fills
The sky.
Hear how that whippet oboe snarls —
A yellow streak of defiance—at the
crowding hills !
F. WEBB.


Are You a Business
f
or Professional
Man?
If so, your days are possibly so fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 68th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
Mid Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sit Claude
Reading,K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws,C.B.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sit Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sic Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R- T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). O. R. CORNWELL,
1945
Manager-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
r- 1 Dividends N To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1935.. 21,807 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 124 „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 7* „ 16,659 110,221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,806 116,027
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
1940.. 35,035 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 15,570 147,029
1941.. 38,705 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 19,240 166,269
1942.. 28,110 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 8,645 174,914
1943.. 36,319 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 1
To staff fund, £5OOO >11,854 186 > 768
1944.. 40,962 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465] Ifi 9n „ 9r ,
To staff fund, £5OOO ..) 16,497 203,265
1945.. 38,507 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 19,042 222,307
* Profits shown less outside interest.
Surrender of Japan has changed the out-
look for Australian textile and other
manufacturers. And, unless they make
speedy readjustments to meet the new
conditions, rehabilitation may be seri-
ously impeded. A prerequisite is removal
of controls imposed to meet war needs,
which were very different from the needs
and wants that will presently clamor for
satisfaction.
At the annual meeting on June 27 —
before the surrender—Prestige’s chair-
man summed up the position in this way:
As the year advanced the profits became
progressively lower. Both directors and
management have been continuously watch-
ing this trend and, after careful investiga-
tion, have satisfied themselves there is little
more they can do to improve the position
until industry is relieved of many controls
that now so seriously encumber it.
Quick to sense the sudden change in con-
ditions, the public, already well catered
for in essentials, is prepared to wait until
better and more appealing textiles and
clothing again come on to the market.
For these and other reasons prompt re-
moval of styling restrictions is called for,
followed by progressive and speedy elimi-
nation of clothes rationing as the supply
position improves. Economic stability
demands that the position of textile and
other manufacturers should not be weak-
ened by maintenance of controls that
stand in the way of increased output of
wanted goods. Other problems soon to
appear will be the co-relation of selling
prices, costs (chiefly wages) and profits.
Maintenance of a rigid ceiling over selling
prices when all costs factors are not also
brought under control might remove the
profit from some lines, and so impede
supply.
Pre-war Prestige specialised in manu-
facture of women’s fashion hosiery and
underwear, and the quality of its pro-
ducts won it a wide goodwill—of which
no account is taken in the books —
throughout Australia and in markets over-
seas. During the war production was
switched to urgently-needed parachutes
and standardised textiles and clothing for
the forces. Civilian output was cut by
over 50 p.c. and confined to standardised
essentials. Immediate return to manu-
facture of quality merchandise is the
obvious answer to rehabilitation of this
co., and others similarly situated.
Although there is still a shortage of suit-
able female labor, and no raw silk is
available, the co.’s stocks of raw materials
are suitable for production of more
fashion goods than it is permitted to turn
out under now redundant war-time con-
trols.
Another feature of the business is its
steady expansion. In the early 1930’s
activities spread to Maoriland, where
Prestige (N.Z.) was formed, and the
parent began manufacture of fine lin-
gerie. Then dyeing and finishing were
undertaken on a commercial basis,
Dycraft Pty. being formed for the pur-
pose. Manufacture of fine woollen fab-
rics, begun in 1941, mainly on defence
account, was taken over by Prestige Fab-
rics, Ltd., a couple of years later. A
branch factory was set up at Ararat (Vic.)
and additions made to the parent’s Mel-
bourne mills. Last term Dyecraft—paid
capital £175,000 in 75,000 5 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 100,000 ords. —was formed
into a public co. The parent owns the
ords.; the public was offered and snapped
the prefs.
The year’s combined net earnings of
the parent and subsidiaries was £2455
lighter at £38,507. That was after deduct-
ing divs. paid to outside interests, allow-
ing £30,116 (down £2149) for depreciation
and something for taxation. The parent s
own contribution was £7712 (down
£10,021). The £38,531 was enough to
pay the parent’s pref. div. and show 26.9
p.c. on its £112,209 of ord. capital., com-
pared with 30, 25.4 and 17.3 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c. ? money being wanted to help
finance expansion of subsidiary interests.
Combined balance-sheet figures reflect
the tapering of defence orders, which, of
course, will now become pronounced:
Cons. Figures \
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £215,259 £215,259 £270,260 £270,264
Outside capitalf 30,000 30,000 55,000 55,000
Overdraft .. 27,968 31,339
Creditors* .. 104,389 189,253 171,207 162,722
Freeholds .. 108,531 110,921 90,612 100,395
Plant, etc. .. 91,122 71,169 64,696 68,937
Shares other cos. 1,600 1,600 1,600
Stocks .. 294,165 366,236 300,190 268,139
Book debts, etc. 35,653 83,024 156,079 76,140
Cash, etc. .. 3,162 8,468 20,355 118,211
t Prestige (N.Z.) prefs * Including tax provision.
Last term debtors’ balances were reduced
by £79,939 and stocks by £32,051. To-
gether with allowances tor depreciation,
etc., this enabled £18,485 to be clipped
off the outside debt, £14,024 net to be
added to the book value of fixed assets,
and cash, etc., to be strengthened by
£97,856. When the books closed more
or less liquids exceeded outside liabilities
by £311,368 (up £4351).
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1935.146,445 12,000 12J p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 (£54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,926 12,000 12$ p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18J p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 17| p.c.=188,347 61,061 454,705
1939.274,704 12,000 18f „ „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
1940.278,047 12,000 174 „ „ 209,871 56,176 571,785
1941.230,182 12,000 17* ~ „ 226,015 563,952
1942.241,610 12,000 12* „ „ 151,440 68,170 632,122
A.R.P. provision, £17,600 614,522
1943.175,569 12,000 10 p.c.=129,152 34,417 648,939
1944.174,428 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 33,276 682,215
1945.196,865 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 55,713 737,928
The extraordinary financial success of
well-run variety chain-stores during the
between wars period and their very satis-
factory, though less spectacular, perform-
ance under war-time restrictions and
handicaps have attracted attention to the
post-war investment possibilities of this
class of scrip.
Trading technique of these chains rests
largely upon quick sales for cash —capi-
tal was turned over five or six times a
year pre-war—enabling most lines to be
cleared, the bill paid and profit pocketed
all within the time allowed under
ordinary trade credit. Hence, capital in-
vestment in the chief earning asset
(stocks) is kept relatively low, and risk
of loss from price fluctuations is reduced.
Research and buying departments are
constantly on the watch to keep the stores
stocked with new and old-established low-
priced lines having high consumer appeal.
Combined with centralised buying, this
makes for large-scale production in manu-
facture, to the benefit of both buying and
selling prices. Also small personal service
helps to keep overhead down, and there
are few book debts in the retail sense of
the term.
Coles’s sales continued to expand until
mid-1942. Then clothes and other ration-
ing, switch of manufacturing plants to
war contracts, and import and exchange
difficulties reversed the trend. Some lines
disappeared from the market altogether,
and most others became increasingly
scarce. Those in shortest supply were
crockery, kitchenware, domestic hardware
and haberdashery. As the forces are de-
mobilised more and more industrial pro-
duction will come on to the hungry
civilian market, and removal of rationing
and other controls that have held down
consumption is anxiously awaited. Turn-
over of the chains can be expected to
benefit as more goods become available,
and, for a while, normal demand will be
reinforced by deferred buying. Costs
threatening to be the troublesome factor,
as always. They will be higher than pre-
war. Much will depend upon the Gov-
ernment’s policy for relating the wage
and price structures. No relief from the
burden of taxation is promised for
another 10 months or so.
The co. has 83 branches scattered
throughout the Commonwealth; 70 of
them are in Victoria and N. S. Wales.
Last term more goods became available
and there was a spring of £22,437 in the
co.’s net earnings. That was after setting
aside something for the taxgatherer
allowing £93,954 (up £3489) for deprecia-
tion, and includes £25,464 (up £35)
dropped from somewhere into the
property depreciation reserve (now
£274,450). The £196,865 of profit was
sufficient to pay the pref. div. and show
14.3 p.c. on the £1,291,515 of ord. capi-
tal, compared with 12.5, 12.6, 17.7, 16.9,
22.1 and 24.4 p.c. back to 1939. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and the £55,713
that remained lifted reserves £737,928 in
excess of goodwill (£54,000), not treated
as an asset herein.
Balance-sheet figures reflect prepara-
tion for brisker trading:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital— £ £ £ £
Ord. .. 1,094,528 1,291,515 1,291,615 1,291,515
Pref. .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft .. 161,273 92,387
Creditors . . 116,565 139,495 91,017 106,988
Mortgages, etc. 197,000 182,000 182,000 182,000
Employees’ funds 37,585 40,566 24,243 22,351
Tax reserve. . 91,057 164,829 145,218 165,174
Freeholds .. 1,085,506 1,216,581 1,226,991 1,224,181
Leaseholds .. 252,917 294,563 209,088 183,367
Fittings, etc. 378,405 461,310 345,303 315,187
Stocks . . 532,514 854,918 766,435 979,948
Debtors .. 10,875 12,537 14,655 38,828
Cash, etc. . . 69,208 33,905 81,228 84,324
Stocks were £213,513 stronger than at
the previous balance, and 84 p.c. above
the 1939 figure. To finance the outlay the
board went to its bankers for £92,387
and leant upon trade creditors for an
extra £15,971. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£534,200) was £114,360.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
To Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000
Provident fund, £5OOO 1 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO ..
1939.. 56.121 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £2OOO 13.121 695,970
Written off premises, £5OOO
1940.. 58,345 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £2OOO 15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO 1
1941.. 61,454 9 p.c. = 36,000’
Provident fund, £5OOO 15,454 726,769
Written off premises, £5OOO
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £7OOO • 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c, = 36,000 ‘
Provident fund, £6OOO 18,666 760,546
Written off premises, £5OOO
1944.. 64,558 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 17,558 778,104
Written off premises, £5OOO
1945.. 67,855 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO [ 20,855 798,959
Written off premises, £5OOO
* Includes 2 p.c, diamond jubilee bonus.
This 67-year-old fire, marine and acci-
dent office has strong connections
throughout the Commonwealth. Since
the cautious board withdrew from the
then troublesome London marine market
in the early 1930’s it hasn’t put much
ginger into the hunt for business outside
Australia. And, apart from some recent
infiated-war-risk plums in the inter-
national marine pie, it hasn’t missed
much.
In Australia the war-time “pegging”
agreement reduced competition among
insurance offices to a minimum—this
mainly for manpower reasons —and, as
a war measure, coastal marine risks have
been a Government monopoly since July
27, 1942. Still, war brought an increase
in insurable values, and in the volume
of all classes of business except motor-
vehicle cover. Hence, until the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, the Mer-
cantile enjoyed a steadily expanding net
premium income.
Here are the co.’s underwriting experi-
ences in tabloid form since 1930;
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 p.c. 43.5 p.c.
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 „ 51.3 ~
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 „
1939.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 „ 45.1 „
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 „ 44.7 „
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 „
1942.. 322,944 124,645 160,200 38.5 „ 49.6 „
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49.7 „
1944.. 355,367 160,968f152,689 45.3 „ 43.0 „
1945.. 349,731 153,486 152,808 43.9 „ 43.7 „
t Includes fire brigade charges, previously treated as
exes.
Last term saw a tapering of war con-
tracts, while production for civilian pur-
poses remains controlled. One result was
a contraction of £28,581 in the co.’s gross
premium income (£691,741). A shrinkage
of £22,945 in re-insurances (£342,010) re-
duced the contraction in net premiums
to £5636. Since losses were £7477 lighter,
and exes, advanced only £ll9, the under-
writing surplus was £1722 stronger at
£43,437. That was 10.8 p.c. on capital.
Interest and rents turned in £24,418 (up
£1575), or 6.1 p.c. on capital, making the
net return from all sources 16.9 p.c. on


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. .York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
m * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice
MT. COOLON GOLD MINES, No Liability.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared on
all the issued shares in the capital of the Com-
pany.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Friday, the 21st
day of September, 1945.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5.30 p.m. on Thursday, the 23rd day of
August, 1945, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday,
the 25th day of August, K 945, and shareholders
registered on Friday, the 24th day of August,
1945, will be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
Registered Office: L. EDWARDS.
360 Collins Street,
Melbourne. 13th August, 1945.
SlOPvcupßupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaHan,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 day*'
free trial offer. No oblipatlon.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), U .Martin Place, Sydney.
saina sons
1111111111 T j!^il.jllu|im|ll.iim l ynP.Ti 11 I i t HI ilJJMium
fillip npmr}l |U»|mWHHHiH j 1 [»t»> I‘H'l^Wp»iiti|iilijilll|llll|ll
M
IVD
■nmniiiniuiii^
Each of the three Cal Slide Rules listed
below carries the following Scales A, B,
C, D, Reciprocal of C, Sine, Tangent and
Log. Log. These rules are useful for a
wide variety of calculations.
No. I.—Handy Pocket Size (Sin.) Scales
recessed into white celluloid mounted on
Ivory Wood screwed to all-metal flexible
spring back. In soft leather case.
Price, 30/-
No. 3.—Ten-inch. Scales printed and pro-
tected by clear celluloid mounted on
solid wood stock and slide. A popular
rule. Price, 25/- in case.
No. 3.—Ten-inch. Scales recessed in white
celluloid mounted on Ivory wood
screwed to all-metal flexible spring back.
In case, 40/-.
Book of Instructions tvlth fifty practical
examples, 1/6. Send remittance by
Postal Note, Money Order or Cheque.
Money refunded if not satisfied.
CAL RULE CO. (Dept. 15),
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Yes!..
another
VICTORY
LOAN
opens on 25th September
and we should nil be thankful
We should he thankful for our great deliverance and survival
as a nation.
We should be thankful for an opportunity to speed the repatria-
tion and rehabilitation of our fighting men and prisoners of war.
We should be thankful for a chance to help in caring for the
sick, the wounded, and our men still in uniform, no matter where they are
located.
We should be thankful to play a part in ensuring adequate
maintenance and training for Service men and women until they are securely
re-established in civilian life.
We should be thankful for a further Opportunity of investing
our savings in a gilt-edged security, and at attractive interest.
Prove your gratitude through the
fourth Victory loan
Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you have cash saved, subscribe now in
amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on advance subscriptions
from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings-bank or stockbroker.
Then start saving, more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan
is open. Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO
and £l,OOO. Fill in the name of your district when making your application and
help your local quo^
Remem
W OUR JOB'S NOT
° er FINISHED YET!
4PV14.113
capital, as against 16.1, 16.4, 15.8, 15.4
and 14.6 p.c. back to 1940.
The div. was kept at 9 p.c., two-thirds
of which was covered by returns from
investment of the co.’s own funds. In-
cluding the reserve for unexpired risks
(£160,000), the lay-by is now within £lO4l
of the £400,000 of paid capital, which is
in 500,000 £1 shares called to 16s. each.
Until the lag in civilian production is
overtaken, and housing gets under way,
premium income might contract further,
but there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that the 9 p.c. div. is likely to
be interfered with.
Policyholders as well as shareholders
are well protected, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 215,000 255,721 336,004 866,282
Tax reserve .. 18,000 35,000 50,000 50,000
Freeholds, etc. 485,384 480,300 469,846 464,623
Mortgages .. 14,745 21,661 14,839 14,297
Govt, securities
etc. .. 364,149 441,859 607,760 678,859
Book debts .. 68,212 76,323 52,866 54,668
Cash, etc. . . 23,479 42,457 47,806 31,794
The amount coming to sundry creditors
consists mainly of provision for outstand-
ing claims and re-insurances (together
£307,956, up £32,213). Available funds
were again channelled into Government
securities (£480,882, up £72,100). Some
of the assets are known to be worth more
than their book value.
Australian Iron and Steel’s develop-
ment of its Cockatoo Island, Yampi
Sound, iron-ore project is expected to
involve a preparatory expenditure of
about £1,000,000, and production of ore
and its dispatch to the Port Kembla and
other furnaces will begin before the end
of 1946.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
Morning Star (G.M.A.) Mines, at
Wood’s Point (Vic.), extracted more and
richer ore during the 12 months to end
March last. Co.’s performances over the
last half-dozen years compare as follows:;
Work-
er eld ing
Year, Treated, Ton, Costs, < Divs. 1 \
Mar., Tons. Dwt. Ton.* Profit. Share. Amt.
1940 f. 7,342 8.0 60/- £3,703
1941.. 13,391 10.2 61/1 22,316
1942.. 10,458 9.9 51/6 31,216 1/- £20,000
1943.. 15,021 12.6 54/8 46,487 1/- 20,000
1944.. 11,293 12.4 66/5 25,538 1/6 30,000
1945.. 13,255 16.5 63/8 59,319 2/- 40,000
* Including development, t months.
All ore mined last term came from
sloping and development on the Achilles
floor. The richer stuff was got, as is usual
in this mine, from the vein near the
dyke slate contact. Assays showed an im-
provement of 4.4dwt. in average head
value (17.8dwt.), of 0.8 p.c. in recovery
(93.3 p.c.), and of 4.ldwt. in yield
(16.5dwt.). The lift in output was respon-
sible for the drop of 2s. 9d. per ton in
working costs, including development
(£2907, up £10). Combined effect was a
spring of £33,781 in net earnings, which
were equal to approx. 3s. per 4s. share.
An extra 6d., making 2s. per share, was
handed out, lifting total distributions
since operations began in June, 1935, to Bs.
per share. When the books closed cash,
Government securities and stores, etc., ex-
ceeded liabilities, including the final div.,
by £54,092. Ore reserves are put at
33,000 tons, averaging about 12dwt., an
increase of 3000 tons and Idwt. respec-
tively. The rise on No. 16 level suggests
“substantial” extension of the ore shoot
below No. 15 level. At the point of the
rise ore goes down 22ft. The northern
drive on No, 16 level is expected to run
into better ground on the western side of
the dyke.
» * * *
It is a quarter of a century
since Westralia had a goldmining boom
of note. The last was Hampton Plains,
accompanied by reckless speculation and
its concomitants. Another is tipped to
take place before long. Here are some
recollections of an ex-warden of the Cool-
gardie boom of 50-odd years ago, (1)
The local press gleefully announced
arrival of Mr. A from London with a
lot of money to buy mines. He pegged
ground miles from anywhere, borrowed
£5 from a Coolgardie storekeeper and
owed it when he left. Later it was pub-
lished that the manager had crushed
about 200 tons of surface stone for a
return of 2oz. a ton. Later still, news
was received that the “mine ’ was in the
hands of the bailiff for a goods-sold-and-
delivered creditor. (2) A Mr. B pegged a
claim on the same line of reef a mile
away from one showing gold. He sunk
a pothole, exhibited some rich specimens
and Jen went to Adelaide and floated
we .* during his
absence the Government Geologist and
abovementioned ex-warden inspected the
hole. They napped and dollied stone
from it, but didn’t get a color. No gold
was ever obtained by the co. which ac-
quired the hole. Though the details of
history might not repeat themselves the
pattern often does,
' “Joburg”: For the first time big S.
African goldmining groups are seeking
finance on the New York money market,
The “Herald Tribune” says that as many
as 20 corporations want to borrow as
much as 250,000,000 dollars in New York,
A lot of it is asked for to open up
and bring into production new auriferous
areas in Orange Free State.
* * * *
“O.B.”: The much-dimmed Cool-
gardie Brilliant (W.A.), which is ask-
ing those on the register for twopence a
share next month is acquiring an
auriferous area at ML Vernon, one of
many small centres on the East Murchi-
son field. So far nothing worth blowing
about has been jip there.
“Fine Gold” :* Co.
of Frisco, lar gestgo!d producer • •»
resumed operations on July 2, after a
three-year lapse. This was possible
owing to U.S.War Production Boar
revocation of the ban on goldmining. 1
saw the co s mine, in South Dakota, in
1937. At that time it had a shaft down
5000 ft., a treatment plant with a daily
capacity of nearly 4000 tons and ore re-
serves a little short of 20,000,000 tons,
Production was at the rate of about
19,000,000 dollars worth of gold a year.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
The End Draws Near.
“Ek Dum”: Arrangements for the
landing of Allied delegates, headed by
General Mac Arthur, to receive Japan’s
surrender were delayed by typhoons.
At the week-end a great Allied fleet
assembled in Sagami Bay, south of
Tokyo, under the command of Admiral
Nirriitz, whose part in the victory was
immense, though little noticed. *
„Every era in the hostilities has been
marked by naval advance, implementing
air action. And save for one primary
action —the turning back of the Japanese
from Ceylon in April, 1942, by the Royal
Navy and the R.A.F. —every step of
crucial importance has been, under
Admiral Nimitz’s hand.
The Coral Sea battle saved Moresby—
the later Owen Stanley drive by the Japs
was no real threat except in the minds
of boo-boo boys and politicians. The
Midway victory, shared with military air-
craft, established moral superiority over
the main Japanese fleet and made Pearl
Harbor safe. The Aleutian expeditions
drove the enemy in on his northern bases.
The drive on the Gilberts exploded the
Japanese dump of power overhanging
Australasia with its deadly battle of
Tarawa,
The drives to control the sea from
Kwajalein paved the way for the battles
for the Marianas, Guam and the Pelews.
The naval victory in the Philippines made
the recapture of the islands possible and
destroyed Japanese sea power almost
completely. The taking of Iwo and of
Okinawa was each a step which brought
the war to its splendid culmination,
in which Allied fleets ranged up and
down the Japanese coasts at will
with fire and bomb. Each was' an achieve-
ment of naval forces and co-operating
forces under Admiral Nimitz, in which
the Royal Navy was proud to share in
the last phases.
The remnants of the Japanese fleet will
surrender to Admirals Halsey and
Spruance.
It was, therefore, fitting that the first
sight which the Japanese should have of
the might which is to hold them under
control should have been of that tremen-
dous fleet headed by the 45,000-ton Mis-
souri, and including her sister ships lowa
and Wisconsin, together with North
Carolina, Indiana, Alabama, South
Dakota and five other U.S. battleships,
and the British Fleet under Admiral Sir
Bruce Fraser —Duke of York (the flag-
ship), King George V, the aircraft-carrier
Indefatigable, with Newfoundland and
Gambia and the Australian contingent.
This consists of Shropshire, wearing Com-
modore Collins’s pennant; Hobart, the
most experienced of them all; and War-
ramunga, named for the Tennant Creek
tribe, whose first commander was the gal-
lant Dechaineux, later killed as captain
of Australia off the Philippines.
It seemed a pity that Admiral Vian’s
carriers, which struck the first blows for
the Royal Navy in the Pacific—though
the R.N. had long before been engaged
in the East Indies and had made the first
strikes at Sumatra—should not have been
there. ’They were celebrating in Sydney
Harbor, possibly destined for another vic-
tory mission.
According to the arrangements
planned, ( over 1000 ships were to be in
the landings, with advance parties going
ashore on August 27 at Kanoya in
Kyushu, the Grand Fleet entering Tokyo
Bay on August 28 and General Mac-
Arthur and his staff reaching the Atsugi
aerodrome, on the Tokyo plain, on
August 30—weather permitting. General
Blarney will lead the Australian delegation,
though there will be no chance of A.I.F.
forces arriving for the actual surrender.
U.S. forces over the week-end were in
Shanghai.
The setting of the surrender will be
unpleasant. Reports from Tokyo de-
scribed the blackened waste of the city
as plunged in gloom, with dozens of
hysterical citizens committing suicide in
the wide-open spaces before the moat of
the Imperial Palace. And from Hiro-
shima came horrifying stories of the con-
tinuing tragedies caused by the atomic
bomb and the mounting death roll in
that wrecked city, as in Nagasaki, from
“radium” effects produced through the
irradiation of matter over the whole area.
Human history cannot hold a more ter-
rible story, and one of the most horrible
features is the delighted approval of
Australian newspapers.
N.G. and South-east Asia
In the New Guinea area, where esti-
mates of the enemy’s numbers differ, the
enemy’s being 140,000 and the Australian
86,000, an armed truce was arranged
during the week pending surrender orders
from Tokyo.
The South-east Asian arrangements for
surrender already are in train. Six
Japanese delegates arrived in Rangoon
to confer with Lieutenant-General
Browning, Lord Louis Mountbatten’s
C.-0.-S., who is supported by Air Vice
Marshal A. T. Cole, the Australian dele-
gate, and representatives of the Nether-
lands and China. It appears that though
arrangements are being made to allow
survey aircraft to fly over Japanese-held
areas and for ships to proceed to Singa-
pore with supplies and medical comforts
it will be some little time before formal
surrender takes place.
It was somewhat surprising to hear on
August 27 that General Itagaki, who is in
command under Count Terauchi at
Singapore, was proving recalcitrant and
might have to be removed. Singapore
Radio throughout the week has been
pleading with Japanese nationals to
realise Japan has been “completely
defeated.” The radio sometimes drew
amusing pictures of the grief with which
the local residents were parting with their
“much-loved” Nipponese friends.
P.-0.-w. Welfare
How long it will be before Australian
prisoners are released will not be known.
Among people qualified to speak it is
strongly held that they should not be
brought back to Australia before they
have been rested, carefully examined
medically and allowed to become accus-
tomed to their new-found freedom. Ex-
perience has shown, that prisoners
released from German prison camps, who
would naturally be in much better con-
dition than' those from Japanese camps,
were discharged too soon for their own
good in some cases.
The Government at Canberra ap-
parently has no pqlicy to express in the
matter; but it can be taken for granted
that, if the stunt press clamors for the re-
lease of prisoners instanter, released into
the world they will be whatever the con-
sequences to them, unless some very
strong pressure is brought to bear from
the right quarter upon the relevant
Ministers.
U.S.S.R. and China
The Russians, having achieved the
“conquest” of Manchuria in 14 days—
judging by the rate of their progress,
nobody lifted a finger to stop them —
prepared to seize the whole of Sakhalin
and the Kuriles, to land troops on Hok-
kaido and to settle the affairs of the
Chinese mainland, seemingly without con-
sultation with their Allies, who have done
all the fighting, except for the Chinese
part. With Chiang Kai-shek’s Govern-
ment a 30-year agreement has been made
by Moscow.
Russia, in effect, becomes the disposer
of the territories of the mainland. It
has been agreed that China’s “full
sovereignty” over Manchuria will be
recognised and that Soviet forces will
begin to evacuate within three weeks and
will be completely out in three months.
Port Arthur is to be shared as a naval
base and to become fully Chinese in 30
years. Dairen is to be a free port. The
south Manchurian and Eastern railways
are to be managed jointly under Sino-
Russian control and in 30 years are to
become Chinese property. Outer Mon-
golia is to be independent, if outer Mon-
golia desires independence, and Russia
has expressed an intention not to inter-
fere in Sinkiang. Korea apparently is to
be partly occupied by U.S. troops and
’partly by Russian and Chinese.
Eventually it is to become independent.
Nothing is said about the Chinese
Communists. As usual, newspapers hope
for the best and are prepared to take the
whole thing at its face value, though
from the invasion of the Baltic States on-
wards no agreement made by Russia has
yet been fully kept except under pressure,
and wherever Russia intrudes Communists
soon appear to gain the upper hand.
The keynote of the arrangement may
be summarised by saying that it gives the
Russians political control on the main-
land, the fighting Allies, who have won
the war against Japan, being left to feed
Manchurians and Chinese,
Hongkong's Future
For this purpose Mr. Will Donald has
called for “hundreds” of shiploads of
food, in return for which Britain in par-
ticular is to be asked to surrender Hong-
kong by negotiation, to the immense de-
light of Sydney’s “D.T.” and other rags
of the same breed, which at the same time
are anxious to give away bits of the Solo-
mons and Bismarcks to the United States.
Even Mr. Byrnes, the United States
Secretary of State, has said that the future
of Hongkong will be decided by the con-
ference of Foreign Secretaries. Mr.
Atlee has made it clear that there is no
intention to give up the colony. Apart
from the consideration that Hongkong
would still be a desolate island and
peninsula if Britain had not acquired it,
the local inhabitants have some right to
be considered. Ninety-five per cent, of
them would proudly vote to remain
within the British Empire. And if an
open invitation were issued to the Chinese
within a thousand miles of Hongkong
to come and make their homes within its
sheltered and prosperous borders about
half the population would be trampled to
death in the rush.
Communists and their dupes, however,
are anxious that the Chinese of Hong-
kong should revert to the “freedom” and
security of Chiang Kai-shek’s rule, and
that the Malays, Chinese and Indians
of the Malay States should be released to
their own devices—though, of course, they
would expect that Britain would squeeze
its belt a bit tighter to keep them fed,
and would be reviled if they starved. In
that case Britain would be described as
“abandoning” them.
This desire to “free the colonies,” of
course, is dictated not by any solicitude
for the inhabitants but by eagerness to
promote the Communist plan of breaking
up the British Commonwealth by robbing
the United Kingdom of its colonies.
But the people who build their hopes
on such plans should take a course of
reading in the history of the Napoleonic
wars. Britain’s strength lies not in its
colonies but in its people, its industries
and it power to carry goods.
To Manila for Orders.
(By JOHN BRENNAN. )
It was a moment that is history; the
arrival at Nichols Field of the Japanese
emissaries summoned to discuss with the
officers of General MacArthur’s staff the
surrender of their country and the details
of the entiy of Allied forces into Japan.
Manila is thick with dust; torn and
broken, scarred- by war. Huts and tents
and storehouses, oil dumps, pile upon pile
of ration cases and water-cans are
sprawled beside its streets as if thrusting
with a strength greater than that of the
bulldozers against the heaped-up rubble
of a once-proud city. For the most part
the walls of its beautiful public buildings
have fallen away. The twisted, rusting
iron frameworks that once reinforced its
concrete hang cascaded like seaweed
dried and rotting in the sun.
At Nichols Field the Filipino laborers
still work slowly at the task of clearing
and repairing the drains, filling the bomb
craters beside the airstrips, shoving back
the ruin of war for a new growth that
continues always. The dust covers it all
with a grimy drabness.
The ’plane arrived in the late after-
noon. Gathered to see it come in were
perhaps 5000 of the 1,500,000 or more
civilians and soldiers who are in Manila.
They had waited with a strange quiet for
more than an hour. There was a dull
tenseness that was in itself excitement.
Beside the cleared, roped-off space
where the ’plane would taxi to a halt were
newsreel cameramen and photographers,
correspondents from all the Allied world,
close on 200 of them. The party of
officials to meet the emissaries was drawn
up in two lines. A few paces ahead stood
Charles A, Willoughby,
Assistant Chief of Staff and Intelligence
Officer to General MacArthur, who alone
seemed at ease and unimpressed. Two
Australians, Major John Shelton and
Major George Caiger, were among the
interpreters.
There was a long pause after the huge
U.S. transport ’plane into which the
emissaries had transferred at le Shima
came to a stop. They were being in-
formed of the order in whiqh they would
be met. Then they walked stiffly down
the steps in order of rank, the short,
bulky leader of the party, Lieut.-General
Torashiro Kawabe, Vice-Chief of the
Japanese Imperial Staff, at their head.
There were 16 in the party; army and
navy staff officers and civilian secretaries
and advisers. The soldiers were dressed
in the drab olive-green of the Japanese
forces, with, the soft, small-peaked cam-
paign cap, the badges of rank and
the ribbons of their decorations on their
breasts. They carried swords held high
by the shoulders to prevent their trailing
on the ground.
They looked tiny beside the waiting
officials. Their uniforms were loose and
ill-fitting. Mostly they carried brief-
cases or leather satchels, but one of the
civilian secretaries had only a round
bundle wrapped in a dark-colored
handkerchief and a green sun-helmet
above his blank-white suit. They seemed
neither despondent nor despairing but
rather without feeling and without curios-
ity. They showed not the slightest aware-
ness of the people or of the photographers.
There was something comic in the
straggling, unmilitary tail of secretaries
to the procession. But no laughter came
from the crowd. There were a few hesi-
tant, ironic “Banzais” and a beginning
cheer —strangled by the cold, unemotional
formality of the curt salutes exchanged
by the opposing generals.
In twos and threes, an interpreter with
each party, the Japanese stepped into the
waiting cars and were driven away. A few
minutes only and the meeting was over.
Along the roads leading to the emis-
saries’ quarters, a small house damaged
in the battle for the city and in part re-
paired, groups of Filipino children surged
from the footpaths towards the passing
cars like crowds of puppies, laughing and
crying “Victoree, victoree!”
That night the conferences with Lieut.-
General Richard K. Sutherland, Chief of
Staff to General MacArthur, began in the
offices of Manila’s shell-marked City Hall.
"Collaboration."
“Ek Dum”: Collaboration became .a
popular word so soon as France was in-
vaded by the Allies. It sprang into universal
language overnight, one of those Com-
munist-born words which are loosed simul-
taneously throughout the world on the will
of a central controlling body in Moscow.
It appeared on Moscow Radio and in
the Communist press of Australia on the
same day. Its birth as a war-time epithet
was accompanied by terrorist reactions.
The papers were full of pictures of hulk-
ing Commos armed with tommy-guns,
which they held to the bloodstained breasts
of weary-looking and sometimes evidently
battered women, shorn of their locks and
publicly paraded by gangs of armed
bullies for “fraternising” with the enemy.
At the same time the cry arose for the
punishment of political collaborationists
—a hoarse, savage cry, always most in-
tense when it was aimed at somebody
who had thwarted the plans of the Com-
munist party in times past.
The Communist party has unremit-
tingly demanded the punishment of
“guilty men” in this country and has had
Labor support for its proposals. Thus,
after a conference with trade-union
leaders, among whom were executive
members of the Communist party, early
in 1942, Mr. Ward shouted that he would
like to “criminally prosecute these guilty
men, these men who placed Australia last”
—Messrs. Menzies and Spender, to wit.
Mr. Spender was a particular object
of Communist hate at that time since, as
Army Minister, he had interfered (if only
to a slight extent) with Communist plans
to prevent white-anting of the military
forces and refused to release from intern-
ment the Communist plotters Ratliff and
Thomas, first imprisoned and then held,
being defiant, for having been concerned
in planning sabotage of the war effort,
turning of “every factory, mine and work-
shop into a fortress of revolution” —with
strong priority for munition factories—
in preparation for “something bigger in
time and space.”
The Communist party could have no
logical objection if the Government were
now to take action against those who
sabotaged defence when this country was
in actual danger of invasion, those who
flagrantly and in an organised way inter-
fered with the war effort.
The excuse in the past has been that
it was impossible to connect them with
their acts, but the evidence is now being
provided by Communists themselves who.


Before You BUILD
or
BUY a HOME
CONSULT
The M.L.C.
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited
Assets Exceed £43,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £49,000,000


■ ' ;
:Mmt M\ A
*“* ikaj
' WAi
Warn
3S-:: .
!
i : m
HHH
i
11
■
mm
m
Si*
m
M*
BBSS m
L ..VI
k
w
I
I --:
i
WJ
TV- '.; , ■
■sm
IAV
g m
\
m
W
WOULD YOU LIGHT THIS FINE MACHINE WITH HURRICANE LAMPS?
NO—THEN WHY ACCEPT ANYTHING LESS THAN
FLUORESCENT LAMPS?
Condor Fluorescent Lighting gives that type
of efficient illumination necessary for maximum
“see-ability.” A worker who can really see
his work loses no time poring over charts and
parts. Maximum production is attained with a
minimum of “spoils.” All inspection jobs are
facilitated.
These factors alone warrant your serious study
of the improved lighting we offer. Then con-
sider the additional benefits —the virtual elimi-
nation of glare and shadows; the tubes are
cool—no danger of burning if accidentally
touched ; no additional heat in summer;
greater light output, three to four times as much
FLUORESCENT lamps
per unit of electricity consumed—hence, lower
operating costs for the same light intensity, or
greater light intensity for your present operating
costs; low installation costs —existing wiring
can generally be used, for Condor Fluorescent
Lamps operate on normal voltage, high voltage
is not used; continuous lines of light can be
installed following the layout of your plant;
replacement of lamps is simple—anyone can
do it, you do not need a “specialist.”
For full details on Condor Fluorescent Lighting
communicate with your nearest Condor repre-
sentative. He will be glad to assist you with
your lighting problems, and is in a position to
give you complete and satisfactory service.
Installations can only be made, with rare excep-
tions, in protected industries.
*
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY;
George Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd. Reg. Rose & Co. Pty., Ltd.
T. F. Stewart & Co. Pty., Ltd. Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd.
National Theatre Supply Co. (A’sia) Pty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd. A. J. Veall Pty., Ltd.
Howard Electrical & Radio Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE : ADELAIDE:
Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd. R- O. Woollard.
CONDOR
LAMPS
(AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.. 35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
emboldened by their grip on the Canberra
Government, make incriminating admis-
sions almost every day in print and other-
wise.
The Communist “Somersault”
On the day Germany and Russia signed
their treaty preliminary to the attack
on Poland, every Communist paper in
Australia changed its name and increased
the number of its pages. This could only
have been accomplished by considerable
prior organisation and by the expenditure
of considerable sums of money.
For the first two weeks of the war the
Communist party supported Britain and
France and the Poles. At the end of
the second week Russia, by agreement
with Germany, seized half Poland. It
was supposed at the time that the Aus-
tralian Communists had been caught nap-
ping and had been forced to change their
attitude by sudden orders from Moscow.
It now appears that Russia, Germany
and the Communist party throughout the
world had long before made their plans.
In Britain, in Australia and in the United
States on the day of the change a
pamphlet already printed in English and
signed by Dmitrov, Secretary of the
Comintern, a Bulgarian terrorist who had
fled his own country after organising a
bloody pogrom in September, 1923, was
issued in Sydney to be used as the war-
time bible of Communists.
It must have been printed while the
party urged support of the Poles, and
even before war broke out.
The party now declared that, with the
settlement of the Polish question, there
was no longer any reason to fight. It de-
nounced the Polish Government as a
“reactionary landlord Government.”
The “Communist Review,” edited in
Sydney by R. Dixon, Assistant Secretary
of the Communist party, a person re-
puted to have spent two years in Russia
getting special training, set the keynote
in its issue of December, 1939:
WHO WANTS WAR?
In answer to the demand of the profiteers,
plunderers and freebooters for a continua-
tion of the war, the working class must
raise the demand for immediate peace.
At the time of writing the rulers of Holland
and Belgium have addressed a plea to the
Governments of the belligerent powers
asking them to consider an armistice and
negotiations for peace. The proposals met
with a cool reception in British and French
circles. The Governments, it seems, are
bent upon carrying the war through to a
victorious conclusion.
It should be emphasised that the only
kind of peace possible at that time would
have involved surrender to Hitler,
An article, “The United States and the
British Dominions,” by L. L. Sharkey, then
as now, president of the Communist party
of Australia, and a member of the execu-
tive of the Comintern deserves attention:
The Wall-street millionaires are above all
desirous of perpetuating the capitalist' sys-
tem. That is why they begin to think of a
defensive line extending from Australia and
New Zealand to Alaska; a part of the
globe that can be cut off in the event of (a)
the defeat of British imperialism in the
present war; or ( b ) the victory of the pro-
letarian revolution in Europe as a conse-
quence of the war.... Britain is the market
for the Dominions’ products, and this is the
umbilical cord which ties the Dominions’
bourgeoisie to Britain and has stood so far
impregnable against the strivings of groups
and classes in the Dominions towards com-
plete separation from the Empire, at
different periods.,. .The present interest of
the Wall-street imperialists arises from
the possibility of defeat or crippling of the
British imperialist strength in the present
war, a European revolution that would
hamstring it, or a successful national revolu-
tion in India and other colonies that would
cause the whole structure of the Empire to
come toppling down.
Germany was very much interested in
the defence of that zone from Alaska to
N.Z. at the time —its raiders were pre-
paring to operate there.
From “The Australian Labor Party and
the Present War,” by J. D. Blake, chair-
man of the Victorian C.P.:
This war is an imperialist war between
two conflicting groups of imperialist Powers
for world supremacy.... The British im-
perialists plunder and exploit hundreds or
millions of people in the largest colonial
empire in the w’orld; the rulers ot tnis
empire are setting out in this war to
strengthen and if possible extend the ex-
ploitation of millions of colonial people.. ..
Yet Mr. Curtin urges the people to take
up the sword and fight to defend the in-
tegrity of the British Empire and the
colonial rights of the British ruling class....
The Labor party Right-Wing leaders refuse
to carry on a revolutionary struggle against
the present Australian Government and they
do their utmost to prevent any such struggle
developing. All the talk about defence or
democracy, defence of living standards and
so on becomes mere prattle to deceive the
workers unless it is developed with a mass
struggle to defeat the Menzies Govern-
ment. The Labor party workers want....
to end the war, to establish peace, to de-
feat the Menzies Government.
Support for Chandra Bhose
Next comes “India and the War,” by
G. K. Peel, a recent arrival from India,
who has since been a full-time Com-
munist official propagandist. He wrote
of the “very real hatred of foreign Eng-
lish rule felt by rich and poor alike in
India”:
The right wing of Congress was to some
extent co-operating in the savage repression
with which British imperialism was attempt-
ing to suppress the working-class movement.
The Right' Wing was autocratically taking
action against the Left Wing and the fol-
lowers of the ex-President Bhose.
This Bhose, whose views were frequently
and enthusiastically quoted by Austra-
lian Communists, was later found to have
been working in close co-operation with
Japan as well as the Comintern. He fled
to Japan before the outbreak of war
and formed the quisling Indian “National
Army.” His H.Q. were in Singapore until
his death a few days ago. He and his
followers were a party to the Japanese
attack on Australia and to the torture
and maltreatment of Australian and
Indian prisoners.
In Communist jargon, Bhose was a
“liberal,” whose opponents were “puppet
communal leaders toadies.” And the
Communist party of Australia declared
in December, 1939:
Defeat or severe weakening of British
imperialism in the war would certainly
mean revolution in India. Even in 1931
Hindu soldiers refused to fire on Moham-
medan anti-imperialists when they thought
home rule was at hand Defeat for the
Allies would not mean handing India over
to Germany or Japan....An Indian move-
ment strong enough to defeat British im-
perialism could defend India from all
aggressors.
This could be interpreted as an incite-
ment to the Indian Army, then strongly
represented in Africa, to rise and repeat
the horrors of the Indian Mutiny.
Lastly, in the “Communist Review” of
December, 1939, was a report of a speech
in which Stalin advocated the use of
war-time conditions to produce revolu-
tion in “mother countries throughout the
world,” using the U.S.S.R. as a “base”—
“that powerful and open centre of the
world revolutionary movement which it
never possessed before, and round which
it can now rally and organise a united
revolutionary front of the proletarians
and of the oppressed nations of all coun-
tries against imperialism .”
The italics are the “Review’s.”
From this time onward the Communist
party of Australia issued propaganda
designed to inhibit the Australian war
effort.
Breaking the Law
As one of its own Congress reports put it
The party above all placed itself at the
head of the struggles of the workers, the
strikes of the miners, metal workers
and others. The bourgeoisie learned that
under the leadership of the Central Com-
mittee the Communist party could neither
be intimidated nor cajoled into deserting
its Marxist-Leninist principles.
Which, of course, involved the implement-
ing of the order “to turn imperialist war
into civil war; to defeat your own Gov-
ernment.” Thus it came about that “on
June 15, 1940, the party and several
fraternal organisations were proclaimed
unlawful under the National Security
Regulations. Widespread raids were
made by the police on that day and suc-
ceeding days.” The party press was closed
down and the party property confiscated.
However, “the Central Committee
had previously supervised and led the
preparations of the party organisations
for the transference to conditions of
illegal work.” Some of this illegal work
was carried out through bodies which
acted as blinds for the C.P., such as the
so-called “State Labor party” in N. S.
Wales, a so-called “Legal Rights Associa-
tion” and Communist-led trade-unions.
It was accompanied by planning of sabot-
age of factory production, of war loans,
of enlistment and of the white-anting of
military and other defence forces —since
Japan caved in the writer has heard of
two cases in which active Communists
found their way into vital departments of
the Army and Navy.
Communists published illegal papers.
They deliberately, regularly .and wantonly
violated laws and regulations—National
Security, censorship, paper and materials
and post office.
The C.P., at that time, in the words of
Adolf Berle, U.S. Assistant Secretary of
State, was never sure whether its orders
were from Berlin or Moscow.
The “reason” they were not prosecuted
as a party or their leaders held to account
was that glaring offences could not be
sheeted home to them. Their illegal press
could not be found. They are still liable.
And the excuse is no longer valid, any
more than it is in the case of any other
wrongdoer against whom belated evidence
is made available.
Communists have provided the evidence
themselves. They have even boastfully
exhibited in Sydney the press on which
they printed illegal papers. And at the
Sydney Town Hall which, to the disgrace
of the city, has become one of their main
headquarters, they have flaunted their
operations, with “leading radio artists"
on the programme.
It is worth looking back at Communist
behavior on special occasions during the
dreadful period of 1940-41.
During that period news of the move-
ment of Australian troopships leaked out
through Moscow in a singular manner.
Thus, in a pamphlet issued by the Com-
monwealth authorities to warn Australian
newspaper editors it was instanced that
information about the movements of a
troopship, with the Eighth Division
bound for Singapore, had been retailed
by Moscow Radio and could be expected
to reach Japanese and Germain raiders
then in the Indian Ocean. How did
Moscow get the information?
The conjunction of special occasions in
the war and the secret Communist propa-
ganda issued in defiance of the law is
striking.
In November and the first week in De-
cember, 1940,, Britain was raided almost
daily by the Germans. London, Ports-
mouth, Southampton, Birmingham,
Bristol and Liverpool were among the
cities in which over 6000 men, women


SYMBOL OF SUPREMACY
ON
v AUSTRALIA’S
AIRLINE
SYMBOL of Australia’s conquest of the air
in peacetime and wartime skies—on Aust-
ralian and Empire routes—this design has
been evolved from the Qantas House Flag, as a
distinguishing feature of this Airline.
Q.E.A. —the initials of Qantas Empire Airways
—may well stand for the Quality, Experience,
and Achievement associated with the name of
Qantas .... accredited representative of the
Commonwealth Government and pioneer in
aviation developments of universal significance.
Qemtm
£nvkite,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE PERTH
Missing Friends.
OTTO OLSON JOHAN JOHANSEN.
The above or any person knowing the present where-
abouts of the above or having heard of him since
1836 (he haying been last heard of at Southport in
that year) is requested to communicate with CROUCH
& PATERSON of Commerce House, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Solicitors.
TO GEORGE RONALD FRENCH formerly of Fos-
berry Avenue Caulfield in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife CLARICE EDITH
FRENCH has Instituted Divorce Proceedings against
you on the ground of desertion Unless you enter an
appearance on or before the 19th day of September
1945 and file an answer in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court Melbourne on or before the 29th
dav of September 1945 the case may proceed in your
absence and that you may be ordered to pay the
costs. Joseph Barnett & Co., 332 Drummond Street,
Carlton, Victoria, for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO LESLIE THOMAS HINTON formerly of Grafton
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that WINIFRED MARY HINTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1807 of 1945 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you desire to defend the case you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the 2nd day
of November 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES
Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JAMES EDWARD JUDGE.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILARY DOMNIO PHILOMENA JUDGE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1433 of 1945 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance before the 22nd day of
October 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. BRAYE CRAOG COHEN
& CHAPMAN Solicitors Bolton Street Newcastle and
their Agents MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON
Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO DORIS LILLIAN HOWARD ((formerly Doris
Lillian Chapman) late of Brisbane.—TAKE NOTICE
that HENRY ALBERT HOWARD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3127 of 1945 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney before the Fourteenth day of
September 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from W. O. CURRIE Esq. Solicitor
of lie Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTINE BERNARD JOSEPH COLAHAN.
—'TAKE NOTICE that RUBY ALICE COLAHAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2692 of 1944
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Twenty-first day of September One thousand nine
hundred and forty-five and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS A. E. WHAT-
MORE G. O. M. GEE & CO Solicitors 14 Spring
Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
POST WAR HOMES
Whatever form your post-war home may
take, floor comfort is of first importance
... Equally suitable tor ample or moderate
budgets, FELTEX floor coverings confer
the maximum of under-foot luxury ... In
the shades available FELTEX forms the
ideal basis for the colour scheme of every
room in the home.
* Insist on genuine
FELTEX look
for the name.
•SC,
LI
HEX
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
MANUFACTURERS OF PLAIN AND MARBLED FELTEX
9
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH VICTORY LOANS.
and children, mostly of the working
class, were murdered, 8000 more badly
hurt and a million or more rendered
homeless. On December 6 the Sixth
Division, A.1.F., went into action in
Libya for the first time. On December
8 the “Tribune,” illegal organ of the
Communist party, wrote:
Stop buying War Savings Certificates!
Burst up the work-place group rackets!
You need all your wages for food, clothing,
the home and the struggle against profiteers.
Cut down overtime; save your energy for
the class struggle. Don’t work to get
money to hand over to the tax collector 1
Prepare for strike action if the basic wage
decision favors the profiteers!
And while Britain lay smoking and
thousands of little children were being
hurried to hospitals and whole families
were being wiped out by German bombs
the “Tribune” wrote: “Guns before milk,
guns before fruit, guns before chocolate
is the latest picture of Britain. Quite a
Fascist picture, isn’t it?”
When the first A.I.F. casualties came
out in January, 1941, the “Tribune” de-
clared that “the A.I.F. are in Africa under
the impression that they are fighting
Fascism and defending democracy. But
what are they fighting for? The A.I.F,
is fighting for colonies, for redivision of
colonies in the interests of the British
capitalist class and its Australian junior
partner.”
It should be noted that at that period
German raiders were sinking ships of
whose movements they possessed an un-
canny knowledge and killing Australians
right up to the shores of this continent.
On May 4, 1941, when the desperate
campaigns of Tobruk and Greece-Crete
and the bombing of London were in pro-
gress, when the Germans were threaten-
ing to reach the Indian Ocean through
Syria and threaten India and Australia it-
self, when our communications through
Suez with our men in the Mediterranean
were virtually cut, the Communist rag
shouted:
The fact is that in North Africa and the
Balkans, Italians, Germans and Britishers
(including Australians) are dying to decide
which gang of thieves is to control territory
and wealth to which neither has any right.
That was the week the House of Com-
mons was reported destroyed and Buck-
ingham Palace hit.
These instances have all been quoted in
the “S. M. Herald,” which, when
Sharkey came out of “smoke,” “inter-
viewed” him with almost the same rever-
ence which might have been accorded a
victorious Australian general.
‘‘Bloody Monsters”
On May 24, 1941, less than a month
before Russia was attacked, when the
dreadful battle for Crete was the topic
of the day, when hundreds of British
R.N. men had died to sink the Bismarck
and prevent the murder of thousands of
British seamen, the “Tribune” spoke of
the need to the press of a “silly sea-
son,” of which Hess was the centre. Its
animosity seemed' directed against Hess
not because he was a Nazi, but because
he had deserted the Nazis and the
Communist party. The “Tribune” ex-
claimed that Hess had “chosen the land
of ‘freedom’” when he wanted to get
away from Hitler. He was (it said) “wel-
comed, and though a prisoner, treated as
an honored guest”:
The facts are that reactionaries of the
worst type from all over Europe are find-
ing refuge in England under Churchill’s
wing. They and Hess are with fheir class
brothers in their spiritual home. All are
imperialist gangsters, enemies of the work-
ing class, enemies of the Soviet Union,
enemies of liberty—BLOODY MONSTERS.
Then came June 22, 19,41. That day the
“Daily Worker” in New York and the
illegal Communist “Tribune” in Australia
printed exactly the same statement:
There is not the slightest evidence in all
the artifices of the enemies of the Soviet
Union, who are striving to drive a wedge
between the U.S.S.R. and Germany, that
relations are other than friendly and peace-
ful.
Within 24 hours Germany had attacked
Russia. Then how changed the tune!
On June 22 all persons associated with
big business and the U.A.P. stood ac-
cused by Communists of being imperial-
ist traitors to the cause of humanity
because they refused to make peace with
Hitler and join in collaboration with
him. On June 23 the same accusers
were shouting that all persons associated
with big business and with the Menzies
Government were collaborationists with
Hitler and therefore traitors to the cause
of humanity and guilty men.
The Golden Age
It is almost unbelievable that three
months later a Labor Government should
have been rushing to place this party in
a privileged position. According to evi-
dence given at the Australia First Inquiry,
the C.-P. men who broke the law could no
longer be prosecuted in the ordinary way
after the Curtin Government took office.
Actual prosecutions in train were
stopped. Interned party leaders were hur-
riedly released “in the interests of indus-
trial peace.” Anti-Communists whose in-
ternment the Communist party de-
manded were interned and made the sub-
ject of groundless charges, all dreadful,
by Ministers of the Crown. Illegal Com-
munist publications were printed openly.
Communist leaders seemed to have rail
priority at a time when businessmen and
soldiers’ wives could not travel, and to
be able to go anywhere in the dire days
of early 1942. They carried on their
propaganda exempt from ail laws and
restrictions which affected less-privileged
mortals. They were supplied with labor
to open new bookshops ; any ordinary
citizen who had tried to open a bookshop
at that time would have been denied the
privilege.
When the Communist party was legal-
ised early in 1943 it was allowed to issue
its papers at 50 per cent, greater size than
in 1939 —the only papers in Australia
so treated; the rest were restricted to about
65 per cent, at most of their 1939 bulk.
Election candidates in 1943 were
limited to handkerchief-size posters. Com-
munist posters praising the Labor Gov-
ernment appeared in 20-sheet size. When
the Communists bought their new palatial
buildings in Sydney they were allowed to
recondition them on a large scale and
supplied with all the telephones they
asked for. This when returned soldiers
were prosecuted for adding bedrooms to
dwellings “without authority,” when
’phones were refused to private citizens,
and even organisations connected with the
war, on the ground of shortage.
The Communist party used the Town
Hall for congress after congress, to which
its delegates were free to travel at will.
Communists who were conscripted or en-
listed found no difficulty in remaining
near enough to Sydney to attend regular
Domain functions. Whenever there was
need to spread some particularly loath-
some poison the party always found a
“Labor” member to spread it under pro-
tection of Parliamentary privilege.
It, therefore, seems unlikely that this
Commonwealth Government will prose-
cute the Communist party for flagrant,
organised and , wholesale breaches of
security law for which others would have
been severely punished without mercy.
The C.P. will continue a favored organi-
sation which wins its privileges by in-
timidation and to which the Government
bows —as was said to justify its actions
in the Ratliff-Thomas cases —“in the
interest of industrial peace.”


Must a
Feed
Shed be
nearly falling down ?
You’ve seen the kind of feed shed we mean.
It has been shored up and patched up. It is plainly
out of plumb. It looks sick ... and it is sick.
One of these days it will either die of decrepitude or
literally fail down on its job. For a long time its
owner has meant to do “something about it” ... but
somehow he’s never got round to it. Well ~. the time
has now arrived when he can do something about it—
and should. With the increasing availability of
MASONITE, difficulties and obstacles vanish.
Modernisation, extension or complete reconstruction
with MASONITE Boards is a job which can be done
rapidly, economically and easily by any handyman with
ordinary carpenters’ tools. And it will be a REAL job.
because, painted like any other wood product,
MASONITE defies time and weather and stands up.
It’s time now to have a word with your nearest Masonite
dealer. You’ll find that he can be of considerable help ,
particularly if your need entitles you to a priority rating.
Manufactured by:
MASONITE CORPORATION
(AUST.) LTD.
Northern Sales Division:
369 Pitt St., Sydney.
Southern Sales Division
529 Collins St.. Mel bourne
'■'y.-y/X-9/y' •'
*
m
Jr
rw* WE LL TELL YOU
There are half a million miles of roads in .the Commonwealth—
twenty times round the world—and before the war there were
over 895,000 registered motor vehicles regularly using them.
USE
A
MOTOR OIL
/is Drag-free
WkC
\ouccm besureof
SHELL
FROM THE START Shell has been closely allied
with the Automotive Industry throughout the world.
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
LO 458
SPORTING NOTIONS
The size of the crowd at Randwick on Satur-
day suggested a nice profit for the Red Cross,
and an attractive programme brought many of
the better-class performers out for a run. Most
interest centred on the Magnificent-Civic Pride
clash in the seven-furlongs Hobartville Stakes —
a fine compliment to a sire’s first crop, both the
colt and the filly being by Ajax.
Winner of the Breeder’s Plate, Sires’ Produce
Stakes and Champagne Stakes, Magnificent was
favorite in the surprisingly willing betting on
the small field, with a good deal of support for
Civic Pride on the theory that she has been
racing and winning recently while it was the
colt’s first run after a long spell, and first-up after
a previous spell he was defeated. As it hap-
pened the race did provide the expected ex-
citing finish, but it came from an unexpected
quarter.
Civic Pride is a front runner, which made
things to order for Magnificent, who has won
his races from behind. Actually Magnificent led
them out of the barrier, but was held back,
allowing the filly to go to the front, though, F.
Delaney taking no risk, the colt stayed well up
with her. Of the other four, Fast Mover and
Balmore were close to Magnificent, with Chay-
tor and Blue Legend several lengths back. They
kept that order to the home turn, where Mag-
nificent was given his head. With the long and
seemingly effortless strides of a champion he
ranged up, passed the filly after a brief tussle,
went lengths to the front, and nearing the post
was easing up, a clear winner. Then punters
who had taken a shade over even money Mag-
nificent got their thrill. Last at the leger, the
Harinero colt Chaytor put in a grand finish
over the final half-furlong and very nearly
caught the leader napping. However, Magnifi-
cent put in a couple of long ’uns in response to
the whip, .and by a neck won a race he pos-
sibly could have won by half a dozen lengths.
On this showing Chaytor would probably
have won the Three-year-old Handicap, despite
top weight of 9.5. Another promising colt,
Deliverance, a son of Manitoba, leading sire for
the last two seasons, took it by a short neck
from the very game Golden Sovereign filly
Lakshmi Vallis, who seemed a little unlucky.
A Merry Mathew colt, The Tiger, was third,
half a length away, and may be worth keeping
in mind: he was heavily backed at his previous
start, when he ran nowhere.
Because of his sound win at his last start, the
topweight, Shining Night (9.7), was made favo-
rite for the mile-and-a-half Prince Richard
Birthday Cup, but he didn’t raise a gallop,
finishing with only one behind him. Parading
before the race, Buzz Off stood out both on
appearance of fitness and as a solitary chest-
nut in a field of browns, and passing the post
a couple of lengths in front of Accession and
Allan Veil he stood out even more. On looks
a typical product of The Buzzard, Buzz Off, as
winner of this year’s Winter Stakes over the
Metropolitan 13 furlongs,, looks like one of the
lightweights who may have a fair chance in the
big spring distance event. The Spearfelt gelding
Night Parade led the Birthday Cup field most
of the way, but faded badly at the finish and
seems to have lost form.
The best time for the day was put up in the
six-furlongs’ Campbelltown Handicap, which
the four-year-old Midstream horse Shannon cut
out in 1.12*, winning by two lengths from War-
lock and Silent, with Gay King a somewhat
disappointing fourth. Shannon won the Kirk-
ham and A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, and
last season collared the Hobartville Stakes, but
then took a kick which put him out for a long
time. He was having his first run as a four-
year-old on Saturday, and looked well.
The Warwick Stakes (w.f.a., seven furlongs)
was won convincingly by the versatile Double
Remove four-year-old Removal. Second to
Tea Rose in last year’s A.J.C. Derby, and a
winner at seven, eight and ten furlongs, in-
eluding the Clibborn Stakes, Removal has the
proverbial dogs barking him for the second leg
of the Epsom-Metrop. double, in which he has
8.11. However, the manner of his two recent
wins at seven furlongs suggests that the mile
may be more his mark. He has lib. less in the
Epsom,
The Brueghel gelding Silver Link won the
final event, the Glenlee Handicap, from the
Midstream horse Swan River and another Brue-
ghel, Active Service, who ran a very promising
race. D. Munro rode a pair of winners and a
third, one of his winners, Shannon, at the rare
price with this rider up of 20 to 1. The books
must have had an excellent day, three of the
other five winners being at sevens, tens and
fifteens. Supporting this page’s opinion that
last season’s three-year-olds were a really good
bunch, they went on their winning way in
three of the four events open to them.
* * * *
At Mentone on Saturday the Gay Lothario-
Miss Devlin brown colt Don Pedro won the
seven-furlongs Anglesey Handicap for three-year-
old colts and geioings in a style suggesting that
Royal Gem, Magnificent and any other candidates
might be thoroughly tested later on. Don Pedro
has been reported to have a somewhat doubtful
off foreleg, but there was no sign of it in his
very easy defeat of consistent Hereward and
Mardi Gras, with a fair number of other sound-
enough performers back in the field. If was
the winner’s first start for months; he carried
top weight (9.7), and moved effortlessly when
his rider, R. Heather, began taking him round
them at about the half-mile. He raced past
Hereward and Dervish in the straight, and was
a length and a half clear at the end, quite
evidently a class above the rest. Possibly be-
cause of statements about his doubtful leg made
earlier in the week, Don Pedro started at the
rich price for such a good horse of 8 to 1, and
as much as twelves had been available.
Kinderson (fourth) and Leonard (further
back) both showed reasonable promise behind
Don Pedro, in view of their past fair form.
Don Pedro took 1.27* to run the seven, but
the going was heavy, he raced somewhat wide,
and even so he looked as if he could have cut
it out faster. He has grown info a very power-
ful big colt, appears as game as they’re bred,
and it’s staying breeding. The win gave Heather
a riding double, he having also been on the
Portofino-Dennis Pop filly Nuralia, best on the
day of the big field of fhree-year-old maidens.
She beat the heavily-backed Greenwich gelding,
Noble Prince, by two lengths, with the favorite,
Orchestral, third a neck away.
Though it was not a particularly strong field
she beat in the Ascot Thousand, it was the Beau
Pere mare Ava’s best form since winning the
last Oakleigh. She won by a length and a half
irom the Gay Lothario colt Gay Lad, who had
not had a run for a few months, with Aggressor
best of the others. Ben Hope, who has shown
speed before but is yet to stick on, led to within
a couple of furlongs from home, but the winner
was always going well handy to him, and shot
clear in the straight. What was seen of Peter
in the sprint event suggested that he’s likely
to be better than he was last year at the dis-
tances he likes.
The Brian-Manja filly Irish Gem convincingly
defeated Apropos (John James-Belle Spin) and
the Dhoti filly Ayah in the six-furlongs Chester-
field Handicap for three-year-old fillies. Apro-
pos looked sure to be improved by the run
The four-year-old Valiant Chief gelding Medi-
cine-proving a solid miler—beat Henty and
Chapter into the places in the Inverness Handi-
cap, and Gayness led practically throughout the
10* furlongs of the Sandhurst Handicap, with
Antares and Register best of the half-dozen
others. Vestige and Gretnel came down soon
after the start of the Inverness, and Valcurl
collided with the rail and was pulled up
* * * *
With only half a length to spare at the finish,
L. Meenan’s mount, Jack Farr, won the Adel-
aide Grand National Steeple from Hullabaloo
and Hunier. Hunier was favorite; the winner
at fours. Australia’s first two-year-old test of
the season, the Dequettville Stakes, went to the
7-to-4 favorite, the Caithness filly Minion, by
three lengths from Ingomar and Penrua.
♦ * * *
When the present writer first saw the Queens-
lander Repshot run in Sydney he got the im-
pression of a freak galloper that was likely to
win almost anything. Subsequent running on
Sydney tracks didn’t confirm that idea; but
Repshot has certainly been making amends since
he went back north. He appears to be able to
win on the Albion track under practically any
weight and over any distance, his latest last
Saturday’s Tattersall’s Cup (about one mile).
Carrying 9.12, he came at the end with a dazz-
ling run to down High Rank by a length and a
quarter, with Noble Hero a head further back.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Maiden: Stefanova, 1; Dark Romance, 2;
The Gaekwar, 3. Flying: Castle Frontenac, 1;
Silent, 2; Sir Neith, 3. Canterbury Guineas:
(In the absence of Magnificent) Chaytor, 1;
Deed, 2; Deliverance, 3. Canterbury Stakes:
Shannon, 1; Removal, 2; Melhero, 3. S.T.C.
Handicap: Wellesley, 1; Gauntlet, 2; Night
Parade, 3. Welter: Swan River, 1; Ascertain,
2; Leading Man, 3.
* * * *
On a look through the handicaps last year’s
Melbourne Cup runner-up, Peter, particularly
appeals with 8.7 for this year, especially as he
proved that the run had done him no harm by
winning the Williamstown Cup. In the Caul-
field Cup one of the nicely weighted appears to
be the Tasmanian, Night Fighter (7.13).
* * * »
The Australian Services XI tour;
England had a good win in the fifth and final
“Victory Test” at Old Trafford, played in the
traditional sunshine and rain of Manchester.
The victory left the score two all, with the third
game drawn—a fitting end to a fine series of
matches.
In the final “Test” Australia won the toss,
but made poor use of the pitch; and though
Whitington and Pettiford put on 41 for the first
wicket, and Miller had a herculean knock of
77 not out in 115 minutes, the side collapsed
for 173 —the second-lowest total of the series


HAIMS
Circular Charts la all typo* ol
Recording Instruments lor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lO.
fd
f
If your
dog’s coat
is dull.,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course __ _
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN DOTION ....... 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
SOLD
Airways will be made available
whenever war needs permit.
MADE BY
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
W/
*"?4«* i ' o "'\cj>'' c ' jj,»
>« 5 .» « 0 ;
„
V,eV»’ n ®
c'V
CW
o;o
vC
onV,
a&m-
mmm
Wmv.
iaiiii:wiililiill.ii,lnnllllllllll^^llw^»^atiafejS^jto^
■«I S P#
m.
- ■■■:■.
iiiiliiil:*
ffiW:
mmm
J
* Jiiiiii
iiiliii
mm
IB
ill
■ , -:•: -'
$ * t
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
A Sign of the Times
TOP DOG
WORK TROUSERS
... have a reputation throughout Australia
for hard wear and satisfactory service. In
workmanship, fabrics and careful attention
to detail, they are recognised to be ‘hops 55
in quality. So, hasten the day when civil-
ian supplies of TOP DOG WORK TROUSERS
are again unlimited by investing to the
limit in National Savings Stamps and War
Savings Certificates.
(147 in the second match was the lowest).
Phillipson (3 for 72), Pollard (4 for 78) and Pope
(1 for 15) caused the damage. With the threat,
of rain England’s opening batsmen started
vigorously and 152 for five wickets was on
the board at the end of the day; but overnight
rain came, and on the softened pitch the side
was out for 243 (a lead of 70), of which
Hutton got 64, Hammond 57, Washbrqok 38
and Edrich 23. Cristofani did a good job by
taking 5 for 55 in 22 overs (two for 17
on the first day); the other wickets went to
Pepper (2 for 74), Pettiford (1 for 22), Miller
(1 for 20) and Williams (1 for 40).
In the second innings Cristofani made a
sparkling 110 not out in 144 minutes, but the
only help he got was from Stanford and Pepper
(each 23), and the total was 210. Phillipson
took 6 for 58, Pollard 2 for 46 and Wright
2 for 44.
Set 141 to win in 150 minutes, England got
the runs with six wickets to spare, Edrich
making 42 not out, Robertson 37 and Hutton
29; Pepper (2 for 18), Ellis (1 for 13) and Wil-
liams (1 for 41) shared the wickets.
The rate of scoring was 335 for 15 wickets
on the first day; 118 for eight wickets on the
second day; and 314 for 11 wickets on the third
day.
England’s wicketkeeper Griffith did a great
job for the side by catching seven batsmen
(six in the second innings). There’s nothing to
equal this in Test cricket, although in county
matches E. Pooley (Surrey) has had 12 (eight
caught, four stumped) to his credit in a match.
The series averages: Miller 443, av. 63.28;
Cristofani, 160, av. 53.33 ; Pepper 249, av.
31.12; Hassett 277, av. 27.7; Whitington 215,
av. 21.5; Sismey 182, av. 22.78; Stanford 108,
av. 27; Pettiford 107, av. 26.75; Workman 122,
av. 17.42; Carmody 99, av. 16.50; Williams 82,
av. 13.66; Price 56, av. 18.66; Ellis 14, av. 4.66;
and Cheetham 42, av. 8.4. Bowling: Pepper,
14 wickets, av. 35.14; Ellis 14, av. 26.64; Cris-
tofani 13, av. 16.38; Miller 10, av. 27.7; Wil-
liams 9, av. 43.66; Price 7, av. 14.14;
Cheetham 7, av. 30 ; and Pettiford 4, av. 21.
Wicketkeeper Sismey (injured in the fourth
“Test”) did his part in catching 10 and stump-
ing four in the series. He certainly appears to
be the successor to Bert Oldfield in future Aus-
tralian cricket.
The Services XI came out well in the “Tests.
Before they began Hassett was the only player
who had played international cricket; now
Cristofani, Miller, Pepper, Sismey, Ellis and
Whitington cannot be overlooked by selectors.
* * * *
With South Melbourne and Colling-
wood the only two certainties for the
V.F.L. four, Saturday’s games had more
angles to them than a Melbourne Cup
field. For Carlton and Fitzroy to get into
the semi-finals both had to win two
matches running and North Melbourne
and Footscray had to lose two matches
running. Carlton got one leg of the
double home by beating Geelong, 23.23 to
9.13, but Fitzroy lost to Coiling wood,
16.7-10.17. Meantime the resurgent
Hawthorn team, which has been upsetting
many things lately, walloped North by
seven points (11.11-10.10), and the disap-
pointing Footscray side was hopelessly
outclassed by Essendon (15.17-9.13). The
four are now South, ’Wood, ’Scray and
North, but ’Scray has to meet the confi-
dent Carlton next Saturday and North to
face the solid Essendon, whereas Fitzroy
has a reasonably easy prospect in Mel-
bourne. And in the shadows, licking their
chops, sore at having been pushed out,
Richmond Tigers await a chance at
Collingwood. A set-up that might wreck
attendance records.
The 85,000 who turned out to watch
the six V.F.L. matches on Saturday
bought most of their tickets at two games,
Collingwood-Fitzroy, 23,000, and Foot-
scray-Essendon, 20,000. The favorite,
South Melbourne, got the next-best fol-
lowing, 16,000, to watch it beat Mel-
bourne, 12.20-10.13. Smallest crowd was
7000 at St. Kilda, where Richmond, the
most disappointed team in the south,
prowled moodily about the ground, cyni-
cally booted 13.22 to 7.6, and then went
morosely home and brooded over the days
of Danny Minogue and the Strangs.,
* * * *
Randwick won the Rugby Union
minor premiership by trouncing Parra-
matta 23-6. The ’Wick forwards played
fine football, and with State centre Clarke
cutting gaps in the defence “Parra.” failed
to score a try, two penalty goals by
Schomberg bringing its six points, A
hard University-Eastern Suburbs match
resulted in ’Varsity winning by 13 points
to eight. Other games: North 19, St.
George 19; Drummoyne 11, Gordon 8;
Manly 16, West 5.
By beating University 8-3 in the third
grade East won the 1945 club champion-
ship. First-grade semi-finals next Satur-
day will be Randwick v. Parramatta and
East v. University, “on grounds to be de-
termined.” A bit of a puzzle for the
Union, especially as neutral territory has
to be selected and the S.C.G. is exclu-
sively reserved for professional matches,
with betting.
Jk sfe * *
Although awarded a decision over
Jimmy Dundee some weeks ago, Lou
Williams obviously did not like his
chance when these welterweights met in
a return match at Leichhardt. Dundee
found it hard to get within range;
when he did he jolted the youth with
lefts, straight and hooked. Throwing in
rights, he made the Williams nose bleed
in the eleventh, and the owner of the
smeller capitulated at “corners.” He said
he thought it was broken.
Ambrose Palmer’s pupil Jack Kirkham
blotted his copybook in a match with the
Royal Marine Alec Buxton at the Sydney
Stadium. Looking nothing like the boxer
who knocked out George Cook, Kirkham
was second-best from the first bell. On
rare occasions he led with solid lefts, but
for most of eight rounds Buxton crowded
him all over the ring, and in the ninth it
was all over. Getting inside a left lead
with a right counter, Buxton floored his
man for more than the requisite 10
seconds.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne weather did its utmost to
spoil the Victory March, but it failed ;
nothing could dampen the ardor of the
many thousands who waited in the rain
to greet men and women who have so
stoutly upheld Australia’s honor. What
was a drop of rain and what was a spill
in the mud? The latter happened to three
bonny lasses, but they scrambled to their
feet and went on their way, muddy but
undismayed. The surging masses were,
as usual, goodtempered and, although
they saw very little of the march, sang
with great gusto the tunes played by the
bands. Mayoress Campbell invited a
number of her friends to view the march
from the windows of her drawing-room
at the Town Hall. But the children had
the best seats, and clutched flags, which
they waved throughout. There were
special cheers from old and young for the
men of the United States, marching be-
hind the Stars and Stripes.
After the march Lady Dugan, who had
been at the saluting base with Sir Win-
ston, .where she took the salute of the
women’s services, came to visit the
Mayoress and take afternoon tea. She
was unable to make a long stay, for girls
of the Land Army, of which she is State
Commandant, were waiting at Govern-
ment House. All the services save the
Land Army had clubs and canteens to
visit for afternoon tea. Thoughtful on
their behalf, Lady Dugan arranged for
the girls who marched (150 of them) to
go to G.H., where hot pies and tea were
waiting to warm them. For once the
Melbourne crowd really let itself go, and
cheered and sang and gave the marching
men and women a wonderful welcome.
Paper streamers and torn paper in mil-
lions of little pieces fluttered down on the
marchers, and many girls wore red, white
and blue beanie caps. What should have
bepn a grand night of fireworks and fun
was, of course, spoilt by the rain.
Now the tumult and the shouting of
peace celebrations has died down stories
are being circulated of things which
happened during the first flush of
jubilation. One yam concerns the man-
ageress of Air Force House. From near-
by offices dozens of pretty girls came into
Market-street and, catching servicemen as
they left Air Force House, formed rings
and danced around the shy and em-
barrassed men. Mrs. Matthews let them
have their fun but when she thought they
had danced long enough she went into
the street and told the girls that, having
celebrated VP-Day with fun and laugh-
ter, they could now show how much the
day meant to them. Shepherding the
girls through the doors she led them to
the dormitories and said, “Well, girls,
here you are, Four hundred beds to be
made, and no helpers.”. The girls saw
the point and in a very short time all the
beds were made.
The committee of Navy House decided
to give men of the R.A.N. and R.N, a
Victory Dinner, and the Sunday following
the declaration of Peace the lads in blue
sat down to turkey and ham and all the
proper trimmings. The City Fathers
voted a sum of money to the large hostels
for servicemen, the money to be used for
entertainment.
Mayor Nettlefold and Mayoress Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell have given many suc-
cessful parties during their three years of
office, but none which went more happily
than that tendered to the Melbourne
Press. It was in the late afternoon, mak-
ing it possible for a great number of men
and women journalists to be present.
Press photographers were not forgotten.
The Mayor and Mayoress thanked the
press for co-operation. Mayor Nettle-
fold said that during his term he and the
mayoress had raised over £3,000,000,
which would not have been possible with-
out the loyal help of press and public.
Then it was the turn of the press, and
representatives told the civic heads how
their amiability had made the work of
reporters and others easy and enjoyable.
There is to be a return party at Menzies.
It will be one of a round of parties
given for and by Mrs. Campbell. The
outgoing Mayoress has filled her office
with charm, sincerity and ability.
Even when news came that her son was
a prisoner-of-war in Japanese hands her
purpose to help others never faltered.
Then, just near the end of the war years,
and with days of peace to look forward
to in her home surrounded by her family,
her husband, Edward Campbell, a former
city councillor, died. Once again this
courageous woman took up her life and
went on with her daily tasks, attending
meetings and visiting hospitals, schools
and other charitable institutions. Mrs.
Campbell was president of the A.C.F.
and a member of alrpost every patriotic
committee.
Vera Bradford, pictured here by Athol
Shmith, will give a farewell recital at the
Town Hall early in September. At the
end of the year this pianist will travel
abroad and expects to make concert
appearances in the various countries
visited. Vera considers Australia should
follow the example of the U.S.A., which,
instead of sending outstanding students
abroad to further their training, en-
courages them to remain at home, but to
help them in their work makes it worth
while for great musicians to visit
America. Thus the services of Toscanini,
Sir Thomas Beecham and others have
been secured, Australia should induce
some of the great ones to come here and
stay for two or three years. When Vera
returned from a long stay in America,
where she studied with Percy Grainger,
Gariz and Raab, she joined the staff of the
University Conservatorium. She will visit
Palestine in her travels, and looks for-
ward to playing with the Palestinian
Symphony Orchestra.
Lady Dugan, looking very bright in a
soft leaf-green ensemble and accom-
panied by Mary Lisle Johnson, attended
an informal party given by the
Mayoress in the Lower Town Hall, at
which Mayor Nettlefold looked in for a
little while. Guests were representatives
of the many organisations which make
up the civic life of Melbourne. More
than 250 women were gathered under the
roof of the Town Hall and were seated
around tables decked with spring flowers,
including peach-blossom, roses, sweet-
peas, antirrhinums and giant primula.
Flowering cinerarias stood on tall stands
around the hall and at the back of the
official table. Masses of these blooms
formed a frieze around the hall and im-
parted a happy air to the party. Mrs.
Campbell was a gracious figure in black,
over which she wore a deep kolinsky-fur
cape. Her small black hat was gay with
flowers, and she matched them with the
posy she wore in her cape. Daughter
Margaret, trim in a tailored suit, helped
her mother with the arrangements. Seated
at the official table were Mrs.. Herbert
Brookes and the Angliss and Knox ladies.
The Mayoress paid a tribute to the help
she had received from the ladies present;
“I leave you all next week, for, as I am
no longer a councillor’s wife, my associa-
tion with the Town Hall ceases, but I
hope I may join with your work. Help
the new Mayoress as you have helped me
and God bless you” were her concluding
words, »
An engagement of interest is that of
Betty, elder daughter of Mr, and Mrs.
Wesley Ince, Glenferrie-road, Malvern,
and Dr. John Grantley Shelton. John is
the only son of Mrs. and the late Dr.
Grantley Shelton, and his address is also
Glenferrie-road, Malvern. No date has
been set for the wedding, as John is still
in the R.A.A.F. Mrs. Wesley Ince,
mother of the bride-to-be, is well known
for her work on various patriotic com-
mittees and for the Y.W.C.A.
A note from Adelaide:
Our “Cheer-up Hut,” which made a great
name in the last war, and was revived in 1941,
makes 300 beds every night for soldiers. It
happened to get VP-Day on its fourth birthday,
and claims to have fed 1700 at midday after
the triumphal march, and 1100 in the evening
after the football and before the thanksgiving
service, while a “snack bar” was crowded all
day. City Caterers responded nobly by sending
in loads of pies and other provisions.
From Sydney
Many happy returns to Prince Richard,
younger son of the Duke and Duchess
of Gloucester, who has just reached the
ripe age of one year. He had a birthday
party at Government House, Canberra,
to celebrate—the guests all under five.
The Trocadero put out its best knives
and forks for the Royal Empire Society’s
lunch in honor of the Duke and Duchess
of Gloucester last week. Unfortunately,
the Duke could not be there owing to
the eye trouble which kept him a patient
at Gloucester House, but the Duchess,
smart and trig as usual, came along, and
when the time came made a neat little
speech. Royal Empirians turned out in
great numbers, and the roomy vestibule
of the Troc. was, crowded long before
12.45. Every suburb was represented,
and every woman sported speckless white
gloves. The arrangement of the tables
was good. The official board stretched
before the stage with its shell of ruby
lights.
Lesser mortals ate their cold meats
and salad at tables stretching down the
room. Everybody had a view of the
top table without any undue straining of
necks. H.R.H.’s speech was read by
Brigadier Schreiber with a ring of sin-
cerity that captured the listener. The
Governor-General is president of the
Royal Empire Society, so it was fitting
that this lunch should be one of the
Royalties’ first engagements after VP-
Day. One of the concluding paragraphs
in the Duke’s speech says: “In our pur-
pose we must be broadminded and pro-
gressive. There must be no more talk
abqut not being able to afford this and
that. Money must be the servant and
not the master. The riches of the world
are primary products and labor.” The
president of the N.S.W. branch of the
society. Colonel Spain, presided.
Manly’s new Music Club had a
dashing opening last week. The Presby-
terian Church hall made quite a good
setting for the first concert, at which
Arnold Matters’s voice replaced Harold
Williams’s, Harold being indisposed by the
prevailing ’flu. Against the green back
cloth of the stage was set a great urn of
arum-lilies, while the front was banked
with spring flowers —daffodils, freezias
and such harbingers of September. There
are already over 300 subscribers to this
movement, and there was a crowded and
friendly audience. Mrs. Twigden is the
club’s musical director, Manly’s Mayor
James Anderson the president.
Herewith the most recent photograph
of poetess Marie E. J, Pitt, who, in her
seventies, is still singing along the road
to victory. Marie the other week plucked
a £lOO prize from the A.B.C. for a poem
suitable for an anthem. This was not to
be surprised at when it is remembered
that as far back as 1925 she penned a
poem with a great sweep: “De Quiros’
Dream,” which has a noble and stirring
refrain; “Terra Australia del Espiritu
Santo.”
A crowded vestibule greeted the singers
and musicians of last week’s Town Hall
musicale. These afternoons of music
arranged by Sydney’s mayoresses for the
benefit of charities in which they are
interested are always successful. Last
week Mayoress Neville Harding had the
War Veterans’ Appeal in mind, and the
response to the invitations she had sent
but must have been very gratifying. The
programme, arranged by the Roland
Fosters, sparkled along in great style.
Heather Kinnaird and Raymond Beattie
were amusing in their humorous duets.
The two were celebrating the tenth anni-
versary of their wedding, and when they
sang “Constancy” and Raymond an-
nounced it as their theme song there was
quite a salvo of applause.
Heather and Raymond (now out of
uniform) are both pupils of Roland’s,
and indeed it was in their teacher’s studio
that the romance started. Pianist Enith
Clarke, Doris Dale (high and sweet her
coloratura soprano), Robert Wilson, visit-
ing tenor from Maoriland, Doris Easson,
with her sympathetic accompaniments,
Daisy Richards, of violin renown, gave
a rich and full programme. Many list-
eners had come on from the Empire
Society’s lunch, among them the trio of
friends, Mrs. A. E. Grace, Mrs. Farley
and Mrs. Eva Wunderlich. Mrs. Hope
Gibson, Mrs. Grant and Margaret
Gillespie were among the many.
Racehorses have been getting them-
selves smart and polished and turned out
in fine style for some weeks past. They
wanted to show what they could do for
the Red Cross, and they did last Saturday
at Randwick. They picked a peach of a
spring afternoon for the events, and their
patriotic effort was an £ s. d. success.
Busy among the crowds, most of the
women flashing red, white and blue some-
where in their outfit, were the ever-faith-
ful Red Cross Aids selling buttons. Their
efforts were rewarded with £4OO or more.
A pretty compliment was paid to the
R.C. by president of the A.J.C., George
Main, and his wife, who entertained
officials of the society at lunch. Mrs.
W. J. Smith and Judy Sayers were two
pleasantly excited racegoers. Mrs. Smith,
smart in navy and red, had the joy of
seeing the family’s horse. Deliverance,
dash home a winner. Judy had a win on
The Tiger, of which her father is part-
owner. Notably well dressed was Mrs.
E. Seamonds, just returned from a trip
to the U.S.A.
Those visitors to the Society of Artists’
show who take pride and joy in this land
of ours will be struck by Sydney Ure
Smith’s delicate and atmospheric pencil
drawings of old Sydney and Adrian
Feint’s “Red Gum.” Somehow they
are Australia. Women loved, too,
Margaret Preston’s children’s' circus at
Taronga and the flower pieces of Maude
Sherwood. The exhibition filled the two
galleries of the Education Department’s
building with paintings and, at the private
view and the opening, with the art-
minded.
It was good to see and welcome some
lads of the R.N. Technical College’s
Phyllis Shillito was lost in admiration be-
fore two paintings by Eric Wilson. How-
ever, she found herself again by tea-time.
President Sydney Ure Smith must have
walked miles at the request of visitors,
doing the rounds of the pictures with
them. Newspaper knight Keith Murdoch
(he is president of Victoria’s National Art
Gallery) made the opening speech. His
wife was with him and was one of the
small company on the dais.
A letter to his sister (Mrs. Moore)
in Sydney from Lieut.-Col. Hal Hoven-
dene tells in breezy style of a meet-
ing with two A.I.F. lads in Naples.
One confided to the colonel that he
and his pal were keen on hearing
the current grand opera. It was the ever-
popular partnership of “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana” and “I Pagliacci.” This was being
presented in the Royal Theatre of St.
Carlo, under the direction of the British
military authorities. In spite of its five
balconies and its great floor space, there
seemed to be no seats for the Australians.
Presently Colonel Hovendene had a brain-
wave, and asked “What about the Kings
box?” That had not been booked, and
in it the three Australians sat in state
and enjoyed the performance to the best
advantage,
Sydney’s happiest lunching place is
to put up its shutters at the end of this
week. The Army War Comforts Auxiliary'
Luncheon Room, to give it its full title
(by which it was never called), has been
going strong for over four years, pro-
viding good, hot midday meals or de-
licious salads for Sydney’s hungry. All
work was voluntary and the helpers if
they haven’t whistled while they worked
at least have smiled in friendly fashion.
That takes courage by the time the 300th
luncher is being served. The A.C.F.
benefited, garnering about £3OO a month.
In all over £9OOO has been handed in to
the Comforts Fund. Mrs. C. G. N.
Miles, the president, and Mrs. Keith
Morris, the organising secretary of this
splendid war work, deserve cheers.
Gathered together in Sydney for dis-
cussions last week were delegates of the
Australian Federation of Women Voters.
The delegates came from every State,
and Centralia and Darwin are old ac-
quaintances of at least two of them.
There was quite a brains trust in
the United Associations’ rooms in
Market-street during the sessions. The
speakers proved that they had keen
and alert intelligence. Even when
a woman listener did not always agree
with a speaker’s outlook it had to be
agreed that these women put their case
well. The conference was very earnest;
even at lunches, receptions and the high
tea which was the opening sociability
there were addresses on vital subjects.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Australian and American Methods
Having recently returned to Australia
after years’ service overseas with the
Royal Navy I was interested to read
comments by “J.A.L.” in B. 30/5/’45,
the first issue that I picked up. His
summary of the difference in outlook of
the American “Q.” staff towards welfare,
comfort and morale of troops as com-
pared with Australian (and, indeed,
British) personnel is very apt and to the
point.
My experience of Australian methods
came when travelling from Perth to
Adelaide. This brief experience was
sufficient to show that conditions have
not altered much even after the Ameri-
can forces have brought their up-to-date
methods into our midst.
Unbelievable as it was to those of us
newly returned from a battle-tom, very
war-minded England, the troop-train in
which we travelled was dispatched not
from Central Station but from some
distant outer-suburban siding because, we
were told, “the race trains” would be
occupying Central Station rail tracks.
The journey itself was the acme of dis-
comfort. Our train was stopped and side-
tracked for almost anything else on the
tracks —troop-trains, contrary to British
and American practice, are evidently far
down the scale of priorities. Carriage
interiors were stripped of all but bare
seating accommodation, and on this, the
longest of Australian rail journeys, no
sleeper, accommodation was provided.
The total time of the trip was three nights
and nearly four days. Meals were served
in front-line fashion during stops in the
desert, when, tin plates in hand, the em-
barked personnel filed past a field cook-
ing apparatus, fighting flies with one
hand.
That such conditions could exist in a
country that is, supposed to possess civi-
lised transport facilities, and these un-
touched by the ravages of bombing, is
well nigh incredible. #
It may be that some authorities con-
sider discomfort and austerity essential
to discipline, but in frequent associations
with American forces in the Mediter-
ranean area I saw no lessening of morale
or discipline because servicemen were
treated as human beings. The American
standard for the forces would appear to
be “the best available.” Ours falls very
short of this mark. Lieutenant
(R.A.N.V.R.).
Australia’s Wasted Wood's
Australia’s woods, equal to any in the
world, should be employed to promote
the wealth and world-wide recognition
of our country. Queensland’s silky-oak
is a high-grade timber for furniture and
veneering. In some areas it is used for
making packing-cases and floors for huts
in military camps. After the war these
huts will probably be sold and used as
sheds or broken up for firewood. Queens-
land’s maple and cedar, also excellent
timbers for furniture and veneering, re-
ceive the same treatment.
Our hardwoods compare favorably
with any in the world. From Westralia’s
jarrah, an all-purpose timber, planks
250 ft. in length can be got, and
jarrah is about the only wood that
will take a natural polish. There are
markets the world over for it, yet the
Westralians use this remarkable timber
for firewood. Mountain ash, blackwood
and stringybark take a fine polish and
exhibit a beauty of grain equal to the
best known furniture timbers, not ex-
cluding mahogany. Our forefathers cut
down these trees and did not replant the
forests.
Even today we are slow in replanting.
Many thousands of acres of land idle in
the Mallee could be used for growing
hardwoods and sandalwood. China im-
ports vast amounts of sandalwood for
incense.
If we develop big forests of our
best timber now our descendants and
our country will benefit by our fore-
sight.—L. Shugg (A.1.F.).
Hostility to Immigration
Harold Clapp told the Brisbane Cham-
ber of Commerce that Australians are
“selfish, miserable people,” and that we
could not expect to hold this country with
the kind of ideas we have on immigra-
tion.
He was right, in so far as that there is
a spirit of insularity here which does
not make for a constructive attitude
towards immigration. There is an inbred
distrust of foreigners, and, moreover, the
average Australian is afraid that an in-
flux of job-seeking immigrants of any
nationality will limit his own prospects.
Consider our attitude towards the
Americans. We know them to be people
of initiative and industry, yet we have
made no overtures to them to return and
settle here permanently after the war.
We will need new industries in Aus-
tralia. Thriving and expanding industries
must be the foundation of national pros-
perity. If the Americans, or any other
desirable immigrants, can set up new in-
dustries here and make them go, we
should place no obstacles in their way.
Indeed, we should make it abundantly
clear that we wish them to come here.
At present they might be excused if they
have some doubts on that score.— Blue
(Q-).
Two Ships
That fellow (B. 8/8/’45)
should make sure of his facts be-
fore rushing into print. The welcome
given by tugs, ships and ferries to the
flag-bedecked liner Orontes was a.spon-
taneous welcome given to a well-known
ship after four years of absence on war
service. Dr. Evatt arrived unnoticed
some hours earlier on a Swedish cargo
vessel.— Steamship (N.S.W.),
“And this is a dear friend of Bill's from New Guinea."
“Pegged Price”
I want to buy a car. Saw a classified
advertisement in the paper—just what I
wanted. I rushed to the telephone.
, A female voice answered. Yes, the
car was there and was being inspected at
that moment. If interested, call at
once. Although the pegged price ap-
peared in the ad. I knew Fd better ask
to make sure. The female voice took on
a mysterious tone: “I can’t give that over
the ’phone. You understand?”
Of course I understood. That car was
for sale at twice the pegged price. Regu-
lations compel the pegged price of a car,
to be placed in an advertisement and we
do have price control. But regulations
never were worth a damn. It is time these
futile restrictions were dropped, so that
a little honesty could creep back into our
everyday life. — lago (Vic.),
Sex Not a Problem
“The latest disease,” says Bernard
Shaw, “is to turn everything into a prob-
lem —from sport to sex.” Why all this
hysteria about sex? I have read a great
many books on the subject and am struck
by the fact that none of them hammer
into young people that sex was instituted
by nature for one purpose—reproduction.
Our grandparents may have been narrow
and limited in their outlook, but their
attitude towards sex was as matter-of-fact
as their attitude towards housekeeping.
They did not regard it as a problem im-
possible of solution.
And, indeed, there is no problem in sex.
Savages, until contaminated by civilisa-
tion, arrange their sex relations without
any trouble. Sex-starvation, too, is more
or less a myth. History records that
some of the finest characters —men and
women —were celibates.
Children \ from their e|rliest years
should have impressed upon them that
reproduction is the sole purpose of sex,
and the cinema interests and purple novel-
ists who represent sex as the Alpha and
Omega of existence should be suppressed.
Sex is a faculty that can’t be played about
with safely.—H. M. (M.L.).
Murder on the Air
While the Australian Department of
Radio Censorship chokes at trifling irre-
gularities it swallows wholesale frightful
gangster plays and blood-curdling narra-
tives. Even the A.B.C. is not guiltless.
Occasionally we even get the victim’s
dying scream.
For the “English” in which these
“dramas” are portrayed Harlem and the
Bowery must have been raked over by
experts. This kind of stuff in thousands
of homes pours into the ears of impres-
sionable children. So is it any wonder
that Children’s Courts in every sizeable
Australian town are busy dealing with a
procession of juvenile delinquents; that
murder has come to be regarded as
almost sportive by youngish criminals?
In my boyhood of 50 years ago the
“Deadwood Dick” thriller, with its cult
of the six-shooter, was held by many to
be pernicious reading for the young, but
the toughest yarn ever located in Dead
Horse Gulch was Sunday-school reading
compared with the modern radio thriller.
—W.C.C. (W.A.).
Lodgers in Pubs
Compulsory letting of spare hotel ac-
commodation on a bedroom-only basis is
not so straightforward as “S.E. and O.”
(Tas.) would have us believe (B.
l/8/’45). A recent survey of hotels in
and around Melbourne reported to
Assistant Minister for Housing Oldham
shows that in the city proper 1889 rooms
are regularly occupied by an average of
2914 bed and board visitors. Within a
five-mile radius 191 hotels have 1889
rooms available, housing 1106 “permanent
and 721 transient bed-boarders, leaving a
surplus of only 62.
As a regular traveller, my observations
lead me to believe that these conditions
are reproduced in areas where housing
shortage is most acute. Furthermore,
family units camping in hotels would be
subject to all forms of harassment such
as domiciliary visits and check of lodgers
against books by licensing cops and re-
strictions on entertainment of guests pre-
scribed by State Licensing Acts and
National Security Regulations. Without
substantial amendment of laws and re-
peal of regulations such spare accom-
modation as does exist will still go beg-
ging.
The answer to the current limitation
of full hotel services is to provide man-
and woman-power for house staffs and
ease the rationing of food, house linen,
cutlery and so forth ; then see if publi-
cans will turn away business. Despite
“S.E. and 0.,” the only answer to a hous-
ing shortage is to build more houses.—
E. and O. E. (Vic.).
A Word for Base-wallahs
“Nuffin” (B. l/8/’45), in attacking the
n.c.o. ranks and conditions enjoyed by
“base wallahs” in such units as D.F.O.
and D.R.0., is obviously unaware of the
fact that fully 90 p.c. of these base troops
are either Diggers of the 1914-18 show
or Young Diggers who have been re-
turned from field units to such jobs be-
cause of medical down-grading or on
compassionate grounds.
In my base unit in Brisbane, to which
I was transferred on compassionate and
medical grounds two years ago, after
three years up north, only two of the
staff have not seen active service in
the M.E. or N.G. The two exceptions
made repeated requests to go away, but,
being specialists difficult to replace, their
applications were always turned down.
Most of us gained our ranks in the field.
As far as the “substantial daily allow-
ance” received by “base wallahs” is con-
cerned, the Army, because it is unable to
provide me with quarters and rations,
allows me the magnificent sum of 3s. per
day for board and lodging. And “Nuffin”
knows as well as I do just what kind of
board and lodging £1 Is. a week will pro-
vide. — Ex-Patrol Leader (A.M.F.).
Unification of Gauges
Ex-Commissioner Clapp proposes to
unify Australian railway gauges to
a standard 4ft. B|in. at a cost of
£200,000,000. That means the rail-
ways would have to earn £10,000,000
a year on top of their present earn-
ings to pay 5 p.c. interest on the
additional overhead. Can anyone demon-
strate to a sceptical committee of ac-
countants and railway engineers that uni-
fication of gauges will increase the earn-
ing power of Australian railways by
£10,000,000 a year?
Dorman Long and Co. spent £150,000
and three years in research and planning
before they tackled Sydney Harbor
Bridge. The Cunard Co. studies and
plans for four or five years before it de-
cides on the size, power and general de-
sign of new ships ; and their new ships
serve them well. Has the Clapp planning
been of this order?
Before we decide to spend £200,000,000
in devoted worship of standard gauge we
should form an impartial body of railway
engineers and accountants of inter-
national reputation with a Judge as chair-
man to answer these questions;
(1) In what way, and to what extent, do
mixed gauges hamper our transport system?
Give an estimate of financial loss.
(2) What mechanical devices —such as adjust-
able axles and running gear—are available to
offset the hindrance of a break of gauge? Give
opinions on relative usefulness of various de-
vices and indicate the most suitable.’ Give
financial estimate of cost of installation, opera-
tion and saving that might reasonably be
expected.
(3) What is the experience of actual holding
and running authorities in other parts of the
world of the present serviceableness and future
possibilities of a narrow gauge railway system
such as metre gauge or 3ft. 6in.? Answer to in-
clude all relevant mechanical, operational and
financial detail.
(4) Would the 3ft. 6in. gauge serve the
present and future requirements of the Aus-
tralian continent if it were adopted as the con-
stitutional gauge and all systems altered to it,
and what would it cost to alter to that gauge?
It would take a hard-working com-
mittee two or three years and £1,000,000
or more to get all the dependable infor-
mation and compile it into a useful
report. .But the report would be an
authoritative, useful document by the
guidance of which Parliament and the
Government could work confidently.—
S. McConnell (N.S.W.).
Sun-dried Bricks
“Bumpkin’s” championing of sun-dried
bricks is becoming somewhat contradic-
tory (B, 15/8/’45). The chief merit
claimed for the bricks was that inexperi-
enced youths and girls were able to make
them. Now “Bumpkin” attributes the
two failures I witnessed and the one he
gives himself to improperly-made bricks.
Apparently an expert is required.
“Bumpkin’s” own cottage* being pisd
and sun-dried bricks,” cannot be taken as
an example. Jerry-builders have long
been expert at putting in inferior material
“where it doesn’t matter much,” and I
didn’t challenge pise.
Naturally those chimneys would be
hard to knock down—after 25 years of
use had proved my contention that fire
is necessary to harden bricks.
The suggestion that shire councils
should make the bricks is impractical, for
the simple reason that no building in-
spector who knows his job will allow'
callow bricks (bricks that have been in-
sufficiently burnt) to be used in external
positions. Therefore, he could not even
consider sun-dried material.
The architect who “exploited the
material in the Riverina” broke all the
ethics of his profession. A well-drawn
specification always reads “All bricks to
be hard and well burnt.”
If those arch enemies “the trade-unions
and big building interests” would both
share my views I can’t be far wrong. But
words prove nothing. Now that building
restrictions are lifted “Bumpkin” has his’
chance to make a fortune simply by
getting together a crew of unskilled
laborers, teaching them “in ten minutes”
how to lay bricks and plaster walls, then
selling the completed cottages at a figure
miles below “the ridiculously high-priced”
homes built by orthodox methods.
The only trouble will be to find buyers
with no eye for workmanship or beauty ;
and no recollection of the moral in the
old story of the three little pigs.—H. C. B.
(N.S.W.).


ae
o
o
o
a
o
®>oooO
Oooo^
B
u
m
©
7)
<7
CS
0
o
0
OTBEB FAMOUS PBODDCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . - . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE .... ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING ’
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. & A. EILBEY LIMITED
ROSSLYN ST, WEST MELBOURNE
T elegrams & Cables;"Gilbeys" Melbourne
REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams & Cables: "Gilbeys" Sydney
