

fd
f
d
fd
f
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
*
The Bulletin
TKe Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3397
Wednesday, March 21, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
YORKSHIRE’S RICHMOND, WHOSE STOUT NORMAN WALLS DEFY DECAY,
DICHMOND CASTLE in Yorkshire was begun at the close of
i the eleventh century ; the keep, however, the glory of Rich-
mond, was not built until nearly one hundred years later by Conan,
Duke of Brittany and Earl of Richmond, whose daughter Con-
stance was mother of the unfortunate Prince Arthur so cruelly
murdered by King John. The walls enclose a space of five acres,
and appear to be all of a Norman design. The keep stands at an
angle, and is placed so as to defend the castle’s weak quarter.
The enormous strength of Richmond Castle perhaps deterred
besiegers, for it plays but little part in recorded warfare. In 1174
William the Lion, King of Scotland, entered the North of England
with an army of 80,000. The importance of the place may be
judged from the fact that in the metrical romance of Jordan Fab-
tosme Richmond Castle is mentioned as the one source of Henry
111 s anxiety ; apd when the defection of one baron after another
was reported his only inquiry was whether the fortress was still
in their hands, and when he saw the messenger coming to tell him
the unexpected good news that the Scottish King was defeated he
despairingly forestalled his supposed message by asking “Has the
King of Scotland entered Richmunt?” Obviously, then, the pos-
session of Richmond Castle was equivalent to victory. At the
end of the Hall of Scotland the wall breaks off and forms a seat,
in which George IV, when Prince of Wales, enthroned himself’
declaring that it commanded the finest view he had ever seen.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
of HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin ”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
MIRACULOUS MR. HECHT!
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean,
“Ariadne arose’’
“From her couch in the snows?” asked
Mr. Gallagher. “Nothing gives me
greater pleasure than to have Shelley
quoted to me half an hour after break-
fast, but I wish you would quote him
correctly.”
“I had a notion,” said Mr. Shean, “that
it wasn’t Ariadne who arose.”
“Arethusa arose,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Ariadne, for all I know, stayed in bed.”
“It’s a peculiar thing,” said Mr. Shean,
“but in Mr. Ben Hecht’s Miracle in the
Rain (Knopf; Peter Huston) an Ameri-
can soldier, giving to quoting poetry,
informs us that Ariadne arose, and Mr,
Hecht gives no indication that he is in
any way perturbed by this injustice to
the energetic Arethusa.”
“Odd indeed,” said Mr. Gallagher. “I
have had a tolerably high opinion of
Mr, Hecht as a writer.”
“Another peculiar thing,” said Mr.
Shean, “is that Mr. Hecht imagines that
Guadalcanal is a town; or so I infer
from his statement that the soldier is in
action in ‘the jungle surrounding Guadal-
canal.’ I think that somebody should
have informed him that Guadalcanal,
covered with jungle as it may be, is sur-
rounded, like most islands, by water.”
“Odd again,” said Mr. Gallagher. “But
these perhaps are small matters. Mr.
Hecht has presumably written another
of his brilliant fantasies.”
“Allow me,” said Mr. Shean, “to quote
you a sample of Mr. Hecht’s style: ‘An-
other day was ending in New York. A
girl walked in the spring rain that bom-
barded 34th Street. The rain and the
twilight hid her. You could see only
that she was young, poor and graceful.
The girl was carrying a number of
bundles.’ You perceive, Mr. Gallagher,
the stock opening for the fashionable
short story ; the stutter of short sentences,
the presentation of the anonymous ‘girl.’
I am afraid that Mr. Hecht has been
reading Hemingway.”
“Usually,” said Mr. Gallagher, “they
begin like this: ‘The man lurched out
of the pub. He was drunk. The dog
saw the man fall into the gutter. He
came up and sniffed at the man. The
man snarled. The dbg wagged his tail.
The man bit it.’ I don’t mind that so
very much, for it is tough-guy stuff and
tough guys make me laugh. I am afraid,
though, that a nervous trembling afflicts
my knees when tough-guy writers turn
their attention to poor young girls in
the rain. They tend to become senti-
mental ; tough guys, with heads of bone
have hearts of rose-petals, I am afraid.”
“This poor girl,” said Mr. Shean, “has
a mother who has not spoken a word
for, - ? remember rightly, ten years.
Mot/ oeen deserted by her husband
ar " and stares and cries
s :>> ' ■ ’
said Mr. Gallagher,
>rl meets a fate worse
makes Mother cry some
pared that,” said Mr. Shean.
ig time I was puzzled about
i couldn’t see what she was
this long short story at all. She
;s and stares and cries sometimes
.nerry as these proceedings are, they
i to have no point whatever. Eventu-
y I discovered why she is in the story,
he poor girl is pirated by the soldier
in the street, and she takes him home to
Mother, She is poor, but so singularly
honest that she is never alone with the
soldier for a moment. Mother is there
as a chaperone.”
“And very nice, too,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “But how does the soldier like it? ”
“Oddly—l told you this was a very
odd book” —said Mr. Shean, “the soldier
loves Mother. He just sits there at the
piano ‘playing and singing and loving
them —her and her mother.’ ”
“I am beginning to love everybody
myself,” said Mr. Gallagher. “A state
of mind I find unnatural. Does this poor
goof spend his entire time singing and
playing and loving Mother and crying?”
“I forgot,” said Mr. Shean. “He takes
the poor girl to a theatre —accompanied,
of course, by another chaperone, Miss
Ullman, who has a ‘red nose and watery
squinting eyes’—and the poor girl stares
at the stage ‘with her mouth opened in
a continuous smile of delight.’ ”
“You don’t mean tp tell me,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “that she is dippy, too?”
“Mr. Hecht doesn’t appear to think
so,” said Mr. Shean. “But'l have my
suspicions.”
“Well,” said Mr. Gallagher, “here we
have a poor girl, possibly dippy, with a
dippy mother and a soldier boy-friend. It
all sounds a trifle eccentric, but not
exactly miraculous so far.”
“Kissing the poor girl good-bye,” said
Mr. Shean, “the soldier goes off to the
jungles surrounding Guadalcanal and is
killed in action. The girl has given him
a Roman coin for a talisman and when,
after many vicissitudes, including a sneez-
ing fit and pneumonia, she dies in the
rainy street, she is found miraculously
clutching the keepsake in her hand. As
the soldier had taken it into the afore-
said jungle surrounding Guadalcanal I
found the incident improbable, Mr.
Hecht’s stories, though always tinged with
sentimentality,-have pleased me on occa-
sion. I shall sit at a window for ten
years, watching the rain and waiting for
him to come back. I shall sit, I shall
stare and sometimes, thinking of Miracle
in the Rain, I shall cry.”
“If Mother comes and sits miracu-
lously beside you,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“I advise you to brain her.”
Some Publishing Statistics.
At a rough guess the present com-
mentator would have estimated the
number of volumes of poetry published
in Australia over the last few years at
about two million annually. However,
the Annual Catalogue of Australian Pub-
lications : 1944, compiled under the direc-
tion of Commonwealth Librarian Ken-
neth Binns, gives the 1943 total as only
43.
At any rate, it doesn’t look as: if the
boom in poetry is waning, for the 1942
total was 21. Fifty-eight books of verse
in 1941 is the record for the war years.
Fiction shows a considerable drop in
1943, the total descending from 61
volumes in 1941 and 59 in 1942 to 33.
Plays and essays remained at about their
normal level—four volumes of each.
Overseas reprints fell away by half—-
62 in 1942 and 31 in 1943. As has been
the case every year since 1939, and prob-
ably before it, what Mr. Binns classifies
as “Social Sciences” topped the list with
101 publications: depending on how you
look at it, it’s an unnerving or a cheer-
ing sign that 46 fewer Australians
attempted to reform the world in 1943
than in 1942.
The directory of Australian publishers
included in the Catalogue gives a total
of 53 firms, 20 of which are new or
appear in the list after an interval.
In a letter to the Red Page Mr, Binns
says that the Library has “considerable
difficulty in securing compliance by pub-
lishers with the deposit conditions of the
Copyright Act. This is not so much wil-
ful as that publishers overlook the re-
quirements or, as in so many cases,
printers acting as publishers are un-
acquainted with the requirements.” Apart
from the legal obligation, Mr. Binns
points out the value of the Catalogue to
Australian publishers in making their
books more widely known both in this
country and abroad.
Native Grass.
The eight poems by Robin Hyde given
pride of place by C. A. Marris in Lyric
Poems of New Zealand, 1928-1942 (H.
H. Tombs, Ltd.), are not only by far the
best contribution of pure poetry to the
anthology, but also by far the most dis-
tinctively New Zealand contribution.
About 20 of the 85 poems included are
located in England—an astonishingly and
significantly large proportion. Some of
Robin Hyde’s verses have an English set-
ting, and of course a poet may write
about any place under the moon —or on
it —if he pleases. Nevertheless, in a New
Zealand anthology it is specifically New
Zealand poetry one looks for; and it is
only in Robin Hyde’s work that one can
taste in full strength the flavor of the land
of gorse and bracken and green grass, of
snow and running rivers.
But the boats, in salt tide and smarting sunrise
weathered,
Swing on an island's shadow: silver trickles
and wets
The widening boughs of their wake, the swart
Italian faces,
Fishermen’s silver fingers fumbling the nets;
And the island lies behind them, lifting its
glassy cone
To that one strange motionless gesture, light
to stone:
Only the gulls, the guards of the water-lapping
places, .
Scream at the fishermen lifting the water-lipping
nets.
That is “Wellington Beaches.” Robin
Hyde died in England. She may have
wanted wider fame than New Zealand
could give her, or she may simply have
wanted to make a living. All that her
own land would give its writers, she said
in a poem about Katherine Mansfield,
was “dust”;
Dust is a thing of roads and cattle, rising
Where beasts and men are driven home to fate.
But she loved her own land, she was a
New Zealander wherever she went, and
exile sharpened her love. Meadow-grass,
she said, “speaks a known speech, an Eng-
lish speech” ; but she hoped to speak for
the native grass:
Man-high, sharp as a spear,
Speaking a barbarous tongue.
Edging and sheering back
In the riven pride of the young—
That is my own land’s grass,
And there her songs are sung.
In the rest of Lyric Poems there is
really astoundingly little verse that could
have been written in New Zealand and
in no other country, by New Zealanders
and by writers of no other nationality.
Even when an attempt is made, as in a
poem called “Tui,” self-consciously to
write about the native birds, the verse-
beginning with “Pan of the singing feeds”
and proceeding to talk about “sounding
harps of water”—is really about anything
except a tui, set anywhere except in New
Zealand.
And among the writers who, since their
verses are not located specifically in Eng-
land, might be presumed to be writing
about New Zealand, it is seldom indeed
that any of their images are drawn from
their own country and their own obser-
vation. Thus Gloria Rawlinson, who has
one poem about the Maoris, speaks in
another of somebody’s “April eyes”—an
English metaphor; the New Zealand sky
reminds another writer of tropic butter-
flies, caverns of turquoise and sapphire,
paths in a wood of rhododendrons; and
yet another writer thinks of “R-fflan
satin” when she sees her native earth and
expects to see undines in a New Zealand
river. It is all derivative, all literary, not
real!
If Lyric Poems were to be taken as
fully representative of contemporary New
Zealand writing, one would have to con-
clude that New Zealanders were chiefly
interested not in their native land but in
England and in conventional piety.
Twenty-five of the poems are of a type
that may be exemplified by the line:
I could be good for ever on the hills.
Reassuring as this singular ejaculation
may be, it is a long way short of poetry.
On this point the opinion of T. S. Eliot in
After Strange Gods is final:
Why, I would ask, is most religious verse
so bad; and why does so little religious
verse reach the highest levels of poetry?
Largely, I think, because of a pious insin-
cerity. The capacity for writing poetry is
rare; the capacity for religious emotion of
the first intensity is rare; and it is to be ex-
pected that the existence of both capacities
in the same individual should be rarer still.
People who write devotional verse are
usually writing as they want to feel, rather
than as they do feel.
But, of course. Lyric Poetry is not fully
representative; it is not intended to be.
It is made up of poems from “Art in New
Zealand” and N.Z. Best Poems, and ex-
cludes both traditional and “contempo-
rary” writing that would have enor-
mously strengthened a national an-
thology: the poems of Eileen Duggan,
D’Arcy Cresswell, Allen Curnow, A. R.
D. Fairburn and some of the younger
writers the Progressive Publishing Society
has been bringing forward. It is obvious
that —53 of the 85 poems are by women
writers —the male strength of the coun-
try is not adequately represented.
Indeed, from the nationalist point of
view, N.Z. Best Poem's itself is not ade-
quately represented. It has kept New
Zealand poetry alive for a decade and
has published much more specifically New
Zealand verse than this present selection
would. indicate. Arnold Wall, for in-
stance, is represented by some of his
“gnomic” pieces instead of his land-
scapes.
Nationalism can be too narrow a creed.
Dora Hagemeyer, Barbara Dent, W.
Bridgman, Willow Macky (“Kitchen Phi-
losophy”) and Helen Brookfield (“For
Mabelle Sleeping”) submit good verses.
Jessie Mackay will always have her place,
and C. R. Allen is accomplished in a minor
key. And certainly there are glimpses
of the New Zealand scene, if not as strong
as in Robin Hyde’s poems, in contribu-
tions by E. D. Morgan, Charles Brasch
and F. Alexa Stevens. Eve Langley’s
strongly Australian “Native Born,” J. R-
Hervey’s images from the Antarctic and
Paula Hanger’s pictures of desert warfare
might also be counted as coming within
the New Zealand “sphere of conscious-
ness.”
Nevertheless, the fact remains that
the native grass does not grow in this
anthology as a whole. It will have to
spring and flourish in New Zealand writ-
ing, for it is generally, if not always, true
that verse which is “set” nowhere gets
nowhere.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“MacH.”: Although Sydney Minerva
has staged Maxwell Anderson’s “Eliza-
beth the Queen” and Hollywood has
made several of his plays into talkies, I
have a feeling that the ordinary commer-
cial stage in Australia still regards verse
plays with a good deal of suspicion. Writ-
ing them is becoming a fashion—and a
successful fashion at that, for one by
Alexander Turner shared first prize in
the recent A.B.C. competition, and Mel-
bourne playwright-actress Catherine Dun-
can has won the £lOO first prize in the
Playwrights’ Advisory Board competition
with another; “Sons of the Morning,”
about soldiers in Crete. I wonder if the
Firm, which so far hasn’t taken much
interest in this phenomenon, realises that
it has been staging daring experiments in
verse week after week, month after month
and year after year for as long as the
Oldest Inhabitant can remember? “Prin-
cess Ida,” satirising Tennyson’s “The
Princess,” is written entirely in verse; all
the other Gilsullivan items—symbolic,
arbitrary dramas, completely opposed to
the stern realism of the ordinary prose
plays of the day—depend chiefly on verse
for their effects; and even the authors
of “Maid of the Mountains” and “Rio
Rita” use the Lyric as Shakspeare did and
the Chorus as does T. S. Eliot. If the
commercial stage would realise that verse
plays are thus proved box-office successes,
and if playwrights would concede that
the public is entitled to something of
spectacle and laughter with its poetry,
perhaps we will yet see Turner and Cath-
erine Duncan at Sydney Royal and Mel-
bourne Comedy.
At the talkies; —-
In the screen version as in the novel of
“For Whom the Bell Tolls” (Sydney State) the
dominating character is not Hemingway’s
‘‘dumb ox” hero but the woman Pilar —intense,
bitter, ruthless as the guerrilla band leader, yet
with a maternal tenderness towards the orphaned
Maria. Katina Paxinou portrays her splendidly.
Pablo, her husband, whom she deposes as leader
when his loyalty comes under question, is made
by Akim Tamiroff a character queerly enig-
matic, at times lion-hearted and furtively loyal,
at others treacherous and sinister. The role of
the American is handled strongly by Gary
Cooper, and in the final scenes Ingrid Bergman
has an emotional climax worthy of her fine
talents. The book’s big scene when the prisoners
are made to run the gauntlet to their deaths
is faithfully recapitulated. A cleverly devised
musical score redeems the overdone monotony
of the mountain scenery. Running time, around
2f hours, could profitably have been cut.
Originality in story plots being as rare as
corners on hen eggs, a special welcome is
accorded “Address Unknown” (Victory). As a
book, it was one of the war’s few anti-Nazi
items with genuine literary quality, and it makes
a subtle and dramatic film. The bulk of the
work is in the sure hands of Paul Lukas.
Lewis Milestone is always at his best in the
directing of crowd scenes, and in “Edge ot
Darkness” (Taller) he surpasses previous efforts.
Another underground resistance story (it is from
William Woods’s best-seller), the final showdown
between the German garrison and the inhabi-
tants of the Norwegian fishing village who have
been armed by a British submarine has an un-
usual degree of realism. A good study of a
fanatical young German commandant is sup-
plied by Helmut Dantine, while Judith Ander-
son and Walter Huston make a couple ot
village characters live. Errol Flynn is the strong-
jawed resistance leader.
“F.S.”: Chief Secretary Hyland, of
Melbourne, has announced the personnel
of the new trusts created for the control
of the National Gallery, Library and
Museums under the bill passed last ses-
sion to create three trusts in place of the
single body. The Gallery trust comprises
Keith Murdoch, A. T. Smithers, H. W.
Kent, R. D. Elliott, Allan Henderson and
one artist —Napier Waller, the mural
painter, who replaces Max Meldrum.
There are bound to be complaints about
the minor role of artists on the panel—
I think it was Manet who said that a
painter might or might not know what
was a good picture, but a critic who was
not a practitioner could not possibly
know. Practice, however, has proved
Manet wrong. A lawyer or a finance
director may be much more sympathetic
to the newcomer than his fellow artists,
who are apt to be jealous. Brahms didn
like Wagner’s music and Wagner didnt
like Brahms’s, and both were wrong.
After a show of Russian cartoons at
Myer’s Mural Hall, Melbourne, a show
by Alex Gurney, Armstrong ot tnc
“Argus,” Stan Cross and others is in-
teresting for its complete difference i
approach to those monstrous abstraction
the Nazis, the Fascists, Hitler, the man
in the street, the farmer and the Uigg •
The Australian artists have a keen sense
of the ridiculous, and are curiously un-
aware of the tremendous. It is as dim
to believe in the clown that Armstrong
makes of Hitler as it is to believe m tte
raving lunatic of the Russians, bu y
can laugh at the one without
pressed by the other. The Red Army
of the Russians is a stereotyped symb -
but Gurney’s Digger is recognisaby
human. It is difficult to imagine a m
sian cartoon with a pun m d. and
difficult to imagine one of Gurney s
out about a dozen. |


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“Truth in Advertising’’
*s^
y
r%
\(' J
US
01
i
m
ff-SISSf
!U«
Sir/ii
5=3M«1(1
BH
Ml
♦-’55
PfW
<^9
>5
t. 3
s-:# ■:
/!<*
121 Years of Service
*
Jk hundred and twenty-one years ago, this great Store had its humble birth in a tiny
bonnet-shop in King Street.
o one at that early stage of the Colony’s history could have foreseen the brilliant future
waiting to be carved out of the century that lay ahead.
N
"IB"" hose were the days ivhen the pioneering spirit was as vital a need in commercial
H enterprises as it was in the agricultural development of an untried country.
orderns —man and wife —were deeply imbued with that spirit; they'spared neither
courage nor energy in fulfilling the needs of the growing community, and their
venture prospered.
ne by one customers came from far and near, found satisfaction in the quality of the
Hordern merchandise, and gave the virile little establishment such unhesitating
support that shopping at Horderns’ grew into a family tradition.
or has that custom changed even in this era of keen competition.
0
N
ou, our valued customers, know that when you buy from Australia’s oldest firm you
y are frequently following the example of your own great-grandparents.
|Jj | istory, as Carlyle declares, is the essence of innumerable biographies —■
|0 f institutions, no less than of people, may we add.
0
ID
ID
0
ecords of the work and progress of “The Senior Store,” for instance, read almost like a
history of the Commomvealth in miniature,
I c -
ealing above all with the unceasing effort to raise this country’s standard of living.
conomic development of any nation is impossible without the co-operation of private
enterprise.
etail distribution, providing the link between manufacturer and consumer, is the
keystone of that enterprise.
Never, we trust, will it be deprived of its freedom to act and plan for the benefit of the
nation.
eniority in this sphere of domestic trade, after 121 years’ service, gives us authority to
express such a hope on behalf of all engaged in it.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SYDNEY


MISS LAURIE
By BRIAN JAMES
MISS LAURIE had kept house for
Grandfather these twenty years
perhaps a bit longer than that.
Anyway, she came soon after
Grandmother died, and that was just on
twenty-two years ago.
People used to say at the time that
Grandfather was so devoted to Grand-
mother that he wouldn’t last long after
she went. They seemed to think it was
the decent thing for him to give this
proper proof of his devotion. In any
case, Grandmother was seventy-five when
she died—and he was older than that.
But Grandfather didn’t die ; he just kept
on ; so people said he must be a pretty
callous sort, and gave him no credit at
all for his constitution.
What Grandfather paid Miss Laurie
for housekeeping is not known. It
couldn’t have been very much, for the
old man was careful and never given to
spending a penny unnecessarily. Miss
Laurie, in her precise and decorous way,
said he was careful.
Other folk, not so proper in expression,
said he was a “mingy old cow.” At
ninety-eight he still mended his own
boots —not really well, but enough to
“get an extra turn or two” out of them.
He still looked upon sweets or pudding
as all extravagance not to be tolerated —
except on Christmas Day, perhaps. And
he strongly deprecated the modern trend
towards butter and jam on the same slice
of bread.
But Miss Laurie said he was an “old
dear” for all • that. Genuinely, she was
fond of Grandfather, and saw qualities
in him that no one else noticed.
Further, her deep religious instincts
raised her poorly-paid service to the plane
of charity. She felt a kind of spiritual
glow within her when she thought of
how helpless he really would be without
her. She knew well enough that her un-
failing cheerfulness was a comfort to
him. If often grieved her that she could
not persuade him to go to kirk on Sun-
day—he always said he would go ; later
on, when things slackened a bit. But she
went herself and no doubt strongly in-
cluded him in her prayers.
I N all ways possible she protected him,
' often doing outrage to a tender con-
science in the process.
When the Depression was on Grand-
father .became fearful of his bank deposits
till his distrust of the Government be-
came an obsession. He drew £2OOO from
the bank and buried it in a saucepan
under the peach-tree. Miss Laurie said
that two very suspicious characters had
watched him through a crack in the
palings. That scared Grandfather more
than ever about his money, and next day
he put it back in the bank.
She had persuaded him, too, to send
in income-tax returns ; which he had had
no intention of doing, saying that once
you sent in returns “they’ve got you.”
Then, when he did compile them, she
gently cajoled him into making reason-
ably truthful ones, on practical as well
as moral grounds.
She reinforced her arguments by read-
ing extracts from the “Argus” wherein
report was made of certain wealthy tax-
payers being severely dealt with for fur-
nishing false returns. It can’t be said
that Grandfather was particularly grateful
for being saved from his own instincts,
but he did recognise that there was some-
thing in what she said.
Still, he deeply resented paying good,
hard cash*to a nebulous concern called the
“Guvmint” from which one received no
tangible benefits whatever. Anyway, the
“Guvmint” was obviously rotten to the
core, for Grandfather had tried, when
he had qualified (by the blessing of being
able to keep on breathing at sixty-five)
to draw the old-age pension, and that
same “Guvmint” had knocked him back
—on the score of property and means.
The Taxation Department “stung”
Grandfather for ten pounds, and, all
things considered, this was letting him
off very lightly ; but Grandfather fretted
and fumed over the impost for weeks,
and went off his food, and neglected his
garden and lawn, and lectured anybody
who’d listen about the way the country
was “going to the dogs,” and devised
ways and means of saving, and even
toyed with the idea of cutting Miss
Laurie’s wages.
At length he paid up, with a wrench
to his dearest principles, and determined
that he would consult a solicitor and
a “taxation expert” before it happened
again.
Grandfather got a “sort of a
pimple” on his nose, and Miss
Laurie said she didn’t like it at all.
Grandfather said there was only one
thing that would fix pimples of the kind,
and mixed up some lard and sulphur. He
applied this night and morning, and the
pimple got a lot worse, and spread
greatly. So he left off using lard and
sulphur, and went on to some embroca-
tion—dabbing it on with a feather.
This made the pimple cease to be a
pimple, and it covered his nose with a
very ugly sore. Miss Laurie read to him
extracts from a family medical textbook,
and narrated the experiences of certain
relatives and friends (all now deceased)
who had had pimples like Grandfather’s
and hadn’t done the right thing in time.
Eventually she persuaded Grandfather
to see Dr. Winton. Grandfather went
along with considerable reluctance, re-
iterating that he had never consulted a
doctor in his l(fe, and hinting that there
was something effeminate in visiting
doctors.
Dr. Winton looked at Grandfather’s
nose, and said “Um!” The “Urn!” cost
10s. 6d., and Grandfather grieved bitterly
about it. Ironically he kept saying “Um! ”
to himself all the way home.
In reality Dr. Winton had done more
than say “Um!” He gave Grandfather
a letter to a famous Sydney specialist.
When Grandfather understood the full
implication of this he said he’d be damned
before he spent more money on such tom-
foolery. But Miss Laurie said there was
nothing else for it, and read much more
fearsome extracts from the medical text-
book and remembered much more shock-
ing cases of friends and-relations.
At length Grandfather made the
journey to Sydney, predicting gloomily
all the while that the doctors would get
all his money, now that they had made
a start. He travelled second-class, and
scorned all suggestions of sleepers.
Miss Laurie wanted to go with him to
look after him, but Grandfather wouldn’t
hear of it at all. Quite absurd, he said,
to double the expense. Also she sent word
to Jack and Tom, Grandfather’s two
“boys,” and suggested that one should
accompany Grandfather to Sydney. They
said they were very busy, and thought
Grandfather would manage all right—-he
always had, they reckoned.
Grandfather did manage all right on the
train, and kept awake all night; and,
although the carriage was crowded, he
and an old lady, in the diagonally oppo-
site corner, managed to snarl at each
other the long journey through.
The specialist, Dr. W. St. C. Quentin-
Bigge, really sounded like a specialist.
He looked at Grandfather, and said
“U-m-m! ” (This cost two guineas.) But he
did dismount from the severe hyphena-
tion of his name to mention that if Dr.
Winton could do nothing for him it was
extremely doubtful if anyone in the wide
world could. This tribute by famous
specialists to obscure country medicoes
is frequently and gracefully paid; but
it didn’t impress Grandfather overmuch.
The specialist thought the pimple would
clear up with a pot of ointment.
He looked steadily at Grandfather
through the top half of his bi-focals. “It’s
expensive ointment,” he said, “but mar-
vellously effective.”
“How much?” Grandfather croaked
dismally.
“About fifteen and six,” said the
specialist quite sympathetically.
But his sympathy didn’t soften the
blow much. ,
Grandfather stayed at the People’s
Palace because it seemed the decent thing
to do ; and used his expensive ointment,
and it worked wonders. He didn’t like
Sydney very much —something of its fine
old spirit seemed to have vanished in the
sixty years since he last saw it.
Often at dusk he stood at a corner
and watched the crowd surging past. He
didn’t like crowds, but he found them
fascinating for all that—all these people
and not a face he knew, and different all
the time, and going nowhere, and mean-
ing nothing in the big scheme of things.
One evening a very bad woman smiled
upon him and tried to seduce him.
'Grandfather was shocked —and a little
flattered, too.
Next day he went back to Dr. W. St.
C. Quentin-Bigge, who enthused to the
extent of saying “Nicely! nicely!”—and
charged him a guinea.
He said, too. Grandfather might go
home when he liked, and gave him a
sealed note to Dr. Winton.
|W[ ISS LAURIE met Grandfather at
the station when he returned. She
was delighted to see that his nose was
practically better, and Grandfather said
it ought to be, too, seeing what it cost.
She wanted to hire a taxi for the mile
journey to home, but Grandfather was
so distressed that they walked, and took
the remarkably light suitcase in turn.
On the way Grandfather again went
through the facts—and figures—of his
visit to Sydney. He translated the latter,
for the purpose of clearer visualisation,
into gallons of milk and bags of corn.
Put that way, it was awful to think of
a small pot of ointment (even if it were
good ointment) costing as much as a bag
and a half of corn! “It isn’t right,” said
Grandfather, and he emphasised his feel-
ings by clamping hard on the handle of
the suitcase.
Mrs. Murphy met them at the gate,
and she told Grandfather how pleased she
was to see him back again and how
pleased that his “poor nose” was better
again ; and, “Do you know, I’ve been
praying hard, I have, that your nose
would recover. I’m sure the prayers have
done it after all.”
Grandfather mentioned that the doctor
said the ointment had done it —and at
15s. 6d. a small pot it should have, too.
Mrs. Murphy, however, while not be-
littling the efficacy of that same ointment
at all, at all, was still very sure that the
ointment itself would never have done
it at all, at all. Grandfather left abruptly,
and passed the duty of a polite ending
to the interview to Miss Laurie.
He hurried into the house to examine
his mail —which always consisted of bills
and receipts.
The local council had recently struck a
new rate, on a new V.G.’s valuation, and
Grandfather was extremely anxious to see
how he had been treated. The rates were
there all right, and Grandfather fairly
yelled when, these exceeded his own care-
ful and outside estimate by ten shillings
and eightpence.
Quite unreasonably. Grandfather con-
nected Mrs. Murphy with this extor-
tionate impost, and that in spite of her
prayers for his nose.
Further, he considered that the-traces
of what he called “black blood” in Mrs.
Murphy were much to blame. Incident-
ally, it might be mentioned here, Grand-
father was something of a genealogist,
and he knew to the very last thimbleful
how much “black blood” flowed in the
veins of quite a few of the best families
in town. There was a good deal more
of this than was generally suspected, and
Grandfather often chuckled maliciously
at hjs knowledge that a very haughty
bank manager, an important estate
agent and a professionally gruff solicitor
all had part of their roots in gunyahs, cor-
roborees and feasts of ’possums and
goannas grilled ove/ the hot coals.
Jack and Tom —“the boys”—came up
from their farms and found Grand-
father very lively and bitter. Jack was
singularly deficient in filial sentiments,
and couldn’t forget a lot of things.
Perhaps the fact that Jack was nearly
eighty himself, and not so spry as
he used to be, and down where he lived
was popularly supposed to have “one
foot in the grave,” accounted for some-
thing of his moroseness.
Also Jack eyed Miss Laurie with a
doleful sort of suspicion. In truth, he
viewed her as designing. Tom’s compara-
tive youth—he was barely seventy-four—
made him take a much more tolerant
outlook.
Grandfather gave a vivid outline of his
trip to Sydney, and was full of burning
comment on the racket of doctors and
chepffsts. He was full, too, of schemes
for the future, and spoke of leaving his
retirement and returning to the land. Per-
haps it was something of that perennial
forward view that had kept him so
young.
Jack went home strangely disheartened.
BUT Grandfather didn’t go back to
the land after all. Some little time
later he was digging a posthole and
had what was generally called “an
attack.”
Miss Laurie found him unconscious by
the post he had intended putting in. In
great distress she called for the neighbors,
and with their help she had Grandfather
conveyed to a couch on the back verandah.
Mrs. Murphy was there, of course, but
was too tearfully and prayerfully dis-
turbed to be of much help.
It was necessary to have medical assist-
ance, but Miss Laurie felt extremely wor-
ried over sending for it, knowing how
Grandfather would so little like further
medical expense after the trouble with his
nose. But the case seemed imperative,
and Dr. Winton came along.
He said the matter was very serious,
and that the family should be sent for.
So Jack and Tom and Mary were along
later in the day, and Peggy and Jenny
came by next morning’s train from Syd-
ney.
Miss Laurie was by far the most genu-
inely concerned, but remained her cheer-
ful self and “did” for the lot of them.
Dr. Winton gave it as his opinion that
Grandfather wouldn’t rally again, and
that they must prepare for the worst.
Jack couldn’t help muttering that Grand-
father might have saved all the bother
and expense over his nose —now that it
had come to this.
Grandfather didn’t rally. Sometime
next morning his coma just faded into dis-
solution ; and so at last, at ninety-nine,
they buried him. The “boys” and “girls’
were quite philosophical about his pass-
ing. “Ah, well! he has lived his life,”
they said —or seemed to say.
Miss Laurie, however, was deeply
affected—something of her own life and
usefulness was gone for ever. Her easy
tears flowed unrestrainedly.
She was really Grandfather’s child
more than his real children could ever
be. Though she didn’t quite think of
it that way, she had now no occupation that
mattered, nothing to lavish affection upon.
Her sentiments clearly were not inter-
preted aright by the others. However,
the “children” were human enough to
sympathise with her distress, and, although
they feared that Grandfather might have
made too liberal provision for her, they
considered it fair to decide that they
would see she didn’t want.
In good time the will was read, and
Miss Laurie didn’t figure in any bequest
at all. All the property went to the five
children in equal shares. The estate just
reached six figures—and Jack moaned a
deal about the inevitable probate duties.
I N view of these wretched imposts, and
I the fact that Miss Laurie had had
a “comfortable post” for over twenty
years —and “well paid for it” —Jack pro-
posed that a hearty word of thanks
would be sufficient recognition.
The others, however, couldn’t let it
go at that.
Finally they decided that something
more tangible than expression of grati-
tude must be made. And so Jenny pre-
sented to Miss Laurie a crisp new pound
note —from the family.
Miss Laurie took the pound, even
though she felt she hadn’t really earned
it, and gave it to Dr. McNair for the
Inland Mission. And feeling very old and
lost herself, she found a position—looK.-
ing after an eccentric old lady, addicted
to inordinate numbers of Pomeranians,
and with arthritis as a sort of sideline.
Not too pleasant a prospect. “But, as
Miss Laurie said, “it’s all in a lifetime,
The Surfer.
He thrust his joy against the weight of the sea;
climbed through, slid under those long banks of
foam —•
(hawthorn hedges in spring, thorns in the face
stinging).
How his brown strength drove through the
hollow and coil
of green-through weirs of water!
Muscle of arm thrust down long muscle of
water:
and, swimming so, went out of sight
where mortal, masterful, frail, the gulls went
wheeling
in air as he in water, with delight.
Turn home, the sun goes down; swimmer, turn
home.
Last leaf of gold vanishes from the sea-curve.
Take the big roller’s shoulder, speed and swerve;
come to the long beach home like a gull diving.
For on the sand the grey-wolf sea lies snarling;
cold twilight wind splits the waves’ hair and
shows
the bones they worry in their wolf-teeth. Oh,
wind blows,
and sea crouches on sand, fawning and mouth-
ing;
drops there and snatches again, drops and
again snatches
its broken toys, its whitened pebbles and shells.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3397
Wednesday, March 21, 1945
“REPRESENTING THE A.I.F.”
“Four a.w.l. Diggers, veterans of the Middle East and New Guinea, spoke to General Blarney in Manila, one saying ‘I am representing the A.I.F. in the Philippines.
All admitted’ that they had ‘scrounged’ lifts to Luzon to fight the Japanese.”
“You’re not too, are you, Tom?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane ,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.PjO.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.*
A LOAN TO FILL.
Not disdaining the assistance of the
Opposition leaders, as he and his party
have done in the bigger business of run-
ning the country at war, Mr. Curtin
opened the campaign to raise another
£100,000,000. The loan closes on April
27, but the aim is to have it filled two
days earlier, on Anzac Day. Filled, of
course, it must be; though with its pro-
posals for the “control” of airlines, bank-
ing and currency, and its vast new addi-
tions to paternalist expenditure, the Gov-
ernment has done its worst for the loan
in advance.
It has done its worst in other ways.
Even the use of Anzac Day (with
prisoners of war doubtless coming in pres-
ently) has the air of an afterthought. As
it is, emphasis has been put by the P.M.
and will continue to be put by his hench-
men, in their unoriginal fashion of
plagiarising themselves and each other, on
the wholly accidental coincidence of the
Day synchronising with the opening of
the San Francisco World Security Con-
ference. That may help ; but the Day
alone would have been better. It would,
for a change, have focussed the public
mind on'the country’s heroic tradition,
made glorious on that Day apd strength-
ened on many another day since. And
being strengthened still further every
present day by the Australian fighting
men whom it has been the present Gov-
ernment’s major policy to keep shut away
from public view. A new, blanketed, un-
sung Silent Service.
In the “Saturday Evening Post” of
February 2 a writer actually refers to
one of the splendid A.I.F 1 . divisions
as the Silent Seventh. The writer,
R.A.A.F. Flight-Lieutenant John O’Cal-
lagan, puts the blame where it rightly
belongs. Attempting to correct the Ameri-
can impression that the Chicago “Tri-
bune” was right when it numbered Aus-
tralia among the “absent allies”—absent,
that is, from tbe Pacific War fighting—
the R.A.A.F. man wrote; “The Austral-
ian official attitude of not directly naming
units or commanders contributed to the
unfair assessment.” He meant the
American assessment, though that is
more excusable than the Australian assess-
ment, which is little better informed.
Poorly conceived information from this
end has helped to fix the American view.
Even so, Australia’s fighting men are not
altogether unappreciated over there.
Whether or not its military information
was accurate in all detail, the N.Y.
“Times” (February 7) was stirring enough
in its appreciation:—■
Australia’s biggest job at present almost
duplicates below the Equator that which
we [Americans] face above the Line in the
Philippines. Having beaten the enemy at
every point, her task is now to rid great
island areas of the fast Japanese invaders.
Enemy troops are clinging desperately to
Bougainville, New Britain and the Aitape
sector of the New Guinea coast. Because
they fight savagely in the knowledge that
they cannot escape, it will require a major
effort to destroy them. It was necessary to
land six Australian divisions to open this
final campaign, and more are now reported
pouring into New Britain.
If that last is true the question “Re-
ported where?” might occur to Austral-
ians. In any case, nothing of that stir-
ring character appears in official reports
here, let alone anything like this further
N.Y. “Times” comment:
To Australia will fall the honor of re-
deeming Rabaul, chief centre and strategic
prize of Melanesia. Rabaul remains a
natural fortress in which the Japanese are
still holed up in considerable strength.
Australian veterans are closing in on them.
In the Torricelli Mountains of New Guinea
and the Bougainville jungles the enemy re-
sists with equal bitterness, but Australia is
plainly writing the last chapter in Japan’s
dream of southward expansion.
In Australia the picture in all minds,
conjured there by meagre or incredibly
stupid official information releases, is one
of these same fighters “mopping-up”
“by-pasSed remnants,” in another figure
left “withering on the vine.” Mr. Curtin
and his responsible henchmen may indig-
nantly deny authorship of any of these
phrases. That can be accepted; the
phrases strike a note of originality, if a
false one. What Messrs. Curtin and Co.
stand guilty of is failure to correct such
impressions. As with the part allotted to
Australians in the Pacific, there are des-
perate attempts to pass the buck in this
publicity field. Thus Mr. Calwell, putting
the blame on the Army (17/1 /’45). Thus
also General Blarney, tossing it back to
Mr, Calwell and elsewhere:
The release of news of Army operational
activities is controlled completely by
General MacArthur. Such news cannot be
released until he permits it to be done.
Whatever truth or purpose that may
have had in the past, it surely cannot
apply now, when General MacArthur is
far from Australia, personally supervising
a part of this war which, in its land opera-
tions, is being wholly fought by his own
countrymen. In any case, seeing that
Australia’s fighting men have their due
of honor and the rest of Australians a
knowledge of it is not an Army but a
political, a Government, responsibility. It
is a responsibility the Government has,
with remarkable readiness, abandoned.
Cornered —as when Mr. Spender expres-
sed some downright views in New York
—this Government’s spokesmen fall back
on one or other of two stock blinds.
One of these is ‘.‘military security.” No-
body anywhere questions this as far as it
applies to movement or pending move-
ment of troops and suchlike wholly mili-
tary developments, advance information
on which would be of great value to the
enemy and criminal in whoever let it out.
That is not the question. What is, is
the blanketing of the fighting men’s doings
after they have done them.
The “policy” in this matter is the com-
plete opposite to that pursued by Ameri-
cans, in particular by General Patton. After
consulting Generals Marshall and Eisen-
hower, General Patton last November
ordered that the name of every division,
every unit and every commander on his
front be released every day for publica-
tion. General Patton maintained that the
enemy knew anyway within twelve hours
of a battle’s beginning exactly what
troops he was fighting, just as the Ameri-
cans and British knew who opposed
them within a few hours after a new
division appeared. The theory was that
such publicity would be good for fighting
morale. -Applauding the decision, N.Y.
“Times” commented on another aspect:
In fighting a war within a democratic
framework, the public must be given infor-
mation upon which to make it's decisions.
Who knows but what some of the home-
front delinquencies never would have
occurred had censorship allowed a more
realistic appraisal of the state of affairs.
The other stock blind the Government
spokesmen rely on was used by Mr.
Forde on January 7: “At the appropriate
time full publicity will be given to the
part to be played by the Australian Army
and Air Force” —“in the Philippines,”
Mr. Forde added. Mr. Curtin has since
discounted the Philippines part of the
pronouncement, but in his loan-opening
speech he plagiarised the rest: “You will
read more about its exploits.” Mr. Cur-
tin, was referring to the Navy, but the
blind does for all.
For “appropriate time” apparently
should be read the publication date of the
Australian Official History. The mean-
time, it seems, is to bring out nothing
more nationally inspiring than the fami-
liar vague official references, with the
names of commanders, divisions and units
rigidly withheld. Going by past practice,
there will be for the next month such
references to the fighters as there have
been in past loan campaigns—so dull and
spiritless as to seem grudging. Perhaps
it is useless urging a change for the sake
of home-front morale and to give the
fighting men their greatly deserved due.
Perhaps the blanketing “policy” argues
nothing* worse than what has to be ex-
pected from uninspired minds; from
men who never in their whole lives have
aspired or reached nearer to the heroic
than can be managed on a soapbox.
Whatever the explanation, the definite
result has been that the fighting men
have been piped down, their splendid
deeds diminished, while home-fronters
have been singled out for flattery. The
bulk of those flattered have not hitherto
subscribed to war loans, and there is no
great hope that many of them will in
this instance depart from their practice,
with the Government, as usual, permitting
the competition of all public forms of
gambling. For the filling of the loan the
Government will rely in the main on
those at whom its socialistic measures,
introduced in spite of the Prime Minis-
ter’s election pledge and the defeat of the
powers referendum, are aimed, knowing
that they will not let the country down.
1814, 1918 and 1945.
Great European wars, with mastery of
the continent the aim on one side and
very nearly attained by a succession of
resounding victories, have a way of end-
ing suddenly and to the utter confusion
of the would-be master and his people.
From the beginning of February,
1793, till the end of June, 1815, except
for the periods of the Treaty of Amiens
and the first Bourbon Restoration,
aggregating about two years, England
was at war with the French of the First
Republic and Empire. It triumphed on
the. sea and in operations against sugar
and spice islands (though its overseas
campaigns were by no means uniformly
successful), but until Wellington reached
Portugal in 1808 its land campaigns
were nearly all failures ; and even Wel-
lington, though he held Portugal and won
battles and sieges in Spain, made no
great impression on the enemy till 1813.
As for England’s major associates, they
were all beaten into submission, Russia
once, Prussia twice and Austria four
times, until Napoleon’s Grand Army was
lost in the snows of eastern Europe.
Even then the Emperor fought a great
campaign against all three in 1813, and,
though finally worsted at Leipzig, in
his retreat to the Rhine he overthrew
the Bavarians, who with the Saxons,
Wurtembergers and Swedes had gone over
to his enemies, making an unmolested
crossing of the river in October of that
year.
On December 21 the eastern Allies
began the Rhine passage, one column
going through Holland, another crossing
at Coblenz and a third at Basle,
in Switzerland. Fighting in France
did not begin till January 28. Greatly
outnumbered by the hosts of Ger-
many, Russia, Austria and Sweden,
Napoleon had to send nearly half his
army to meet Wellington, who was in-
vading France from the south. Never-
theless, though he had his reverses, he
won brilliant battles over his adversaries
from beyond the Rhine and compelled
them to retreat more than once. What
followed is described by a representative
historian.
After six weeks’ fighting the Allies were
hardly more advanced than in the begin-
ning. Now, however, they began to realise
the weakness of their opponent, and per-
haps actuated by the fear that Wellington,
from Toulouse, might after all reach
Paris first, they determined to march to
Paris (then an open city), and let Napoleon
do his worst to their communications. This
was exactly what he was preparing to
d 0.... Regardless of the threat, the Allies
marched straight for the capital. Marmont
and Mortier took up a position on Mont-
martre to oppose them but gave way on
March 31, just as Napoleon was hurrying
across the rear of the Austrians to join
them. This was the end of the first Empire.
Napoleon abdicated on April 11.
The last war also moved swiftly to its
dramatic finish. In the spring and
summer of 1918 the Germans, already
in possession of nearly all Belgium and
a great part of northern France while
s the Austrians were on the Piave in Italy,
inflicted great defeats on the British and
the French. On April 11 Sir Douglas
Haig issued his immortal appeal to his
soldiers:—
With our backs to the wall, and believing
in the justice of our cause, each one of us
must fight on to the end. The safety of
our homes and the freedom of mankind
alike depend upon the conduct of each one
of us at this moment.
He did not appeal in vain. By heroic
exertions the enemy was prevented from
driving a wedge between Haig’s army
and Petain’s and taking the Channel ports.
But, driving south, he reached the Marne
again, and the Allies, grimly holding him
there, began to prepare for a 1919 cam-
paign. Britain, at its wits’ end for men
—it had sent to the continent its last
army, consisting largely of boys—took
steps to raise the age for overseas ser-
vice to 55, meanwhile imploring the
Dominions to recruit every man they
could —“I would urge the Government
of Australia,” said Mr. Lloyd George in
a message, “to reinforce its heroic troops
in the fullest possible manner and with
the smallest possible delay.”
The Labor party’s response was to pass
the subjoined resolution at its inter-State
conference in Perth (June 17):
Further participation in recruiting shall be
subject to the following conditions; (a)
That a clear and authoritative statement be
made on behalf of the Allies asserting their
readiness to enter into peace negotiations
on the basis of no annexations and no penal
indemnities; ( b ) that Australia’s require-
ments in man-power be met with respect to
9 (1) home defence, (2) industrial require-
ments ; an immediate inquiry, upon which
the Australian Labor party shall be officially
and adequately represented, to be held
and its decisions to be immediately given
effect to.
Provided that this determination shall be
immediately submitted by each State [Labor]
executive under the direction of the Federal
[Labor] executive, with a recommendation
from this conference for its adoption, to
a referendum of members of all branches
and. affiliated organisations, and shall be-
’ come operative upon a majority of the *
votes of those voting being cast in the
affirmative, the ballot to close not later than
November 1 next. In the event of the
Commonwealth Government interfering
with the conduct of the ballot, the fore-
going decision as to recruiting shall there-
upon be immediately operative.
Mr. Curtin was a delegate to this con-
ference. So were Mr. Holloway, Mr.
Makin and Mr. Cameron, now members
of his Ministry, and his former leader
and present adviser Mr. Scullin. Their
precious ballot was never taken. Events
made a mockery of it and of another
Perth-conference resolution, to which all
hands subscribed; “We are of opinion
that a complete victory of the Allies over
the Central Powers, if possible, can only
be accomplished by the further sacrifice
of millions of human lives.”
One defeat put the wind up the enemy.
It was the defeat of August 8, to which
Australians gloriously contributed—
although recruiting had fallen away to
a few hundred a week, they then had five
divisions in France under an Australian
commander, as well as the equivalent of
a division and a half in Palestine, also
under an Australian commander, recently
extolled by Mr. Curtin, being dead.
Ludendorff called August 8 “Germany’s
black day,” and from the black day Ger-
many n?yer recovered. By the end of
October its three partners had caved in.
Within another 11 days it had signed the
capitulation, and the Kaiser, fallen with
all his house, had gone into exile, to die
almost forgotten.
But the repetitions of history, though
curious and apt - to be a guide to what
may happen before a particular cycle is
complete, are never exact. Napoleon’s
invasion of Russia was over in six
months. Without being meticulous about
geography, Hitler’s may be said to have
lasted seven times as long, and though
his own country has been invaded he
holds a bit of Latvia still. In his retreat
to France Napoleon left behind garrisons
on the Elbe, the Vistula, the Oder
and at Hamburg, hoping that substantial
forces of first-class Prussian, Austrian
and Russian troops would be detached
to besiege them. “He also thought,”
Wolseley wrote, that “they would require
armies in the provinces being restored to
their legitimate rulers.”
He did not, consequently, anticipate so
large a disproportion between his own army
and that of the Allies when both had taken
the field in France. Before crossing the
Rhine the Allies had almost exclusively em-
ployed their militia to invest or besiege the
French garrisons in Germany; and in their
advance from that river towards Paris they
stopped to besiege no fortress, contenting
themselves with observing or investigating.
Hitler left garrisons in French ports when
he had to retreat towards the Rhine, and
they, too, are for the most part being
invested by militia, so far with no suc-
cess. But whereas Napoleon’s garrisons
in Germany were no use to him, and
when the crisis came he felt bitterly the
need of them and their generals, particu-
larly Davout, who held out in Hamburg
till the end of the war, Hitler’s are of
some service to him in delaying the re-
habilitation of France and preventing the
closing of the entire French coast against
his U-boats, which of late have become
more mischievous.
Napoleon calculated on invasion re-
viving the flagging spirit of his people;
and it is obviously the same with Hitler,
though results are not yet evident. Both
had to reckon with disaffection among
generals. This weakness Napoleon could
not master; most of his marshals were
sick of the war, and in his extremity they
turned against him or refined to fight on.
In the ruthless and numerous gang led
by Himmler Hitler has a weapon which
proved effectual when high members of
the military caste revolted and tried to do
him in; but whether, as the military situa-
tion grows worse, it will avail against
sympathisers with [he killed plotters—in
the nature of things there must be some
—and against the people, inevitably war-
weary and reduced to hideous misery by
the bombing, is at least doubtful.
France in 1814 was not short of food.
Neither apparently is Germany in 1945.
But, along with the capture by Allied
armies of great sources of supplies and
labor, the bombing has had effects on
transport and on morale which, of course,
did not operate in the invasion of 141
years ago. And though not actually or
relatively so short of men and equipment
as Napoleon was in his last campaign,
Hitler since the landing in Normandy has
had great losses of both, while his capa-
city to maintain supplies of war materials
has been substantially reduced.
When he lost Paris Napoleon thought
he could continue the struggle behind the
Loire, summoning to the forces under his
personal leadership undefeated armies
from the south, till his marshals
refused to follow him. The Ger-
man movements in Hungary and the
desperate defence of northern Italy,
coupled with the fanatical opposition
to the onset of Montgomery and of the
Russian marshals on the Oder line, indi-
cate that Hitler and the generals devoted
to him have roughed out a more gran-
diose scheme. It is not to be dismissed
as impracticable, even if Berlin and Ham-
burg fall and the Allies effect a junction
in Germany. Though the crossing ot
the Rhine is a great matter, and will assur-
edly-shorten the German war, the Adies
still need to be backed by a hundred
per cent, effort on the home front,
goes for Australia, and has a bearing on
its current loan, as well as on the nations
directly engaged in settling Hitler s hash.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Our Jubilee Plungers.
One reason why plain people are so
alarmed at the threatened placing of
banking and credit under the ultimate
control of Caucus is that the crowd in
office is a Jubilee Plunger Government.
With drought added to a frightfully
expensive war —cost to February 28,
£l,9sl,ooo,ooo—which means, among
other things, that there will be a stun-
ning fall in income-tax receipts, it is
throwing money about as if the public
purse were bottomless and as if boom
will be the normal state of affairs after
the war.
In other days drought was invariably
the signal for Government expenditure
to be cut. Its effect on this Govern-
ment has been to inspire it ,to fresh
orgies of expenditure. Two hundred
thousand pounds for its referendum. Two
million for free medicine, and a great
deal more when the “Government” yields
to the inevitable demand for free “tonics”
and cure-alls and headache tablets and
hangover powders. Another six millions
for child endowment. Another four mil-
lions for old-age and invalid pensions.
Without the probable pre-election addi-
tions, expenditure on social services for
1947-48 is estimated by Mr. Chifley him-
self at £73,000,000—0n1y £1,036,800 less
than the entire Commonwealth tax-
revenue in 1938-39, of which income tax,
then reckoned stiff, brought in £11,882,400.
And all with war pensions and gratuities
to meet and repatriation of servicemen
and -women to be attended to.‘ inescap-
able obligations, but certain to be ex-
tremely costly ; and the cost is bound to
increase until the country has settled
down after the war. Already people con-
cerned for the future have been told that
they may expect no diminution of war
taxation, that nightmare to the middle
class and to industries that will have to
struggle with overseas competitors whose
needs are being carefully studied by their
Governments.
In proportion to the amount of fighting
being done the cost of the war is stu-
pendous, and instances of prodigal ex-
travagance hit everyone in the eye, but
not the slightest attempt is made to curb
it. “Spend, spend, spend! ” is the “policy”
in every field. The country is being
charged with the cost of the com-
munist Thornton’s propaganda missions
abroad. Every pink professor who wants
to go to Moscow gets a free trip, salary
and everything. And the Government is
sending two Ministers, 11 “assistants”
and four private secretaries to London
and San Francisco, one of the “assist-
ants” being a lady with no qualifications
other than a Leftist line of patter, and it
was arranging to send a flock of typistes
also till polite objections arrived.
And, to the outspoken annoyance of
many of their own supporters. Ministers
go round in a fleet of Chrysler cars, com-
plete with all 1942 improvements, re-
fused by the South African Government
on the ground that it was practising
economy. One of these luxury caravans
became a casualty when carrying a Min-
ister and members of his staff on a private
mission. Mr. Curtin admits that “the
cost ex wharf was £A765 10s. per unit,”
exclusive, of course, of customs duties
and the like. If any private person wanted
to import a Chrysler sedan of the 1942
vintage, duties paid, he would be knocked
back in the name of Austerity.
Even the cool announcement that
£200,000 is to be provided for “a com-
prehensive anti-pillaging organisation” is
a devastating revelation of what is going
on. The Government has been charac-
teristically tardy in realising that looting
and black-marketing amount to a national
scandal, but the problem of dealing with
it effectually is simple, and can be ex-
pressed in simple terms.
There are only seven or eight ports and dis-
tributing centres in which looters need to be
watched and grabbed and punished.
The Government can requisition the ser-
vices of State police (there were 9300 in 1939
and only a handful have been allowed to enlist)
as well as its own army of peace officers
and so forth and the staffs of watchmen em-
ployed by shipping and stevedoring cos.
It has the power to invoke the aid of the
fighting services and place all wharf areas under
military law. •
It has a Crimes Act on the Statute Book,
and can make the provisions so precise and
the punishment so severe that looters would
cease to laugh and Benches to become haunts
of misplaced sentiment. I
With (he law tightened up and a few stiff
sentences inflicted —or, better still, a hanging or
two —looting and black-marketing would cease
as suddenly as garrotting did when, this class
of crime having become prevalent, garrotters
were flogged.
But there is to be “a comprehensive
anti-pillaging organisation” with £200,000
placed at its service, though “only
£60,000 is to be spent immediately.”
And “wharf-laborers previously convicted
of pillaging will probably be excluded
from the wharves.” Loud and prolonged
laughter from the union.
The Sheonng Strike.
From an old shed-hand:
In 1930 the P.W.I.U engineered shearing
strikes in N.S.W. and Queensland to try to break
the A.W.U. Leader of the P.W.I.U then was the
communist Norman Jeffrey, now an “industrial
liaison officer.” The strikes being unsuccessful,
the P.W.I.U. was dissolved and members joined
the A.W.U.
Within a few years other communists who had
been P.W.I.U. organisers held key positions
in the N.S.W. branch of the A.W.U. One
in particular formed local committes in many
districts. Last year communists were ejected
from their N.S.W. branch positions by the
A.W.U. Federal executive, but the local com-
mittees remained.
The A.W.U. is the only great union in this
country not yet controlled by communists. Its
claim for increased wages and shorter hours
was due for hearing on 15/2/’45. But at
the end of January, when shearing was just
getting under way in Queensland, a shearing
strike was launched. Intimidation tactics were
used and secret ballots forbidden.
After January 23 no shearers would sign fresh
contracts in Queensland, and by February all
shearing had stopped in that State. Votes in
country centres showed a total majority favor-
ing continuance of work, yet the strike minority
prevailed and no shearing was done.
In February the infection spread to N. S.
Wales. Every endeavor has been made during
the war years to encourage graziers to
shear as many sheep as possible in autumn to
lighten the load on man-power during the regu-
lar shearing season in spring. The strike has
so far crippled all this. In the Inverell district
intimidation tactics were employed; at New-
stead North nine shearers were threatened
by men who came out in cars from In-
verell and took them back to town. Fares
and expenses of the nine back to their home
towns were paid. Other sheds were visited and
the same procedure followed.
It has been publicly asked how and whence
the communists get cars and tyres and petrol
to travel all over the country and money for
everything. No answer from any quarter.
The strike has been on for nearly two months.
Shearers knew late in 1944 that if was looming.
Even though a ballot ordered by the Queensland
Industrial Court has shown a 2-fo-l majority for
resumption of work the effects of the strike
will show up in the labor situation in the pas-
toral industry, already bad, and on the food
front generally. Delays in shearing will throw
a heavier burden on transport of wool at one
particular period instead of spreading it over
the year. There will be other repercussions.,
And nobody in the country, knowing the war-
time “policy” of State and Federal Labor Gov-
ernments in these matters, will believe other than
that they are afraid to handle communists
without kid gloves. In any case, they have left
the old Australian union to fight alone against
the unionist’s worst enemy—communism.
Not “Quiet Down Here/ 1
N.S.W. Premier McKell is having his
worries, though they differ from those
of ordinary jpeople, now threatened with
a plague of Government transport
strikes, while continuing to be the sport
of Government slaughtermen, northern
and southern coalminers, looters and
black marketeers.
For one thing, the Leg. Council has
made rather a mess of the McKell Local
Government “Amendment” Bill, which,
while offering a few unsolicited and un-
important concessions to councils, pro-
posed to set up the Minister, a Mr. J. J.
Cahill, as a despot in the only field of gov-
ernment still reasonably free from bureau-
cracy and union bossism. Again, the
Great Daily that praised Mr. McKell
before the State election for having been
as inert as a toad totally surrounded by
sandstone (“Mr. McKell can fairly plead
that he has best served the State and
the nation by going along quietly”) is now
banging him severely for not being active
in a number of things.
And an Opposition member with an
inconvenient memory recalled that at the
end of 1941 the McKell Government
undertook to introduce a bill “to amend
the licensing laws.” This he contrasted
with a 1945 McKell announcement that
the matter would be attended to after
the war, “despite the Government’s ad-
mission that a disgraceful state of affairs
exists.” It came out that “an expert com-
mittee” had been appointed t in 1941, and
Mr. McKell, sorely ’ embarrassed,
promised that “a committee of experts”
would report in 1945 ; indeed “very sub-
stantial reforms in the liquor trade”
would be undertaken “when normal con-
ditions prevail.”
Before being placed in this distressing
plight the McKell Government had
passed the buck to the Commonwealth
Government, alleging that the bottle-beer
racket and the black market and the
lily-fingered treatment of hardffaced pub-
licans notoriously doing well out of the
war were the concern of the Common-
wealth Government; “Federal matters.”
A full-throated denial came from Senator
Keane, who said his department of Trade
and Customs had tried to do something
(Continued on page 8 .)
TO HELL WITH THE SIGNAL!


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE GO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
id!
it!
K
in'!
op
UNAft&A a
time
till
By
the ph&h
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
annual income exceeds
£6,000,000.
M. O. Aider. A.LA^^
and had “discovered atrocious cases”
but was handicapped by the fact that
“hotels and their conduct come under
State laws,” which were “absurd, insane.”
And, to the gratification of “scoundrels
running hotels,”
There are stupid magistrates who do not
appreciate the importance of cases brought
before them. Another difficulty is that
people convicted of black marketing suc-
cessfully appeal to higher courts.
To this the N.S.W. Licensing Bench
replied, in a postscript to its report for
1944, that “it is our practice where illicit
liquor sales have been concerned to
impose maximum penalties, except where
extenuating circumstances exist.” It
admitted “continued deterioration of the
condition of licensed houses” and flagrant
defiance of the requirements to furnish ac-
commodation and meals, the existence
of the bottle-beer racket and dummying
(though to provide against dummying “a
comprehensive questionnaire has been
drafted”). And it flatly condemned the
Liquor Act (“out of date, and should be
amended to conform with present-day
conditions”), one defect being that “no
action affecting the licenses of offending
publicans may be taken until licenses
come up for renewal each year.” But
“any adverse reports regarding black-
market trading by publicans will be given
very serious consideration in June.”
The U.L.V.A., for its part, allows that
,Mr. McKell can best serve the State
and the nation and the Trade “by going
along quietly.” It thoroughly agrees that
“any change in the liquor laws should
be postponed till after the war.”
POLITICAL POINTS
It has been revealed that London is the
target for the murderous flying bombs
and rockets, the thin euphemism “south-
ern England” having been discarded. And
in common with their fellow-Britons,
Londoners, as a result of U.S. and Argen-
tine action, are to have their meagre meat
ration, now Is. 2d. worth a week, re-
duced to what Is., perhaps only 10d„ will
buy. Hundreds of thousands of Austra-
lians would be glad to give half their
weekly ration to the great-hearted Britons.
When this was proposed last year Can-
berra’s reply was that it couldn’t be ar-
ranged, but it could, and should, be.
Although Man-power promised to
detach 100 men from the services for
work on the Sydney trams, a 24-hour
tram and bus strike is threatened for the
week-end unless Randwick races and
Sydney C.G. matches are transferred to
the suburbs. Nothing has been said of the
opening of the dock by the Duke of
Gloucester, or of a demand that it should
be transferred to Manly. The “decision”
to strike was piade on a vote of 176 to
156, which, along with the other features,
ought to dispose of the fiction that the
public owns the trams and buses.
Archie Cameron always had the ear of
the House, and by sheer force of intel-
lect and character he has beaten the
press campaign against him. When he
spoke on the address-in-reply, with the
new Russian imperialism one of his
themes, “S. M. Herald” gave him a two-
column report, and under the headline
“Triumphant Arch” the “Argus” re-
corded that “House and galleries paid
him the best possible compliment; prac-
tically everybody stayed to listen to him,”
and “as he resumed his seat the trek to
the doors represented another tribute
to his speech.”
In an emotional moment Curtin was
understood to say that he would refuse
to answer any more questions without
notice unless asked by party leaders. This
was in conflict with everything he has
said about the rights of members, and a
rumpus was beginning when he returned
to the House—he had been away ill—and
explained that he had been misunder-
stood. Meantime there was set down
the foulest question that ever polluted the
Parliamentary reports. Put by one
Mountjoy, from Swan (W.A.), and obvi-
ously of communist origin, it asked
whether Barclay, of the Sane Democracy
League, had been associated in run-
ning assignation houses with a mar-
ried woman. Dr. Evatt blotted his
copybook by promising to refer the
vile thing to Security Service in-
stead of suggesting that it should be
removed with a tongs and burnt. Barclay
is a veteran newspaperman of blameless
reputation, and he has suffered the
greatest tragedy that could befall a father,
the death of his only son in action against
the enemy.
When the Duke of Gloucester was in
Sydney an “enormous” hammer-and-
sickle flag was hung over the entrance to
the N.S.W. Education Department in
Bridge-street, without any accompany-
ing Australian flag or Union Jack,
and a man writing to “S. M. Herald”
wondered why. The gentleman can’t
have read reports of Teachers’ Federation
proceedings or the I.T.F. syllabus for
“social” studies in Government schools.
One of the choice bits of this improvisa-
tion is a list of countries washed by the
Pacific. Russia-in-Asia is placed first.
Asked whether his Government
approved of the Chifley banking bills,
with their direction to State Governments
to switch their accounts to the Common-
wealth Bank, N.S.W. Deputy-Premier
Badly said his Government did approve,
and wished the bills “every success.”
Failing rescue from one-man control,
subject to Chifley, subject to Caucus, de-
positors will echo the wish, remembering
how the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank went bung when it was under
Lang’s control, and when Badly, McKell,
McGirr, Dunn, the two Lazzarinis, Tully
and Scully were his obsequious followers.
March 17 was the third anniversary of
General MacArthur’s arrival in Australia.
One of the first things he said in this
country;
It is of prime importance that the public
be instructed so that they can summon all
their confidence, all their determination and
all their purpose in support of the war
effort.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” shows how
the Curtin Government has interpreted
this injunction:
For a long time the Australian army
that recovered Papua and much of man-
“BLESS MY SOUL. I'VE BEEN PILLAGED!”
dated New Guinea from the Japanese was
nameless. The army now on active service
rs also name ess. ~
And in this natter the Government can
shelter behind MacArthur or blame tn
newspapers. It and it alone has blacke
the army out.
Potato farmers were lately exhorted to
grow more spuds and promised a speci-
fied price. They responded nobly. Now
they are being ordered to keep the surplus
murphies off the market and presumably
use them as parlor decorations. The next
time they are asked they will probably
think twice about it and be called un-
patriotic.
Passing through Perth on his way to
Canberra, Essington Lewis refused to give
newspaper interviewers any “impressions
of his trip overseas or the munitions and
aircraft problems affected.” He had, he
said, gone on a Government mission, and
he would report to the Government. Ah,
if only lesser servants of the nation could
be as silent!
Though not yet open for business, the
Sydney graving dock has received some
publicity at last. The 1939 estimate was
that it would cost £2,997,000 and be com-
pleted by the middle of 1944. The Fed-
eral Lazzarini (there are two) has ex-
plained that “the original estimate was
too low” and that “labor costs have in-
creased.” Both remarks were superero-
gatory.
Members of a mission from India now
in Australia have made hash of Ward’s
idea that Britain’s Asian troubles in 1942
were attributable largely to John Bull
being an imperialist oppressor who kept
the natives in “a state of illiteracy and
semi-starvation.” An industrialist from
Bombay revealed that India has not only
paid off all its debts to Britain but has a
credit balance in London of a thousand
million sterling, which is increasing at the
rate of three hundred million a year. And
mention was made of an Indian order
for locomotives to the tune of two and a
half millions Australian, wanted from the
State which has sent 21 Labor members
to the House at Canberra and six to the
Senate, and which has Ward, Beasley,
Chifley, Evatt, Scully, Lazzarini and Ash-
ley among the Ministers. This Govern-
ment has made such wonderful man-
power arrangements that the order had
to be turned down.
Bishop Batty must be contemplating
with interest the sequel to his admirable
refusal to buy radio station 2HD, taken
from Jehovah’s Witnesses, for the Angli-
can church conditionally on its giving
remarkable concessions gratis to “Labor.”
j n t L e U p S hot the A.L.P. got 2600 free
or cfi n ary shares with three directors, and
t he Labor station 2KY put up £7OOO for
1750 A prefs. with one director. Private
investors hold 3250 B prefs. and have
three directors. These arrangements
have led to an unholy row between two
Labor factions, and one has declared the
station “black.” The Church is well out
this unsavory Labor wrangle.
According to Lang’s paper, the private
j nves t ors j n 2HD, which the Anglican
Church very properly refused to have
anything to do with on the terms and
con ditions proposed, include three con-
trac t o rs (one at £3OOO, one at £2OOO and
one at £iooo), two publicans (each at
£j000), a taximan (£1000), “Levante the
Magician” (£2000) and Dan Mulcahy,
m.H.R. (£2000). Replying to the presi-
dent G f the Sydney Labor Council, who
objects to the set-up, though on the nar-
rowest partisan grounds, the acting-secre-
tary of the Sydney Labor Council pro-
tested that it is “an A.L.P. company,
worth between £30,000 and £40,000,” and
that the Labor Council can regard its
investment hs “a gilt-edged security.”
Last year the Opposition had something
to say about the traffic in radio stations,
and it now has material for saying a lot
more.
Dedman is out with a new “plan” for
the wool industry, “designed to improve
the production as well as the use of
wool.” It is to cost the growers 2s. a
bale, subsidised pound for pound There
is never any non-contributory basis for
them.
As a sequel to the refusal of cold-stor-
age “workers” at the N.S.W. Government
abattoirs to handle meat for the services,
which was thereupon handled by service-
men, the “workers” defied a direction by
the Industrial Commission that they
should labor in their particular store.
The direction was issued by Justice
Cantor, whom the Labor Government,
having received its orders from union
bosses, would have “retired” by a shifty
piece of legislation if the Leg. Council
hadn’t intervened. The chairman of the
Industrial Commission is Justice Taylor,
who, not long after being appointed .by
the Labor Government, had himself
the experience of being defied at Home-
bush.
Delegates to the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association, meeting in Sydney, said in
terms suitable for general circulation
what they thought of (1) “the industrial
anarchy at the Homebush abattoirs” and
(2) “the disruptive tactics of communists
in the key industries of food, shipping and
coal.” They “urged” the “Labor Gov-
ernment” at Sydney “strictly to enforce
all awards,” and the “Labor Govern-
ment” at Canberra to “hold a fulLinquiry
into communist activities.” When the
urgings are ignored, as they will be,
graziers will express their opinion in terms
not necessarily suitable for general cir-
culation.
An echo of the depression poles apart
from Chifley’s was the announcement
that only 124 persons are drawing sus-
tenance in Victoria. The figure includes
43 benevolent cases, mostly old Chinese
not eligible for pensions.


-
Special
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
A man with the name of Boreham who
embarks on a lifetime of preaching must
require courage, and the Rev. Frank Wil-
liam Boreham, who has celebrated his
jubilee as a minister of the Baptist Church
in Melbourne, has plenty of it. Born in
Tunbridge Wells, he has held ministering
posts in M.L. and Tasmania, and from
his headquarters in Melbourne has sailed
on numerous preaching tpurs of U.S.,
Canada and Britain. Rev. Boreham has
also written some 30-odd volumes, which
with such titles as The Luggage of Life,
Mushrooms on the Moor, Shadows on
the Wall, The Nest of Spears, A Temple
of Topaz and a A Witch’s Brewing would
pass for mystery stories or sentimental
novels. They are anything but that, how-
ever.
Lieut.-Col. N. G. Hatton, who takes on
the secretaryship of the Country party
in Queensland, is a Toowoomba Gram-
mar School product, as was Chauvel.
Hatton won the M.M. at Bullecourt and
the M.C. at Villers-Bretonneux. In 1940
he was given command of the Eighth Mili-
tary District, with headquarters at Port
Moresby, and served thereabouts for 21
months.
M. Napier Waller, National Gallery
trustee in Melbourne in place of Max
Meldrum, is the Digger artist who re-
turned from the last war minus his right
arm and painfully taught himself to
paint with his left hand. Devoting him-
self to one of the most exacting forms
of art from the physical point of view—
mural decoration —Waller was respon-
sible for the gigantic panels of classical
figures in the Town Hall concert chamber
after fire had burnt out the old one. The
new trustee was born at Penshurst in 1894
and trained at the National Gallery. He
has murals in mosaic in the University
of Westralia and pictures in the National
Galleries of Sydney and Melbourne.
Capt. H. B. Hussey, a senior Qantas
pilot, has put up an Australian and may-
be a world’s record with 10,111 hours’
flying in command of a civil aircraft. A
pilot since 1919, Hussey had landed the
Camilla in E}arwin Harbor in February,
1942, and awaiting a shave when
Jap bombers' arrived. With Captain
Crowther, he made for the water, found
an undamaged launch and got out to the
craft. She was holed but serviceable,
and, under the smoke screen from burn-
ing ships, they got her into the air and
away to Groote Eylandt. They returned
to Darwin at dusk, picked up a load of
refugees and left next morning for the
south.
Australian diplomat Reginald Wildig
Allen Leeper has been handed a
K.C.M.G. for his fine work on Britain’s
behalf in Greece and the Balkans gener-
ally. Son of Dr. Leeper, of Melbourne,
he himself Sydney-born, Leeper includes
among his qualifications an extraordinary
command of languages.
Veteran viticulturist:
Passed his 78th milestone, Francois de Cas-
tella, Victoria’s veteran viticulturist and presi-
dent and mainstay of the Food and Wine
Society. At the F.W.S.’s dinners choice ex-
amples of Australian wines are passed round
wrapped in brown paper, and members are
asked to name the maker, district, year of vin-
tage and so forth. Only the wine master knows
where the beverages come from. On one occa-
sion an amateur grower took a bottle of his
own wine along to a dinner. De Castella
tasted it and after a moment’s consideration
said: “This wine was grown near the sea.”
The maker’s vineyard is at a seaside resort on
the shores of Port Phillip. De Castella has
been interested in wine since his childhood.
He is a son of Hubert de Castella, who came
to Australia from Switzerland in 1852 and
established St. Hubert’s, at Lilydale, where
Melba was buried. Later Francois de Castella
studied wine-growing and wine-making in cele-
brated French vineyards; returned to Victoria
and, after managing his father’s vineyard for
a while, became junior in the Vic-
torian Department of Agriculture. In 1907 he
was sent to Spain, Portugal, France and Swit-
zerland as a special commissioner to investigate
European methods. He retired from the posi-
tion of chief viticulturist in 1936, fully con-
vinced that Australia can produce as good wine
as any European country.
“Nig Gling”: Employed at Egelabra
station (N.S.W.) for the past 45 years
and still insisting on working, Peter
Stephens, who was locked up by Ned
Kelly when Ned robbed a bank at Jeril-
derie. Peter was then buggy boy to
McCaughey (afterwards S’ Sami’). Now
85, Peter has had only one trip to a hos-
pital in his life, and that with a broken
leg. His recipe: Plenty of tea, tobacco,
a rum every evening and enough work
to make you tired daily.
Lately in Australia, heading, with his
South African wife, for a spot of leave
in his native Maoriland, Flight-Lieut.
A. L, Craig, D.F.C., navigator to the
M.L. Beaufighter pilot Wing-Commander
Russell Merriman MacKenzie, D. 5.0.,
D.F.C., A.F.C., of Christchurch. Mac-
Kenzie and Craig were together for seven
months’ night fighting on the east coast
of England, then went to the Mediter-
ranean on night-intruder work against
enemy aerodromes in Crete, North Africa
and Sicily, afterwards going for German
shipping and garrisons round about the
Aegean. After two years’ operational
flying Craig was posted as an instructor
to an O.T.U. in the Middle East.
The black-coal mine at Kilcunda, on
the Victorian South Coast, has shown
that coalminers can work in harmony
with the management. They have had
continuous work there, on full produc-
tion, for 17 years without a stoppage.
It’s claimed as an Australian record, and
probably is one by a considerable margin.
Head of the show, with a number of
Arbitration Court “favorable mentions,”
is Jack Gardiner, here pictured by Mc-
Beath. Information sent with the draw-
ing mentions that Jack was in the last
war, unit unspecified. The writer of this
par, hasn’t been able to check it, but is
prepared to claim Jack as a colleague in
the old First Divvy Sigs. If memory’s
right, Jack took his issue of gas. He got
back to Melbourne and, starting from
scratch, himself found and opened the
mine. By Government appointment, he’s
HEAD OF NON-STOP COALMINE.
a member of the Miners’ Pension Board
and the Coal and Coke Wages Board.
Recently be took a hand in opening the
Maddingly (Bacchus Marsh) brown-coal
mine, boring on which has indicated a
prospect of 50,000 tons. He was born in
Castlemaine 49 years ago.
James Barrett, knight, has had an
83rd birthday, his Melbourne record
for sitting on committees still unchal-
lenged. He’s now president of 11, vice-
president of two, chairman of seven and
hon. secretary of three. As well, he finds
time to fight the battles of his ewe lamb
the Bush Nursing Association, open shows,
attend concerts, send vigorous letters to
the papers on soil conservation, reformed
spelling, tree destruction, social reform,
public health and native fauna, and
astonish people who don’t know he was
once an accomplished musician by sitting
down at organ or piano and running off
a bit of Bach or an operatic excerpt.
Australia’s oldest practising oculist and
aurist, he was aurist to the A.I.F. in
Egypt in the last war, and his history of
the A.A.M.C. in Egypt is almost as
monumental as the Australian War His-
tory. His book of memoirs, Sixty Event-
ful Years, is shortly to be published.
As well as being C.O. of the R.A.A.F.
recruiting centre in S.A., Squadron-
Leader Lancelot Hughes Daniel Kelly is
either managing director or director of
10 Australian chemical companies. A
Tasmanian, he left school to get into the
DIRECTOR OF TEN COMPANIES.
First A.LF. in 1915, served in France
with the 11th Battery, changed to the
Flying Corps, then after the war was
associated with the late Harry Hawker as
a test pilot with the Sopwith concern.
Subsequently he joined the Commercial
Bank in Melbourne, and opened eight or
so of its country branches. An athlete
and rower in his younger days, he was
later country golf champ, of N. S. Wales.
He’s 47.
Manchester “Guardian” has reported
a link with R. L. Stevenson living in Syd-
ney —the mother of R. G. W. Mackay,
who was chairman of England’s Com-
mon Wealth party. Mackay’s father
was with Stevenson when he died,
and was one of the two white
men who made the long climb to
the top of Mount Vaea for Steven-
son’s burial. It was in the Mackays’ Syd-
ney house that R.L.S. wrote his letter
about Father Damien.
Ernest Old, of Fitzroy, is, at 70, prob-
ably Victoria’s most inveterate cyclist. A
month or so ago he pushed his bike from
Melbourne to Swan Hill to visit his
brother, F. E, Old, M.L.A., Minister of
Water Supply and Minister in Charge of
Electrical Undertakings, who was ill at
the time, A week before that the bike
enthusiast pedalled to Bendigo to call on
another relative and since then he headed
out from the Eastern Hill Fire Station to
journey to Sydney and back.
Clive Carey, responsible for many
musical festivals in Melbourne, is an
Englishman, born in Essex. He was
organist, Composer, opera producer at the
Old Vic. and Sadler’s Wells theatres, ana
had gone on recital tours of Holland,
Germany, Sweden, Norway and Canada
before he came to Australia in 1924 by
invitation of the Elder Conservatorium,
of Adelaide. Subsequently the late
Harold Elvins asked him to take the job
of teaching opera and singing at Mel-
bourne Conservatorium. Hundreds of
young Victorian singers have since passed
through Carey’s hands. He specialises .in
singing and collecting the folk songs of
Old England.
Rev. E. J. Taylor, president of the
Queensland Methodist Conference, is one
of those cheery bush parsons always wel-
come in any outback spot. Born at Cler-
mont, he’s been carrying on the good
work in and around Longreach, Barcal-
dine, Rockhampton, Toowoomba, Gym-
pie, Warwick and Nambour since 1909.
Secretary to the Conference, Rev. T.
Bainbridge came from County Durham
in. 1914, entered the ministry next year,
was in France with the old sth Brigade
F.A. in 1917-18, and came back to be
first Methodist minister at the Beerbur-
rum Settlement on the Queensland North
Coast.
Passed his 85th milestone in Mel-
bourne, Benjamin Heinze, father of Pro-
fessor Bernard Heinze. He’s claimed to
be the oldest watchmaker practising in
Australia.
Another in South Australia’s strong
list of Old Digger appointments, F. H.
Stevens succeeds the late S. McGregor
Reid as chairman of the Metropolitan and
Export Abattoirs Board. The new man
is senior partner of Stevens and Boucaut,
Port Adelaide shipping agents.
Appointed an official Australian war
artist, John Goodchild, principal of S.A.
School of Arts and Crafts, was commis-
sioned by Australia House in the other
big war to make drawings of war ceme-
teries, One of five members of the
National Gallery Board in S.A., he’s a
§ound artist and first-rate etcher, repre-
sented in most Australian galleries. He’ll
be 47, on March 30.
Dr. E. J. Neild, one-time Melbourne
coronery was a great patron of the arts,
and now his son Joe, who has written
much on Australiana, has issued a slim,
racy volume Lawson and His Critics.
Joe Nield has tried pretty well every-
thing. These days he’s a reporter on
the “Record” in South Melbourne and
city historian there.
The widely popular 8.8. C. entertainer
“Itma” (“It’s that Man Again”) is a
Maorilander ; real name H. E. Kavanagh.
A product of Sacred Heart College, Auck-
land and the University there, and study-
ing medicine in Edinburgh when the
Kaiser started throwing his weight about,
he joined the Hornechurch hospital, where
New Zealanders were treated. As well as
“Itma,” he appears as Tommy Handley,
Presumed dead in an Air Force
casualty list, Flying-Officer S. N. Chester-
man, 6f Hawthorn (Vic.), was the first
Victorian to enlist under the Empire
Scheme. Trained at Parafield and Point
Cook, he went to Malaya with Hudsons
in 1941. The second Victorian to enlist,
former footballer J. K. Fumiss, after
serving with the R.A.A.F. squadron
known as the Desert Harassers in the
Middle East, is now a squadron leader
in Westralia.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 69; F. C. P. Curlewis, general
secretary of the Australian Sugar Producers’
Association. Victorian-born, he was a member
of the Commonwealth Sugar Inquiry in 1930.
In Adelaide, suddenly, W. A. Taplin, who
claimed a big hand in the introduction of cater-
pillar tractors to S.A., and was a keen motorist
always. At 19 he accompanied Frank Birtles
on a memorable firive from Perth to Sydney.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Mary Monohan, who
had a link with the Kellys—her father once
held Dan captive till the police turned up.
Mrs. Monohan worked for 20 years for the
blind of her district and was the only woman
life member of the Collingwood football and
cricket clubs.
At 79, in Brisbane, prominent city business-
man James Love. He had big real estate inter-
ests, and had been a director of the Q. N. Bank
since 1914. One son, Lieut.-Col. J. P. Love,
lately returned from active overseas service.
The eldest son died on active service in France
in 1918.
At 69, A. E. Morris, many times Westralian
chess champion. For 17 years he’d been presi-
dent of the Perth Chess Club, which controls
the game in the West, and when the army
decided that chess was good study for aspirants
for commissions he was roped in as instructor.
In Sydney, James Tanner, for over 20 years
handicapper to metropolitan race clubs. A
native pf Victoria, he was a handicapper there
before moving to Sydney.
At 54, in Melbourne, Eric. M. Morrison, of
Bairnsdale, pastoralist, who, with his father
and a brother, created the Romney stud of
sheep known all over the Commonwealth.
Banker and last-war Digger before becoming a
sheepman.
In Adelaide, at 75, Benjamin Hill Gillman,
former S.A. Railways general traffic manager.
“His 48 years’ service had shown him to be a
man of remarkable ability, no less than of
kindly, genial disposition,” .said Commissioner
Anderson. Among many interests, Gillman
was chairman of the State Unemployment
Council, past president of the Commonwealth
Club, Adelaide, first chairman of the Modern
Pickwick Club (1890), first president of the
Railway Officers’ Association of S.A. and
Director of the Railways Institute.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Zake”; The beautiful 19-year-old girl
Cossack who so often single-handedly
wipes out a platoon of the Wehrmacht as
a pre-prandial appetiser has at last stung
the Western Front into trotting out a
rival heroine. She is known as “La
Souris” (The Mouse) —so-called because
her secret signal to the Underground was
to scratch on a window pane. This
highly-original device is indicative of
mademoiselle’s genius. That she also is
beautiful goes without saying, otherwise
she certainly wouldn’t have got a liberal
splash over part of three columns in
Sydney “D.T.” And what did “La
Souris” achieve, girls? Why, she smuggled
the first plans of the flying-bomb to Eng-
land —got it from the Germans, just like
that! Of course, in order (o trick Hun
and Vichyite (she was a Vichy civil ser-
vant), she wore “a Union Jack hand-
kerchief in her coat and red-white-and-
blue cuff links.” This naturally diverted
attention from herself and her subter-
ranean activities. After all, had a Prus-
sian S.S. colonel happened to notice this
defiant display, would he not have merely
given one of those good-humored laughs
so typical of his kind and gone his ways,
not even bothering to get one of his
men to play cat to “The Mouse”? Well,
a toast to “La Souris”—and may she
find her way back securely into the
absinthe bottle from which she was con-
jured.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I read with some amaze-
ment that Speaker Rosevear had pulled up
a member in the House for using the word
“harlot” —although the offender pointed
out that he was merely quoting Churchill,
back from Greece, “Democracy is not
a harlot to be picked up by a man with
a tommy-gun”—and insisted that such
language was unfit for Parliamentary
ears. It set me mildly wondering what
synonym—there are several less polite
ones —could be employed that wouldn’t
grate on Rosevear’s susceptibilities. After
all, there can’t be many words more
soundly established in the language. Be-
ginning with the Bible, it would be easy
to cite examples of it from scores of dis-
tinguished writers, including poets, of
course, whose words naturally stick
longer in the memory. Take a single
quotation, from Charles Kingsley’s “The
Bad Squire”;
When to kennels and liveried varlets
You have cast your daughter’s bread,
And, worn out with liquor and harlots,
Your heir at your feet lies dead.
Kingsley was a parson, too.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: What are the odds about
two motor-car drivers named Horace
White being in different road accidents on
the same day, without either being hurt?
It happened in Adelaide. One Horace
was old enough to be the other’s father,
and they were not related. There was
another double next day, but it was not
exactly coincidence. Les Miller, 37,
a cross-country jockey, met hi S 17-
year-old son having his first rpount in a
hurdle race. Neither got a place.
* * *
Strict Veg.”: A Third Victory Loan
poster which is sure to be very often
looked at has been or is to be set up in
Young and Jackson’s in Melbourne.
Until April 27 it will cover the pictured
charms of “Chloe.”
* * * *
‘Balander”; Another of those in-
triguing little mysteries has been cleared
up. Under the Cronulla (N.S.W.) bath-
ing sheds was found a shield inscribed:
To his Gracious Majesty King George V,
with Loyal Greetings from the Mareeba
Chamber of Commerce, North Queensland.
When the news hit Mareeba somebody
recalled that the shield had been attached
to a cigarette casket which E. C. J.
Hunter, a one-time M.L.A., had, as presi-
dent of Mareeba Chamber of Com-
merce, sent with cigarettes to the
Queensland A.-G. in London for
presentation to the monarch. The cigar-
ettes made the casket mouldy and the
presentation couldn’t be made, so the
A.-G. returned the casket tcf Hunter. Cpl.
A. E. Hunter, son of the casket-giver,
found the casket when winding up his
father’s estate, and the shield from it, in
an envelope, somehow got among his own
personal papers. The rest can be guessed.
A. E. Hunter went for a swim at Cro-
nulla, not even knowing he had the shield
with him, and was astonished to read of
its discovery in the Sydney papers.
“But, Sergeant Doneley, my stockings have shrunk!”
“Neo Fite”: Sydney’s oldest daily has
an art critic whose early performances,
like those of a new music-hall artist,
seemed to many people entertaining if
not downright funny, but con-
tinued output of vague incoherences has
become a trifle boring. Hence nobody
was astonished when the gentleman wrote
of painter E. Phillips Fox:
Poetry springs from the heart, not from
the mind alone. This he (Fox) has not
realised, nor has he, in a world of images
and constant revelations, lived within and
as a part of these self-same fragments of a
passing life
These strictures won’t bother Fox, dead
these 30 years. It cannot harm his repu-
tation as an artist nor will it worry Fox’s
widow, but its author should take warning
from the fact that his article was shoved
on the Land Page, below an item on
“Wheat for Dairyfarmers,”
* * * *
“X.S.”: An unusual blacketeering
problem has arisen in Melbourne. For
some reason or other English pennies are
in favor in Victorian two-up circles. So
many have been seized in raids that,
according to police officials, the coins are
now worth half a guinea apiece in the
black market.
* * * *
“Maltcrobe”: The Supreme Court at
Dunedin (M.L.) has been given some in-
formation about beer by a professor of
pathology, Dr. Dalton, of Otago Medi-
cal School. Alcoholic content of the
Dominion’s beer, said the prof., had been
reduced from 5 p.c. to 4 p.c. as a war-
time measure. It was still intoxicating,
and slowed down mental reactions (as to
danger) long before a condition ordi-
narily describable as drunkenness was
reached. Absorption of alcohol from
beer reached its maximum in two hours
on a full stomach ; in half an hour on an
empty one. All that may be so, but no
Maoriland beer-drinker will believe that
the pre-war alcohol percentage of
Dominion-brewed ales was as low as
5 p.c. Stokers and other connoisseurs
from the Old Dart used to swear that
the XXXX of Speight or Ward had it
all over, the strongest Burton of their ex-
perience for potency. English beers have
(or had) a wide range, from 9 p.c. alcohol
for “strong ale” down to 4.5 p.c. for
“mild ale,” 4 p.c. for “lager” and 2 p.c.
for “table beer”—this last the “small
beer” schoolboys used to have for break-
fast. By the way, what is the modern
distinction between ale and beer? A
century or more ago ale was beer made
without hops, but I’ve seen ’em floating
in many a modern “ale.”
*_* * *
L. L. Politzer, with a personal ex-
planation ;
“Hamer’s” memory (B. 7/3/’45) seems to
have been blurred by the passage of years. I
certainly had quite a large following of artists,
and a few of them accepted my hospitality,
which was not actuated by mercenary instincts.
I admit I had a friendly arrangement with a
few of those budding artists like Virgil O’Reilly,
Percy Leason and others to give me a sketch
(not a picture) once a month. I considered
these boys my friends, and they contributed
by their presence to the Bohemian atmosphere
which was the attraction of the place—the
Cafe Boulevard. “Hamer” makes me look like
one of those shanty-keepers who took a shearer’s
cheque, to be cut out at the discretion of the
publican. If I had established my Art Salon
on pictures I am supposed to have received from
these “hungry painters” I could never have
found a week’s rent. My Sackville Gallery de-
pended on good art shows. I started with
the first collective exhibition of George Ben-
son’s works. The guineas I am supposed to
have derived from the proceeds of sales of the
masterpieces by “arrived” artists would not fill
a matchbox. True, Virgil and Leason supplied
a number of murals for the walls of the Boule-
vard; for these they were paid in cash.
“F.S.”: A visitor to an exhibition of
“contemporary art” in Melbourne asked
an accomplished portrait painter why all
“modern” painters waited till their models
were in an acute state of depression
before they painted them. “They don’t,”
he answered. “One day the sitter will
be in one sort of mood and the
next day in another, and the mood
will change appearance, though the
sitter will be unconscious of it. A com-
petent painter makes allowances for these
changes and never loses touch with his
first impression. Most ‘modernists’ can’t
do that because they haven’t suffi-
cient skill.” This sounds a reasonable
explanation of the otherwise puzzling
fact that one rarely sees a nude or a por-
trait in a “contemporary” show which
doesn’t look as if the subject had just
been run over by a tram or passed
through a wringer.
* * * *
“Traymon”: I have heard a Sydney
radio announcer attribute the phrase
“the Nelson touch” to Henry Newbolt
and find many people think that is where
it originated. Actually it was in use by
Horatio himself. In one of his letters
to Lady Hamilton he expressed great
anxiety to return to duty, “for it would
add to my grief if any other man was
to give them the Nelson touch.” Southey,
too, records: “On the 9th Nelson sent
Collingwood what he called, in his diary,
the Nelson touch,”
* * * *
“Tiki”: That modern-dress “Hamlet”
season in Wellington (M.L.) referred to
by “Avon” (B. 7/3/’45) produced, in the
course of a voluminous newspaper corre-
spondence, two very pertinent comments.
The first was from a student of the
drama who claimed that Hamlet’s stan-
dardised black tjghts and jerkin date not
from Shakspeare s time, but only from
the first decade of Victoria’s reign. If
Hamlet were to be attired strictly ac-
cording to his period and country he
would be in the Viking garb of the thir-
teenth century, with tunic, criss-cross-
shaped pantaloons, long hair and a wal-
rus moustache. The other commentator
argued that as the performance of Shak-
pearean drama has “become foreign to
the Elizabethan manner” (a reference
presumably to the passing of ranting and
declamation) there may properly be de-
partures from Elizabethan costume.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; I mistrust that story (B.
14/2/ 45) of an American editor who
paid contributors to write biographies of
people who didn’t exist. A much-
exploited Australian method was quite
within the law, gave pleasure to hun-
dreds, and made a lot of money for the
publishers. They just put together some
History of the Chandlery Trade, or His-
tory of Bungawallop District and tackled
every likely mark with “We wish to have
for inclusion particulars of your notable
career.” A pound or two to pay, and
you wrote your own praises ; so much
more, and your portrait went in, too. As
like as not you bought copies to send to
your friends. Fred Johns, of Adelaide,
must have all the credit for reforming
this traffic. To his Notable Australians
there was no charge for admission, and
no admission at all unless the individuals
were considered worthy.
* * * *
“Hist”: Died at Auckland, (M.L.) re-
cently, S. Holden Howie, who is said to
have established the first airmail service
in the Southern Hemisphere—the pigeon
post linking Great Barrier Island with
Auckland across 60 miles of sea. In the
’nineties there was no cable to the island
and the population (about 400, chiefly
engaged in silver-, copper- and gold-
mining) relied on the fortnightly steamer
service, the inadequacy of which was em-
phasised at the time of the Wairarapa
wreck, when no news of the missing
vessel or names of survivors reached
the world for many anxious days. The
Pigeongram Agency, using carrier pigeons
with letters on tissue-paper strapped to
their legs under a waterproof covering,
was established in 1896 and functioned
regularly until 1908, when telegraphic
communication with the island put an end
to its usefulness. In 1898 the agency issued
shilling stamps for use on pigeon mail.
These are prized by philatelists as the
world’s first stamps issued specifically for
franking air mail,
* * * *
“Lao-dah” on present-day life in Java:
It is three years last week since resistance to
the Japanese ceased in Java, the Governor-
General ordering officials to remain at their
posts, as he did himself. What has happened
to the 45,000,000 people of the island since
nobody knows exactly, but it is reasonable
to suppose that their lives haven’t changed
fundamentally and that they are still cultivating
their flooded ricefields and dodging volcanic
eruptions. They have sustained a Hindu, a
Mohammedan, a Portuguese, two British and
two Dutch assumptions of management, some
of the most sanguinary civil wars in history and
depression, without altering their habits and
customs, their dress, their methods of agriculture
and their easy tolerance of living. The Japanese,
being Buddhists as well as Shintoists, would
naturally be interested in the ruins of the great
temple of Burubudor, unearthed by British
engineers 130 years ago, and it is to be hoped
that they haven’t been looted. The worst loot-
ing was done by a King of Siam, who, on a
ceremonial visit, was allowed to get away with
nine bullock-cartloads of stuff.
* * * *
From New York: There is a thrilling
bit of publicity here in an exhibition of
photographs of homes wrecked in Lon-
don by flying bombs. A red bulb is fixed
on a large board with this notice: “Every
time this light flashes a house is destroyed
in England.” The lamp flashes every
second!
CAUCUS TO CONTROL OUR £ s. d.
When Fisher established the Commonwealth
Bank
He bluntly asserted its role
Was to bloom far away from political sway,
Remote from all party control.
But that was a pledge, his successors allege,
Of a full generation ago,
And the time has matured since then, we’re
assured,
For Caucus to shepherd our dough,
Too right,
To act as bailee of our dough.
Disguised in long words of grandiloquent
sound,
For which Chifley is ne’er at a loss
And which in ovations by Curtin abound,
It’s this that they’re putting across:
No longer shall tried financiers decide
Point's needing a lifetime to know;
In Caucus will stay the eventual say
Of what shall be done with our dough,
Just how
Shall be made the best use of our dough.
When Andy was solemnly moved to declare
That banking, with all its demands
For the guidance of experts, was not an affair
To be placed in political hands,
He could hardly surmise his successors would
rise
Cold scorn on that thesis to throw,
And to argue with zest that it’s certainly best
For Caucus to manage your dough,
And keep
A guardian grip on your dough.
Ah, well, we exist in an era of change,
And never will Parliament’s ranks
Lack pundits convinced they’re empowered to
arrange
The functions pertaining to banks.
So soon, whenever you’re lodging a bit
To your balance of credit to show,
Keep in mind (with what comfort the know-
ledge permit)
That Caucus will shepherd your dough,
And act
As tireless trustee of your dough.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
BALLAD OF ELUSIVE BEERS.
One Villon penned a ballad long ago,
A string of maledictions fierce and fine,
Listing the punishments he’d fain bestow
On “taverners who hocus our good wine,”
The tortures it would please him to design
For such abominable profiteers.
There’s room for something in the self-same
line
For Bungs who’re playing fast-and-loose with
beers.
Five centuries have passed, yet still we know
Of. modern Bonifaces who decline
To give their customers a dinkum show
When certainties of bigger profits shine
Before what poets designate their “eyne”
Through operations in more furtive spheres.
Time, surely, for some penalty condign
On Bungs who stage fantastic tricks with beers.
Poor Francis never lived to see the flow
Of nut-brown brews where hops and malt
combine,
But, from the curses he was wont to throw
At crooks who doped the product of the vine.
One may conceive him in some present shrine
Of Bacchus, stung to verse that stabs and sears,
Invoking Heaven to incarnadine
Bungs grimly hoarding up their bottled beers.
Keane, are you listening? McKell, what-ho!
Have you no means to shorten the careers
Of those through whom such trials we undergo,
The Bungs who baulk us of our rightful
beers?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“T. 40”: A case that has all the
elements of the Pyjama Girl and Shark
Arm cases rolled into one, with a lew
other oddments thrown in for luck,
cropped up in Melbourne the other day
when Justice Macfarlan granted probate
of the will of Georgina Porter, widow,
on presumption of death. According to
the Public Trustee and the widow’s half-
sister, this is what happened:
On March 2, 1942, Mrs. Porter left her
half-sister to go to Flinders-street station
and meet a farmer, George Benton, marry
him and leave with him on the Adelaide
train for Benton’s farm and there live.
The half-sister and her family went to
Spencer-street station to see the bridal
couple off. But, they weren’t there, and
have not been seen since. Luggage labelled
“G. Benton” left in the luggage room was
eventually sold by the railways. Detectives
made a wide search for bride and ’groom,
without success. In July, 1942, part of a
female body was found in Hobson’s Bay, /
but although a mark on the abdomen sup-
ported some other evidence that it was the
remains of Georgina Porter, it could not
be positively identified as such. All that
was definitely known was that the pro-
posed marriage had not taken place. The
half-sister said that the day after the dis-
appearance a man telephoned her to say
Georgina Porter was with him at War-
burton. She believed the voice to have
been Benton’s. There was some property
and a bank balance, and the will directed
sale of the properties and distribution of the
proceeds among certain nieces and nephews.
There you are. Holmes. Or would it
be better to send for Hawkeye Mac Kay,
•so slow but sure, as the Pyjama Girl case
proved?
* * * *
“Lawnston”: Warrant-Officer Frank
McGillivray, of Hobart, can clairri to
have been a South Sea Island king for three
months, with 200 colored subjects. He
was waiting on this island for the mission
steamer when a Jap ’plane attacked and
the missionary was taken prisoner. Ex-
pecting a landing after the ’plane had
machine-gunned the island, McGillivray
sent the women and children inland and
formed a militia, armed with one rifle
and a miscellaneous array of native
weapons. There was no invasion or
further ’plane attack, but the natives were
so impressed by the W.O.’s behavior in
the crisis that they appointed him their
ruler. The only untoward incident of
his reign was a domestic row, which
spread till it took in the whole tribe.
A man was wounded and a woman
had her skull split, but both recovered,
and his diplomatic management of the
affair added to King McGillivray’s quali-
fications that of witch doctor. He gained
still further kudos by bringing the scoun-
drel responsible for the skull-operation
to trial and banishing him from the island
for three moons. McGillivray parted
with his people amidst tears and lamen-
tations.
* * * *
“Asphar” with some news from Burma:
What seems to be the first memorial of
World War II was unveiled by Lf.-General Sir
William Sline, Commander of the 14th Army.
Set in a flat platform on a slope of the Burma
hills, this monument at Kohima was constructed
of stone carried by 200 Naga tribesmen and
placed by them in position under the expert
guidance of Lieut. J..W. Ferric, R.E., a Glasgow
architect. In the centre is a great monolith,
brought from the hills by the Nagas, with an
old Greek epigram engraved on it:
When you go home
Tell them of us and say,
For your tomorrow
We gave our today.
A copper plaque of dedication is below this,
and on the plinth’s reverse is another plaque
which tells the story of the Battle of Kohima
and the opening of the Burma Road. The
monument perpetuates the gallantry of men of the
Second Division of the Fourteenth Army who
fell in the savage battle in which the Japanese
attempt to invade India was frustrated.
* * * *
“Pawang”; Old wives’ remedies some-
times have a lot of virtue in them. A
Gippsland doctor remembers a patient,
an elderly fruit-farmer, who told him 30
years ago that he never had difficulty in
curing sores and skin eruptions. He went
into his orchard, got a mouldy orange or
lemon and applied it to the sore. Such
mould, it is now known, contain peni-
cillin, though in such minute quantities
that it is hardly likely that it had very
much to do with the disappearance of the
infection. Nevertheless, the medico re-
grets that he didn’t follow up the clue.
Many advances in science have been
made by recognising the significance of
something long well-known. Stainless
steel, which saves millions of housewives
from spending half an hour daily on the
polishing board, was an accidental dis-
covery. A Sheffield maunfacturer was
seeking a method of preventing rust in
gunbarrels. A heap of old steel had been
thrown down on the floor of a shed and
he observed one day that it was as bright
and untarnished as the day it was rejec-
ted. Metallurgical analysis provided the
reason. The manufacturer is now a
magnate.
* * * *
“Lucretia” on the origins of a pictur-
esque Sydney suburb :
Site of some of Sydney’s most beautiful
homes, Longueville has aristocratic associations.
Remote as it is from Botany Bay, it has a close
link with the ill-fated La Perpuse. In an
address on the 50th anniversary of Lane Cove
municipality the Rev.' M- Fielding, Rector of
St. Adrian’s, said: “Henry V of England con-
ferred the title of Earl of Longueville on Gaston
de Foix in England in 1419. Jean, Count of
Dunois, Duke of Orleans, was made Count of
Longueville, in Normandy, by\ Charles VII of
France in 1443 for his exploits as a general
under Joan of Arc. In the Peace Treaty of
1365 Charles of Navarre gave up Mantes,
Meulan and Longueville to Edward 111 in ex-
“Talk about YOUR kids — why, mine has fifteen flying hours!”
change for Montpelier.” The Longueville re-
ferred to is in Normandy, at the entrance to the
Seine, quite close to Le Havre dnd Har-
fleur, associated with last year’s “D-Day.” Mr.
Fielding added that the virtual internment at
Hunter’s Hill of five French families who had
refused to proceed any further with the colon-
ising expedition of La Perouse eventually led
to a family feud and vendetta, resulting in the
exile of the Dunois family to the north side
of the Lane Cove River. They called their new
abode Longueville after the place in France
where their family estates had been situated,
perpetuating the names of their children in
streets named William Edward, Christina, Ara-
belle, Anne and Francis, as well as a forth-
right Dunois-street. M. Dutruc, head of one
of the families placed at Hunter’s Hill,
appears to have been so much in request as a
music, singing and dancing master that he was
permitted to live in Randwick, where Dutruc-
street commemorates his name.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: C. P. Mountford, the
Adelaide anthropologist, who has spent a
lot of time amongst remote tribes in the
Centre, wants young Australians brought
up on abo, legends and not on Grimm,
Andersen and the other European fairy-
talesmiths. It wouldn’t work. Abo
legends may be charming but they have
no associations for us and all the drum-
ming in the world couldn’t oust Jack the
Giant Killer and Little Red Riding Hood.
A Bulletin Red Page attempt to create
Australian nursery rhymes failed for the
same reason, even though the subject
matter was kookaburras, goannas, swag-
men and koalas and some of the creators
were accomplished writers.
“You chaps make for cover —this may be a booby trap!”
“Pip” on a way they have in the army:
The urge upon the soldier to collect junk has
no ascertainable limits. Much of the articles
consist of souvenirs: a Jap cap, deloused hand
grenade, 25-pdr. cartridge or a 61b. anti-tank
shot. Whenever the camp becomes static for
a while oddments of every description appear
out of the blue. Someone manages to “find”
a 44-gallon drum, and the tent is assured of a
continuous water supply. Boxes of every shape
and size appear; a table, and perhaps a de-
crepit wire safe, patched up with bits of
canvas. A form or a couple of chairs, a
hurricane lamp, a canvas water-bag and per-
haps even a primus stove follow in quick suc-
cession. Better stretchers than the army issue
are located, and equipment of both allies and
enemies, from jungle sneakers to silk shirts, goes
into circulation. Trading is brisk and
articles are exchanged more for the fun of
bargaining than because either soldier wants
the goods. For a few weeks everybody lives in
comfort. Then comes another move and all
the acquisitions must be lumped on the
soldiers’ backs or dumped. Most things are
dumped, to be acquired later by some new
show marching in. One stalwart, though, carted
back from Ceylon a carved wooden elephant
as big as himself,-201b. of tea and a “certi-
fied” native idol. He never recovered from
the ordeal.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Whyalla (S.A.), which has
been transformed by Broken Hill Prop,
into a hive of industry, claims an Aus-
tralian fertility record for its size.
(Yallourn, Vic., about as big, challenges
this claim.) Whyalla has had 1300 child-
ren born in the last four years, and the
hospital has not lost one mother.
% % ❖ *
“Lord Luvus”: In Melbourne, as in
Brisbane, there has beCn brisk clerical
discussion of dancing. One modernist
argued that denying young people per-
mission to dance on church property
drove them to less desirable places.
Another retorted that on that principle
liquor bars should be set up in churches.
Whereupon the matter dropped with a
dull thud.
*•* * *
“G. 8.”: I take issue with “General
Prac.” (B. 7/3/’45). Mr, Cardus did not
indignantly pooh-pooh the possibility of
Beethoven having syphilis. He court-
eously asked for medical authority, and
none has been quoted. Neither Dr.
Stentor nor “General Prac.” seems ac-
quainted with a Beethoven book, pub-
lished at Munich, 1922, by Dr. Schweis-
heimer, who, after research, said the
composer’s deafness could be fully
accounted for by typhus fever, which he
is said to have suffered from in Vienna.
Nor do they mention L’Heredite Mvesi-
cate, by Dr. Vezoux, Paris, 1926, in which
six doctors say they can find no support
for the assumption that Beethoven’s deaf-
ness was caused by congenital or acquired
syphilis.
“Bo”; Like most American generals,
Eisenhower has a well-developed sense of
humor. He needs it, when one considers
some of the questions that are put to
him. Sydney “D.T.’s” Godfrey Blunden
met “Ike” at Munchen-Gladbach. Says
he: “I asked him whether he planned to
pause a while on the Rhine.” After Ike
had partially recovered from this frontal
attack he came back with:
“I am not going to stop any-
where where the other guy
doesn’t stop me.” Then the
“D.T.’s” roving “I” specialist,
apparently under the impres-
sion that the bit of sly humor
was a profundity, rushed to
the tripewriter to give Aus-
tralia a laugh.
* * *
“Sirius”: “Tiki’s” recol-
lection of unconventional
Glement Wragge (B. 7/2/’45)
revived memories. In 1904
I listened to a lecture on
astronomy given by Clement
at Whangarei (M.L.). Right
in the middle he suddenly
switched off the light of the
lantern and announced
abruptly “I’m going to have
a drink,” I next heard him
at Orroroo (S.A.) in 1912;
again lecturing on astronomy
and declaring “I know more
about the sun and the heavens
than about the planet on
which I live.” At that time
he was suffering from lum-
bago, to which he was a
martyr; but his indomitable
spirit enabled him to continue
his tour. Bureaucracy and its ways were
irksome to him always.
* * * *
“ Avon”: One of those old soldiers who
never die, being apparently indestructible,
has dumped his kitbag down, donned
civvies and sworn he will never go a-
soldiering again. He is Tom Mockford,
of Dunedin (M.L.). It was in 1899 that
he joined the N.Z. Mounted Rifles. He
went through the Boer War without a
wound or an ailment. In 1914 he volun-
teered again, and toured Gallipoli, Flan-
ders and France with the Wellington In-
fantry Battalion. A Jerry machine-gun
shot his boot off in France, but otherwise
there were no untoward happenings. In
1940, conveniently forgetting his age,
Tom volunteered again, once more as
part of the P. 8.1., went through the Greece
and Crete campaigns, was captured in
North Africa, escaped from a German
prison camp after a year, fought with the
Yugoslavs, was twice recaptured and
twice more escaped, and finally wound up
as a p.o.w. in Austria. There he de-
veloped a touch of sciatica, and, as his
value as a worker was thus impaired, was
exchanged. He has three sons fighting
in this war, and all have been wounded,
but Tom, 66 now, is home unscathed,
though, soldiering being what it is, he
wouldn’t say without a scratch.
* * * *
“Mark”: Oswald Pryor’s sketches have
always reminded me of my Uncle John,
who left his native Cornwall for Australia
in the gold-boom ddys. He spent his life
in prospecting, but a time came when his
health was failing, and his family decided
it was time to send for Parson. The Rev.
Jones spent half an hour with uncle, pre-
sumably preparing him for a life to
come; when he left a daughter asked
uncle what he thought of the minister.
“Nice ’nuff young feller,” replied uncle,
“nice ’nuff young feller.” Then, after a
pause, “but he doan’t know much ’bout
minin’ !”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.” on achievements of eld:
Mr. Churchill, rising 71, shows remarkable
vitality for a statesman, as did Gladstone at
88, when he published the eight volumes of his
memoirs; but, generally speaking, politicians
are far behind artists and writers in the
matter of elderly activity. Titian painted
his “Battle of Lepanto” at 98, and Michel-
angelo was considering turning the Baths of
Diocletian into a Christian church when he died
at 90. Tintoretto was 74 when he painted his
6ft. by 2ft. 6in. canvas “Paradise,” and at 61
Leonardo da Vinci, paralysed in his right arm,
taught himself to paint better than ever before
with his left hand. At 84 Franz Hals painted
his liveliest portrait. Amongst the writers Dr.
Johnson wrote his Lives of the Poets at 70,
Spenser his Fairie Queen at 63, while at the
same age the blind Milton composed Samson
Agonistes. Goethe finished the second part of
Faust at 81 and died nine months later, and
Kant, who lived through the Seven Years War
without once interrupting his philosophical
studies, was still writing at 74. Lamarck com-
pleted his Natural History of the Invertebrates
at 78, and his fellow-scientists Galileo, Newton
and Darwin were active in research at 68, 84
and 62 respectively. At 83 Edison discovered
a substitute for rubber. Equally remarkable
were some of the musical composers. Handel
scored some of his finest music after 55, Gluck:
after 65, and Haydn after 66, and Wagner was
superintending the production of his gigantic
“Ring” at Bayreuth at 63. Verdi was 80 when
he finished his last opera, “Falstaff. There
are plenty of examples of great artists who
didn’t even get a go on until they were past the
age when most men are thinking of retiring.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Zake”: He was in the little shanty
pub, and the question arose as to how
old his “young Charlie” was. The parent
scratched his head. “Well,” he said at
last, “I remember the season Joe Wooster
won with his big# Clydesdale at the show,
and it was the next season that 1 got that
15-bushel crop. Th‘e next year was the
big drought, when the chestnut went
bush. It was two years later I come
acrost her skeleton, and that was when
I was goin’ to get the doc and the nurse
the time Charlie was born. Yair, that’s
it.” “But that don’t get his age,” per-
sisted the questioner. “ ’Course it does,”
said the other. “Y’ go by the chestnut.
He’s bin dead four year.” “But how old
was the chestnut when he went bush?”
asked the inquirer. “He was aged,” said
the father. “Y’ can work it out easy
now.”
* * * H - -
“E.W.H.”: The old Darwin jail was'
surely unique in that prisoners have
broken into it but not out of it. In the
generous old days the practice was to let
the inmates out on Saturday nights.
They were warned to be in by “lights
out” or else shift for themselves. One
night a long-termer cut it a bit too line
and missed the gate. Not to be thwarted,
he scaled the wall but slipped and fell
inside. The drop was about 15 feet and
he broke his back. It never set properly
and for years, until the big air blitz, he
ran a prosperous business in which he
directed affairs from a couch.
* * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Clarrie, one of
those coves who have been, and know,
everything, told us about his infallible
remedy for a bucking horse. All you
had to do was take aboard with you a
bottle made of a light, easily breakable
glass full with water. When the nag
became obstreperous you banged him
over the nut with your weapon. The
water pouring over his head would con-
vince the horse that he was bleeding and,
thoroughly alarmed, he would quickly
tame down. The way it was told it
seemed reasonable enough to me, until
the opportunity came to let Clarrie give
us a practical demonstration. That re-
vealed. the weakness: the difficulty of
Clarrie and the bottle getting on at the
same time. We couldn’t even hand it up
to him, he moved around so fast. Finally,
he got one of us to do the bottle-swinging
act as the horse flew by. After a number
of clean misses Joe got it home —but not
on the horse. As the bottle swung the
horse reared and Clarrie copped it as he
fell. When he sat up he felt something
wet running down the back of his neck,
squawked “My God —blood!” and
fainted.
He *
“Plane Creek”: Can’t help thinking
that the unidentified wriggler whose bite
killed a fox-terrier in three minutes (B.
31/1/ ’45) got in with its dope during the
tussle, as well as afterwards. If not,
“J.O’C.” has a tale for Ripley. Reason:
a Central American “bushmaster” holds
the world’s official record for toxicity;
an Englishman bitten by this snake died
in just under ten minutes. I’ve often
known dogs to die half an hour or so
after being bitten by brown snakes and
death adders; the quickest kill was when
a red-bellied black got my foxy in my
N.Q. canefield. Although I slashed the
bite with a razor-blade to make the blood
flow, and immediately rubbed in per-
manganate of potash, the dog was dead
in twenty minutes. I attribute its quick
demise to its heated condition, causing
the blood to circulate faster than usual.
* * * *
Donald Mac”; As an Abo. addict of
long standing and one who hates to let
a derivative beat him, I crave of the
Council information as to the origin of
Joe Blake, and Kelly. Is the former
merely haphazard rhyming slang or the
memorial to a gent, of that name who
had a memorable encounter with an out-
size reptile? And who gave the raven
an Hibernian monicker?
* * * *
“Old PHI”: If it is worth while to call
attention to the fact that a clock built
to run on mean time cannot keep pace
with a star (B. 7/3/’45), it seems also
worth while to explain the why and the
how. The why is accounted for by the
fact that the earth rotates on its axis in
23 hours 56 minutes and four seconds of
mean solar time, not, as is generally be-
lieved, in 24 hours. Conclusive proof of
this is afforded by the reappearance of
“Well, you shouldn't leave your hammer lying about."
the star exactly on the meridian between
each such interval of time. The how is
explained by the fact that the earth, dur-
ing its daily spin on its axis, shifts its
position in space by travelling along its
orbit some 1| million miles, or 59 minutes
of arc, thus apparently displacing the
sun’s position amongst the stars. The
equivalent of 59 minutes of arc, in time,
is three minutes and 56 seconds, and by
this amount the sun’s right ascension is
necessarily increased. Now this three
minutes and 56 seconds has to be made
up in order to bring the sun exactly on
the meridian again at 12 noon next day,
hence the overlap. The earth rotates on
its axis once and a bit each 24 hours
of mean time, and all these little bits add
up to make the 366 days of the sidereal
year.
“Fancar”: True it is that a clock regu-
lated by a star would gain about four
minutes a day. Even if Dad knows
his stars and is trying to exploit the
hand he will find that Achenar alone
of all the easily recognised first-magni-
tude stars is always (in the latitude of
Sydney) above the horizon. Only Keats
could get away with “Bright star, would
I were constant as thou art.” But then
the poet wanted to be “pillowed upon my
fair love’s ripening breast,” not to rise and
milk cows.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The depression brought
some queer characters to the bush, but
never ones more ill-matched than the
young chaps who began fossicking along
the creek. One was as tall and rangy as
the other was short and thick-set. Their
knowledge of the bush in general was
obviously small, and of “corkscrew grass”
in particular, nil; otherwise they would
surely have improvised bagging leggings-
—if they hadn’t the price of a couple of
pairs of tough-textured dungarees or
barb-wire tweeds. As it was, their grey-
flannel pants became magnets for the
corkscrew-headed seeds, which with cus-
tomary tenacity first gripped then
steadily screwed in—to the acute discom-
fort of the wearer. One morning while
we were debating whether friendly advice
would be accepted as such, the kid rushed
in with startling news: “The nuggety
bloke’s gom mad!” Investigation ap-
peared to confirm the statement, for, clad
only in boots and an outsize pair of
flannel pants, one of the partners was
tramping up and down through the cork-
screw grass, pausing occasionally to sit
down and roll over in it. Eventually he
stopped, surveyed the “strides” critically,
and, suddenly becoming aware of the
little group of watchers, strode triumph-
antly across. “Look at them!” he un-
burdened himself. “Two solid hours I
sat up in me bunk last night, pulling
grass seeds out of ’em. And all the while
I was wonderin’ what that long skinny
slab was laughin’ at. Then, this mornin’
I gqt up early, go to put me pants on,
and find I’ve cleaned up the wrong ones.
Well,” he pointed to the seed-covered gar-
ment that reached up to his armpits.
“Now they’re back to ‘as you were.’ I
wonder will he think that’s funny!”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Do other States express the
same affection for their trains as does
South Australia, which gives ’em pet
names? For instance, there’s the ’Ghan
and the Flash ’Ghan on the Alice Springs
run, the old Tea-an’-Sugar which supplies
the rail camps on the Nullarbor, and the
Pony Express, a narrow-gauge curiosity
running from Wolseley to Mt. Gambier
in its own inimitable way, besides various
other local, and sometimes censorable,
appelation.s on other lines.
* * ' * *
“E 2”: Alec Mullins’s new, gawky off-
sider was given instructions to take old
Rissole, the misshapen draught, up the
spur behind the house and snig down a
load of firewood. He was given the new
axe, ground to a razor edge, with solemn
warning that if he put the smallest gap
in it Mullins would personally belt his
hat down over his ears. Much impressed,
Alec got the load without mishap and
was bringing it down the spur when
Rissole tripped and fell, became tangled
in the chains and hung there, with so
much weight on the collar that he began
to strangle. Alec hopped into the chains
with the axe and they soon parted and
released the horse. “But,” said Mullins,
looking at the ruined axe, “why didn’t y’
just slice through the hame-strap an’
collar-straps?” “I would’ve too, ’’admitted
Alec, “but I thought of the copper rivets
in ’em. Don’t forget y’ told me t’ be
careful with the axe.”
* * * *
“Esk D”: The creek near his hut haw-
ing gone dry, George cut a quarter-mile
race from another stream. But the lyre-
birds prospected along it daily, and the
old chap had to make frequent trips to
clear the leaves and rubbish they scratched
in. Then a heavy storm broke on the
catchment and the dry creek started run-
ning strongly again. A couple of days
later I called at the hut and found George
cleaning out the race. “But there’s no
need for that water now your creek’s in
action again,” I said. “Aw, I s’pose not,”
replied George. “But there’s no sense in
havin’ conveniences about the place an’
not usin’ ’em.”
* N * * *
“Sur Cingle”: In B. 21/2/’45 I said:
“When I’m riding a horse with any band
the buckles of the short folded girths I
favor come below the sweat flaps.” Now
“The 0.D.” tells the world (B. 28/2/’45)
that “any sensible horseman would see
that his horse was protected from the
buckles by the saddle flaps.” This means,
I take it, that “The 0.D.” either sticks
exclusively to kids’ ponies or uses tele-
scopic flaps on his saddle.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Touching that “protec-
tive device for stud rams” of “Moyhu”
(B. 21/2/’45), I’ve seen the idea
tried. The flies were bad that year
and the boss, being worried at the
number of head-strikes in the pro-
duction department, got the blacksmith
to knock up some crash helmets. These
consisted of two bars of light iron, one
resting on the ram’s forehead and the-
other above it, strapped to the horns.
Between the bars were riveted three
strong spiral springs. Well, we tried
’em out when we put the rams in.
Pretty soon two old billies shaped
up, stood off and flew into it. Their
head-irons clashed fairly and the next
second they were a chain apart, on their
backs. The springs were pretty strong,
y’see. We noticed that when the old
chaps, each convinced he’d been beaten,
tried to go back to the mob they shied
off at sight of another ram, but the boss
was satisfied and orders went out to equip
all rams. A week later Bill Hoskins, the
netting rider, reported seven rams, each
alone, hanging up along the 40 miles of
the north boundary. After that every
time the ’phone rang the boss got news
of more rams out on their pat on fences
and in gullies and patches of mulga.
Finally the overseer reported that only
one ram, a broken-horned cove who
never fought, was left with the ewes.
Then the boss realised that every billy on
the place was convinced that he’d been
so soundly licked after his first go with
the shock-absorbers on that he wasn’t
game to stay with the mob. Then the
weather turned hot and we had to collect
most of the hatters with the truck. Now
the headgear’s up behind the blacksmith’s
shop with the other rubbish.
• * * * *
“C.E.”: Dad drove the manure-
spreader to the end of the paddock and
looked expectantly towards the house
just as Ma came out the door waving a
towel. With a grunt he climbed from the
machine, “Thought it was ’bout dinner
time,” he said to the old grey,, bang-
ing the super, dust from his clothes.
Then taking the nag out he brushed
her all over, led her to the yards
for a feed, and made a beeline
for the wash bench. Followed five
minutes of hearty splashing; then he
threw the towel over the rail, picked up
the dish of dirty water, and started back
once more to the paddock. “Be there in
a minute,” he yelled as he passed the
kitchen door. “And Ma, don’t f’rget,
when y’ wash these pants o’ mine, to
empty the tubs out in the cow paddick.
Super’s so damn hard to get these days a
bloke can’t afford to waste any of it.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Snatching up a couple of
fighting mongs into mid-air till one drops
off (B. 21/2/’45) might be right enough
for foxes or poms, but for stag or grey-
hound cross and similar breeds the sug-
gestion bristles with difficulties. And
why heave the tin of cold water on a
scrapping bunch if it’s still necessary to
lay in afterwards with a stick? Afraid
those tactics would have been futile
against my husky pack when they went
berserk recently, their primary aim being
to finish off a little tyke already handi-
capped by one belting. Within a few
minutes the free-for-all developed into
objectless and indiscriminate murder as
those frothing, blood-flecked mongs tore
into each other. My bellowings were lost
in the pandemonium ; my boots plying
vigorously right and left made no more
impression than a funny story. The mob
were out for blood, anybody’s, so grab-
bing a solid lump of wood I set more
seriously about stopping them, selecting
my targets carefully. Four of the big
ringleaders were laid out and others
were groggy before the madness in that
bruised and battered pack subsided, leav-
ing me free to survey torn breeches and
chewed leggings, and to salvage the
almost dead little mong I’d stood oyer.
CHAUVEL.
Hushed and still is the watching crowd,
Sombre and sad the sky,
And hearts are heavy and heads are bowed
As the riderless steed goes by.
His men have gathered from far and near
To bid him a last farewell,
And march in silence before the bier
Of brave Sir Harry Chauvel.
Tales will gather and glory cling
Round his name in the years to come;
He goes to his last adventuring
To the roll of a muffled drum;
And Britain's heroes by land and foam
Who dwell where the brave hearts dwell
Will be waiting to welcome the soldier home —
Vale! Sir Harry Chauvel.
At far Romani when all was black
And the scorching hell-wind blew,
He led us on to the flank attack
And the squadrons thundered through.
The hills and wadis were strewn with dead
When the evening shadows fell,
But we drove the Turks o’er the ridges, led
By gallant Harry Chauvel.
Now his course is ended, his task is done,
He is one with the noble shades,
And never again at the set of sun
Will he rally his bush brigades.
The bugle shrills and the great guns toll
A muffled and mournful knell;
A last salute to his warrior soul —
Vale! Sir Harry Chauve..
.VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“ You're a lazy fellow, Jacky—Watching Mary chop Wood!”
“You watchem, too, boss”
“Old-timer”: Curyo Charlie, making
for Hopetoun and the New Year’s Day
sports, camped at the White Elephant
tank, eight miles out on the Lascelles
road. That night he carefully over-
hauled his sweat wheel, his under-and-
over-seven and other implements designed
for separating the sportsmen from their
cash, then retired. Next morning his horse
had disappeared. Curyo, winkers over
arm, was still searching two hours after
breakfast when a parson drove along.
“My dear fellow,” he said, when apprised
of Curyo’s predicament, “X insist on help-
ing you. What, may I ask, is your busi-
ness?” Stumped, Curyo crawfished for
a bit and then mumbled something about
being a “travelling silversmith,” where-
upon the parson jovially transferred
Curyo’s gear to his own buggy, made
room for its owner on the seat and drove
off, expounding to the embarrassed Curyo
on the mysteries of his ancient “craft.”
Hopetoun looked a bit astonished when
it saw the pair driving up the main street,
but it was nothing to the way that parson
looked when he discovered Curyo prac-
tising his “craft” on the sports ground.
When Curyo sought to press a fiver on
him in return for his kindness the good
man fled. “Which,” as Curyo remarked
later, “just shows y’.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Some dope who didn’t have
to go to it reported a fire on the near
run last week, an’ late as it was the boss
orders us all out to fight the thing. “An’
you, Chuck,” he sez to me, like the cow
couldn’t see none o’ the others standin’
round, “you better pack in enough water
to keep the men going. It’s dry this end,”
Well, I look over them 14 hefty blokes,
decide me water-bag won’t do, so get
meself a kerosene-bucket, an’ start off,
only to find I got to walk ’cos o’ me
flamin’ nag spillin’ so much. Soon we
strike the bush. Gripes, was she dark?
And the track! Blime, it wasn’t fit f’r a
goat, an’ I wouldn’t ’a gone only f’r
havin’ the water. We climb a three-mile
slope, worm through four miles o’ wattle
scrub, and spend an hour crawlin’ out of
a gorge we got in by mistake. After a
bit they stop for a spell an’ I catch up.
“H-have a drink, Sam?” I gasp. “You,
Bluey? M-Mick? Aw, cripes, don’t no-
body want a drink?” An’ then I’m grab-
bin’ up the flamin’ bucket an’ paddin’
after ’em once more. Next time I see
’em they’re on another ridge tellin’ each
other the fire’s put out. Yair, an’ it
wasn’t the only thing. “Well, y’ better
have a drink Jake,” I advised him, con-
siderate like. “You, too, Tommy. ’Aw
hell, don’t y’ never get thirsty?” Presently
we start back, an’ y’ c’n take it from me
that there’s about the longest riight I
ever struck. Jus’ before daylight we reach
our quarters, find a light, then Sam yells
for a cup o’ tea and I lug in me tin.
“Yair, an’ just as well for you y’re goin’
to use it, too,” I told ’em straight, swing-
in’ ’er up. “Y’ wouldn’t ’a caught me
helpin’ next time if y’d let me hump this
stuff them 19 perishin’ miles f’r nothin’.”
* * * *
“Narrin”: Although some unreason-
able agriculturists may differ, I’d like to
dip me lid to the shade of the man
who introduced hares into Australia. The
rabbit provides a mouthful of anaemic
meat on which a man would starve, and
its role as a perambulating asylum for
worms and such diseases as hydatids don't
improve it. But get a good big hare,
hang him for two or three days, accord-
ing to the weather, roast him long and
slowly and from the back and forelegs
alone you’ll get a feed of real meat that’ll
satisfy a couple of men. Then the big
hind legs, minced up, make the world’s
best rissoles, and the bones provide the
basis for pea soup whose only fault is
that it’s so rich a man can only have
one go at it.
* * * *
“Green Ink”: I wonder does “Solitude’’
(B. 7/2/’45), who obviously made Seventy-
liver use the name in a fictitious sense,
know that there is an “Upsan Downs.”
It is out from Hay (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Burtyip”; The sport who named the
pub in the outback town of Jundah must
have had imagination. The nearest track
which Queensland flatters by the name
of a railway is more than a hundred miles
from this dusty little town. Yet the sign
“Railway Hotel” proudly proclaims
Bung’s faith in the future.
H: * * %
“Mat’s Mate”: If he had any ideas on
national politics at all, Mat was a Repub-
lican. Which is why, when we were in
Melbourne one year and the city was in
a ferment about the advent of a royal
pair, he refused to become embroiled in
the inevitable and somewhat hysterical
crowds. One day we were walking down
St. Kilda-road and were about to cross
a small, paved side track when a sentry
at a gate to our left suddenly stiffened
and we just had time to jump aside as
a black Crossley car purred out of the
gate. Mat, always indignant with what
he called the “blasted hurry of these
motorists,” whirled' about with some
sort of a curse on his lips, only to be
met with a look of pure concern from
the gracious lady who is now Queen of
England. We raised our hats and re-
treated, while the car drove on to Flem-
ington races. Then we headed for the
nearest pub, where Mat thoughtfully im-
bibed a pot and thoughtfully remarked
“Gripes, it’s no wonder them English kid
themselves.” Then the new Royalist
called for another drink.
* * * *
“Darmur”: “Pat Ater” ought to know
enough about the mix-up in Australian
tree-names never to make an assertion
such as that bloodwoods (in blossom)
may be seen when the redgum is in
bloom; but the latter is an angophora,
not a eucalypt (B. 14/3/’45). In a life-
time among timber of all kinds the only
redgums I’ve ever come across are the
forest red gum (£. tereticornis ) and the
widespread and well-known river redgum
(E. rostrata ), a gregarious old cobber that
grows from the Gulf to the Bight, and
whose kino is in the British Pharmaco-
pceia as an astringent for diarrhoea and
dysentery. No, there’s no doubt about
the redgum being a eucalypt, though the
one “P.A.” is talking about is an ango-
phora, being one or other of the apple
gums. Still, it’s easy to get sewn up in
these Australian trees, because the same
tree has different names in different dis-
tricts, so that one can’t even be certain
that the Banjo’s swagman “who camped
by a billabong under the shade of a coola-
bah tree” was really under Angophora
melanoxylon or the flood box of the out-
back, which is a eucalypt, though still a
coolabah.
*** . *
“Moyhu”: In certain circumstances
gums will hybridise (B. 28/2/’45). Thirty
years ago, on the scarred gravel ridges of
the former goldfields adjacent to Maiy-
borough (Vic.), a whole forest of narrow-
leaf peppermint ( E . Austrabana), a heavy
oil producer, hybridised with the candle-
bark gum (E rubida), the lowest pro-
ducer of eucalyptus oil known in Vic-
toria, at a, time when the peppermint
forest was in process of extermination by
oil-distillers. It was a case or compro-
mise or extermination and Nature com-
promised. The hybrid now dense y
clothes the ridges surrounding the_ town,
the peppermint having disappeared years
ago. The crossbred possesses obviou
characteristics of both parents, nota y
lovely bark colorings of E. rubida tin
the long, pointed leaf ot E. Aust a tana.
Another characteristic merited from F.
rubida is responsible for the fact t a
crossbred flourishes where its peppe -
mint ancestor perished—the eaves ar
almost entirely devoid of eucalyptus oil.
****
Green Ink : Walkabouts tale oi
shearing Woolbale s lambs ( ! -k 1 / / )
and leaving leggings on
s ? me ; i ha LS wZ!
sheds and been told to the leg alone
from the hock down by some owners.
The idea is that what scanty wool there
”n the hock he is lame for a
long time, and often is crippled perma-
* * * *
“Solitude”: With his back against the
yard fence and a boot-heel hooked over a
lower rail Seventyfiver waited while a
few feet further along the new bloke
from Dead Horse Flat told me about his
cattle “Coin’ in for good stuff,” he
burbled “Get twice the price. No
local breeds f’r me; I’m buyin’ only
high-class stock.” “Wha’ssat?” Seventy-
fiver butted in interestedly. “list some
cattle I bought Grandad,” he threw
at the old bloke patronisingly. “Not
the sort y’ milk,” he added with a
grin Without a word Seventyfiver ad-
mired the sky, and the bloke turned back,
“Now take that mob I brought in a week
or two ago,” he went on. “Chap I got
’em from sez y’ can’t get better cattle,
Down-country heifers they are, all well-
grown, and due to calve any time.”
There was a chuckle from the old bloke.
“Meanin’ the bunch y* druv past ’ere
week before last? Well, sonnie,” he
drawled good-humoredly, “them heifers
as y’ call ’em is all JV cows on their
second calves. They was bred out on
“ Honest, Corp., I only do this in me spare time!”
Starvation Creek ’ere; that is all ’ceptin’
them three roans an’ the yeller bally
with the two black notches ’n slit. Them
four culls from the tops wus in a mob
Dud Murphy sold to a down-country
dealer in Gobroke last spring.”
* * * *
“Bill Guy”: The bot fly parasite affects
just about every kangaroo in Centralia.
It lives in the throat of the host, feeding
on the abundant mucous of the windpipe.
It is a bit larger than the horse bot, lack-
ing the hooks on the head end for attach-
ment, and apparently causing very little
inconvenience. One would imagine an
intense irritation would result, but I have
never heard a ’roo cough,
* * * *
“Carmi”; You never know when
you’ve done with blue mint. Ten years
ago a friend who’d been bogged on
Missen’s Flat, South Queensland’s worst
bog and best blue-mint nursery, washed
the thick black mud from his car just a
few yards from our back-yard gate. For
the next four years blue-mint seedlings
appeared in the spring at that spot. Then
there was a few years’ spell, but again
this year they sprang up. These must
have been lodged at the same time as the
earlier germinating seeds, for no blue
m jnt matured in our yard and the dis-
trict is still free of the curse,
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Beside the big cock-
roacfl Q f Torres Strait the tick mentioned
by » E djudina” ( B . 21/2/’45) is a quitter
wben comes to tenacity of life. I’ve
seen i U gg ers which have been submerged
£ or s j x weeks swarm with the pests a few
bours after refloating, though the craft
was sunk too far from shore to
be w jthin flying range, despite the
sur p r j s i n g capability of the roaches
- n t jfls direction. For voracity, too,
cockroach is unpara iieled. I re-
member one SO zzled gent, who bestirred
himself after sleeping it off to find a
f orme rly magnificent red beard reduced
tQ a f ew hirsute wisps. Perhaps it was
tbe beer f[ avor which drew them, for the
pests are addicted to drink ; a few dregs
j e f t j n a hottle overnight will cause a
f ra ffl c j am as the suicide squads queue
to tbe stufl-
-to ‘ ,
“ Bo ”: For years Denny Shenstone had
] ec i the agitation to have the railway ex-
tended from the railhead at Saltbush to
Jogalong. The project finally approved,
Dg f u the rogress of that line
* nnH sU it annroached
of te own
P™P“‘yS re f w ,. grea ‘ er -. A lu * h spr ' n f
o„g frass and’shrab
which choked the boundary of his western
paddock were tinder-dry. Denny’s old
firebreaks had loflg been overrun. On a
scorching day the arrival of the first tram
to Jogalong was being celebrated with a
shivoo and speeches m the township,
Denny had just finished a long-winded
speech when Albie, his son-in-law, arrived
and broke the news to him that the
engine had not only pulped his prize bull
but emitted sparks which had fired
the grass, and his crops, barns and sheds
had gone up in smoke. The house had
been saved only after a terrific effort by-
the neighbors. “What do y’ think of y’r
damned railway nowT ’ asked Albie, who
had never been m favor of it. Denny
bristled. “Y’re one-eyed, Albie,” he saia
slowly; “a railway going past yer prop-
erty always improves it—anyone knows
that!”
*** * .
“Carnie”: A woman s paper pointedly
had asked why sandwiches, savories and
cakes should be served at a “dance-
social” ; for what could be better
than a good scone? Mrs. Dash
agreed, and to our next function brought
a port of liberally-buttered scones. There
weren’t half a dozen takers, for it was
only four days after a week of rain.
“Saw enough of them things flood-time,”
said one man after the other. “Pity
women’s papers don’t time things a bit
better,” said old Dash, who’d kept the
kitchen stove well stoked for the gigantic
baking effort.
NIGHT NURSE AT ST. VINCENT’S.
A shaded lamp in the long ward burns,
And heard or seen is no sound nor stir,
Save when the torch of the night nurse turns
On the bed of some hapless sufferer.
Some sufferer, maybe, whom dire mischance
Had grimly chosen to shock and harm;
Here carried by stretcher and ambulance,
And now upstarting in loud alarm.
The night nurse hearkens his cries, and then,
Her torch ashine and with searching eyes
Through two long bed-rows of ailing men,
Goes hushed of footfall to where he lies.
There, bending low for a patient while
Above him, wakeful and sore distressed.
With whispered word and with kindly smile
She soothes him gently to blissful rest.
When pain, pale tyrant, invades the ward
She does fier utmost, well skilled and calm,
To blunt the edge of his stabbing sword
And ease his victims with pity’s balm.
Though charged to the full in her ministry
With plaints that try her and tasks to do
Yet, willing as running water, she
Glides hither and yon the tense hours through.
And thus while the crowded city sleeps
And tired folk rest for a grateful spell,
By her shaded lamp the night nurse keeps
Long vigil—a sleepless sentinel.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
df
to RABBITS
d
fd
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
(Regd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM” -
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.
SAVES
MANPOWER
lysaqmts
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
& v- "j
T~ '
if*
I*
ip
,t * :
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY, GUARANTEED.
Obtainable^from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Quality and Crimp.
“Gil. S”; According to E. H. B.
Lefroy, who sells over 1000 rams annu
ally from the Cranmore Park merino
stud in W.A., the method of microscopi-
cally measuring the diameter of wool
fibres was introduced some years ago, and
as a result of thousands of experimental
measurements in Australia and South
Africa a scale was drawn up giving the
average fibre diameters for the various
“counts” of wool.
It has been generally accepted in the
past that the number of crimps increased
with fineness of quality but microscopic
examination proves this assumption un-
reliable. Experiments proved that what
Mr. Lefroy calls a “slow crimping” wool
will appear much broader in quality than
a “fast crimping” wool —one with many
more crimps per inch — when fibre
diameters are equal.
Many tests have been made of high-
grade stud rams’ fleeces with results un-
settling to present-day ideas of what is a
fine or a strong wool merino. Two
examples: One, finely crimped with 15
crimps per inch, was marked 66/70’s
quality and looked it—definitely a fine
wool; the other was a bulky, bold wool,
a “strong wool” evidently Of 58’s quality.
The microscope, however, proved that the
fibre diameter of this wool averaged the
same as the other sample, though no
human eye could detect it. The differ-
ence lay in the fact that the second sample
had only seven crimps to the inch, the
wider crimp making the quality appear
much broader.
Apparently searching for strength of
constitution with which “strong wool” is
generally supposed to be allied, growers
are often selecting rams which are actu-
ally not strong-woolled at all. A buyer
may pick a good big upstanding ram o/
bold appearance only to reject him as
“too fine” after examination of the wool,
and possibly select a smaller ram because
he had “stronger wool” and presumably
a stronger constitution. Yet a micro-
scopic examination might easily prove
that the bigger ram actually carried
stronger wool, but it looked finer because
it had more crimps per inch.
The difficulty will be to recognise the
genuine strong and fine wools, but evi-
dently it is wrong to shy off a good-
looking ram with a good solid covering
just because it “looks too fine” at first
sight. Apparently one will need to visual-
ise what the wool would look like with
fewer crimps per inch and make allow-
ances accordingly. An alteration in
present methods of ram selection is indi-
cated. Under scientific methods a micro-
scopic quality test and graph would be a
valuable guide when selecting sires.
Stock Transport Embargo.
“Outback”: The Bulletin would be
doing the grazing industry in Queens-
land the best possible service if
it could impress upon Federal trans-
port authorities the urgent necessity
for a lifting of all restrictions on
the transport of store cattle and sheep.
For some months carriage of store sheep
on Queensland railways has been com-
pletely banned, and carriage of store
cattle is limited to a distance of 650 miles.
With a serious meat shortage imminent
store cattle should be transported to
wherever feed is available, and also to
areas where there is no danger of red-
water fever being contracted by cattle
from clean country.
As soon as the prevailing drought
breaks transport of store stock will be
“She Was skinnin' rabbits when We first met, an it was love at first sight.”
one of the most urgent problems con-
fronting the industry, but so far there is
no indication that Queensland railway
authorities are alive to the seriousness
of the position. Recent attempts to have
store cattle shifted more than 650
miles have met with a blunt refusal, but
the improved war position in the s.-w.
Pacific should make possible some con-
sideration for graziers.
Sheepmen in the Hughenden district
have decided to use every endeavor to
have the restriction on the transport of
store sheep removed. Central Queens-
land has had two good seasons, and is
now well stocked with sheep. When the
drought in south-western Queensland and
N.S.W. breaks the central west will be
able to supply store sheep for restocking!
purposes, but this will not be possible!
unless such sheep can be transported byl
railway. Many stock routes in south-1
western Queensland have been eaten out*
for months, and even when the drought;
does break they will not be able to carry i
much stock for some considerable time.?
Motor transport has had to be used more;
extensively recently to get sheep in
marketable condition from the south-
west to the railhead en route to Cannon
Hill sales.
Stock Food.
“Myrrhee”; Surplus potatoes and
windfall fruit are useful as stock feed,
but contain little protein, and need to
be fed with protein-rich supplements;
thus 501 b. of lucerne chaff or 161 b. of
linseed meal or 41b. of meatmeal should
be fed with every 1001 b. of potatoes or
apples to balance the ration. Four pounds
of potatoes or 61b. of apples have the
same food value as 11b. of pollard. Crush
the potatoes and fruit before feeding to
cattle. Boil potatoes and apples for poul-
try and potatoes for pigs.
Care is required when feeding to cattle
as these foods ferment readily and may
cause bloat. Trouble can be caused by
lodgment of food in the throat, the block-
age preventing eructation of stomach
gases due to the fermentation. The cattle
are more likely to over-eat when hungry
and underfed, and need to be watched
more closely then.
. Bananas in Queensland.
“Plane Creek”: On the C.Q. coast
heavy winds, soil erosion and neglect hurt
bananas more than anything else ; disease
arises from neglect. Bananas need shelter,
which is why most growers put them
under the protecting shoulders of moun-
tains. They’ll grow all right on the flats,
provided the aspect isn’t too open and
the locality not liable to heavy winter
frosts. Self-draining land is miles ahead
of sour clay or “gluepot.” Bananas are
fond of very rich, deep soils, always damp
but never soggy.
To prevent wet-season erosion, terrace
sloping hillsides and grow cover-crops
of leguminous plants during the danger-
ous season on ground intended for
bananas. Buy only the most reliable
suckers even if it means paying a bit
more for ’em. It is often necessary to
spray a little lead arsenate solution upon
new plants to prevent wallabies from eat-
ing them down. The ground should be
damp,, but not wet, when suckers are put
out, or rotting is likely.
Banana aphid spreads the spores of
heart rot and bunchy top, Queensland’s
worst banana diseases. Only way to stop
them is to grub out the affected stools
and burn ’em. Tools should be soaked
in strong disinfectants for a time after
use in digging up diseased stools.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: The best clover for N. S.
Wales coastal districts, especially amongst
paspalum, is a persistent strain of white
clover (Trifolium repens). In periods of
lush growth, however, judicious grazing
is needed to avoid bloat. Re-seed dur-
ing autumn, using 21b. to 3lb. per acre.
“Sarina”: Many North Queensland
grasses will not survive more than about
three years if not burned annually.
Elephant grass and similar tussock-form-
ing grasses accumulate so much dead stuff
that the stools are strangled and smoth-
ered in a couple of years. A fire, how-
ever, runs over the top and cleans up the
matted growth without injuring the
underground stems, and splendid ratoon-
ing follows. Burning should be done
after a heavy storm, when the fire will
leave a mass of damp stuff 12in. deep on
the ground to conserve moisture and pro-
vide humus.
“Plane Creek”: Best cure I know for
scaly leg in poultry (B. 14/2/’45) is equal
amounts of olive oil and kerosene. Brush
the mixture on generously, and repeat
in a week’s time if necessary. Common
in dry districts, scaly leg is caused by a
tiny parasite. Spray fowlhouses regu-
larly with kero, emulsion or disinfectants
to exterminate lice.
“Hux”: Grass seeds cause foot trouble
in dogs. If the tail of the seed can’t be
seen open up the wound and extract it;
wash in Condy’s fluid, allow to dry, dress
with vaseline and bind up. Use the same
treatment for split pads, and repeat it
every 24 hours. Dressing with a weak
solution of alum and salt will harden
tender feet. Clipping the hair between
the claws prevents burrs from sticking.
Working a dog with sore feet may wreck
him for life.
“Bill Ding”: The indifference of
farmers in the south-west of Westralia
to the encroachments of stinkwort on
their properties is remarkable. Travel-
lers up and down this country see lus-
cious-looking paddocks which, on investi-
gation, are seen to be in complete
subjection to this disagreeable alien weed,
and probably it is on that account that
it is left alone to propagate at will and
scatter multitudes of seeds. One never
sees a sheep, cow or horse in it. Farmers
are nothing loath to ask for Government
relief when fire and flood damage their
properties, yet they seem resigned to the
devastations of stinkwort. It has even
encroached on all roadsides and into
town and city gardens, and is generally
making, a decided nuisance of itself.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Warsaw Survivor’s Story.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” London
correspondent.)
A survivor of the Warsaw uprising of
last autumn to reach London, Lieut. Jan
Novak, of the Polish underground army,
said that the Polish people believed that,
if “British and American troops had been
as close as the Russians the fate of War-
saw would have been a different one to-
day.”
Warsaw in the 63 days of the battle
had been a “hell that you cannot even
imagine,” and it no longer exists as a
city, Lieut. Novak said. Lieut. Novak
operated one of the two transmitters that
joined the Polish capital with London
during the battle. On the last day of
the fight for the old town area, when the
Poles “at last realised that the Russians
were not coming” and that all was lost,
Lieut. Novak broadcast a message saying
“We are fighting for freedom. We are
fighting for the right to be free.”
On August 1, when the Polish patriots
rose, the sound of a great battle on the
east bank of the Vistula River could be
heard. But on August 2, about 8 p.m.,
there was a “sudden, complete, terrible
silence.” The Red Army’s guns stopped
firing and the Russian Air Force halted
its activity over Warsaw. Not until the
second week in September, when the Rus-
sians suddenly captured the suburb of
Praga on the east bank of the river, did
they resume the battle. Still masters of
the west bank of the Vistula in one sec-
tion, the Poles could see Russian tanks
and soldiers across the river, “and we
could not understand why they did not
cross.”
When the Russians took Praga there
were telephone and wireless communica-
tions between the capital and its suburb.
But, Lieut. Novak said, the Russians,
while acknowledging that they Were re-
ceiving messages, refused to answer. On
the day of his surrender General Komo-
rowski sent Marshal Konstantin K.
Rokossovsky a message saying that the
Poles’ position was hopeless unless the
Russians could break into Warsaw
quickly, and asking how soon this could
be done. General Komorowski said that
he needed an answer within 24 hours, but
there was none.
“After what has happened,” Lieut.
Novak said, “the Polish people are ter-
ribly afraid of what is coming.”
The Palestine Mandate.
(Condensed extracts from a London “Fort-
nightly” article by Sir John Hope Simpson.)
In the U.S. Presidential election both
the great political parties published plat-
form declarations demanding unrestricted
immigration of Jews into Palestine and
unrestricted ownership of land by Jews
so that Palestine may be reconstituted as
a free and democratic commonwealth.
In London a Jewish Dominion of Pales-
ting League has been formed, whose main
object is the transformation of Palestine
into a self-governing Jewish State, on
; both sides of the Jordan, with Dominion
status within the British Empire. It is
evident that a widespread effort is to be
made to change the status of the Jewish
National Home.
* * * *
Palestine is governed by the British
Government in virtue of a Mandate
granted under the terms of Article 22 of
the Covenant of the League of Nations.
This Article applies to those colonies and
territories which, owing to the war, had
ceased to be under the sovereignty of the
States which formerly governed them,
and which are inhabited “by peoples not
able to stand by themselves under the
strenuous conditions of the modern
world.” The well-being and development
of such peoples is stated to be a sacred
trust of civilisation, which should be ad-
ministered by Mandatories appointed by
the League of Nations. The independence
of Arab Palestine, in which the Arabs
numbered nearly 90 per cent, of the popu-
lation at the outbreak of the First World
War, might seem to be sufficiently secured
by the Mandatory provisions of the
League Covenant.
* * * *
It is difficult —indeed impossible— to
reconcile the provisions of the Mandate
with those contained in the Covenant of
the League of Nations under which it
purported to be issued, which laid down
that the well-being and development of
the inhabitants of Palestine at the time
of its occupation form a sacred trust for
civilisation and that they could be pro-
visiohally recognised as an independent
nation, subject to the rendering of advice
and assistance by a Mandatory. It is on
these grounds, among others, that the
Arab population has, from the earliest
days of the Mandate, claimed that the
Mandate is devoid of authority. They feel
that (Great Britain is exercising a Man-
date not on behalf of the population of
Palestine, but on behalf of the Zionist
organisation of the world. They have
seen that organisation pouring Jewish im-
migrants into Palestine by the tens of
thousands, purchasing very large areas of
land hitherto held by Arabs, holding it
under conditions which preclude re-sale
and leasing it only to Jews, and even to
them only on condition that none but a
Jew may be employed on the land so
leased. It is no matter for wonder that
the Arab community of Palestine lives
in a state of constant fear of the future.
* * * *
The Jewish settlements in Palestine
have been a remarkable achievement.
Most attention has been drawn to the
agricultural settlements. These have been
widely advertised, possibly in view of the
insistence in Article 6 of the Mandate
that close settlement by Jews on the land
should be encouraged; possibly also, in
part, because the romance and adventure
inherent in these settlements are a stimu-
lus to generous support of the movement.
The emphasis placed on this branch of
the work of the Zionist organisation is,
however, disproportionate. As is pointed
out in the Report of the Royal Commis-
sion, “the proportion of workers on the
land (earners) to the Jewish population
today is 6.4 per cent.” The great mass
of the Jewish immigrants are not workers
on the land, but residents of the towns.
The population of one town, Tel Aviv,
far exceeds in number the total popula-
tion of all the agricultural settlements.
This is not to say that the Jewish settle-
ments are unimportant. They are the
very remarkable result of the combined
application of outstanding technical skill,
abounding energy and practically un-
limited resources provided by the gener-
osity of Jewish communities in many
lands. But the great majority of the
Jewish population of Palestine today con-
sists of skilled and unskilled workers in
industry and on public works, indus-
trialists, tradesmen, persons living on their
private resources and professional men of
all types. The number in these last two
classes is very large, and in some direc-
tions that of professional men is out of
all proportion to the needs of the com-
munity. Evidence was tendered to the
Royal Commission that in Tel Aviv there
was one doctor to every 161 persons, in
Palestine, as a whole, one doctor for
every 560 persons, while in the United
Kingdom there is one doctor for about
1085 persons.
* * a-- *
Industrial development is an essential
to the prosperity of the Jewish section of
the population, which has grown from
55,000 in 1918 to at least 500,000 at the
present time. In 1942 the value of
the output of industrial workers was
£30,000,000. Apart from war supplies,
iron and steel articles, textiles, leather
goods, foodstuffs, chemicals and pharma-
ceutical preparations, drainage pipes and
glass, essential oils and lorries were pro-
duced by Jewish industry in Palestine.
This phenomenal development has been
due to three main causes —the provision
of cheap capital by what Professor Bent-
wich describes as “philanthropic capi-
talist instruments,” protection of industry
by carefully regulated tariffs and the im-
portant monopoly for the production of
electric power and light granted by the
Government to Mr. Pinhas Rutenberg, a
Russian Jewish engineer, and now ex-
ploited by the Palestine Electric Corpora-
tion. Some of the conditions of this
monopolistic concession are remarkable,
not least the postponement of payment of
customs duty on imported material “until
the profits of the company, after writing
off amortisation, depreciation and re-
serve, are first sufficient to enable the
company to pay a dividend of at least
eight per centum per annum tax-free.
* * * *
The immigration of the Jews into
Palestine has been conducted with out-
standing ability. Criticism has been made
by the orthodox section of Jewry in
Palestine that politics rather than religious
devotion have been considered by the
recruiting authorities, and it is, in fact, re-
markable that, whereas in the older settle-
ments, which were founded before the
time of the Balfour Declaration, the syna-
gogue was the centre of the village life,
in the latter settlements that position is
occupied by the village school. Politics
are now far more obvious than religious
enthusiasm, and, to quote Dr. Toynbee,
Zionism is “in essence a secular, eco-
nomico-political expression of Jewish
national aspirations.” The Jewish settle-
ment is no longer regarded as a settle-
ment of Palestinian Jews in Palestine —
if it were ever so regarded—but of
national Jews in Eretz Israel. Therein
lies the tragic impossibility of reconcilia-
tion between immigrant Jew and aborigi-
nal Arab.
*** * •
Had the Jewish authorities been con-
tent with the original object of settle-
ment in Palestine —“a Jewish life with-
out oppression and persecution” in
accordance with Jewish customs the
national home would have presented no
difficulty. The Jews could have entered
and settled as so many did in the P.I.C.A,
settlements —founded in many cases long
before the Balfour Declaration in
friendly relationship with their Arab
fellow-citizens, and themselves loyal citi-
zens of Palestine. The unfortunate fact
is that the Jewish, immigration today is
not composed of Jews who, on religious
grounds, wish to return to the land of
Zion, in order to lead a Jewish life, with-
out oppression and persecution, in accord-
ance with Jewish customs. Rather it is
composed of Jews, largely devoid of
religious conviction, animated by a spirit
of political nationalism and determined
to secure domination in Palestine, the
homeland of the Arab for at least 1300
years. No effort has been made to
coalesce with the existing population. On
the contrary, there is extreme divergence
between the virile occidentalism of the
immigrant and the conservative oriental-
ism of the mass of the resident popula-
tion.
* * * *
The intention of the British Govern-
ment is that within ten years Palestine
shall be an independent State in treaty
relations with Great Britain. Inevitably,
the majority in that State will be Arabs,
but the Jewish population of the national
home in Palestine will be a forceful and
well-disciplined minority. If they are pre-
pared to accept that position and to live
in Palestine as loyal Palestinian citizens
their influence will be very great and the
advance of Palestine will be rapid. If
they refuse to co-operate they will doubt-
less be able to make things difficult for
the Palestine Government, without gain
to themselves.
* * * *
Though Palestine may properly be re-
garded as the spiritual home of every
devout Jew, there is no proper ground
to conclude that it is the haven of refuge
for Jews unjustly persecuted. The solu-
tion to persecution in Europe is to pre-
vent it. If that be impossible the havens
of refuge should be in those countries,
such as Great Britain, the United States
of America and the U.S.S.R., among
others, who sympathise with the sufferers
and have a sense of the dignity of man
as man. It is unfair and indeed hypo-
critical to express sympathy while refus-
ing to accept the sufferers into one’s own
country and compelling their acceptance
in Palestine, where they are not wel-
comed. Were the doors of Great Britain,
the United States, the U.S.S.R. and France
thrown open the problem of persecuted
Jewry would be immediately solved.
World Policing and U.S. Law.
(“Saturday Evening Post” editorial comment.)
The thing that worries most Ameri-
cans when they discuss the nation’s
necessary part in an international security
organisation is the possibility that some
future President might commit U.S.
armed forces to making war without the
consent of Congress.
President Roosevelt has said: “It is
clear that, if the world organisation is
to have any reality at all, our represen-
tatives must be endowed in advance by
the people themselves, by constitutional
means through their representatives in
the Congress, with authority to act.”
With the technical improvement in
weapons like rockets and radio-guided
devices reasonably to be expected, the
“peace-loving nations” will not have
much time to debate as to the measures
necessary to protect themselves. The
question for America is how to provide
far possible emergencies abroad without
scrapping institutions at home.
The “Post” believes that policing is
secondary in importance to measures of
economic and political co-operation de-
signed to relieve international tensions in
advance. The success of the American
Federal Union is not due to the existence
of means to coerce the States, but to
such constitutional provisions as those
which forbid a State to issue currency
or erect tariffs against the other States.
Just the same, it remains true that the
international community must be pre-
pared to use force when preliminary
measures have failed to appease a recal-
citrant nation. The terms of this use of
force are of utmost importance. Though
we do not want to endow any President
with dictatorial power to plunge the
nation into war without the consent of
Congress or contrary to the popular will,
we also do not wish to hamper our par-
ticipation in international police work
to such an extent as to make it ineffective.
John W. Davis, former Ambassador to
Great Britain, James T. Shotwell, Quincy
Wright and Philip C. Jessup, in a letter
to New York “Times,” pointed out that
any American force available to the
international security body could be
limited by statute, so that U.S. partici-
pation in sanctions against an aggressor
need not await specific Congressional
action. These authorities added that this
concept fits in with American practice
under which the President has the right
to use force independently of Congress
for protection of American property
abroad, “for the defence of the territory
of the United States and for the preven-
tion of offences against the law of nations
or violations of treaties.” American par-
ticipation in suppression of the Barbary
pirates and against the Chinese Boxers
are examples of such use of force.
Would an extension of this practice
tend to involve the United States in war
unnecessarily? Mr. Davis and his co-
writers suggest that “the prerogatives of
Congress would be better protected under
an international security system” than
they have been in the past. For one
thing, the publicity which would attend
any decision of the International Security
Council to use force might create in Con-
gress an understanding of the perils
ahead that has sometimes been absent in
the past. If further measures were re-
quired, the President could not avoid
layiqg the issue before Congress.
“German Generals Govern-
ment.”
(From a report by N.Y. “Times" Washington
correspondent.)
The possibility that the Committee of
German Generals, made up of Russian
captives, may be developed into a pro-
visional German Government “is not
overlooked in Washington,” the “Army
and Navy Joufnal” has stated.
The authoritative but unofficial ser-
vice publication, discussing the possibility
of a provisional Government’s develop
ing, said:
“It is recalled that this was the pro-
cedure followed by Marshal Stalin in the
cases of Poland and Hungary, the Lublin
Committee being organised for the
former to offset the Government-in-Exile
and, a closer precedent, a Hungarian
committee being formed with which a
treaty of peace and alliance was signed,
although their country had not been com-
pletely, conquered."
“One of the difficulties which the van-
quishment of Germany would create would
be the absence of an authority with which
negotiations for unconditional surrender
could be conducted. This would be over-
come by the recognition by Russia and
the Allies of the Generals Committee
which now is in Moscow and will be
transferred to Konigsberg once Prussia
is overrun.
“Doubtless the members of this com-
mittee have been in underground contact
with generals of Hitler’s general staff.
With the latter, whose fear of Hitler has
been intensified by his swift punishment
of their colleagues involved in the assas-
sination plot of some months ago, there
may have been developed an under-
standing whereby weak resistance would
be offered to the Russian armies in ex-
change for guarantees of personal safety.”
An “Incident” in England.
(From an article by American syndicate writer
Marquis W. Childs, visiting England.)
The British habit of understatement
has never been more apparent than in the
various phases of the futile struggle by
the Nazis to subdue this small, tough,
tenacious island.
When a V-bomb falls its aftermath is
known in the terminology of the rescue
services as an “incident.” In a tour of
southern England to see the damaged
areas we came upon an “incident.”
There had been a street, and along the
street had been a row of pleasant cot-
tages. Across the street had been a
cemetery. The bomb had fallen about an
hour before our arrival, in the edge of
the cemetery.
One instant it had been a peaceful
scene. The next instant the living in the
cottages and the dead in the graves were
strewn along the street by a blast that
swept an arc of destruction.
In one block the cottages were com-
pletely destroyed. In adjoining blocks
windows and some roofs were smashed.
Householders were trying to pick up and
put together their pitiful possessions.
Already an emergency squad was helping


NOW... and post-war
THE WORLD’S MOST
EFFICIENT AND
ECONOMICAL
E I
ir« .. AGA
COOKE
ISg)
....
Iri city and country homes,
hospitals, religious institu-
tions and in the fighting ser-
vices, AGA has proved its
claim to be the world’s most
efficient and economical
Cooker.
Practical advantages offered
by the AGA include savings
in fuel up to 80%; continu-
ous dependable service night
and day; cool, clean and
simple operation; full
flavour in foods; leisure for
you. All AGA Cookers are
guaranteed for ten years
against faulty material and
workmanship. If you cannot
call to see the AGA Cooker
in operation at our Show-
rooms, write for Catalogue
R 3 showing the complete
range of models.
Made in Britain
The original heat-storage Cooker
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Established 1852 (Incorporated In N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and 432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents s • • ■ • ft Coiton Palmer & Preston Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmanian Agents • * » • » ■ A. S. Webster & Sons, Hobart
W.A. Agents »■••»-- - Malloch Bros, Ltd., Perth
<?ld. Agents •> • Queensland Primary Producers Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane
STROMBERG-CARLSON PRESENTS
ADVENTURES INTO THE UNKNOWN
mm
isa
rrr--F-i-
-■J
SIR FRANCIS DRAKE
His was the greatest name wfien
Englishmen sailed uncharted seas
to harvest the ungarnered riches of a vast New World.
Like Drake in the “Golden Hind”, Stromherg-Carlson
to-day is charting unknown seas, opening up a new world
of realism in radio, for you to enjoy when Victory is won.
Post-war, too. there will he nothing finer than a
STROMBERG - CARLSON
'A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia
50 YEARS OF COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
SUPPORT EACH VICTORY LOAN
to put temporary cellophane windows in
the houses that were still habitable.
The newly-dead and injured had been
taken away. Over the whole scene hung
the awful stench of death from the shat-
tered graves.
Immediately after an “incident” the
Women’s Volunteer Services sets up an
“inquiry point,” and here come relatives
and friends seeking news. They are so
patient. They wait in line, as they wait
in line for everything else.
It is very hard, often, to give any defi-
nite word. Bodies are blown into small
fragments by the erratic path of the blast.
Sometimes only a finger with a ring is
found. Police dogs are used to discover
bodies or parts of bodies that are buried
by the explosion. Sometimes the digging
goes on for days.
We went into one of the houses where
a husband and wife were trying to sweep
the glass off the floor and to collect the
undamaged furniture and crockery. A
great hole had been blown in the walls,
yet, freakishly, a vase with Christmas
holly and greens was left standing on a
side table.
The husband, who is a police constable,
insisted on getting out a bottle of beer to
give the American visitors a drink. He
said they would go to live with their son-
in-law for a time, and maybe they could
fix the house up enough to live in. It
was too early to tell yet.
He had to search to find some glasses
that were not broken, but his hand, as he
poured the beer, was steady enough.
What seemed so awful and so baffling,
standing in the ruined street, was the
terrible remoteness of this kind of war.
Somewhere, a hundred or two hundred
miles away, men with great technical
skill had sent a bomb into the air. They
had no concern with the area in which
it would fall, nor with the people whose
lives it would shatter. It has the imper-
sonality of a force of nature, and yet it
is the end product of the most abstruse
science and involved technology.
It is not alone those pitiful people, and
others like them in similar “incidents,”
whose lives—whose very pattern of exist-
ence —this new instrument for war has
shattered. If it can go a few hundred
miles it will not be long—five years or
10 years—before it can go a few thousand
miles. It is a potential threat, it seems to
me, to the very shape of life as we have
known it.
In the street members of the emer-
gency squad were sprinking chloride of
lime. Brown canvas covered the shape-
less things that had been blown out of
the cemetery. Brisk women of the W.V.S
were moving from house to house, work-
ing out an infinite number of problems
—where to take temporary shelter, how
to get clothes, how to get ration coupons,
what to do about the children who would
soon be coming home from school.
The “incident” was proceeding accord-
ing to normal. In London’s terrible
panorama of this war it is of course only
an incident, a very small incident. Yet it
is so much more. If we, all of us, do not
somehow prevent it, it may be the pattern
of the future.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“A long and bitter battle must ensue before
the effectiveness and striking power of the Jap
air force can be neutralised. The Japs now
have vastly improved types, particularly in the
Army Air Force, as compared with the ’planes
we have been meeting in the approaches to the
empire. We have met very few of these new
ones in combat. There is good reason to
believe that they are holding a large stock of
these new army ’planes in reserve on the Jap
mainland.” — U.S. Navy Secretary James V.
Forrestal.
* * # *
The Chinese, who Jiave been directly exposed
to Japanese propaganda in a way that we have
never known, are usually in favor of encourag-
ing revolution in Japan. They feel that the
whole rotten and archaic structure of the
Emperor cult and institution must go if there
is to be any healthy life in Japan. The
Chinese are probably much more ready than
we are to accept a renovated Japan into the
family of nations. We seem much less willing
than the Chinese to take the risk of revolution-
ary change in Japan, and also less willing to
face up to the problem of the livelihood of 70
million Japanese after they are defeated. The
Cairo Conference is no solution of the Japan-
ese problem. When the Empire has been
removed, the armies disbanded, and the war
factories destroyed, what shall we do? We
prefer not to think of such matters. We cannot
see how a defeated totalitarian State can contain
the seeds for its own rebirth into a peaceful
democratic society, and yet we recoil at the
thought of completely re-educating a mis-
directed people. Japan poses much more diffi-
cult questions than does Germany.— “ Atlantic
Monthly.”
Britain is the only country that has con-
scripted women for 'the fighting forces. Of
about 16,000,000 women in Britain between the
ages of 14 and 59, over 7,000,000 are in the ser-
vices or in paid employment. Of the single
women between 18 and 40, nine out of every
ten are in essential war work; the rest are
either physically unfit or engaged in taking
care of younger brothers and sisters or elderly
parents; 467,00 are in the services; 56,000 are
doing full time civil defence work; 61 million
are in industry. In 42 British Government ord-
nance factories six out of every ten employees
are women. Half the employees in the chemi-
cals and explosive industries and four out of
ten in the engineering and allied industries are
women. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.
* * * *
King Farouk, in a hurry to see the last of
the foreign armies camped along the Nile,
recently asked the British Ambassador how soon
the bulk of these forces would be evacuated,
He was told in no uncertain terms that since
Egypt would be more necessary as a military
base for the Pacific battle than it is now, he
might expect to see more rather than fewer
troops for an indefinite period. So long as
Egypt and Palestine command the Suez, so long
as Arabia is the world’s richest reservoir of
oil, so long as the Middle East is the aerial
short-cut between continents, it will remain an
important element in the calculations of the
Great Powers. — N.Y. “Times’ ' correspondent.
* * * *
Soviet Russia on July 12, 1920, “voluntarily
and forever” renounced Russia’s rights to
Lithuanian people and territory in these terms:
“Russia, without any reservation whatsoever
recognises Lithuania as a self-governing and
independent State with all judicial consequences
that follow from such a recognition and in a
spirit of free and good will forever renounces
all sovereignty rights of Russia concerning
the Lithuanian nation and Lithuanian territory
which previously belonged to her. The fact
that Lithuania for some time was under Rus-
sian sovereignty does not impose on the Lithu-
anian people and their territory and obliga-
tions toward Russia Lithuanian Minister in
Washington P. Zadeikis; N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
London “Times” has urged Congress to
clarify its intentions and allay doubts as
to whether the United States will play a major
role in world affairs. Congress is already on
record. By huge majorities in both Houses it
has supported the ideals which form the basis
of the Dumbarton Oaks plan. Nationwide polls
have shown that public opinion stands behind
Congress, and the November elections amounted
to a national referendum on that issue. Only
one thing makes the American position doubt-
ful, and that is the position of Russia and
Britain. Americans attach enormous import-
ance to the principles of the Atlantic Charter,
Where, they are asking, do Russia and Britain
stand? America’s endorsement of world col-
laboration was predicated on the fact that the
United Nations are pledged to those principles.
If our major allies refuse to honor their pledges
the United States may indeed reconsider which
way it will go.— Washington correspondent
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
The Arab States are getting together. Hereto-
fore the idea of Arab solidarity had no reality,
Now it has; when Ibn Saud signs a protocol
with other Arab nations, when he stages a
symbolic meeting with the King of Egypt, it
means that the Arab front is taking shape,
This coalition will not be very strong for any
policy; it will only be strong against Zionism,
—N.Y. “Times” correspondent lately in the
Middle East.
* * * *
A little island with an old world-wide Empire
to preserve, a continental communist dictator-
ship with a revolutionary idea to defend and
propagate, and a young democracy just emerg-
ing from splendid isolation to try its hand in
an unfamiliar field of world affairs—these are
the nations of the Grand Alliance. It is not
surprising that in London, Moscow and Wash-
ington ideas differ about what sort of world
their joint victory over Nazi Germany will
bring forth. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Today the United ' States is the world’s in-
dustrial giant. It has expanded its production
facilities to a new height during this war. Other
countries have seen their industrial machine
destroyed or watched it rapidly wear out. In
a f ree market, with free trade, in a catch-as-
catch-can contest, the United States would un-
doubtedly win hands down. Knowing that,
other countries are not so sure they want free
or freer competition, that they want an end to
cartels. As a Harvard professor, Prof. Anton
de Hass, said recently: “It is always easy to
believe in the virtue of free competition when
the other fellow is weak.” Britain and other
countries have no desire or intention to expose
their weakened industries to American com-
petition. Rather they intend to safeguard their
industries as well as they can. This, then, is
America’s problem and dilemma: How to start
removing the restraints on trade and commerce
—a noble objective for all, but of immediate
benefit primarily to it. — “Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
Coming here to the Ukraine I quite realised
the price 40,000,000 Ukrainians have paid for
Soviet victory. This whole titanic struggle,
which some are apt to dismiss as “the Russian
glory,” has, in all trikh and in many costly
ways, been first of all a Ukrainian war. And
the greatest of this republic’s sacrifices, one
which can be assessed in no ordinary ledger,
is the toll taken of human life. No fewer than
10,000,000 people, I was told by a high Ukrain-
ian official here, have been “lost” to the
Ukraine since the beginning of the war. That
figure excludes men and women mobilised for
the armed forces. A relatively small part of the
Russian Soviet Republic itself was actually in-
vaded, but the whole Ukraine, whose people
were economically the most advanced and
numerically the second-largest in the Soviet
Union, was devastated from the Carpathian
frontier to the Donets and Don rivers, where
Russia proper begins. No single European
country has suffered deeper wounds to its
cities, its industries, its farmlands and its
humanity,— Edgar Snow; “Saturday Evening
Post.”


Missing Friends.
TO STEWART HARWOOD BOYES formerly of
Hambleton Street Albert Park in the State of Vic-
toria Confectioner but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife THELMA HAZEL
BOYES has instituted proceedings for a divorce on
the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Tenth day of April 1945 the case may
proceed in your absence If you intend to defend
the suit you must also file an answer in the said
office on or before the Twentieth day of April 1945
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
copy petition and copy citation in the suit may be
inspected at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor. —
JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner. _________________
TO JOHN COLLIS BUSSEY formerly of Edward
Street Burwood in the State of Victoria Plasterer
but now of parts unknown. —'TAKE NOTICE that
your wife HELEN MAUD FLETCHER BUSSEY of
6 Normanby Place Richmond in the said State Mar-
ried Woman has instituted proceedings against you
for Divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the said
State on or before the 21st day of April 1945 the
said suit will proceed in your absence and a decree
for dissolution of marriage may be granted and you
may be ordered to pay Costs If you intend to de-
fend this suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 2nd day of May 1945.
CLEARY, ROSS & DOHERTY, of 40 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the said State, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK JOSEPH EDMISTON late of
Leichhardt.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE IRENE
EDMISTON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 985
of 1943 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
16th day of April 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MERVYN FINLAY
Solicitor Newlands House 141 Elizabeth Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
* f
*
IMi
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar” is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
—-**=«>
mi
illar
Cat©
- >
* ' W* ;
.... :
;■ ‘ •
•: •' ‘ v '■ •. • ' • ; • ;
mm
Ik,
mm
mm
' y ' y
‘ Ol
H
r **s
ij'?’’ v ■ ’-ij' .. .
SP-'*'-*
' ■
V.& <
1,1# s v
LfcvV'J ■
Keeping
the lines
.. and essential freight rolling
Pictured in the foreground is a Caterpillar D 2 Tractor with Trackson
Traxcavator clearing a cut on a railway line. It works an 8-hour day on
about 1 gallon of diesel fuel per hour. This method does not tie-up railway
lines. It keeps the trains rolling so that essential freights can go forward
day and night. It demonstrates, once again, the manoeuvreability, economy
and working capacity of “Caterpillar.” Wherever there’s a job to be done,
on the home front or the fighting fronts, “Caterpillar” will do it more
efficiently, more economically and with lower maintenance cost.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JCSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., Si. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326,
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rath bone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie,
'Phone—Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid Sf„ Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lhnisfail 475.
D/£S£L
CATERPILLAR
R|B. U.». m. OMf*
f
Fight, Work, Buy War Savings Certificates
CT. 8-33-44
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjogmeni
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
%
5794 ■
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy needles for “Beehive” ribber knitting
machine. —3600.
To buy Suetonius’s Lives of the Twelve
Ccesars. —3601.
To buy Fair Girls and Grey Horses, by Will
Ogilvie.—3602.
Serviceman wants to buy Poetry No. 5,
edited by Flexmore Hudson. —3603.
To buy Psychology in Outline, by Martin,
Psychology, by Woodward, and The Logical
Basis of Education, by Welton. —3604.
To buy How to Build 20 Boats. —3605.
To buy works of Rupert Brookes. —3606.
Information Sought.
(1) Is a soldier allowed to wear his uniform
after discharge ? (2) What rank has a dis-
discharged officer, and does a discharged
decorated officer receive- any special privileges ?
A man is not entitled to wear full military
uniform on any occasion aftef discharge. He
is permitted to wear tunic, which must not
bear any army buttons or badges) or trousers.
(2) Officers on the retired list may refer to
themselves by the rank they held when in ser-
vice. As a rule, a decoration does not give the
holder special privileges, but V.Cs. are saluted
by all ranks and have free Government trans-
port in Australia.
A description of and some information about
tokens issued in Australia in lieu of coins?
A typical penny token has on one side the
Australian coat of arms with ribbon bearing
“Advance, Australia,” above which is “Peace
and Plenty” and below “1859.” On the re-
verse side is a justice seated on a bale of
merchandise holding balances and cornucopia.
To right a ship and left a cask, while below
is “1859.” These tokens were issued by
trading firms to meet the shortage of minted
copper. Some bear the name and business of
the issuers. Others were designed so that they
could be used by any trader.
Some American writers of detective novels of
a standard similar to that of the “Crime Club” ?
Leslie Ford, Ellery Queen, Mary Roberts
Rinehart, Erie Stanley Gardiner, Earl Derr
Diggers, Phoebe Atwood Taylor, Patrick Quinn,
Rex Stout and Dashiel Hammet.
Brief Answers.
D.B.: The quotation is from “The Things
That Are More Excellent,” by William Watson.
J.C.P.: Meaning of the word is uncertain,
but might have some connection with nara-
coorte, meaning waterhole, or narracoort, mean-
ing spear-shield AJ.B.: It is not a rare
edition; cannot value without inspection
E.G.S.; (1) Oct. 7, 1941. (2) Dec. 7, 1941.
(3) Menzies. (4) There was no such thing. (5)
The defence of New Guinea speaks for itself.
(6) No....L.A.: Tax rate increases with each
£ of income over £157 a year D.C. : Both
are the same in area, but one square mile may
be any shape; one mile square is a square with
sides measuring each one mile... .W.V.H.:
Application for registration must be accom-
panied by 5s. A copy of the work will be re-
tained permanently at the Copyright Office,
Canberra H.M.S.: Jack Moses wrote a set
of verses entitled “Nine Miles from Gunda-
gai,” in which the refrain runs “And the dog
sat on the tucker box Nine miles from Gundagai.”
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless
%™l\™ 0 c r ° mvany ‘ MS ‘ should be addressed t 0
.
T.N.: Spirit pleasing, rhymes atrocious....
RG.; You need to condense and polish....
T.G.W.: “Warping by sharp, untame grief for
her taunted loss.” It may mean something to
you A.C.: If you’re as young as you seem,
forget about wattles waving over lonely graves.
C.McE.: Mud and water R.C.: Nearly,
“Terrible cog” isn’t too happy M.K.:
Come again 8.M.: Don’t say things such as
“These are the glories that my heart doth
know” J.M.D.: Tut E.M.R.: Not a trace
of originality N.S.G.: Might go better in
prose... .R.K.: “I enclose the necessary. No;
I do not.” Second statement correct, whether
you mean poetry or postage N.A.R.: “Then
came the day I had to go, I wished I could
remain.” No chance of remaining here....
D.A.E.: Promising. Read some Australian
poetry C.W.: Can’t believe that Maori
orators would use such cliches as “Remember
your own limitations, O Brother.”... .L.G.:
Even staked up to those 19 exclamation marks
the blossoms are wilting... .D.M.: Feeble joke
in execrable verse P.M.: Stew is lumpy and
pale... .V.MJ.: Send rhymed complaint about
road to City Council. Apparently they de-
serve it.


■ £15,000,000
£10,000,000
- £5 000.000
%
■ y '
tty
11)02 1012 1022 1032
1042
Vast sums paid out in
LIFE ASSURANCE
MORE and more Australians are realising that Life
Assurance is a sheet anchor in time of trouble
and adversity.
The number of citizens of both sexes, and all
ages, who seek the protection that Life Assurance
gives grows year by year.
As a consequence the amount paid out grows
bigger each year, as the diagram above shows.
In addition, for the future benefit of their
policy-holders, the Life Offices have invested over
£100,000,000 in the War Loans. When the War
ends their Funds will be used (as before the War)|
to help policy-holders build homes, municipalities to
put in water and sewerage systems, farmers to
develop their properties and manufacturers to
extend their factories.
Life Assurance is one of the great providers of
capital to be used in raising the Standard of Living.
To put Savings into
LIFE ASSURANCE
is Good Citizenship
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
Almost as important as your
WILL
THERE is a wide realisation amongst people of means that the choice of the Executor
and Trustee who is to administer a Will is just as important as the Will itself. An
unsatisfactory Executor and Trustee may defeat the very purpose that the maker ot
the Will had in mind. ,
If you follow the lead of many of the shrewdest of our successful citizens ana
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, you will ensure that the terms ot your
Will shall be faithfully carried out over the years, and that your beneficiaries sna
enjoy a courteous and sympathetic service. _ „
We should like to send you a copy of a book, “Your Executor and tiustec.
You will find it helpful. Write for it today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
T. H. KELLY ’
H. NOJ
H. V. DOUGLj
DIRECTORS.
TT "m. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.;
ow n t ui-iirrc! . to nwrtrm
E. R. KNOA
Southern and Riverina
Western Dif
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
, „ „ Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
Ie P ;T T. 11535 S !4 ’S S?;SSS
D e , c- ’ ”
1935*. 235,464 o „ „ 240,600 77,499
193?;: 266*825 o ” ” Itl’Si 45,’373
loss.. 281,553 6 „ 209,846 11,707 57,080
1940. ". 111 774. 44” ” 218,700 ~74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4',” 194,400 7,700 9,560
oo'Ho 9 ft” ” JH'fo
1943.. 224,323 41 „ „ 218,700 5,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 s|„ „ 230,850 60,087 83,430
In N.S.W. the gas cos. were first har-
nessed by legislation in 1912, when Car-
michael’s Act sought to regulate quality,
... °
price and divs The experiment bioke
down, having failed, among other things
to provide for increased costs. Instead
of 10 p.c. on old and 7 p.c. on new capi-
tal, the Act of 1918 aimed at standard-
ising the div. at 8 p.c., and made the
question of allowance lor depreciation.
etc., more specified. Then, when hard
times came in 1932, another Act was
passed, lowering the standard div. from
8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and placing the industry
under control of a commission—one mem-
ber representing the Government, one the
cos., and another the employees. The idea
was to allow the cos. to distribute 6 p.c.,
after paying exes, including interest on
loan funds, and setting aside not more
than 3 p.c. (3| p.c. under the old Act) of
capital outlay on buildings and plant for
special purposes and depreciation.
With war came changes in conditions
again. The keynote of public fiscal policy
has been cheap money, combined with
an effort to prevent prices and costs
generally from rising too steeply. Prices
and costs, however, have not proved
altogether amenable to Government hand-
ling. This co.’s net earnings receded
steadily from 4.8 p.c. on capital in 1939
to a shade over 4 p.c. in 1942, despite ex-
panding sales; and the div. was forced
back to 4 p.c. for the three years to mid-
-1943. In accordance with the letter and
spirit of the Act the co. asked for a lift
in the selling price of gas as far back as
1939. The commission agreed, Cabinet
refused, and the Federal prices branch
said it had no jurisdiction without
authority from the State Government.
Meanwhile, shortage of labor and materi-
als hampered extension of production
plant, and the co. was forced to buy gas
from the North Shore undertaking.
The question of cheap money and
cost of living can be approached from
opposite ends. What needs to be avoided
are the pitfalls of undue repression. For
a time the Government’s failure to grant
relief placed both shareholders and the
co. in an unenviable position. Since the
present Act came into force the co. sold
at auction (before the war) 125,000 £6
shares, which brought with them £125,500
of share premiums. On that lot the
average return was 3.3 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis, or less than could be had from
Government securities. Moreover, the
shares fell to £3 17s. 6d. in the market in
1942. While such a position continued
expansion of the undertaking could not
be financed by new share capital, because
new scrip cannot be put out at a discount.
Conditions improved a little following
introduction of the Government’s stabili-
sation scheme, and a temporary increase
of .012 d. per unit in the selling price of
gas was granted to help cover exes, asso-
ciated with interconnection of the two
co.’s (A.G.L. and North Shore) distribu-
tive systems. This task was completed
in July last, when the temporary in-
crease in selling price ceased to operate.
The new coke-screening plant at Mort-
lako was brought into commission last
year, and restrictions on the sale of coke
were suspended in Oct. Sale of other
by-products is still controlled. The labor
problem and an inter-union dispute—it
began in Nov., 1943,and is still unsettled —
have hampered completion of the benzol
plant. Extensions to No. 6 retort, to lift
gas-producing capacity, are expected to be
complete by Sept. next.
Here is an analysis of revenue and ex-
penditure figures:
r —1943 < r- 1 1944 '
Per 1000 Per 1000
Units. Units.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Gas ..2,010,341 35 8J 2,097,107 30 2i
Residuals 320,800 4 5-| 281,927 3 9
Meter rents,
etc. . . 41,621 Of 43,001 5J
Total £2,978,702 40 8J £3,022,635 40 5
Manufac. and
dis. exes.. .1,776,957 24 3i 1,835,521 24 7J
Other
charges .. 588,672 8 04 503,739 6 9
Interest . . 121,480 1 8 120,386 1 9
Depreciation,
etc. .. 267,331 3 7$ 265,452 3 6
Total
outgo £2,754,440 37 74 £2,725,098 36 74
The temporary increase in selling price
and bigger demand (sale increased nearly
2 p.c. in volume) were responsible for the
growth of £86,766 in gas revenue ; and
the tax bill (£189,450) was £56,032
lighter. So, despite a drop of £44,873 in
returns from residuals and an increase of
£58,564 in manufacturing and distributing
exes., the net result (£297,537) benefited
by £73,214, reaching 6.1 p.c. on capital.
The div. was lifted from 4-\ p.c. to 5£ p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
With the improvement in earnings the
price of the scrip has advanced to
£6 17s. 6d. on the market, at which figure
return is 4.6 p.c. on a 5£ p.c. div. basis,
or 5.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. The
co.’s ability to maintain a 6 p.c. div. will
depend partly upon the level of costs and
partly upon the Government’s willing-
ness to honor the spirit of the Act.
In front of the £4,860,000 of share
capital are £2,500,000 of debenture money,
costing on the average £4 6s. 6d. p c.,
£266,872 of temporary loans and £801,775
coming to sundry creditors, etc. Invest-
ments, cash, etc., total £641,555, debtors
£446,868, and stocks £257,570. Freehold
and plant are in at £7,782,976.
Pelaco. Lid. (Melb.)
A B
Prefs. Prefs. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 .2081 9000 4950’ 5011 3,005'
5 p.c.
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8250 5949 9,557
1941.. 16,640 2081 4500 8250 1809 11,366
3 p.c.
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4950 1494 12,860
4 p.q,
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6600 4865 17,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6600 7873 25,598
This co., which is in the highly-com-
petitive men’s-wear manufacturing busi-
ness, specialises in production of shirts,
collars and pyjamas. Trouble first began
with aggressive competition and industrial
legislation relating to piecework follow-
ing World War I, However, with the aid
of a vigorous sales offensive things began
to look up again. But with the 1930’s came
slump, and stocks and book debts had to
be worked down to reduce outside liabili-
ties. At the same time exchange and the
tariff —the co. imports a lot of its raw
materials—-and the hand-to-mouth policy
of retailers aggravated the difficulties.
Then, just as the dead horse of accumu-
lated pref. divs. had been worked off,
war arrived. And with it came controls
and restrictions of all kinds and rising
costs, including taxation, as well a big
.change in the nature and direction of de-
mand. Rationing reduced civilian turn-
over to a small fraction of what it used
to be —an eighth of one’s annual cloth-
ing coupon issue has to be surrendered
for a shirt and customary two collars.
However, so far as the physical volume
of turnover is concerned, the gap was
more than filled by expanding, low-
profit service demands, including those
of Allied forces. A branch factory was
set up at Frankston a couple of years
ago, or thereabouts, in order to cope
with this class of business.
Last year pressure of defence contracts
eased a little toward the close of accounts,
to the benefit of the co.’s civilian trade.
The improvement in gross earnings was
£5944:_
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Gross.. ..£109,493 £66,412 £76,216 £82,160
Exes .. .. 88,713 53,387 58,170 61,106
Net .. £20,780 £13,025 £18,046 £21,054
Exes, took £2936 of the gain, leaving the
net result £3OOB stronger at £21,054, which
is one of the best showings since the boom
of the 1920’5. After paying the prefs. their
full contract rates enough remained to
show 8.7 p.c. on the £165,000 of ord.
capital as against 6.9, 3.7 and 6.1 p.c. for
the three preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 4 p.c., which is also the average
for the last half-dozen years. The £7873
that remained lifted net reserves to
£25,598, which isn’t a very stout prop for
capital, considering the risks to which
the business is exposed.
One danger facing the co. is the possi-
bility of being caught with large stocks
of raw and manufactured materials that
might have to be sold at cut prices. When
other shirts and pyjamas become avail-
able shoppers aren’t likely to buy the
austerity variety, except at a cut figure;
and there is the question whether raw
materials bought to fill war contracts will
prove suitable for post-war civilian re-
quirements. Obviously much will depend
upon the extent to which the bump is
cushioned by the Government in its
method of contract termination and
handling of controls, including imports
and purchase of foreign credits. With
the stimulus of war removed a keenly-
competitive buyer’s market can be ex-
pected to develop.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co.’s
financial structure:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 131,897 73,815 16,274 41,617
Tax provision 14,503 27,472 20,000 27,677
Premises .. 103,571 101,825 100,736 99,647
Plant, etc. .. 46,883 42,023 38,908 37,317
Book debts .. 114,551 36,072 41,750 72,468
Stock.. .. 143,966 177,243 123,478 110,317
Cash, etc. . . 6,556 13,253 7,046 33,062
To carry an extra £30,718 of book debts
and strengthen cash, etc., by £26,016 the
co. leant upon outsiders for an extra
£25,343 last term. Stocks (down £13,161)
are around pre-war level. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£146,553) was £10,553.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70.077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
6 p.c.
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
4 p.c.
1939.. 21,338 10,000 Nil 10,099 51,572
10 p.c.
1940.. 50,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30,966
1941.. 38,751 25,000 Nil 10,540 27,755
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1942.. 31.496 15,000 4500 10,527 26,286
1943.. 33,577 15,000 4500 10,063 22,272
19 4 4.. 48,7 02 1 5,00 0 45 0 0 1 0,003 3,073
Last year’s showing is/ the second-best
since the Imperial meat contracts expired
and the bottom dropped out of the Aus-
tralian beef-export trade after World War
I. For Queensland cattle-raisers (they
provide over 90 p.c. of Australia’s beef
exports) the story has been one of lost
markets, drought, falling prices and rising
costs —the influence of Vestey’s in Britain
and of the Meat Trust in America guar-
anteed the inside running to the Argen-
tine product.
This co.’s big leasehold runs are “down
the Cooper”.in far-west Queensland and
over the border in the Territory, and it
has three coastal freeholds —in the Glad-
stone, Nanango and Kilroy districts—as
well. To wipe out accumulated losses
£525,000 (17s. per ord. share) of capital
was jettisoned in 1932, and six years later
the prefs. agreed to forego £192,500 of
accumulated divs. and to reduce the rate
from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. Since the outbreak
of war seasonal conditions have, on the
whole, been favorable. The British wool
contract (it runs for the duration and one
season after the struggle with Japan


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
FUTURE HOMES.
The plans of “150 Low Cost Homes,” with
sketch designs by George R. Hann, have just
been published by Building Publishing Co.
Pty., Ltd., 20 Loftus Street, Sydney, price one
guinea, postage 1/-.
This firm is also publishing another book
of “36 Distinctive Homes,” by E. R. Orchard.
This will be coming off the production lines in
a few weeks’ time, price one guinea, postage 1/-.
Appointment Books for All Professions.
Covers i-hour periods every day for Over One
Year’s Appointments. Size 14in. x 12in.
Strongly Bound. Ledger Paper.
Price 12/6 post and tax free.
Don’t delay, post today and Save Office Worry.
WILLIAMS & WILLIAMS (Dept. B),
147 Liverpool Road, Burwood, N.S.W.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASEASE
All men S’Wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansosase Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
BRANDALFR3
m
t*'*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEAHDAOB* * CO, LMU BIEMIKGHAM. KNO
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months !
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., ith Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
d
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
u
(i
V£V«
V. V j.
ft*
MB
,'*> 'v ,
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough . . a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Hardwall Plaster is specially ground and processed, not
only to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Packed in Jute Bags.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials
SYDNEY . . , MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . .
Division
PERTH
P 22-44
to*
Shoulder your share in speeding Security
—lnvest in the Third Victory Loan.
X222D-7.44
and/or Germany ends) has eliminated
risks so far as the price of the staple is
concerned —a flat rate of 13.4 d. was paid
until mid-1942, when the figure was lifted
to 15.4 d. to help offset rising costs. Also,
the British meat contract, recently ex-
tended until end Sept., 1948, together with
service requirements for our own and
Allied forces in the s.-w. Pacific, has been
very helpful keeping prices of livestock
up.
Last year favorable conditions pre-
vailed on all the co.’s properties ; there
was a fair increase of calves and lambs,
and good prices were received for fat and
store cattle. Gross proceeds from trading
in livestock, wool, etc. (£186,989) were
£28,740 stronger. Including an unspeci-
fied allowance for taxation and the provi-
sion for depreciation (shown as written
off in the table), exes. (£148,290) took
£13,555 of the increase. That left the
net result £15,185 better at £38,699, or
sufficient to pay the pref, div. and show
31.6 p.c. on the £75,000 of written-down
ord. capital, as against 14, 10.6 and 20.1
p.c. for the three preceding terms. The
div.—the third thing of its kind since
1920—was kept at 6 p.c., and the £19,199
that remained reduced the amount of
capital still unrepresented by tangibles to
£3073.
The financial position improved:
1935. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Capital . . £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £825,000
Liabilities . . 231,130 91,218 87,144 111,055
Freeholds . . 68,774 27,893 27,903 27,903
Leaseholds . . 154,857 132,312 125,245 126,602
Plant, etc. . . 60,569 62,022 60,763 62,041
Livestock . . 198,648 179,599 176,141 157,003
Wool.. .. 10,338 540 7,956 345
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,904 11,097 11,364 78,588
Sale of livestock, clearance of held-over
wool and the addition of £23,911 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(which includes something for taxation)
enabled cash, debtors, etc., to be strength-
ened by £67,224. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£235,936) was
£16,463.
The question of subdividing pastoral
leases has been shelved by the Queens-
land Government until after the war.
What will happen to the price of wool
when the British contract runs out re-
mains to be seen. Much will then depend
upon seasons and costs. The Federal
Treasurer holds out little prospect of any
relief from taxation for the next three
years, and the Government’s fiscal, social
and economic programme will make it
difficult for producers to restrain other
cost items. The big danger ahead of
primary, and other, producers is that of
the cost structure becoming top-heavy.
The Government’s solution of the prob-
lem is subsidy, which amounts to pulling
oneself up by one’s bootlaces. Widely
applied, the principle spells reduction in
the standard of living.
Placer Development
According to cable advice, this big
holding and finance co. registered in Van-
couver (8.C.), netted $334,107 (down
$12,705) for the year to April 30, 1944.
The div. (50 p.c. for 1943) has not yet
been declared.
Pato Consolidated (Colombia, S.
America) turned over 11,386,000 c.y.
(down 2,834,000 c.y.) worth $4,035,226,
for a profit of $1,979,930 (up $148,297),
before allowing for depreciation and de-
pletion. Gravel reserves, of which about
69 p.c. are fully developed, are estimated
at 548,000,000 c.y., averaging 15.18 cents
(U.S.). The co. paid 15 p.c. in 1943.
Asnazu, operating two dredges on the
Cauca River (Colombia, S. America),
turned over 5,569,400 c.y. (up 1,182,400
c.y.), worth $1,292,713, of which $524,984
(up $305,460) was profit. That was be-
fore allowing for depreciation and deple-
tion. Gravel reserves are: No. 1 dredge
18,202,000 c.y., averaging 31.42 cents
(U.S.); No. 2 dredge 49,725,000 c.y.,
averaging 11.62 cents (U.S.).
To help finance equipment of Nechi
Consolidated’s area, in which Oroville is
also interested, Placer has sold 50,000
shares out of its holding (now 250,000'
shares) in Bulolo Gold Dredging (New
Guinea). The Nechi area adjoins Pato’s
on the Nechi River.
A preliminary survey of the position at
Bulolo, where the military is still in occu-
pation of the area, has disclosed that the
co.’s hydro-electric plants, buildings,
workshops and aeroplanes have been
destroyed, but that dredges are in good
structural condition, though needing
some replacements. Production cannot
be resumed until authority has been ob-
tained from the Government, and sea
transport and native labor become avail-
able. The co. has lodged a preliminary
claim for £538,000-odd with the Austra-
lian War Damage Commission.
Placer’s other interests are practically
at a standstill, owing to war conditions.
Mica deposits in Centralia are receiv-
ing attention again. The Plenty River
Syndicate has produced about 30 tons
of the stuff during the last six months,
says managing director H. V. Leonard.
He doesn’t say whether the whole of this
output was of marketable quality or how
much of various grades was obtained.
High-grade mica is in strong demand for
defence purposes, and fetches from
34s 6d. to 1355. per pound in cut plates
of from 60 to 100 sq. inches. The price
drops to Is. 9d. per pound for cut plates
of \\ sq. inches. The main obstacles
to economic mining of mica result from
the irregularity and variable attitude of
the pragmatic dykes, and from the
erratic occurrence and lenticular habit of
the pockets and seams of mica within
them. It is difficult to obtain reliable
information concerning the commercial
grade of output of successful mica
mines. Such information as is available
suggests that, as a general rule, about
10 p.c. of total material mined is crude
mica, and about 10 p.c. of the crude
mica is marketable sheet mica. The small,
or washer, grade usually accounts for the
bulk (as much as 80 p.c. or more) of
output.
* * * *
From London: One demned thing
after another has delayed the hearing of
the much-talked-of case against Claude
de Bernales and associates in regard to
the flotation of what is known as De
Bernales Westralian goldmining group.
First an air-raid blast wrecked portion
of Alton Lodge, De Bernales’s London
home, destroying bundles of important
documents stored there. Then another,
and still another, blast damaged West-
ralia House, De Bernales city office, and
more papers. Recently Norden, plain-
tiff’s relentless solicitor, dropped dead.
Two of plaintiff’s “best” witnesses died
some time ago, and so did the two prin-
cipal experts on whose reports, backed
by Mines Department statistics of past
gold production, the De Bernales group
was floated.


Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
fd
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features ol high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
ONLY AGENTS their cos ** The "National" Rotary Dupli*
£i7/ 4 A / WANTED color will reproduce Typing. Writing.
«. I/ / lU/- ALL STATES Plans. Music, etc.
But It entirely in Australia (iy SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE -
Easter Accommodation.
WOULD ANY GRAZIER OR FARMER with
modern home and conveniences consider accom-
modating for five days at Easter business gentle-
man, wife, Air Force officer, wife and child,
in all four adults and one well-behaved child?
These people are earnestly in need of a quiet
rest’. The ladies would be pleased to, if neces-
sary, help with meals, rooms, etc., and supply
own linen and would not inconvenience the
householders. They would desire a farm with
own milk, eggs, etc., and in return would pay
a considerably good price, in fact, literally any-
thing for the rest. Good social and business
references. Within 100 miles of Melbourne.
Reply to “Easter Rest,” C/o Bulletin, Box
55a G.P.0., Melbourne.
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed lor the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market
Street Melbourne.
' STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Illustrated literature from
fd
Advertising
NEW methods, new media, new
techniques will be needed in
advertising after the war —because
the war has upset so much of our old
ideas —and there will be a tremendous
surge ,of Advertising effort required
for manufacturers to put their peace-
time products back on the market.
This means that NOW is the time
to prepare for a career in Advertising.
This involves study and preparation by
up-to-date tuition methods and latest
textual material. This training is
supplied in the H. & R. Course in
Marketing and Advertising.
The man—or woman —who studies
now, and qualifies for the degree of the
Advertising Association of t Australia
will undoubtedly secure preference for the
many post - war positions in Advertising.
Why not call or write in to
H. & R. for full particulars
and be sure of your future.
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
.(Pounded and Owned By Hemingway & Roßertion fiy ttdJ
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House. Bank Place. Melbourne
24 Chain Chbs., 142 Phillip St.. Sydney
Please send me PKEE copy of your
96 pp. “Guide to Careers in Business.
Name
Address
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN TRAGEDY.
Government Dictation
The simple facts of the proposed Com-
monwealth banking legislation are that
trading banks, in peace-time, will no
longer be permitted to carry on their
businesses freely and as they think fit,
lending as and to whom they think fit,
but will at all times be overshadowed
by the general control of the Common-
wealth Bank. Section 27 (i) of the “Bank-
ing Bill 4945” says:
Where the Commonwealth Bank is satis-
fied that it is necessary or expedient to do
so in the public interest, the Commonwealth
Bank may determine the policy in relation
to advances to be followed by banks and
each bank shall follow the policy so de-
termined.
Critics will take note of the word “expe-
dient.” The central bank, which again
is the Commonwealth Bank, may take
the money deposited by people with trad-
ing banks and use it for whatever pur-
poses it chooses, although the liability
for principal and interest to the depositor
remains with the trading banks.
If it so wills, the Commonwealth
Bank, under the legislation before
Parliament, has sufficient power to put a
trading bank out of business. In any case,
trading banks are to have initiative and
competitive spirit taken away from them,
and will be able only to deal with the
people on general lines dictated by the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank.
The Commonwealth Bank, in the past,
has had a board of eight directors, who
have laid down the policy of the central
bank. Except for what have been obvi-
ously political appointments, these men
have been selected for their general finan-
cial and industrial knowledge. They have
conducted the affairs of the bank with
due regard to the nation’s interests, taking
a long view and a democratic view. Under
the Government’s “Commonwealth Bank
Bill 1945” this board is to be removed,
and a governor, directly responsible to the
Treasurer, is to be placed in’charge.
Under the old constitution of the
central bank the board could not
be removed except by an Act of
both Houses of the Federal Parliament.
It is being so removed now, and will not
be replaced by the present Government.
R. G. Menzies has given an assurancb
that if his party is put into office he will
restore, the bank board. In the meantime,
however, the country is faced with grave
danger by reason of the imminent poli-
tical interference with the conduct of the
national finances. Whatever Government
succeeds the present one will have a nasty
mess to clear up and great confusion to
straighten out. We have had much infla-
tion and wide industrial miseducation
already. Life policies and savings have
lost greatly in value, and threaten to lose
more, while a militant attitude has been
taken by several unions in spite of record
rates of pay.
Caucus Control
The bill which aims to abolish the
central-bank board, thus placing the Com-
monwealth Bank almost under direct con-
trol of the Government, and which pro-
vides for control over the trading banks
in peace-time as in war, is undoubtedly
an attempt to .open a wide highway be-
tween Labor Caucus and the banking and
credit policy of the nation. It is useless
to argue about the finer points or poli-
tical incidentals of the manner in which
this legislation was eventually brought
before Parliament —whether the Treas-
urer, Mr. Chifley, and the Prime Minister
were all for it, or whether the scheme
was forced through Caucus by a radical
majority. The thing that matters to the
country is that, with the passage by Par-
liament of the two measures, all effective
barriers will be down between a set of
radical politicians and trade-union bosses
and the delicate, vital controls which
govern the financial conduct of the
country.
The Labor party for years has pressed
for what it now appears certain to get-
nationalisation of banking methods
throughout the Commonwealth. All those
envious, disgruntled and theoretical inter-
feres who figure so largely in official and
semi-official Labor quarters are now in
a position to exert pressure towards the
achievement of their objectives—objec-
tives that have merit only in their imagi-
nation or in their class-consciousness. If
the ideas of many of the currency theor-
ists within the ranks of Labor are imple-
mented, then Australia is in for a long
period of gross economic disorder.
Bank Credit and Budget Expediency
Even if the more fanciful theories of
currency cranks are avoided, Labor Gov-
ernments almost continually find them-
selves in trouble over financing their Bud-
gets. That State Labor Governments have
had little of this difficulty lately arises
from the fact that their revenues have
been rising under war-time stimulation of
railway income, while the possibilities
of expenditure have been restricted. The
major responsibilities of government dur-
ing this war have been in the hands of
the Commonwealth, and its financial
headaches have been increased in an even
greater proportion than that by which
those of State Governments have been
reduced.
Confronted with problems of financing
Budget deficits, a weak Government,
where the possibility of using bank credit
is open to it, is liable to make excessive
use of this type of financial expedient.
The present Government has made exces-
sive use of bank credit during this war,
even though checked from violent excess
by the central-bank board. Mr. Curtin
18 months ago came into conflict with
the chairman of the bank board when
the Prime Minister advocated the use of
bank credit after the war to expand indus-
try and attract population. The bank
board chairman rightly stressed the dan-
gers of such a policy, especially in view
of the severe inflation already evident as
a result of bank credit finance and in-
creasing wages paid to many unionists.
Mr. Curtin at this time seemed fully
as credit-happy as Mr. Lazzarini or Sena-
tor Cameron.
Expert Use, Not Clumsy Abuse
A common Labor fallacy is that money
is an all - powerful employment - giving
agent in itself —this in spite of the abuse
levelled at “money-changers,” etc., and
the assertion that money should be made
the servant, not the master, of the people.
The truth is that money and the manage-
ment of money are major factors in our
economic life, but schemes of govern-
ment, production and employment must
be carefully and expertly administered if
money is to play its part in doing a job
faithfully and well.
A mere wishful impulse or a desire to
evade economic obligations is not enough
to base a monetary policy upon. Mone-
tary policy, if misguided, can frustrate a
country’s industrial and employment-
giving objectives. It can do great social
damage. Where money is abused its re-
actions lead to the claim that it is
“master” of the people. That is when
the squealing starts. It is no proof of
banking knowledge that those who pro-
fess to have it were on the dole.
The Grave Inflation Danger
If the policy of Labor currency theor-
ists is deliberately pursued, or if the typi-
cal Labor avoidance of financial realities
is to be our lot during times of economic
difficulty, then, with the Commonwealth
Bank board swept away, and Caucus the
dictator of our credit policy, Australia
must prepare for credit inflation, cost in-
flation, price inflation, industrial break-
down, unemployment and depreciation of
currency, bank balances, life policies,
loan holdings and fixed incomes. We must
also prepare for a disruption of our
external trade.
The danger ahead is indeed so great
that a full and emphatic warning should be
given to Australians without delay. It is not
a matter of expressing a theory or a pass-
ing fear ; the utter incapacity of this Gov-
ernment to deal with any problem where
politics as well as government are in-
volved has left too definite a pattern be-
hind to allow any doubts about how
future problems will be tackled. The
Australian Labor party, protected by the
institutions of its country for so long,
does not realise that in attacking those
institutions to the point of destruction it
is destroying the whole foundation of our
economic and social stability. It has
taken the smooth working of any indus-
trial or financial function for granted,
and believes that it can meddle in the
expert work of others only with advan-
tage to itself. In its envies, its greeds, its
fantastic ambitions and its irresponsibil-
ity, it has reached a stage where, if
allowed to continue along its road of
wishful thinking and shirking of obliga-
tions, it will bring this democracy to the
brink of ruin.
In times of stress, strain and confusion
within a country communism and other
alien doctrines may become a menace to
the national life, as clearly shown in
Continental countries.
Government by Spoliation
Government by spoliation cannot con-
tinue as a national policy. “Soaking the
rich,” beating the boss or other class vic-
timisation is mo basis of government. In
other days it might have been possible to
tolerate a political policy of “spoils to the
victors” in petty matters, but the Com-
monwealth Government of the present
time is entrusted with powers by which
it may order our economic life or our
economic death. It has taxed for war
purposes almost to the point of obli-
terating initiative, and its war-time
controls, if carried to the ultimate
stage indicated by the tyranny of
weakness characteristic of the Govern-
ment, would leave the previously indepen-
dent individual only with a body to be
kicked and a soul to be damned.
In no other country, except enemy
countries, has there been such abuse of
sovereign powers. But no enemy country
—during this war—has followed a road
of financial fallacy and weakness such
as is indicated by past behavior and cur-
rent planning of the Federal Labor
Caucus. Germany after the last war saw
its currency wiped out through inflation,
and in the resultant misery of the popu-
lation Nazism triumphed,
The Cost of p o i; tical Birdlime
Currently with the presentation of the
banking bills we have seen old-age pen-
sions raised to a point p.c. above the
pre -war figure, and child-endowment
ra tes raised 50 p.c. “Free medicine” is
to operate from the same date as the
325. 6d.-a-week old-age pension—July 1.
other “national-welfare” proposals are
to start from the same date. All these
Government services are to be made
available without direct contribution
from the people. But the indirect cost is
enormous, and it is plainly visible in
taxation rates.
Though a great part of our present
taxation is being levied for war pur-
poses, much of it is being used purely
f or the sake 6f keeping men in jobs or in
the services, irrespective of the national
Caucus planning shows
that ; even when * e war is oyer, the Labor
P arty u; t 0 . tr / to ee .? taxatlon
rates hj £ h > especially on the upper
I 0001116 8? 80 as to have the privilege ol
income redistribution, thus exercising
a semi-socialistic sway over he people-
weakening their individual economic
independence on one hand and making
them recipients of Government bounty’
way of Government jobs pen-
slor\s.’ .child endowment, free bottle of
® a ® dlcme » social security, subsidised
bvmg costs, etc., on the other.
Is i nit i a tive Worth Nothing?
In {he matter of growing Govern .
ment dictatorship and “controls” a
stion to b e considered most sen-
ously is whether the initiative of many
thousands: of Australians in what are
described as “executive” positions
| n ban Ls, factories and other businesses
throughout Australia can be sacrificed
witho fa ut loss of efficiency by our eco-
nomic machine . Can a few politicians in
Canberra and a mu i ti tude of civil ser-
V ants who succeed principally in negativ-
j ng eacb other’s efforts achieve anything
jjj ce tbe success that individual initiative,
con t ro lled by a democratic Government,
hag gained in the pas^?
Another question is whether the
ma intenance of high taxation rates
after the war cannot fail t 0 s i ow
down the out ut man among
wage . earnerSj the same as it has
done on tbe wba rves and in the coal-
m|nes dur i n g the war. Where a Govern-
ment takes the responsibility of “cradle-
to-the-grave” care of the population it
ba§ coun t on a ff classes doing their
share to fill the Government’s horn of
p| entv
p lt ' bas been ma de quite evident
during this war that a numbef of Aus .
tralians will poll on their fellows at
every opportunity, and that many, when
they have found that the working of extra
hours (demanded by the war effort)
meant a higher scale of taxation, have
refused to work much more than a 30-


Le?al Notice.
IN THE MAGISTRATES COURT OF
QUEENSLAND — Held at Muttauuhra.
No. 1 of 1943.
BETWEEN MISS H. M. FAHEY Plaintiff and S. C.
WALDEN Defendant.
TO S. C. WALDEN C/o Graziers’ Co-operative Shear-
ing Co., Ltd., 46 Young Street, Sydney, New
South W T ales.
TAKE NOTICE that the above action has been com-
menced against you the said S. C. WALDEN in the
Magistrates Court of Queensland at Muttaburra by
the abovenamed MISS H. M. FAHEY in which she
claims the sum of One hundred and sixty-five pounds
( £165) balance of moneys loaned by her to you at
your request and for moneys found to be due by you
to her on accounts stated between you and it has been
ordered that service of the Plaint Summons and
Particulars in this action on you be effected by send-
ing to you by registered post addressed C/o Graziers’
Co-operative Shearing Co. Ltd. 46 Young Street
Sydney N.S.W. a copy of the said Plaint Summons
and Particulars and by publication of this Notice
twice in the Sydney Bulletin (being a newspaper
published at Sydney aforesaid) once within a period
of Thirty days from the date hereof and once
within a period of Thirty days from the said first
publication If you desire to defend this action you
must on or before the Thirty-first day of March, 1945
file a defence at the Registrar of the Magistrates
Court Queensland at Muttaburra and in default
of such defence judgment may be entered against
you.
DATED this Twentieth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-five.
DANIEL DOYLE,
Registrar.
REGR. MAGIST. CT., Muttaburra.'
REES R. & SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff, 178 Quay Street, Rockhampton.
Public Notice-
I, THEODOR MARCUS, of Palestinian nationality,
bom at Bucuresti, Rumania, and resident six years
in Australia, now residing at 350 Pacific Highway,
Lindfield, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
EYE LOTION
Tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney,
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
SMALL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Bank of Australasia Building,
154 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
(Phone ; Central 632)
and at
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
(Phone: BW4411)
Also available at all Branches throughout
Australia.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold, the intea-
-- tine in its cavity.
BETS Write To-day for
LIKE THE Hnno FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO. s
(Dept.2lS), 248 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
f
u
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged —
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition rowaers. uoiistaut scbib.h-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Log Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
When I the
future, Mummy?
. . . "It says in the paper there’ll be won-
derful things then, new houses and cars
and schools and clothes and fun and
everything—and will Daddy be home in
the future?”
Yes, there’ll be wonderful things in the
future. Buv first there’s a job to do. This
is the war’s crucial year. Our forces must
have the backing they need to win and win
quickly.
That is why it is vital for each of us to
buy—for cash or by instalments—every
Victory Bond our self-denial and saving
makes possible.
FACTS ABOUT THE
THIRD VICTORY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used only for War.
Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO
may be purchased for cash or by instalments
through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
2. Interest is paid each six months, at 2i% for
five years, or 3i% for sixteen years. Repay-
ment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. Your Bonds are readily
saleable to meet an emergency.
3. You lend, not give, your money to speed
Victory. On your application form, credit
your subscription to your district to help its
quota.
NO ONE ELSE CAN DO YOUR SHARE
yOUR MONEY IS NEEDED IN
THE THIRD
LCTORY LOAN
3V6.83
or 40-hour week. The present Labor
Government takes its orders from union-
ists, good and bad. Where a Government
undertakes to provide social services for
the people without direct contribution
from them, and regardless of whether
they are zealous and industrious citizens
or otherwise, it runs the risk of having an
ever-increasing body of pollers on its
hands. Eventually willingness and initia-
tive are crushed by these circumstances,
and only drastic measures will induce the
working of adequate hours. That is the
ultimate result of the wiping-out of
private initiative.
Productivity Per Head
The eventual prosperity of a country
depends on its productivity per head.
Excessive taxation levied to pay for
“social services” may achieve little more
than a fall in the productivity per head
and a decline in living standards. Where
inflation accompanies such a decline the
economic confusion and disorder may
result in inflammatory social conditions
of the gravest kind. In tinkering with
the Australian economic structure in a
frivolous and wilful way the Labor party
is playing with fire in most combustible
circumstances.
Although there has been plenty of
money about during this war, mostly as
a result of credit expansion, there has
been a big loss of the buying-power of
savings and a decline in living standards
greater than the cost of war alone war-
rants.
Socialism Through Banking and Taxation
According to reports, Caucus has been
told that there is no hope of taxation re-
missions during the next three years un-
less Labor adherents are prepared to see
a cutting-down of appropriations for
social services. The same sources indi-
cate an expenditure out of revenue of
£297 million in 1947-48, compared with
£72 million in 1938-39. Actual collec-
tions of taxation on Commonwealth ac-
count last year were £269 million. Most
people, with homes to establish and
families to educate, are looking for-
ward to a reduction in taxation
with the end of the war as well
as a return to the democratic way
of life as speedily as possible. The Gov-
ernment attitude towards banking and
public spending threatens to prevent
either. Even if legislative controls are
relaxed, economic controls from Can-
berra show clear indication of being in-
creased. Private enterprise is to be bled
by taxation and browbeaten by controls.
' After the war Australia is bound to be
confronted with problems of employ-
ment, production, foreign trade. Govern-
ment finance, taxation and borrowing.
There will also be the matter of our
credit at home and abroad. These
problems will test the administra-
tive capacity, fairmindedness and fore-
sight of all who come into contact with
them. There will be much confusion and
noisy criticism, and the effects of war-
time inflation will be unsettling on all
sides.
A wholehearted effort will be re-
quired by the people if this nation is to
enter the post-war world on anything like
an even keel. With this prospect in view,
it is nothing more or less than frivolous,
wanton politics for the present Federal
Government to cut the painter from es-
tablished and evolutionary banking prac-
tice and embark the people upon a sea
where ignorance, envy and political ex-
pediency threaten the livelihood of every
person. The ship of state to begin with
is being overloaded with deadheads on
the public payroll and excessive “social-
security” and similar charges on the
national purse.
“Taihoa” and B.N.Z. Shares
Private shareholders in the Bank of
New Zealand are being kept in suspense
concerning the Fraser Government’s in-
tentions. Evidently the Government has
no desire to expedite the recommenda-
tion passed at the last Labor party con-
ference urging complete nationalisation
of the institution ; in fact, the lack of
action, coupled with oyster-like silence on
the subject by Government members,
strongly suggests a policy of stalling. Or,
to use the Maori phrase, “taihoa.”
In the meanwhile, the bank’s ordinary
shares, once noted for their stability in
the face of any sort of crisis, have been
fluctuating almost from week to week
between 445. 9d. and 48s. (highest price
since 1935) since September last, when
changes in the ownership were first
mooted. There is now an obvious specu-
lative element in dealing in these shares,
and the mood of the market appears to
be conditioned by considerations whether,
in the event of purchase, the Government
will pay out private holders on the basis
of assets value of the shares or of market
value.
An oblique statement by Finance Min-
ister Nash some time ago suggesting the
latter procedure has done nothing to
settle investors’ minds. Opponents of the
Government assert that many accounts
have been withdrawn from the bank in
anticipation of its becoming a State insti-
tution, but evidence of this has not been
forthcoming from any source, and queues
at the city branches in busy hours show
no signs of diminution. Depositors’ main
fear is that if the bank is wholly State-
owned there may be too close a liaison
between its officials and the Income Tax
Department. But if the operations of the
Post Office Savings Bank are any cri-
terion there can be little cause for com-
plaint on this score.
During February there was a revival of
interest in bank scrip generally on the.
Maoriland Exchanges, the market appar-
ently having taken heart from the firmer
trend in London. There is some sub-
stance, too, for the contention that New
Zealand investors expected more directly
confiscatory measures from the Com-
monwealth Government, and the pro-
posals so far announced are regarded in
sharemarket circles as fairly moderate in
that the shareholders’ assets, if not earn-
ing power, are protected. Investors have
other views, however, about the prob-
able national economic effects of a Gov-
ernment-controlled Commonwealth bank-
ing structure.
The proposal to call in Commonwealth
notes of large size so as to catch tax-
evaders, etc., was announced in circum-
stances which gave the hoarders so much
grace that the proposal appeared to have
been an official bluff. If the Govern-
ment really wants to catch all tax-dodgers
who have been keeping their profits in
currency it shouldn’t give any of them
time to turn their big notes into small
ones. Perhaps the idea was to scare big
notes into the war loan. If it works the
stunt will not have been entirely in vain,
even if a very rough sort of attempt at
justice.
* * * *
If the Government’s National Welfare
Fund is to be worth anything to the
people in their old age, and if life poli-
cies are to be worth at maturity what has
been paid for them by the people, then
the Commonwealth Government will have
to take the inflation menace seriously.
It won’t be able to keep inflation in check
permanently by legislative or other “con-
trols.” The prime financial causes of
inflation have to be attended to. The
Government’s own economic methods and
industrial attitude are among the primary
causes of inflation in this country.
3! * * *
The cost of war in Australia during
the eight months to February 28 was £3Ol
million; £lB7 million was borrowed
money, £ll4 million revenue. The pro-
gressive cost of the war to the Common-
wealth, from September 3, 1939, until
February 28, 1945, was £1951 million, of
which £1306 million was financed out of
borrowing and £645 million out of
revenue. The Treasury-bill debt of the
Commonwealth Government was £390
million on February 28. The total
national debt on December 31 was £2510
million. A good deal of the war debt
is owed to savings banks really un-
acknowledged bank-credit debt.


THE SERVICE MAN
Pacific Casualties.
“Ek Bum”; The battle for Iwo ended
at 6 p.m. on March 16, a few hours after
the United States flag had been hoisted
over the island and the annexation of
the whole of the Volcano Group pro-
claimed.
The casualty lists showed the dreadful
nature of the fighting. For this isolated
volcanic cluster in a lortely ocean, no
bigger than the Mosman-Cremorne
Peninsula in Sydney Harbor, the price
was 4189 killed, 441 missing and
15,308 wounded. It was probably
the highest proportional toll paid by so
larjge an Allied maritime force since the
British-Canadian attack on Dieppe on
August 20, 1942.
It left at least four Marine Divisions
incapacitated for further fighting for
some time, and the Japanese did not give
in till they had lost 21,000 dead, and
there were scarcely any defenders left.
The realities are more evident, since,
if all information can be believed, the
attackers were supported by the heaviest
naval bombardment in history, and by
the strongest carrier support ever used
to back a landing operation.
The reputation of the U.S. Marines as
one of the world’s finest and most tena-
cious fighting forces has once again been
sealed in blood, and another warning
has been given against the belief that the
enemy is beaten.
The experience of Iwo has been that
at almost every Japanese stronghold
which the Allies have attacked in the
Pacific —Burma, Buna-Gona, Finsch-
hafen and the Finisterres, Guadalcanal,
Mvqnda, Tarawa, Saipan, Guam and
Peleliu. On every one of these the enemy
has fought to the last and inflicted very
heavy losses on Australian and U.S.
forces.
General MacArthur’s forces appear to
have better luck. As an offset to the
Iwo figures, MacArthur H.Q. issued
the estimate that the Japanese have
lost 282,000 men in the Philippines since
the fighting began five months ago.
These include 145,000 on Luzon since
January 9, against 3813 Americans killed,
196 missing and 14,570 wounded. A
maximum of five U.S. divisions has been-
engaged at any one time on Luzon.
Last week’s reports of fighting in the
Philippines were vague. On March 18 the
occupation of Basilan, a small island off
the Mindanao on the north of the Sulu
Group, was reported, and the H.Q. com-
munique mentioned that U.S. troops were
grinding down resistance on Luzon. Also
Zamboanga being now in U.S. hands,
Americans were pushing steadily west to'
east across Mindanao.
Raids on Japan.
“Ek Dum”: Superfortress raids on the
main industrial areas of Japan have be-
come routine.
On November 24 the first 829 force set
out from Saipan, 1550 miles from Tokyo,
to make the first attack on that capital.
But raiding from Saipan is a ticklish
business. The terrain has provided aerial
runways just long enough to take the
giants under full load, which must include
at least 13,000-15,000 gallons of petrol
apart from sundries.
The bomb-load was generally estimated
in Australia to be anything from 2\ to
three tons at that distance, and it is diffi-
cult in the face of the machine’s known
specifications to understand how it could
be much more.
Reports of last week’s raids provide
some logistic puzzles. In each raid which
has taken place about 300 machines or
a few less are declared to have been used,
and the bombs dropped—nearly all in-
cendiaries—-have worked out as follows,
according to correspondents’ reports: — <
March 10: 2300 tons on Tokyo.
March 12 : 2000 tons on Nagoya.
March 14 : 2300 tons on Osaka.
March 16: 2500 tons on Kobe.
The same machines and crews could
not have been used in all the raids and
!he presumption is that if 300 829 s were
employed in each attack there must be at
least 1000 machines on the*island, with
crews of 13,000, apart from reserves and
ground crews. It has been announced that
Liberators are now supplementing 829
squadrons operating from the Mariannas.
A thousand B29’s, with propellets
touching tails and wing-tips touching
wing-tips, would cover about 300 acres,
and would form a line more than 26
miles long in single file.
It seems incredible as reported that
B29’s are carrying seven to eight tons
of incendiary bombs from the Mariannas
to Japan, unless a new and much larger
type is in service. It is out of the question
that Iwo Jima is yet being used as a
jumping-off place.
Indeed, Admiral Nimitz has made it
clear that it is not, but returning
S.Fs. from these raids got themselves
down there in emergency landings which
enabled them to refuel and get home to
Saipan or Guam.
Oceans of Fire
Press reports of the attacks, while they
would be heartening enough divided by
six, smack of the rainbow.
In the first four raids it was represented
that opposition came only from flak fire.
At Nagoya it was said that the plan was
to set fire to most of a city of 1,300,000
people, that the machines came down to
within 5000 feet in a target area, which
included the central commercial district
and the most important industrial
suburbs, including the Mitsubishi and
other important aircraft works. It was
said that five square miles in the centre
of the city were turned into a sea of
flame. No machine casualties were given.
Tokyo alleged that the raid lasted from
midnight to 2.30 a.m., that fires were
started which were extinguished by 10
a.m. next day and that 22 S.Fs. were shot
down and 60 damaged.
In the next raid five square miles of
Osaka were supposed to have been burnt
out —“four square miles in the heart of
the city were ablaze 45 minutes after the
first bombs were dropped.” The “whole
town” was described as “a pit of fire,”
and it was. stated that only one Fortress
was lost while three had landed on Iwo
Jima. Later General Lemay said that
Osaka arsenal had “probably been de-
stroyed”—it covers about 150 acres, and
there were stories of S.Fs. being blown
about like leaves for thousands of feet
by the explosions down below.
The Kobe raid was the first of the
series in which fighter opposition was
encountered. This, as usual, was re-
ported to be “ineffective.” The writer
has yet to meet any flier with personal
experience of first-class Japs who de-
clared them “ineffective” in the air, but
they may be against heavy craft of the
S.F. type. Tokyo Radio said that a
secondary raid with about 60 machines
was made.
There is no question but that heavy
damage was done to Japanese cities.
Tokyo Radio admitted “a heavy death-
roll of innocent people”,and “thousands
of burnt and wounded,” but the claims
that 36 square, miles of four cities have
been completely burnt out —12 square
miles in a single raid on Kobe alone —
call for a careful check on facts.
If that sort of thing can be achieved
against what should be the strongest
centres of industrial Japan, full of dock-
yards, arsenals and aircraft works cover-
ing hundreds of acres and the great war
administrative centres, by forces of 300
machines operating from as far away as
1500-1800 miles, there need be no further
dispute as to what part the British Navy
is to play in the Pacific, since the British
Navy and all sea and land forces may
safely go home and leave it to the forces
of Saipan, Tinian and Guam to “reduce
to ashes” everything on the main island
of Japan which makes war possible within
the next couple of months.
Army and Navy quarters do not seem
to have fathered most of the stories.
Carrier Raids
On March 18 news came both from
Japan and the U.S.A. that a raid by a
carrier task force • against Kyushu had
been in progress for more than seven
hours. It was chiefly aimed at airfields
and seemed to cause the enemy more
worry than the Fortress raids, judging by
his shrieks of agony and protest.
Tokyo asserted on March 18 that a
U.S. cruiser and a converted carrier-
battleship had been sunk and a carrier
set on fire.
In New Guinea.
General Blarney, visiting the Philip-
pines last week “emphasised that the
operations of the Australian Army in
New Guinea and the Solomons are by
no means.mopping-up” ; the troops “are
called upon to fight major engagements
against an enemy well dug-in and sup-
plied.”
There have been no major engagements
during the present fighting season, which
began last November, but the small fight-
ing involved in progress on Bougainville
and the cleaning up of the pockets in
the Torricellis has been as stiff and diffi-
cult as any encountered anywhere in the
Pacific. On New Britain, the enemy line
covers the Wide Bay-Open Bay isthmus,
and enemy mortars were reported active
in some sectors of it during the week.
On Bougainville, the new landing on
the west coast near Soraken was well
established on March 12-13, and, though
attacked fiercely, the landing parties
were pushing inland.
In the Aitape sector, Kauk Mission
was occupied and the A.I.F. in some
coastal areas advanced up to 2\ miles
against resistance. _____
Maymyo Falls.
“Ek Dum”; As on the Western Front,
the week was brilliant for British arms in
Burma. Mandalay was virtually under
control. It is a flat, almost entirely
native city, dominated by the single
Pagoda Hill which stands up on the plain,
a tremendous and glittering landmark,
with the shining Dat Tow pagoda on its
pinnacle and the City of the Pagodas
nestling round the square at its base.
At the week-end Mandalay was sur-
rounded and on the verge of capture.
The enemy was being- winkled piecemeal
out of houses and pagodas. His only re-
maining stronghold was Fort Dufferin,
which might have been destroyed by
borpbing, but which was saved because
of its magnificent palace and the relics
of Thebaw and his queen, Supiyawlat.
Short of bombing and heavy artillery
fire, Dufferin is a citadel proof against
anything. It covers something under two
square miles at a guess, all enclosed with
machicolated battlements set inside a
moat 50 yards or so wide, over which
there are mobile bridges. The gates are
of heavy armor steel, and inside them
there are further defences.
The attackers were in the middle of
operations which would have been fami-
liar to Cornwallis and Lord Harris, but
were conducted with greater rapidity and
with less formal procedures than in the
old days, when’ “breaking ground” as
preliminary to breaching a wall was a
slow and ceremonious process. Holes
were being knocked in Dufferin’s defen-
ces and it was only a matter of time
.before there would be a lot of Indians
inside, and before, in outer Mandalay, the
local “bike wallahs,” who drive a tyred
version of the Irish jaunting car, could
resume business.
More remarkable than the assault on
Mandalay and its swift subjection was
the capture of Maymyo by the Gurkhas.
This summer capital of Burma, familiar
to many Australians who have trained
there for special battalions, and to still
more with mining interests thereabouts,
looks unassailable from the plain.
To approach it, the traveller climbs out
of perfectly flat land round Mandalay up
what seems to be a sheer wall on a rail-
way, from which one gains the sensation
of climbing the Barron Falls with the
water turned off, Down below, presently,
the Hill of Mandalay looks like the point
of a leadpencil sticking up through green
blotting-paper. The train goes up and
down a zigzag in several flights, with an
engine on either end ; it dives through
several tunnels and eventually arrives on
top of a riot of jungles, rushing rivers and
tumbling waterfalls, through which it
carves a way to Maymyo in the land of
hawks and vultures, 40 miles from Man-
dalay, and 4000 ft. abbve sea-level.
The Gurkhas did not go by rail. They
found their own way by secret trails
among gorges and precipices, routes of
opium smugglers who are a legend in
Burma.
In the enterprise they were ably
seconded by the officers and men of the
Welsh regiment brigaded with them—
these, too, no mean climbers. The Gur-
khas went into Maymyo, starting the rats
moving ; the Welsh lay in wait at an im-
probable spot and knocked on the head
a bullock driver who was travelling
ahead of the escaping Japanese convoy,
to ring the alarm bell if necessary. They
then served a large helping of grenades
and bullets to the escapees, few of whom
got away. Two airfields at Anisakan, six
miles to the south-west, were seized, and
another section of the Burma-Chungking
road was brought under control.
Meanwhile, troops from the IV Corps
were cleaning up the rail and the
Irrawaddy south of Mandalay. One set
of units drove down the river to the oil-
fields at Chauk and Yenangyaung ; the
other followed the railway from Myittha,
south-east of Mandalay, to attack Thazi,
on the Rangoon railway. A third struck
at Myotha, south-west of Mandalay, be-
tween the Irrawaddy’s next main bend
and the city.
South of Mandalay Jap forces in
strength are enveloped.
Considerable rearguards of the enemy
are cut off behind the British-Indian-
African troops advancing from the west.
Many are bound to get away because of
the nature of the country. Whether they
will live is another matter.
The direction of the southern part of
the British drive from Meiktila suggests
that the Fourteenth Army is all out for
Taunggy, which is about 70 miles by rail
and 50 by crowfly south-east of Thazi
junction. Thus, the British are hot on
the trail for the Salween, the Thai border
and the connecting rail link which
Eighth A.I.F. Division men and Tommies
were compelled to build for the enemy
across the Salween.
They were about 160 miles from the
Thai border at the nearest point, by air
line, and they had travelled over 450
miles from Imphal, where only the other
day the Japanese were “invading India.”
From Rangoon, the invaders on March
16 were about 250 miles, and about 150
miles only across the Arakan Yoma to
the British forces in the Akyab area.
Rangoon before the week-end was
bombed by India-based 8295.
The time is coming when concentric
attacks will test finally the ability of the
enemy to remain in any part of Burma,
except in hiding, but the hardest fighting
is to come.
Half-time on the Rhine.
“EkDum”; By the week-end the battle of
the Roer defences was won and over. The
Germans were virtually chased from the
whole area west of the Rhine, north of the
Moselle and south of Nijmegen, though
Berlin claimed that pockets in the Schnee
Eifel ranges were still fighting.
General Patton with his Third Army
had begun his drive across the Moselle,
which forms the southern border of his
flank, pushing the bridgeheads over the
river. There was a security silence over
his operations, but with five armored
divisions and several armored battalions
he was supposed to be pushing five
columns into the Palatinate behind the
Saar region, with the same technique
used by the Germans in Yugoslavia in
1941 and at greater speed. One of these
forces had pushed down the Rhine to
Bingen and beyond on March 18. There
obviously was little resistance, save on
the Saar Line, in which Merzig had been
taken for the second time. Coblenz,
German H.Q. in World War I, was on
March 18 nearly all occupied.
The outer defences of the Saar were
receiving preliminary punches from the
Seventh U.S. Army on March 16. The
Allies undoubtedly will at least try to
isolate the Saar and clean up the routes
back to the Rhine in its great eastward
bend above Strasbourg before they im-
plement any attempt at a main drive
across the river in the Remagen or
Coblenz areas.
Optimism respecting the Remagen
adventure had outrun facts. The Ameri-
cans are well across the river, and had
on March 18 occupied about 25 square
miles of territory, much of it very much
exposed. They were on or within
gunfire of the Essen-Frankfort-on-
Rhine Autobahn, a six-lane, high-speed
military road of great importance. The
invaders apparently had some difficulty
in warding off German air attacks on
their tenuous communications.
Remagen bridgehead collapsed, but
pontoons made two-way vehicular traffic
possible. Reserves and artillery had been
brought up, but on the east bank, between
Linz and Honnef, the first days of the
Normandy landing were being re-enacted.
It was too early to say that the bridge-
head was safely established, but it looked
so. If it can be pushed inland to con-
trol the Frankfort road the position
presents interesting opportunities.
In Marlborough’s Tracks
In 1703 Marlborough wrote his love
letters to Sarah, his duchess, from Honnef,
just at the northern end of General Pat-
ton’s bridgehead, and it needs only a few
miles’ penetration on the east bank
towards Coblenz to place the treads of
Patton’s tanks on the footprints of the
Allied armies which on August 2, 1704,
were cleaning up the remains of Marshal
Tallard’s corps on the Danube at Blen-
heim.
General Patton’s bridgehead is nearer
to points in Germany whose capture
would be more important than that of
Berlin. It is only about 150 miles from
the Danube at Ulm by crowfly the
writer has driven from Cologne in the
daylight and in the rain when roads were
far from what they are today. And a
breakthrough to the Danube, to Nurem-
burg and to Munich would be about as
disastrous as anything that could happen
to Hitler's armies. It would outflank and
cut off the whole of the Upper Rhine
defences, and threaten the rear of the
Vienna Gap defences, apart from the
military gates on the eastern sector ot
the Sudeten Ranges Politically it would
be a severe blow to Hitler himself.
Natural features, lack of space to de-
ploy and the nature of the approaches
from the west all tend to depreciate the
advantages of the crossing, but it is a
stroke of luck at the present, even if only
for the great diversion of German fight-
ing power which it must produce.
Refitting in the North
In the north action can scarcely be
expected yet awhile. Formations which
have been in the Kleve-Wesel-Colognc
M


Public Notice.
I, GEORGE MASSALSKY-SOURINE, of Latvian
nationality, born at Grubeshoff, Poland, and resident
51, years in Australia, now residing at 7 Cambridge
Street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
' WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAZEL BARLEY late of Hotel Morris 412 Pitt
Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that RUBY EILEEN
PACKHAM has filed a Petition No. 282 of 1945 on
the ground of the adultery of ALEXANDER
CLIFTON PACKHAM with you You may obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from T. C.
REDMOND & DALEY Solicitors Kogarah or city
agents COLQUHOUN & KING 129 Pitt Street Sydney
If you wish you may apply to the Court to be let
in to defend the charge— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO THERESE MARIE WARD (Also known as
Mitchell) of Sydney New South Wales Australia—
TAKE NOTICE that ERIC FRANCIS WARD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3009 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney before the Bth
of August 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from W. H. MANN Solicitor 247
George Street Sydney New South Wales. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARTHA MARLOO CAVE late of Sydney New
South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that CHARLEY CAVE
filed a petition for Divorce No. 1398 of 1944 on
the grounds of your habitual drunkenness and habitual
neglect of domestic duties during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 16th day of April 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. BARKELL & PEACOCK Solicitors
11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CD
am
battle must be withdrawn. The First
Canadian-British and the Ninth U.S.-
British (much of its armor comes from
the Royal Armored Corps) must
be refitted and reinforced. It takes time
for fresh forces to move up and for artil-
lery to be regrouped, and the materiel
needed for the next phase must include
plant to get huge quantities of men and
materials across the Rhin6, over which
the heavy shells now shriek on their way
to or from Essen and the eastern bank.
Bombing of Germany has been kept up
on a growing scale, with the new ten-
tonners and every other type of explosive
missile.
Germany would easily win the cham-
pionship sash as the most horrible place
in the world to live in. As summer draws
on and the routes dry up it will become
even more horrible, especially since
bombing and strafing power developed
since last June is sure to be used inten-
sively against the enemy’s food supply
and agriculture, without which he could
not continue the war.
The Technique of Baffle.
“E.D.”: Artillery sounds the first note
in every major battle against well-
established and defended fortifications.
It is concentrated under divisional
command at least. Mountains of sup-
plies and ammunition have been ac-
cumulated for its use. The country-
side has been surveyed in the in-
terests of its mobility, and when the
storm of shells breaks it must be so
placed knd organised that it is possible
to switch its full blast from one area
to another on the battlefield in not more
than eight or ten minutes.
In most attacks begun at close contact
on such a front as the Western Front
there are to be contended with water and
extensive minefields. The rate of move-
ment after the first steps for the battle is
governed by the rate at which the strips
of the necessary width through these fields
can be cleared, taped and lamped to guide
the troops. In the Alamein battle the
army corps most involved the Ninth
A.I.F. Division was part of it —used over
200 mine detectors, 5000 minefield guide
lamps and 185,000 yards of six-inch tape.
Detector operators cannot work very long
on the job, and an engineer section which
can clear a 50ft.-wide strip half a mile
deep in four or five hours, especially in
timbered country, is doing good work.
Since the next part of the attack is
usually made at night to find a way
through the enemy crust, infantry are
generally the victims; They proceed only
after careful reconnaissance, mindful of
the fact that 100 yards in front of them,
or perhaps a little more, the barrage is
coming down like hell’s own rain.
Even when battalions are carefully
“mapped in” artillery fire must be deadly
accurate, which limits its rate to perhaps
two to three rounds per minute per gun.
The infantry must closely follow the bar-
rage as it jumps forward by short stages,
since it is not only their cover but their
guide. If they dash on at more than 100
yards every three minutes, they are likely
to curse their bad luck, as their own shells
fall among them. Their advances are
halted periodically as new defence layers
are reached.
The “break-in” phrases having been
established, at the cost of such ex-
penditure of concentrated shellfire,
bombing and strafing support and
crawling by the P. 8.1., entrance to
the battle ground has been paid for
and the game begins. Still the armor
is not in play, unless as artillery
support in the rear, or for some local
subsidiary purpose, but it and motorised
troops are being assembled in reserve.
A certain number of tactical drives have
already been predetermined. Blows are
struck rapidly along the axes of these
thrusts. The artillery concentration
switches its fire in support of whatever
thrust needs it at the moment. Much de-
pends upon the speed of the switches.
One of the main objectives in this phase
is to achieve surprise at one or more par-
ticular points and punch a hole swiftly
through the whole depth of the enemy’s
defences. This element of surprise is
obtained both by artillery and co-ordinat-
ing aircraft switching and by the injection
of infantry reserves, which are thrown in
to put extra weight on the drill.
The Part of Armor
When it becomes certain that the enemy
positions have been almost pierced the
crisis is near. Then, and only then, main
armor comes into play and goes slam-
ming through the breach of the foe’s
rear. The skilful general usually tries to
deceive the enemy about the particular
drillhole through which the stroke will
be made.
The aim of armor and that of the
mechanised infantry is to administer the
coup de grace in the enemy’s rear and
implement the pursuit of wrecked for-
mations which have disintegrated under
the impacts of the various forms of attack.
The enemy, if he has cohesion left, is
likely to entice the tanks into action as
early as possible to destroy and defeat
them by the combined use of mine-
fields and a.-t. guns. Tanks, therefore,
move more slowly in these actions than
they were early accustomed to do.
In front must go the flail tanks, which
destroy the mines. The fascine tanks
bridge the ditches. The armor has sup-
port against a.-t. attack from its artillery,
which is specialised and concentrated
for the purpose, the motorised m.-g.
sections which deal with a.-t. crews
and the massed artillery. Sometimes
special forces are used in advance of the
attempted .breakthrough to strangle a.-t.
defence; but t{ie enemy endeavors to
keep his a.-t. out of harm’s way, to guess
where the break-through will be tried and
to have a welcoming delegation of
rocket-guns, tank destroyers and Giir-
lichs —which squeeze a 28mm. shell down
to 20mm. in the barrel and then spit it
out at a muzzle velocity a third greater
than that of the normal big naval guns —
and other horrors waiting for the armor.
Even with good communications all
these operations are longwinded, trying,
calling for circumspection, a set time-.
table, constant re-mapping. The force, no
matter how powerful, which makes ten
miles in a fortnight under these condi-
tions earns an approving pat and the
privilege of doing some “hurtling,”
which then only can begin when the de-
fence has been dissipated and the enemy
has begun to leave for the horizon.
Montgomery’s Style
Such a battle-piece as that described
above has been fought time and again in
western Europe and in Africa, where the
model was created by Alamein. Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s operations be-
tween the Rhine and the Maas in the
last few weeks conform to its general
specifications—which he and Field-Mar-
shal Alexander originally framed —with
the complications introduced by the pre-
sense of flooded areas, and with advan-
tages. These w?re produced by the
presence of a very competent mobile
and powerfully gunned and armored
force, consisting of the U.S. Ninth
and other armies on the south, com-
bined with the presence of vast re-
serves, including the British Second
Army, at least one complete, and prob-
ably two complete, Allied Air armies in
the rear, and the Fifteenth U.S. Army,
newly constituted.
Zhukov op the Oder.
“Ek Dum”: From a daily (2/2/’45):
All indications are that Marshal Zhukov,
undaunted by increasing German resistance
or the now-thawing Oder, intends to storm
the river and press on to Berlin. Some
of the greatest tank battles of the war
flared up to-day as the Russians, closing
against both Frankfort and Kiistrin, threw
in powerful tank and infantry forces to
support those which reached the Oder on
several fronts yesterday.
A day or two later Marshal Zhukov
was credited with having five bridgeheads
over the Oder facing Berlin —one at
Kienitz, one south of Kiistrin, one three
miles south of Frankfort and two at
Fiirstenburg. It was said that Red Army
storm units had crossed the Oder into
these bridgeheads “under a massive um-
brella of Russian ’planes, which continue
to sweep the whole area between Berlin
and Frankfort.” The Allied air forces
engaged against the Berlin area had
nought to say of the co-operation of these
supposedly devastating air fleets.
On February 3 “the process of invest-
ing Berlin’s outer defences had begun.”
The affair at Kiistrin had “become a
house-to-house struggle.” The Germans
were being “hurled back.”
“Virtually Ended”
In East Prussia as early as January
28 the battle had been described as
“virtually ended. .. .the sky over Konigs-
berg is red with flames... .the defenders
have had no sleep for a week and the
women, the aged and the sick are hiding
the cellars.” On February 3 a corre-
spondent described how “a battering ram
of fire and steel is smashing day and night
against Konigsberg, razing the suburbs
and pulverising the city’s inner core.”
Six weeks later the Russians seemed to
be anything from seven to 20 miles from
that “inner core.” The Germans held
parts of the Samland to the north-east,
which they had regained. Their Cour-
land arny.es were holding out despite
attack after attack. The Russians had
only just reached the shores of the
Frisches Haaf, west of Kbnigsberg.
And Marshal Zhukov was no further
ahead geographically on March 16 than
he was on February 3,- when, according
to Moscow, he was driving straight to
Berlin “without waiting to regroup.” He
has taken Ktistrin, according to Moscow
accounts. Berlin alleged on March 17
that only the part of Ktistrin on the east
bank had been taken.
In place of the mobs of defenceless
Germans fleeing from a tremendous de-
feat which had cost them a million or two
million men in a fortrfight or so, the re-
porters in Moscow, with their strangely
telescopic vision, have suddenly descried,
for the first time, serried ranks of pill-
boxes, gun snouts in forests, thousands
of houses turned into forts and fresh Ger-
man troops and tank forces galore
across the path to Berlin, which also is
inundated by Oder floods and by the
breaking of dykes.
On the West Baltic front the Russians
took Kolberg, the first port in Pomerania
to fall. The Germans claimed that they
evacuated all civilians before the capture.
The attacks on Stettin have made little
progress —if previous reports were accu-
rate file Russians were further back on
March 19 than a week earlier. The
Germans claim to hold considerable
bridgeheads east of the Oder between
Stettin and Kiistrin.
The Russians have had and still
have one great co-operative asset unavail-
able to the Western Allies, at whom cor-
respondents snarl when anything seems
to have gone wrong. Berlin and its de-
fences have been pounded incessantly
from Britain, 600 miles away, and from
Belgium, somewhat nearer. ' Every night
for a month they have been raided by
British Mosquitoes and there have been
great U.S.A.F. daylight assaults on the
capital. There is no word of its having
been attacked on anything like a similar
scale from behind the Russian lines.
Importance of Bombing
Allowing for peace feelers, to which
Britain bore testimony last week, and
for the possibility of a sudden collapse,
as in past German wars, though it would
be madness to bank on it, present
appearances are that the battle for Ger-
many is only beginning and that main
forces are only just being deployed. The
fact that the enemy has been able to
retreat so far and hold his armies intact
shows strength ; for a long retreat over a
wide front against a diligent and well-
equipped foe is one of the hardest kinds
of military operation. And it is signifi-
cant that there have been no major
changes in the High Command. Keitel,
Rundstedt and Guderian still occupy the
chief positions.
If Germany breaks at this stage it will
not be because the stage of military
futility has been reached, but because the
R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F. immobilise com-
munications and destroy civilian morale.
That is on the cards if there are enough
ten-ton and six-ton bombs and enough
machines to carry them. The develop-
ment of the ten-tonner is a stupendous,
feat; the transporting of it almost as
great. It means that Britain has quietly
produced its super-Lancaster capable of
carrying as heavy a load as the Super-
fortress, ' and of ' carrying it as far.
British heavy bombers still lead the world
by a long way, as do the best of British
rocket and fighter machines and British
radio detection and tanks. Marshal
Montgomery says that if Rundstedt had
had British tanks in the December 16
drive he would have reached the Meuse
in 36 hours.
Berlin’s Forefront
The road to Berlin from the Oder lends
itself to defence. Though for six weeks
Marshal Zhukov’s forces were supposed
to be anything from 28 to 35 miles from
the capital, these distances have been
obtained with a straight ruler, and do
not represent road or rail distances, and
even these are exaggerated. Frankfort
is S(H miles from Berlin by rail and
further by road, and the Russians have
not yet taken Frankfort; Ktistrin by road
is distant a little more. These cover the
main routes.
The Oder, south of Stettin and the
Dammischer See and the harbors on the
north for some distance are broken up
into a main stream and a chain of water-
courses. From the final northward bend
towards the sea, hills come close down
to the river on the Berlin side. West
of those hills is a maze of swampy lakes
and forests stretching far to the north-
west of Berlin.
Opposite Berlin, coming from the Kiis-
trin-Frankfort sector, the Russians face,
first the flooded area along the Oder
banks, which is held back in places by
dykes. A network of rivers, dykes and
canals here form obstacles for tanks, even
when the land it at its driest. This is
where Marshal Zhukov’s bridgehead is
supposed to be.
About 12 miles from Ktistrin the hills
begin, though in the line nearer Frank-
fort high ground comes down to the
river.
The main hill belt runs in a semi-circle,
the edges of which are just west of Miin-
cheberg. Here is a beautiful district of
hill and dale and forest and lake which
might be called Berlin’s Blue Mountains.
Opposite Frankfort, the Spree runs east
west through this district. South of it
the country again is seeded with
a mass of lakes; and across the
path of the Russians, who are be-
hind the Neisse, in the Kottbus
region, the Spreewald, a magnificent deci-
duous forest fringed by an agricul-
tural area inhabited by the picturesque
Wends, forms a formidable defence bar-
rier, more especially since it is a maze of
water channels and small rivers. All the
southern flank of Berlin again is covered
by a maze of lakes and hill positions.
If the enemy has fresh mobile divisions
and abundant artillery, the Russians are
right in believing that they are in for
the fight of their lives. It will probably
be the best-defended area they have met.
Heavy Fighting in Hungary
During the week Moscow announced
.the capture of the Czechoslovakian town
of Zvolen. Zvolen is 80 miles north of
Budapest, but still 20 miles east of the
longitude of Komarno, on the Danube,
which the Russians were claimed to be
on the point of taking at the end of
December.
In the Lake Balaton area the battle for
the Danube approaches was still in pro-
gress. Exactly what was happening was
merged in darkness, but it was certain
that the Russians were on the defensive.
They seemed to have fallen back several
miles in the face of powerful attacks by
German armored .and parachute forma-
tions. However, they claimed at the
week-end to have killed more than
20,000 Germans and destroyed over 600
tanks in 13 days, while admitting that the
enemy is “still receiving hundreds of
thousands of tons of steel and oil from
Western Hungary,” and a German News
Agency report admitted that the Rus-
sians had gone over to the offensive. The
Germans on March 18 claimed that the
battles of Hungary and the Danube had
cost the Russians 580,000 killed, 5000
tanks and 1600 aircraft.
With the mountain thaws in progress
behind the East Front, following those
on lower levels, the Russians must
be having difficulties with their commu-
nications over every river back to the
Russian border. Recognition of these
difficulties is only just to them, though
they are , ignored by correspondents and
headline artists keen on “stories.” From
the Danube to the Vistula every stream is
usually at this time a “banker,” fast-flow-
ing and full of huge ice blocks.


IT WON'T BE LONG
—we hope, before you will be able to go out to
that party with a tankful of petrol and a brand
new Masse Battery giving your motor that sweet
surge of power that makes everyone else envy
the Masse owner. Meantime, a fortnightly check-
up from your nearest Masse dealer and an
occasional re-charge may see you through.
“Masse
A 8 I I I C I R «
df
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
6-44
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
SATURDAY, 24th MARCH, 1945.
The Saturday preceding the Autumn Meeting.
THE CHIPPING NORTON PLATE (height for Age): £lOOO added.
One Mile and a Quarter.
THE LIVERPOOL HANDICAP; £lOOO added. Seven Furlongs.
THE WARWICK FARM AUTUMN CUP: £lOOO added. One Mile and a Half.
AUTUMN MEETING, 1945.
31st March, 2nd and 7th April.
First Day: Sat. 31st March.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES: £3500 added. Seven Furlongs.
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP: £3OOO added. One Mile.
THE A.J.C. ST. LEGER: £l5OO added. One Mile and Three-quarters.
Second Day: Mon. 2nd April.
THE SYDNEY CUP: £5OOO added and a War Bond of £2OO.
THE ALL-AGED STAKES: £l5OO added.
Two Miles.
One Mile.
Third Day: Sat. 7th April.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES: £2OOO added. Six Furlongs.
THE AJ.C. PLATE: £l5OO added. One Mile and Three-quarters.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney. GEO. T. ROWE. Secretary
SPORTING NOTIONS
As big a crowd as the course has ever packed
in watched the racing at Rosehill last Satur-
day. Estimated at 27,000, it looked, sounded,
and in the sweatbox heat certainly must have
felt, even more. Tote turnover —£65,456 10s. —
was limited to that only by inability to cope
with queues in the time.
Three-year-olds continued their recent good
work, starting with High Note’s defeat of the
five-year-olds Great Scot and Gold Edifice and
22 others in the 11 furlongs Encourage. It
began the day on a decidedly low note for
punters, the winner being quoted at twenties
and paying £7 12s. 3d. and £2 10s. 3d. on the
tote.
Another of them, the Coronation Day-Silver
Scorn colt Accession, ran a capital St. Leger
trial in beating all but the winner, Veiled Threat,
in the nine furlongs w.f.a. Rawson Stakes, with
Katanga third, then Tea Rose and War Eagle.
Statements that Tea Rose is affected in the wind
have been contradicted, but most obviously the
former champion filly is not herself. She has
now failed at each of her four starts this time
up; yet on Saturday she was backed to equal
favoritism. Punters certainly can take punish-
ment. Carrying lib. less than her Doncaster
8.2, the filly never at any stage moved like a
possible winner. War Eagle, with his Don-
caster 8.0, ran a good race till his condition
appeared to give out. He, at least, should be
improved by the run; that seems to be all that’s
wrong with him.
The Rawson was one of the day’s choice
items as a spectacle. With about a furlong to
go the early leader, equal favorite Hall Stand,
was dropping out, but most of the rest looked
to be well in it. At this point old Veiled,
Threat —a distinct last for more than half the
journey—came flying past them on the outside.
He kept up his long run to beat Accession by
over a length, but the colt did not have the
clearest of runs till he’d got-clear of Katanga
in the straight. As happens more often than
not in the Rawson, the winner was at forlorn
odds —25 to 1, after 33’s had been laid.
Another of the three-year-olds, Melhero, was
awarded first place in the Railway Handicap on
a protest. The sensational ending of the race
made accurate assessment of the fine-looking
Melfort colt’s run rather difficult. It may have
been an even better Doncaster trial than it
looked. Perhaps one of those freak gallopers
that happen along every now and then, the
Queensland four-year-old gelding Repshot was
backed as a certainty; and when he easily ran
to the front at the turn and was nicely clear
shortly afterwards he looked like landing the
money. Melhero then ranged up, coming very
straight and fast wide out. Repshot, given a
cut with the whip, veered sharply out from
near the rails, cannoned info the colt and
bumped him further before the post was
reached. There, not surprisingly, Repshot had
his head in front.
Despite those goings-on, the seven furlongs
were covered in 1.24-J —half a second outside
Modulation’s and Tahmoor’s course record —
and at the rate he was moving Melhero must
have made even better time but for being
knocked. By the same token, Repshot natu-
rally lost much ground in coming out, and
it’s still anybody’s gupss just how good he is.
He’s evidently as game as they make ’em; a
decidedly useful quality in a race like the
Doncaster, in which he has 21b. less than the
8.9 he carried on Saturday. Repshot’s best
winning distance so far has been the Canter-
bury Park 7\ furlongs. At Canterbury the pre-
viously well-performed Cold Shower finished
out of a place, but was conceding Repshot 1 lib.,
whereas Repshot gives him 21b. in the Don-
caster. Melhero on Saturday carried his Don-
caster 8.8.
In not only quickly deciding the protest in
Melhero’s favor but also suspending Repshot’s
rider, S. Curran, for the most unusually long
term of six months the stewards may possible
have taken the view that it was about time to
come down with both feet on riders held respon-
sible for interference. A whole string of them
have had terms of one or two months at meet-
ing after meeting this season, but race riding
has rarely been rougher.
Unbeaten at her only three other starts, the
Talking filly Ribbon came in near the tail
of the Railway Handicap field. She was, how-
ever, reported to have knocked out a tooth
or two shortly before facing the starter. Hence
no notice can be taken of the run as bearing
upon her chance in the Doncaster or St. Leger,
whichever is chosen for her.
The Beau Pere-Night Light filly Lunar beat
the big Three-year-old Handicap field so very
easily that she should be capable of holding her
“Seen half an aeroplane anywhere around , mate? ’
own against all ages. She finished six lengths
ahead of Gainsford, with Town Gossip (one of
the latest down from Queensland, though bred
here; he’s by Talking) a further three lengths
away. It was Lunar’s second runaway win on
fhe Rosehill track.
Royal Peer’s defeat of Boomanulla and Lady
Marie in the 10 furlongs Autumn Handicap,
with such as Craigie, Russia, Brown Dragon
and Beau Monde among the also-rans, was not
so highly regarded from the Sydney Cup point
of view as Nightbeam’s defeat of Denton, St'.
Elmo and a mostly moderate lot of others in
the nine furlongs Parramatta Handicap. Night-
beam at once moved up to the Cup top line
with Castle Frontenac. As a Metropolitan
winner Nightbeam is not badly in the Cup
with 7.13.
Bettering her fast-finishing third to Three
Wheeler in the Newmarket, the L. Robertson
stable’s other candidate in that event, Simmer-
ing, brilliantly won the Alister Clark Stakes
from Evidence and Nagation at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. Simmering equalled the course
record for the mile (L37i)> defeating, apart from
the place-getters, such solid recent performers
as Tranquil Star, St. Fairy, Tea Cake and Drum
Net. The winner’s performance was all the
better because in the early stages she seemed to
find the track awkward. She evidently prefers
plenty of room and with it should go on
winning.
Up more than a stone after her Australian
Cup win, Spectre at least demonstrated that
that success was not altogether a fluke by
finishing third to Triton and Laughton in the
Moonee Ponds Handicap. Triton, who had
shaped poorly in the Cup, ran the mile and
seven furlongs in course record time (3.1 H).
He had only half a head margin over Laughton,
and had to survive a protest for interference at
the turn, but this was speedily ruled out.
There was another excellent finish, also
coupled with a protest, in the Travancore
Steeple. Solecism (G. Sholl) beat Fugleman
(L. Meenan) by half a head, with Victory
March a remote third. Like the other protest,
that entered on Fugleman’s behalf, for inter-
ference at the last jump, was quickly dismissed.
For Randwick on Saturday (before accept-
ances): —Fairfield: Magnificent, Courtship, D-
Day. Cobbity: Accession, Ribbon, Lunar.
Chipping Norton: Flight, Katanga, Veiled
Threat. Liverpool: Felbeam, Kingsdale, Vic-
tory Lad. Warwick Cup: Flying Cloud, Skip
Bomber, Russia. Cabramat'ta: Active Service,
Enthuse, Abbeville.
* * * *
At this stage, with next Saturday’s meeting
at Randwick perhaps likely to change the out-
look, the three-year-olds, particularly Victory
Lad and Melhero, look like taking a lot of beat-
ing in the Doncaster, with Prince and Felbeam
other fair possibilities. In the Cup Castle Fron-
tenac has only t'o go to the post to run a great
race (he won’t go ff he isn’t sound), and Flying
Cloud might easily come into it as improving
and nicely weighted.
H= * * *
On paper the yearlings offered in Brisbane
last week did not look a particularly impressive
lot of progeny. Prices were correspondingly
low, 74 lots bringing 17,760 guineas, which is
less than was paid for eight youngsters at the
Melbourne sales a week earlier. The Brisbane
average was 240 guineas; top price (by private
sale, after being passed in at auction) 1000
guineas for the Charles Fox-Lady Rush colt.
* * * *
John Brennan on the Wewak Welter:
When the R.A.A.F. and its Australian-
built Beaufort bombers took over keeping
watch on Jap activities in the Wewak-Aitape
sector the Wewak airfield, designed as the heart
of the Jap air effort in New Guinea, had
already been largely neutralised by months of
strong attacks by U.S. heavy bombers. The
R.A.A.F. job was to keep an eye on any
attempt to repair the runways. It was some-
thing more than two months before an attempt
was made. Then reconnaissance ’planes re-
ported bulldozers and hard-working Japs with
wheelbarrows. Next morning the Beauforts
bombed-up for the job. They were working
“gentleman’s hours,” striking shortly after
breakfast, running back to base for lunch, and
putting on another “bash” in mid-afternoon —
early enough to enable crews to knock-off in
time for a swim before dinner. They kept to
schedule for three or four days. But ar Jap with
a wheelbarrow is an efficient piece of earth-
moving machinery, and these Japs were evi-
dently much concerned with putting Wewak into
order again. On their afternoon run the Beau-
forts found that holes their bombs had dug at
the northern end of the strip in the morning
bash had already been neatly patched; next
morning the southern end, done over the after-
noon before, would be levelled ready for
rolling.
Of two or three suggestions as to what
might be done Wing-Commander John Kessey,
commanding one of the Beaufort squad-
rons, had the brightest—a “Wewak Welter,”
eleven ’planes competing in a shuttle-bombing
of the strip, with points for the number of
sorties made, and for the number of bombs
dropped in the target area. The “kites” were
named in the “race book” after the pilots;
observers were the “jockeys”; ground staff men
got into it as “strappers.” “Stipes”—Welfare
and Y.M.C.A. men—kept tea and sandwiches
up to the crews between runs. The eleven got
away to an even start. After that it was go
the limit. The Welter lasted from early morn-
ing till late afternoon. Three of the ’planes
made five sorties each, the others four apiece;
there were 48 sorties in all. The Beauforts were
carrying 500-pounders and fragmentation bombs.
When the/last ’plane left the target area there
were 96 new craters on Wewak field.
The “Clerk of the Course” scored the neatest
trick. One Beaufort was kept over the area all
the time to keep score, “stooging” around dur-
ing the hour or so between runs. After the third
run one venturesome Jap apparently decided
it was time to get busy on the repair work and
moved out on to the field with a bulldozer. The
clerk of the course got it with his first run.
There were no others, not even barrowmen.
Bulldozers and bomb craters, they’re still to be
seen on the strip.
There’s been no new attempt to make Wewak
serviceable since the day of the Welter.
He * * *
“Sturt”: League football in Adelaide
(Australian Rules) has compromised
over a trifle which at one time seemed
likely to wreck it. The eight clubs are
going back this winter to independent
play, instead of the war-time arrangement
of four pairs, and so grounds will be
again in keen demand. Each district has
a first-rate oval, but the corporations of
Prospect, of Norwood and of Thebarton
would each grant only a lease for three
years. The League demanded ten years.
A commonsense compromise of five has
settled the matter.
Hi * * *
“Pat Ater”: Not every topnotch
bowler has relied on “nip” (B. 14/3/’45)
or pace off pitch. Charlie Macartney
kept a perfect length, and that, with a
left-hander’s natural guile, got wickets
or “pegged ’em down.” On a sticky
pitch he was deadly. Too many of our
pace-makers of the medium class try to
“do things” when the wicket’s bad, in-
stead of .making the batsman get himself
out. You just can’t hit a good-length
ball, unless, as Maurice Leyland says,
you reach about 150 runs, when every
ball “looks like a football.” Turner
was credited with being able to lob five
out of six balls on a two-bob piece.
Without that control he’d have been just
another bowler. However, Jack Gregory,
with a crocked knee and bowling
“medium” pace, was better and faster
than many speedsters tpday because of
that classy “nip.”
H* %
Somewhat stricken in years, Leo Robbo
tried hard to win his 12-round contest
with Eric McCready at Leichhardt; but
youth would be served. McCready’s
snappy straight lefts to the face made
most of Robbo’s swings miss and Robbo
was a well-beaten pug at the end of the
12th. He was 41b. heavier and 12 years
older than his conqueror, rather a smart
lad.
Plenty of action was seen at the Sydney
Stadium when Jack Kirkham, from Mel-
bourne, clashed with Owen Moase, a Syd-
ney middleweight, and Billy Marsden, a
welterweight, with Jack Samuels. Kirk-
ham outfought Moase, and, though many
of his swings missed, a right to the ribs
floored Moase for seven seconds in the
eleventh. However, not a hoot was heard
when Wallis awarded the decision to
Moase. Marsden, too clever for Samuels,
knocked him down for “nine” in the
fourth, but was himself butted to the floor
in the tenth. Marsden, on a foul.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
With Melbourne basking in almost
tropical sunshine it was not surprising to
find Moonee Valley racecourse filled with
thousands of racing enthusiasts. The
warm sunshine beguiled women back into
summer clothing, and the result was a
very colorful scene. Fashion is now in
a mood to be decorative and elegant, and
in spite of rationing there is an urge to
achieve individuality by the little per-
sonal touches which can lift the plainest
frock or suit above the commonplace.
To a pale beige woollen bolero suit is
added a black satin sash, and, with black
accessories, a smart and individual outfit
is achieved. Slim lines are still popular,
but designers are busy evolving a new
style of bulkiness with capes, full sleeves
and full backed topcoats.
Topcoats are three-quarter length, and
the tweeds used are so gay that many
women may shrink from wearing them,
but they are being fashioned into snug
coats for winter. Not only are they gay
outside, but linings are following the new
mood for color, and as coats swing back
vivid linings strike the eyes. Bulky tur-
bans, as designed for war-time Paris, may
come to this country for winter wear, but
the wise woman with a sense of propor-
tion will keep a cool head and ask herself
“Is this for me?” The vogue for knitted
frocks, suits and twin sets has come again,
and shops are featuring delightful clothes
in machine-knitted wool. These are in
soft pastel shades as well as in the full
colors. With a grey flannel daytime suit
is worn a jumper in mustard and grey
stripes. Light mustard tonings are excel-
lent with brown or black.
Gradually disappearing is that casual
appearance, and women are wearing a
more dressed-up look. Hair, too, is be-
coming more groomed, and the chignon
is becoming a familiar sight. News that
the Government is to some extent lifting
the ban on decorative shoes will be wel-
comed. However, the wise woman will
not lose sight of the fact that ease is at
all times an element of elegance.
Excellent work has been done by the
women of the Sister Susie Club, formed
two years ago by members of the
Women’s Air Training Corps. Many
W.A.T.C. members are on a roster for
duty every night, excepting Sundays, from
five till nine-thirty. During the day
women with homes to care for and
mothers of members are in attendance.
The hon. supervisor, Mrs. Le Maistre,
says that since its inception 6000 airmen
have made use of the club. A homely
atmosphere prevails, and on entering the
doors airman may be seen garbed in
dressing-gown pressing one part of his
uniform while a helper sews buttons or
mends the other part of it. Mending and
darning is one of the services given to
men who live in other parts of the Com-
monwealth. Although there is no facility
for laundering to be done on the premises,
men passing through Melbourne will go
to the Sister Susie Club, -wash out shirts
and come in the next morning to iron
them and go off on the leave train with
fresh linen.
Mrs. Philip Witchell, whose husband,
Flight-Lieut. Witchell, is with the 10th
Squadron, is a willing Sisfer Susie and
does her share of mending and sewing.
Mrs. Le Maistre receives letters from
men entrusting the club with various
commissions. One may write to say his
wife is in hospital. Will some Sister
Susie call and see her? He encloses
some money and perhaps half a dozen
cards on which affectionate messages are
written. Each visit means flowers, and
these are bought and a card enclosed.
The wife is made happy by her husband’s
remembrance. Money is sent to buy
wedding presents and birthday gifts.
Theatre bookings are made and the men
are helped in every way a thoughtful
; woman can help.
A wedding of interest in country circles
was that of Sergt. William Adcock,
A.1.F., eldest son of the W. Adcocks, of
Tocumwal (N.S.W.), to Judith, younger
daughter of the R. Shaws, of Nagambie
(Vic.). Scene of the wedding was St.
Hilary’s, Kew. The bride chose a long,
slim-fitting gown of chalk-white crepe.
Crystal beads outlined the deep yoke and
shoulders of the bodice, which featured
long, tight-fitting sleeves. A filmy veil
fell from a coronet of orange-blossoms,
and she carried a bouquet of white tiger
lilies and tuberoses. Her only attendant
was her sister Dorothy, who wore mist-
blue crepe with a small matching Juliet
cap, and carried tiger lilies in pink shad-
ings. Robert, brother of the bridegroom,
was best man. Among the guests was
Captain Alice Adcock, A.A.N.S., sister
of the bridegroom, who was on leave
from her unit. Mrs, John Horton,
Tocumwal, aunt of the bridegroom, was
also present. A.C.W. Muriel Adcock was
on hand to see her brother wedded, and
Mrs. Reg Tresise, sister of the bride, and
her husband were among the guests.
Many friends and relatives of both
’groom and bride travelled long distances.
Mrs Jud Holt, pictured here in Ameri-
can Red Cross uniform, has been in
charge of the culinary department of
American Red Cross House in this city
for three years. With the aid of many
attractive Melbourne lasses she has pro-
duced delectable food for American and
Australian servicemen. Mrs. Holt has
lived in Melbourne for six years but she
can still concoct the recipes she brought
with her from her native U.S.A. When
the American invasion of Australia com-
menced her prowess as a cook earned her
great glory. Lonely men sighing for the
biscuits, (scones to you) momma used to
make, and the pot roasts which find their
places on so many American tables,
found them at the Red Cross canteen.
When the feasts of Thanksgiving, Hal-
low’een and Christmas came along Mrs.
Holt thought up original and amusing
decorations, creating a home-like atmo-
sphere, much appreciated by temporary
exiles. Every day finds this busy woman
at the canteen in spite of the fact that
she has a husband to care for and a son
at Scotch College. Before the American
Red Cross established its headquarters in
Victoria American residents here backed
their wives in beginning the U.S. Women's
Auxiliary Corps. Later this became in-
corporated in the American Red Cross.
For many years American women in Mel-
bourne have worked for the Children's
Hospital, and their Fourth of July Ball
has always resulted in a' goodly cheque
for the institution. When Good Friday
comes, and with it an all-day appeal for
funds to help the hospital conducted by
a Melbourne broadcasting station, Mrs.
Holt and her helpers will be on hand
to provide the fopd for the large staff
who will conduct the collections.
Denes de Holesch, now exhibiting his
paintings at George’s Gallery (inciden-
tally, he married pianist Joyce Greer),
has had an interesting life. He was born
in Slovakia and studied at the Royal
Hungarian School of Fine Arts in Buda-
pest. He has travelled through China,
Japan, the Philippines and Dutch East
Indies, and has held exhibitions in all
these countries. His paintings of these
lands hold the color and mystery of the
East. In 1938 he came to Australia by
invitation of the Northern Territory
Expedition as official artist. Mr. and
Mrs. de Holesch have a small daughter
of 12 weeks, named Laura.
Lieut. John Seymour, R.A.N.V.R., has
been a welcome visitor to Melbourne
after his long absence abroad. John went
to England early in the war, and while
there received his commission. Many ad-
ventures have come his way. He was on
convoy duty in the Mediterranean and
the English Channel. He was in the
North African campaign, and saw action
in France on D-Day. On this last occa-
sion, although the ship on which John
was serving was hit twice, there were no
casualties. During the four years John
was with the Royal Navy he met many
notable stage figures, both in England and
America. Noel Coward, John Gielgud,
Michael Redgrave and Dorothy Dickson
are numbered among those who enter-
tained this young man from Australia.
Also he met Oliver Messel, one of the
young men whose essays in decor have
made a stir. This young artist was en-
gaged to do the scenes for the English
film “Antony and Cleopatra.”
From Sydney
It would be just as easy to dissect
moonbeams on a be-dewed cobweb as to
describe the frock the Duchess of Glou-
cester wore to the Town Hall reception
last week. It gleamed and glittered (but
not garishly) as she moved, and was a
sheath for the slim, erect figure. In tone
it was magnolia. Pearls and emeralds
gleamed at her throat. Her bracelets were
diamonds, and against her dark hair shone
a diamond ornament. Glitter was the
dominant note of the frocking on the dais.
Lady Wakehurst wore hyacinth pink and
silver brocades and animated and
attractive. The Viscountess Clive’s frock
was sprayed with sequin and crystal.
Mayoress Harding’s crepes were a cool
wave of green.
There were more than 2000 at this
party.' And, indeed, though that seems a
frightful crush (and was) it is something
of a distinction in a city of over a million
inhabitants to be one of two thousand
invited. There were presentations as the
Duke and Duchess walked among the
guests convoyed by the Mayor and the
Mayoress. Here and there the civic eye
would light in benison, and the name of
some honored one be murmured in the
royal ear. There was a royal handclasp
and a smile, curtsy or bow on the part
of the citizen, and then the group passed
on through a laneway of openly or dis-
creetly gazing humans. The reception
started at eight, and the last of the guests
were saying good-night to the host and
hostess at ten-thirty.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says she
was distinctly flattered by receiving an
invitation, but it was a decoration with-
out bar —there was no supper.
A nice compliment was paid to the
Army War Comforts cafe (it drops about
£3OO a month into the-A.C.F.) on the great
night by the presentation to both royal-
ties of Mrs. Keith Morris, the cafe s
organising secretary. Mrs. Morris swept
a graceful curtsy in a billow of black
chantilly lace.
Vivacious Betty Sparkes, who, as Dolly
Bean, scored a hit on the first night of
“Rio Rita,” has lived up to promise as
the season rolled on, and is now acclaimed
a new J.C.W. star. Betty learned to
dance from Jennie Brennan, and is an
Alan Chapman find. The Firm’s pro-
ducer gave her a trial and was astounded
at her proficiency when she appeared at
her first rehearsal. That was in “Vik-
toria and Her Hussar.” The Australian
girl clicked in a stellar dancing role, and
now promises to do equally well in
comedy. In the current Royal show,
“Maid of the Mountains,” Betty sparkles
as Vittoria.
Already Sydney women are copying
the Duchess of Gloucester in the fashion
of wearing their bracelets outside their
long evening gloves. Dame Constance
D’Arcy was one of the first to follow this
style, and at the Town Hall reception
happily pointed to her bracelet of Aus-
tralian precious stones burning against
her left glove, and her famed bracelet of
pendant examples of the goldsmith’s /art
on the right. Pre-eminent among these
is a fine gold medal embossed with the
head of a Botticelli madonna. This is
framed in an oval of tiny, square-cut
rubies. Diamonds, equally small, sparkle
on the halo.
A true son of Australia, for he is an
aborigine, is showing a collection of his
water-colors in Anthony Hordern’s gal-
lery. These are paintings of Centralia
and have caught within them the sun and
shadow, the strangq, vivid color, the
bright loneliness of his corner of this
continent. Albert Namatjira, the painter,
belongs to the Western Aranda (Arunta)
tribe, in the Mac Donnell Ranges coun-
try, and his pictures reflect the shimmer-
ing solitude of its hills, its gorges and its
valleys. Nowhere in the paintings in the
present collection is there form of man
or animal.
Dr. Elkin made the opening speech,
and another who spoke to the glory of
this achievement, for it has taken only
nine years for Namatjira to arrive, was
Margaret Preston. The show opened at
three, and almost before the opening
speech was sold out. Howard Ashton
bought a painting, Howard Hinton
secured two for his star collection in
Armidale College. Two go to Dunedin
(M.L.). The gallery was packed for the
opening. The silver coins from the pro-
grammes and a 25-guinea picture donated
by the artist will benefit the Red Cross.
With the rhythm of the distant surf
in their ears and the harbor pool, a
smooth and unwrinkled mirror for the
moon, lying beneath their gaze. Manly
residents celebrated the coming of age of
their Art Gallery. Members of the com-
mittee of the gallery and historical col-
lection were the hosts, and the Mayor of
one of the loveliest seaside towns in the
world presided. Under-Secretary and
Director of Education McKenzie was the
guest of honor.
There was applause rivalling the surf
when gallery president Trennery drew
forth Syd Long’s etching “The Black-
smith’s Shop” and presented it to Mrs.
Harry Twigden. For 20 years Mrs. Twig-
den, who is a brilliant pianist, has ar-
ranged, and taken part in, the gallery
programmes. Mrs. Twigden, who blushed
over her meed of praise, was a graceful
figure in black chenille velvet. Mayoress
Anderson, Mrs. Hermon Slade and the
Colonel Spain couple were among the
guests. Mrs. Twigden, Mrs. Robert Elvy,
Audrey Davies and Charles Nicis were
the night’s entertainers.
In three months the Donald Camerons,
of Auvern station, Tekas (Q.), have had
three weddings in the family. Last Thurs-
day Margaret, still another of their attrac-
tive daughters was married. Her bride-
groom was Andrew Reeves (ex-A.1.F.), of
Kirribilli. St. James’s in King-street
blessed the two, and the Pickwick Club
staged the reception. The bride’s white
satin frock and veil of Carrickmacross
lace were much commented on. Stephen
Kaldor (A.1.F., discharged) was best man.
When vivid little newspaperwoman
Helen Bennett died her friends decided
to keep her memory green by founding a
Helen Bennett memorial prize for history
at Sydney University. The Senate agreed
to the suggestion. Now the first of these
prizes has been awarded, and it will be
a great joy to Helen to record, in whatever
celestial news-sheet she is helping to
brighten, that if was won by a grandson
of -Prof. Mungo MacCallum, who for
so many years added lustre to Sydney
University.
Overheard on the tram to Waterloo;
“No less than five times yesterday she
went through the front gate and never
closed it once. So I waited for her, and
I said ‘Of course you are used to having
liveried servants to close the gates after
you —in Long Bay!’”
News has been received of the marriage
of Nadine Macdonald, U.S.N.R. (W.),
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. William Mac-
donald, of Boston, late of Sydney, and
granddaughter of the Neil Macdonalds,
of Neutral Bay, to Charles Brown, of
New Haven, Conn.
Any day of the week, now, 12 service-
women all in a row can enter the orna-
mental gates of matrimony partnered by
any Allied serviceman, wedding dress and
veil complete. Yea, though the time of
preparation has been short, and coupons
more minus than plus. The satin and
tulle outfits are a gift from the Virginia
Federation of Women’s Clubs, U.S.A.,
and this is one of the most graceful acts of
friendship that the women of one country
could extend to those of another. It
has been possible for America’s women
to do this kindness because clothes there
are not rationed as they are here.
The frocks are delightful. Most of them
are satin, one or two are brocade, and
one is of soft layers of silk net. All have
long sleeves. All have sweeping trains
and modestly cut necklines high
at the back, and with a slight, often heart-
shaped, opening at the throat. The fragile
cargo was consigned to Sydney’s
Mayoress, and Farmer’s undertook the
responsibility of landing it through the
Customs, and will organise control of the
frocks and their distribution. Last week
the directors of this company arranged a
morning-tea party at which Mrs. Neville
Harding inspected the finery.
On Saturday, April 28, the R.S.Y.S.
women’s auxiliary will stage “A Night for
tjhe Navy” in the cheery atmosphere of
the club. With no harrowing thought of
work on the morrow all comers can con-
centrate on the chocolate wheels, the fish
pond and such-like revelry.
A simmer of excitement stirred Neutral
Bay at the announcement of the engage-
ment of Wran Francesca Cannon, of
Cammeray, to Captain Patrick Murray
(A.1.F.), of Neutral Bay.
The revived “Maid of the Mountains”
at the Royal scaled the heights with re-
sounding notes last Saturday. Gladys
Moncrieff, of course, is the Maid.


series
RONALDSONTIPPETT
iH
mmm
mm
••
m
HH 1111111 Iffli '
msi W!mm&
>: * : SSSK
rpHE giant bombers which operate so effectively on enemy positions
-*- north of Australia have mammoth tyres which call for a special
means of inflation. A Portable Air-Compressor Unit of the type
pictured is used for this purpose.
We build 2| h.p. type “NA” Ronaldson-Tippett vertical, air-
cooled Petrol Engines as prime movers for these units. ■ One turn of
the engine’s starting handle gives an instant supply of air, and flabby
tyres receive the pressure necessary for smooth take-offs and landings.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 688 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.B.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Eraser House, 48 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTand Distributors; Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Paxbury House, 187 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Case®
Lt ßo(i^|o
mm
THE WHICH WHY AND
WHEN OF PAINTING-
QUESTION; WHICH brand of paint has
the Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
used at the Sydney Showgrounds for the
last twenty years?
ANSWER; At the Showgrounds, all
the buildings belonging to the Society
are painted with Taylor's Prepared Paint.
QUESTION: WHY does Howard Smith
Ltd. use Taylor's Prepared Paints on its
wharf buildings?
ANSWER; Only a first-grade paint
can stand up to sea-air, salt spray,
smoke and dust. The Maritime Service
Board officially approves Taylor's Pre-
pared Paint.
QUESTION: WHEN should a property
owner paint his bouse?
ANSWER: Every five years is enough
—if he uses three coats of Taylor's
Prepared Paint.
At authorised Taylor's
Paint agents you will
find LIMITED STOCKS
available of:
TAYLOR'S PREPARED
PAINTS TAYLOR'S
ROOF PAINTS
MATTE WATER
PAINTS TAYLOR'S
KALSOMINE
TAYLOR'S SPIRIT
STAINS —SILVAR
ALUMINIUM
ENAMEL.
•
No civilian stocks yet
available of:
VARLAC QUICK-
DRYING ENAMELS
MIRAGLOSS QUICK-
DRYING ENAMELS
TAYLOR'S ENAMEL
FLOOR STAIN
TAYLOR'S PAVING
ENAMEL.
a BEST BY THE
FIVE YEAR TEST
ToAj/ktk PREPARED
Three coals of iirst-grade
7j* paint give 5 years' full protection.
Made by Taylor's Paints Pty. Ltd., Sutherland Ave.,
Paddington. N.S.W. Tel. FA 2125.
PAINT SUPPLIERS TO ARMY. NAVY AND AIR FORCE.
Taylor?
paint
SMOKE-OH
“Fve seen many a farm with everything spick
and span outside, but inside the house —!”
—“The New Idea:”
The writer refrains from harrowing
our feelings.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bnndle greyhound bitch, lost half white
neck, white chest-and toes and on tip tail.”
— “Advocate” ( Hornsby, N.S.W.).
Handsome reward if what’s left of her
is found.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted to buy, 10 to 20 acres of vegetable
growing.” —Suburban paper.
Vegetable growing is measured in
aches, not acres!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Illegal Tender.
“Twenty-nine thousand shirts are missing
from an army ordnance depot.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
A lot of shirts, you can’t deny.
This burglary embraces.
One wonders if the thieves will try
To pass them at the races?
Percy.
*|e
“Every woman loves to feel as though she
has been through a wringer.”— Women’s paper.
But not to feel she’s been left high
and dry.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ten pretty nails have been lost by a good
many girls.” —“New Idea.”
And without them, naturally, a girl
can’t be up to scratch.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Swell!
“Modern Growing Paint works requires opera-
tives.” — “S.M.H.”
The most fascinating thing about
Growing Paint is the story of how it
was given to the world. Like so many
epoch-making advances -of modern
science, its discovery was the result of an
accident. Literally. I was kalsomining
the laundry one day when the step-
ladder collapsed, and as the flying -pot
cannoned off the wall its contents
drenched the ginger-beer plant, based on
yeast, that my kid tvas carefully foster-
ing. Discharged from hospital a fort-
night later, I found the laundry and half
the backyard awash with salmon kalso-
mine . . .
The story of the intensive research
and painstaking experiment that went
into the subsequent perfection of my
“Expandb” Growing Paint (“It’s Got
Growing Pains”) is too technical to be
detailed here ; suffice it to say that the
development of this amazing product has
reached the stage where one has merely
to splash a bit in the centre of, say, a
kitchen wall, then sit back and watch it
cover the entire area inside ten minutes.
I am now working to overcome the
final minor obstacle standing in the path
of complete success. Once I discover a
controlling medium to limit the extra-
ordinary coverage of “Expando” (for
example, when it is desired to paint a
hospital without removing the patients),
I shall then be able to keep the stuff
in containers with lids on.
Cal.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Who doubts the existence of brotherly
love? I would ask.” —“The New Idea.”
To brand the authenticity
Of love fraternal as a fable
One victim of duplicity
Should incontestably be Abel.
D. H. E.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Case, leather, containing hospital. Lost
Bridge-st., Tuesday evening.”— S. M. “Herald.”
A baby hospital, surely.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“On Tuesday, 20th February, a Physical Cul-
ture Class for girls, from 14 to 80, was formed.”
—Parish paper.
After this they are expected to join
the Old Girls’ Association.
-I* 4* v 4*
“Cows don’t have to worry about putting on
avoirdupois.— “ Women’s Weekly.”
But it makes a great difference to
calves.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
Metallurgy.
“In spite of the great fortune he amassed by
brilliant investing, his wife eloped with one of
his employees named Silver.”
—Biographical item.
Like Midas he turned with his touch
All things into gold, so they said.
But later they heard
An exception occurred,
For his wife turned to Silver instead.
Nat.
4* 4* 4*
The Martyr.
“Because he was over-tired, the average miner,
after having a meal at his home, lay on a
couch daily from 3.45 p.m. to 8 p.m. At 8 p.m.
the miner had supper before going to bed.” —
Miners’ general president Wells in evidence
before the Coal Inquiry Board.
Harry Hangitt had had a most ex-
hausting week.
On the Monday morning he had risen
at eight o’clock, after having had only
18 hours’ sleep, getting to the pit top at
quarter to nine. There a meeting was
held to decide whether to call off the
existing 20-day strike, which had been
started because a deputy had filed his
nails instead of using a penknife. A
majority voted for resumption. As they
stepped out of the cage Harry had
yawned prodigiously, and a passing
wheeler said conversationally “Have a
late night, Harry?” This Harry consid-
ered insulting. A meeting was immedi-
ately called and the 1500 men decided
to go home.
Later that morning the fellow who for
ten bob a week kept a place at the pub
bar for Harry was called away, and
Harry had to stand waiting three
minutes for his five schooners. On top of
that he had to wait ten minutes for the
s.-p. merchant to come back before he
could collect the 3s. 4d. he’d wOn on the
dogs. Harry by this time had dark rings
under his eyes with the awful strain and
loss of sleep, and when he got home at
two o’clock he almost fell on the couch.
It was terrible!
On the Tuesday young Joe Canter
called round at 8.15 a.m. to say none
of the others were going to the pit, as
they felt sure the management wouldn’t
dismiss the surface hand who was 59
years and 11 months as the lodge had de-
manded. Harry turned over to catch up
on all the sleep he’d missed, for after
he’d been wakened up for supper at eight
the previous night the missus had started
to machine a dress, and this kept him
awake till almost nine o’clock. It says
much for Harry’s stamina that he was
able to wake up at 1 p.m. and again at
8 p.m. long enough to get his meals
down before dropping off again.
On the Wednesday morning—it was
real early, about 8.15 —word was received
that the black bream were “on” at the
lake, and it was unanimously decided to
continue the strike, even though the
offending surface hand had left the mine,
saying he would wait a month for his pen-
sion. Harry had a fearfully trying day.
It was almost more than he could physi-
cally bear to haul in his 40 yards of gut
line and bait it. By the time he got
home at seven o’clock he was positively
haggard with exhaustion, being barely
able to keep awake long enough to eat a
frugal meal of grilled rump steak and
mushrooms, rice pudding and canned
pears.
On Thursday it was agreed that the
bream probably wouldn’t be “on” again,
so the pit-top meeting decided to resume
But just as they were about to change
Ted Lewis happened to mention that his
missus wasn’t able to buy more than
eight tins of preserved apricots and six
pounds of dates the day before. As a
protest the men knocked off for the day,
after instructing the lodge to order the
Deputy P.M. to give a reason why the
miners were being singled out for vic-
timisation. The strenuous nature of the
meeting had left Harry like a wrung-oul
rag. He fell asleep walking home and
ran into a telegraph pole. It shook poor
Harry up so much he had only nine hours'
sleep before his missus woke him up to
go to bed.
On Friday in the bus on the way to
the mine the driver tooted the horn twice
to warn a child. One of the men ob-
jected, saying one toot was enough
and the driver by wasting a toot was
sabotaging the war effort. As a protest
they all returned home. Luckily Harry,
who through his strenuous efforts over
the past four days was worn almost to a
shadow, was able to go straight to bed at
ten o’clock. He woke up at 8 p.m., had
a good feed and went to bed.
On the Saturday morning Harry’s
missus came out into the kitchen, alarm
written on her face.
“Go down the street,” she ordered
young Billy, “and ring the doctor to
come up right away. Your father’s get-
ting up, and it’s only a little after ten.
He’s only had 23 hours’ sleep. He must
be getting insomnia!”
80.
Experience.
When I was hunting frogs with dogs
In faraway uncharted bogs,
I one day chanced where fairies danced
Delightfully on mossy logs.
/ felt quite overjoyed to see
Their gaiety and revelry.
When suddenly the dogs and frogs
Turned into hogs and hunted me.
And that is why I swear that I
Henceforth will concentrate on tea !
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others per line.
The Spoken Play
Because of the lack of a national
theatre and because Australian schools as
far as the third-year standard (which is
the highest class reached by the great
majority), introduces school-children to
only one playwright, Shakspeare, many
Australians have never seen a play pre-
sented on the stage, nor even read one.
Their only acquaintance with this form
of literary expression comes from listen-
ing to radio serials —mostly recordings of
the cheapest and worst type of American
radio play. Even among well-educated
people the drama is overlooked or is
treated as the poor relation of the arts.
One has only to witness one or two of
the brave efforts of small amateur drama-
tic groups to realise that not only could
contemporary plays be presented in
this country in such a way as to make
a popular appeal, but the works of the
classical dramatists also.
Recently I enjoyed the presentation by
amateurs of one of these works. The act-
ing was capable, the production excellent;
the show, apart from the smallness
and unsuitability of the theatre, was
entertaining and stimulating. In the audi-
ence were a good many servicemen and
others who, from a few remarks over-
heard, had obviously never before been
to, as one of them said, “a real-life play,”
and had only strayed in as there was no-
where else to go. Yet at the end of the
performance they all seemed to have en-
joyed it. It was, as one of them put it,
“a good change from the pictures.”
We need stock companies, as well as
the amateur groups that are now strug-
gling along courageously in very unfavor-
able conditions. We need small theatres.
For the present we cannot hope to com-
pete with the lavish ease of the movie
theatre, but we can, and should, revive
the drama. — Imp (N.S.W.).
A Post-war Health Plan
The thousands of men and women in
the services have been medically exam-
ined, X-rayed, vaccinated and made den-
tally fit. Every complaint from which
a member of the services suffers, every
treatment or injection is recorded on
individual cards in Army Records Office.
A good system. Why not extend it?
All civilians should be required to report
to medical officers for thorough exami-
nation and preparation of a personal his-
tory record. Every municipality should
have its Records Office. All medical
treatments should be reported to Records
(as in the services) and added to the in-
dividual’s card. On a citizen leaving a
municipality or a State his record should
go to the branch nearest the new place
of residence. Sufferers from tubercu-
losis and cancer and carriers of disease
would be under supervision and epidemics
could be checked. — Turana (A.1.F.).
Kenmore and Rosemount
A chalet for tubercular servicemen
was built two years ago at Kenmore, a
delightful spot about six miles from
Brisbane. But it is still uninhabited
though there is a crying need for a sana-
torium. The reason given is that nurses’
quarters have not yet been built, because
of failure to obtain a permit to do the
work.
This seems an absurd explanation.
What could be of more importance than
the regaining of the health of these men,
who gave up everything to fight for their
country? To these sufferers fresh air and
pleasant surroundings are of major im-
portance. The herding together of
patients at Rosemount, which is in the
city area, the proximity of the slight
cases to hopeless ones, lack of a suitable
dining-room for walking patients and
lack of facilities for rehabilitation all act
as deterrents to the work of the medical
staff.—K. C. C. (Q.).
Russo mania
Why this orgy of eulogising Russia
throughout the length and breadth of
Australia? Every daily newspaper has
Russia’s deeds emblazoned across the
main news pages in sensational-size type,
and the weeklies devote considerable news
space and editorials thereto. But the
ferocious battle being waged in Italy
(where there are no Russians) gets no
more space than a private backyard
brawl, and the fighting in the whole of
the s.-w. Pacific, Burma and China (in
which, of course, the Russians are not
concerned, but where hundreds of thou-
sands of British and American service-
men are engaged), also the tremendous
activities of the R.A.F., U.S.A.F. and
R.A.AF., receive scant mention in com-
parison.
In addition to the space given on the
main news pages, leaders lauding Russia
are prevalent, and contributed articles of
the same calibre appear throughout the
papers, despite war-time curtailment in
size. Almost every wireless station adopts
a similar attitude.
Australian communists and others with
leanings in that direction must feel elated.
You can hear young people saying “The
Russians are the best soldiers in the
world ; Russia is the greatest country in
the world ; Russia will win the war” ; and
so forth. And all because of this news-
paper and radio discrimination.
When Germany first attacked Russia
the Soviet was reputed to have the
greatest army and the greatest number
of tanks and ’planes in the world. Yet
it suffered tremendous defeats and could
scarcely have rallied without the immense
moral and material assistance furnished
by Britain and America.
Let us hear and read more of Britain
and America and build up within our
country that loyalty to and admiration
of the English-speaking nations to which
we owe so much. —Ist A.I.F. (Q.).
Poland and the Allies
In an address to Congress after Yalta
President Roosevelt said “The Crimean
conference spells the end of the system
of unilateral action, exclusive alliances,
spheres of influence and the balance of
power.” Then: “Three of the most power-
ful nations have agreed that the political
and economic problems of any of the
liberated areas or former Axis satellites
“I dialed the Wrong number , so Tm just getting my pennies hack."
are the joint responsibility of all three
Governments.”
How can that be “the end of exclu-
sive alliances?” No one could imagine
a more exclusive agreement. Polish
representations were brushed aside. No
“spheres of influence” —yet Poland’s poli-
tical and economic problems are not to
be settled by her own Government, but
by foreigners.
If President Roosevelt really is “con-
vinced that the Polish agreement under
the circumstances is the most hopeful
possible for a free, independent and
prosperous Polish State,” I am afraid his
conviction will not be shared by the
Poles themselves.
If one wishes for evidence of the pres-
ence of foreign influence in liberated ter-
ritory, let him listen to the short-wave
Radio Lublin in Poland, whose “sessions”
terminate with the firing of guns and
the Soviet Anthem—F. Collins (Q.).
Why Not Try Christianity?
In the realm of national and inter-
national relationships, and in framing the
domestic and foreign policies of Govern-
ments, the Christian fundamentals pro-
pounded nearly 2000 years ago and codi-
fied in the Gospels should be the guiding
principles.
Let me quote G. B. Shaw, not as an
ardent Christian, but as an expounder of
plain commonsense:
Why not give Christianity a trial? The
question seems hopeless after 2000 years of
resolute adherence to the old cry of “not
this Man, but Barabbas.” Yet “this Man”
has not been a failure, for no one has been
sane enough to try His way. I am ready
it admit that I see no way out of the world’s
miseries but the way which would have
been found by Christ’s will, if He had
undertaken the work of a practical states-
man.
—Padre (R.A.A.F.)..,
Hume Weir
No decision has yet been reached about
raising the level of the Hume Weir, but
negotiations are proceeding. The three
State Governments, parties with the Com-
monwealth Government to the River
Murray Agreement Act, have the right
under this Act to make the decision so
long as they accept responsibility for the
costs of the project.
It has been stated that the Common-
wealth authorities, approached for finance,
indicated willingness subject to certain
considerations:
(1) Irrigation waters to be used for the
growing of “approved crops,”
(2) Irrigation to be applied only to land
where there has been a prior soil survey.
(3) Agreement on non-Govemmenf pump-
ing licenses,
(4) Approved action and control in the
watershed areas.
The catch is that there is apparently
little difference between the meanings of
“approved” crops and “controlled” crops,
and the growing of crops under direction
of a controlling authority is hardly better
than serfdom for the farmers. Coming
from a Government which aspires to con-
trol everything, from the banks and air-
ways down to the size and shape of lolly
pigs, financial assistance on these terms,
if accepted, would pave the way to
further socialisation. The States should
reject it.— Esk D. (Vic.).
Land Loss
“Jock Pick” (B. 21/2/’45) ladles out
the blame for erosion with fine impar-
tiality, but has no recipe for reform save
under-stocking.
He is unfair to Adelaide “Advertiser,”
at any rate. That paper sent a special
representative to report on soil erosion
from Murray Bridge to the border, north
to Broken Hill, and back to Adelaide
via the upper-mid- and lower-north. This
man reported facts, and editorial com-
ments on his facts were very sound. That
was not sensation-mongering.
Soil Conservator R. I. Herriot has
pointed out that the right time to deal
with erosion is in good years, not in a
drought. Nevertheless, Mr. Herriot, with
limited resources, and all the disabilities
incidental to war, is doing jolly good
work and getting results. In the Murray
Mallee the planting of rye grass has been
proved a success. There are a shortage of
seed, a shortage of super and a shortage
of moisture to germinate the seed, but a
start has been made.
To revert to “Jock Pick,” the increase
of flocks is not invariably “exploitation.”
Topdressing, subdivision, rotational graz-
ing have all contributed. Dash it all,
aren’t we farmers allowed any credit?
With the breaking of the drought much
of the present devastation will disappear
automatically. Then, if we do not take
advantage of our chance to consolidate
and extend our areas of reclamation
blame will certainly be in order. But I
have faith in the future —in South Aus-
tralia, at any rate. — Fodgie (S.A.).
Does Overstocking Cause Erosion?
It is possible to be too dogmatic about
causes of erosion. What’s true of one
region may not apply to another. It
seems generally accepted that man is the
basic culprit, mainly through overstock-
ing. But while this may be so in some
districts, just the reverse applies in others.
I have seen it just as conclusively
proved that on the loose open downs of
Central and n.-w. Queensland judicious
heavy overstocking—that is, after rain—
has tightened the ground, thus holding
moisture better and establishing and pre-
serving a heavy body of grass, than which
there is no better anti-erosive agent.
Subdividing into small paddocks, water-
ing as centrally as possible and then
doing heavy rotational grazing would go
a long way towards arresting further
erosion.
As for duststorms, there are re-
corded all through Australia’s early his-
tory (Mark Twain mentions them in A
Tramp Abroad), and can hardly be cited
as some recent manifestation of man’s
destructiveness. Edward W. Cowen
(Q.).
Tobacco Marketing
Mareeba (N.Q.) being the largest
tobacco centre in the north, why doesn’t
the Government allow tobacco to be
sold there instead of sending it south?
Growers, if that were the practice, could
hold the various types of leaf that are
not saleable at the moment, and a cons
siderable amount of unnecessary expense
could be saved. — Bennie (Q.).
Red-tape in a Tangle
The right hand .doesn’t know what the
left hand doeth in the muddle of State
and Federal departments.
1 wanted information as to how
to heat a hothouse for raising winter
vegetables and early seedlings, and I
rang up the horticultural section of
the Department of Agriculture in
my city. I was told that I wouldn’t find
the necessary boiler and equipment any-
where in the city, and even if I did I
would be refused a release by the Federal
authority, because growing winter vege-
tables was a luxury, not an essential ser-
vice. I was so discouraged that I almost
decided to give up the notion.
However, I called on a firm supplying
the sort of thing I wanted. The manager
was mildly surprised at my experiences.
He said he could supply any number of
boilers, and had disposed of over 30 in
three months. He was emphatic that no
question of priority or permit entered into
the matter. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
N.T. Handicaps
Practically all the disabilities of the
N.T. have been due to interference by
Canberra authorities ignorant of Terri-
tory conditions.
Peanuts were not handicapped by
“black” labor. The aboriginals employed
were pure-blooded Australians, and were
entitled to work on the farms. Territory
peanuts ripened before Queensland nuts
did, and when shipped at the right time
took the highest price in the southern
markets. But shipping was done by Gov-
ernment boat, and that boat was so often
late that the nuts missed the first of the
markets and thus sold at prices which
did not pay.
No care was taken with shipments. In
one case a settler sent away over a ton
of carefully hand picked nuts. Owing
to carelessness for which he was not
responsible the nuts arrived at Darwin in
such bad condition that only 2001 b. of
second-class nuts was finally shipped.
Yet the settler was charged full freight
and shipping charges on the ton that he
sent to Darwin. Nor is this an isolated
case.
The Government erected a ginnqry to
deal with the settlers’ cotton, which it
intended to market on their behalf. One
settler sent 20 big bales of cotton, only
to be told that insufficient cotton was on
hand to pay for ginning it, and that his
lot would be held over till the following
year. Next year it was ginned and
marketed, and the grower received a state-
ment from the Government in which he
was charged for freight, commission and
storage of cotton for 12 months. He was
£5 out of pocket.
Settlers, advised and assisted by their
member, Blain, arranged for the ship-
ment of live cattle to the N.E.1., even to
the chartering of suitable cattleboats.
Everything was prepared, markets were
ready, cattle en route to the shipping
centre (Darwin), cattleboats on the way
to the port, when Canberra cancelled the
whole business.
As to mining, the surface of the Terri-
tory has been only scratched. Want of
transport and distance from markets have
prevented many mines from being de-
veloped as fully as they should have been.
Japanese from Palau and other islands
have done much to handicap the full
development of the pearling industry.
* If, as “Nodup” (B. 28/2/’45) asserts,
the heat of the Territory is so dreadful
and the children so listless, how is it that
medical inspection of Territory children
proves them to be heavier and taller than
Victorian children of equal age? An
average Territory child of ten is equal
in height and weight to an average Vic-
torian child of 12, and the general health
of Territory children is excellent—Win-
gella (N.S.W.).


\
A/j
v:
s»
wmm
/ * '//
z^"v
„ ■ '-r-v* .- -r"
■ •
2^>
«5K
8?
%3=2
1
c^y— ——»w, ** ' "*
2^f
Sc-
%\
w
UURING THE WAR amazing progress has been
made in every branch of wireless —at sea, on land and
in the air.
In this work the extensive research and manufacturing
organisation of A.W.A. is playing an important part.
It is to-day producing in ever-increasing quantities
high-grade wireless equipment for the Navy, Army,
and Air Forces of the Allied Nations, as Veil as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communication
Services.
When Victory is ours, most of these wartime develop-
ments will be applied in giving the public better service
in communications, in broadcast transmission and
reception, and in other phases of wireless.
The post-war Radiola , incorporating many
wartime technical developments, will again take
its place as “Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
