

GRAPE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3414
Wednesday, July 18, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
COWDRAY HOUSE.
r'OWDRAY HOUSE lies a quarter of a mile east of Midhurst,
t in Sussex. The house was begun by Sir William Fitzwilliam,
to whom Henry VIII granted a royal patent in the early years of
his reign for the enlarging of the park and the building of a castle.
On the death of Sir William without issue the estate went to his
half-brother, Sir Anthony Brown. The house was
by a royal visit., Edward VI, in 1547, speaks of the goodly house
of Sir Anthony Brown’s, where we were marvellously, yea, rath
excessively, banqueted.” Queen Elizabeth was entertained at
Cowdray forty-four years later by Viscount Montague, son of Sir
Anthony. In the addresses presented to the Queen she was spoken
of as ‘The Miracle of Time,” “Nature’s Glory,” ‘Fortunes
c DCC ” “The World’s. Wonder ” She stayed for a week, chiefly
shooting paik^aod^Qu e6ll ElLbeth’s Oak” against
which she rested her bow, is still standing. The e^s torv of
geously decorated, the hall and staircase painte Holbein
Tancred and Clarinda from Tasso, the par or adorned by
and full of works of art brought from Thejam g
were saved through the Civil War by a coat o pa tQ t^e
laid over the stucco. The house was burnt m 1 £ news
carelessness of some workmen. A few days ,
had reached him, the owner, young Viscount Montague^was
drowned while attempting to shoot the falls which a monk
hausen. Thus was marvellously fulfilled t Abbot’s Hall
laid upon Sir Anthony when he was feasting in the Hall
at Battle. He was retaining the Church lands of Battte Abbey,
and the monk prophesied before all his guests. y , , ~,
thy line Tali come to an end, and it shall perish out of the land.


IkJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. *245 AGE
The Red Page
"THE BULLETIN" TODAY.
The simplest way to discover what The
Bulletin is doing for Australian litera-
ture today is to look at a copy of the
paper. Last week’s issue (July 11) will do
as well as any.
There was a short story by Cecil
Mann ; poems by F. Webb, Norma Davis
and Flight-Lieutenant L. W. Carroll; on
the Red Page there were reviews of a
new novel by Eleanor Dark, a book of
sketches of Australia in the ’nineties
edited by L. L. Politzer, short notices of
children’s books by Leslie Rees and
Mary Finnin, and paragraphs giving an
Australia-wide coverage of - art, music and
professional and amateur stage shows.
There were the usual “Answers to Corre-
spondents.” %
It was an average issue of the paper-
in its temporarily reduced form, necessi-
tated by war-time shortages, and by the
fact that a good many Bulletin men are
still away with the fighting forces.
It is worth considering exactly what
an “average issue” of The Bulletin
really is. To take first what may seem
least important; the “Answers to Cor-
respondents” feature, probably regarded
by most readers (even some of those
whose initials appear in it) as light enter-
tainment, is far more than that; for it
means that this paper is still inviting con-
tributions of verse and prose, still seek-
ing to maintain the highest standards and
still anxious to help the beginner on his
way, by publication if he is ready for it,
by criticism if he is not. It means, too,
that writers from all over Australia and
New Zealand are glad to accept that
invitation.
Next, the reviews. All the books were
published in Australia, all are by Austra-
lian writers —two from Victoria and two
from New South Wales. Mrs. Dark’s
was the latest Australian novel of im-
portance, dealing with Sydney in the
present war ; Mr. Politzer’s translations
from Stefan Kotze dealt with the out-
back of the ’nineties. In short, though
endeavoring to judge by world standards
and also to keep its readers in touch
with current literature overseas, the Red
Page is still giving preference to Austra-
lian literature and is interested in all
manifestations of the Australian spirit—
the tradition of the past and the move-
ment of the present.
Next, the contributions. Mr. Mann
is, of course, a Bulletin staff writer.
The Bulletin does not apologise for
having a writer or two on its staff —eight
members, as it happens, are the authors
of published books —but in that respect
the July 11 issue was not wholly typical:
50 weeks of the year the short stories are
contributed by writers in no way directly
connected with this paper.
Of the verse contributions, two were
by members of the R.A.A.F., the other
by a Tasmanian woman. The most inter-
esting, perhaps—Norma Davis having,
through The Bulletin, established her
reputation—was the poem by F. Webb.
Webb is a very young writer who first
came under this paper’s notice when he
was seventeen. A few of his poems have
appeared at intervals over the last couple
of years while he has been with the
R.A.A.F. and, back from Canada, he
called in at this office for advice on get-
ting a book published. Under his wing
he had a dozen new poems of much
promise—a bit difficult, but of remark-
able strength and with captivating
touches of humor. The Bulletin bought
eight of his verses in a bunch and will
see that his book gets published.
Well, that is one week’s service by
The Bulletin to Australian literature: a
direct and practical encouragement to
the novel and the drama, poetry and the
short story; to the established writer
and th£ youngest aspirant; a survey
and a fostering of all the arts all over
the country; an attempt both in criti-
cism and in the published contributions
to maintain the highest standards.
To appreciate that service in correct
perspective, two other facts should be
realised: that it is almost exclusive, and
that it is continuous. The Bulletin is
published not just one week in the year;
but every week, and year after year.
The results of its efforts in the war
years may conveniently be measured in
the anthology Poets at War, published by
Georgian House, Melbourne. It would
seem, perhaps, like the familiar self-
boosting of the daily newspapers to claim
that the whole movement of soldier
poetry in this war was sustained —and
largely originated—by the publication of
a series of Red Pages given over to the
A.I.F. Yet the soldier poets themselves
—Maurice Biggs, Eric Irvin, J. Alex.
Allan, John Quinn, Peter Middleton,
David Campbell—would hardly deny it.
From the balladist Tip Kelaher to the
latest notable recruit Val Vallis, this
paper published them all; and did much,
too, to help their verses into books.
Twenty-eight of the verses in Poets at
War came from The Bulletin.
From the official army journal “Salt”
—which one might have expected to have
more than any other publication—came
eleven; from “Meanjin Papers” four;
from “Poetry” four, including one re-
printed from The Bulletin ; from the
“A.B.C. Weekly,” Sydney “Morning
Herald,” Sydney “Daily Telegraph” and
“Angry Penguins” one poem each.
Statistics from the anthologies Coast
to Coast and Australian Poetry are
equally illuminating. Three issues of
each have been published, with a total
of 66 short stories and 97 poems. Some-
thing more than a third of each came
from The Bulletin— 26 of the stories
and 39 of the poems. Many writers in
Coast to Coast —Margaret Trist and
Myra Morris in the first issue are
examples—are regular Bulletin contri-
butors, represented by stories that for
one reason or another have not appeared
here. If they are claimed as Bulletin.
writers —as is reasonable —this paper’s
contribution to the anthologies goes up in
each case to more than two-thirds of the
total. Forty-eight of the 66 stories and
66 of the 97 poems are by Bulletin
writers.
Detailed acknowledgments not having
been made, it is not possible to say how
many of the poems have come from
other newspapers; since soldier verses
have had a better hearing than poetry
generally from the dailies, it is safe to
assume that the ordinary newspaper con-
tribution to Australian Poetry is in-
finitesimal. Contributions by other news-
papers to Coast to Coast in the three
years of its existence have been; “The
Home,” four; “Smith’s Weekly,” two ;
“A.B.C. Weekly,” two ; Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald,” Melbourne “Herald,”
“Southerly,” “Man,” New Zealand
“Listener” and Decade of Short Stories
(U.S.A.) one each ; other newspapers nil.
Had The Bulletin’s direct contribu-
tion to these two anthologies been no
more than, say, Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph’s” that is, nothing the fact
would still have to be recorded that they
are an expression of this paper’s energy ;
for The Bulletin, in co-opefation with
Angus and Robertson, founded them.
They originated in this way: at a time
when an issue of C. A. Marris’s New
Zealand Best Poems had been reviewed
on the Red Page a discussion took place
in this office on the necessity for a simi-
lar anthology for Australia. John
Brennan, who was then looking after
short stories —he is now, as an American
paper put it, making a “legend” of him-
self reporting the war in the Pacific —
suggested that a story anthology was also
needed. An article was printed on the
Red Page commending the idea of twin
anthologies to the Fellowship of Writers
and the Commonwealth Literary Fund.
From the Fellowship of Writers and
the Commonwealth Fund came a deaf-
ening silence. But the present publishers
of the anthologies' were interested ; dis-
cussions with The Bulletin took place ;
and —to set the scheme on its feet—two
members of The Bulletin staff agreed
to edit the. first numbers. That is how
Australian literature came to have Coast
to Coast and Australian Poetry.
The story takes one for a moment
behind the scenes in the Australian pub-
lishing world. And it is necessary to
spend a good many moments there to
understand fully how big a part The
Bulletin plays in Australian publishing
today. To study one week’s issue or to
analyse the contents-lists of anthologies
tells only what should be obvious to
anyone.
But what is not so obvious is, for in-
stance, that Lawson Glassop’s We Were
the Rats owes its publication largely to
The Bulletin. Somebody delivered to
the office a vast and dilapidated bundle
of MSS. with a request that it should be
handed to Norman Lindsay. Mr. Lindsay
and another Bulletin staff man fought
their way through the heap, decided it
had the makings of an outstanding novel,
helped Lawson Glassop revise and sub-
edit it, and then delivered it, with appro-
priate recommendations, to the publisher
Mr. Glassop selected. Much the same
process was followed with Margaret
Trist’s Now That We’re Laughing; with
Kenneth Mackenzie’s The Moonlit
Doorway; with a collection of Brian
James’s short stories shortly to be pub-
lished.
In the case of the sea-story writer
“Standby” (as with half a dozen books
of verse published by Dymock’s in the
last year, Rosemary Dobson’s and F.
John Blight’s among them), The Bulle-
tin “discovered” the writer, published
his work, advised him to try it on a book-
publisher, recommended it strongly when
the publisher made inquiries; and will
conclude the affair by reviewing his book
when it appears.
This sort of assistance has not been
confined to specifically Bulletin writers.
This paper knew nothing of Lawson
Glassop until his manuscript turned up.
Among republished work during the last
year (not counting Such Is Life, an old
Bulletin discovery) the most distin-
guished contribution was Kenneth Sles-
sor’s 100 Poems. Mr. Slessor, as a jour-
nalist, has been chiefly associated with
“Smith’s Weekly.” The suggestion . that
. a collected edition of his poems was due
came from Mr. Ronald McCuaig, and
was arranged by consultation with The
Bulletin and the publishers. The Red
Page has given two full-page reviews of
Slessor’s poetry.
Those are behind-the-scenes activities ;
all recent ones. It should be realised that
they are merely the continuation of a
policy of fostering Australian literature
that has never altered since The Bulle-
tin was founded ; a policy that has never
at any time in the paper’s history been
operated with more vigor than in the last
twenty years. On March 14, 1928, the
Red Page announced:
The Bulletin realises that the time has
come when something should be done for
the long story and the long-story writer.
It therefore announces a competition for a
full-length novel with prizes so substantial
that it believes the very best of which Aus-
tralia is capable will be forthcoming. A
minimum of £l7OO will be distributed
over a period of three years.
So were inaugurated the series of Bul-
letin novel competitions which, merging
into the S. H. Prior Prize, have continued
to this day.
In the first competition M. Barnard
Eldershaw’s A House Is Built and Katha-
rine Prichard’s Coonardoo (the prize
money having been increased by £250)
were awarded £5OO each. Third prize
went to Vance Palmer’s Men Are Human.
The second Bulletin novel competi-
tion closed on December 31, 1929. The
first prize (£400) went to Vance Palmer’s
The Passage, second (£250) to K. G. Tay-
lor’s Wards of the Outer March, third
(£100) to J. J. Hardie’s Cattle Camp.
S. H. Prior Prize winners, each receiv-
ing £lOO, have been: 1935, Kylie Tennant
(Tiburon ); 1936, Miles Franklin {All
That Swagger) ; 1939, Miles Franklin
{Who Was Joseph Furphy ?) ; 1940, Eye
Langley (The Pea-Pickers ), M. H. Ellis
(Lacldmv Macquarie), Kylie Tennant (The
Battlers) ; 1941, Gavin Casey (It’s Harder
for Girls).
Some of the prize-winning novels were
published as serials, The Bulletin pay-
ing normal space rates for them in addi-
tion to the prize-money. Other novels —
usually entries from the competitions—
which have been brought to public notice
as Bulletin serials include: Bracken, by
Bernard Cronin; Paradise Plumes, by
Gilbert Munro Turnbull; Thirty Pieces
of Silver and One Punch Patsy, by Mon-
tague Grover ; Break o’ Day, by John
Crisp ; No Escape, by Velia Ercole ; A
Rogue in Amber, by J. B. Cooper ; Alien
Corn, by G. M. Turnbull; Dope, by
Grantley Lorrens ; Men Among Pearls,
by Henrietta Drake-Brockman ; Amathea,
by Henry Lamond; Island Heritage, by
Alison Smith ; The Bridle Track, by J. J.
Hardie ; The Papuan, by Monte Holcroft;
I Sold My Horses, by Eric Lowe ; Legend
For Sapderson, by Vance Palmer; No
'Train on Tuesday, by J. B. Blair;
Promeftade, by G. B. Lancaster.
* Into this period of the last twenty years
comes also the story of The Bulletin’s
Endeavour Press. It gave to Australian
literature, along with poetry and belles
lettres, such novels as G. B. Lancaster’s
Pageant and The World is Yours, Brian
Penton’s Landtakers, Stewart Howard’s
Forty Six, F. S. Kibble’s Karangi, Nor-
man Lindsay’s Saturdee, Louis Stone's
Jonah (reprint), Bernard Cronin’s The
Sow’s Ear, R. D. Tate’s The Doughman,
Mary Marlowe’s Psalmist of the Dawn,
Jessie Urquhart’s Giving Amber Her
Chance, Miles Franklin’s Bring the Mon-
key, Henrietta Drake-Brockman’s Blue
North, H. C. Brewster’s Pearls of Papua;
also the Prior Prize-winners All That
Swagger and Tiburon. Among the books
of verse published were E. J. Brady’s
Wardens of the Seas and “Banjo” Pater-
son’s The Animals Noah Forgot; among
children’s books, Mary and Elizabeth
Durack’s Walkabout and Chunuma.
These are the facts —some of them —of
what The Bulletin is doing for Aus-
tralian literature. They prove, surely,
that ten years ago, as in Edmond’s, in
Archibald’s and A. G. Stephens’s time,
and now as ten years ago, in poetry, in
the short story and in the novel, the main-
spring of Australian literature is The
Bulletin.
There is a belief most vigorously main-
tained in this office that The Bulletin
today is what it always has been. In
certain quarters the contrary opinion is
held that The Bulletin is “not what it
used to be.” A cynic might attribute
both beliefs to human frailty: men like
to believe in their work: ageing men
hunger for the past; and —the most voci-
ferous of The Bulletin’s critics are
always writers it has helped—gratitude
is an emotion difficult to sustain. The
test lies in the facts; which demonstrate
that if The Bulletin is not what it was,
then the fault lies not with this paper
but with Australian literature. Now, as
at all times, The Bulletin publishes and
encourages the best work the country can
produce.
Has Australian literature then fallen off
in quality? Time will give the answer;
but in the meantime it is not wise to
underrate—from jealousy or caution or
the mere inability to see clearly what is
under one’s nose —the prose and poetry
of our own time. When time has done
its winnowing and sifting “great” periods
are hallmarked by surprisingly few names.
Of the greatest of all times in English
literature, the general public knows one
name —Shakspeare ; the cultured reader
knows perhaps a dozen. From what is
now believed to be the “golden age” of
Australian literature there survive what
names? Henry Lawson, Tom Collins,
Bernard O’Dowd, “Banjo” Paterson, C. J.
Brennan, Shaw Neilson, Hugh McCrae.
Those are the “giants.” They were
not so readily recognised as such in their
own period. The writer from the ’nine-
ties examined on last week’s Red Page
had set down Lawson and Marcus Clark
as “mediocrities.” We can be sure that
writers of the present day are similarly
under-rated.
It would be a bold (and a foolish) man
who would dismiss a Slessor poem as
inferior to a Erenna.n, a Fitz Gerald to an
O’Dowd. London “Times” (literary sup-
plement, March 31, 1945) believes that
the. Australian short story is “equal to
and sometimes better than the current
English short story.” In fifty years’ time
the present Bulletin’s cultural stature
may be measured by its association with
Norman Lindsay; Brian James may well
rank with Lawson, Eve Langley with
Tom Collins. The awakening of New
Zealand literature, demonstrated in The
Bulletin by the poems of J. R. Hervey
and Arnold Wall, short stories of
Roderick Finlayson, Frank Sargeson, Olaf
Ruhen, A. P. Gaskell and J. H. Melville,
may be found quite as important as the
Australian emergence of the “golden age”
—certainly more important than the fact
that “Ern Malley” skittled the “Angry
Penguins,” which is about the only liter-
ary event of our time that really inter-
ested the dailies, and which even the
literary magazines still find exciting.
In the lists of Bulletin and Prior Prize
winners and among the Endeavour Press
publications there are not one but a dozen
classics. As these things are measured by
posterity, we are living in a rich and fer-
tile period of Australian literature; and
The Bulletin, as always, is at the heart
of it.
Landscapes by Sid Long are on view
at Murdoch’s gallery, Sydney. Mr. Long
occupies a niche of his own in Australian
art, devoting, as he does, superb technical
resources to the exposition of certain
aspects of landscape that particularly
appeal to his sense of beauty. Some of
his characteristic mannerisms —his treat-
ment of foliage, for instance —are not im-
mediately appealing, but the more one
studies Sid Long’s landscapes the more
likely is one to find them verified by
Nature. *
“A.W.”: Noel Mewton-Wood, Aus-
tralian-born pianist who has returned
under A.B.C. auspices to charm his native
land with his playing, has the happy,
almost boyish temperament of a Percy
Grainger combined with the technique of
a Schnabel. He has understanding and
sympathy, and in his second Sydney
recital identified himself successfully with
Bach, Beethoven and Schumann. Bach-
playing is usually regarded as a test of
scholarship ; Beethoven-playing (particu-
larly when the vehicle, as in Mewton-
Wood’s case, is the Thirty-three Varia-
tions) as a gauge of power and resource.
But Schumann, most lovable, most
human of the musical immortals, requires
heart, and this Mewton-Wood possesses.
His treatment of the varying moods of the
“Davidsbundler” presented Schumann at
his best, and ideally. This pianist enjoys
bravura passages and florid playing of all
sorts and his enthusiasm enhances that
of his audience.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE'
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
x 121 Years of Service
m i
mm
tm
\
■&. i
&
6
o r<
w
m
*ssm
III
,t "•’ i
mm Mmmmi I*
11
m
\ '&i . -
: v
■
11 I
n
II
m : :
HE
■
*
Q/0
m
m
mm
J8>
I
IJ&e
*
iO T
<>V,
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
*
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, C.P.O., SYDNEY
"NASON’S” DANDRUFF REMEDY. It corrects
dandruff, cleanses the scalp, and restores the hair
to its natural colour. A perfect Hair Dressing for
men and women. Price 3/ll
"LE CHARME” HAND LOTION, for the
preservation of the hands and skin. Price . . 2/8
t
"LE CHARME” HAIR TONIC gives the hair
new life, stops falling hair and also retards greyness.
Price 4/9y
"McMAHON’S” HAIR RESTORER, stimulates
the growth, removes dandruff, and makes the hair
soft and lustrous. Price 51—
"LA VANITE” SHAMPOO, prepared from
cocoanut oil, olive oil and te-tree oil. Antiseptic,
cleansing and invigorating. Price 4/11
ORANGE BLOSSOM HAND LOTION BY
"CELEBRITY.” Delicately perfumed. For
softening and whitening the hands, and prevents
roughness. Price 3/6
"MYLETO,” prepared in England. Brings back
the natural charm and colour to faded hair, is an
excellent dressing. Price 2/6
• Chemistry —Ground Floor.
POSTAGE EXTRA.


/■■V.
%
C
o
o
o
o.
O
Oooo<®
v
ft'tiSSm
v
msm
I
/I
G
MS
,*■■■-•■
\
-V 1
m
si ll
r
r i
>
V
I
' •
Wssi
:
SK.j
V
SSSSB
\
5?
S 4
K
1
li
&' V.
/ /
r / I v \ ’
/if __ \
*
:¥' J ,
(
1 A )
y
/>» "s
}
J
r
f
’
■il:*
HBBMH
&sn»
••; *•■- r^ - ' • '/■-.< ' ’ 'i.
/C^
LCS
M •
~' jO*"
v'v^:
3
. I
V W
V
0
m
■
F. B. 2
n
r ir
£
f
r r
OTHER FAMOUS PRODUCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . , . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT ...... ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE .... ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
V. & A. 61 Lin 11 111 TIB
ROSSLYN ST., WEST MELBOURNE REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams & Cables: Gilbeys''Melbourne Telegrams & Cables: "Gilbeys” Sydney


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3414
Wednesday, July 18, 1945
“SAWING A WOMAN IN HALF.”
“Isn’t that too much left of centre. Winston? And isn’t he being a lot too realistic?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan's Buildings C opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
FACTS AT LAST!
No English-speaking correspondent was
ever permitted to see the Red Army in
action, but some have set down short
studies of it, made at first or second
hand (their informants in the latter case
being Anglo-American officers in the
Elbe region), since Germany gave in. A
material point on which they all agree is
that its transport, other than that for
which it was indebted to Britain and the
United States, chiefly, of course, the
latter country, was primitive.
In the words of the American Wes
Gallagher, “a very large proportion of
Russian guns and transport is horse-
drawn.” Mr. Gallagher did not mention
that motive power was supplied by other
four-footed beasts, but the illustrated
press of his country has had pictures of
camels from the Caspian or beyond it
taking part in the movements of the
hosts from the steppes. He did say, how-
ever, that the Russian supply system was
archaic, judged by Anglo-American
standards; “the Russians live off the
land, and the Red supply tonnage per
division must be less than half of what
it takes to supply an American force in
the field.” And he or his informants
found it “easy to understand how in the
heyday of the Luftwaffe German ’planes
were able to tear Russian supply lines to
pieces.”
Even when the Red Army “got air
superiority,” thanks to the many thou-
sands of aircraft received from the
U.S.A. and Britain and the beating down
of the greater part of the Luftwaffe by
the R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F., its use of
air power was defective;
Close Russian air co-operation with the
ground forces did not' appear to pack the
hitting power of British and American
efforts.... The Russians did not use any
Cub ’planes along the Elbe to direct artillery
fire, which was not as accurate as Ameri-
can artillery fire. They appeared to depend
solely on ground observers. In the final
battle at Tangermuende their artillery and
mortar fire was extremely spotty against
easy targets.
Mr. Gallagher likened the Red Army
on the move to “a huge gipsy camp, with
soldiers hanging on running-boards of
captured cars, draped over the fenders
and lying on wagons.” But its numbers
are immense, and “the Germans have
said they were defeated because they
were overwhelmed at critical points, with
the infantry attacking regardless of
losses.” Another version, not Mr. Gal-
lagher’s or the enemy’s, is that Russian
methods of warfare resemble those of
Xerxes, the object being to be stronger
by weight of numbers at a given point.
The difference is that Xerxes had no
allies like the British Empire and the
United States.
The impressions of the Australian Osmar
White, transmitted from Berlin to the
Melbourne “Herald,” are much the same
as those of Mr. Gallagher. “Seen in the
occupied areas of Germany,” he writes,
“the Red Army is by Anglo-American
standards a poorly equipped, ragged
army. "By comparison with the columns
of crack British and American troops
who have been marching into Berlin,
these men look an ill-equipped rabble,
their uniforms dirty and threadbare,
their transport a hotchpotch of anti-
quated trucks and horse-drawn wagons.
Even a couple of batteries of the famed
Soviet field artillery were as muddy and
unkempt-looking as if they had just
come from a winter battle.”
What is the answer to the riddle of the
Red Army? If any answer exists it may
be found in the broad, hard faces of the
soldiers, their impassive regard and the
indomitable cockiness with which they hold
themselves under their shoddy, grease-
shined jackets.
Another answer may be found in the
moral effect of the alliance with invin-
cible Britain and America, in the vast
amount of equipment and general sup-
plies they carried to Russia in their own
ships, in the supremacy they gained on
the sea and in the air, and in the tre-
mendous series of victories which took
them from El Alamein to Cape Bon,
from Anzio to beyond the Po, and from
the Normandy beaches to the Rhine
crossing and thence to Hamburg, Bremen
and the Elbe, till the Americans stopped
on that line so that the Russians might
get to Berlin first.
Mr. White noted that many of the
“antiquated trucks and horse-drawn
wagons” were “loaded with domestic fur-
niture which the new owners apparently
fancied would be useful in their new
quarters” ; and he elaborated this part
of his story, introducing darker colors:
The Russians have systematically looted
their areas of occupation in Germany. They
have removed from factories every piece of
machinery which can be transported and
used by Russian industry, and stripped tens
of thousands of German homes of personal
effects and even the clothing of the occu-
pants. Soviet soldiers admitted this frankly,
saying they felt fully justified because the
Germans had done as much or worse in
Russia.
Evidence has also been given that Russian
soldiers, after the fall of Berlin, indulged in
orgies of drunkenness and rape which
spared hardly any part of the population.
Discounting to the full malicious and often
wild exaggerations, it is my honest belief
that German women were terrorised and
treated with brutality by the Soviet
soldiery in the flush of victory.
The troops, of Alexander I, though in
the conduct of Napoleon’s Grand Army
they had many crimes to avenge, behaved
far better in defeated France 131 years
ago. Yet, according to the communist
story, repeated ad nauseam by papers
like the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” the
Russians were illiterate barbarians till
the Marxists came along with their mag-
nificent schools and things and made
them all perfect little socialist gentlemen,
full of courtesy and culture and all that.
Another witness to the state of the
Red Army is a returned p.-0.-w.. Gunner
Cox, of the Third Tank Attack Unit,
A.I.F. His service dates back to the be-
ginning of the German war. He was an
observer during Wavell’s first attack on
Sidi Barrani in December, 1940. He was
in Tobruk. Taken prisoner, he worked in
Polish coalmines and escaped when the
Russians overran Poland. He had had
plenty of opportunity to see a section of
the Red Army, for he was taken from
Cracow northward to Warsaw, out to
Bielystok and then down to Odessa, his
adventures covering two months.
In a Sydney Legacy Club address
Gunner Cox described the Red Army on
the march as looking like “a procession
of Wirths’ circuses.” All its tinned food
and clothing and most of its motor trans-
port were American ; its other transport
was of all sorts (“I even saw a camel”) and
its traffic so clogged the roads that “had
there been even one German ’plane about
progress would have been impossible.”
The officers he saw were “efficient and
smart, but ruthless” ; the soldiers were
“slovenly,” most of tfiem dirty fellows “of
the Mongol type: I saw them commit all
kinds of acts of indecency.” Some “had
their women with them” ; in fact, “I saw
tanks with men and women on them,
mixed all up together.”
In a talk with “Ek Dum” Gunner Cox
confirmed that writer’s frequent diag-
nosis of the nature of the Russian ad-
vances —the swarming forward of vast
hordes of half-trained troops, pouring
over positions like ants in such numbers
that, no matter how many were killed,
there were still more to roll on. There
were no Red Cross parcels for Russian
prisoners in German hands. As for
Allied prisoners who fell into Russian
hands, among them some Australians,
Maorilanders and British, they were
treated with utter lack of consideration.
Some had difficulty in getting away from
their rescuers. They were given little or
no food, and were told they must fend
for themselves. They had to sell clothes
to buy food.
This tank man came across none of
the Stalin tanks extolled by members of
the correspondents’ corps at Moscow. The
only heavy tanks he saw were U.S. Sher-
mans ; compared to them the Russian
tanks were old-fashioned and “tinny,”
lightly protected and lightly gunned.
There were no air cover and no air spear-
head, nor was there any modern rocket
equipment of the type commonplace on
the Western Front.
The commissariat was on the same
plane with the rest of the business. The
rank and file had little to eat save a
handful of barley. Their officers fared
better, but the great mass of the P. 8.1.
lived and were expected to live off the
country through which they passed.
They could scarcely have turned back
because they had cleaned up the land
behind them; there was nothing to eat
in it and no organisation to feed them.
As for Russian treatment of “liberated”
Allied p.-0.-w. and of Britons sent into
Russian-occupied country to protect
them, the Foreign Office has had some-
thing to say, having been goaded into it
by Moscow allegations of “mistreatment”
and tardy repatriation of Russians in
Anglo-American custody.
Australians have heard little or nothing
about the Foreign Office statement (this
applies also to General Bradley’s revela-
tion that the Americans alone captured
150,000 Russians in German uniforms
and that a party of these Russians, taken
to the U.S.A., revolted, some hanging
themselves, when told they were to be
sent back to the Workers’ Fatherland),
but it was specific and strongly worded.
Among several incidents mentioned was
one in which a British repatriation team
was ordered out of Lwow while Anglo-
American p.-0.-w. were streaming
through that “Russian” city (Polish for
800 years) and, refusing to go, was con-
fined to its hotel. In another case, at
Lublin, British officers “found it impos-
sible to perform any services for the bene-
fit of liberated British and United States
prisoners living in totally inadequate con-
ditions.” Touching the charge of tardy
repatriation, British vessels, with one
American ship, had had to carry all
water-borne prisoners back and forth to
Russia; the Russians supplied no ships
whatever. Then came a sharp compari-
son: —
There is no doubt that the conditions in
which those Soviet citizens are being cared
for compare more than favorably with those
under which large numbers of liberated
British lived in Soviet-occupied territory,
many of whom suffered great and unneces-
sary hardships owing to the apparent lack
of any organisations in forward areas
charged with the task of collecting, feed-
ing, clothing and accommodating them
prior to their evacuation to Odessa.
But excuses for Russian policy and be-
havior are never lacking, and a Mr.
Richard Dimbleby worked whopping
ones into a 8.8. C. broadcast from Berlin.
While admitting that “passing through
the Brandenburg Gate, the boundary
between the British and Russian zones,
is like crossing a frontier,” that you “get
a feeling that you are not welcome and
are not certain what is going to happen,”
and that “there is a continuous succes-
sion of pinpricks, upsetting our relations
and affecting everything,” Mr. Dimbleby
found “this racial reticence,” though
a trifle vexatious, “understandable”:
We have not been on particularly good
terms with the Soviet Union for 25 years,
and there is no reason why the Red Army
should suddenly regard us as bosom friends
just because we teamed up against Ger-
many.
Why there should be “no reason” Mr.
Dimbleby did not explain. If it is true,
as discovered in the latter half of 1941
and often rediscovered since, that Stalin
signed up with Hitler only that he might
prepare for a war with that party, a war
for the liberation of the democratic world
(imbeciles believe it), a great deal of time
was gained for him by the British. From
September 3, 1939, to June 21, 1941,
Britain (population, 46,000,000) fought
Germany (population, 80,000,000), and
for the last twelvemonth fought Italy
(population, 45,000,000) as well, and
alone except for a measure of assistance
from the Empire. During the whole
period Russia (population, with 1939-40
annexations, 193,000,000) was placed
in a perfect position to study Ger-
man strategy and tactics, choose its
battleground and equip its army, though,
as it turned out in the first Russian cam-
paign, the Red Army was ill-equipped and
“the civil-war generals” were dunces.
And even when Britain was attacked by
Japan (population, 100,000,000) it sent
heavily-mauled convoys laden with sup-
plies and equipment to Russia —a non-
starter in the Japanese war.
, If friendship, offered by the British, is
refused by the Russians, surely there
should be a spark of gratitude in the Rus-
sian composition.
Labor ana Cams.
Australian Labor is finding out that its
association with the Moscow-directed
fraternity threatens to be fatal to its elec-
tion prospects. Hence, among other
things, Mr. Beasley’s attacks on the frater-
nity, with particular reference to the selec-
tion of the communist Thornton to “repre-
sent” the A.C.T.U. in conference abroad
once more, and the election as a Minis-
ter of Mr. H. V. Johnson, general presi-
dent of the A.W.U.
Australian Labor began its shifty asso-
ciation with communism at a time when the
association could be counted on to return
election dividends. At that time —and since,
till very recently—the romantic, emotional
conception of Russia as a White Knight
rescuing prostrate Civilisation from the
barbarian Hun hordes prevailed, and,
Russia and communism being taken as
synonymous, communists enjoyed an asso-
ciated elevation. Labor politicians saw the
chance to cash in on that cleverly propa-
gated emotionalism. As soon as the party
reached office at Canberra communists
who had been punished—very lightly—
for attempted sabotage of Australia’s war
effort were sef free. The Communist
party and press were as promptly given
legal standing. By the time the powers
referendum arrived communist partner-
ship and backing were openly welcomed.
At that time Russia was in the ascen-
dant. Therefore, working in with com-
munists, who put Russia first, was easily
represented and readily accepted as some-
how aiding heroic Russia and keeping
Allied unity intact. Despite the cunning
timing and misrepresentation of its true
purpose, the referendum failed, but other-
wise the partnership, because of the war-
time tie-up with Russia, was worked for
all it was worth while it was worth any-
thing.
The present change is more apparent
than real. It is more than doubtful if
there has been any change of heart, either
among local communists, to whom Russia
and every Russian act, however ruthless,
remain lilywhite, or among politicians
who fostered the communist crew and
openly fraternised with them, and would
do so again if election dividends could
be expected—as, for example, in the event
of Russia coming into the war against
Japan.
In the German war Russia came in
when attacked. In this other war it
will come in, if or when it does, to gain
Russian objectives in Asia, and for no
loftier reason. But the polemical legerde-
main which converted Russia into the
White Knight will easily do it again—
in Australia even more easily than before
—if Russia joins in against the Japs. If
that happens—there is every reason why
it should—about as safe a prediction as
could be made is that the Labor-commu-
nist hook-up here will be on again.
Mr, Beasley, that great fulminator
against the communists, both now and
when he led the Non-Communist Labor
party, took refuge in silence when to
have said what he is now saying could
have been construed —as any criticism of
communists then was construed—as criti-
cism of Russia. Similarly with Labor-
union organisations so suddenly discover-
ing the communists’ infiltration into their
midst. The infiltration was going on un-
checked and unopposed all through /the
Russia-is-always-right period. «It became
an open march from the time the Com-
munist party was given legal standing—
with no discoverable protest from Mr.
Beasley or from any of these suddenly
disillusioned others. Mr. Lazzarini (“I
have been fighting communists for the last
20 years”) let his sword rust.
A striking illustration of the fruits of
placing expediency first and principle
nowhere, the Australian Labor-commu-
nist turmoil has its counterpart in
America. In that country there has all
along been penetrating criticism of com-
munist tactics and, recently, of Russian
war aims. There has never been —except
in the Russia-is-always-right chorus—the
same almost unanimous confusing of the
Russian war effort with local communism
that Australians have fallen for.
So American communists had resort to
tactics unnecessary here. When the dis-
solution of the Comintern was pro-
nounced they “buried” their party.
Now their Mr. Earl Browder has been
placed in the position of having to
resurrect it, just as the “buried” Comin-
tern is now being recovered from its
shallow grave.
Mr. Browder was most unkindly
attacked by a communist of even
higher standing than himself in that
hierarchy of twisters and dissemblers.
Back in Paris from a visit to Moscow,
M. Jacques Duclos —next to M. Maurice
Thorez, the communists’ leader in France
—published in the party’s official organ an
8000-word onslaught on Mr. Browder,
slating him for “having revised the prin-
ciples of Marxism through the conception
of a long peace between classes in the
United States, the possibility of suppress-
ing class warfare in the post-war period
and the establishment of harmony be-
tween labor and capital.”
Other counts in the indictment were
that Mr. Browder had been responsible
for “spreading dangerous opportunist
illusions which will have a negative in-
fluence on the American labor move-
ment unless properly countermanded,”
and that Mr. Browder had strayed from
the line that “socialism cannot be
achieved without the seizure of power.”
These words were adopted as a slogan by
the board of Mr. Browder’s “Communist
Political Association,” and “aggressive
action against our avaricious capitalist
class” was demanded by the gentleman
himself. And he was baited into a curious
admission: “It is premature to say
whether the Japanese war will become an
imperialist war.”
There has been no such cause for Comin-
tern direction of Australian communists.
Assisted by Labor patronage and protec-
tion, they have never failed to be quite
open about jumping through the Comin-
tern hoop. They would still be folded
in the Labor embrace if political divi-
dends next year could be expected to result.
The very opposite outcome is feared.
Hence, while America has merely the re-
peat spectacle of yet another communist
somersault, Australia has the fresh and
even more hilarious entertainment of
Labor members and Labor organisations
turning the handsprings.
An event well worth watching and
waiting for between now and the 1946
election will be Russia’s possible entry
into the Pacific war. If that fails the
Labor-communist breach will widen. If
it comes about the parties will embrace
again, happy once more to be seen to-
gether in the mutually profitable shadow
of the White Knight, who will be repre-
sented as having come on the scene specir
ally to save Australia.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Another from N. S. Woles.
There is no recognised right of succes-
sion to an Australian Labor leader who
dies, retires, leaves or is left by his party.
So although Mr. Forde was Mr. Curtin’s
No. 2, Caucus made no bones about
choosing Mr. Chifley, who was No. 3.
Caucus would not have studied Mr.
Forde’s feelings in any case, but, with
a general election to prepare for, Mr.
Forde’s feelings counted for less than
nothing. His appeal to the constituen-
cies would have been small: in 1943 he
was the only Minister, indeed the only
Labor member, whose majority slumped ;
in every other electorate the Labor vote
increased, in most cases greatly. And
there are only nine Queenslanders in
Caucus. From Mr. Chifley’s State came
27, 21 of whom are Ms.H.R.; and 10 of
the 21 are looking forward to the elec-
tion with no pleasure. It was considered
that Mr. Chifley as party leader and
Prime Minister could help these uneasy
gentlemen. Whether he can or not will
now await determination.
Mr. Chifley is the seventh Prime Minis-
ter, and the third Labor P.M., from
N. S. Wales. Being a representative of
the State which has much the largest
electoral vote in the House should be an
advantage to a man with the highest
ambitions, but it has rarely worked out
that way. Not one N.S.W. Prime Minis-
ter has seen the equivalent of a full Par-
liamentary term through as such.
Barton, the first P.M., was in office
from January 1, 1901 (Parliament did
not sit till May 9), to September 24, 1903,
whereupon he retired to the High Court.
Watson’s term lasted from April 27, 1904,
to August 17, 1904; Reid’s from
August 18, 1904, to July 5, 1905 ;
Mr. Cook’s from June 24, 1913, to Sep-
tember 17, 1914. Mr. Hughes came in
on October 27, 1915, but within 12
months the party had split on the con-
scription issue and he formed a Min-
istry from the minority. Another few
months and he had changed his con-
stituency from West Sydney to Bendigo.
Member for Bendigo he remained for
nearly five years; then he ventured
across the border again and was elected
for North Sydney, only to see his Gov-
ernment routed at the polls.
Dr. Page had the briefest term —April
7 to April 26, 1939. However, it was
not so brief as Mr. Forde’s —seven days:
July 6 to July 13.
Mr. Chifley takes office at a more ad-
vanced age than any of his N.S.W. pre-
decessors when sworn in. He is just on
60, Barton was 52, Watson 37, Reid 59
(he had been 24 years in public life),
Mr. Cook 53, Mr. Hughes 51 and Dr.
Page 58. None of them was ever re-
jected by a Commonwealth electorate.
Mr. Chifley has been thrice defeated in
Macquarie, He is unlikely to have a
repetition of the experience as head of
the Government, but the record of the
six previous N.S.W. Prime Ministers
does not suggest halcyon times for the
seventh. More especially as there are
ominous signs of dissatisfaction with
what Labor has done and left undone
and what it threatens to do.
In the Oil Country.
From John Brennan:
The A.I.F. is ringing Borneo round with
bases. The Ninth Division already established
at Tarakan and rampaging along the north-west
coast, on Labuan, in Brunei, Sarawak and
British North Borneo, the Seria oilfields, in their
potentialities the largest in the British Empire,
were seized without bringing the enemy to
major action. The Seventh Division made a
lunge at Balik Papan, 270 miles south of Tara-
kan, on the mainland’s south-west coast. It
was a grab at the richest oilfields and oil-refining
centre in the south-west Pacific area.
Balik Papan had long been a centre of major
importance to the enemy. Its oil fed his ships,
and the Baii van Balik Papan gave them anchor-
age. It is the only developed port in the
area, and in a country where mud and silt at
the river mouths bar entrance to all but the
smallest ships it provided a sheltered harbor
for cruisers and berthing space for eight or nine
vessels.
Allied aircraft first struck at Balik Papan
in October, 1944, and have since ranged there
regularly, finding targets in the refineries, ware-
house buildings, tank farms, airfields and ship-
ping. They found it strongly defended.
The city itself is ringed about with low hills.
Tct the north are the 30-mile-wide coastal
plain, with its ricefields and coconut plantations,
its rows of casuarinas along the seaward edge,
and, behind, tangled rain forest. It extends
for 60 miles to the Mahakam or Koetai River
Delta, whence comes the oil for the refineries
at Balik Papan. The mountain range rises to
6000 feet.
At Louise Anggana and Sarabodja there were
before the war 400 oil wells. They produced
7,000,000 barrels of oil each year, which was
piped to Balik Papan for treatment. There the
refineries could deal with 15,000,000 barrels a
year. A new plant was producing high octane
spirit for aviation engines.
A wonderful part of the world indeed.
An Old Digger doctor who was at The
Landing and on the Hindenburg Line
suggests that oil-starved Australia should
ask for a grant or a lease of some of
this oil-bearing country, already black
with Australian blood ; and it is a matter
which should be considered.
"Controlling" 1 Entertainment.
The “controls” which go with union
bossism and Labor-socialism have been
extended into the field of public enter-
tainment.
Actors’ Equity, which communists
regard as their own, insists on the exclu-
sion of British and American actors and
show people over and above “25 p.c. of
the company in drama ; 25 p.c, of the
principal artists in musical comedy,
comic opera, revue and variety and four
chorus leaders and 50 p.c. of the prin-
cipals in classical ballet.” This at a time
when the theatre, flourishing in Britain
and the U.S.A., has gone to the dogs in
Australia, where experienced actors are
few and the standard of performance
was never lower.
Then Senator Cameron comes in with
a ukase putting four radio comedians off
the air for alleged offences against deli-
cacy or something, alleged to have been
committed in January —so fast does th'
official mind work. The banned fou:,
two of whom are women, have bee i
claimed as members of Actors’ Equitj.
The liaison work between the union and
the Labor-socialist Government seems to
have been defective.
Radio has an unfortunate tendency to
be smutty, but 8.8. C. comedians are th
worst offenders, and it would be difficult
to ban 8.8. C. Imitation is a characteris-
tic of radio performers, and the four put
off the air can fairly plead that they
were following a tolerated example. In
any case, it is an abuse of authority for
a Minister who acknowledges that he takes
notice of anonymous letters —any editor
Worth his salt pitches them into the
w.p.b.—to deprive them of their liveli-
hoods, especially seeing that their stuff
was all censored beforehand and that the
commercial stations which employed
them and the advertisers who found the
money for the “sessions” are not to be
touched. And the business is of very
questionable legality.
NOTHING WRONG WITH THE TAILORING.
“Fits you all right, sir—it all depends how it’s carried.”
The S. H. Prior Prize.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for
Literature this year goes to Douglas
Stewart for his verse-play. The Fire on
the Snow, published in book form with
another of his verse plays, The Golden
Lover.
Mr. Stewart receives £lOO, leaving £2OO
to be carried forward. Next year, with
the annual £lOO from the fund added,
three awards may be made.
In the beginning the Prize was awarded
to the pick of submitted MSS., considered
by . the judges to be the most valuable
contributions to Australian literature.
War enlistments so cut down The Bulle-
tin staff that another arrangement had
to be made. So that the Prize might be
continued as an encouragement of Aus-
tralian writers, it was decided to go on
awarding it to the pick of books pub-
lished in the year dating from June 6,
the anniversary of S. H. Prior’s death.
This arrangement will continue while
the war in the Pacific lasts. The Prize is
£lOO annually, but in some years the
trustees have not been able to agree on
works which in their view measured up
to the standard set. In that case the Prize
carries on till there can be two or more
distributions.
The award to Douglas Stewart is speci-
fically for the work mentioned, but is
intended also as a recognition of his
already important and, in this particular
field especially, outstanding general con-
tribution to Australian literature; “Aus-
tralia” is used conveniently in the Prize
awards to cover, as well, New Zealand
and the two countries’ other Pacific areas.


I
SOME BOOKS TO ENJOY
!L©ft Hand, Bight Hand. An autobiography by
Osbert Sitwell. An enthralling book. 23/9
(post 6d.). „ , . .
>ly Father in China, by James Burke. This is
a book of great distinction and at the
present time Invaluable to our proper under-
standing of China. 18/3 (post 6d.).
The Story of Medicine. From the Stone Age
to modern times, by Robinson, M.D. 7/6
(post 6d.). . ,
Journey Among Warriors. New supply of the
latest book by Eve Curie, author of “Madame
Curie.” 17/6 ((post 6d.).
Flight into Conflict. New book by John
Gunther, author of the famous “Inside
Books.” 10/6 (post 4d.).
The Miniature History of the War. Down
to the Liberation of Paris, by R. C. K.
Ensor. This book is a masterpiece of com-
pression. Published by the Oxford Univer-
sity Press. 4/3 (post 2d.).
What It Takes. Stories from the lives of
Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen. 1/9 (post 2d.).
The Life of Greece. A History of Greek
civilisation, by Will Durant, with numerous
full-page plates. 38/- (post 10d.).
The Harvest of the Years, by Luther Burbank,
the greatest plant-breeder. 11/6 (post 6d.).
Complete Essays of Schopenhauer Seven
books in one volume. 21/- (past 1/3).
Critique of Pure Reason, by Kant Large.
Handsome volume. 31/- (post 10d.).
Atlantic Meeting. An account of Mr. Churchill's
voyage In H.M.S. Prince of Wales and the
conference with President Roosevelt which
resulted in the Atlantic Charter, by H. V,
Morton. New issue. 10/- (post 4d.).
Bombs Over Burma. By W. G. Burchett.
Fully illustrated. 13/6 (post 4d.).
The Living Soil. Evidence of the importance
to human health of soil vitality, with special
reference to post-war planning, by E. B.
Balfour. 19/6 (post 6d.).
Two Frontiers. Story of a man’s life on the
frontiers of Australia and America, by E. J.
Brady, author of “Australia Unlimited.”
10/6 (post 4d.).
Vocabulary. A complete guide to acquiring
a more effective and powerful vocabulary,
by Mallery. 7/6 (post 4d.).
The Battle for Asia. Lively eye-witness
journalism by Edgar Snow. 10/6 (post 6d.).
The Story of Civilisation, Our Oriental
Heritage, Egypt and the Near East, by Will
Durant. Fully illustrated. 38/- (post 2/-).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.. 89 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
The “MARS” Rgh-bpeed
PLANING Machine
Built to Schlesinger Standard* of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and, capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
h dfg
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS. SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distrib. Aeents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street,'
Melbourne. STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street. Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
It was rough on Dr. Evatt to figure in
the Caucus ballots, in absentia, as he
would say, and probably without his
knowledge. He had one (1) supporter,
obviously Williams, the accidental
M.H.R. for Robertson (N.S.W.), who
had come out with an exti aordinary,
though disregarded, eulogy, in the elec-
tions for P.M. (Chifley) and Deputy P.M,
(Forde). It is generally unlucky for
Laborites of position to be abroad when
things happen at H.Q. McKell dis-
covered that in 1927 when Lang recon-
structed his Ministry and left McKell out.
To the Reid council of his group Lang
said recently that the Commonwealth
election “may be held before the end of
the year”—quite a possibility—mid that
it would be “necessary for the Reid
council to call for nominations for can-
didates immediately.” Which presumably
means that he is coming out again for
Reid (Morgan beat him on preferences
last time), leaving Dr. Foley, now a city
alderman, to tackle Beasley in West
Sydney.
The cockeyed distribution of income-
tax revenue, for which Chifley was mainly
responsible, was illustrated again last
week when Play ford announced that he
woufd have to ask Canberra for an addi-
tion to the S.A. grant to make up
his deficit for 1944-45, £546,000. At
the same time Hanlon, the Queensland
Treasurer, complacently intimated that
he had budgeted for a surplus of £29,000
and had seen it grow to £569,000, which
would have been £550,000 more if
he had not set aside that amount for
“post-war reconstruction and develop-
ment.” That trust fund has now reached
£9,050,000, and it is all the proceeds of
swivel-eyed Commonwealth benevolence.
Dedman is reported to have said that
he had been asked by a number of fellow-
members to stand for the deputy-leader-
ship, but had turned them away with
thanks. So there must be jokers in
Caucus.
Dedman, and with him Lazzarini, as
Minister of Housing ( what an appoint-
ment!), has solved the housing problem.
That is to say Deddy “has established
a target of 24,000 houses for 12 months”
and decided to issue pairmits to “indi-
viduals, building societies, savings banks,
municipalities and contractors.” The
pairmits constitute a departure from the
Labor “principle” that Labor is every-
body’s grandmother and universal pro-
vider, distributing its blessings through
an army of “experts” with fancy designa-
tions ; but the need for houses and the
necessity for stopping the drift of masses
of votes had to be recognised with “A2A
priority.”
Jenkins, the S.A. Minister for Agricul-
ture, announcing that his State’s Hous-
ing Trust was to build another 800
houses, making 3100 since 1937, claimed
that S.A. had built dwellings faster and
cheaper than “instrumentalities” in other
States.
In S.A. a completed five-roomed brick
dwelling costs less than £B5O, land in-
cluded. In neighboring States construction
charges, land being extra, are £1322 in
N.S.W., £1055 in Victoria and £977 in
W.A.; and in other States timber-framed
five-roomed houses cost £lOO5 in Queens-
land and £921 in Tasmania, excluding land.
Jenkins was quoting from “the official
statement of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Labor and National Service
(War Housing Construction and War
Housing Programme),” and he got his
tongue around the words without acci-
dent. He is a member of the one Aus-
tralian Liberal Government; N. S.
Wales, Queensland, W.A. and Tasmania
are Labor.
Giving a list of the duties Prime
Ministers undertake or tak? upon them-
selves a Melbourne “Herald” writer re-
called that in Lyons’s time “twice daily-
press conferences were an almost invari-
able rule,” but “Menzies dropped them on
occasions when his mood made him unre-
ceptive to rapid-fire questions.” Menzies
was wise and Chifley should follow his
example. Lyons, who had no portfolio,
and Curtin paid for being excessively
generous to newspapermen. “Rapid-fire
questions” and answers should be re-
served for Parliament.
The word “spill” had a great airing last
week. In Labor parlance “a ‘spill’ occurs”
when, the party being in office and find-
ing it necessary or expedient to choose
another leader, all Ministerial and Par-
liamentary offices go to Caucus election.
It is an appropriate and expressive term.
No matter who goes in or comes out, the
country gets the “spill.”
When this was written it was given
out that Wise, the Westralian Minister of
Lands, or Tonkin, the Minister of Educa-
Alas ! regardless of his doom,
The little victim plays;
No sense has he of ills to come,
Nor care beyond today's.
tion (he is M.L.A. for North-east Fre-
mantle), might resign and stand for
Federal Fremantle. It would be very
risky, and not only because Fremantle is
normally a borderline electorate for which
Curtin himself was twice defeated and
very nearly beaten on two other occa-
sions. Theodore resigned as Premier of
Queensland to stand for Federal Herbert,
and had to second a vote of thanks to the
returning-officer. So had Butler when
he resigned as Premier of S.A. to stand
for Wakefield. Theodore contrived to
enter Commonwealth politics, Bill
Mahony effacing himself in Dailey after
making his fortune by backing the winner
of the Melbourne Cup, but lasted only
four years or so and had to retire into
the business world at 47. Electors don t
seem to care for these attempted trans-
lations.
The Republican Senator Vandenberg,
while supporting the United Nations
charter, told the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee that the U.S.A. would
be free to withdraw from the organisa-
tion whenever it chose to do so. This
may dash the hopes of many bright and
cocksure young “commentators,” but it
is an unassailable fact. As Lincoln said in
his wonderful First Inaugural, referring
to the threat of secession, “Perpetuity is
implied in the fundamental law of all
national Governments; no Government
proper ever had a provision in its organic
law for its own determination.” This
applies, of course, to our own Common-
wealth Constitution. But it does not, and
cannot, apply to Moscow, Tehran, Yalta,
San Francisco or Berlin agreements.
According to “S. M. Herald’s” Wash-
ington man, Stalin will ask Churchill and
Truman for “clarification of Anglo-
American policy in the Far East before
he says whether Russia will enter the war
against Japan.” As a preliminary, of
course, Churchill and Truman could ask
for clarification of Russian policy in the
Near East of Europe.
It was written in Sydney that when
Fisher retired in October, 1915, Caucus
contented itself with elevating Hughes,
leaving the other Ministers unchanged.
Actually, it made three other alterations,
substituting Webster for Spence as
P.M.G., O’Malley for Archibald in Home
Affairs and bringing in Higgs as Treas-
user, which Fisher had been. There were
only 10 Ministers in that first war year.
There have been 19 since 1941, these
being hang-the-expense days.
Dr. Evatt, brooding in a deck chair
on the change that has come over the
political scene since he set out for home,
may be consoled by a press compliment
paid to him after the ’Frisco Conference.
“Thirty-seven representative newspaper
correspondents” were asked “which dele-
gate made the most outstanding contribu-
tion,” and the Minister of External
Affairs tied for first place with Com-
mander Stassen (U.S.), 11 votes each. An
Evatt supporter turned in his vote with
a statement that “Dr. Evatt focused the
attention of the conference on the veto,
and, though there was never any hope
that it might be modified, his action may
help prevent its future abuse.” Among
the 37 were an Italian, an Ecuadorian,
a Swiss, a Hindu, a Frenchman, a
Chinese, a Turk, two Canadians, “H. A.
McClure-Smith, Sydney ‘Morning
Herald,’ and Virginia Young, Sydney
‘Daily Mirror.’ ”
Eric Spooner, recommending colored
immigration on a quota basis, has
brought on an outbreak of prickly heat
among his own political friends and
others. Spooner seems destined to be
associated with prickly political situa-
tions. First there was the bust-up with
Stevens in N.S.W. politics-—Mair, not
Spooner, became Premier. Later on
Spooner (with Scullin) was a member of
the Mills Committee which, while recom-
mending uniform taxation, also suggested
the present method of rebates of tax for
dependants, etc., instead of concessional
deductions —tax rates are inflated by the
new method. Again, Spooner supported
Fadden in his folly over the “retrospec-
tive” post-war-credits plan, bringing an
emphatic repudiation from Menzies at
the fateful 1943 election. More recently
Spooner has referred to the “now-dis-
credited Premiers’ Plan.” He appears to
have a roving commission for creating
party embarrassment.
Frank Hill, Labor M.L.A. for Black-
town (N.S.W.), is dead of a heart attack
at 61, As well as being an Assemblyman,
he was Mayor of Cabravale and member
of the Town Planning Advisory Com-
mittee, and no doubt he overdid it. How-
ever, he lived much longer than many
thousands of Old Diggers, who found the
after-effects of war service too much for
them in the late forties and early fifties,
and in calling attention to “the strain im-
posed on members of Parliament” Mr.
Badly was a little excessive. Mr. Badly
himself looks a picture of robust health.
Australia may, if it chooses, welcome
a new publication, the “Market Gar-
dener,” official organ of the “Market
Gardeners’ Association (Inc.),” of Perth
(W.A.). The first issue says that gar-
deners and growers will be pleased to see
it, and publishes a picture of the execu-
tive of 16 —Messrs. Rianoldi, Mayor, H.
D. Mountjoy, Ursish, Cruickshank, Chet-
kovich, Milner, Guelfi, Cukrov, Bestry,
Pesich, Jodrell, Bavich, Zuvela, Vlahov
and Gabelich. The “M.G.” is
Watchful of the cunning machinations of
those who strive to retard progress, and
courageous to preserve and extend the gains
won by us in past conflict.
And there are revealing passages sand-
wiched in between things about manure
and seeds: —
A good Lead for W.A., Housing Con-
struction in the U.S.S.R Member Don
Mountjoy deals trenchantly with army
critics The pamphlet “Government En-
terprise” (by L. L. Sharkey and another)
completely debunks the arguments of those
opposed to Government undertakings... .At
Spearwood the Napvadok Youth String
Band performed Young members ren-
dered “Soviet Land” in English.... Tito
has given valuable lessons that we can
follow Don Mountjoy, M.H.R., gives
revealing close-ups of leaders of bankers’
democracy It is indeed a tragedy that
the people of Greece who did the fighting
are not holding the reins of government.
There’s more, including, fittingly enough,
though without a hint of humor, an article
on Control of Red Spider.
Scully at Canberra last Thursday:
Australia is about to experience a good
all-round agricultural season. Good rains
herald the end of the drought, and the chief
difficulty now is tiding over until the
harvest I expect at least 150,000,000
bushels of wheat.
J. Adams and other wheatgrowers were
at Hawkesbury College the same day.
“This year’s wheat crop can fail be-
cause of lack of man-power and
machinery,” said Adams ; and his fellows
added “The position is so bad that only
immediate attention will remove the
danger of crop failure,” Scully was
shocked into silence for nearly half an
hour.
Alarmed by hints that the next chair-
man of the Central Sugar-cane Prices
Board may be a political appointee, the
sugargrowers’ association points out that
the chairman has the jurisdiction and
powers of a Supreme Court Judge. In-
deed, Justice O’Sullivan and Chief Justice
Webb held the position before Forgan
Smith. Growers are satisfied with Forgan
Smith, but they don’t want the fact that
he was Premier taken as a precedent for
making the job a prerogative for poli-
ticians.
U.S. war expenditure is astronomical.
To June 30 it was reckoned at
$290,000,000,000, roughly half of the war
expenditure of all the Allies. For 1944
it amounted to $91,174,000,000. At the
middle of April the national debt was
estimated at $235,000,000,000, “approxi-
mately $l7OO for every man, woman and
child.”


f NO-NOT
A EVEN WATER!
<y
5/44
The craziest of all ideas is to deny your
battery a drink. Stupid, isn’t it?
Consult your Exide dealer. Get him to give
your battery a once-over every second week
and add distilled water when necessary.
Water does not weaken the acid. This is the
way to get months of extra service from your
battery.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited*
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back ip Melbourne for the jubilee
celebrations of the Melba Conserva-
torium of which he was director, Fritz
Hart has been conducting the Honolulu
Symphony Orchestra for the last 14
years. Hart is probably the most pro-
lific of Australian composers—the number
of his opuses runs into three figures. The
Celtic strain in his music has had a big
influence with Melbourne composers.
One of Hart’s operas was given a place in
the Melba Grand Opera season at His
Majesty’s and another was performed at
the old Playhouse. Many of his works
have been published in London and
U.S.A. He was born in 1874 in Kent
(Eng.).
In a review of the Labor team in 1941
Joseph Benedict Chifley was here desig-
nated “one of the ablest of them,” but
it was added that he had been a sick man.
Sickness, in fact, had kept him from
electioneering the previous year, but that
hadn’t prevented his return, with a solid
majority, for the N.S.W. seat Macquarie,
which includes his birthplace, Bathurst.
He had represented it previously in 1928-
31, and one of his jobs as Scullin’s Mini-
ster for Defence was whaling into Aus-
tralia’s defence establishment to such
purpose that search parties had great
difficulty in finding any trace of it when
wars started to loom up. But maybe he
has, as many should have done, learnt
more since 1939 than in all the rest of his
THE NEW P.M.
close-on 60 years. In other fields he
appears to have been learning steadily all
along, since the days when he was work-
ing at the old Bathurst loco, depot and
occasionally raising a diffident voice as a
shy youthful member of one of the town’s
debating societies. He is still anything
but an attractive orator, but there’s no
question he has the solid qualities of a
leader, in company in which such quali-
ties aren’t over-abundant.
There have been only three R.C. Arch-
bishops of Melbourne in 98 years—Arch-
bishops Gould, Carr and Mannix. The
silver jubilee of Dr. Mannix’s consecra-
tion occurred in 1937, but at his request
there was no celebration. He was born
in Cork in 1864, was educated at St.
Patrick’s College, Maynooth, and became
coadjutor fo Archbishop Carr in 1912.
John Brennan, from Borneo:
Group-Captain Gordon Grant, Senior Staff
Officer of R.A.A.F. Command, was invalided
out of the R.A.A.F. in 1931. At Balik Papan
he stalked and shot a Jap machine-gunner who
had climbed into the branches of a tree with
a light Nambu. The Army credited him with
“one shot down, two probables and a possible.”
Now 41, Grant has carried his smile in
most places the Air Force has got to in the
Pacific. He was two years a cadet, back when
an aeroplane of any kind was still regarded
as a pretty impossible sort of gadget. In
March of 1930 Grant crashed into the sea
when piloting a seaplane off the old Albatross,
conducting a bombardment exercise in Nor-
folk Bay (Tas.). His telegraphist was killed,
and Grant was carried down to the bottom
of the bay. He got out of the ’plane, but
had to spend the next 18 months in a steel
jacket.
Invalided out, Grant began to study chemis-
try; by 1936 had a pharmaceutical lab. in
Brisbane; went on to study medicine, and was
still at it when this war broke out. He thought
the R.A.A.F. should be able to find something
he could do, and he became adjutant of 23
Squadron, and later commanded the School
of Administration. When things looked blackest
in the South Pacific, in early 1942, he was at
Townsville as Senior Administrative Officer,
North-eastern Area.
He went into Balik Papan on the day of
the landing. Next morning, with a party of
R.A.A.F. field intelligence people, he was exam-
ining some captured equipment in a tunnel
when the party was asked to help against a
group of Japs passed in the original assault.
Grant located the enemy machine-gunner, shot
him with a rifle, then went on to help knock
off the others. There were seven of the enemy
all told. All were killed.
Rev. Clifford Jones moves over from
Dawson-street Church, Ballarat, to take
charge of the Newland Memorial at Vic-
tor Harbor (S.A.). The pioneer Newland
was a farmer and preacher there; the
next was pastoralist, politician and author
of the novel Paving the Way; and the
present head of the family has earned a
title as one of Adelaide’s leading sur-
geons.
A Londoner born and a London Metro-
politan policeman in his younger days,
Bill Jordan is regarded as the most popu-
lar High Commissioner M.L. has ever
sent to London. This is due partly
to his being a Cockney himself,
partly to his sincerity and the con-
scientiousness with which he has car-
ried oui his duties. Throughout the
war he has been at the service of any
individual soldier, sailor or airman, no
matter how humble his status. Bill, as he
is addressed by all M.L. servicemen over
there, kept to London throughout the
dark days of the blitz and the terrible
period during which London was the
target of VI and V 2 attacks. He has
aged during those difficult years and is
looking forward to a spell at home in
New Zealand.
Sydney Albright becomes managing
director of Twentieth Century Fox in
Australia. He lately held the top job
with United Artists.
“Galenus”: A very high compliment
has been paid to the Australian nursing
profession in the selection by U.N.R.R.A.
of Miss Muriel Knox Doherty, of Woll-
stonecraft (N.S.W.), for the tremendous
job of matron of Belsen, the former Nazi
horror camp. The selection was made
from a list of applicants extending all
over the world. From sister-tutor at Prince
Henry’s Hospital, Sydney, Miss Doherty
joined the R.A.A.F. Nursing Service in
September, 1940, and was appointed
matron of No. 3 R.A.A.F. Hospital at
Richmond (N.S.W.). Later she became
principal matron, and was awarded the
Royal Red Cross in the last New Year
honors. At Belsen she will have charge,
under a U.N.R.R.A. administrative medi-
cal officer, of a German nursing staff in
care of more than 10,000 patients.
J. W. Turner is retiring after a record
43 years as Salvarmy bandmaster in
Adelaide. Territorial Commander Dal-
ziel and other magnates journeyed from
Melbourne to join in his farew'ell, and
invested him with the Army s highest
honor, the Order of the Founder. There
are only two other holders of it, both in
England,
Nelson Lemmon, M.H.R. for Forrest
(W.A.), is reckoned likely to make his
mark in the House if he can hold the seat.
Already selected as W.A. assistant to
Minister of Commerce Scully, he’s 37,
and is a son of John Lemmon, for over
40 years the Labor M.L.A. for Williams-
town (Vic.). As a young man N.L.
gathered farming knowledge at Lon-
gerenong College in Victoria, and he
farms a fine holding at Ongerup, in the
south-east of Westralia, specialising in
lambs and wheat. A director of the Co-
operative Wheat Stabilisation Board of
W.A., his colors are often carried on
country courses, and at one recent
patriotic fixture he was noted, with coat
off, plating one of his racers in the
absence of a farrier.
C. W. Smith resigns after five years’
general sec. to the Y.M.C.A. in Adelaide
to take a similar job at Canberra. He
will be succeeded by T, Barclay in an
acting capacity.
Drawing young pianist William Kapell
(he’s 22), Ted Scorfield found him right
up to A.B.C.’s publicity specifications.
“A very modest, friendly, thoroughly like-
able young man.” To which the speci-
fications add: “At the piano he’s a whirl-
wind.” Asking if he came from a musi-
cal family, Ted gathered that he hadn t;
WILLIAM KAPELL.
in fact, there hadn’t been music of note
in the family for generations. But Kapell
recalled a big house he had lived in when
he was a little fellow, and a piano there
so decrepit that the people moving out
hadn’t thought it worth taking with them.
Keys were missing from it, and its works
were badly afflicted with rheumatism and
asthma, but it made sounds of sorts, and
the youngster, climbing up to it, turned
them into music. Kapell, born in the
East Side, New York, of Spanish, Rus-
sian and Polish stock in the preceding
generations, comes to Australia with a
great bdost from Eugene Orman dy.
Kapell is billed to give 20 concerts here,
which come on top of 70 he gave in
America in the past season.
Exit Jack Moses;
Jack Moses was delighted with the accom-
panying Frith depiction of him in the role of
his own “dog on the tuckerbox”; he insisted
on producing a squat bottle of good wine to
wet its head, and afterwards had the drawing
done as one of the bundle of postcards he
always carried in his pockets. The famous
verse was in the nature of folklore, without any
particular significance, but the “tuckerbox” part
of it had a special meaning for Jack. He spoke
the country’s praises to the skies whenever you
met him. In his later years about Sydney
streets a little old gnomelike man in an over-
JACK MOSES.
coat, he liked to stand in the bit of sunshine
getting down against some city wall and read
you some of his verses from one of the cards.
There wasn’t a hint of egotism in this: the
verses were about Australia, and that was why
he liked to read them. If ever a man loved a
country he did. He was born in the Haymarket,
where his father kept a small shop, and later
small-boy Jack used to drive the family cow
up to Hyde Park to graze. For many years he
was subsequently very widely known as a wine-
traveller at country shows and a reciter at the
banquets after them. It took the war to anchor
him, where he didn’t belong, in the city. He
took that, as he took life generally, with un-
quenchable cheerfulness and optimism; but per-
haps if there were still shows to go to and wine
to take to them he’d still be on the job.
Notices of his death —he passed on after a
week’s illness at Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney,
at 85 —have mentioned his membership in the
Bondi Icebergs, who swim all the year round
and are usually photographed at it for the
papers when winter’s at its iciest. When Jack
was bordering on 80 a photographer who went
out there asked him the stereotyped question:
“What do you regard as most responsible for
your great age, Jack?” “I’ll tell you, sonny,”
Jack said, with emphasis, “I never go in!”
Yet another of the Old Digger brigade
takes a top perch in Adelaide, Dr. Brian
Swift becoming president of the S.A.
branch of B.M.A. In the present war
Registrar 2/9 A.G.H. (1940-42), he won
the M.C. in the 1914-18 fight, and was
S.A. golf champion in 1924. He and Dr,
Hubert (“Budge”) Jay, whom he succeeds,
are sons of noted Adelaide doctors of the
last generation.
Until recently Director of Radio and
Signal Supplies, Munitions Ministry, to
which he was seconded from the A.1.F.,
Lieut.-Col. S. C. Jones, now chief engi-
neer of Philips electrical and radio in-
terests in Australia, takes to that concern
valuable war-time and industrial experi-
ence. A militia sigs officer prior to Sep-
tember, 1939, he was one of the first over-
seas with the Sixth Divvy Sigs as major,
I/C H.Q. Coy. During the Battle for
Britain he was responsible as lieut.-col.
for army communications for part of
British Southern Command. Service in
the Middle East ended with his being
invalided, home, and as an experienced
P.M.G. communications engineer he was
quickly grabbed for Australian Sig. H.Q.
After Pearl Harbor he was loaned to
Munitions to organise production of radar
and other important equipment, and he
made a great fist of that big job despite
shortages and man-power trouble.
G. W. Simpson, retiring as W.A.
Public Service Commissioner, has had 48
years in the State’s service, beginning as a
messenger in the railways. Accountant
of the Lands Department, he became
manager of the W.A, Industries Assist-
ance Board in 1917 ; later went to the
Treasury ; managed Government institu-
tions and hospitals, and in 1926 became
Under-Treasurer representing W.A. at
Loan Councils and Premiers’ Plan pow-
wows., Bendigo (Vic.) born and educated
at Perth Scotch College, he is president
of the Y.M.C.A.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 86, W. P. Colborne, former
secretary of the Printing Industry Employees
Union (Q.) and afterwards Federal president of
the Typographical Association. As an M.L.C.
he was one of the “suicide squad” which
brought Queensland’s Leg. Council to an end.
*ln Sydney, at 91, Rev. Arthur Killworth,
claimed to be the oldest C. of E. clergyman
in N.S.W. He came from England in 1887 to
be curate at St. John’s, Darlinghurst, and after
a long term as rector at West Maitland served
in Sydney suburban parishes.
At Muttaburra (Q.), R. J. Spence, of
Maroomba station, a member of one of the
pioneer families of the central west. One of
the State’s leading pastoralists, he had horses
in training at Muttaburra, Longreach, Too-
woomba and Brisbane. His best horse was
Trainer, winner of a Brisbane Cup.
In Adelaide, at 61, Ernest William James
Peet, well-known businessman and member of
the Adelaide City Council for the past 13 years.
In Melbourne, Max de Pledge, for 25 years
the Athenaeum’s librarian, and before that for
10 years on Perth Public Library staff, during
which he was dramatic critic for Perth “Daily
News.” Later he was with Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, then with Robertson and Mullens,
Melbourne.
In Melbourne, Isabel May Tweddle, one of
Victoria’s leading women artists. Born at
Deniliquin (N.S.W.), she studied at the National
Gallery school in Melbourne, was a constant
exhibitor at metropolitan art shows and was
president of the Twenty Melbourne Painters.
Her husband, the late J. T. Tweddle, a busi-
nessman, represented the Felton Bequest in
England on several missions.
In Adelaide, at 80, R. T. Haddrick, an inter-
state and international umpire in the days of
Trumper and Warner. Four of his sons played
in the district XI of suburban Glenelg.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 86, Roger Walter
Hansard, descendant of Luke Hansard, printer
to the House of Commons, who gave the name
to Parliamentary reports. Educated in London,
R. W. H. arrived in Maoriland in 1875, and be-
came associated with Murray Roberts and Co.,
of Napier, whose branch he managed at Port
Ahuriri for 58 years.
At 61, Frank Hill, Labor member for Black-
town in the N.S.W. Parliament since 1941 and
Mayor of Cabravale since 1935.


THE TRUTH ABOUT
ME
Our enemy still stands
guard over the main
sources of the world’s
natural rubber supplies—
Malaya, Borneo and the
Netherlands Indies. Even
if these places arc liber'
atcd overnight it may
well be a year or two
before enough crude rub-
ber can be produced to
meet all requirements.
Service demands are
heavy upon existing
stocks. Slow down on
tyre usage and help to
speed Victory.
M
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AN EMPIRE INSTITUTION
LISTS®
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.!
ASA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery]
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent’
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 6.
AGA
REG D. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKES
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO.LTD.
fit. TfS3 (toe. In NJi.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Polmei £ Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster ft
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Mallocb Bros. Ltd,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers 1 Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
df
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Defence Costs Down, Taxation Up
Just as the war has reached a new
stage, so has this country’s political
economy. But the fact apparently needs
emphasising in Canberra. The time has
come for the restoration of financial
stability and the elimination of waste.
The cost of defence to Australia during
1944-45 was £460 million, a drop of £B4
million by comparison with the preceding
year and a decline of £lO2 million from
the peak reached in 1942-43. But taxa-
tion during the year was the heaviest on
record, and the Treasurer has promised
no relief before 1946-47. The higher
revenue (£343 million, up £34 million)
and the smaller war expenditure were re-
sponsible for reduced reliance upon bor-
rowed money; loans of all kinds were
£llO million lighter at £267 million.
In the 1942-43 term borrowing,
amounted to £403 million, including £179
million of bank credit. Treasury-bill
finance in the next period ran to £69
million, and last year the figure was
smaller still, though it is only too
obvious that the savings banks were
called upon for far too much indirect in-
vestment of depositors’ money in war
loans offered to the “public.”
Greater Revenue
The reduced dependence upon bank
credit—a most inflationary method of
finance —and the smaller amount of bor-
rowing required generally is a satisfac-
tory feature of the past financial year.
Revenue paid for 56 p.c. of the Budget
outlay, compared with 40 p.c. in the two
preceding periods. Charging all civil ex-
penditure to revenue, the balance of tax
collections, etc., was enough to pay for
42 p.c. of the war bill, compared with
31 p.c. and 28 p.c. in the two previous
years.
The reduction in war expenditure below
the Budget estimate (£505 million) is partly
attributed by Mr. Chifley to a delay by
Great Britain in rendering an account for
something like £l7 million and by reverse
lend-lease coming to £2O million less than
the estimate of £llO million. The Trea-
surer suggests that the comparatively
small amount of reciprocal aid to the
United States is a matter of bookkeep-
ing, too, but it seems that the failure of
most land industries during the year, for
which the Government is partly to blame,
was in a measure responsible for our re-
duced food supply to Allies.
Haphazard and Extravagant Political Bait
Most alarming feature of the year’s
accounts is the continued growth in civil
expenditure. Before the war the nation
was up for about £65 million of civil
outgo a year, plus £2O million expenses
of running the post office, Federal rail-
ways, etc. —total £B5 million. Last year
the corresponding figure was £l5O mil-
lion. The war-time increase is largely
because of contributions to the big, badly
conceived National Welfare Fund, out of
which it is proposed to scatter a variety
of “benefits” to voters, including “free”
medicine and other haphazard largesse,
“Free” Medicine, Bigger Pensions
Present cost of this fund is £3O million
a year, with much bigger expenditure
contemplated. During the year now be-
ginning the old-age pension rate is being
raised to a point p.c. above the pre-
war level, and in one act child endow-
ment goes up 50 p.c. In view of the
financial strain involved, bringing danger
to the whole economic structure, the
scattering of money gouged out of tax-
payers regardless of all except political
consequences is indicative of the reck-
lessness of a Government the soul of
which belongs to an irresponsible Caucus,
Bigger pensions and better health
facilities, extended in the right directions,
would be commended by all who like the
human race. But crushing taxation levied
to pay for badly-distributed and ill-
advised “humanitarianism” that has
many aspects of political bribery is an-
other matter. Taxation is no longer a
mere expense; to industry it is usually
the biggest item in the year’s outgo, and
the greatest problem that productive
enterprise has to face.
Committed to Folly
The hurried, erratic and wasteful
manner in which the Government has
gone about its “social” planning, com-
mitting the nation to huge expenditure
even before the great cost of war had
started to come down, is threatening our
entire post-war outlook. The Labor
party has on occasions descended to the
dirt in its politics during the war, and it
is unlikely to admit the errors of its
ill-starred social-security arrangements ;
on the other hand, it is certain to black-
guard any section which attempts to re-
duce these commitments to a size that will
not blight the country with excessive
taxation and industrial frustration.
There is a danger that excessive taxa-
tion will bring, for all practical purposes,
a form of socialisation,' with its ineffi-
ciency and bureaucratic control.
The £3O million which the National
Welfare Fund costs each year is, as indi-
cated, only the beginning of our increased
civil costs. In addition to the higher
pension and child-endowment rates which
will inflate 1945-46 figures there are items
not yet charged to civil account. Sub-
sidies to prices to keep down war-time
living costs are charged to the defence
account. So is the interest on the 1939-
45 war debt. With such obstacles to be
overcome when the question of reducing
post-war taxation arises, the casual
effrontery of the Government in com-
mitting the nation to huge vote-catching
expenditure on “social security” will
enrage those who take the future of them-
selves and their country seriously.
The Government too lightly ignores
aids and incentives necessary for produc-
tion, the basis of our social welfare and
economic strength. It has harassed in-
vestors and taxed industry without any
regard to fairness or financial confidence.
Political expediency has been its lodestar.
The High Cost of Politics
In the cost of defence, £460 million
last year, great waste has also been in-
flicted upon the nation. The Government
conceals from critical eyes the manner
in which this huge sum has been spent.
The Administration is finding difficulty
in keeping men employed usefully, so de-
void of real economic planning is it, but
it employs them anyway. It has also
been in the habit of going on with mili-
tary projects long after they are known
to be valueless to the war effort or for
any other purpose. Waste is inevitable in
war, but too much of the waste seen in
Australia’s war effort would be avoid-
able if short-sighted party-political con-
siderations did not dominate so much of
the Government’s “policy.”
Stability and Confidence Wanted
The Government is of a type which
would cut its throat and that of the coun-
try rather than be accused of anything
resembling deflation, even though we
have plainly suffered great inflation. Yet
a stabilising of our national finances at
the expense of swollen payrolls and Gov-
ernment expense accounts would be the
very thing to help correct the unbalanced
distribution of rewards and burdens that
today is undermining the productivity of
the nation and robbing the thrifty. Re-
demption of debt, where possible, should
be considered, and extravagant expendi-
ture and ill-considered commitments re-
vised. After nearly four years of
war with Japan and the expense and
strain that have,, gone with it this is no
time to continue coddling those unwilling
to be governed or throwing the money
of industry down the political drain. But
it is high time investment confidence
was restored and a national debt of over
£2600 million restrained.
Silly Cows?
Last year’s record taxation collections
and revenue, together £343 million, in-
cluded £lB3 million of income tax, up
over £3O million compared with the pre-
ceding term. Federal and State income-
tax collections last year were in the
vicinity of £215 million. Before the war
Commonwealth income tax was £l2 mil-
lion, State £3O million. The fifteenfold
increase in Federal income tax since war
began, which last year made it possible
for the Treasurer to put a better com-
plexion on the national accounts, is some-
thing for which he should feel deeply
indebted to the nation, and should not
merely regard those who contributed it as
poor silly cows who appear to be offer-
ing themselves for political milking after
the war is over.


ECZEMA
Q ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability. *
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
DoansOintment
s Ute qucditf Of 4fd44/L mix
fllue-p/unt
WITH A
BRIDGE-BANB UU Y
AUTOMATIC MIAMI
RUBBER • PLASTICS
LINOLEUM & ALLIED
INDUSTRIES
■rn
■
* I (T** 1 1» »■■ ■
LA 7 Ife *• « '■ > 'J: ■I i
«
H
-
llpjk
MMHI
iE
IHi: .:
H
-
mm
yy
I■' f '
i ::
mm
»
m
■
H’■ ■■ ■■ ■ ■
m
m
mm
A FULL RANGE OF SIZES FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS ★
With Bridge - Banbury Automatic
Mixers on the production floor, manu-
facturers engaged in the processing of
rubber or plastics or in the making of
linoleum or electric cables can mix in-
gredients to specifications right on the
dot—every time . . . any time.
Three design features enable the
Bridge-Banbury to blue-print output to
any desired specification—control over
time of mixing ... control over tempera-
ture . . . and the controlled Banbury
principle of automatic mixing.
This ability to duplicate any mix time
after time brings costs down, keeps
quality at a uniform level and sends out-
put up . . . advantages no cost-minded
plant executive facing the competitive
future can afford to ignore. Why not get
all the facts—we shall be happy to tell
you more. No obligation.
L Goninan & Co. Limited
NEWCASTLE
N.S.W ,
i MANUFACTURERS GF RUBBER AND MINING MACHINERY
I ROILING STOCK. SKIPS. BOILERS. DROP FORGINGS
\ IRON. BRASS AND MEEHANITE METAL CASTINGS.
SPUR. HELICAL WORM AND BEVEL GEARING
-MANUFACTURING
STRUCTURAL • AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
The Banking Bills
The Federal Labor Government has
gone on with its banking legislation re-
gardless of popular opinion, obviously
against it, and against the advice of ex-
perts. The essence of the proposed
changes in the control of banking is that
the board of the Commonwealth Bank,
hitherto independent, will be removed
and a governor, subject to political con-
trol, placed in charge. The Common-
wealth Bank will have power to dictate
the policy of the trading banks. Thus
the whole banking system will come
under political control —which at present
means Caucus control —to be the play-
thing of militants and theorists just the
same as the inter-State shipping and other
industries have become in war-time under
Government administration.
It is believed by some in a position to
know that the Government is running
much shipping at a loss, though private
enterprise in other parts of the world has
found busy transport conditions a source
of profit. The service rendered to
shippers by the Government, as charterer
has not been entirely satisfactory. The
loading rate on the wharves has fallen
sharply and delays and obstacles have in-
creased on many sides. Under Govern-
ment-controlled transport, too, it is not
unknown for a commodity to be declared
“black” by the unions. Shipping in this
war has been a most essential function,
the welfare of our island fighting forces
in many cases depending on it, but with
the industry under Government control
most unions have put on a poor show.
Government control of finance, through
the banks, is unlikely to be any more
successful.
And the lack of responsibility of Min-
isters in the present Government is well
illustrated by Mr. Dedman, formerly
Minister for War Organisation of Indus-
try. His department was all for the clos-
ing of “unnecessary” bank branches and
for the “saving” of man-power. When
over 500 branches had been closed he
denied that he had closed any branch.
Yet it was Dedman who arranged a con-
ference with banking authorities in which
he impressed upon them that he “could
see no reason why there should be several
private trading banks in one town.” But
he didn’t actually remove the furniture
or nail up the door in any branch closed.
The banks themselves did that under
Government duress.
Dedman has also denied that he was
responsible for the manufacture of
single-weft cloth. It is clear that he can
be held responsible for very little. To
place control of the Commonwealth
Bank, in peace as in war, in the hands of
Ministers and members of Caucus as
irresponsible as Dedman must clearly
have disastrous results. There is nothing
politicians find a more tempting subject
to meddle with than banking and money.
They feel that all their political and elec-
toral problems can be solved by the pros-
titution of money. Many of them are on
the lookout for “easy” finance, regard-
less of what happens when the day comes
wjjen someone has to pay for the “easy”
money.
The Banking Commission, while re-
commending enlarged powers for the
Commonwealth Bank, did not recom-
mend the removal of the central bank
board. It was definitely against the poli-
tical control of banking. The action of
the Government in putting forward the
present legislation shows that it has no
regard for the caution of even the most
liberal authorities or advisers in the sub-
ject ; and in this day and age caution is
no undesirable quality any more than
hitherto. The changes in our banking
structure are being forced upon the coun-
try by politicians who rose to power on
the conscription issue. They have no
mandate for their banking legislation and
no backing by financial authorities.
It is significant that both in Australia
and New Zealand the Opposition parties
have given an assurance that, if they are
put into office, they will reverse, as far
as it is in their power, the banking legis-
lation passed by the Labor Governments.
It is rarely that such promise is given, an
incoming Government sometimes being
willing to take full advantage of the
powers given to it by the “dirty work”
of a previous Administration. But poli-
tical control of banking is such a danger-
ous matter that those with the welfare
of their country at heart must discounten-
ance it.
There is a great deal of misunderstand-
ing in the Commonwealth about the
financial position of New Zealand. It is
held up to be a model economy by some.
But the ex-governor of the Central Re-
serve Bank has pointed out that only the
war saved Maoriland from financial disas-
ter, and the same Administration is still
in power, still full of socialistic notions,
even though Walter Nash during this war
advised Sydney Trades Hall to leave
banking to those who had had experience
in it. New Zealand has great economic
problems confronting it now, and it should
never be forgotten that both Australia
and Maoriland have been taken under
the wing of the bigger Allies, both mili-
tarily and economically, during this war,
and that our war-time economic sins have
yet to find us out fully.
The Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernments are each intimidated and coerced
by radical and/or vindictive elements.
They are being driven into acts of foolish
meddling with sound, established institu-
tions, It is hoped that both countries
return to political sanity without being
forced back to it by economic break-
down.
The president of the Swedish Chamber
of Commerce in Australia, addressing
business representatives in London, said
that there would be no Australian goods
available for direct export to Sweden
for the time being, the British Govern-
ment having bought the whole output
of certain Australian goods, including
wool Though some Australian products
would no doubt get to Sweden through
British channels they would be regarded
as British exports. The Swedish Gov-
ernment is willing to permit the export
of goods to Australia for payment in
sterling, although Sweden would prefer
payment in Australian goods. But Aus-
tralia appeared, according to Mr. Sten-
strom to be bound by an agreement
with its Allies to import only war essen-
tials for the present, though negotiations
were going on in London for some , re-
laxation of the position. In any case
Sweden would not be able to let' Aus-
tralia have timber, as practically the
whole output of Swedish timber had been
contracted for or would be used for re-
building devastated areas in Great
Britain and other parts of Europe. The
Chamber, in a letter from Sydney to its
members, publishes a clause of the Anglo-
Swedish Payments Agreement: —
This agreement is in force from January
1, 1945, to be effective for five years and
terminable after three months’ notice. The
British and Swedish Governments are by
this agreement co-operating with a view to
limiting capital movements to what is re-
quired to serve useful economic and com-
mercial purposes. The stipulations are
subject to revision if either party adheres
to a general monetary agreement.
The last reference is apparently to the
possibility of something arising from the
Bretton Woods monetary agreements.
* * * *
Two things are particularly resented in
the matter of heavy Australian income
tax. The first is that the citizen sees so
little in return for all that is taken from
him, there being such a big wasteful ex-
penditure that in no way helps the war
effort but which serves political purposes
or which is the result of bad planning and
administration. The second is that, while
the citizen is reduced to financial im-
potence by taxation, thb strength of Gov-
eminent departments and the bureaucracy
is increased in corresponding proportion,
In the circumstances the individual is
paying to provide for his own econom c
downfall. Taxation is truly such a heavy
item in most people’s budgets these days
that our spendthrift, vote-stricken politi-
dans had better have a care> when the
real need for heavy war spending ceias .
“Free medicine commitments and the
like will be closely scrutinised by electors
later on.
* * * .
In the Senate debate during w ic
Senator Cameron suggested that it might
be necessary to make a capital levy m
Australia, as m distraught France, a son
mate. Senator O Flaherty, said. I wish
this Banking Bill was socialisation, but
socialisation of the banks alone would
not be the end of our troubles. There
are other things to be socialised, and we
will socialise them as time goes om
These two Labor Senators are represen-
tatiye of quite a piece of the bon
(chiefly in the head) and toawn h
makes up the Party weight behind the
brain of such as Ur. Evatt.
* * * *
Prestige Ltd,, the big hosiery and
; nQ bas
lingerie concern compla ns that it has
a greatly increased capacity to make Ci\i
jjan goods, but the only kinds of such
goods it is allowed to make are those
approved by the Government, and the
pu blic is wanting something different,
Tbe co j s na t U rally reluctant to make a
b j g stock G f “austerity” clothing at this
stage of the war. The official mind, of
CO urse, works too slowly to help indus-
try in ’problems like this. Another case
G f Government regulations retarding pro-
duction and recovery,
*.* * /
The United States House of Repre-
sentatives has voted for the continuance
of price control for another year, the
control to be in a restricted form by a
department with reduced powers. The
Administration wanted a continuance of
intimate controls, but Congress wouldn’t
have it.


Society
“Bo”: One of those ancient 80-seat
single-car trams which the Sydney road
transport people put on for the un-
refined torture of travellers in the indus-
trial suburbs (the sponge-rubber-seated
corridor type only travels, with a Labor
Government’s rather strange blessing, to
where “silvertails” abide) pulled up
with the usual jerk at the Pitt and
Market streets stop. From the rear of the
tram a well-dressed, middle-aged man
fought his way through the crush of in-
coming passengers who sought desper-
ately for a toehold ; then, no doubt hav-
ing in mind the current “drive” by the
department against “scalers,” he walked
up to the front of the tram and handed
up a shilling to the harassed conductor,
who was almost clinging by eyelids and
elbows to his perch as the mob fought
for egress and ingress. Thd conductor
stepped down to the roadway, pulled a
ticket with great deliberation, handed it
over with the lOd. change, spat, took his
place again on the narrow platform and,
as he pulled the cord and the tram moved
off, glared at the conscientious passenger
and said in a loud voice “H’m —one o’
those bloody exhibitionists, eh?”
*.* * *
“Wodgil”: With modest pride, the
“Hebrew Standard,” “only Jewish weekly
printed in N.5.W.,” announced at the
beginning of the month that it had com-
pleted fifty years of publication. It was
founded by Henry Harris, and the first
editor was Alfred Harris, who was suc-
ceeded by his brother Phil; then came
Marcus Marks, H. I. Wolff, Jonah Marks
and Alfred Harris again, whose two
terms lasted 14 years. Alfred Harris did
not live to write a jubilee article, but the
job was worthily done by Jonah Marks,
and Isaac Isaacs, a frequent' and most
interesting contributor, sent congratula-
tions. During an age which has seen
many weeklies disappear, in Sydney the
“Mail,” the “Town and Country Journal”
and the “Sunday Times",” “News” and
“Guardian,” 50 years of continuous pub-
lication “under the same family pro-
prietorship,” latterly in the main by “one
man, father of three soldier sons, and
three women,” - is no mean achievement,
especially as the Jewish community has
been sharply divided on political issues.
This the “Standard” mentions with char-
acteristic candor, stating as “its propriet-
orial and editorial view” that “those Jews
whose birth gives them that honor and
obligation are Britishers by nationality,
proudly attested by the* voluntary enlist-
ments in the fighting services,” while not
denying “ample editorial space to those
whose national allegiance is accorded to
Jewish Palestine,”
* * * ♦
“Kasi Taoe” on white men in the
tropics:
As soon as I read “Lao-dah” (B. 2/5 / ’45) on
white men in the tropics I knew he had met
nothing but cattle-station, box-wallah and civil-
service types. I’ve just seen a patrol come in
—young Diggers led by an Angau man who has
been 25 years in the tropics, says his age is
“over 50” and wears medal ribbons of the
last war. The members of the patrol declared
their guide could “walk the legs off a blanky
emu!” It is not on record that patrol officers
like Hides and Monckton spent their time in cane
chairs, nor did ennui drive them to shave their
heads. The proper place to study the white man
in the tropics is North Queensland. Never having
heard that you simply cannot do manual work
.in the tropics, these Queenslanders do it and
thrive. In complete ignorance of the fact that
you simply must dress for dinner, they sit down
to tea in shorts and a sleeveless singlet. An
old hand, whose own life was proof of the
soundness of his views, gave me some advice on
the subject, and here it is: Have a job which
keep§ you busy, like Dr, Lambert. You’ll then
suffer as little from boredom as he did when
he was helping to stamp out the hookworm
around here. If your job doesn’t keep you busy,
see that your hobby does. Alcohol isn’t neces-
sary ; it is useless to ward off malaria or any
other tropical malady, and it doesn’t cheer.
Don’t try to make your home up here “A little
bit of England” or wherever you come from;
that’s madness. You’re in the tropics, so have
a house, like your clothing, suited to the
climate. Subscribe to the best papers and maga-
zines, to keep in touch with the outside world,
and, above everything else, scrupulously observe
the rules of hygiene, and see that everyone
else around the place does so too. The army
has shown that if those bits of advice can be
carried out —they can’t by men doing the fight-
ing, but they can at some bases —the tropics
aren’t as bad as they’re painted.
* * * *
“S.A.S.”: More than 100 typewriters
were in use in Australia as early as
November, 1885 —two years before “the
first bit of typewriting was done by the
N.S.W. Railways on the first machine im-
ported,” according to “Pink Tape” (B.
11/4/’45). Sydney Stott established the
“Looks like a suicide pact."
first business college in Australia in 1884
to train operators for the typewriters he
had then begun to sell. He imported a
machine from London for his own use in
1883, transcribing on it the law reports
he took down in shorthand. He had
taught himself shorthand, and had the
wholehearted support of Judges and
lawyers in his efforts to establish it as the
official medium for recording evidence.
Subscribers to the “Australian Shorthand
Writer,” established by Stott in 1883,
included George Higinbotham, “Judge of
the Supreme Court of Victoria,” and Isaac
A. Isaacs, “barrister-at-law.” These two
men, together with about 90 others from
all walks of life, and one lone “gentle-
woman,” went on record as expressing
their appreciation of the “value of the
art of shorthand-writing as a time-saver,
as aiding the quick dispatch of business,
as a pleasurable occupation and as an
aid in cultivating the intellect.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The claim of a
Sydney house-agent that his sign “And
Daughter” is unique cannot be sustained.
There are several “and daughters” in
firm nomenclature. “Hardy and Cousins”
was once a shop sign in Sydney, the
“Cousins” being an indication of relation-
ship to the head of the firm, A woman
milliner put “and Aunt” over her business
premises in a Sydney arcade. The
queerest of all was the “Smith and
Mother-in-law” which once graced a
Sydney suburban drapery.
« * ♦ ♦
“Ear Punisher”: Chain-letters is it (B.
27/6/’45)? The old-fashioned kind
“Zake” objects to are nothing like the
menace that the new kind are. I went to
interview the head of some department or
other, and in the course of our conversa-
tion a ring came on one of his ’phones.
After a long argument which seemed to
be providing the official with a great deal
of amusement, he hung up and pulled out
a file. “See this,” he said with undis-
guised exultation. “It’s been going on
for six months. It concerns a young tech-
nician who has got into the grip of Man-
power. The original question was
whether he should be released from his
job to give his expert services to the Air
Force. Unfortunately, in the course of
the discussion some typist inadvertently
substituted ‘Army’ for ‘Air Force,’ and
the correspondence started off all over
again in a new direction. I’m sitting
back waiting to see how long they will
take to discover their mistake.” “Why
don’t you point out the error?” I queried.
“Why should I?” he retorted. “It’s not
in my department.” The file was about
a foot deep.
* * * *
“Pookie”: “Nothing is a trouble” is
the motto of the P.-0.-W. Relatives’
Association. A placard bearing that
slogan is the first thing to be seen on en-
tering the association’s comfortable rooms
at Cricket House, George-street, Sydney.
As far as is humanly possible the boast is
justified. There is a steady stream of
visitors all day, with all sorts of prob-
lems, and all receive unfailing courtesy
and usually some assistance. Many of them
are mothers and wived, but lately there has
been a sprinkling of ex-p.-0.-w., who find
the place a friendly oasis, especially as
they can get reliable advice on many
of the thousand and one problems which
beset them in the rather bewildering
world to which they have returned. Some
of them just drop in for a chat. It’s that
kind of a place. All the workers are
voluntary, and all have been or are related
to someone who has been in enemy hands,
* * * *
“John Ketch”: Sydney’s Essex-street,
nearly opposite the old George-street
Bulletw office, has a grim past of which
its modem appearance gives no hint,
Here at the foot of “the Rocks” was the
“street S
the hillside loathe
southern approach to the Harbor Bridge
used to be known a hundred years ago as
Gallows Hill. From a postem gate in the
prison wall my namesake’s pinioned vie-
tims were brought to the big scaffold
erected on the slope to the rear of the
jails northern corner, there to take their
last look at Our Beautiful Harbor and the
motley concourse of Sydney citizens
assembled at the juncture of Essex- and
George-streets to see them off. These fre-
quent exhibitions of the law’s terrors
were amongst the principal public, diver-
sions of Old Sydney, until the new jail
on the heights above Woolloomooloo Bay
began to take in boarders in the eighteen-
forties. Many years ago the writer knew
an old inhabitant whose earliest impres-
sion of Sydney was the sight of dead men
dangling there just after he had landed
from the emigrant ship that put him
ashore in Sydney Cove. Seven broken-
necked bushrangers ornamented Gallows
Hill on that occasion.
“Bookworm”: Why is -it that some
Australian writers of really good novels
never come into their own? I’m prompted
to ask this by reason of two recent
passings-out—those of Thomas Bailey
Clegg in Sydney and William Gosse Hay
in South Australia. Clegg’s books—par-
ticularly those based on his travels and
experiences as an investigator of die
French penal system in New Caledonia—
are excellent stuff, never dull and always
eminently readable, whilst Hay produced
some volumes of fiction dealing with
early Van Diemen’s Land that are out-
standingly good. His Escape of Sir
William Means easily excels in merit
Marcus Clark’s For the Term of His
Natural Life, and the four other volumes
he has left are not far behind it in quality.
Yet both Clegg and Hay remain com-
paratively unknown to the general reader.
Maybe it’s because neither was capable
of the publicity stunts by which other
writers keep the public mind full of their
existence.
* * * *
“Qwert, Yuiop”: These beer-proof
clothes that we are threatened with after
the end of the war with Japan seem to
have dangerous and unpleasant possibili-
ties about them. No particulars are given
as to whether they will keep the beer
inside or outside the wearer. If inside, it
will mean that his capacity, particularly
on a warm day, will be reduced; if out-
side it will be simply ruined so long
as he is wearing them, and they will have
to be taken off before settling down to
any real effort in the thirst-quenching line.
Barmaids will probably refuse to serve
unclothed customers, and there will be
a definite risk of having the clobber stolen
during the argument. To any innocent
who may suggest that the old-fashioned,
non-resistant kind of garments could be
worn when going a-beering the conclu-
sive answer is that the new horrors are
unwettable, unshrinkable, unfadeable, un-
creasable and moth-proof. Naturally, no
really house-minded wife of the future
will allow any other kind on the premises,
and even should they be obtainable on
the black market they will unavoidably
label their wearers as beer-addicted per-
sons, fair game for wowsers of all de-
scription. Our only hope seems to lie
with the brewery interests, either in hav-
ing importation or manufacture of the
infernal material forbidden or inventing
a beer that will defeat its fell purpose.
* * * *
“Traymon”: Whether or not Winston
Churchill (B. 20/6/’45) is destined to
establish a record for longevity, he bids
fair to be among the title-holders when
continuous service as a war-time Prime
Minister is talked of in years to come.
Though his fifth anniversary of taking
office passed almost unnoticed by the
press, only the younger Pitt, who held
office from 1783 to 1801 —years of almost
continuous warfare —has bettered this
record. The elder Pitt directed the affairs
of warring Britain for 52 months. Salis-
bury, who held office throughout the
South African War, is also high on the
list. In World War I Asquith was P.M.
for almost two and a half years, Lloyd
George for less than two years. During
the stormy period from the end of the
eighteenth century to Waterloo (1815)
there were six Prime Ministers.
* ♦ * *
“C.H.”: Whyalla is commended by
“S.T.S.” (B. 20/6/’45) for its shipbuilding
prowess, deservedly, no doubt, on account
of its youth. Maryborough (Q.), which
must be numbered amongst the old-estab-
lished ports, has an equally fine record,
not only of shipyard activities in this and
the last war, but dating back to the
’eighties of last century. At least five
vessels built at that time are still in com-
mission on the Brisbane River. A bucket-
dredger and four twin-screw hopper
barges have given good service to the
Queensland Government for 60 years, and
they are carrying on for the duration.
When replacements are possible, the
builders of these old craft will need no
better advertisement for their claim to
consideration.
* * * * j
“Rover”: Mention of disconsecrated
church buildings (B. 27/6/’45) recalls a
conversion case. In the olden, golden
days, Eidsvold (Q.) had a weatherboard
pub and gambling joint. When the gold
gave out the pub was closed and later
on the building became a State school.
After 20 years as a school it became the
church it is today.
“Exdig”: Tell “Bo” (B. 27/6/’45), who
seems incredulous, that I have actually
seen a rifle capable of firing around cor-
ners ; it was the invention of a Sydney
genius, and the demonstration was given
on the revolver range of the Common-
wealth Bank, Sydney. The rifle barrel
was only slightly curved. The same in-
ventor had invented a device on the peri-
scope principle for seeihg round corners,
and the two were intended to be operated
together.
A WARNING TO COLLEGIANS.
“Girl students at hairdressing colleges will not be
Permitted to use their occupation as a means for
avoiding service of national importance, such as em-
ployment in hospitals and other high-priority estab-
lishments.”—Man-power pronouncement.
Watch out, you girls who thought to place re-
liance,
By getting registered as ’prentice hands
In this engaging art and pleasant science,
On being able to avoid compliance
With far more stern demands.
Man-power is on your track. Note, it impresses
Upon you all in no uncertain terms
That war-time holds more worthwhile businesses
Than studying the latest styles in tresses,
The newest modes in “perms.”
The hair is woman’s crowning glory. Granted.
Its ornamental value none ignores.
Few poet's on its charm have not descanted.
But still and all it hasn’t yet supplanted
Old ways of winning wars.
Male service-dodgers’ thoughts are ofttimes turn-
ing
To union tickets and the refuge there.
There’s no such shield for damsels bept on
learning
All that tuition can impart concerning
Methods of dressing hair.
Watch out, you girls who fain would be per-
fected
In arts of beautifying female nobs.
Your calling lacks the magic word “protected.”
At any moment you may be directed
To less congenial jobs.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“It’ll be five guineas a Week in advance—and no bringing all your relations
along to stay with you.”
“Jitterbug”: Lately I had a look at a
modern dance. I’m case-hardened now ;
but 40 years ago my hair would have
stood on end. I learned my etiquette at
dances in the West. We did things prop-
erly theif. If a girl’s heels touched the
floor she wasn’t properly trained ; if she
spoke or smiled she was forward and
brazen (they went there to dance not to
yabber); and if a fellow stayed to talk
to a girl after the dance that was infrac-
tion of the rules. All bucks had to leave
the room after escorting the sheilah to a
seat; they stayed outside till the M.C.
blew his whistle ; then a girl had to dance
with the first man who asked her or sit
out that dance. This modern stuff isn’t
dancing: it’s shadow-sparring with temp-
tation. I thoroughly disapprove of it;
but I do wish I was 40 years younger!
*,♦ * *
“Lawnstob”; It is doubtful if official
caution ever received such a rebuff as
came to the Tramways Committee of
Hobart Council recently. Asked to
grant life passes to Hobart’s four
centenarians, it refused. Next day it
read that two of the old people
had gone; Mrs. William Blekney and
Mrs. Mary Rex both one year past the
hundred. Mrs. Rex was born in the
Apple Island’s capital and was confirmed
by Bishop Nixon, first Anglican Bishop
of Tasmania.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”; No discriminating thief,
in or out of his senses, would try to get
away with the Rodin Minerva, the Rem-
brandt self-portrait, the £30,000 Van Eyck
or any other similar art treasure from the
Victorian National Gallery (B. 4/7/’45),
for the simple reason that there is no-
where in the world, except perhaps some
remote South Sea island, where he could
dispose of his booty. The thief who ab-
stracted the Mona Lisa from the Louvre
in 1911 was a fanatic, not a profit-seeker.
He made no attempt to sell his booty,
and it was recovered in Italy in 1913.
There isn’t a picture dealer or private
collector of any importance in the world
who is not familiar with the principal
works in the Melbourne collection, but
the persons who stole the “Coming
Storm’” of John Rowell and the Besharin
Boy by an unknown sculptor would have
a fair chance of realising on their opera-
tions.
“Melbn”: “Gules” is wrong in saying
(B. 4/7/’45) that the experiment of a
“lending library” of pictures has never
been tried in Melbourne. It was tried
ten years ago by a group of artists and
was unsuccessful for the simple reason
that it didn’t lead to sales and did involve
loss and damage. There is no artistic
justification for the National Gallery
lending the pictures in its basement. If
it lent good ones they would certainly
be damaged, and if it lent bad ones the
public would be. A picture can’t be
replaced as books can, and in any case
no library lends its irreplaceable volumes.
Lud Mayor Nettlefold’s suggestion is only
another facet of his notion that art should
be made easy. It should be made, not
easier, but harder. There has never been
an age when there have been, more lec-
tures on art, radio talks, C.E.M.A. move-
ments, professors of cultural subjects,
exhibitions and gallery collections, sub-
scription concerts and whatnot, and there
has never been an age when less art has
been produced. I am inclined to agree with
Shaw who said that if more than 10 p.c.
of the population likes a picture it should
be burned, because it must be bad.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” compares Borneo and
Java: —
Borneo, pop. 3,000,000, is three times the
size of Java, pop. 45,000,000. Its ports and
towns are oases in a vast extent of jungle and
mountain and, apart from spme short local
railways, it's main means of transport are the
majestic rivers, which, however, are largely dis-
rupted by rapids. In the larger island there
are meagre traces of the Hindu civilisation
which in its passion for architecture covered
Java with temples, shrines, monasteries and
priestly cities. The Dutch for decades have
made attractive offers to the Javanese to popu-
late Borneo, but with mediocre success. Borneo
is non-volcanic, whereas Java is central-heated
with dozens of active craters which at times
have blown thousands of people to perdition and
submerged whole districts, but which for the
most part gently smoke their pipes and de-
posit the fertilising ash on the ricefields. Java
is criss-crossed with roads and railways, and
the great post-road built with slave labor at a
cost of 100,000 lives during the Napoleonic
occupation runs from one end of the island to
the other. Despite its 45,000,000, Java doesn’t
look over-populated. Its cities are small by
Australian standards, and its natives are tucked
away in myriads of kampongs amongst the
sugarcane of the lowlands, the ricefields of the
foothills, the rubber, coffee and tea plantations
4000 feet up the mountains and the jungle that
clothes the slopes up to the livid lips of the
volcanoes. There are immense plains between
the various ranges out of which rise more
volcanoes, most of them so symmetrical that
they look like textbook illustrations of the
species. Java’s super-abundance of humanity
was firstly due to the system of forced growing
of crops for export initiated by the Dutch
East India Company. It compelled an easy-
going, lethargic people to adopt industrial
habits which quadrupled the production of the
island in a few decades.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Grade Fields differs from
most public entertainers, even in the
higher walks of artistic effort, in being
a woman of imagination. Only a woman
of imagination could endow two orphan-
ages, own a castle in Capri (a wing of
which she allowed the indigent Italian
count whose family had owned it from
the twelfth century to continue to occupy)
and keep an audience spellbound with a
programme as old-fashioned as hers is,
being in the tradition of the English
music halls. Even some of her jokes
are locally considered chestnuts, having
been Tivoli currency for a long time. In
fact, she is in the same position as Little
Tich was when he made his Australian
tour, which abruptly ended when pennies
were thrown on the stage as a sign of
Bourke-street disappreciation. I was
present when this happened, and saw the
small comedian in his greenroom. He
was hurt, indignant and bewildered be-
cause he didn’t know that the jokes and
gestures he had originated decades before
had been pinched by lesser funnybones
and hence appeared hackneyed to Mel-
bourne audiences. Tich’s employers dis-
solved his contract. This would never
happen to Gracie Fields.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: Apart from the knowledge
that the Indian troops fought alongside
Australians in Malaya and are now fight-
ing gallantly in Burma, very little has been
heard of their part in the war. Neverthe-
less, it has been disclosed that of 154
V.Cs. awarded 30 have gone to members
of the Indian forces. Though the decora-
tion was created in 1856 it was not until
1911 that Indians were permitted to
receive it,
* * * *
“Pip” oh the military Sabbath ;
The most eagerly anticipated part of army
training is the weekly rest day. Most units set
Sunday aside for stand-down, dispensing with
early morning parade and having breakfast an
hour later than usual. Church services are held
immediately after breakfast and then a day of
complete freedom lies ahead. Energetic soldiers
dig out boxes and butterfly nets and disappear
into the jungle. Others go in search of bananas
and pawpaws, or smuggle a rifle out the back
way for pig- and turkey-hunting. A lot of. the
fellows concentrate solidly on spine-bashing,
dragging stretchers out of the tent and lying
torpid in the sun in pleasant drowsiness. Letter-
writing occupies some of the time. For the
lady-killers the task often takes a half-day, and
they bemoan the inability to use carbon paper
as the letters to various loves are usually identi-
cal. When there is a beach or river within
10 miles trucks take those inclined down for a
dip, and in some areas one of the standard
Sunday fatigues is shark and crocodile guard
over the swimmers. Hitch-hiking is another
popular form of amusement, the risk of a 20-
mile walk back to camp being small deterrent.
The stand-down is invaluable for general tidying
up of personal gear, sewing on missing but-
tons, inserting the nine stitches that could have
been fixed by one a couple of weeks ago, for
catching up on reading and for doing a bit of
study. Then there are football or cricket
matches to play or watch, scratch teams to join
for volley ball and circles, and pick and shovel
work on the tent garden. By the end of his
rest day the average soldier finds himself ex-
hausted.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: I have recollections of
that “more or less reliable” statement in
“Go, and never darken my door again!”
the Melbourne press (B. 4/7/’45) that
hundreds of valuable horses would have
to be slaughtered under official orders be-
cause of the chaff shortage. Owners and
dealers were reported plaintively assert-
ing that first-class young draughts
wouldn’t fetch 30 shillings and would
have to go to the Zoo or to cats,
Needing a good stout horse, I took a trip
to the city and made inquiries of a dealer,
He i aug h e d. “We’re not selling draughts,”
, - Wp mi>ht
sard. We re buying them. We mig t
cull out a few crocks, but no owner in
Melbourne would sell you a good draught
for less than forty guineas, and some
would ask a hundred. It takes genera-
tions to produce a good draught.” I
quoted the newspaper description of the
alleged crisis. “That’s just journalistic,”
was his comment. Now I’m wondering
whether the drought and the soil erosion
are “just journalistic.”
* * * *
“Joypet”: The trial of “Lord Haw
Haw” is of interest to many R.A.A.F.
men who heard him in England. There
was a curious fascination in listening to
him. Some who were then stationed at
a big R.A.A.F. reception centre will re-
member a broadcast which he wound up
with “ and you Aussie boys in the
x. Hotel down at Y. Town, don’t think
we’ve forgotten you. The Luftwaffe will
be over to see you soon,” They were
OV er a few nights later, but didn’t do us
any damage. But this business of naming
j us t where we were—information we
could not include in letters home—made
the fellow’s stuff very dangerous. He
W as able to quote remarks made in the
House of Commons the same day and
other day-by-day events as though he
were on the spot. The certain amount
G f truth always worked into his broad-
casts gave a flavor of reasonableness to
the mistruths he built on it. One of
his pet themes was that Britain would
fight to the last Dominionite, always bols-
tered up by indisputable facts and figures
which had nothing to do with the matter
but SOU nded as if they were pertinent,
* * * *
. » Uramao ” : Bulls enlivened the by-
election for Waikato (M.L.). The Labor
candidate (who was beaten by a woman,
]yf rs . Hilda Ross) was emphasising the
hard work he had been doing in the
interests of his country and said that Mr.
s le and he had home night
f ‘ •, , . ”
er t ni Sht a t daylight in the moinm^.
The laughter with which this was leceived
caused him to revise his remarks. “What
j meant ” he explained, “was that we
, ’ , 5.
have gone h°me at daylight m the morn-
mg, night after night,
* * * *
t u». Xoll “rw” tR 77/rWMSV
. .V* 1 ’ * le “ 7
that his idea of a tour for returned sol-
diers after the war is good but not exactly
or ] g i na l. J joined a pilgrimage to Galli-
poli in England in 1934. Left Liverpool
in the C.P.R. luxury liner Duchess ot/
Richmond, 20,000 tons, one day Naples,
two days Kelia Bay ( for Gallipoli Penin-
, . J , Istanbul • then steamed ui>
suiaj, one aay istanpur, men steamed up
the Bosphorus. On return, one day
Athens, and arrived Liverpool after an
en j o yable three weeks. Fares were £24
J ' inHn.lina nil effort pvrmxinns
*4B, including j _- S ,P Ol * excursions.
Passengers numbered 720, nearly all ser-
vicemen and their wives (I was the only
Australian on board), with just a fewi
tonrictc * A rrnicf* Vnmmittpp
ordinary tourists. A cruise committee,
chiefly of R.N.D. Association men, was
formed, the shipping co. sent a cruise
d j rec t or and Thomas Cook a represen-
tative. Veteran war correspondent H. W. l
Nevinson was with us, and gave two illus-
trated lectures on Greek art; another pas-
senger was John North, the novelist.
who afterwards wrote that good book,
Gallipoli, the Fading Vision. A tour from
Australia of say nine weeks to Alexandria,’
Tobruk, Crete, Greece and Gallipolii
could probably be arranged for a fare of
£1 a day. Another tour could be to New]
Guinea, Borneo, Singapore, etc., at less,
expenditure, time and money.
A FORTHRIGHT JUDGE.
“ ‘I suppose the term “de facto wife” passes for
modern delicacy, but it means no more and no less
than mistress or paramour.’
—Justice Halse Rogers in Sydney Divorce Court,
The euphemism, popular for “sojers’ ”
Helpmates whose claims to marriage lines are
faint',
Annoys our estimable Justice Rogers
And moves him to legitimate complaint,
His Honor being one who’s not afraid
Firmly to designate a spade a spade.
“Mistress” is verily a word to engender
A none t'oo charitable frame of thought;
To many, following Flute, the bellows-mender,
“A paramour” remains “a thing of naught.”
Harsh words perhaps, yet here’s a Judge dis-
putes
The seemliness of squeamish substitutes.
A falsehood, that which most would term a lie,
To those disliking such a blunt and rude
Excursion into phraseology
Becomes a verbal inexactitude,
A synonym that strikes with no such dent
Upon a Speaker’s ears in Parliament.
But these are subterfuges that the Law
Is loath to countenance in any way.
The practice sticks in the judicial craw:
“De facto wives,” one seems to hear it say,
“A contradictory phrase, for who can get
Behind the qualifying epithet?
A wife’s a wife, it hastens to assure ye—
An axiom that’s needless to discuss —
And if she is, the Latin tag de jure
Is obviously quite superfluous;
And, if she’s not, it’s clear as noonday sun
De facto cannot help to make her one.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABORIGINALITIES
I’ye seen a couple of sticks of gelignite,
with a short waterproof fuse, upend a
hundredweight or so of nice fat mullet
or bream in one pop. If none of these
things can be scrounged, why doesn’t “B.”
try jigging with a big, sharp, triangle
hook, with a lead setting and a stout line
cast over them and pulled in swiftly to
keep the hook clear of the bottom and
prevent it from fouling if it misses the
fish? When he gets one he can open it
up and see what it’s been feeding on.
Once that detail is solved, and a supply
of the material found, “B.” and his lot
can catch all the fish they need by means
of float lines. Anyhow, when they’ve got
to that stage of ordinary fisher-bloke re-
source! ulness they won’t be wanting to
play about with crossbows.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: “Bad Australian” (B.
4/7/’45) ought to run through his
evidently-neglected Bible again, more
carefully this time, if he really wants
chapter and verse for proof that “the
turtle of the old Israelitic chronicler” was
a bird and not a chelonian. Numbers
vi, 19, Psalms Ixxiv, 19, and Jeremiah viii,
7, indicate this clearly by their context.
Nine other references, ranging from
Genesis xv, 9, to Luke ii, 24, will show
him that the turtle-dove was a frequent
offering or sacrifice in Jewish and early-
Christian religious ceremonies. On the
other hand, turtles, having neither fins
nor scales but yet living in the water,
were unclean, as ordained by Leviticus
xi, 12. As for the voice of the turtle
that has led to all this unusual present
uproar in such uncongenial surroundings
“M.U.R.”: The bloke who didn’t know
the war was over has turned up again, this
time somewhere out near Wave Hill
(N.T.). Wearing the habiliments of a
drover he found himself in conversation
with a Mr. John Heyer, associate direc-
tor, with a Mr. Harry Watts, of a com-
pany making a film to be called “The
Overlanders.” Mr. Heyer, reporting the
encounter, states that the drover and his
men informed him that the last they
heard of the war in Europe was that the
Allies were doing well in Italy. Mr.
Heyer should have captured that drover ;
he. must be about the most repeatingest
figure in the Outback. He showed up in
the Gippsland hills somewhere about
1917, when he expressed astonishment
that “they hadn’t caught that old Cronje
yet,” and somewhere west of Bogan Gate
early in 1940 he was sarcastic that “the
Kaiser could last so long.” Probably
he’ll now withdraw for another genera-
tion, only to emerge and complain about
the failure to defeat Hitler. Meantime,
Messrs. Heyer and Watts had better leave
the Outback before their legs'get too long
to walk with comfort.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: While sympathising
with “Bogaduck” (B. 4/7/’45) in his
failure to get a feed of the particularly
elusive fish which frequent the waters of
his island base, what’s the matter with
trying a service rifle at the just-beyond-
spear-range big fellows until the crossbow
plans come along? The good old Lee-
Metford has brought me many a good
dish in old days. You don’t even need
to hit anything up to three or four pounds
—the shock from a near-miss puts their
bellies up and a scoop-net does the rest.
A tommy-gun burst should be even more
effective. Or a grenade, or a Mills bomb.
‘Now Watch the little dickie-bird!”
for such a subject, no chelonian has a
voice or indeed anything to make a sound
with unless by whacking its flippers about.
* % 4 s ♦
“Kelpinya”: Only once, as a lad of
16 or thereabouts, did I attempt to smoke
a wild animal from a hollow log (B.
11/7/ ’45). It was a fox, run into the
log by the dogs. One end of the log was
almost choked with damp wood-earth, so
I put a fire at the other end and waited.
I heard the fox cough as smoke oozed
from the cracks, waited awhile and went
home. Next morning I found the log
burned to ashes and amid them the cal-
cined bones of the fox. Then my imagi-
nation got to work, and the vow never
again to use fire against a living thing is
the only one I’ve kept.
* * * *
“R.M.”: For two years Gilbert, the
pet tree frog, has lived among the flowers
in the living-room wall vase, philoso-
phically surveying life as it goes on
around him as he squats among the
flowers. Beside the vase is a large pic-
ture, and, beneath it, the radio. Should,
there be no water or flowers in the vase
Gilbert prefers to sit behind the picture
until such time as his proper abode is
refilled. If he is sleeping out of sight
below the flowers the turned-on radio
will immediately bring him forth, for Gil-
bert loves music. Moreover, apprecia-
tion usually inspires him to lend his own
throaty basso as obbligato. Lately the
house being closed for three weeks, Gil-
bert was removed to the vines on the
porch. On returning the family beheld
Gilbert waiting on the steps outside the
living-room door to be let in. When the
door was opened he immediately hopped
in, and started up the wall, clinging with
his suction-tipped toes. Finding no water
in the vase, he made for the picture,
where he settled down, to await the
family’s pleasure. Next day the vase was
filled, but Gilbert had left. That even-
ing he returned, but with him was another
frog, smaller and brown. The gallant
Gilbert led the way up the wall. Gil-
berta had come to live with her lord
among the chrysanthemums.
$ $ « £
“Spinifex”: According to that paragon
of accuracy the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph,” a horse attached to a cart bolted
for two miles through Newcastle streets,
while motor-cars “travelling at 50 miles
an hour” were driven just ahead of the
moke in a vain endeavor to slow him
down. The excitement ended when the
bolter fell. It is fair to assume that the
runaway must have travelled at approxi-
mately the same speed as the motorists
just in front, who were trying to steady
him, so that he must have done the two-
miles burst in 2min. 24sec. On that per-
formance he’d have beaten the average
Melbourrie Cup field by over half a mile
—quite a fair effort, when you remember
the cart and the fact that the cars were
spoiling his run. Now I know what these
racing men mean when they talk about
“The Bolter’s Chance.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Most dogs form an attach-
ment for the nag the boss rides con-
stantly, but Sam’s mong works overtime
on his self-appointed job of guarding the
hack. Beginning by staying with it when
Sam dismounted to attend other tasks,
old Shag now sticks to the horse at all
times. Across the paddock he trails the
grazing beast, sometimes a mile from
home, and spending most nights with his
charge. No amount of urging will per-
suade him to follow Sam unless the moke
goes along, and should anyone borrow
it he gets the dog as good measure, A
few days ago Bung tackled Sam about
tying his horse on the pub verandah.
When Sam refused to shift it Bung, a bit
.under the weather, proceeded to knock
the culprit’s block off. The dog solemnly
watched the pasting; then, dropping his
tail, he sought refuge beneath the horse,
till presently Bung triumphantly arrived
to shift the beast himself. He had one
hand on the bridle when with a snarl of
rage old Shag went into action. Bung
is nursing a bad ankle these days, and,
despite a black eye, Sam is still grinning.
“Notodone”: Bill the woodman had
made his usual call on us in town and
had departed for his home some ten
miles out, when we noticed a stray dog
in the yard. Someone thought it was
Bill’s, so we decided to keep it for a few
days until he should call for it, for it
obviously was a good dog. Mum turned
a barrel on its side, put in some straw ;
and a couple of mornings later we kids
woke to find that Sheepie had a litter of
pups. She was friendly enough to let us
pick them up, though she would lick our
hands in imploring us not to do her
treasures any harm. But nearly a month
passed without Bill giving us a call; then
one day I spotted him passing and gave
him a hail. The dog wasn’t his, but he
offered to take the pups. As he departed
with them he said: “Don’t let her out
until I’m gone a couple of hours or she’ll
follow. She’s well bred and I don’t want
any bloke coming after me saying I stole
her.” So we kept Sheepie in until Bill
and the pups were miles away. Then we
turned her on to the street. Bill had
gone south. She turned north, gave us
a last look and a wag of the tail in
thanks, then broke into a trot. “She
came from some drover’s plant,” Mum
explained. “She needed a home until
her trouble was over, and she put it
right over us. Now she’s off to see if she
can pick up her master and the sheep
again.”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Prospecting in highly-meta-
morphised country, we soon learned that
the only building stones for the camp
fireplace were of granite character. Sand-
stones cracked and crumbled away; the
schists blew up like explosive when
heated. Never struck anyone with an
explanation why schist bursts open so
violently in a fire, sometimes sending a
chip flying with enough force to knock
a man’s eye out. Anyone oblige?
* * * *
“Fang”: Ah old U.S. sporting manual
I came across has an interesting study of
the art of duck-shooting as practised in
its highest form. The shooter takes up
position in a “blind,” a concealing clump
of reedy grass, with a number of painted
wooden decoys floating on the water in
handy range; then a duck “call” is
brought into operation. The instrument
recommended is of wood with a
bronze reed, and should have the range
of a full scale of quacks. After learning
to play the scale in a variety of natural
tones the novice goes on to a study of
duck “languages,” ranging from the
exchange of pleasantries with a lone
feeding duck to the “come-in” to
a mob flying over: an “Esperanto”
common to most kinds is recognised.
Hen “talk” is more effective than
drake “talk,” the latter being used only
on rare occasions. Shooting is aimed at
wheeling the mob for a second try, or for
the benefit of associates. It sounds good
enough* for a trial on our duck haunts,
if the ducks co-operate and some obliging
soul first de-snakes the “blind.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: What’s the difficulty in
freeing any kind of cat from a rabbit
trap (B. 23/5/’45)? When I came on any*
sort of cat caught I took a handy length
of sapling, placed it on the spring, then
put my weight on it, moving up towards
the trap until pressure was sufficient to
permit the jaws to open. And however
full of fight Felis may have been while
still held, he or she promptly hit out for
the horizon the moment release came.
♦ * * *
“C.E.”: Jim’s hack had as a foal been
reared round the homestead, usually
getting all she wanted, and had grown up
decidedly temperamental. As a fine-
weather hack she is willing and friendly,
but when strong northerlies spring up
Jim seeks a mount elsewhere, for the little
mare hates wind. Whenever possible she
spends windy days in the shelter of the
shed, being driven out for short intervals
only by acute hunger. Shut in an open
paddock with a gale in progress, she
fidgets, tosses her head, snaps and pre-
sently starts to squeal. Then, getting
madder, her wild bucking gallop round
the paddock begins, punctuated by fre-
quent intervals of screaming and backing
into the wind, to lash out viciously with
both heels. Jim has long since lost
patience with her tantrums. “Her,” he
snorted, aiming a kick at a rolling bucket
between curseful grabs at his flying
cigarette papers. “Gripes, she hasn’t got
anything t’ go crook about, even a
blanky hat to keep on, let alone a flamin’
fag to light!”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Had “Propalong” (B. 27/6/’45)
read my dissertation dispassionately he
might have noticed that I explained how
to set a rifle, which is the necessary pre-
liminary to accurate shooting. The target
I suggested received the imprimatur of the
armorer at a large army camp. In all my
experience of rifle shooting I never heard
of avoidance of lateral error when using
a perfectly sighted rifle nor the corollary
adduced by “P.” As for blushing, a deli-
cate spasm suffused my hardened dial
when I realised that a practical shot failed
to appreciate the difference between a
bead and a barleycorn. ’Roo-shooters
often rip out the barleycorn blade,
standard in W.R.F. .32, etc., and substi-
tute a blade of ivory, acquiring the
correct elevation by an empirical use of
the file. Using a bead and a Lynam aper-
ture rear sight, I have knocked hundreds of
’roos on the hop up to 100 yards, follow-
ing them with the bead while squeezing,
not pulling, the trigger. A gun shot sub-
consciously voices “pull” at the psycho-
logical moment when swinging his gun
at a rapidly moving target. Maybe I
require more practice, as then I might be
able to score 25 in the Emergency Shoot
at 300 yards instead of the two successive
scores of 23 and 24 I obtained by not
squeezing the trigger in the 40 secs,
allotted.
THE PUBS OF NARROMINE.
The old hotels at Narromine sit mellow on the
plains,
As they have sat through western droughts and
through the western rains.
They saw the teams pull out for Bourke in days
that are no more;
They saw the shearers hump their swags along
Macquarie’s shore;
And safe within their weathered walls the
precious echoes lie
Of bushmen who have joined the dust from
Parkes to Mogriguy,
And westward on the Bogan side and down the
Dubbo line,
The rendezvous of friendship is the pubs of
Narromine.
The old hotels of Narromine sit cheerful in the
sun,
As they were cheerful when they saw the first
wheat harvest won.
The barons of the fleece have gone and all is
haste and change,
Though still the eagles circle slow above the
Peak Hill range.
The night mail roars away to Bourke, its head-
light bright ahead,
A monster shrieking in the dark, it's tail three
stars of red.
The moon is over Kingalbung and pale dogs
softly whine
As they nose the sleepy silence of the pubs of
Narromine.
The old hotels of Narromine sit as they sat
before,
When horsemen of the rolling west rode boldly
off to war.
They saw the walers champ their bits and heard
the riders sing,
With emu feathers in their hats and game for
anything;
And on the sands of Palestine and by the
Jordan’s tide
They showed the sons of Saladin how western
horsemen ride.
Then homeward to their sun-drenched plains,
as pilgrims to a shrine,
They came to tell their stories in the pubs of
Narromine.
The old hotels of Narromine sit pensive by the
road
Where men now speed on rubber wheels and
engines pull each load.
The horsemen ride the plains no more and low
the eagles fly
Beneath the roaring metal birds that sweep the
western sky.
And from the ’drome at Narromine to northern
skies aflame
The slim, brown youngsters winged away to
win a deathless name;
And, singing as their fathers sang, they heard
the motors whine
And thought from war-torn Europe to the pubs
of Narromine.
The old hotels of Narromine sit silent in the
breeze,
As streamers from the dying sun flash through
the Bogan trees.
There’s war tonight in Borneo and fires on
Bougainville,
And men are there from Dandaloo, from
Dubbo and Peak Hill.
And when the guns are silent and the last
patrol at rest
And the plainsmen are at home again in their
beloved west,
There’ll be the meetings as of yore when
summer days are fine,
And all will take their pleasure in the pubs
of Narromine.
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”: The young man in search
of experience arrived at the station over-
night and appeared next morning in full
riding kit from wide-brimmed hat to
polished riding boots and made-to-
measure Jhodpurs. “Gripes,” said the
boss, “I doubt if we’ve got a horse that
can come up to that outfit.” The young
man flushed, but mustered up a grin and
said “Well, they bought ’em for me down
home before I left. I’ll have to wear ’em.
You see, I’ve got nothing else. But I
hope you won’t pick me a wild horse. I
can’t ride.” His frankness warmed our
hearts, and the boss picked out quiet old
Pompey and said “Look, all y’ got t’
do is sit on him as easy an’ confidently
as y' do on a chair. Just balance y’seif
comfortably an’ let y’r body sway with
the horse. Just like sitting on a chair.”
About an hour later we sighted him walk-
ing back to the yards. “What happened?”
asked the boss. “Well, I followed -your
advice,” said the youngster, “about sitting
as in a chair. I was getting along all right
until a black snake shot out of some grass
right under the horse’s nose. Then —er —
well, somebody pulled the chair from
under me.”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Exit, a Maori hermit,
Tutanekai Pokaihau. For 25 years he
had been the sole occupant of Mokoia,
a small island in the centre of Lake Roto-
rua. The island is hoary with Maori
tradition and legend, and Tutanekai
Pokaihau could not be induced to leave
it. His mother, a centenarian, lives at
Rotorua.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Probably the only mem-
ber of the animal kingdom which eats fdr
pleasure is Nepenthes, the pitcher plant,
some of the largest and most voracious
examples of which flourish in Borneo.
The pitchers are filled with water or
manufactured formic acid, and by vari-
“ Don't you fellows know you must keep to the left?”
ous devices, such as honey-secreting
glands and downward pointing hairs, they
lure insects and even small lizards into
their innards, where they make a soup
of them. They can get on quite well with-
out this fleshy diet, but they obvi-
ously relish the soup, and, like aldermen
at a mayoral banquet, manifest their sen-
sual satisfaction in flushed faces and
brighter colors.
“Wippegong”: It’s good to wander
down an Asiatic street and meet a tanned
face that takes you back to the clear sun-
light and clean waters of . home ; it’s just
as good to meet less articulate reminders
of the same good places. The Bengal
garden where I write among its mass of
bamboo and mango palm and variegated
manioc has two welcome exiles —a silky
oak and a red bottle-brush, both doing
well. The grevillea is the huskier of the
pair; the moist heat of these parts has
more in common with the Queensland
coastal climate than with the cooler belts
down south where the ti-trees flourish.
Better even than meeting these two it
was to land in China and find the road
Marco Polo trod now lined in parts with
beautiful bluegums, strapping youngsters
60ft. to 80ft. high, straight, clean and
fragrant. Other avenues of young ones
are coming on, and their silver leaves lit
with morning dew recalled fem gullies
and lyre-birds and the smell of frying
blackfish. Good to see these clean-
limbed, healthy stock from a new world
sheltering the travellers along the worn
cobblestones of the old. Something sym-
bolic about it.
« * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: The dopiest bloke we
ever ran across was up in the Gumbowie
Ranges, out of Petersburg (S.A.). We’re
making across to Terowie to see if we
could get a start on the transhipping, and
strike his camp just on dark. He was
doing a bit of trapping, and he says
“Well, y’re welcome t’ hop in for y’r cut
when the stoo’s ready.” “What sort of
stoo?” asks Mat. “Well,” says the bloke,
“it’s a galah I caught in one o’ me traps.
Dunno how he’ll be ; galahs can be pretty
tough,” Then, just to raise a bit of a
grin. Mat put over an old bush joke.
“Y* oughter put a bit o’ quartz in the
pot,” he said. Instead of laughing, the
bloke looks interested, and wants to know
why. “Well,” says Mat, hesitating, be-
cause everybody knows the joke and he’s
afraid there’s a catch somewhere, “when
y’ can get y’r fork into the quartz the
bird’s fit t’ eat.” Both of us wait for the
comeback, but the bloke gets up and
starts walking up the slope. Thinking
he’s offended, Mat sings out “Hey, where
y’ goin’?” The bloke turns round and
yells back “Just remembered there’s a
quartz outcrop over the rise. Won’t be
long.” As soon as he was out of sight
we grabbed our knots and sneaked off
into the scrub. When a bloke like that
wakes up there’s likely to be trouble. ■
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”; “The O.D.’s” certi-
ficate of good character to the wedgetail
eagle (B. 13/6/’45) wouldn’t carry much
weight around the Murchison sheep
country of W.A. There the sky raider
is on the outlaw list along with warrigal
and the fox. Stiffeners often collect the
bonus on eagle heads. And the wedgie
doesn’t necessarily have to carry the lamb
away; he can tear the new-born jum-
buck to pieces right there on the ground,
the ewe a despised onlooker.
« * * *
“Naturala”: The fresh-water lobster of
British and European rivers was called
a crawfish by the Scotch, because when
caught it invariably held in its first
stomach a mixture of food, partly di-
gested, and often some small stones.
Hence it was held to have a crop or craw
like a fowl; so crawfish. On reaching
Australia our early fathers on lifting our
large, plentiful crustacean from the sea,
found that it also possessed a crop or
craw, so it became the crawfish, which
became elevated into crayfish. Actually,
when our cray is lifted from its ocean
home it is practically unmarketable, so
it undergoes a period of starvation, dur-
ing which its digestive organs reduce
themselves to that delectable whiteness
so much esteemed by the epicure. That’s
why at crayfish ports one finds big crates
of crays suspended under the jetties,
though most observers imagine them to
be only the fisherman’s storehouse for his
surplus catch.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Yesterday I saw for the
first time an Australian-born country-
bred boy draw his shanghai at a kooka-
burra with deliberate intent. An expostu-
latory bellow disturbed his aim, and
“You can get crimed for carrying explosives, y' know.”
Jacky flew off unharmed, to laugh
derisively from a neighboring bough,
while I questioned the transgressor as to
his reason for such an infringement of all
good bush manners. Aged 13, he main-
tained stoutly that Jacky was a murderer
of chickens and other young birds, an
egg-thief and a fraud so far as snake-
killing is concerned. Asked for his source
of information he quoted a wireless talk
on Australian birds. Unfortunately, he
couldn’t name the station. He admitted the
speaker had included a warning that
Jacky is a protected bird, but he couldn’t
resist the chance of a shot at such an
outrageous fraud and hypocrite now un-
veiled to him in true colors. Discussing
the matter as man to man, and admitting
a small basis of truth in the charges, I
told him of the Victorian committee of
naturalists who years ago, and after full
investigation, decided that Jack’s good
work in destroying harmful grubs far
outweighed any occasional peccadilloes
in other directions. He handsomely ad-
mitted he had been misled, promised to
refrain in future from further similar
attempts at murder or mayhem, and
wound up with the remark that a bloke
didn’t know what to believe on the wire-
less. At which Jacky laughed until he
nearly fell out of his tree and flew off to
tell his pals. They are still laughing.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: It is improbable that with
the primitive abo. the pointing of the
bone was ever a matter of private venge-
ance ; it invariably was directed against
some member of the tribe who had trans-
gressed the law but was too big
and tough to be handled by ordi-
nary means. So if, having been
notified that he had been pointed
at, he refused to go into a decline
and die he was executed by means
of the bone, since it would have
been fatal to the prestige of the
council of elders should he con-
tinue to live and bring their de-
cree to ridicule. Among the bone-
pointing nations —for not all abo-
riginals follow the practice —the
execution was carried out by
“kaditicha” men. The distinctive
part of a “kaditicha’s” equipment
was his shoes, made with soles of
feathers, cemented together with
blood, uppers of woven hair, even
hair-string laces. These were to
prevent the identification of foot-
prints, thus preventing the start-
ing of a blood-feud on the part of
the executed man’s relatives. Also,
since they generally moved in
daylight the “kaditichas” were
masked. With intelligence of
where the doomed man was to be
found they went about their busi-
ness with dispatch. For a woman
to accidentally encounter a “kaditicha”
meant her instant death. So news that
the “kaditicha” was walking meant panic
among the women of the tribe.
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”: The day our town-
ship barber took over the pub “Howler”
Holloway came along to join in the fes-
tivities. When he’d arrived at the semi-
sozzled stage —a condition in which he
was always disagreeable and often
violent —“Howler” demanded to be
shaved by the new licensee. The ex-
barber didn’t demur. He got his ob-
streperous customer to seat himself on
an upturned cask, head resting on the
edge of the counter. He then lathered
“Howler” with beer froth, gave him
a deft once-over, and concluded the queer
performance with a spray-off from a
soda-siphon. “Howler,” who never
before had been known to be gracious
about anything, declared he’d never had
a finer shave.
« * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: Don’t know much
about “the old myth that sheep always
feed upwind” (B. 4/7/’45), but I’ve driven
a few thousand of ’em in my time and
there’s no doubt they travel better with
the wind in their faces than any other
way. And while we’re on it, what’s the
explanation for Murray fish always mov-
ing upstream?
« * * *
“Plain Angus”: Have been reading E.
Kay Robinson, the British naturalist, on
the cat. He complains: “After you have
lavished upon her caresses that would
make your dog squirm with esctasy she
will sit up with a far-away look and
begin to clean her hind leg.” He is, of
course, comparing Ponto —“always your
attentive slave” —with Pussy, to the latter’s
disadvantage, an old English custom.
And so from time to time the cry about
Puss’s coldness and selfishness goes up,
and the complainants fail to see that they
are actually praising the cat: she is an
individual, a highly intelligent animal,
who cannot be flattered into fawning
upon her master, as the dog can and
usually will. However, on the common
ground of mutual affection, when her
attention is not roughly demanded and
her sensibilities not offended by patron-
age, she will meet her master half way,
or beyond. There are selfish cats as there
are unfaithful dogs but, generally, when
treated with understanding puss is the
most loyal and affectionate of animals.
She cannot follow her master as a dog
can —although I have seen her try, going
till she dropped—but she makes up for it
when he comes home.
* * * *
“Nagheer,” with another version:
“Patrol Leader” (B. 27/6/’45) is a bit astray
in his Prince of Wales Island (T.S.) history.
In October, 1848, H.M.S. Rattlesnake was
anchored off Cape York when Barbara Thomp-
son was brought across from Muralug—native
name for Prince of Wales Island —as a result
of a reward offered during a previous visit for
a white woman rumored to be in captivity in
the neighborhood. Her story was that in April,
1844, she, her husband and four other men had
left Moreton Bay in the cutter America to pick
up oil from a whaler wrecked on Bampton
Shoal and thence to Port Essington. They
failed to find the wreck, quarrelled, one man
was marooned on an islet, two were lost over-
board; her husband and the remaining other
man were drowned in an attempt to swim
ashore. The cutter drifted ashore at Muralug;
except for some jealousy from the women, she
had been well treated, but had lost an eye from
ophthalmia. A year or so later she had been
taken to another island to the northward, evi-
dently Badu (Mulgrave Island), where she met
a white man ruling as chief. He could not
speak English, but they talked in the Muralug
dialect, and he told her that he had arrived there
in a boat many years before after killing and
eating his four white companions. He was the
murderous rascal known as Wini, a French
escapee from the Sydney penal settlement. Bar-
bara’s Muralug captors were in desperate fear
of him and of the Badu people. At first he
suggested that she stay with him, but changed
his mind and sent her back. Sixty-seven years
later I heard the probable reason from an old
Badu man: “One time Wini ’e find white Mary
’long Muralug. No good that one, talk, talk
all time, altogether too much talk that one!”
Anyhow, the Rattlesnake people took good
care of poor Barbara, and a few months after
her rescue she was restored to her parents in
Sydney in excellent physical condition. She
married again, and lived to over 80.
BALLADE OF OLD PILOTS.
Oyez! All sorry types give ear,
Who dice with death in nimb. and cu.,
Behold the mystery made clear —
Reason where all was once snafu;
The facts of airborne life are few,
Commit them fast to memory,
To avian antics here’s the clue:
—You cannot argue with gravity.
You may weave like a wagtail, fox the flak,
Jump bandit gaggles from miles astern,
Run a wizard shufti with ne’er a black,
But you’ve had it completely unless you learn
That you’ll never pancake, you’ll prang and
burn,
You’re gone for a burton, it’s R.I.P.
If you hold off bank in a gliding turn:
—You cannot argue with gravity.
You may pay a call on the frippet’s flat
And find the occasion a cracking show;
And then on the stationmaster’s mat
Be tom off a royal strip; but know,
Worse fates can harry those below
The rank of air marshal or A.O.C.
—You’ll go for a far more malodorous row
If you try to argue with gravity.
Be warned, old pilots who aspire
To honored ease for your greying hair,
And slippers and port by a blazing fire
At night, and a Naafi gong to wear;
It won’t be granted unless you bear
In mind this precept: if you would see
Grandchildren playing around your chair,
Never you argue with gravity.
Envoi.
Sprog! I impress on you once again,
Whether in Spit, or Lane, you be,
Sir Isaac Newton he had the gen.
—You cannot argue with gravity.
R.A.A.F.
LINDSAY CARROLL.


oft w°v
woi
afS
<6
«'»;SS
Cot-ves W ustrl *
tUe KotioM
Serves * lie
P H t/\o ° pftCG
SSSv« w-- 0 " 0
For Sf** w6 i ,
>» TEBs i"V“SS.
p&^S£^
,\ 1 g t V. Hobart; 03 'aa/af'-
m
LIFE ASSURANCE
-THE ROD THAT
WON’T BREAK
T HOUGH a single rod will snap like a match,
A the same rod, when bound with others into
a bundle, will stand a thousand times more
strain.
Such is the strength of Life Assurance; It is
the accumulated strength of the many, used for
the benefit of each one who participates.
Life Assurance guarantees that, on your
death, your family will receive, not merely what
you have saved, but what you intended to save.
Hundreds of thousands of women and
children have been saved from poverty by
receiving Life Assurance Payments—£l,ooo,
£2,000, or more —when their breadwinners
died. Such sums have been paid to them, even
though only a few pounds may have been paid
in premiums.
Any Life Assurance office, or representative,
will tell you what Life Assurance can do for your
family.
Listen to the "Here’s Health” programme ,
sponsored by the Life Assurance Offices in Aus~
tralia, Macquarie Network and Associate
Stations , each week.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Soldiers Understand.
(From a N.Y. "Times” article by Brooks
Atkinson.)
Nothing a civilian can do at Lome for
the war compares in any way with what
a soldier has to give out of himself. For
a civilian has a home to go to every night,
where he enjoys a little privacy or has
some time to himself. He has time off
that he can use as he pleases. He has
never had to surrender his identity as an
individual. In his war-time life there is
a large measure of choice of friends, food
and amusement.
Since the nature of war is not only
dangerous but destructive, a soldier also
lives in an atmosphere of varying degrees
of frightfulness alternating with boredom.
He must always be at the peak of his
form in a cruel competition of death. In
the field he lives like a hounded animal,
in misery without civilised comforts —
everything impromptu and temporary.
Since he sees comrades dying and knows
that he may die himself, he has to give
himself to war without reservation in
self-defence. He is absorbed in it. If
he had to live this way in his own coun-
try, he would at least be fighting for some-
thing he could see. His feet would be
on ground he loves.
But even if he is a good internationalist,
which is highly unlikely, he can hardly
understand in his bones why he is pit-
ting his life against the enemy in a coun-
try that does not warm his heart as his
own does. Homesickness lies at the heart
of all his dissatisfactions. No wonder he>
suspects that no one at home understands
what he is giving his country. No one
does.
A Lesser Pearl Harbor.
(From a report by Frank H. Bartholomew, U.S.
United Press vice-president in charge of that
organisations reporting of the Pacific war.}
On two separate nights before Dec, 8,
1941, it may now be revealed, formations
of Jap reconnaissance ’planes flew down
the coastline of Luzon and were picked
up by U.S. detecting devices. Detection
of the aircraft was the first definite indi-
cation to the American command that
hostilities were coming.
Lieut.-General Lewis H. Brereton, now
commanding the First Airborne Army,
was then commanding U.S. Far East
Air Force, made up of fighters, medium
bombers and 35 817 Flying Fortresses.
After the first reconnaissance foray
General Brereton, on orders of General
MacArthur, instructed his fighters to
intercept any further flights on a shoot-
to-kill basis.
When the Japs approached the second
time General Brereton’s fighters took to
the air, but were unable to locate the
enemy in the darkness. At the same time,
on General MacArthur’s direction, orders
were issued to remove the 35 Bl7s from
Clark Field to anew field at Delmonte
on Mindanao. Clark Field, it was recog-
nised, was vulnerable to attack from
Formosa, and it was hoped that Jap in-
telligence had not yet learned of the Del-
monte base, which was likely to be
attacked from Palau.
Despite these orders, the ’planes were
not immediately moved. Accounts are
uncertain as to why. Lieut.-General
Richard K. Sutherland, of General Mac-
Arthur’s staff, discovered that the Bl7s
were still at Clark Field, and acting in
General MacArthur’s name he re-issued
orders for their removal. Fourteen of
the Forts were moved to Delmonte,
where they were safe for the time being,
long enough for Colin Kelly and other
fliers to carry out their desperate attacks
on the Jap invasion fleet.
When news of Pearl Harbor was
flashed to Manila on the morning of
Dec 8 (Manila time) General Suther-
land learned that 21 of the Bl7s were
still at Clark Field. He instructed General
Brereton to have the ’planes gassed and
keep them in the air during daylight.
Junior members of the air force were
eager to carry out an immediate attack
on Jap bases in Formosa. However,
General Brereton was reluctant to issue
orders for the attack until photographic
reconnaissance had been made of two
fields in the south-west and south-east
corners of Formosa.
While preparations for taking the re-
connaissance photos were under way a
mysterious telephone call was received
at Clark Field from Manila, The instruc-
tions ordered the bombers not to make
the attack.
The source of this call has not been
determined, records show. It definitely
did not come from General MacArthur’s
headquarters, which issued its orders
only directly to General Brereton.
In accordance with this message, the
bomb loads were removed from the For-
tresses. However, the fighter forces were
active, and twice during the morning
took the air to turn back attempted Jap
attacks.
At noon, according to reports of those
present, the fighters were ordered down
and the airmen went to lunch. Some of
the anti-aircraft gun crews were also re-
duced for the lunch period.
At just this moment the Jap bombers
swept over in force, with the Fortresses
on the ground, and in a single blow vir-
tually eliminated Clark Field and the
precious 817 force from the defence of
Luzon.
After the disaster General Brereton
eventually took the remnants of the Bl7s
to Australia.
V-Bombs on London.
(Facts about the V-bombs attack on London
can now be told, as in this London “Daily
Express” article.}
On a Saturday morning in November
occurred the second-worst bomb disaster
of the war and its most vicious blow
struck by the V2 rockets. On that one
morning 168 men, women and children
were killed. A further 108 were seri-
ously injured.
At New Cross the news had got round
that a consignment of kitchen buckets
had reached a store in the High-street.
There was a queue of women shoppers
to buy them. There was fish in a near-by
shop and a second queue for this. There
was a third queue outside a draper’s
shop for the sale of sheets?
It was at ten past twelve. There was
not a second of warning. Hitler’s death
blow converted the busy, homely scene
to shambles. So great was the force of
the explosion that the whole of the store
—with all the people in it, shoppers and
staff alike —was thrown into the base-
ment, with hundreds of tons of masonry,
splintered timbers and twisted steel
girders above.
Within one and a half minutes of the
V2’s arrival rescue squads were at work.
Brick by brick the debris was removed by
hand by the rescuers. Shattered bodies,
some of them children still clasping the
toys that had been bought for them only
a few moments earlier, were uncovered
and tenderly removed. Between 70 and
80 bodies were recovered from Wool-
worths alone. Of 11 others no trace has
been found to this day.
One woman found her husband’s van
“crushed Kke a concertina.” She did not
find her husband. Five minutes before
the V 2 fell a woman named Mrs. Peaves
left her sister and baby in the store.
Neither has been traced.
The New Cross disaster stood out in
the seven months’ ordeal of London, an
ordeal that was almost completely secret
except for reports by word of mouth to
the rest of Britain.
Londoners never knew when anew
blow would fall upon them. They car-
ried on without any interference in their
normal lives,, and they carried on with
their war work. Factories within blast
distance of V 2 explosions were back at
work again in days and sometimes hours.
London people visited by this new
terror weapon debated which was the first
that hit them. There was very little time
between the first two. One fell in the
south of London; the noise of the other
came from the north.
What happened on September 8? It
was early evening when the whole of
London was startled by two terrific ex-
plosions. In Stavely-road, Chiswick,
the men were taking an evening stroll to
the local. Someone was practising scales
on the piano in a front room. The women
were gossiping at the garden gates. Some
were listening to the radio.
Then the V 2 came. Houses flattened
on either side of the road.
“We heard no sound before the
explosion rocked the ground,” said the


In the future, as in the past,
there will be occasions , . .
pleasant evenings at theatre or
pictures ... anniversaries to
mark. Crown such occasions
then . . . as before * . . with
"Golden Glory.”
66
. ii
rtS^r^Lras’js:
»
Vrt®"** O' - **
ui »«•.“ IW
for *• '
, ao «a-Otu <*“*■’
,«ul*
to. lh«
-
i • -ai A i? - z£ ,ur * y ii ~,* s
k<» ,_ .(,,. •*<*>«»' '* c»o ** <tol '* . k
«aK ««■ I P*,'" C X «,,. ooJo* •
•“ *f
“ L.na wrt*> #u “*"* ii—.JloP*^ ol
• \
■&=*
■*'"•' 1 7, U lo * ''***“' mw"!
T.,.»P«i--“"_Si3 » r 1"!
x >' s
""'•' x£3j <» I *“’ K.„ m.»—•
•*" k r»»»i-'ctrjss»r'x
• SSci - -
Un* <’ oUC * *" U ‘ n ° m * )hl , ye,
„, u ipmrr* olK4n t p«« •' I ( Qim *nc
■ • •raaatf— *-—*•*
rtjWW*" 1
££?»**• “' ** Tl—*•- ”jr
. g-niJssss- 3 * H
_ •**»
gy#i»/ <*- J||r —iJßjta-
//GW TO PREPARE Jc-ijaif
FOR THE LIFT OR ESCALATOR
YOU WILL NEED 70-mrrm..,
The lift or escalator you will need to meet the challenge of the
post-war to-morrow can be placed on order—now.
No immediate payment is asked—but we look to you to place your
order in good faith. The plan is this-—have your anticipated traffic
conditions surveyed now. Approve the plans now-—’and place your
order. We will issue you a Priority Certificate and. according to its
sequence, so will work commence on 3 r our installation the moment
present restrictions are lifted. Cancellation of your order will be
accepted any time till work is started and costs will be based on
present rates with variations either way to your account.
Forward-looking executives interested in taking action to meet the
future are invited to call their nearest Waygood-Otis office. No
obligation.
The lifts or escalators you order now will embody the latest advancements and practices
in the field of vertical transportation. Our engineers will advise you in drawing up the
specifications to ensure yon obtaining the best type of lift to suit your business and
anticipated traffic conditions.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. - incorporated IN victoria
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE , BRISBANE , ADELAIDE , PERTH , HOBART , NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL tR A XSPORTATION
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
bewildered people in the district. “There
was absolutely no warning, like the
whistle of a bomb or the chug of a flying-
bomb engine. We did not see anything
either.”
And so for seven months the offensive
continued, sometimes scores of V2s arriv-
ing in a week. Not a bus was
taken off the streets. Theatre and cinema
audiences fell off momentarily, but not
one manager had to close his doors.
Thirty-five hospitals were hit in London
and its surroundings, and 45 churches
and chapels were completely wrecked or
damaged. But the public houses got it
worst. Scores were blasted, dozens were
hit—the worst when seven American sol-
diers were killed in a pub in Duke-street,
W. The men were just about to leave at
closing time when the rocket arrived,
blasting parts of Selfridge’s. A taxi pass-
ing was blown into the front window and
the driver and his passengers were never
found.
The second-worst incident occurred at
Stepney in March. Workmen who had
been toiling throughout the day patching
up London from the VI bombs had got
back to their homes at Hughes Mansions
and were in bed for the night. When the
rocket streaked to earth at 1000 miles
Only at one point did Russia
emphasise her point of view during
the Finnish elections, otherwise
entirely free of intrusion: she
frowned upon the proposal of the
Finnish Social Democratic party
{which is largely anti-Russian ) that
banks and industries should be
nationalised. That, said Moscow,
would jeopardise reparations pay-
ments! —“Atlantic Monthly"
an hour two blocks of workmen’s flats
just vanished. A third was partly wiped
out. There were 134 killed that night
and 40 lying seriously injured. There
were whole families killed. Some vic-
tims they got out after many hours. Mrs.
John Colberson could not be freed for
six hours. When she was taken away her
husband found that he had lost his three
daughters.
They brought in dogs to help the
rescuers find the trapped people.
The third-worst V 2 incident, like the
first, was a tragedy of a fish queue. The
time was 11 o’clock on a bright March
morning, and the place the junction of
Smithfield Market and Farringdon-street.
There were large supplies of fish on the
stalls in the street. Once again people
had queued up to buy the unrationed
food. A woman was stuffing her bag
with halibut, the most hard-to-get fish,
and her face reflected achievement.
Traffic was at its peak. Before the woman
had pocketed her change the rocket
burst, the queue was no more, and the
streets were littered with dead and in-
jured. One hundred and ten people were
killed outright. Hundreds more were
taken to hospital and 123 of them were
seriously injured.
People who saw the carnage remem-
bered strange incidents. They remem-
bered seeing a man on a milkcart, and
after the explosion both the horse and the
wagon were there but the milkman was
never seen again. They told of a woman
shopper being blown on to the top of a
stall.
A V 2 fell behind the stage at Ilford
Hippodrome in January. Ilford had a
bad pasting. The explosion burst a tank
above the stage and the orchestra players
were drenched with water, They kept on
playing.
It is impossible to tell the tragic details
of all the V 2 killings that struck at the
home and business life of London. But
here are some of the facts that complete
the picture of constant ordeals. In De-
cember, 1944, a V 2 crashed in the centre
of Mackenzie-road, Islington, wiping out
68 people and injuring 99 seriously. Rows
of houses were flattened. In March, 1945,
another serious casualty list resulted when
Folkestone Mansions, Deptford, got a
direct hit, two blocks of flats being de-
molished. Fifty-two people were killed,
32 more seriously injured. Whitefield’s
Tabernacle, Tottenham Court-road, was
destroyed after catching fire following a
direct hit in the same month. “Speakers’
Corner,” famous debating ground in
Hyde Park, usually crowded at week-
ends, was missed by only 40 yards when
a rocket fell there in March. The mis-
sile arrived at 9.30 o’clock one Sunday
morning, when there were few people in
the park, and only one passer-by lost
his life. Dalston Public Library was
completely destroyed, killing four people
who were changing books, two of them
children. Five children passing the
library were killed by blast. In March
400 boys at Creighton-road Grammar
School, Tottenham, were on the playing
fields when a rocket fell 40 yards away.
Two boys died. There were many casual-
ties when a rocket fell outside a London
County Council infectious-disease hos-
pital at Shooter’s Hill, Blackheath, in
November. A bus caught fire and was
gutted. A gas main burned up many
houses. In January a V 2 hit the doctors’
quarters at the Royal Hospital, Chelsea.
Five were killed.
Through all this attack the Germans
never knew where their rockets were fall-
ing. No main railway station was hit;
no essential building was destroyed that
impeded the war effort.
There is no denying that Britain’s
defence experts had no counter to the
3000-mile-an-hour robot which, in its five-
minute flight from bases in Southern
Holland to Southern England, reached
heights of more than 60 miles in
the stratosphere. But by the time
the bases had been cut off by the
Canadians Britain was about to try out
counter-measures. Among them was a
new secret weapon, devised and produced
as a result of months of study by Service
Department chiefs and leading scientists.
That is the story. London stood the
ordeal well.
Ousting Stettinius.
{This, -written by the N.Y. “Times” Washing-
ton commentator Arthur Krock before U.S.
Secretary of State Stettinius was “elevated” to
an Undo position and his place given to
Director of War Mobilisation Byrnes, explains
why the change was made.]
It was the Red Queen who kept inter-
rupting the croquet match in Wonder-
land with the petulant cry, “Off with his
head! ” and in the U.S. State Department
these days Lewis Carroll’s sanguinary
despot must frequently be recalled. For
every week or so some well-read space in
the press and time on the air are filled
with similar demands affecting the official
heads of the Secretary, E. R. Stettinius,
and certain of his principal aides.
Against Mr. Stettinius the principal
charge made is that the Secretary has
neither the capacity nor the worldly ex-
perience to formulate policy or act as the
President’s sure guide in choosing among
alternate courses. These critics are deter-
mined, highly articulate, with wide audi-
ences in the press and on the air,
A large public is aware of this recur-
rent clamor. But there is also much silent
pressure to the same end, and this comes
from Democratic politicians.
Under our U.S. system, after a Vice-
President has succeeded to the Presidency
the next in line is the Secretary of State.
Mr. Truman is over 60 years of age and
has almost four years of heavy official
burdens ahead of him. Mr. Stettinius
has never been in politics, and the argu-
ment is sound that experience in politics
—especially in elective and legislative
politics—contributes greatly to the suc-
cess of a President. Also politicians are
fearful of the attitude toward their trade
of a Chief Executive —and thus master of
great patronage —who has not served his
time in the bull-ring.
And all this is why, silently but none
the less with considerable effect, many
to whom Mr. Truman must look for
essential political co-operation and aid at
the polls are hopeful that the demands
for the head of Mr. Stettinius will be
heeded. [Since when, of course, the
change has been made.]
“Break the Prussian Hold.”
(.From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Pierre de Lanux, former Director of the Paris
office of the League of Nations .)
Too much emphasis has been put on
a Utopian “dismemberment” of Ger-
many, extremely difficult to maintain
against the natural wish of the Germans
to unite again ; and not enough attention
has been given to breaking up the Prus-
sian hold on the rest of Germany, thereby
provoking a normal decentralisation of
the whole country.
Such a move, directed against Berlin
as usurper of all German authority, would
have deep historical justification and call
forth authentic promises. Instead of an
artificial gesture destined to hurt Ger-
many, instead of a move imposed entirely
from the outside and calculated to exas-
perate every German, good or bad, an
anti-Prussian policy might be largely engi-
neered through the will for self-govern-
ment, peace and a return to happier con-
ditions on the part of Bavarians, Saxons,
Rhinelanders, Hanoverians, Wurttember-
gers and citizens of the old free cities
of Hamburg, Bremen and Lubeck.
For a century the Germans laughed
when a foreigner criticised Falsification.
They liked it because it was successful.
But now that it has brought them disaster,
not only cultural disaster, but twice
military defeat and this time invasion and
destruction, perhaps the Germans will


Production is restricted so don't
blame your retailer if you have dif-
ficulty in obtaining Gillette blades.
Into the thick of it! You can’t get the Blue
Gillette Blades for the moment. They’re helping
the guns abroad. But the Standard Gillette —the
blade in battledress —is as tough and keen and on
the job at home. Steeled for the attack, it mows
down all before it —smoothing the way to that
Victory smile!
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
The will to SAVE is the will to WIN. Buy Savings Certificates.
s.&c.
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO. LTD.. OF ENGLAND
in War as in Peace
at the service of the Empire
mm
m
m
m
,
mm
«s
K
Mi mm
■Aj'v
E*
#J Al
A
: : ' '■■
H
11
a;
. il
I
■ % • _ A:
m
M
iPPPII
at | r
I■ ' S \ • ■ ■
HUUM
All around the world there are constantly in service installations of G.E.C.
generating plant, outdoor transformers, substations and other equipment
for the production, distribution and application of electricity.
During the war the vast technical and manufacturing resources of the
G.E.C.—the largest British electrical manufac-
turing organisation in the Empire—have been
concentrated on the war effort. The company’s
plant and apparatus are faithfully serving the
United Nations on all fronts, which includes the
home front, where British industry has developed
and maintained the greatest production in history.
Prominent among the various G.E.C. activities
throughout the British Empire is its associated
company—The Electrical Plant Manufacturers
Pty., Limited, of Sydney, N.S.W.—which com-
pany manufactures Power and Distribution Trans-
formers of all classes up to 20,000 KVA and 1 1 0
KV, with on-load tap changing equipment if
required.
&.&e.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES include all
industries: Aircraft,
Chemicals, Collieries,
Food, Mining,. Smelt-
ing, Locomotive and
Wagon Works, Motor
Car Works, Ships and
Shipyards, Textile and
other Mills, Oil Fields,
Refineries, etc., etc.
(Sole Australian Representative of the G.E.C. of England .)
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE. “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
reconsider the wisdom of following Prus-
sian leadership and espousing Prus-
sian aims. The Prussians, whose blood
is scarcely German and who were long
regarded as foreigners this side of Bran-
denburg, have been the conquerors of
modern Germany, and its curse. I believe
that a great deal of German support
could be enlisted to liberate Germany
(and Europe) from that curse. And it
makes a great deal of difference if we
carry a policy based on ancient and'
authentic German trends and traditions,;
connected with German periods of real
greatness, rather than improvise a policy
which no German can genuinely sub-
scribe to while remaining a German.
Abandonment of Poland.
[From a N.Y. “Times" letter jointly signed
by the leading American journalists George
Sokolsky, William Henry Chamberlin, John
Nevin Sayre, Varian Fry, Eugene • Lyons,
William E. Bohn, Liston M. Oak, Max East-
man, Isaac Don Levine, Bertram D. Wolfe,
George S. Schuyler and Oswald Garrison Vil-
lard, writing “as American journalists and
writers for years concerned with foreign
affairs.’’]
Never was a moral issue more clearly
presented than is involved in the aban-
donment of Poland by its American
and British allies. This is one of those
issues which will never be settled until
they are settled aright. This the history
of Europe proves and will prove again.
Agitation to right this wrong will no more
be extinguished in the years to come than
was Poland’s demand for real freedom
and its rightful boundaries during all the
long years when it was subdivided and
occupied by Russia, Germany and
Austria.
In 1939 when the Russians joined hands
with Hitler’s ruthless invaders and took
almost half of Poland for itself the
British Government at once declared:
“This attack... cannot in the view of
His Majesty’s Government be justified by
the arguments put forth by the Soviet
Government. For the unhappy victim of
this cynical attack the result has been a
tragedy of the grimmest character... If
Britain and France have been unable to
avert the defeat of the armies of Poland,
they have assured her that they have not
forgotten their obligations to her.”
Now these obligations are forgotten,
and the consciences of Great Britain and
the United States are asked to approve
the perpetuation of the grave wrong that
England and France denounced in 1939.
It is not surprising that it is being asked
in England whether the above quoted
declaration meant that the English “would
drive the Germans out of Poland only to
create a vacuum for the Soviet to fill.”
Or that Viscount Halifax should be re-
minded of what he said on December 5,
1939:
“We have tried to improve our rela-
tions with Russia, but in doing so we had
always maintained the position that rights
of third parties must remain intact and
be unaffected by our negotiations...!
have little doubt that the people of this
country would prefer to face difficulties
and embarrassments rather than feel that
we had compromised the honor of this
country and the Commonwealth.”
Despite all the attempts made since the
publication of the Crimea appeasement
to soothe the American public by saying
that “one must face facts and be realis-
tic”; that “we cannot go to war with
Russia over Poland”; that Poland will
gain by getting East Prussia and
Pomerania as far as the Oder, the situa-
tion has not been ameliorated or stabi-
lised. The great change that has come is
that, as has been officially admitted in the
British Parliament, the Russians are
already terrorising Poland, banning and
imprisoning Poles.
Upon no such foundation of interna-
tional wrongdoing, upon no such delib-
erate violation of the Atlantic Charter,
can any lasting world organisation be
built.
Background to Syria.
(From an article by the N.Y. “Times” Washing-
ton commentator Arthur Krock.)
The background of the troubles in
Syria has been carefully documented by
an American Who was an observer on the
inside of what happened during the Paris
Peace Conference in 1919 Stephen
Bonsai, President Wilson’s official inter-
preter and Colonel House’s confidental
assistant.
The story begins with the successful
efforts of Great Britain and France, before
the United States entered World War I,
to bring in the Arabs on the Allied side
and check the threat offered by Turkey
(an enemy belligerent) to the imperial life-
lines. The Arabs were then, as now, led
by the Sherifian family, of which King
Hussein of the Hedjaz was chief and his
son, the Emir Feizal, second in command.
They were promised independence for
their participation against the Turks, and
the offer (made in letters which have been
published) came from the British com-
mander in Egypt, General MacMahon.
On the diplomatic front the Govern-
ment of India was also actively engaged,
for the Arab peoples were in the zone
of its responsibility, living as they do on
both sides of the route to India. And
from the Government of India the Sherif
of Mecca and the other Arab leaders had
similar promises. But meanwhile the
Governments in London and in Paris
made a secret treaty, the Sykes-Picot
agreement, which divided the Arab areas
into British and French spheres. The
Arabs had been informed by the British
that the pledge of independence was
qualified only by its possible relation to
understandings with France, but they were
not informed of the Sykes-Picot treaty.
So they fought brilliantly and most
effectively against the Turks, and then
came 1919, when Field-Marshal Allenby
withdrew his troops from Syria and the
Lebanon, the French Army took their
place, the Peace Conference gave to
France the mandate for these areas, and
the pledge of independence was not re-
deemed.
The Emir Feisal came to Paris to
demand that the promise of MacMahon
and the Government of India be honored.
With nim came Col. T. E. Lawrence, the
fabulous “British-Arab,” and Gertrude
Perhaps the major cause of the
growing public discouragement over
our chances of working well in
peace with the Russians has been
their unhappy retention, after a
great victory won with powerful
allies, of attitudes and methods
worked out in years of isolation
from the world and barely veiled
hostility. Only this can explain the
stupidity of their information and
publicity policies, the coyness of
their administrators in eastern
Europe, or the brusqueness of their
representatives in the west. Deep-
rooted fears and prejudices and old
bad habits are an explanation, but
they are no justification for the lack
of dignity and self-confidence with
which the Soviets too often put
their worst foot forward in dealing
with their allies. —Editorial com-
ment in N.Y. “Herald Tribune,”
which had hitherto been most par-
tial to Russia.
Bell, “the desert queen.” In a stormy
scene with Prime Minister Lloyd George,
which is recorded in the Bonsai diary,
the Emir reviewed the * history and de-
manded that the Arabs receive the agreed
payment for fighting their fellow-Mos-
lems, the Turks. According to this record,
Lloyd George’s only reply was that Feisal
stated the facts correctly, but that “con-
ditions have changed, and there is now a
different atmosphere.”
The Emir then appealed to Colonel
House, to Colonel Bonsai and, finally,
through their offices, to President Wilson.
He urged that, if there was to be a man-
date, and independence was to be de-
ferred, the United States take over. He
said that when the United States entered
the war his people were confident they
were on the side of truth and justice, and
that he knew an American mandate was
a long step on the road to independence.
Asia, however, is another continent,
and the President was finding enough
resistance at home even to activity in
Europe. So Feisal was informed that his
solution was impossible, and the Presi-
dent, his hands full of more troubles than
he could deal with, and beset by a re-
surge of isolationism at home, was
obliged to leave the issue to America's
allies. It was then that Gertrude Bell,
in a masterly review, besought London
and Paris to make good their pledge. And
it was then also that Colonel Lawrence
declined to mediate with “his Arabs” for
the Foreign or Colonial Office, saying:
“I was a party to the pledge, which looks
like duplicity, but is more a case of the
right hand not knowing what the left
was doing.”
Direct consequences of this distant his-
tory are the recent crisis in Syria and the
meeting of the seven Arab States at
Cairo. The peril is that a fighting race
of 50 millions may be fused against the
West while Japan is still undefeated.
Library Casualties.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times” report.)
Hundreds of European libraries, in-
cluding some of the finest institutions
of their kind, have been devastated by the
Nazis, Dr. Grayson N. Kefauver, who
has been in Europe making a survey ot
the damage for the U.S. State Depart-
ment, has reported.
Many of the libraries were deliberately
ruined by the Germans as reprisal or
punishment, according to Dr. Kefauver,
who found that libraries in England,


1835
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in- Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). O. R. CORJnvai. ,
1945
Manager.
Protect
Against
INFECTION
Heal up injuries quickly
wifh
Double “D"
Never neglect an injury, no matter
how small. Broken skin needs pro-
tection against dangerous infection
—the protection of quick-healing
Double “D” Ointment.
BATHE injury with warm water and
Double “D” Eucalyptus.
APPLY Double “D” Ointment and
cover with a bandage.
f *
» , i
m
The high antiseptic properties of Double “D” Ointment will greatly assist in
preventing any infection and also help the injury to heal quickly and cleanly.
Double “D” Ointment is particularly suitable for children’s cuts and scratches.
7/6 per jar.
Double “D"
SOOTHING HEALING ANTISEPTIC
O-.-X-VXr
mm
i
li
pl|
■
m
%
After V-Day
In the Pacific
V-Day in the Pacific will bring much closer that
other eagerly-awaited day when Olympic Tyres
will be available without restriction. You can
help speed both days by SAVING RUBBER.
OLYMPIi
RUBBER
INSULATED
CABLES)
Olympic TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMFIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA*]
France, Norway, Poland, Finland, Yugo-
slavia, Greece, Italy and Russia had suf-
fered “unprecedented” damage. Replen-
ishing these institutions will constitute a
“new problem for the civilised world.”
Dr. Kefauver cited the burning of the
Royal Society Library in Naples after the
shooting of a German soldier in an adja-
cent streetthe destruction of the Louvain
Library collection of 900,000 volumes be-
cause each book carried a book-plate
representing a German setting a torch to
the university, and the burning of the
Jewish Theological Seminary in Lublin.
Dr. Kefauver estimated that 60 to 70 per
cent, of Poland’s libraries had been de-
stroyed or carried away, or had lost their
identity by being merged with other col-
lections to form a system of “State
libraries. . .
Some of the best libraries in Ukrainian
cities were totally ransacked. The loot
is believed to consist of books and manu-
scripts of special value because of their
rarity, or their value as source material.
Kiev libraries also were said to have
yielded much loot of this kind. A Czecho-
slovakian source estimates that 411 libra-
ries were destroyed. Between 500 and
600 libraries and institutions in Yugo-
slavia were pillaged. By official decree,
Germans demanded all Slovene books ;
library buildings in large centres were
torn down, and books, if they were not
pulped or sent away for other purposes,
were ceremoniously burned.
Reports reaching American authorities
.in Cairo have told of the pillaging of
libraries, laboratories and workshops of
the Universities of Athens and Salonika.
A large part of the University of Athens
library is reported to be lost. The lib-
raries of the three American colleges were
reported to have been used for fuel in
the central heating system by the Ger-
mans.
Most of the libraries of Luxembourg
have been denuded of all valuable works.
In Belgium the Germans ordered the
withdrawal from all libraries of anti-
German books and proscribed their sale.
Fifty libraries have been damaged or
destroyed in England, though the losses
include relatively few works that are irre-
nlaceable.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Out of San Francisco comes a new power
alliance, not too firmly held together, partici-
pated in by the United States, which really
wants a world organisation; Russia, which
wants a world organisation if one can be hau
without hindering Russian expansionist plans,
and Great Britain, which is struggling des-
perately to hold together its economy and its
Empire. The others must play with one or
another of the Big Three as interest or ability
to find a pressure point dictates. It is far
from guaranteed peace, perhaps no more than
the balance of power with a membership card.
How it will work depends on the skill and
agility of the member nations and the deter-
mination of their leaders to take advantage
of future events to make the organisation a
better instrument than it promises to be.
From a summing-up by “Saturday Evening
Post” associate editor Frederic Nelson, one of
that paper’s representatives covering the con-
ference.
* * * *
The part China will play in the final defeat
of Japan will involve political as well as military
decisions by both China and her •allies. As
victory approaches past military contributions
to the defeat of the enemy tend to be forgotten.
Some Chinese would like to build up a large
army, and not use it. China’s part in the war
will be judged not purely by her record of long
resistance; it will be judged as well by the
strength of her finish, and she does with
her army.” —“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
Where Mr. Roosevelt was daring and experi-
mental Mr. Truman has shown himself to be
cautious and pragmatic. Fortunately, Mr.
Truman knows Congress and is liked by Con-
gress. How well he knows the Legislature was
demonstrated three days before Mr. Roosevelt s
death. At a luncheon Mr. Truman excused
himself early, saying he was sure there would
be a tie vote on the afternoon’s issue and he
did not want to be caught absent, as Dawes and
Wallace had been on a like occasion. He
turned out to be right. The new President
has a native shrewdness which he acquired m
the college of hard knocks in his private life
and his career in practical politics. He has no
pride of opinion, is modest and unpretentious
to a degree, and, most important of all, is an
excellent judge of men. This last characteristic
is the best augury we have for his success. It
can be stated on the basis of a view of him as
chairman of the Truman Committee, now the
Mead Committee. In that post he chose as able
a team of investigators as anyone could find.
“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
Clearly the policy of the Arab League is one
directed toward the strengthening of economic
and cultural lies among the various Arab States.
So far there are only seven nations belonging
to the league. These are the States that have
achieved sovereignty —Egypt, Syria, Lebanon,
Iraq, Transjordan, Saudi Arabia and Yemen.
It is certain that the newly-formed league, now
feeling its power as never before, is not going to
allow any one of its member States to lapse
into a position of subservience to any European
Power. It is equally evident that the league is
determined to secure the membership of Pales-
tine. This may be said to be a cardinal require-
ment. Although Palestine, equally contested by
Zionists, is not eligible for membership, in so
far as it remains a British mandate, a Pales-
tinian Arab representative is invited to attend
all meetings of the Council, which fact may be
interpreted as a bid to final Arab domination
of Palestine. —London correspondent N.Y.
“Times:”
Behind Russia’s policy in the area stretching
from the Balkans and the Eastern Mediter-
ranean to Persia is a grim determination to
safeguard herself against any future attack by
way of the Danube valley and the Black Sea or
by way of the vital land flank which covers
approaches to the oilfields of the lower Cau-
casus. Behind British policy is these same
regions looms an equal determination to safe-
guard the imperial lifeline which runs from
Gibraltar via Suez to the Indian Ocean by water,
and overland through Turkey, the Arab States,
and Persia to India. In all these regions the
diplomatic tussle between Moscow and London
gathers intensity. The two Powers are waging
this struggle in each instance for the same
reason; security. The collapse of the Axis has
created political vacuums; and when two strong
nations stand poised on the edges of such
vacuums they soon find themselves moving in
from opposite sides, to an eventual collision.
“Atlantic Monthly.”
f! ♦
President Roosevelt fought a diplomatic battle
with the Germans at Vichy for more than two
years, and he won that battle. That is, he
helped to keep the French fleet and French
African bases out of German hands. In win-
ning this battle, however, he antagonised De
Gaulle. To the leader of the Free French
Vichy was anathema, and he felt that American
diplomacy was strengthening the Vichy chque s
influence within France itself. To De Gaulle
the struggle in France had become a civil war,
and he wanted to fight it as such. But Roose-
velt was anxious to avoid a French civil war,
at least until Germany was defeated. Roose-
velt’s desire to avoid civil war between French-
men was responsible for the decision of the
United States and British Governments m 1942
to exclude De Gaulle from the invasion ot
French North Africa. The forces which we
were able to assemble then were not much
larger than those used to invade Okinawa, and
effective French opposition might very well
have thrown us back into the sea. Fla rd-
headed military and political experts, both
American and British, agreed that such opposi-
tion would be reduced if De Gaulle was not
included in that expedition. The omission ot
the Free French leader from this venture, which
he has never forgiven, is still reflected in
French-American relations today. Demaree
Bess; “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
The bottleneck in American-Soviet trade
which enthusiastic economic amateurs some-
times fail to recognise is the method of pay-
ment. Since Russia entered the war against
The ruin and devastation that
have reduced the formerly highly-
civilised European continent, apart
from a few oases, to the condition
of a wrecked and gutted shell of
its former self have played into the
hands of communism. If the war
in Asia goes on to a bitter end one
may expect a similar development
in that part of the world. —William
Henry Chamberlin; “Wall-street
Journal."
Germany it has received about nine billion
dollars worth of lend-lease material from U.S.,
along with smaller, but substantial, supplies
of munitions, material and foodstuffs from
Great Britain and Canada. But lend-lease
supplies are in the nature of a war subsidy.
Under existing law shipments of this type must
cease when they no longer promote the security
of the United Slates. Suppose that Government-
sponsored credits at an interest rate of three
per cent, to the amount of six billion dollars
were granted to the Soviet Union. Interest pay-
ments alone would come to 180,000,000 dollars
a year, without allowing for amortisation. But
in the five years before the outbreak of the
Second World War American exports to Russia
averaged 40 million dollars annually, while
American imports from Russia averaged only
25 million dollars. Russia has a very small
balance-sheet of invisible exports. It has no
foreign investments and a very small merchant
marine. It has never been and probably will
not be in any near future a country that will
attract a large number of tourists, with a con-
sequent inflow of foreign currency. So one is
thrown back on exports of Soviet goods as the
main visible source of payments for American
imports and repayment of principal and inter-
est on American loans and credits. And
Soviet foreign trade immediately before the
war represented only about one per cent, of the
internal commerce of the country. Russia s
share in world trade in 1938 was about
1-l per cent., 1.3 per cent, for exports and 1.2
per cent, for imports.— William Henry Chamber-
lin; “Wall-street Journal.’’
* * * *
“The people I saw [in London] do not seem
to comprehend that human beings have done
this to them. They take it as they might a
flood or an earthquake. For five years they
have been underfed, underclothed, moving in
a darkness lit only by bomb flashes. Their
patience is rather appalling, nor are they vindic-
tive. They are humorous about ‘the Jerries.
And many think that Vansittart is a crank with
a ‘fixed idea.’ ” — An American, S. H. Behrman,
quoted in Manchester “Guardian.’’
* * * *
There are five pressure groups inside Russia.
One is the Red Army, which prefers security
in frontiers and guns to security on paper.
Another is Russia’s border republics, like
the Ukraine and White Russia, which are
now resuming a massive experiment in politi-
cal and economic federalism after having
suffered fantastic losses in men and resources.
A third is those historical-minded Russians
who contend that the Poles have always
been “Russia’s Irishmen,” a kindred but sepa-
rate nation with an acute sense both of past
injustice and what can be called nuisance-
value politics. A fourth is the Soviet police
system, perhaps an inevitable product of an
entire generation of revolution and counter-
revolution taking place within a State which
has never yet felt it could afford civil liberties.
Finally, most experienced observers suspect the
probable existence within the Soviet Commu-
nist party of a group of leaders who, either
from conviction or despair, are so convinced
of the hostility of the outside world that they
are prepared to go on alone, leaving the west to
its own devices and its own destiny.— Joseph
Barnes; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”


BIRTHDAY OF
FORD AUSTRALIA
Ford-Australia is 20 years of age. The highlights
of those years are virtually a history of the Motor
Industry in Australia . . . from the first development
in 1925 of volume assembly in Australia, through a
series of advancements in engineering and design to
the introduction of low-priced V-8 powered vehicles
and to the years of war, when the vast Ford
organisation in Australia has been diverted to the
manufacture of a complex range of service equip-
ment. In the post-war years. Ford experience and
manufacturing knowledge is available to serve even
more extensively Australia’s transportation needs.
ft
Sli
BO
ft
fO n
||B*
loaD
FORD V-8 CARS,
TRUCKS & UTILITIES.
MERCURY CARS.
PREFECT 10 H.P.
CARS & UTILITIES.
ANGLIA 8 H.P.
FW-20
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. In Vic?). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic. 1
STRONGER... LI ENTER ...LONGER-LASTING
.
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CAS E S
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
CM
c
BONE
Sterilised
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Tailing Lambs.
“Jumbuck”: A thing that retards heal-
ing is the careless manner in which tail-
ing is too often done. Too many con-
centrate on the castration and treat tail-
ing as of little account. A sharp knife,
kept well sterilised, is essential, and the
operator should grasp the tail as near as
possible to the cutting spot. I would say
that not 5 p.c. of operators ever bother to
feel for the joint. Independently of this,
however, or of the length of tail to be
left, it is imperative that the skin should
be gently forced back towards the root
of the tail whilst the incision is being
made. If this is not done a portion of
the bone will be left exposed, and, apart
from retarding healing, will attract blow-
flies.
A common fault is grasping the tail in
a haphazard manner somewhere near the
end and using unnecessary tension whilst
cutting. I never had any time for fast
lamb-markers, and it’s a grazier’s own
fault if he tolerates careless and hurry-up
methods. Every owner should insist that
all knives be well sterilised before use
and kept so by immersing them at inter-
vals in an antiseptic. Those who don’t
bother about sterilisation wonder why
80 man y lambs die after marking,
Buying a Farm.
Ti , , , A ,
E 2 :It s a g° od P lan to have a SoUnd
basis for determining the value of the
place jn view and f t helps (0 have a
working knowledge of the district. Base
your valuation on a fair estimate of
average returns over the preceding five
years or longer, and compare the term
for rainfall with district records. By
allowing a reasonable return for labor and
capital outlay, plus value of dwellings,
etc., it is possible to derive mathemati-
cally the mean value of the farm as it is
being worked under present management.
The writer bases mean valuation on
the following simple table applied to
| and with fences and necessary outbuild-
n S s > but without allowance for dwelling:
Average - Comprising •
Annual Return Maximum
R e t urns- Wages, on Capital. Valuation,
£6OO £3OO £3OO £6,000
350 300 50 1,000
1050 550 500 10,000
The first two represent one-man farms,
with minimum wages for the owner as
working manager; the third allows for
one employee. Return on capital is
assessed at the minimum of 5 p.c, a year.
If the place is not developed to full
capacity there are many more factors to
be taken into consideration. Improve-
ments at £1 an acre, for instance, may
give the place added value of twice that
amount. Soils, too, need careful study,
with investigation of depths and fertility ;
impoverished land may prove costly to
recondition. Experienced farmers should
be able to take all aspects of the proposi-
tion into account and, in lieu of hap-
hazard reckoning, reduce valuing as far
as possible to mathematical precision.
Worms in Dogs.
“Hux”: Percentage of dogs infested by
tapeworm is high. Symptoms include
extreme hunger, dysentery, impaction, fits,
continual barking. Puppies may howl for
long periods and show general restless-
ness. Worms often show up in the
faeces. Infected working dogs can’t do a
full day’s toil. Dogs can get tapeworm
from eating raw liver, heart or kidneys
containing hydatid cysts. The tapeworm
larva, which is enclosed in the cyst,
attaches itself to the wall of the dog’s
bowel.
Don’t give a dog raw offal. Boil
the offal and keep the dog out of the
slaughter-yards. Dosing at regular inter-
vals of three to four months usually
keeps a dog healthy. If the dog is on the
small side get a chemist to weigh up
arecoline hydrobromide in |th grain
amounts, mix with two drams of water
and administer. For dogs over 201 b. in
weight {-grain doses of arecoline are
needed. One treatment is usually
enough.
Dogs attacked by wasting disease may
have hookworms. The animal is usually
very sick and weak, eyes dull, coat harsh
and breath foul. Bowel action is erratic.
Cattle- and sporting-dogs are extremely
susceptible. The larva enterfc the blood
stream through the mouth or by burrow-
ing through the skin, and matures in the
small intestines. Animals suspected
should be isolated and all faeces de-
stroyed, Majority of dogs make a good
recovery under the advice of a vet.
Soya Bean.
“P.K.”: In B. 6/6/’45 “Sarina” com-
plains that the soya bean has not had a
fair trial in Australia, and “Plane Creek”
advocates the growth of lespedeza
(Japanese dover) in Queensland. Apart
from atmospheric temperature and soil
moisture, the temperature of the soil has
a determining effect on the class of vege-
tation that can be grown therein. In
Manchuria and the northern part of
Japan, where the soya bean forms a staple
crop, the soil is covered with snovy and
frozen for several feet in depth during
the winter months. When the thaw comes
in early spring and the soil is sufficiently
dry to work the bean seeds are sown.
With favoring rains good growth is made
until the crop of pods is formed. Then
dry weather with high atmospheric
temperature prevails while the crop
matures and is harvested.
Queensland Department of Agricul-
ture has, over a period of years, made
trials of soya beans in the main agricul-
tural districts from the Atherton Table-
land to the Darling Downs without any
encouraging result. Some of these trials
were with seed treated with a bacterial
culture. The Departments of Agriculture
in N.S.W. and Victoria have also given
much attention to the crop. As it is not
officially recommended in those States,
results from trials cannot have been en-
couraging,
A similar lack of success has been ex-
perienced in Queensland with lespedeza.
Lespedeza of any variety, growing to a
height of three feet would astound a
Japanese. Perhaps what was meant was
Crotolaria striata, one of the rattlepods
which sometimes grows to that height.
This legume is regarded as valueless for
fodder, and is not relished by stock. It
is even suspected of a toxic property.
River Erosion.
“Esk”: Regular snagging prevents divers
sion of the main current against the
banks, stone revetments and straking with
logs give protection against undermining
and washaways and, coupled with these,
fixation of the banks by tenacious vege-
tative growth should be the ultimate aim.
In Victoria the weeping willow has proved
best of all for holding streams to their
courses.
Willows strike easily from cuttings, and
with access to water grow rapidly after
establishing root-growth. Long stakes
pointed and driven into wet ground, or
branches and logs stayed on the banks
in contact with the water, will serve in
most cases. They provide a useful light
timber, and a lot of good fodder for
stock may be lopped from them during
summer.
Levee banks should be raised to prevent
water coursing swiftly over surrounding
country ; they become permanent
if sown with trees or binding grasses.
Flooding of river flats where the water
doesn’t get out of hand has proved bene-
ficial from the rich layer of silt and
humus deposited.
Kudzu Vine.
“Spooks”: Recent experiments on
Queensland farms have proved that the
vine, which is essentially a tropical plant,
has been grown to great advantage and
is proving very beneficial to the soil,
both as a soil nutrient and in the pre-
vention of soil erosion. Kudzu is an old
plant, grown in Japan and its territories
for its edible tubers and hemp-like fibre.
The U.S.A. experimented with it in 1895
and in Arkansas it fertilised corn ground,
producing a double crop. It is grown in
many American home gardens as an
ornamental vine for porches, but in the
south it is used extensively by farmers
as a field plant to cover eroding soil.
Planted from crowns (roots and buds),
it spreads quickly.... .“Its big beans
shed each fall, eventually covering the
ground with a thick flaking carpet like
a forest f100r”... . “As rich as alfalfa in
protein and carotene, kudzu beans can
be used for grazing or cut as hay. De-
hydrated, they also make a fine break-
fast food.”
“Rob Roy”: In U.S.A. the kudzu stands
drought well, its roots going 12 feet deep.
It takes about three years to gain full
possession of a planted area. Some vines
have been known to grow 12 inches a
day in the peak of the growing season.
About one crown to every 85 square feet
is planted, and 100 feet of growth in a
year is not uncommon. Land which the
U.S. Soil Conservation Service rated as


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, OHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
CVanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogras blower (Pat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS
Returns of land held at midnight on the 30th June, 1945, are required to be lodged by:
(a) Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have altered
in any way since the 30th June, 1944. Returns showing such alterations should be
furnished on Form CB by the 31st July, 1945.
(b) Persons resident in the Commonwealth who held land of an unimproved value of £4,000
or upwards and absentees when the unimproved value is One Pound or over who have
not previously lodged returns. Such persons should lodge full returns on Form A by
the 31st August, 1945.
Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have not altered
in any way since 30th June, 1944, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO LODGE RETURNS.
Where land is held in more than one State and returns are necessary, the returns should be
forwarded to the Deputy Federal Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Forms of return and full information may be obtained at the Principal Post Offices or at
Federal Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Savings Bank Buildings, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Postal address: Box 4046 W, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment 10% additional tax—minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns £lOO.
W. A. PERT, Acting Deputy Commissioner of Land Tax.
Are you always weary ...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
gained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally; piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
• —answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
g
TABLETS
that Elasto is not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It Is this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a4£r Atwe y-ozo fitn&ndd /
iOOUd
SAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
tjk
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable”' from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "tYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
ruined for further agricultural use has
been reclaimed by this vine.
Kudzu is not only good for gouged-
out land. It works as a legume to draw
free nitrogen from the air and stores it
for plant use in the soil. It has approxi-
mately the same protein and carotene
content as lucerne, and may be cut and
taken as hay or pastured with stock,
With the winter frosts it sheds its leaves
and provides unequalled green manure,
Kudzu has been dehydrated for stock
feed, and even made into a breakfast
f° O( L
“Lub”: A “Kudzu Club” has the goal
of a million acres in Georgia. Kudzu is
readily grown from, seed and will pro-
"Swim further down—you re scaring the fish!”
duce up to tons of hay to the acre.
As it thrives where cotton may be grown
its possibilities in northern parts of Aus-
tralia should not be overlooked,
——■
Queensland Cotton.
“Muffin”; Investigations at the Biloela
research station in the Calhde Valley
(C.Q.) indicate that the best yields of
cotton are normally obtained during the
first three seasons after virgin grassland
is ploughed. Virgin grassland is not
always available on the farm and various
cropping rotations m which cotton is an
essential crop have also been extensively
tested. One, m which three years of
Rhodes grass is followed by three years
of cotton, before the pasture is re-estab-
!s ed, has produced the next best yields
of cotton Information on the yields
and quality of Rhodes grass obtained m
this test indicates that it will enable dairy
armers in districts suitable for Rhodes
grass to maintain satisfactory pastures.
Du o a t 0 tlcsc c . s , s Jt . was
Rhodes grew wel only on fertile scrub
soils, but the results show that it can be
grown successfully on cultivated alluvial
tomst soils. ....... {r . s.
The Department of Agriculture (Q.)
recommends that farmers on mixed
dairying and cotton-growing farms prac-
tise the Rhodes grass-cotton rotation.
It markedly improves the yield and
quality of the pasture and the yield of
cotton. Rhodes grass obtained in this ro-
tation will compare favorably in both
yield and quality with summer fodder
crops, such as Giant Setaria, millets and
Sudan grass produced on similar soil. In
addition, the growing of Rhodes involves
less cultural expense and reduces soil
erosion, particularly on hillside farms,
t
Hints for the Farm.
“Farmer Bill”: For the pig ration the
equivalent of 101 b. of maize, wheat,
barley, rice or grain sorghum is pollard
111 b.; oats, 121 b.; bran, 131 b.; boiled
potatoes, arrowroot, artichokes or sweet
potatoes, 401 b.; pumpkin, 751 b,; mangoes
or turnips, 1001 b.
“Scrubby”: Instead of struggling with
an old wire panel gate that is always
getting tangled, and is no sheep-stopper
anyway, why not have a simply-con-
structed centre-pivoted gate wide enough
for your biggest implement? Make a
rectangle of tube or water-pipe wide
enough to cover the gap and about 4ft.
high. The centre “post” runs from the
top rail to about 18in. below the bottom
rail. Cross truss the whole job with wire.
Set a piece of tube in concrete in the
middle of the gap and then the gate is
hung bv putting the centre “post” in this
piece of tube. Latch the gate at one end
only. It can be very light because the
weight is balanced in the centre and not
sagging on a post. For normal use it
swings either way, but for the harvester
or big flock jf s lifted from its centre
pivot, giving full width.
“ P .r. A .N”: Poisoning bandicoots by
allowing them to eat growing cassava
roots, as advocated by “Plane Creek” (B.
30/5/’45), leaves me cold. Twenty-one
years ago the Queensland Department of
Agriculture imported large quantities of
canes G f a number of cassava varieties
from Jaya These were cut into
lengths and planted on farms border ing
plane Creek at Sarina (Q ) Deaths of
bandicoots subsequent to such planting
were not noted . A friend in th £ Cook .
town d j s trict who grew cassava roots for
fowl . feed had t 0 ire . net to k bandi .
coots out
H Constipation is the cause of
0 f canine sickness. Bullock’s liver
boi| cd till tender and given twice a week
is often effective. A little bran mixed
with the £ood or a sprinkling o£ Epsom
salts in the drinking K water f s good ; so
are small doses o£ b olive oil ixed jn
with the food—not only a laxative, nutri-
tious. Don’t give aperients unless abso-
futeiy necessary
~
Pat O Day : Wimmera lye grass is
drought-resistant and makes splendi
grazing; sow at wherever practicable,
Besides its profuse seeding propensity,
suitability as regards variance in climate
conditions and its high drought-resistance,
** can be relied on to give a return nex
*° clover. 1 t 0 ltj
an( V ts three-fold adaptability for grazing,
cutting for green feed and last growth
saved for hay makes it worth having.
Wimmera rye with sub. clover is grown
extensively on the Vic.-S.A. border, and
there are other areas where a 16in. rain-
fall is sufficient to carry it on. Autumn
sowings are preferable for Wimmera rye,
and it should not be stocked heavily in
spring.


oeuvttti
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
NEW International trucks, imported by the
Government to ensure efficient road transport,
are available in capacities up to 4 i tons . . .
Equipped with Two-speed rear axles; Standard, im-
ported All-steel Cabs; imported Platform, Dropsides
and Triple-purpose Stakesides bodies, also other
approved essential body types .... A “permit to
purchase” must be obtained. Application forms for
official permits, full details of prices, specifications
and all arrangements for purchase and immediate
delivery may be obtained as usual from our branch
house in the capital city of your State, and also
from any Authorized Metropolitan Distributor or
Country Local Agent for International trucks.
Ask for assistance with your application
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (iNC. IN VIC.)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
Buy and hold War
Savings Certificates
and Stamps,
1
V 0 17
SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted for murder —20 old lounge suites, in
any old condition.”
—Parramatta {Sydney) “Advertiser.”
Evidence must be furnished.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Small ground floor fat or half cottage.”
—Hornsby {Sydney) ‘‘Advocate.”
A lean-to simply won’t do.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Smart woman, 45, like post cleaning, wash-
ing or ironing.” —Suburban paper.
A knowledge of fencing will be an
asset,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Communist Leaflets to Troops.”
— ‘‘Sun” heading.
Front-line service as they see it!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, a children’s fire guard. Guard.”
—Suburban paper.
Application in duplicate at the man-
power office seems called for.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some just swim into matrimony on a cur-
rent.” — "Sun.” '
Others are just swept off their feet by a
permanent wave.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Living Dangerously.
“Guards Shoot Sardine Smugglers.”
—‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
I, too, have risked my life on the food
front, smuggling oysters from the Vul-
garian oyster beds into the neighboring
republic of Ptomania. The Ptomanians
are forbidden oysters all the year round,
as their language Unfortunately does not
contain the consonant “r.”
The most dangerous part of the job lay
in arousing the oysters from their beds
under the very mouths of the Vulgarian
guards’ blunderbusses. The oysters, es-
pecially on cold nights, were most reluc-
tant to leave their comfortable beds, and
yawning and stretching noises which they
made often aroused the guards’ suspic-
ions. Many of us sustained severe in-
juries through incautiously clapping a
hand over a gaping shell.
Securely gagged, the oysters were next
hustled along the coast, past the old brass
cannon at the Ptomanian border post
into the waiting jars. We generally per-
suaded them to move at a good pace by
“’E should've stayed distance , Cap'n—I give un bucket oats just
before race!”
whispering stanzas from “The Walrus
and the Carpenter” in six-eight time.
We escaped detection until the night
when one of the Ptomanian sentries,
turning over in his sleep, accidentally
touched off the cannon. With a kind of
creaking roar, it discharged a hail of
cockroaches, spiders and the contents of
an occupied rat’s nest in our direction.
The frenzied scream of an oyster,
wounded by a flying rat, gave us away,
and we had to abandon the catch in our
flight to a nearby cave.
The guards’ attempt at cross-examining
the oysters kept us amused for several
days.
Plum.
“A vivid lipstick helps to make the eyes more
luminous.” — Woman's paper.
A lighter shade merely serves to illumi-
nate the lips.
•5 i
“Paper bag left in taxi, Billyard-avenue. Re-
ward.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Finder may keep contents.
“Lady, over 45, as help to elderly Church of
England. Good salary.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Must be used to service and willing to
take orders.
+ 4* 4*
Among the New Season’s Roses.
Souvenir de Tito: A sport from
Workers’ Paradise, this showy specimen
is a deep red with “ski”-blue over-
tones. Purely an exhibition variety, it is
inclined to blow freely, and when condi-
tions get a little hot it easily wilts. Looks
like developing into a terrific bloomer.
It has the distinction of having been
photographed more than any other lately-
raised variety.
Mrs. Nea Sassaity: A vigorous climber,
heavily scented, with color ranging from
rouge to suntan, this hardy variety will
keep coming again and again in spite of
any number of setbacks. Mainly suit-
able for indoor decoration, though after
some time under a strong night light the
bloom is inclined to fade and droop. Its
petalage usually runs to fullness, and it
with thrive only where a rich condition
prevails. Responds quickly to cocktail
fertiliser.
Blackmarket: Quite unlike any other
variety in commerce, this rampant grower
of markedly crooked habits blooms only
in darkness, and where exposed to too
strong a natural light is inclined to wither.
Though there was some talk of declar-
ing it noxious and suppressing it, owing
to its tendency to smother everything else
it gets its tentacles around, its votaries only
laughed. Blooms range over a wide variety
of colors, with wine and amber predomi-
nating. It does best when conditions gen-
erally are “dry,” and where there is no
smoke in the atmosphere. Badly subject
to blackspot, and smells to high heaven.
Bureaucrat: Nothing raised during the
last half-century can approach this speci-
men for its vigorous branching habit.
Unless severely and regularly pruned it
is inclined to get out of hand. It pos-
sesses a very strong tea scent, particularly
at mid-morning and again at mid-after-
noon. Subject to mildew when it gets
into full‘bloom. Without copious appli-
cations of the new Regulation fertiliser,
which the Government has made avail-
able in limitless quantity this variety does
no good.
El Caudillo: Habit of growth is rather
spindly and liable to die-back without
warning. Most outstanding trait is a
proneness for the bloom to change color
suddenly from red, white and black to
red, white and blue, according to which
way the wind is blowing. Admirers of
this variety are advised to defer plant-
ing until it is seen whether conditions
in its present habitat render it root-
bound and stultified.
N.S.W. Goalie : A truly striking variety
which, unfortunately, does not stand
up well to much picking. Badly
subject to infestation by red mite, which
adversely affects its productivity. Color
varies from pale pink to cerise, according
to local conditions. The most thorny
specimen yet evolved.
The Nip: The best buttonhole rose to
date. Of a low-growth habit, it revels
usually where conditions are moist.
Francis Michael : Though Capricornia-
raised, this completely thornless rambler
does well anywhere. A sport from
Caucus, it lacks the parent plant’s aggres-
sive habits, and must be securely staked
and tied to get the best results. It is a
very healthy variety, practically colorless,
and thrives when planted in an enclosed
place like a ballot-box. It has achieved
a remarkable popularity, among nursing
mothers, where it was first raised.
BO.
Technically Speaking.
“Love and kisses go together, but, technically,
what is a kiss?” —‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
When girl meets boy, in arms enclosed,
Respective lips are juxtaposed,
And pressure then will synchronise
With reflex veiling of the eyes.
As for the element of time,
Since that is linked with race and clime,
How long will last this attitude
Depends on female latitude.
D.H.E.
Tip.
Don’t be unkind to policemen,
Though-you may think them a trial;
Whatever you do, don’t take off your
shoe
And belt them a whang on the dial.
Always address them politely;
Be sympathetic and nice ;
Don’t ever try to spit in the eye
Of a constable —take my advice :
It may be great fun, but, efe it be done,
Just think of the ultimate price!
T. W. NATHAN.
Stoop to Conquer.
“Get Ready for Roses.” —Gardening article.
Young sirs, are you dreaming
C Ere summer resumes
Her revels) or scheming
To harvest fair blooms?
In winter life dozes.
But spring’s coming. Boys,
Get ready for Roses —
And Bettys and Joys!
P.O.M.C.


STOPvou ß ßupMire
Worries/
Mark ® location,
of YOUR RUPTURt
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROCSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
fDent. 27). 9 Martin Place. Syuney.
mi
There's only one "Caterpillar 1
The nemo "Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria. Illinois,
manufacturers of the original traclc-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
v 4 & M'*' j
‘i [ v'; < l<wV
I.Ft: <;■" j
r*'
S < V
S '
ms
m
; \, " <<
11lS r
SSS3K
**3s^
Cate
'T
■mi
■iw
m
ill
m
m-*
■Mi
a
s'
m
Sw
■ M
mm.
mwsm
*' V- vF
E - ~ / ■-■; f*n:
mi
XkM
m
. iiii
mm
mm
v v
; / -
m
V
* ,
wm&
■
(m
pmt
wm*
m
m
w»
i
:•• •;..•■•
M
mmm
V for Victory
with Timber
hangars and the
See that significant <4 V” cast by the
snn on the exhaust pipe of that
giant Caterpillar. With Hysler arch
yarding, it is making short work of
hauling out two giant logs. In the
mountains and the valleys Caterpillar
seeks them and yanks them out to build the
factories that provide the wherewithal to win the war. It’s this giant
power, safe tread and unrivalled economy that makes Caterpillar the
first choice of lumbermen in Australia, and which will have so much
to do with the future development of the Commonwealth,
CATERPILLAR Diesel
•ta. u.i. Mr. off. <
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwins Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, SI Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweed le, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St„ Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
Fight, Work, Buy War Savings Certificates
erd.asM
J
f
■I
CRAVENA
ikafte always,,
mectit * ftedt!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
DO
PREVENT
, ,
m
m
m
H:
5787
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Robe, by Lloyd Douglas. —3625.
To buy British Birds, Nature in Dawnland,
Hampshire Days, Afoot in England, A Traveller
in Little Things and A Hind in Richmond Park,
by W. H. Hudson; also Biography of W. H.
Hudson, by Edward Garnett. —3626.
To buy Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy. —
3627.
Information Sought.
Some facts about preparing washers from
loofahs ?
They are obtained from two species of vine
— Luff a cegyptiaca (L. cylindrical) and L. acutan-
gula. The plants should be grown on rich, well-
drained soil with a trellis to support the vines,
so that the fruits grow evenly and hang free.
The vines grow best in a location free from all
strong winds and near enough to the sea to
ensure a cool, moist atmosphere. The fruits
are cut with portions of • the stalk attached as
soon as they are ripe. They are then placed
in running water for whatever period may be
necessary to rot the rind, after which they are
cleaned by rubbing one fruit against another
until the fibre is clear of everything but the
seeds. The cleaned masses are then strung on
wires and hung in the shade to dry. Before they
are absolutely dry they are gently beaten to ex-
tract the seeds. Drying is then complete, and
the “sponges” are graded for size and quality
of fibre.
Some information about giant octopuses?
There is no list of the comparative sizes, but
the occurrence of giant squids has been known
for hundreds of years both from specimens, or
portions of specimens, washed ashore at rare
intervals and from observations by naturalists.
Giant squids, the largest known living cephalo-
pods, are world-wide in distribution, and their
natural habitat is in deep waters far out to sea.
When they have been washed ashore their true
size has been impossible to gauge, as invariably
some measurable portion has been missing.
It can be safely said, however, that these
squids frequently have tentacular arms measur-
ing between 30ft. and 40ft. in length, and
suckers as large as dinner plates. In 1933 a
20ft.-long squid was washed ashore in England.
In the ’eighties in Maoriland one of 57ft. was
cast ashore, this being regarded at the time as
a world’s record.
Brief Answers.
W.J.L.: Eugene Sandow died in 1925....
W.J.; There is no provision in the Local Gov-
ernment Act requiring clerks of works to be
licensed, but local-government engineers and
overseers of works, etc., have to be certified
under the Act N.B.: Para grass has to be
planted by roots or cuttings and grows in
N.S.W. only under sub-tropical conditions; it is
unlikely that satisfactory results will be pro-
duced in the Deniliquin district. The manager,
Wollongbar Experiment Farm, Alstonville, via
Lismore, may be able to send you a few roots
for trial K.O’B.: Icwt. white lead in oil,
four gallons raw linseed oil and two pints tere-
bene driers mixed thoroughly together should
prove suitable for the job... .P.A.D.: The
query is somewhat bare of details, but a cir-
cular saw to cut a log 2ft. in diameter would
need to be approximately 5ft. in diameter and
would absorb from 25 h.p.. to 30 h.p.....
V. The meeting of the parent body of the
B.M.A. was held on September 10, 1944....
W. The Prior Prize, originally awarded
for the best novel or other work of literature
submitted to the trustees in MS. form, is tem-
porarily being awarded to the published work
which, in the trustees’ opinion, is the best con-
tribution to Australian literature for a given
year.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted ; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
W.M.F.; Not enough horse in second stanza.
....P.K.: No bite in “From a Dentist’s Chair.”
... .E.D.: A newspaper editorial cut up into
stove-lengths P. 8.: It flounders R.H.M.:
Seems cruel to credit Pushkin with the line
“And sad the seaman’s situation”
R.J.E.: Tabloid stuff F.P.: Keep the mood
but put some action in it... .J.D.K.: Might
make a par A.W.: Lacks color G.S.:
Interesting slab of Australian history but not a
story A.J.J.: It might be described as a
praiseworthy attempt to put a geography lesson
jnto rhyme; only it’s not rhymed... .H.F.: It
may be good philosophy but it’s dolorous verse.
R.S.M.; You might describe it better in
nmsp JO- No elfs elves or “elfins,”
[Sri “Rata” on a woman's' paper....
D.H.: Tell him to tackle short stones... .1.G.:
A thought, but without any pictorial quality.
....C.M.: You seem to skip along without ever
pausing to consider technique... . 8.F.: Alco-
Sc fndSgenee ot cook no excuse tor story.
....G.M.G : Promising....A.; Might make a
par S.M.G.: Two or three potential yarns
mixed up....8.V.: Ansemic P.J.D.; Try
elsewhere... .S.H.: For 12 pages Joe is a
reasonable character. «=
page 13 • •• . gloom.
tha ” * . Suearv JB :
...T.W.:, Florid... -M-A. . bugary ....J.n..
Story uninteresting, vernac pi_„ snn t hut
MM.J Come agam JRM b «
not a story....M.D.C . The farmer seems ro
know very little about dogs G.E.. Humor
strained.


Qualiw!
*
%
■
B
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. ... Their judg-
ment has made (Erusa&rr (Elottf the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(Eruaaitrr (Elntlf is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
W‘
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Crusader filotl)
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
H
Hi
K
ssi
U
wm
%
%
The name “CAL-TEX” came into
being with the discovery of huge
oil resources in the British Protec-
torate of Bahrein (Persian Gulf) by
the CALifornia-TEXas Oil Company.
Texaco, a world-wide oil Company
which has served Australia for
many years had large marketing
and distributing facilities.
So . . by consolidation of the huge
resources of the two companies, the
name “CAL-TEX” was born and
it became possible to develop the
new and strategic source of supply
WHICH HAS PROVED SO VALU-
ABLE TO AUSTRALIA DURING
THE WAR YEARS.
The management and policies of
the Company remain unaltered.
You get the same friendly service,
unsurpassed quality and nation-
wide distribution you have enjoyed
for many years. From now on ask
for “CAL-TEX.”
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FINEST OIL SUPPLIFI
The House on the Water
By “STANDBY.”
VOUNG Peter Thompson switched
off the chartroom light and stepped
out on to the bridge feeling pleased
with himself. The night was fine
and clear and he’d just checked the ship’s
position and “put her on the chart.”
There she was, right on the course line
the Old Man had laid off before retir-
ing for the night.
It wasn’t often this happened in Peter’s
watch. He’d joined the ship six months
previously, just after he’d got his ticket;
He was particularly proud of that ticket;
not that it had been a brilliant pass. He’d
only just scraped through the very rigid
Board of Trade examination, but the fact
remained that he had passed, and now
here he was on the bridge of a three-
thousand-ton cargo vessel wearing a still
new gold stripe with a diamond on the
shoulders of his khaki shirt.
Moreover, the ship being in fairly open
water and the master having retired for
a well-earned sleep, he, the third officer,
was in sole command. He almost wished
the Old Man would wake up and come
to check the ship’s position. It would be
nice just for once to hear him say,
“You’re making a good course tonight,
Mr. Thompson.”
Usually the Old Man said in that
particularly exasperating way of his,
“I’m hanged if I know why it is,
Mister Thompson; when you are on
watch the ship always seems to wander
off her course. Don’t you ever check
your steering?’
The thought brought the third officer
back to the immediate present. “Check
your steering!” Wasn’t he always check-
ing it till his constant peering over the
shoulder of the man at the wheel aroused
the resentment of the best helmsmen in
the ship? He stepped into the wheel-
house and glanced, into the lighted bin-
nacle.
“Watch your steering, Price,” he said
even before checking the course.
“Watchin’ it, sir.” Able Seaman Price
raised one eyebrow and grunted. “North
fifteen east. Right on.”
“ ’Scuse me, Mister.” The dim figure
of the lookout appeared for a moment
in the doorway. “There’s a light showin’
up fine on the port bow.”
“Right-oh.” Peter Thompson grabbed
the night glasses from the top of the flag
locker and stepped hurriedly out on to
the open bridge. The light was dim and
even with the aid of the glasses he could
make nothing of it. It was not bright
enough for the masthead light of a south
bound vessel. He climbed quickly up
the ladder to the standard compass.
Was it his imagination or was there
something fantastically out of place in the
shape now looming up behind the light?
He raised his voice and called the seaman
on lookout.
“Holmes,” he said when the man
arrived, “take a look at that light through
these glasses and tell me what you can
see.”
For nearly a minute Holmes stared
through the night glasses. Finally he
“Is that in accordance with King’s Regulations , Prendergast?”
turned with a bewildered expression on
his face.
“Blime, Mister,” he said, “it’s a flamin’
house! The light’s in the winder and I
can see the chimney!”
“Just what I thought.” Peter grabbed
the glasses from the seaman and half
thrust him down the ladder. “Go and
call the captain. Quick!”
Following Holmes down the ladder, the
startled third officer had barely reached
the lower bridge when he was joined by
his captain,
“What is it, Mr. Thompson?”
Like all good shipmasters. Captain
Anderson had the ability to wake up and
be in full possession of his senses the
moment he was called. The third officer
thrust the night glasses into his hand and
pointed a trembling finger.
“That light on the port bow, Sir,” he
said. “It’s a house!”
Captain Anderson took a quick look
and wasted no time in words. In one
bound he crossed the bridge and jerked
the engine-room telegraph to “Stop!”
“You damned young fool!” he roared
when his signal was answered from the
engine-room. “Why wasn’t I called be-
fore? How far off your course are
you?”
“I’m right on my course, sir.” Peter
struggled to sound convincing. “I checked
her twenty minutes ago and she was
right on her course.”
“Don’t talk such damn J nonsense!”
Captain Anderson swung round and
studied the light again. “Go and call the
mate,” he snapped.
Peter hadn’t far to go. At the foot of
the bridge ladder he met the mate who,
awakened by the clanging of the engine-
room telegraph and the stopping of the
engines, was hurrying to the bridge,
“What the devil’s happened?” he jerked
out.
“The Old Man wants you,” Peter an-
swered. “We’ve nearly run into a house,”
“A what?”
The mate fairly flew up the ladder,
“Get me some bearings. Mister,” the
Old Man ordered without turning his
head. “Check that young fool’s figures
and put the ship on the chart. Let me
know where we are as soon as possible.
And while you’re up top, Mister,” he
added, “get me a bearing on that light.”
In a few minutes the mate was back
on the bridge.
“She’s right on her course, sir,” he
reported. “That’s Brampton Island out
there op the port hand,”
“Is that so. Mister Mate?”‘ Captain
Anderson’s voice was full of sarcasm.
“Then would you mind taking a look
through these glasses and telling me what
that light is?”
The mate had identified it while he
was up at the standard compass, but he
studied it carefully through the night
glasses before answering,
“It’s a house all right, sir, but it doesn’t
seem to be on any land. It’s just sitting
in the water.”
“Talk sense, Mister!” Captain Ander-
son snapped. “When have you ever
seen a house sitting in the water in the
ocean five or six miles from the nearest
point of land?”
The mate was unable to offer any help-
ful suggestions, but the fact remained
that there, less than a mile away, a small
house stood op the calm surface of the
ocean. There were two windows in the
side facing them and from one of these
the light shone brightly. The second
window showed only a dull reflection, as
if a door between two rooms had been left
open and the light was shining through.
Captain Anderson checked the ship’s
position himself and sent for a cast of
the lead.
“It beats me. Mister,” he said to the
mate half an hour later. “The ship’s
right on her course. Your lead shows
sixteen fathom and that house is standing
in fifteen fathom of water at the very
least. One thing is certain —I’m not
moving from here till daylight and I’ll
clear up this mystery before I leave;”
ALTHOUGH Captain Anderson was
partially able to solve the mystery
next morning it was nearly three weeks
before he heard the whole story of the
house on the water. His ship was loading
sugar at the Mackay Outer Harbor and
the Old Man was dining with the com-
pany’s agent.
“A queer thing happened to me on this
part of the coast a few weeks ago,” he
said, and went on to relate the episode
of the house.
The agent roared with laughter.
“So you were the poor beggar who got
caught, were you? I warned Bill he’d
scare seven bells out of some shipmaster.
I’d better tell you the whole story.
“Bill Rankin has a lease of Goldsmith
Island and keeps a few milkers and does
a bit of fruit farming out there. He used
to be a fisherman. Still does a bit in his


*• *r
$
rr
¥
»
fl «!#«,
wJfA
*», %
ti
B
'Colonial
This type may be summarised as a
domestic treatment embodying suit-
able features of Classic Renaissance.
Developed to its greatest extent in
America, from earliest times to the
present day. Adopted in this country
by early settlers, there being many
beautiful examples still standing.
WHATEVER THE STYLE, cost or location of the home you
build, one thing is essential to its comfort, long life and
appearance "Sisalkraft."
"Sisalkraft" protects against drip, damp and dust when used
as sarking under roofs and sheathing for walls, etc.; safe-
guards ceilings and interiors for the life of the building. So
moderate in cost, so gratifying in results, it is unwise to build
without "Sisalkraft" protection. . . . Defence requirements
absorb our output at the moment, but make sure your
architect specifies "Sisalkraft," because there will be ample
supplies available for post-war building.
5 \JA LK R 4 FT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty.. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Henth-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street.
Auckland.
The men who road©
the Merlin Aero fcngme^
Since the war started thousands of Britain’s
automobile engineers have been seconded to
produce that superb, unsurpassed aero-engine
the Merlin. A product of such high
precision demands in its making the aptitude
of precision craftsmen. This can well be
V
p
understood, but the point we
want to stress is that these
men are the technicians who,
eventually, will contribute
their knowledge and skill to
the output of those fine
automobiles and robust
trucks Britain intends to
produce for export.
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AUTOMOBILES * TRUCKS ‘ BUSES
expressly designed and luilt for overseas
spare time. Anyhow, he knows this coast
like nobody’s business and is a mighty
good man with a boat. Nothing ever
seems to worry him; he just grins and
says, ‘She’ll be jake.’
“About a month ago he told me he
was thinking of buying a small three-
roomed house that the Harbor Board was
selling. Said he was sick of living like a
blackfellow in the old humpy over on the
island. I asked him how he intended to
transport the house and he said he had
figured that out, too. The Harbor Board
was also selling several old wooden punts
and he could shift the house on one of
them. All he wanted me to do was to
come along and put a valuation on the
house.
“Well, Bill bought the house and the
punt, but when I suggested he get some-
one help him dismantle the house he
grinned.
“‘No flamin’ fear!’ he said. ‘There’s
a bloke here that shifts houses whole, and
I’m getting him to dump mine on the
barge just as she is.’
“I said, ‘lt’ll be a pretty awkward tow
for your launch, won’t it? Especially if
a bit of a breeze gets up.’
“Bill banged his fist down on my table
and laughed.
“ ‘Tow?’ he said. T ain’t goin’ to tow
her from here to Goldsmith, It’s thirty
odd nautical miles and I ain’t got that
much petrol to chuck away. I got it all
figured out. Goldsmith lies nearly north
of the Harbor Entrance and the ebb tide
sets to the nor’ard. All I got to do is to
tow her round to the Harbour at the top
of high water the first fine night and let
her go. I’ll cut off home in the launch
and wait for the house to turn up.’
“ ‘But you can’t do that! ’ I said.
’Lord knows where it will finish up, and,
besides, it’ll be a danger to navigation.’
“Bill just grinned.
“ ‘She’ll be jake,’ he said. ‘This breeze
will stay in the south for days yet and if
it does shift it’ll only haul sou’east, I bet
I can tell you to within a mile of where
I’ll pick that punt up. As for bein’ a
danger to navigation, why she won’t go
anywhere near the steamer track. All
the same, I’ll leave a light burnin’ on the
kitchen table.’
“ ‘Heaven help you if the Harbor
Master gets to hear of it,’ I said.
“‘She’ll be jake,’ Bill said. ‘You’re
the only bloke I’ve told and you ain’t
likely to put me pot on.’
“Well, Skipper,” the agent concluded,
“you seem to know the rest of the story.
Bill’s prophecy went wrong, for a light
westerly got up the night he turned the
house adrift. He told me it turned up a
few miles to the seaward side of the
island, and when he went out to pick it
up the punt had shipped quite a bit of
water and settled down almost awash.’
“I was hoping.” said Captain Ander-
son, “you were going to tell me this con-
founded house had been shipwrecked. I
know someone who wouldn’t have been
heartbroken if it had—-and that’s that
young third officer of mine.”
VARIOUS VERSE.
The Scavenger.
What Time has raked up he can have-
las scavengings and thievings;
however he may hook and shave
he only gets my leavings.
That moment once was good and grave,
this other good and merry;
and there’s one not so good—God save,
they’re barely fit to bury !
It’s when he puts his dirty claws
upon the work not finished
to sneak it from me, as I pause
with will and strength diminished;
it’s when the full glass Fortune draws
spills at my lips untasted,
while day dies on the hills, I’ve cause
to curse him for what’s wasted.
And see, girl, through the window now
the light comes in; it’s morning.
This kiss rounds up the rest; I vow
the stragglers shall heed warning.
Time strips the blossom, snaps the bough;
and who’d begrudge dead timber?
He takes —but all he’ll not allow
is bitterest to remember.
N.S.W,
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
Compliments of the Audience.
(To Certain Contemporary Poets.)
Before the show starts, a calling of nerves
to order.
For the few fortunate reviewers a walk-
over ; for many
Of us two-and-sixpenny seats, a good
view, but harder
Than the gold and morocco for opulent
half a guinea.
Lights out —we are ready, so many gaping
wounds
For the crude application of salt, or a
malted morphine.
The conductor fools with his baton;
appropriate sounds
Like zigzag titles flicker over our screen.
Point one —well taken! we furnish no
riposte.
Admit we are animals gutted out with the
flame
Of lust and savagery—maggots happily
lost
In our gangrened cities. We wriggle
with the maggot’s shame.
No God, you say ? Good! —pass us our
largest axe,
Plummet the steeples, storm the confes-
sional !
To be moulded in hands of ignorance like
so much wax
When the future’s locked up, the present
open to all!
How’s this: we are giant things trapped
in an endless mural,
Sad rebels oiled into timeless agony,
Fixed by the artist Fate to gestures of
peril ?
We dress up in silent suffering and
dignity.
All over — pray, pardon the yawn we
cannot hide ;
Be indulgent with us, the lost ones, as
tack we go
To the old faiths, philosophies, oysters
and beer outside.
Yet never forgetting your most impressive
show.
R.A.A.R
F. WEBB.
The Waking.
In the old house tonight a moving candle
Glimmers from pane to pane, the one
faint light
Against those dark hills, huge above pale
waters —
You could not sleep with the moon so
staring bright.
So the worn boards stir to your restless
footsteps.
The rust of years flakes from the groaning
bars,
And the door swings that opens on the
hillside
So steep its rocky head blots out the stars.
You will look a long time there for some-
one coming
Along the track lost in the soft white grass
Striped with black trees ; and though you
climbed impatient
To watch from the bare height, the hours
would pass
Unchanged for ever there, revealing only
Ridge beyond lonely ridge rolling away.
These miles of empty scrub, dark in the
moonlight.
Hushed as the sunny quiet of the day.
Go to the other door then, where the
palm leaves’
Steel glinting and the broad bay’s molten
light
Beat up under the deep verandah’s
shadow
(As in the old time, when on such a night
That calm and shining flood’s enchanted
sleeping
Would glow through our closed eyelids
all night long
And our dream countries haze in mists of
silver
Melting at last in the thrush’s morning
song).
Through the still air comes but the mur-
mured echo
Of surf that thunders on the outer shore
Far where the land lies dim; never,
below you.
The light splash of a jewel-dripping oar;
Not the faint creak of rowlocks drawing
nearer.
The running gurgle underneath the bow —
These were of life, and out of life return-
ing
No love, no hate can storm your refuge
now.
Sleep then, poor ghost — l, too, wake in
the moonlight
Though far from home, hearing your
listening breath;
Your step shocks through my heart’s
loose boards, your fingers
Drag bolts I prayed were fast for life and
death.
No one will come! Was it not peace
you wanted ?
And found by paths so desperate and so
rough ?
Your grief was mine, but you must never
tell me,
Now all is done, that peace is not enough.
N.S.W,
NAN MCDONALD.


ĥdfg
Over 66 years of
service } i 8
On the 14th o£ June, 1878, The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited was established as
the first Corporate Trustee Company in Australia,
its purpose being to provide a more efficient means
of meeting the needs of the community in Estate
Administration.
Since then, the Company has provided the im-
partial advice and assistance of a Permanent Cor-
poration as Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent,
and in other business of a fiduciary nature, to which
activities it Is solely devoted.
By making a Will, appointing as Executor or Co-
Executor this old-established Company, you ensure
the careful and efficient administration of your
Estate and obtain the benefit of over 66 years’
specialised experience at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your solicitors, or write or call for
a free explanatory booklet.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve*, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws,C.B.E.| G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.1
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Mclb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
Genera) Manager} W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart:
R. T. Hildcrt John Cadwallader.
N.S
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria In 1878,
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935 160,741 62,553 6 p.c. t= 144,000 1,056,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ „ 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ „ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 .. 1,621,647
1939 179,660 62,500 44 p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
Added goodwill, £4lOO .. ..1,626,707
1940 260,096 62,499 61 p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
Net addition goodwill, £6OO .. 1,667,704
1941 240,007 62,349 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,677,362
Net addition goodwill, £1524 . . 1,675,838
1942 194,224 62,297 5 p.c. = 120,000 1,687,765
Net addition goodwill, £7 .. .. 1,687,758
1943 210,068 62,297 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,691,529
Net addition goodwill, £4015 .. 1,687,514
1944 260,878 62,276 6 p.c. t= 144,000 1,742,116
1945 194,077 62,094 54' „ „ 132,000 1,742,099
Second-largest of its kind in Australia,
this big wool-broking, pastoral-finance,
merchandising, pastoral and stock and
station and other agency business is
spread throughout the five mainland
States. The drop in last term’s profits
was due to widespread drought. Condi-
tions were most severe in the eastern
States, where the co.’s own runs are
situated. Despite extensive hand-feeding,
heavy stock losses occurred on many
properties. The clip was lighter, and
generally the staple lacked bulk, with
signs of tenderness in fleeces from the
driest areas. And the position was aggra-
vated by man-power shortage, fodder
scarcity, delays in obtaining rolling stock,
shearers’ strikes and the cost of hand-
feeding and agistment. Also the number
of lambs marked —none at all on five of
the co.’s N.S.W. properties for the last
two seasons —showed poor deyelopment,
and the outturn of fats declined heavily,
owing to inadequate pastures. But sheep
and cattle prices held well, thanks to
demand of the Allied forces in the S.-W.
Pacific and to the British meat contract,
which runs until the end of September,
1948.
Shrinkage in the quantity of wool
appraised in the Commonwealth last
season (3,123,112 bales) was 482,572
bales. One result was a contraction of
over £11,000,000 in the total value of
the clip:
Appraised Flat-rate Total
Value. Adjustment. Value.
1939- ..£59,842,279 £4,880,805 £64,723,084
1940- . . 55,251,151 5,708,698 60,959,849
1941- .. 58,471,905 5,167,667 63,639,572
1942- .. 66,651,256 6,874,024 73,525,280
1943- .. 66,850,270 6,851,487 73,701,757
1944- .. 56,075,091 6,445,892 62,520,983
The flat-rate adjustment figures represent
the difference between the average
appraised value and the British contract
price of 15.4 d. per pound. This differ-
ence was 12.3 p.c. in growers’ favor last
season, and the amount involved will be
distributed at the end of this month.
G.M.’s own wool receipts were 50,000
bales lighter:
f— Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 £2O 4 5
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
1940.. 382,132 380,422 27,876 17 16 81
1941.. 389,541 402,273 15,144 17 7 7t
1942.. 391,000 383,259 22,820 17 12 91
1943.. 387,200 385,985 24,069 20 17 01
1944.. 409,500 404,423 29,105 20 10 01
1945.. 359,500 379,275 9,897
t For year to June 30. 1 Approximate.
Sales equalled receipts, plus most of
the previous year’s carryover, which
cushioned the blow to earnings from this
source. Agency and merchandising sales
held well —the year’s land sales exceeded
a million pounds, while more than
3,900,000 sheep, nearly 180*000 cattle and
approx. 120,000 pigs passed under the
hammer in the co.’s yards.
It was all finally translated into a
shrinkage of £174,052 in the co.’s gross
profits, which included £70,622 (up
£11,841) from investments and a surplus
of £4050 on sale of properties, etc.:
Provi-
Year Gross* Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
& & & £/ £*
1929.. '914,201 527,329 62,925 5,000 318,647
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2,000 63,294
1938.. 772,660 518,801 62,516 10,000 181,343
1939.. 736,285 548,125 62,500 8,500 117,160
1940.. 912,954 642,858 62,499 10,000 197,597
1941.. 972,055 719,548 62,349 12,500 177,658
1942.. 921,269 717,253 62,297 9,792 131,927
1943.. 994,253 774,02 V 62,297 10,158 147,771
1944. . 1,105,520 834,112 62,276 10,530 198,602
1945.. 931,468 727,014 62,094 10,377 131,983
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
Including £98,809 (down £77,835) for
taxation and £44,906 (down £8171) for
depreciation, exes, were pulled back
£107,098. After paying debenture in-
terest and sending £10,377 to the staff
fund, the net result (£131,983) was
£66,619 lighter at 5.5 p,c. on capital as
against 8.2, 6.1, 5.5, 7.4, 8.2 and 4.8 p.c.
back to 1939. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
year’s net profit was only 3.1 p.c. Half
a point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 5i p.c., making an average of 5\ p.c.
over the last decade.
Here is the solid financial structure in
tabloid form:
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures. 1,412,586 1,412,536 1,410,786 1,407,549
Creditors .. 881,960 933,517 944,666 1,130,440
Tax reserve 105,413 174,915 228,490 227,723
Liquids . . 790,048 1,641,657 2,501,423 2,837,118
Advances .. 4,321,102 3,631,342 2,790,656 2,630,677
Stocks . . 247,553 211,992 226,749 • 196,338
Shares . . 44,121 45,406 45,406 45,406
Prop’ty, etc. 1,132,172 1,095,015 1,185,304 1,214,707
Plant .. 96,825 83,085 73,803 67,565
Prompt settlement of accounts by the
Central Wool Committee, and restricted
expenditure on the maintenance and im-
provement of properties, etc., are again
reflected in a reduction of £159,979 in
advances and growth of £335,695 in
liquids, which consist largely of Govern-
ment securities (£2,075,131, up £522,733).
The addition of £29,403 to properties,
etc., is due partly to purchase of W. H.
Wheatley’s business at Goulburn, Crook-
well and Taralga (N.S.W.). The co. is
obviously well equipped to come to the
assistance of clients when the Govern-
ment allows owners to improve their
properties again.
Though recent rains have largely re-
lieved the outlook, the position remains
overshadowed by shortage of breeding
ewes, which means that it will take time
to build up flocks again. An important
factor in long-term prospects for the in-
dustry will be the plan for marketing
world stocks of some 11,000,000 bales
without serious disturbance to sales of
current clips. The Empire Wool Con-
ference has just discussed this problem,
but its conclusions and recommendations
are not yet known.
To help combat possible inroads by
synthetic fibres into the usages of wool,
centralised research and publicity are to
be undertaken by the Australian Wool
Board. For this and other purposes
growers are to contribute 2s. a bale, and
the Government approximately a like
amount. The new Wool Consultative
Council, to advise the Government in
matters connected with the industry,
would gain in strength by inclusion of a
broker’s representative.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends N
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 9, 167 328,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 .. 396,113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 5,776 401,889
1940.. 41,453 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,242
1941.-. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,859
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,119
1943.. 37,837 10,500 19,200 2400 5,737 421,856
9 p.c.
1944.. 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,298
1945.. 37,296 10,500 24,000 2400 396 423,094
10 p.c.
Added investment reserve, £399 .. .. 422,697
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Harper’s occupies a position second to
none in the difficult Australian dry-goods
trade. The co.’s warehouses, scattered
throughout the Commonwealth, are kept
stocked from its own factories in Vic-
toria, N. S. Wales, Queensland, South
Australia and Westralia. And that has
meant, and still means, much so far as
difficult transport and other war-time
problems are concerned. War cut off
some profitable business in Asiatic com-
modities and the return export trade.
But heavy service demands, which carry
narrower-than-usual profit margins, more
than filled the gap, and also limited sup-
plies available for civilian use. Operating
and other costs, including taxation, ad-
vanced, and both suitable labor and raw
materials have been in short supply. The
Government’s over-all price ceiling
steadied, but did not altogether prevent,
the continued rise in costs, which, of
course, have had to be absorbed within
the business. So, despite expanding turn-
over. net earnings over the last five years
have averaged £35,830, compared with an
average of £39,382 for the preceding
quinquennium.
Last term service demands eased a trifle,
and a bit more became available for the
still-hungry civilian trade. So, after
allowing for taxation and other contin-
gencies, the cautious board was able to
write the net return from trading £3357
better at £18,867. This was only 4.5 p.c.
on the £430,000 of share capital, a clear
indication of the difficult nature of the
trade and the narrow profit margins it
carries. Investments turned in £18,429
(down £1003), making the net return from
all sources £37,296 (up £2354). That
sufficed to pay the pref. and B-share divs.
and show 10.1 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 10, 10.4, 8, 9.9 and 11.9 p.c. back
to 1940. The lift in the distribution from
9 p.c. to 10 p.c. (2 p.c of it is labelled
bonus) might be taken as an indication
that the board considers the outlook more
encouraging than a year ago
When the books closed there was
£423,094 of reserves visibly supporting
and assisting capital, which consists of
150,000 7 pc. cum. prefs., 240,000 ords.
and 40,000 B (employee) shares, entitled
to three-quarters of the ord. div. but not
to share in surplus assets. Here is the
whole financial set-up so far as the pub-
lished accounts show it:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital,. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 34,243 45,700 61,610 91,636
Tax reserve .. 20,000 43,000 60,000 70,000
Freeholds .. 144,264 144,401 148,673 149,873
Plant, etc. . . 38,574 28,912 21,817 20,376
Stocks.. .. 126,616 103,458 166,265 136,210
Sundry debtors 92,241 102,832 67,485 72,902
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 420,487 491,268 498,517 576,219
At the end of March last public securi-
ties, cash, etc. (up £77,702), were alone
sufficient to repay the whole of the pref.
and B-share money, and 325. 2d. per
pound of ord. capital as well. Stocks
(down £30,055) and debtors’ balances (up
£5417) together more than covered the
outside debt, including the tax reserve.
What the board proposes to do with the
money it has thus far been unable to use
in the business the “Wild Cat” does not
know. Post-war renovation of factories,
plant, etc., isn’t likely to call for more
than a fraction of the surplus.
National Reliance Investment Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit Dividends. serves, serves.
£» £/ £* &
1935.. 3319 5 p.c. = 2504 815 20,329
Capital profit, £4867 .. .. 25,196
1936.. 5158 6 p.c. = 3756 1402 26,598
Capital profit, £24,358 .. .. 50,956
Unexplained addition, £941 .. 51,897
1937.. 11,714 6 p.c. = 10,427 1287 53,184
Unexplained addition, £4528 .. 57,712
1938.. 16,304 6 p.c. = 14,112 2192 59,904
Capital loss, etc., £846 .. .. 59,058
1939.. 11,310 4J p.c. = 11,250 60 59,118
Capital loss, etc., £4781 .. .. 54,387
1940.. 11,948 4J p.c. = 11,250 698 55,035
Capital loss, etc., £3637 .. . . 51,898
1941.. 13,569 4£ p.c. = 11,250 2319 53,717
Capital loss, etc., £4775 .. .. 48,942
1942. . 10,055 3J p.c. = 9,375 680 49,622
Capital loss, etc., £728 .. .. 48,894
1943.. 9,660 3J p.c. = 9,375 285 49,179
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 49,109
1944.. 10,637 4 p.c. = 10,000 637 49,746
Capital loss, etc., £45 .. .. 49,701
1945.. 11,625 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,326
The idea behind these investment cos.
is the pooling of small savings for col-
lective investment. By spreading funds
geographically and over a wide range of
securities the risk of violent fluctuations
in earnings, and therefore in divs., is
reduced. Divs. are usually moderate
until substantial reserves are built up to
assist and support the share capital.
These reserves accrue mainly from capital
profits derived from changing securities
as favorable opportunities occur.
Alterations in conditions and outlook
affecting particular stocks lead to these
investment changes, which sometimes
result in capital loss. In all cases share-
holders have to rely upon the judgment
of the management as to what is likely
to prove best in the interests of the co.
in the long run. Everything depends
upon whether those in control are good
“pickers,” and upon the cost of conduct-
ing the business.
The National Reliance kicked off in
the early 1930’5. Thanks to a steadily
expanding economy, the co. made en-
couraging progress until war, and the


INVENTORS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney*
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* ♦ * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trad* Marks.—Auvr.
mm
€
m
/
.
mm
■ wm
t 4 A ■
.
fcss
ill
SAVINGS c e btificates
%a* Jr
/
f
CVI
X
r «
j>
/ ♦* ;
, A
v
P
r ..«
*' •
R&MC Pl 4
buy WAR SAYi » G S CERTIFICATES
125 million war victims
The appeal by U.N.R.R.A. for clothing for the
people of the liberated countries is an appeal to
every charitable instinct of the human race.
It is, in fact, an appeal to you to express your
heartfelt pity in tangible form—to do what you
can to alleviate the utter destitution of 125
million victims of Nazi cruelty.
The clothing you give will mean more to them,
too, than protection from the bitter cold of
winter it will mean the recapture of self-respect.
URGENTLY need clothing!
Go through the house now and make up a
parcel of the clothing you can do without. Every
kind of clean clothing is needed—overcoats,
jackets and shirts, working clothes, cardigans,
skirts, jumpers, shawls, dresses, underwear, caps,
knitted headwear, boots and shoes —anything
you can spare. But act now—all clothing col-
lected must be sorted, packed, and shipped by
U.N.R.R.A. from Australia for distribution before
the onset of Europe's dread winter.
GIVE YOUR UNWANTED CLOTHING TO
The Australian National Clothing Collection for Over-
seas Relief is a united effort on the part of U.N.R.R.A,
and forty Australian relief agencies, which comprise
U.N.RRA
THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL FOR THE UNITED NATIONS BELIEF AND REHABILITATION ADHINIST6ATION
our Local Council now .. . they'lV tell you what to do
Issued by
the Government of the
Commonwealth
of Australia.
U 4.83.65
rise in taxation and costs, together with
financial and other controls, restricted
earnings and investment opportunities
and altered the outlook for some of the
securities it held. Still, shareholders have
never failed to receive a div. The rate
stepped up from 2\ p.c. in 1931 to 6 p.c.
for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1938, when £59,904 of re-
serves had been accumulated. For the
next three years 4\ p.c. was paid, fol-
lowed by 3f, 3i, 4 and 4 p.c. to end of
March last.
Growth in last year’s income (£13,657)
was £lO7B. Including provision for taxa-
tion (£3OO, up £100), exes. (£2032) took
only £9O of the increase. That left the
net result (£11,625, up £988) at 4.6 p.c.
on capital, compared with 4.2, 3.8 4, 5.4
and 4.7 p.c. back to 1940. It leaves out
of the reckoning a net capital loss of £45,
charged direct to investment fluctuation
reserve (£39,020).
Chief obstacle in the way of investment
opportunities has been, and still is, the
share-price ceiling. Here the declared
official aim is to prevent excessive specu-
lation while money is denied other out-
lets. The result has been to freeze good
securities at levels well below their true
market value. In such circumstances
buyers abound, but sellers are limited
mostly to necessitous liquidations hold-
ings in deceased estates, and of persons
unable to meet their tax bill or other
pressing commitments out of current cash
resources. In practice, therefore, the
ceiling has operated as an official devalu-
ation of private assets and imposition of
capital loss where these things are least
desirable. The time has now arrived
when much good and no harm would fol-
low progressive lifts in the ceiling until
all stocks enjoy a free market again.
Here are the cos' 1 balance-sheet
figures;
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Loans, etc. 154,809 58,747 61,589 61,524
Tax reserve 989 927 1,254 1,416
Investments 428,251 857,656 362,569 365,473
Sundry creditors 16,030 1,280 5,191 2,022
Cash .. 28,888 9,735 4,830 6,772
At the close of accounts market value of
investments was £3991 in excess of their
book value, thus giving the co.’s fully-
paid pound shares a net tangible backing
of 12s. 7d. each. The position has im-
proved further since. Of the total amount
of investments. Government securities,
etc., account for 11 p.c., pref. shares 5.1
p.c. and ord. shares 83.9 p.c. Cor-
responding figures for the previous year
were 4.5 p.c., 5.6 p.c. and 89.9 p.c. re-
spectively. The geographical spread of
holdings was Australia and Maoriland
69.1 p.c., U.S.A. 20.7 p.c., Britain 4.8 p.c.,
Canada 4.6 p.c. and other countries
0.8 p.c.
According to cable advice Zinc Corp.
—the co.’s headquarters are in London
but the mine is at the Barrier, N.S.W. —
netted £106,639 (up £2923) for the 12
months of 1944. That was after allowing
for taxation and depreciation, and was
won from treatment of 443,127 tons
(down 6499 tons) ore. Divs. were at the
same rate as for the three preceding
years, 6s. per share (= 30 p.c.) prefs, and
2s. per share (=2O p.c.) ords., and called
for £102,528, after deducting British tax.
On the co.’s reorganised and increased
capital account (£1,534,045, of which
£737,076 is in 5* p.c. cum. prefs. and the
balance ords.) last year’s net profit was
enough to meet pref. requirements and
show approx. 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital. But
since war began output has been reduced
and costs greatly owing to
shortage of labor and lifts in taxation,
wages and prices of materials, etc. For
the five years to the close of accounts in
1938, net earnings averaged £309,652,
and the price of lead fluctuated between
£36 7s. 6d. and £lO Is. 3d. per ton, average
£l7 4s. lOd. War-time price of lead has
been pegged at £22 in Australia, and
until recently at £25 stg. in London.
June prices were £3O per ton London and
6.35 cents per pound New York, equal
to £37 10s. and £44 os. 9d. per ton re-
spectively in Australian currency. Ore
reserves at end 1944 were put at 4,100,000
tons lead load and 227,000 tons zinc
load; and there is a lot more pay-ore
outside measured limits. The Corp. is
g.m. (for 20 years from July 8, 1936) of
the adjoining New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, and owns approx. 30 p.c. of its
£507,884 of paid capital. Ore from both
mines—Consolidated’s is still in the de-
velopment stage —is to be hauled through
the Corp.’s new Freeman shaft and
treated at the Corp.’s new mill, which has
a capacity of 750,000 tons p.a.; but treat-
ment of more than 450,000 tons will be
subject to market and other conditions.
Sons of Gwalia, one of the three
London-controlled Westralian goldmining
cos. to issue progress reports locally
(Paringa and North Kalgurli are the
others), says that on the No. 31 under-
lay south level ore assaying s.7dwt, a ton
over a width of 96 inches has been ex-
posed for a length of 315 ft., and that on
the No. 30 south level ore assaying
s.Bdwt. over a width of 60 inches has
been opened up for a length of 139 ft.
Estimated ore reserves at end 1944 put
the mine about five years ahead of the
mill at full production. Average grade
was s.Bdwt. gold per ton.
* * * *
“O.B.”: More than one half of the
gold received at the Perth Mint comes
from remaining Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
producers. Wiluna, Norseman Group
and Sons of Gwalia furnish most of the
balance. There is a belief that a number
of mines, large and small, which closed
down owing to man-power restrictions
and dearer supplies will be reopened
and do exceedingly well after the war.
Unless the price of gold enjoys a further
substantial lift—the recent one of Is. 9d.
an ounce puts it less than 1 per cent,
above previous quotation —or unless theie
is a marked fall in production costs
(which is unlikely), it is very doubtful
whether these hopeful expectatioris will be
realised. At the moment there is nothing
to justify an after-the-war boom in gold-
mining in the West.
♦ * * »
Complaining of a “vexatious, oppressive
and unreasonable” demand Australian
Machinery and Investment, one of Claude
de Bernales’s cos., is applying to the
Court in Perth for a stay of proceedings
in a case in which it is sued by the
Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for
£463,804, alleged to be tax payable on
proceeds of sale of goldmining proper-
ties in England, and on other transac-
tions. Defendant says that anything due
on account of taxation has been already
paid in London. Justice Dwyer ad-
journed the hearing to enable the parties
to negotiate, Co.’s counsel said an
appeal to the High Court on other taxa-
tion claims against some of De Ber-
nales’s concerns had not yet been decided,
and that these matters were vital to the
issue now before the Court.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Our Seventh Division,
moving into various strategic points and
along various strategic routes, has met
only the same sort of sporadic resistance
which held up its units at Balik Papan
after the landing. It is the same sort of
defence as is encountered in Burma —
bunkered roadblocks, with gun support
and coverage posts, snipers and m.-g.
posts in bottleneck areas—but weaker.
With fresh landings round Balik Papan
Bay, the A.I.F. at the week-end firmly
held its beachheads on both east and
west of the mouth of the bay, and a
third landing by the Dutch had taken
Karingo Peninsula, halfway up the
inner eastern shore. The troops held
several miles of the coast inside the bay
on the east. They had penetrated along
the road which veers off from the bay
northward to the watershed of the local
rivers towards the pumping station of
Soengaiwan, and on July 15 were on the
edges of the town. And they had taken
a wrecked seaplane base, about 14 miles
inside the heads.
They had secured 35 miles of the coast-
line towards the east, had pushed along
the road and pipeline which forms the
main feeder of the refineries from Serim-
ban, 60 miles north-east, and had reached
a point only five miles from Sambodja,
the first main pumping station on the
Serimban route. Sambodja is 28 miles
from Manggar airfield.
It is on this route that the heaviest
opposition has been met, but in spite of
vicious little guns, oil fire and mines of
various types, the enemy has shown little
of the spirit of Tarakan and Bougain-
ville. The earlier phase was more like
that after the landings at Hollandia and
Aitape. Wherever the enemy has space
and hills behind him he proves himself
an Asiatic after the manner so familiar
in the eighteenth-century wars of the
south-west coast of India. He scatters,
and, as at Wewak and on Bougainville,
he has to be picked, clawing and scratch-
ing, in bits, out of the landscape at the
cost of many fives.
These days, however, defence of this
sort, for the Jap, is scarcely worth
the candle, since the enemy has
not yet managed to beat the malaria
scourge. The Allies have done so.
Malaria, which in January, 1943, in New
Guinea was causing three casualties for
every battle casualty, now is scarcely
more of a menace than the enteric which
was the scourge of the Boer War.
A Jap Pocket
The main operations in progress at the
week-end were consolidations in the
gradual advance against the Sambodja
area, which is on the south-western edges
of the oilfields, which, by their use
ot heavier guns and general behavior, the
Japanese show every sign of defending
vigorously; and in an area back of the
Karingo Peninsula on which the Dutch
made their landing. Here linkage was
completed between A.I.F. troops, on the
Soengaiwan road, and the coastal Dutch
force to help encircle an aggressive pocket
of the enemy on Batochampar Ridge,
Against this the A.I.F. made the
mam push from the east on the Sama-
rinda road with flame tanks, 25-pounders
and mortars. Yes, the A.I.F. now has
4.2 s in Borneo, apparently in numbers,
but has not the heavy howitzers which
have proved such lifesavers in smashing
bunkers in Burma. On July 15 the ridge
was taken.
The ridge is the typical position chosen
by the enemy for such occasions, with
a jungle-ringed base full of mud and sur-
prises, a minefield on the nether ap-
proaches and some good fields of fire for
the defenders in the higher levels.
Tokyo Radio declared over the week-
end that the battle had shifted to the hills,
and that it was “only beginning.” East
of Balik Papan, towards the oilfields, the
hills are not so easy to reach, as there
are considerable expanses of paddy land
toward the coast.
Nearing Jesselton
In British North Borneo, though little
resistance has been met, lengthening com-
munications and the terrain are making
the advance slow. Sometimes, as at a
spot five miles south-east of Beaufort,
on the railway to Tenom, the enemy
materialises like a willy-willy, but quickly
blows himself out. Generally speaking,
he appears content to hold a watching
brief. The section of the Ninth Division
moving up the railway towards Jesselton
reached Kimanis and was working for-
ward, without meeting many Japs, to-
wards another second coastal force which
had been landed a few days previously.
On July 15 Australian troops held Papar,
only 11 miles from Jesselton.
The R.A.A.F. during the week seemed
to be everywhere in the eastern part of
the Dutch East Indies, operating from
several Philippines and Borneo bases,
and keeping in order all the enemy bases
capable of interference with operations.
Fight on the Mivo
In Bougainville operations both in the
north, in the Bonis area, and in the south,
facing the Mivo, are preparatory for final
drives. It is “Royal Australian Engi-
neers Month,” and the landscape is full
of sappers paving the way for tanks and
heavy transport, the main forces moving
their weight forward in the wake of their
arduous and muddy operations.
On the Mivo the enemy is far from
accepting his fate passively. Early in the
week he thrust strong forces viciously
across the river and locked with units
of the Third Division ranged along Kil-
len’s track, which runs parallel to the
stream, off the Buin road. The assaults
were the heaviest and most vicious since
the bitter onslaughts at Easter. Their objec-
tive seemed to be to gain time to estab-
lish fixed fortifications on the west of
the swift-flowing Mivo,
Losses seemed to mean nothing to the
attackers, and the hours were thick with
yelling Japs, hurling themselves against
barbed wire and Brens in rushes which
they must have known, from initial ex-
perience, could lead only to certain death.
Four R.A.N, casualties —one killed, one
died of wounds and two wounded —were
reported from H.M.A.S. Colac. The cor-
vette was hit by shore batteries while
bombarding dumps and enemy land posi-
tions in support of Australian troops.
Prince Alexanders Controlled
On the Prince Alexander Ranges, which
look down on Wewak, eight weeks of
bitter, piecemeal winkling-out battles
ended in the control of the hills. The
Blot, the last crucial feature, 1000 feet
above the coastal plain astride the track
to the southern positions, was captured
on Friday, July 13, and the way is now
open to the flatter and more open coun-
try south of the hills, where our Sixth
Division, with its mechanisation and sup-
porting air-power, will be at much greater
advantage.
Burma in the Monsoon.
“Ek Dum”: The Japanese were
obviously prepared to go to desperate
lengths to rescue their troops in the Pegu
Yomas, west of the Sittaung River.
The main operation of the enemy has
aimed at breaking across the road and
rail between Pegu (42 miles from Ran-
goon) and Pyinmana. This was the line
of communication along which the Four-
teenth Army armored and motorised
spearheads drove to Rangoon, and the
Pegu Yomas, rising up to about 2000 ft.,
lie directly to the west of it.
The Yomas held large numbers of the
enemy, and the drive from the east is to
bore a hole in the British-Indian prison
wall.
The front is at sixes. and sevens. In
the north part of the operating area,
where the hill routes from Indo-China
join the main Burma Trunk Road to
Mandalay at Thazi, 80 miles north of
Pyinmana, British-Indian troops have
advanced past Dalaw Hill Station to-
wards Loi-Lem, the Japanese withdraw-
ing rapidly. At the west end British and
Indian advance guards were in touch with
the enemy 103 miles east of Thazi, near-
ing Taunggyi.
On the north-easterly drive into the
Shan Hills and Mawchi from Toungoo,
progress continues slow. On June 8 the
advance Gurkha units were at Milestone
18, but despite the breakdown of the
enemy’s bunker position at the 1500 Hill
position near the Milestone 20, the pat-
rols of the Fourteenth Army on July 6
had reached only Milestone 29. The
main forces were several miles in the
rear.
In the Pegu-Pyinmana sector, which
begins about 30 miles south of Toungoo,
the immediate phase of the Jap relief
operations has been an attempt to dry up
the British-Indian axial communications,
of which the main artery during the mon-
soon season perforce has to be the Sit-
taung Canal, since the ground is impos-
sible for wheeled traffic of any kind. In
this they have had some success, crossing
the canal once or twice and taking
Myitkyo, 29 miles north-east of Pegu, at
the junction between the canal and the
Sittaung River. Fighting round here has
been catch-as-catch-can along a 10-mile
front under terrible conditions; troops
have been wading waist-deep through the
water of the paddy fields in bitter rain or
ploughing through mud, in which the
elephant grass grows neck-high.
The Japanese relief patrols, making
their thrusts from the east across the
canal, have at times numbered 500.
The enemy, is having a bad time.
Malaria has him in its grip. On the river
R.A.F. Spitfires have destroyed or dam-
aged more than 400 enemy craft during
the month.
In the Irrawaddy Valley the Japanese
rearguards are being steadily wiped out,
while British patrols follow hard on the
heels of their will-o’-the-wisp detach-
ments.
On Sea and in,Air
At sea and in the air the monsoon has
interfered only to a degree with opera-
tions. Air power varies according to the
layer in which it is being applied. R.A.F.
Spitfires patrol the river Sittaung. Thun-
derbolts plaster the battle area and its
enemy bases in the Toungoo area and
down to Mokpalin, near the head
of the Gulf of Martaban. Mos-
quitoes operate further east and south-
east, and R.A.F. Liberators lay mines in
enemy waters and break up base stores
dumps. Large numbers of Australians
are involved in these operations.
The Royal Navy every day makes the
term “enemy waters” more ambiguous.
Early in the week Tokyo confirmed its
report of a considerable R.N. squadron
cruising in the vicinity of the Nicobars
and Andamans, topping its story with the
news that two British A.Cs. had bom-
barded Sabang, the island base off the
north of Sumatra. British submarines
have sunk a number of small craft in the
Malacca Strait, but the surface sweeps
which have been making the Japs so
nervous are hampered by bad weather
and low visibility.
East of the Malay Peninsula appears
to be no more safe for Japanese than
west. The sinking of the 10,000-ton
Ashigari-class cruiser by H.M.S. sub-
marine Trenchant took place in shallow
water off the south-east coast of Sumatra,
not much more than 200 miles from
Singapore and within easy reach of
Palembang airfield, of disastrous memory.
“Prendergast” to the Fore
Naval communiques from Seac H.Q.
throw some light on what has been hap-
pening in the Malacca Strait area, where
the Fifth Cruiser Squadron is headed by
H.M.S. Nigeria, a Fiji-class cruiser, and
commanded by Rear-Admiral W. R. Pat-
terson, formerly captain of King George
V and in earlier years at Garden Island,
where he was the model for the outward
semblance of “Lock’s” lovable “Prender-
gast”—though the many-scenes in which
“Lock” has pictured “Prendergast” are
quite apocryphal.
Following the attack on Car Nicobar
—where there was very efficient ack-ack
fire —Nancowry, site of the best naval
harbor in the islands, was hit on July 7.
Intensive mine-sweeping operations were
carried out without interference, and air
and sea bombardment was laid on thickly
wherever airfields, shore batteries or
radar stations were found, right down
to the north-west of Sumatra, which was
under attack from July 5 to 11.
The squadron came out scathless,
save for the loss of a pilot.
The Japanese Radio reported a British
landing on an island off the Southern
Sumatran shore. The report was un-
confirmed from British sources. Possibly
it was one of “Combined Operations’ ”
frequent picnics.
After the Raiiis
All these operations, however are sub-
sidiary to the preparations for’the fine-
weather season which in xr
siim'7 « .? f mies —General
„ “ I Montague Stopford's
ne . can , be ex P ect ed to be in
l i° n a B amst tke remains of Burma and
Malaya. Japanese proceedings in Malaya
fhift th™ f so | athern centre s advertise
i ? fjj 7 consc,ous that bef °re
’ the anai versary of the fall
back nf r ° Un l ln c l94b the
™ wiifh T T he Soutb - east
a r i ” f , t broken ’ e^ en lf the Y
Jf l completely beaten. By the end
fightln g. for
rnr .' n th B tlsh P re P ara bons
7 g ~
Sea Power Off Japan.
Ek Diim”: Consolidation on the
Ryuku offensive line continues. On July
11 Admiral Nimitz, as C.-in-C. Pacific
Ocean areas, announced that all army air
forces in the Ryukus had come under the
command of General MacArthur, and
statemerits on operations in that area
began to appear over the familiar name
of General Kenney.
However, as yet Army operations are
only a tithe of the full air offensive, and
the war will continue to be dependent on
the efficiency of the combined naval com-
mands till the capital landings in Japa-
nese territory are made.
Behind this fact are a revolution in the
use of air-power at sea and a complete
reversal of theories much in fashion after
the sinking of Prince of Wales and Re-
pulse—that the era of the naval ship had
come to an end; the role of the battle-
ship in particular was finished ; no fleet
could live within range of shore-based
fighters and torpedo bombers. It was
argued as late as 1942 in Australia that
carrier-based aircraft could never com-
pete with land-based machines, that
battleships could never devise a defence
against so deadly and versatile an on-
slaught as air-torpedo attack at 300 m.p.h.
As was here pointed out many times
during that deplorable period of pessim-
ism there is a course of nature in these
things; a defence to every kind of on-
slaught is devisable provided time is avail-
able and the onslaught is menacing
enough to require special measures. In
time this defence can usually turn itself
into offence.
While the pessimists were still abroad
through many lands, ships like the old
Furious (creaking under the weight of
her enormous historian, Instr. Captain C.
R. Benstead) were flying Hurricanes off
their decks. And in a period which seems
only the twinkling of an eye in naval his-
tory the stage has been reached when
carrier-borne aircraft can compete with
land-based machines, even though land-
based machines today have a longer range
than of yore. The battleship, provided it
has a well-trained and experienced crew,
can ward off and blow to bits most air
attackers, whether they come as bakas,
kamikazes or just pure torpedo wallahs,
provided she has a few minutes’ or a few
seconds’ warning, according to circum-
stances. The nearest thing to flying into
the mouth of hell for a Jap pilot these
days is flying into the eye of a British
battleship with a North Sea and Medi-
terranean past behind her.
New Types and Theories
As a corollary, battleships, when in'
company with aircraft-carriers, can now
wander within easy reach of hostile and
heavily-defended land, and when needs
be pound it out with land batteries, if
there is any land battery to operate after
it has been hit by the first marine broad-
side or salvo. Also, the hitting power of
navies has been invested with a new sur-
prise, and no enemy of a naval power
can now tell where or when a thousand-
gun moving fortress may not turn up off
his coast and begin operations out of
range of his own fixed fortifications,
while naval defensive aircraft overhead
secure a free run for the battering force.
Naval aircraft can operate just as effec-
tively from a deck as from an airstrip,
especially since the development of such
devices as rocket-aided take-off and
accelerators. And the argument that,


Si)-
'O-P
I
1u to tke Wottoe tkect Jack ***££, JlhajJLcL ...
*0
“ S. 1
'4r
if\
<P
, §r^
WWmmm
<?
■9
/O
i\ .*;
<?
,'^ai
<7
vv:
* •. ,V»
&
<9.
i% •
S'*
s*.toiM
F>**# # *
<7
i»% *
mi
4/
Co
* ;
1' •*
£7
v
m
* 1 «
*v‘
V|
*
Z*\rs
3
Sngittsi
<p
<s>
•J 3
<2
Ml
iirn
m
Ti'»>.fJ m . 3
rty;
Sfe,:
i!vV
<<;
->
mi
m!
o.
i«V->
<<:
Ss*
<V
T- *3
T»x
?.H
JA
■At
aws
♦X
A
>fj»
“1
J’
v>:
a?.
yO
♦X
o
ip
'p.
J 5
o
’<£
7>
O
7
7>
V
3&&I
<9
o
W>
II
ggsi
j
i'y^
SSW
<?
wM€%ak
<9
WSMk I
tlr
o
o
7
;>V'
Wi&zM
Em
m
■s£«iiiri I'**. /
✓ '
to* W
%
/ /
M
W&
m
?*>}
mm
w&
V?.
m
<
KSs
,v '-.i
«t
IV
7
Wm
r.vrAA.
/ s
mmmm
IJ,“U
yy
WALTER BUNNIN6 , A.R.1.8.A., ARCH
Stewarts
and
Lloyds
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Housing Division —75 Pitt Street, Sydney
This is the house that architect,
engineer and builder will each con-
tribute to . . .
This is the house that will be better-
built . . . after the war.
Better-built . . . because of new, ad-
vanced constructional methods.
The use of Structural Steel Tubing
in your post-war home means it
will be stronger, more durable and
healthier.
Structural Steel Tubing can be
applied to every type of building
construction ... it is designed for the
use of all forms of external and in-
ternal finishing materials.
To-day, our full resources are en-
gaged in speeding Victory.
To-morrow, we will contribute to
better building.
We regret it is not possible to
answer personal enquiries in the ac-
curate detail necessary to individual
home building problems.


V/
here’s no
getting away from it
• . Cold-drawn Precision Seamless Steel Tubes
have caused revolutions in many manufacturing fields.
Steel Tube fishing rods, for instance, have proved as
flexible, as beautifully balanced and infinitely stronger
than any made with long hours of labour from rare,
expensive Woods. That will be proved again when
there is less urgency for the tank
aerials and other munitions now in
production at British Tube Mills
{Just.) Pty. Ltd., Kilburn, S.A.
m
R Si Me.
885
Have a “Coke’! . .
Eto Zdorovo
(HOW GRAND!)
//
-#
r
.. .or making foreign flyers friends
The whole story has not
yet been told. But, when
the Blitz on Germany was
mounting, and the Rus-
sians and British Allies
were conferring in Russia
as American fighter
planes poured in many
a toast to success was
drunk in “Coke” as ex-
perts worked 24 hours a
day. Have a “Coke” is a
way of saying we’re with
you from Randwick to
Russia. Coca-Cola stands
for the pause that refreshes
a symbol of friendliness
in many lands.
m
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.A.
(Liabil ity Limited}
SYDNEY
Missing Friends.
WILL MR. IVOR PARKER, of Cardiff, write bis
Father, at City Hall, Cardiff, South Wales?
WILL S. H. SAVER please communicate with A. R-
SAVER, 14 Landscape Road, Epsom, Auckland,
5.E.3, New Zealand? Any friends of the above are
asked to draw his attention to this advertisement
as his mother is dangerously ill. ___
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JEAN DONAGHEY.—TAKE NOTICE that
CHARLES HERBERT DONAGHEY has filed a Peti-
tion in the Supreme Court of New South Wales (JNo.
2348 of 1945) praying for a Divorce on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse tor
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Omce
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
7th day of September 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. PIKE AND
PIKE Solicitors 141 Elizabeth Street Sydney AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that at the hearing of
this petition the petitioner intends to ask the Court
to exercise its discretion under Section 19 (2) {.a.)
in his favor.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar u»
Divorce.
even if effective and deck-launched air-
craft were developed, they could never
implement major operations over land
because there would never be enough of
them is now answered by the fact that
there are already more than 100 carriers
of various types operating in the corn-
bined Allied fleets, and more coming,
The naval air war began to be fought
with such strange instruments as the
waddling and wonderful old Swordfish —
“torpedo-spotter reconnaissance, three-
seater —B. Pegasus, 700 h.p., max. speed
150 m.p.h.” By 1940 admitted offensive
weapons in the Royal Navy included the
Fairey Fulmar, with a 1060-h.p. Merlin
engine, which would have had little
chance against any land-based fighter in
equal combat. But today the Seafires
and their kind, relatively the equals of
any land fighter, fly off and on to decks
with at least a reasonable nonchalance.
And the sea-based dive bomber has be-
come as much a part of war as the land-
based versions, and the torpedo bomber
is a deadly and growing menace in its
own sphere when it has targets to operate
against.
The development has been greater in
the Pacific than in Europe, for the simple
reason that the need of it was greater
in wide open ocean spaces than in
the North Sea areas and the Mediter-
ranean, from which any part of the enemy
dominions could be reached by long-dis-
tance fighter aircraft of any effective type.
In the Pacific it has been a matter of
sheer necessity to develop the carrier and
carrier types of aircraft.
The development will probably be con-
siderably greater as British experience is
applied to the Pacific in a competitive
spirit. Already the Firefly, while not yet
perfect, has the germ of great advances ;
with its 1740-h.p. Griffon lib, its Rotol
three-blade 13ft. hydraulic airscrew,
wide landing track and Youngman flaps,
it would look like an optical illusion to
a naval pilot of 1938.
What the 1938 sea fighter thinks of the
new Curtiss Helldiver (SB2C-3) can be
left to the imagination. It carries a pair
of 20mm. cannon, eight rockets and more
than 20001 b. in bombs, and has Swiss
Cheese dive brakes and a speed well in
the 300-m.p.h, range.
The Third Fleet Off Japan
However, the stage which has been
reached in the provision of aircraft plat-
forms and their defence at sea was
illustrated last week. • The Third U.S.
Fleet, which included the battleships
lowa (45,000 tons), Indiana, Massa-
chusetts and South Dakota (35,000 tons),
three heavy cruisers, one light cruiser and
a train of 14 destroyers, plus the aircraft-
carriers Lexington and Essex (27,000
tons) and Independence and San Jacinto
(10,000 tons), waltzed up to within about
150 miles or less of the best-defended
section of Japan. It took part in a com-
bined operation, joined, on equal terms,
with aircraft from Iwo and Okinawa, in
a general strafe of the Kanto Plain, which
holds the bulk of the Japanese aircraft
industry (or did not long since), scattered
among something over 13,000,000 people.
Japan on July 9-10 appears to have
been under strafe and bomb almost from
end to end, short of Hokkaido, by an
infinite variety of birds. Nagoya and
Osaka were plagued by Iwo-based Mus-
tangs. Over Kyushu Island went Okinawa
Liberators and Thunderbolts. And
Honshu saw everything from the Super-
fortresses, which flew to Sendai, 200
miles n.-e, of Tokyo, on a record run
of 3960 miles, to Liberators and
Mitchells, which, according to the type of
objective, plastered Gifu, Sakai, Waka-
yama and the Utsute oil refinery at
Yokkaichi with firebomb and h.e., while
the naval aircraft thoroughly did over
the military installations of the Kanto
Plain for several hours at a time before
retiring into radio silence.
Information, naturally, was still vague
by the end of the week ; but air resist-
ance to Admiral Halsey’s effort seems
to have been limited, though ack-
ack fire continues to improve in a way
which suggests that Tokyo has been willed
some of Berlin’s radar secrets —towards
the end Berlin’s ack-ack fire had become
so accurate at 40,000 feet that the air
above that nearly-ruined city had ceased
to be safe for even the previously-
immune Mosquito. The Japanese were
reported to have lost 342 machines in
the battle of the Tokyo area.
Hokkaido’s First Battering
Admiral Halsey came out of radio
silence close in to the Hakodate Penin-
sula, the nose which Hokkaido, the most
northerly of the large Japanese main
islands, pokes into Tsugara Strait,
opposite Honshu. Tsugara Strait is a
main sea highway into the Sea of Japan,
and one would expect to see it and its
region guarded by heavy guns and power-
ful air squadrons, as in Europa Strait by
Gibraltar. But Admiral Halsey sidled up
within easy range of shore, and, while his
bombers and strafers roared overhead,
plastered the Hakodate region, the main
naval area port of Hokkaido, containing
the island’s largest city, and Muroran,
hub of the great Nihon and Wanishi iron
and steel plants, with 16-inch shells —this
after having spent a little time on the
way northward the previous day wreck-
ing the Kamaishi ironworks, 300 miles
to the south.
Full damage was not assessable when
this was written, but 49 ships and barges,
totalling 41,000 tons, were recorded as
sunk and 25 ships, totalling 43,000 tons,
as damaged. And steelworks were con-
siderably knocked about and the coal
traffic between Honshu and Hokkaido
interrupted.
It was remarkable that land batteries,
the Imperial Navy and the Jap Air Force
made no move to interrupt the operation,
though Tokyo Radio boasted on July 15
that the abstention from defence was
“strategic” and that the Japanese Navy
would in a short time accept the Allied
challenge with new weapons and methods.
Meanwhile, heavy air squadrons con-
tinued to pound the industrial southern
parts of the Japanese islands.
The Fourteenth Air Force on the
Chinese mainland claims to have blocked
railway traffic on six railways between
Shanghai and Peiping, and the amount of
attention given to this area suggests that
the Allied command has knowledge of
large movements in this area.
Not a Pre-invasion Attack
Daily press reports naturally made
much of the sea attacks on Tokyo area,
picturing them as a possible pre-invasion
strafe and magnifying them several-fold
in process of reporting, in competition
with A.8.C., which shouted excitedly that
Japan had now been hit by “as many
bombs as fell on Germany before inva-
sion day.”
Actually not 100,000 tons of bombs
(and little of that high-explosive) has yet
fallen on Japan. For comparison, the
R.A.F. alone dropped nearly 500,000 tons
on Germany in 1944.
The U.S. Air Forces began to bomb
Germany in August, 1942, but on a very
small scale. The R.A.F. already had
dropped about 300,000 tons of bombs on
the Reich. But before Germany was
knocked out the U.S. Eighth Air Force,
which has just now been allocated as pact
of the force in the Pacific, operated 2400
bombers and 1200 fighters with 300,000
personnel over a period of 1000 days,
dropped 531,771 tons of bombs on Ger-
many and 170,000 tons elsewhere —
4,377,984 actual bombs and 27,556,978
41b. incendiaries. In these operations the
force lost 43,742 killed or missing in
action, 41,923 seriously wounded. And
the Eighth Force was only one of several
operating. The R.A.F. dropped nearly
1,000,000 tons of bombs on Germany
and occupied lands. And it is healthy as
an antidote to much of the present run
of printed nonsense about the effects of
the so-far limited long-distance bombing
of Japan that it needed 51,000 sorties by
the R.A.F., carrying 3.56 tons per air-
craft, plus the U.S. effort, to cause a 54
per cent, devastation among the Reich
buildings in a 500-square-mile area.
The present attacks are bait for the
remainder of the Japanese Navy, as
Admiral Nimitz has clearly shown by his
announcements of future intentions. They
will undoubtedly continue to be stepped
up, a fact of which the enemy must be
all too well aware, as he hears day after
day of the arrival of fresh heavy units
and air forces.
Excessive Optimism
Optimistic stories of the effects of
bombing in Japan and equally cheerful
estimates of Japanese lethal casualties in
the Philippines campaigns 400,000
Japanese dead against 3000-odd U.S. dead
—caused a wave of careless certainty in
the United States, leading to a belief in
many newspaper and radio quarters that
it was a pity that the effete British and
others should be allowed to share in the
glory of a victory which Americans
could win with one hand. This happy,
though not unnatural, spirit began to die
when the ship losses and Okinawa and
Iwo casualties were brought home to the
American people.
The force which is being accumulated
in the Pacific anticipates naval opera-
tions on a larger scale by far than those
of Europe and land fighting just as
onerous. The British effort in the North
Pacific alone will be huge, and the fact
that it will be made under U.S. Supreme
Command advertises the mutuality of
co-operation and not British inferiority,
except in numbers, as some careless Aus-
tralians believe. When the U.S. Navy


Divorce Notices.
TO JUNIOR HOLMES formerly of Carterton In New
Zealand now of address unknown the wife of
HAROLD WEDGWOOD HOLMES of Auckland
Soldier. —TAKE NOTICE that your husband has filed
in the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Auckland a
Petition No. D.480/44 against you for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion A copy of the petition and
notice will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at my office Unless you file an answer
(having first given an address for service as provided
by the Rules of Court) in the said Court at Auckland
within forty days from the publication of this adver-
tisement the said petition will be heard and deter-
mined in your absence Unless you give an address
for service the petitioner is not required to serve
you with any further documents and you are not
entitled to receive any further notice in connection
with the proceedings.—J. D. O’BRIEN, Deputy
Registrar, Supreme Court, Auckland.
Solicitor for Petitioner: MESSRS. SCHRAMM &
ELWARTH, 208 Dilworth Buildings, Customs Street,
Auckland.*
Friends of the respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foregoing advertise-
ment.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LUCY TOMLIN.—TAKE NOTICE that PRANK
TOMLIN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2304
of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist day of August 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from 0. P. WHITE £ CO.
Solicitors 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY WEBB formerly of Goulbum
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that EVELYN EMILY WEBB has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1941 of 1945 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you desire to defend the case
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
14th day of September 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUBREY ALBERT BUTTON late of Islington
near Newcastle in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARY BUTTON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 182 of 1945 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 7th day
of September 1945 and obtain a copy of the
without charge from R. C. CATHELS & CO. Solici-
tors 28 Martin Place Sydney.— '(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARJERY ISABEL KEOGH.—TAKE NOTICE
that HAROLD IGNATIUS JOSEPH KEOGH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1981 of 1945 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years or upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-
fourth day of August One thousand nine hundred
and forty-five and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from DAWSON & HERFORD Solici-
tors 104 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
can spiit
so&cL wovtL
r vb
ZjOU
cant Sj&Jtr
f
i
„ The sound of the timber-man’s axe rings
'I through the forest. With a mighty crash, a noble
'III' tree falls to the ground. Yet, the same timber-
lll 1 ' 1 , 1 man, using the same axe with all his skill, would
ll'fl ! Hi find it difficult to split Plywood.
111 1 f Composed of a series of veneers, scientifically
W p glued together, Plywood has incredible tough-
r//,m ness. Timber splits along the grain—not across
it. In the manufacture of Plywood, the veneers
are so placed that the grain of each is at right
| f/'ijjH' angles to that in the veneers above and below.
'lj/fit- This provides an impenetrable “web,” which
\// defies even the sharpest axe.
111/ Not only is Plywood unsplitable—it is also
many times stronger, weight for weight, than
solid timber.
¥ : the material OF
/'O"
PVPHPcP Us fcrtstf ' by '
ISlmi Ml PLYWHB BDA R 0
■>
£
#3£
*2
;;
i!
1
STROMBERG-CARLSON PRESENTS
ADVENTURES INTO THE UNKNOWN
AMUNDSEN
Arctic and Antarctic Explorer
Captain Roald Amundsen was the first man to have visiteu
both the North and South Poles. Abandoning primitive sledge
transport, he made a series of Arctic flights in flying boats, and
flew over the North Pole in the airship “Norge”.
The same spirit of initiative inspires Stromberg-Carlson’s plan-
ning for Australia’s post-war listeners, with application of the
most advanced researches in radio science. Post-war too, there’ll
be nothing finer than a
STROMBERG-CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia,
50 YEARS OF COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
went to British waters it served under
British command in Europe. And today
it is little realised that while the United
States has far bigger naval forces in the
Asiatic zone, British land forces are
larger and British land-based air forces
comparable. Apart /rom British troops,
Indian enlistments are well over
2,000,000. And Australia, making an
effort which Americans are acknowledg-
ing with the generosity which charac-
terises them when they have the facts,
has five divisions in the field.
Invasion Far Off
All these forces would not be built up
if the Higher Command believed that
Japan could be invaded in her rainy
“Plum” season, which is now near its
end, after softening up by one of the
four major fleets now operating in the
Pacific. It is obvious that the policy of
the Allies in the Pacific proper is to
direct their main force from now onward
against Japan, treating all other opera-
tions as subsidiary. It is equally obvious
that even with this policy in force the
moment of actual attempt at a landing
in Japan must be months away, and
could not come before the mild Japanese
winter season, because; —
(1) Fleet organisation is not yet complete
either in the Pacific ports of the U.S. West
Coast, in British bases or in the delivery of
major ships, including some of the largest U.S.
aircraft-carriers and essential Royal Navy ships,
to the fighting area.
(2) Only a tithe of the main land forces are
yet in the Pacific, and those only beginning to
be supplied.
(3) TTie best time for operations against Japan
proper is when the weather is most favorable,
both round Japan proper and in the South East
Asian zone; and that cannot be until the Indian
monsoon season gives way to the dry period,
which comes about November. This period
coincides also with the worst winter season on
the Manchurian mainland. Thus it comes at a
time when it is hardest to shift supplies from
Manchukuo to help in the defence of Japan.
Provided Japanese apparent strength
is not dissipated through internal troubles,
and provided there is no political crack,
the world would be very lucky to see
the war in the Pacific over late next year
or the Allies firmly established or occu-
pied in large-scale decisive fighting in
Japan before late in the coming northern
winter. Even after a landing has suc-
ceeded it will take time to provide supply
dumps and fuel for advances against
Honshu’s mountainous and forest-
covered interior —this though Japan’s
army mechanised forces must be limited
because of obvious fuel shortages.
Russia’s position is still in doubt. If
Russia does not decide to come in within
a few weeks its help can be of little use.
But the Russians appear to be adopting
the policy which they esteemed a crime
in the Turks, of staying out of the war
till it has been won for them. And they
propose to bargain, it seems, for every
bit of imperialist advantage which they
can get in return for a minimum service
to their all-too-sentimental allies.
Japanese Defence
So far Jap air defence seems from
reports all through to have consisted
almost entirely in taking a beating
lying down or relatively so and
watching Jap cities burnt to ashes. But
the Japanese themselves aver that their
defence against air attack is much in the
nature of their defence against land
attack. It consists in the dispersal under-
ground of endless factories and fortresses.
This is feasible. The feat of throwing
a tunnel under six miles of sea from
Kysushu to Honshu was certainly no
small job. It was accomplished,
apparently as a measure of defence, on
plans drawn long before the war.
Outsiders are apt to regard the Japanese
effort more lightly because it is not
offensive. It is often pointed out in the
American press with some scorn that the
Japanese have no heavy bombers com-
parable with the Superfortresses—some
newspapers have scarcely heard of the
Lancaster or the Lincoln. But there should
be a warning in the fact that the same
was true of Britain —how U.S. aviation
papers used to sneer at Britain’s “inter-
ceptors!”—in relation to the Germans
when the latter attacked with all their
fury in 1940, What Britain did have was
a solid but not large mass of very daring
pilots in excellent manoeuvreable fighters,
plus very good predictor systems and
rocket defence, which had not been bar-
gained for.
Probably Japan has no surprises of
this sort, but she may have some in the
numbers of available pilots and of
machines of specific types which she can
afford to throw away, even apart from
straightout kamikazes. She is supposed
to have lost 4000 machines in recent
months, but they still keep coming. •
Some of her machines are very good
and much improved even from the
ones which caused surprise at the begin-
ning of the war. A lot of them have
copied their features from Germans,
Americans and (occasionally) British, but,
with watchmakers’ exactitude in manu-
facture, they are not to be scoffed at.
Also, the fact that many of them are
flimsy and that they depend on manoeuvre
rather than armor for protection has two
reactions—they are somewhat easier to
build; they produce more speed per
horsepower and sometimes are more
manoeuvreable than opposite numbers in
the Allied air forces.
Casualties.
Empire casualties to May 31, 1945,
announced by the Prime Minister last
week, totalled 1,427,630, of which
1,233,796 were in the services.
Service figures;
Miss-
Killed. Wounded, ing. P.-0.-W.
U.K. .. 233,042 275,975 57,472 183,849
Australia.. 21,415 37,477 6,519 26,800
Canada .. 36,018 53,073 2,866 9,051
N.Z. .. 9,844 19,253 2,201 8,485
S.A. .. 6.417 13,773 1,980 14,595
India .. 23,295 62,064 12,264 79,692
Colonies .. 6,741 6,773 14,811 8,051
Totals: U.K., 750,338; Australia,
92,211 ; Canada, 101,008 ; N.Z., 39,783 ;
South Africa, 36,765 ; India, 177,315;
colonies, 36,376.
Australian losses killed, missing,
p.-0.-w. in enemy hands, p.-0.-w. escaped
or repatriated, wounded;
R.A.N.: 1525, 439, 262, 31, 542: total,
2799.
ARMY: 11,992, 3946, 18,570, 6695,
33,815; 75,018.
R.A.A.F.: 7898, 2134, 370, 872, 3120;
14,394.
The Merchant Navy, through enemy
action, had 30,867 dead, 4690 missing,
4252 wounded, and internees 5506 —total
45,315. Civilian casualties in Britain
were 146,760, of whom 60,585 were killed
or are missing—26,920 men, 25,392
women and 7736 children.
Though unpreparedness is still a
favorite theme with Left-wing writers,
none of whom was for preparedness dur-
ing the years in which the whole mob
was eager for war, the losses are small
compared with last-war figures. Actually,
though mobilisations have been about
1,000,000 greater within the Empire, and
though the duration of the German war
was greater, the losses are less than half
those of World War 1—929,812I —929,812 dead,
2,097,994 wounded, 32,391 prisoners.
A.I.F. battle casualties on the Western
Front alone in the last war were 33,407
killed, 11,304 died of wounds, 323 dead
from gas, 112,729 wounded, 1624 shell-
shock wounded, 16,496 gassed; total,
179,455. To these were added 26,094 in
the Dardanelles campaign (7594 killed)
and the losses in the R.A.N. and in the
Palestine campaigns.


ov
w
V
00*
yoO
a
if
0^
■
L
m
m
mm
:' 9
£/
m
■m
M
ZZZ.y/y.
m
mm
when you buy
‘TOP DOC’ Hen’s Wear
‘Top Dog’ Men’s Wear takes the
gamble out of buying. It gives you
garments with a national reputation
for quality to maintain garments
that are smart in appearance, con-
scientiously finished and which give
uncommonly long wear. Supplies
to civilians are restricted, of course,
but you can bring nearer the day
of peace and unlimited
stocks by investing in the
First Victory Loan —to your
very limit!
p
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also “TOP DOG” Products
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
•upport" for everyman’t
everyday wear.
All metis-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
BRANDAtIER-S
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitation*,
o. IUIDiPU * Otu UL BPUUireHA*. *■*
SPORTING NOTIONS
Flemington on Saturday; Grand National
weather, further triumphs for the David breed,
and a great day out for rider J. Cunningham.
Oh the Grand National Steeple winner, Quixotic
(David-Miss Quex), Cunningham, about 40
minutes later, also rode the winner of
the Footscray Steeple, Gay Shepherd (David-
Whirling), covering in those successive races 5
miles H furlongs, the going heavy, and, all told,
some 40 fences to get over. And his total
race rides over the jumps can still be counted
on the fingers of one hand!
It was also an agreeable day for leading
flat rider A. Breasley, who made his outright
winners 50 for the season by getting Philander
up in the nick of time to beat unlucky Fungi
by half a head in the 10-furlongs Winter Handi-
cap, Gayness third. As Philander is by Paren-
thesis, the sire of Hiatus, who beat Isambard
and Ellipsis in the Doutta Galla Hurdle, it
was a good day for that breed, too. Breasley
has been on nine winners, one second and
two thirds in his last 17 rides.
It was not so good for H. Badger. There’s
no doubt when a rider’s luck is out it can be
foul. A while back Badger could seemingly
win on anything, so much so that once when
he was trailing 15 behind as leading jockey there
was an offer to back him to make up the lee-
way and win. But he has had an atrocious
run this year, and it touched dead-low when he
got Oxford Street home by a neck from
Reperio in the six-furlongs Lawn Handicap
with Port o’ Call third, only to lose on a pro-
test and be outed for three months. Though
not quite so disastrously, it also wasn’t the
best of days for L. Meenan, whose Grand
National mount, favorite Winterset, failed in
the heavy going to produce his usual dashing
style, and crashed under his topweight burden
(12.7) five furlongs from home. Meenan is still
out on his own in the cross-country premiership,
but this may be the end of Winterset under
the weights that champion is now getting.
Hearsay led the eight others in the early part
of the National journey, with Hamlet and the
South Australia, Lime Rock, next, then Winter-
set and Quixotic. Hamlet beaten off, and soon
a casualty, old Tcntc moved up and went stride
for stride with Hearsay, drawing out from Lime
Rock, Parentena and Winterset. After passing
Hearsay, who also soon crashed, Tente was out
on his own, 10 lengths clear of Parentena,
then Quixotic and Winterset, with a mile to go.
Still there six furlongs from home, Tente looked
like landing it when he, too, toppled. It was
then Parentena leading Quixotic, with Winterset
looking a hopeless case 10 lengths behind them,
and having some trouble with a riderless horse
before falling himself. Parentena led to the
last fence, but Quixotic quickly drew up and
went on to beat him by five lengths, with
Victory March 12 lengths away, and after him
Lime Rock —the four of them the only survivors
of the nine left in the race.
Three of the David breed have now won the
Grand National Steeple, and five have won the
Grand National Hurdle. Lime Rock’s run was
one to remember for the big jumping events
still ahead before the fencers and hurdlers take
an extended holiday under the racing restric-
tions. Lime Rock had such a rough passage
over from S.A. that his training was interfered
with, and this was the first run he could be
given in a race.
Betting on the National was no business for
faint-hearted punters—three miles and a furlong
to travel, 25 fences to get over, and the odds:
5 to 2 Winterset, 3 to 1 Parentena and Hearsay,
5 to 1 Victory March, the winner at twelves and
two others at fifteens, leaving another two for
the books to be reckless about.
The Footscray Steeple betting was more open,
as well it might have been to induce any but
confirmed heroes to offer themselves as sacrifices.
It was a tidy-sized field, with practically ho
form other than dubious. Even so, there was
a 5-to,-2 favorite, Warwickshire, who of those
that managed to complete the course completed
it last. The winner Gay Shepherd (Yontilini,
second; Koorool, third), was a 50-to-l chance.
In the Two-year-old Mile, first division, the
Solar Bear gelding Solray added to his six-
furlongs win of a week earlier by comfortably
defeating Keep Smiling and Lady Antog, and
in the second division the Hellespont-St. Enid
colt Euxine finished very strongly to down El
Banco and Navarro by a couple of lengths.
Total distance raced in the afternoon, just on
Hi miles.
* * * *
Two Encourage events for two-year-olds
headed the card for the A.J.C. July meeting at
Randwick, giving the less outstanding youngsters
a chance to score before their birthday, and
giving those who braved a bitterly bleak day
an opportunity to assess the lesser lights against
their own class —important with next season’s
restricted-class events limited to three-year-olds
by the fodder-shortage regulations.
The trace of Heroic blood inherited through
her sire, Nuffield, has given Gracious a smart
turn of speed, but half a mile seems about as
far as she cares to maintain it. She led the
fillies for about that distance, but folded up
when challenged by the well-named Even Time
(Greenwich-Glossary), who had been handy all
the way, and Stefanova, who had come into
the picture from nowhere with a rail-skimming
run at the home turn. These two and Bright
Company led a well-strung-out procession to
the post, with Stefanova struggling gamely but
making no impression.
Days before the event the dogs that bark in
the street had Ridge past the post in the colts
and geldings Encourage. He headed out from
the barrier to a seven-lengths’ lead, like a Phar
Lap in a field of draught horses, but he was a
tired horse after three furlongs, and at the
turn the rest had his measure, all but three
passing him. It was anyone’s race at that
stage, but Melos, a black colt by Herarde from
Volvo, ran smoothly to an easy win from
Bobnic and the Spcarfelt colt New Cashmere.
A lesson for those who heed the barking of
the dogs.
The Moore Park Handicap, over a mile, gave
spectators their money’s worth, if only to see
the magnificent effort of Kingsdale, after having
been left a dozen lengths behind at the start.
Though it seemed a lost cause, the six-year-old
son of Andrea went after them, and m three
furlongs was passing the tailenders. The course
specialist Petulance (also by Andrea) was in
front, but with three-and-a-half furlongs to go
dropped back for a breather, coming again
round the last turn. Kingsdale meanwhile was
taking the long run round the outside, but was
passing the field and starting to look a danger.
He was a clear second at the icger, but the
early effort, top weight and the outside running
were too much, though he battled on after
Petulance right to the post. Davinia was third.
In the Three-year-old Encourage, the Mid-
stream gelding Polar Star (16 to 1) beat Regal
Step (25 to 1) and Haxton (33 to 1), with the
favorite, High Tension, nowhere, after leading
to the turn. Two divisions of a seven furlongs
welter went to the Hall Mark gelding Mintage,
who beat Gigli and Sir Francis, and Kimbell,
who was five lengths too good for Vanity
Lady and Goya. Lambeth followed a Newcastle
win by downing Salivant and Turn Again in
the July Handicap over 11 furlongs. Topweight
burden (9.3) on the heavy track was apparently
too much for Prince.
* * ♦ «
Port Raider, a four-year-old bay horse by
Portofino-On Beat, had a narrow but sound
win in the rich Doomben Newmarket, run at
Albion Park on Saturday, beating Repshot a
head, with the favorite, Maa Leesh, third. Top-
weight Hall Stand —up from Sydney, though
owned in Queensland —going well out in front
with Maa Leesh, apparently struck a tendon,
and came in lame. The race —worth £3OOO in
all —carries a fourth prize, which went to Bah-
ford. Port Raider has had 101 b. added to his
original 7.6 for next Saturday’s Doomben Cup,
in which the topweight, High Rank, should
be very hard to beat.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):—
Three-year-old: Strathdarr, 1; Lunar, 2;
Dieppe, 3. Two-year-old: Balmore, 1; Even
Time, 2; Strauss, 3. Trial: Great Scot, 1;
Prince Buzzard, 2; High Tension, 3. Avoca
Handicap: Kingsdale, 1; Petulance, 2; Ver-
meil, 3. Pacific Handicap: Night Parade, 1;
Salivant, 2; Prince, 3. Welter; Rectifier, 1;
Gigli, 2; Royal Janette, 5.
* ♦ * •
After 20 years as secretary of the S.A.
Jockey Club, Reg Hynes has resigned because
of ill-health. He went to Adelaide —taking
over from A. V. Kewney, now secretary of the
V.R.C. —from Grafton (N.S.W.), where he was
secretary of the Clarence River Jockey Club,
racing under the Northern Rivers Racing Assoc.,
of which he was a founder and former vice-
president. The S.A.J.C. has elected Hynes a
life member. He is succeeded by Ralph Parham,
who has spent most of his life in the S.A.
Jockey Club’s office.
• * * ♦
A Mexican airline concern has announced a
flying horse float service, with transport ’planes
equipped to carry six horses. The idea is to
take competitors from California and Texas to
some of the rich Mexican meetings.
* * * ♦
In the third “Victory” Test at Lord’s,
which began on Saturday before an
attendance of 29,000, Australia gave
Cristofani a place instead of Price, and
England’s selectors called up three colts
—R. White, J. Drewes and D. Carr, aS
about 18. Rain halted play, but Eng-
land piled up 254. Hutton saved the
side with 104 ; Edrich got 38, Griffiths
36 and Dewes 27, Hutton has re-
turned to his habit of slashing Aus-
tralian bowlers his 364 (out of
7 for 903) for England in the fifth
Test at Kennington Oval in 1938
is still a nightmare to Bill O’Reilly (3
for 178), Fleetwood-Smith (1 for 298) and
Waite (1 for 150). Cristofani justified
his selection with 4 for 42 ; Miller took
3 for 34, Pepper 1 for 44, Ellis 1 for 25
and Williams 1 for 45. Sismey stumped
two and caught one, and only two of the
six sundries were byes. With more rain
over the week-end the Australians looked
like having to bat in the mud.
Australian Services XI came out well
in their mid-week two-days match against
Yorkshire at Bradford. With play hin-
dered by rain, they scored 204 (Pepper
51, Hassett 44, Whitington 35), and then
crashed Yorkshire for 156, of which
Hutton made 82. Williams (5 for 41)
and Ellis (3 for 33) wrought the damage.
Game drawn.
♦ ♦ • *
“Lumby”: Although on 16 occasions
trundlers have bowled unchanged in 143
Tests between Australia and England,
only Turner and Ferris have done it more
than once. The first time was at Sydney on
January 28-31, 1887, when England


HARTS
Circular Charts lor all types of
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. ITU. BRISBANE. 01.0.
r
u
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if be is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/f
SKIN LOTION 2/b
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/I
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
SOLD
fyj/uvt 3sudzun,/ia c/we
At the end of 1941, locomotives and other rolling-
stock were rushed to Persia to speed up supplies to
Russia over the Trans-Persia Railway. 143 locomo-
tives, specially equipped, with tenders and spare
parts, were sent, and 1,600 steel-frame 12-ton waggons
were built in record time. By working night and
day, the assembling works fitted together the 1,800
parts of each waggon so that one was completed
every 37 minutes.
(BRITISH MINISTRY OF INFORMATION)
will do-
Examples such as the above are legion in
Britain’s production for battle. Imperial Type-
writers, for instance, are manufactured in far
greater numbers than ever before, but all now
go direct to the Fighting Services. This vast
war-time manufacturing experience guarantees
a greatly improved typewriter for your use
when civilian supplies are again available.
cw'
V6WS
WVZ. i
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable
Models
DOBELL PTY. LTD.
29 REIBY PLACE, SYDNEY
Tel.: BW 1227
a
m
m
7s
Precision.
takes on a new meaning through
latest addition to ultra-modern
A.T.L. equipment
As specialists in super
accuracy, A.T.L. has long
foreseen that interchange-
ability with its attendant
precision will attain even
greater significance in post-
war production than it has
reached during the war.
A.T.L. equipment and tech-
nical resources have been
developed accordingly. En-
quiries concerning the sup-
ply of production essentials
requiring the finest margins
of accuracy will be wel-
comed.
it Latest addition to A.T.L. equipment for
super-accuracy in jig-boring—the Newali Jig Borer. •
Accurate to .0001 of an inch, this machine is
universally regarded as a major achievement of
British engineering.
FOR
JIGS . . . FIXTURES . . . MOULDS
PRESS TOOLS...DIES...GAUGES
w
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
IF IT’S A PRECISION JOB, IT’S A JOB FOR A.T.L.
ATL.4-45
toppled for 45 (Turner 6 for 15 and Ferris
4 for 27), and yet England won by 13 runs.
The other was at Lord’s on July 16-17,
1888 (Turner 5 for 36 and Ferris 5 for 26),
Australia winning by 61 runs. Turner
(4 for 33) and Giffen (5 for 26) also
bowled unchanged at Sydney on February
1-4, 1895, and this was Turner’s final
appearance in Test cricket. His remark-
able figures (1052.4 overs, 457 maidens,
1670 runs, 101 wickets) are better than
those of all the others who have taken
more than 100 wickets in Tests —Peel (102
at 16.81), Barnes (106 at 21.58), Rhodes
(109 at 24.00) for England ; and Noble
(115 at 24.78), O’Reilly (102 at 26.64),
Giffen (103 at 27.09) and Grimmett (106
at 32.44) for Australia.
* * * *
Both needing a win in the V.F.L. com-
petition, it looked like Richmond remain-
ing in need —on its home turf at that!
when North’s nippy smaller contingent
started to pile ’em up as if delighted with
the wallowing conditions, shooting accu-
rately for a first-term lead of 7.3 to 3.7.
It was solid going all the way, the Tigers’
weight and stamina seeing them through
to an 18.10-15.9 win and a place back in
the “four.” The leaders, Collingwood
and South Melbourne, clashed on
’Wood’s territory, this encounter, too,
opening up in favor of the invaders. But
in the second quarter it was all ’Wood,
the Magpies running up a five-goal lead
in that term and keeping on the good
work to win, 11.14-7.12. There were fierce
doings towards the end at Essendon,
where Fitzroy downed the once-mighty,
11.14-7.14. Geelong, though shaping
better, suffered another belting, this time
from Footscray, 13.19-11.14; Carlton
walloped Hawthorn, 13.12-8.11 ; and Mel-
bourne had a win at St. Kilda’s expense,
10.23-9.10.
% *i*
Victoria, which in modern Australian
Rules meetings had won 31 matches to 10
against South Australia, this year sent
over an XVIII of big men and fine
“markers,” but they were surprisingly
bustled off the ball by the speedier light-
weights of Adelaide, who won 17.23 to
10.13. The visitors sportingly left behind
a silver tea-set for Quinn, the S.A. cap-
tain ; and also the Centenary Cup, which
Victoria won in 1936. This is to be a
perpetual trophy between the two States.
The gate was 33,000, and Adelaide Child-
ren’s Hospital benefits by about £2400.
* * * *
Though Coogee Oval was a quagmire
in the centre, Randwick played grand
open football to route West 12 -nil. Parra-
matta has this season a penetrative back-
line to support its solid pack, and used
it to good effect against University,
downing the Students 13-9. Drummoyne
won the toss and foolishly gave East first
use of a strong wind, resulting in a Tri-
color lead of 11-nil at “lemons.” With
full-back Creer in good kicking form (he
scored 13 points), East went on to win
22 -nil. Other games : North 8, Manly
3 ; St. George 14, Gordon 11. Rand-
wick maintains its three-point lead over
East and Parramatta (equal, second), with
Uni. next and then North.
s£ * * *
“K” among S.A. bowls players:
In S.A. bowls, established here in 1897, now
has about 4000 players in the metropolitan and
2500 in country districts. In the season recently
concluded 448 nominated for the State singles
championship. In these championships Arthur
Eldridge, with successes in 1931, 1935 and 1943
and runner-up in 1936, 1938 and 1940, has the
best record, though he has yet to become cham-
pion of his club (Adelaide). The average play
period of a bowler before carrying off the State
singles is 10 to 15 years. Two bowlers of 56
have won the title, but the great majority of
winners have been between 40 and 50. Reg
Hardy holds the record of two wins in succes-
sion—State singles and Centenary singles (1936).
Laurie Newberry, a left-hander, was champion
of club champions in 1944 and 1945. Two new
clubs have been formed —at Somerton (south
of Adelaide), and at Broadview (north of the
city). With money subscribed by bowlers the
S.A. Bowling Association has laid down a green
at the Daws-road Military Hospital and will also
erect a clubhouse.
In his last fight in Melbourne Alabama
Kid was getting a dreadful doing from
Jack Johnson when the referee came to
his rescue in the eleventh round. John-
son, who is improving with every fight,
showed considerable skill and power of
punch.
Two Ward brothers, Scots and middle-
weights, were seen in action at Leich-
hardt on Thursday. Giving no mean
exhibition of boxing, Tommy Ward out-
pointed Ritchie Sands in 12 exciting
rounds. Sands was the stronger and
had the stiffer punch, but he swung
wildly and inaccurately, 20 missing the
target in a single round. Ward' won
an undisputed points decision. In the
supporting bout Ken Petersen put up a
doleful performance, and in the third
round appeared to go down without being
hit. When he refused to “awake, arise,”
the contest was declared “no fight.” Billy
Ward was not blamed and his share of
the purse was paid. Petersen’s was
“withheld.”
Heralded as Britain’s best welter-
weight, Jimmy Brunt, a Marine, did not
shape like a Johnny Summers in a match
with Marsden, at the Sydney Stadium.
He often led with his right, which
Summers, Mat Wells and McCormick
were never known to do in Sydney. How-
ever, Marsden’s punches did not appear
to have the slightest effect on Brunt,
whose own right swings floored his oppo-
nent three times before one knocked
him out in the seventh round. Kev
McCarthy, pitted against Len Kimber,
also brought off victory with a right-
hander. It was a perfect punch to the
chin, delivered soon after the second
round began.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Flemington racecourse always provides
a colorful background for women race-
goers and it was certainly needed on the
day of the Grand National. The weather
was cold and bleak, with signs of rain,
and smart women went prepared for any
sort of weather. The dressing on the
whole was quiet to the point of sombre-
ness, although here and there a bright
spot of color was seen. Wran Pat Green,
who celebrated her majority with much
gaiety recently, was one who braved
the weather and looked smart and trim
in her uniform. With her was friend
Kath Christie, smartly tailored in tweeds
and with a topcoat for added warmth.
Sandra, a member of the well-known
Baillieu family, was among the young
racegoers.
Many festivities were arranged for
Grand National night and an intimate
supper party given by Mrs. Allan Walters
at her home, Kia Ora, St. Kilda-road,
gave other guests the opportunity of
meeting Mrs. James Robertson, well
known in Sydney and country circles.
For this occasion the hostess donned a
slim-fitting evening skirt of black silk
crepe, with a short tailored jacket in
powder-blue wool embroidered in silver
threads. The guest of honor, who has
been staying at Menzies, was attractive
in her long black skirt and white jacket
embroidered in gold sequins, which
formed a wheat-sheaf pattern on the
front of the jacket. Margaret Schofield,
well known in Melbourne musical circles,
chose a simple black outfit.
Men in this city are still wearing dark
business suits for even formal affairs,, and
from remarks heard it can be gathered
they want to stay that way for a long
time. It must be a relief not to wear a
high starched collar when dancing.
Grand National night offered another
attraction which drew many hundreds of
people to the Town Hall. These folk
came to see Grade Fields, and went
away marvelling. With one gesture
Gracie Fields reduced her audience to
solemnity and the next moment they
were rocking with mirth. Never for one
moment was the face of this entertainer
the same. At the conclusion of the first
part of the programme Gracie chattily
told her audience that she must go and
change her frock. It seems that she
raffled the gown, which was very stun-
ning with its emerald-green sequin deco-
rations on white georgette, while in Syd-
ney, for funds to allow Sydney police
to run a girls’ club on the same lines as
the one they now run for boys. “I must
take care of it, for the lady who won it
said I might wear it on my tour.” When
she next appeared Gracie was wearing a
white and black frock, also embroidered
in sequins. Melbourne has been com-
pletely captivated by the lass from Lan-
cashire and at six o’clock in the cold of
a winter morning crowds gather to book
seats for her concerts.
The president and committee of the
Originality Group, a small band of
women who have done good work for
patriotic causes, also had what Gracie
calls a “do” on Grand National night.
This took the form of a gala buffet and
dance at Grosvenor, Toorak, and
attracted many who came on from the
races. Over the war years this Originality
Group has raised more than £lO,OOO,
which has been distributed among the
A.C.F. Red Cross and other patriotic
appeals. The gala buffet added another
£4OO to that total, and went to help the
work of Red Cross.
Mrs. Arthur Laver, as president, re-
ceived the guests, and was an elegant
figure in a mist-blue dinner frock of soft
Angora. Mrs. Norman Gadsen, secre-
tary of the group, also chose blue, but
in a deep midnight toning. Mrs, W.
Sangster was a striking figure in a deep
orange satin tunic worn over a long black
tailored skirt. Mrs. Douglas Irving was
yet another who chose blue, and this
color was used in her crepe tailored
dinner suit, highlighted with a cyclamen
crepe blouse. Doris Pritchard tied a blue
ribbon round her fair curls and was
smart in black with a white ermine wrap
around her shoulders. Mrs. D. Kernel-
field, a former president of the group,
was there in a teal-blue fur-trimmed
frock, and her small black straw hat was
trimmed in a large pink and white veiling
bow. Miss Rose Paterson, hostess of
Grosvenor, was a gracious figure in royal-
blue crepe, trimmed with matching
sequins. Her small black hat was a lace
straw.
The Cross of Lorraine, with flags of
other nations, formed the decoration of
the Town Hall when the Alliance
Franfaise and the French-Australian
Society celebrated France’s National
Day. Flowers decked the official table.
Seated with representatives of the two
societies was the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell, most becomingly
attired in pink and silver lame. Her
presentation bouquet matched the tonings
in her frock. Madame M. Cockerton,
secretary of the Alliance Fran?aise, was
smart in black taffettas, much frilled and
flounced. Dancing with Group-Captain
Clive Brewster was Dorothea Dixon in
shot-green taffettas. Round her hair she
bound a red, white and blue ribbon
which ended in a perky bow on top of
her head.
Professor Maurice Belz brought his
charming wife Marjorie to the ball, she
in festive garments of white crepe. June
Aslangul, granddaughter of the Greek
Consul in Melbourne, caught the eye in
flame-toned georgette. June was bom in
Paris, and with her mother and brother
only got away from Paris 24 hours be-
fore the Germans entered the city. In
the same party was Sylvia Lane, in
lavender-blue crepe, with glittering gold
embroidery on the shoulders of the gown.
Maureen Wilton, one of Melbourne’s
prettiest girls, danced in pale-blue
organza embellished with ribbon bows
in the toning. Her escort was Lieut.-Col.
Harold Scruttin, Royal Marines. Major
Keith Knox danced with Fay Stoddart,
whose slinky georgette gown was in pale-
ecru tonings.
Just a few minutes after midnight M.
Matisse proposed the toast of the King
and then the toast was France. Loud
cries of “La Belle France” and “Vive la
France” were heard, and then followed
“The Marseillaise.” Frocks worn by the
Frenchwomen were smart, definitely pre-
war, and carried with an air. Among the
smartest was Mile. Lillian Gaye, whose
gown of deep lime-green taffetas was shot
with blue. The low neckline was finished
with a frill of blue taffeta, and the sleeves,
separate from the frock, reached from
w'rist to just below the shoulders, where
they were finished with a frill of the blue
taffeta. Lucie Hasse chose a full white
crepe skirt, and over it wore a pink and
silver lame blouse. The collar was
fashioned of red, green and blue stones.
Proceeds of the ball go to French p.-0.-w.
funds.
Many racegoers wound up the day by
wending their way to His Majesty’s for
the ballet. Although the dark attractive
lass pictured here has not been seen in
this city since the days of the De Basil
Ballet, she has been well received on
each of her appearances with the present
company. In private life Tamara Tchina-
rova is the wife of Peter Finch, radio
actor and now a member of the A.I.F.
Entertainment Unit. She first came to
Australia six years ago as a member of
the De Basil co, and remained here when
war broke out. Late last year she joined
the Borovansky Ballet co. in M.L. This
attractive ballerina was born in Russia,
but learned her art in Paris from Pre-
obrajenska. Tamara has toured the Con-
tinent, England and America and says
she is happy to make her home in this
country. ®
Blackouts and war-time restrictions
during the mid-war years brought the
activities of the Melbourne University
Dramatic Club almost to a standstill.
Now this body is resuming its activities,
and its recent production, “A Murder
Has Been Arranged,” showed that there
is plenty of life left in the organisation.
Joy Youlden worked very hard with her
cast, and the results were surprisingly
good. Bruce Anderson as Maurice
Mullens was a suave villian, and his last
scene, in which his crime has been dis-
covered, was put over with equal-to-
professional artistry. Marjorie Mehaffey,
as the wife of the murdered man, wore
lovely clothes with distinction, and gave
a satisfactory performance. As a
Cockney “char” Pat Hanna was in her
element. A large audience of under-
graduates and their friends was well
entertained.
From Sydney
The C.W.A. Handicrafts depot in The
Bulletin building had a visit of inspec-
tion from the Duchess of Gloucester last
Friday. The long, wide floor given over
to loom and wheel and bench was at its
best and brightest. By half-past two,
when the Royal visitor was about due, all
hands were busy. Some were fashioning
the cunning ducks and dolls and koalas
whose cousins beam from the case just
inside the doorway, others were finishing
off nets for camouflaging flame-throwers
—in short, business was as usual when
the slim little Duchess made her rounds.
H.R.H. looked pleased when she received
the really super orchid the Handicrafts
Section gave her. President of the sec-
tion Mrs. Coghlan presented the com-
mittee workers to the Duchess, who had
been accompanied from the C.W.A.
sheepskin-vest workrooms, by the asso-
ciation’s president Mrs. Mac. Smith,
former holders of that office Mrs. Studdy
and Mrs. M. Sawyer and State secretary
Mrs, Fairfax. The Viscountess Clive was
in attendance. The C.W.A. Service
Women’s Club in Bayswater-road was the
final place of call.
Joanna Wills, playing the part of the
maid in Whitehall’s current production
of “Arms and the Man,” is an English
girl who was trained at the Royal Aca-
demy of Dramatic Art in London. She
lived for some time in Singapore with
her parents, and while there appeared in
a number of amateur performances. The
family was forced to leave on account
of war conditions, and escaped three days
before the fall of Singapore. “Arms and
the Man” opened in the Minerva last
Monday night, and playgoers who are
sticklers for right atmosphere were
pleased to see that the company had repro-
duced the fashions of 1894, the year in
which the play was first presented. Noted
ballerina, Tchinarova designed the frocks.
Noel Rubie photograph.
The Duchess of Gloucester was given
a stirring welcome when she went to the
Town Hall to the dance which was the
top layer of the cake as far as the Trade
Unions’ Red Cross Popular Girl Com-
petition was concerned. The Duchess’s
frock glowed like a pinky-red camellia,
and was sown with gems at the neckline.
She was attended by Viscountess Clive-
Over 2000 dancers and lookers-on were
in the Town Hall, and the 19 girls who
had taken part in the contest had an
appreciative audience for their pretty
white frocks and their flowers, which ap-
propriately were red crosses.
The winner, Joan Jupp, who had
brought in over £7OOO, handed the total
cheque (£18,197) to the Duchess, who in
return handed Joan the first prize, a
cheque for £5O. President of the Trades
and Labor Council Guy Anderson and
Mrs. Anderson and other trade-union
leaders received H.R.H. Sylvia Thomp-
son, young daughter of the secretary of
the Red Cross committee, presented a
bouquet to the Duchess,
Australia has a new Prime Minister.
He is Joseph Benedict Chifley. With his
wife, a woman, of simple tastes who is
evidently a believer in the old adage
“Far from Court Far from Care,” Mr.
Chifley makes his home at Bathurst. It
is a modest home, and here Mrs. Chifley
lives with her aged mother. Canberra
sees next to nothing of her, and it is
about 12 months since she has been in
Sydney. She is definitely a home-lover,
is clever with her embroidery needle, and
is fond of gardening. She has lived in
the same house ever since her marriage.
What a fourteenth of July this was
for the French! There was even a
greater lifting of the hearts of France’s
sons and daughters than on that sultry
July day when the Bastille, hated symbol
of the tyranny of its time, fell. This latest
was the first anniversary since the Hun
was cleared out of France, and it was
inspiring to hear “The Marseillaise”
sung as it was in Sydney last Saturday
when French people gathered together.
At one crowded midday function pretty
young girls with clear soprano voices
sang the words with spirit, while near-by
elaerly men, some of them a trifle shabby
about the overcoat, some of the ageing
faces showing signs of the strain of those
horrible hours when France fell to
Hitler’s grey swarms, declaimed the
words with resolution. Listening, it
became easy to understand the grim
bravery of the underground movement
in the singers’ native land. The Consul-
General held reception, and hundreds
gathered at the Consulate. Later many
of the same people went around to
Endeavour House, over which the Tri-
color proudly floated, and lunched at the
club rooms of Les Amis de la France.
In the evening there were dinner parties
and private celebrations.
In the Feminist Club last Wednesday
singer Constance Burt, looking like a
blonde Dresden shepherdess done up in
silver fox, introduced one of her pupils,
Gwendolin Head, to a group of the city’s
musical. Gwen, a graceful 19 or 20, her
pale gold hair just the fashionable
shoulder length, discovered to her listeners
a lyric soprano of pure tone, knowledg-
able in the matter of runs, trills and sus-
tained passages, plus a sense of drama.
The “Lucia” aria, “Regnava Nel Silenzio,”
poured out with incredible ease. Gwen is
a pretty girl who has quite a reputation
among the amateur actors of Sydney.
The party filled the Feminist Club.
Agnes Caspers played the accompani-
ments, Daisy Richards brought her violin
and made haunting melody. Clever Dawn
Bodely recited in memorable style a
tender and quite romantic poem by Peter
Cheyney, author of the tough detective
stories in which Lemmy Caution and
Slim Callaghan are featured. Music critics
were in attendance, the wide-shouldered
A. L. Kelly among them. Lindley Evans
was there, and Fritz Hart, all the way
from Honolulu, was the guest of honor.
Fritz, whose Con. in Melbourne is
having an anniversary, made his visit
coincide with that event. During his
stay in Australia he will conduct
some A.B.C. concerts in Melbourne,
and the southern capital, making the best
of its opportunity, is producing under his
leadership two or three of his operas.
One is a tender nativity story: “Even
Unto Bethlehem.” Another is “St. George
and the Dragon,’,’ already known to Mel-
bourne. Mr. Hart left Australia to be-
come director of the Conservatorium in
Honolulu. Now he is director of the
symphony orchestra of that fascinating
isle.
About 70 of Roland Foster’s friends
paid him a surprise visit on Sunday after-
noon. It was his birthday, and singers,
pianists, and players of stringed instru-
ments scaled the high flight of stone steps
that lead to the Foster flat. There were doc-
tors and dentists, too, in the crowd, and
Judges and Ks.C. and a sprinkling of
writers and painters. Mrs. Roland was
in the secret, so there were plenty of
drinks and pots of tea and coffee. There
was also a stunt birthday cake. It was
a chunk of fruit cake, not too fresh, with
six fat tallow candles imbedded in it. A
sifting of hundreds and thousands topped
it off.
Lesley Bowker, who has done good
work with the Reiby Players, and Thea
Rowe produced Betty Lee’s new play
“Familiar Stranger” in the Independent
Theatre last week. Lesley’s family has
been associated with the English film and
stage for years. Her father is playing a
part in the new “Smithy” film. Betty was
in radio from some time; now she is one
of the city’s busy journalists. The play is
set in 1937. Its principal male character
is a painter ; the leading girl a cripple with
that something different about her that he
has always wanted to portray. Lome
Hall and Michael Milnes are the leads.
There was a party in the foyer after cur-
tain-fall on the opening night.
Dr, Lucy Bryce, honorary director of
the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service
in Victoria, left Australia in January.
She returned last week after months or
study of U.S. methods and developments.
Dr, Bryce commented on the widespread
publicity given to blood transfusion m
America. All the avenues of advertising
seem to be used—radio, film, poster and
street pavements. Perhaps even without
this the 11 millions of patriotic and
public-spirited Americans who have been
bled, since Pearl would have
offered their blood.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
Vl^^ulleiZn.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ .. •• •• 13 6
3 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia;
12 months . . . . ■ • 15 0
6 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to memb'ts of the forces in this
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Psychology and* Teacners
I have often wondered why no con-
sideration is given to psychology as
applied to teachers. They dutifully study
psychology in the interests of their pupils
and undoubtedly this has done much to
make the school-room a happier place.
But it is often overlooked that the har-
mony of the school-room depends on the
state of the teacher’s subconscious mind.
If he is frustrated or inhibited it reacts
upon the children.
Education Departments do not seem
to realise this. The young teacher is
buried in some bush school, often miles
from a store, telephone or radio. He is
expected'to teach half-a-dozen classes —
an impossible task —be gardener, char-
lady and odd-job man into the bargain,
and is paid a wage a newsboy would
scorn. He is subjected to policing by the
school committee, members of which, in-
tellectually his inferiors, are always ready
to assert themselves by “putting the
teacher in his pl&ce.”
Then there is the further degradation
of a yearly inspection. To examine a
one-teacher school of five or six classes
on a year’s work, an inspector usually
takes about three hours. The value of
his report may be gauged from this.
Many a young teacher, inexperienced in
the foibles of inspectors, has lost heart in
his work after an inspector’s report.
It is surely a farce to ask such a man
to protect his pupils from inferiority com-
plexes or inhibitions. The Department
must look to the teachers’ personalities if
it wants them to be fit persons to train
young Australians. It should, first of all,
give them a chance to form a little self-
esteem by paying them a decent wage.
Teachers would like to think that they
are considered of some value to the com-
munity. If the Department were to trust
them occasionally instead of policing
them they would be more likely to strive
for the perfection expected. Country
teachers, too, should be given wider
opportunities to travel and keep in touch
with recent developments in their profes-
sion.—E. A. (Q.).
Sex Education
It seems to be the general opinion that
a greater knowledge of sex among young
Australians is extremely desirable. Various
methods for sex education have been
suggested.
As an example of what can be achieved,
the method adopted for instruction of
members of my R.A.A.F, unit should be
of interest.
Once a month lectures are given by the
Medical Officer, who is assisted by the
Padre and the Education Officer. In-
struction is supplemented by charts and
blackboard illustrations. The curricu-
lum is comprehensive. Questions are in-
vited and it is significant that there is
interested response. The men exhibit a
frank and healthy desire for a greater
knowledge of sex. Attendance at the
lectures is voluntary but there is always
a large number present.
The Australian communities repre-
sented by this section of servicemen will
be the cleaner and healthier for the
knowledge these men will possess.—
D.H.R. (R.A.A.F.).
That Charter
The U.N.C.1.0. conference has come
to ,a satisfactory conclusion. For 52
days delegates from 47 peace-loving
nations worked long hours to achieve
permanent peace. The conference was
covered by press, radio and news-
reel, but the general public is still not sure
that it knows just what happened and
what the position now is. There was a
lot of talk about a Veto Question ; and
a Charter has been drawn up. But to
Mr. Man-in-the-Street the net result is as
clear as mud.
I suggest that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, to clarify the position, should
issue a statement in pamphlet form, set-
ting out clearly what has been decided
and how it is proposed to give effect to
the decisions. Distribution of this pam-
phlet could be on the same basis as that
which was issued on the occasion of the
last referendum. — Henry (Q.).
Non-Fraternisation
Surely no more certain method of
helping to perpetuate Nazi doctrines in
the minds of defeated enemy subjects
could be imagined than the existing “non-
fratemisation” order placed upon our
army of occupation.
To re-educate the German people to
appreciate the advantages of a demo-
cratic way of life is said to be one 6f our
most urgent tasks. What better agency
have we at our disposal to initiate such
a policy than the rank and file of demo-
cracy now occupying German territory?
Guileless propagation of democracy’s
case would be a certain accompaniment
to free discussion, and, unobtrusively dis-
seminated, should be more willingly, if
not unconsciously, assimilated by the in-
habitants than instruction by officialdom,
which presumably is to follow.
The ‘ ‘ You’re-not-going-to-play-in-our-
yard” attitude, which an enforced reti-
cence has imposed upon our men, in
addition to being undemocratic in prin-
ciple cannot appear anything but ludic-
rous to even the most stolid son of the
Fatherland. —A. McL. (Q.).
Atrocity Films
Though I seldom patronise the cinema
I went to see the German atrocity films.
Over the years I had met a number of
shrewd heads who assured me that “all
this talk about German outrages is just
propaganda. Didn’t they put it over us
last time? Remember the corpse fac-
tory.” And I was inclined to be scepti-
cal, since the stories told in the cables
seemed incredible.
Now, since I have seen the atrocity
films, I know that that part, at least,
wasn’t “just propaganda.”—W. C. C.
(W.A.).
*T»f \r* 1 O .
The Exchange Kate “
A. A. Baker (Q.) (B. 13/6/ ”45) cannot
be acquainted with the inner history of
the manner in which the exchange rate,
Australia on London, moved from around
par to £lOO-£AI3S and back to £lOO-
- in 1930 and 1931, or he would not
say that “exchange in its present form is
"He should see a dentist !”
a sort of taxation developed by banking
interests during the depression to build
up their London funds at the expense of
the Australian financial economy.”
The banks had nothing whatever to do
with the collapse in the external value of
Australian currency—for that is what the
movement in the exchange rate really
meant. I know the whole story, because
I was right on the inside, not in a bank,
but in business in London as an “outside”
exchange broker.
Duringtheyear ended June 30,1930, there
was a visible deficiency of £57,000,000
sterling on Australia’s London fund
account, merchandise exports being that
much below imports, plus overseas debt
service. This meant there was a tremen-
dous pressure on Australia’s London
funds. In the exchange market there
were numerous potential buyers of ster-
ling (English pounds), who proffered Aus-
tralian curlency, but that was a drug in
the market. Added to the great trade
deficit, there was the popular impression
abroad that Australia was bankrupt, and
overseas owners of funds in Australia
wanted to shift them to London.
In this crisis the London funds of the
Australian trading banks and the Com-
monwealth Bank were hopelessly inade-
quate to meet the demand. They, how-
ever, did not raise their carded rates for
selling London funds; they merely re-
fused to sell. Most probably they had
none, or little, to sell. Then, of course,
the outside market sprang into full vigor.
London owners of sterling, outside of the
banks, who wanted to exchange for funds,
in Australia found they could sell in the
outside market at £llO Australia for £lOO
London, then gradually at £ll5, £l2O,
£125, right up to £135 Australia for £lOO
London. All this tremendous business,
running into millions of pounds, went
past the banks.
It was a realisation of the position, very
unsatisfactory from its standpoint, that
prompted the Bank of N. S. Wales to
break away from the carded rates, the
other banks later following. The banks’
rates, however, were always behind the
outside rate, which they did not catch
until it had stabilised itself at around
£AI3O to £lOO sterling. Later on, when
the pressure had eased and the crisis was
over, the Commonwealth Bank came into
the picture and stabilised the rate at £125,
at which it has remained.
That this was the true rate was shown
by the fact that a’t June 30, 1939, Aus-
tralia’s London funds were under
£50,000,000 sterling, compared with
around £40,000,000 in 1935 and 1932 and
nearly £100,000,000 sterling (including
gold in Australia) in 1928 and 1926. The
present temporary war-time accumulation
of Australia’s London funds is little
more than the pre-depression normal. Just
wait and see how those funds will melt
away when Australia again commences
buying from overseas. Unless Australia
has good seasons and gets good prices
for its exports it is doubtful whether her
. funds will be able to meet demands. If
they can’t the rate should break still
further to £AI3O or even £AI3S. But
“banking interests” won’t be responsible ;
just the law of supply and demand.
Tintax (Vic.).
Superstition and Soil Erosion
I’m living on a 6000-acre property
where, I suppose, there’s been as much
intelligent soil-erosion-control work done
as on any other holding of comparable
size in Australia.
Here we are all very much soil-
conscious. This usual awareness is ac-
centuated by the presence of two capable
scientists belonging to the C.S.I.R. who
are doing a good job studying the soil-
erosion problems of the surrounding dis-
trict.
Anything about soil erosion in the
papers comes in for criticism from us,
mostly hostile. It was therefore with
pleasure that I asked for the loan of the
ear of No. 1 scientist whilst I read out
portion of The Bulletin's article (B.
27/6/’45) on “The Rains Came,” and
drew from him an acknowledgment that
it was good sense well expressed.
I may be a crank, but I feel that our
most cherished superstition is answerable
for quite a lot of the soil erosion now
slowly but surely tending to turn all but
the littoral fringe of Australia into a vast,
dreary desert. If the 7,000,000 now in-
habiting Australia were to suddenly drop
the attitude of mind that we are here on
this earth only once and that nothing
really matters we’d see an immediate
and radical change in our attitude to the
well-being of posterity. We are posterity!
We are old wine in new bottles! We are
chained to this planet for ever and ever!
If we thought like that, self-interest,
the most powerful of motives, would en-
sure that we did nothing inimical to
human comfort on this cosmic raft ten,
a hundred, a thousand years hence.
Go on the way we are now and our
stupid selfishness will ultimately leave us
with no Australia and no world! Let us
drop the incubus while there is yet time!
—O. Gilvy (Vic.).
Fruits of Socialism
A definition of socialism used to be
“public ownership of means of produc-
tion, distribution and exchange.” Stal-
warts of the Labor party claim they are
still battling for that goal. If they delude
themselves with that assumption they are
thicker in the skull than we think they
are. Socialism, if that definition is cor-
rect, is here. How does it work, and what
Utopia have we created for ourselves?
Production: Butter down some 70,000 tons;
hens being slaughtered and advice from the
Q’land Agricultural Oracle that no feed will
be available this year for chickens; wheat
in a hopeless muddle; wool piling up a moun-
tain of trouble; coal best ignored—the latest
venture lost nearly £40,000 in the first and cur-
rent year of its new ownership.
Distribution: Wheat in W.A. and other
States going bad and being dumped while
starving stock wait for it; various boards
—Egg, Milk, Fruit and others —muddling with
an inefficiency which would be amusing were
it not tragic. State railways consistent in only
one thing: deficits, prior to the war. In short,
just one big mess strangled in red tape and
bound with brass braid.
Exchange: The Government, which is the
people, always did own and have control of
this. Now it is being socialised.
“Socialism in Our Time” was a slogan
of the ’nineties. It’s here now. For-
tunately for those early stalwarts, they
aren’t here. — Cocky (Q.).
Community Centres
I agree with “Worker’s Wife” (B.
16/5/’45). Most women want babies,
but the incessant round of washing,
house-cleaning, planning and cooking of
meals and shopping {with the children)
militates against the popularity’ of large
families.
The establishment of community
centres would relieve the strain of house-
hold drudgery. Community laundries
giving service at a low cost, community
creches where mothers could leave their
infants in trained hands whilst they did
their shopping in the community shop-
ping centre instead of having to trail
into the city to hunt for bargains, kin-
dergartens for the young children and
mothercraft centres under the adminis-
tration of qualified nurses specially
trained for the position would go towards
easing the lot of mothers and encourag-
ing increase in families. Such com-
munity centres could be established in
all suburbs and in the main country
towns.
Conveniences such as these would give
mothers the time to devote to larger
families and ultimately improve the
social standing of the community and
foster the family life which is so lacking
in many modern homes. The time has
passed when women were content to be
looked upon as servants, who apart from
their daily chores raised children. Women
can play a useful part in the world of
men, apart from being mothers, as has
well been proved in these years of war.
—A Worker (W.A.).
Unknown Australia
“Puck” (B. 16/5/’45) may be right when
be says that the problem of settling ser-
vicemen is beyond the powers of Aus-
tralian administrative bodies, but that
doesn’t alter the fact that we need a
larger population and that it should be
European (preferably British).
I met many Tommies overseas who
liked the idea of going to other parts of
the Empire. In the main they were
not men who would need to be encour-
aged by a Government-sponsored scheme,
but more of the pioneer type. A few
were farmers. Some of them were pessi-
mistic about the future of farming in
England, because farming is now heavily
subsidised in Great Britain, and because
it is cheaper (in peace-time) to import
food than to grow it. In the overseas
Empire, they reckoned, they could buy
land much cheaper than in Britain, and
would have the advantage of the rate of
exchange. Most of these men preferred
Canada, South Africa or Maoriland to
Australia.
There are several reasons for this pref-
erence. One is the unfortunate history
of Australian immigration schemes, but
by far the most important is the fact that
outside Australia very few people know
much about the conditions here. A fair
share of the blame for this must rest
with our official agencies. Prospective
settlers seeking information are given
politely evasive answers or told something
of the tribal habits of the Aruntas.
Another potential publicity agency that
is neglected is the sale overseas of books
dealing with Australian life—particularly
Australian novels by Australian writers.
Judging by the eagerness with which Eng-
lishmen, Scotsmen, Welshmen, Canadians
and South Africans (even Americans)
read any Australian books available there
is a good potential market overseas for
an epterprising Australian publisher.
If a few more books were published
and a little intelligent official publicity
given as well, the rest of the world might
cease to think Australia is a howling
wilderness with a patron saint called Ned
Kelly, and we might draw dividends in
the right type of immigrant. Pookie
(N.S.W.).


This spectacular scene shows an open
hearth steel furnace being tapped at the
B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
■ ■ :•*'
g 4
'SaBBffiSBSBBBa
■
■ v ':";
: x- ••...
mm
■■
: . -
::■ :;•■
- .: ■;. ■ ■
%
wm
:1 ;
mmm
US
n
to hasten final victory—
serve the pursuits of peace
and shape the better world
of the future.
The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
Offices at
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisban<||
IRON AND STEEL WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
SHIPBUILDING YARD: WHYAI .1 .A, S.A.
m
%
