

GRAPE
INEGAR
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” VoL 66- No. 3407
Wednesday, May 30, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
HATFIELD House, where priceless art treasures shelter in spacious Great Hall.
THE Great Hall at Hatfield House, or, as it is sometimes called,
the Marble Hall, measures 50 feet by 30 feet, and is extremely
lofty. It is lighted by three bay windows, which rise the whole
height of the room, and by an oriel window at the upper or dais
end, where the lord’s table was set in feudal times. The panelling
is of oak, and the walls are hung with magnificent tapestry from
Spain. A massive carved screen runs along the east side, with
an open gallery ornamented with various devices—among them
are the lions which form part of the heraldic insignia of the
family—and bearing shields of the cartouche form blazoned with
the arms of the Cecils. The ceiling affords the earliest example of
the departure from the ancient fashion of open timber roof and
louvre (the aperture in the roof serving for skylight and chimney);
for it is coved, and the ten compartments are decorated with heads
of the Caesars. Two banners deposited here are part of the spoil of
Paris won in 1814, and were presented to the late marquis by the
Duke of Wellington. Here are also two other banners taken m
the Crimean War. Hatfield House contains many valuable pic-
tures: five original portraits of Queen Elizabeth, poi traits ot
George 111 and Queen Charlotte by Reynolds, and family portraits
by Lely, Kneller, Van Dyke and others. They are hung in the
grand staircase, in the drawing-room, or the great chamber (King
James’s Room). This last apartment is not so fine as the Great
Hall: it is almost too rich and gorgeous —the ceiling is designed
in gold and bright colours, the chimney-piece is of white marble,
the fire-dogs are silver, the furniture and six chandeliers are gilt,
the curtains white satin, the chair coverings crimson velvet, the
carpet a brown, gold, scarlet and blue design of Axminster.


m
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL ,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.” j
My Name
My Address
JSLB. 145 • AGE
The Red Page
T ransmigrafion.
The cliff is edged with dark-green.
Pale-flowered sea rosemary.
And the warm scent of lantana
And the cold breath of the sea
Blend in the strange enchantment
Of my earliest memory.
My eyes through sleep and sunlight
Swerve with the gulls that go
Harsh-voiced in shining beauty,
Bright on the airs that blow
Between the bare green hill above
And the crashing blue below.
In the short grass the magpies
With sidelong glance step by,
Converse with gurgling laughter
And wild and lovely cry,
And their friends from the red plough-
land
Lilting and far reply.
My body is a dull thing
And a weariness to me.
And here perhaps I could leave it
By the sweet sea rosemary,
Long and still in the sunny grass
While my soul as a bird went free.
Never to see a town again,
Work or wear clothes or vote.
But have instead a magpie’s
Bold eye and glossy coat,
And waterfalls and morning sun
And the full moon in my throat.
But, ah, the long slide down the wind
When the blue north-easter blows.
The quick turn in the bursting spray
Only the white gull knows!
And who will say a golden voice
Is a better thing than those ?
To choose between two heavens
Would take a stronger, head
Than mine, which solves no problems
But bids me when all’s said
Lift up the same old weight of flesh
And take it to be fed.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.
Australian Novels.
An anthology ranging from Henry
Kingsley to Eve Langley, Colin Rod-
erick’s The Australian Novel (William
Brooks, Ltd.) may serve to call attention
to the need for a library of the Australian
classics ; something on the lines of Dent’s
Everyman’s Library, whereby it is made
certain that books of enduring merit are
kept always in print, available to the
public at a reasonable price and in read-
able format.
Sub-titled “A Historical Anthology,”
Mr, Roderick’s book —the first of a pro-
jected series of four —offers selections
from nineteen Australian novelists with
the object of “guiding young Australian
readers to creative writing in their own
country.” Admirable as the scheme is in
many ways, there is this danger in it:
that the university students and others
who will read The Australian Novel will
be content with the smattering of know-
ledge thus gained. Mr. Roderick intends,
of course, that having read his selection
from, say, For the Term of His Natural
Life, the student will go out and buy the
complete novel. If, human nature being
what it is, the student doesn’t make the
attempt, Mr. Roderick can’t be blamed:
all anthologies offer a similar temptation
to human frailty. But the student prob-
ably can’t buy For the Term of His
Natural Life at the moment if he wants
to ; he would be very lucky if he could
pick up in the bookshops two of Mr.
Roderick’s 19 titles.
The Australian classics are out of print.
And it’s important that neither the uni-
versities nor such bodies as the Fellow-
ship of Writers and the Commonwealth
Fund committee should regard Mr. Rod-
erick’s selections as in any way a satis-
factory substitute for the reprinting of the
books themselves.
The issuing recently of a number of
paperbacks, sponsored by the Common-
wealth Fund, was an attempt to do some-
thing to keep Australian novels in print;
but, apparently modelled on the Penguin
series, the scheme does not go nearly far
enough ; and one does not establish a
library of classics in paperback format.
There are difficulties, of course, in the
way of establishing such a library. New
work by Australian writers —good new
work—is unquestionably entitled to pre-
cedence, and publishers are short of man-
power. There is the paper shortage. The
copyright of some Australian classics is
held by overseas publishers ; and no one
Australian publishing house holds the
copyright of all the remaining titles that
would be expected to be included.
But most of the difficulties can be met.
Time will solve many of them, and the
scheme would necessarily be gradual. To
make a start now with half a dozen titles
should not interfere with the publication
of important new work ; and, while there
is obviously plenty of paper available for
English and American reprints, nobody
will believe that our own classics are
justly left out in the cold. And, as to
the holding of copyrights by different
Australian houses, the obvious answer is
that each firm could have its own library;
half a dozen English publishers have
series on the lines of Everyman’s.
If such libraries were established in
Australia they would include, of course,
poetry, short stories, history, biography
and essays as well as novels ; and the lis
of worth-while titles would be found im
pressive. Something of the sort mus;
sooner or later be done—it’s a nationa
disgrace that one can’t go into an Aus
tralian bookshop and buy the leading
Australian poets and novelists —and, as
Mr. Roderick’s anthology is evidence
interest in Australian writing has never
been higher than at the present time.
Mr. Roderick has done his job well
on the whole. His plan is to bring out
a second volume of selections from
novels ; then a volume on the short story
and, lastly, for the fourth of the series
“a survey of Australian prose, fiction.’
The novelists represented in the present
selection are: Henry Kingsley {Geoffrey
Hamlyn), Marcus Clarke (For the Term
of His Natural Life), Rolf Boldrewooc
(Robbery Under Arms), Ada Cambridge
(A Marriage Settlement), Steele Rudd (On
Our Selection), Tom Collins (Such Is
Life), Mrs. Arneas Gunn (We of the
Never Never), William Hay (The Escape
of Sir William Heans), Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard (Working Bullocks), Brent
of Bin Bin (Up the Country), Martin
Boyd (The Montforts), Henry Handel
Richardson (The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony), M. Barnard Eldershaw (A
House Is Built), Vance Palmer (The Pas-
sage), Frank Dalby Davison (Man-shy),
Brian Penton (Landtakers), Eleanor Dark
(Sun Across the Sky), Leonard Mann
(Mountain Flat), and Eve Langley (The
Pea Pickers).
The selections are excellent, and in each
case an interesting biographical note is
appended, also a summary of the plot.
By reserving the secret of what novels
he intends to .include in his second
volume, and by withholding for the pro-
jected Vol. 4 any general critical state-
ment of his outlook on the art of the
novel, Mr. Roderick has to a large extent
disarmed criticism. He may deal with
all contentious points in his second or
fourth volumes.
As the first volume stands, Mr.
Roderick’s critical opinions tend to be
obscure and confusing. In his general
introduction, summing up apparently on
the entire body of Australian fiction, he
remarks; “If it lacks the psychological
subtlety and the experimental boldness of
contemporary English fiction, it is at least
vigorous.” But before anyone can
counter that with quotations from Miles
Franklin’s analyses of James Joyce and
Tom Collins in Joseph Furphy, Mr.
Roderick hastens, in his remarks on the
South Australian William Hay, to con-
tradict himself: “Meredith was not more
subtle nor conveyed more effectively the
dark'forces that move men without actual
recourse to outright external analysis.”
It seems extraordinary to the present
commentator that “a deep sombreness”
is discovered to “brood” over the joyous
lyricism of The Pea Pickers. It seems
weak, from the point of view of scholar-
ship, to say of the sources of Robbery
Under Arms only that Browne “must
have become acquainted with many a
Richard Marston and have had oppor-
tunity to study closely the evidence of
many a holdup”; and, from the literary
point of view, it seems unjust to dismiss
that novel as “one for the adolescent”
without at least mentioning that in the
same category are to be found Ivanhoe,
Lorna Do one, The, Three Musketeers and
Treasure Island.
A couple of errors of enthusiasm are
the statement that Man-shy is “unique in
conception and manner” and the confer-
ring on Joseph Furphy—the author of a
good novel, but an indifferent and com-
pletely unimportant versifier —that august
title of “poet” which A. G. Stephens
(such was his reverence) hesitated to be-
stow even on Hugh McCrae and Shaw
Neilson.
Mr. Roderick says the critical notes are
“independent of each other”; but surely
all criticism must relate back to a general
concept of life and literature. However,
there is Vol. 4 to come, and, as Mr.
Roderick says, the present notices are
necessarily brief; “adjuncts to the main
business, the presentation of the work of
the novelists.”
Masefield and Brady.
The immense vigor of Brady’s ballads
is unrivalled except by Kipling at his
most vigorous. The Australian ballad is
of all things masculine, and Brady’s are
the most masculine of Australian ballads.
They are also extremely realistic; it is no
wonder that they were thought highly of by
Masefield, who knows his sea and seamen
from hard experience. Brady is not a poet
as Masefield is, but he “gets there” as well
as Masefield does. His lines pitch and
roll like a ship in a rough sea; they swell
and fall like a great wave; they are full —
to use his own words—of “the thunder
of the breakers and the tumble of the tide.”
That is H. M. Green’s tribute, in his
recently-published Fourteen Minutes, to
E. J. Brady’s salt-water ballads. It’s
something of a coincidence that prose
works by Brady and Masefield shoulc
had arrived simultaneously for review
Brady’s Two Frontiers (Frank Johnson)
is a biography of the balladist’s father
Masefield’s New Chum (Heinemann
Angus and Robertson) is a second instal-
ment of the poet laureate’s autobi-
ography, dealing with his experience as
a naval cadet aboard H.M.S. Conway.
This is Masefield, looking for his ham-
mock on his first night aboard:
Though my fellow fo’c’slemen were rush-
ing from me, and I myself, the last of
their party, was rushing after them, I did
not rush fast enough, for at my heels
came the foretop charging, with the war-
cry “gangWiay for a smoker,” and knocked
me flying to one side. I picked myself up
and reached the main open space of the
hold, where I could see great water-tanks
in the bordering dimness, and in the midst
of a confusion of officers in the hold with
lanterns, and hordes of rushing boys seek-
ing and snatching hammocks from the
racks in which they had been stowed....
I asked a man where I should be likely to
find 35; he. said the "nurse had taken 35
for a smallpox case; I had better run and
ask her if it had been fumigated. Some-
body who had heard this answer asked me
where I had put it that morning. I said
I had not yet had it. “I don’t suppose it’s
been issued yet, then,” the man said.
“You’ll have to run up to the galley and
ask the hammock steward.
I did not know where the galley was,
but no doubt I should have gone had not
Dick appeared, like a good angel, to say:
“I expect your hammock will be up against
the end of the rack there, as it hasn’t
been used yet this term.”
And here is E. J. Brady, telling of his
father’s experiences aboard the whaler
Fabius in a storm in the Arctic:
They got out on the boom, hanging on
desperately every time she plunged her
bowsprit into the sea. Standing on a
frozen foot-rope, at each mad dive the
Fabius made they were buried. When she
started to rear out of it the suction of
enveloping water was terrific. It clung
all over them like a giant octopus dragging
them back. As she lifted clear Edward
felt as if a malevolent devil wanted to
wrench him away from the lifelines. At
the final tug he thought his legs would be
torn out at the hips. Up you went from
the comparatively warm water into an
Arctic wind that chilled you to the bone!
Down you went again into the smothering
brine! Their bodies were beaten black
and blue like pugilists in a boxing ring
The strength of four men pitted against a
remorseless mechanism of wind and sea.
It might seem from the quotations that
Brady is the more Masefieldian of the
two ; and to some extent that is the case.
Masefield is “writing small” in New
Chum. Consisting largely of anecdotes
of pranks played on the newcomer by
older shipmates, the story is told in so
quiet a tone that it is hardly to be dis-
tinguished from a gentle snore. Glimpses
of sailing-ships, notably the Wanderer,
and intimations of distant horizons en-
liven the scene at intervals, but these add
nothing to the statement on the sea Mase-
field has already made in his poetry;
rather —by the weakening effect of repeti-
tion —'Something is subtracted.
Brady has certainly much livelier
material to offer. Bom in Ireland, his
father fought Indians in America, seas
and whales in the Pacific and the waters
of the Arctic, southerners in the Ameri-
can Civil War and bushrangers in New
South Wales; a life of tremendous ad-
venture which Brady records with spirit.
Some stories about the bushrangers—
particularly an account of Ben Hall’s
attack on Keightly’s station in which a
new theory is offered on the shooting of
Mickey Burke—are of historical value.
But, a trifle dull as Masefield’s
book has style and form. Brady’s style,
if one can call it such, a crazy patchwork
of romantic over-writing mixed with the
worst mannerisms of contemporary jour-
nalese —melodramatic short paragraphs
and sentences fantastically pruned of their
definite articles —is far below the level
of the author’s balladry ; and his material
—which might be summed up as every-
thing that ever happened in America and
Australia —is simply a chaos.
The father’s life was, indeed, as Brady
submits, symbolic of the spirit of adven-
ture on the two frontiers ; the times he
writes of are certainly “romantic days to
mentally revision” ; but it would have
been better to have “revisioned” them
without the redundance and without
splitting the infinitive.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Pnina Salzman has been providing
Sydney with a new and very pleasant
musical sensation. Twenty-two years of
age, beautiful, of superb carriage and
graceful in every movement, she enchants
the eye as well as the ear. In her serene
dignity she recalls Carreno, and she has
something of that Spanish-American
lady’s fire and power; shares with her
also a decisive opinion as to interpreta-
tion that scorns ambiguities and mean-
ingless sound. Her technique goes with-
out saying—the Premier Prix at Paris
Conservatoire (which Pnina won seven
years ago) doesn’t go to the incompletely
equipped. She demonstrates her com-
mand of every phase of pianism in those
works in which great masters have ex-
hausted their versatility, such as the 32
variations of Beethoven and the 17
“serious” variations of Mendelssohn. She
plays Chopin crisply, delicately, without
pedal-blurring ; therefore is delightfully
at ease with Debussy. Even when the
tongue of the Abbe Liszt is in his cheek,
as in some of the bravura passages of
the dramatic (some find it melodramatic)
B Minor Sonata, la Salzman keeps her
skirts clear of the charlatanry. She in-
terprets Moussorgsky like a Russian,
Granados like a gypsy.
New amateur dramatic organisations
or old ones under new names turn up
every second day in Melbourne, the
latest bearing the ambitious title of the
Australian Repertory Players. It had
less luck than courage in essaying Emlyn
Williams’s “He Was Born Gay” at the
New Theatre. Sentimental stories of
missing heirs to European thrones are
out of fashion and it would require bril-
liant acting to make the thing con zinc-
ing. The A.R.Ps. were anything but
brilliant —in fact, some of them were as
much at home in their parts, when they
knew them, as fish on a wharf. The best
of them was Verna Withers,
Melbourne Tivoli is introducing some
new ideas in its current programme “Get
a Load of This.” The show opens with
a curtainless stage set as a cafe where
sundry characters strongly suspected of
an intent to entertain the public take their
places with assumed innocence at the
tables. The curtain goes up on a small
suspended stage, where the scowling face
of Eric Reiman envisages the imminent
development of a shootin’ and bashin’'
melodrama. This makes leisurely and
intermittent progress through the evening,
interspersed with jugglers, Tivoli lovelies
and other amiable interruptions. The
usual cast has been reinforced by the
company which started (and dropped) the
innovation of five o’clock plays.
Francis Roy Thompson’s pictures at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, attract
by reason of their spontaneity and fresh-
ness. The style is broad, sometimes sug-
gesting palette knife rather than brush,
but the touch is sure, the design sound
and the color-sense admirable. “Old
Hotel, Fitzroy,” “In a London Garden”
(deep dusk) and “Mornington Beach”
stand out. . There is merit, too, in the
well-posed portraits “Head of a Boy'
and “Chinese Girl.”
An artist who kisses the hands of the
ladies as they enter his exhibition is a
new phenomenon in Melbourne, and
Shefik Bey, whose show has been on
view at the Australia, does this very
nicely. The* artistic importance of
Shefik Bey’s pictures, alas, is in inverse
ratio to their social prestige.
A show of paintings by Melbourne
artists who (according to Mr. George
Bell, who selected the exhibits) have been
(influenced by “Cezanne’s revitalising
point of view” has been occupying David
Jones’s gallery, Sydney, These Mel-
bourne “modernists,” are less laboriousyl
Freudian than their Sydney brethren;
they use bright clean pigments, eschew
entrails and deformed monsters, and pro-
duce something of interest in the way of
pattern or color-mixture even when the
rest of the intention is obscure. Danila
Vasilieff, who in Sydney painted the
slums in black and grey, finds use
for red, yellow and blue in limning the
back streets of Fitzroy. Particularly
pleasing are two water-colors by E. W.
Syme, a strikingly clever nocturne,
“Peter’s Cafe” by Len Annois, Frank
Andrews’s “Wine Cellar,” William
Prater’s “Bush Road” and Francis
Thompson’s “Red Gate” —the last two
impressionism of the intelligent sort
Isabel Tweddle’s “Cynthia” is an intrigu-
ing portrait study.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE’
r/
TON ICS
*****
i
******
s
:: BS
0
iV'ihvj'
mm
mm
m*
mm.
■-•-■-
s«?
lai
Wm
m
m
<•*
W&8
m
m
All in
m
m
:
iisi
Mi
m
m
llii
mM
°N
mm
mm
HANeuRVS ITO
[NOO***
V
*****
. . a***-*""*
SA**
vrtW' «***"
,* _*fp
«
*S9
i to*** tmm
******* *
‘A
*~*A ******
m
m
m
<A*“X-*-
i
;*■:#
-***3
!»**
&**
Mk*
SB*
*3^
■sss
m
m
m
m
A pmi
mm
«vy
***«>
<%
Bi
<Ny
r i
w*o
m
***<
in
***»»
***-«
***■
mm*
mm-
<■m
m**
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
BYNO HYPOPHOSPHATES, a perfectly
balanced preparation containing Hypophos-
phates and Iron and Copper. An excellent
tonic 6/9
BYNO PLASMA. Blood Plasma and Bynin
Liquid Malt. Increases the resisting power
of the tissues and restores vitality. Invaluable
if given during pregnancy and after child-
birth 7/-
BYNIN AMARA, a powerful tonic and
digestive. The formula contains essential
drugs for stimulating the spleen and building
the body 6/-
BYNO PHOSPHATES, as a general tonic
for weak and growing children, and also
as a restorative in cases of debility, 6/3
BYNO CLYCERO - PHOSPHATES, a
stimulating tonic, it builds tissue, re-
stores nerves and brings back health, 6/3
BYNO HAEMOGLOBIN, a blood en-
riching and digestive tonic, containing
iron and malt 6/3
• Chemistry — Ground? Floor, Pitt Street.
We do not pay freight on these goods.
LIXEN ELIXIR —the good natured laxative.
Elixir of Senna Pods is prepared by a special
process which eliminates the griping of ordi-
nary Senna. A palatable, gentle, yet efficient
laxative. 8-oz. bottles 77-
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


THE LITTLE AXE
By J. D. WOODS.
THE sun streamed on the stretches
of level wheat and gleamed on the
beaks of the finches that kept one
hop ahead on the wires of the fences.
The horse and cart had long left the roofs
of Katonga over the rim of the flat hori-
zon, and the windmills of Mulla Mulla
were pushing their vanes up out of
the golden haze ahead of them. Harry
burst into improvised song.
“When the days are sunny,
I love y’, me honey;
But when it’s cloudy —
I reckon y’re dowdy.”
Lou flicked the whip at the horse, and
a cloud of flies rose and fell again like
the shimmer of heat on the road.
“Is that so?” she asked laconically,
twisting in her seat like a cat:
“When y’re flush with the money,
I love y’, me honey ;
Now y’re broke to the wide —
I’d rather y’ died.”
Harry Bennett squealed with delighted
laughter, and the crazy cart shook.
“Great,” he roared. “Y’re a queen
among women, Lou. And me? I’m noth-
ing ; but, mark my words, the day will
come”
He. gave her a mighty slap. “Hey!
What the hell!”
With a jerk and a twist Lou half-slid
off the seat to the dusty road, but his
hands were too quick.
“Here, I’ll have that, me beauty! What
are you doing with a ten-bob note? If
everyone was to have his rights I’d» give
y’ a darn good belting. But ten bob’s
ten bob, after all, and damned if I don’t
find it in me heart to forgive y’.”
THERE were two shops and a post
office at Mulla Mulla, and a line of
galvanised-iron cottages spattered the
road, each clinging to the shade of a
pepper-tree.
Beer was on at the Commercial, but
Harry did not believe in wasting his
assets. He changed the note for a glass
each before he nudged Lou to leave while
he got acquainted with the inhabitants.
Chicker, Joe and Mobbsy did not look
up from their game of poker in the
corner, though he was sure that they had
noticed his entrance, and they played,
silent and narrow-eyed, while Harry
loosed his spiel about the plumbing. They
were old-young men, lean and showing
much bone shape through the skin leather.
“ ’Course I got a bit of dough put
away,” he laughed easily, “but there’s
never too much of that, eh, boys? And
while I’m here to do the townsfolk a
good turn with their tanks and taps, it
won’t hurt if I add a bit more to me pile
in the bank. That’s frank and fair and
above board, eh, boys?”
Joe raised Chicker, and Mobbsy saw
them both.
“Ah,” said Chicker non-committally.
“I see a house or two running to waste,”
Harry suggested.
“Ah,” said Chicker, rolling a cigarette.
“I don’t suppose you coves mind a
drink?”
Cards were turned down on the table.
Long legs pushed chairs back.
“Don’t mind.”
“Beer?”
“Beer.”
Daisy the barmaid pulled long glasses.
Harry slid the coins across,
Chicker raised his glass.
“Old Bob’s leavin’ today,” he volun-
teered. “Only a bag hut. But comfort-
able. You might do worse. He’s been
here thirty year and more.”
He wiped his mouth as he returned to
the table.
“Are y* sure Old Bob’s leavin’?” asked
Mobbsy swiftly. “How d’ y’ know?”
“Certain,” returned Chicker. “Every-
one knows. He says he’s going to the
city to die.”
He arranged his legs under the table
and shuffled the pack. Joe carried his
glass to the table, but Mobbsy took his
coat from the peg and made for the door.
“Be seein’ you,” he called. “I gotta
go. I gotta tell my ma before he goes.
Harry here’ll take my deck.”
Dealing for three, Chicker motioned
Harry to the seat.
“Sorry, gents,” said Harry. “Some
other time. . I’ve got a lot to do between
now and sundown.”
The barmaid was at the door. “Good
enough,” she whispered, glowing. “Y’re
the first man that’s beat ’em since I came
to this hole. They made that pack them-
selves.”
“Is this Mobbsy going for the hut —
Old Bob’s place?” questioned Harry.
“Mobbsy?” scoffed Daisy. “He was
hoping you’d get sozzled so he could go
through y’r pockets. That’s his limit.
Old Bob’d skin him if he ever caught
him. He wouldn’t go near Old Bob.”
Harry looked her up and down. She
was young—fairly—and highly colored.
He loved a splash of color on women.
“Y’re a fine young woman, Daise,”
he admired.
She followed him to the edge of the
sidewalk. “See that clump of trees past
the last house down there? Old Bob’s
place is behind them trees. You can't
miss it.”
THE hut was hidden in a hollow away
from the westerly winds, and the vil-
lage folk driving along the road would be
able to see only the wisps of smoke from
the chimney as they blued the sunlight
that pierced the trees. Harry brought the
horse and cart to the side of the hut and
climbed out.
A dozen saplings grew around. A
small woodheap, a battered saucepan and
a broken-down stretcher bed were littered
around the hut. The chimney was cun-
ningly built of kerosene-tins cut and
fashioned to keep out the winter winds,
and the door, facing east, would catch the
first rays of the morning sun.
He left Lou in the cart and walked
round the house towards the door. A
faint drumming noise came from inside
the hut.
He pushed open the door.
The body of Mobbsy lay sprawled
along the floor, blood still oozing from
a terrible wound in the head. It had
flowed and dripped into a thick viscous
pool in which his head was lying like a
broken bottle. Already half-congealed,
it made a shape on the floor like a great
map of Australia.
The bag wall on the far side of the
hut had been pushed up to admit
Mobbsy’s head and shoulders. His lower
half evidently protruded at the back of
the hut among the saplings.
The sprawling arms were spreadeagled
as though Mobbsy had been crushed by
an overwhelming weight. A tomahawk,
looking absurdly small for such a devas-
tating effect, lay smeared and matted near
his head. And his right hand still clutched
a small sugar-bag.
The drumming sound aroused Harry,
In the space behind the door a
crumpled form lay twitching. In the
filth of its rags and the disorder of its
hair the body of Old Bob looked less than
human. His head, waving slightly from
side to side, hung limply on his slumped
chest, and a thin drool dewed the ragged
beard. Still stiff with an overwhelming
effort, his right arm was held out straight
before him, the fingers loose and tremb-
ling so violently that they drummed dully
on the trodden clay of the floor.
Harry knelt and peered into the old
man’s face. The eyes were closed, the
lower lip hanging loose, the skin trans-
parent under the yellow hair. Despite
the stroke, the parted lips still breathed.
Harry turned to Mobbsy. It took the
concentrated effort of a minute to prize
the dead man’s fingers from the hempen
ba g- , ,
The bag was full of treacle tins, heavy
with coins. One of them Harry twisted
open. Florins to halfpennies. The silver
coins—two pound seventeen shillings.
There must be twenty tins or more.
Starting at a sound he turned to find
Lou at his elbow. He shook himself to
equal her control.
She pointed questioningly behind the
door. Harry shook his head and to-
gether they tied up the bag and returned
it to the dead man’s fingers. As they
closed the door behind them, the old
man’s hand still drummed faintly on the
clay floor, and they waited, sitting on the
chopping block of the woodheap.
The drumming grew gradually fainter,
and finally ceased.
Harry ran to the road. No one was
in sight. He hid the sugarbag in the
boughs of a tree some distance from the
hut. He decided against carting the
bodies to their burial place in the cart;
the wheel tracks would be difficult to
erase, and there was no likelihood of
rain. He wrapped Mobbsy’s head in a
bag and they set off through the timber.
In the thickest part of the scrub four
hundred yards from the shack he dug
a hole and tumbled the body into it,
setting Lou to watch while he returned
for Old Bob.
The old man’s body was surprisingly
heavy for so small a frame, and dark-
ness was closing in on the trees when
at last his burden slumped across the
body of the sneak-thief Mobbsy. Harry
panted with effort and suppressed satis-
faction.
“Doing the State a service,” he said.
“Saves inquest, burial, probate on the
will and all. We’ve given them decent
burial for the price of a few treacle-tins.
Y’ reckon he’s dead, Lou?”
Lou’s mouth turned down at the
corners. “I reckon,” she «miled.
“Fill it in,” said Harry, “and cover
the place with scrub while I clean up
the shack. I’ll burn all his gear and
move ours in.”
THE policeman passed on his bicycle
at about nine the next morning.
Harry made a point of being within call.
“Old Bob gone?” called the policeman,
dropping one foot on to the road. His
tone showed that he had known Old
Bob was leaving. Trust gossip in a vil-
lage.
“Left yesterday,” Harry hid his relief.
“I’ve taken his shack till I can get a
better place.”
“See anything of a tall young chap,
light hair, grey eyes, name of Mobbs?”
“No. Oh, Mobbs, did you say? I
was speaking to him yesterday at the
Commercial, if it’s the same cove.”
“Never mind. He’ll turn up. S’long.”
“Seeing y’.”
Harry combed through the shack and
its surroundings again. Suddenly a
thought struck him.
“Lou! For God’s sake, where’s the
axe?”
“What axe?”
“The little tomahawk. Old Bob’s.”
“You must think I’m a poor mutt.
D’y’ think I’d leave that out? It’s buried
with Old Bob.”
She rolled over to the wall on fter straw
mattress and closed her eyes, curling up
like a cat.
“But that was a good axe.”
“You think so?”
“H’m, no. I suppose you’re right.”
Gradually he calmed his nerves. Good
old Lou. Some kid. Yes, the axe was
in the best possible place. Women were
different somehow from men. He set
out for the Commercial.
HARRY had bought two tickets to
Sydney a week before, and Daisy
kept them in her handbag for safety.
He was never quite sure about Lou. He
had never actually caught her going
through his pockets, but he felt he
couldn’t trust her. He had spent a good
deal of money in the two months since
they had arrived in Mulla Mulla, but he
didn’t have as much left as he should.
The tickets were safe with Daisy; it
was best to be on the safe side.
He felt himself a man when Daisy
was near. She obviously admired him.
That day when he had bested Chicker’s
poker trio had been a wonderful start
with the girl, and her admiration had ex-
pressed itself in a most generous manner.
Lou, on the other hand, was still some-
thing of a mystery to him. There was a
side of her mind that was dark to him,
and a side, he felt, that was definitely
superior,
“A cunning woman
Is more than human,”
he had said to Daisy one night,
“But a guileless girl
Is a priceless pearl.”
“You’re a cut above these country
louts,” admired Daisy. “Why don’t you
make a break for the lights?”
That had been the beginning.
With elaborate casualness now he
strolled to The railway station without
his coat ten minutes before the train
was due. Under his shirt he wore a
waistcoat, the pockets of which bulged
with single notes changed from silver
during the previous weeks. Daisy was at
the hotel window, and would board the
train at the last minute, travelling per-
haps in another carriage for the first few
miles.
He lounged on the seat by the station-
master’s little office. Several tiipeless
village voices floated out.
“He jumped the rattler with Old Bob
that night,” opined the stationmaster
authoritatively.
Chicker scoffed at that. “Ever know
anybody get a civil word out of Old
Bob?” he laughed. Along the road from
the trees beyond the last house a woman
was walking towards the station. Harry
shpped into the office.
“Train running on time?” he asked
casually.
“Five minutes,” replied the station-
master without looking around.
Harry remained inside, keeping Lou
within sight as she approached along the
road,
“I don’t believe,” said the policeman,
“that Mobbsy’s in the city. It might
seem a queer- thing to say, but that man’s
come to no good.” His heavy brow
lowered sententiously and his chin folded
over his collar.
“You fellers talking about young
Mobbsy?” asked Harry amiably.
They eyed him distantly, as befitted
a man who had been in town only two
months. They were talking of a local
man, and the opinions of outsiders were
not called for.
“Ah,” said Chicker with some hostility.
“You going by this train?” asked the
stationmaster,
“Why, yes, taking a few days off to
see the big lights.”
“Just a few days?” puzzled the station-
master. “Then why the devil didn’t you
buy return tickets?”
Harry craned through the door. The
train was on the straight, only half a
mile away, and Lou was crossing the
rails to the platform.
“You never know when you’re on the
road. It gives you freedom to change
your mind when you’ve got a single.”
“Your wife left it pretty late,” said
the policeman.
A handspring brought Lou on to the
gravel of the platform. Her hands were
clenched as she strode across to the office
door, and her voice was low and full.
“You damn’ double-crosser,” she flung
out. “Did you think I didn’t know?”
“Know what, hon.?” asked Harry
easily. “Don’t start a bust-up now. We’re
off to the big smoke, you and me. I kept
it for a little surprise for y’,”
“Surprise, is it?” Her voice was stock-
whips and scorching summer sun. “You
asked Daisy to mind the tickets for a
surprise, eh? Y’re full of surprises.”
The train grated to a halt at the plat-
form. A woman carrying a bag slipped
into ffie end carriage. The driver leaned
from his cabin. The stationmaster held
out his flag. Only the policeman and
Chicker were listening.
“Hop in, hon.,” wheedled Harry.
“You’ll never be sorry.
A girl who is kind
Can change her mind.”
He opened the door of the carriage.
“You get in there and it’s the end of
y’,” warned Lou, her face distorted.
“Y’re mad,” he said easily. “I’m mak-
ing y’ an offer. Take it or leave it.”
Lou seemed to tense herself for a
spring. Her face twenty years older, she
whispered to the policeman words that
Harry could not catch. The big man’s
offhanded official manner gave way like
the frost before the sun.
“What?” he asked incredulously,
“You gotta be terrible sure of y’rself
to say a thing like that.”
The stationmaster waved his flag.
“Hold here there a minute, Frank,”
said the policeman. “Here, Harry
Bennett, you. Get down out of there and
no funny business.”
“I’ll show you myself,” said Lou.
She stood still, her face livid, her,
hands unnaturally stiff. Harry glanced
from one to the other. The fool of a
woman! She was in it as much as he
was. They’d get three months each, per-
haps six. Why the devil couldn’t she
accept the situation sensibly? He slipped
a purse into her hand. Her face did not
move as she tossed it under the wheels
of the train.
The train moved out. The last car-
riage was gathering speed as : t passed
and Harry could not catch the eye of
the barmaid.
“Come on, down to the shack,” said
the policeman grimly. “You can do a
bit of digging for me.”
Harry retrieved the purse and fol-
lowed them down the road to the trees.
I OU led them straight to the grave.
'— Rain had fallen, but the spot was
still recognisable, and Harry shovelled
the earth for twenty minutes before the
policeman took his turn.
“Sit over there,” he ordered. “And
don’t start anything.”
Harry sat against the nearest tree,
while Lou stood silent with folded arms
on the other side of the grave. The
ground was soft, making the work much
easier than it had been two months
before, and soon the policeman was
crouching on hands and knees, remov-
ing the earth in large handfuls from
around the bodies.
“Ah,” said the policeman, standing
up at last. “Well, I reckon that’s enough.”
“0.K.,” said Harry patiently. “When
you want to know what happened I’m
ready.”
The policeman wiped the clay from
his hands, rubbing them on the rough
tree-trunk.
“You’d better reserve that for the
coroner,” he said quietly. “Or the Judge.’
Hands in pockets, Harry walked over
to the open grave.
“God,” he breathed. He looked across
at Lou. Motionless, she regarded him
steadily, her eyes like a cat’s. “You don’t
think I did that?”
Swiftly he remembered he had left.
Lou to fill in the hole.
The tomahawk lay beside the rotting
clothes of the two men. The cloven skull
of young Mobbsy showed how he had
met his death. Sprawled across him were
the bones of Old Bob, and in his head
gaped the unmistakable cleft of the little
axe.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3407
Wednesday, May 30, 1945
“HERE’S TO THE PILOT THAT WEATHERED THE STORM.”
“Cheerio! Back in six weeks.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TALES OF THE PACIFIC.
A cartoon reproduced as an illustration
to his Foreign Policy of A ustralia has Dr.
Evatt, with a Digger hat, as a storyteller
holding spellbound an audience repre-
senting Britain’s armed forces. He is
telling them tales of the Pacific; and that,
in its best sense, is a fair enough descrip-
tion of this collection of his wartime
speeches. Dry, as tales go, they are lively
enough as speeches; supplying, perhaps,
a key to Dr. Evatt’s performing at San
Francisco, where the views he has been
airing have been his own or, at most, his
Government’s, without benefit of Parlia-
ment discussion, let alone sanction. Also,
the speeches give a general coverage of the
war in the Pacific from when the Curtin
Government took office, explaining this
Government’s (or Dr. Evatt’s) foreign
policy aims—particularly as embodied in
the Australian-New Zealand Agreement
—and in one respect probably doing a
service of lasting value.
That particular service is the picture
suggested by the earlier speeches of the
time when Australia appeared to be
closely threatened with invasion, and the
Australian reaction to that threat. This
picture will probably be more vividly
done before all the present-war books
are written. It calls for the graphic
powers of a great novelist —one capable
of writing above party politics, of put-
ting blame where it rightly belongs,
of interpreting the courageous enough
national feeling at the time ; above all,
of fixing the picture indelibly as a per-
manent reminder of what was then ex-
pected to happen, how unprepared for it
the country was, and why it was unpre-
pared.
Dr. Evatt’s speeches give a passably
good outline of the Jap rush to the South.
While the threat lasted Dr. Evatt was
much engaged on missions to the U.S.A.
and Britain ; insisting on the desperate
nature of the menace as it was seen from
here; trying to convince American and
British leaders that the Pacific war was
of as vital importance to themselves as
the war in Europe ; admitting the neces-
sity of the “Beat Hitler First” policy, but
urging the apportioning of as much fight-
ing material as possible to the Pacific.
Right or wrong, the impression given by
his speeches at that time is that the
urging was necessary; that there was an
inclination to treat the Pacific, as Galli-
poli was treated in the last war, as a side-
show.
The earlier speeches, too, set forth
clearly enough the state of this country’s
defences at the time. “As a new Govern-
ment we were engaged in taking com-
plete stock of our home defences, and we
knew that there was no ground whatever
for complacency, still less for over-
confidence.” Having done its stocktak-
ing, the Government, according to Dr.
Evatt, found it “had inherited a situa-
tion in which, for one reason and
another, the defence of our country had
been treated as a subordinate and sub-
sidiary part of the distant war.” Dr.
Evatt being a party politician, it would
be expecting too much of him to enlarge
fairly on his “for one reason and an-
other” ; but elsewhere he is a great deal
fairer and hence more accurate on this
point than probably the bulk of the other
members of his Government would be.
One of them on this particular and
vital point would be psychologically in-
capable of being other than unfair, in-
accurate and false-spoken.
At least Dr. Evatt, pointing out that
Australia, before the Japs came in, had
sent abroad “valuable land, sea and air
forces” —to take part in the defence of
Britain, the raiding on Germany, the
struggle for the control of the Mediter-
ranean, the fighting in Libya, Greece,
Crete, Syria, the holding of Tobruk, the
garrisoning of Malta, the many thous-
ands training under the Empire Air
Scheme in Canada and all the rest of it
—is capable of adding: “In doing this
we were unreservedly serving the cause
of our allies and also helping in our own
defence.” With the position completely
changed by the Jap entry, Dr. Evatt
could also rise above party to declare:
“In defending Australia Australians are
also fighting as much for our allies as
when they were fighting abroad.” How-
ever, Dr. Evatt can be as party political
as the rest of them:
The concentration of Australian resources
in the Middle East had helped to produce
great weaknesses in the defence position of
Australia and its two New Guinea terri-
tories. So mucfi so that, as General Macj
Arthur recently revealed, the defence plan
for Australia against Japanese 'invasion at
one time involved the abandonment of an
enormous part of Australia to the enemy.
This shocking position was the direct result
of having insufficient resources to face the
enemy. We determined to organise our re-
sources. We succeeded. Today General
MacArthur fights Japan outside the conti-
nent of Australia.
That passage—blatantly contradictory
of Dr. Evatt’s other admissions that in
fighting in the Middle East and elsewhere
abroad this country was fighting in its
own defence —should be read in conjunc-
tion with the speeches made by members
of Dr. Evatt’s party—as many of them as
could catch the Speaker’s eye —at the
time of the outbreak of the war in
Europe. Luckily those speeches are there
for anybody to read in the late 1939
issues of “Hansard,” and the sum of
them is that, had Dr. Evatt’s party then
had its way (he was not then a member
of it), Australia would have done
the whole of its fighting within the out-
line of its own continental map bound-
aries, not only not sending one man to
fight abroad “in its own defence” but
leaving Papua and the rest up there un-
protected save for the few adult male in-
habitants and such volunteers as might in
the circumstances have been got.
A speech to America by Mr. Curtin —
not the most hysterical one —inserted
amongst Dr. Evatt’s, states among other
things: “We have all made mistakes, we
hfive all been too slow, we have all shown
weakness —all the Allied nations. This
is not the time to wrangle about who has
been most to blame. Now our eyes are
open.” It should not be a matter of any
wrangling at all. The issue is of too
great importance to be smothered oyer
in that way, one political party blaming
the other. The fault was general. Aus-
tralia was left defenceless for the same
reason that many others since fighting
the Axis Powers were then unprepared.
It is old history, but it is too valuably
instructive to be shunted off with a
loaded word like “wrangle.” Australia,
with others, swallowed the notion —it is
being propagated again already—that
wars were done for ever ; that an organi-
sation set up somewhere, despite its
showing the most glaring defects, would
somehow possess the magic to prevent
future armed outbreaks everywhere;
hence that anything more than a shadow
of national defence was a waste of public
money.
This fallacy started to grow as soon as
the last war ended. It had reached such
proportions inside a decade that when
the party to which Mr. Curtin and Dr.
Evatt belong got tempdrarily into office
and immediately suspended compulsory
national service and otherwise started
the wrecking of the country’s defence
establishment, scarcely a public man
voiced a word of protest, the daily press
concurred with unanimous silence, and
Australia at large accepted that blindest
legislative action in its history with ap-
parent hearty approval.
So much for the party of Mr. Curtin
and Dr. Evatt, Its successors in office
over approximately the next decade were
voted into power on explicit promises
not to undo the sorry work that the
sorriest of all Australian Governments
had done. Moreover, it is quite certain
that, if those successors had shown the
statesmanship to propose that the country’s
defence, its security, would be placed
first op its programme the pack which
had done the defence-wrecking would
have howled to heaven about the waste of
public money, and would have been
elected on that howl.
With that as the outline history ot
defence here in the couple of decades
between the wars, there certainly is no
occasion for wrangling over blame or
going in for buck-passing. The big ques-
tion is whether Mr. Curtin’s “Now our
eyes are open” is right for the present
and the future, or was merely the expres-
sion of the momentary scare. Going by
the later Evatt speeches in his Foreign
Policy of Australia, it would seem to
have lasting meaning for Dr. Evatt, at
least The later speeches cover his arrang-
ing of the Australian-New Zealand
Agreement, which centres in Dr. Evatt’s
idea of regional security zones within
the larger world security arrangement
that was the main business at San Fran-
cisco. Dr. Evatt reverts over and over
to future defence here. “Whatever other
nations may forget,” he declares, this
country and New Zealand can never
forget that as a result of past inaction
they were in danger of being overrun.
Also: “Never again will the people of
Australia and New Zealand leave then-
vital interests in the region unprotected.”
Because of its vulnerable position, Aus-
tralia is vitally concerned in the establish-
ment of a successful peace and a world
security system, and, as portion thereof, a
regional defence system. While we can
derive incalculable advantage from a world
security system, we must on our own part
fcfe prepared to assume our fair share ox
military responsibility in the working ot the
system.
Australia and New Zealand, Dr. Evatt
has further declared, agreed that it would
be proper for them “to assume full re-
sponsibility for policing, or sharing in
policing, certain areas in the South-west
and South Pacific to be specified and
agreed upon.” More in this vein should
leave no doubt about where Dr. Evatt
personally stands. If it turns out that
he is, as the speeches purport him to be,
speaking for his Government; if “Now
our eyes are open” is lastingly true,i and
the Government has plans ready for the
setting up of adequate Australian de-
fences on a permanent basis beyond the
reach of any temporary bunch of politic-
ians, then Dr. Evatt’s Foreign Policy of
Australia will be able to stand as the
basic design of a nation’s determination
to be as great as it should be ; as great
as it may have to be to survive. Other-
wise the book will become a mere
chronicle of a nation’s failure, with its
eyes open, to measure up to an occa-
sion ; the title better changed to an ironic
Tales of the Pacific.
What Might Have Been.
Americans who are not internationalists
don’t take kindly to the frequent sug-
gestion that had their country joined the
League of Nations there would have
been no Second World War. They would
probably agree that the Second World
War and a lot of other things would
have been averted had the U.S.A. de-
clared war on Germany immediately
after the sinking of the Lusitania; that
is, two years before it did.
We have seen with admiration and
gratitude the immense moral and ma-
terial strength brought to the alliance
against Hitler’s Germany by Uncle Sam.
Thrown into the scale in 1915, even if
the giant could not have been fully armed
for two years, it would assuredly have (1)
kept Russia in the war, with conse-
quences which would have been felt for
generations, and (2) been a decisive
factor when the Austrian Emperor Karl
proposed a separate peace, as he did
early in 1917.
The Emperor’s.wife, Zita, was a Bour-
bon princess, and “her brother, Prince
Sixte, served in the Belgian Army and
regarded himself as a Frenchman”
(Lloyd George’s War Memoirs). Through
this prince the peace overtures were con-
ducted, and an autograph letter from
the Emperor to him was shown to Mr.
Lloyd George and the French Premier,
Ribot. The Emperor was agreeable to
the re-establishment of Belgium, the
return of Alsace-Lorraine to France and
the restoration of Serbia, plus “a just and
natural access to the Adriatic and liberal
economic concessions.” To Italy, as to
Germany, he offered nothing.
German vengeance he did not fear.
Germany, he said through his envoy,
Count Erdody, “would be unable to feed
its people once Austria-Hungary aban-
doned it,” Italy he judged by the fact
that the Austrian and German Ministers
in Switzerland had received a separate-
peace proposal from Italian General
Headquarters, the sole condition being
“the cession of the Trentino, neither Dal-
matia nor Trieste nor even Gorizia being
demanded:
Count Erdody explained that, as a matter
of fact, peace had already been proposed
five times to Austria since 1915, chiefly by
Russia.
.The Italian offer, though concealed at
the time from Mr. Lloyd George and his
associates, was vouched for by him in
his book;
Giolitti and Tittoni approved it. The
offer came from the King. It was inspired
by Cadorna’s fear that the Italian Army
had grown war-weary and that the Italian
people were on the brink of a. revolution.
A few months later part of his apprehen-
sions was justified by the collapse at
Caporetto.
Mr. Lloyd George was personally
favorable to a separate peace with Aus-
tria-Hungary. To him it meant that
Prussian militarism would be “deserted
by all its allies and forced into a posi-
tion of foredoomed defeat.” But “the
British Government was helpless; we
were entirely in the hands of France” ;
and, though out of no love for Italy, the
French were hostile. So were the Italians
when “Ribot, breaking his solemn prom-
ise to Prince Sixte, took the course of
showing Baron Sonnino all the corre-
spondence.” Thus “the negotiations
opened up with Prince Sixte fell to the
ground.” Meanwhile the Italians, as
compensation for “the comparative
failure of their offensive on the Isonzo,”
had announced the annexation of
Albania, and “France and Italy were
making large demands with respect to
Asia Minor.”
A few years later the Emperor Karl
died an exile in Madeira, “too poor to
pay for a doctor to save his life.” His
first words on coming to the throne had
been “I desire to do all in my power to
end, as soon as may be, the horrors and
the sacrifices of the war.” In Lloyd
George’s judgment he “sincerely yeaTne'd
for peace, and so did his French Con-
sort.”
Could he have brought it off the empire
of which a wise man said “If Austria did
not exist it would have to be invented”
would have remained, arresting militarist
expansion from the north as well as the
east —its ancient function in Europe.
There would have been no rabble or suc-
cession or buffer States —in the words
of an American cynic “they didn’t buff
very well in this war,” and they don’t
look like buffing any better in the next —
no Hitler, except as a house-painter or
a pub agitator ; no Mussolini in the role
of sawdust Caesar ; no Dentz in Syria ;
no regent Horthy; no Tito ; no com-
munist hell-broth in the Balkans. Presi-
dent Wilson, so scornful of Italy’s
imperialist ambitions, had an active in-
terest in the Poles and his great authority
and influence might have brought about
a workable settlement of the Polish ques-
tion. The Austrians treated the Poles
much better than the Russians or Prus-
sians ever did, and even under old Francis
Joseph autonomous movements in other
parts of the empire had made some pro-
gress. In any case, the “rival tribes” of
Czechs and Slovaks, Serbs, Croats,
Slovenes and the rest were prevented
from fighting one another and enlisting
armed support abroad.
Lloyd George was no lover of Austria-
Hungary. He called it “the ramshackle
Empire.” But even as a ramshackle
empire it was useful; for many genera-
tions it maintained peace and security
and a customs union among men of dif-
ferent religions and races, as well as
establishing a truce among the Slav
peoples, northern and southern, which
seem to hate one another more than
they hate Germans. Its dissolution was
followed by bitter trade, racial and inter-
necine strife and by ferocious expansion-
ist and “liberation” wars, which, apart
from the effects on other parts of Europe
and the world, can scarcely be held by
its ancient inhabitants to have improved
their condition.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Strife Without Tears.
The German war over, the Canadians
and the British are preparing for contests
in which no man’s home will come crash-
ing down nor will any blood be shed.
Canada is to have a general election on
June 11, Britain on July 5.
Since 1935 Canada has had a Liberal
Government headed by Mr. Mackenzie
King. Under his administration the
Dominion has done splendid things. Its
war production has been so marvellous
that “it how ranks as the second-greatest
exporting nation in the world.” Its gifts
to its allies have been great, and of a
generosity unsurpassed in history. Its
fighting sons in the services have distin-
guished themselves wherever they have
encountered the enemy, and in England
they will always be held in grateful re-
membrance for their part in silencing the
guns that shelled Dover and delivering the
people from the horrors of the flying and
rocket bombs. In Canada were trained
great numbers of men from all parts of
the Empire, many of them flying Cana-
dian-made aircraft and flinging Canadian-
made bombs, who with their companions
in the R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F. rendered
it impossible for the Germans to carry
on. And the sinews of war were never
lacking. Every Canadian loan was
heavily oversubscribed.
But the Government that shaped the
measures which yielded such magnificent
fruit is in no happy position. Since it
resorted to conscription to make up losses
in France, which were heavy, it has had
a stormy passage at Ottawa and in the
country. Many conscripts, zombies,
refused duty and had to be rounded up.
The Minister of Defence resigned, and his
successor, previously in command of the
expeditionary force, was beaten in a by-
election for a Liberal seat. Five other
Ministers have left the Government.
Except in one case, their loss is not con-
sidered important. n
But, accustomed to commanding 1/
or more votes in a House of 245 mem-
bers, the Prime Minister, who is old and
probably tired, acknowledges that the
election may be indecisive. If at the cost
of seaming ungrateful or unapprecia n
the people choose to reject his Govern-
ment that is their right was for th
maintenance of such rights that the
was fought and won. ~ .
Britain, of course, has had a coalition
Government for five years.
Disraeli said, “does not love
but it has had them in the wo German
wars, in each case with results w
single party could have obtaine. •
Churchill offered to continue the coah
tion till the conclusion of the Japan
war, and let the prolongation of T he J,
of Parliament go to a referendum. The
Liberals and the National Liberal gr op
were willing, but the Labor P Z’ ,
ing to the referendum part, refused, in


a way it is a pity that the great partner-
ship should be ended and an election
held when the country is still at war and
servicemen fighting the remaining enemy
will be unable to vote. But with the spirit
of co-operation which Labor manifested
so long and so usefully succumbing to
the old spirit of faction and self-suffi-
ciency, continuance could have been of
no particular use.
In his correspondence with the Prime
Minister Mr. Attlee wrote rather amazing
things.
I could not consent to the introduction
into our national life of a device so alien
to all our traditions as the referendum,
which only too often has been the instru-
ment of Nazism and Fascism.
It has never been that in Switzerland or
in Australia.
It appears to me that you are departing
from the position of a national leader by
yielding to pressure from the Conservative
party.
Paltry And if the gentleman wants to
see “pressure” in outrageous forms he
should study the operations of the
“Labor” Government in Australia. That
Government had brazenly admitted that
when it went before its masters, the
union bosses, it charged up their travel-
ling expenses to the taxpayers.
A Check to Communism.
After a “wild brawl,” in which an axe
and an iron bar were used to break into
the union office and two men were dis-
abled —one was claimed as a Tobruk Rat
—the six-weeks’ strike of Balmain (Syd-
ney) ironworkers whs declared off. At
bottom it was a revolt against communist
control of the Ironworkers’ Union, and
the revolters declare that the Balmain
branch of Thornton’s concern is now in
their hands; but the dice are so loaded
in favor of communist control of unions,
once gained, that their success may be
only temporary.
From Thornton’s G.H.Q. came this
gibe at the revolters: “By their strike
they have accomplished nothing except to
hold up war-time, ship repair work for
six weeks and to lose six weeks’ wages.”
It is, of course, a dreadful commentary
on the state of unionism, with Labor in
its weakness conniving at communist
despotism, that decent Australians should
consider a strike which injures the war
effort and the country’s name the lesser
of two evils. But the gibe is a character-
istic impertinence.
Unforgotten is the boast of the Thorn-
ton mob, referring to the period when
they campaigned against “the imperialist
war” and for peace-by-backdown with
the Nazis, that “We made strikes our
business.” And the hollowness of
the pretence that they are now all
for peace in industry may be judged
by the strike of ironworkers in one
of the Lysaght mills at Newcastle,
vamped up because a returned soldier had
been restored to his old position. This
strike was characterised by Industrial
Justice Cantor as a violation of Com-
monwealth and State laws passed for the
protection of returned soldiers, “reducing
production seriously” and calling for “any
action which it is considered the circum-
stances demand.” Action there has been
none, and there will be none.
From Goulburn to Tarakan.
John Brennan to The Bulletin :
This is the story of a youngster from Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) and what he did in one day on
Tarakan. He is Private Holland, “Dutchy” to
his mates, and he is 20 years old.
The fight for Hospital Spur, on the edge of
Tarakan town, was of the toughest description.
Holland’s company fed the assault out along the
spur, a slow, hard-fought drive from tiny ridge
to tiny ridge. The forward section was pinned
down behind one ridge by sniper fire and by a
machine-gun firing on fixed lines from a pillbox
on its right flank. One man peeping over the
ridge was shot through the head and an officer
had his helmet blown off. The section stayed
put while another platoon worked around the
side against the pillbox. That cleared, a section
led by Pte. Dave Macauley, of Glen Innes
(N.S.W.), son of- the Moderator-General of the
Presbyterian Church in Australia, got into the
trench system which led up the slope beyond it.
Holland was forward scout. He led the way
along the trench with an Owen gun. The
trench was built with small offshoots which
covered the approach along the spur. In the
first of the offshoots Holland killed a Jap
with a burst from the Owen, stepped over the
body when it fell into the trench and con-
tinued on his way. He shot three other Japs
in the same way before the trench was cleared.
The section took up a defensive position to
wait till the rest of the platoon could come up.
There were four men —Macauley, Holland, and
two Victorians, Pte. Jim Harvey, of Melbourne,
and Lance-corporal Jack Donovan of Mordi-
alloc. About 30 minutes later, and before the
rest of the platoon could arrive, a group of Japs,
eight or ten, left their cover at the top of the
rise and came racing down the hill, screaming
and yelling, in a bayonet charge.
Said the C.O. of the company who watched
it from further back along the spur, “It was a
perfect bayonet charge —and it was perfectly
broken. We were firing across from a distance,
but there was really nothing we could do.”
Holland and the others stood their ground,
firing their Owen guns. They killed four of
the attackers; the others turned and ran.
Alter that things were quiet for a time. The
platoon came up and occupied the position.
A couple of hours later the Japs mounted
another counter-attack. This time they came
more quietly, in strength and with covering fire
from a machine-gun which they had worked
around to the side. The platoon held; but if
the attack were pressed and if the Diggers
couldn’t get relief and further ammunition the
position would be bad. There were no com-
munications with the h.q. platoon.
The platoon commander asked Holland to try
to get a message back. By that time his physi-
cal powers had been tried severely, but he was
not tired in mind or spirit. There was a job to
be done and it had to be done quickly. He
reasoned that there wasn’t sufficient time to
work his way back under cover. In sight of all
the enemy he leapt out of the trench and raced
back down the hill.
That dash finished his part in the day’s com-
bat, but when morning came he was back in it
again. In the person of young “Dutchy,” Goul-
burn was there!
War Secrets.
In the case of the western democracies,
which have no political axe to grind, they
are beginning to come out.
It was revealed last week that Britain’s
frightful shipping losses in 1942, when
the brazen shouting for a landing in
Europe was going on even in Australia,
with the enemy on Australian territory,
were added to by collisions. A battleship,
the King George, and the Queen Mary
each sent a destroyer to the bottom, with
damage to the big ships and with cruel
loss of life in the destroyers. And early in
1943 an escort-carrier blew up in the Clyde,
only 80 of her crew of 600 being saved.
It was disclosed also that the Japanese
had for several months been sending
bomb-laden paper balloons over the
Pacific Slope, into Canada as well as the
U.S.A., so far without causing damage
or casualties. Of a different nature was
the revelation that the Allied armies on
the Western Front had had their im-
mense fuel requirements satisfied by
means of a pipeline, 67 miles long, laid
across the Channfel —another marvelous
feat of British engineering.
There are plenty more secrets to be
laid bare. The Russians are keeping as
many of theirs as they can. One was given
to the world by Mr. William White, son of
an editor honored in American journal-
ism, and himself a writer of character
and distinction, who accompanied Mr.
Eric Johnston to the U.S.S.R.
Mr. White was on the Poltava airfield
when the first squadrons of Flying For-
tresses arrived. The Russians had made
strict conditions as to the number of
U.S. personnel who might be brought in,
limiting it so that defence of the field
was in their own hands.
That night Heinkels came oyer,
wrecked most of the American machines
and sowed the whole aerodrome area
with butterfly bombs, a sort of land-
mine, small enough to lie hidden in the
grass. It was then borne in on the
Americans that the Russians, apart from
having no heavy bombers, had no night
fighters and no radar, and only a very
thin low-altitude kind of ground defence.
Next morning, when lines of Russians
were seen prodding the grass with long
bamboo poles, it became evident that
they had not even modern mine detectors.
Moreover, it was found that they had no
high-altitude aircraft, and nothing in the
same street with Mustangs, Thunderbolts
and Spitfires—for Spitfires the American
pilots yearned aloud as the Heinkels tore
their squadrons to bits on the ground.
To the Russians the favorite Ameri-
can machine was the Airacobra, with its
single 37mm. gun, suitable only for
ground strafing. Their own Stormovik,
though a useful ground strafer, had
about half the speed and one-fiftieth the
hitting power of a British Typhoon. The
Douglas Havocs which U.S. factories
sent to Russia were used only for
altitude work; all equipment for high-
altitude operations was stripped out of
them on arrival.
And the fast transport of the Russian
army turned out to be almost wholly
American. .On this subject and others
of the kind Moscow correspondents, who
were reduced to being “yes-men,” will
no doubt have something to say.
The expression “yes-men” was used
by Paul Winterton, of the “News-
Chronicle,” and 8.8.C.,' on his return to
London from Moscow. He said also that
there was no “independent reporting” of
the Russian war, Allied correspondents
being forbidden “the slightest criticism
of anything Russian” and having con-
tact only with “an utterly incompetent,
uninterested and frequently obstruction-
ist- press department.”
THE SMILE’S ON THE FACE OF THE TIGER.
“Four months ago the Federal Cabinet ‘declared war' on black markets and organised stealing from wharves, ships and freight trains; and that, so far, is the last
of that.” —Sydney “Sun." But the same Cabinet has renewed the war on the Portland butcher; “Minister Keane granted permission for another butcher's
shop to be opened; Minister Dedman issued a permit for a new building, and Minister Scully came in with the gift of a beef quota.” T. A. Herbert, secretary, of the Meat
Trades Federation.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
HOW MUCH WILL IT COST
TO HANDLE MY ESTATE?
Some folk hesitate to appoint a Company as Executor and
Trustee of their Wills, because they imagine that by so doing they will inflict a heavy
burden on the Capital of the Estate. Such a fear is groundless, so when drawing up
your will appoint the Permanent Trustee Co. as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company’s charges are extremely reasonable for an administration backed by over
50 years experience in the management of all types of estates, the investment of funds,
and the knowledge of the technicalities involved in Trusteeship.
AND —You are assured of integrity and financial stability. Through its permanence,
the Company’s administration is guaranteed until completion of the Trust.
The charge on the gross capital value of an estate up to £ 50,000
is 2i per cent,, i.e., £2/10/- for every .£lOO of capital.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis tor the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months.
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4fA Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
A shabby sequel to Beasley’s heroics
at the International Labor Organisation’s
conference in the U.S.A. was his Gov-
ernment’s denial of transport to Mrs.
Tenison-Woods, who, as the leading
Australian authority of her sex on child
welfare, had been invited to go to
Montreal, now 1.L.0. headquarters, to
help in the drafting of a child-welfare
charter for the next 1.L.0. conference.
Though her mission would have cost the
Government nothing, she was humbugged
until it was too late for her to go. Pas-
sage from the U.S.A. in a Liberator
was found for Thornton, the communist.
Mrs. Tenison-Woods doesn’t happen to
be a communist, and her friends couldn’t
have thought of disguising her as a pugil-
ist or a Rugby League footbrawler and
taking her along to Ward.
Maoriland has been getting much
better reports of the San Francisco con-
ference than the incoherent stuff, much
of it tainted with arrogant Leftist
opinions, dished up for Australian con-
sumption. In Maoriland reports Anthony
Eden was treated with respect, and given
credit for striking a deep note in his open-
ing speech:
In the early days of the war I went to
Egypt to greet soldiers from Australia and
New Zealand who came to protect the Suez
Canal against Mussolini’s aggression. I
spoke to them of the motives which in-
spired them to volunteer for this adven-
ture. One man remained silent. I asked
him what had made him come. He re-
plied : “I guess there was a job to be done.”
We have a job to do if we are not to fail
the unnumbered men who have died to
give humanity another chance.
Australian chroniclers had no use for
these moving words, preferring to collect
the idiotic chatter of female sightseers and
stenographers about the man’s personal
appearance and his degree of sex-appeal
compared with Molotov’s.
Death has been hard on the 35th Vic-
torian ' Parliament, especially the Assem-
bly ; six of the 65 Ms.L.A. elected two
years ago have been gathered to their
fathers. Not the least of them was H. M.
Cremean, Labor-leader Cain’s deputy and
M.L.A. for Clifton Hill since 1934. He
was 34 then; he had been Mayor of
Richmond, his birthplace, at 28, and
M.L.A. for Dandenong at 29. Thor-
oughly Australian in sentiment, he hated
pornographic films and “literature,” and
his unswerving opposition to communists
brought him a full issue of their invec-
tive. On Cremean it had no effect, and
it increased the already considerable
number of his friends and admirers in
and outside the unions.
Cremean was Chief Secretary in the
Labor Ministry that came in on Sep-
tember 14, 1943, and went out on Septem-
ber 18 —his one taste of office. Redis-
tribution of seats was the issue, as it was
when he passed away. Back in opposi-
tion on September 21, 1943, he said, sar-
castically, “We can all realise what is
going to happen,”
The Premier will say “This session is too
far away from the next election; next ses-
sion we shall have still another year to go,
and so we can deal with redistribution in
the third year of the life of this Parlia-
ment.” But in the third session, no doubt,
a trumped-up issue will be taken to bring
about a dissolution, and there will be no
redistribution.
When “the redistribution crisis” was
worked up by dissatisfied C.P. members
it looked as if Cremean, as well as being
a skilful debater, was no mean prophet.
Electors and others who desire to
avoid being threadbare and hungry dur-
ing the next twelvemonth are sternly
warned by “Labor,” which used to con-
demn “national registers” as totalitarian
devices, that there will be no ration cards
for meat unless they fill in “occupation
survey cards.” Down by the Molonglo
this fresh inquisition is connected with a
scheme for increasing the number of
Federal members. There is a case for it,
provided there is a corresponding reduc-
tion of State members, but not during the
war. A crowd which proposed it when
much of the population is displaced could
be deemed to be up to no good.
Going to Canberra dissatisfied with
the Re-establishment Bill, R.S.L. men
were properly disgusted with the Govern-
ment’s treatment of the unpleasant neces-
sity. Men like Page, who really had some-
thing to say—Page has had more experi-
ence of the administrative side of Repat.
than any other member, Hughes not ex-
cepted—spoke to nearly-empty Lower
benches. Dedman’s clumsy and churlish
handling of what was presumed to be his
own measure —though it was made plain
that his “officers” knew a great deal more
about it than he did—provoked the mild
Coles into a protest against his “stupidity
and pigheadedness,” and Cameron said
the Minister had been “stymied when
asked for information,” had “sulked like
a sulky calf and applied the gag.” The
gag was applied wholesale, for the first
time since June, 1940, when Labor stone-
walled the National Security Bill; and
Chifley’s defence of it was feeble in the
THE CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
“The N.S.W. Labor party, alarmed at the growth of the Communist party, is to launch
an offensive in the workshops and an intensive publicity campaign.”
extreme. There was no stonewalling last
week on the Opposition side; on the
other side, as Menzies said, there was “a
cowardly reluctance to face many of the
problems involved in this legislation.”
Two or three years ago owners of
motor vehicles who appeared on the roads
in Victoria were regarded as unpatriotic,
anybody who trotted out an old buggy
or jinker and an old crock of a horse
as a savior of his country. Now the fodder
shortage, attributable partly to drought
and partly to political and departmental
stupidity, has reversed the position. Under
an order of Director of Emergency Road
Transport Fraser it becomes a sin to
go out behind a horse and a virtue to go
out in any conveyance that doesn’t eat
chaff. Government by bureaucracy can
get a country into some queer muddles.
In Sydney last week a ruffian “with a
record of 80 convictions” for robbery
under arms, theft, assault and so on was
sentenced to three and a half years’ hard
for “a savage, cowardly and unprovoked
attack on a constable” at the Stadium,
where Ward’s favorite recreation is served
up. The tough was described on the
charge-sheet as “a laborer, aged 31.” How
the “laborer, aged 31” managed to keep
out of the services remains a mystery,
like the wholesale exemption of and the
travelling privileges granted to pugs.
While allowing that “some men who
never worked in the mines before” have
been using coalmining as “a kind of air-
raid shelter” and have “caused some of
our trouble,” Grant, the coalminers’ sec-
retary, denied a statement made by Briga-
dier Cremor;
Most of the trouble on the N.S.W. coal-
fields is attributable to loafers, S.P. book-
makers, dog trainers and the like, shelter-
ing as miners, who have deliberately
engineered stoppages.
The brig, has the highest authority, that
of the Prime Minister, who said it all
and more in Parliament 22 months ago.
There were then no denials from the
union hierarchy. The P.M. gave an
undertaking that the artful war-dodgers
would be pulled out of the mines, and
broke it when the union hierarchy went
sour.
There is no escaping the vigilance of
Man-power in Queensland. A resident
of Warwick received a formidable array
of documents addressed to his two sons.
One is 11, the other four. Soon after-
wards the same relentless sleuths dropped
on another work-dodger at Maryborough.
He had just blown out three candles on
his birthday.
W. McMahon Ball, “adviser” to the
Australian delegation, was reported as
telling Californian students that:
Before 1942 the Australian Government
had its own views about world affairs,
which it often firmly expressed in London.
But the tendency was always to draw a
veil over the difference between Britain and
Australia. We came out boldly in 1942 in
propounding an independent foreign policy.
Without any “inhibitions”?
Unofficial predictions that the Russians
will come into the war against the Jap-
anese are now issued almost daily.
Sceptics point out that they are still
bound by the neutrality agreement, by
virtue of which the U.S.S.R. “solemnly”
declared that it would “respect,” among
other things, “the territorial integrity and
inviolability of Manchukuo,” and by
fisheries and oil agreements. The oil
agreement obliged Russia to supply Japan
with “50,000 metric tens” p.a. from Sak-
halin “for five consecutive years after the
cessation of the war” with Germany,
and authorised Japan to “remove accu-
mulated stocks tax-free.”
A woman, aged 72, and her daughter,
aged 52, were recently found sleeping in
a lane at St. Kilda amongst their house-
hold belongings, having been dumped out
of the house they rented because it was
wanted by the owner, and having no-
where better than the lane to go to. The
mother has an old-age and a military
pension, a son having been killed in this
war. The next Federal election is only
16 months off, and the* Labor Govern-
ment is concerned about its prospects
in the light of the housing shortage. It
will no doubt appoint another committee,
there being no shortage of accommoda-
tion for committees.
The Balmain strike placed Minister
Beasley in a quandary. Nearly all the
men concerned in it are his constituents,
and he was pointedly reminded of it, and
also of the fact that as late as the 1940
election he was leader of the Non-Com-
munist Labor party—“the ‘scab’ party” to
Mr. Curtin, The other side appealed to
him to support “solidarity,” and Thornton
had the effrontery to insist that A.L.P.
branches and the Balmain municipal
caucus which had sided with the Balmain
ironworkers in their struggle against the
communist outfit should be brought to
book. The A.L.P. executive weakly
yielded, as usual.
Doubtless helped by. the redistribution
rumpus. Labor held the Bendigo Assem-
bly seat comfortably. Its success was
some consolation for defeats in the Tas.
Leg. Council elections; Hobart, held for
many years by Dr. Gaha, M.H.R., was
lost by a stunning majority.
“Lao-dah”: In the new League whose
shape is to be outlined at San Francisco,
no international police force and no right
of inspection of armament factories in
all countries are contemplated. Agree-
ments obliging national-Governments to
carry out their military obligations will
be similar to the article in the old League’s
constitution under which member-nations
agreed to apply military sanctions to
aggressors, but never did. The last act
of tlie old League in 1937 was to listen
to a speech by the Aga Khan, who recited
a poem about a little flower. It has
been dead on its feet since 1940, when
Soviet Russia was expelled, but the British
Empire has kept up the farce of pretend-
ing that it was alive by voting large
annual subsidies,
A Sydney “D.T.” reporter from some-
where-near-Tito:
Tito has declared he will fight' anyone
for Istria, if necessary the whole world, and
all but Fascists are behind that declaration.
That fight should not be necessary.
Nor would it be long.
“We shall banish want; we shall banish
fear. The essence of our policy is human
welfare. We aim at a revolution for the
common man.” That, and much more in
the same vein, was said a few years ago.
By the late President? By Dr. Evatt?
No, by Hitler. It was quoted in San Fran-
cisco recently by H, W. Prentis, sometime
president of the National Association of
Manufacturers.
Poland was reconstituted in 1919, at
the special instance of President Wilson,
as a final judgment on and an act of
retributive justice for the three eighteenth-
century partitions, the work of Russia,
Austria and Prussia. Accepting war as
an ally of Britain, Poland was the first
nation to be attacked and martyred, and
its exiled sons who managed to get
away fought gloriously in all the British
campaigns, from Tobruk to Hamburg.
They had a grand share in the Battle of
Britain, and helped to liberate the French
and t£e peoples of the Low Countries.
Their own country they could not save,
but neither Britain nor the United States,
with its great Polish population, which
had explicit assurances from the dead and
honored President, can possibly let it
down. _ '


(ytla*ta»
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Wing-Commander J. N. Davenport, of
Blakehurst, Sydney, who holds the D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and bar and G.M., has been one
of Coastal Command’s outstanding
leaders. The George Medal was awarded
for a spectacular rescue of Flying-Officer
W. M. Stanley from a blazing aircraft.
A Beaufighter had crashed, and, the fire-
fighting crew having been driven back by
the heat, Davenport, who was in the con-
trol tower, jumped into his car, rushed
to the scene and ran straight into the
flames. Getting astride the cockpit and
hanging head down, he pulled the pilot
out of his flying boots, by which he was
trapped, and carried him through the
flames to safety. Davenport said after-
wards: “That pilot had guts, telling me,
in spite of his burns, about a convoy
moving down the coast, together with the
number of ships and bearing.”
Completed a 10-months’ circuit of the
globe, with a couple of months spent
amongst the ruins of his native Malta,
Captain Henry Felix Vincent Casimir
Creni Curmi, 0.8. E., Commissioner for
his island in Australia., He found Malta
beginning to raise its head above the
rubble, but sadly expresses his convic-
tion that thousands of the children will
never iccover completely from nervous
strain and malnutrition.
Holding an important job under
Mountbatten, Barton Maughan is a son
of David Maughan, K.C., and grandson
of Edmund Barton, the Commonwealth’s
first P.M. Educated at The King’s School,
Parramatta, and Balliol, Oxford, Barton
Maugran was called to the Bar, then
enijsted in the ranks in 1940. He got his
commission in ffie Middle East. His bat-
talion vh3th) was the only Australian unit
•rl ln , Tobruk a t the end of the siege ;
it broke out and “relieved” the “reliev-
ing forces. At El Alamein Maughan
was intelligence officer with the 20th
Brigade, and was awarded the M.C He
stayed with the Ninth Division through
its New Guinea campaign; then, in
November, 1944, was seconded to head-
quarters of the South-east Asia Com-
mand, and is now in charge of an intelli-
gence section, with the rank of major.
He has recently been on an inspection
tour with the 14th Army in Burma.
Killed on Bougainville, Sergeant Law-
rence McCarthy, of Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, a son of Lieut. Lawrence Dominic
McCarthy, V.C., of Westralia and Vic-
toria. Lieut. Lawrence won his V.C. for
a daring advance single-handed at
Chaulnes, France, in August, 1918, when
he killed 20 of the enemy and captured
50 and five machine-guns,
“Recco”; Clifford Harry Stanford Bul-
strode Whitelocke, a younger son of a
London family, was too young to have
a go in World War I, but after it was
over came to Australia to seek his for-
tune. With no money but tons of what
it takes, he was at times laborer, waiter,
barman, truck-driver, farm-worker and
jackeroo. While working on the land
thereabouts he wrote notes for the Narro-
mine (N.S.W.) “News,” enlivening them
with jokes and original verse. They be-
came one of the popular features, and
editor Roger Banks gave Whitelocke a
job as reporter. So he continued till.
Banks having meanwhile passed on, the
opportunity came to buy the paper, and
Cliff, as he was by now known to every-
one, secured the necessary backing and
became owner-editor. In 1940 he joined
the A.I.F. and sailed with the Bth Divvy
to Malaya, whereabouts he still is p.o.w.
His wife is carrying on the good work in
his absence.
Passed his 90th milestone, Alexander
Asher, doyen of Victorian printers and
publishers and head of the Asher firm,
Richmond, which he founded 60 years
ago. The sole surviving foundation mem-
ber of the Victorian Master Printers’
Association, he ran the Richmond
“Guardian” for 56 years and “Table
Talk” for 15 years, and is the oldest
Mason in Victoria, having been a mem-
ber of the Order for 64 years.
Charles Pearcy Mountford, of Adel-
aide, now in the U.S.A. for the Com-
monwealth Department of Information,
gave his first lecture to 600 members of
the Explorers’ Club in New York, where
he met Stefansson. A foundation mem-
ber of the Anthropological Society of
S.A., Mountford was acting ethnologist
at S.A. Museum, 1937-38, when he went
with the Leichhardt search party to the
Simpson Desert. Now 45, he’s the author
of The Art of Albert Namatjira, pub-
lished last year, and of many scientific
papers on abo. art, customs and culture.
“Harvit”: F. R. V. Timbury (B.
2/5 / ’45) had a remarkable athletic record.
“Tall Tim” represented his State (Queens-
land) at cricket and tennis and Australia
at Rugby Union.
Great health authority:
Behind the impassive dial here limned by
Ted Scorfield functions a brain which has kept
Australia in the forefront of world public health
progress for more than 30 years. Born at
South Yarra (Vic.) in 1880, John Howard
Lidgett Cumpston worked his way on a bril-
liant succession of scholarships through State
school and Wesley to Melb. Uni., where, after
more scholastic successes, he qualified M.B. in
1902 with a Final Honor Exhibition. After
tours abroad to study tropical medicine and
public health (including a London diploma in
the latter subject) he joined the Westralian
Department of Health in 1906, and soon after-
wards transferred to the newly-formed Federal
Quarantine Service. In 1913 he succeeded Dr.
DR. J. H. L. CUMPSTON.
W. P. Norris as Director of Quarantine and
soon’ proved himself an able administrator by
his handling of the extensive smallpox out-
break of that year, clinching his reputation by
his efforts in the influenza pandemic of 1918-19.
In 1920 Dr. Cumpston organised the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories in Melbourne, which
provide Australia with practically all its re-
quirements in vaccines, serums and other
similar products, human and veterinary, and
export supplies to New Zealand and other
Pacific countries. A year later he was made
Director General of the Commonwealth De-
partment of Health, the activities of which
include, in addition to human, animal and
plant quarantine, a wide range of work in
tropical, industrial, and general hygiene. Last
year Dr. Cumpston was selected for an inter-
national committee appointed to advise the
Government of India on health problems, a job
involving much strenuous travel. He retires on
June 19, his 65th birthday, Minister for Health
Senator Fraser paying the tribute: “For many
years he has done work of great and lasting
value to Australia.”
Archbishop O’Shea, who presided for
St. Pat’s College, Wellington (M.L.)„ week’s
jubilating over its sixtieth birthday, was
one of the pupils who rolled up to the
opening of the college. The present
rector is Rev, L. R. Evatt.
“J.K.M.”: “Jim Grahame” (Jim Gor-
don), of Leeton, Henry Lawson’s old
mate and writer of many a good Bulletin
ballad, has received news of the loss in
action in the North of his only son. A
daughter, C. P. (“Bonnie of Our Area”
in Lawson’s poem), who narrowly es-
caped from Singapore, is nursing in New
Guinea.
With four and a half years as war
correspondent on Middle East and Euro-
pean fronts included in his experience,
John Hetherington, here sketched by
Coventry, lately took over as editor-in-
chief of the Adelaide “News” evening
paper, the week-end “Mail” and the
“Radio Call.” Young as editors-in-chief
go—he’s 37—Hetherington found time
while covering some 50,000 miles on his
JOHN HETHERINGTON.
war-correspondent job to write Airborne
Invasion and Australian Soldier; but if
there’s one outcome of that tearing
around he’s most proud of it’s his Africa
Star and Eighth Army clasp. He’s a
Victorian.
There was extreme 'bad luck in the
death in Germany on April 19 of
John Shierlaw, son of a former
Crown Prosecutor in S.A. He was p.o.w.
since his ’plane crashed in Sicily two
years back, but had just been released.
The official report says: “Killed by
cannonfire from Allied aircraft during a
strafing attack on the column preceding
to a port from embarkation for Eng-
land.”
There is no Australian Parliament
without a McDonald or a MacDonald,
Robert Ross McDonald, subject of Scor-
field’s drawing, is the clan’s representa-
tive in the Assembly at Perth. Thirty-
odd years ago Ross (he has never been
Bob) was a rising hope of the Liberal
party led in the West by Frank Wilson
(long dead) and in the Commonwealth
by Joe Cook (a silent spectator of the old
scene, at 84), and in the revolution of
events he has become Westralian leader
of the new Liberals. When still a strip-
ling he went off to the last war with the
A.1.F., returning a captain, A barrister
by calling, he took silk in 1936. Three
ROSS MCDONALD.
years previously he had become M.L.A.
for West Perth, and, though no longer
the soft snap it was for many years. West
Perth has not deserted him. Well
groomed, courteous and liked on both
sides of the House, McDonald has no
party feeling in his recognition of merit,
Two men he admires are Phil Collier, the
former Labor leader, Premier in three
Parliaments, and Watts, the Katanning
lawyer who leads the State Country party
and hence the Opposition.
Maoriland’s new Naval Chief, Captain
G. H. Faulkner, D.S.C., R.N., spent 38
years in the Royal Navy, including a visit
to M.L. in H.M.S. Hood in 19z4. He
commanded the cruiser Berwick from
1941 till 1943. For his M.L. appoint-
ment he has the rank of Commodore,
first class.
Two übiquitous Australians, Capt. J.
P. Williams and Chief Diver J. E. John-
son, are engaged on one of the biggest
salvage operations in Indian history, at
the mouth of that navigator’s nightmare
the Hooghly, With them are 12 Aus-
tralian divers who have helped salvage
63 ships in Australian waters and put 60
of them back in commission. Some time
ago the 10,000-ton Sanchia sank in the
mud of the dreaded river, and, with 2000
tons of cargo and 6000 tons of mud in-
side her, has since been obstructing the
traffic and putting three wharves out of
action, at a cost to the port of £90,000
p.a. Captain Williams plans to cut and
blast off the ship’s top decks, which are
submerged in congealed mud as hard as
brick, suck the mud out and fetch the
vessel back to the wharf with a 2000-ton
lift. The divers work smothered in
waters so pea-soupy that the local mud-
brick makers simply float box frames in
the river until they fill with the solution,
and then put them in the sun and bake
them. It was Williams and Johnson who
raised gold worth £2,973,000 out of the
Niagara off M.L.
“Bohemian”: Lately retired. Justice
O’Regan (Arbitration Court) is about the
most colorful public man in M.L. Leav-
ing school when in the third standard, his
job was stone-breaking and filling in road
ruts. Despite his limited education, he
blossomed out as a country editor. He
next entered politics, and was soon recog-
nised as a gifted orator. Owing to
a difference of opinion with his own
supporters, he was ousted from the House.
He faced the world with a wife and
family, and without any profession, trade
or calling. On the advice of knight
Robert Stout, he studied law, making his
living in any way he could. Without the
help of any tutor, he passed as a solicitor,
and soon attracted notice by his ability
as a pleader and by his knowledge of
labor law. Eventually he became noted
for his success in compensation cases, and
was in demand from one end of the
Dominion to the other. He has done
his 77th lap.
Into the silence:
At 80, in Melbourne, John S. Murdoch, one-
time Commonwealth Director-General of
Works and Chief Commonwealth Architect. A
Scot, he designed the Spencer-street post-office
in Melbourne, a lot of Canberra and most of
Thursday Island.
At a great age, in Adelaide, Mrs. Bag9t,
mother of a leading architect and last surviv-
ing child of Henry Ayers, who was several
times Premier of S.A. last century and finally
President of the Legislative Council.
In Brisbane, at 89, Thomas Martin, for
many years principal of Charters Towers Gram-
mar School and a pioneer of secondary edu-
cation in the North. He was a contemporary
and friendly rival of Alfred Deakin.
At 69, in Melbourne, Rev. R. Ambrose
Roberts, for many years secretary of the Vic-
torian Local Option Alliance. He fought the
demon Drink through the recurrent referenda,
and never missed an opportunity of giving him
a k. 0., though he was one of the least in-
temperate of temperance advocates and liquor
reformers.
“Strap”: Colonel Eric Albert Coleman who,
at 39, recently died of injuries at Morotai, was
one of the best products of the pre-war Militia
system. He started at 12 in the junior cadets,
passed through the senior cadets to the Militia
and gained his commission at 21 in the old
51st Battalion at Gladesville, Sydney. Cole-
man was a soldier by conviction. Less privi-
leged than most, he devoted himself to military
studies, became a good rifle-shot, spent his
hard-earned money on riding at the week-ends
to improve his horsemanship, and thought
nothing of occasional 25-mile hikes, during
which, with another military-minded com-
panion, he worked out elementary tactical exer-
cises or practised map-reading. When the half-
baked compulsory-training system was replaced
by the even more futile voluntary system he
steadily set about recruiting younger men of the
right type. A major when this war broke out,
he became NX 179. With the brigade that was
diverted to England in 1940, he got a tem-
porary lieut.-colonelcy, but his best work was
as a D.D.S.T. in New Guinea. The writer last
saw him at Lae, still cheerful and unassuming,
but grumbling that there wasn’t enough doing
for his liking. He leaves a wife and young son.


Society
“Skyrider”: Sydney’s first winter fog
showed up the Sydneysiders as not half
the men they used to be. Even in the
nineteen-thirties it was the ferrymasters
boast that come fog, hell or tidal wave he
ran his boat from Quay to wharf and
wharf to Quay —dead slow if need be, but
he ran her. Why, Lady Chelmsford, the.
Lane Cove boat (11.15 p.m. from the
Quay, you broad-daylight weaklings or
’45), after a two hours’ voyage to Valentia-
street, was diverted to Greenwich Point
to pull Lady Scott off the point she had
grounded on. Having rescued the boat she
could not see Lady Chelmsford delivered
her own load of passengers at their up-
river destinations. In this winter s first
fog Sydney Ferries caved in with the
first breath of mist. Even the men who
tried to travel aren’t the same. Of ou
grown, experienced, hard-baked Austra-
lian males who waited at Northwood
wharf for 45 fruitless minutes, only one
had a penny when an Old Digger sug-
gested two-up! What’s happened to the
country?
* * * *
“Wodgil”; The British Army has put
Hitler’s successor, Admiral Doenitz, and
all the members of his Government under
arrest. One of them, Count Schwerin von
Krosigk, the Foreign Minister, is known
to an Australian, Professor Alexander,
of Perth, and is the subject of a bright
“West Australian” article. In 1932, as
a Rhodes Travelling Fellow, the prof,
had a letter of introduction to the count,
and “was escorted from secretary to sec-
retary until eventually the Minister s ante-
room was reached,” where there was a
long delay.
At last an inner door opened, and a
figure clad in very informal dress, sports
coat and flannel trousers, emerged with
outstretched hand and the words, My dear
chap, I’m frightfully sorry to have kept you
waiting.”
Perhaps if the old Oxfordian had taugnt
his countrymen cricket it would have civil-
ised all but the hopeless criminal cases.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Alex.” (B. 2/5/’45) knows,
doubtless, that Judges have always found
it safest to let counsel prove anything
whatever, rather than take for granted
that the Judge knows it already. But, as
he says, they can overdo it. Old Hawkins
set the record when he asked “But who
is Connie Gilchrist?” at a period when
that charming lass was as well known in
London as the Judge himself. My first
experience came from Judge Boucaut,
of S.A. across the table informally m
chambers.” “But have I the power to
grant this?” he said. (“Your Honor, I
get a guinea for making this application.
You get two or three thousand a year
for sitting there to hear it. Is it for me
to teach you the Law?”) No, I didnt
say that, I only thought it, and produced
the “section” I relied on. On the other
hand, there was Judge Gordon, in a
coaching case where a K.C. was stressing
the dangers of the hairpin bends in the
Adelaide hills. “Don’t I know it!” said
the Bench. “And how proud I was, as
a young man, if old Jim the driver would
let me take the reins on that coach com-
ing down from Strathalbyn!”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The statutory division of the
Board of Trustees of the National Gal-
lery, Museum and Public Library of
Melbourne into three distinct bodies has
created an unforseert legal problem.
Under the terms of his will, chemist
Alfred Felton left £2so,ooo—now nearly
£1,000,000 —the income from which was
to be devoted to buying works of art
“calculated to elevate public taste” for
“the National Gallery, Museum and
Public Library.” As the custodians of
those institutions no longer function as
a single body, it is a nice legal point
whether the Felton Trustees can hand
pictures over to the new Gallery Board
without infringing the terms of the
bequest.
“Melbn”: A long-range controversy
between Lud Mayor Nettlefold and
Keith Murdoch, chairman of the
National Gallery trustees, has been amus-
ing Melbourne. The Mayor, opening an
“I suppose you are aware, Prendergast, a self-inflicted Wound is a crime ?”
art show, put forward the notion that a
lending “library” of pictures on the same
lines as a circulating library should be
organised, the Gallery co-operating by
lending some of the hundreds of pic-
tures it has stacked in its vaults. Mr.
Murdoch retorted that there was no such
suppressed treasure, pictures not hung
on the walls being already lent to pro-
vincial institutions. The inference from
the Lud Mayor’s tart rejoinder that he
had seen the stored pictures was that
Mr. Murdoch didn’t know the extent
of the Gallery’s possessions. The fact
is that the Gallery always has some sur-
plus pictures on hand —injudicious pur-
chases not now deemed worthy of a
place on the walls —and these are
periodically auctioned off. To offer them
as the nucleus of a lending library would
be to make the institution a laughing
stock. To relinquish good pictures for
such a purpose would be to incur the
anger of the Felton Trustees, on whom
the Gallery depends for nine-tenths of
its prestige. Anyhow, the Lud Mayor’s
plan has been tried in Melbourne by a
group of artists, and found wanting.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: In deciding to preserve
the interesting old Observatory Tower
on Wickham - terrace, Brisbane’s city
fathers have provided a welcome contrast
to the vandals who are setting themselves
to destroy Sydney’s architectural links
with early days. Built in 1828 as a wind-
mill for grinding grain for the newly-
formed convict settlement, the O.T. did
not prove satisfactory, and was after-
wards converted into a treadmill for
punishment purposes. After the cessa-
tion of convictism it became an obser-
vatory, and up to quite recent years stand-
ard time was checked by the dropping of
a black ball on the staff at its summit
and the firing of a gun at 1 p.m. Later
it served as an experimental station for
television and wireless research. It will
now be maintained as a lookout from
which visitors may enjoy the splendid
panoramic view of the city which it
affords.
* * * *
“Galenus”: A couple of interesting
Australian records were established dur-
ing 1944. Births numbered 149,259, an
increase of 4051 on the previous year’s
figures, and the highest total for any year
in Australian history. This represents a
rate of 20.99 per 1000 of population, the
highest since 1929. The deathrate
amongst each 1000 children under one
year of age for the same period was 31.33,
lowest on record. In South Australia it
was only 28.85, the first occasion on
which the rate for any one State has
fallen below 30. This compares more
than favorably with the world record
established by New Zealand, and is a
striking tribute to the efficiency of modern
methods of child-care.
* * * *
“Bo”: In Brisbane a clergyman com-
plained that while passing a hotel he had
been “caught up in a beer rush” and,
before he realised it, swept right up
to the bar, from which he had to
fight his way out. It set me thinking.
Why shouldn’t I, who must have been
out in the backyard somewhere when
heights and weights were being handed
out, let the flood tide of hefty hop-
chewers carry me on its crest right to
within reach of the lined-up schooners?
So next day I took up my stand near
the closed doors of my favorite hostelry.
As the bolts rattled there was an irre-
sistible surge forward and I adopted pas-
sive - resistance tactics, expecting that
when the stampede had spent itself I
would have been borne on the human
tide to, as it were, the front row d.c.
Thirty seconds later I was groping around
the pavement for my smashed horhed-
rims. One sleeve was torn out of my
coat, my umbrella was in four pieces and
there was a large blob of mud on my
collar where' a 15-stone wharfie had
trodden on my neck. I can only assume
that, as distinct from the bung rules
practised in Sydney pubs, gentility is the
order of the late-afternoon rush in the
northern capital.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: It had to come, what with
girl guerrillas galloping about Europe
and being discovered by excited press
correspondents in all sorts of places from
cocktail bars to cosmetic salons. Now a
couple of alleged female “partisan
leaders have turned up with rival claims
to a tract on the Italo-French border.
The breathless correspondent who dis-
covered them reports that Mme. *Milie
Chanoux, leader of the “Blue Devils,”
claims the spot for France, while Sig-
norina Eda Viglino, alias “Parisan
Pierra,” and leader of an equally blue
lot of devils, claims it for Italy. The Allied
Commissioner in charge of the area is a
major from Glamorganshire, so I doubt
whether the ladies will ever have to face
any barrage more severe than cameras.
At the same time, Tm disappointed in that
correspondent. He never once used the
word “amazon.”
* * * *
“Shufti” remembers a time when the
infantry was well equipped:
The equipment wrangle in Canberra takes
my mind back to the Middle East in 1942.
The rather precipitate move of the Ninth Divi-
sion from Syria to Egypt at the time when
Rommel was heading for Alexandria caught
my company short of light automatics.
Platoons had only two Brens instead of the
usual three, and efforts to get Brens were un-
ceasing. The sections, minus the guns, some-
how or other found their way into a tank re-
pair depot and the company moved off with
its full complement of Brens. In addition,
four Browning machine-guns had made their
appearance. A few days after the company had
reorganised on Tel-el-Eisa ridge an inspection
of our position would have gladdened the
hearts of present-day critics. It bristled with
machine-guns of all makes. During the Alamein
show the store of weapons increased, and such
refinements as machine pistols, German rifle
grenade dischargers and periscopic binoculars
were added. The “drill” was to pack all the
“extra” equipment on to the company store
truck, and as soon as the company was dug in
after an advance to call it forward. All weapons
were then put in position, and each platoon
had a fire power equivalent to approximately
three companies. The Hun suffered accordingly.
But Jerry is always a nark, and a couple of
days before the final break-through he sent a
Stuka parade over to interfere with the divi-
sional artillery near which the company had
been pulled out to have a rest. After the dust
had cleared away 1 could see that, although
the guns were still firing, bless ’em, the store
truck had received a near miss which was suffi-
cient to set it on fire. In a few minutes the
assortment of weapons carefully collected over
a period of five months had disappeared.
* * * *
“X.P.8.1.”: Eating at servicemen’s
hostels in Australian cities always brings
back memories of meals at the Hotel Fast,
run for A.I.F. men on Jerusalem leave.
White-coated Arab waiters, carolling
“Zoop, zoop,” sped up and down, placing
soup before each man. Lustily we joined
in their cheerful cry, and the room rang
with it. As plates emptied full ones were
substituted, and, lean and hungry from
the desert, we drank soup as if there were
no hereafter. Skyscrapers of bread dim-
inished and sprang up again; massive
blocks of butter were hacked away, but
larger ones took their places. While
“zoop” kept echoing for those late or
starving, roast dinners came in with the
joyous chant of “Rorst, rorst.” Wetook
it up, and like a part song “Zoop” and
“Rorst” were tossed musically between
waiters and A.I.F. in baritones, tenors
and boy sopranos. The roasts seemed to
come on an endless belt, and when satis-
fied, you had to yell loudly to stop the
flow. The show rose to a magnificent
choral climax with sweets. Back here,
steak, eggs, toast and the smiles of lovely
voluntary helpers have never quite
soothed away the nostalgia for the old,
carefree days of Hotel Fast.
“Ike Hollar”: A printer who once
specialised in visiting cards tells me the war
has given the final blow to that class of
business. Business cards are still in brisk
demand, but the purely formal card is
dead. The visiting card was a product
of the duelling era. Every gentleman
carried the pasteboards, and when he had
a duel-sized quarrel with a stranger (or
one not so strange) out came the card as
a notification of where his enemy’s
seconds could find him. Colley Cibber
remarked: “Now that the ladies have
adopted the practice of handing their
cards to their friends, the duels that ensue
are more deadly than ever are those
fought between gentlemen.” There is a
legend about a young joker of London
who made a collection of other men’s
cards, picked quarrels all over the place
and handed the cards he had collected to
the aggrieved parties. Dozens of re-
spectable citizens who had no desire to be
mixed up with duelling were astonished
by visits from stern seconds demanding
“satisfaction” for their principals. But
the young man’s perfidy was discovered
and things made so hot for him that he
fled to France.
LOOKING AHEAD.
“To avoid a repetition of the uncertainties which
surrounded the VE celebrations, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is already making plans for the public holidays,
etc., when Japan is defeated. ‘Everything must be
in readiness to enable the people to demonstrate their
joy,’ says Deputy Premier Baddeley.”
We’d scant chance to celebrate gladly
When Germany called it a day,
But we won’t be, asseverates Baddeley,
Caught napping again the same way.
The stage will be set for a razzle
All past jamborees to eclipse
When we’ve beaten Japan to a frazzle,
When we’ve walloped the Nips.
There’ll be holidays no one need wait for,
Full-paid ones at that, I’ve a hunch,
When there’s never a fear of being late lor
A job', or a bundy to punch.
There’ll be sports, like the Roman circenses,
And the full-voiced rejoicing that grips
The most undemonstrative senses
When we’ve walloped the Nips.
There’s a hymn you have memories, no doubt
°f,
That features, from trouble released
In Zion, the song and the shout of
The faithful who triumph and feast.
(It’s a Heaven more sober, I wis, when
It’s limned by most clerical lips)
But mayhap ’twill be something like this when
We’ve walloped the Nips.
There’ll be heroes deservedly toasted,
The stalwarts who shattered our foes,
And a bullock or two to be roasted,
Or a whole half-a-dozen —who knows?
There’ll be flags in full measure high-masted
And bonfires set blazing in whips,
When the heartening news is broadcasted
That we’ve walloped the Nips.
On the days that will live as red-letter
Our vigilant rulers foretell
All hearts will be opened. Still better,
The putts will keep open as well.
When the Jerries caved in we were sadly
Misled by officialdom’s slips,
There’ll be no such mishaps, teste Baddeley,
When we’ve walloped the Nips.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A VULNERABLE POINT.
“The ‘Victory Test’ match has impressed upon
Englishmen the urgent need for finding new bowling
talent.” — Cable.
In various other crafts of peace and war,
From statesmanship and soldiering to art
And science, they possess an ample store
Of men equipped to play a worthy part.
But ruefully the cricket world’s controllers
Admit a scarcity of deadly Bowlers.
They anxiously await some star to rise
With skill and guile too rare to be belittled,
On whom the batsmen must keep watchful eyes
To obviate his wickets being skittled,
Or giving chances in the gully, or
Succumbing to a tricky leg-before.
They need some operators with the pace
To rock tempestuous deliveries in
And take the formidable Larwood’s place,
And some practitioner of twist and spin
And artifice to render what they call
The “googlie” a demoralising ball.
They’re out to find another Barnes or Rhodes,
Or half a score of others you may name,
The sort who mowed opponents down m loads,
Turning the tide in many a hard-fought game,
Some subtle master of the type of trundte
Required to make a Bradman drop his bundle.
Thev’ve men whose eminence has been revealed
Alike in war and statecraft. Yet they feel
That in another and a different field
They’re handicapped by an Achilles heel.
On pitches smooth as shirt-fronts from the
rollers, . , . -
They’re short of really devastating bowlers.
n.s.w.
IFORD.


“Edward O.”: At Dookie (Vic.)
Agricultural College we have Furphy
water-carts, and some of these bear
an admonition in Pitman's shorthand
not to drink beer. Now we have
a new water-cart, and when I trans-
lated the shorthand signs on it I
found that whisky is now also barred.
The old sign read: “Water is the gift of
God. Beer is a concoction of the Devil!
Don’t drink beer.” Moulded on each end
of the latest tank is the legend “Water is
the gift of God. Beer and whisky are
concoctions of the Devil. Come and have
a drink of water.”
* * * ♦,
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne “Argus”
engaged* an Englishman, Lieut.-Col.
T. M. English, to give his impressions
of Australia. His criticism of this coun-
try’s institutions, houses, accent, culture,
habits and customs is largely well
grounded, but it has all been said before,
and plenty of Australians have said it
more emphatically. I was interested in
one assertion, however:
Two quite dramatic exhibitions of actual
intellectual persecution, or rather prosecu-
tion, have happened since I have been in
Australia. I must say they astonished me.
This sort of thing is quite unfamiliar to
me in England, and I don’t think it could
happen there nowadays.
I don’t know on what evidence our visitor
bases this assertion. England has had
art cases and its indecency prosecutions
of literary productions by the dozen, from
Whistler v, Ruskin to the seizure by the
police of D. H. Lawrence’s paintings and
the banning of his Lady Chatterley’s
Lover, the censoring of Shaw’s
Widowers’ Houses and Mrs. Warren’s
Profession, and the daubing of Epstein’s
Rima. What makes the lieut.-col. think
that British magistrates and the G.B.P.
have become so enlightened that they
wouldn’t react to a similar stimulus in
the same old way?
* * * *
“Si Anu” on an island in the news:
Labuan, the small island on Borneo’s north-
west coast, is coming into the Pacific war
arena. Now a Jap naval and seaplane base,
it was once expected to rival Singapore as a
port of call between .the West and China.
Merchantmen running down the trade wind
preferred this route because they missed the
calms which left them an easy prey to pirates.
The advent of steam removed this considera-
tion and “Lab” was a forgotten outpost until
it became a landing-place for the Hong Kong-
Singapore cable. When the Australians reach
the island they will be puzzled at some of the
old graves in the European cemetery with
great solid concrete mounds built over them.
The Malays, according to their own tradition,
deduce that these mounds were built to keep
the spirits of the dead from rising and preying
on the living, but there is a more practical
explanation. In the early days of the settle-
ment Dyak head-hunters found it easier to
paddle over from the mainland in the dark
and rifle graves in search of their grisly trophies
than to defeat a resolute foe in combat. Magel-
lan’s ship, which was the first to circumnavi-
gate the globe, may have called at Labuan, but
the Portuguese navigator never saw it. He was
killed in the Philippines and the voyage was
completed by his lieutenant.
“Thanks to our policy of Truth in Advertising We have had a most
successful year."
“Strict Veg.”; In a quiz in Melbourne
the question was asked “What is the lead-
ing secondary industry in Victoria?” One
answer was “black-marketing.” “Horse-
racing” might have served equally well,
Deputy Premier Hollway has given tote
figures in the Assembly: £1,003,029 paid
to the Government in the last five years
out of metropolitan tote bets. As this
represents 10 p.c. of the total, and as
wagers with bookmakers amount to five
or six times the tote total, there is a tidy
sum of money circulating amongst the
gentry whose sole intellectual occupation
is studying equine “form” and whose only
physical exercise is shouting the odds. As
commission for working the totes, Auto-
matic Totalisators drew £288,461 in the
five years. It is a mildly ironical reflec-
tion that the totalisator was invented by
the son of an archbishop.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: Captain J. R. Patrick
(“Pat” to the men of the sea) was a
straight Scot. I was in his ship out East
with him. As guest of honor on the
bridge was one of the veiy high-ups from
the owner’s office. Finding that Pat was
not friendly with another skipper in
the line this potentate confided that he
was voyaging out to catch Captain X un-
prepared with his books. Next day X’s
ship hove in sight. Pat hove to, the gig
was lowered away and he was pulled
to the other ship., On his return the great
man asked “Wasn’t that X’s ship?”
“Yes.” “Why did you go aboard? You
haven’t warned him, have you?” “That’s
my business,” said Pat. “If you have
warned X the office will beach you.”
“That’s also my business,” replied Pat.
Ten minutes’ silence; then the important
person exploded. “But I thought you
hated him, too!” “Yes, so I do,” said
Pat, “but not enough to see a brother-
deep-water sailor stabbed in the back.”
X’s affairs were O.K. on arrival at port.
Pat didn’t get sacked.
“R. Volt”: Cable and Wireless, Ltd.,
transmitted the colossal total of 85,000,000
words of press news in the 48 weeks be-
tween D-day and the war’s end in
Europe, in addition to the flow of other
kinds of traffic. A unique item was 1000
wirelessed pictures. These totals weren’t
approached in the last war, but there was
then no Beam to relieve the congested
cables. Cocos Island did not see an
“NN” (line clear) signal for four years,
and cheap-rate cables were frequently
shipped from one station to another by
convenient steamers, which sometimes
carried the returning soldiers who had
sent them. During the postal and tele-
graph strike in which the native staff in
India indulged non-striking operators
are said to have taken home bundles of
unsent messages at the end of the day’s
work, presumably to use them as shaving
paper. On the Australian routes, how-
ever, the service was remarkably efficient.
The armistice message came through from
London in seven minutes.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Nowadays newsboys, tram-
conductors, bus-conductors, the men who
gather the pennies from gas-meters and
people behind counters examine the
pennies that pass through their hands.
They are searching for the magic date
1930. The mint authorities, so dealers
aver, have stated that no pennies were
minted in that year, but, nevertheless,
there are some pennies bearing thi« date
in circulation. A small ad. in the “S.M.
Herald” offered a bob each for these
pennies a few weeks ago ; a week later
the price was raised to 55., and a week
later still it went to 10s. A dealer now
tells me he will give 11s. each for them.
So far he has been able to buy only two.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is an interesting re-
minder of more urbane years in the ex-
hibition of pictures which opened the
Heidelberg (Vic.) Arts Festival at that
city’s Town Hall in the shape of a land-
"It's no use , Emily; that scarecrow's no good. I’ll have to get a gun!"
scape of Heidelberg, Germany, by G.
Mosler, presented to its, Victorian name-
sake by the burgomaster of the German
city. Just before the war an exchange of
pictures between the two cities was
arranged, and Murray Griffin, the Aus-
tralian artist, was deputed to hold the
mirror up to the Victorian town. Pre-
sumably the German picture is the ex-
change piece. Griffin, appointed an
official war artist, is now a p.o.w. in
Malaya.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: The housing shortage isn’t
an Australian monopoly, as witness this
ad. in the “Daily News” of Amherst
(Nova Scotia):
WANTED: —Large barrel suitable for
drowning two-months’-old baby so we may
secure two rooms or apartment furnished.
Or will person who doesn’t consider child-
ren public nuisance accommodate us and
save life of future Premier?
* * * *
“Rufus Rawhide” (Stellenbosch):
“F.D.R.P.” (Johannesburg) refers to
British South Africans as “Vaalpens” (B.
24/1/’45). When the Voortrekkers left
the Eastern Cape in the thirties of last
century they were warned by those who
stayed behind that the Kaffirs and wild
beasts would kill them all. No notice
was taken by the Voortrekkers, who were
then called “Blikoors” (tin ears) because
they wduld not listen. On arrival at the
Vaal River the men waded through, lead-
ing their spans of oxen. The river was
muddy at this time, and when these trek-
kers arrived on the Transvaal side they
were called “Vaalpens” meaning “muddy
stomachs.” Those who stayed behind in
the Cape were called “Woltoone,” as the
trekkers considered these had wool be-
tween their toes and therefore couldn’t
walk. The British South African has
never been known as a “Vaalpens.” As
for Afrikaans, it is a soft and pure tongue.
To hear the Finance Minister, Jan Hof-
meyer, or the Leader of the Opposition,
Dr. D. Malan, using it is delightful. Afri-
kaans should be a universal language; it
is more euphonious than Esperanto is
and easier to learn. English-speaking
South Africans often use both English
and Afrikaans in speech.
* * * *
“M. McK.”: Years ago I asked
ihe historian Ernest Scott whether France
owns the ground upon which stands the
La Perouse monument at Botany Bay
(B. 9/5/’45). He said “yes,” and added:
“In July, 1917, the N.S.W. Government
handed over the land to the French
nation in perpetuity. Holman was
Premier at the time, but I believe the
proposal was first put forward by Joseph
Carruthers. I was informed that he made
it after reading my little book on La
Perouse. The piece of land is very small,
and the giving of it to France was simply
a friendly gesture and a tribute to a great
French navigator.”
* * * *
“Pip” on the military genius for re-
pose : —•
The most adept yogi can teach the soldier
frothing about remaining reasonably comfort-
able in the most uncomfortable-looking atti-
tudes. After years of being jammed into every
type of transport there is, bodies have be-
come completely flexible and adaptable. A
trip of 50 miles or so in the back of a 15cwt.
truck is common, often with eight chaps piled
into the confined space. They lie on the floor,
sit on petrol drums, huddle in corners or corru-
gate the anatomy by perching on the sides. The
continual bumps on the rough roads raise poly-
chromatic bruises and call forth warm abuse
against the driver, who is reminded frequently
“Hey, you missed one!” Train travel, too,
makes the soldier recline in postures never in-
tended by nature. Sleeping on the seat', with
one leg up the wall is a frequent practice.
Head under the seat and heels resting on the
seat opposite is another standard position.
Sleeping on the rack, on the other hand, is
for the few, and comes easily only after long
practice. Transport ’planes are the real test
of adaptability. A conglomeration of mailbags,
stores boxes, greasy machine parts, equipment,
reserve rations, rubber rafts and bodies is piled
in indiscriminately. Such seats as are provided
are very small and very hard, and more often ,
than not piled with freight, so the drill is to lie
on a mailbag and use a “Mae West” as a
pillow. When you can curl up in comfort on
a mailbag you can be comfortable anywhere
else in the world. Landing barges, ships’ decks
and tanks all produce problems of their own,
but they are overcome in time.
# * * *
“Melbn”; That fixing the price of a
commodity in short supply doesn’t help is
shown by a comparison of London with
Melbourne. In the war-scarred Hub
people can always get a couple of rooms
amongst the rubble, and practically every
vacant roofed space has its tenant. In
Melbourne rents are pegged, and there
are so many restrictions and regulations
governing letting that thousands of rooms
in private homes, hotels and other insti-
tutions are empty. If the authorities give
the tenant practically a free hand to be
as offensive as he likes naturally house-
owners won’t have him.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A particularly sudden adop-
tion from the U.S.A. is the change in the
word “dessert.” Here, as in England, it
has always meant fruit after dinner. To
Americans it means what we call the
sweets course; which is, after all, the
original Norman-French meaning—any
light after-dinner dish while the table is
being cleared (dis-served) after the serious
feeding. Our manufacturers now see
the handiness of this comprehensive word
for the jellies and custards they advertise,
and are pressing it so consistently per
radio that its new use seems certain.
* * * *
“Shibli”: On the Tuesday morning of
VE-day week in Wellington (M.L.) Arbi-
tration Court Judge Tyndall was asked
by his wife to buy the household bread
on his way to court. He was not suc-
cessful. The Judge had this well in mind
when the bakers and pastrycooks’ award
came up for revision. He told the parties
to the dispute of his trouble, and fol-
lowed that up with an anecdote. In the
early days of Dr. Charles Steinmetz’s
service with the General Electric Co. in
the U.S.A. he smoked cigars “just like
Mr. Churchill.” One day the company
issued an order that no smoking was to
be permitted in the factory. For some
days Dr. Steinmetz was missing from
work. The manager ’phoned him to find
out what was wrong. Was the doctor ill?
Steinmetz said he was quite well. “Well,
what about making an appearance at
work?” “No smoking, no Steinmetz,’’
replied the doctor. “And so, gentleman,”
concluded Justice Tyndall, “no bread, no
case!”
sfc . sfc * *
“Latina”: In my schooldays we made
sure of the Latin gerunds di, do and dum
by memorising the lines:
When Dido heard Aineas would not come,
She wept in silence—so was Dido dumb.
All we knew then of Trieste was, that its
ancient .Roman name was Tergestium.
Our exercise in mnemonics suggests an-
other couplet:
When Tito heard the British ships had come,
A pain developed in poor Tito’s turn.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Sister”: One of the little creeks of
Papua this. Half a mile across, its waters
so crystal-clear that one could see a lazy
old crocodile basking at the bottom of it.
Drop scenes of rouge-flamb D’Alberti
blazed down from the 200-feet-high tops
of the illimo trees: lady palms and white-
blossomed shrubs bordered the banks and
mountain moss and lovely ferns rioted
across the stream. Dragonflies in myriads,
all opalescent gold and green and scarlet
and mauve, fluttered by and a bird of
paradise flashed past our bows like a
golden meteor. All this for hours. The
wabada boys who manned the whaleboat
bent to their oars in silence (great beauty
demands silence, its due). Round a bend
in the creek a canoe shot out. Ten sav-
ages in dogs’ teeth necklaces, one wear-
ing a smoked human hand as a pendant
round his neck, paddled it. Ugly
brutes these, who never even looked at
us: they just paddlecj, nast as though we
were not there. Suddenly across the tops
of the trees came the sound of singing,
not native. As we shot out into the
river a canoe passed us right out in the
centre of the stream. An old native
woman rowed it, and it was piled high
with golden plantains. Fanning herself
in the bows was a Chinese girl, clad in
a long loose gown of crimson silk, whilst
round her neck and reaching down to
her waist gleamed a string of pearls that
took my breath away. Miss Excellent
Brightness her name, daughter to one of
the few Chinese still in the Possession.
* * * *
“B-gar”: “Sundowner’s “hors e-
wrangler” (B. 16/5/’45), who tamed a
brumby by placing his sweat-covered
hands on the horse’s nostrils, unaccount-
ably didn’t yodel and so proclaim that
he was an ace broncho buster from the
States. The only methods I know of
for catching and handling unbroken
horses are by use of a rope or the crush,
although I once saw a “professor” make
an attempt to catch and bridle an un-
broken colt by the use of a small tree
branch smeared with oil of boronia ; the
prof.’s dope had no effect on the colt.
And why wasn’t “S’s” brumby still un-
shod, as befitted one who had done no
work where there were hard roads or
flinty hills?
* * »
“E. 2”: The two hefty wheat-lumpers
got into argument in the unlicensed
grog-shanty and decided to fight it out
in the yard behind the shack. It was a
blazing hot day and they fought without
shade for 20 minutes; purely a bashing
contest, with both having plenty of ability
to take punishment. Dan, who refereed
the show, proclaimed it a draw. “I had
to,” he explained. “I thought one cove
might’ve had the best of it, but by the
time they’d finished I couldn’t recognise
either of ’em.”
* * * *
“BetchaT: Though I’ve had a few quar-
rels with magpies at times, not the least
being the time they took to and killed
many of the fowls, I didn’t know the
black-and-white blokes tackled sheep till
Jake enlightened me recently. His tale
was confirmed by another neighbor, who
also claims to have lost sheep through
the bird’s depredations. Maggie, it ap-
pears, copies Kejly’s technique, but lacks
his striking strength, for whereas the crow
can quickly take an eye, maggie must
gouge persistently to collect the same
member. Jake, who for some days blamed
crows for the mutilation of his weak
stock, was at a loss to locate the culprits,
till, watching, he more than once caught
the magpies in the act. Getting rid of
them didn’t offer the same difficulty that
Kelly presents, the only method with
which I’ve had any measure of suc-
cess against the black scavenger being to
run a phosphorus poison in under the
eyes of freshly-dead sheep.
“Moyhu”: The female lyrebird would
addle more eggs than she’d hatch out
but for the equalising effect of the winter
cold on her exceptionally high body tem-
perature (B. 9/5/’45) and the fact that
the hen-bird allows the cooler-blooded
cock-bird occasional turns on the nest.
Mortality rate among chicks-in-shell is
always high during an early spring or in
a comparatively warm winter because of
this abnormal bloodheat in the bird
mother. The year following such a
season the female instinctively seeks
higher altitudes for nesting, venturing
lower only when numbers have been re-
gained.
“Mat’s Mate”; We were sitting by the
tent, silent, when we heard a tapping and
saw the minah cleaning out the empty
jam-tin we’d thrown aside. The bird
would slip into the tin, have three or four
quick pecks at the jam remnants, bob
out, have a look around and slip in again.
Mat slowly unfolded himself and began
to advance on that tip, gaining a few
inches each time the bird went in. As the
minah had to go further in each time to
get at the jam, Mat made greater gains,
until he was within about ten feet of it.
The bird became nervous. It hadn’t de-
tected any movement, but was aware of
a change in the immediate landscape. It
“I hope they're gettin' this down at Wombat Flat!”
walked round the tin, fluttered away,
came back. Mat froze. At last, re-
assured, the minah went into the tin again
and, as Mat moved, its head shot out
and it caught him. With a volley of bad
language it fled upstairs into a tree, and
from there called Mat everything. Mat
listened with an abashed look on his
,face, then went to the tucker-box, got a
tablespoonful of jam, smeared it over the
empty tin and withdrew. In three minutes
the minah was feasting.
* * *
“Esk D.”: George, when he decided
to drive the little battery with water-
power, made his piping from flat sheets
of galvanised-iron, and I had to admit
he made a neat job of bending the iron
and riveting and soldering the seams.
There was 60 feet of lOin. piping and
the remainder was reduced gradually to
a 2in. nozzle for the Pelton wheel.
George had no stop in the pipes to cut
off the water, but he fashioned a hinged
lid to close the inlet. He gave the wheel
a run and it performed well; then he
cut off the water. Immediately there
was a crumpling as the top sections of
the pipe caved in—George hadn’t allowed
for the vacuum as the water ran out,
* * * *
“Sans Changer”: When Jimmy, the
cowboy on our outback S.A. station,
asked the price of various shirts, strides,
underpants, etc., the hawker unblush-
ingly bumped the price up. Jimmy stood
for a few moments in silent contempla-
tion, possibly considering the state of
his balance in the books. Then he picked
up one garment after another and
quickly rattled off the interpretation of
the cryptic trade price that adorned each
tag. The hawker was so dumbfounded
that Jimmy had practically finished be-
fore he recovered sufficiently to cut him
short. But the damage had been done
and a highly profitable trip was trans-
formed into a dead loss so far as we were
concerned. It transpired that the goods
offered had come from the wholesalers
with whom Jimmy had been working—in
fact, many of them were in Jimmy’s own
handwriting.
* * * *
“Bo”: The little, wiry cove with the
bedraggled two-tone ziff was sitting in the
sun against the wall of his shack as I
came up. We got yarning, and I asked
him didn’t he have a dog. “Lorst one
with a tick a week or two back,” he said.
“A great ratter he were. I’ll have t’ get
another one. An’ that reminds me” —he
heaved himself up—“l think them rats
must’ve nested in me stror mattress. Heard
’em the last coupla nights. I might as
well get rid of ’em now while I think of
it.” He went in, then I heard the mattress
being dragged on to the floor. A few
seconds later came a dull thud, and then
the little bloke strolled out with a dead
black snake draped over a spade handle.
He slung it on a near-by anthill, came
back and resumed his possie in the sun.
“I’m blanky glad it' was on’y one o’
them,” he said casually. “There’s nothin’
worse than to have a joint overrun with
rats. Have t’ bite Brophy along the road
fer one of his foxy’s new lot o’ pups.”
V
“Locksley”: Testing various potential
archery timbers on a N.Q. beach, I
flighted an arrow at a seemingly impos-
sible target, a dinghy on the beach.
Scored a clean hit. The distance was
stepped, argued over, finally agreed
on as 208 yards. The bow was black
wattle. Best arrowhead I know for
knocking over wallabies at fair distances
is a .303 cartridge from which half an
inch has been sawn off the butt, with a
paper shaft fitting snugly inside.
* * * *
“S.G.”: So “Naturala” (B. 16/5/’45)
can scarcely credit that sandflies could
swarm thickly enough to kill a wallaroo!
Well, I was scrub-felling out of Mt. Lar-
com (Q.) and the pests nearly drove us
mad. We often saw kangas and wallabies
crash blindly into tree trunks and be
stunned or killed. They would be
literally a mass of sandflies, their ears
and eyes choked with the things. Many
horses in the district were ruined. Some
of the poor devils would come into the
smoke from the scrub fires and roll on
the coals and ashes in an effort to get
rid of the torment, frequently burning
themselves so badly as to be unfit for
further work. It’s a wonder somebody
never worked out a repellant that could
be smeared on domestic animals to pro-
tect them.
“Eureka”: “Pat Ater” (B. 9/5/’45) will
have to find another reason besides
climate and soil for the comparatively
stunted growth of the Parramatta Park
(N.S.W.) oak-tree. Less then five miles
away is the largest oak-tree in Australia.
This tree, known as the Bland oak, was
planted by Dr. William Bland, a ship’s
surgeon, who arrived in Sydney in 1814,
at what is now Fairfield, It is claimed
that at least 100 cars could shelter under
this oak, which now bears a memorial
tablet.
* * * »
“The 0.D.”: Hats off to-“Moyhu” (B.
23/5/’45), the first man who ever saw a
herd of turtles in the Murray Valley and
never blamed the drink!
** ( * *
“Wippegong”: It’s a far cry from a
camp draft or a bullock team in the
timber country or a North Coast (N.S.W.)
dairy-farm to the cattle of India. Grey,
lean, lazy animals, I haven’t yet seen one
that looked good for milk or beef,
though the humps on their necks are
handy for stopping them from slipping
straight through their yokes under the
strain of the incredible loads they pull.
Most remarkable are their numbers in
the heart of the cities. On Calcutta’s
equivalent of the Harbor Bridge you can
often see high-piled ox-carts head to tail
along the entire length, while in the
streets a bull is likely to stroll across an
intersection just when the cop has the
traffic almost under control. Pavements
are favorite spots for a snooze and a
chew, and cows, calves and their sires
may be seen cluttering up the entrance
to shops, bazaars, temples and even pubs;
and they’re so used to being walked
around that if one of our stockmen
charged one of these steers the only result
would be a horrible collision. Saw a
young cow pulling a lawnmower in a
park, and along came a native, who began
to hitch a hefty bull to another mower.
The bull saw the cow and said to him-
self “I’m going over there.” The driver
jerked the rope and growled “Hey! Come
back you. There’s work to do.” “Yes,
I know,” says Ferdinand, “but I’m going
over there first” ; and he set off at a smart
trot. The running duel across the grass
was fought at such a brisk pace that
neither noticed the large iron post
that lay in the path of the taut rope
connecting the contestants, till sud-
denly there was a whirl of brown
limbs and a loud clang as a skull
struck the metal. Don’t know what
happened after that, for if there’s any-
thing I hate it’s trying to look over my
back, like a shag, while riding in a rick-
shaw.
* * * *
“Blime”: Despite his vehemence, no
one in Dry Gully treated Tommy and his
divining rod seriously till the day he met
Bill Hodge looking for a likely place to
sink a well. Tommy eagerly offered his
assistance, saying “Just wait till I get me
rod—l’ll soon find you a place.” Half
an hour later he was perambulating the
gully, finally coming to rest near Barney’s
derelict shack. “That’s her, Bill,”
he announced. “Sink alongside that
stump an’ I bet y’ll never regret it.”
Hodge grinned tolerantly, and took out
a few shovels full as an experiment. Then
the blade grated hard. “It’s only a stone,
encouraged Tommy. “Here, give us a
go.” Ten minutes later the diviner was
gaping over the full case of whisky he
had unearthed, while Hodge was recall-
ing Barney’s claim of half a dozen cases
secreted in different spots. Too right, Dry
Gully believes in the divining rod now,
and Tommy’s about the most popular
bloke around.
* * * *
“Aperist”: Before “Moyhu” (B.
25/4/’45) springs any more yarns con-
cerning bees and wombats I advise him
to take an elementary course in apicul-
ture. Who ever heard of a hive of “small
black Italian bees”? The Italian is larg-
ish as bees go, while its abdomen carries
three or more transverse yellow stripes.
The black is the old English bee, though
originally supposed to have come from
Germany. It is noted for its hostility to
intruders and possesses a redoubtable
sting. Cross with the Italian and the result
is a hybrid carrying fewer stripes and ot
a duller hue. And, like the traditional
half-breed, it possesses the vices of both
parents and the virtues of neither. It
takes a good bee master to open and rob
a hive of hybrids even on the sunniest
day. The almost white and very tract-
able Carniolan is also the busiest; whilst
its Sittings from flower to flower seem to
leave the black and the Italian practically
standing still.
* * * *
“Merinodale”: That note about a cage-
ful of rats being timid while one alone
in the cage will fight the intruding hand
(B. 23/ 5/ ’45) is also true of merino rams.
It’s safe to get into a pen containing
several rams ; try it with one on his own
and be ready for trouble.
SOLDIER FROM THE HILLS.
A timber shack grown old beside the creek
Where mountain water leapt, as clear as dew,
Sparkling through shade and sunlight down the
peak—'
This was the only home he ever knew.
Often he lay beside the brook and spent
In dreams youth’s importunity for deeds,
Stirred vaguely by a restless discontent,
A strange awareness of tormenting needs.
Here is another stream, but this is warm;
The air is heavy and the forest rank.
The ridges, jungle-clad, are wreathed in storm,
And he lies dead, outstretched beside the
bank.
Oh, never think he would regret the trade
Of quiet ageing for this fatal fling!
This was the pattern of the dream he made,
The cost was never in the reckoning.
On his far hills boronia is in flower;
The vales are carpeted with spring, ,b'ut he
Has sold his summer for that lifelong hour
That crowned his unexpected destiny.
R.A.A.F.
R. H. WEBSTER.


“Watch you don’t chop your foot off, son—got no spare petrol to take
you to the doctor.”
“Old-timer”: Old Mac, Mallee cocky,
was in town seeing about insuring the
crop against fire when his missus came
up, called him aside and told him the
Robertsons’ house had burned to the
ground the night before. “Our place is
weatherboard, y’ know, Father,” she said,
“and it would be awful if we lost it.
Surely it wouldn’t hurt to insure it, too.”
Mac thought it over, had a mental vision
of the homestead in flames and went
back to the agent. “How about if I want
t’ insure me house, too?” he asked. The
agent looked at him. “Ain’t thinkin’ of
leaving the district, are y’, Mac?” Mac,
who wore his honesty like a garment for
all to see, wanted to fight, and that
agent had a job to persuade him that it
was all in fun. “Well,” Mac growled,
“you keep that fun for someone else.
Now, how about me house?” The agent
became serious. “Well, the premiums
vary according to certain things. For
instance, what sort of means have you
got out there for extinguishing a fire?”
Mac pursed his lips. “Well, there’s the
rain,” he offered. The agent snorted.
Mac became indignant. “You blasted
insurance blokes want it all your own
way,” he roared. “Don’t the Bible say
it falls on the just and the unjust? Well,
whyinell shouldn’t you take some of the
flamin’ risk as well as me?” It took four
drinks to soothe him down.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sydney’s harborside suburbs
are hearing for the first time in a quarter-
century the cark of crows. It might be
only a coincidence that the sable scaven-
gers’ appearance over the densely-packed
littoral occurs during a real old-man
drought outback, for by all the rules of
the game he should be having the time
of his life among the sheep, which are
dying in their tens of thousands. There
are no reports of elderly suburban
animals having had their eyes picked out,
and as animal cadavers left in the streets
are as scarce as vigorous decisions in
Canberra it would seem that the visitors,
unless they have turned vegetarian, are
having a lean time. Perhaps that lord
of the air the wedgetail eagle may, if
the avian trek to the city gets into full
swing, be shortly seen hanging around
outside King’s Cross hamburger joints
waiting to scrounge a few titbits,
* * * *
“Creel”: One unusual result of the
heavy rain which accompanied the super-
cyclone of 1918 in N.Q., mentioned by
“Plane Creek” (B. 9/5/’45), was the effect
of the fresh water on coral reefs off the
coast. A flood of fresh water a yard in
depth flowed out over the surface of the
sea ; the day after the cyclone a passing
steamer drew up bucketfuls of fresh water
from the sea at a distance of eight miles
from the shore between Mackay and
Bowen. Many cofal jee£s were literally
drowned by this fresh water, every animal
and plant on the surface of the coral
structure being killed. This destruction
continued as deep as 10ft. below mean
sea level on Stone Island Reef, which
prior to 1918 was regarded as the most
beautiful coral reef in N.Q. A photo-
graph of the reef as it then was is one
of the finest illustrations in Saville-Kent’s
notable book on the Great Barrier Reef.
The reef’s glorious wealth of living coral
was completely destroyed by the fresh
water. The coral polyps have never re-
commenced work there, and today the
dead reef is smothered beneath a dense
seaweed jungle.
“P ete r p i n”: Rummaging through
Yorky’s long-discarded duqnage I was
taken by a couple of big queer-shaped
leather bags that obviously had one time
buckled on to' a pack-saddle. “Dog
bags,” Yorky explained. “You see, back
up North in the early days there were
that many niggers that kangaroo and
every other kind of game was scarce,
and if a man didn’t look spry he’d go
pretty hungry. So a couple of good ’roo
dogs were worth their weight in gold. But
a dog, however good, wouldn’t have had
a chance if it were kept trotting along-
side the plant all day on the move; so
we used to carry our dogs so that they
were fresh whenever a ’roo was sighted.
One on each side of a steady old pack-
horse. And they did their own sighting
—they’d be out of the bag and off the
moment they spotted a ’roo. Trained
from puppies to ride in the bags. What
were they worth? Well, a couple of good
dogs would keep a whole droving plant
supplied—a man would laugh at you if
you offered him less than fifty quid a
dog.”
“Notodone”: Browsing through Gold-
smith’s Animated Nature I was struck
with the statement that of all animals
the dog is the most courageous, in
that the dog alone will voluntarily
attack an animal of another species,
superior in size and armament. Whether
he derives the access of courage from
the moral support given by his com-
panion and master, man, may be argued,
but there is no question that Gold-
smith’s summing-up of his most dominant
characteristic is correct, be his opponent
a dingo or a lion.
* * * *
“Harap”: So “Arty Hill” tested the
speed of a river with “a wooden float”
and found it to be 9.174 m.p.h. (B.
2/5/’45)! Sorry, “Arty,” but you can’t
work to that degree of accuracy with
anything so buoyant and rough as a piece
of wood. Skin-friction, air resistance and
wind may combine to introduce an error
that could make your experiment quite
worthless. Next time you want to do
the job use a tin with a tight-fitting lid—a
50-cigarette tin will do —weighted with
something that won’t rattle about until
it floats vertically with about half an inch
above the surface. Calculate your speed
over the measured distance and multiply
by 0.8, and your final result will be pretty
right—but certainly not accurate to the
third place of decimals.
* * * *
“Pigskin Bagman”: Doughy the
Dreamer was one of a team responsible
for some big ’roo-skin tallies from n.-w.
Queensland. When I met him in Sydney
recently he had one shoulder decorated
with a plaster cast and the arm supported
in a metal splint. “It was this way,” ex-
plained Doughy. “You remember how I
was too young for the last war, and I
used to dream all them ’roos I was
sneakin’ on was Germans? When I told
you blokes about it y’ used to laugh at
me. Well, it’s a funny thing, but when I
gets into this show all them dreams just
went in reverse. When I spots a couple
o’ Japs makin’ their way through the
kunai, out o’ range, I slithers down the
hill and starts a bit of high-class sneakin’.
Well to me them Japs is just a pair o’ big
greys, and o’ course I picks on the heavi-
est hide. I gets well down, and can only
see the buck. I drop him clean as a
whistle, an’ then I don’t know nothin’
till a A.M.C. bloke is pullin’ me about
back in the scrub.” “They get with
a mortar or something?” I asked. “No,”
replied Doughy, “y’ see, while I’m
sneakin’ on that buck the blasted doe gets
round behind me with a grenade!”
* * * *
“Nigel D.”: Speaking of the myriads
of hopper locusts that occasionally strip
the country recalls a visitation that struck
a section of the W.A. wheat belt. With
the old man dead and the adult sons
away at the war, Mother brought her
thinking apparatus into operation. The
small crop she had put in with consider-
able trouble meant much to her, so she
called to her assistance her flock of a
thousand or so sheep. To and fro across
the van of the advancing ’hoppers the
jumbucks were driven, their four thou-
sand sharp hooves not missing a square
inch of earth. So the ’hoppers were
chopped and chopped until the dust-dry
soil became literally moist with the sub-
stance of their bodies. The few that
managed to get through the barrage
hardly dinted the wheat that otherwise
would have been devastated.
* * * *
“Norm S.”: I have tried all “Wakool
Will’s” baits for Murray cod (B. 9 / 5 / ’45),
but none of them is in the race compared
with fowl eggs. All you have to do is
punch a small hole in each end of the egg
and blow out the innards, then poke the
shank of the hook through the egg and
seal each hole with parraffin wax. Attach
half a dozen of these baits to springers,
and the big fellows will keep you awake
as they try to get at the embryo chickens.
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”: A simple-seeming
young chap, after coming to our town,
began to boast of his ability to handle
any snake that crawled, without being
bitten. “I’ve a way with them,” he ex-
plained to anyone he could get to listen,
.No one had ever seen Leatherlip (for so
he had been nicknamed) handle a ser-
pent, but when a concert was arranged he
was jestingly requested to put on a turn.
Much to the organiser’s surprise, Leather-
lip jumped at the chance. “Briftg along
yer snakes an’ I’ll show y’,” he answered
with alacrity. Concert night came, and
the star performer appeared with a sugar-
bag half-full of squirming wrigglers,
which he dumped beside him on the stage.
Without a moment’s hesitation Leather-
lip thrust a hand recklessly into the sin-
ister sack, jerked it out even more quickly,
and with a frightful yell rushed towards
“Mo, no, boys! The order 'fire’ is meant for you to shoot the gun!"
the wings, with four feet of writhing
viciousness fastened tenaciously to his
thumb. The audience gasped—then
rocked with laughter: The practical joker
who’d volunteered to provide the reptiles
had supplied a bag of very-much-alive
eels
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The east coast of Borneo
presents a tough problem to invaders, but
the west coast is even tougher. Big rivers
pour down into the China Sea from the
high central backbone, but before they
reach it they have to find their way
through interminable miles of mangrove
swamp, a dead world through which the
traveller can journey for hours in deathly
silence before reaching a bit of dry land
and the bungalow of some lonely planter.
Between one planter’s bungalow and the
next are possibly 40 miles of primeval
forest which can only be crossed per
rends. Rentis is the Malay name for a
crude track which, nevertheless, is an in-
genious piece of jungle engineering, made
by felling big trees so that they lie end
to end through the forest some 20 tb 30
feet above the dense scrub-jungle. Covered
with moss and fungus and slippery with
the eternal moisture of the tropics, they
are difficult to cling to. A planter
who was pushed off a rentis by a malicious
native servant struggled out of the jungle
two weeks later completely naked and
with his body so covered with scratches
that he was one continuous piece of
plaster after the doctor had finished with
him. The true Bornean forest is arranged
in three storeys, each of which has a life
as completely differentiated from the
others as if they were in separate
countries, for there is no communication
between them. Mousedeer, pig, bear,
python, an odd elephant, the lesser car-
nivorae and a few extraordinary flowers
like the two-foot wide rafflesia inhabit
the ground floor ; birds of dun plumage
and monkeys flit about the mezzanine
floor. The orang-utang has his nest there.
All noise and clamor and most of the
pomp and glory of color of flowering
trees and. creepers and bright birds and
insects are confined to the top floor,
where only an aviator can see them. The
rest is almost pitch-dark. A most im-
pressive spectacle is the hundreds of
miles of primordial forest where enor-
mous trees stand in slowly flowing, ink-
black water deep enough to float a fair-
sized ship and as thick as soup with the
humus of the mountains.
* * * *
“Maleesh”: Although dogs are valu-
able for certain types of war-work, I
always feel sceptical when enthusiasts
make extravagant claims about their in-
telligence. The Germans used dogs fairly
successfully in p.o.w. camps. At night
gpards toured the Stalag with a convoy
of canines, and in addition there were
always a few unattached, ones prowling
around, husky brutes which were capable
of pulling a man down. That must have
set the Germans thinking, because strange
stories began to filter into the camp about
a big dog school being conducted beyond
the camp precincts. One under-officer was
seen cycling in spurs—a sure sign of pro-
motion : later we learnt that he had
appointed dog-trainer-in-chief for the dis-
trict. Then a man from a working party
brought in the news that German guards
had been seen going behind the stable
with articles of British battle dress. The
dogs were being trained to distinguish
British uniforms at a glance, thus greatly
simplifying the problem of tracking down
escaped p.o.ws. Interest in the school
mounted till the day when an escorted
working party met the trainer-in-chief
out walking with his star pupil, an
immense Alsatian, which looked capable
of devouring a ~b abyT lb h mte
breakfast To their horror the brut
slipped his leash as soon as h
winded them and trotted slowly down t
ranks, swinging his great head round at
each man in turn and scrutinising him
with wiTked red eyes. It had almost
reached the end of the line, when, with
a whoof of joy, it leapt upon the otficei
in charge of the party, ruining his snappy
grey-green riding breeches, scattering
gloves, monocle and the Iron Cross, third-
class, and doing inestimable damage to
the prestige of the Wehrmacht. After that
the school behind the stable languished
and died.
WINTER.
When magpies sing in sky and free
And colts like dragons snuff the air
And frosts in hollows last till three
And lamp-lit children skip their prayer;
Then Meg and Joan at midnight lie
And quake to hear the dingoes cry
Who nightly round the white church stone
Snap at their fails and_ the frosty moon.
When stockmen lapped in oilskin go
And lambing ewes on hill-tops bleat
And crows are out and rain winds blow
And kettles simmer at the grate;
Then Meg and Joan at midnight lie
And quake to hear the dingoes cry
Who nightly round the white church stone
Snap at their tails and the weeping moon.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


BUY WAR BAVI N G S C EcR TIFIC AT E &
%OIT
V
f *
W s -X
m
9
R & MC PI4
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
\DVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
OnogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Mules Operation.
“Bungaree”: Conclusive proof of its
value was provided recently in north-west
N.S.W. Autumn rains brought on a
green pick and the flies got to work. On
most properties jetting had to be done
as crutchers were practically unobtain-
able because of unsettled labor conditions.
Damage by flystrike was considerable and
losses fairly heavy.
In one part two fairly large adjoining
properties were, crutching at the same time
with limited labor. One of these has been
■ using the Mules operation on all the ewes
for some years, the other has never at-
tempted it. On the first property a mob
of 4000 young ewes was put through the
shed and only six cases of flystrike were
found. On the other property of a mob
of about 6000 ewes over 90 p.c. were
struck, some very badly.
Tallies among the “mulesed” sheep
were twice as high as among the un-
treated. Breech areas were plain and
easily cleaned ; crutching the other ewes
was not only slower but they were so
extensively struck as to necessitate con-
siderable work in following up the struck
areas. In normal times the advantage of
the Mules operation is considerable, but
under present-day conditions and short-
age of labor the results are sufficient to
convince the most conservative that the
operation is an essential factor, in good
merino management.
Choked Cattle.
“Sarina”: Cattle may choke when fed
on root crops (B. 21/3/’45). Protruding
eyes, coughing, saliva pouring from the
jaws and bloat are usual symptoms. Suffo-
cation is likely if the obstruction is high
up in the gullet, but there’s no risk if it’s
well down. Mouth-gag the animal and
pull its head up by securing a rope over
its head and horns and pulling on it with
tfie rope passed over a beam. Should
you be unable to find the obstruction by
pushing your hand and arm as far as pos-
sible into the gullet, try to push the block
down to the stomach with the aid of a
length of half-inch hosepipe. This method
is often successful, particularly if the
victim is given a little raw linseed oil
beforehand. The oil lubricates the gullet
and facilitates removal of the obstruction.
If ordinary treatment fails, send for a
vet. In the meantime, serious bloating
should be relieved by the use of trochar
and canula. A specially designed instru-
ment called a probang can be bought at
a veterinary supply house, and is the best
thing out for relieving choking cattle.
Deciduous Fruit-trees.
“E. 2”: June’s a good month for plant-
ing young trees and overhauling the
orchard. Unthrifty trees should be
grubbed out and poor varieties of healthy
“Pretend you don’t see him, dear—he's the fellow who mimics Sinatra!”
growth cut back for working over to
better sorts. Trenching around root-
bound trees and thinning and pruning
the underground system will give them
a new lease of life if the tops are cut
back hard at the same time. Drainage
should be provided in the orchard if
there’s a tendency to water-logging.
For planting young trees make a hole
about 6ft. in diameter to a foot deep.
reserving the topsoil for filling, then work
the subsoil down as far as possible. Fill
up with good soil mixed with anything in
the way of well-rotted stable manure,
straw or leafmould. Shorten the taproot
of the tree, train the side roots out evenly
and firm the soil after planting.
Fruit-trees need regular pruning, and
a good shape should be maintained, with
fruiting spurs evenly spaced. It takes a
fair bit of experience to prune satisfac-
torily, and, lacking expert guidance, the
novice would be wise to study one of the
standard books on the subjet.
Grafting is a simple process, the secret
being the close uniting of the layer of
tissue between wood and bark. Scions of
approved varieties are taken while dor-
mant and should be from the wood
growth of the previous season. They are
stored in a cool place to check .growth
until wanted, for it is advisable that the
growth of the stock be in advance of the
scion.
Head back the trees at the commence-
ment of growth in spring; if large trees
saw off nean the butt or shorten three or
four main branches for crown-grafting ;
if nursery plants. Sin. from the root-base
will do for whip-grafting. The scions
are tapered evenly to the outside at the
bottom from a square shoulder two or
three inches up, and lopped off ahead of
the second bud above the shoulder.
In crown-grafting the bark is split ver-
tically and the edges lifted so the scion
may be inserted against the cambian
layer; in whip-grafting a corresponding
taper is sliced off the stock and the scion
united carefully. Several scions should
be used in a crown graft, and in both
methods binding and sealing from the
air is necessary. Grafting wax may be
made from equal parts of resin, beeswax
and dripping heated and mixed together.
Loosen the bindings as the shoots make
growth.
Northern Tomatoes.
“Muffin”: The Bowen district (N.Q.)
has developed a successful trade in
tomatoes. For the tropics the climate is
mild ; frost is practically unknown on
the Burdekin delta and Lower Don,
and a steady sea breeze tempers the heat
of summer. This accident of climate,
with irrigation and fertile soil, Has made
it very profitable for Bowen growers to
specialise in the raising of tomatoes
during the period July-October when
southern areas generally are not produc-
ing.
The soils are a silt loam type, the
drainage is generally good and irriga-
tion most suitable for the area. Water is
obtained from spear pumps in the sand
bed of the Don River, and from shallow
wells and spear pumps in the delta lands.
The locally-developed, Buckeye-Globe is
the variety chiefly grown. It is a strong
grower and makes a large bush. It
crops heavily and has a fairly long crop-
ping period. The fruit, a crimson-pink,
packs and carries well. Bowen is re-
markably free of fungus diseases in
normal years, but insects require close
attention. The jassid (green fly) is parti-
cularly severe ; grasshoppers are periodic
pests and caterpillars of different species;
chiefly the corn ear worm, require con-
stant control.
Hints for the Farm.
“P.C.”: So much damage was done to
the banks of the Burdekin River (N.Q.)
by floods a few years ago that soil con-
servation measures have been under way
there since 1941. The banks in the
dangerous places have been planted with
strong-growing water-grasses, shrubs and
tamarind trees, the growth of which has
been swift and effective. There has been
no scouring of the river-banks during
this summer’s floods.
“Sarina”: Geese do well on good grass-
land with a pond. They can exist almost
entirely on succulent green stuff, but
must be given plenty of grain if you want
to fatten them. They usually start laying
at a year old, and continue laying for 12
years or more. Have a gander to a pair
of geese or three small geese, and use
them for breeding purposes until they are
old. Do not breed from the progeny.
Goslings should be fed like ducklings, but
they require more green feed, which
should be chopped up.
“Plane Creek”: My neighbor has
proved that a few cassava plants will rid
a farm of bandicoots, and maybe of
other burrowing pests. He couldn’t grow
sweet potatoes and peanuts with any suc-
cess, so he put in some cassava on the
creek bank. The bandicoots went for
the poisonous tubers and died in hun-
dreds. Cassava is easily grown along the
Queensland tropical coast, but the tubers
are inedible unless specially prepared.
Propagate by cutting or root.
“Courtcreek”: In U.S.A. farmers hang
on to waste stubble like gold. Experi-
ments have shown that the stuff is more
beneficial when rotted down than when
burned. Decaying refuse returns all three
important elements to the soil—nitrogen,
phos. acid and potash—whereas burning
results in a return of potash alone. More
and more farmers are utilising the stuff
as a surface-mulch instead of turning it
in deeply. It can be easily realised that
a loose covering of organic material
is a deterrent to erosion. It must
also help to keep the soil loose,
cool and damp. U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates top-soil loss from
bare fallows at 32 tons per acre each
year ; drift from stubble-mulched fallows
at less than one ton per acre, so it is not
surprising that new agricultural methods
and implements are coming into favor
there.
“N.H.”: When planting peas in the
vegetable garden lightly dust the drills
with common borax. This improves
growth, stimulates plants in dry weather
and induces earlier production. A small
plot of lucerne on which borax was
sprinkled and lightly forked in responded
well, providing ample greenstuff for a
couple of dozen fowls.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Stalin’s “Weird Performance”
(From N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”)
One of the best descriptions ever given
of the signing of the Russian-Japanese
neutrality pact in April, 1941, is contained
m Moscow Dateline, a book by Henry
C. Cassidy, who was U.S. Associated
Press Moscow correspondent at the time
and now is Washington editor of the
Associated Press World Service.
Early in the winter (of 1940-41) the
Axis was riding high. Germany signed
with the Soviet Union a new trade treaty,
calling, among other items, for the
greatest amount of wheat ever conceded
by one country to another, and Viacheslav
Molotov, Foreign Minister and then
Prime Minister, went off in a blaze of
ceremony to visit Adolf Hitler.
“I was sitting in the dark movie hall of
Ambassador Steinhardt’s residence, Spasso
House,” Cassidy writes, “when my secre-
tary telephoned to say the visit had just
been announced by the Moscow Radio.
I whispered the news to Steinhardt,
Cripps and Gafencu, and they slipped out
to pace back and forth under the crystal
chandelier in the salon, arguing the mean-
ing of the trip. The dancing was cut
short that night, and most of the guests
hurried home to telegraph their Govern-
ments that Russia probably was about to
join the Tri-Power Pact of Germany, Italy
and Japan. But Molotov returned with
his pen dry.
“This period reached its climax on
Easter Sunday (1941) when Russia signed
its neutrality pact with Japan and Stalin
came to the railroad station to see off
Yosuke Matsuoka, then Japanese Foreign
Minister. That was probably the weirdest
public performance ever indulged in by
the chief of a great State.
“Matsuoka had come twice to Moscow.
The first time was on his way to Berlin
and Rome. The correspondents had a
talk with him soon after his first arrival,
and he seemed to be just a pleasant little
man with spiked hair, a black pipe and
a great gift of gab. Jean Champenois,
then of Havas, described him best as ‘an
English country gentleman painted yel-
low.’ He told us he hoped, to stay longer
on the return visit, after going to see
Hitler and Mussolini, and it was obvious
that his highly publicised visit to Berlin
and Rome was only a screen for more
serious talks with the Russians. He came
back, planning to stay seven days, re-
mained on for ten, and started to leave,
apparently empty-handed, when he was
called to the Kremlin that Easter Sun-
day morning, and the neutrality pact was
signed.
“He was due to leave that afternoon at
4.50 on the Trans-Siberian Express.
I was at the station to cover the de-
parture, but when train time came Mat-
suoka had not yet arrived. The train was
held, and Axis members of the diplo-
matic corps who had come to see him
off wandered aimlessly about the platform
until Matsuoka drove up at the head of
a caravan of cars, flying the Japanese
flag, and emerged with an exuberant
escort of Japanese Embassy officials.
They stood, shaking hands and embrac-
ing, outside his car. it was 5.50 p.m. It
looked as though the train were about to
leave. I turned to leave the group and
run down the platform to telephone the
departure. Taking the first stride I nearly
fell over two little men walking unes-
corted up the platform. They were Stalin
and Molotov!
“They approached the group awk-
wardly, obviously not practised, as were
the diplomats, in the art of ceremonial
leave-taking on a railroad platform. They
picked out Matsuoka, and Stalin
approached him and hugged him several
times without speaking. But Stalin had
another mission that day.
“He walked around the tight little
circle, shaking hands on all sides, and
then looked up, as though seeking some-
one. He selected a German officer,
Colonel Hans Krebs, one of the many
standing stiffly at attention in their long
grey coats, and approached him. Stalin
peered up sharply at the officer’s face
and asked twice; ‘German? German?’
“ ‘Yes, sir,’ the officer said, saluting.
“Stalin shook his hand and said: ‘We
shall be friends.’
“Bewildered, Colonel Krebs, who was
then German acting military attache,
stared down at Stalin, saluted again as
the Soviet leader continued' the rounds,
and followed him with puzzled eyes.
Stalin’s phrase ‘We shall be friends’ was
overheard by many who understood
Russian well. It was whispered quickly
from ear to ear. It stirred immediately
a flood of speculation: Did he mean it
as an expression of personal friendship
for Krebs? Or was it a proclamation of
Soviet-German friendship? Was it a cal-
culated gesture? Or was it done on the
spur of the moment? Most of those
present thought it was planned in ad-
vance, applied not to personalities but
to States.
“That was the high point of Soviet-
German friendship and of Matsuoka’s
departure. Stalin led the way into
Matsuoka’s car, exchanged a few more
words with him there and slipped away
on the empty platform on the far side of
the train.”
British in Italy.
(As reported by U.S. Congresswoman Clare
Boothe Luce, on a visit to Italy.)
The most marked comparison between
British and American forces in Italy is
a material one. The bulk of American
military supplies and equipment is of a
higher quality—and always in more
generous quantity.
It is a fact, for example, in Italy that
the rations in American messes are
superior. Not only are the staples of the
Gl’s diet more balanced and generous
than his cousin’s, even in the field, but
he has access to innumerable extras
which are considered a rarity by his
cousin. Also the GFs clothing is better,
if not serviceable.
The greatest single comparison in in-
dividual life facing the American and
Britisher is that the latter is required to
do four years overseas as against an
American two before he is eligible for a
furlough.
There is many a British soldier in this
theatre who has had five years of over-
seas service. Now this is no comfort to
an American family which has not laid
eyes on its Joe for over two years. . But
it is useful to mention the fact for the
benefit of American home-grumblers, who
sometimes ask whether the British soldier
is playing his full part in the war.
There is a good deal of talk in America
to the effect that when the European war
is over the British wilkpull out of Europe
and go home, leaving to the Americans
the task of cleaning up the Pacific. In
the armed forces over here the impression
is quite the contrary.
The average British soldier certainly
wants to go home as much as the Ameri-
can, and the war against Japan is not as
real to him as to the American. He has
no Pearl Harbor. Nevertheless, he seems
to take it for granted that when the Hun
is beaten he will be shipped out through
the Suez to the Far East, to Malaya and
Singapore.
If there is anything he will fight about
—off duty—it is the suggestion that he is
not willing to do his fair share against
the common enemy.
* * * *
An unfriendly Italy which would repeat
the savage pattern set in Greece or the
pattern that is forming in the Balkans
seems to concern remote America, and
the Americans remote from it, very little.
But it would be bad news for the British.
The need for Britain to entrench eco-
nomically and politically in this country
which lies across all her Empire trade
rohtes ha» resulted not only in British
pressure for a monarchy supported by
British arms in the post-war period but
also in the British sending a larger—at
least larger than our own —economic
mission to Italy.
This mission has already got the jump
on the Americans in pinning down cer-
tain post-war shipping, communications
and banking interests in Italy.
And why not?
Every Britisher with any authority that
I have ever discussed the matter with
in Italy has expressed himself as being
eager and willing to co-operate to the
greatest extent with American economic
interests and political policy in the Medi-
terranean. But they are not willing at all
to leave hanging in the balance economic
and political decisions crucial to their
national life, while an American Govern-
ment and State Department and all its
people debate, explore, criticise and pro-
crastinate.
The unalterable fact is that the British
run an Empire and that their home
island lives on export trade.
Today the British know what they are
doing in Italy. They are protecting once
again the interests of their nation. These
are clear to them, and why should they
not be, having been hammered hard on
the anvil of many wars through the cen-
turies?
Propaganda Flop.
(N.Y. “Times” editorial comment .)
In a dispatch from Cologne Raymond
Daniell tells us that what is needed most
in defeated Germany is a documented
and illustrated history of the happenings
of the last five years. The average Rhine-
lander, fed on Nazi propaganda and cut
off from the rest of the world, has a dis-
torted view of the war. He does not know
why his cities have been smashed and his
home requisitioned. No one has told
him, and no one is telling him now. “The
lack of any effective counter-propaganda
to offset German propaganda,” writes Mr.
Daniell, “is one of the most serious gaps
in the Allies’ programme of occupation.”
Lack of information. isn’t confined to
Germany. The one thing that strikes
observers most painfully in liberated
countries is the poor job done by the
Allies in broadcasting news. The popu-
lations imprisoned in Fortress Europe
during the war years have listened over
the air to exhortations, instructions,
promises, homilies on democracy. State-
ments from Allied leaders, emigres, Free
Germany committees, official and unoffi-
cial spokesmen, have been beamed into
the Reich day after day. The massively
staffed department built up by our own
U.S. Government for this work had no
counterpart in the last war. Its bureaux,
established everywhere we go, prove how
seriously we take the propaganda arm as
a war weapon.
Yet when we get on the receiving end
of this well-intentioned and highly-organ-
ised line of talk we find it has been singu-
larly ineffective, principally for the reason
that it contained too much “propaganda”
material and too little factual information
—about the crescendo of American pro-
ductibn, for one thing, about the true
temper and resolution of the Allied
peoples and the extent of their sacrifices.
Very few people in Europe had any idea
of our war effort until they saw it in
action. The cold and hungry populations
delivered from the German yoke do not
yet understand that we suffer any short-
ages ourselves or why we are unable to
distribute the necessities they think they
were promised for D-day.
But where we have failed most is in
the recognition that news is the best pro-
paganda. The Germans don’t know what
has happened outside. They don’t even
know of the horrors their armies and
their Gestapo garrisons have committed.
They have no sense of guilt, because they
have yet to learn the truth about them-
selves. As for the liberated peoples, their
mental isolation today, and many of the
misunderstandings that cause their ten-
sions and ruffle relations with the Allies,
are due in large part to the fact that they,
too, have been fed only on German news.
If we learn anything in going back to
Europe it is that the most honest and
skilful propaganda is not good enough ;
all propaganda is suspect by peoples
taught by Dr. Goebbels to reject all offi-
cial statements. These people are starved
for truth as much as for bread ; above
all things, they want the plain, unvar-
nished story of events. Their state of
mind is a clear proof that the greatest
instrument of education is straight news.
London “Labor” Conference.
(The conference dealt with in this N.Y. “Jour-
nal American” article is the one to which the
communist E. Thornton went as Australian
Labor-union delegate.)
The manner in which the World Trades
Union Conference in London was con-
vened and conducted under the complete
domination of the communists of Soviet
Russia has been placed beyond any mis-
understanding or misrepresentation. The
sympathetic but realistic Labor writer of
the London “Daily Mail,” Mr. Garry
Allighan, has carefully assembled the
facts.
Mr. Allighan pointed out that the dele-
gates attending the London conference
represented 36 Labor organisations in
various countries having a total member-
ship of 50,000,000 workers. Of this total,
he said, more than 27,500,000 are within
the Soviet Union.
Thus, the factor of majority control of
the conference by Russian communist
delegates through numerical superiority
was clearly established. But there was
a far greater “factor of majority control”
in favor of the Russian communists, as
Mr. Allighan reported. “Those figures
give an inadequate picture,” he acknow-
ledged. “Actually, Soviet influence com-
pletely dominated the scene. In addition
to the Soviet trade unions of 27,502,000
there were at the conference a huge num-
ber of organisations (representing Labor
organisations in countries other than the
Soviet Union) which for one reason or
another are within the Soviet orbit.”
Among these non-Russian but commu-
nist-controlled organisations Mr. Allighan
included the Congress of Industrial
Organisations (C. 1.0.) in the United States,
which he called “not only the rival of
the American Federation of Labor but
the biggest body (8,000,000) of organised
American workers.”
Among them, too, he included the
Czechoslovakia trade unions, the All-
India Trades Union, the trade unions
of Mexico and Yugoslavia all or
which he called “admittedly conscious ot
communist influence.” Among them,
finally and properly, he included such
frankly communistic organisations as the
Chinese Association of Labor, the Bel-
gian Confederation Generate de Travail
and the French C.G.T.
The indisputable result of this concen-
tration of power, said Mr. Allighan, was
that “These and other national organisa-
tions formed a block of nearly 40,000,000
workers supporting the formation of an
international Labor body.” ....
In short, the Soviet Union—which has
been barred from representation in (he
formerly free world labor organisation
functioning for more than a quarter ot
a century as the International Federation
of Trades Unions, for the simple and ob-
vious reason that there is no such thing as
free labor in Russia—now not only has
representation but absolute power in the
new world labor organisation it has suc-
ceeded in erecting in the place of the
free federation.
De Gaulle Quick-change Act.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times" Paris corre-
spondent.)
General Charles de Gaulle, who has
missed several bets in diplomacy lately,
is getting squared off for the next act of
the world drama.
His sharp mind has perceived, after
some delay, that the world is going to
be run for quite a while by the Great
Powers ; that France stands to lose more
than to gain by trying to play one Power
against another or by trying to lead a
protesting group of smaller countries ;
that the logical course’is to make the best
of this Great Power directorate —as his
associates at first called it —and of what-
ever cloak of collective security is used
to soften the outlines of the directorate.
Instead of frowning on the Dumbarton
Oaks plan or postponing it to the remote
future, General de Gaulle now gets in on
the ground floor by saying that all France
wants to do is to transform it into what
it professes to be, meanwhile hanging on
to the more real security of simple alli-
ances. France is for collective security
as much as anyone, or even more than
the others, because she is in a danger spot.
But she wants no more fake security.
This seems a sounder ground.
Meanwhile, if the Great Powers are
going to pretend that they conquered
empires with motives of Christian charity
and to vow they intend to apply the doc-
trines of Thomas Jefferson to the Malays
and Hottentots, then France will give
them a run for their money along that
path. The French Empire, like others, can
take on a new and gentler name, and pro-
fess to have become an eleemosynary in-
stitution. Rather this than that moralis-
ing “Anglo-Saxons” should hint that
French colonies or bases should be looked
after by others than Frenchmen.
General de Gaulle has strayed into
false paths, or overplayed his hand, iff
recent months, in the opinion of many,
because Russian Premier Josef Stalin
seemed to be on his side. Now he faces
an apparent solidarity of the Big Three
Powers —two of which are democracies,
but all three of which talk much of demo-
cracy—and he realistically adapts his
policy accordingly.
Wandering Jews.
(From an article by the N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram” Washington correspondent.)
Some 2,500,000 European Jews —all
that remain of s,ooo,ooo—are roving the
world, wondering what is to become of
them after the war.
Reliable reports indicate that Europe's
uprooted Jews may not be received with
open arms when they return to their old
homes—if they do. Refugee Jews from
such countries as Bulgaria, Rumania and
even Czechoslovakia say they have been
told that if too many seek repatriafion it
may set in motion a certain amount of
opposition.
In various parts of Europe non-Jewish
nationals have taken over many Jewish
properties—business premises, apartment
houses, homes, etc. —and repossession is
sometimes resented by the new tenants.
Often those in possession came to the
properties legally. Sometimes the Ger-
man invader took them over, then dis-
posed of them again through what, to
the purchasers, seemed to be legitimate
channels. Therefore, proof of actual
ownership is not always easy.
After the war, it is widely agreed, every
country is l going to clamp down on immi-
gration. National economies will be


rrrr
Zpw . Fi V J - ow t- BR^,^J:EA^
-,. :-;^-.'-^'v...
SiSKS®!" tp* 1 £
sgw^s;
Q>': '-’
;2j&S
iHmiuuuuiiittu" : iiihhidw ii
nil IMtUIIinUttIUMUiIHUUIII
iHIBUIHUtIIiIUKaWUUIUUUI
W , --’S iliiiii
-
‘ .. ■ ~ -.r
" l:! , f" ~1. ":
• y"
BMBI
■jtf
A MIRACLE OF PREFABRICATION
IN the present war British ingenuity and resource-
fulness have shown themselves in many ways—
radiolocation, anti-magnetic mine devices, earth-
quake bombs, fresh water distillation for life-boats,
Penicillin the list of British inventions and discoveries
is long. But probably the most spectacular achievement
is the building.and establishment of the prefabricated
port which, on the bare beaches of Normandy, enabled
men and material to be landed speedily even in the teeth
of a gale.
Britain has other achievements to display. , There is the
establishment and development of the vast rayon indus-
try by Courtaulds an epic of commercial enterprise.
This old-established English company not only initiated
the rayon industry at home, but also established it in the
United States, Canada and other countries. To many
millions Courtaulds rayons have brought a standard of
luxury and beauty they had never known before. The
war has placed a restraining hand on the supply of rayons,
but new designs and improved fabrics may soon be
available. *
The famous Mulberry
Port, which is a new
world's wonder, and
helped to make possible
the Allied invasion of
Hitler’s Europe was the
outcome of an idea
evolved by Commodore
Hughes-Hallett, R.N.
30,000 British work-
people were engaged on
the building of this
immense mobile port
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics : Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns : Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry. England
*==32
cmsEwrmsmm
>i!k
- a
■f ■ JW
v-
Little ships keep close to the coast-
line, so when storms and trouble
threaten they can make for the
safety of sheltered harbours. Danger
lies in the open seas; close to the
shore there is practical protection.
Your ship is sailing down the
oceans of the years. You are the
Captain, and Life is the course you
steer. The seas ahead may be
rough and treacherous, so avoid
getting into “deep water" keep
to the safe channels inshore. A
Savings Account will provide
handy protection and tide you over
many a stormy passage. Open an
account to-day, and smooth the
-journey to the Port of Security and
Independence.
The right time to save money is
now, when you have it. There is
no excuse for risking the hazards of
hiding money under the mattress, or
in an old tin. The safe, effective
channel for saving is the Common-
wealth Savings Bank. The friendly
service of this vast Australian Institu-
tion simplifies saving and offers
every facility. x
commonuicfliiH
SflUinCSßflllK
0 F fl U STRDIIA
upset, and each Government will feel that
it has troubles enough without asking for
more.
Thus Europe’s wandering Jews will be
caught between the devil and the deep
sea. Few will be able to remain in their
present temporary refuges. Yet they may
encounter difficulties if they return to
their former homes. At the same time
emigration to other lands in most cases
will be barred.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
You cannot conceive the meaning of com-
plete destruction until you see this ruin
[Cologne]. Here is a city that had a popula-
tion of about 750,000, and there is not one
section that has not been devastated. It is a
perfect illustration of what modern war means
—total destruction, with the survivors driven to
existence in cellars and caves. The area of
total destruction is put at more than 3000 acres.
Civilian casualties, from the beginnings of the
first bombings up to and including the fall of
the city, are estimated roughly at 125,000. The
same number may still be living in cellars and
shelters beneath the ruins. But figures mean
little and cannot dbnvey the sense of utter deso-
lation that comes out of the grey skeleton of
what was once a flourishing, handsome city.
Particularly at nightfall, with the silence un-
broken by any human sound, it is weird and
frightening— Washington “Post” correspondent
in Germany.
* * * *
“The achievements in combat of these Indian
soldiers is noteworthy. They have carried on
successfully in grim and bloody fighting against
a tenacious enemy who was helped by terrain
particularly favorable for defence. No obstacle
has succeeded in delaying these Indian troops
for long or in lowering their high morale or
fighting spirit.”— U.S. General Mark Clark,
speaking of the Indian forces vtith the British
in Italy.
# * * *
Nowhere has the economic impact of the
tremendous American war-time production’s
superiority been felt so strongly as it has in the
mercantile world. United States shipbuilders
have upset all the old economic balances among
maritime nations and created a vast surplus,
where even before the war there was not enough
trade to keep all available ships operating with-
out Government subsidies. Even American
superiority., in transport ’planes does not pose
economic questions as serious as her shipping
strength. International civil aviation is a com-
paratively uncharted field, its potentials un-
known and its limitations not even in sight.
But in the case of ships the known world trade
level does exist, and the belief is that about
one-third of the ships on the seas today will be
sufficient to take care of all foreseeable post-
war trade, with cargo space to spar e.—London,
correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
In Burma the British, together with the
Indian Army, carried the greatest burden. It
Was .the British Brigadier Orde Wingate who
first worked out fhe technique of wholly air-
supplied jungle operations; it was British and
Indian troops who formed the main forces that
made the long marches by river and jungle,
who battled the worst disease conditions, who
solved innumerable of the problems involved
in this strange campaigning and who re-entered
Mandalay. Something also must be said of
British success in winning back the Burmas (if
they needed to be won back, after Japanese
rule) and for the firmness with which India
stood as a base for the operation and as a
reservoir for the troops who helped conduct it.
In more than a merely military sense the Jap-
anese have taken a hell of a beating. They
will take more. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
It is the post-boom period in U.S. that con-
cerns Britain-Russia, not the boom period. They
wonder how altruistic U.S. will be once the
going gets to be rough, how interested in solv-
ing Europe’s problems or in making new loans.
Britain in particular is concerned about how to
insulate herself from the shock when the post-
war boom busts in U.S. Facts of the matter
appear to be these. Nobody expects a new
world war to develop short of 25 or 30 years.
Next big period of trouble is expected to coin-
cide with next big U.S. depression, with the
time when U.S. cuts off loans, turns to inter-
nal problems. Civil disturbances, political up-
heavals, even revolutions, will be the mark of
this period, not international disputes that
threaten big wars. The new league will not
solve these internal economic problems of U.S.
or of other nations, will not get at the root
cause of difficulties that lead bigger nations to
look outside their bmders for ways to solve
their problems. — “United States News:’
* * * *
We [U.S.A.] have created a new league
of nations in this hemisphere. We have broad-
ened the Monroe Doctrine for the first time in
our history. Not only has the military assis-
tance of our neighbors been pledged to enforce
that Doctrine against European or Asiatic
Powers, but we and the other Pan-American
nations have solemnly promised that none of us
shall invade or impair the other’s territory or
political independence. The Act of Chapultepec
signed recently by 21 Pan-American nations —
Argentine included —is a milestone of progress
in peace-making. It is precedent-breaking m
the evolution of the foreign policy of the
United States, but it meets the spirit of the
times and conforms to the hopes of our fore-
fathers for a fraternity of peoples in the
Americas. — “United States News.”
* * * *
Canada has become a great fish exporting
nation. Of some 400,000,0001 b. of canned,
dried, frozen and pickled fish produced in
Canada in 1944 approximately 195,000,0001 b.
have been allotted to various purposes of the
United Nations', it was stated by Canadian
Fisheries Minister Ernest Bertrand recently at
Ottawa. Of this tonnage about 112,000,0001 b.
consist of sardines, canned salmon and her-
rings and frozen fish for Great Britain, which
is also receiving about 3,000,0001 b. of dried
salt fish. About 18,000,0001 b. of various kinds
of fish are being supplied for relief purposes
in liberated countries. In the crucial years of
1941 and 1942 Canada shipped to Great Britain
150,000,0001 b. of canned salmon and Cana-
dians had to do without this favorite fish
James Montagues; “Christian Science Monitor
Supplement.
* * * *
It may seem a simple matter to draft Ger-
man labor for reconstruction in Russia or
France and to avoid the reproach of “slave
labor” by paying these draftees a subsistence
wage. We suspect there could be no more
effective way to keep Europe at war indefinitely.
— “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
One of the principal instruments in the fire
attacks on Japan has been the M-69 in-
cendiary bomb, although other types of in-
cendiaries probably have been used. The M-69
is a six-pound hexagonal jellied <pil bomb.
There are two types of filling for this bomb —
one containing “gel-gas,” a resin-type jelly,
and the other a composition mixed with gaso-
line. The bomb is about 19in. long, as big
around as a baseball bat, and the cheesecloth
sock in it holds about three pounds of the
incendiary material. The cheesecloth, impreg-
nated with flaming jellied oil, is spewed out in
all directions over a radius of about 25 yards
shortly after the bomb strikes. The material
burns fiercely at a heat of about 3000 degrees
Fahrenheit for eight to ten minutes. These
bombs —and other type incendiaries —are often
dropped in so-called “amiable clusters”— i.e.,
casings of 500-pound size, which contain 38
of the M-69 bombs. The cluster enables more
accurate aiming, since it is built like a bomb
and drops like one. At about 1000 ft. altitude
the casing is blown open and the incendiaries
are sprayed over a wide area. — N.Y. “Times’'’
military commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.
* * * *
If this war does not teach good Germans
their responsibility for vicious Germans it will
have been fought in vain. And similarly with
the Japanese. But the collection of substantial
reparations is a wholly practical matter. An
American “unofficial observer” attending ses-
sions of the Reparations Commission that fol-
lowed the last war used to caution its members
that “You cannot get more than you can get.”
His judgment was not honored for a decade,
but he was right. Moscow has long been
credited with plans to draft German labor and
perhaps materials for reconstruction of Russian
cities and industries. No one can blame them
for wishing to do so. The French Cabinet
announces that it expects to collect from Ger-
many some large part of the material damage
her armies inflicted on France, which is said to
be estimated by French authorities as more than
$4O billion. No one will question that France
has a just claim. But does anyone imagine that
the Germans can repair or recompense the
damage they have done in Russia, Poland,
Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, France
and the Balkans—or even any considerable part
of it? We are not at all apprehensive that the
reparations bill against Germany, when it is
compiled, will do that country or its people an
injustice. Our point is that our Allies in Europe
will painfully and harmfully delude themselves
if they lose sight of the extremely practical
difficulties in collecting reparations from a
people whose man-power and natural resources
have been drained by six years of war on three
front's. — “Wall-street Journal” editorial com-
ment.
* * *
Opposition to endorsement of the Stalin pro-
posal to use millions of German civilians for
slave labor in the years of the coming peace is
slowly but powerfully developing tremendous
strength [in America]. The A.F.L. is dead set
against it, with president William Green arguing
that the use of slavery debases the master even
more than the victim. Religious groups, with
sentiments strangely reminiscent of the old Abo-
litionists of pre-Civil War days, have started
to bombard the Administration with accusations
of endorsing the Stalin demand as a degrading
surrender of American ideals to the customs of
Asiatic despotism and the serf tradition of old
Russia. — John O’Donnell; N.Y. “Daily News.”
m * * *
Something dangerous is going on in this
country [U.S.A.]; namely, the growth of more
and more ill-will toward Russia. Such things
as the concerted effort by a group of Americans
to wave the reading public away from another
American's honest report on Russia [William
Allen White’s book Report on the Russians]
can only serve to increase that ill-will. Mount-
ing ill-will between two nations can bring on a
war between them for no real reason. — N.Y.
“Daily News.”
* * * *
I see where a Frisco court has ordered Harry
Bridges to show cause why he shouldn’t pay
his estranged wife alimony of $450 a month
(that’s about $ll3 every week) to support her
“in a manner fitting the wife of a prominent
labor official.” But can an American labor
leader go on worrying about a living wage for
the masses on the remaining $2OO or $3OO a
week? Well, if Bridges’s wife gets $450 a
month alimony it’s going - to cause a lot of dis-
content among the wives of our capitalists.
They know they could get so little, if separated,
that it’s better to go on living with them, I
guess.— N.Y. “Sun” columnist David Boon.
* * * *
It is evident to most well informed people
here in London that another war might con-
ceivably witness the utter destruction of the
British Isles, let alone the rest of Europe, and
if science develops far enough along the lines
it is following now perhaps the United States.
This is not a wild Wellsian dream, as the people
of “southern England” well know. The weird
“flying bombs” and the even more fantastic
V-2 rockets remind them with considerable
regularity of what could happen in twenty
years or even ten years. The prospects of a
warring nation one day being able to fling
200,000 tons of high-explosive rockets or flying
bombs onto a city like London in only 48
hours is very real. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”


Public Notice.
I, OTTO OSWALD, Stateless, born at Siegburg, Ger-
many, and resident five years and ten months in
Australia, now residing at 177 Victoria Road, Belle-
vue Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply lor naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO ROY COOPER (formerly of Ashby Street Fair-
field Brisbane in the State of Queensland but whose
present whereabouts are unknown). —TAKE NO tier,
that an action has been commenced against you in
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane afore-
said by Writ of Summons numbered 313 of 1945 by
MURIEL MAUD COOPER your wife in which she
claims a dissolution of her marriage with you and
the custody of the child of the marriage' and by her
petition filed herein she alleges that on the Sixth day
of November 1939 or alternatively at some other
date being more than three years prior to the date
of the presentation of the said petition you deserted
her without just cause or excuse and have continu-
ously deserted her without cause for three years and
upwards and it has been ordered that service of the
said Writ and Petition on you be effected by the
publication of this advertisement once in the Sydney
Bulletin a newspaper published in Sydney in the
State of New South Wales and by filing and stick-
ing up on the notice board in the Registry of the
said Court of Queensland at Brisbane an office copy
of the petition and a copy of the Writ.
If you desire to defend the action you must within
sixty days enter an appearance at the said Registry
and in default of your doing so the Plaintiff may by
leave proceed in your absence.
DATED the Eighteenth day of May, 1945.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON, Second Deputy Registrar.
A. CECIL TINGLE, Solicitor for the said Muriel
Maud Cooper, Country Press Chambers, Edward &
Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO GEORGE LIDSTONE MEAD formerly of Brisbane
in the State of Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.- —-TAKE NOTICE that an action
has been commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Sum-
mons numbered 303 of 1945 by PHYLLIS MAT
MEAD your wife in which she claims a dissolution
of her marriage with you and by her petition filed
herein she alleges that in the month of February
1941 you deserted her without cause and have since
continuously deserted her without cause for three
years and upwards to the present time and it has
been ordered that service on you of the said Writ and
Petition be effected by filing in the registry of the
said Court and sticking up on the notice board of the
said registry an office copy of the said petition and
a copy of the said Writ and by the insertion of this
advertisement once in the “Courier-Mail” a news-
paper published at Brisbane aforesaid once in the
Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales and once in the
“West Australian” a newspaper published at Perth
in the State of Western Australia If you desire to
defend this action you must within Ninety-two days
from the date of the last act done in pursuance of
the said order enter an appearance at the said reg-
istry and in default of your doing so the Plaintiff
may by leave proceed in the action and Judgement
may be given against you in your absence.
DATED this Third day of May, 1945.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON, Second Deputy Registrar.
VIRGIL L. POWER, Solicitor for Plaintiff, 80
Queen Street, Brisbane.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
this year celebrates its
"ANNIVERSARY
PTY.
LTD.
m*,
m
m
Y
m
m
Vi
1895 —1945
A LIFETIME OF LEADERSHIP
IN LUBRICATION
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
#. .
in 1895, Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd., the pioneer Oil
Company of Australia, was first established in this country
in a small office with a staff of three. This year Vacuum
celebrates its 50th Anniversary, and has grown to a
Nation-wide Organisation with a staff of over 3,000-
serving Australia in city, town and country with Petroleum
Products of the Highest Quality.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PLUME MOTOR SPIRIT LAUREL KEROSENE
VOCO POWER KEROSENE MOBILOIL
' * ' s ; *'' v. <■> > A ' ' **
and other High-Quality Petroleum Products 4 5S(A ,
mm.
CRAVENA
tkeybe always,,
smelt * fjtedt!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
m
4
5787
MAD E S P EC I ALLY TO PREV ENT SORE THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Rigby’s Romance by Tom Collins.
3638.
To buy Letters from England and Letters
from Holland “by Karel Capek.—3639.
To buy books ■ dealing with early Ballarat
and the Eureka Stockade, Rodeo by B. M.
Bower, and Malayan Postscript by lan Morri-
son. —3640.
To buy score or pianoforte part of Cesar
Franck’s “Variations Symphoniques.” —3641.
Information Sought.
Some aboriginal names suitable for a country
property ?
Biangala, good camp; bookandrini, wooded
slopes; brimbonga, irrshade of trees; kobbadah,
place on hill; karthina, near wafer; koolami,
near big trees; murningulpa, happy place;
warrangesda, on the plains ; warramong, on a
hillside; yoorooga, wide view.
* * * *
Are there any major differences between cow s
and goat’s milk?
There is no marked nutritional difference
between them, but composition varies, variation
being affected by seasonal changes, breed, diet,
and health of the milk-producing animal.
Goat’s milk is very similar in composition to
the milk of Holsteins and Ayreshires, but con-
tains less butter-fat, and so has a lower energy
content per unit volume than the richer Jersey
milks. Goat’s milk has a softer curd and
smaller fat globules than cow’s milk. The
vitamin content of the two milks is practically
equal.
* * * *
(1) How is a stamp collection commenced?
(2) Any books on this'subject ?
(1) Buy an album, catalogue, hinges, etc.
(any dealer will advise), then obtain packets or
sets and mount stamps with hinges in catalogue
order. (2) How to Arrange and Write-up a
Stamp Collection and The Standard Catalogue
of Stamps of the World.
In what years and where did J. O. Anderson
(N.S.W.) win Australian and N.S.W. State
tennis championships ?
Australian singles in 1922 (Sydney), 1924
(Melb.), 1925 (Sydney); men’s doubles, with
Norman Brookes (Melb.), 1924. N.SiW. singles
in 1914, 1919 and 1923 ; doubles, with N. Peach,
in 1923; mixed doubles, with Mrs. Ford, in
1914. All N.S.W. matches were played in
Sydney.
* * * *
Recipe for salamai sausage?
Equal parts of lean beef, fat pork and veal,
thoroughly cured. Grind through a fine plate,
add salt, corriander, white pepper and nutmeg.
Stuff the mixture tightly into beef middles.
Dry from eight to 10 hours at room tempera-
ture and smoke 24 hours at a temperature of
110 degrees.
Brief Answers.
P.V.K.: A scheme to lend ex-servicemen
money to buy properties has been ap-
proved by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment ; further action waits on a confer-
ence of State Premiers to consider details.
....8.J.T.: (1) M.C.C. Rule 17a says “If the
striker kicks the ball wilfully no runs shall be
scored”; (2) when a bail falls the wicket-
keeper must break the wicket J.H.S.: There
is a ready market for chrysotile asbestos; James
Hardy, Ltd., or Bell’s Asbestos and Engineer-
ing, Ltd., both of Sydney, might be interested.
S.J.C.: Cannot trace a book that deals
extensively with that campaign... .L.M.W.:
Only a few specimen Australian pennies were
issued from the Mint bearing the date 1930.
8.A.8.: No place known where those pat-
terns can be purchased.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. shcnild he addressed to
the Editor.
M.E.M.: “Is there an opening for poems
such as these?” The w.p.b. gapes wide
L.C.: Remove the bauble... .D.R.8.: Attempt
to rhyme “Vichy” with “itchy” heroic but
hardly successful... .0.W.; A weakling....
J.W.W.: You plod “The Circle” with heavy
feet P.M.W.: The only difference betweens'
it and a thousand other anthems is that instead
of saying “Arise, Australia!” you say “tor-
ward, Australia!”... .R.S.W.: “1 would deem
it a great favor if you would enlighten me as
to my potentialities within the writing field.
Potentialities practically invisible while you re
on that high horse... .R.K.W.: “For after
storm quiet must come.” How long did it
take you to arrive at that mighty thought?....
B. If you must say “ye” to bombers, tor
heaven’s sake remember that it’s plural....
J.N.: It arouses kindly thoughts, in that it may
well be the last poem about Hitler... .N.8.C.:
N.b.g J.J.H.: Form Spenserian; style early
nineteenth century; subject the present war:
what a muddle 1....M.Y.: Frail, conventional
little blossom R.C.: Interesting but only
an anecdote... .G.F.S.: Grandma’s favonte
yarn J.M.T.: Unconvincing suicide spoils it.
R.K.K.: A golfer’s meat is a reader s
poison... .E.T.: Avoid the abnormal....
L.G.K.: Another tale of the drought P R.:
Apart from the fact that dust in the house is a
nuisance, nothing to it... .L.B. and S.E.: fry a
daily 0.T.D.: Pleasant lightweight
C. : People clear visually, but hazy as per-
sonalties. .. .C.W.8.; A touch of melodrama
ruins it J.R.: The first requirement of a
mystery story is that there should be a mystery.
J.K.A.D.: Picture of High Jinks in Picca-
dilly doesn’t ring true... .A.H.Mc.: Same old
vaggie, same old dog.


TOBACCO
Reduced output is an “inevitable” of
war time. So, if sometimes your Champion
Ruby is in short supply—it is only for the
war’s duration. Ask for it as usual—your
retailer will supply you when he can.
PM**
It’s your fight—your money is needed now.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
Almost as important as your
WILL
there is a wide realisation amongst people of means that the choice of the J f xecU A°n
i and Trustee who is to administer a Will is just as important as the Will itself. _An
unsatisfactory Executor and Trustee may deteat the very purpose that the
the K l you d foTlow m the lead of many of the shrewdest of our^t^term? of%om
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, you will ensure t h f : r : es
Will shall be faithfully carried out over the years, and that your beneficiaries
enjoy a courteous and sympathetic service. „ v p vp „ ntr . r and Trustee ”
We should like to send you a copy of a book, Youx Executor and trus
You will find it helpful. Write for it today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIM iTED
DIRECTORS.
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon T. A. J. Playfair. MJj.O.; »j 0 *
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEM IS , J „ \rmYTAGE, Manager.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. Ai £ ' 62m 000
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed
83-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern " II
The WILD CAT COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses., Off. Fund.
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,887
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1930 ..1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549.834
1935 . . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1938 .. 1,355,548 600,753 160,031 19,2681
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 ) 540,496
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . . ■ ■ J
1939 . . 1,368,133 732,398 172,415 21,755 441,565
1940 . . 1,432,037 650,433 188,272 40,698 552,684
Assets written down £557,308 —£322,307 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
1941 .. 1,457,722 727,279 247,390 11,991 471,062
1942 .. 1,500.888 636,190 261,342 7,761 t r „ qrqr
Reserved for contingencies. £75,000 j " ’
1943.. 1,586,207 063,209 218,235 8,321 [ 442
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 j 0 ’
1944 .. 1,712,023 697,274 283,745 15,411 ]
To staff fund, £5OOO 1 741,236
Reserved for contingencies, £19,357 J
Sound progress is disclosed by the latest
accounts of this 66-year-old mutual life
office, to which war has brought a crop of
actuarial and other problems common to
all life offices. The business is confined
to Australia, and does not include indus-
trial contracts. Absorption of younger
lives in the services reduced field staffs
and affected the volume and nature of
new business, while war mortality, more
or less passing in its incidence, has eaten
into surpluses that would otherwise be
available for distribution among policy-
holders —there are no shareholders. Since
outbreak of hostilities, the co.’s war-
death claims total £262,520. The differ-
ence between this figure and the actuarial
reserves (relatively small at the younger
ages) accumulated in respect of the claims
is the measure of loss.
The heaviest blow, however, has come
from reduction of the net return from
investments which followed on the heels
of the Government’s policy of cheap
money and high taxation, both of which
appear to be with us for some time.
Among other things, this has meant a
cut in the rates of bonuses paid to policy-
holders. Bonuses, however, continue at
a satisfactory level. They were excep-
tionally fat a little over a decade ago,
being then derived mainly from compara-
tively high interest returns from mort-
gage and property investments made on
a rising market. The 1930’s brought a
reversal of conditions, and substantial
amounts were written off the book value
of both properties and mortgages with-
out impairing either the life fund or
actual earning power of the business. To
help preserve bonus-paying capacity, and
so protect policy-holders against future
effects of the Government’s cheap-money
and high-tax policy, the management has
made progressive reductions in the basis
of valuation of policy liabilities. Briefly,
this means locking up larger sums during
the earlier years of policy contracts, with
increased benefits later on.
The following table shows surpluses
(excess of assurance funds over policy
liabilities) and how they were used over
the last three years:
1942. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £
Amount brought forward 157,189 19,828 161,423
Surplus earned.. .. 270,246 274,032 336,818
Total surplus . . 427,435 293,860 498,241
Bonuses policyholders 107,607 132,437 147,024
To actuarial reserves.. 300,000 314,965
Amount carried forward 19,828 161,423 36,252
Surpluses earned were better than stated
because they were written after allowing
£75,000, £75,000 and £19,357 respectively
for contingencies for the three years to
the end of 1944. Also £60,000 was with-
held from interest receipts in 1943 to
write down the book value of a “special
asset.”
The basis of valuation was strength-
ened by reducing the rate of in-
terest it was assumed funds would earn
from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. in 1943, and to
2} p.c. (the most stringent rate now in
use in Australia) last term. The cost was
additions to actuarial reserves of
£300,000, 1942, and £314,965, 1944. The
increased rate of bonuses paid for 1943
was maintained last year.
After deducting taxes (£50,967, down
£4942), the net return from investments
was £529,391 (up £57,151), which gives
an effective return on assurance funds
of approx. 4.3 p.c., compared with 4.1 p.c.
(4.6 p.c. if the £60,000 above referred to
is taken into the reckoning) in 1943, and
a shade over 5 p.c. in 1938. So there
is still a comfortable margin between
actual and assumed rates of earning.
All available funds were again chan-
nelled into the public Treasury in support
of the war effort:
194,3. p.c. 1944. p.c.
Oovt. securities. . £5,054,519 40.2 £6,366,238 47.7
Mortagee, etc... 2,828,976 22.6 2,382,518 17.9
Loans on policies 1,134,071 9.0 1,051,417 8.0
Properties .. 2,517,704 20.0 2,488,414 18.6
Shares and deben-
tures, etc. .. 910,049 7.2 930,909 7.0
Cash and sundries 124,263 1,0 116,202 .8
Net increase in Government securities
last year was £1,311,719, making the total
so invested since war began over
£5,500,000. Mortgages (down £446,458)
now account for only 17.9 p.c. of total
assets, as against 32.5 p.c. at the end of
1939. They are likely to receive more
attention when some existing financial
controls are relaxed.
The amount of new business put on
the books last year (£2,571,826, up
£498,250) was the best since 1937. Leav-
ing taxes out of the reckoning, exes, took
10.7 p.c. of total income, as against 10.3
p.c. and 11.5 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. When the books closed the
£12,687,563 in the assurance funds had
the support and assistance of £400,000 of
general reserves.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 .. 170,260
1930.. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,989
Insurance reserve, £913 .. .. 178,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897 .. 185,749
1937.. 47,185 9 p.c. t= 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582 .. 201,191
1938.. 49,812 10 p.c. r= 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £18,960 .. 220,713
1939.. 53,577 10 p.c. = 49,250 4,327 225,040
Added replacement reserve, £1547 .. 226,587
1940.. 49,443 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
Added replacement reserve, £9147 .. 235,927
1941.. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744 .. 250,235
1942.. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Added replacement reserve, £16,211 .. 275,355
1943.. 7,376 3-i p.c. = 16,006 266,725
Added replacement reserve, £18,919 .. 280,644
1944.. 34,525 5 p.c. = 24,626 9,900 290,544
The collapse of earnings in 1942 and
1943 was the result mainly of flood
damage to the co.’s sugar-growing in-
terests in the Bundaberg district. Mill
plant had been brought up to date before
the war, to the benefit of costs. But
drought, followed by floods, together with
shortages of labo j, fertilisers and
mechanical equipment combined to bring
about a heavy reduction in the quantity
of cane available for crushing. The con-
comitant was a sharp rise in milling and
other costs. •
The effect of flood damage in the field
was overtaken last year, and the mill got
into its stride again. The co.’s own
milling and growing figures aren’t broad-
cast, but the following table shows what
has happened in the industry in Queens-
land as a whole over the last five sea-
sons ;
Acres Tons Cane Tons Sugar
Harvested. Per Acre. Per Acre.
1940 . . 265,738 19.50 2.86
1941 . . 246,937 19.41 2.82
1942 .. 228,213 18.26 2.54
1943 .. 228,895 14.84 2.125
1944 . . 225,900* 19.5* 2.85*
* Estimate.
The advantages of the increase in tonnage
of cane and sugar per acre from the 1944
crop were largely offset by a drop in the
average price received for raws and con-
tinued rise in costs. Raws are expected
to average about £l9 10s. per ton, as
against £22 Is. 3d., £l9 Is, and £l7 18s. 6d.
for the three preceding seasons.
After allowing something for taxation
and setting aside £15,349 (down £818) for
depreciation, declared net earnings (up
£27,149) recovered to around the 1941
level. The £34,525 of profit claimed was
7.1 p.c. on capital as against 1.5, 1.8, 6.9,
10, 10.8 and 10.1 p.c. back to 1938. The
div. was lifted from 3? p.c, to 5 p.c.,
making the average 7.2 p.c. over the last
decade. That leaves out of the calcula-
tions a net addition of £13,919 to the
replacement reserve (£267,250), which
now accounts for all but £23,290 of the
lay-by shown in the table.
The financial position improved;
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £492,500 £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. .84,484 273,553 250,786 206,676
Estates . . 330,681 338,218 338,216 338,786
Factories, etc. 360,124 463,426 490,246 488,321
Stocks, etc. . . 45,648 211,484 174,073 175,924
Book debts .. 85,066 17,234 22,635 10,961
Cash, etc. . . 6,468 5,657 . 848 354
* Including provision for taxation.
After allowing for payment of dividends,
liabilities (they include unspecified pro-
vision for taxation) exceed more or less
liquids by £44,062, an improvement of
£25,174 over the twelvemonth. During
the last seven years £128,197 net has been
added to the book value of factories,
plant, etc., which suggests that the
management keeps it weather-eye upon
the costs factor in production.
As for the coming season, a crop of
similar proportions to that of 1944 is
expected in the Bundagerg district, and
the Commonwealth sugar production tar-
get has been lifted to 725,000 tons, which
is 75,000 tons higher than the 1944 figure
and within about 12,000 tons of the pre-
war sugar-peak scheme figure of 737,000
tons.
Hopes are that the time is not far distant
when the co.’s copra plantations in the
Solomon Islands will begin to contribute
to the pool again. Here trading ceased
about three years ago, owing to enemy
occupation. Damage to plantations, etc.,
is not expected to exceed 3 p.c. of the
book value of the subsidiary’s total
assets. Exactly what that amounts to isn’t
from the published figures,
because the pup’s accounts aren’t broad-
cast. Fairymead exchanged 95,000 of its
own f.-p. pound shares for £195,000 of
scrip (held by the Young family) in the
Malayta Co., which owns and operates
the plantations. Appearances are that
copra didn’t contribute much to the pool
pre-war. There is now a strong demand
for the stuff at enhanced prices, but what
post-war market developments will be re-
mains to be seen.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. s 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 51,320
1937 . . 11,871 8 p.c. =s 8,000 3,871 55,191
Insurance adjustment, £2llB .. .. 57,309
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
1939 . . 10,905 9 „ „ 9,000 1,905 64,795
1940 .. 11,243 9 „ „ 9,000 2,243 67,038
1941 . . 12,686 9 „ ~ 9,000 3,686 70,724
p 1942 .. 10.797 9 „ ~ 9,000 1,797 72,521
1943- . . 15,446 9 „ „ 9,000 6,446 78,967
IjOSS.
1944 .. 3,513 5 „ ~ 5,000 70,454
1945 . . 2,460* 5 „ ~ 5,000 62,994
* Subject to review' of charter rates.
The loss shown—the second inside a
third of a century —is subject to review
by the Prices Commissioner of existing
charter rates, which are inadequate to
meet present increased maintenance and
replacement costs. Shortage of coal,
strikes and stoppages on the waterfront
and in dockyards were other contributory
factors to the adverse trading results.
Three of the co.’s five vessels are still
in the hands of the Navy. Of the other
two, which have been taken over by the
Shipping Control Board (Illiawarra acting
as managers), one ran ashore last July
and was out of commission for ten weeks.
During this period the co. had to suspend
some of its services, but late in the term
the S.C.B. assigned it another vessel,
which enabled the co. to deal with accu-
mulated timber cargoes and generally im-
prove the service to residents of the N. S.
Wales South Coast.
The loss shown (£2460) was struck be-
fore adding £2625 to replacement reserve
(£11,625), instead of writing off deprecia-
tion, which was not catered for in 1944
either. However, as ship property figures
in the, books at less than £lO per ton
gross the Government pays a bounty
of that much per ton on ships built locally


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Aovr.
* ♦ • ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. CoUini
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'iolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
•tc.
RUPTURE
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIID
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARREBE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-duy for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 21X), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY
AREYOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
F I
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PEOPLE
) iff Though they abandon the useless at last,
Sentiment sanctifies things of the past.
Old-fashioned people have old-fashioned
ways,
Memoi) links them to old-fashioned davs;
But for the bronchial complaints the\ endure.
All prefer Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
like old-fashioned homes
Crowned with superfluous turrets and domes.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
For Coughs and Golds never fails.
THAT'
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - B. J. Nos worthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitclel
Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
HP 4 44,
The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited
SPECIAL FEATURES
Of the Directors’ Report Presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING '
held Wednesday, 16th May, 1945, at 2.15 p.m. at the Offices
of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
ALL DEPARTMENTS: t
New Policies issued during the year . . . . 65,403
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed
Income Policies, and Accident and Sickness
Benefits)
Total Income for 1944
Interest Income
Total Payments to Policyholders during 1 944
Total Surpluses
Special Reserves for Contingencies
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1944 , .
CONTINUED ECONOMY.— The Percentage of
Renewal Premium Income of the Ordinary De-
partment absorbed in Expenses (excluding Tax-
ation and Self-charged Rent) was only 7.305%
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied
to the benefit of the Policyholders only.
. . £14,091,962
6,545,935
1,472,185
2,621,538
1.387,532
1,895,843
.. 36,944,105
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE
INCEPTION £42,381,671
INTEREST EARNED ON MEAN ASSURANCE FUNDS
OF THE THREE DEPARTMENTS . • £4 6 11%
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render excep
tional service to the assuring public.
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS
PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL OFFICERS:
THE HON. SIR HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman; SIR
DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.; ALEX. COOCH, J.P.; GEORGE D. HEALY ;
MAJOR-GENERAL FRANK P. DERHAM, C. 8., D. 5.0., V.D
General Manager, CECIL B. HEARN, C.8.E., F.C.LS^; Secretary, A. H.
JOHNS, A.1.A.; Actuary, D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.F.A.; Chief Medical
Officer, A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D., F.R.A.C.P.
—the board did not hesitate to draw on
reserves to pay another 5 p.c. div.
The financial position is snug:
1940. 1942. 1944. . 1945.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities* .. 8,554 13,014 16,172 15,932
Ship property 24,880 24,880 24,880 24,880
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 2,460 2,455 2,455 2,455
Plant, stocks, etc 1,740 2,068 2,078 2,176
Book debts . . 17,176 11,301 9,689 19,523
Public securities,
cash, etc... 133,807 149,331 152,524 134,893
* Including tax provision.
Cash and public securities, etc., receded
by £17,631 last term owing to the trading
loss and div. handout, and addition
to debtors’ balances. The contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£139,839) was £7493. Still, shareholders
could see the whole of their capital, and
6s. lid. per f.-p. pound share besides, in
cash and Government securities when the
books closed. The amount coming to
outsiders was more than covered by
debtors’ balances.
Subject to Government interference,
the co.’s post-war prospects are bright
enough. The fleet virtually enjoys a
monopoly of the carrying trade between
Nowra, where the railway terminates, and
the Victorian border and Sydney.
Statistically the position of tin post-
war promises to be very satisfactory, for a
while, at any rate. No major expansion
in world production has occurred since
supplies from Malaya and the D.E.1.,
chief producing centres, were cut; com-
petition from substitutes appears to have
made no disturbing headway; and phy-
sical rehabilitation of the industry in
enemy-occupied territories looks like
a long-winded process, indicating a short-
age of metal for some time. On the
other hand, Asian tin investments have
lost some of their Australian appeal be-
cause dividends, formerly exempt, are
now taxable in local shareholders’ hands.
Interests of Tongkah Compound, a pioneer
dredger, are dispersed throughout Malaya
and Thailand. Financially, both the
parent and its associates are fairly well
ribbed to face reconstruction problems:
Tongkah Compound Group.
Australian Issued Paid Parent’s
Company assets. shares. to holding.
Parent co. .. £128,109 248,536 16/8
i 25,000 £1 7,400
No ' 2 cO, • • 58,605 ) 75,000 15/- 33,287
No 3co 58 204* ' 38,000 £1
- £ 112,000 16/- 56,000
No. 4 co. . . 45,207 150,000 £1 47,353
No sco "Mil 1 28,833 £1 •
' ’ N 1 1 101,167 5/- 97,999
* Including buffer pool stock at valuation (£3628).
Including its equity in associates, liquid
Australian assets of Tongkah Compound
are equal to 15s. per share, and cover all
but ss. of the current market for tlie
scrip. Future prospects depend mainly
on the course of tin prices, the extent and
grade of remaining dredging reserves and
the cost to the various cos. of repairing
damage done by the Jap. The last con-
sideration, in turn, is bound up with the
post-war level of prices and the financial
assistance forthcoming from Britain in
order to reinstate her overseas posses-
sions. The property of No. 5 co. is not
yet equipped ; ground ahead of the other
dredges cannot be determined with preci-
sion at the moment, but it includes sub-
stantial tailings which it is proposed to
re-treat if metal prices behave as anti-
cipated.
* * * *
“Iona”: The future of goldmining in
Victoria doesn’t look bright, unless
a rise in the price of the metal attracts
men and finance to the fields. On the old
fields there are still a few shows on pay-
able ore, and a fair amount of low-grade
stuff, could be worked profitably if a
higher price for the yellow metal was
assured. For the prospector the eastern
half of the State, mostly mountainous,
appears to hold most promise for reefing
and odd patches of alluvial. The deep
leads of the Dargo and surrounding
country are as yet unproved, but pros-
pecting is difficult, owing to the basalt
overlaying the deposits. Most of the
alpine country from Wood’s Point to the
Upper Murray is auriferous, but a fair
portion of it is unexplored and un-
charted geologically. Still, gold-seekers
prepared to put in a few months’ diligent
work should have fair chances of success.
* * * *
Blue Spec, at Nullagine, on the Pilbara
field (W.A.), announces that from the
time the mill began till May 8 last 1250
tons ore, averaging 23,2dwt. (total gold
content 14500 z.) were treated, with the
following results:
Average Total
valim gold
Concentrates: — Tons. per ton. content.
Strake .. . . 1.8 lOOoz. 130 oz.
Pyretic .. .. 50.0 10,, 500 „
Antimonial . . 50.0 8 „ 400 „
Residue .. .. 1,150.0 2.Bdwt. 160 „
Since the concentrates carry both gold
and antimony, the yellow metal is not
in the form for immediate realisation.
Of the remaining 2600 z. contained in the
ore treated it is estimated that 15 are
in the zinc box, and that the balance has
been absorbed in new plant take-up and
spillage. The ore milled came from the
300 ft. level, where the average width of
lode was 12ft. and Bft. in the west and
east drives respectively. Head value of
the mill-feed is reported to be true value
at this level. Nothing is said about the
extent of ore-shoots, or probable ore re-
serves, The water problem will have to
be overcome before full-scale and con-
tinuous milling, which is essential to good
differential flotation, is assured. And
there are other nuts to be cracked in treat-
ment of concentrates.
* * * *
Knight Alexander Walker’s petition to
wind-up Youanmi Gold Mines, Ltd., has
reached the Chancery Court in London.
Petitioner holds 22,000 pref. shares, and
is supported by 450 other shareholders,
largely preference, holding 200,000 shares.
He is opposed by a large number of
ordinary shareholders. They want to put
the co.’s cash, which “is no good in Aus-
tralia,” into a gold venture in some other
part of the world. Alternatively, they
wish to put forward a scheme the nature
of which has not yet been disclosed.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department has be-
come interested in the production of
potash minerals and has issued a
pamphlet about it. This says that Lake
Campion Alunite works, which came into
operation in February, 1944, had up to
the end of that year produced 1120 tons
of salts, containing 610 tons of potassium
sulphate, Australia, the pamphlet claims,
has no high-grade potash deposits, and
before the war imported 11,000 tons of
salts annually, containing 5500 tons of
potash. Principal world sources of potash
are Germany, France, Spain, Russia,
Poland and America, and considerable
quantities are also obtained by the
evaporation of brine from the Dead Sea.


Vjo
o
✓N
/>«.
A:
ft
2S
U
Zubalda, wife of Haroun al
Raschid, Caliph of Baghdad,
carried a set of cat’s teeth as a
protection against evil spirits.
Paul Revere,
hero of that
famous midnight
ride, was also
one of America’s
first dentists.
4^
ss
a Bagabo (native of Indonesia)
has toothache, he believes that his te-
(left hand soul) is drinking boil-
hot water. Dental decay... the kind
that’s caused by food deposits . . can be
prevented by thorough brushing after
every meal with Kolynos. Kolynos is
active. Kolynos is antiseptic. Kolynos
swirls into hard-to-get-at interstices , . .
cleans out dangerous food deposits ...
•leaves every tooth antiseptically clean.
If you lose a tooth
after it has left your
jaw, you will have no
peace or rest until it
is found. That’s an
old superstition.
Dental plates need to be cleaned just as
carefully as natural teeth. Use Kolynos
~//// (/ T'vatfw _ Dental Plate Cleanser and keep your plate
v:.*' bright as the day your dentist gave it to you.
Putting both stockings on the same foot was an
ancient cure for toothache. You can keep your teeth
antiseptically clean by brushing them with half an inch
of Kolynos after every meal. Kolynos is active as well
as antiseptic —it sweeps away the food deposits that
cause decay. You’ll enjoy using Kolynos —it has a
clean, cool-as-fresh-picked-mint flavour.
%
r
y
m.
m
'TstT,
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tube!
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid o<
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
oassages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contain
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully the world over by millions of people.
They give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or store.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has aD the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ef
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE , 7-^
£l7/10/- ALL STATES
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course —• • —~— ». -—-7
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Uog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Depression and Squealers
With the end of World War II
something to be prepared for economi-
cally and politically, there is a good
deal of agitation within the ranks
of trade-unions concerning prospects of
employment and living standards when
the war-time and post-war stimulus to
industry has finished. There will be a big
return of servicemen later, and ‘among
these there will be a number who were
far more skilled in the jobs they left than
are the dilutees who took their places
while the war was on. Already there
has been trouble within unionism over
the replacement of a returned serviceman
in the job he relinquished to go on active
service.
In their concern about their post-war
economic prospects many unionists are
prepared to support schemes which,
while in the letter offering “full employ-
ment,” etc., in economic reality cut across
the basis of reasonably full employment.
There are many unionists who feel that
if their union bosses simply get all their
own way in their political and industrial
contests everything will be right from
the point of view of employment and
prosperity. Jobs will be found for all
through bank credit and “central plan-
ning” and the like, and even if wharf-
laborers and others loaf shamefully under
a policy of political coddling it won't
matter to anyone so long as everyone is
sure of a job.
The trouble in this sort of thinking is
that no one can be sure of a job unless
production is healthy and sufficientlv low
in cost to be sold internally or exported
at a profit. And if there is inflation of
the currency, as there is bound to be
under a policy of uncontrolled expansion
of bank credit, there will arise a lack of
confidence in the whole financial and
industrial system that not even a policy
of wholesale legislative “regulation” will
counter.
In their panic to grab all the wages
and other benefits they can, as well as ail
the legislative “protection” they can,
many Australians are undermining their
own chances of satisfactory employment
at a later stage. A person who gets paid
for what he earns is doing well; if he gets
paid more he is either robbing someone
or he is being paid in a form of currency
that will lose value- and upset economic
and industrial stability later on.
The basis of prosperity is our produc-
tion, and in Australia that production is
already more evenly distributed than in
most other countries. That our living
standard is not the highest in the world in
the circumstances is because our produc-
tion per head is not good enough. The
machinery for distributing the national in-
come in Australia does its job in a way
that does not favor the “tall poppies.”
The intrusion of politics into economic
matters has been something of which The
Bulletin has been critical for many
years. Economics is a difficult subject to
understand thoroughly, and human be-
havior, nationally and internationally, is
always changing, thus affecting the sound-
ness of previously conceived economic
notions. But economics, whether under-
stood or not, relentlessly and continuously
affect our social life and welfare to a vast
extent. The politician who tells his poli-
tical followers that he can, by Act of
Parliament or National Security Regula-
tion, defeat an economic force that has
been previously generated is like Canute
trying to turn back the waves. There are
economic laws which cannot be thwarted
by Parliamentary legislation. To ensure
economic stability there must be respect
for economic factors.
At the outset we should recognise that
our money system and our production
figures should bear close relationship to
each other. We can’t safely go on creat-
ing more money and handing it out to
the population unless our production
keeps in step. Where production and
money get out of step with each other,
money getting too far ahead, we have
inflation, and when that happens money
loses its value, prices and costs of pro-
duction rise, there is resentment in many
quarters at these conditions, industry
becomes unprofitable and there is often
a loss of confidence that leads to depres-
sion.
Seeing that Parliament has so much to
do with the distribution and redistribu-
tion of the national income these days
—redistribution comes through taxation
and borrowing and then handing back
to the population, in different propor-
tions, pensions, child endowments, unem-
ployment and sickness benefits, etc. —a
great economic responsibility rests upon
every Government. But Governments
are elected by the people, and where a
party promises electors an extravagant
redistribution of the national income re-
gardless of practical economic considera-
tions, and where the cupidity of an elec-
torate overcomes its commonsense to the
extent of its putting into office a party
whose policy is political bribery, then the
electorate has to take the consequences.
And it is not unfair that those whose
votes have contributed to economic de-
rangement and depression should suffer in
proportion.
If people won’t learn of their own free
will they must learn the hard way. Many
who have in no manner contributed to
the depression will suffer with those who
have. But the contributors usually have
very little sympathy for the others. Their
sorrow, in many cases, is reserved for
themselves.
Not only does misguided Government
economic policy contribute much to de-
pression. Anti-social industrial policy,
such as a go-slow attitude among trade-
unionists, leads to the same thing. Where
production per man falls.while his wages
remain high there is a rise in produc-
tion costs that leads to inflation. Many
trade-unionists are following a go-slow
policy at the present time, though weep-
ing copious tears when they touch on
the subject of how they fared in the last
depression."
A Government that issues bank credit
excessively puts into circulation more
money than there is production, with a
stretching and straining of the economic
system that ultimately produces inebriat-
ing economic effects. There is rarely a
credit boom without a following “bust.”
Excessive issue of credit encourages the
boom.
A critic of a recent Bulletin article
contended that, even if the national
finances had to be strained, “something”
should have been done to avoid wide-
spread unemployment during the last de-
pression. Straining of finances obviously
will do nothing to reduce unemployment;
a strained thing will work less well than
something in good condition. Planning
of our economy to meet the effects of a
world-wide slump was the only thing to
do. And it wqs not done badly either,
the electorate generally responding to
commonsense after a trying period.
After the war in the Pacific is over
and the lack of present Commonwealth
Government peace-time preparation is
overcome there will be prospects of a
pronounced boom in building and most
other activity within the Commonwealth.
The responsibility of avoiding a subse-
quent depression rests more than usually
upon trade-unionists. If they try to grab
more than they earn during this ticklish
post-war period the economic monetary
balloon may blow up to bursting point.
It has puffed up dangerously already
during the war.
Advising against development of the
Baerami oil-shale deposits (N.S.W.), which
the American oil mission recommended
be exploited at a capital cost of £2.9 mil-
lion, the Parliamentary Committee on
Public Works comments that:
(1) No defails are available as to how
the various sums required for development
are arrived at or by whom the estimates
were made;
(2) The tentative selection of a refinery
site showed “lack of imagination” in the
matter of water-supply, one of the present
troubles at Glen Davis;
(3) The estimate of £300,000 for com-
munity facilities for 850 men “appears in-
adequate.”
In any case,
(4) The estimated life of the project (14
years) “does not commend itself,” in view
, of the prospective returns and capital re-
quired. >
The leases of the Standard Oil Co. of
Australia, which claims to have expended
£BO,OOO in exploring the field, have lately
been worked by Shale Oil Co-operative,
Ltd., at a royalty of 2s. 6d. a ton. Treat-
ment has been about 60 tpns a week,
mostly hand-picked ore mined at a cost
of £3 a ton. Final products have been
selling, “somewhat below cost,” at Bs. a
gallon for shale-blende products and at
ss. 6d. a gallon for vaporiser spirit.
* * * *
Herbert Morrison, Britain’s Minister
for Home Security, addressing the Labor
Party Conference at Blackpool last week,
said that Labor, if returned at the next
election, would socialise “certain indus-
tries” on a basis of suitability and
urgency. He mentioned electricity, fuel,
power and transport, but added that the
test would be whether it was in the public
interest to socialise an industry. Control
of banking is also suggested, though the
method and extent of the control has not
been defined. Mr. Morrison no doubt
has his own reservations on questions of
socialisation, having seen near-socialisa-
tion during the war. Sir Stafford Cripps
has probably learnt a good deal about in-
dustrial affairs also over the last two or
three years. All the Ministers who have
served in the Coalition Government dur-
ing the war may accept it that economic
problems will be far more complex with
the coming of peace, and that if near-
socialisation has appeared to work only
fairly well during war it is unlikely that
it will do any better in peace. Britain
must now organise efficiently for world
trade, and production per head must be
boosted up. Experiments in socialism
are unlikely to achieve this more efficient
production.
* * * *
Between November, 1943, and Decem-
ber, 1944, 103,330 persons —92,930 males
and 10,400 females —were discharged
from the armed forces. Of the total 35,520
were discharged on medical grounds,
with 41,130 for “man-power” reasons—
“for high-priority industries such as
dairying and other rural pursuits and
food-processing, in accordance with de-
cisions of the War Commitments Com-
mittee.”
* * * *
Australian Public Opinion Polls, dir-
ected by Roy Morgan, were singularly
successful in tipping the result of the
referendum last year. A poll taken re-
cently on the question of removing the
Commonwealth Bank Board and substi-
tuting political control shows 60 p.c. of
all classes of public opinion to be against
it, 24 p.c. for it and 16 p.c. “no opinion.”
Opposition to the plan has strengthened
over the past few months. It now re-
mains to be seen whether the Govern-
ment will insist on making a suicide
attack on the banking system.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
fecr
i
m
m
i
By }
m
mm
pp
-
MMegl
as®
S a
'■idf B***r*
TiJ I |»jg
pngHl
' s M
Mil
■
1
u
m
■
P
AUTOMATIC
IN A FULL RANGE OF SIZES FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS
Rubber manufacturers and those engaged in plastics,
linoleum, cable making and allied industries need
look no further than British-designed, Australian-
manufactured Bridge-Banbury automatic mixing
equipment for uniform, controlled materials mixing.
Output for output, Bridge-Banbury automatic mixers
occupy less floor space , . . show savings of 40 %
to 50% in use of power . . . up to 50% and 75%
savings in labour ... and produce a product once
considered the province of two-roll mixing mills
alone.
Manufacturers with an eye toward the competitive
future should investigate Bridge-Banbury features—
now. We shall be happy to send you informative data
on how Bridge-Banbury mixers lower costs, improve
quality of the mix. No obligation.
A. Goninan & Co. Limited
NEWCASTLE - - IS.S.W.
d
gd
gd
MANUFACTURERS OF RUBBER AND MINING MACHINERY
ROLLING STOCK. SKIPS. BOILERS. DROP FORGINGS
IRON. BRASS AND MEEHANITE METAL CASTINGS.
SPUR. HELICAL WURM AND BEVEL GEARING
MANUFACTURING • STRUCTURAL • AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
The Note Issue
“C. Jack”: “Costless Credit and a
Railway” (B. 2/5/’45) was a timely ex-
position of the fallacy that the cost of
the Commonwealth east-west railway
was financed without borrowing. The
subject has lately been the theme of many
letters in the Adelaide daily press.
With regard to note-issue profits, in
effect, the notes are actually sold to the
trading banks (or the Commonwealth
Bank) and the proceeds of such sale (a
credit balance) are used by the Note Issue
Department to purchase Government and
other securities, which, of course, bear
interest.
The present Act requires that a reserve
of not less than 25 p.c. of the amount of
the issue shall be held in gold and/or
English sterling. The new bill now before
the House of Representatives abolishes
this provision (which is certainly some
limit to the note issue) and provides that
notes may be issued on the security (inter
alia) of stocks and bonds of the Common-
wealth or an Australian State. Therein
lies a most dangerous potentiality of in-
flation of the note issue.
There is another backward step em-
bodied in the new banking legislation.
Section 114 of the present Commonwealth
Bank Act provides that the board may
issue Australian notes to any bank in
Australia in exchange for money or secu-
rities lodged with the London branch of
the bank. It is not known to what extent,
if at all, this authority has ever been
availed of, but it certainly increases the
potential reserve liquidity in Australia of
all the banks. This clause has been
omitted from the new bill dealing with
the Note Issues Department of the Com-
monwealth Bank, although no reason has
been advanced for its omission.
It is interesting to recall that, prior to
1911, the trading banks issued their own
notes and still have that right, but the
Commonwealth Bank Note Tax Act im-
posed a tax of 10 p.c. p.a. on all bank
notes issued or re-issued by any trading
bank ; so, of course, this branch of their
business became unprofitable.
The banks, however, received no re-
compense for the loss of it, nor are they
reimbursed for the present service they
render the Commonwealth in sorting out
soiled and damaged Australian notes,
which they return to the- central bank,
thereby keeping the issue generally in a
satisfactory condition.
Their 2000-odd branches are also con-
siderable channels for the distribution
and circulation of the note issue, the
whole of the net profits of which are paid
to the Federal Treasurer. These profits
amounted to £2,743,115 for the 12 months
ended June 30, 1944.
Out of the profits of the Bank of Eng-
land note issue a compensation is paid
under the Bank Charter Act of 1844 and
the Bank Compensation Act of 1856 to
other bankers in consideration of the dis-
continuance of the issue of notes by those
banks. Trading banks in Australia re-
ceived no compensation whatever when
the right to issue notes was virtually
denied them.
Qualms in Maoriland
After a long period of Labor rule New
Zealand business people are still dissatis-
fied with the condition of things in their
very political economy. It is about 18
months since Leslie Lefeaux, ex-governor
of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand,
said: “Only the war saved the Dominion
from serious financial embarrassment. ’
He believed that pre-war Maoriland had
been “heading straight for the financial
rocks. 55
In Wellington recently F. Wilson, presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce, said
that the principal job of the post-war
period would be to provide a high level
of sustained employment to supply the
wants of the people. “If this is to be
achieved,” said Mr, Wilson, “the Govern-
ment must take industry —and I use the
term in its widest sense as embracing all
sections of free enterprise—into its con-
fidence in its reconstruction plans, be-
cause a Gbvernment alone cannot bring
about the permanent well-being of this
Dominion.” He went on to say:
Our democratic system is based on the
freedom of individual enterprise, not on
public enterprise and bureaucratic control.
If, then, the Government gives to industry
due recognition of its vital place in the
post-war economy of the Dominion it will
be possible, with both working in co-opera-
tion and each within their proper spheres,
to achieve the most beneficial results.
Mr. Wilson was not satisfied that the
Government saw things that way. In-
dustry was not assured of its proper role
in the Government’s plans, nor was it
clear that the State intended to guide
industry rather than to interfere through
restrictive controls. There were, in fact,
signs that the Government was planning
an even larger role for itself after the
war. Indications were that the Govern-
ment intended to continue its controls
over business and to take a greater part
in trading and industrial operations. “The
recent, decision to take over the privately-
ownetf shares in the Bank of New Zea-
land is convincing evidence of this,” he
said, “and it also suggests that our post-
war economy is to be developed on poli-
tical rather than economic lines.”
Claiming that certain powerful groups
had developed a keen interest in the
maintenance of emergency controls as a
permanent feature of Maoriland’s post-
war economy, the speaker said that such
a system would be a denial of the free-
dom for which the war had been fought.
Not that freedom meant a condition of
priority for vested interests either of Capi-
tal or Labor. The freedom envisaged
“recognised and required both individual
and collective responsibility and contri-
bution to social order, with supreme
responsibility in the hands of the Govern-
ment, expressing, in a proper and consti-
tutional way, the people’s supreme rights
through Parliament.”
Mr. Wilson said he feared something
affecting employer and employee alike —
“ultimate State control and public owner-
ship replacing both individual initiative
and reward and Labor’s rights and bar-
gaining powers.” He believed that a
vigorous and healthy post-war economy
was dependent upon a proper relation-
ship between Government and industry,
and each should operate within its right-
ful sphere.
Essington Lewis is going back to full-
time work with the 8.H.P., having relin-
quished his unpaid job as Director-
General of Munitions, a task for which
he was particularly well adapted and one
that he has carried out with great credit.
He was picked by Menzies early in the
war, and he in turn selected a team of
specialists to control explosives, ord-
nance, gun ammunition, aircraft, machine
tools, etc. It was inevitable that a con-
cern like B.H.P. and its chief executive
should figure prominently in Australia’s
munitions effort. The steelworks have
carried on under great difficulties, mostly
in respect of iron ore and coal, but there
has been a big expansion in output with
many improvements in techniques, es-
pecially on the steel-processing side of
things. B.H.P. steel is still the cheapest
in the world. Essington Lewis is now
64 ; Munition Minister Makin has more
than once paid tribute both to him and
to the B.H.P. for their parts in the war
effort.
* * * *
The petrol ration to civilians in the
United States is being increased, follow-
ing the making of an allowance to British
civilians. Mr. Beasley says no increase
in the Australian ration can be expected
before the end of the year, tanker space
being short. Another reason mentioned
was the scarcity of rubber. The latter
seems to be ah admission that the Gov-
ernment hasn’t got black-marketing in
tyres under control, and partly relies on
rationing of petrol to restrict illicit tyre
traffic.
* * * *
The Federal Government, which has
a habit of talking about how much “pros-
perity” it has brought to the “workers”
during its period of war-time office, and
of making contemptuous references to the
economic administration of previous Gov-
ernments, really gives a sample of its
own administrative ineptitude in the case
of housing. Day after day tenants are
being turned out of homes, sometimes in
cases where the incoming tenant has a
higher “priority,” but the dehoused one
usually has a frantic time finding even
a makeshift new home. Meantime, Bung
sits on hundreds of empty hotel rooms
in most capital cities and their suburbs.
Why this special treatment of pub-owners,
which are often breweries? It is a notorious
fact that many hotel-keepers would like
to have the bar as the only “public” part
of their house, but this selfishness should
find no sympathy in Government circles.
And if man-power is the hotel-keepers’
problem, it would not be wrong to divert
the necessary quantity in view of the
emergency prevailing. That is, if the Can-
berra Labor Government had the foggiest
idea of whether it is standing on its head
or on its heels. It has been mumbling
and fumbling about housing for years,
but its own red-tape is now the most in-
explicable hindrance to the building of
many houses. The whole Administration
needs the vacuum-cleaner run over it
every month or two to clean out the
bureaucratic and political fuzz that has
accumulated to the extent of clogging
many of the ordinary essential functions
of the country. It is better that a few
hundred bureaucrats should be exposed
to the fresh air of economic and social
realities than that tens of thousands of
other citizens should stifle under unneces-
sary “regulations.”
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Canada, in a recent
publication, said: “Isocrates, the philo-
sopher, declared in 354 b.c. that persons
who made money were looked upon as
criminals and punished worse than
criminals. Some people single out busi-
ness, and assert that in peace-time, no
less than in war-time, profits should be
confiscated by the State. But while busi-
ness can sacrifice, and sacrifice greatly,
for a short time of emergency, continued
crippling of its resources will inevitably
lead to stagnation of trade, the collapse
of the national income, and depression.
Prosperity will not come to post-war
Canada by putting the brakes on busi-
ness.”


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: By the week-end Tarakan
news had dwindled to a daily paragraph.
According to an Allied spokesman at
South-West Pacific H.Q., the resistance
of the remaining enemy “showed on May
23 definite signs of weakening.” He is
(conserving ammunition where he has
guns ; where he has not he has rolled
shells down hills at infantry in the
approaches. Once an enemy force
charged with spears.
These tactics are described scornfully
by correspondents as “amateur”; but they
are no matter for derision. They are an
earnest that even in dire extremity the
enemy is prepared to try anything, even
though a very long shot, to disorganise
attack. And while the measure may be
harmless, it is conceived in a spirit which
is symbolic of the fact that the Japanese
empire is likely to be found fighting
while it has even a fryingp&n to throw
and there is a Jap to throw it.
Wewak Captured
An army official statement brought
welcome news —with the junction of con-
verging forces control of the whole
Wewak coast had been secured.
In his defence of his last port on the
mainland of New Guinea the enemy was
reckoned to have lost more than 1000
men as well as large quantities of stores,
in addition to over 4000 previously killed.
In Wewak the ashes of 7000 Japanese
were found.
It was estimated that there were still
10,000 to 12,000 of the enemy sealed off
in the foothills inland. The Japanese in
the Wewak region were believed origin-
ally to have numbered more than 16,000,
comprising elements of the 20th, 41st and
51st divisions. Against these the A.I.F.
Sixth Division under Major-General
Stevens pitted not more than two brigades,
with commando support and divisional
artillery, engineers and signallers. The
explanation is that careful planning made
it possible to use this force effectively
against an enemy force of double the
strength, the brigades apparently being
used alternately in action and reserve.
In view of the inland supply position,
the admission of the shortage of ship-
ping and of the difficulties caused by the
heavy surf, which interfered with com-
munications, it seems that the Govern-
ment has every reason to say a prayer of
thankfulness that all has gone so well.
The army report added:
Had the strength of the Australian forces
been disclosed... .the enemy would un-
doubtedly have stiffened his resistance.
If there are still 10,000 to 12,000
ensconced in tough mountain positions
for which the fight is only just now com-
mencing it might well be asked why the
A.I.F. strength now is disclosed.
The phase of fighting for approaches
to Jap positions in the hills'and of soft-
ening up his strongpoints with artillery
fire has begun.
In the Solomons
In Bougainville another steady forward
move was made after there had been a
pause to build roads through the bush
impinging on the Hongorai defences,
under the noses of an enemy distracted
by the busy Corsairs of the Maoriland
Air Force, which acted as silencers for
bulldozers and scrapers.
Next, when the 25-pounders had played
their overture against a background of
slower fire from the six-inchers and the
detonation of bombs, the infantry, tried
by a period of restraint, and ready for
anything, went forward in some force in
a three-pronged drive which carried them
over the Hongorai and to within gunfire
of the ford on the next stream, the
Pororei.
There the battle had begun to rage
within the fringes of the garden district
from which the enemy draws his food,
A few further miles of drive will bring
the intimate and decisive operation for
the actual capture of the Buin area.
During the Hongorai crossing there was
no fighting above the level of patrol
skirmishes. In the small actions along
the tracks the Japanese were reported to
have lost 26 men.
A.I.F. Numbers
Paradoxically, with the news that the
Australians of the Ninth Division now
hold all but a few features on Tarakan
and that Japanese aggressive defence had
dwindled down to a few small night
attacks, came the fresh correspondent-
wafted complaint, allegedly of U.S. origin,
that although it was now conceded that
the A.I.F. was adequately supplied, Aus-
tralian numbers were all too small.
There might be more substance in this
than in the complaints about the Tarakan
equipment. The third of a division or
thereabouts which was used was scarcely
as large as might have been needed if
the garrison was 4000 Japs as estimated.
But it was obviously sufficient for ex-
peditious operations, and if there was
American criticism worth taking the
slightest notice of, it probably arose from
the differences of technique which are
perpetuated between the officers of the
British and Dominion armies and officers
of the American army.
It was always a British comment in
North Africa and Europe that the Ameri-
cans were too lavish in men and the use
of material and too diffuse in their
methods.
The American method is to pound a
considerable objective as a whole until its
surface is mere pulver and then swarm all
over it with a considerable force.
Theoretically, the bombardment should
stun and break down the enemy resist-
ance.
The small island off St. Malo (France)
was bombarded until its surface looked
like a bit of the Sahara, but the small
German garrison remained. Tarawa was
apparently beaten into pulp. The
Marines who landed there suffered some
of the bloodiest casualties of the war.
On Iwo Jima the tremendous bombard-
ment, if observers’ reports may be be-
lieved, ploughed up the volcanic sand in
such a way as to bog down landed in-
fantry and render progress more difficult
than it might otherwise have been. The
somewhat dispersed landings of closely
packed bodies of troops, while they may
have shortened the battle for the island,
were apt to call for greater sacrifice,
Okinawa Example
Similarly, on Okinawa it is being proved
that the end of very heavy bombardments
when applied to modern war finds the
enemy still resisting attacks even on a
major scale. Patrols entered the pile of
slimy rubble which had been the city of
Naha and found it deserted, save by the
dead. But in a few hours the Japanese
appeared to have sprung to life amid the
ruins, and more than a week later the
best that could be said was that the Asto
River, on which Naha stands, had been
crossed south-east of Shuri, whose
ancient castle defence had been bypassed,
and that American troops were within
the north-eastern suburbs of Naha.
Yet file Americans are said to be using
five divisions on the short front —divisions
which internally have the greatest fire
power of any five divisions in .the world,
which have the most powerful kind of
naval backing from guns up to 16-inch
and local airfields a few miles behind the
lines.
The British and Australian method, de-
veloped from and crystallised by long
experience, is that of the concentration
upon one point at a time in an objective,
especially when campaigning against hill
features. This enables the use of rela-
tively small numbers, is economical in
the application of man-power and in
keeping down losses, and gives methodi-
cal results at a minimum cost, since,
despite the theory of the efficacy of iso-
lated defence islands to form a perimeter
round a main central fortress area, the
whole of a defence zone is only as strong
as any crucial part of it.
Australian troops on Tarakan were well
but not over-supported by guns and air-
craft. They were expeditiously and well
supplied, as their time-table shows. And
the policy of testing a position in assault
—not forcing it at the cost of heavy
casualties, but retiring a few times
until the right dose of bombs and artillery
fire could be administered, instead of try-
ing to capture at any cost —is the policy
of a skilled commander, concerned not to
sacrifice unnecessarily life or limb. This,
of course, is not always possible, as in the
case of beach landings.
Tokyo's Heart Destroyed?
“Ek Dum”: It was reported on May
26 that in 13 days 17,800 tons of bombs,
mostly fire bombs, had been dropped on
Japan. The Twentieth U.S. Air Force, it
was said, is usin| a new type of 60-ton
Superfortress which, it is claimed, can
carry 10 tons over a 3600-mile range.
The Tokyo area in which two fire raids
are described as having taken place covers
the Royal Palace and the diplomatic
quarters, plus part of the business sec-
tion ; the districts from Uena Park in
the north and the Shiba Park in the south,
and from the Bay, on the east, across the
Nihonbashi and Kyobashi wards and the
Marunouchi and moated palace quarter
almost to the Meiji Shrine and Gardens
in the west. Central Tokyo was pictured
as a flaming ruin and the Imperial Palace
as wiped out.
The parts nearest the Bay are congested
business areas, but in the main built
since the earthquake in 1923, and, there-
fore, containing many fireproofed build-
ings. The newer streets are built wide to
make firebreaks. In fact, the whole area
was reconstructed against the emergency
of earthquake and fire. In these districts
are the chief department stores and banks
and two of the largest business streets —
Odori-road, in Nihonbashi, and the
Ginza, in Kyobashi. At the southern
extremity of Kyobashi is the old Hama
Detached Palace, used for entertaining
distinguished foreign guests.
As the landscape trends westward from
the Bay precautions become even more
marked. Buildings are wider apart. Roads
also are wider. The railway running
roughly north and south marks the break
between the business city and the official
quarters. In front of the main station
the road is nearly 250 ft. wide. Between
the railway and the Royal Palace lie the
Marunouchi quarter and further south
Hibiya Park and its environs. The
Marunouchi quarter consists of 27
large buildings, mostly owned by the
Mitsubishi concern, all classed “A” — i.e.,
built to official specifications to withstand
earthquake, and composed of fireproof
material entirely, inside and outside.
From this palatial moneyed section the
eye moves westward to the eastern por-
tion of the outer moat, a considerable
stretch of water which encloses other
moats. These in turn enclose, on the
south, the Imperial Palace and its out-
buildings, in grounds about 1400 yards
by 1000 yards, and on the north-east the
Privy Council and the Imperial Mews.
On the Marunouchi side is the main
entrance to the Palace enclosures. A wide
space stands clear of buildings here
so as to keep mundane Japan away from
the Holy City. Past the main Palace gate
runs another 250 ft. road.
The Palace and its buildings stand on
different levels, forming a confused mass
behind timber and water. They cover
great spaces and have been fire-proofed.
If they have been burnt by a small sec-
tion of bombers they must have taken
some burning.
From south of the Palace grounds,
where Hibiya Park provides more breath-
ing space round royalty, and in a line
with Atago Hill, on which Tokyo Radio
stands (or used to stand), and from which
on a clear day Fujiyama may be
glimpsed, there is a great belt of gar-
dened pride and loveliness sweeping
round the west side of the Palace area
from south to north. Cherry and plum
blossom between the widely-spaced build-
ings. "the roads are wide, often with a
strip of green down the centre, like a
German Autobahn —22, 27, 33 and 44
metres are normal widths for trunk arteries
in Tokyo. Buildings are so widely sepa-
rated in this area that it is difficult to
believe that some of them could be fired
unless bombs were dropped directly and
deliberately on each. The arc begins
south-east of Hibiya Park, where stand
the Imperial Hotel, the Peers’ Club and
the Industrial Bank, and it takes in m
its grand sweep all the main courts and
the Navy Office, the huge new Diet build-
ings, the Russian, Italian, Swedish and
other embassies, the Kasumiga-seka De-
tached Palace, the General Staff Office,
Air H.Q., the Hirakawa Shrine, the Gar-
rison Hospital, the British Embassy, the
Yakasuni .Shrine, the Military Medical
School and a widespread stretch of uni-
versity buildings.
Outside this skin round the Palace is
still another one along the water of
Ta-Machi, on which there are several
railway stations. This zone, beginning
on the Bay near the Hama Detached
Palace, holds the U.S. Embassy, Prince
Chichibn’s Palace, the Akasaka Detacned
Palace and Prince Fushimi’s Palace,
among others, with many diplomatic and
princely dwellings and several more
shrines of varying importance.
From the list of buildings given nearly
everything worth while in this area has
been destroyed, including the Imperial
Palace, which was erected in the late
’eighties of last century to replace the
Shogun’s razed castle.
One hopes it is all true. But Tokyo
shows a strange readiness to admit and
capitalise damage. It said on Friday,
after the first of the two raids:
Tokyo, once the world’s greatest metro-
polis, is literally scorched to the ground.
A 70-mile-an-hour gale spread the flames
through the sprawling, congested business
and residential sections, wiping out Broad-
way (Odori Road) and Fifth Avenue (Ginza).
And Saturday’s raid was supposed to have
finished off the modern section.
If it is all true it is the most remark-
able performance in the history of air
warfare. It would be comparable with
the wiping out of the whole of the West
End of London, from the Albert Hall
to Trafalgar-square and from the Thames
to Oxford-street, together with Bucking-
ham Palace, most of the Government
buildings of Whitehall, Westminster
Abbey, the Houses of Parliament, Picca-
dilly and all its environs, the whole of
Clubland and Park-lane regions and Ox-
ford and Regent Streets —all by two lots
of 500 machines based on Moscow and
using only incendiaries.
The weather prevented observation
after the raids, and it would be well to
wait till the damage can be photographed
fully before becoming too jubilant. The
Japanese, like the Germans, have the odd
habit of admitting the complete destruc-
tion of important objectives in the hope
that the admission will deter the bombers
from returning.
U.S. machine losses were not light:
twelve Superfortresses on May 24 and
19 on May 26. The raiders met much
ack-ack fire and fighter opposition, and
were attacked by baka suicide bombers,
three of which were shot down. Tokyo
claimed 47 Superfortresses destroyed.
On Okinawa
Fighting continued fiercely all the
"week. The enemy continues to struggle
desperately for Shuri and its castle and
for the remains of Naha. On the Yontan
airfield there was a confused skirmish
when enemy aircraft loaded with Jap
soldiers landed and tried to take the in-
stallations with grenade and small arms.
The crews were killed ; the Americans
had three men killed and about 20
wounded.
On the east side of the island the enemy
defence seems to be giving way. South
of Yonabura resistance collapsed on May
26 and U.S. troops advanced two miles
to within seven miles of the southern tip
of the island. The defenders are now
squeezed into a space of about 32 square
miles, but there is still bitter last-stand
fighting ahead.
At sea the enemy was active. His tac-
tics were directed towards two objectives
—dealing with U.S. naval forces which
were landing further troops and. weapons
on Okinawa, and warding off carrier-
borne air attacks on Amami, the largest
of the northern islands of the Ryuku
group, only 180 miles from Japan proper
and the furthest-flung sea fort of Japan
still untouched by invasion, save for the
Bonins. These attacks began on May 19
and were still in progress at the week-
end, obviously in preparation for a new
landing when Okinawa has been dealt
with finally. ,
In attacks on U.S. shipping which be-
gan at dusk on May 24 and continued for
30 hours, 11 small U.S. ships were dam-
aged, one heavily, at a cost of 206 aircraft
to the enemy.
From March 18 to May 25 U.S. losses,
on Okinawa were:
Killed and
Missing. Wounded.
Army and Marines .. 5,332 21,343
Navy .. .. .. 4,270 4,171
9,602 25,514
It was reported from Washington that
3581 enemy aircraft had been shot down
in the Okinawa and adjacent operations
in the past two months.
The U.S. Navy admitted the loss of the
destroyer Little and four small craft off
Okinawa, and announced that the cruiser
Houston, completed late in 1944 to re-
place the ship of that name .lost in March,
1942, in the Java Sea battle, was under-
going extensive repairs in New York after
having been severely damaged by aerial
torpedoes off Borneo.
R.N. and R.A.A.F.
According to a report from Manila
(27 /5 / ’45) 34 ships had been destroyed
by R.A.A.F. and U.S.A.F. bombers in
24 hours between the China coast and
the east coast of Borneo. Twenty of
these were credited to one U.S. Liberator,
which bombed a shipyard at Banjermasin.
In Burma the Fourteenth Army began
the wiping out of the last two enemy
pockets west of the Irrawaddy railway.
Sir Bernard Rawlings’s Royal Naval
Squadron went on with its task of finish-
ing off Sakishima defences, which now
show little signs of active existence.
Pacific Victory.
“Ek Dum”: If reading of Great
Dailies carried conviction it would be
easy to believe that the Japanese war
would finish next week or the week after.
The N.S.W, Labor Cabinet, whose in-
terest in the lot’r’y, horseracing, dog-
racing and the professional Rugby League,
now reviving inter-State games, is inti-
mate and deep, has appointed a com-
mittee of civil servants, presided over by
a Minister (all with portraits), to design
the “victory celebrations.”
How such rubbish as the statement that
the raids on Japan are heavier than any


Putjlic Noticft.
EIGHTH DIVISION ASSOCIATION.
An Eighth Division Association has been
formed to endeavour to win FULL recognition
for the A.l.F.’s part in the Malayan campaign
and to assist in the rehabilitation of prisoners
of war. Lieut.-General H. Gordon-Bennett is
president.
Will members of the Eighth Division please
communicate with the hon. secretary, M.
Duncan (ex. 2/18th Bn.), c/o Hudsons’s, No. 1
Bridge Road, Glebe, Sydney?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MRS. JEAN BIRD.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband CECIL BIRD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1861 of 1945 against you on the ground of your
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney up
to 30th June 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. O. PETRIE & SON Solicitors
375 George Street Sydney.—(n.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
m
am
against Germany can be published by
responsible journals is beyond compre-
hension. In the greatest raid over Japan
so far 550 B29s have been used over a
dispersed area ; over Germany in the last
weeks of the war it was not uncommon
for 10,000 Allied machines, including up
to 3000 Allied heavy bombers, to be
over that country at one time. The air-
craft used in Europe included large num-
bers of Lancasters capable of carrying
bombs up to the new “Ten-ton Tess,”
which B29s cannot lift for use at any
distance, and the raids were made at
ranges of from a few miles upwards. The
raids on Japan are being made partly
from Okinawa, partly from Iwo, but in
the main from the Marianas. The 17,800
tons dropped on Japan in 13 days was
about equal to what the R.A.F. was drop-
ping on Germany in similar periods in
June and July, 1943, and equalled five
days’ average for joint R.A.F.,-U.S.A.F.
bombing of Europe over the last four
months of the German war.
More superficial damage might be done
in Japan, in view of the large number of
flimsy houses of tatami, than would be
done by an equal load of fire bombs in
a European city.
U.S. Oil Bombs
The M69 oil incendiary bomb in use
by the Americans is a terrible weapon.
It consists of a hexagonal metal pack
filled with jelled petrol—the same material
as is used in the ordinary army flame-
thrower. Bombs are decanted over a
target in loose packs of 14 or bundles of
38. M69 is exploded by a fuse a few
seconds after it falls, when it hurls cloth
packets of incendiary material in all
directions. Each packet flattens itself
against anything it hits and becomes a
yard square mat of fire in which heat far
greater than that obtainable in a mag-
nesium bomb is generated. It was re-
ported from Washington that 550 B29s
in the record raid last week had carried
750,000 of these horrors. Each weighs
641b, For the wiping out of small houses
or anything inflammable they are very
deadly, but they would do less damage
among the earthquake-proof buildings of
modern Tokyo.
Taking the bombloads at their face
value as reported in the press, Tokyo and
other places are being heavily hit, but
there is a long way to go before Japanese
industrial cities are reduced to the same
condition as Essen and Cologne. Enemy
bases in Manchuria, Korea and Northern
China are virtually untouched. Formosa
so far has been only lightly hit by raids
of up to 300 or so machines, of which
the average bombload is from one to
tons —U.S. tonnage figures, incidentally,
are given in tons of 20001b.; British are
in tons of 22401b. And the main area of
Hong Kong is still intact, though con-
siderable damage has been done around
the dockyards.
Moves in China
The striking fact in China is that in
certain areas, not crucial, the Japanese
are withdrawing. They apparently are
strengthening Hong Kong, which will
present some nasty problems of attack,
with its hills on one side, its mountain-
ous islands, its channelled delta maze on
the southern bank of the Pearl River,
And they seem also bent upon holding
Shanghai, which is not easy to get at
from the sea. At the same time, there
were reports during the week of with-
drawals of enemy divisions in the south,
including two, or the remains of two,
which have come out of Burma via Indo-
China, and which have been noted in
Central China. The Chinese had recap-
tured Nanning and once more controlled
main air centres in Kwangsi,
As far back as March Japanese had
ordered their civilian nationals out of
Shanghai, Hangchow and Nanking and
deployed about 150,000 troops between
Ningpo and Shanghai. At that time, also,
the Yangtse was closed to all except war
vessels beyond Anking.
The Chinese Command now declares
that the enemy is making stem prepara-
tions to resist the creation of U.S. beach-
heads on the China coast; that strong
defences have been built along the shores
of Fukien and Kwangtung provinces, and
that Japanese strategy will involve a with-
drawal to the Yellow River, under cover
of existing south and central China de-
fences, a stand on the river and a final
withdrawal into the northern provinces
and into Manchukuo,
It is difficult to see upon what basis
optimists build their theories of imminent
Japanese collapse. The food resources
of Japan proper have been increased
rather than retarded up till recent months.
Despite heavy regular losses of aircraft,
there has been nothing reported which
would cripple the air force. New types
of machines, excellent in themselves, in-
cluding jet aircraft, have made their
appearance.
The navy has been badly battered and
has lost heavy ships. But estimates of
results vary considerably. British authori-
ties insist that Japan still has at least six
battleships, a number of modern carriers
and a substantial fleet of smaller fighting
craft. The Japanese mercantile marine
has been very heavily hit. There cannot
be a great deal of it left, but it is amaz-
ing what can be carried by the swarms
of coastwise barges, junks and small ves-
sels of the Far East of which compara-
tively, in proportion to their total num-
bers, few have been destroyed.
Man-power and Movements
Man-power as yet can scarcely be a
worry. The total annual call-up in peace-
time was about 640,000, 200,000 being
graded “A” and 200,000 “B.” If the
enemy’s losses have been round about the
1.000. generally calculated in Wash-
ington, new intake has certainly made up
for casualties. ,
The likelihood is that there are still
4.000. men at the very minimum avail-
able for the enemy fighting forces.
The movement of Allied troops to the
Pacific has begun with the transfer of
General Hodge’s First Army H.Q, (but
not of its divisions) and with the flight
of the 15th Allied Air Force from the
Mediterranean. Huge ferry services are
being instituted across the Pacific which,
from their inception, will, handle 30,000
men a month. Every ship which can be
diverted from the task of dealing with
starving Europe will be moved towards
Japanese waters.
But it is a huge job—something on a
scale outside human experience of trans-
ocean communications. Winter will cer-
tainly arrive before the task is completed,
and, unless Japan suffers a moral collapse
—always, of course, possible—it will be
the summer of next year before a major
campaign could be put into full swing on
any conceivable beachhead near Japan
proper.
Then it will take months at least to
reach a decision, especially if the war
moves to Manchuria, where the weather
is far colder and the landscape more
snowbound and difficult than in Europe.
The Japanese themselves talk about 20
to 30 years of war —sometimes they men-
tion 100 years. They are sure to be
beaten,-but at the present rate of pro-
gress it will take two more years, per-
haps three more years, to beat them. They
have greater man-power and sea-power
than Germany had, and are harder to get
at. The war against Germany lasted five
years and eight months.
In Blacked-out Europe.
“Ek Dum”: .With the capture and
suicide of Himmler, the taking of Forster
and the internment of Admiral Donitz,
last of the Fiihrers, with 30 of
his staff—one, Admiral Friedeburg,
Naval C.-in-C., destroyed himself —the
history of the Third Reich came to an
end. The history of occupied Germany
and of the new Europe begins.
The landscape presents no pleasant
picture. Tens of millions, friend and
enemy alike, are hungry. Many cities are
foetid wastes and germ-hatcheries.
And organisation of the continent
which once was accounted the heart and
fountain of civilisation is still hampered
by divisions of method and outlook be-
tween two sets of Allies. The Elbe con-
tinues to divide Europe into two. West
there is more ruin than east because the
Russians did not bomb the east as the
western Allies did their half. The Allies
in turn bombed only special objectives,
such as Berlin, inside what is now the
Russian zone. Outside their ruins com-
paratively little damage was done to
eastern Germany.
It is reported by the Soviet Legation
in Canberra that the Russians have begun
to provide food for the starving Germans
of Berlin and to take other measures for
their benefit, because “our morals and
traditions prescribe that we should deal
humanely with the civilian population of
vanquished nations.”
One method has been to do away with
Hitler’s communist plan of forcing the
peasants to deliver to the State all their
farm produce, with the exception of what
they needed to cover their own and their
families’ personal requirements and for
seed, and to introduce the bad old capi-
talistic system:
Peasants (i.e., under Hitler) had no right
to sell the least amount of grain, fat or
potatoes in the market. Naturally, that
weakened incentive for peasants to increase
production. If Germany is to be in a posi-
tion to feed its cities, peasants, after they
have made obligatory deliveries to Govern-
ment bodies, must be permitted freely to
dispose of their surpluses and freely to sell
in the market.
This, of course, is considerably more than
the peasants of Britain can hope to do
for some time. Moreover, the Soviet
authorities seem to have been shocked
to find that “freetrade in consumer
goods was banned in Germany”; anyway,
“to improve supply to the population
the Soviet Command permitted freetrade
in Berlin. This will provide additional
sources for improvement of living stan-
dards of city population.”
It is added that the “population of the
German capital hailed the measures of
the Soviet Command with great enthu-
siasm,” and the usual batch of testi-
monials from ecstatic admirers is pro-
duced as witness to the benefits of Rus-
sian rule— e.g., a lady who had decided
on a family mass suicide, but changed
her mind when a Red Army soldier
“gave a piece of bread and a package of
cookies to little Werner,” and a professor
who declared that “as for food rations
we never expected anything like it”:
My sincere gratitude to the Soviet' is
boundless. The Russians are not only
supplying us with food, but have estab-
lished different food rations and made
special provision for workers in hard trades,
scientists, professors. We clearly see that
the Soviet Command values brain workers.
If the Allies were to issue a document
of this sort there would be bitter protests
from Moscow journals, which would be
echoed by our own. Any Allied leader
who quoted German praise of his
measures would instantly be assailed bit-
terly as guilty of a scandalous and per-
haps willing surrender to Fascist wiles.
As it. is, the Russians are sitting pretty.
They have the means to influence public
opinion in British-American countries in
the direction of forcing stern measures
against all Germans. They have the
means also to shake public confidence in
capitalist allied Governments by sowing
the suspicion that to exhibit any generosity
towards the vanquished is weak or
corrupt.
And at the same time, east of the Elbe,
they are in a position to introduce a
technique of tenderness which will enable
them to draw for Germans invidious com-
parisons between the hardness of the
Anglo - Americans and the brotherly
generosity of themselves towards a de-
feated enemy.
And they will be able to prevent the
people of the western world knowing
what is happening in Russian zones, for
they continue the policy of secrecy which
was denounced the other day by Mr.
Paul Winterton, Moscow correspondent
of the London “News-Chronicle” and the
8.8. C., in whose name were published a
hundred glowing testimonials to Soviet
methods and military prowess.
In Trieste
Marshal Tito was reported to have sub-
mitted to the Allies a programme under
which Britain and the United States
would, until the peace conference, be
permitted to occupy a specified part of
the Venezia-Giulia province of Italy, in-
cluding Tito-Trieste, the rest of the pro-
vince, including Fiume, to be under
Yugoslav rule. At the same time he pro-
posed that Yugoslav troops should stay
in the Allied area under Anglo-American
command.
The matter had not been settled at the
week-end, and anything might happen in
Yugoslavia. Maorilanders thought that
something had happened when heavy rifle
and machine-gun fire was heard. It was
only Partisans celebrating Tito’s birthday.
In Moscow, indeed, something prime
was happening in relation to Yugoslavia.
Marshal Stalin’s official daily newspaper,
“Pravda,” had begun to attack the
British and U.S. Governments for “diplo-
matic interference” in supporting Field-
Marshal Alexander in his attitude to
Marshal Tito’s claims, and ominously
warning those who talked of war with
the Soviet Union that the Soviets had
enough strength to protect “not only our
own borders but those of other European
States under our protection.”
From which it may be inferred that the
Workers’ Fatherland intends to keep its
imperialistic conquests in Europe irre-
spective of agreements and charters.
Death at Kapooka.
“Ek Dum”: On Monday, May 21,
when three instructors and 25 trainees
were engaged in a demolition course in a
dugout at the school of the Royal Aus-
tralian Engineers at Kapooka, seven
miles from Wagga (N.S.W.), an explo-
sion occurred which killed 22 men out-
right and 26 altogether. One of the
instructors, who was outside the dugout,
survived.
The military authorities naturally made
no statement pending the finding of the
Court of Inquiry, which was at once
appointed. The next-of-kin were noti-
fied so soon as the victims had been
identified. But the usual daily paper
had the usual complaint that reporters
were not allowed to enter Kapooka,
interview all and sundry and make their
own findings.
Nothing will be known of the causes
of the accident until the Court issues its
report. Possibly even then it will be
found that the survivors know nothing
of what actually happened.
Much, however, could have been said
by a Government solicitous for the peace
of mind of relatives, and of trainees and
prospective trainees, of the past record
of the school and of its safety.
All told, considerably more than
20,000 men must have passed through
Kapooka. These men have been trained
at pressure through a series of courses
which involve the use of explosives and
detonators daily and which find hun-
dreds of men involved daily in novel
occupations which call for the moving
of heavy weights, the use of heavy tackle
under great tension and of band and cir-
cular saws and other edged tools. Bridge-
building in all its phases, diving, mining,
the handling and making of booby traps
and similar lethal weapons, blastings and
demolitions and all the arts of the field
engineer and sapper are taught. And
there are realistic assault courses which
accustom the trainees to something which,
if it is not actual battle, comes as close
in intrinsic risk to actual battle as any-
thing which can be simulated outside the
presence of a persistent enemy.
Yet' it is a fact that in the years the
school has been in existence the mortal
casualties till this accident took place
were at the rate of much better than one
per 10,000 trainees.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to
teach the use of explosives without some
danger. Trainees face thein training for
the sole purpose of becoming quali-
fied to meet infinitely greater dangers,
since in these days the sapper is the real
front-line soldier the man who
clears up the under-water trap on the
beach, who prepares the facilities for
landing, who finds and “delouses” the
minefields, engages in shock - troop
assaults over obstacles and generally
clears the path along which others follow.
He is also the enemy’s main and primary
target in the early stages of a battle for
a beachhead. If he and his equip-
ment can be wiped out or immobilised,
victory goes automatically to the
defenders.
The training of men designed for such
tasks as are allotted to sappers is natu-
rally rugged, but it is also naturally salted
with a great deal of precaution and
exactitude of drill, and security routine ;
for if sappers did not learn from the first
to be careful their casualties would be
serious.
The sympathy of all Australia will go
out to the relatives of those who died, as
much in battle as if they were in the
firing line. Those who mourn their lost
ones have the consolation of knowing
that their very presence in such a school
as Kapooka marked them down as being
among the elect and salt of Australian
forces, and that they perished while pre-
paring for tasks which are allotted only
to the bravest, most skilled and most
trustworthy.


Vf-’- v
U
ROMANCE —It is delightful to
dally with memories of the de-
licious past and to dream of
pleasures yet to come.
ROMANCE fitting gift for
charming companion choice,
gracious compliment for an anni-
versary occasion.
ROMANCE
e V
wen
V:--;. /-T Kr?
g)
w.
V H
m
. ( i
m
i /
\L.
8®
1
mmm
AVv
h.f
ROMANCE,
OLD GOLD,
GOLDEN GLORY
three famous chocolate
assortments remem-
bered for their
QUALITY!
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
f
rSit
-
n«
fmm in
}!(
lifii
m
in
n
ip
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
•‘METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Midstream-Ranier five-year-old brown
horse Drum Net has been a lucky partner to
Melbourne jockey J. Purtell. Early in the
current season Purtell had such a long run of
“outs” that backing one of his mounts was
like having a bit on Hirohito for the Pacific
Welter. Just before the bad run started he had
landed Drum Net a winner; then he rode the
discouraging total of 64 successive losers be-
fore Drum Net ended the run for him by
beating Tea Cake a neck in the C. F. Orr
Stakes. Once again, at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, the combination was successful, and
the day was one of Purtell’s best —a mount in
each of the six flat races, for three winners, a
second and two thirds.
Beating Quezon by half a head, with Night
Link only a head away, in the six-furlongs
Benevolent Handicap, Drum Net was the
narrowest of Purtell’s winners. Quezon, a
Brueghel five-year-old gelding, came with a
grand run over the last furlong, and only just
failed to overhaul the winner, who hung on
doggedly, after gaining a slight lead over Night
Link half-way down the straight. The fact
that Drum Net was in need of racing made
his performance that of a very sound class
sprinter.
Purtell’s first winner, the Kinderscout-Splice
chestnut colt Lord Baden, put up an extraor-
dinary performance, especially considering the
short distance of the Relief Handicap for two-
year-olds (five furlongs) and the turning nature
of this track. Badly away, he came from an
apparently impossible last in the field of 20,
galloping splendidly up the mid-field to catch
Tenderfoot (another Kinderscout) a stride from
the post, winning by a head. Half a length
away third, Chelsea ran an even race. Beau-
melle, who had not raced since the spring, ran
soundly, and the Hellespont colt Vino —solidly
backed, though it was his first run —also made
an excellent showing, very handy to the place-
getters.
The Caithness-Wottara colt Beautara gave
Purtell a much easier ride in the mile Hospice
Handicap for maiden three-year olds (first
division); in front early, running comfortably
in behind Prince Opera and Suthron till near-
ing the turn, then clapping on the pace, and
going on fo beat Sir Douglas by two lengths,
with Suthron another two and a half lengths
further back. In the second division the
Burlesque gelding Real Guy lived up to the
recent promising form which installed him a
7-to-4 favorite, though he had 1, to be very hard
ridden by V. Hartney to down Reynard a head,
with Purtell’s mount, Persuade, a close third.
The Purtell record would probably have in-
cluded another winner in the 13-furlongs
Charity Handicap if the somewhat moody Clay-
ton (a five-year-old son of The Buzzard) hadn’t
been in one of his very best moods. A good
galloper when he can have things his own way,
Clayton hit the front at barrier-rise, went out to
a long lead, and, with a couple of breathers to
help him on the journey, stayed well out in front
for the full mile and five. Anthony (Purtell’s
mount) was closest at the finish, but was well
beaten. Ola Rose (third) ran another of her
consistent races. For Anthony it meant more
than being beaten in a race. Losing demol-
ished his chance to remain among the 350-odd
eligible to keep on racing under the plan to
reduce horses in training because of the fodder
shortage. |
Purtell’s other placing was his third on Man-
do ric to Cloudy Bay and Brazen Jester in the
mile Society Highweight; a rough race, after
which, though a protest against the winner
was dismissed, apprentice L. Tournier, who
had the winning mount, and had also been
successful on Clayton, was suspended for two
months. The lately consistent Mananalaes
finished well back, but had drawn the outside
of the fairly big field —a considerable disad-
vantage on this track—and at one stage all-but
fell. By a particularly hard bit of bad luck
Brazen Jester became ineligible for racing
through not winning, whereas the winner,
Cloudy Bay, becomes ineligible, anyhow.
Apart from Real Guy, the only favorite to
score was Accelerate (5 to 2) in the Appeal
Steeplechase. Accelerate —a Veilmond five-
year-old gelding —led practically from go to
whoa over the 16 fences, made only one faulty
jump, from which he quickly recovered, and
though his rider, K. May, rode the last half-
mile with his feet out of the stirrups, was still
gping great guns at the finish, four lengths
ahead of Tente, with Koorool a fair third.
* * * *
Winner of the seven-furlongs South Aus-
tralian Stakes a week earlier, the brilliant
Shakuni-Surfine filly Norwich (6 to 1 on) won
the mile S.A. Sires’ Produce Stakes at
“Hop it!”
Morphettville on Saturday from Selesto and
Persian Chief. The winner’s record is now six
firsts and a second in nine starts. Space, a four-
year-old gelding by Blank (sire of the recent
Adelaide Cup winner Blankenburg, and of the
Australian Cup winner Spectre), downed the hot
favorite Rainbird in the 12 furlongs Sir
Willoughby Norrie Handicap, named after the
S.A. Governor. A sound stayer, Space won
over 11 furlongs at his previous start on May 5.
* * * ♦
The S.T.C. has made two attempts to run a
Lord Mayor’s Cup at Canterbury and both
have been washed out by rain, the latest last
Saturday. The mildest suggestion is that it
should now keep the Cup till the next drought.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances).—Nursery
(fillies): Narmosley, 1; Volley, 2; Vocal Gem,
3. Juvenile (colts and geldings): Tithonus, 1;
Blanmar, 2; Junior, 3. Dundas Flying: Ver-
meil, 1; Kingsdale, 2; Silverelda, 3. June
Handicap: Wellesley, 1; Goose Boy, 2; Thanks
America, 3. Novice: Dinkum Aussie, 1; Mara-
belle, 2; Survivor, 3. La Carabine Handicap:
Glencrag, 1; Sunfel, 2; Blackmore, 3. Rydal-
mere: Monaro, 1; Murray Stream, 2; Invic-
tus, 3.
» * * *
Leslie Aldridge, a visitor to the Adelaide
Cup meeting, used to own the Richmond
Park (S.A.) stud founded by his father J.
Aldridge. In 1928 he moved to Kismet Park
(Vic.) stud, and he had not seen S.A. since
winning the Adelaide Cup of that year.
* * * *
Wherever discussion of thoroughbred bar-
gains crops up there’ll have to be mention of
the English mare Sister Clara. Before her half-
sister Sun Chariot had been heard of Sister
Clara was bought as a yearling for 20 guineas.
When eventually she went to the stud she pro-
duced a foal by Stardust which was sold at the
last September sales in England for 6600
guineas. Then at the December sales Sister
Clara herself, accepted as being in foal to
Dastur, was bought on behalf of the leading
English woman owner, Miss Paget, for 11,000
guineas. Major E. C. Doyle, the original
purchaser, thus received 17,600 guineas for his
initial outlay of 20 guineas—and he still has a
colt foal out of the mare.
* * * *
The servicemen’s match at Lord’s,
played in a fine sporting spirit, ended in
a six-wickets win for our fellows:
England 263 and 294 (Robertson 84,
Edrich 50, Hammond and Robins 33,
Washbrook 32 ; Pepper 4-80, Price 2-40,
Ellis 2-33); Australia 455 (Miller 105,
Hassett 77, Williams 53, Stanford 49,
Pepper 30, Sismey 37, Price 35 ; Stephen-
son 5-116, Wright 3-122) and 4-107
(Passed 37, Pepper n.o. 57, Price n.o. 10);
Not only because he got the sole century.
Miller’s knock was voted the best of the
match, and Pepper’s all-round perform-
ance on the last day impressed the crowd
immensely.
* * * *
“Lumby”: England’s “new bloods”
were all prominent in 1939 county
cricket. Robertson, opening bat with
Middlesex, scored 1562 runs, averaging
41.10. Washbrook (Lancashire), also
an opener, piled up 1547, averaging 39.66.
All-rounder J. W. Stephenson, Essex cap-
tain, had a double of 519 runs, averag-
ing 18.53, and 46 wickets, averaging
23.19. Griffiths (Sussex), who came
into the limelight when Cornford was
injured, made a stir when he caught five
and stumped one and did not allow a
sundry in Worcestershire’s totals of 372
and 302. Cover’s demolition work for
Surrey was 118 wickets, averaging 23.99.
* * * *
Elected for the Cambridge seat in Tas-
manian Leg. Council in 1921, Joe Dar-
ling, who captained the 1899, 1902 and
1905 Test teams in England, has not since
been bowled. Latest win was over G. H.
Green by 59 votes (757 to 698), after
sundries, or preferences, were counted.
Darling, who is 74, is father of a family
of eight sons and four daughters,
* * * *
North Melbourne got into the six who
make the “four” by downing South Mel-
bourne, hitherto unbeaten, in a fast and
flashing game. North, with fast playing-
on tactics and a back line as hard to
penetrate as a Melbourne Sunday, had
a four-goal lead at half-time, whereupon
“Sowth” hitched up its pants and tore in,
to make a great finish, but in vain:
North 9.12, South 8.10. At Richmond,
Essendon broke away to a slight lead,
but was soon overhauled and beaten,
12.11-9.17; Footscray belted Melbourne
11.16-7.13; Collingwood, 15.18, beat
Carlton, 12.11 ; Fitzroy, 12.21, was un-
troubled by St. Kilda, 8.20. Just on
80,000 saw the five games in Melbourne
and another 10,000 turned up at Geelong
and were pleasantly astounded to see the
locals beat Hawthorn, 10.16-10.8.
People who wonder why the Victorian
Football Association doesn’t draw big
crowds should look at the scores each
Saturday. Here are samples from last
Saturday: 30.17 to 9.8, 22.17 to 14.14,
11.17 to 2.14, 26.17 to 3.11. Who wants
to see one-horse races or to endure the
loss of time that these enormous scores
involve?
* * * *
Randwick is now the only unbeaten
Rugby Union side. On Saturday the
strong ’Varsity side was bustled into
errors by West, and Byrne’s accurate
kicking swung the pendulum sufficiently
for the Magpies to snatch a narrow win,
12-11. West may have learned some-
thing from the methods of the Queens-
land ’Varsity XV, which on the previous
Wednesday had pressed Sydney ’Varsity
hard. Though the lighter team, the
Queenslanders were vigorous in the for-
wards and superior in the backs, being
perhaps unlucky to lose —it was 21-20.
Down 22-3 at “lemons,” St. George
startled Randwick in the second half, its
rugged spoiling and rucking having the
’Wicks sighing thankfully when the bell
clanged to give them a 22-14 win. An
unpredictable combination, the Gordon
side played good football to make it a
six-all draw with East. Drummoyne was
too good for Manly, 17-3, and North
showed improved form to beat Parra-
matta 11-9.
* * * *
Snowy Baker going strong:
Los Angeles papers arrived in recent mail
give columns of applauding write-up to R. L.
(“Snowy”) Baker —the R. L., it’ll probably
be news to most, stand for Reginald Leslie.
Going on for 62, Snowy is equestrian
director of the Riviera Country Club
(California), and still plays polo, the Los
Angeles “Times” sporting scribe putting in a
claim for him as “the oldest man actively en-
gaged in whopping the ball from one end of
the field to the other.” Snowy explained:
“When athletes start to decline it’s their legs
that go first. That’s why polo is so much fun.
Your horse provides your legs. I believe that
the horse is 80 p.c. of polo, which means that
if you keep in shape you ought to be able to
play the game as long as you can find a good
horse.” Among other things about him the
scribes record that in his day he had something
like 200 fights as an amateur, five of them in
one day. Subsequently, as well as going in
for no fewer than 29 different sorts of sport,
he refereed round about 1300 scraps in Aus-
tralia, England, France and Denmark. He told
an interviewer that Mclntosh wanted him to
ref. the Burns-Johnson fight, but that Johnson
took one look at him and said: “I won’t have
this man refereeing my fight. I never knew a
blond who liked a colored man.”
* * * »
When Stan Wilkes broke into the box-
ing game at Leichhardt two years ago
he knocked out a surprising number of
opponents. Jimmy Dundee was his vic-
tim on two occasions. On Thursday
Dundee avenged his astonishing defeats
by knocking out Wilkes in the third
round. Able neither to elude the Dun-
dee punches nor to endure them, Wilkes
was down four times. The customers
went away marvelling at the winner's im-
provement or the loser’s deterioration or
something.
For its Saturday-night show Sydney
Stadium put on 12-rounders between
heavyweights, Gallagher, and Marr, and
welterweights, Marsden and Watkins, and
each teemed with action. Marsden out-
pointed Watkins and Marr was adjudged
the winner of his bout, but it was a very
close thing. Many thought that
Gallagher’s busy left and his more attrac-
tive style of aggression entitled him to the
verdict.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
It took a second World War to make
the Australian woolgrowers and manu-
facturers wake up to the possibilities of
home-grown productions. Now they
have awakened they are doing their best
to make Australian women wool-con-
scious. One of the big Melbourne stores
has had a “wool week” and arranged
window displays stocked with the most
attractive lingerie, day frocks and
sweaters. There was a mannequin parade
and the show was presented to a full
house. Light-weight woollen materials
were shown made up into most attractive
frocks. Designs took full advantage of
the new taste for bright contrasts. On
a simple navy-blue frock the color splash
was a wide red suede belt and on a grey
frock a gold buckle, the size of a small
plate. Frocks conformed to the regula-
tions of the Rationing Commission—•
small pleats, two-piece skirts and very
little trimming. But the clever woman
can do a lot to brighten the standard
design. For instance, she can add rows
of pastel beads to the yoke of an every-
day jumper and so turn it into a thing
of glamor.
When Janet and Bowen Pain sent out
invitations to intimate friends to “come
along and help us celebrate our sixth year
of wedded bliss and the victory in
Europe, and also drink a toast to the
wedding anniversary of Mr. and Mrs.
Leo Buring,” acceptances were readily
forthcoming. Scene of the party was The
Cellars, in Market-street, and Janet, who
with Bowen greeted their guests, was
almost weighed down with the corsage
of roses Bowen had sent her earlier in the
day. She also wore them in her hair, and
they set off her black frock admirably.
Lord and Lady Gifford were among the
guests, the latter in her favorite black and
silver fox furs. Lady Royle, who with
her husband will soon go to England, was
wearing deep wine with a small feather
hat. She says that her days in Australia
have been very pleasant, and she intends
to tell her friends at home just how happy
she has been among Australians.
The Gullett lady came accompanied by
son Major Joe Gullett, A.I.F. Prof. G.
Browne relaxed for a few minutes from
his duties at the University and brought
pretty daughter Shirley, clad for the occa-
sion in aqua blue with cyclamen acces-
sories. Major-General Clowes and Mrs.
Clowes were among those who wished
Janet and Bowen “many happy returns,”
and Lud Mayor Nettlefold made a little
speech of congratulations. With Edwin
Abbott was daughter Dorothy. Flying-
Officer Eric Thacker was a worthy repre-
sentative of the R.A.A.F. Host and
hostess are keenly interested in the doings
of the French community in this city, and
a happy little group of French folk cele-
brating VE-day and the wedding anni-
versary included M. Pierre Mathis and
the H. K. Reddins. Madame Reddin, a
resident in this city since the end of the
last war, met her husband when he was
on leave in Paris, M. and Madame E.
T. Gay were accompanied by their
daughter Liliane. The R.A.N. was repre-
sented by Lieut.-Commander and Mrs.
W. J. Seymour. Lynette Dickenson, in
a very smart black outfit, helped to enter-
tain Commander, Quere, of the Royal
Netherlands Navy. Hailing from Maori-
land and working for his country in Mel-
bourne, is J. A. Malcolm. He was at the
party accompanied by his charming wife.
Lieut. Joel, R.A.N.V.R., displayed the
courage for which the R.A.N. is noted
when (the sole member of his sex present)
he addressed a gathering of the young
women who work under the command of
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell. They had met to
complete plans for the Mardi Gras and
to discuss the coming Cavalcade of Great
Lovers, both functions in aid of the
Totally Incapacitated Soldiers’ Fund.
Lieut. Joel spoke of the pending Appeal
for Naval Relief and asked for the help
of his hearers. The gathering also was
a pre- wedding party for Para Forster,
stunning in a black suit and beige fox
hat which was finished with lime-green
ribbon tails at the back. Mrs. Eric Cot-
trell chose a beige and brown ensemble,
arid Betty Leggo favored tailored navy
blue. Nancy Woodrow combined two tones
in her outfit, a lime-green wool jacket
with a black skirt. Mrs. W. Wolfe’s navy
blue was contrasted with a cardinal-red
velvet hat. Hostess Wallace Mitchell was
thrilled with a gift of £250 for the In-
capacitated Soldiers.
To come from the sane light of a
winter’s day into Georges Gallery and
be instantly transported into the Aus-
tralian bush, as Arnold Shore sees it,
was the experience of those who attended
the opening day. Their being no official
“opener,” the usual (and often boring)
discourse on Art was avoided. Mrs.
Daryl Lindsay was there, smart in black.
Daryl is now in America and is having a
busy time studying lighting and all the
details of modern galleries, Mrs. Ribush
was with husband Dolya. Inveterate gal-
lery trotter Allanah Coleman, bringing
in a breath of spring with her fair color-
ing, was with former gallery student
Sergeant Charles Busch. Charles is now
doing illustrations for the Australian
Military History Section. Mrs. Russell
Grimwade was a smart figure in a deep-
green suit with wine accessories. A small
group included Irma Pearl, of Sydney,
Judy Hunter and Major Moody. Mrs.
Walter Carnegie looked at the pictures
and in between times told stories of the
country children now in Melbourne on
holidays. Keenly interested in the Min-
istering Children’s League, Mrs. Carnegie
is busy seeing that youngsters from the
outback have a happy holiday. Leila
Bryans, an artist who has had many
shows in this city, was another interested
spectator at the Shore exhibition.
Section-Officer Joyce Money, pictured
here, had some dramatic experience be-
fore she joined the W.A.A.A.F., arid on
the strength of her prowess in amateur
productions she has been chosen by pro-
ducer Bill Carr to play Miranda, the lead-
ing role in “Bats in the Belfry.” This
W.A.A.A.F. effort will be given a season
at the Union Theatre early next month.
proceeds going to the Locker Fund, Sec-
tion-Officer Money has done some pro-
ducing as well as acting. With the co-
operation of the Sydney Players’ Club
she produced “Belinda” and “Mr. Pym.”
Interested in literature, she qualified as a
librarian at the Public Library, Sydney—
she’s a Sydney girl—and later took a post
at the Goulburn High School as teacher-
librarian. When the war has ended she
and her husband, Flight-Lieut. Money,
also from the harbor city, propose to
return to Sydney
At a VE celebration Mrs. B. J. Hattam
hostessed a luncheon party at the Ames-
bury House flat of Alice Wyatt. Gathered
round the table were well-known Mel-
bourne women whose work for war
organisations has been unceasing. Assist-
ing Mrs. Hattam, whose smart black out-
fit was highlighted with gardenias, was
daughter Eileen, also in black. Among
the guests was Eunice Crofts, recipient of
many good wishes on her return to Mel-
bourne. Her stay will be short, for she
will soon be off to warmer climes. Anne
MacDermott topped off her black suit
with an attractive chapeau featuring
ostrich feathers. Silver foxes added a
note of distinction. Mrs. Barry Thomp-
son was a regal figure in floral crepe.
Mrs. Frank Watt crowned her all-black
outfit with an original hat composed of
green, lime and mauve ospreys.
Dyed ermine formed lapels on the
olive-green coat of Mrs; J. H. Rhodes.
Her frock was in the same warm tonings
and her wide green felt hat was trimmed
with a rust-toned ribbon. For some
months Mrs. Rhodes was hostess of the
American Officers’ Club in Toorak, and
before that worked in the American Red
Cross Services Canteen. Another guest,
Mrs. Frank Martin, set off her fair color-
ing with a grey suit and grey accessories.
Guests were interested in the autographed
photographs which decorate the walls of
almost every room in the flat. Alice
Wyatt told of her experiences as leading
lady in a number of Charlie Chaplin
films. After lunch the guests discussed
forthcoming enterprises for the benefit of
the Totally Incapacitated Soldiers’ Fund.
From Sydney
The day was fine after a rainy morn-
ing when the Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst drove for the last time through the
city streets. Mounted police made gal-
lant escort as the open car drove along
Macquarie-street, and so on to the Town
Hall. This was their last official appear-
ance in public, and no doubt the minds
of both raced back to the many occa-
sions they had driven that way, back
and forth, hurrying to keep an appoint-
ment, hurrying home to get ready to take
the road again. Eight and a half years
is a long time, and naturally, though
nostalgic for their own home, they are
regretful at going.
There were hundreds of lookers-on
all along the way of the procession, and
at the Town Hall there was a guard of
honor —Navy, Army and Air Force. Girl
Guides and Boy Scouts had their part in
the pattern. Mayor Neville Harding in
full robes of office stood on the steps of
his fastness and delivered farewell on
behalf of the citizens, masses of whom
were clustered at points of vantage. At
the close of the speech in reply the vice-
regals drove to the Cepotaph, where the
Governor placed a wreath. This was his
last official act.
The lights were all up in the Town
Hall on the night the civic host and
hostess farewelled the departing Wake-
hursts. There were banks of greenery
and a carpeted dais, and all concerned
looked as though they were enjoying
themselves. The official party included
Church, State, the Services and Town
Hall dignitaries. The Acting-Premier
Baddeleys were there, so were Arch-
bishop Mowll and his wife. India came
in the person of Sir Raghunath Par-
anjpye. Maoriland was there in High
Commissioner Barclay and Mrs. Barclay.
Admired was Baroness Van Aerssen,
wife of the Minister for the Nether-
lands. Lady Wakehurst’s frock was
cameo pink, her jewels diamonds.
Mrs, Neville Harding’s frock of aqua-
marine crepes was girdled with a. silver
kid belt. The Mayor and Town Clerk
Roy Hendy were impressive in robes of
office. Mrs. Roy Hendy’s frock was
beigey pink in toning ; Mrs. Frank Crane
wore cherry-red. Speaker Daniel Clyde
was an important.
This is a good-bye photograph of
Lady Wakehurst, taken last week by the
Norton Trevaire studio. Incidentally, to-
gether with other luggage from Australia,
Lady Wakehurst is taking a sheepskin
coat. Among farewell paintings given
to her was one by Charlie Bryant. There
were also paintings by Streeton and
Dixon and an exquisite water-color
drawing of Government House by
Sydney Ure Smith. Sydney newspaper
women stuck to their last, so to speak,
and presented her with a gold pencil case.
Pnina Salzman, playing Mozart, Beet-
hoven, Chopin last Wednesday night,
wore an air of cool dignity that went
well with her long mist-blue satin frock.
This musician has made something of a
record with attendances during her
season. For every concert the Town
Hall has been crowded, and the applause
loud and prolonged.
The women’s committee of Scots Col-
lege Parents and Friends’ Association is
organising a musicale to be held in the
College Assembly Hall on June 6 at
8 p.m. in aid of five prisoners of war.
Laurence Godfrey Smith, Raymond
Beatty, Heather Kinnaird, Audrey Davies
and Joyce Hutchinson will figure on the
programme.
Up in the Legacy Club rooms the
veterans of the Soudan gathered for their
sixtieth anniversary. There aren’t very
many of them now, and at this lunch the
Last Post was sounded for two members
of the little group dead since the last
meeting. But the party was not a sad
one. Colonel Bennett, the president, made
a genial host, and there was a good deal
of laughter and many songs. They were
soldier songs that had gone ringing down
the roads of half the world. Every coat
wore its decoration —Colonel Bennett
himself sports a great array —telling of
brave deeds in the Soudan, the Boer War,
the China War (that would be the Boxer
fight) and in the war of 1914-1918. So
the songs rang out again: “Boys of the
Old Brigade,” “Soldiers of the King,”
“Sons of the Sea” and “Tipperary.”
The cornet used on these occasions is
the one presented to the “contingent”
when it set sail from “You never
saw such a crowd as turned out to see
us,” recalled a veteran proudly. “There
must have been thousands, cheering and
waving. Twenty-eight days , the voyage
took. But the food and the camp arrange-
ments weren’t whr t they are in the wars
of today. Talk about the sergeant-major
tucking you in, why we didn’t have beds
at all —just a hollow in the sand.”
Lord Wakehurst was prevented from
going to this reunion, but a poem dedi-
cated to him, written by Robert Ash-
worth, ex-sergeant, A Company, was read
to great applause. A copy of it was to
be sent to the Governor. Nothing will
touch Lord and Lady Wakehurst more
deeply than this poem of good wishes
from a group of brave men, the youngest
of whom is 79.
Grade Fields, a heaven-sent barmaid
of mirth, is coming to Sydney. She is
on her way to entertain the troops, and
is booked for six appearances at the
Town Hall:
She leans against the bar of heaven
And draws the sparkling ale
Of laughter and good fellowship
From taps that never fail.
And song and jest do host the tavern
In moon dark or in sun—
And Grade draws their frothy brew
And hands out pints of fun!
Singer Constance Burt had a great
thrill last week. She received a letter
from the president of the Conser-
vatorium of Music in Melbourne asking
her to join the staff in place of
Clive Carey, who will soon have to
return to London and his duties at the
Royal College. Constance studied her
art in this school and the thought of
returning and carrying on the Melba
method made strong appeal. But Sydney
and its claims were even stronger.
A good-bye tea-urinking at Govern-
ment House for newspaper women was
one of Lady Wakehurst’s engagements for
last week. It was a grand idea, because
the Governor’s wife has made quite a
dent upon the affections of the sisters of
the pen, and ,at this last get-together she
let the women journalists know she had
liked them, too. Before the tea Lady
Wakehurst, in response to questions asked
by her guests, held easy and informal
conference.
Her knowledge of welfare work, par-
ticularly that referring to the care of the
mother and baby, proved deep and sound.
She thinks that the happy family will be
woman’s greatest contribution to the-
building of a better post-war world. But
women should take their place, too, in
public affairs, especially in local govern-
ment.
She described Dobell’s portrait of her-
self as “a delightful fantasy.” It was
brought in later for a private view. It
reflects the essential qualities of the sub-
ject —sensibility, a quick intelligence and
grace. Lady Wakehurst hopes that Aus-
tralia will build up a good literature of
the drama —national in spirit.
“The Arcadians” romped gaily over
the green pastures of the Con. stage last
Saturday afternoon and night for the
benefit of St. Vincent’s Maternity Hos-
pital appeal. The Empire Musical
Society presented the show, and Dacia
Goatley was leading lady. Dacia is well
known to Mosman Musical Society fol-
lowers, and Ballarat, too, still remembers
the girl who once ran off with the prizes
for light and grand opera in its Eistedd-
fod. Second lead, Irene Tucker, of Adel-
aide, is a song writer, and has already
had three songs published. Minister for
Transport O’Sullivan and Mrs. O’Sulli-
van were in the evening’s audience.
On June 19 Bernard Shaw’s “The Vil-
lage Wooing” will be a star item of the
gala matinee at the Theatre ’ Royal for
the same cause. Entrancing ballets by
Frances Scully’s pupils are now in re-
hearsal for the big afternoon. The
women’s social auxiliary of St. Vincent s
is organising the matinee.
The spotlight at the Conservatonum
has been on the sopranos. The slim and
small Gladys Verona raised her colora-
tura in an artistic programme, dhea
Philips, her voice like a clarion call,
clear and dramatic, gave a lengthy and
varied programme, and Aga Lahowska,
Polish mezzo-soprano, sang with great
effect Italian, Spanish, French and Ger-
man compositions. Aga sang with the
Melba Grand Opera Co. in Sydney and
Melbourne, and is remembered particu-
larly for her Carmen. This singer, who
has appeared in the world’s greatest
opera houses, lived for some years in
Spain, her portrait as Carmen being
painted by the famed Ignacio Zuloaga.


LOOKS GOOD!
The glossy surface of Taylor's Paint
stays fresh-looking for years. The
colours are permanent and brilliant.
TJW
#
m
At authorised Taylor's
Paint agents you will
find limited stocks
available of:
STAYS GOOD!
M/.
Sun, rain and extremes
of weather cannot de-
stroy this iron-hard, pro-
tecting film of Taylor's
Paint. It does not fade
or chip or flake.
BEST BY THE
FIVE YEAR TEST
TAYLOR’S PREPARED
PAINTS
TAYLOR’S ROOF PAINTS
MATTE WATER PAINTS
TAYLOR’S KALSOMINE
SILVAR ALUMINIUM
ENAMEL
TAYLOR’S SPIRIT STAINS
No civilian stocks yet
available of:
VARLAC QUICKDRYING
ENAMELS
MIRAGLOSS QUICKDRYING
ENAMELS
TAYLOR’S ENAMEL
FLOOR STAIN
TAYLOR’S PAVING
ENAMEL
PREPARED
nuuuMi
JJcpfAvioß^;
paint
TP.345
Three coats of first-grade
paint give 5 years' full protection.
Made by Taylor’s Paints Pty. ltd., Sutherland Avfe., Paddington. N.S.W. Tel. FA 2125
Paint Suppliers to Army, Navy and Air Force
NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS,
.A‘
H*%a
SfiS:
m
PLANES
for c Australian CREWS
c Australia’s OFFENSIVE
Among the many achievements of Australia at war is the
production by Australian industry of Air Power for Aus-
tralian air-crews.
As the biggest producers of peace-time transportation in
Australia, General Motors-Holden’s were well equipped
to help in the tremendous programme achieved by Aus-
tralian industry. Among their first jobs was the manufacture
of the Gypsy Major engine. Help, also, has been given in
the production of Beaufort Bombers for which, at one time,
G.M.H. turned out no fewer than 17,500 parts each day.
Parts for the Mosquito, for the Boomerang, for the Beau-
fighter ... in fact, G.M.H. have had a hand in the building
of practically every type of plane Australia has produced.
This experience will be of value to Australia in peace
time when Industry’s task will be to accelerate our develop-
ment as a nation.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDErS LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
★ Keep on buying War Savings Certificates and 5/- National Savings Stamps
BEDFORD, BUICK. CADILLAC, CHEVROLET, C M C.. OLDSMOSILE. PONTIAC. VAUXHALL
C 800
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted pensioner as caretaker, milk couple
cows 400 sheep.”— Bendigo “Advertiser.”
Luckily it doesn’t say anything about
having to shear the cows.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women have an amusing habit of almost
always lowering their age by the familiar figure
of three years. Only after 50 do they make the
deduction of five years!” — “The New Idea.”
Proportional misrepresentation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mary had hoped that Sir Arthur would
show some warmth at the reunion; but his
greeting was casual and he walked straight to
the fire and asked if he could have a whisky.”
— Woman’s paper story.
A cold knight, as it were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Heavy Insult.
“Christmas Cake Gave Marriage K. 0.”
— “Truth.”
At Yuletide some indulge in wild re-
joicing, at times the old rejoicing’s simply
wild. And fierce-eyed wives and hus-
bands then start voicing a thousand accu-
sations far from mild. Her lord’s knockout
to this match proved so spiteful; the mar-
riage (and his wife) were floored anew
when he observed “This cake you cooked
is frightful. I’ll swear it damned near
weighs as much as you!”
Yair.
“Potable gramophone ‘Decca,’ excellent con-
dition, with 50 good records.”
—Bendigo “Advertiser.”
A liquid asset.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Capable woman, over 25, cook for ham. .
—S. M. “Herald.”
Must be able to give a finished per-
formance.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Remember the time he turned the gas on in
the oven and blew up the stove? What a brat
he was.” — Short story.
An early experiment in jet-propulsion.
“Umbrella, ladies, two only, fair.”
—For sale advt. suburban paper.
Two blondes of the one shade.
4* 4* •I* 4*
“Nancy’s temperament was as placid as a
mountain rock pool.”— Short story.
Nevertheless, she was quite capable of
getting a man into deep water.
4* # 4* 4*
Blitzmusik,
“Saxophone Used as Secret Weapon.”
' — Headline.
My great-uncle Bertram was probably
the first to use musical instruments as
weapons of war.
In one of his campaigns against the
Hottentots he was deeply discomfited in
the early stages of the struggle by his
enemies’ habit of beating on their turn-
turns, or something, all night. This so
alarmed my uncle’s men, raw levies culled
from his Congo estate, that they fled in
panic, after prudently collecting what was
due in their paybooks.
Determined not to be so easily routed,
Bertie secured the services of a German
band, which played patriotic airs every
afternoon from three to five in an im-
provised rotunda on the edge of no-man’s
land. To Bertie’s annoyance, the enemy
qame out in increasing numbers to listen.
Many of them brought their girl friends,
wearing freshly-ironed G-strings.
My uncle retaliated by hiring instead
a symphony orchestra of some 100 in-
struments, which thinned out his audience
to a few rangy-looking specimens with a
studious look, long hair and home-made
spectacles, but he scarcely felt that the
remainder of the Hottentots had been
defeated by the manoeuvre.
Finally, he organised a squad of un-
usually raw recruits playing the saxo-
phone, which was conveniently invented
about that time. The results were so sue-
cessful as to be embarrassing. He spent
the next six months treating Hottentot
prisoners of war for serious internal dis-
orders.
Plum.
At Short Call.
“At Cornell University (U.S.A.) successful
recordings have been made of the mating call
of a mosquito.”
Few perhaps are aware that our own
Professor Prometheus Pi, who attained
world fame by proving that a female
newt at the birth of her young wears a
slightly different sort of pained expres-
sion from that immediately after she has
been bitten in halves by a bigger newt,
enjoyed, prior to his untimely death,
considerable success in the interpreta-
tion of the mosquitoes’ various mating
calls.
He it was who established beyond all
doubt that the male Culex pipens, on
picking up the female love call, went into
a series of demoniacal caperings. These
he was able to photograph with a
thimble-sized camera which, the better
to hold the mossie’s undivided attention
while they were being “shot,” contained
a device which reproduced the two short
soprano “Yoo-hoos” which is the im-
memorial call to Romance in the pipens
world. It was on the enlargements of
these photos that the jitterbug dance
form was based.
It was, however, in the field of the
large and savage Hexham Greys that
Professor Pi conducted his most serious
research,
in contradistinction to pipens and
similar small mosquitoes, the female
Hexham’s love note is a continuous high-
pitched buzz, and the difference between
this and the fearsome noise the female
makes prior to launching an attack is so
faint as to be indistinguishable to the
naked human ear. In fact, even some of
the duller males of the species have diffi-
culty in noting the distinction. It is this
frequent answering of what they hope is
a mushy invitation to philander, only to
arrive and find the female, far from
having any romantic ideas, is savagely
looking for blood, that gives so many
male Hexhams that perpetually sulky
look that is their chief characteristic.
Professor Pi soon realised that the
whining buzz of the female love call,
h e ] as t isolated with a special
amplified listening machine, rather re-
sembled the sound of a circular saw in
act i on jj e became convinced that if he
could get a saw with the exact pitch and
tone as the love call the males would
flock irresistibly to the location of the
sound, and their consequent extermina-
tion on the revolving teeth would mean
w jpj n g ou { of the Hexham species,
i n order tQ get the right note the p ro f
brought his own powers of mimicry to his
a j d Once he captured the exact love
nQte intensive listening and imitation
cou j d then at his leisure have a saw
cast at exac tly the same tonal pitch,
/ , . , ....
p ne d J y ’ l ust ° n d !J sk ’was sitting
outside the tent that he had pitched on
the edge of some scrub, idly practising
th® l° ve note > when in his absorption he
failed to hear another buzzmg sound,
which grew louder and louder When
he realised at last what it was it vfras too
late. The cloud °J jealously-enraged
female Hexhams had already descended
on him.
At the coroner s inquest the doctor who
made the post-mortem said that the
blood left in Professor Pi after the
attack wouldn’t have filled an eye-
dropper.
BO.
Poetic Justice.
“Recordings of the four best Bing Crosby
style crooners at a Melbourne Town Hall com-
petition will be sent to Bing Crosby.”
—“Sunday Telegraph .”
As one who has endured the noise
Which the unutterable Bing
With plaintive < overtones employs
When moved (the word’s not mine ) to
“sing,”
I’d say this of his whimpering :
It’s bad enough to perpetrate it,
God knows, without encouraging
Misguided souls to imitate it.
Here’s hoping, though, with several choice
Ersatz editions of his voice
Played, singly or in concert, near him,
That Bing will get his just deserts
And realise how much it hurts '
To hear himself as others hear him.
P. M. LUSK.
Strife.
An octopus warred with a lobster
One eve when the ebb-tide was low :
It spat in its eye as they struggled
And rapidly swayed to and fro.
The lobster bit deep with its nippers
The sand and the "aters were stirred;
But just which c:stant was finally
cracked
I, not being there, couldn’t tell you. In
fact.
The whole thing may not have
occurred.
T. W. NATHAN.
Disappointing.
My evening newsrag let it pass,
And “crooners inquest, it appealed,
“Tt simply can t be right, alas.
/ told myself, and jeered: ....
“Either the comp, has been out drinking
Or has indulged in wishful thinking.
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Digger in Fiction
If a casual visitor to Australia is to
believe all he hears on the radio or all
he reads in the newspapers he will quit
this country with a curious impression
of the Australian soldier.
Ever since the last war it seems to
have been the earnest aim of Australian
writers to represent the Australian sol-
dier as a ragged, unkempt warrior with
the sensitivity of a brickbat and the
finer feelings of a warthog.
Whether an Australian war story
emanates from the radio or the printed
page, you may be sure of five things:
(1) The hero will be called “Bluey.”
(2) He will be an illiterate imbecile
given to the use of Cockney slang.
(3) He will sing or whistle at least
one verse of “Waltzing Matilda.”
(4) Somewhere, between the beginning
and the end, he will extol —with deep
emotion—the beauties of beer.
(5) He is always a bushman, and his
idea of heaven is a paradise peopled by
barmaids and irrigated by rivers of
booze.
For corroboration, have a look at “The
Rats of Tobruk,” still flickering o
suburban screens. —Whiz (Vic.).
Criminals and Firearms
It is no wonder to me that a larg
number of military firearms are findin
their way. into the hands of criminals i
Australian cities. I have just returnee
from New Guinea and have seen the wa
weapons and ammunition are bein
traded and “souvenired.”
Diggers don’t wish these weapons
fall into the hands of crooks, but ofte
towards the end of their leave, when the
money has run out, they are willing
sell their souvenirs to the highest bidde
and the highest bidder may be
criminal.
Trading and “souveniring” in N.G. an
elsewhere in the war zone can’t b
stopped, but a thorough kit inspectio
should be carried out by the officer i
charge of each draft leaving the island
This officer should have the authority t
confiscate the weapons or to render them
harmless.— Lieutenant (R.A.N.V.R.).
A.I.F. Equipment
In contrast with the attitude of th
U.S. Army towards the “smaller anc
frequently used equipment of the soldier,
to quote “I. G. Gunner” (B. 9/5/’45), th
Australian Army’s idea seems to be tha
austerity is essential to discipline, anc
that if the Digger is given new-fanglec
equipment and individually fitted clothe
he will become a glamor boy instead o :
a soldier. Hence, practically every item
of our clothing and personal equipmem:
is badly-designed, ill-fitting and of poor
quality.
Probably the most notable example is
our waterproof cape-groundsheet. As a
groundshedt it has nothing on the Yankee
sleeping-bag, and as a cape—on a tallish
man it doesn’t reach below the thighs
and only serves as a catchment area to
thoroughly irrigate the trousers.
Our greatcoats usually resemble
maternity gowns, and little or no effort
is ever made to ensure proper fitting of
any clothing at all. True, Q.M. catalogues
show wide ranges of sizes (and half-
sizes), but unit Q.M.’s requisitions for
variety of different-sized clothes are, ex-
cept in base areas, usually “fulfilled”
with substitutes of “average” sizes. The
soldier has to be content with the “next-
nearest” size (which often isn’t very near).
U.S. gaiters are a vast improvement on
our “Anklets, web,” whose only real use
is the camouflage of ill-fitting trousers.
Our steel helmets look and feel like leaden
soup-plates and are seldom worn now.
A cause of chronic bad temper amongst
troops is “Kit-bag, universal.” Anything
you want in a hurry is invariably right
at the bottom, and you have to drag
everything out to get to it. Wouldn’t a
tropic-proof zip-fastener be practicable?
We “still have nothing to match the
American rain-proof, mosquito-proof
hammock, and we wouldn’t have had
jeeps, tommy-guns, walky-talkies and
flame-throwers if the Yanks hadn’t sold
us the ideas (and the goods).
In the catering line bully and biscuits
have long been our traditional front-line
fare, and M. and V. is no improvement.
It takes Yankee initiative to provide fight-
ing men with fresh meat, vegetables and
bread.
The Yanks have been sneered at as
over-dressed, over-fed, over-paid, but
being well looked after hasn’t impaired
their discipline and their service morale
is admirable. —J. A. L. (A.1.F.),
The 1939-43 Star
The new conditions for receiving the
1939-43 Star will cause more heart-
burnings than the original.
No one will quarrel with the decision
to give the award to the members of the
Eighth, but the extension of awardees
has now gone so far that the decoration
has lost value. Veterans from Syria will
be sharing it with conscripts who have
had a few months’ back line service.
Why not extend the scope of those to
be awarded the Africa Star? Take as
an example the men in an A.I.F. work-
shop doing essential work in Sinai.
Although a long way from enemy guns
they were within range of his bombers
and were so isolated that they could
only rarely enjoy the amenities of leave
in new places that came to most other
units. Although there for more than a
year they are ineligible for the Africa
Star because they were on the wrong
side of the Canal. Strangely enough,
half the unit became eligible when it
shifted to a more congenial situation —
handy to Cairo and Egypt’s other cities.
This is not a front-line award, so why
the discrimination? —XNX (N.S.W.).
Shearers’ Strike
“AJ.H.” (Q.) (B. 11/4/’45) says some
graziers and managers paid shearers and
crutchers above award rates, thus showing
a lack of backbone.
The matter is much too complicated to
“We hear your boss calls you ‘ Joe .’ The union wont stand for offensive
familiarity.”
be dismissed in that summary way.
Graziers’ Association members have tried
to evolve a method whereby those wool-
growers whose shearing dates did not
clash with the strike should compensate
those who were less fortunate; and the
more the matter was considered the more
hopeless it got.
How is the owner of the small shed to
save his sheep should the flies be in them?
If he had arranged to lamb a month off
shears the strike delay would probably
lose him most of his lambing, or if it be
a dry time he may have feed on which to
shear at the proper date and no more.
In such circumstances loss must occur.
It would be useless for the grazier to look
for compensation because he “had back-
bone”; no association of graziers or any
other people could assess the loss, mainly
because of the different characters of the
unfortunates making the loss. One man,
if flies are bad, would construct a race
and dip his sheep, or if feed were short
would find some. No matter what the
trouble he would do something. Whereas
another man would depend on a hard-
luck yarn to get the levy.— Prop (N.S.W.).
The Schools and Debating
“Oratio” (B. 9/5/’45) should leave the
school curricula alone. The “art of
speech” and “debating” already have their
places in the curricula of most States —of
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria and Tas-
mania, at any rate. Oral English is
stressed in every primary syllabus, while
the Victorian secondary syllabus (which
alone 1 can quote at the moment) gives
first place to “The Speaking of English,”
mentioning specifically “speech training,
oral reading, debates and lecturettes.”
Dramatic performances and debating
excite general interest amongst the
students of secondary schools, State and
private, throughout the eastern States.
Where they do not the fault lies in the
administration, not in the curriculum.
Anyhow, “poise, self-expression, self-
control and clear thought” are being
cultivated in the oral answers given by
students all day long; we do not need
another zealous specialist to provide what
is already being given in good measure.
A good standard in debating, I fear
will never be reached by more than the
“outstanding few”—good enough, I mean
to show the four desirable qualities which
“Oratio” rightly commends. Nor do
believe that a spate of debating will de-
velop clear-thinking.
On the other hand, it may cause a dan-
gerous passion for public oratory without
clear-thinking. It is not hard to imagine
that many Domain and Yarra Bank
demagogues were once prize-winners at
school for debating. They still exhibit
“poise and self-expression,’’ but “clear-
thinking and self-control” are less in
evidence. — Auditor Bonus (Tas.).
Film-making as Propaganda
The most powerful propaganda medium
in the world, the cinema, has been used
with tremendous effect overseas, yet Aus-
tralia, which has a film-making business,
has up till now refused to recognise its
importance. We have encouraged ignor-
ance and promoted misunderstanding of
Australia’s fine war effort.
Nazism and barbarism gave Australia
its second chance to show her mettle,
and sturdily she did so, but she has
neglected to inform her Allies about it.
Information fed to a modern news-
hungry world pays dividends, and that
is why Harry Watt, the British film man,
is in Australia making a film about this
country’s war effort. Proceeds go to
Britain. Ken Hall, of Sydney, is making
a film about Kingsford Smith. Proceeds
will go to the U.S.A.
Damien Parer’s “Kokoda Front Line”
aroused admiration in Britain and
America, and earned an “Oscar” from
Hollywood. But Parer found it profit-
able to go over to the Americans after
this, and Australia once more assumed
a shroud of secrecy.
However, Government has now heeded
advice given by visitors, and an expanded
Films Division has been announced by
the Department of Information and the
establishment of-a National Films Coun-
cil has been authorised. Let’s hope these
agencies will use films to publicise Aus-
tralia’s war effort and her peace-time
resources throughout the world. —
F. A. W. (A.1.F.).
Liberals and Leadership
The success of the Liberal party is not
astonishing (B. 2/5/’45) for it offers the
virile virtue of leadership, respected by
all true Australians, who expect their
Government to govern. The Curtin Ad-
ministration cannot be blamed for call-
ing conferences with the unions to try to
clear up industrial muddles, as its main
support and funds come from them. But
friendly conferences on such vital matters
as war-time shipping and coal-production
are only justifiable if they succeed. If
failure is always the result it is weakness
to continue them. Labor has alternated
between coaxing union bosses, many of
whom want communism introduced by
Hitler methods, and wild threats, never
carried out.
That is why many of us who voted
Labor last time will vote Liberal next.
The present Government is completely
sectional, busy with petty, out-of-date
class hatreds.
Returned men hope the Liberals will
have a new outlook on old problems, but
at present their main appeal is that, if
elected, they will rule, and will have the
guts to enforce the laws they make.—
Ern (Vic.).
Soil Conservation
The article “Wrongly Sited” (B.
9/5/’45) reveals a lack of knowledge of
the work of the Soil Conservation Board
of Victoria.
The Victorian Government was aware
of the ineffectiveness of centralised effort
to control soil erosion, and made special
provision in the Soil Conservation Act for
the appointment of regional advisory
.committees. From a panel of names sub-
mitted by shire councils, local organisa-
tions, the Chamber of Agriculture, the
Graziers’ Association, the Wheat- and
Wool-Growers’ Association and the
Dairymen’s Association the board selected
men of the calibre and local standing
necessary to ensure that the experience of
farmers and country residents receives
adequate consideration. Despite present
difficult times the regional advisory com-
mittees are doing good work.
Seven such committees, each consist-
ing of three persons representing farming
or other relevant interests in their region
and one each from the Agricultural and
Lands Departments, are operating in the
Mallee, headquarters at Walpeup; the
Hume catchment area, headquarters at
Omeo; East Wimmera (St. Amaud-
Charlton-Donald), headquarters at Yea;
Lower Goulburn (Seymour-Euroa-Ben-
alla), headquarters at Benalla ; Glenelg
(Hamilton - Coleraine - Casterton), head-
quarters at Hamilton; and Pyrenees
(Stawell-Ararat-Avoca), headquarters at
Ararat.
The Board has selected 35 demonstra-
tion and experimental areas throughout
the country districts, and work is being
carried , out on 23.
The statement quoted in The Bulletin
that the Board examined very carefully
in four days an area over 20,000 square
miles is incorrect. The Board did during
five days make a careful examination of
farms in the Mallee and Wimmera where
erosion had occurred, and inspected
farms where better farming methods had
prevented soil erosion. It also conferred
with shire councils and farmers and
graziers at Swan Hill, Mildura, Pinnaroo,
Hopetoun, Warracknabeal, Donald and
Benalla at night during the inspection.
This shows that tt|e Victorian Soil Con-
servation Board has decentralised its acti-
vities and is concentrating on preventing
soil erosion.— E. J. Hogan, Chairman.
“Grow More Vegas”!
The price-fixing and other regulations
affecting vegetables have caused more
discontent (in Queensland at any rate)
than any other war-time measure.
From the growers’ point of view a
fixed ceiling over a collapsible floor can
bring nothing but heartaches —it is the
sort of monstrous injustice that can, in
Australia, be imposed only on an un-
organised body of workers.
The regulations do not protect the
consumer. A rigidly fixed growers’ price
without adequate policing of retailers’
margins has resulted in an orgy of ex-
ploitation.
In this State the markets for all vege-
tables, in season, have been glutted for
five months. Consumers have rarely
been able to buy at under-ceiling rates
during this period, but large quantities
of vegetables have been dumped.
The Commonwealth Food authorities
still urge the people to grow more vege-
tables. Lord knows what for—certainly
not to feed starving Europe, for Mr.
Scully refuses Queensland a dehydration
plant.
In my area the few rural workers not
caught by Man-power are already falling
out of employment through continued
slumps in vegetable prices. Land Army
camps are being broken up and condi-
tions paralleling the worst days of the
depression seem inevitable.
As “Bumpkin” (B. 9/5/’45) points out,
the public are getting it in the neck, but,
if it spurs them to their senses at the next
election, Copland will have done one
good job for Australia. —A. J. (Q.).
Abolish A.B.C.
Is A.B.C.'*superfluous? I’m inclined to
think it is, and would like to hear just
one good reason for spending the tax-
payers’ money to keep the “national”
stations on the air while commercial
stations are able to provide equally good
programmes and better news services
gratis. A news service without political
bias is desired by the paajority of listeners,
who do not wish to' hear the views of
obscure members of Parliament.
In the entertainment field I doubt if
any commercial station would be able to
sell time if it filled the air with the type
of music often chosen by A.B.C. There
are, of course, lovers of so-called “high-
brow” and “low-brow” music, but the
majority of listeners prefer something be-
tween the two, such as the operatic music
of Sullivan, seldom heard from A.B.C. —-
Central-West (N.S.W.),


WM.
S>3
o
o
0///W2
B>oooO
OOOO^S
I
s
a
flh’.-’V
-.
553
B
I
II
II
■' ;,: ■
c
.if
V
sMm
V
K !
v/H
rN
v
/
1 ..
■
o;:
C
-
0
0
£C>
w.
a
o
0
y
~/*jy
F. 8.2
n
r »r
r ■
S T
f V
OTBSB FAMOUS FBOiUGTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . - . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT ...... ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE .... ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. & 1. mm LIMITED
. ROSSLYN ST . WEST MELBOURNE
Telegrams &Cables;"Gilbeys” Melbourne
REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams & Cables: "Gilbeys” Sydney
