

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3424
Wednesday, September 26, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SHREWSBURY CASTLE.
a mere earthwork protected by palisades, the
mound of Shrewsbury was set up by the Britons to restrain
raiding bands of Piets who came down upon them in Roman times.
Here the Britons steadfastly remained until Offa, King of Mercia,
drove them into Wales. The town of Shrewsbury was granted by
William the Conqueror to Roger de Montgomery, and it was this
Norman who built the castle where the early British fort had stood.
The property was forfeited to the Crown in 1102 and, twenty-four
years later, the first Henry granted the earldom to his second
wife Adeliza, whose castellan held the castle for her step-daughter,
the Empress Maud, against Stephen. Charles I visited Shrewsbury
Castle in 1642, built a fort and armed it with cannon which, how-
ever, were taken down in the reign of James 11. Colonel Benbow,
uncle to the famous admiral, was shot in the castle as a renegade
by the Cromwellians. Not much more remains of the original
castle structure erected by Roger de Montgomery than the walls
of the keep, and even they have often been refaced. The interior
is a modern residence. The Earl of Shrewsbury is also Earl of
Waterford, an Irish title given to the great Talbot in 1466.


fd
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 .
AGE
meanjin papers
The WINTER NUMBER contains articles by Vance
Palmer, Norman Bartlett, Leslie Rees, Jj
Smith, Alec Chisholm and others; poems by f
Maurice, Judith Wright, James Devaney, Peter hope
good, Alex Comfort (Eng.) ; short.story by VanM
Palmer; reviews by A. D. Hope, DorcJiy . cb
lonie, Shirley Deane, Brian Elliott, d
Elizabeth Hamill; art work by Russell Drysdale an
James Cook.
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS.
Available at All Leading Booksellers#
The Re Page
A STATUE FOR PATERSON.
As has already been stated on The
Bulletin’s “Plain English” page, some
of “Banjo” Paterson’s admirers in the
town of Yass, N.S.W., are proposing to
establish a memorial to the balladist, “the
form and location to be decided by the
subscribers.”
Reporting the inaugural meeting, Yass
“Tribune-Courier” said that Mr. D. H.
McFarlane, of Toompang, Young, was
one of the first to suggest the memorial,
and that Mr. R. Julian, of Bogolong,
Bookham, had arranged the meeting.
The Mayor (Aid. W. L. Simon) presided,
and there were present Messrs. R. Julian,
M. Coen, H. James, D. C. Tilghman, J.
Bullman, H. B. Robertson, H. H. Bridge
and Bert Mudge. Apologies were received
from Messrs. D. H. McFarlane, W. C.
Taylor, F. Weir and J. D. Rose.
Mr. McFarlane had written to the
meeting suggesting that an equestrian
statue of Paterson in bronze should be
erected, and that there should be in-
scribed on the base these excellent lines
from the prelude to The Man From
Snowy River : —
I have gathered these stories afar,
In the wind and the rain,
In the land where the cattle camps are,
On the edge of the plain;
On overland routes of the west.
When the watches were long,
I have fashioned in earnest and jest
These fragments of song.
They are just the rude stories one hears,
In sadness and mirth;
The record of wandering years,
And scant is their worth.
Tho’ their merits indeed are but slight
I shall not repine
If they give you one moment’s delight,
Old comrades of mine.
It was suggested at the meeting that
The Bulletin and other papers should
be approached for suggestions ; and subse-
quently the committee got in touch with
this office. A Bulletin staff man made
inquiries around the city as to what could
be done; and here is his report:
I saw first of all The Bulletin art critic,
who said that although a new method of cast-
ing in bronze was being practised in Australia
anything as ambitious as a big equestrian statue
would probably have to go to England to be
cast. Lambert’s best-known bronze —the Lawson
group—cost £650 for this service alone.
Next I saw Norman Lindsay and put to him
my own notion that —if the sculpture was really
to catch the spirit of Paterson (as Paterson had
caught the spirit of Australia) —the ideal memo-
rial would be a bronze of the Man from
Snowy River, mounted and galloping full tilt.
Mr. Lindsay seemed to like the idea; but we
agreed that it would be asking a great deal of
the sculptor; and the difficulty and expense
of casting seemed to be the end of that.
Mr. Lindsay pointed out that, unless the rider
is mounted on something about the size of a
draught-horse, equestrian statues, with all their
weight in the air, are never very satisfactory;
and you couldn’t put Paterson on a draught-
horse. He thought that something could be done
with half-figures of man and horse emerging
from a massive background, representing rock.
Next, Mr. Frank Medworth, of Sydney Tech-
nical College. Mr. Medworth thought the
memorial should be “modern; not too natural-
istic-; a work of art”; and if this seems to raise
the awful spectre of Controversy it should be
remembered that you can’t condemn a work of
art either as too “modern” or too “academic”
until you’ve seen it. Mr. Medworth said he
was willing to help the project in any way he
could, and gave me the names of several
sculptors who could discuss practicalities.
I couldn’t ’phone all these simultaneously;
so, selecting his name at random from the list,
I rang Dr. Arthur Fleischmann. Dr. Fleisch-
mann happened to be coming into town that
day. He called at The Bulletin office and gave
me precise technical details about the way
bronzes are being cast in Sydney. This was
extremely interesting, but far too technical for
me to explain to a lay audience; besides, I
don’t understand it. I gathered that it is com-
pletely satisfactory; but that very large works
have not been attempted.
Here, a coincidence. Dr. Fleischmann had
recently done a model for a bronze fountain
group based on “Waltzing Matilda.” I went
out to his studio to have a look at it. The
swagman stands on top of an oblong sandstone
pillar; and, below him, standing as it were on
platforms cut into the rock, are groups of
smaller figures —four groups, one on each side
of the pillar —depicting the action of the poem:
the swagman under the coolibah-tree; the three
mounted troopers arriving; the squatter on his
thoroughbred; the swagman shoving the jum-
buck in his tucker-bag.
A memorial based on “Waltzing Matilda” —
speaking generally, and not with particular re-
lation to Dr. Fleischmann’s —might have claims
to consideration. Paterson put the words to-
gether, and it has become Australia’s unofficial
national anthem.
Against that, however, are the fact's that the
poem is in no way typical of Paterson’s style,
and that the “Banjo” was essentially the poet
°f the horse and the horseman.
But something after the style of this composi-
tion would certainly -be suitable. You could
put a figure of Paterson on top of a base; and
then, round the sides, either in full figures or in
reliefs, scenes and characters from his verses.
Or you could do it the other way round;
a scene from the ballads as the main group,
with a bust or a plaque of Paterson below it.
The notion of making the memorial a foun-
tain seems also worth considering. I don’t
know how Yass is for water; but (having seen
Paris) 1 have always thought that Australia —
especially Australia—should have fountains
wherever there is room for one.
Next I talked to Mr. Will Ashton, former
director of the N. S. Wales National Gallery
and now managing David Jones’s gallery. Mr.
Ashton said he believed the figure of King
George V for the memorial at Canberra, de-
signed years ago by Hoff and completed by
J. E. Moorefield (both now dead), was still
awaiting shipment to England for casting—a
further example of the difficulties when the
work has to go overseas. Mr. Ashton was
wholeheartedly in favor of setting up a
memorial; and when it was put to him that
the Yass meeting had talked about sums of
£5OO and £lOOO, said “Make it the thousand
and do the job properly; Paterson deserves it.”
Lastly, I tried to interview Mr. John Young;
but he was out of town. Visiting, of all places
—Yass.
Obviously, the Yass committee will
find plenty*of support in Sydney ; and ex-
pert advice if it wants it. Everyone inter-
viewed by The Bulletin man was en-
thusiastic about the idea of a memorial;
glad to offer further assistance if it is
needed; and strongly in favor of the
memorial being in the form of sculpture.
All other considerations apart, the Aus-
tralian countryside is sadly lacking in
objects of interest —other than sheep and
gumtrees. The old stone buildings of the
early days help to enrich it; Gundagai’s
dog on his tuckerbox is not without its
charm; and a good group of statuary
in Yass would certainly be welcome.
There have been a few murmurings
that Yass is not Paterson’s birthplace;
but that seems irrelevant. Neither Queen
Victoria nor Cupid, whose statues adorn
Sydney, was born in these parts. Yass
has plenty of associations with Paterson ;
and there is. nothing to prevent any other
town putting up its own memorial.
Two Extremes.
Will Lawson’s The Lady .of the
Heather and Somerset Maugham’s The
Hour Before the Dawn, both published
by Angus and Robertson, are novels set
at opposite ends of the earth. And they
are “poles apart” in every other way.
Mr. Lawson deals with a legendary
woman who is said to have been marooned
on the Campbell Islands, south of New
.Zealand, about 1828. She is supposed to
have been a grand-daughter of Meg
Walkendaw, Bonnie Prince Charlie’s mis-
tress, and to have been exiled because the
Jacobites in France suspected she was a
spy in the pay of England. Mr. Lawson
says she was taken to the island by
William Stewart, believed to have been
the discoverer of New Zealand’s Stewart
Island.
As a piece of history, the story sounds
improbable. Still, Mr. Lawson says it
was believed true by the old whalers ;
and he quotes a writer in the “Pall Mall
Gazette” who
went ashore on this island and found a
sod hut and a path, formed of stones laid
in a mosaic pattern, “assuredly the work
of a woman’s hands.” In some scrub near-
by was a mound covered by Scottish
heather, which was a mass of purple bloom,
“wet with Antarctic rains and fair as it
grew on the braes of Ben Lomond.”
A full investigation of the legend
would have been of historical interest,
but the facts as they stand make a legiti-
mate theme for fiction.
During her first few days on the island
the lady’s activities seem to be governed
solely by the idea of being as useful as
possible to her biographer: taking a tour
of the cliffs so that he can describe the
scenery and the birds (which he does
effectively), and deciding to make a
mosaic pathway so that it can be
found by the writer from the “Pall Mall
Gazette.” The weather co-operates by
immediately providing its choicest pheno-
menon, the “williwaw” of the Campbells.
A large black perch and a trumpeter
solve the food problem by instan-
taneously attaching themselves to a
hook baited with bacon.
Thereafter, as whalers, traders,
smugglers and escaped convicts drop in
one after another, romantic events occur
in too rapid succession to allow one to
picture the lady as a sort of Robinson
Crusoe of the Antarctic.
Fundamentally, the trouble with this
novel is that Will Lawson has set out to
portray his heroine as a “good” woman
(much too saintly for anyone in his senses
to have imagined that she could have
been a spy), so that she is off the earth and
up in the clouds of romanticism from
the start; walking, as it were, on stilts.
Mr. Lawson has always been happier
when —in his ringing ballad verse—-he
writes about “bad” men who walk the
decks of ships and the floors of pubs.
Somerset Maugham, who has never con-
fused his art with conventional moral
values, turns out, of course, a far more
sophisticated piece of work. In contrast
to the lady of the Campbells, one of the
women of The Hour Before the Dawn
is admittedly a spy and is very hand-
somely slain by her husband as a reward:
“She’s dead,” said Jim quietly.
Roger looked at him aghast. What Jim
said was incredible.
“Dead? What do you mean?”
“I killed her.”
“Good God!”
He looked at the little wooden staircase
and ran up. In a minute he came down
again. He looked at Jim in silence.
“She set fire to the rick. It was a light
she showed a fortnight ago that gave the
Germans a line on the airfield. She was
a spy.”
“But, my God, why did you kill her?”
“I killed her because I had to. I killed
her because I wanted to see her dead.”
Roger gave a deep sigh. For a long time
neither of them spoke. But something had
to be done; they couldn’t stay there indefi-
nitely and stare at one another.
“I’m afraid you’ve made an awful mess
of things, old boy,” said Roger, almost in a
whisper. i
There is the craftsman at work: the
quiet, restrained dialogue making credible
and acceptable a dramatic scene.
And, at the same time, there is the be-
setting weakness of Maugham’s later
novels —no passion, no real enthusiasm ;
the situation (of course it is a pacifist
who kills his wife) hackneyed, and some-
thing hackneyed in every word that is
spoken. If Will Lawson’s characters are
romanticised, they at least go through
their adventures with a certain gusto ; but
Maugham’s characters seem to strangle
each other not because they want to, but
because that is the correct procedure to
be’followed at a certain point in a well-
constructed English novel.
The Hour Before the Dawn is just
that: the correct picture of the English
reaction to the outbreak of the war and
its events up to Dunkirk ; the middle-
class family with one son a pacifist, the
tangle of personal relationships, the
merging of individual projects in the
vaster pattern of the war; bombs on
London, and evacuees in the country;
the fighting in France and the reaction
in England ; an analysis and an approval
of the English way of life ; all woven
simply and naturally into a credible
human drama, exact in portraiture, flaw-
less in form.
With some minor differences of style
it could have been written by any one of
a score of the leading novelists of the
day—indeed it has —and one could no
more find fault with it than with a well-
made ready-to-wear suit from one of the
big stores. It is cut so strictly to the
stock pattern that the family, on the day
war breaks out, is playing tennis: all
middle-class English families were play-
ing tennis on August 4, 1914, and again,
by a curious coincidence, on September
3, 1939.
On the whole, if one were marooned
on the Campbells and had to choose be-
tween the. two novels, it might be livelier
entertainment to go fishing with the lady
of the heather and Will Lawson.
Commonwealth Reprints .
“Southerly” (No. 2, 1945) makes a
valiant attempt at the impossible task of
correcting the literary standards of the
Commonwealth Literary Fund. Dis-
cussing ten of the novels published as
Commonwealth Fund Reprints, it regards
only four as really meriting their distinc-
tion, classing two of the others as “doubt-
ful” and the remainder unworthy. The
magazine comments editorially:
All in all, there seems to be a feeling
that the Advisory Board has not made an
entirely good start... .The Fund has a great
trust and a high duty to the public and
should, therefore, give its approval to
nothing but the best.
In effect, “Southerly” accepts the Re-
prints as an attempt by the Fund to set
up something in the nature of a library
of Australian classics and, naturally, it
is indignant. If he applies true critical
standards to all the Reprints, and then to
all the books the Fund has backed, and
then to all the authors it h..s subsidised,
the editor of “Southerly” will go hopping
mad. He is hereby warned not to expect
too much from Government institutions.
When a library of Australian classics
is established it will not be a miscel-
laneous collection of paperbacks put out
with official approval; but, like Dent’s
Everyman’s Library, a series done by a
commercial publisher guided by sound
criticism, the test of time, and considera-
tions purely literary.
However, “Southerly” has certainly
done a good service in examining some
of the Reprints, and is to be congratu-
lated on the display of critical honesty
both here and in the ordinary review
section.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: The purchase by director Daryl
Lindsay for the Melbourne National
Gallery of a Ucello has drawn the com-
ment from former director J. S. Mac-
Donald that “a disputed head by Ucello
at £15,000 is a pig in a poke.” Some
disastrous purchases have been made by
former trustees. In 1941 Mr. MacDonald
was called upon to revalue pictures lent to
country galleries, and, in the light of
existing market values, he was compelled
to write them down for insurance pur-
poses from £4334 to £561, one particular
example having, in his opinion, slumped
from £945 to £l5! They were all pic-
tures whose authorship was not disputed
but which had been purchased in the light
of some ephemeral art fashion. There
are a lot of Australian artists who could
do with £15 —let alone £ls,ooo—and
some of them can paint just as well as
whoever painted the “Ucello.”
A fox terrier wandered
amongst the audience at Killara Hail,
Sydney, during the first night of “Our
Town.” He did not seem really interested
in the performance, but his casual good
nature was in keeping with the spirit of
Thornton Wilder’s small-town sketch and
with the asides of narrator Leo McKern.
The stunt of taking the audience into the
playwright’s confidence is older than the
Elizabethans, but when it is done well it
never fails to go over. The cast suc-
ceeded in sustaining the small-town
atmosphere—which is the whole purpose
of the play. Kevin Brennan as Dr.
Gibbs and Jane Holland as Emily Webb
were the pick of a uniformly competent
cast.
At the talkies;
“The Enchanted Cottage” (Sydney Regent):
The Pinero drama, modernised. Robert Young
and Dorothy McGuire are the war-disfigured
man and the plain woman who, renovated, at first
ascribe their supposedly changed appearances to
the enchantment of a cottage before realising
that the transformation is in their own minds.
Herbert Marshall as the musician who heals
their bitterness and Mildred Natwick as the
widow give sensitive performances.
“The Male Animal” (Sydney Civic): Farce;
about a. young professor, naturally quiet and
meditative, forced into he-mannish ways in an
effort to correct his wife’s addiction to football.
The rah-rah type of student is mercilessly lam-
pooned, and Eugene Palette spiritedly boots
the ball of satire about when on the subject of
Americanism and “fighting” teams. Henry
Fonda’s professor is full of gall and grated
lemons.
“This Happy Breed” (Melbourne Athenaeum):
Noel Coward at his best. Few confirmed
theatregoers who have sat through the smart-
aleck comedies like “The Vortex,” “Blithe
Spirit” and “Easy Virtue” would have imagined
that the same hand could have written this
Chekovian story of an average English family
and its reactions between the end of the first
World War and the start of the second, in
which there isn’t a single false note. It is
difficult for modem writers to be indulgent.
They are either fiercely moral, fiercely immoral,
fiercely democratic or fiercely Leftist, and what-
ever side they get on they always postulate
some scoundrel on the other. Mr. Coward is
supremely indulgent and remarkably skilful.
When King Edward’s abdication is gently
touched on, the wife quietly removes the
calendar on the wall bearing the ex-monarch's
picture with the remark: “Well, it’s near the
end of the year, anyhow.” “This Happy
Breed” is a depressing picture but a work of
art because its author has obviously felt it.
As Coward is said to supervise his own pic-
tures, he probably deserves most of the credit-
some, of course, goes to the British makers.
Shaw’s very early and frivolous play,
“You Never Can Tell,” has been revived
by Adelaide Repertory as a costume
piece, the fashions of 1896 being care-
fully rendered by Mimi Mattin and look-
ing unexpectedly well. Ronald Peterson,
who shared the . production with Ruby
Litchfield, has also the biggest acting
chances as the philosophic waiter. The all-
round support was good, and Maxine
Sellick as the cheeky child is a distinct
“find.”
Melbourne Tiv. has gone all French
again and even the programme is in mat
cultured language. Consequently Jim
Gerald makes his appearance as U
Prisonnier dans le Bastille, though happily
in the usual suit two sizes too big tor
him ; two Chinese tumblers —marvel-
lously neat, these chaps—become acro-
bats occidentaux and the grand finale be-
comes Apotheose. However, the disguise
is superficial and disappears altogether m
the case of the Triple-voiced Ventrilo-
quist. Apparently there are no Frencn
words for Triple-voiced Ventriloquist


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
THE SENIOR STORE"
c
Net Crossover Curtains with frilling on two
sides and base. Frilled Valance attached.
Complete with ties. Green only .... 35/_ p a j r
No coupons.
Vi
b
o>7
m
G>
f?
O'
in
V .
W
2>-
0<
0)
Tapestry Curtains o!
heavy weight material.
Ready made for hanging
with pleated heading and
pocket for rod. Green,
Rust, Burgundy, Fawn and
Blue. 6 ft. 6 in. drop, 99/6
No coupons.
m
fm
§
< -
*
x-y
<. y
r:
A
M
m
d
K
as®? '
m
n.
••'x' ■ ..
:
•X ; x
■
m
■ - ;
i i
1
I #
ii
iH
I
f
m
■*
Furnishing Drapery —
Third Flqot.
36-inch Cotton Tapestry, heavy
weight cloth with a toughness that
makes it suitable for furniture
covering. Green, Burgundy or
Fawn 8/11 yard
No coupons.
56-inch Art Silk and Cotton Repp
of heavy weight. British manufac-
ture and excellent draping fabric.
Burgundy, Rust, Green or Blue.
Price, yard 23/6
No coupons.
Double Bed Size Fitted
Bedspreads of a modern
and attractive two tone
print in Rose/White, Blue/
White, Burgundy/White
and Rust/White. Two
pillow covers to match.
Price £6/6/-
No coupons.
40-inch Curtain Net in
Cream shade, A very
open mesh of the Fisher
type. Durable and long
wearing qualities, 5/11 yd.
No coupons.
mwj
/
Famous Low Prices
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HtafSae..,
. : ,
rm
o^t:
m
rm
mm.
i
mm,
m
r
cm
nm.
n
......
m
m
m
m
■
m
M
u&t
W&
m
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE WHITE ROOSTER
By J. H. MELVILLE.
MISS PLEAT’S
scrawny legs,
driving from a
flurry of khaki
and white as her skirt
tossed round her knees,
bore her prancing up a
stairway of boulders and
into the forestry lookout —a blackened
rotunda affair standing dwarfish and
dingy in the shade of rearing pines. Her
eyes, overhung by a fringe of grey hair,
were bright and lively as quicksilver as
she scanned the Flat over the low wall.
Her agility had been noted with dis-
gust by a lean, drooping man who fanned
himself with his hat as he trudged out
into the clearing. He was twisting a noisy
blowhole out of one corner of his mouth
after sucking each breath through his
moustache. Sweat glistened on his bald
head.
“Oh, Uncle Hume,” she cried, „“it’s
showing up splendidly this year.”
The oncoming martyr muttered in re-
bellion. “You and your Golden Horse-
shoe ! ”
The knees and shoulders of his baggy
suit were smudged with dust. On the
steep climb up through the plantation
he’d felt his boots slowly knotting into
fiends. Trees had snaked their roots
across'his path and sent him rolling in
beds of slippery needles.
Sardonically he savored the wish of an
assembly spoken against the click of lino-
types idling in the background; “ long
spared to enjoy the happiness of your
retirement.” Spared? Good God!
Spared to be dragged round the country-
side like a dog? Better have endured
the tittering of any painted female copy-
holder till they carted him out of the
“Chronicle” reading-room for the last
time than carry on with this caper. The
plaything of a scatterbrained school-
mistress, that’s what it amounted to now.
Laughing, she urged him on. “Come
on, old stiffie.”
Her mockery left him a prey to self-
pity ; resentful that a tired old man who
sought only contentment should have
been tricked by a promise of security—
there would .always be “shelter under
Lizzie Pleat’s roof,” she’d written. But
she’d given no warning against meals of
nuts and grated apple, against being
hounded by “cultural interests,” or of her
habit of pattering round at ail hours of
the day and night in a wrap that was
tattered to the point of indecency.
He swore a soft benediction as he
clambered into the shade of the lookout.
“You see it. Uncle?”
He put on his glasses, and a
transformation was wrought from their
trickery with the pouches sagging
under his eyes; a woebegone look was
raised to such distinction that the costly
mottling of his nose shone as confirma-
tion rather than as a reproach,
“Across there in the swamp,” she in-
sisted.
Taking his bearings from the Plough-
man Hotel, squatting grey and secure in
the gleaming, red-roofed company of
the township, he viewed the lusty pattern
of pasture in springtime stretching across
to the river and the opposite chain of
hills. A fragile line of willows tracing
the course of the river swelled back from
the gorge and tinted the swamp.
“That’s the Golden Horseshoe you’ve
been making all the fuss about?” he
asked incredulous. “That gorse?”
“Isn’t it so —so very appropriate.
Uncle Hume?”
“Mmm.”
He curbed the temptation to make a
harsh snap judgment of his niece’s sanity.
A patchy crescent of gorse in bloom that
curved through the swamp! Granted,
it overgrew a ridge that had been a coach-
ing route through to the hill. But what of
that? There was a decent road now.
“Things have changed a bit since the
gold-rush, Lizzie.”
Lizzie’s Golden Horseshoe was a joke
long since grown stale in the township.
But she had persevered undaunted, proud
of her imaginative discovery. Rejoicing
in the symbolism and commemoration
of an age that was gone, the romance in her
soul flowered with the gold of the gorse.
Each spring there was a school obser-
vance. She herded her pupils up through
the plantation and into the lookout and
then, as they stood giggling behind her,
she would stare out with half-closed eyes
and recite a “humble tribute” composed
for the occasion. Then there was a
dramatic review of the race thtough to
the diggings, spoken at times hi a tone
of wonderment and then rapped out
breathlessly between daring, tinkling
laughs as irrelevant as wisps of' smoke
from firecrackers. She made vivid use
of items contributed by Black Humphrey,
a horse-dealer, whose death in the hut
behind the smithy had left the district to
mourn a celebrated liar runaway
coaches careering through the gorge
(“....passengers owed their lives to the
late Mr. Black Humphrey”); bushrangers
active in the hills (“.... met their match
in the late Mr. Black Humphrey”): the
whole performance was played over
again for old Hume’s benefit.
“And now I want you to tell me what
else you see out there in the swamp?”
Her pupils’ traditional response to this
was a howl of “The old toll-house!” that
went shuddering away through the trees.
Hume Fleat, seated on the step of the
lookout, winced. “Eh?”
“Of course, of course, how silly of me,”
she laughed, “The tiny white place in the
Horseshoe, Uncle ; the old toll-house.”
“Then that’s where he lives!” he ex-
claimed, impatient that the only worth-
while information of the afternoon was
being withheld. “The fellow that we saw
going past in his cart at teatime?” He
knocked out his pipe and joined her at
the wall.
“That awful Quinn creature!”
\X/HILE Lizzie rambled on about a
“ * toll-bridge left derelict over the old
river bed Hume was ponderously, indulg-
ing his own fancies. His imagery, lack-
ing the tone of Miss Pleat’s, was wreathed
not in any glamor of the past but by
the black, stubbly beard of Angus Quinn.
Seeing the man pass, sprawled in a
drunken stupor along the seat of his
spring-cart, had made an impact on his
perception that had been startling. He’d
seen a vision move across the frame of
the dining-room window. In the revela-
tion of a moment the essence of all the
old man sought from retirement had been
subtly manifest in the serenity of coarse
parted lips, beatified and grotesque in the
sun, as Quinn had been carried blissfully
home to the swamp.
That horse, Lizzie,” he ventured,
“Quinn’s horse; it takes him right
home?”
“A pity he didn’t have as much sense
as his horse.”
Frowning, he stared across at the
house peeping out of the gorse. There
was promise in the mystery of Quinn’s
home and life in the swamp. The secret
behind the man’s influence was the
answer he needed and was going to learn.
He broke in again on her unheeded
narration. “Crossing the railway must
be a risk, though.”
“What for?”
“Quinn.”
“Not a big enough risk, it seems.”
That the character of the old toll-house
should be defiled by an uncouth waster
who kept his wife a virtual prisoner in
the swamp was, as she saw it, nothing
short of sacrilege. She pitied Mrs. Quinn.
A timid, disheartened soul, she’d often
thought as she’d seen the woman being
driven into the township on Thursdays
with her eggs. Little wonder the poor
creature discouraged any acquaintance-
ship beyond a smile. She was afraid.
And if any proof of her husband’s
tyranny was needed. Miss Fleat would
declare, it was plain enough in the way
he’d let her take the blame in that poach-
ing affair. Everyone knew Mrs. Quinn had
been warned for poaching in the swamp.
“That Angus Quinn’s a bad lot.”
Morbidly, she drew on a mental pic-
ture of a woman’s face pressed against
the gable window of the toll-house, star-
ing wistfully out at traffic headlights play-
ing on the white concrete bridge at night
and shining through the willows: a piece
of fantasy that left her in no mood to
go on with her Horseshoe performance.
“YOU run on and have a spell before
tea, Lizzie,” Hume Fleat advised
when they were near the Ploughman on
the road home. “I’m just going to slip
round to the tobacconist’s for a box of
matches,”
Across the rubbish-tip—a chaotic reg-
istry of the town’s existence—he was in-
spired by the sight of Angus Quinn’s
horse and cart standing against the
creeper-covered outbuildings behind the
Ploughman. ,
A matter of minutes after he’d seen
her disappear off the street the doors of
the hotel swung behind him.
Later, solicitously ushering a burly,
sullen-looking companion out into the
street, he found the pavement pleasantly
buoyant underfoot. He’d bought Angus
Quinn as a decoy. He was on the way
to solving the mystery behind the man's
fascination; discovering what his un-
kempt apostle went home to.
Quinn, clumping along in gumboots
from which his mud-spattered trousers
billowed out, cursed old Hume for his
clumsiness as they jostled and veered
away from each other on an erratic
course round to the yard. They assisted
each other into the spring-cart.
“The old mare’ll stop for the express,
all right, if that’s all you want to see,”
Quinn boasted.
Then, puzzled, he watched his passen-
ger trip over the seat and settle down in
the back of the cart.
“I’ll just get down here,” the old man
explained, zealously copying as best he
could Quinn’s attitude of the evening
before. “Sort of lying a bit and sitting
a bit.”
Quinn considered this as he drove out
of the yard. He scowled over his
shoulder and asked, “Lizzie Pleat’s a
niece of yours?”
Hume admitted it.
“There’s some say Lizzie’s not the full
quid either,” he said.
They jogged through the township.
The old man prudently ducked his head
passing the staring windows of his niece’s
cottage. Then he bunched a potato sack
under one shoulder and relaxed. His
head lolled about with the movement of
the cart and his heels beat on the floor-
boards.
This drainin’ subsidy I was tellin’ you
about, Quinn began, when they were
clear of the houses. “I’ve give it a lot of
thought, you know. I’ve got it all planned
out.”
He slid off the seat and squatted in the
DECK.
“You’ll be wonderin' why I didn’t let
you see this before?” He fished a sheet
of paper out of his hip pocket—a crude
chart of the swamp that he’d tendered
for years as a token of frustration and an
excuse for laziness, “That mob in the
pub aren’t progressive, that’s why,” he
explained, daring any comment.
Hume said nothing. He lay beaming
benevolently at the solid rump of the
horse, hearing scrunching wheels and
hoofbeats make music on the metal road.
Quinn scratched specks of dirt and
tobacco off his chart. “We’ll take ’er from
here in the direction of the fall.”
The old man grunted. He’d started off
to laugh, but the laughter had stopped
at his throat and only a grunt came out.
Quinn’s finger moving over the chart
was funny in its way and so were the
patches on his gum boots.. But there was
more to it than that; there was fun in the
lustre of the grass, and the earthy smell
of the sack under his shoulder, and in
the posts, hedges, and fat friendly barns
that glided past in a pageant of harmony.
Smiling, he acknowledged the droll, inti-
mate appraisal of cattle grazing along the
fences.,
“ • • • willows planted in the old river
bed.. .two inches of silt after a good
fresh”...
The cart bumped over the railway
line,
“Silt,” the old man mocked, appreci-
ating the farce of Quinn’s earnestness
and studying glassy-eyed the pimply dew-
lap quivering under the man’s chin.
Angus Quinn and poor Lizzie, they
were both in the same boat. Liverish
Mrs. Morpeth and the copy-holder, with
her scarlet nails, too. Clowns at a funeral.
Their own lifelong funeral. And only the
blackbirds looking down from the power-
lines and he in his sublime enlightenment
knew it.
“ ... for grubbing the gorse.. .no better
land this side of the river.”
Quinn was chewing up his words and
prodding less certainly at his chart as the
horse turned off along a turf track banked
high with gorse and dipping down be-
tween lagoons lying stagnant under red-
weed and the shadowy depth of willows.
Suddenly, climbing the rise to the toll-
house, he pulled up the horse. “Hear
that?” he asked, listening intently, “The
missus sharpenin’ her knife.” He slid
down from the cart. “You better come
and meet her; she broods about things.”
“THEY floundered through willows and
* flax to a clearing in which a line of
washing flapped against a fowl-house
running the width of the section. Quinn
led the way to a shed at the far end.
“A man from the paper come to see
me subsidy, Aggie,” he announced,
pompously striying for self-control. “An
uncle of Lizzie Pleat’s, An—an [grimac-
ing and spitting out the word] educated
man with the backbones of the country
at heart.”
Inside the shed—its rough bench over-
spread by ivy curling through cracks in
the walls—the old man saw a woman
standing over a grindstone and testing the
edge of a hedgeknife with her thumb.
She wore a flannel shirt open at the neck
and a skirt that reached nearly down to
her ankles. Her hair was pulled back
tight from a round white face.
Swaying in the door-
way with Quinn, he was
disconcerted by the cold
criticism of her stare.
“Hume Fleathe mur-
mured.
She nodded without a
trace of change in her
expression.
Quinn pointed at the knife. “Doin’ away
with one or two of our young rooster^.”
“White leghorns,” the woman said.
The old man sensed a taunting under-
tone in her voice and evaded her eyes.
“Get one for Lizzie Pleat, then,'’
Quinn ordered. “Clean it, too; none of
your stingy tricks.”
She opened her mouth as if to speak,
and then clamped it shut again. Two
red spots came into her cheeks. She
walked silently out of the shed and across
to the fowl-house.
“You could have caught one in there,”
Quinn protested, seeing a flock of fowls
run out behind her as she flung a hand-
ful of wheat in the grass. “There’s no
need for that stunt at all.”
She didn’t bother to answer, but went
into the shed and returned with a gaff-
hook in one hand and her knife in the
other.
Quinn began to show concern. “There’s
no need for that at all, Aggie,” he com-
plained.
Old Hume, fascinated by the woman's
gloating approach, wished he’d never
come through the willows. He’d learned
all he wanted to know without leaving
the cart.
He jumped as he saw her gaff strike
into a fluttering eruption of feathers.
“Watch! Watch!” Quin yelled, and
overbalanced backwards into the flax.
She slashed down at her squawking
victim with a quick wrist-stroke. In the
same motion she flicked her hook free,
tossing the slaughtered bird into a tur-
moil of arms and gumboots threshing
about in the flax. Then she turned to
make a derisive study of old Hume’s
sagging jaw and his eyes bulging in
astonishment.
“Remember me to your niece, Mr.
Pleat,” she smiled, and disappeared into
the cavernous entrance of a track through
the gorse.
QUINN staggered out of the flax with
the white rooster in his hand. He
gave a sorry laugh. “She’s a great one
for her joke, the missus.”
Old Hume was saddened. Through a
connection with Lizzie’s Golden Horseshoe
nonsense—some significance that eluded
his befuddled brain—he saw himself re-
flected in the other man’s humiliation.
“She might have cleaned it for you,”
Quinn was growling as they made for the
cart, “I’ll give her fits about it when I
get back. I’ll fix her.”
Brushing through the willows, he was
still threatening when the hooked end of
a length of fencing wire swung back past
his ear with a branch and caught the
collar of his coat. He dropped to the
ground, his arms wrapped round his neck.
“No, Aggie! No!”
Solemnly the old man stooped down,
unhooked the wire, rolled Quinn off the
rooster and replaced it in his hand.
“I thought it was her,” Quinn whined,
getting to his feet. “She’s a holy terror
with that gaff.* She’ll go up yet; she’s
been warned. Poachin’ flappers in the
swamp and selling them to the Chows
over at the gardens. Stringy pukekoes,
too, when they’re winged. Out there in
the moonlight with her gaff and hedge-
knife. She’s a holy terror.”
“She’s good with that knife.”
“Dogs and all,” Quinn said. “If you’d
seen her go a dog that was at her hens
you’d know. And hardly sayin’ two
words from the time she lights the fire
till she banks it up at night.”
“A damn shame.”
“D’ye blame a man for needin’ a taste
or two and a good horse?”
Intent on countering what he vaguely
sensed as a challenge to his own rights,
Hume said “You don’t get nuts for
breakfast.”
“Porridge. Give her that in, she’s a
good cook. When the soot’s not cornin’
down.”
They reached the cart. Quinn threw
the bird in the back and they struggled
up after it.
“You don’t know where I can get a
horse like this?”
Quinn frowned. “A chestnut mare?”
“A homing horse.”
“Not off-hand.”
“I’ve got my eye on a little place along
the coast,” Hume explained, settling
down again on the floorboards. “There’ll
be cliffs on the way back from the pub.”
“A good horse soon learns,” Quinn
assured him.
With a smile of anticipation pushing
his moustache up under his nose, old
Hume Pleat lay back, his head lolling,
and gently fondled the white rooster as
they drove out along the swamp road.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3424
Wednesday, September 26, 1945
DOWN, WITH DISHONOR!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Mao”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ‘Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings C opp .
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THEY WANT THE EARTH.
As a result of the wars in which Soviet
Russia was on both sides —at first, by
mistaken calculation and choice, on the
side that. it expected to win, and then
perforce on the side that did win, thanks
primarily to British fortitude in holding
out alone —Stalin has become a more
powerful imperialistic figure than the
most ambitious of his predecessors, the
Czars. Indeed, if the shades of those
worthies could meet and discuss the
present situation, they would admit their
successor’s pre-eminence in the art of
grabbing territories, going on to express
astonishment at their own moderation.
In Europe, there has been a great
westward extension of Soviet Russian
power and influence which can be trans-
formed into power if things work out as
planned. The annexation of Lithuania,
Latvia and Estonia, with which Soviet
Russia had non-aggression agreements,
has been accepted without a protest from
the United States, which for years re-
fused to recognise the annexations, or
the British Commonwealth, which had
the little Republics as fellow-members
of the League that guaranteed their
sovereignty and territorial integrity, From
Finland, a Czarist prize for little more
than a century, Soviet Russia has taken
Arctic and Baltic ports and- great tracts
of Finnish land. Rumania it has deprived
of Bessarabia and North Bukovina, which
was an Austrian crownland. Part of
East Prussia, with Konigsberg, has also
become Russian together with about
three-sevenths of Poland, that country
having been “compensated” with Danzig,
tfie ill-omened “corridor” and German
territory stretching to “the Oder-Neisse
line.” This was arranged at Yalta, but
at Potsdam a difficulty arose:
There are two Neisse rivers in Germany
emptying into the Oder. While the Anglo-
Americans had the easterly or Glatzaer
Neisse in mind, the Russians assumed that
the Yalta agreement referred to the
western or Gorlitzer Neisse. The latter
interpretation would drive the Polish border
an additional 100 miles info Germany,
Thus far “the latter interpretation” stands.
And all Soviet Russia’s western
neighbors not swallowed up except help-
less Finland —Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Rumania, Hungary, Austria, Yugoslavia
and Bulgaria—have puppet Governments
with Communist parties, ferocious
“peoples’ courts,” wholesale seizures of
property, and all the rest of the Commu-
nist box-of-tricks, including plans for
faked elections, though in Bulgaria
these have been checked. Czecho-
slovakia, for which Sydney editors
burned to go to war in 1938, is
in process of expelling its 500,000 Hun-
garians and 3,500,000 Sudeten Germans
with nothing more than they stand up
in and can carry on their backs and in
their hands, throwing the problem of
feeding the 3,500,000 Germans on
America and Britain, though well aware
that the British will have enough to do
to feed themselves and spare a trifle for
other distressed peoples already threat-
ened with starvation and pestilence in the
terrible winter about to set in. In 1939
the leaders of this boomed “republic”
took refuge in Britain, not Russia, but
all the use they now have for the British
is to cadge from them. Having created
a vacuum, they have been obliged to
issue a conscription-of-labor decree,
which means that their country is already
reaping the consequences of their selfish
and ungrateful folly.
In Asia the Russians have returned to
the Czarist policy of expansion, with
Communist additions. They are back in
Port Arthur, Dairen and south Saghalien,
which they had to give up in 1904, and
have taken full possession of the Kuriles.
Part of Korea has been occupied by them,
and if they don’t try to set up puppet
Governments or Soviet republics in that
country and Manchuria, China and
Indo-China it will only be out of fear
of trouble with the United States. In
any case there are sure to be Communist
movements in Korea and Manchuria, as
there are in China, Indo-China, Burma,
Malaya and Java, and they are sure of
support, for what it may be worth, from
Left-Wingers in the United States, either
open Communists or fellow-travellers —
most of the attacks on General Mac-
Arthur for his handling of affairs in
Japan have come from that quarter.
In Persia the Russians are maintain-
ing ' their army of occupation, though
they promised at Potsdam to withdraw it
immediately, and are throwing their
weight behind a Communist party which,
with their backing, brought down a Gov-
ernment that refused Moscow’s demand
for oil concessions. On Turkey they have
fastened a quarrel, which they began by
denouncing their treaty of friendship with
that country. This was followed by
demands for “return” of two Turkish
border provinces, and control of the Dar-
danelles, with bases in the Dodecanese
which, taken from Turkey by Italy in
1911, are geographically and racially
Greek. And they have carried their in-
trigues into Palestine and other parts of
the Middle East, a great body of Jews
in Palestine and other parts of the world
having turned to Moscow from Britain,
that old friend and protector of their race
which never had a pogrom.
As if all this wasn’t too much, Molo-
tov went to the Council of Foreign Min-
isters in London with other large claims.
The substance of them having been com-
municated to newspapermen, apparently
by a startled member of the American
party, Molotov deemed it necessary to
give his own version at a press confer-
ence. As he put it, “there is a grain of
truth concerning Russian aspirations in
Tripolitania,” one of the Italian colonies,
but he said he would “prefer to defer
comment, because the question is still
under discussion.” On the subject of
Eritrea, another of the Italian colonies
in which there was a great Anglo-
American base during “the war against
Hitlerite Germany,” Molotov’s words
were “I shall not conceal from you that
the Soviet has an interest in this and
can, I think, be helpful in reaching a
solution.” The aspirations and interests
relate to “trusteeships,” concerning which
Dr. Evatt has been so copious without
being explicit. From the dawn of Mus-
covite history Russia has never had a
foothold in Africa, and if in a fatuous
moment it were granted “trusteeships”
there it would be a case of “Once you
start paying the Danegeld you never get
rid of the Dane.”
At the same press conference Molotov
had the face to assert that in Bulgaria,
Rumania and Hungary “there exist demo-
cratic Governments enjoying the con-
fidence of an overwhelming majority of
their peoples, which have order and
tranquillity.” Of the bit about Hungary
it is sufficient to say that correspondents
trying to enter that country have been
placed under Red Army arrest and turned
back. The other part of the statement
was a deliberate challenge to the
British and American Governments,
to which the Rumanian king has appealed
for help in setting up a very different
Administration from the one forced on
his people by Communists, and which
had to warn the Bulgarian “Government”
that they would ignore the faked election
it was arranging, first intimidating and
arresting leaders of anti-Communist par-
ties. It is notorious that the “order and
tranquillity” alleged to reign in Rumania
and Bulgaria have been brought about
by mass murder and robbery under Com-
munist forms.
Of the parts of mainland Italy
claimed by Tito, a servile instrument
of Moscow, but in his relations with
his own people (particularly Serbs)
and their neighbors a ferocious Com-
munist ruffian, Molotov said “We think
it right that territories belonging to the
Croats and Slovenes should be turned
over” and “we shall strive to obtain a
fair decision regarding Istria and Trieste.”
Moscow’s notion of a “fair decision”
is that the port of Trieste and the prov-
ince of Venezia Giulia, of which Trieste
is part, should be handed over to Tito as
Moscow’s agent. The Anglo-American
idea is that there should be a division
of Venezia Giulia on lines of nationality,
and that Trieste should remain Italian or
be constituted a free port. While the
discussions were proceeding, Dr, Evatt
came into the picture, not as a member
of the Council of Foreign Ministers
which, Canberra optimism notwithstand-
ing, he never had the slightest chance of
becoming, but as a guest speaker, along
wjth representatives of other Dominions
and other countries. Always an island
of self-assertion totally surrounded by
newspaper guff. Dr. Evatt seems to have
taken Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume into his
confidence and had a talk with someone
on the “Evening News,” which paper
came out with a front-page article headed
“Dr. Evatt Has a Plan.” Mr. Baume
proceeds;—
This is not quite correct. Evatt has not
yet enunciated any particular solution of
the problem. It is known that as a jurist
and historian Evatt remembers the status
of the free city of Hamburg in the early
part of last century. It is believed that
he favors similar status for the port of
Trieste. Yugoslavia’s belligerent attitude is
backed by Soviet veiled threats, but there
may be bargaining going on about the
Mediterranean —the type of bargaining
Evatt wants to see later in the Pacific^
It is to be hoped that our “jurist and
historian” knows more about the story
of Hamburg and Trieste, which wasn’t
“stolen by the Italians,” than his admirer,
and that if he really wants to see “bar-
gaining” of the Mediterranean “type” in
the Pacific he will be disappointed. He
is still nominally responsible to the Aus-
tralian Parliament, and he has no
authority to speak for it on the fate of
Trieste. He did not consult Parliament
about the disputed port or the disputed
province. He never consults it on any
feature of his foreign policy. There is
no sentiment in this Commonwealth for
the Italians, but since they were so
thoroughly whipped that they don’t seem
likely to become a military power again,
and since their country is overpopulated
and Yugoslavia certainly is not, it would
be much more to Australia’s advantage
that they should keep Trieste and Pola
and hold their colonies under mandate
than that Russia should get Trieste,
through Tito, and some of the colonies.
Rather than let Russia grab Trieste,
Tripolitania, the Dardanelles, the Dodec-
anese and Eritrea and reach the Persian
Gulf, Disraeli’s England, even Glad-
stone’s England, would have gone to war.
Nobody out of Bedlam wants another
war, but the British and American Gov-
ernments are certainly not going to sit
back and see most of Europe and Asia
Sovietised, with the Russians on the
shores of the Mediterranean, the Red Sea
and the Persian Gulf, and themselves
reduced to contests with their own Com-
munists, thus made formidable. And
they have powerful arguments at their
disposal apart from their superiority in
land-power (Russia’s, with northern and
southern Communist Slavs thrown in,
is probably inferior to what Hitler exer-
cised at the height of his delusive tri-
umphs) and overwhelming supremacy in
sea- and air-power.
Turkey and Greece are with them.
Persia, like Rumania, has appealed to
them. France is so alarmed at the out-
look that, in spite of its Communists,
always threatening civil war, it is suggest-
ing the formation of a Western European
bloc. And out of the Balkans and
Poland come clear indications that most
of the people hate their Communist over-
lords and the stiffening forces of Rus-
sians, while in some of these countries
the old fierce dissension between Slav
tribes is surging up again. And there is,
of course, the irresistible weapon of the
atomic bomb, the secret of which re-
mains and will remain in American keep-
ing, though- Communist roars that it
should be disclosed to Moscow have, in
volume and geographical compass, almost
equalled the squeals for a Second Front
which went round the world when the
Russians, with bad commanders, archaic
methods and inferior equipment, trans-
port and supply, all their own, had been
fighting for a few months. The very
existence of the atomic bomb makes the
new imperialism look as outmoded as
that of Ivan the Terrible and Peter the
Great. And the Americans, if “taken
for suckers” by the fellows who thought
they could become masters of Europe
by signing up with Hitler and holding
off till they could walk over the exhausted
combatants (how clever they were), are in
no mood to behave like “suckers.”
Uncle Sam and J.B.
In the House of Commons on August
20 the Labor Foreign Secretary, Mr.
Ernest Bevin, made a speech that was in
some respects surprising and as a whole
significant. It should have done a great
deal of good in a particularly important
quarter—the U.S.A.
Reactions in America to the election
of the Government Mr. Bevin belongs
to ranged from disappointment, savagely
expressed in what might be called the
“ultra-nationalistic” press, to a hoping
for the best in more sober and reasoning
columns. There were curious degrees in
between. The Chicago “Tribune” found
comfort in the result—the reign of aris-
tocracy in Britain had ended. The
Chicago “Sun,” which may be called Pink,
took* the odd line of assuring readers
that the new Government would not be
nearly so wildly revolutionary as many
appeared to expect.
One of the more pungent appraisals—
it appeared in the “Journal-American” —
took the line that the new Government
had fallen heir to whatever the Churchill
Government had arranged, and. that fore-
most among the arrangements were the
stupendous financial plans “which make
the United States the post-war almoner
to Europe.” By adding up Bretton Woods
and other like agreements, “which Con-
gress has purblindly approved,” a grand
total of eighteen billion dollars was
arrived at, half of it dedicated to “buttress-
ing Communism in Russia and the same
amount to implanting Socialism in
Britain.” As the comment put it:
“Eighteen billion dollars which the free
people and free-enterprise system of
America are to provide so that the Rus-
sians may continue in social and eco-
nomic slavery and the British people may
strive to attain that condition,”
At the other end of the scale Mr.
Arthur Krock, of the New York “Times,”
expressed the more thoughtful, and hence
the more important, line of reaction. Mr.
Krock, who has the reputation of more
closely expressing official Washington
thinking than any other writer, declared
that the change of Government in Britain
would make persons close to the White
House impress specific points on the
President:
(1) The platform to which the Labor
party is committed, even if only partly
achieved, will cost much more in money
than Great Britain can provide, and
will require quantities of goods and
services which cannot be procured in
the Empire. Outside financial and other
assistance must be sought by the Attlee
Government, and in adequate measure can
be found nowhere but in the United States.
(2) The United States should assist Great
Britain in any way it can, and to all ends
that will make for good Anglo-American
relations and help to restore peace-time con-
ditions throughout the world. But it must
safeguard all its commitments against a
demoralised British economy that might re-
sult from the attempt to carry out the
promised Labor party programme. It
should not underwrite State Socialism.
Mr. Bafuch, one of Mr. Truman’s un-
official advisers quoted by Mr. Krock,
spoke before one of the mixed-
party Senate sub-committees which the
U.S. system of government admits of
being set up to inquire into matters of
importance.
I wonder if you realise the extent to
which the world has become cartelised.
Russia is one country, with one buyer and
one seller. There is no free enterprise
there. We are going to cartelise Germany
in the sense that it is going to be con-
trolled. De Gaulle has announced he is
going to nationalise certain industries.
There is a great deal of discussion in Eng-
land today about nationalising industry
there. 1 am not talking for or against it.
Coal is one industry which may be national-
ised, and England exports a good deal of
coal. I am afraid if they commence to
nationalise one or two or three things, that
will make them drift into other things. I
certainly favor free enterprise. But our
system of free enterprise is being encom-
passed on all sides by world cartels. How
are we going to meet that issue?
To that question Mr. Baruch added one
most arresting answer. He would, he
said, “insert in all financial and economic
arrangements we make a denunciation
clause giving us the right to terminate
any agreement which results in lowering
of wages or lengthening of hours —an
undercutting of human standards.” He
was unable to see how the United States
could protect and maintain the free-
enterprise system if it made unreserved
financial and other loans or contributions
to Governments nationalising industries
similar to those free in America.
The proposed “denunciation clause” is
stated by Mr. Krock to have been “recog-
nised as essential in contracts with Russia
and other State-owned nations.” With
British Labor holding a firm mandate to
proceed with “nationalisation”:
The American free-enterprise system —
which the Administration has pledged to re-
store in all its fundamental acts as soon as
possible—may soon stand alone in the great
nations of the world. The question will
be whether to modify it, as Great Britain
is preparing to do with its own, abandon
it as Russia, war-time Germany, Italy and
Japan abandoned what they ever had of it,
or protect and maintain it.
In has penetrating style Mr. Krock men-
tions that maintaining the free-enterprise
system is not only the pledge of poli-
ticians in power but the apparently over-
whelming wish of the American public;
and, that being so, the “revision of U.S.
economic foreign policy is necessary.”
In an article on the same theme the
“Wall-street Journal” has pointed out that
the “glowing promises” on which the
British electors sent the present Govern-
ment into office would be difficult, very
probably impossible, to carry out if
Britain were at its highest state of pros-
perity, which it is very far from being.
In circumstances similar to those in which
Britain stands today other nations have
resorted to attempts “either to export
their troubles or to have other nations
support them in a style to which they be-
lieve themselves entitled.” The “Journal
expects that the Labor Government will
“try to persuade other nations to abandon
the methods of competitive free markets
and to adopt the methods of managed
economy with an overall international
management.” If such an attempt were
made the general American reception to
it would be frigid.
In fact, Mr. Bevin might well have
been put up to allay American fears and
suspicions on this issue and related issues.
He did not refer to any of them speci-
fically—that is not the British way. He
spoke on British foreign policy at large,
but, most distinctly, he spoke with mod-
eration. Others looking for assistance
from Uncle Sam—financial, defensive or
what not —may find it politic to do like-
wise.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Liberals in N. S. Wales.
The young school-teacher Darby did well
to win the Manly by-election for the
N.S.W. Liberals with a majority of over
a thousand.
Into Manly as into all other residen-
tial parts of the mainland capitals there
has been a substantial movement of war
workers, male and female, nearly all
Labor-unionists. They have been en-
couraged to believe that “Labor” will
keep them in their jobs or find others as
good, and in any case save them and the
rest of the workers from another de-
pression—a line of talk intended to influ-
ence other adult inhabitants such as small
shopkeepers—whereas the stony-hearted
“Tories” would have no mercy on them.
And the argument that nothing could be
gained by electing an Opposition sup-
porter when State and Commonwealth
“Labor” Governments are in office with
the power of the purse at their disposal,
and with, in particular, £40,000,000 avail-
able for State expenditure from the pro-
ceeds of war surpluses (really of soft-
headed Commonwealth Government
paternalism, in which the three small
States did not share) was used for all it
was worth. That these representations
failed is creditable to the discernment of
the majority.
State “Labor” was keen on winning
the by-election for a special reason. Fif-
teen of thii 60 Legislative Councillors,
who are elected by members of both
Houses, will have to retire in April and
another Assembly vote might have given
“Labor” a Leg. Council majority. Accord-
ing to Mr. Lang’s “Century,” which gets
very good A.L.P. information, the by-
election cost it £2OOO.
In its chagrin the party blamed ex-Senator
Dunn, who stood as an Independent, alleg-
ing that he had thrown his preferences
to the Liberal. It was beyond his power
to do that. In point of fact, Dunn pref-
erences were fairly equally divided. Mr.
Darby had a substantial lead on the first
count, and would obviously have suc-
ceeded if Mr. Dunn had not come out.
As in the case of Blacktown, hopeless
for the Liberal because of the large pro-
portion of war workers, “Labor” had a
very good candidate, a resident and a
former Mayor (the Blacktown man, a
specialist in poultry diseases, had a great
appeal to the numerous body of fowl-
farmers in the electorate), whereas Mr.
Darby, though a Manly teacher, is not
a resident.
What the Liberals need in Sydney is a
friendly daily paper. The present col-
lection of journals is worse than useless
to them. The best they can hope from
any of them is to be damned with faint
praise. They all follow Dr. Evatt blindly
and find it difficult to conceal the dislike
of Mr. Menzies which prompted the two
morning papers to run tickets of “out-
standing candidates” against his party in
1940. The failure of this stunt was fol-
lowed by the discovery that there were
wonderful fellows on the other side, “the
Big Four.” Of the afternoon papers, one
has turned Labor, and the other has
never had any identifiable policy or influ-
ence. They are all crazy about racing,
and the stock subject for “illustrations”
in three cases is a nearly-naked young
woman often posed in a suggestive atti-
tude.
The history of the Manchester “Guar-
dian” shows that a journal with a defi-
nite set of principles and high standards
of reporting and comment will get steady
support, even in quarters where its
political views are not shared. That sup-
port would be forthcoming in Sydney
for a Liberal daily, staffed by men of
ability who believe what they write,
if it stood firmly for the British
connection and free enterprise, took
the Manchester “Guardian” as an
exemplar in its Parliamentary and
law reports, had an unerring nose for
Left-Wing propaganda dressed up as
seemingly innocuous cables, signed articles
and “personal” paragraphs and resisted
all temptations to become sport- and
girl-mad. At the rate air transport may
be expected to advance it would have
a fair chance of getting a national circula-
tion, and it might be able to arrange
with responsible publications like the
“Scotsman” and the “Times of India”
for a cable service that wouldn’t crack
up Russia in season and out of season.
Actually, wkh the rapid improvement of
aerial communications, cable services are
of decreasing importance ; even nowTice-
paper copies of the London “Times”
reach Sydney three days after publication.
No Fault of the Dutch.
The Government which alleged in an
eruption of squeals, echoed and ampli-
fied by the servile Sydney daily papers.
that Britain had tried to prevent Australia
being represented at the signing of the
surrender instrument in Tokyo Bay was
reduced to putting up “an army spokes-
man” to answer the Dutch, who protested
that the same Government had left them
out of the signing of the surrender instru-
ment at Koepang and Morotai (in
their own territories) and also “at
Rabaul, Bougainville and elsewhere.” The
answer was that Australia had “followed
international practice.”
Then Britain could have claimed “inter-
national practice” for the exclusion of
Australia from the ceremony in Tokyo
Bay if, as alleged, it had plotted Aus-
tralia’s exclusion. The Labor Dominions
Secretary said it never did, and events
justified his disclaimer. The arrange-
ments for and the speeches at the Tokyo
Bay affair were made by Americans.
Britain came in, along with Canada, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, China, France,
Russia and the Netherlands, by invi-
tation.
In the previous month it leaked out that
the Government had turned down as
“neither logical nor equitable” a Dutch
proposal for “the accommodation, equip-
ment and training” of 30,000 Dutch
troops in Westralia for the war against
Japan, “Neither logical nor equitable,”
because it conflicted with the Govern-
ment’s own plans for sweeping reductions
in the fighting forces, A.I.F. and
R.A.A.F., and for sending, “if possible,”
a liberating and avenging force to Singa-
pore. The liberating and avenging were
to be done by “a token force.”
Anything apt to weaken the authority
PEACE—BUT NOT PLENTY.
“Sorry, dear, but it’s the best I can do. The Government that says it saved us
from the Japs says it can’t do anything to strikers and that sort of people.”
and prestige of the Netherlands East
Indies authorities is meat and drink to
Communists, who have been preaching
“militancy” to Indonesians, especially
Indonesian seamen, ever since they came
to Australia. Among the many ships held
up in Sydney last week by the Commu-
nist-controlled Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration —73 on Friday ; the entire water-
front was idle on Monday—were Dutch
mercy ships bound for Java and other
N.E.I. islands. A Communist rising is
threatened in Java, if it has not actually
broken out, and Healy, the Communist
secretary of the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration —an immigrant, like the Commu-
nist Thornton —announced that “local
Indonesians” had asked the federation to
boycott the ships on the ground that they
were “to load materials to be used in the
suppression of the people’s Government
set up by the Indonesians.” For his own
mob, this Communist declared that “in
view of the declaration of the World
Federation of Trade-Unions,” a Moscow-
dominated show, and “the United
Nations we will not be a party to the
suppression of such a Government.”
A very nasty development and one call-
ing for Instant and drastic action from
Canberra. But Mr. Chifley had already
announced his Government’s “policy” on
strikes in general—it can do nothing
about them. It has ample powers but
no guts. And Dr. Evatt, “the greatest
Minister of External Affairs we ever
had,” in his office of Attorney-General is
just as abject a mob-flatterer as the rest
of them.
The Darwin Exiles.
The member for the Northern Territory,
rescued from a brutal Japanese jail in
Singapore, returned to find about a third
of his 'electors exiled in the south.
Disregarding all the warnings which
Sergeant Blain had uttered about the
dangers of aif attack and the need for
air-raid shelters on an adequate scale,
the Government did nothing effective.
When Darwin was raided four days after
Singapore fell death spread its wings
over the town and panic seems to
have infected officialdom. There ensued
a muddled and inglorious retreat, in
which union bosses, their minds on in-
dustrial “militancy” to the last moment,
were conspicuous. One in particular is
reckoned to have beaten the rest of the
community by miles.
Had the Darwinians been prepared to
follow the example of Dover, Portsmouth,
Rye and many another southern English
town, as most of them would have pre-
ferred to do, it would not have been
allowed. They were forced to leave food
in the safes, unwashed cups on the tables,
belongings in their unprotected dwellings
and, holus bolus, they were flung south-
ward. Most of the belongings they will
never see again.
Worse than temporary exile and loss
of property was before the inhabitants.
Refusing to consult with the acting-
member for the N.T. or with the organi-
sations of residents, the Minister for the
Interior a few weeks ago brought down
a bill to resume 90 square miles of
Darwin on which to build “a model
town.” It is proposed to spend £7,000,000
—which, if the relation between estimates
and actuality runs in the same proportion
as in the case of the Sydney dock, will
swell to £20,000,000.
The rights of residents, some of whom
and their fathers before them were born
in Darwin, were ignored. The Minister
refused a suggestion that he should visit
Darwin or meet the residents in the south
to discuss their position before the bill
was passed. The scandalous piece of
legislation which he brought down and
forced through the House enables the
Government to resume the land on its
own valuation fixed at any date the
Government cares, to nominate, A sug-
gestion by Major Archie Cameron that
the statutory investigation by the Public
Works Committee which is (or was)
routine in the case of all projects calling
for an expenditure of more than £25,000
was rejected, as was his plea that a special
tribunal should be appointed to settle
claims amicably. A request that residents
individually should have a first claim to
acquire the leasehold of properties which
they now own was laughed out of court.
A motion that all reports on the future of
Darwin should be tabled, so that members
could see whether the action of the Gov-
ernment was in accord with the advice
of its experts, was brusquely negatived.
The bill having been passed in the usual
current totalitarian fashion, nobody sayp
the Caucus having been given time to
study it and consult those most concerned,
the Minister began to show softer traits.
He made contact with Darwinites, and
intimated —despite the flat refusal of his
predecessor to deal with any organised
body of Territory electors—that his heart
ached with sympathy for the exiles, and
that if they would reorganise the Darwin
Chamber of Commerce he would gladly
listen to their arguments. There have
been meetings of these unfortunates who,
though the war is over, do not even now
know when they will be able to return
to their homes. But last week, in the
middle of the tear-stained course of the
Minister’s negotiations with them, his col-
league the Minister for the Army told
Major Cameron that the Government did
not intend to pay the return passages of
residents who had been forcibly ejected
from their homes and town.
As victims of a totalitarian regime,
soulless and heartless, these gallant hun-
dreds of people, who have been bearing
the burden of keeping the northern gate,
demand the sympathy of the whole of the
Australian people as they struggle to col-
lect a few pounds for their lost tool-chests
and vanished sticks of furniture.
Those Darwin people who were dispos-
sessed through no fault of their own, and
upon the Government’s own peremptory
order, should be compensated, and that
generously and promptly. And the
timetable of their return to Darwin, if
they are to be allowed to return, should
be determined quickly. The Adminis-
trator, Colonel Abbott, is already there,
and Judge Wells remained at Darwin
throughout the period of military rule.
Go on the Land!
On a tract of country in Westralia which
is useless for crop-growing unless heavily
supered, a family formed itself into a
limited company and set out to grow
wheat. That was about 20 years ago.
No salaries were drawn by the working-
shareholders for the first few years, there
being none to draw, since the land had
to be made ready for its purpose. By
1930, after a lot of hard work and by
keeping the tractors going long hours, the
company had over 3000 acres under crop
and 3000 acres fallowed. It looked as
though the members were to get some
reward for their work.
But the bottom fell out of the wheat
market, and their 40,000-odd bushels
realised only Is. 7d. a bushel, less storage
charges and interest. That meant, of
course, more years of work in trying to
get square on machinery and fuel debts,
etc. The taxing authorities were not
asleep, as was shown when a creditor
waived £419 of £B5O owing. This was
immediately labelled taxable income.
By 1933 the members were drawing
19s. 6d. a week each. In 1935 it was £3 a
week and keep ; in 1937 £5 without keep ;
between 1939 and 1942 £ll a week, but
£7 or £8 of this went in necessary and
compulsory improvements, purchase of
new implements and repayments. Just be-
fore the 1942 crop was stripped the Scully
plan arrived with its guarantee of
3s. lOd, a bushel up to 3000 bushels and
Is. lOd. advance on any surplus—not
much good to people with 3000 acres
growing the stuff. But then acreage was
cut by one-third, though the company had
no objection, receiving 12s. 6d. an acre
compensation for two years.
Under the licensing system the com-
pany got a permit to work 1840 acres and
an-allowance of 401 b. of 18 p.c. super,
an acre. The country it was working de-
manded about a bag of 23 p.c, super, to
the acre. It was decided to cut out 1200
acres of the licensed area and an amount
of £2400, based on an estimate of
cropping costs, was placed in reserve for
the time when acreage could be expanded.
The company’s accountant reported
that this sum would promptly be counted
as profit by the taxgatherer, and it was,
the only way to avoid the tax (about 75
p.c. of the sum) being to sow fodder-
crops like oats, lupins and peas. As it
happened, these turned out to be valuable
in the following drought. In a good sea-
son they might have shown a loss.
In 1943 the company again had a profit,
and £865 was assessed as taxable to the
extent of £258. This was paid. A few
days later the tax people demanded a
further £395 because the book profit
hadn’t been distributed as dividends. In
all, over 15s. in the £ was claimed on the
£865. The company’s other unavoidable
commitments totalled £270, leaving a net
deficit of payments from profits of £5B.
There were, of course, other expenses
such as renewals and conditional improve-
ments, but these were labelled “capital
expenditure.”
The company is still on its land, still
working hard, still hoping that some day
it may make the price of a new suit or
week-end in Perth. Its members now
realise that what they should have done
was to get themselves registered as an
industrial union.


r-"-f
m
as; ;
mss
5 P 2
’’ f
!
r m
mm
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET., VALLEY, BRISBANE
f
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Meloourne.
Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne.
STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., SOI Kent Street, Sydney.
Safe and Profitable —
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
® Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy. , ,
® Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be depen en .
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can tgo wrong. our
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank * n y, es ?™ ent n ~ e
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/ 43). roucy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane. n a™,..™*
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POLITICAL POINTS
Of Australian Army losses listed to
May 31, 75,018, 16,245, it seems, were
incurred in “Australia, including train-
mg” (1887 killed and 14,358 wounded
and injured), which is astonishing. There
must also have been considerable air-force
casualties “in Australia, including train-
mg,” but these are not given, though it
is stated that there were 196 in Canada —
140 killed, 55 wounded and 1 missing.
The figures for Australia may, and prob-
ably 'were, included in the South-west
Pacific list (2205 killed ; 4465 altogether)
and “Other Areas” (57 killed; 73 alto-
gether), but they should have been given
separately. Casualty lists issued from
Canberra have nearly always given rise to
unanswered questions.
Not having fallen into the hands of
Communists With their murderous
“peoples’ courts,” Quisling had a fair
trial in Norway and Joyce in England.
In each case the verdict was guilty and
the sentence death. At Belgrade, while
Joyce was being tried, a “peoples’ court”
ordered the summary execution of 14
generals who, as likely as not, were fight-
ing Germans when Tito was carrying a
“Stop the Imperialist War!’’ banner.
The Opposition’s protest, expressed in
a no-confidence motion, against Riordan’s
abuse of his authority as Chairman of
Committees was gagged at Chifley’s in-
stance after Menzies, McEwen and
Makin had spoken. But it was not with-
out its effect, there being no further
attempt to prevent demobilisation or any
other subject being discussed in the
Budget debate.
Melbourne “Age” correspondents are
pressing for an inquiry into what the
paper calls “the Ambon tragedy.” The
term is applicable also to the Rabaul,
Java and Singapore affairs, and they
should be the subject of a general in-
quiry, with nothing barred and no
punches pulled. There is sure to be a
Singapore investigation in Britain, where
it has doubtless been noted that Brigadier
Callaghan was appointed G.O.C. Eighth
Division, with the rank of major-
general, after Lieut.-General Bennett,
in General Blarney’s expression, “vacated
the position.” But' Caucus is taking the
Commonwealth Parliament into recess
for five months. Presumably it is not in
the mood to be pressed for inquiries or
to have to answer questions about de-
mobilisation and rehabilitation.
It was reserved for Ward, of all people,
to announce, “with the deepest regret,”
that five brave men who remained in
Nauru when they could have got away—
the Administrator, the Government
Medical Officer and his assistant and a
Phosphate Commission engineer and
overseer—had been murdered by the Japs
on March 26, 1943. Nobody reminded
him of what he said in September, 1939,
when he “argued” against all the northern
islands being defended by called-up men
and tried to get them all placed out of
bounds in a Defence Act “amendment,”
or of what he said in the debate on the
1936-37 Defence estimates (£8,800,000):
The workers of Japan, Germany and
other overseas countries are fighting for the
identical things that the Australian workers
desire.
Or of his gibe at “honorable members
opposite talking about defending this
country”:
What Is it that many of the unfortunate
citizens of this country would have to
defend against any foreign aggressor?
According to his own account, he was
one of the cool, calm, collected men who,
in 1942, stopped the rot and saved “this
country.”
In the “settling” on a race which had
to be run again because of a mix-up at
the barrier, N.S.W. bookmakers collected
the equivalent of a trustee co.’s subscrip-
tion to the Fourth Victory Loan from
backers of three horses which did not
start the second time —this in addition
to what course “operators” collected. The
tote returned the money staked on all
three. Which shows what a mugs’ game
betting with bookmakers is. N.S.W. law
gives no protection to fools who lose
without having a chance to win.
A tiling the Premiers never discuss,
though racing seems to be all-important
to a couple of them, is uniformity of tote
charges. At present they are 10 p.c, in
Melbourne and Sydney, 121 p.c. in
Hobart, 12| p.c. in Adelaide, 131 p.c. in
Perth and 13| p.c. in Brisbane. In Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane the State
Government takes 5 p.c. plus fractions;
in Adelaide 51 p.c. plus unpaid divs.; in
Perth 71 p.c. and in Hobart 21 p.c. With
a uniform rate of 71 p.c., dividends paid
to the nearest threepence and fractions
reserved for hospitals, the bookmaker’s
useless calling would be made precarious
instead of being an easy way to unearned
wealth at Randwick a paddock license
is reckoned to be worth £2OOO a year.
In Maoriland he has been abolished with
advantage, but he has powerful friends
in Australia.
As soon as the Sydney Parliament was
declared open for business, a Digger
member, Bate from Wollbndilly, moved
“as a matter of urgency” that it should
consider concentrating the State’s re-
sources on the rehabilitation of returning
servicemen and -women, particularly with
regard to “housing, health, land settle-
ment and congenial occupations,” having
made no perceptible arrangements for
any of these matters. BcTte asked for a
senior Minister, with a Cabinet com-
mittee to assist him. The “Government”
refused to allow that it was a case for
“urgency,” but permitted the Digger to
deliver a thoughtful and pertinent speech
in the debate on Supply. Bate will prob-
ably get a royal commission or some-
thing, the “Government” being too busy
at the moment chasing unspecified fish-
smugglers round the Rose Bay water-
front.
In two annual reports the Auditor-
General has dealt trenchantly with Muni-
tions Department accounts. Makin, the
Minister, made a show of answering the
first lot of pertinent criticisms, but,
tackled about the 1943-44 issue, he said
he hadn’t read it It may be inferred
that it is of no consequence to Makin
whether the people from whom terrific
taxes are extracted have received value for
the huge expenditure on munitions or
whether it is properly accounted for, Rose-
vear did not take this high-and-mighty
attitude when Archie Cameron quoted
the Auditor-General on the Rosevear
travelling expenses as Speaker and Con-
troller of Leather and Footwear—£l233
for the year to June 30, 1944; £1229 for
the period March 20 to December 31,
1944. Said Cameron:
King Solomon, with the Queen of Sheba
and Pharaoh’s daughter, would not have
had travelling expenses like these.
Said the Speaker;
I do not know whether the charges are
excessive. My only comment is this —that
I would have needed to be in the car day
and night all the year round to incur this
amount charged by one department against
another. There was less use made of that
particular car than of any other car, either
by this Government or any other Govern-
ment.
He should have left “any other Govern-
ment” out of the argument. No previous
Government had a fleet of fluid-drive
Chryslers.
It came out in the Maoriland Parlia-
ment during a debate on the value or
otherwise of having a Minister in Russia
that the Minister was allowed £lOOO a
year for entertainment. The High Com-
missioner in London gets only £350 for
the same purpose. Australia has a Mr.
Maloney at Moscow, but nobody ever
asks what his entertainment allowance is.
In “salaries, payments in the nature of
salary and general expenses” the Maloney
Legation cost £30,013 last year, “travel-
ling and subsistence” being debited with
£4310 and “incidental and other expen-
diture” with £3677.
Every passing week brings a fresh issue
of concessions to the officer caste in
Russia. Among other things, they are
to have their own orderlies and their
own clubs and total exemption from
income tax. It would almost seem that
they are expected to have a plan of action
ready in case the mujiks (not to be trans-
lated “mugs”) become too. aggressively
inquisitive about the pure Soviet democ-
racy and economic equality we read so
much about.
“I am an Englishman, but I object to
the lickspittle attitude of some Opposi-
tion members towards Britain.” So said
a Sydney Senator named Large in the
debate on ratification of the United
Nations charter; and Mr. Large had
harsh words for America. That
country, he said, “will have to put its
house in order and get rid of the com-
mercial spirit which has dominated it for
the past century.” This spirit was not
particularly evident in lend-lease, in
the creation of overwhelming forces and
armaments for the wars against Germany
and Japan, or in the American contribu-
tion to Australia when Large’s crowd was
“saving the country” in Rabaul, Ambon,
Timor and Java in conformity with the
“strategy” of the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” ; but it seems that America will
have to reform if it wants to earn
Large’s approval.
Canberra is to make gifts of £75 to
“certain categories” of persons and de-
pendants, sufferers because of war service,
to enable them to buy furniture. The
recipients should be given wheelbarrows
in which to bring home all the furniture
they can buy for that amount.
Moving for a discussion of the Bun-
nerong powerhouse strike as a matter of
urgency State Opposition-leader Weaver
was defeated by 46 to 21, Bjjiddeley claim-
ing that “no Government could have
done more than mine in trying to bring
about a settlement.” No Government
could have done less. And it made no
recorded protest when its official organ
branded the employees who kept the plant
going, staff men and clerks, as “scabs.”
A sort of Donnybrook fair has pre-
vailed at Sydney fishmarkets since the
State Labor Government “took” them
“over.” Police had to be kept on the spot
to maintain order and there have been
charges, a few fights, a near-riot and
a police order against the holding of
meetings in the precincts by indignant
buyers. Meantime, the housewife still
has to pay through the nose for a bit of
flathead or leather-jacket—if she can get
it. This in a city with the whole vast
Pacific at its front door.
Eighteen months ago a royal commis-
sion appointed to consider methods
of marketing fruit and vegetables in
Queensland reported that consumers
were being exploited and that the
Commonwealth Government, as tax-
gatherer, was sharing in the ill-gotten
gains. Brisbane “Courier-Mail” wants
to know when the State Govern-
ment is going to do Something about it.
The answer can be found by plucking the
petals from a daisy, murmuring for each
petal, “This year, next year, sometime,
never!”
The state of serai-starvation of cancer
research in Victoria will be relieved by a
legacy from the estate of George Fred-
erick Carden, showman and alderman,
who left £150,000. Seventy thousand is
to go to provide an income for the Anti-
Cancer Research Council. If and
when the cause is ascertained the dis-
coverer will receive a bonus of £lO,OOO,
if an employee. Cancer research was
previously a one-man job, the man being
Dr. Cherry. During most of the 30 years
he labored at the University, with one
assistant, he paid his own expenses,
Mr. Baume looks at the Balkans:
It is becoming felt in London that if
Britain supports the United States in
giving Italy Trieste there will be grave
unrest in Yugoslavia which could lead to
desperate measures. It also is becoming
apparent that, should Yugoslavia be given
Trieste, obviously at the request and under
the domination of Russia, there might be
troubles equally disturbing.
It long ago became “evident” that the
shifting of British support from the
patriot Serb Michailovich to the Com-
munist Croat Tito was a fearful blunder.
The American correspondent Weller
told The Bulletin that he was in Perth
when four alleged Australia Firsters, none
of whom had anything to do with the
N.S.W. movement —though a “Security”-
imagined connection led to the arrest and
martyrdom of the eight N.S.W, men
whom Justice Clyne vindicated and
recommended for compensation—were
arrested in Perth on a conspiracy charge.
Summing them up as “ratbags” he tried
to send a report of the tase to his Chicago
paper—not the “Tribune” —and failed to
get it past the censorship. Yet the names
of the martyred eight were cabled abroad
by other hands, and they were branded
as traitors in Communist prints, the ban
on which was removed by Dr. Evatt.
Awkward developments for Communists
and others may still arise from this one-
sided publication.
Deregistered by the N.S.W. Industrial
Commission for having tried by “militant
methods” (i.e., larrikinism) to prevent
Justice De Baun hearing an A.W.U. case,
the bosses of the N.S.W. branch of the
Communist-controlled Ironworkers issued
another threat, backed by another strike
—“the Industrial Commission will soon
discover that the trade-union movement
will not allow it to select the Ironworkers
as the spearhead of a general attack on
the independence of all unionists.” There
followed an attack on “Justices Kinsella"
(a former Labor M.L.A.) “and Cantor,”
who “went to unprecedented lengths in
penalising 18,000 of our members” in
“a childish display” of “authority” and
“wounded dignity.” Communist larrikin-
ism evidently fancies itself privileged, like
the Labor Ministers and members who
tried to scrape Justice Cantor off the
Bench per bill.
A Munitions Factories Utilisation
Committee has told the N.S.W. “Labor”
Government bluntly that it would run
into trouble and loss if it “took over”
war factories at Orange and Bathurst for
manufacture of civilian goods. The worst
of it is that the M.F.U.C. was appointed
by the N.S.W.L.G.
Redistribution of seats will make some
changes in the Victoria Assembly, one
being the retirement of Mullens,
member for Footscray since 1937.
Rather than fight Holland, M.L.A. for
Flemington since 1925, for the Footscray
nomination, Mullens decided to stand
down. Communists arb cockahoop, but
they will hear of and from Mullens again.
A town which, unlike Hiroshima and
Nagasaki, knows it is doomed but doesn t
know when the blow will fall is Tallan-
gatta (Vic.), which stands in the path ot
the Hume Reservoir’s proposed expan-
sion. Raising of the Reservoir’s capacity
from 1,250,000 to 2,000,000-acre-feet will
flood part of the picturesque hamlet, and
its agony is being prolonged because ot
the inability of State and Commonwealth
authorities to come to a decision. Re-
peated representations from Premier
Dunstan have brought no response from
Canberra. Any request from Dunstan
gets a poor reception in Labor circles.


NEW RIDDLE OF THE SANDS.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jay”: At Sydney’s latest modem art
show on the day I looked in there were
some civilians, who looked as though the
effort of trying to decide what it was all
about had exhausted them, and two
British sailors. Stout fellows, those Jacks!
They took each picture in'their stride with-
out flinching till they fetched up before
one that looked like mounds of tomato-
soused spaghetti with greenery sprouting
from *it. Both looked intently ; then one
said to his pal “I reckon, laad, the war’s
got more into ’em than it has into us
that’s been right agen it.” Then, the hour
being eleven, they undulated out into the
street, bound for the nearest pub.
“Colbun”: I’m tired of the artist-blokes
who, when they want ‘to depict the spirit
of Australia, always draw the hard-faced,
northward-looking party with Cape Vork
at the tip of his long beak. Why
not, for a pleasant change, portray his
nice-looking wife, her pretty retrousse
nose ending at Cape Howe, bending
southward with lips parted from Wil-
son’s Promontory to Cape Otway, to
soothe her little squalling Tasmania? Mrs.
Australia has done a splendid job
throughout our history, and it is high
time that she should get some real recog-
nition in the national portrait. Besides,
she’s a whole lot better-looking than her
old man.
* ♦ * *
“Avon”: Maoriland’s “Solid South”
(the term implies that the more prosper-
ous and progressive North Island is in-
fested with carpet-baggers and addicted to
wild-cat flotations) was a bit solider than
usual during war-time, its assets being
swollen by nearly £8,000,000 worth of
gold—the bullion reserves of all the banks
of the Dominion, held normally in the
vaults of the Reserve Bank in Welling-
ton. When a Japanese invasion seemed
well to the front among possibilities this
treasure was shipped out, a box or two
at a time, with the utmost secrecy, taken
up at southern ports by army drivers, who
didn’t know the nature of their freight,
and distributed amongst the most deso-
late regions of the South Islands. Though
small, the Dominion can provide large
chunks of desolation to anybody requir-
ing it —there are big tracts in central
Otago and Southland and in the fiord
country of those provinces where no man
has ever penetrated, and which until aero-
planes arrived had never been seen. Soon
after VP-day the various caches were
visited and the gold went back to Wel-
lington.
* * ♦ ♦
“R.L.W.”: How H-M-AS- Sydney
came to her end in November, 1941, prob-
ably never will be known. The garbled
accounts of survivors of the German
raider Steirmark (alleged to have sunk
the Sydney) contradict a statement made
by the German Admiralty. At the time
of the sinking I was a p.o.w. in a German
camp. The camp authorities published a
weekly newsletter “The Camp” for
British p.-0.-w. According to this the
Sydney was destroyed by the German
raider Komet, which, operating thousands
of miles from her base and without Japa-
nese assistance, engaged the Sydney 300
miles off the west coast of Australia. The
last message received from the com-
mander of the raider stated that the
Komet had sunk the Sydney with tor-
pedoes and was herself sinking fast. The
German report claimed that there had
been no survivors, and that both ships
sank simultaneously. “The Camp” was
usually a liar, but it may have told the
truth tor once.
“Jimri”: St. Mary’s (N.S.W.), home in
war-time of vast war plants, dates back
to the day of the seadog Governors, and
owes its origin to those Governors’ habits
of handing friends and relatives huge
tracts of country. Governor King set the
ball rolling when he gave to kinsfolk the
grants Dunheved, Tregear and Werring-
ton. (Incidentally, the material for parts
of The Term of His Natural Life was col-
lected at Dunheved —and the sadistic
Gabbet was overseer there.) Bligh, King's
"I'll be detained at the office tonight , dear—and this time it's dinkum !”
successor, followed his example, and gave
his daughter, Mrs. Mary Rutland, a grant
that is the site of the present township
of St. Mary’s, later tacking on another
thousand acres when the lady wedded her
second husband. Sir Maurice O’Connell.
The O’Connells preferring the city to
rural life. Major Druitt, who had a thou-
sand acres at Rope’s Creek nearby, man-
aged the estate. The township proper*
began as a row of cottages, still in use,
built for the estate workmen in 1840.
Andrew McCulloch bought St. Mary’s
estate in 1856, and with quite a modern
touch subdivided it into building and
small farm blocks. During the ’sixties
O’Connell-square, the town’s hub, was
generally packed with teams and coaches
going to and from the diggings.
♦ * * *
“Jerboa” with the saga of. a hospital
ship:
The Manunda, which brought' back the first
batch of p.-0.-w. from Singapore, is the most
popular vessel, with the Diggers, that has
ploughed Australian waters. In /the Middle
East she was a byword among the troops.
At Darwin she became a victim when the
first bombs were dropped on Aussie soil.
A dozen other vessels were destroyed out-
right ; a near-miss damaged the mercy ship
and killed some of her personnel. My per-
sonal contact came at Milne Bay. The medical
establishments ashore were crowded far be-
yond normal capacity. Only relief for the
sick and sorely wounded must be by a hos-
pital ship which could take them back to
Australia. One was keenly awaited. Nearly
dusk, and a row of lights came crawling along
the bay's far side —it was the Manunda! A
Jap cruiser crept in under the cover of mists
that same night. Her searchlight roved every-
where looking for victims. A Dutch vessel,
the Anchung, was sunk by shellfire. The
Manunda was miraculously spared. Two days
later a Mitsubishi dropped an egg close enough
to cause alarm. The Manunda was Aussie-
bound 30 minutes later. On her next trip from
M.B. I was a patient aboard; wounded at
Goodenough Island. I was treated as if i was
a prince, instead of one of the P. 8.1.
* * * *
“Ferner”; When the Japs surrendered
in Tokyo Bay the Allies marked the
occasion with special cancellations for
philatelists. Air Vice-Marshal L. M. Isitt
brought back many samples to M.L., the
best for Priminister Peter Fraser. One,
in purple, read: “H.M.S. Duke of York,
Sept. 2nd, 1945 ; Tokyo Bay.” It can-
celled a British 3d. stamp. In black was
“U.S.S. Missouri, Sept. 2, 1945 ; Tokyo
Bay. Japanese Formal Surrender.” It
cancelled a six-cent airmail impress.
* * * *
“Scribe”: Maoriland is now learning
the names of her anonymous shipping
visitors of the last six years. Aquitania
leads ’em for size with 44,786 tons; she
came to Wellington four times. The
capital port also saw the He de France
and the Empress of Britain. The Empress
was sunk in the North Atlantic on
October 28, 1940, not long after landing
Kiwi troops in England. Dutch, French,
Yugoslav, Greek, Norwegian, American
and British ships slipped in arid out of
Maoriland harbors, among them the
speedy Mauretania on five voyages.
Theoretically they were all under a
shroud of secrecy, but watersiders had no
difficulty in identifying all the big ’uns.
♦ * * ♦
“O’Hell”: There’s a dame in our
subbub who gets quite a few rewards
for “finding” lost dogs. But I think she
overdoes it. Last week she went to a
dog-owner’s house, presented the family
with their lost dog, accepted a pound
reward and then said calmly and deter-
minedly: “And five shillin’s for the meat
he ate durin’ the week.”
• * • *
“Zake”: It is gratifying to observe a
note of strong masculinity manifesting
itself at last in the N.S.W. industrial
The honor of introducing it goes
to the maintenance men at the River-
stone meatworks, who struck be-
cause they were called “nasty names.”
What pansies were those old-time
unionists who, when the ganger roared
them up for a “bunch of adjec-
tival, quarter-witted sons of soanso
blankards,” just grinned, spat on their
hands and slowly hoisted the mad Micks
again! It is indeed a healthy sign that
when some fellow-unionist says in savage
tones to a toiler “You horrid thing!” the
rebuked one should burst into tears and
go straight to the shop steward and de-
mand a strike. Hail to the new, sturdy
Australianism!
w * * *
“Galenus”: “Nakhoda” (B. 12/9/’45)
is wrong in describing yaws as “a mild
form of v.d.” Amongst infected peoples
it is an almost universal disease of child-
hood, spread by skin or clothing contact,
flies and neglect of personal cleanliness.
Nor is ft true that where yaws exists
syphilis never occurs; they have for long
been known to be separate and distinct,
though there are definite similarities. The
possibility of obtaining a serum from
yaws that will give immunity to syphilis
was investigated years ago with negative
results. Yaws is perhaps the most widely
spread of all diseases of tropic-dwelling
colored peoples, especially amongst
children. There were plenty of cases to
be seen amongst our own far-northem
abos., in pre-war days at any rate. It is
eminently controllable by the salvarsan
group of drugs; and whites seldom con-
tract it even after close contact.
* * * «
“Nakhoda”: The discovery by an
R.A.A.F. Catalina of a party of Aus-
tralian p.-0.-w. with Japanese guards on
a remote island in the Netherland East
Indies raises hopes that more 'will be
found on even more remote islands.
N.E.I. is peppered with tens of thousands
of islets, each with its small native
population, and nothing is more likely
than that adventurous individuals suc-
ceeded in reaching some of them in the
confusion of the Japanese invasion or
escaped from prison camps later. There
were a few Australians who liked living
in such places in peace-time, I knew one
who was alleged to be recovering the
treasure from a Manila.galleon sunk in
the early days of Spanish colonisation.
Once a year he dropped in on Labuan,
but the only person he spoke to was the
Chinese storeman. It was a love of soli-
tude rather than Spanish gold that actu-
ated him.
* * * ♦
“Fred”: Wellington (M.L.) Anglicans
propose to erect a cathedral at a cost of
£400,000. They have a quarter of a mil-
lion in hand, and a campaign has been
launched to raise the remaining £150,000.
Already the first piece of furniture has
arrived for the cathedral. Maorilander-
in-exile Hector Bolitho has sent out a
praying stool with a history. It was used
by Kiwi air crews during the early days
of the blitz on Germany. Sergeant
Jimmy Ward, the Wanganui V.C. winner,
said his prayers with its aid. The main
part of the stool is fashioned from a beam
that was built into St. George’s Chapel,
Windsor, in the fourteenth century. It
also incorporates an arch made as a
sample by the carver of the screen in
Coventry Cathedral —the only tangible
reminder left of the beautiful work in
that bomb-destroyed edifice.
* * ♦ ♦
“Uramao”: There has turned up in
Christchurch (M.L.) a letter Lord Nelson
wrote off Martinique in June, 1805,
addressed to Simon Taylor, Esq., Jamaica.
Nelson, at that time trying to bring the
French squadrons to action, complains
that, following up a clue', he went to the
waters round Tobago, Trinidad and
Grenada, only to find he had been put
off the scent. Nelson’s sympathies were
emphatically with slave-owners, for he
writes: “I was bred, as you know, in the
good old school and taught to appreciate
the value of our West Indian possessions,
and neither in the field nor in the Senate
shall their interest be infringed whilst I
have an arm to fight in their defence or
a tongue t 6 launch my voice against the
damnable doctrine of Wilberforce and
his hypocritical allies.”
* * * *
“Zake” on the tenors:
Admirers of John McCormack were fond of
quoting an alleged incident at the Metropolitan.
One day John, as Caruso emerged from ms
dressing-room, inquired: “How is the world’s
greatest tenor today?” To which Enrico re-
plied in the Socratic manner: “Since when
have you become a baritone, John?” Very
pretty, but not a likely story. The Irishman
was never in the same vocal street as the
Italian. McCormack was purely lyrical, the
heaviest role he could manage—before increas-
ing embonpoint in his early forties ruled him
out of the operatic sphere—being Edgar, m
“Lucia.” Caruso, with his great power—-ms
chest register was of true baritone quality,
whilst his high C was a thing of supreme ease—
was the ideal robust tenor, able to sing such
arias as the tremendously difficult “O Sovereign,
O Judge, O Father” from Massenet’s “Le Cid,
or the lightest passages of Verdi or Puccini.
The greatest singer of his day—and he had
plenty of meritorious opposition in such men
as Martinelli, Campagnola, Tuminello, Perea,
Van Dyck and Constantino —he remains
the greatest singer of this century, the present-
day Gigli being the closest to him. In ms
later years McCormack’s voice took on a nasal
quality. But at that he had no rivals when it
came to carolling an Irish song.
THE RETURN OF THE WANDERER.
Stand by to welcome Bill McKell, nor cavil
That in far lands he’s made so long a slay.
There’s nothing to compare with foreign travel
For broadening politicians’ minds, tney say,
And getting lips that help them to unravel
Perplexities awaiting them to-day;
And he’s adventured far aheld, has Bill,
From Bow to Broadway, Brixton to Brazil.
All sorts of post-war plans, we’re told, he’s
studied,
All recipes for shuffling off the coil
Of burdens info which the world was thudded
When Hitler set poor Europe’s pot a-boil.
From shore to shore, it seems, our Bill has
scudded
To get the very latest dinkum oil,
The stuff best recommended to anoint
A State, like all too many, out-of-joinf.
Winston he’s doubtless barneyed with, and
Truman,
Attlee and Mayor La Guardia perhaps,
Regarding anything that might illumine
Our path ahead, beset with snares and traps,
And profiled of. course from the acumen
Of these and other estimable chaps
For expert guidance on the way to handle,
Soon as he’s home again, the liquor scandal.
And when he witnessed crowds in comfort
sinking
Their pints and polishing their nobblers off
In peace and quiet, did it set him thinking
How those in better-ordered lands would scoff
Could they but see his own compatriots drink-
ing
Wedged against bars, like porkers at a trough,
Rage in their hearts and curses on their tongues
At antiquated laws and grasping Bungs?
Stand by, and let the ferry-hooters jangle
A welcome home to widely wandering Bill,
Who’s seen how pubs are run from many an
angle
From Brest to Broadway, Bristol to Brazil.
His colleagues count on him to disentangle
Their most vexatious problem—if he will.
His jaunt abroad involved six months’ delay,
But better late than never anyway.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
OVER THE ODDS.
There’s little in the way of printed word
That comes my way of which I miss the gist,
Whether the writer be a Left-wing bird
Or an uncompromising Communist;
But doesn’t Granny “Herald” show a streak
Of cruelty to her customers, I ask ye,
By forcing on them every passing week
The lucubrations of Professor Laskt?
He may be “tops” with his own Labor crowd,
A recognised behind-the-scenes dictator,
Though his belief is blatantly avowed
The land he lives in is a second-rater;
But, whatsoe'er his “punch,’ I can t escape
The thought of what a formidable task he
Is set who’s picked for licking into shape
The squeals and bellows of Professor Laskt.
As you are strong, good Gran., be merciful
To multitudes of helpless readers! Fill
Your space with articles on wheat and wool,
Music or art—’most anything you will.
Subjects there are, closed doors to all but tew,
Of which admittedly you hold the pass-key,
But spare us of your charitableness, do,
The frothy rantings of Professor Laskt.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Nutter”: You may confront a Sydney
wharfie with anything from a war-loan
application form to a Commonwealth
Peace Officer and he won’t blink an eye,
but try him with a chance to stop work
and you’ll get prompt reaction. A ship,
back from New Guinea with explosives
aboard, was being unloaded when a snake
poked its head out of a box to have a
look at the new country. Sight of the
uninvited immigrant horrified the workers,
and while they debated whether to send
for the fire brigade or something their
mates in the hold were apprised and burst
out of that ship in much the same fashion
as Lawson’s bushman burst from the
shanty when the loaded dog ran beneath
it. Hatches were clamped on, and a con-
ference was held as to whether poison
gas should be used or not, and work
naturally stopped for the day. The cause
of the fuss was an 18in. long tree-snake,
and the humorous Digger who popped it
into the box must be wondering, like
everybody else, why somebody didn’t
clout the thing with a bale-hook and get
on with the job.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: As I passed a deserted inner-
suburban school (deserted because of the
school holidays) sundry grunts and
wheezes from behind a shelter-shed at-
tracted me. There, without a single on-
looker, two small boys fought each other,
the fight having all the ferocity and cold
determination of a grudge affair. Pres-
ently the bigger of the gladiators stopped
a wild swing with his nose, blood flowed
and he cried quits. My offer of refresh-
ments at the fruit shop was gravely
accepted by both, and I learned that the
fight, having been arranged in the last
day of the school holidays for a date after
resumption, had been duly fought at the
appointed time. The absence of a crowd
was due to the fact that the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment, as a gesture of thankfulness for
peace, had granted schools an extra week.
“An’ won’t the kids be wild when they
find out they missed the scrap,” chortled
the vanquished. The victor seemed slightly
pensive, and, after the other had de-
parted, confided to me that a fight didn’t
go so well with none of one’s contem-
poraries to witness it.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Signs of peace are appear-
ing. A firm has filed notice of intention
to register, with £lO,OOO nominal capital,
to provide a service for the supply of
diapers and other baby requisites. It calls
itself “Nappy Wash Pty.”
» * * *
“Alexander”: Now can be told the
story of how “human mine-sweepers,”
following in the wake of the victorious
Allies, made safe all the mined ports
from Cherbourg to Bremen. Australians
played a major role in these operations,
it being at the suggestion of a member of
the R.A.N.V.R. that an entirely new tech-
nique was used. Delayed-action mines
could not be tackled by ordinary methods
of mine-sweeping. Two parties of 35
men, volunteers and all under 25, with
the aid of guide wires weighed down by
concrete sinkers, crawled along the sea
floor on their stomachs in search of such
mines. As often as not the divers worked
in water so muddy that visibility was nil.
This made the job extremely hazardous,
for in such instances the weighted lines
were the searchers’ only guide. A mine
of an unknown type was located in
Bremen harbor. The Germans warned
the divers not to touch it as it would go
off the instant it was handled. Dis-
"It's all right, darling—he only Wants to christen you.”
regarding the warning, an Australian
naval officer went down, and after 20-
minutes’ arduous work rendered the mine
harmless. It was the latest type of Ger-
man mine and the first to be made safe
under such adverse conditions.
The smoke from the atomic
bomb having lifted, the long-dormant
project of a trip to the moon is being
revived. That indefatigable populariser
of science, A. M. Low, writes:
Plans have been made and navigational
instruments designed for a 238,857-mile
rocket flight to the moon. The problem is
to design brakes for the rocket to keep it
from crashing into the planet. Rocket per-
fection will come much faster than did air-
craft development, and the moon rocket
will look somewhat like an ordinary rocket,
with vanes. Locomotive power will be re-
quired for only half the distance. About
halfway on the trip the gravitational attrac-
tion of the moon will pull the rocket the
rest of the way.
Very nice, but how are the moon-voyagers
going to get back?
“Bombo” on the economics of atomic
power;
Those physicists and chemists who have been
envisaging a world made rich and carefree by
the release of atomic energy have neglected to
supply grounds for their optimism. That the
disruption of an atom would be accompanied
by a tremendous release of energy has been
known for at least 50 years; experimental proof
was supplied by Dr. G. Hahn in 1919, not long
after Rutherford’s first experiments. It was
then definitely established that the atoms of a
particular sort of uranium, known as U-235,
can be disintegrated, producing a terrific ex-
plosion. But the process is extremely compli-
cated and extremely, expensive. Ordinary
uranium cost £3O a cwt. before a special war
demand was created for the metal. A ton of
ordinary uranium—£6oo worth —yields only
101 b. of U-235. The process of extraction re-
quires a plant whost cost runs into tens ot
millions sterling, and, without reckoning that
overhead, it costs £5O an ounce to produce
U-235. Moreover, though the technique of
atom-splitting has been brought to the stage
where the explosive effect can be utilised at will,
a great deal more research work —very expen-
sive research work —must be undertaken and
many difficult problems solved before atomic
disintegration can provide power for industrial
purposes. It it noteworthy that nobody has yet
been able to harness even gunpowder—let alone
dynamite or T.N.T.
* * * *
“Rando”: When the Sydney sporting
sheets staged a mild agitation for the
setting up of betting shops in N.S.W. no-
body became excited and the suggestion
fell rather flat. Perhaps punters have
been reading of S.A.’s experience. In
Adelaide there was talk of resuming bet-
ting shops until Premier Playford an-
nounced that the ban on them—the only
war-time ban affecting racing in daylight
still current in S.A. —would remain at
least until the State Parliament discussed
it. Reopening of betting shops in Adel-
aide itself seems unlikely, for even
Labor members are agin’ it, but there is
a feeling that some sort of chance for a
punt should be given country people who
can’t get to the city races —either a State
tote or licensed bookies ; no bets to be
taken after 1.30 p.m. on race days. When
betting shops did operate in the country
outdoor sports suffered, and in the city —
well, one union secretary put it this way :
“I know from experience of the domestic
troubles I had to help settle that betting
shops were a curse to the workers and
their families.”
* * * *
“Blentuil”: If “Cassandra” (B.
12/9/’45) who paints the calamities we
shall be faced with when “hordes of cheap
private aeroplanes infest the skies” had
ever flown at 10,000 ft. he’d realise that
the sky takes quite a bit of “infesting.”
’Planes would need to be a lot more
numerous than “motor-cars were in 1939”
before birds would be. complaining of
overcrowding. As for risk of collision,
flying is safer than driving a car.
There are no blind corners nor hill-
crests, and you don’t have to worry about
the menace of dogs, pedestrians and other
livestock. A car is confined to the breadth
of a road ; in a ’plane you have choice
of movement in three dimensions. To
talk about “no rule of the road” is non-
sense; there are strict rules governing
"'Sh, Bertha! I snavelled the bubbly and substituted tomato sauce!"
use of the flying highway now. Low
flying, apart from military aircraft on
exercises or operations, is barred now,
but that doesn’t preclude mishaps due to
altimeter failure when flying blind in fog,
which is what caused the New York
accident.
» # -f *
“Clooter”; The Bodger and McClankus
families live next door to each other in
our suburb, and though Bodger is a man
of independent means whereas McClankus
must toil set hours per week for a mod-
erate weekly wage they got along
famously until recently, when the respec-
tive wives fell out about something. The
rift became colder and deeper as time
passed, and presently Mrs. Bodger was
urging her husband to have the old, low
dividing fence, over which she and Mrs.
McC. oft had gossiped in pre-rift days,
pulled down and a new high one erected.
“I am tired,” she declared, “of having
those people next door spying on every-
thing I do.” So it was that men appeared,
and soon there was a 7ft.-high fence of
stout hardwood palings running between
the two properties. Mrs. B. wore a look
of extreme satisfaction for a few weeks,
until the weather got to work and those
unseasoned palings curled until the aver-
age gap between ’em was a half-inch,
ample for the young McClankus eyes.
Now Mrs. B. can’t even hang a garment
on her line without hearing comment
upon it from beyond the jalousie.
# * * *
“Adelaide”; An odd case was that of
the Theatre Royal management here
against Sandford, a mouth-organ player
who had a £l5 a week contract at the
theatre. His turn was extended, but then
cut down, with others, as the programme
was deemed too long. “If my act is cut,”
said the offended musician, “1 am not
going on tonight,” and he walked out.
Fined £lO and costs.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The news that Mr. Cal-
yvell’s Department of Information, now
costing £326,000 a year, is to survive the
war leaves me cold. It was Yuan Shi-
Kai’s alleged republic which invented the
idea of such a Ministry, I had some
slight acquaintance with it as a freelance
cartoonist on a Shanghai weekly run by
an Oxford Englishman and subsidised by
Peking. I could never understand why
20,000 copies of the magazine were
solemnly printed every week because I
never saw anybody reading it, though
it lay on the tables in all the hotel
lounges. One day the editor informed me
that 19,000 copies went to the Informa-
tion Bureau in Peking, where they were
deposited in a junk room. Nevertheless,
somebody must have read the thing. The
editor, greatly daring, printed a cartoon
of mine which poked fun at a republican
general who had just captured a city and
given his troops three days’ looting and
so on to recoup themselves for the pay
he didn’t give them. As a result the editor
was officially instructed to get a new
cartoonist.
* ♦ * *
“Bo”: It is high time that the Big Four,
instead of dithering around with such
questions as whether Goring should be
brought to trial before 1952, began to toss
their weight around on an overdue prob-
lem of greater moment. I refer to the
compulsory changing back to their pre-
-1914 names of such countries as Eire,
Iraq, Iran and Thailand. Why should a
harassed father of school-age children
have to interrupt his post-prandial
washing-up duties to ponder which
country is Iran and which Iraq? The new
names are senseless and futile, and nobody
seems to know whether it is Air or Aira,
Tay or Tai or Thay or Thigh, Irark or
Irack. But you can’t muck about phoneti-
cally with Ireland, Mesopotamia, Siam or
Persia. I ask you, would an audience
reach furtively for handkerchiefs if a
fruity tenor with a sob in his voice were
to sing of “That Sweet Eirean Mother of
Mine”? Would anyone dare to go into
an animal shop and ask for an Iranian
cat? And who would get the least thrill
out of a pictorial weekly’s disclosures
about the love lives of Thailandian twins?
We had an Atlantic Charter. Let us use
it by compelling these backward countries
to use names which were easier for every-
one, including themselves.
it * * it
“S.T.S.”: S.A. and Queensland seem
to have neglected to provide for inter-
state travel in their road-traffic laws. A
northerner has been charged in Adelaide
with driving a car neither registered nor
insured ; whereas it was both, but in its
own State. The police stated that Queens-
land is the only State which does not
come under the Road Traffic Act as far
as S.A. is concerned ; also that the driver
had since been readily granted a permit
for a month’s stay. The Court said that
all the offences were purely technical and
penalties would be nominal. Fined £1
and driving licence suspended for one
day.
“Pip” on the military early-rising move-
ment :
Most dismal place in the world is an army
camp between reveille and roll-call parades. At
0600 a strident bugle call disturbs pleasant
dreams, and just as the soldier manages to drop
off to sleep again an orderly sergeant obtrudes his
skull into the tent and bellows. All feet are on
the floor ten seconds later or there is strife.
The b'leary-eyed inmates stretch wearily. Some
wear pyjamas, others sport underpants, a few
are in the raw. Cigarettes are lit, usually a
bumper put aside for the purpose on the
previous night, as there is insufficient time now
to smoke a complete fag. Nobody talks, not
even to say “good morning.” Searching be-
gins for missing boots, the mate to a sock,
a shirt that is tangled somewhere in the bed-
clothes. Someone snaps a lace and is too
drowsy even to swear. Across the row of tents
comes another bugle call. A sergeant takes
over where it leaves off, yelling to an empty
parade ground “Three ranks on the marker,
fall in.” Soldiers appear at the double from all
directions, like rabbits out of burrows. Boots
are undone, trousers hanging limply from a
twisted belt, shirts tucked in on the run. Just
as the roll call begins some laggard gallops on
to the parade ground and makes a grim effort
to efface himself in the blank file. The ser-
geant writes something in his notebook and eyes
the offender malevolently. The roll is called,
duties for the day are read out, orders promul-
gated and threats made about dastards who
ignore the six-o’clock bugle. The parade is
broken off, and the unkempt company goes
back to the tents. The birds, awakened by the
noise, start to sing, and the camp comes to
life for the day.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lub”; Ned’s house is built on a ter-
race just above where it drops off sud-
denly to the river flat, and the paddock
behind the house, where Ned runs a few
pigs, rises fairly steeply to the hills. We
were yarning on the back verandah when
I noticed the old red dog trot away
{ silently. A while later there came a loud
j squeal, and a pig broke clear from a patch
of bracken in the top corner of the pad-
! dock and came down in a burst of speed
' with the dog at its heels. Ned made no
j effort to stop the hound or call it off. “He
i does it the same time ev’ry day,” he told
i me. “Alw’ys the same pig, too; that’s
why I don’t stop him. Y’ see, he knows
I’m goin’t’ kill it soon, an’ I reckun that
’un oughter be trained nicely f’r the
streaky sorta bacon I fancy.”
“M.U.R.”: That par. of “Physalia’s”
(B. 19/9/’45) about the use of radar for
tracing long-range bird migration has
cheered me enormously. Apart from the
possibility of solving the riddle as to
where flies go in the winter-time, I fore-
see the time when the desperate drover,
'camped on a drought track with cattle,
will hear black swans going over in the
night, jump for his radar outfit, pick up
the big birds and follow them to the
lagoon they’re making for, plottiiig its
direction and distance and making his
plans accordingly. No more will it be
necessary to arise in the frigid dawns and
go shivering out to the lambing ewes to
hunt the crows ; from his bunk the sheep-
man will pick up the black marauders as
they come in, adjust the range on his .22
rocket gun and atomise them one by one.
And think of the lone bushman on Mel-
bourne Cup day picking up his choice
by radar and following it throughout the
race. Hey, just a minute! What about
the boss sitting in the homestead with his
radar set following the distant boundary-
rider and knowing all about it when he
slips off the neddy for a doze in the
shade? Gripes, I’m writing to the A.W.U.
about this.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Old Prince, the horse-of-
all-work, had a fairly easy time and spent
most of it lazing under the solitary kurra-
jong beside the paddock fence. Nobody
objected to that, but when Prince de-
veloped chronic greasy heels and took to
backing on to that particular panel of the
fence and rubbing his hind legs against
the wires it looked as though somebody
would have a constant repair job to do.
It fell to young Bob, aged 15, to keep
Prince off those wires. Bob, who was
always inventing and building ingenious
but useless gadgets, was advised to put
his great mind to the problem. After
several inventions had failed, Bob went
into town, bought some old-fashioned
junk from a radio shop, busied himself
for a day or two in the shed and got Dad
to roar a command into a recording
machine. Then he took the assemblage
of wires and things to the kurrajoilg,
bolted an old trumpet loud-speaker to a
fence post, attached a couple of batteries
and did things with the fence wire. The
next time Prince backed on to those wires
a voice roared “Git arp there, you loafer,”
and Prince shot away from that fence
like a two-year-old from the barrier. For
a week he tried those wires, jumping from
them each time the loud-speaker roared,
then he gave it up. But he discovered
Bob’s box of tricks at the butt of the tree
and promptly scratched his heels on that.
Then Bob had to think of something else.
* * * »
“C.V.S.”: Despite “Sach’s” evidence to
the contrary (B. 12/9/’45), instinctive
action, even by insects, sometimes re-
sembles conscious reasoning. When a
stock of bees becomes too weak to
generate sufficient heat to hatch the eggs,
it may desert the hive. After a few such
desertions one observant apiarist noticed
a number of dead bees, including one or
two queens, outside another hive in the
apiary. This was always the hive that
had last sent out a swarm. Keeping
watch on a weak colony, he saw it fly out
and enter another hive en masse. Open-
ing up the hive he found the intruders
attacking the resident queen. The hive
had recently swarmed, and so had a
young virgin queen and an excitable
population, factors favoring the invaders’
daring scheme to instal their own laying
queen. Instinct led them unerringly to
the last-swarmed hive. That happens too
often to be coincidence.
* * * *
“Propalong”: You couldn’t get mar-
ried or buried, you couldn’t elect a school
committee or mothers’ club *or conduct a
race meeting, a Sunday-school picnic, a
dance or a council meeting without
Gordon. He was always there, in his
flash car and the expensive suits that
were always a bit on the tight side. The
women relied upon him and the men
put up with him. Everyone called him
“She reminds me of meself w’en I used to go surfin' at Manly”
“Gordy”—or so he thought— : and he was
as happy and busy and platitudinous as
a small-time politician. And then one
day he received a note from old Crow-
foot about a welcome party for a re-
turned man. The note began; “Dear
Gaudy....” That was months ago.
Already the women are beginning to say
“Gordon’s so unsociable, you know. He
just won’t mix in. Tijinks himself above
us, I suppose.”
* * * ♦
“Rover”: Invariably the monumental
grave-posts of the Melville and Bathurst
Islanders (B. 15/8/’45) are placed in posi-
tion around the grave immediately after
the burial, and that same night the male
relatives of the deceased stage a Dance
of Death. This weird ceremony, which
women and children are forbidden to wit-
ness, is staged for the purpose of driving
evil spirits away from the new grave.
The dancers, specially decorated for the
occasion, are led by the grandfather,
father or eldest son or brother of
the deceased and, chanting a mournful
dirge, they gallop over and around the
post-enclosed grave. As the tempo of
the dance increases the natives become
wilder and wilder. The dance continues
sometimes for hours, ending only when
the dancers one by one have retired in
utter exhaustion. ,
* * * *
“M aroomba”: “Sou’-west” (B.
15/8/ ’45) will be glad to know that
science has already explained something
of the mechanism whereby the electricity
in the stingray is produced. One of the
side effects of the contraction of muscle
is the production of electrical energy—
this is at present made use of in the
examination of the contraction of heart
muscle by the electrocardiograph. Now
in very primitive animals certain cells
perform the function of both nerve and
muscle; as animals became more
complex a division of labor took place
and the two functions were taken on by
special sets of cells, but these cells still
have certain characteristics in common.
In the electric ray the organs which de-
liver the shock are developed from the
same primitive cells as nerve and muscle ;
they are, however, more closely related
to muscle. But. whereas muscle produces
little electricity and much movement, the
electric organ produces much electricity
and little or no movement, though the
chemical mechanism is in each case very
similar and can be inhibited in the same
way by certain drugs.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Nagheer”: Ever used turtle eggs as
food, asks “Patrol Leader” (B. 12/9/’45)?
His cook must indeed have been a
Johnny-come-lately in northern waters if
he wouldn’t use them. The white will not
coagulate on boiling, but the pingpong-
ball-sized yolks do so readily, with de-
licious results. Half a dozen—or more —
boiled yolks and a couple of rashers of
dugong bacon—the very best bacon in
the world —provide a breakfast of which
the memory alone is enough to make any
old Torres Straiter want to drop every-
thing and make a blackguard rush back
again whenever the laying season comes
round.
“Munja”: “Patrol Leader’s” cook (B.
12/9/’45) who turned down turtle eggs
would have been “crowned” with his own
dixies by our mob. On patrol near
Napier Broome Bay (Kimberleys, W.A.)
our abo. guides found two nests of green
turtle eggs, total haul being 415 eggs.
Binghi gobbled his share raw; we boiled
ours ala Mrs. Beeton. The platoon vowed
they were “just like mother makes.”
Further south we tried another experi-
ment when the abos. caught a couple of
female crocs, off Collier Bay. When
opened up the crocs, contained 37 eggs.
Binghi polished off the crocs, (baked) and
we tried the eggs. The verdict was unani-
mous—never more.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: In the Perth Police
Museum is a set of footwear bearing the
label: “Aboriginal sandals or slippers,
from the islands off the coast of West
Kimberley. Woven from feathers and the
hair of wild goats, they were worn in a
ceremonial native murder.” From these
Kimberley islands to the “kaditcha” tribes
of the Centre is well over a thousand
miles, so it is a bit odd that aboriginals
so widely separated should have the same
idea of manufacturing “phoney” shoes
merely for the purpose of gulling the
simple white man (B. 22/8/’45), Nor
does the lubra drop dead as a result of
seeing the “kaditcha” walking. Her
trouble rises when the “K.” man spots
her; death at the end of a waddy or a
spear is her portion on her return to
the camp. There are even abo. legends
of mother and daughter crouching unseen
beneath the bushes watching the dreaded
figure pass. True, the “K.” man isn’t
masked according to white standards.
but his face is so done -up with pipeclay
and ochre as to be unrecognisable.
♦ % jjc jjj
“S.G.”: “D.R.H.” (B. 5/9/’45) must
have mixed his facts or his geography
when he states that the water he found
between Lake Torrens and the Flinders
Ranges was John McDouall Stuart’s
elusive Wingillpin of 1858. The Flinders
Ranges are on the eastern side of Lake
Torrens, whereas in June, 1858, Stuart
travelled on the western side of the lake,
via Elizabeth Creek and Andamoka
(Stuart’s spelling) to the northern side of
the present Stuart Range. It was not until
November of that year that the route
between Lake Torrens and Lake Eyre
was discovered by Babbage and Warbur-
ton. Eyre’s earlier report of 1840 had
been that it was one lake. Travelling
west-north-west from near the present
head of Lake Torrens, Stuart’s blackboy
contacted some wild blacks, who indi-
cated that Wingillpin was in a westerly
direction, and Stuart gathered from their
signs that it was at least “five sleeps”
away. The name is now spelled “Wingil-
pin” and applied to a fresh-water swamp
about 20 miles south of Mt. Eba aero-
drome.
* * ♦ *
“Patrol Leader”: I question the claim
by “Puffinus” (B. 15/8/’45) that the S.Q.
black cockatoos are “largest of all the
world’s cockatoos.” What about the
Great Palm cockatoo of Cape York Penin-
sula (N.Q.), New Guinea and the Aru
Islands? During several months spent in
the Cape York Peninsula we encountered
not more than half a dozen of the huge
black birds, which are 'noted for their
incredibly large hooked bill and high
crest. One old-timer we met in the
Batavia River district said that he had
been offered £25 for a live specimen but
had never been able to catch one. He
told us that the only Great Palm he had
ever seen in captivity was a tame bird
with an injured wing possessed by a
party of abos., who refused to part with
the pet.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: I was a bit dazzled by
the pretty girl who sold me the tie and
stayed in the shop, pretending to look
at handkerchiefs and things, and talking
to her. Mat got tired of waiting and
came in. “What’s keepin’ y’?” he de-
manded. I indicated the girl. “She’s a
little trimmer,” I said in a low voice.
“An’ I’m doin’ all right. Give a man
a go, will y’?” He looked at me in dis-
gust. “Look,” he said, “that bloke’s wait-
in’ up at the agent’s office t’ fix up about
the contract, an’ you wanta waste time
tryin’t’ get on with a girl. Whadda y’ think
I am?” Then he went over to the counter
and said “Listen, Miss, don’t take any
notice of me mate here. Ever since he
left home he’s bin moonin’ about his
missus, an’ you’re the dead spit of her.”
“You cow,” I cried, debated whether to
deny the calumny or not, and then went
out. From the moment he’d come in
she’d lost all interest in me, which just
shows how women always strive for the
unattainable,
“Joypet”: A word in your ear “Mat’s
Mate” (B. 12/9/’45), Next time you see
the big bloke tell him from me that as
long as he stays in Australia he’ll be jake,
but warn him that if he ever goes to
England or any other place with civilised
licensing laws he might be trapped into
changing his views about the long-haired
ones as mates. One of the breed trapped
me over there, though maybe I’m a lot
easier prey than Mat, and about the best
weapon she had in a pretty fair arsenal
was the ability nonchalantly to stand up
at a bar and play odds an’ evens for the
drinks. I was on service screw and she
was rolling in lucre, so I wasn’t too proud
to be in it.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ramrod”; We were in the store
getting the week’s tucker when the store-
keeper came in with a touch of liver.
“Didn’t I tell you on Saturday morning
t’ send those damned tea coupons in?”
he roared at his offsider. “Yes, Mr.
Robinson.” “And did you fill in those
application forms and post them?” “No,
Mr. Robinson.” “Well, go and fix the
damned things up now.” The storekeeper
finished serving us. “ ’Strath,” he said,
“in this place my verbal orders aren’t
worth the paper they’re written on.”
* * * *
“Cane Break”: The exhaust of the
two-stroke was solid with carbon and
none of us in the fitting-shop relished the
job of freeing the stuff from the baffles
and angle joints. Then Peter, the Nor-
wegian and welder’s offsider, lit the car-
bon with the oxy-acetylene torch at the
manifold joint that we had already
broken, after which he shut the acetylene
off and directed a stream of pure oxygen
•down the pipe. “Dere,” he said, as she
burned out cleanly, “Oxy-jon an’ carbons
makes the good gombustion always.
Don’t youse boys learns dat at your night
school?”
A SOLDIER’S PLEA.
Bear with me, dear, when I come back;
Forgive my faults, my stumbling way.
The self you seek I know I lack;
My hands are soiled, my feet are clay.
I need your help to see it through.
To build our world as it should be,
To do the things I want to do.
In love, I beg you, bear with me.
The world of war’s a world of change
Where men are lost in jungles vast;
And all the ways of peace are strange—
O, be my anchor, hold me fast!
Nor seek to probe my war-torn years;
They are my own, those times of pain;
I need your light among my fears
To guide me to myself again.
We’ll find our answer, you and I;
It may seem that our roads must part,
But, as you loved me, O stand by.
The “me” is still within my heart.
The scars the years of war have left
Are prices wars have ever cost,
Then leave me not of love bereft —
Help me to find the years I’ve lost.
Help me to see your love and trust,
Your courage through the years of care;
To walk the world, as walk I must,
Ready again to laugh and dare;
To think and work and sing and play,
To keep my head in tears and joy; *
To walk with you in that dear way
We will not let grim wars destroy.
A.I.F.
F. J. P. LUNDIE.


“Bogaduck”: Bill had spent months in
getting a wonderful collection of tropical
seashells. Hours he spent out on the
reefs; to outwit thieves he went out
under cover of darkness to bury the
day’s catch until the meat had rotted out
of the shells. Weeks later he dug them
up, washed them, polished • them with a
chamois and toothpaste, then placed
them in a box under his bed. At the
finish he had hundreds of them, no two
alike and some not represented in rival
collections. Then one night the hut was
electrified by roars of “I’ve been
robbed!” and the crowd which gathered
around Bill were shown a litter ot filthy
little nondescript shells in place of his
beautiful collection ; with the exception
of the cowries, everything had been
taken. Bill had reached the stage of say-
ing that he would cut loose with an
Owen gun when somebody shouted and
pointed to a corner of the hut. There we
beheld a hermit crab scuttling away with
a beautifully-polished turbo shell on its
back —and the mystery was solved. Wan-
dering hermit crabs had chanced upon
that collection and had at once changed
their old shells for new ones. If anyone
finds a hermit crab anywhere on New
Britain which is carrying a nicely-
polished spire, bailer, trochus or spider
shell on its back will he please send
the shell back to a demented-looking
Digger with red hair?
* * * *
“Dominic E.”: Having heard of the
“Abyssinian steak” (B. 22/8/’45) since
early schooldays I want someone to in-
form me, first, with a couple of pounds
carved off the rump of a living kine
would the wound bleed? I have an idea
“ Honest , constable , We ain't gaht no gats!"
that it would bleed copiously, that the
animal would be likely to bleed to death.
Again, would such an extensive raw sur-
face set up gangrene? Would it be a prey
to blowflies and a feeding-ground for
maggots? Finally, unless the skin was
skilfully sewn back into place it would
shrink, as skin always tends to do, and
so the wound would never heal. I have
seen cattle ripped with the long horns of
others; seen cattle after the wayward
abo. had tried his spears on them: such
wounds would be trivial compared with
the wound inflicted in cutting out a steak,
yet they invariably take a long time to
heal. So, summing up, I long ago con-
cluded that this “Abyssinian steak” stuff
was just hooey, a traveller’s tale by one
Bruce who possessed the true instinct for
writing a best-seller.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Young Bob, a newcomer
to the station, skited about his ability to
sit on anything equine, from Clydesdale
to Shetland, though it bucked for a week.
When Sunday dawned there was an un-
broken colt in the yard and sundry chal-
lenges, backed by currency, were issued.
Bob wasn’t to know that the thing had
thrown every rider on the place. Pres-
ently the colt, saddled and blindfolded,
was being held until Bob got aboard,
while Long Jack, mounted, stood by in
case of accidents. The blindfold was
whipped off and the colt got down to
business. In ten seconds the youth had
lost his balance and was bouncing about,
white-faced, in imminent danger of being
thrown. Seeing his distress. Long Jack
moved in and put out an arm to ease
Bob from the saddle. Bob clutched at
Jack, there was a flurry and the astounded
onlookers beheld both of them aboard
the bucker. They rode it for just one
second more. As they picked themselves
up Jack looked bitterly at Bob and re-
marked “Gripes, if I could pull like you,
son, I’d be a tug-o’-war champion.”
* * * *
“Nor-west”: The biggest crocodile I
ever saw taped went a mere 16ft. Caught
in a stockade trap at Wyndham it knocked
itself about so badly in its efforts to
escape from the rope noose that ulti-
mately it died. So there was no difficulty
in getting its length to the last inch. But
in Walcott Inlet, which runs well into the
land at the head of the immense Collier
Bay, and forms the salt estuary for the
Charnley and the Isdell Rivers, much
bigger crocs, are to be found. A seldom-
visited place, it is really a crocodile pre-
serve, where the saurians, much too big
to be handled by the aboriginals, even if
they now wished to deal with them, which
they do not, live and prosper until they
die of old age. It is, of course, difficult
to correctly estimate the length of a croc,
drifting past on the tide, but the most
experienced of our party reckoned that
any number of them would go 20ft.
to 24ft., which they reckoned was the
limit to saurian growth. Quite a few
were shot, by a bullet planted square in
the eye, but we never recovered a car-
case ; the other crocs, took care of that.
*** - *
“Pookie”: Joe had overstocked and
was one of the first to be hit by the
drought. Soon he was looking for agist-
ment country. “Get any, Joe?” the
loungers at Flannigan’s bar always asked
him and the answer was always, “No, not
yet. I’ll get it, though.” Finally he ad-
mitted there was nothing in the district.
“I’m going farther afield,” he said. “A
man’s got to be mobile these days. That’s
the secret of success —mobility.” He was
away a fortnight. “No good,” he admit-
ted on his return, “but I heard of some
good country up north —quite a fair way
up. Fm off on Tuesday.” Joe shouted
for the bar when he got back. “Beautiful
country,” he said, “good grass and per-
manent water. Dirt cheap, too. They
don’t know there’s a drought on up there.
Good people, too —simple, unsophisti-
cated blokes. I’m truckin’ tomorrow. It
only goes to show what a bit of enter-
prise will do. A lot of blokes would
never have thought of goin’ that far out.
But you've got to be mobile these days. - ’
Neighbors hitherto sceptical now con-
sulted Joe and he was able to help some
of them. The drought dragged on. When
Joe wasn’t giving smug little lectures on
enterprise and mobility he was jotting
down profits. Then the drought broke
and before the green grass had time to
shoot Joe and Kelly went north to inspect
their stock. Kelly told Flannigan’s bar
about it as soon as the train pulled in,
“One blanky heifer—that’s all we found,
Yes, there was plenty of grass—miles and
miles of the stuff—and not a beast in
sight. Those simple, unsophisticated
blokes got off with the lot. Mobile! I’ll
“And do you, Angus, take this Woman to be your lawful Wedded wife?"
say they were.” Joe said nothing then
and not much since, especially not much
about mobility and enterprise,
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Tell “T. Gulfs” (B.
15/8/’45) that Westralia has long been
aware of the fish schools of the Bight,
and there has been at least one earnest
attempt to bring them to market. A
Perth company bought in Britain a proper
trawler, Bonthorpe, manned by a crew of
North Sea fishermen. Shops were rented
and fitted and transport all arranged
when the ship reached Fremantle. The
first obstacle was a Trades Hall argu-
ment as to whether the British crew
should belong to the Australian Seamen’s
Union, and there were other disputes of
the kind, the compulsorily idle crew’s
wages going on all the time. At last, some-
thing like four months from arrival,
everything was settled and the Bonthorpe
put to sea. Just outside Fremantle all
the pumps choked. Putting back, it was
discovered that someone had “carelessly”
left a drayload or so of wood shavings
in the bilge. Finally the trawler got to
the Bight and dropped her nets, and for
a few weeks W.A. towns rejoiced in a
prodigal supply of good fish. But the lee-
way of piled-up shop rents and wages
was too great to be overtaken, and for
years the Bonthorpe lay tied up, a
derelict, at Albany. Came the war, and
she was found to be quite a good little
ship; men sporting H.M.A.S. Bonthorpe
on their caps were often seen. And that’s
all the reward the investors got for their
mone Y-
* * * *
“Mat” : Scientists are scratching heads
over a piece of fossil recently found by
a couple of Hobart High School pupils at
Adamsfield (Tas.). Government geologist
Dr. S. Warren Carey identified it as be-
longing to the Piloceras family of the
Cephalopoda class, of which the octopus
and pearly nautilus are examples ; and
Dr. Curt Teichert, a Westralian authority,
is in accord with the classification, ex-
cept that he suggests it is of the Man-
churoceras genus, previously found only
in Manchuria, Northern Korea and
Northern China. The Piloceras are
alleged to have first appeared in the
Ordician Age, about 4,000,000,000 years
ago.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Some years ago a natural-
history film demonstrated a lion’s ability
to leap a hedge fully four feet high while
carrying a well-developed calf in his
mouth. It seemed conclusive proof to
back my preconceived idea that Leo
represented the perfect combination of
strength and agility. Recently I dis-
covered that I’ve been “tramping on the
daisies at my feet”: in proportion the
domestic feline trumps her majestic rela-
tion. Seeing Tiddles emerge from the
feed-shed with a fully-grown rat in her
mouth, I left her to follow her custom of
selecting a quiet spot to indulge in a few
minor atrocities. Next day a horrified
ejaculation from the front verandah
brought me rushing to the scene—where
a slightly nauseated spouse commanded
me to “Look what your cat has done!
The mess didn’t interest me; what I
marvel at is the ability of a rather small
cat to carry such a burden while jump-
ing to the top of a wall four feet nine
inches from the ground, then down two
feet nine to the verandah floor. Since
the only other access to the walled-in
verandah is through the door which
opens into a room (a door that hadn’t
been opened for a week) the cat must
have performed the feat,
* * * *
“Bo”; Jerry Docker was sitting dozing
in the sulky outside the township’s general
store while Mrs. D. was in getting the
weekly supplies. Presently a sheet of
newspaper caught by a gust of wind was
whirled almost under the mare’s nose,
whereupon Biddy bolted. As Jerry,
startled into wakefulness, reached for the
dangling reins a wheel hub crashed
against a post on the footpath, and Jerry
described an ungraceful parabola and
landed on his head. Onlookers rushed
over, and, as Jerry was well out to it, they
carried him across to the pub opposite
while someone ran for the doctor. Five
minutes later the medico had finished
making a swift examination. “What is it,
Doc?” asked Simmons, the storekeeper,
anxiously. At that moment Jerry opened
his eyes and looked up at the questioner;
then his glance travelled first to the bottles
arrayed on the shelves and down to the
brass rail, and then a beatific smile lighted
his old face. “A beer, o’ course,” he said
slowly. “You oughter know be now I
never touch anything else!”
* * * *
“Nagheer”; “Lower Tops’l (B.
15/8/’45), has high authority behind him
i n his choice of Torres Strait boys as
“the best small-boat handlers in Aus-
tralia.” On September 11, 1791, Captain
“Breadfruit” Bligh, in H.M.S. Providence,
with the brig Assistant in company, was
feeling a cautious way through the
Strait from the eastward. When between
Dungeness and Tutte, or Warrior
Island (as Bligh later named it) nine big
outrigger canoes, up to 58ft. in length,
and carrying from eight to twenty men
each, attacked the ships with flights of
arrows which wounded three men, holed
boats and actually pierced the planking
of the ships’ decks to a depth which Mr.
Midshipman Matthew Flinders, who
earlier had expressed admiration of the
natives’ handling of their craft, has de-
scribed as “truKy astonishing.” Musketry
fire did not check them—the bows out-
ranged the muskets—and when they
massed to windward with obvious inten-
tion of making a boarding attack Bligh
had to use his quarter-deck guns, sink-
ing the leader and checking the attack,
The Tutte navy, only temporarily
startled, picked up its swimming corn-
rades and made for the shore to send up
smoke signals for reinforcements from
Darnley. Bligh wisely cleared out as fast
as he could. Just a century later I talked
with the last surviving male Warrior
Islander, .then mamoose of Yam Island,
a delightful old chap full of modest
pride in gran’father b’long him who had
beaten the whole British Navy in fair
fight.
SPRING MUSTERING.
Qump-brigalows on the plainlands with curling
steel-grey crests.
Their blade trunks closely grouping;
An emu flock slow-trooping
Where the green hillock rests;
A valley where the crowfoot in storm-fcrorn silt
grows rank.
Cloud-shadows swiftly chasing
The rippling grass-waves racing
Across a ridge’s flank.
Oh, bright the sunlight gleaming on leaf and
bullock’s horn!
Where stockhorses are turning,
How light the hoof-beats spurning
Turf, dewy with the mom!
The breath of flower and blossom, of hoof-
bruised herb and vine,
How sweet, as sweet the singing
Of butcher-birds and ringing
Of bell-birds in the pine!
A spurt to wheel the cattle —fast-breaking from
their camp—
With boughs of wilga whipping
And many a slide and slipping
Where soil in the scrub is damp.
But Jim rides fast on the filly and Andy is close
behind,
And they wheel them by hard riding
From vine-scrub haunts of hiding
With festooned ropes entwined.
And back to the sunlit plainlands the hard-run
cattle trot.
With froth from their lolled tongues blowing,
And foam on our bridles showing
The pace in the scrub was hot.
And so, through the warm hours passing, new
ranks to the mob are won
Till the yard’s long sliprails rattle
To prison five hundred cattle
At the setting of the sun.
The years grow grey behind us, but there comes
again each spring,
Though eyes are losing brightness
And hoofbeats losing lightness,
The thrill of mustering.
We saddle ageing horses and they, like us, feel
young—
Ready for one more battle
With fresh and “touchy” cattle;
For one more stirring rattle
Where vines are looped and hung.
QUEENSLAND.
HERBERT DAWSON.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES. ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
-tairy Stock
- Sterilised
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835. SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide. 588 Perth.
BOOKS TECHNICAL. ..
Consult us for your needs on :—
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected free on McGILL’S AGENCY
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
CERTAIN DEATH
siiasvu o*
d
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
(Regd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can nse the 81b.
Cyanogras blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Plan.
“Murrawong”: The general scheme re-
flects great credit on those responsible
for its creation. It has wisely stepped in
straight away instead of waiting for the
expiration of the war-time appraisement
period, as it realises the chaos that would
follow uncontrolled release of the 10
million bales of accumulated wool on a
disturbed market. A Joint Organisation,
whose initials “J. 0.” may become even
more famous than those of B.A.W.R.A.
after the last war, will control the disposal
of the clips of Britain, Australia, N.Z,
and South Africa. In the past trade
jealousies and competition between the
various Dominions have wrecked most
attempts at co-operative marketing, but
fortunately our neighbors are with us in
this.
During the past few years most wool-
growers have come to realise the benefits
of the appraisement scheme. A guaran-
teed payable price for every pound of
wool grown was assured, and the old
gamble of getting into the early or the
late auctions and the attendant worries
has been eliminated. But the wool trade
was generally in favor of the auction sys-
tem, and some growers who felt that their
efforts were not rewarded by appraise-
ment expressed preference for the old
methods.
The new plan offers a return to selling
the clip by auction, but it also carries the
safety of appraisement. In short, it gives
the grower a floor to his market yet no
ceiling to limit auction prices. It goes
farther than offering the protection of
reserve limits on each lot of wool, as the
grower is at liberty to place his own re-
serves on his clip and may withdraw all
or part from sale if his reserves are not
reached. He does so at his own risk,
however, and, although many details
covering such action will have to be care-
fully worked out by those in control, there
must be some limit to cover withdrawals
or they will tend to wreck the scheme.
Each year “J. 0.” will fix the appraise-
ment level for each Dominion. On that
basis the wool-broker, as the grower’s
technical representative, will value each
lot of wool submitted and will fix the
“floor price” or reserve. To this will be
added a small charge per pound to cover
the costs of the new selling organisation.
If the wool does not reach that price at
auction it may be bought in at that re-
serve figure by “J. 0.” and disposed of by
it along with other accumulated stocks.
The grower is thus sure of getting a
fair return for his wool and of getting it
sold without undue delay. All the re-
sponsibility of disposing of the season’s
clip and of accumulated stocks rests with
“J. 0.” It will be a tremendous task, and,
in view of its paramount importance to
Australia, this country’s two representa-
tives on “J. 0.” should be the best obtain-
able, receiving salaries commensurate
with their task and responsibilities and
entirely free from political control.
“Gil S.”: Under the plan a limited
company will be formed with eight shares,
four being held by Britain and two, one
and one respectively on account of the
Australian, New Zealand and South
African Governments. Australian-grown
wool accounts for 6,000,000 of the
10,000,000 bales on hand. This 6,000,000
bales cost the British Government
£100,000,000 sterling. Australian wool
disposed of to date by Britain at a higher
figure than cost shows a profit of
£20,000,000, reducing the outstanding out-
lay to £80,000,000. Australia is to take
over joint ownership and liability by find-
"No fear, boss! Me no get out t' open any plurry gates!”
ing during the next four years the sum
of £40,000,000 sterling (£50,000,000 Aus-
tralian). Presumably the other Govern-
ments concerned will act similarly.
It is impossible to say how long it will
take to clear existing stocks concurrently
with coming clips. Mr. Chifley said:
“The speedy disposal of the accumulated
stocks would depend on the continuance
of an active trade in wool sufficient to
absorb at not less than the reserve prices
the equivalent of each current clip and
some wool from the accumulated stocks.”
He also said it was estimated that a period
of up to 14 years might be necessary to
gradually feed them on to the market
without disturbing its equilibrium.
The annual wool cheque is the life-
blood of Australian finance. In the past
its amount has been subject to violent
fluctuations according to the vagaries of
a highly sensitive market. As Hitchins,
of the Central Wool Committee, pointed
out in a broadcast, the standard of Aus-
tralian living and the scale of employ-
ment in town and country depend first
and foremost on wool income. It has long
been obvious that steps would have to be
taken to protect this income during the
period in which the wool stocks on hand
were being cleared.
Zebus in Queensland.
“Outback”: According to F. Fraser,
jnr., of Ingham (Q.), mortality among
British breeds of cattle is forcing N.Q.
cattlemen to go in for zebu hybrids, but
he contends that the zebus available in
Australia are the wrong type. A more
docile type is needed for mating with
good-quality Hereford or Shorthorn
cows, to produce bulls to sire the hybrids,
which are resistant to ticks and buffalo
fly and which thrive on country on which
other cattle die.
Fraser doesn’t advocate the use of the
zebu on country which will carry pure-
breds. His original plan was to use a
zebu over purebred Herefords, but the
Herefords died, and he had to reverse the
procedure by using Hereford bulls over
hybrid heifers. His zebu hybrids proved
quick maturers, and were usually ready
for killing before they came three-year-
olds, even when out of ordinary herd
cows. Until D.D.T. proves itself Fraser
considers the zebu the cattleman’s only
defence against the arsenic-resistant tick ;
the zebu cross is more tolerant, too, than
ordinary cattle to buffalo fly because of
its thicker hide,
Fraser, a great admirer of the Here-
ford, bought 50 Hereford females a year
ago from a stud breeder but, despite
having been dipped every three weeks,
only one is alive today. It is to be hoped
that D.D.T., now being officially tested
in the spraying of cattle in Queensland,
solves part of the difficulties facing cattle-
men in North Queensland so that British
breeds can be reared there.
Rye Corn in the Mallee.
“Myrrhee”: Rye corn has proved
itself in the Vic.-S.A. Mallee as a soil
holder. Officers of the Mallee Research
Station at Walpeup (Vic.) report a big
increase in the area sown to rye corn
both for feed and as a means of holding
the soil. The cereal also is being used
by Vic. Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission to protect its channel system from
drift sand. Rye will establish itself on
wind-blown sandhills where oats or wheat
would fail. Once established it grows
rapidly, quickly shooting up into head
in spring.
In a questionnaire sent out by Vic.
Department of Agriculture to 50 Mallee
farmers, who had bought rye seed from
the Research Station, only one considered
oats more useful than rye for con-
trolling drift. More than half had grown
rye and other cereals under similar con-
ditions, and only one of these believed
the other cereals made better growth than
rye. Tests at Walpeup show that rye
gives more feed than any other cereal,
but a mixture of rye and oats would be
more suitable for providing good early
feed as well as late.
Though it gives a greater bulk o$
growth than other cereals, o'e is decep-
tive in its grain-yielding ability compared
with wheat. Rye may be considered to
yield half as well as wheat on ‘good
ground, but may yield as well or better
than wheat on lighter soils. Rye has a
bushel weight of approximately 601 b.,
but on account of its small grain size it
can be sown at a lower rate than wheat;
351 b. to the acre, roughly a bag to five
acres, will give a thickness of sowing
ample for drift control, though not heavy
enough to give maximum grazing value.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pat O’Day”: To feed poddy lambs
heat cow’s milk (undiluted to correspond
with quality of ewe’s milk) and when
the desired heat is attained give the warm
milk to the lamb, using medium-size
tomato-sauce bottles with teats. Begin
with a quarter-bottle or less for day-old
lambs ; increase the quantity each day,
at the same time extending the feeding
period to thre» times daily, till at the end
of a week each lamb is receiving three
parts or one whole bottle of milk thrice
daily,
“Plane Creek”: N.Q. graziers have
spoken well of the mango-tree as a
shelter for stock. It is certainly a strong
grower in the tropics and adapts itself
well to different soils. Further, it pro-
vides year-long shade and is a magnificent
wind-breaker. Horses and cattle are
fond of mango foliage, especially the
young red “wood,” and the former like
the ripe fruit. I have never known a
nag to make the error of attempting to
swallow the hard mango seed.
“Myrrhee”: In tests at the Mallee Re-
search Station, Walpeup (Vic.), cover-
crop fallows have been proved useful to
control drift. It involves sowing a cereal
crop in spring on land fallowed and
treated in the normal manner. The crop
is grazed down after the plants have
become firmly established, sufficient roots
and stalks being left to hold the soil over
the summer months. Chief disadvantage
is that in drought years there may not be
enough rain to ensure germination and
growth of the cover crop. The practice
gives a slightly lower yield of the fol-
lowing wheat crop, but this is offset by
the value of the extra feed available and
retention of top soil.
“Bill C.”; Best place for sorghums is
a moist hollow, although seasons have
to be very dry to beat ’em anywhere.
Ratooning isn’t good on poor land;
where land is good but badly prepared
indifferent results are certain. The sweet
sorghums are out on their own for stock
fodder and silage; the dwarf grain kinds
are not recommended for such uses. When
ensiling sorghums puiAsome cowpeas or
other legumes with ’em as a source of
protein. Cowpeas and sorghums grow
well when spring-planted, and might be
sown together, as maize and cowpeas fre-
quently are in C.Q. dairying districts.
“Pat O’Day”: Well-worked average
soil will grow fruit trees. If the subsoil
is very stiff trench the ground. Provide
good drainage, putting in timber or
pipe drains at a depth of 3ft., 30ft. apart.
In trenching, the stiff clay subsoil must
be brought to the top, breaking it up in
the bottom of the trench. On good land
ploughing is all that is required.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
An Expert’s Views on Japs.
[The item here given is front a speech made
by U.S. Under-Secretary of State Joseph C.
Grew some time back. It has been revived,
since the Japs turned it in, by “United States
News,” with the comment: “All through the
war diplomats were haunted by the fear that
the Emperor might be killed and overnight be-
come a religious martyr, to turn the war into
a fight to the end with fanatical cultists. How
important it was that this not be done is indi-
cated by the accompanying statement by Mr.
Grew, who was U.S. Ambasasdor to Japan from
1932 onwards." Mr. Grew’s speech has the
further present interest of indicating the official
U.S. ideas about Japan, on which General Mac-
Arthur is evidently acting-]
Throughout ten years I was in touch
with people in Japan from the highest to
the lowest. I knew the power of the
stranglehold of the militarists, only wait-
ing the day when they should find the
moment ripe to put into operation their
dreams of world conquest.
But I also knew that many of the
highest statesmen of Japan, including the
Emperor himself, were laboring earnestly
but futilely to control the military in
order to avoid war with the United States
and Great Britain.
All Japanese are fundamentally loyal
to the Emperor, at least in spirit, and,
since the Emperor after the militarist fait
accompli of Pearl Harbor was obliged,
willy nilly, to sign an Imperial Rescript
declaring war and calling for the destruc-
tion of the United States and Great
Britain, very few Japanese would allow
their thoughts to run counter to that
edict.
It is my belief, a belief not subject to
proof but based on my long experience
among the Japanese people, that the
Japanese military machine defeated will
become discredited throughout the length
and breadth of the land.
I have said that the Emperor did his
best to restrain his high command, the
admirals and the generals, from incurring
war with the United States and Great
Britain. He did not want war. I am
aware of this from intimate knowledge.
But it is one of the many paradoxes in
Japan that, in spite of the fact that the
Emperor is revered as semi-divine and in
spite of the fact that the Japanese people
all the Japanese people pledge
themselves to serve him body and soul,
the Emperor in fact is but a symbol. He
cannot and dare not dictate, for should
he in the pre-war years have refused to
sanction the decisions of his high com-
mand he must have known only too well
what would have awaited him; namely,
relegation to Kyoto, where his forebears
had for centuries been held in confine-
ment while shoguns ruled in Tokyo.
Had the Emperor rebelled in 1941 I
have little doubt but that another sho-
gunate —whether under General Tojo or
some other military dictator —would have
been established. The military would
have had their way, Emperor worship to
the contrary notwithstanding.
This point brings us to the subject of
Shintoism, There are really two forms
of Shintoism.
One is the indigenous religion of the
Japanese, a primitive animism which Con-
ceives of all nature —mountains, rivers,
trees, etc. —as manifestations of or the
dwelling places of deities. It has no
ethical content whatever.
The other form of Shintoism is a cult.
It has no religious content and has ethical
content to the extent that it is designed to
support the idea of the divine origin of
the Emperor and ancestor worship and to
instil in the subject habits of obedience
and subservience to the State.
The military leaders of Japan have long
used this aspect of Shintoism to further
their own ends and to inculcate in the
Japanese a blind following of their doc-
trines as allegedly representing the will of
the Emperor.
There are those in our country who be-
lieve that Shintoism is the root of all evil
in Japan. I do not agree. Just so long
as militarism is rampant in that land
Shintoism will be used by the military
leaders, by appealing to the emotionalism
and superstition of the people, to stress
the virtues of militarism and of war
through emphasis on the worship of the
spirits of former military heroes.
When militarism goes that emphasis
will likewise disappear. Shintoism in-
volves Emperor worship, too, and, when
once Japan is under the aegis of a peace-
seeking ruler not controlled by the mili-
tary that phase of Shintoism can be-
come an asset, not a liability, in a recon-
structed nation. In his book, Govern-
ment by Assassination, Hugh Byas writes:
“The Japanese people must be their own
liberators from a faked religion.”
I think we should bear in mind an im-
portant historical fact. The attempt in
Japan to erect a free Parliamentary sys-
tem was a grim failure. That attempt
was bound to fail because Japan’s archaic
policy ruled out any possibility Of parties
dividing over basic political problems
which are elsewhere resolved by Parlia-
mentary processes. So long as the Con-
stitution fixed sovereignty in the Emperor
it was impossible for any party to come
forward with the doctrine that sove-
reignty resided in the people, or for an-
other party —in the absence of such issue
—to deny that doctrine.
The promulgation of archaic ideas as
the fundamental doctrine of the State
made impossible any such struggle as that
which took place in England between the
Whigs and the Tories. Thus, lacking any-
thing important over which the party lines
could be drawn, Japanese political parties
developed into factions grouped around
influential political personages, such as
Prince Ito and Count Okuma, and when
these men died second-rate politicians
tried to take their place, but without
success.
I would like to quote a passage from
a well-known authority. Sir George San-
son, long a member of the British Em-
bassy in Tokyo and one of the world’s
most eminent writers and experts on
Japan. Speaking personally and not
officially, Sanson says:
Plans to dictate to Japan reforms in her
system of domestic government are likely
to engender more antagonism than agree-
ment. The important thing is not so much
that' the Japanese should be told to abolish
distasteful features of their system as that
they should have some positive notions of
what to put in their place.
The Japanese faith is, we believe firmly,
a mistaken, heretical faith and its tenets
are propounded by its leaders in the lan-
guage of lunacy. But beneath all the mysti-
cal rubbish, the mumbo-jumbo of the
master race, the special position in the uni-
verse, the divine mission and suchlike fool-
ishness, there is a core of genuine senti-
ment, a strong feeling of national unity and
national purpose in a society where men’s
duties are felt to be more important than
their rights.
Unless at the end of the war the Japanese
are in a state of helpless despair and ready
to follow any strong lead they are not
likely to adopt a ready-made “way of life”
of Western pattern which does not offer
better prospect of reconciling rights and
duties throughout the community than does
our peacetime system of liberal democracy.
They will, I feel sure, for belter or worse,
work out their own system by trial and
error upon the basis of their own traditions.
I do not venture to hazard a prediction,
tfut 1 should not be surprised if, in favor-
able conditions, they developed a more
‘ modern and democratic type of constitu-
tional monarchy.
We cannot kill the seeds of war, for
they are buried deep in human nature.
But what we can do, and I am convinced
we shall do, is precisely what we did in
permanently stamping out yellow fever
from our country—remove the conditions
under which those seeds of war can ger-
minate anywhere in the world. It can be
and it must be done.
Those guilty leaders among our
enemies and those individuals responsible
for the barbarous acts of crime and sense-
less cruelties that have been committed
under the cloak of war must and shall be
punished and just retribution must and
shall be meted out to the enemy countries,
so that the people of those countries shall
be forever cured of the illusion that
aggression pays.
In approaching the peace tables we
shall need the highest qualities of far-
sighted statesmanship. We must abandon
all promptings of vindictiveness or of
pride and prejudice.
Potsdam After-effects.
(Condensed N.Y. “Times”)
The programme laid down at Potsdam
will go far beyond the fate of Germany.
It will affect the fate of Europe, and of
the world. Above all, it touches deeply
the principles and policies, the pledges
and commitments, the morals and the
conscience of the victors themselves.
The peace treaties that will grow out
of that programme will form the basis
for the new world order which the United
Nations are pledged to support, enforce
and, if necessary, defend with their armed
might. And that puts the forthcoming
peace treaties in quite a different category
from any in the past, especially for the
United States.
These will not be treaties of which the
United States can wash its hands at will,
as after the last war. As one of the chief
victors and one of the principal Powers
among the United Nations it is obligated
to enforce at least part of them with its
own sons, and to defend all of them with
its own flesh and blood against all who
might rebel against them.
By the very nature of the case, the
peace terms must be grim enough. But
however long the occupation of Ger-
many, some day it must end. And it
stands to reason that if the peace settle-
ments are to survive that period they will
have to win the consent of the van-
quished. Education may pave the way
for this, but the greatest education is still
the experience of the nation. For that
reason, any step beyond what is abso-
lutely necessary, any measure that inflicts
needless hardships or perpetuates bitter-
ness and resentment, above all, any act
which violates the fundamental principles
and pledges of the United Nations them-
selves must raise the danger of new
trouble.
The Potsdam programme contained
based on principles which are,
to say the least, novel. They should
therefore be at least clearly understood
before they become part of U.S. funda-
mental law and practice. There was the
proposition that, instead of fitting the
borders to the populations, the popula-
tions should be fitted to new and arbi-
trary borders. There was the collorary
plan, now being put into execution, of
expelling unwanted “minorities” in the
greatest mass deportation in history.
There was the disregard, in both the ex-
pulsions and the reparations, for the
principles of private property, still
honored in the last war. There was the
tacit consent to the use of war prisoners
for forced labor for years after the cessa-
tion of hostilities. Finally, there was the
vast extension of the area of controlled
economy for the purpose of throttling a
good part of Europe’s industry, which
must produce economic consequences far
surpassing those of Versailles.
The greatest bulwark of the peace
settlements must be America’s support of
them. That support will be forthcoming
only in the measure to which the Ameri-
can conscience accepts the peace settle-
ments as necessary and just.
Poland Enslaved.
(As viewed by N.Y. “World-Telegram .”)
The Big Three gave almost one-quarter
of Germany to Poland. If history means
anything, that is not the road to peace
but to future wars.
Ethically it is wrong—a violation of
the Atlantic Charter pledges.
Practically, this severe dismemberment
of Germany is not likely to work any
more than did the earlier partitioning of
a far weaker Poland. Therefore—alto-
gether apart from considerations of
justice or right—it will be a menace to
Europe and the world. World War II
began over a much smaller German-
Polish territorial dispute than this.
To see this vast grab as merely a loss
for the Germany that deserves punish-
ment and again for the Poland that de-
serves reward is shortsighted. True, it
will hurt Germany economically—per-
haps so seriously that, like dismembered
Austria after World War I, instead of
being self-supporting she will be a source
of economic infection weakening all
Europe. But this will injure Poland more
than Germany.
A strong and unified country would
run a grave risk in trying to take over
alien territory almost half its own size,
Poland is weak and divided. She needs
convalescence to achieve health. If she
bites off more than she can chew the
result will be indigestion or much worse.
Even if Poland could digest such a
huge meal of conquest still it would leave
her a slave. Only Russia can keep this
German territory conquered for her—if
it can be held for long. From the day
that Poland takes this German land she
will be permanently dependent on the
Red Army.
That is not freedom. She will have
sold herself into bondage—enslaved per-
manently through her own greed or the
shortsightedness of her alleged friends.
Big Incomes in Russia.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Peter F. Drucker.)
Many believe that everybody in Soviet
Russia gets the same income regardless
of the work he does or the job he holds.
Few probably would guess correctly the
author of the following quotation:
What is the cause of industrial ineffi-
ciency? It is the demand for equal incomes,
which makes the unskilled man lose all in-
terest in becoming skilled and in the pros-
pect of advancement. The key to indus-
trial efficiency is an income scale that re-
flects correctly the difference between skilled
and unskilled work, between trained and
untrained man. Incomes must be paid
according to work done and not according
to need.
The author is Stalin, in a speech he made
in 1931 to lay down the foundations of
Russia’s economic policy.
Russian workers are still inefficient if
measured by American standards—output
per manhour in Soviet industries is be-
tween one-third and two-fifths of com-
parable American figures. As the sale of
the worker’s product is the only way in
which any business can get the money
to pay wages, the Russian wage level must
be much lower than the American.
Russia is simply another example of
the old truth that the poorer and less de-
veloped a country the greater the in-
equality of its wages and incomes.
Soviet industry uses the promise of
economic rewards and the threat of eco-
nomic punishments as foundations for the
most consistent and most thoroughgoing
system of profit-sharing salaries and in-
centive wages known in any industrial
country.
Most unlike the picture most have of
the Soviet Union are the incomes and
living standards of Russian industrial
executives. John Scott, an American who
worked for several years as a welder in the
great steel centre of Magnitogorsk, tells in
his book Behind the Urals of the steel-
mill manager who in 1938 lived in a
brand-new, three-storey, 14-room house,
complete with billiard-room, playroom for
the children, music-room and study, and
with a small deer park in the rear. The
house had cost 80,000 roubles, the furni-
ture another 170,000 roubles —or as
much together as 170 unskilled Russian
workers earned in a whole year. On
the same basis an American house would
have to cost about $200,000, which is
definitely an estate in the upper-million-
aire bracket. What makes this example
particularly striking is that at the time
of which Scott writes three-quarters of
the 200,000 inhabitants of Magnitogorsk
lived in tents, dugouts or, at best, in
wooden barracks, four to a small room,
since building material was completely
unavailable.
In’ Moscow the difference between the
way an industrial executive lived and the
way a worker lived was in 1938 consider-
ably greater than the difference in
America, and even greater than it had
been in the Russia of the Czars. The
incomes of the bosses began to move
up after 1931. They kept going up all the
time before the war, and they have been
shooting up, particularly by comparison
to workers’ incomes, since Hitler invaded
. Russia.
In the last years before the war the
difference between the money income of
the boss and that of the worker was just
twice as great in Russia as in America.
Moreover, the Soviet executive pays
little or no tax. The highest income-tax
rate in Russia is about 10 per cent., and
most Russian industrial managers and
engineers do not even pay that. For it is
virtually unknown for a Russian to be in
a leading position without having re-
ceived at least one of the many orders
and medals, all of which give tax exemp-
tion, total or partial, to the bearer.
More interesting even than the amount
is the fact that the income of the Russian
executive consists in large part not of
salary but of a share in the profits of the
business he manages. Of the income of
24.000 to 36,000 roubles fairly typical for
Russian executives before the war, fixed
salaries accounted for only 12,000 to
18.000 roubles—that is, for half —the rest
was the executives’s share in the profits
of the business.
Also money is only a part —and often
not the most important part—of the in-
come of the Russian industrial executive.
In addition to salary and bonus —both paid
in money—he receives large payments in
goods and services, often such as no
amount of money could buy in a poor
country.
The Magnitogorsk steel magnate whose
bouse John Scott described was known to
have a monthly salary of 2000 roubles —
probably with an equal bonus in addition.
He could not have financed a house cost-
ing 250,000 roubles. Certainly he could
not have paid for it out of his income.
There is neither bank credit nor instal-
ment buying in Russia. Most important
goods such as bricks, rugs, furniture,
billiard tables, and so on, simply were
not then available to civilian consumers
in Russia. The house was built and
equipped for him by the plant* with
plant materials and plant labor, and paid
out of plant money. The plant also paid
for the upkeep and .for the servants. The
other executives of the steel mill also had
plant-built-and-furnished houses, though
on a smaller scale. Similar conditions
prevail in all Russian industry. Industrial
executives receive free houses, free cars
and chauffeurs; they get vacations for
themselves and their families in first-class
hotels at a nominal fee; at times they
have had the privilege of buying at special
stores where otherwise unobtainable goods


ESELENGINE
Completely made in
Australia
IPisii?
'Sm
ill?:
<ssSi
The amphibious nature of the Pacific
War has necessitated the use of small
craft in huge numbers, many of them
powered by diesel engines, which are
regarded as ideal power-units for boats
doing hard, continuous work. General
Motors-Holden's Limited have made a
worth-while contribution to this need,
not only by building boats, but by com-
pletely manufacturing in Australia the
225 h.p. G.M. Diesel Engine. This has
been used to power Assault Barges and
similar craft, and is shown above in its
marine form. General Motors-Holden's
have supplied Power for Victory on
land, in the air, and on the sea.
GENERAL MOTORS HOHES’S
BRISBANE
LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
PERTH
BEDFORD. CADILLAC. CHEVROLET. G.M.C
OLDSMOBILE. PONTIAC. VAUXHALL.
m
Fathered by
Life Assurance
A COMFORTABLE home. Three meals a day. Good
clothing and other necessities of life. Above all.
Security.
These are a few of the things that Life Assurance
means to tens of thousands of Australian homes that have
lost their breadwinners.
Have you ever thought how it comes about that a life
assurance office can afford to pay a substantial sum—
perhaps a thousand pounds or more—whenever a policy
holder dies, even though he may have paid but a few
pounds in premiums?
This apparent miracle is accomplished simply by co-
operation. The premiums that all the policy holders pay
make up a great common pool from which the families of
all of them draw their benefits as their breadwinners die.
Australia can be proud of the thrifty and far sighted men
and women whose sacrifice of present comforts provides,
immediate security for their loved ones, through Life Assurance.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
Listen-in to “HERE’S HEALTH”!
A Series of Dramatic Broadcasts presenting information and
advice upon Health Problems of Every Day-
Broadcast by the Macquarie Network and Associate Stations
Each Week.
SPONSORED BY THE LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA.
are sold at very low prices. They have
free railroad passes, and so on.
Even more important may be the fact
that the children of industrial executives,
together with the children of leading Gov-
ernment officials and professional men,
have a priority—amounting almost to a
monopoly—on higher education. As early
as 1938 more than half of the students
enrolled in colleges were the children of
executives or of higher Government
officials ; less than 10 per cent, came from
the farm—even though farmers still con-
stitute more than 50 per cent, of Russia’s
population. Yet at that time high schools
and colleges were absolutely free. In
1940, however, tuition fees were intro-
duced in both types of schools—high
enough to put sending his children to
high school well beyond the reach of the
industrial worker or the peasant. And
educational privileges are particularly
important in Russia, where men without
college or engineering degrees are gener-
ally not accepted for executive or super-
visory positions. There has been little
working up from the ranks in Russian
industry during the last 10 or 15 years,
Since the war, the privileged position
of the Russian industrial executive has be-
come a great deal more marked. Average
monthly wage for a Russian unskilled
worker is about 600 roubles—less than five
times what it used to be in 1938. But the
industrial executive who before the war
received 1500 roubles a month in salary
now gets 10,000 or more. Bonuses have
come up even faster. As early as the
„ • Jr u A „„ co .”
spring of 1942 special Stalin bonuses
amounting to 50,000, 100,000 or 150,000
roubles were awarded to the leading men
in industrial plants. And one finds in,
. _ . . 1 , , • ■
the Soviet press today increasing refer-
ences to “Soviet millionaires.”
But money is of very little value in
Rncda trwJav 4nart from the ration
Russ a today. Apart trom me ration,
mostly bread, potatoes and cabbage,
which is supplied to everyone at pre-war
prices—that is, practically free—-there is
very little that money can buy *, for
almost no civilian goods have been pro-
i A <n c\ a-t tt 1—
duced since 1940 or 1941. Hence bonuses
in kind, always important in the Russian
income scale, have become the main
moans nf rewarding industrial executives
means or rewarding industrial executives
for efficient production or increased out-
put. Sometimes these goods will come
out of captured German stocks. An
American engineer who spent some time
in Russia for a Washington Government
agency reports that the managing men of
the plant in which he worked received, at
various times, warm army clothing, Ger-
man-army blankets, American lend-lease
butter and pork, and even a special allot-
ment of Christmas toys. As a result of
this system of special allotments in kind
Russian industrial managers and execu-
tives —provided they do an efficient job
—still live a tolerably comfortable life in
a country in which, as a result of the
war, the great bulk of the population has
been reduced to the bare subsistence level
and often below it.
What explains this extraordinary posi-
tion of the industrial executive in Russia,
which is the exact reverse of all that is
traditionally regarded as Socialism?
The Russians were caught between
an economic programme that re-
quired the maximum of personal leader-
ship and initiative on the part of the in-
dustrial manager and a political system
that made individual initiative practically
impossible. The only way out of this
dilemma was to offer the successful in-
dustrial executive greater economic incen-
tives, privileges and rewards than are
offered him in any other industrial
country.
Dragnet Digest.
('Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
England stands for the individual, and for a
world of States in which the citizen counts more
than the State. And by the individual I do
not mean that the citizens of England will be
better fed, housed and clothed than those of
other nations—which I consider unlikely—but I
do mean that they will continue to have private
lives of their own, to put obstacles in the way
of officials, and refuse to countenance the set-
ting up of any Gestapo or Ogpu, however ex-
alted the end at which it is alleged to aim.—
F. McEachran; London “Nineteenth Century
and After.”
* * 3ft *
President Truman believes that international
meetings should not be personal affairs. He
agrees that much can be done by conversation
in person that could not be done by letter or
telegram and telephone, but he does not like to
rely on any three-man agreements as such. He
has at his elbow at all times advisers from the
large delegation that accompanied him to
•Europe.— David Lawrence; N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
That private enterprise “can deliver the
goods” is proved by achievements of the British
coal-mining industry in the coalfields of Leices-
tershire and South Derby, where output per man
is the highest in Britain. Production in Leicester
is up 58 p.c. since 1938, while manpower has
increased only 15 p.c.; in Derby output is up
73 p.c., manpower up 19 p.c. During the same
period British output as a whole declined 19
p.c., and manpower dropped 9 p.c. Admittedly,
geological ‘conditions are favorable in these dis-
tricts, but results have been obtained by careful
planning and the goodwill of the miners. The
importance of proper transport of coal under-
ground—which was emphasised by the recent
report of the technical committee —is proved by
the fact that the proportion of coal mechani-
cally conveyed in Leicester increased to 95 p.c.
in 1944 from 71 p.c. in 1939 and in Derby to
96 p.c. from 78 p.c.— London correspondent
“Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The French will ask from Germany chiefly
goods already produced, such as railway cars,
locomotives and machinery, and, in addition,
coal and labor. They argue that instead of
restoring German industrial power the Allies
could bring machinery, coal and labor into
France for production. The predominant
French thesis is that if the Allies refuse to de-
tach the Rhineland and the Ruhr from Ger-
many and also recreate German industry there
will be another war sooner or later. — Paris
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Under the San Francisco Charter the United
States is pledged to help maintain the peace of
Europe, if necessary by force. There may be a
call for both American men and money. Yet,
right now, throughout most' of Europe, small
but well-organised minorities are seeking to
grab or to hold on to the power. This they can
do only by preventing “free and unfettered elec-
tions on the basis of universal suffrage and
secret ballot” as promised by the Big Three.
If Europe is not to provide the makings of a
third world war this promise must be imple-
mented, as Sen. Vandenberg suggested, and not
only in Poland but in Finland, Rumania, Bul-
garia, Greece, Hungary, Austria, Yugoslavia
and elsewhere. Whether or not Marshal Tito
rules at Belgrade, Leopold at Brussels, Michael
at Bucharest, George at Athens, Osubka-Moraw-
ski at Warsaw or a Savoy at Rome is the busi-
ness of the peoples of the countries concerned.
If a majority freely choose a republic or a
monarchy, a king pr a Communist, it is one
thing. For the United States, however, to
find itself pledged to support a lot of war-
breeding, minority dictatorships, maintained in
office by force and terror, is something else.
—Washington correspondent N.Y. “World-
Telegram.”
* * * *
The U.S. will retain Pacific and Atlantic bases
to add to security. It will need to remember
that its bombers devastated much of Europe,
that its bombers and atomic bombs pulverised
Japan, creating deep hatred. It’s to be a new
thing in the world to have other nations devot-
ing thought to ways to repay U.S. for what
they will regard as a deep injury to themselves.
j . ,S. , News »
- United States News.
The efforts of former Premier Paul Reynaud,
Gen. Maurice-Gustave Gamelin, Gen. Maxime
Weygand and other French leaders who were
partly resp onsible for the fall of France,
tQ j usp f y a nd to rationalise their actions in their
p U sjj s hed memoirs and at Marshal Henri-
phiilippe Petain’s trial were historically incom-
pietCj judicially biased and emotionally sicken-
j ng . As testimony against an accused man few
G f the “facts” would stand in an American
cour t. Retain is an old man who guessed woe-
fully wrong, an old man whose hatred of poli-
When we see Premier Stalin faith-
fully pursuing a foreign policy
which was long ago laid out by the
Czars we can appreciate how little
political and social philosophies of
rulers affect their relations with the
outside world. No more than Mr.
Churchill will Mr. Clement Attlee,
his successor, “preside over the dis-
solution” of an Empire. No more
than Mr. Churchill will Mr. Attlee
be allowed to regard with equa-
nimity the domination of Europe
by one single Power. —“ Wall-street
Journal .”
ticians conditioned his judgment and affected
his actions, but whose primary motivation was
almost certainly the welfare of France.— Hanson
W. Baldwin; N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Experienced diplomats see great danger in
the creation of so many new Alsace-Lorraines,
and in the uprooting of populations as agreed
on at f’otsdam. Inasmuch as there are many
millions of Germans in new Poland alone—not
to mention Czechoslovakia, Hungary and else-
where^ —what is contemplated constitutes by far
and away the largest mass migration in human
history. Potsdam made it increasingly clear that
the Big Three are going to have their hands full.
For not only Germany, but all Europe will
continue to seeth with unrest for a long time
to come. — Washington correspondent N.Y-
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The collapse of Japan entails enormous prob-
lems. We shall not really win the war in the
Far East unless we can establish a stable state
of affairs there. We want to see Japan shorn
of her power to make war. At the same time
it is to our long-range interest to have her a
prosperous, peaceable, democratic nation that
can play a role in the world of the future. It
would be a tragic mistake to assume that mili-
tary victory over Tokyo is the goal. It is only
a step toward the ultimate winning of the war
in the Pacific. — Henry C. Wolfe; N.Y. “Times"
correspondent who spent years in Japan.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO ERNEST ROSS late of Matraville and Surry
Hills.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE EDNA ROSS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3332 of 1945 against
you on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 26th November 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from the undersigned.
JOHN S. HEANEY Solicitor for the Petitioner 56
Hunter Street Sydney. —(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
m
**o*o
GGtt
*~C*"
.«! F fJU***
p a *«P sQ . v the
o«W i oa the*
shoes
tfor»
not
Shoe
\ea*
COUP
oO®
Xcat'' 61
costs
but
coup
©th et
ds
* of , yout
s av e V
©ns
nee
shoe*
sa T le«'»* 0
an<*
fd
f
df
d
fd
oV»s»*
GOOO
e*
Mu 9
«eo» s
c ve»K
tbc» e
beV" n
ence
pG*'
buy
yow
fd
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
October 81, 1914.—1 find myself becom-
ing more methodical about things and
can deal with problems more clearly and
quickly. In fact, Pelmnnism has ful-
filled exactly what I wanted. It has
widened my horizons socially and cul-
turally*—LlEUTENANT.
March 3, 1944.—1 am afraid force of
circumstances had caused my fires of
interest to die down. Now I feel that I
have regained my grip and have defi-
nitely laid the basis of a successful
Con rse.—MAJ O B.
November 10, 19,14.—My memory is good.
I have an interest in life, and 1 am no
longer a mind-wanderer. I have gained
a great deal of general knowledge, and
I find I can accomplish more work and
take more interest in people and things.
—NURSE.
September 6, 1944.—1 feel 1 must thank
the Institute for the co-operation and
the almost unbelievable benefits I have
received through the Course, but most
of all for the happiness that I have
derived since I started.—CORPORAL.
September 17, 1944. —My interest and
powers of concentration have increased
to a surprising extent. I look forward
to each day with pleasurable anticipa-
tion and undertake each new matter as
it arises with added confidence in my
ability to see it through to a satis-
factory conclusion. SOLICITOR, EX-
SOLDIEB.
September 17, 1944.—1 must tell yon how
much you are helping me and how
very encouraging your advice is. About
three months ago I dreaded the thought
of meeting people or mixing with them.
I just could not do it. I thought my-
self inferior to them. Well, now I am
just the opposite. I love meeting
people; I have found how very interest-
ing they are.—GUNNER.
September 18, 1914.—Frankly, 1 feared
my future when I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the
goal of the fuller man. Pear of the
future has been replaced by willingness
to embrace it with open arms and a
desire to serve my fellow-men in my
own caIIing.—PRIVATE.
September 30, 1914. —Without a doubt, I
have made progress. My original aims
—clearer perception, concentration and
more astute mental employment—have
become clearly defined. In covering the
ground I have found other information
of which I had not previously thought.
—CAPTAIN.
March 11, 1944. —My work in the Pelman
Course was of immense value, and to
my surprise I mastered the tricky sub-
ject “Engines,” to the extent of 95 p.c.
I have never been “mechanically”
inclined, and the mechanics of the
simple egg-beater were formerly about
my Iimit.—FLIGHT-SERGEANT,
October 30, 1944. —One of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and
reference numbers. By using the Pel-
man methods I was pleased to find I
bad the whole list correctly reproduced.
Similar instances often occur.—COR-
PORAL.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Interest - - Power
The Pel man Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members of
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the
subject matter of training and educational courses, adds to the
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim for re-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy and
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of the Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pelmanism.
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Note: Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
896 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
I Address
»
171
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. The Institute has been established in Melbourne under
the same direction for over 36 years, and has enrolled more than 50,000 of the half-million world Pelmaniits.
fd
5785
CRAYENA
..me always
smocthtfiedt!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
fd
f
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy books and seashells, also to get into
touch with other collectors with a view to ex-
change of specimens.—3655.
To buy The Story of the Fairchild? Family,
Mr. Self-Conceit’s School and Annals of a
Yorkshire Family. —36s6.
Information Sought.
Some information about the foundering of the
submarine Thetis?
On June 1, 1939, while undergoing acceptance
trials the submarine dived and tailed to return
to the surface. Salvage equipment was rushed
to the spot, but only tour survivors were
picked up.
Some facts about the tides ?
The height is connected with the relative
positions of sun, moon and earth. The factors
which are favorable to high tides are (1) the
moon being new or full (i.e., when the tides of
the moon and sun act together); (2) when the
full moon is in its nearest position to the earth;
(3) a new moon in the summer (i.e., when
both the sun and moon are well to the south,
or, conversely, to the north).
Method of repairing cracks in (1) a concrete
floor and (2) concrete tubs ?
(1) Analyse the slope of the land surround-
ing the floor and excavate the higher land to a
trench taken below the depth of the floor; fill
this trench with rubble and drain out clear of
building. If it is a garage floor care should
be taken to ensure that excess oil is removed.
Some of the damp-proofing mixtures, such as'
“Urit,” “Barvoid” and “Nonporite,” could be
mixed with the floating cement coat, or, alter-
natively, a bitumistic preparation may be tried
over the existing concrete floor and the floating
coat applied over this. (2) All traces of soap
that has percolated into cracks must be removed.
Then apply a cement wash followed by a mix-
ture of sand and cement.
Some facts about Madison Square Garden ?
Situated in New York, it has a seating capac-
ity of between 16,000 and 18,500 (depending on
the type of entertainment and whether seats
are set up in the arena). It cost approximately
5,500,000 dollars, and was formally opened on
Dec. 15, 1925.
Treatment for a cat that is suffering from a
skin irritation, and is rapidly losing fur?
Bathe the affected parts once a day for a
week with a mixture of loz. Wright’s solution
of coal tar, I drachm Goulard’s extract of lead,
loz. glycerine boracis, Boz. distilled water. Mix
36 grains reduced iron, £oz. sulphate magnesia
and the specified quantity of ext. gentian;
make into 12 pills and administer one twice
daily. Salt or an excess of starchy foods
should be avoided and a bath every four days
in Jeyes’ fluid diluted 80 times is also very
beneficial.
Brief Answers.
D.E.8.: (1) They buy the right to one broad-
cast. (2) Price would cover all rights, includ-
ing copyright. (3) Would have no eiiect unless
agreed to by sponsors; entries are invited only
on the published conditions T.L.F.: Try
Australian Guide Book Co., 57 Regent-street,
Sydney... .G.1.T.: There are no agents for the
Fiat car in Australia, but Dominion Motors, 101
William-street, Sydney, may have spare parts.
G.R.: (1) There has just been completed
in Sydney a 140 ft.-long lathe, with seven saddles,
two headstocks, two tailstocks, lead screw, gear-
box, etc. (2) The figure is probably correct;
an inquiry at Ipswich Railway Workshops
would probably be answered satisfactorily
M.W.: One tablespoon of finely-flaked cocoa
butter mixed well with 11b. chocolate will thin
the mixture to coat the centres... .K.H.: The
power remains unchanged as the total head is
not increased.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor .
T.W.: Scrappy R.B.: “Dears” and “darl-
ings” and “sweethearts” used recklessly and
mercilessly... .E.McG.: Come again....A.L.S.:
“Shades of Jessop’s Creek” too pallid
V.O’H.: Piling half a dozen adjectives on to one
noun doesn’t make it any more powerful—or
t
humorous “Battler”: Yes, it’s a hard world.
P.D.R.: Yarn about timber camp promising
enough, but why tack on the sugary romance?
J.B.H.: Your villain is a very bad man in-
deed, and your hero is far too good to be true.
H.T.; If real people buttonholed policemen
at 2 a.m. in Martin-place and lectured them
on {esthetics they would probably be run in.
W.McL.: They may wear cowboy hats and
elongated spurs in some country towns, but they
certainly don’t talk about “forkin’ cayuses”
M.1.K.: Try a woman’s paper Q.N.:
Frothy S.R.: Long-winded C.F.; Humor
heavy-handed and denouement ready-made.....
E.F.: A faint glimmer in it....A.V.; “Vivat
Australia!” is, at best, a praiseworthy ejacu-
lation in Latin N.C.C.: Flat F.E.W.:
Better to leave it to Dennis C.W.W.: No
better than dozens on the same theme... .R.H.;
“It happened while I was in hospital, but I’m
pretty sure I’m quite well now.” Trust you
never suffer a relapse... .V.J.R.: Delectable
though it may have been, “The Beautiful Sunlit
Gully” did not rhyme correctly with “hurry.”
Bellerive: Enter the “Pantomime Fairies”:
While the strains of music sound
Glide the fairies round and round.
Colored vapors slowly rise
And drifted upward to the skies.
Impersonators of a mystic band
From the enchanted fairy land,
Upon the light fantastic toe
Merrily gliding to and fro.
While the strains of music sound
Leaping and a-twirling round,
While brilliant light in beauty shine.
Dance the nymphs in the pantomime.


rn
m
That Perplexing
Problem f
HO W WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
• , • '
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 67
years* specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
„ completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
tciency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claud*
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Caiman,
C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melb.. F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jonei.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sic Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
STOP
Worries/
YOUR I
Mark ® loeahon,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Ronsse)
Appliance Free, En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you* live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27). t) MnrUn Place. Syuney.
BRANDAUER'S
d
fd
fd
fd
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 850,361 12* p.c.= 436,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. . . 6,316,336
1937.1,183,171 12* p.c,= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 .. . * 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938.1,340,461 12* p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 .. .. 8,415,358
1939. 1.431,513 12* p.c.= 760,715 670,798 9.086,156
Share premiums, £139,078 .. .. 9,225,229
Share premiums capitalised,
£4,445,859 4,779,370
1940.. 979,189 7* p.c.= 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941.. 963,279 7* „ ~ 854,770 108,509 6,005,190
Income tax short-provided, £586,282.. 4,419,908
1942.. 687,711 6* p.c.= 821,103 4,286,517
Marine insur. fund included, £631,209 4,917,726
1943.. 697,791 5 p.c.= 694,251 3,540 4,921,266
1944.. 728,675 5 ~,, 694,245 34,430 4,956,696
1945.. 759,367 5 „,, 694,245 65,122 5,020,818
B.H.P. and its subsidiaries, the back-
bone of Australia’s heavy industries,
render labor increasingly productive by
providing it with technical equipment. As
contributors to the war effort it is diffi-
cult to overestimate their importance.
And, given freedom from undue Govern-
ment interference, they can hasten Aus-
tralia’s rehabilitation and post-war
economic development. Chairman H. G.
Darling says:
We have a steel industry which, When
judged by overseas standards, may be rela-
tively small, but nevertheless we can claim
to compare favorably in efficiency with any
plant in the world. Given reasonable oper-
ating conditions we can afford, to face the
future with confidence The greatest
boon that the Government of this country
can give to the primary and secondary in-
dustries, in fact to the whole community,
is to ease controls at the earliest moment
possible. Control, no matter how impor-
tant, is highly inefficient, and people who
know the difference between control
methods as against a free enterprise know
only too well this inefficiency, and its para-
lysing effect.
And the present excessively high level of
company taxation penalises extra effort
and deters output by reducing the incen-
tive to produce. It also impairs the
ability of manufacturers to compete in
export markets by its effect upon costs,
and influences iheir capacity to provide
maximum employment.
In the past expanding production, effi-
ciency and cheapness have characterised
the activities of this organisation to
the benefit of consumers, workers
and owners. Still, the owners got no
increased financial reward from the co.’s
war-time activities. Net earnings shrank
from £1,431,513 in 1939 to £687,711 in
1942, and rose to £759,367 last term. And
the div, dropped from 12| p.c. to 5 p.c.
over the same period.
Production was stepped up to meet war
requirements at short notice. Steel for
armaments, etc., was sold to the Gov-
ernment at cost, which was well below the
figure at which similar steel (if obtainable)
could be imported. Milling machines and
heading and forging presses were made ;
gun barrels and components were manu-
factured ; and so were large quantities of
high-explosive and armor-piercing shells
and bombs, and steel helmets. Another
technical achievement was production of
tungsten carbide. Next to diamonds it
is one of the hardest substances known,
and pre-war was a jealously-guarded Ger-
man Krupp patent. Also a new bullet-
proof steel plate was made at less than
pre-war imported cost, thanks to the suc-
cess of the new ferro-alloy plant in pro-
viding almost every alloy needed for
special steel-making. The manganese
plant, erected about five years ago when
imported supplies were unprocurable, has
been closed down, and so has the electric
steel furnace and forge at Port Kembla
for making gun barrels and other ord-
nance pieces. Capital cost has been borne
by the co. as further contribution to the
war effort.
Commonwealth Aircraft Corp., in
which B.H.P. was the moving spirit and
is the largest shareholder, produced over
1000 aeroplanes Wirraways, Wackett
Trainers, Interceptor Boomerangs and
Mustangs—and a number of suitable
high-powered engines. It also did a lot
of overhaul, repair and assembly work
and manufactured spares for U.S. Air
Corps and R.A.A.F.
Last term more ore was hauled from
Iron Knob, and small low-grade deposits
temporarily opened up in N.S.W. were
closed down. Limestone for smelting
continues to come from Rapid Bay.
Demand on defence account tapered as
the year advanced. At the steelworks
output was limited by lack of coal and
shortage of labor. For a while one bat-
tery of coke ovens carbonised all coal
available. This meant a reduced supply
of basic iron right through the works.
Some auxiliary plant was closed down
and labor transferred to the main produc-
ing units. Still, difficulty was experienced
in providing enough feed to keep the roll-
ing mills operating on a three-shift basis.
The shipyards at Whyalla were kept
busy. Two 9000-ton freighters were built,
fitted out and handed over to the Ship-
building Board. Another similar vessel is
nearing completion, and plans to con-
struct four 12,500-ton vessels for the co.’s
own fleet, to haul ore from Cockatoo
Island (Yampi Sound), are in hand. How-
ever, if shipbuilding is to become a per-
manent and competitive industry in Aus-
tralia costs must be reduced. “Piece work
and/or bonus systems are the practice
elsewhere, and some such system must
be introduced here, otherwise shipbuild-
ing will become derelict, as was the case
after the last war,” says the chairman.
The subsidiaries continued to turn out
a wide range of iron and steel products.
The wire mills at Rylands and Lysaght
Bros, were handicapped by shortage of
labor. As soon as men and materials
become available Lysaght Bros, intend
to put up a factory at Geelong (Vic.).
A. and S. hasn’t yet paid a div, on its
£4,700,007 of ord. capital, all owned by
B. but the day may not be far dis-
tant when it will.
B.H.P.’s own net earnings were £30,692
better at £759,367. The improvement was
due to a better return from investments
(£315,268, up £66,006). The £759,367 was
5.4 p.c. on the £13,884,902 of capital,
which has the support and assistance of
£8,047,923 of visible reserves. An addi-
tional £90,012 was allowed for depre-
ciation (£1,445,294) and an extra £145,000
for the taxgatherer (£825,000). The div.
was kept at 5 p.c. Prospects of $ sub-
stantial increase in earnings are bright
enough, subject to Government interfer-
ence. Since the close of accounts the
alert management has exported large
quantities of steel to the U.K. and other
parts of the Empire. Pre-war the co. had
developed a substantial export trade with
Malaya, East Indies, India and Maori-
land. Recovery of these markets will
largely depend upon the extent to which
Government action eases, or increases, the
burden of costs. Locally demand will
gather momentum as demobilisation of
the forces proceeds and labor becomes
available for the big housing and other
construction programmes already planned.
Combined net earnings of the parent
and subsidiaries shrank £162,285;
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings:- 1941. 1944. 1945.
Working profit. . £5,815,816 £5,287,127 £4,837,248
Divs., etc. . . 169,395 181,439 216,875
Total. . . . £5,985,211 £5,468,566 £5,053,618
Depreciation . . 2,164,905 2,454,057 2,538,289
Taxation .. . . 1,963,076 1,533,482 1,226,602
Other exes. . . 272,882 288,476 238,461
Total exes. .. £4,400,863 £4,276,015 £4,023,352
Net profit . . 1,584,348 1,192,551 1,030,266
During the war years more was set aside
for the taxgatherer than was earned for
shareholders. Last term’s allowance for
depreciation (up £84,232) includes special
provision for war equipment which has*
or will soon, become redundant. B.H.P.
and outside interests aren’t separated in
the published p. and 1. account.
Combined balance-sheet figures show
a reduction of £864,457 in stocks, etc.,
and £762,606 in debtors’ balances, reflect-
ing the tapering of Government war
orders and shortage of coal;
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
f B.H.P. , Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.!
1939.. £6,671,564 £10,736,845 £2,(503,968 £3,469,520
1941.. 12.111.623 7,645,197 2,128,453 5,268,229
1942.. 13.882,889 6,818.493 2,155,696 7,094,452
1943.. 13.884,977 7.429.2'-2 2.H* "’I R.' 7 '" 0
1944.. 13,884,902 7,805,256 2,155,984 6,479,399
1945.. 13,884,902 8,04 1, 923 2,10 a, (94 s,i<>d,uo3
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1939.. £16,405,457 £2,889,077 £1,383.603 £2,202,750
1941.. 18,360,574 4,024.461 2.363.980 2,294,477
1942.. 18,929,700 5,340,173 3,480,561 2,548,221
1943.. 18.188,610 5,069.191 8,621,412 3,291,103
1944.. 16,682,191 5,796,160 2,977,320 3,869,764
1945.. 16,065,784 4,931,703 2,214,720 7,616,961
* Including proportion reserves, t Includes provision
for taxation.
Other assets include Government securi-
ties (£1,970,769, up £518,557), cash
(£3,575,394, up £2,739,986) and shares
and debentures in other cos. (£1,726,143,
up £143,999). So the co. is well equipped
financially and otherwise to meet a pro-
gramme of trade expansion.
In Maoriland the co.’s f.-p, pound
shares recently fetched 475. on ’Change,
whereas in Australia they are jammed at
the ceiling price of 40s. without attracting
sellers, except in cases of forced realisa-
tion.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
1935.. 26,200 44 p.c.= 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 H „ „ 23,375 110,671
1937.. 23,331 4$ „ „ 23,375 110,627
1938.. 28,665 5 „ „ 27,500 1,165 111,092
1989.. 31,428 5 „ 27,500 8,928 115,620
1940.. 37,072 6 ~ 83,000 4,072 119,692
1941.. 34,605 6 „ ~ 88,000 1,605 121,297
1942.. 40,664 6 „ „ 33,000 7,664 128,961
1943.. 51,715 6 „ „ 33,000 18,715 147,676
1944.. 58,310 6 „ „ 83,000 25,810 172,986
1945.. 65,279 7+„ „ 41,250 24,029 197,015
Latest is the co.’s best profit since the
borrow-and-bpst boom of the 1920’5.
Slump, which reduced turnover and
sharpened competition, was followed by
a drift of the shopping public from the
Valley to the Queen-street end of the
city; and McWhirters, though it con-
tinued to enjoy keen and able manage-
ment, never quite regained its old earn-
ing power. A run of 10 p.c. divs, to 1930
was followed by distributions averaging
5.2 p.c. for the 15 years to the close of
last accounts.
Despite restrictions war livened turn-
overs. It created scarcities, and brought
a heavy influx of our own and Allied
service personnel and other ingredients
of a seller’s market to the northern capi-
tal. Here are percentage changes in
aggregate turnover of 12 leading depart-
ment stores in Brisbane, compared with
the corresponding period of the previous
year;—
Average Three Months Ended
< * " A --
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938- .. + 8.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- .. + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- .. + 5.8 + 3.0 4- 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941- .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 +ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +18.9 + 4.1
1948-44 . . 2.1 + 3.5 + 3.0 + 4.6 + 2.4
1944-45 .. + 7.6 +lO.O + 1.0
Though the supply position has eased a
little, the difficulty over the last 12 months
was still to get rather than sell goods.
Last term the spring in McWhirters
gross earnings (£258,699) was £14,756.
Including an extra £5OOO set aside for the
taxgatherer (£60,000) and £10,458 (up
£443) struck off for depreciation, exes.
(£193,420) took only £7787 of - the in-
crease. Thus the net result (£65,279)
benefited by £6969, reaching 11.8 p.c. on
capital as against 10.5, 9.4, 7.4, 6.3, 6.7,
5.8 and 5.2 p.c. back to 1938. The div.
was lifted from 6 p.c. to p.c., the final
being at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a.
With war out of the wdy a buyers
market can be expected to develop again.
Competition will become keener and exes,
more difficult to restrain. Price control
is to continue, but what will happen in
connection with costs remains to be seen.
After the regimentation of uniforms and
the monotony of austerity styles women’s
thoughts are turning to laces, frills and
the glamor of more distinctive clothes
and dainty shoes. Hence the importance
of retailers’ stocks. Lines likely to be
in short supply for some time are cotton,
worsted and Manchester goods.
The two main factors involved in con-
version of industry to meet post-war
needs are: (1) an adequate supply of
suitable labor, and (2) a sufficiency of raw
materials and freedom to employ them
to the best advantage. The flow of labor
back to industry will largely govern the
extent to which many of the shortages
now pressing heavily upon civilians can
be relieved. ,
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co. s
financial set-up:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 117,697 85,273
Creditors .. 33,837 33,667 45,798 34,319
Tax reserve .. 15,000 37,000 66,894 76,573
Freehold and
plant .. 488,940 481,090 410,649 401,079
Stocks .. 299,380 339,359 841,211 328,051
Book debts .. 118,892 78,230 40,198 52,608
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 3,266 2,728 60,120 100,920
Last term trading continued largely on
a cash basis. Debtors’, balances (up
£12,410) were still less than half the


f
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course'
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKo
Condition Powders and apply BAKKO Skin Lotior
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BAKKO lodine Oog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/'
SKIN LOTION a/»
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!
BY AIL CHEMISTS
o
SOLD
Do you need a S
Jlcun/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MkahttaJi
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your IS MILES of Kidney Tube!
•—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
wastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day and so get rid of three pounds oif waste natter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and adds get back-washed into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS and get the same quick relief they
have been giving millions for many years. If back-
ache is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PIUS today.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
• • • ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
MAIVSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyraan’s
everyday wear.
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by, Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W
HARTS
Circular Chart* i«* «B *yp*» o*
Recording Instrument* tor any close
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
■ , ' Accuracy guaranteed. Get our guotatlom-
JACKfoN & O’SULLIVAN
QUt'sTPm PTV.LTD. BRISBANE. o*lo.
*
■
Airways will b© made available
whenever war needs permit*
MADE BY
FORD SHERINGTON LTD
Mdmtfkcfafers of
GLOBITO ; TBiIV£I i CASES
df
ajj snii I
K —V
?
"v:
U*
(h
T
n —nit
CHERISHED POSSESSION
Well might a man feel this kind of carefulness for his
Valet Razor, because he won’t be able to buy another
for some time. What a blessing it is stropping itself
and giving weeks of perfect shaving from every blade,
which are now available in reasonable quantities. Even
if you don’t put your razor out of harm’s way in the
wall, at least take extra care of it.
Here’s a hint: Always strop the blade before putting
your razor away. A little of the oil from the strop
will come into contact with the cutting edge and so
help to prevent corrosive action. Keep strop clean.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
MTO7-I2
fidtC International Trucks
can be delivered Immed-
iately for essential work.
Capacities up to 4% tons. -. 2-speed
rear axles. . All-steel cabs.. Import-
ed platform, dropsldes and stake-
sides bodies, Other approved body
types.
Obtain full Information at our
branch city showrooms or from
any of our Authorized Metropoli-
tan Distributors or Country Local
Agents.
Imported by the Government to
ensure efficient transport,, .“Permit
to purchase” must be obtained.
df
d
Your nearest Metropolitan Dis-
tributor or International Harvester
Agent will help you with your
application.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. CINC. IN VIC.I
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
gssk
uMiMll
1940 figure. Stocks were reduced by
£13,160. The strengthening of cash, etc.
'up £40,800) places the co. in a position
to take advantage of the opportunities
that cash buying promise to offer as the
supply position improves. The more or
less liquid surplus (£370,687) was £41,850
stronger than at the previous balance.
Great Boulder Prop.
Though the co. has emerged from the
unsettled conditions which followed
initiation of voluntary liquidation into
what, under war-time difficulties, is a
satisfactory phase of productive activity,
it is evident from the latest report that
a peaceful future is not yet assured.
The resolution for adoption of the
report and accounts for 1944 was re-
jected at the annual roll-up ki London
on July 4 last. Second and third items
on the Agenda—declaration of a final div.
of 12i p.c., less income tax, and election
of a director —were not proceeded with.
The meeting was adjourned until October
3 to enable a poll to be taken.
Dissensipn centred mainly around the
election of a director. With one excep-
tion the board supported the retiring
member, J. C. Gardiner (a partner in
Chalmers, Wade and Co., accountants,
and a director of Sons of Gwalia and
three other cos.). At the last moment
Lieut.-Col. Shand-Kydd (managing direc-
tor of Shand-Kydd, London wallpaper
manufacturers and a relative of Boulder’s
chairman, Alfred Sim) was nominated to
fill the vacancy. Meanwhile (July 9) the
board has elected R. Ellington Binns
(mining engineer and director of Wiluna
Gold Corp.) chairman in place of Alfred
Sim (chairman Colombia Railways and
Navigation and Anglo-Brazilian Stores).
The remaining members of the board are
A. M. Coulson, W. Grundt and J. C.
Gardiner.
In September, 1940, when Claude de
Bernales was chairman and managing
director, the co. was placed in voluntary
liquidation as part of a plan to transfer
domicile to Westralia, the aim being to
avoid the heavy burden of double taxa-
tion. The British Treasury refused to
sanction the transfer. Then, after various
court • proceedings, a shareholders’ re-
sumption committee was formed in 1942
to secure return of control of the co. to
shareholders. The liquidators got out in
June, 1943, since when the co. has con-
tinued operations under direction of the
aforementioned board.
The sooner opposing factions settle
their differences, which do not appear to
be fundamental to successful operation
of the mine, and allow the board to give
its undivided attention to development
and stepping up production, the better for
all concerned. The mine, situated be-
tween Boulder Perseverance and Lake
View on the Kalgoorlie field (W.A.), is
equipped with a 35,000-ton-a-month treat-
ment plant. During 1944 this plant
handled 274,720 tons (down 35,000 tons),
operations being affected by the wood-
cutters’ strike and shortage of labor and
materials. The drop in throughput was
offset by an improvement of o.69dwt, in
average grade (5.16dwt.) and an increase
of 2.9 p.c. in recovery (92.8 p.c.), which
reached 65,8000 z. gold (up 35000 z.),
worth £551,387. After allowing £20,076
for depreciation, £30,000 for taxation
and striking £43,000 off development and
leases, a net profit of £22,757 remained.
In addition there was a tax refund of
£9OOO, making £31,757 available, of which
two 6d.' divs. (together 25 p.c.) took
£31,200. At end 1944 ore reserves were
put at 2,408,501 tons (down 63,235 tons)
averaging s.4dwt. (down 0. Idwt.). There
was £36,516 coming to sundry creditors.
Cash and bullion totalled £109,802, tax
reserve certificates £70,000, debtors’ bal-
ances £2OBB. Paid capital is £250,000 in
2s. stock units, which recently fetched
around 6s. in London. The rumpus at
the meeting has had no effect worth
mentioning on the market for the scrip*
An interim 12| p.c., less U.K. tax, will
be paid on October 8 in respect of 1945
earnings.
Western Mining Corp., of whose
£324,833 of capital Gold Exploration and
Finance holds about 97 p.c., claimed a
profit of £47,652 (down £49,206) for the
year to end March last. It paid its third
div. of 6d. per 10s. share (Is. 6d. for the
previous term) toward the close of
accounts, making total distribution to date
4s. per share. Profit claimed leaves out
of the reckoning a loss of £4357 on
realisation of assets, etc., and £Bl3 struck
off for depreciation, reducing the net
figure to £42,482 or Is. 3|d, per share.
Chief asset, is 1,300,000 f.-p. ss. shares
(= 81 p.c. issued capital) in Central
Norseman Gold Corp. (W.A.), which also
paid its third div., 9d. per share as against
Is. 6d. for the previous term, on March
1 last. Remaining plant and stores at
Cox’s Find, Erlistoun (W.A.) were sold,
and one of the leases is under option to
a local prospector. No further work has
been done on Western Mining’s other
two Westralian options —the Callion,
Dryhurst, and Yilgangie Queen, Yarri.
* * * *
Accounts of Central Norseman Gold
Corp. continue to reflect effects of the
war-time shortage of labor and materials
and of rising costs. The co. took over
the Phoenix-Mararoa and Princess Royal
leases at Norseman (W.A.) from Western
Mining Corp. in 1935, and the 8900-ton-
a-month treatment plant started up in
August, 1937. For the 12 months to end
of March last an extra 1700 tons of
slightly higher-grade ore was put through
the mill:
Yield Per Ton. Working
Year, Treated < — A —\ Costs, Net
March, Tons. Gold. Silver. Per Ton. Profit.
1942.. 115,398 B.7dwt. s.9dwt. 32/3 £222.274
1943.. 82,150 9.4 „ 6.0 „ 36/9 169,606
1944.. 73,848. 7.3 „ 5.2 „ 37/6 79,804
1945.. 75,548 7.7 „ 4.9 „ 38/1 93,781
The yield was 29,1430 z. (up £20540z.)
gold and 18,6570 z. (down 4470 z.) silver.
The lot was worth £284,851 (up £20,954),
thanks partly to the lift in the price of
gold. Recovery at 96.1 p.c. showed slight
improvement. The rise of Bd. a ton in
average costs mainly reflects an increase
of 2s. 6d. a vyeek in the basic wage,
of which 2s. was on account of the in-
dustrial allowance based on the price of
gold. Allowing for. sundry income and
charges, the net result was £13,977 better
at £93,781, equal to Is. 2d. per ss. share.
The div. was cut in halves, reducing it to
9d. (£60,000), making total distributions
to dale 3s. 3d. per share. When the books
closed more or less liquids totalled
£201,796, of which bullion and cash
accounted for £117,217. There was
£29,973 coming to outsiders. At March
20 ore reserves at 228,000 tons
(down 23,000 tons), averaging 7dwt. gold,
in the Mararoa reef. And there was a
further 21,000 tons, averaging 7.2dwt.
gold, in the Lady Miller, about four miles
away. The Princess Royal has been de-
watered, and the drive on No. 9 level ex-
tended 584 ft. toward values disclosed by
the drill 900-odd feet further on. Gold
Exploration and Finance holds an option
over 2,000,000 of the co.’s unissued shares
until the end of March, 1946.


BUY « »ll S»»I It GS CERTIFICATES
m
i
fd
f
\
%
Thomas Hardy & Sons Ltd,, Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne; Makers of
Tintara Gold Label Port, Amontillado Sherry, GoldHabel Muscatel; The
Tintara Sparkling Wines:— Champagne, Hock, Moselle, Burgundy, and
Tintara Old Brandy.
BUY WJR SAVINGS CERTIF I C A I E S
RdMC.
pia
"""—TTK
mm
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
"C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
K/
1
BRANCHES *N .ALL .STATJESSI||c7^
Business, Rollery, Etc
War-time Gains and Losses
The past six years have been momen-
tous for Australia. What the nation has
suffered or gained cannot be fully judged
at this moment. But the picture is gradu-
ally shaping, and in that picture eco-
nomic, political and industrial conditions
figure largely in the foreground.
The “shooting war” has ended with a
cost to Australia of £2179 million, met,
as to £763 million, by taxation, and, as
to £1416 million, by borrowing. The
figures are up to August 31. Hostilities
ended on August 15, and Japan signed
its surrender on September 2.
Taxation paid for 35 p.c. of war’s cost,
borrowed money 65 p.c. Of the borrow-
ing, £358 million (25 p.c.) was in the form
of Treasury bills discounted, an infla-
tionary method of financing war wastage.
There were times during the war when this
figure was higher; it has recently been
reduced with the aid of easier financial
conditions. Tax revenue in particular
has been buoyant over the past two years,
while war expenditure has been declining.
The 1939-45 cost of war per head has
been £299 for every man, woman and
child. The taxation cost was £lO5, bor-
rowing £194. The cost of “war” has em-
braced many kinds of outgo, including
waste and political extravagance. Even
now huge “war” expenditure is going on.
The national debt on June 30
stood at £2630 million, and would be
approximately the same figure at the ces-
sation of hostilities. Six years earlier the
debt totalled £1295 million. There has
been very little borrowing on behalf of
the States during the war, and, helped
by the operation of the sinking fund,
there was an increase of only £3.2 mil-
lion (to £9Ol million) in the half-dozen
years. Since 1940 a reduction in State
debts has taken place. The Common-
wealth debt at June 30, 1939, was £435
million. At the end of June this year it
was £1729 million. The war started with
the overall national debt at £lB6 a head.
It finished with the debt at £360 a head.
The population of the Commonwealth
has grown approximately 400,000 during
the war. Actual rise to June 30, 1944,
was 345,000, when the official estimate
was 7,306,637, excluding full-blooded
aboriginals.
Still Paying for. “War”
For the present year the cost of
“defence and war” is estimated at £4OB
million. There have been attempts to
conceal the size of the bill taxpayers have
to meet. From the total there has been
deducted by the Treasurer £2B million
expected to come in from disposals of
equipment paid for in previous years and
recoveries from pther Governments for
past services amounting to £2O million
net. The actual cost of war for the first
two months of the current term, charged
up in the total cost of war as shown in
the foregoing, was £6B million. This is
at the average rate of £4OB million p.a.
For the remaining 10 months of 1945-
46, with “shooting” over, this rate appears
to be excessive, and to lend itself to poli-
tical use of war funds, especially as there
is an election in prospect at the end of
the financial year.
A detailed analysis of “war” spending
was given here last week.
In 1938-39 Commonwealth and State
taxation per head was £l7 19s. 7d. . In
1944-45 it was £46 Os. 3d., with £45 ss. 9d.
set down as an estimate for the current
year. In 1944-45 the income-tax levy
alone was £2l 4s. a head, with company
tax equal to another £8 3s. Sales tax
last year ran out at £4 Os. lOd. a head,
representing a substantial part of total
indirect taxation amounting to £l3 9s. 2d.
It should be noted that, notwithstand-
ing the p.c. cut in personal income
tax that is to operate from January. 1
next, collections are expected to decline
only from £2l 4s. to £2O 9s. 4d. There
is no relief for companies. Though it
may be argued that, for a period, heavy
taxation should continue in order to mini-
mise the growth in the debt, or to re-
duce the debt, and so restrict the forces
of inflation, it does not appear that the
present Government has any such plan in
view. On the other hand, it seems all too
apparent that public money will be used
extensively to make the Labor party
appear a good fellow to the “gimme”
type of voter at the next election.
The fact that it is proposed to deduct
the value of realisations of war-time
assets from current spending rather than
to use the to redeem debt is a
pretty clear indication of the Govern-
ment’s attitude towards the national in-
debtedness. Another pointer was the
amendment of the Financial Agreement
early this year whereby the States were
given another 39 years to pay off their
depression deficit debts in spite of present
affluence. The amendment of the Finan-
cial Agreement amounted to a breach of
contract by the States that was condoned
by the Commonwealth. It is bound to
affect our credit in the iong run.
The Interest Bill
During the current year the interest
bill on the debt arising out of the 1939-
45 war will be about £33 million. That
is including as “defence” expenditure all
loan outlay charged up after Japan
surrendered. The Government has yet
to set a limit to the period in which
defence outlay will be charged up as
being the result of hostilities with Ger-
many and Japan. The actual interest cost
of borrowings raised to finance the war
was £26.6 million last term. At the end
of hostilities the interest bill on the entire
national debt was probably about £75
million a year—it was £46 million at the
outbreak of war. Though there is £358
million of Treasury-bill debt that carries
a very low rate of interest at present,
and which would become more expensive
if funded, even another 12 months of
“war” spending should not result in an
interest bill doubled as a consequence
of this war.
CosJ of Living
According to Government statistics,
the cost of living has risen 22£ p.c. dur-
ing the conflict. Actually a greater rise
was recorded at one stage, but, undei
the prices-ceiling plan, a stabilisation at
22i p.c. above pre-war is claimed. It is
contended on many sides that the cost-
of-living index in this country is partly
fictitious because of the inability of
buying many of the items composing the
index and the consequent necessity to
obtain substitutes, which are often
dearer. Whatever has really been
achieved in stabilising prices—and there
is much that is definitely good as well as
something that is debatable —the direct
cost to the Government in subsidies has
been of the order of £ll million a year,
apart from sops to the dairying and other
land industries, amounting to about £l2
million a year, which are really direct
or indirect price subsidies.
A -»se jn living costs during the next
couple of years, with a corresponding
I m m the basic wage, is generally re-
garded as inevitable.
Distributions of wages and salaries
have risen during the war. The total was
£433 million in 1938-39, rising to a peak
of £595 million in 1943-44, and declin-
ing slightly, to £584 million, during
1944-45. Pay and allowances to mem-
bers of the services in those years are
estimated at £4 million, £195 million
and £l9O million respectively. Some of
the rise in wages has been due to cost-
of-living inflation. Some has also been
due to war loadings, overtime and smaller
effective output per man. The increase
in wages and salaries must be taken in
conjunction with servicemen’s pay, be-
cause a good deal of the wages, etc..
paid in 1938-39 went to men who later
joined the fighting forces.
The national income, with inflation
and all, is calculated to have risen from
£795 million in 1938-39 to £1256 million
in 1944-45. War expenditure has ab-
sorbed a great deal more of this national
income than statisticians’ figures would
indicate.
In spite of rationing and shortages of
some unrationed goods, “consumer spend-
ing” is reckoned to have risen from £653
million in 1938-39 to £750 million in
1943-44 and £BO7 million in 1944-45. The
expansion here must be largely the result
of inflation in costs and prices, though a
higher rate of income among wage-earners
has greatly increased potential buying
power. A proportion of the higher in-
comes has gone into the hands of black-
marketeers, and the standard of living
has declined considerably in spite' of the
nation’s much-increased spending.
Saving and Investment
Savings-bank deposits expanded by
£330 million during the war —from £244
million at the beginning to £574 million
at the end of July, 1945. The leap here
amounts to 135 p.c. A. great deal of this
accumulation has been put into war loans
by the savings banks, helping to make up
for lack of direct support to war loans
by the people.
It is officially computed that invest-
ment in non-Government enterprises, etc.,
which was £l5O million in 1938-39 and
£l7O million in 1939-40, fell to £3O mil-
lion in 1943-44 and recovered a little, to
£5O million, in 1944-45. There are no
official figures as yet to make clear the
exact extent of direct public support to
the Government’s war loans, which took
over £lOOO million from the market, in-
cluding financial institutions of many
kinds. But it is clear that support from
individuals was far from satisfactory, and
that savings-bank credit was used to an
inflationary extent in filling “public”
loans.
It is estimated that, up to June, 1945,
the total bank credit (including savings-
bank money) used in financing the war,
with assistance from the note-issue sec-
tion of the Commonwealth Bank, was
£687 million, of which the “public”
Treasury bills beforementioned account
for about £360 million.
Dividends paid by companies to share-
holders rose from £3O million in 1938-39
to £3B million in 1944-45, subject, in
nearly all cases, to full property taxation
in the hands of shareholders. Set along-
side the £584 million received by wage-
and salary-earners last year, company
dividends make a very small show. Yet
dividends represent the income of “the
bosses,” against whom the like of Eddie
Ward are for ever making fantastic
charges of “robbing the worker”!
Overseas Funds
During the war years—mostly in the
last two —Australia replenished its Lon-
don funds. Early in the war there was


m/m I
**********
*********
t IT
4C
v*A^
fwemr.
ffml
<y/C7vw
ffom I
cf&O*
n
-2V*«
We ll earn you money while you sleep!
Wi
P
VN
u
XI
WE ARE YOUR VICTORY BONDS.
You don’t buy us. You merely hire us.
The moment you do so we get right down
to work and keep on working 24 hours a
day, seven days a week. We never rest
a minute. Even while you sleep we earn
you money and at a better rate than
bank interest.
We cannot leave you until the end of our
contract. We have to stay on the job
either for five or 16 years, as you elect
remembering that by taking us for the
longer term we earn you interest at a
still higher rate.
So from a purely selfish point of view it
is good business to hire us. But it is
also your duty to do so, for we are going
to do the things which you and every
other Australian want done in a hurry.
In detail, these are: the Repatriation of
our service men and women, including
prisoners of war; the care of our sick
and wounded; the maintenance of occupa-
tion troops as well as those awaiting
discharge at home; the provision of
vocational training for the thousands who
will need this assistance to take up suit-
able civil employment.
We will also play an important part in
preventing inflation. Money spent now,
while goods are in short supply, instead
of being lent to the nation through us,
could cause prices to soar and throw the
whole national economy into confusion.
To sum it all up, if you are sensible and
patriotic Australian you cannot do other-
wise than hire us right away as many
of us as you possibly can for both cash
and terras. ' •
* * *
Facts about the 4th VICTORY LOAN
• 1, All you tend will be used only for
War and Repatriation. Bonds for £lO, £5O,
£lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock,
may be purchased for cash or by instal-
ments, through any Bank, Savings Bank ,
Money Order Post Office, or Stockbroker.
•2. Interest is payable each six months, at
2 1 A% for five years or 3 I A % for sixteen
years. Repayment in full at maturity is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth. Your
Bonds or Inscribed Stock are readily sale-
able to meet an emergency.
•3. You lend, not give your money. On
your application form, credit your subscrip-
tion to your district to help its quota.
FOURTH
ictory Loan
s
4V16.X13
a drain on Australia’s overseas balances.
Recent change has been the resut o
supplying British forces in the Facinc
theatre with our products, aided by re-
duced imports other than un( J er , en ,
lease. Gold and balances held abroad
totalled £159 million on September 1/.
But that is not a true indicator
of our net London funds. It seei ??*
that, during the six years to June 30
last, our overseas credit position has im-
proved by about £6O million net. dhe
strengthening has been little enough in
view of our post-war commitments and
the pre-war slenderness of our London
resources. One of Australia’s immediate
difficulties, in fact, is a shortage of dollars
and other overseas credits.
Summed up, the economic picture is
largely one of greatly increased indebted*
ness, still-heavy “war” expenditure that
is open to serious question, hastily con-
ceived and badly planned “social wel-
fare” schemes, depressingly heavy taxa-
tion, a big inflationary spending force
that so far has not been securely con-
trolled, penalty taxation of companies,
and an external-credit position that does
not suggest a fall in our exchange rate
on London. But the position is one in
which we should use all our resource and
commonsense to extricate ourselves, not
one to which we should become resigned.
We are in greatest danger now from poli-
tical confidence-men and financial quacks.
The Federal Government is being
pressed to abolish the means test in its
“social-welfare” planning — i.e., to make
all citizens eligible for retirement pen-
sions, etc,, regardless of their means. At
present the biggest contributors to" the
National Welfare Fund appear likely to
get nothing out of it. Originally the pen-
sions, etc., were to be financed out of
general revenue; now a special Is. 6d.
tax is being levied and set aside. The
scheme, according to R. G. Menzies, “is
just stumbling towards a contributory
plan.” It may eventually “stumble” to an
all-embracing pension scheme, with no
means test. But while a contributory
scheme with no means test is the ideal,
it is better to plan for it than to stumble
towards it.
♦ * * •
The United States is asking for a
reduction in Britain’s indebtedness to the
Dominions as a condition of financial
assistance in place of lend-lea.se. America
seems to see, in blocked sterling bal-
anaces, a boost in Empire trading at the
expense of U.S. exports, and therefore
does not understand why it should give
assistance to the boost without also shar-
ing in it. The amount of blocked sterling
balances is reckoned at something more
than £3500 million, British currency, but,
contrary to cabled advice from Washing-
ton, Australia has not become a big
creditor of Britain during the war; we
are, in fact, still very much in Britain’s
debt, on balance. Nor is the £3500-odd
million entirely owed to the Empire.
South America and Egypt figure very
substantially. There are American sug-
gestions that the Dominions should
cancel half their war-time sterling credits
as a preliminary to U.S. assistance to
Britain. This would not cost Australia
very much, but it is doubtful whether
our London funds are over-adequate in
any case. The ending of lend-lease has
affected Australia’s external credit as well
as that of Britain.
* * * *
According to official estimates, interest
payable on public loans overseas has
actually fallen from £27 million Austra-
lian in 1938-39 to £26 million in 1944-45.
The net cost of servicing other overseas
commitments (dividends, interest, etc.) has
dropped from £l7 million to £l4 million.
But it is only during the past two years
of war that the Commonwealth has had
a surplus in its balance of overseas pay-
ments. They were substantial surpluses,
however—estimated at £153 million alto-
gether, compared with £97 million defi-
ciency during the preceding four years.
It is quite plain from these figures, never-
theless, that Australia has not built up
big sterling balances in London, and in
this respect is unlike India, Egypt, South
America, etc. One way and another the
war has not greatly altered the basis of
the exchange rate between this country
and Britain, in spite of prophecies made
early in the conflict. This paper did not
think that it would. On a cost-of-living
basis the Australian exchange rate on
the United States is far too high—that is,
the Australian pound is far too low. But
the flow of trade, largely because of
present U.S. tariff policy, would make the
supply-and-demand rate even more
heavily against the Commonwealth.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Fourth Victory
Loan is open. The public is asked for
£B5 million, as usual in 2j p.c. (five-year)
and 3i p.c. (16-year) stock. There is still
enormous investing-power in the hands of
the people. Public support to loans
Should be greater if the Government were
franker and more scrupulous in its finan-
cial dealings with the people.
* * * »
A North Queensland correspondent
has inquired as to what payment# made in
achieving the nation’s production are not
available in the form of money for buy-
ing back that production. The question
has arisen because of statements from
various quarters that full employment
depends upon an increase in buying
power, the increase apparently being
visualised as a continuous process, a la
Major Douglas’s theory. The answer is
that in every process of paid-for produc-
tion enough money is created to buy the
production, if the producer’s profit be
regarded as money available for buying,
as, if taken throughout the whole system
of production, it must be. Where money
is saved it is usually put aside for invest-
ment in a house, a factory or to provide
for a period of unemployment, sickness
or old age. Saving may appear to produce
a surplus of goods in relation to spend-
ing, but, taken over a period of years,
the spending of savings on houses,
machinery, roads, etc., means the em-
ployment $f workers on those tasks, with
fewer hands producing food, clothing,
etc., thus tending to use up any accumu-
lated stocks of those things that may
have arisen in the past because of the
saving. Depressions are not primarily
caused by a shortage of money; they
begin with an unstable price level that
disregards costs, or rising costs that dis-
regard the price level. Legitimate expan-
sion and contraction of credit can usually
take care of any temporary or local
“shortage of money,” Many things can
go wrong in an economy that ultimately
lead to depression. One is an excessive
remuneration to certain employers ox
employees by comparison with the rest
of the people. Profits should not be ex-
cessive in relation to turnover, and wages
should not be excessive in relation to out-
put. Production should be planned to
meet the requirements of consumers.
Credit should not be extended beyond
the capacity of the borrower ultimately
to repay, and investments, public and pri-
vate, should be made in ventures that
serve a public demand efficiently. Where
a country sells more abroad than it im-
ports there is a tendency to expand credit
(or create money) at home in excess of
normal requirements, with a consequent
rise in prices and costs. When a rever-
sal occurs in the export position there is
a tendency to reduce this credit quantity,
and there may then appear to be a short-
age of money (in relation to inflated
prices) that causes depression. But it is
really bad management of the money
and associated systems over a long period
that causes the depression, not an inher-
ent “shortage” of money that arises from
our “financial system.”
* * * •
The Department of Supply and Ship-
ping cost Australia £8,569,000 in 1944-
45, compared with £7,436,000 in the pre-
ceding year. Excessive pay to coastal
seamen and to wharfies is responsible
for a whack of the cost, the Government
being charterer of most coastal shipping.
* * * *
From the “New England Letter” of the
First National Bank of Boston:
Our post-war programme should be geared
to a dynamic and not a static system pat-
terned after the feudalism of the Middle
Ages. There are grave dangers in sugar-
coated slogans, such as “guaranteed full
employment,” that have the appearance of
short cuts to Utopia but which in reality
lead down the road to serfdom. A subsi-«
dised economy built on Federal crutches
cannot endure. Our economy should in-
stead rest upon private initiative and free
enterprise, the pillars upon which the
American system has been built and with-
out which it cannot survive. This system,
with all its defects,- is the best that has yet
been devised, and over the years has pro-
vided a high level of employment except
in the 1930’5, when the pump-priming pro-
gramme was adopted that drove job-creat-
ing capital into hiding. The country will
emerge from the war with the greatest
productive capacity and the most highly-
developed mass-production technique ever
known. We have the tools, resources, man-
power, the know-how and a domestic
market capable of absorbing all but a small
proportion of our output. We should be
able to combine these facilities into a work-
able programme, based upon the principles
underlying the American system, that would
insure a high level of employment and
reasonably high living standards.
It appears that The Bulletin is not
unique in its ideas on political economy.
Nor is Australia unique in its political
problems.


Legal Notice.
GEORGE FRANCIS PROCTOR deceased, Son of
George Proctor and Sarah Proctor (nee Egan or
Hagon) Pursuant to a Decretal Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated Ist December 1944 as amended and made
in suit No. 421 of 1944 intituled “In the Matter of
the Estate of GEORGE FRANCIS PROCTOR late of
Mount Druitt in the State of New South Wales
Retired Farmer deceased Between THE PUBLIC
TRUSTEE Plaintiff and ELSIE MURIEL MATILDA
NICHOLSON Defendant” whereby the following en-
quiry by the Master in Equity was directed viz: to
enquire as to what persons living at the date of the
death of the said George Francis Proctor were en-
titled according to the Statutes for the distribution
of intestate estates to his estate and any of
them are since dead and if so who are their legal
personal representatives Notice is hereby given that
all persons claiming to be entitled under the said
enquiry are to send by post prepaid to THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE 19 O’Connell Street Sydney
N.S.W. so as to reach him on or before the 16th
March 1946 their full names addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit of the said
Order unless the Court or the Master in Equity upon
application otherwise orders Claimants are to attend
personally or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street Sydney
N.S.W. on Tuesday the 2nd April 1946 at 11 a.m.
being the time appointed for adjudicating upon the
claims A claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent DATED 18th
September 1945.—F. A. FINN & 00., Solicitors for
the Plaintiff, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorcb.
TO JOHN CHARLES ROBINSON late of Newcastle.—
TAKE NOTICE that PEARLE AMELIA ROBINSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2976 of 1945 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 29th day of October 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
J. K. DIXON Esq. Solicitor of 115 Pitt Street Syd-
ney.— (1.5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDGAR GAGE 5X775 of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that DULOIE EVA ADA GAGE has
filed a Petition for Divorce on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
the said Dulcie Eva Ada Gage is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) and if you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Fifth day of
November 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. HUNT &
Solicitors of 15 Bligh Street Sydney, (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notices,
BLAZO LOPICICH, of Yugoslav nationality, born
t .Montenegro, Yugoslavia, and resident eight years
i 'Australia, now residing at 189 Railway Road,
laglish, West Australia, intend to apply for naturali-
ation under the Nationality Act 1920-193 ■>.
FREDERICK GOLDSCHLAG, of Polish nationality,
orn at Koiomyja, Poland, and resident seven years
i Australia, now residing at 33 Bulkara Boa ,
iellevue Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
ion under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
THE SERVICE MAN
"Cold ” Figures.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Forde has announced
that the Army is to be reduced “with the
greatest possible speed.”
“Assuming that transport is available,”
he expects that reductions in the strength
of the A.M.F. from October 1 to Decem-
ber 31 will total 180,000, 80,000 to be
taken from overseas forces and 100,000
from forces on the mainland. “Jf addi-
tional shipping becomes available im-
mediately” service authorities will
manage a total lift of 6500 a month. It
is hoped that representations to the
U.S.A, and Britain will enable this num-
ber to be increased to 11,000 a month.
Alas, many will not come back. This
is sadly clear, though the Government’s
knowledge of the position' and numbers
of prisoners in Jap hands is still nebu-
lous.
From September 3, 1939, to May 31,
1945, according to a statement tabled by
the Minister for the Army on September
18, there were in enemy hands 262 naval,
18,570 Army and 370 Air Force
p.-0.-w. Total, 19,202, apart from 7598
who had escaped or been repatriated.
But on September 23 the Minister
issued a statement in which he said that
“the total number of Australian prisoners
in Japanese hands is 19,968. Reported
deaths number 2500. In the Japanese
islands 1528 prisoners have been notified
and in other areas 11,298. Thus there
are 4000 still to be accounted for.
Mr. Forde says: “It is possible that a
number of those may have died, and on
all indications there is no warrant for
expecting that more than about 3000 will
finally be recovered instead of the 7000
originally hoped for.”
Those who did not before understand
the full meaning of the phrase “cold
figures” will find their minds illuminated
as they peruse this statement. But if they
try to reconcile the two sets of statistics
they will suffer one of the worst head-
aches on record.
Just as confusing against the back-
ground of past figures is a Forde state-
ment of casualties in both wars.
Total losses in the war against Ger-
many were 10,730 killed, 1316 missing,
449 p.-0.-w. in enemy hands on May 31 ;
7491 escaped or repatriated; 16,234
wounded and injured. The wounded-and-
injured figure is about 11,000 less than
what was given by Mr. Curtin as at
March 31, 1943.
In the war against Japan the losses
were:
R.A.N. Army. R.A.A.F.
Killed .. ..617 7,965 2,103
Missing .. .. 434 3,876 893
P.-0.-w. in enemy
hands .. .. 262 18,269 222
P.-0.-w. free 4 93 10
Wounded and
injured .. .. 516 19,196 1,531
Totals .. . - 1833 49,399 4,759
Totals: Against the Western Axis,
36,220; against Japan, 55,991 ; both,
92,211.
Army casualties for Borneo are given
as 183 kilfed and 521 wounded. Nothing
is down for the loss of life in prison
camps.
Army figures for “Australia” are given
as 1887 killed and 14,358 wounded or
injured. There were nearly twice as
many “wounded and injured” in Australia
as there were in the whole of the Middle
East campaigns, and three and a half
times as many as in the Papuan or New
Guinea campaigns.
Against 1887 killed in “Australia” only
1402 Army men are listed as killed in
the campaigns of “Malaya, Java, Timor
and Ambon!” And Middle Eastern casual-
ties, Africa, Crete, Greece and Syrian
campaigns included, totalled only double
“Australia’s” killed.
What do the figures mean?
"Home Is the Soldier."
“Ek Dum”: Last week Diggers re-
leased from prison camps should have
been able to analyse the Australian scene
as presented in Sydney, A glance at any
paper would have shown that Sydney
journalisrp was engrossed with four sub-
jects: (1) horseracing; (2) atrocity
stories ; (3) the opinions of the famous
correspondent Cyrus Q. Hooligan on how
General MacArthur should run Japan ;
and (4) photographs of bathing girls,
naked except for bits of rag about the
bust and hips. And on the waterfront, in
the powerhouse and in coalmines there
were strikes. ’
Grumbling is a soldier’s privilege all
over the world, but the Australian soldier
returning from the wars seems to be hav-
ing the unique experience of having
something justifiable to grumble at in
every phase. He will arrive home to find
that while the British and Maorilanders
and Canadians have provided for the
civilian clothing of their demobilised
men and women on a generous scale,
veterans of the A.I.F. must scrounge as
best they can because even the insultingly
miserable issue which is even now more
like a prison garb than the garb of heroes
is not ready in bulk. The spectacle of
soldiers begging in shops for a shirt or
a pair of trousers or a hat at any price
is commonplace in Sydney, and what it
will be like when Mr. Forde’s hundreds
of thousands begin to pour out of the
forces is something the imagination
baulks at.
Where Mr. Forde’s hundreds of thou-
sands are going to live seems problemati-
cal also. Hollow logs are likely to be at
a premium. And Australia has no real
facilities basically its own for getting the
Diggers home. It is dependent very largely
on other people’s transport. For that,
soldiers might be inclined to thank Provi-
dence when they are placed at the tender
mercies of some-of their own Australian
organisers.
No Rest Camps
There appear to be no rehabilitation
camps, apart from hospitals, like those
provided by the British in India and, on
the European front, at Eastbourne. Men
straight from years in prison camps are
let loose on a strange world without (my
preparation, and left to shift for them-
selves at the earliest possible moment. It
does not even seem to be assured when
they arrive that they are completely free
of the diseases of the tropics until they
are boarded in their home States.
Those who go to hospital are in a dif-
ferent category. Australian hospitals are
superb, but this is no fault of a military
and political organisation which sent Aus-
tralia’s leading plastic surgeon, at one
important stage of the war, to the back-
block depot hospital at Inglebum as an
ordinary D.D.M.S.
A Special Case
What repatriation must be like for the
average Digger p.-0.-w. with no privileges
can be gauged by the experience of one
with more than normal privileges, whose
affairs the writer happens to have had in
hand—the member for the Northern
Territory, Sergeant A. M. Blain.
The relatives and representatives of
Sergeant Blain were left to hear that he
was safe, not from official sources, but
from newspapers. From these they learned
that he had been through terrible experi-
ences, was dreadfully reduced through
torture and starvation and was in a state
of mind in which, “his words tumbling
over themselves,” he expressed in the
most violent language his desire to hasten
to Australia and demand the bitterest
kind of retaliation upon the Japanese for
what he had suffered. It was a picture
to cause feelings of pity and anguish to
arise in the minds of his ■ relatives.
When actually he stepped off the air-
craft which brought him to Sydney some
days later he was under weight, but
not the living skeleton pictured by the
press, nor in any way depressed. He ad-
mitted quietly that he had been through
considerable suffering, but denounced the
playing-up of atrocities by newspapers
and expressed the opinion that the best
service which could be done for men who
had been in prison camps would be to
encourage them to put the past behind
them and forget what they had been
through as quickly as possible.
All the worry which his relatives had
been through in the previous weeks could
have been saved by a sane press censor-
ship and priority of official advice.
When it was found that Sergeant Blain
was safe his representatives applied to the
appropriate members of the Ministry for
the right to send an urgent message
through official channels telling him essen-
tial facts about his family and his elec-
torate (until he reached Brisbane he did
not know that he had been opposed by
“Labor” candidates) and advising him on
one or two important political matters on
which he might have been inclined to
make statements. The request was
granted, but the message did not reach its
destination. A radio message from the
sergeant to his next-of-kin met the same
fate. Letters addressed according to
official advice and posted as soon as war
ended had not been delivered to the
prisoner in Singapore.
Now the Army proceeded to fly Digger
Blain home. The news that he was on
one of the first machines —he won that
right by being one of the oldest Diggers
in Singapore in the ranks — came, of course,
through the press and not through official
channels ; officialdom was unable to con-
firm the press statement. Even the
highest circles of officialdom did not know
whether he was coming to Sydney or
Brisbane, but it was promised that in view
of his supposedly frail and broken condi-
tion his relatives in Queensland and rep-
resentative in Sydney would be notified in
plenty of time to allow them to meet him.
Digger Blain and his companions dis-
appeared into the blue. Some eventually
landed in Sydney. Then a wire came
from Blain himself asking that he be
booked at a Townsville hotel. Since
officialdom told him seemingly that he
was going to Townsville (where all
arrangements for his comfort were
accordingly made, at some cost for wires)
he was taken to Darwin and Brisbane.
Repeated requests for information to
official sources drew a-blank. The first
news of his whereabouts came from Blain
himself, who rang from Brisbane. Pub-
lic Relations (Army) was able to convey
the glad news of his arrival four hours
after Blain had given it himself. And
Blain also beat by several hours an urgent
telegram from Darwin, From 11 p.m.
one night to 8.20 p.m, the next the urgent
telegram was on the way. It was delivered
at a city office at night, so that the reci-
pient did not get it till next morning.
One official, however, was waiting to
greet the wanderer—a Loan official who
asked the travel-stained prisoner to speak
in the Brisbane Town Hall with Mr.
Forde the following Monday!
In the Backblocks
The old travelling Digger—he is 51 —
now found his way 200-odd miles to his
home near Nanango by his own devices.
His friends in the south (still with their
impressions of his condition formed from
the press) learned that it was proposed to
give him a Parliamentary reception on the
following Wednesday- in Canberra, there
being a need in the interval for him to
travel 1200 miles.
The Air Minister was approached on
Wednesday and asked whether there were
aircraft coming from the R.A.A.F. aero-
drome and, so, whether it would be
possible to fly the traveller down. The
Minister agreed to place an aircraft at* the
disposal of the N.T. man. All he had to
do to secure it was to make contact with
specified authorities at Kingaroy.
The aircraft is still at Sergeant Blain’s
disposal, but Kingaroy, up to the week-
end, had heard no word of it.
Attempts to telephone Sergeant Blain
failed, though they were carried on per-
sistently from Thursday night to Saturday
at noon.
But on Saturday night at 9.30 the wan-
derer was discovered at the Gfesham
Hotel, Brisbane. He had found his own
way from Nanango and booked a pass-
age for his weary frame on the day train,
in it to sit up 24 hours before going on to
Canberra from Sydney.
Next morning Australian authorities
were given up in despair. A telephone
message to a member of the staff of the
Royal Navy’s Air Arm brought instant
action. On the second Air Arm passenger
aircraft to leave Brisbane the same day
came Blain. And instead of the broken,
angry wreck expected from the press pic-
ture, he stepped off the machine carrying
his luggage, looking fairly well and
smiling.
The Army at this stage performed with
credit It had an officer and a car wait-
ing for him, and did its duty to the soldier
sensibly, kindly and considerately.
When this sort of thing can happen to
a national figure, what are the chances of
the unknown Digger, fresh from years of
domination by prison guards and without
influence?
As this is written an Orient ship is off
the Australian coast with returning
p.-0.-ws. from Germany, some of whom
have been away five years. These men
disappeared as completely as.if they had
been reimprisoned. Their relatives’
anxious cables were unanswered. Then
they turned up at Fremantle. After that
they disappeared again. All the week
harassed relatives have been waiting for
some certain intelligence of when they
would reach home.
From Java comes the news that the
Dutch have been flying Australian
p.-0.-ws. out to Balik Papan. There was
no Australian transport to move them,
and they had remained, it was said, under
Japanese prison guards for five weeks
after Japan collapsed.
Every day in Australia complaints are
made whiclj suggest that citizen soldiers
are regarded as pieces of machinery.
Hobart Comes Home.
John Brennan: H.M.A.S. Hobart
arrived in Sydney on September 21, the
first ship of the R.A.N. squadron to
return to Australia since the end of the
wars. She had come direct from Yoko-
hama Bay, bringing 240 long-service men
from the other ships of the squadron
home for discharge.
Hobart, refitted and with a good big
lump of her stern rebuilt after her tangle
with a Jap torpedo somewhere north of
the New Hebrides in July, 1943 (the
torpedo hit on the port side aft;
seven men were killed and seven
posted “missing, believed killed”), left
Sydney, on what was to have been her
last voyage during the war, on February
7 this year. She figured in the pre-
invasion bombardments at Tarakan,
Wewak, Brunei Bay and Balik Papan,
rattling them off one after the other in a
period of two months, and for the first
time supporting A.I.F. troops. But the
end of the wars and the Tokyo trip came
without any of the excitements of
Hobart’s earlier war years. She travelled
32,526 miles in *the months between Feb-
ruary and her return, and she fired in
action 3609 6in. shells and 1097 4in.
The cruiser’s record has been a proud
one. Her original commissioning was as
H.M.S. Apollo at Devonport, England,
on January 7, 1936. She was transferred
to the R.A.N. and recommissioned as
Hobart on September 28, 1938, taking
her crest and her motto, Übertus et
Fidelitas, from the Tasmanian coat-of-
arms. She saw service in the Singapore-
China coast area before Japan became
a belligerent, also in the Indian Ocean
and the Red Sea. In July, 1941, she re-
lieved the damaged Perth in the Medi-
terranean, ranging in offensive sweeps up
along the Italian coast. After Pearl
Harbor she was back in the Java Sea,
operating out of Singapore and later
Batavia. There still are shrapnel holes
in her funnels, marks of the bombing
attacks she underwent at that time. With
Australia and Canberra she was after-
wards in the Coral Sea, and convoyed
troops for the Guadalcanal landing.
Captain R. R. Dowling, R.A.N., a
Jervis Bay contemporary of s Collins and
Farncomb, commanded her, preceded by
Captain H. L. Howden, R.A.N., and Cap-
tain H. A. Showers, R.A.N.


M
rz
3/44
Some men are so crazy they keep the motor
running while their cars are parked. They
think this re-charges the battery.
Don’t be fooled with crazy ideas. Take your
battery to your Exide "dealer every second
week. He’ll help you get months of extra
service from it by keeping it properly ser-
viced and re-charged when necessary.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A member of the R.A.A.F. becomes the
next Master of Ormond, University of
Melbourne, in succession to Professor
D. K. Picken—Squadron-Leader Stanley
Lewis Prescott, Professor of Physiology
at Shantung Christian University, China,
from 1935 to 1941. When the Japs
erupted he hastened to Australia and
joined the R.A.A.F. He was on General
MacArthur’s staff as an intelligence
officer till March, 1943, and then became
C.O. of the Personnal Research Unit of
the R.A.A.F. at the Physiology Depart-
ment at Melbourne University. He is 35,
was born at Gloucestershire, England, and
graduated in science from Manchester.
Lieutenant Ken Attiwill, playwright and
author of a dozen novels, is of those re-
ported safe. A Melbourne journalist, he
left Australia in 1929 in the windjammer
Archibald Russell, and while in London
wrote books in collaboration with his
wife, a Fleet-street journalist who was
a war correspondent in Germany dur-
ing the war and after. Ken joined the
British Army and was captured in 1942
at Bandoeng, Java. He is a brother of
Keith Attiwell, news editor of the
“Argus.”
Dr. R. R. Nimmo, who was among the
group of scientists working on the atomic
bomb, was a Master of Science of Otago
University (M.L.). A travelling- scholar-
ship took him in 1927 to Cambridge,
where he came under the tutelage of
Lord Rutherford, who was dabbling with
the atom 20 years ago, and Prof. M. L.
E. Oliphant, who helped to develop it into
such a destructive agency. At one time
Dr. Nimmo was lecturer in physics at
Perth Uni,
An inspiration to Diggers who face the
task of rehabilitating themselves is the
soldier who gained first place in Final
Company Law for N.S.W. and third place
in Australasia for the same subject in
examinations set down by the Federal
Institute of Accountants—Corporal W.
G. McKell, cousin of the N.S.W. Premier.
His mother died when he was four, and
he was adopted by a Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.) family. Now 23, he enlisted five
years ago, but whenever he got a spare
moment carried on his accountancy
studies despite extremely difficult condi-
tions. He is still in New Guinea.
With J. C. A. Rundle in the chair, the
Savings Bank of S.A. has celebrated its
£5O million in assets in just under a cen-
tury of operation. Rundle is an old S.A.
cricketer.
Patrick Alfred Moran, B.Sc. (Syd.),
B.A. (Cantab.), son of Dr. H. M. Moran
(B. 5/9/’45), has been awarded the Bay-
liss Research Studentship in Mathe-
matics. He has just been released from
war service and will take up residence at
St. John’s College, Cambridge. He was
educated at St. Stanislaus, Bathurst
(N.S.W.), and St. Sydney.
Alec Downer, of Adelaide, has been
released in Singapore. A son of the long-
ago statesman John Downer, he has
announced that politics will be his aim
on getting home again.
Lavington Bonython, whose 70th birth-
day has been honored by Adelaide City
Council, has been in the council, filling
every possible office, all through the cen-
tury. Son of the then more noted Lang-
don Bonython, he provided with him the
unusual double of father and son each
earning a title, for different classes of
work. • The son is still a director of the
“Advertiser,” which the father built up
into what is now Adelaide’s only morn-
ing paper.
Given a further term as superintendent
of the Australian Inland Mission by the
Presbyterian Assembly in Melbourne,
Dr. John Flynn, 0.8. E., will be 66 in
November, but is still as active as when
he established the Flying Doctor services
and the pedal wireless system of com-
munications which, in its time, was the
biggest revolution the people ip the
isolated areas of Australia had experi-
enced. Flynn of the Inland has been
continuously on the work of the mission
in the Centre since 1912.
Qantas and both wars:
The Qantas man here sketched by Scorfield
has sole rights to the distinguished nomenclature
of Garnsey Henry Meade St. Clair Potts, and
he’s that notable air concern’s publicity and
advertising manager. Also, he’s Air Force of
two wars. In the earlier one he went through
the first course at Richmond (N.S.W.) Aviation
School, where the instructors were Capt. W. J.
Stutt and Capt. Andrew Lang (the Lang who in
1919 broke the world’s height record, going up
30,500 ft. in a D.H.9 with a Napier Lion engine).
After serving with No. 3 Squadron, A.F.C.,
Potts had a crack at the England-Australia air
race in a Blackburn Kangaroo, with Hubert
Wilkins as navigator. They cracked up in
Crete. Then Potts was a plantation manager
for Levers in the Solomons for two years,
joining Qantas in 1934. Early in 1.940 he
was called off the reserve on to the active
list, R.A.A.F., and was seconded as or-
ganiser of the Central Recruiting Drive Com-
mittee, which had Donald Cameron as chairman.
Posted next to Air Force H.Q., Potts was later
posted to Northern Area H.Q. as staff officer
organisation; then, in 1942, was back in the
Solomons organising the evacuation of R.A.A.F.
OF QANTAS.
personnel. Northern Area covered a vast stretch
of land and sea —roughly, from Brisbane across
to Port Hedland, up to the Netherlands Indies,
and across, taking in all New Guinea, New
Britain, the Solomons, the New Hebrides and
Noumea, and so back to Brisbane. Pott's has
since got into civvies once more and has been
back on the job with Qantas.
Returned from a world architectural
tour John Francis Deighton Scarborough,
F.R.A.1.A., president of the Royal Aus-
tralian Institute of Architecture, has given
a striking account of what they are doing
in the building line in Sweden. There
he found a Tenants’ Saving Bank and
Building Society, which has built 10.000
apartments in and around Stockholm.
The owners pay 10 p.c. advance and for
2§ years an annual rental smaller than
those ruling generally in the city. At the
end of 20 years they get their houses and
the return of their deposits ; and the cot-
tages are very neat and pretty. One-
tenth of the rural population has been
housed by State aid in this way. Scar-
borough, born at Canterbury (Vic.) and
educated at Melbourne and London Uni-
versities, did research travel into scholas-
tic and ecclesiastical architecture in Eng-
land, the U.S.A., Holland and Italy, and
for two years was associated with Lon-
don and N.Y. .architects. He has a job
with Post-war Reconstruction.
Lajos Steiner, supreme in N.S.W.
chess since he entered it, is now Austra-
lian chess champion, but he had a very
close call —twice beaten, on both occa-
sions by Victorian players, the 64-year-
old C. G. Watson, who has been play-
ing in championships since he was
a boy, and Frank Growl, neither
of whom finished among the leaders.
The young N.Z. champion, Wade,
was a threat even up to the last
day, but with the sort of chess that
makes addicts of the game lyrical, Cecil
Purdy destroyed the youngster’s chances.
Koshnitsky, not in form, took a
sporting line in agreeing to allow his
Australian title to be at stake (the contest
not being a regular one, he could have
objected). The tournament celebrated
the Sydney Chess Club’s jubilee.
Brigadier Arthur Seaforth Blackburn,
V.C., released from a prison camp at
Mukden, in Manchuria, was captured
with his men in Java, after coming from
the Syrian campaign to make a desperate
attempt to stem the Nips flooding down
through the islands from Malaya. Adel-
aide-born, a product of Saint’s and Adel-
aide Uni., and called to the Bar in 1913,
Blackburn won his V.C. while serving
with the 10th Battalion during 1914-18.
While in civvies he was Adelaide’s City
Coroner, and M.H.A. for Sturt, 1918-21.
Now 52, he’s a brother of knight Charles
Bickerton Blackburn, Chancellor of Syd-
ney Uni.
“J.K.”: Douglas Sladen is still going
strong in England. He will be 90 next
February. In 1879 he arrived in Mel-
bourne and graduated B.A. at the Uni-
versity. His uncle, Charles Sladen,
wanted him to take up politics, but in
1887 D.S. returned to England and be-
gan to turn out books. His tally is over
60. He published the first anthology of
Australian verse in 1888. Incidentally, the
only living poet represented in that
volume is John Hewlett Ross, of Mel-
bourne. Sladen has written two
biographies of Adam Lindsay Gordon
and was mainly responsible for the plac-
ing of a bust of the poet in Westminster
Abbey. He wrote one of the earliest
books on Japan and coined the word
“Japs.”
Many of Australia’s future engineering
technicians will owe their careers to les-
sons they received at Melbourne’s Exhi-
bition Buildings, where Wing-Commander
R. G. Francis, here pictured by Mcßeath,
has been C.O. A chemist when World
War 1 came along, he was promptly in
camp at Broadmeadows, but, though the
only one there who could outpace him
was the crack sprinter Sloss (later killed
in France), Francis was put out because
his feet were considered not up to re-
quirements. A second attempt to join up
failing, he got into the A.F.C., and after
57 minutes’ flying in the kites of those
days was classified 0.k., went to England
and thence to France. It was to his hangar
that the German ace Richthofen was
taken after being fatally shot down.
Francis put up an A.F.C. record for
“over the line” flying and a then ’plane
record for France by flying his old kite
441 hours, for which he received a special
commendation from the King. On the
day he got his D.F.C. at Hamel, Francis
spent more than nine hours flying over
WING-COMMANDER REG. FRANCIS
the enemy lines. A little time back, with
a scratch handicap, he cleaned up all
comers five years in succession at the
Commonwealth Victorian Golf Club and
twice the Naval and Military, teaching the
game on the way to Harry Williams.
When he joined up again this time Francis
was running four city pharmacies, but
sold all of them except his headquarters
in Howey-place.
An amazing amount of top-rank sport-
ing achievement has been mixed with oil
in the career of J. C. Blair, deputy chair-
man of Vacuum/Oil in Melbourne. In
1906 he joined the M.C.C. as a tennis
J. C. BLAIR.
champion, having won the singles and
doubles championships of South Australia.
He held the mixed championship of Vic-
toria for three years, and, transferred to
his company’s M.L. office in 1909, he won
the Wellington tennis title of that
year. Bowls next took his fancy, and
he became a member of the four that won
the championship at the Australian
Carnival in Queensland. Bowls champion
of the M.C.C. for several years, he was
recently made a life member of that club.
As well, he takes a great interest in the
Melbourne V.F.L. Club. Born in Prahran
in 1880, he started his business career with
an insurance company and joined the
Vacuum concern 40 years ago.
Invited to a farewell luncheon in Mel-
bourne to General van Oyen, G.O.C. of
the N.E.I. forces in Australia, Group-
Captain Charles Eaton, 0.8. E., was sur-
prised to find himself standing up having
the Order of Commandeurs’ Cross of
Oranje Nassau pinned on his chest by the
general. It is one of the highest honors
in Queen Wilhelmina’s scheme of decor-
ations for Allied services. Group-Captain
Eaton was born in London, served in the
R.F.C. in the last war, saw forestry ser-
vice in India and joined the R.A.A.F. in
1925. He was in command of a new Air
Force squadron at Darwin in 1939, and
when the Pacific war broke out directed
1111 sorties, mainly by Dutch airmen,
which accounted for 107 Jap ships.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide at 71, leading Methodist musician
Montague Finlay. Church-organ music was his
specialty, and every Christmas he produced the
Messiah.
In Sydney, Major Ernest Alexander Walker,
who for 32 years was a master at Scots. Born
in Adelaide, he was educated at Toowoomba
Grammar, and taught at Sydney Grammar and
Rockhampton Grammar before going to Scots.
He served in France in the earlier World War.
“Pas” (Pasquin) Macdonald, the artist who
did “Popular Portraits,” complete with jingle,
in John Norton’s “Truth.” Claimed to have
been the first Australian artist to put lightning
sketches on the vaudeville stage.
At Brighton (Vic.), at 70, Robert Johnstone,
an “ace” in the cycling world at the end of
the last century, and scratch man in most of
the long-distance road and track races in his
State. He was popularly known as “No. 1,”
his allotted number in the League of Victorian
Wheelmen. His associates in the great “Dunlop”
pacing team included such riders as Charlie
Kellow, Bill Martin, Jimmy Carpenter, Ken
Lewis, Bobby Walne, Jack Fitzgerald (also
Victorian sculling champion). An athlete, a
musician, a man of commerce; most of all, a
good fellow.
At Wanganui (M.L.), at 80, Dr. Thomas
Harcourt Ambrose Valintine, former M.L.
Director-General of Health for 10 years. He
hailed originally from England


I.
c
S
LET’S FINISH THE JOI
Support the
4th VICTORY LOAN
BOOKS IN DEMAND
Russia From A to Z. An outstanding work of
unbiassed first-hand information by Dr. H.
A. Freund. Published under the Auspices of
the Australian Institute of International
Affairs. 700 pages. 17/6 (post. 6d,).
Peter Domanig. Morning in Vienna. A re-
markable novel, an unforgettable story—stir-
ring saga by Victor White. 13/6 (post. Bd.).
Gardening With Compost. By F. C. King.
7/3 (post. 3d.).
Mad Grandeur. A novel of the 18th Century
Ireland. By Dr. Gogarty. 10/6 (post. 3d.).
English Public Schools. By Rex Warner, with
eight plates in color, and 30 other illustra-
tions. 6/6 (post. 3d.).
Men of Science In America. Shows the Growth
of Science told in the story of the lives and
achievements of the Scientists themselves by
Jaffe. 30/- (post. 6d.).
The Fundamentals of Chemistry and their
applications in modern life by M. M. Offner.
7/6 (post. 6d.).
The Left Was Never Right. A devastating
rejoinder with some hard hitting by Q.
Hogg, M.P. 7/3 (post. 3d.).
Mean jin Papers. Contemporary Verse and
Prose. Winter number. 2/6 (post. 2d.).
The Fighting American. A war-chest of stories
of American soldiers from the French and
Indian Wars by F. Van Wyck Mason. 22/6
(post. 9d.).
Surgeon Symphony. The long-awaited sequel
to his famous “The Healing Knife” and “A
Surgeon’s Destiny,” by George Sava. 10/-
(post 4d.),
Time’s Winged Chariot. Memories and com-
ments by Ernest Thurtle, the well-known
English Labor Member. 12/6 (post. 5d.).
The English Way. By Maillaud. Pub-
lished by the Oxford University Press. 16/9
(post. 5d.).
The Waiting Tear. By Richard Dimbleby,
author of “The Frontiers are Green.” 12/6
(post. 4d.).
The Vacht Master’s Guide. By Frank G. G.
Carr, a standard work of reference. 64/3
(post. 1/3).
The Secret History of the War. By Waverley
Root. Two Vols. £4 the set (post. 1/9).
Bush Ballads and Galloping Rhymes. By
Adam Lindsay Gordon. New pocket edition
4/- (post. 2d.).
Th" T 'aii of Paris. An epic sory by Bhienberg.
10/6 (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Hawkesbury meeting at Rosehill on
Saturday was a field day for punters with
favorites winning the first three in a row, and it
shed a little light on the big spring events.
There was no appearance of any of the fan-
cied Derby candidates, most of whom had had
their final run in the Rosehill Guineas the
previous week. The Genetout-Pen Name colt,
Columnist, who won the Three-year-old from
Ruawalla and Cavalero, may be given a fun in
the classic. On his two-year-old form the Ajax
colt Magnificent seemed an outstanding Derby
prospect, but following his defeat in the Guineas
by the Hua filly Questing his stocks have
slumped somewhat. Magnificent does give the
impression that, as with his sire, distance is not
really his long suit, byt, unlike his sire, he is
being given a forced preparation for the 12-fur-
longs classic which he is not relishing. Ajax
was not specially prepared for the Derbies and
ran second in both, being beaten in N.S.W.
by Avenger and down south by Hua.
However, Magnificent’s record of seven starts
for four wins and not once unplaced does label
him as the class horse of this season’s rather
unimpressive three-year-olds, and sheer class
will probably prevail at the end of the mile and
a half. So for the A.J.C. Derby, Magnificent,
Monmouth, Questing.
Some of the Epsom and Metropolitan can-
didates turned out for a final wind-up. Making
a reappearance in these parts after a run of
good wins in his home Slate, the Queensland
galloper Repshot won the seven-furlongs
Arthur Dight Handicap from the grey Genetout
horse Tribal, who had tried to lead all the way
and only failed in the last strides. Silent was
third, with Victory Lad finishing very well on
the outside. In winning, Repshot equalled the
track record for seven furlongs, which has been
taking a bit of a battering of late but still
stands at 1.24. It is now held jointly by
Modulation, Tahmoor, Immediate and Repshot.
Warlock won the first division Welter from
Oriental and Eagle Hawk, but High Play’s
fourth was an impressive run from the Epsom
point of view. Another of the New Zealand
brigade and having his second run here, High
Play is by Croupier from Miss Odille. He was
lumping a very solid burden of 10.7, which is
231 b. more than he has in the Epsom, and
losing a lot of ground early in the race he
made it up and was running them down at the
finish. The Kiwis have a very strong hand in
the Epsom with High Play and his stablemate
Immediate. They should be right at their peak
by the week-end, whereas the very hot favorite
Shannon may be a little past his top. Since
coming in this time he has won at his three
starts, one of them a very hard race, and the
20-to-l odds at which he started first up sug-
gested that the public were not the only ones
surprised by his forwardness. So for the
Epsom, High Play or Immediate, with Shannon
next.
The surprise win of the day and a good trial
for the Metropolitan was the Coronation Day
horse Accession’s half-head victory in the nine-
furlongs Clarendon Stakes in which he downed
the New Zealander Sleepy Fox. Sleepy Fox
was favorite at 7-to-2 on, but the crowd pro-
duced a round of hearty applause—a fair tribute
to the winner. Also fancied for the Metrop.,
the Brueghel gelding Silver Link won his third
in a row when he downed Beau Monde and
Kiaree in the Hawkesbury Grand Handicap at
11 furlongs. Silver Link is well in the Metro-
politan with 7.6, but the winning margins of
his three recent wins—half-head, half-neck and
a head —indicate three hard races and suggest
that he may have had enough. As an addi-
tional discourager, his regular rider, A Mulley,
landed two months’ suspension following his
win in the Grand Handicap.
Flight, with 9.2, has the proverbial grand-
stand to carry in (he 13-furlongs event,
but she’s a grand mare, looks in better fettle
this time up, can handle any amount of weight
and should be very hard to beat in decent
going. Of the lightweights and rough ’uns the
Buzzard horse Buzz Off, who won the Winter
Stakes over the Metropolitan distance, might
have a pretty fair show. At any rate, for the
Metropolitan, Flight, Accession, Silver Link.
* * * *
Possibly with the approach of the big spring
meetings form becomes more honest. Punters
also had a great day at Mentone on, Saturday,
the seven winners comprising four outright
favorites, two second favorites and the out-
sider an equal third favorite at fives. • The
other feature of the day was the continuation
of R. Heather’s trot of successes; three the
previous week and four more on Saturday.
Heather started the day by bringing home
the winners of both divisions of the Midlothian
Handicap, over seven furlongs, and confined to
maiden three-year-olds. Rose Bay (Le Grand
Duc-Nahu) had a comfortable win in the first
with Fillibeg and Standard Time filling the
places. In the second division the Dhoti colt
Hakim beat Latani and Lindsay’s Gift.
The current crop of three-year-olds in Mel-
bourne seems of much better class than the
Sydney bunch, and several of them have won
good-class open-company handicaps which none
of the Sydneyites has done as yet. Adding
to the number, the Hellespont-Rivette colt
River Hero was not greatly troubled to beat
Burma and Gala Chief in the six-furlongs
Ascot Thousand. Last week’s winner Solon,
Regal Coin and Oxford Street were among
those who finished behind him. River Hero
was ridden by Heather, who then had his
fourth win on Bootle (Enfield-Miss Devlin),
who was too good for Queen Midas and Codicil
in the Desborough Handicap at 10i furlongs.
Two other events were confined to three-year-
olds; the Nullabor Handicap at a mile and the
Bradford Handicap, a furlong shorter and re-
stricted to fillies. Both provided close finishes.
Confirming the promise he showed the previous
week, Morbell, a Felcrag colt, was a neck too
good for Liberty Law, with Kinderson third.
Of the fillies, Irish Gem was installed favorite
and won it by a head from Early Love and Miss
Ajax.
* - ♦ * *
For Randwick (before acceptances).
First Day:
Three-year-old: Eagle Hawk, 1; Wheatland,
2; The Gaekwar, 3. A.J.C. Derby: Magnifi-
cent, 1; Monmouth, 2; Questing, 3. Epsom
Handicap: Immediate, 1; High Play, 2;
Shannon, 3. Colin Stephen Stakes: Accession,
1; Craigie, 2; Russia, 3. Squatters’ Handicap:
Repshot, 1; Prince, 2; Wellesley, 3.
Second Day:—
Breeders’ Plate: Of these unraced two-year-
olds the Ajax colt Havoc looks a good one and
may win it. The Shorts: Vermeil, 1; Petu-
lance, 2; Victory Lad, 3. George Main Stakes:
Sleepy Fox, 1; High Play, 2; Immediate, 3.
Metropolitan: Flight, 1; Accession, 2; Silver
Link, 3. Members’ Handicap: Lakshmi Vallis,
1; Volley, 2; Standsure, 3. Suburban Handi-
cap : Puff ham, 1; Prince, 2; Active Service, 3.
* * * *
The Betting Control Board in S.A. has had
to consider the pay-out on the Port' Adelaide
Guineas. Norwich (Shakuni-Surfine) was
thought such a certainty that a lot of wager-
ing one and two took place, with Chatspa
(Chatham-Amalspa) as the second, but they
ran a dead-heat. The tote paid (for 55.) 3s. 6d.
and 18s. 6d. (As has happened more than once
lately, the place tote gave Norwich a better
return than the “win,” ss. 6d.) The 8.C.8.’s
decision on the one-two bets is “backers to re-
ceive half the amount ‘invested’ and half the
odds.” Norwich is to be given a chance in
Melbourne, at the Wakefield Stakes and the
Oaks.
* * * *
Galway Pipe (Caithness-Kiss Curl) is the
odd name of a recent winner in Adelaide. One
of its joint owners, Hill Smith, of Angaston
(a nephew of Clem Hill), explains that the
family Yalumba winery has provided names for
several racehorses. Forty years ago the then
Governor Galway, of S.A., allowed a pipe of
port that he specially liked to be named after
him, and the name lingers on.
• * ♦ ♦
Carlton is to meet South Melbourne in
the “grand” final of the V.F.L. next
Saturday, though both the team and its
supporters are still wondering how they
did it. Against Collingwood last Satur-
day the Blues played like a Wednesday
suburban grocers’ team for three-quarters.
The Magpies happily seized the oppor-
tunity to boot goals, and with 11.7 to 6.9
at the final change were already howling
“Bring on South Melbourne.” They
clapped on another goal at once. Then
came a free-for-all out of which Collins
(Carlton) snapped a brilliant mark and
goal. It pulled the side together, and in
a wild and whirling finish, during which
Collins kicked three more goals, Carl-
ton’s stamina told. It won by 13.12 to
12.8, having scored 7 goals to 1 in the
last 20 minutes.
* * * •
Bob Quinn, captain of Port Adelaide,
had the 1945 Magarey medal handed to
him as his team took the field to beat
Norwood in the “preliminary final.”
Quinn won it before in 1938, since when
he has been away earning a Military
Medal in a more strenuous fight.
* * * *
Woonona-Bulli’s defeat of Metters by
five goals to two in the Sydney Soccer
football final on Saturday repeated last
year’s final when Woonona defeated
Metters by six goals to two. Centre-for-
ward Tom Rumley played the game of
his life, and between ambulance attention
scored four goals for the winners.
♦ * * *
Sydney premiership cricket begins this
week. The N.S.W.C.A. has looked after
Services players (“and those affected
by the housing shortage”). It has a new
rule which stipulates that “any player who
played with a club prior to the commence-
ment of the war and during the war will
be allowed to continue with such club for
this season only, notwithstanding his
present place of abode.”
• * * *
Into well-earned retirement:
Unless he has a change of heart, Clarence
Victor (“Clarrie”) Grimmett will henceforth
watch rep. cricket from the barrackers’ seats.
Whatever his disputed age, he has done a great
job for Australian cricket. A rattling good
effort of 5 for 45 and 6 for 37 v. Gilligan’s
English XI in the fifth Test at Sydney in Feb.,
1925, got him his place in the 1926 Australian
team to England. There he missed the first and
second Tests, but in the third at Leeds took
7 for 147, in the fourth at Manchester 1 for 85,
and 5 for 18 in the fifth at Kennington Oval.
Thereafter batsmen appeared to be just bpm
for him t q bowl. Grimmett has remarkable
figures to show for his trips to England:
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Average.
1926.. 905 ' 272 2055 120 17.12
1930.. 1013 262 2425 144 16.84
1934.. 1027 326 2246 115 19.53
Yet they are dimmed by his efforts in first-
class matches:
Tests v. England.
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Average.
1527 427 3439 106 32.44
Tests v. S. Africa.
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Average.
654 248 1197 77 15.57
Sheffield Shield.
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Average.
3558 443 2976 513 25.29
Grimmett’s greatest - match effort in Sheffield
Shield cricket was 9 for 180 and 7 for 109 for
South Aus. v. Queensland at Adelaide, Dec.,
1934; and he is among the select few who have
taken all 10 wickets in an innings (for 37 v.
Yorkshire at Sheffield, in 1930).
Goodness knows how many miles he has rim
and walked and how many wickets he has
taken altogether since he first played with
Mount Cook School at Wellington (M.L., he
was born at Dunedin); later in Sydney grade
cricket with Leichhardt, Paddington and
Sydney; in Victoria with South Melbourne and
Prahran; and finally in South Australia. Small
wonder that the little iron man towards the end
of his great career was noted with a bent back
and a dragging leg!
♦ • « •
Dr. Morton, president of the V.C.A.,
made the first definite statement on the
revival of big cricket in Australia —that
the Australian Board of Control desires
a visit from an English side in 1946-47.
The Services XI is to play in India on the
way home, and also in matches in Aus-
tralia. There will be no Sheffield Shield
games.
♦ • ♦ •
The U.S.A. is in with the first challenge
to Australasia for the Davis Cup (stored
away since 1939), and the A.L.T.A. has
scheduled the match to be played at Koo-
yong (Vic.) next year. Australasia won
the last challenge at Haverford (Phila-
delphia) in 1939 (26 nations competing)
by 3 matches to 2. The Australians lost
two matches on the first day, but won
brilliantly on the second day in the
doubles and the two singles. Only twice
in Davis Cup history (in 1930, when Great
Britain defeated Germany, and 1934,
when U.S.A. defeated Australasia) has the
side losing the first two matches come
out on top. Australasia’s first Cup win
was at Wimbledon over British Isles in
1907 ; then came wins over U.S.A. at Mel-
bourne in 1908, and U.S.A. at Sydney
in 1909. Losing to British Isles at Mel-
bourne in 1912, Australasia recovered the
Cup by defeating U.S.A, at New York in
1914, and held it through World War I
years, when, as in this later war, there
was no competition. When the Cup con-
tests were revived in 1919 Australasia de-
feated British Isles at Sydney, but next
year lost to U.S.A. at Auckland.
♦ * • •
Sapper Harry Sinclair, reported alive
and well in a Siam p.-0.-w. camp, was
amateur golf champion of Australia in
1924-25, Queensland champion and
winner of the Queensland open. He
turned pro. and was attached to War-
wick and Nudgee clubs before going
to Grafton (N.S.W.), whence he enlisted.
* * ♦ ♦
Retiring as president, J. C. Rundle be-
comes vice-patron—the first —of the S.A.
Bowling Association, in recognition of
37 years’ service. He was president since
1933, and delegate to the Australian
Bowling Council since 1922. A keen
organiser of football and cricket 50 years
back, he has been vice-president of the
Sturt Football Club since 1908.
♦ * * *
Featherweight Leo Robbo took another
hiding at Leichhardt, this time from Sid
Knight. For ten rounds he outboxed
the younger and heavier lad and had only
to last two rounds to win on points. But
in those two rounds Knight fought fero-
ciously, and soon after they shook hands
for the last a flurry of fists knocked
Robbo to his hands and knees.. A right
to the chin floored him for nine seconds,
and another spreadeagled him again.
Then referee Les Pearson intervened to
save him further harm, more than enough
having been done already.
The Maoriland lightweight AI Stock,
though merely a slugger who can take it,
was always too good for Archie Rash at
the Sydney Stadium. Rash didn’t seem
to care for his contract, and often angered
onlookers by hanging on. Although
many of Stock’s wild swings missed, he
connected with enough of them to make
a “points” decision in his favor the only
one possible.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The citizens need no bidding to give
the men who are returning from the wars
abroad a welcome such as only Austra-
lians can give. As the home-coming
servicemen and women drive down
Collins-street, past The Bulletin office,
shops and offices empty and the occupants
gather on the kerb to wave a greeting.
Last week they turned out to give the men
who manned the submarines a grand
welcome. First port of call in the city
was the Town Hall, where Mayor Con-
nelly and councillors gave welcome and
an official luncheon.
Conibere Hall was filled by the 150
guests invited to a buffet luncheon by
Mrs. Essington Lewis, president, and the
Y.W.C.A. directors. Guests included
members of the Consular Corps and their
wives, businessmen and representatives of
many organisations. The party was in-
tended to introduce Miss Helen Brocker,
newly-appointed secretary of Melbourne
branch. Miss Brocker, a graduate of the
University of Kansas, where she obtained
degrees in music, science and education,
has been associated with the Y.W.C.A.
since leaving college. Before coming to
Australia she was with the National
Y.W.C.A. in New York. In a short talk
to the guests Miss Brocker expressed her
admiration for the work done in this
country by the Y.W.C.A. She suggested
that now that the war is over hostels will
be needed for girls, especially for ’teen-
agers, whose life has been disrupted.
Already the Y.W.C.A. has made a start
in this direction with a club in Foots-
cray. Among Y.W.C.A. workers at the
luncheon was Gwen Greig in a natty red
suit and full of plans for a Village Fair,
which will be opened by Lady Dugan on
September 28 at the Town Hall. At night
the Lower Town Hall will take the place
of the village green, and dancers will
make merry. All the proceeds will help
the work of the Y.W.C.A.
The committee of the Ministering
Children’s League has proved that many
hands make light work. With Lady
Dugan as patroness and Mrs. Walter
Carnegie as president the branches have
just stocked and run a Sale of Gifts, part
of an effort to raise £lOOO. Two seaside
homes are maintained, one at Hampton
and the other at Queenscliff, where
children can be given a two-weeks’ holi-
day in the most pleasant surroundings.
Such a vacation helps youngsters recover-
ing from an illness. Children of service-
men have preference.
The opening ceremony of the Sale of
Gifts, held at Glen’s, right on Collins-
street, was performed by the Mayoress,
Mrs, Bernard Heinz. She was received
by Mrs. Walter Carnegie and the Mc-
Pherson lady, joint organisers. Mrs. M.
A. Hewison, as treasurer, was at the shop
each day, and branches were represented
by women who had worked hard all the
year to 'make the lovely things on sale.
Most popular were knitted bed jackets,
nightgowns, pyjamas and children’s wear.
Best of all, everything was coupon-free.
The reception-room at the Town Hall
was attractive with large groupings of
crab-apple blossoms, sweet-peas and other
spring flowers when Mayor Connelly and
Mayoress Mrs. Heinz gave their first offi-
cial afternoon party. Guests of honor
were Norman Martin, M.L.A., newly-
appointed Victorian Agent-General, and
his wife. Mrs. Heinz officiated in a
black matt crepe frock ornamented with
narrow' kilted frills, a sable cape and tiny
panama hat in bright blue with ostrich
feathers in the same glowing shades
grouped on the crown. Over a black
frock Mrs. Martin donned a black Ameri-
can broadtail coat; her small black hat
was trimmed with a large pale-pink rose.
In her muff of matching fur she pinned
her presentation posy of orchids.
Two former Agents-General were at
the party, knights Linton and Bussau, and
from them the new appointee gathered
much useful information which he will
take with him to London. Mrs. Harold
Wotton had black Persian lamb lapels on
her black coat, and the brilliant clip fast-
ened in her large black hat was matched
with one worn in the neckline of her
black frock. Flying-Officer Frank Wil-
liams, youngest member of the City Coun-
cil, brought his wife Margaret to the
party. Out of uniform for this occasion
(Margaret is a nursing sister at Heidel-
berg Military Hospital), she was smart in
a beige frock and matching hat. During
the party Mayor and councillors went to
the entrance of the Town Hall to wel-
come the Army veterans who were driv-
ing through the city. Guests went on to
the portico, and loud were their cheers
as these bronzed men drove through the
streets they had not seen for many years.
In recent months many boys and girls
from suburban clubs have been the guests
of the U.S.A. Information Library. On
these visits they have been shown educa-
tional films and movie cartoons and have
listened to short lectures on America.
These entertainments take place once a
fortnight in the basement of the library,
and the youngsters enjoy them very much.
Under the guidance of Mrs. Helen
Wessells, director of the library, informa-
tion on almost every subject has been
given to Australians seeking knowledge.
Mrs. Rupert is now in control of the
library, Mrs. Wessells being absent on a
visit to her country, and Gwen Johnson,
an Australian lass, runs the talkie
sessions. Gwen is also secretary of Fair-
bank Old Grammarians and arranges the
functions of this old girls’ association.
Next on that list is a dinner party in the
Victoria Banquet Hall on Octpber 1.
The Melbourne Little Theatre, South
Yarra, is attracting representatives of the
various arts into its fold, not only on the
acting but on the administrative side.
Latest recruit to the latter side is Jean
Campbell, pictured by Frischmann, who
becomes secretary of the Little Theatre.
She has for long been one of its best
known actresses, specialising in roles of a
subtly sinister character. Her new duties
take up three days of her busy week, for
she has promised herself that with the war
over she will get on with her writing.
This work has been in abeyance for the
last three and a half years while she was
engaged on a war job. Jean has already
written three books. Brass and Cymbals,
Greek Key Pattern and The Babe Is Wise.
Fritz Hart through illness was unable
to conduct his Nativity play “Even Unto
Bethlehem” when it was presented for the
first time in Melbourne. He composed
this work in Honolulu and brought it
with him when he returned to this country
for the Jubilee of the Melbourne Con-
servatorium. It was the students of this
Conservatorium who presented it at His
Majesty’s Theatre. Preceding the play
other students sang excerpts from opera,
conducted by Hector Crawford. Most
colorful of these excerpts was an act from
“The Flying Dutchman.” At the home of
Darland, a mariner, girls sat in gay
national costumes spinning. In this act
Maureen Boyce, as Senta, sang the lament
which is one of the most famous songs in
opera. A scene from “Aida” was also
presented. Vera Terry in the name part
wore an ivory-tinted tunic trimmed with
gold. As Amneris Wilma Whitney
appeared in a white satin gown appliqued
in gold and green and ornamented with
gold embroidery and fringe. Over this
she wore a green satin cloak and upon
her head was the gilded insignia of royal
Egypt finished with a white plume.
Scenes from Nikcolai’s “Merry Wives of
Windsor” and Donizetti’s “Daughter of
the Regiment” were also on the pro-
gramme.
The windows of the Orient Line offices
display the food which is the weekly
ration of all classes of the United King-
dom. At these offices, Bankes Amery,
on behalf of the Orient Line, met citizens
and gave them a talk on the food situa-
tion. He is the leader of the United King-
dom Food Mission to Australasia. He
says British women still line up in queues
and wear themselves out trying to obtain
supplies of foods which cannot, because
they are so perishable, be rationed. Vic-
tory Day in Europe brought only reduced
rations of meat, bacon, cheese, cooking
fats and even soap. In an endeavor to
help these people, who have for so long
endured the hardships of war, Mayor
Connelly has called a meeting to devise
ways whereby Melbourne can help con-
vince the women of Britain they are not
neglected and forgotten.
From Sydney
Newspaper critics have been every
now and then having a spot of
fun flinging a pot of ink in the face
of the local artist. This time it is
the sixty-sixth yearly exhibition of the
R.A.S. that gets the impact. But, suppose
one of these days the artists turn and
fling a pot of paint into the face of the
writers. Suppose they tell us what they
think of each of us as a writer,* criticise
our style, our English and publicly tell us
what grade we are in compared with the
great literature of the world, tell us, in
short, their views on our art —abstract,
objective, impressionist or post-impres-
sionist.
The show was opened last Friday by
Minister for Education Hefifon, who
delivered his speech from a dais, the
corners of which were resplendent with
bowls of mixed spring flowers. The gal-
leries were crowded, and there was a
heartening rash of “sold” stickers —in
value about £l5O0 —before the word “go.”
Critics or no critics, people rushed the
private view, when mopping-up operations
were very satisfactory. The National
Gallery and the Marshall Bequest were
buyers, Jimmy Jackson’s “Viaduct Sod
Walls” being bought by the latter for 150
guineas. Erik Langker’s seascape, with
its tumultuous waves, has a Shelley-like
quality. John Salvana is still captured by
the mystery of the Australian bush. And
as a sidelight on this artist you should
hear him quote “Banjo” Paterson and
Henry Lawson. He told a story, too, of
his first moment of enchantment in the
world of art: At that time he was a
’prentice lad on a few shillings a week.
He was always fascinated by painting,
and one day, seeing an art show adver-
tised in an old skating rink in York-street,
he went in. There he saw the work of
the then active Tom Roberts, Streeton,
Condor, Mahony, Lambert. It was the
breath-taking experience of his life.
One of the most blithesome exhibits is
Freda Robertshaw’s “Windy Day at Car-
long’s Farm.” H. Nevill-Smith is among
the water-color exhibitors. Among the
sculpture, all by women this year, the
head of “The Laughing Airman” caught
every eye. There was a rumor being
whispered that the Duchess would visit
the show one day. If she goes then she
wifi be attracted by the portrait study of
her small son Prince William, by Dora
Toovey. Among the visitors were Dr.
May, of the Northern Territory, and Mrs.
Erik Langker, whose frock had the
blues and greens of peacocks’ feathers
in its texture. President Howard Ashton
was congratulated on his landscapes,
Sylvia Fisher, the Melbourne soprano,
already a favorite with Sydney listeners,
will be one of the soloists at the Red
Cross concert in the Town Hall on
October 13. This will be the last concert
arranged by the Alexander Gordon lady
before she sails for England. She looks
forward to getting away in January.
Music for the “Persephone” ballet, com-
posed by Noel Mewton-Wood, will be
given to the world for the first time on
this date.
An excited group of V.As. have de-
parted in the aircraft-carrier H.M.S. For-
midable for duties in the Far East. They
are the first V.Asi to serve in a voluntary
capacity outside Australia. They were
chosen from almost 100 applicants, and
all have had several years’ experience in
Sydney’s military and general hospitals.
There are four married women in the
group, one of them, Mrs. Ann Robinson,
whose 20-year-old son is in the A.I.F.
Mrs. Robinson has the distinction of hav-
ing served in England with the V.A.D.
during 1914-1918.
No longer a musical Cinderella to its
big sister, the vestibule of the Town Hall
has been proved by Lionel Lawson to be
a good setting for music of charm. Lionel
presented a recital of chamber music last
Saturday afternoon, and considering how
long it generally takes this city to be-
come used to a new idea —“music on a
Saturday afternoon, my dear, why not
go to the beaches?” —the audience was of
promising size. The musicians were in
the midst of the room, and the seats were
arranged at each end. Lionel Lawson,
Robert Acheson, Edward Walford, Carl
Gotsch and Laurence Godfrey Smith
were the musicians. Raymond Nilsson
was the tenor in Vaughan Williams’s “On
Wenlock Edge.” The programme opened
with Malipiero’s “Songs in Madrigal
Style.” There was an air about the pro-
grammes. Each was decorated with a
reproduction of Austin Platt’s etching of
the Town Hall.
The Rupert Wilsons, of Oberon, came
to town last week on affairs connected
with the handsome Aberdeen Angus. In
between they entertained and were enter-
tained. On the way home Mrs, Wilson,
now president of the C.W.A. Central
Western Group, stopped at Lithgow on
association affairs. Being president of
the Central Western means a bit of travel-
ling, the circuit taking in all the domain-
between Portland and Eugowra. Per-
sonal appearance is set down for Mrs.
Wilson next month at Orange for the
C.W.A. Conference, at which radio per-
sonality Heath . Burdock will be guest
speaker.
It’s going to be one of those nights at
the Town Hall on October 9. There are
to be floor shows—two of them, one at
half-past nine, the other an hour later.
Small tables for individual parties will
be set beneath the galleries. There will
be turkey (or at least chicken) for supper.
Consular representatives and big chiefs
of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force
will be present, and will be received with
some ceremony by the Mayor and
Mayoress. The title of the affair explains
its object—the A.C.F. Victory Ball. Mrs.
Sam Jones and Alderman Becker are the
joint organisers. The R.S.L. Victory Balk
which was first dated for October 9, has
now been postponed till November 20.
News from a Sydney traveller in
U.S.A.:
Los Angeles is a beautiful city. All the
buildings and houses are white, the streets
tree-lined, and instead of being separated by
ugly fences the houses are divided from theix
neighbors by trim hedges. This house, on
Silver Ridge-avenue, is surrounded by Austra-
lian eucalypts. The shops are just laden with
luxurious-looking goods. I haven’t bought
anything, but have had to shorten all my
dresses. Old and young alike wear them knee
high. Carrie Moore is here, and on July 4,
while she was watching a cricket match, a
voice over the mike announced that “Carrie
Moore, beloved by all Australians, is in the
audience!” It was the signal for many from
different stands to seek her out. Carrie is ex-
pecting to start work soon —films and radio.
I am going out to Cecil Kellaway’s farm on
Sunday. These days his hair is tinted straw
color, as he is doing a technicolor film.
Among celebrities I have met Peter Shaw, a
nephew of Bernard. He is just discharged from
the R.N. Peter was art .director for “Wuther-
ing Heights.” •
Father Dunlea’s “family” is growing
up. All the Commonwealth has heard
of the splendid work for Australia started
by Father Dunlea when he founded his
Boys’ Town. That needs no stressing.
Last week one of the three original citi-
zens of Boys’ Town, L.A.C. Mickey
Rooney, was married to Shirley Elizabeth
Jackson in All Hallows Church, Five
Dock. Shirley’s father is R. S. Jackson,
shipwrights’ secretary. Father Dunlea
was the priest who united the two.
Fashion is not to have it all her own
way on Coogee beach. The too, too
abbreviated swim suit, the funny little
rearguard action affair which, on any but
a herring-bone figure, would rather sug-
gest a pudding cloth, and the one
shoulder-strap bra. have been looked
upon askance by Coogee beach officials,
who have said such are unsuitable
for that golden strand. One of the big
city stores is reported as announcing that
the suits are intended for wear only on
private beaches and for garden sun-bath-
ing. And that sounds the explanation
of sophistication.
From Mrs. Ivy Moore’s pen has come
in book form a number of sketches of
historic spots around Sydney and some
further afield. The opening description
is one of Admiralty House. Garden
Island, Fort Denison and other harbor
landmarks are dealt with in concise and
illuminating fashion. Of interest to* tour-
ists will be the pages given to Koala Park
and to Nanima, on the Lachlan.
Mrs. Persia Porter and Mrs. H. Gough
are the newly-appointed assistant con-
trollers of V.A.Ds. of this' State. Mrs.
Porter is, as she expresses it, “one
hundred per cent. Red Cross. Mrs.
Gough has been attached for some years
to St. John Ambulance, and has been
doing V.X. work for over a decade.
Coralie Poolman and Dorothy Wilby,
now in Melbourne, were the former
assistant-controllers of V.A.Ds. in this
State. t US |


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of AMELIA
ALICE MAY JOHNSTON last heard of some years
ago at Dubbo New South Wales (but formerly of
Kent Flats, Campbell Parade Bondi) kindly com-
municate with CLAYTON UTZ & COMPANY Solici-
tors 136 Liverpool Street Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JACK RANDALL late of Bathurst.—TAKE
NOTICE that ERNEST LESLIE TREUER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1462 of 1946 against his
wife WINIFRED MARY TREUER on the ground of
her adultery with you If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 6th day of
November 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin Place Sydney.—(n.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST WILLIAM CLARKE of Sydney New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that IRENE LOUISE
CLARKE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2867
of 1945 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney before
the 22nd of October 1945 arid obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from W. H. MANN Solicitor
247 George Street Sydney New South Wales. —(L. 8.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RONALD KEITH WARD late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that PHYLLISS WARD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1063 of 1945 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 22nd day of October 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from R. J. M. FOORD Solicitor 90 Pitt Street
Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Are you always weary
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain
then take a course of
registered
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
grained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
worlt right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally; piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What Is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
answers the question that
everybody Is asking. In simple
terms it explains Just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
TABLETS
that Elasto is not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It •» this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
"‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 B,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still,. get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
df
££a4&r y<m. /
BUY
y
j
j
nTORY
th
LOAN
* BONDS *
TOE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Inc. bn England)
HOMEBUSH N.&W,
df
R.ll/4S
SMOKE-OH!
“He sits and stares at his victim until she
is mesmerised.” — "New Idea.”
Making passes at her, the while.
*b *b *b *b •
“He speaks little, but his eyes say volumes
—and really ought to be censored.”
—“New Idea.”
Blue eyes, needless to say.
*b *b., *b .
Ex-service nurse, war widow, pleasant dis-
position, like to meet soldier or p.-0.-w., tall;
no objection to two children, age 33 to 40.
— “S. M. Herald.”
No kiddies in rompers for her.
•b *b *b ’l*
“A psychologist expressed the opinion that
Sonia was a victim of schizophrenia (spit
personality).”— “Daily Mirror.”
Evidently suffering from delusions that
she was a llama.
•b *b *b *b
“Gungoats immediately dropped rockets on
the enemy positions.”— Melbourne “Herald-”
They butted in.
•b *b *b *b
•b *b *b *b
“Seeds of the following plants may now be
sown: marigolds, calendulas, English dairies.”
—“Sunday Mail.”
So that’s where the milkweeds come
from.
■b *b *b * ....
“A dead man rode a horse into third place
at Dartmoor (Eng.).”— “D.T.”
That’s news; generally it’s the live
man who rides dead horse. ,
“Widow wants small self-octained flat or half
cottage.” —Suburban paper.
Gas appliances must be in first-class
order.
•b *b *b *b
“Billiard balls, numbered, lost on train.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Anybody pocketing these will be on the
spot. *
•b *b *b *b
Some of these old hens can be amaz-
ingly cocky.
•b *b *b *b
A sugar daddy does not necessarily
have to be refined.
•b *b *b *b
“She came back from her travels considerably
slimmer than when she went abroad.”
—Biographical item.
Evidently she’d been round,
•b *b *b *b
•b *b *b *b
“Tambakis was fined £5, and ordered to pay
£2 13s. 3d. in lieu of one week’s notice on the
first charge, and was fined £lO, and ordered to
pay £4 IQs. sd. on account of holiday pay, on
the second charge. A pleasant function was
concluded by dancing and vocal items.”
—Roma “Western Star”
The star turn, we understand, was the
defendant’s rendering of “Bless ’em All.”
•b *b *b *b
On the Nose.
The Deputy Assistant Manager of
Government Piscatorial .Undertakings (in-
variably referred to for brevity by pro-
fessional fishermen as D.A.M.0.G.P.U.)
was showing a visitor round.
“You will observe,” he said, indicating
with a wave of his hand the police who,
as well as guarding in force every exit,
were massed solidly at the barriers where
the buyers congregated, “the way in
which the blessings of a Government-run
industry are distributed. Under the vicious
system of private enterprise the presence
of the police here was not encouraged.
There were never any free fights for
dwindling supplies of fish, no angry
demonstrations; in short, stagnation
ruled. We altered all that. Now, 1
believe, the Commissioner is considering
putting on another 50 constables to help
us control the markets. Isn’t it wonder-
ful? That means more employment. The
country should thank us for having em-
barked on such a sound venture.”
“Then it will yield profits?”
The D.A.M.O.G.P.U. looked at the
visitor with an eye in which sternness was
blended with a certain pity. “My good
sir,” he said, “the profit motive is a relic
of a barbarian capitalism. The bigger
our deficit the greater the measure of our
success. As business shrinks —the inevit-
able, logical and highly desirable aim of
any Government undertaking worthy the
name —and the staff has had time to grow
our deficits should become immense.
Don’t forget the spendthrift is of more
value to the community than the man
who saves, particularly applicable to Gov-
ernment-run concerns like ours, and we
do our best to give the taxpayer, if not
exactly a run for his money, at least a
fast walk.”
“And the producers—l suppose they
send in what fish they like?”
The D.A.M.O.G.P.U. bent on the visi-
tor a look such as Sir Thomas Beecham
might give a concertgoer caught rustling
his programme during an andante move-
ment. “My dear fellow,” he replied.
“We tell them what they must catch. It's
no use their trying to send us, say, a
lot of mullet just because they get among
a big school of them. That might be
at a time when we are striving to popu-
larise wirrah or gummy shark. Mind,
it’s not that we don’t give them any
choice. Actually, they enjoy the option
of sending the stuff we specify or letting
unauthorised fish they’ve caught rot on
the beach. Naturally we have squads of
inspectors keeping a tag on them to see
they don’t market the stuff elsewhere.
Shortly we hbpe to appoint another fifty
inspectors, whose job will be to inspect
that first lot of inspectors.”
“But what about the public’s desire as
to the choice of fish?”
The D.A.M.O.G.P.U. threw back his
head and laughed. “The public? My good
fellow, they’ll eat what we want them to
eat! Why else did we take the markets
over? For too long has a capitalistic
monopoly pandered to tastes which it
indulged with such seafoods as whiting
and snapper. We aim to get people used
to wirrah, catfish, squid and other types
which* are not so well known as they
deserve to be. We are about to launch a
£25,000 publicity campaign to popularise
shark. We haven’t quite decided whether
Our slogan shall be ‘Blue-pointer for the
Breakfast Table’ or ‘lnstead of Shark Eat-
ing Man, Reverse It!’—the winning slogan
gets £lOOO. The public will eat shark
and like it. In six months you’ll find
there’ll not be a redfish, cod or whiting
being caught'. Also, we have a large
research staff at present working on plans
to increase the birthrate among wirrah,
bony bream and catfish.”
“Excuse me, but what’s that minor riot
going on over there?”
“Oh, it’s just that some of the more
unreasonable buyers haven’t yet become
reconciled to the view that permanent
shortages and high-ceiling prices must be
accepted as the right thing. Govern-
ment control will ensure that, in theory
at all events, all buyers will be treated
with equal arrogance—after all, they only
spend their cash with us. Of course, we
can’t hope yet to have a man, used to
getting ten cases of assorted fish, to be-
come content to take half a case of grey-
nurse fillets after waiting six hours in a
queue. These things take time to
organise.”
“And phew! There’s something
around here that’d knock you down.”
The D.A.M.etc. took one injudiciously
hearty sniff. When the color began to
return to his gills and his eyeballs
became parallel again he spoke—rather
weakly, but the '‘note of triumph in his
voice was unmistakable. “That’s the day
before yesterday’s consignment,” he said.
“We hope to finalise the issue of it today.
We’re only waiting for the Chief Clerk
to get the list of approved buyers okayed
at the Trades Hall.”
80.
Vocational Guidance.
“Parents.—Have your Daughter Taught an
Occcupation that will be Useful to Her in
After Life.” — “S.M.H.” advt.
When for the big, wide world we fitted
The budding ego of our daughter.
The education that we bought her
Had no ingredient omitted;
Though critics envious and carping
Greeted the news with raucous
laughter.
In readiness for her hereafter
She learned the rudiments of harping.
But'when we noticed, later on,
That our prospective paragon
Was staying out till two and smoking,
And getting down on Father’s rum,
We altered her curriculum,
And made her take a course in stoking .
P. M. LUSK.
Challenge.
Oh, grim, sadistic Fate!
Vile, illegitimate Fate!
A shame it is to see
The things you do to me!
Intangible, unseen.
You take a low and mean .
Advantage, for I ne’er
Can fight the empty air.
But if, before I die.
You dare solidify.
You’ll be with violent action
Bashed back into abstraction!
T. W. NATHTN .
Sequence.
I gazed on the butterfly, thin-winged and
white.
And exclaimed “Spring is here!” in a
tone of delight.
Then I saw that the sky was a smooth,
silken blue.
That redness was leaping from coral-
trees, too.
And that green life had edged from an
old English oak ;
But my rapture was shattered on hearing
a croak.
It came from a crow flying over a park.
Then that coarse-throated, black-coated
cynical nark
Squawked: “You and your harbingers!
' Now, I’ll be bound,
I know that it’s spring when the blow-
flies are round!”
EVE MERRITTTHE BULLETIN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“I Accuse”
I trust those eager searchers for war
criminals do not forget they can' get
good hunting right at home.
Our fellows at Singapore were
armed chiefly with political promises
—which was no fit weapon to fight
the Jap. Someone must have known
that someone in authority. We
have yet to have a satisfactory explana-
tion of the accusation in Dr. Wand’s
book that the Australian Government left
the Eighth Division there after being
warned by Churchill that the position
could not possibly be held. John Curtin
is reported to have replied that he “did
not regard Dr. Wand as a competent mili-
tary critic.” That might be good Parlia-
mentary repartee, but it is poor solace
to a crippled man or a bereaved parent.
Then there was the debacle of Rabaul,
If it intended to hold Rabaul why
was not a force left there that would
have a chance of holding it? If the place
was not to be held why were men left
there to be massacred?
Lately the papers have unearthed a dif-
ference of opinion between MacArthur
and Blarney about island-hopping. Mac-
Arthur was against any unnecessary loss
of American or Australian life. He held
(and he was right) that the proper people
to mop up the islands were the Japs
themselves.
I, as a father, do not blame the Japs
for shooting down my son. It was their
duty. But I do most certainly blame the
so-called leaders in Australia who gave
my boy no chance. — Dad (Q,).
Ethics and Atomic Bombs
There has been some muttering from
churchmen and others outraged by the
use of the atomic bomb. “Inhuman war-
fare!” is the standard cry.
Are these people indulging in ill-
chosen satire, or do they believe
that there is any kind of warfare
other than the inhuman kind? If
they do believe that such a paradox
exists, it would be interesting, to know
what kind of mass murder they consider
to fall into the “human warfare”
category. Perhaps it would be slow roast-
ing to death, obligingly supplied by
whole blocks of incendiary bomb fires.
It might be torturous dismemberment by
the effects of high-explosive and incen-
diary bombs.
The atomic bomb starts off the explo-
sion of atoms, and is met by sympathetic
explosions from other atoms within a
certain radius. All matter being com-
posed of certain basic elements, the
atoms in the human body enter into
these sympathetic explosions. In other
words, the body resolves itself into its
basic elements. This body would nor-
mally decompose after death. The effect
of the atomic bomb is to combine the
two processes of death and decomposi-
tion, eliminating the in-between period.
—Barrier-Ranger (A.1.F.).
Atomic Bombs and Decentralisation
If there is one lesson more than another
Australia should learn from the advent
of the atomic bomb it is that it is stupid
to concentrate population and secondary
industries in a handful of already over-
grown coastal cities. One atomic bomb
could wipe out the greater part of Sydney
or Melbourne.
Apart from such a consideration, the
advantages of spreading our industries
throughout the country are many. They
include cheaper land, healthier and
cheaper living conditions, abolition of
slum areas, less crime and vice, more
open spaces for recreation, larger home
allotments for dad’s garden and mum’s
cow and more production per man-hour
because of the aforementioned advan-
tages. It is production this country is
going to need when we have finished pat-
ting ourselves on the back for winning
the war.
An example of what decentralisation
can do here is the experience of a far-
seeing manufacturer who a year or two
ago established a branch factory some
150 miles inland from his city works. In
the country factory his costing records
showed that production per employee
was twice that obtained in the city and
the cost per article greatly reduced, not-
withstanding that raw material was
freighted to the country and the finished
article was marketed almost wholly in the
city.
The Federal Government should give
every possible encouragement to private
enterprise to establish their works in pro-
vincial centres. — Taurus (Vic.).
Why Australians Fought
I don’t quite agree with “L.J.8.” (B.
12/9/’45) when he says that Australians
fought for “our way of life.” It wasn’t
that so much as that deep down in every
true Australian, embedded in his nature,
is a sincere liking for conflict. In other
words, he loves a fight. I think that the
major portion of enlistments was due to
this quality in Australians.
As far as the improvement of the world
is concerned, I don’t think the average
citizen gives a darn for the “world.” All
he is interested in is his own home. —
K. H. (R.A.A.F.).
“L.J.8.” was fighting overseas, so he
can be excused for not knowing that all
war loans, all comforts funds, in short,
all voluntary patriotic efforts depended
upon the propagation of the idea that
“LJ.B.” and his mates were fighting for
a new way of life, in which Democracy
would be a real thing.
We did not fight the Germans because
we disliked the shape of their heads or
the Japs because we disliked the color of
their skin—we fought them to maintain
our liberties and to set up a foundation
upon which to base a much improved
way of life.
As an Old Contemptible, I have no
illusions about the failure of my genera-
"What , only three?”
tion of fighters to win the peace—we
regarded the war as an interruption of
our normal life and returned to it as we
left it, and didn’t trouble two hoots what
happened in the subsequent peace nego-
tiations. All we were concerned about
was to get out of the “blood, mud and
sweat” and leave the rest to the poli-
ticians. As a consequence of that mis-
placed confidence we had the depres-
sion and the 1939-1945 war. Does
“J.L.8.” want those experiences repeated?
—Digester (N.S.W.).
Getting Into Civvies
A rude shock awaits the returning
serviceman who looks forward to casting
aside his uniform for a good civvy suit
as soon as he gets his discharge.
Tailors cannot make to measure a suit
in less than two to three months, even for
a holder of a discharged serviceman’s
voucher, and members of the forces await-
ing discharge receive no priority over
civilian orders, which take anything up
to six or seven months to be fulfilled.
Tailors claim that they are not permitted
by law to accept an order for clothing
without first receiving coupons, so service-
men cannot order a suit in anticipation
of discharge.
The inevitable black market has sprung
up. For 14 to 15 guineas a suit can be
“rushed” out in three or four weeks, but
materials good enough to warrant such a
price are not available.
Reports from England and M.L, indi-
cate that praiseworthy systems of issuing
civvies to servicemen upon discharge have
been established in those countries, but
Australia, as usual, is lagging. Would it
be asking too much of the Australian
Army to do the right thing by the troops,
even at this late stage, and set up an
Army tailoring organisation which could
make suits to measure? Measurements
could be taken when the men first reach
the demobilisation centre, and most men
would be able and willing to attend for
fittings during their re-establishment
leave—J. A. L. (A.1.F.).
Let the Taxpayer See the R.A.A.F.
The taxpayer has been shelling out for
six years to make, among other things, an
up-to-date Air Force, and might like to
see something of what his money has
bought. Therefore let us organise a first-
class aerial circus to tour Australia and
show how a good air force works.
Pick the men who have made the repu-
tation of the service in the world’s battle-
fields of the air to do the flying, and include
a selection of all the latest aircraft, such
as Spitfires, Boomerangs (because they
are purely of Australian design and make),
Mosquitoes, Beaufighters, Beauforts,
Liberators and Lancasters, totalling about
30 machines. Most of our famous air-
men are just names to the public, and this
would provide a chance to make them
known. A star draw-card would be the
dropping of paratroops and equipment.
The aerodromes constructed at so many
country towns for training schools should
make it simple to run these pageants so
that every person in the Commonwealth
who wishes to do so could attend. —
Recco (N.S.W.).
Pidgin-English
“Observations of a Bulletin man who
has been studying the New Guinea native
at close quarters” (B. 11/7/’45), like the
observations of most correspondents on
most subjects, have been peculiarly un-
productive of any worthwhile deductions.
Indicative of the general standard of
his information is his attempt to convey
the sense of a native’s conversation in
Pidgin-English, the “lingua franca” of the
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and
of a large number of Pacific peoples as
well. Nobody would think of expressing
the conversation of a Frenchman in baby
talk, and there is no reason why the
common language of a people with “their
share of pride of race” is not entitled to
the dignity of a proper translation.
A “boong” is not a native, but a native
market. To the native the word conveys
contempt somewhat similar to that con-
veyed by the word “Froggie” or “Chink.”
One of the observer’s statements,
“these natives could smell a Jap,”
indicates that most of his infor-
mation was derived from conversa-
tion with the Australian soldier, who
knows nothing of the subject, anyway—
for it is a legend among our soldiers that
the native is some sort of a vague sniffing
bloodhound. I, who have depended for
my existence on the keenness of the
native’s senses, state definitely that his
sense of smell is not so keen as to pre-
serve him from the unhealthy attention of
the Jap (now known to the soldiery as the
“Pong”), but his senses of vision and hear-
ing are extraordinarily acute.
To quote from John J. Murphy’s Book
of Pidgin-English, which The Bulletin
would do well to add to its library,
“Melanesian Pidgin-English is a true
Melanesian language of great adaptability
and facility. It has a synoptic vocabulary
of over 1300 words, and through them it
is possible to translate about 6000 English
words —more words than the ordinary
Englishman is familiar with.”
Unhappily, the transient tourist,
learned, no doubt, in his several depart-
ments, and even some of our ablest resi-
dents, castigate Melanesian Pidgin-English
as a hopeless, complicated and unsatis-
factory medium of expression. Unfor-
tunately they are judging the language on
their own highly fictitious knowledge of
it. It is unfortunate that the antipathy
and prejudice against the language is not
directed against the painful jargon of
broken English and sonorous twaddle
which too many pass off as Pidgin-
English.
Melanesian Pidgin-English is a most
facile language, capable of embracing
any subject. It is quite as exact as any
native language and more adaptable. As
for ambiguity—it mainly exists in • the
mind of the English-speaking white man.
—Student (Vic.).
Surplus Equipment Sales
The Disposals Commission’s sale at
Alice Springs was a dud and so was the
sale of Army vehicles at' Bathurst
(N.S.W.), where wagons went at £1 each.
Hundreds of vehicles were offered and
not many buyers turned up.
There were good reasons for the flop.
Advertisements appeared in district
papers only a few days before the sale,
giving buyers no chance to obtain parti-
culars beforehand. Moreover, few people
have petrol these days for bargain-hunt-
ing, and rail freights on vehicles to the
nearest railhead would cost most buyers
more than they paid for the wagons.
If instead of trying to sell hundreds
of vehicles at a central .spot the Disposals
Commission had arranged with the Army
for soldiers to take 20 to 40 wagons to
each fair-sized town in the Central West
—there are 20 such towns —the Treasury
would have been ten times better off.
I’m tipping that when post-war schemes
get under way Governments will be buy-
ing back some of these disposed goods
at ten times the price obtained for them
by the Disposals Commission, — Graz.
(N.S.W.).
Bachelors and the Birthrate
Why concentrate all the blame for
small families on. married lulk? What
about the thousands of bachelors and
spinsters in this young country, a great
proportion of whom remain celibate for
selfish reasons? These people are depriv-
ing the country of necessary population
and should be heavily taxed where it can
be proved that they are not responsible
for, the support of parents or other
dependants.
Many women with good permanent
jobs declare that they will never marry
unless the man can keep them in the
comfort that they enjoy as single women.
They say they have no intention of spend-
ing their lives in penury rearing families on
small incomes, as they see too clearly just
what their friends go through in so doing.
On many committees and inquiry
boards we have single, middle-aged
women giving their opinions of the duties
of married women, when they themselves
have failed in their duty to Australia by re-
maining single. Their criticism of married
women springs from a guilty conscience.
For civilisation to make headway
mothers must be freed from the drudgery
and ill-health that go with rearing chil-
dren. Kindergartens and creches and effi-
cient domestic help must be provided.—
All Should Marry (W.A.).
Foreign Exchange
The argument between “A. A. Baker”
and “West Riding” is getting off the track.
Both are misled by the obsolete premium-
discount point of view. The essential
function of the exchange rate is to
balance supply and demand. Exporters
and others who are owed money by
foreigners acquire a title to overseas
funds ; importers and other remitters of
money need such funds. Exchange rates
are the prices which equate demand with
supply.
The units used by Australia and
Britain happen to have the same name,
“pound.” It was obviously convenient
to keep these two pounds at par as long
as possible. When conditions (chiefly
lowered prices for our exports) made us
unable to trade at such a rate, there had to
be alteration. Sterling supplies owned by
Australians ' having become short, their
price went up. Now that we seem to have
a large supply of London funds, it may
go down again, but not necessarily to par.
If, as was suggested long ago, we
changed the name of our pound to “Aus-
tral,” much confusion would disappear.
An American doesn’t think he is being
robbed if he has to pay four dollars for
one pound sterling. Why, then, should
we feel defrauded if one pound sterling
costs one-and-a-quarter Australs? — Col
(N.S.W.).


Australia Needs
Skilled Sailors
HOW B.H.P. IS HELPING TO
BUILD OUR MERCHANT NAVY
AN ISLAND NATION is dependent on her merchant navy in
war or peace.
In Australia, with our extreme coastline, and so much to be done in the
development of our secondary industries, we must strive to build up a
merchant fleet sufficient for our rapidly expanding needs.
We need ships—and we need a constant supply of skilled officers to
man them. The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. is playing its part
in providing both the ships and the men.
To-day the Company has eight steamers in service on the Australian
coast, two of which, the s.s. “Iron Monarch” and the §.s. “Iron Duke,
were built during the war at the B.H.P. Whyalla (S.A.) shipyard
to replace the Company’s two freighters lost as a result of enemy action.
As a result of the Company’s policy of providing facilities for the
thorough training of marine apprentices as officers and engineers, sea-
minded young Australians are provided with the opportunity to play an
active part in their country’s mercantile marine.
This plan will help to ensure that sufficient officers will be available
for the B.H.P. Company’s own steamers, and, further, a source of supply
of trained men will be created for other Australian shipping companies.
At the present time twelve marine apprentices have already qualified
as Second Mates, and a further sixteen are in course of training. Appli-
cations are now being reviewed for personnel to be trained as marine
engineers.,
The Company’s training scheme gives marine apprentices the essential
practical and theoretical knowledge of seamanship and navigation and „
an understanding of work done by ships’ engineers.
Thus, a real contribution to Australia’s merchant navy is made by
8.H.P., which not only provides the steel for ships-—it builds the ships
and helps to provide the men to man them.
The training of marine apprentices is only one of many aspects of the
B.H.P. staff training scheme, which also embraces the trailing of
personnel attached to the clerical side of the Company’s operations and
of engineering and metallurgical employees and trade apprentices.
Under the scheme Australian youths are afforded the opportunity to
learn their chosen vocation under the most modern conditions and practi-
cally cost free, as the B.H.P. Company refunds the amount of tuition
fees upon successful completion of studies.
A hove': In the chart room.
Apprentice West plotting
bearings on the chart
under the watchful eye of
Captain Tellick.
At left: What every sailor
should know about splic-
ing is explained to appren-
tices H. M. Wagstaffe and
B. F. Robinson by the
bosun, T. Ay erst.
Below: Instruction in part
of main engine operation
being given apprentices
McSween and Kirton by
Third Engineer A. I.
Arthur (centre), who
trained in the Newcastle
Steel Works machine shop.
At left: Third Mate
K. F. Shepherd sig-
nalling with Aldis
lamp, whilst second-
year apprentice L. A.
McSween waits to
record the reply.
AUSTRALIAN-BUILT SHIPS FOR AUSTRALIAN-TRAINED OFFICERS.
Above is shown a 9000-ton freighter ready for launching at The Broken Hill Proprietary’s
Whyalia Shipyard, South Australia.
Apprentice N. J. Kirton at the S.S. Iron
Monarch's” steering wheel.
