

GRAPE VINEGAR
*
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3410
Wednesday, June 20, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE IMPOSING BALLROOM OF HISTORIC DEVONSHIRE HOUSE.
'THE historic mansion, of which is shown here an early view
of the ballroom, is Devonshire House, once a famous West
End resort of London fashion leaders and gathering-place of the
Whig hierarchy. The ballroom at Devonshire House by daylight
at the present time and the same magnificent room by night a
hundred years ago filled with a gay assemblage of the beauty
and fashion of the time of George 111, all in the picturesque cos-
tumes of that age, present two widely different pictures. That
the latter is the more interesting there can be little question, more
especially when one conjures up the figure of Gainsborough’s
“Beautiful Duchess” as the centre of attraction, surrounded as she
often was by such men as Windham and Fitzpatrick, Fox and
Burke, not to speak of the hundreds of lesser stars.
One might easily imagine that much transpired at such times
which was afterwards to be immortalised in the “School for
Scandal” ; for the author of that genial comedy was a frequent
guest at the festivities. Here, too, it might well have been where
the design of the famous buckle occurred to one ot the former
GeorgeS; for he also, when Prince of Wales, was often to be seen
j n midst of the rustling crowd. Even its great rival, the
Reception Room at Holland House, must have had difficulty in
vying with it, for although both were for nearly a century the
rendezvous of the political and literary world of Whigs, Devon-
shire House unquestionably had attractions of which the other
could not boast. During World War I Devonshire House was
given up to the Red Cross Society, and served as the headquarters
of the V.A.D. in England.


siorn Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
Browning at the Dark Tower.
Browning’s “Childe Roland to the
Dark Tower Came” is indeed, as was sug-
gested in last week’s Red Page, a descent
into hell, but it is not often recognised
as such. Reading General Wavell’s an-
thology Other Men’s Flowers, which
Dymocks republished in Australia, I
came on the note:
This grim poem has always fascinated
me. I wonder who the melancholy bu» per-
sistent Childe Roland was, what was nis
errand at the Dark Tower, and what hap-
pened when he blew the slug-hom? I
wonder if Browning knew. He borrowed
the title from King Lear, but the tale came,
I think, simply from his imagination. His
Childe Roland was neither the Knight of
Roncesvalles nor the legendary son of
Arthur who figures in the old ballad
Since it was Browning’s intention to
make his allegory entertaining for its own
sake, it is permissible for the man of
action to interpret the poem simply as
an adventure into the dark and danger-
ous places of this earth. It has been com-
pared elsewhere to that “fierce vexation
of a dream” which eludes definition by
the waking senses. But imagery as
powerful as that of “Childe Roland”
does not spring either from a disarticula-
ted subconscious or from a motive so
innocent as a tale of adventure. It comes
direct from a source of self revelation in
the poet himself, and is, to me, the stark-
est statement ever made of a poet’s quest
into the dark and dangerous limbo of
his own integrity to poetry.
Browning was not given to making
such autobiographical revelations. To
his generation he was a hidden man.
Even today, with all our tricky devices for
getting at submerged states of mind, he
remains hidden. To his contemporaries
he presented a mask of a well-balanced
man of the world, pleasantly conversa-
tional in talk, socially at ease wherever
he was, and inclined to discuss events of
the day rather than intellectualities. A
University don described him as “thor-
oughly commonplace,” a dismissal that
would have amused Browning, as coming
from a thoroughly commonplace don. In
short, Browning almost made a pose of
not posing as a poet.
To his sardonic and ironic mind, con-
templating Tennyson and the intellectual
world of his generation, that was inevit-
able. It was a world which evaded all
intensity in passion and which made all
concessions to popular sentiment. Tenny-
son epitomised it, with his pose of
aloofness from vulgar contacts while con-
ceding anything to vulgar emotion, his
flat tapestry patterns of human drama,
his pretence that the function of poetry
was merely an aesthetic in the plastic use
of words.
Browning and Tennyson had been
friends in youth and Browning had a
generous admiration for Tennyson’s
powers. Those youthful friendships,
based on a passionate obsession with life
and art, go deeper than all other
emotional experience, and possibly the
greatest shock of Browning]s life was
Tennyson’s apostasy to the integrity of
poetry, and his going over to sentiment
for the suburbs and poetry for the young
person.
Of late years there has been a great
deal of industry expended over white-
washing the Great Victorians, and pre-
senting them as Giants, but there can be
no question that where the presentation
of passion conflicted with popular taboos
they proved themselves moral cowards.
We know what a mess Dickens and the
novelists made of anything touching sex,
smothering up bad conscience on that
score by roaring like moral lions over
social abuses and trivialities of that sort.
Possibly the artists were the most despic-
able cravens of the lot, with their pot-
boilers of girlhood, their etiolated and
consumptive Blessed Damozels and
their reconstruction of antiquity in terms
of the suburban back parlor. Why the
Leightons and Burne Joneses and Alma
Tademas painted the feminine nude at
all is a mystery. For any sense of its
reality or sensuous charm their works
might have been painted by eunuchs
from wax dummies. Browning is the one
exception who covered the whole gamut
of passion in his poetry.
But there was Tennyson as official pun-
dit and dictator of popular sentiment to
make all evasions of sincerity holy. The
Great Poet. One needs banner head-
lines to present Tennyson doing his im-
personation of the Great Poet. He
dressed the part, acted it, became the
dupe of it, and played it out to the very
last breath he drew on earth. I remem-
ber as a boy reading the account of his
death in either the “Graphic” or the
“Illustrated London News.” There was
a full-page drawing of Tennyson lying in
state, on a carefully sculptured bed, with
light from a stained-glass window stream-
ing down on him, and on his breast a
volume of Shakspeare, with one finger
placed precisely on the line “Lie there,
my soul, like fruit, till the tree die.”
Though at that time an ardent reader
of Tennyson as a Standard English Poet,
I remember feeling even then there must
be something extremely wrong about a
poet who could stage-manage his own
death with such flagrant publicity-mon-
gering. And I’ve never since read any-
thing about Tennyson that did not expose
him as the humorless dupe of his pose of
Great Poet.
To Browning it must have been a suffi-
ciently disgusting spectacle in itself, but
it angered him most for what it meant
in emasculating poetry of courage and
frankness, and confirming the mob’s
right to impose its censorships on the
poet’s concept of life. With the whole art
of his generation tub-thumping for mob
morality and on its belly to Podsnap,
Browning must have been driven in a
black depression to ask himself if he, also,
was not just one of “The Band,” those
contemporaries who had set out bravely
in quest of the Dark Tower of self-crea-
tion and failed miserably to find it. That
inner conflict drove him more and more
into isolation, but it had this value, that
it forced him to reject Tennyson’s mel-
lifluous word-spinning and to search out
for his poetry a new and vital expression.
Possibly it urged him, with malice, into
his abruptnesses and occasional obscuri-
ties, But Browning is seldom really ob-
scure. At times he does force us to con-
centrate and re-read a passage to find its
precise meaning, but his psychology is
always profound and his thought lucid,
resolute, and stated without reservations.
And though he turned to the Renaissance
for an earth of color and violence, his
concept of life itself was drawn directly
from the spectacle of life about him.
And that concept confutes utterly the
accusation of facile optimism that has so
frequently been made at Browning. He
loved life but he was never the dupe of
man. Except Shakspeare, no poet went
so deeply into the complexities of human
passion, in a gamut that covers, between
extremes of love and hate, a full experi-
ence of life. To know man one must be
man ; to know life one must touch the
best and worst it can do to us. To have
the sensitivity of mind that can go
through the whole procedure and record
it one must go through hell also. No
cool definition in words can comprehend
that limbo of depression, scepticism, des-
pair of achievement and self-contempt
for a procedure which forces on one all
that can be contemplated in the vulgar
struggle for existence, out of which crea-
tion in art is bom. Shakspeare put
something of its black rage and despair
into Macbeth; Browning recorded his
own private conflict with it in “Childe
Roland.”
It must not be forgotten here that
Browning was the only poet of his genera-
tion viciously attacked and derided by
the press. He had to wait long years for
recognition. He endured the supreme
test of integrity: isolation of the spirit.
And the most dignified thing about
Browning is that he endured it in silence ;
at least in all personal relations with
his generation.
But its stark statement is made m
“Childe Roland.” And that statement
carries a devastating condemnation of all
the falsities, sterilities and evasions of his
own era. No doubt every subtle and
profound mind, given the power to see
life truly, and to divine the motives
underlying human actions and detect the
abyss of hate in which the semi-sentient
soul of man struggles for some sort of
self-identity, must find his own genera-
tion a bad one. To Browning, the bump-
tious, noisy, cocksure, smug, self-righteous,
prurient and falsely sentimental earth of
his era was the flat, stagnant, death-in-
life earth through which Childe Roland
made his journey to the Dark Tower:
I think I never saw
Such starved ignoble nature
If there pushed any ragged thistle-stalk
Above its mates, the head was chopped—the
bents
Were jealous else....
Tis the Last Judgment’s fire must cure this
place,
Calcine its clods and set my prisoners free.
Almost one may take those lines as pro-
phetic of the cataclysm which has over-
taken our age—its genesis in the Vic-
torian refusal to face the crude realities of
life; for those, with all their suppressed
violeqce, were underlying its smooth
plaster of sentimentality. Browning had
no illusions about these underlying reali-
ties ; they are imaged in that stream
which Childe Roland has to cross, the
stream of submerged human conscious-
ness, “So petty and so spiteful,” which
inundates all feeble aspirations of the
spirit:
Drenched willows flung them headlong in a fit
Of mute despair, a suicidal throng:
The river which had done them all the wrong,
Whate’er that was, rolled by, deterred no whit.
Which, while I forded —good saints, how I
feared
To set my foot upon a dead man’s cheek,
Each step, or feel the spear I thrust to seek
For hollows tangled in his hair or beard!
—lt may have been a water-rat I speared,
But, ugh! it sounded like a baby’s shriek.
Glad was I when I reached the other bank.
Now for a better country. Vain presage!
Who were the strugglers, what war idid they
wage
Whose savage trample thus could pad the dank
Soil to a plash? toads in a poisoned tank,
Or wild cats in a red-hot iron cage.
Does anyone infer complacence in
Browning over the mass spectacle of
man after that terrific indictment? — : one
of the most appalling images of horror
that poetry has given us. Through that
terrible earth, where man is a toad and
a wild-cat. Browning quests the image
of himself; the assurance that he has
kept the pact of integrity which all
creators must make with their own souls,
whether they keep it or not. Browning
has a word to say of those who failed
to keep it:
1 fancied Cuthbert’s reddening face
Beneath Its garniture of curly gold,
Dear fellow, till I almost felt him fold
An arm in mine to fix me to the place,
That way he used. Alas, one night’s disgrace!
Out went my heart’s new fire and left it cold.
Was Cuthbert another name for
Browning’s youthful friend Alfred
Domett, who pronlised so much and
ran away from the struggle to achieve
and hid himself in New Zealand in the
guise of a politician, and whom Brown-
ing criticised in the poem “Waring”?
There can be no question who Giles is:
Giles, then, the soul of honour —there he stands,
Frank as ten years ago when knighted first.
What honest men should dare (he said) he
durst.
Good —but the scene shifts —faugh! what hang-
man’s hands
Pin to his breast a parchment? his own bands
Read it. Poor traitor, spit upon and cursed.
I wonder if Tennyson ever divined the
depth of Browning’s contempt for him.
No, of course he didn’t. He went and
read “The Queen of the May” to Queen
Victoria and walked abroad in his cloak
and brigand’s hat so that he could com-
plain about the way the people stared
at him. I like to recall old Sir Henry
Parkes’s reference to that complaint
made to him by Tennyson when they
walked out together. “As a matter of
fact they weren’t staring at him, but
me,” said Parkes ; which was no doubt
true —it must have annoyed Tennyson
extremely to have been pushed into the
role of second performer to Parkes’s
magnificent display of hair and whiskers.
But Tennyson is only glanced at and
dismissed in “Childe Roland.” Brown-
ing’s quest there is himself ; a «quest that
must be made through an eternal scep-
ticism of its achievement —through those
mocking self-derisiqns which convict one
of cowardice, of inertia, of failure, of
ignominy. Most damnable of all, a
quest made through the bawling and
squabbling of a studio rabble whose
works make a travesty of all values. At
its worst, that conflict between desire
and disgust in the creator brings him to
the final quandary: a desire for failure
rather than to claim success in such an
ignoble struggle. When the mind has
reached that black depression of spirit
it has almost arrived at nihilism ; a dream
of self-annihilation. Browning reached
it:
For, what with my whole world-wide wandering,
What with my search drawn out thro’ years,
my hope
Dwindled into a ghost not fit to cope
With that obstreperous joy success might
bring —
I hardly tried now to rebuke the spring
My heart made, finding failure-in its scope.
But once “that hateful cripple,”
destiny, has lured the creator into taking
that adventure in art which must affirm
the resolution of his will and the in-
tegrity of hie ego there is no turning
back. k or the cowardly may
step as e last moment and keep
up a i o the end of their lives
that it pretty game of stringing
rhymes naking pleasing color-
pattern 'as. But the creator who
faces h mscience without evasion
knows as made a pact with him-
self for ' evil, and must damn or
save himself by the truth or falsity of
his works.
Strive to evade that knowledge as he
may; seek even death—“A great black
bird, Apollyon’s bosom friend,” as a way
out of his infernal compact; impute its
quandary to “some trick of mischief
in a bad dream, perhaps”; snatch at the
last desperate expedient “of giving up,”
it is too late:
... .came a click
As when a trap shuts, you’re inside the den.
So the daimonic conflict of self versus
self must be faced:
Burningly it came on pie all at once,
This was the place! Those two hills on the
right,
Crouched like two bulls locked hom in horn
in fight;
While to the left a tall scalped mountain ...
Dunce,
Fool, to be dozing at the very nonce,
After a life spent training for the sight!
What in the midst lay but the Tower itself?
The round squat turret, blind as the fool’s
heart,
Built of brown stone .. .
I had paused often in reading this
poem to query why the Dark Tower had
suddenly become brown, but missed the
significance till a friend suggested its play
on Browning’s own name, and clarified
that queer image of self. And so, to
answer General Wavell’s queries, the
“melancholy but persistent” adventurer
is Browning himself; and the brown
tower Browning arrives at; after his
desperate pilgrimage through the world
of toads and wild-cats, is his own soul,
the pride of his self-knowledge, the
tower of his integrity as a man and as a
poet. His art may yet fail, he says ; in a
sense, all art falls short of its aspirations.
But at least he knows that his everyday
self, that of Browning the poet, never
did submit to the evil counsels of his
daimon, or to that malice of destiny
which strives tirelessly to exhaust energy,
destroy courage, lure one to crave cessa-
tion of conflict. By his use of Shak-
speare’s line in the context of his own
poem he turns it to a thrilling bugle
call of defiance:
Dauntless the slug-horn to my lips I set,
And blew “Childe Roland to the Dark Tower
came.”
A unique poem, with a fascination that
never loses its potency, no matter how
often one reads it. I know only one
other to compare it with, for the satanic
vitality of its imagery, and for its stark
revelation of the creative enigma, which
is that all affirmation of life in art must
spring from a ruthless acceptance of all
that is base, brutal and ignoble in life.
Great art faces that essential duality;
little art evades it. That is why Tenny-
son recedes into the minor world of
aesthetics while Browning is a living force
in poetry today.
Though Kenneth Slessor’s .immortal
“Captain Dobbin” is purely the product of
Slessor’s own idiosyncratic use of imagery
and outlook on life, its form derives
from Browning’s method of projecting a
character by merging an almost collo-
quial idiom with pure poetic imagery.
Robert Fitz Gerald’s “Heemskerck Shoals”
—though lacking the half-dozen lines of
description that would bring the sea, the
ship and Tasman fully to life —is an-
other vital experiment from the same
source. I do not wish for a better assur-
ance that poetry is alive in Australia
* today than this evidence that it carries
on directly from the last great poet in
the great tradition of poetry.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Some English water-colors:
Of the pleasantest items at the exhibition of
contemporary British water-colors at David
Jones’s gallery, Sydney—such as Russell Flint’s
figure sketch; Daisy Boxius’s suave Sussex
lane; Henry Rushbury’s delicate architectural
drawings and the vigorous water-color sketches
of William Bring, Frank Short, D. I. Smart
and Kenneth Steel —it could be said that they
were pretty flowers from a well-hoed garden
bed.
A large proportion of the exhibits, however,
looked like swift color notes or hastily executed
pot-boilers —following a style currently very
fashionable in England, in which it is sought to
give an impression of careless ease while shock-
ing the lowbrows with a system of color-
shorthand. This has nothing to do with what
McColl calls “the inspired shorthand of Rem-
brandt, Pouissin, Claude and Steer,” but is a
code in which a few scattered brush-strokes of
pale green represent a forest, a splash of lemon
yellow indicates a beach and a shoe-brush
smudge of black or brown here and there con-
stitutes a conundrum.
Into this section of the show dived the
trustees of the N. S. Wales National Gallery,
and emerged with two Muirhead Bones, one
hard, one thin; two D. Y. Camerons, one slap-
dash, the other dreary: a “Cornfield Evening,
by P. H. Jowett in the Cezanne tradition-
little patches of all the colors in the spectrum
floating in a sea of white; a Rowland Sudbury
fantasia, “Columbine and Blue Daisies in a
Window,” which isn’t worth so long a title,
and 11 other not very impressive examples
of a decadent phase of English water-color.
This sort of thing is done just' as well in Aus-
tralia; together with infinitely more vital work
rot harnessed to an ephemeral convention.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
fr
S'
o
/
V
P
(?
&
\
6U \
i'A : \<
ar
c
y*
y.
\
r
vB
Sss
? (l
SELECTED GLOVE SKINS for making
Ladies' Gloves. Black Kid, soft and
supple, no dye on inside. One skin large
enough for one pair of gloves, 17/9 each
GLOVE CHAMOIS, especially selected
skins, for one pair of gloves ... 8/6 each
Glove Patterns, with instructions, state
size required 1/9
SHEEP SKINS, with short wool, dyed Red,
Saxe, Green, Gold, Lemon, Rose. Skins
are large enough for two pairs, 22/6 each
(Half skin for one pair may be purchased.)
Slipper Pattern, state size 9d. each
V COLOURED SUEDES, for Bags, Belts,
Beanies, lackets. Vests, Toys, Novelties,
etc. In shades of Tan, Nigger, Royal,
Rust, Emerald, Gold, Black, White. As
supplies are limited, please give second
colour when ordering. Prices, 5/6 to 12/6
GRAINED LEATHER for Sandals, Shop-
ping Bags, Brief Cases, etc. Black, Navy
or Brown. Skins vary in size. State what
the skin is required for .. 8/6 to 15/- skin
PRINTED BASIL. Red, Blue, Green and
Navy. Sizes and shape of small sheep
skin. A fancy leather for many uses.
Prices 2/6 and 3/- skin
ROAN SUEDE in Grey only. Prices
from 3/6 to 7/11 skin
POSTAGE EXTRA.
Note. —All these leathers are sold by the s\in,
at the prices quoted. S\ins are different sizes
and shapes —approximately the size of animal.
Prices according to size.
When ordering, state for what the s\in is
required, and we will select one suitable.
* Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
AMTHOM v
FAM
TELEPHONE:.M24OI (DAY AND NIGHT)
UORDSRHS
LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,


AT GULGA
By BRIAN JAMES.
THE usual pronunciation rhymes with
“mulga,” and this seems quite
wrong. A drawing out of the first
syllable makes the name rriore richly
suggestive and puts the scene in a
different time-setting altogether; the two
rows of cottages disappear and aborigines
in considerable numbers roam the long
sand spit. To them the place must have
seemed well favored in its abundance of
sea food, although there are now no
signs of middens. But the shifting sands
of the peninsula might easily have
covered these.
In some ways Gulga is unchanged and
unchangeable. Sand is like the ocean in
its being variable, capricious, never two
hours the same, and yet presenting an
eternity of sameness.
Unlike most seaside resorts, Gulga is
unspoiled—the long peninsula is densely
clothed with banksias and a coarse reedy
grass. Little else grows there, except an
occasional clump of lilli-pilli, the paper-
bark ti-tree and a few intrusive lantanas.
The cottages are mostly ugly little places
in themselves, but they fit admirably into
this banksia forest. - The road between
the cottages is tree-lined and winding,
undulating with the swells and troughs of
the sand dunes. It is a slow and lazy
road, no matter what your desire for
speed. The sand clings to feet or tyres
and the bared banksia roots still more
make hurry absurd and ineffective.
Life in Gulga is a reversion to the
primitive, mildly but distinctly so. There
is a discarding of clothes and a carefree
taste about the little one wears; there is
a bronzing of chins and a wearing of
bristles and beards; there is a £sh and
oyster diet and an earnest pursuit of these
for food. There is a strong tang of the
sea, and blended with it the odor of de-
caying fish—revolting at first, but soon
passing into the matter of fact.
You go to your cottage among the
trees and find all about you deposits of
oyster and pipi shells and fish heads —•
the largest ones nearest the house, as a
kind of boast by your predecessor. Be-
neath the house are long-forgotten
hoards of beach-worms in such containers
as jam-tins and old dippers. There is no
escaping the odor and, when you become
resigned to it, you find a certain unsus-
pected richness in it; it fits the life and
the scene and you don’t question further.
And so you settle down and drift from
day to day, and the names of the days
don’t matter any more. When the surf is
good you surf ; when the tide is right you
swim in the river; between times you
go fishing ; when it becomes very neces-
sary you gather firewood or banksia-nuts,
which serve the same purpose ; you drift
up to the Junction and try for blue-nose
whiting or you drift down to the Mouth
and drag for flathead.
You meet with other liars and hear of
wonderful fish that you know they didn’t
catch, and you tell of still more wonder-
ful fish that they know you didn’t catch.
Or you go to the store for things you
know they haven’t got or to the post
office for mail you know hasn’t arrived.
When these activities tire you, you can
sit on the verandah and gaze over the
Pacific. You can do a lot of that,
although there is nothing but water to
look at. It is very soothing.
There are, of course, the North Black-
rocks to break the skyline—two rocky
islands eight or ten miles out. Very lonely
they look. You resolve that you will go
out and explore them some time—but not
today. At times a low line of mist cuts
off the bases of the islands and reveals
only their craggy tops. Then they might
easily be the land on the other side of
the ocean, some jutting capes of a foreign
country. Then the mist goes and the
islands are quite close again. You are
told that these North Blackrocks grew
a marvellous oyster, but gluttons went out
in launch-loads and ate the lot. A likely
enough story—if the oysters were as good
as they were reputed to be.
THE tide is about to turn, and on the
crest of the dune a dozen figures
appear, big bronzed men, two or three a
trifle paunchy maybe, clad in regulation
raiment, shorts and singlets. Each carries
a dirty sugar-bag and has slung over his
shoulder a canvas bag. They are strong
and vigorous men, and a common set
purpose is seen on their faces. They are
beach fishermen, and they are going out
for the simple pleasure of fishing. Their
voices reach you fitfully, though you
can’t hear what they say. It doesn’t
matter, for you know it goes like this:
“I hooked him on a No. 7... Ridicu-
lously light line for a fish of that size,..
and I played him and played him and
played him”... All such stories have the
same ending.
Half an hour later you see the dozen
strung out along the miles of beach, fish-
ing the channels. They stand ankle-deep,
knee-deep in the frothy surge, silent,
almost statuesque, right hand held up in
a beckoning turned to stone. From this
attitude any movement is stereotyped—
jerk of right hand, run back, wind up,
catch (most pathetically juvenile) trans-
ferred to bag, rebait, cast out (this is fine
to watch) and then the beckoning statue
once more. Beyond them the breakers
catch the last of the sun, clear green
water and snowy foam, behind them a
level of wet sand that shines like a mirror.
At last the long lights fade away into
the' shadows, and the cooling air throbs
with countless wings. Then everyone be-
gins to scratch. You scarify all exposed
parts again and again. Almost everyone
speaks quite openly of the b y mos-
quitoes, and even the man next door was
heard to say “confound them!” This was
strong language for one so devout.
Incidentally, the man next door trusted
in Providence to keep the pest from his
dwelling ; but he also used a lot of in-
secticide, and he even spoke darkly of
burning cow-dung on a shovel—if he
could find any of the material. Once
Providence inspired him to build a smudge
fire at the back door and allow the
creamy volumes of smoke to blow
through the house. You watched the
experiment with no little interest, and
rendered what assistance you could when
the house caught fire.
He was a good fellow and most like-
able. He gave some sort of division to
time, for he marked out the Sundays.
When a gloom settled over his house and
doleful hymns floated from his windows
you knew that Sunday had come round
again. Then, his children spent a miser-
able day and wept or sulked over their
catechisms. Your own children made
you feel somewhat guilty in their
boisterous abandon and happy play.
P) OWN the road was the store —a close
monopoly. It once had a dangerous
rival, but its hustling proprietor had
foolishly antagonised Industry (Fish,
Oysters and Crabs), and more foolishly
still reckoned he could carry on solely
with the support of holiday-makers. He
sadly retired to the farm whence he came.
There was really no stock in the store
except a few lines no one wanted, such as
fish-oil and sandsoap. All foodstuffs
were brought out twice a week from
town. On these days the storekeeper
took sheaves of orders from the whole
village. At nightfall he returned with the
orders.
Long before that the entire population
gathered at the store and waited patiently.
Someone would ask the storekeeper’s wife
when the truck might arrive. She always
replied: “He passed through Dixon’s
Valley at half-past five.” It sounded like
the news of Ross Smith lopg ago—“ Left
Karachi )ast week”...
At eight o’clock the dogs began to stir,
and that meant the truck was approach-
ing. The storekeeper’s wife lit the big
kerosene lamp and braced herself for the
coming ordeal. Her daughters took up
strategic positions and several volunteers
stood at the ready. The crowd milled
about and then formed a guard of honor
as the truck groaned and rattled across
the flat.
Well might it groan. It was a small
truck divided originally into two depart-
ments—passengers and goods, but the
line of demarcation had long since been
ignored. From various parts of the truck
the limp remains of seventeen passengers
were extracted. They were too far gone
to be glad at arrival. Friends took charge
of them and led them off.
Then unloading. Everyone helped, and
soon a crazy line of parcels, bags and
boxes wriggled info the shop. There was
no order about it, and humps and
pyramids of bread and meat and vege-
tables appeared everywhere. Tons of it,
really. Then the wife and daughters and
volunteers did their best. It took hours
and hours, with the not inconsiderable
complications of dogs, moths and mos-
quitoes.
In the next room two virgins sat on the
floor by a smoky hurricane lamp, and
there performed some mysterious rite.
Around them was a ring of children
gazing intently, their faces half light, half
shadow. Through every interstice a dog’s
head was thrust —eyes gleaming and
hungry. Around all these was a circle of
men and women. The maidens on the
floor were weighing butter into pounds.
One of them managed the scales and
wrapping paper and the other scooped
the butter from the box with two table-
spoons. When six or seven shapeless
masses were crumpled up in paper they
were passed into the shop, and the store-
keeper’s wife doled them out with the
orders.
The storekeeper mouned helplessly in
the background, sucking his moustache
all the time and mopping his forehead
some of the time with a very damp
dotted handkerchief. Occasionally he re-
marked that he was “just about all-in,”
which was likely enough, since he had
been going hard since five that mornihg.
By midnight the shop was clear at last,
and what the shoppers had failed to get
they picked up next morning. There was
never anything missing or forgotten. It
was a real lesson in public service.
THE mail came twice a week, and was
brought from Dixon’s Valley by the
storekeeper. But if trustworthy people
passed through Dixon’s Valley there
might even be four mails a week. If there
were no trustworthy people then there
were only two mails.
The postmaster did not altogether look
the part, perhaps because he was in .the
oyster and crab business in a big way.
Still, he took his duties under the P.M.G.
very seriously. In fact, they seemed to
worry him far than oysters and
crabs.
Not that there were rush and bustle
about the post office. Far from it. The
office was a peaceful building—shingle
roof and a setting of acacia trees, with
the quiet river before it. All business was
transacted through a square hole in the
wall. On the office side was a long table
with the incoming and outgoing mail
upon it. There never seemed to be a
dozen letters in either heap. On the wall
was a small switchboard. And between
table and switchboard sat the P.M.,
garbed always as an oyster-man.
His woollen trousers were tucked half
to the knees, revealing scarred ankles and
feet that had served a full apprenticeship
in martyrdom among oyster shells and
mangrove roots. Now nothing could
hurt them more, not even barbed-wire or
broken bottles. Great hairy arms, scaly,
almost black, came out of the short-
sleeved grey flannel. Above all was a
fine old head and a face you liked and
trusted.
The postmaster was conducting a
private inquiry into a letter when you
first saw him. He held up the letter. “It’s
addressed to W. Yorricks, Police Station,
Gulga.”
You looked surprised.
“Now, there’s no police station in
Gulga, thank God!”
It seemed right to feel relieved.
“And I never did hear of W. Yor-
ricks.”
You hadn’t either.
“Well, it’s been here for seven days.
So back it goes. That’s regulations.”
It was a decision. The postmaster up-
tose, walked to the other square hole in
the opposite wall, looked right and left,
and then spat very carefully into a
struggling peach-tree. That served to
indicate that neither he nor you need
ever worry about W. Yorricks again.
But fresh trouble was soon upon him.
You wanted to book a call to town. He
hunched himself near his switchboard
and looked like a perplexed but bene-
volent bear that by painful training had
been made to master an elementary know-
ledge of the telephone.
A huge hairy paw grasped the receiver,
then he spoke with complete lack of con-
fidence to Laidlaw. In asides he prepared
you for a general breakdown in the ser-
vice: “Static bad very bad crackle,
crackle! ” -
Then “Hello! Ah, is that you, Little
One?”
He turned to you with much satisfac-
tion. “It’s the Little One! ”
That seemed to mean that you would
get your number, and that static wouldn’t
trouble any more. While you waited to
be put through the postmaster explained.
“Sometimes the Other One is on, and
then it’s all very difficult —very.”
Outside that old grey shingle place the
postmaster was a different man —oyster-
farmer and crab-catcher, alive, efficient,
confident. He knew all about oysters and
crabs, and sold an article second to none.
But how the P.M.G. had enlisted him
must always remain one of the mysteries
of Gulga.
A FISH diet has limitations, and you
soon tire of it.
Near by was a burly, good-natured
ruffian who somehow looked like a cheap
but successful parasite. Gossip said he
didn’t deceive appearances. He was a
great fisherman, and often sent in part of
his catch —steaks of groper or a flathead
with a head as big as a shovel. Soon
you began to pass these on to next door,
and often their travels were not then com-
plete. Little fish were better, but in the
end any fish was hateful to think of.
It may have been the shortage of bread
and the overplus of fish that started your
wife making dampers. At first she made
just one a day, but it soon became a habit.
Quite absent-mindedly she’d open the
stove door, thrust a finger into the oven
to test the heat, close the door and start
mixing dough. This was put on butter-
paper and thrust into the oven. At all
manner of times neighbors would be im-
plored to come and consume damper and
tea. They were wonderful dampers, and
your wife became quite proud and touchy
about them.
Several nights you went fishing on the
river with Fred, a skilled fisherman and
wonderful to watch. But the dark mys-
tery of that river at night impressed you
more. On one side was the black mass
of banksia and on the other the high,
steep hills. Starlit river between. It
might have been a lagoon in a tropic isle.
The boat drifted with the tide, and the
world grew small and the universe in-
finitely great. You were glad when the
fish didn’t bite. *
Once at dusk yop fished from the bank
and caught an oversize in flathead. It
was a moment of excitement, and lusty
satisfaction when you landed him. For
years he had nosed his way along the
channel, and now he was helpless on the
sand. You wish now he had got away,
though it would have been a pity not to
have landed him.
In the fullness of time you had to leave.
A big truck came for you all and trans-
ported you back to town. Each mile put
Gulga not only so far behind you, but
thrust it into a world of unreality. It
doesn’t exist—not really. You imagined
it all. But next year you hope to go there
again.
Various Verse
Vancouver by Rail.
A scrap of hill on a grey sky;
Huge claws of distance powdering up
A mass of naked, dead-white plains;
And bare posts keeping decent step —
Here’s gold for memory’s rusted bins,
Rich purple for her floating floors.
Queer treasure to sift up behind
A brain’s uneasily-guarded doors.
Someone claims silver rivers soon :
All beauty’s down the line, I know —
Blunt trees and mountains staggering
Under a dazzling drag of snow ;
And there the silly fish of thought
Will not find twitching-space for a fin.
As for this cold, thin element,
They gulp it quickly, deeply, in.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.
The Company of Life.
Out of the daybreak came a wild bird
winging —
From what far portal might it be?
Lone on the misted height he journeyed,
bringing
Clan call to kindred me.
Fellow with you in living’s joy and
danger
I hail you, little share of Mind;
Here ’mid the vast Inanimate a stranger,
Life calls to its own kind.
You lift my heart, O valiantly suspended!
By all beleaguered and assailed
We of the company of life, unfriended,
Have perilously prevailed.
I who love Earth so well, the unrespond-
ing,
Love more than alien else to greet
The forest wings about their vagabond-
ing,
And all the little feet.
Dear is the dawn, the springtime’s green
fruition.
But what of human touch have these ?
Beauty, but borrowed only from our
vision ;
Peace, but unconscious peace.
Queensland.
JAMES DEVANEY.
The Condor.
Could I but soar, on pinions broad
ascending.
Upon the aspiring airs lazily resting,
Like you , taking no thought, no effort
spending,
No enemy gust or thrusting current
breasting,
Into the empty, cool, impassive blue,
Whence I should see the voluptuous earth
displayed,
The yellow land, the purple sea, all new,
Marbled with sliding pools of light and
shade.
But then, like you, having achieved that
height
And drunken of those heavenly airs in
vain.
When some foul dross of carrion comes
in sight
I’m drawn implacably to earth again.
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3410
Wednesday, June 20, 1945
“WHEN TWO STRONG MEN STAND FACE TO FACE.”
“General Eisenhower, O.M. and Freeman of the City of London, which has taken him to its heart, has returned to the United States.”
“Well, good-bye, Winston, and thanks for all you have done. I’d like to stay longer, but I positively must see Forde.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
„ Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
UNION, LTD. (Late LEAGUE)
Viscount Cecil of Chelwood was
present at the birth of the League of
Nations, and will possibly be invited to
attend the burial—the date of the long-
delayed ceremony is now being dis-
cussed. A distant observer of the Yalta
and Dumbarton Oaks preliminaries to
the delivery of the League’s successor,
which is to be called the United Nations,
though the title may be objected to on
various grounds, the old Nobel Peace
Prize winner embodied his views in a
letter to the “Times.” While allowing
that “the chief responsibility for the
maintenance of peace” will rest on “the
five permanent members of the Security
Council,” the United States, Great
Britain, Soviet Russia, France and China,
he objected to “giving a veto to any one
of these Powers on any forcible action
to stop aggression by that Power.”
The viscount has no use for the argu-
ment that “the chief purpose of the new
proposals is to put teeth into the anti-
aggression machinery.” He recalled sadly
that “the League stopped aggression by
small Powers with great ease and suc-
cess.”
It was when great Powers attacked their
■weaker neighbors, first in Manchuria, then
in Abyssinia and finally in Central Europe,
that the League failed. The ne t w schame
will facilitate the coercion of small aggres-
sors, which was already provided for. But
as far as coercion is concerned, it is to
allow any great Power to take any action
it pleases, even although all the other
members of the Security Council regard
that action as aggressive. I do not' see how
this provision can be defended as it stands.
It nevertheless survived the debates at
San Francisco. The only alteration
made,, represented as a great Russian
concession to “an unshakeable stand by
Britain, America, France and China,”
will admit of a small nation with a griev-
ance against one of the five major
Powers, perhaps involving its existence,
having it discussed by them, the veto on
discussion having been waived. But if
the four major Powers propose a settle-
ment or any form of sanctions, the fifth
Power may come in with its veto and the
four will have to accept it. Any of the
five major Powers may also veto any
action contemplated against any of its
friends or satellites. As the accommo-
dating Mr. Stettinius puts it, “the unani-
mity of the permanent members of the
Security Council is required, as pro-
vided by the Yalta agreement, in all de-
cisions relating to enforcement action
and peaceful settlement.”
The veto on peaceful settlement was
not to the taste of Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Fraser. The Maoriland Prime Minister
had fallen foul of the British delegation,
saying that the full committee on voting
procedure had been told by Sir Alexander
Cadogan that “any investigation of a dis-
pute could be undertaken by the Security
Council without veto.” A Professor Web-
ster pleaded that Sir Alexander had been
“taken by surprise” when interrogated
by Mr. Fraser and had “answered hur-
riedly and without consideration.” The
man from Wellington retorted that this
was “untrue”: Sir Alexander’s views
were “clearly the considered opinion of
the United Kingdom delegation” ; and,
turning on the professor, he said, “Don’t
try to slide out on that by making mis-
takes—what you are doing is not honest.”
Called to order, he withdrew the expres-
sion, insisting, however, that the Cadogan
remarks “were deliberately made and
most carefully revised.”
There were more “words” when Dr.
Evatt tabled an amendment designed to
prevent any member of the Security
Council vetoing conciliation in disputes
between small nations. Mr. Fraser
“clashed with Senator Connally, from
Texas,” who said it was a destructive
amendment. A colleague, Commander
Stassen, equally concerned for the swift
passage of the United Nations charter,
used the term “cynicism,” which Dr.
Evatt resented. Put to the vote, the
amendment was defeated by 20 to 10,
South Africa being among the 20 ; the
10 consisted of Australia, New Zealand,
Brazil, Colombia, Chile, Cuba, Iran,
Mexico, The Netherlands and Panama.
Twenty other countries, Canada and
India among them, abstained from vot-
ing. In the end the Yalta arrangement,
as altered by the elision of the discussion
.veto and by the giving of three votes to
Moscow, was adopted by 30 votes to
two (Cuba and Colombia), Australia and
New Zealand being this time among the
abstainers.
Before these little differences arose a
full-employment declaration was worked
into the draft of the charter at Dr.
Evatt’s instance. For nearly all the par-
ticipating countries it can ’be nothing
more than a pious aspiration, and it
certainly won’t bind the United States
if it conflicts in any way with the national
policy of free enterprise ; but Mr. Forde,
making the most of his very limited share
of the limelight, hailed it as a Great
Victory: “Australia has won one of its
big fights.”
The Australian Government is concerned
not only that all Australians have jobs but
that every man everywhere should have a
job, with an income adequate to lead a
useful, happy life. The world should know
by now that there is and can be no such
thing as economic isolation. We cannot
isolate ourselves against the economic
troubles of other peoples, and neither can
we insulate ourselves against the effects of
having parts of the world where workers
are not' paid enough to buy the things they
need.
All this while his colleague Lazzarini,
repeating the “Labor” tale told for 15
years, was blaming the banks (“the capi-
talistic private financial institutions”) for
the depression of the ’thirties in the process
of shoving through Parliament the slabs
of monetary moonshine which are to place
banking and currency under Caucus
control. So far from the thing being a
Great Victory for Australia, the resolu-
tion, in its thin disguise, of a benevolent
interest in the affairs of other countries
by a Government which is making a
shocking mess of its own, is a shifty and
dangerous way of trying to get round
the verdict of the people at the powers
referendum by an unauthorised exten-
sion of the external-affairs power. One
of the dangers was indicated when the
White Australia policy was challenged by
the Chinese delegation at San Francisco.
This, of course, was done by the
Japanese after the last war. As Mr.
W. M. Hughes reminded the House on
May 31, the Japanese tried to get a
racial-equality clause inserted in the
Covenant of the League. This manoeuvre,
if consummated, “would have enabled
their nationals to come freely into New
Guinea and into Australia” ; and “the
racial-equality motion was carried in the
covenant committee by 16 votes to five.”
For “our White Australia policy meant
less than nothing to the majority of the
delegates, most of whom were opposed
to it.”
We had a very narrow escape. On the
following day, when the minutes were read,,
the Japanese delegate said “Well, Mr.
President, that means the resolution has
been adopted and will be included in the
Covenant.” President Wilson replied “No,
it has been lost, because there would have
to be unanimity.” By the grace of God
this war did not find us with our country
infiltrated by Japanese and with hundreds
of thousands of them in New Guinea.
The veteran of the struggle at Versailles
went on to say that he was “naturally
concerned about what is happening at
San Francisco when I note that Dr. Evatt
has issued an open invitation to the
council to deal with our mandate oyer
New Guinea as it thinks fit; to decide
whether we should retain it or whether
it should be given to some other country.
That is no way to approach this matter.”
It is not clear from the confused
reports whether “an open invitation”
was, in fact, given. There was a great
deal of cloudy stuff about “trusteeship,”
but what it amounted to in precise terms
will not be known till the Australian
party returns. But in other than “Labor”
quarters there can be no disagreement
on the point that the “approach” to the
San Francisco conference was altogether
wrong.
The matters for discussion and decision
at San Francisco were debated in the
House of Commons for two full days.
They were debated in the Canadian Parlia-
ment, on a resolution submitted in each
House, for upwards of a week. As in
the case of the Anzac agreement, they
were not debated at Canberra at all.
And though Dr. Evatt was accompanied
by Mr. Forde, two members of the Oppo-
sition and others, among them an
“adviser” from A.8.C., an editor and ,a
feminist, he issued pronunciamientos and
voted or abstained from voting as if
foreign policy were his private property.
That way trouble lies for Australia, if it
hasn’t begun already. As reported by the
“S. M, Herald” editor, “the Australian
amendment to prevent the Security Coun-
cil from interfering with any State’s
domestic powers over migration was
passed by the technical committee in
General Provisions by 31 votes to
three,” and to Dr. Evatt “this result”
was “most satisfactory: it is now
certain that the White Australia policy
cannot be interfered with by the
Security Council.” He will find it diffi-
cult to convince Australians in general
that the last has been heard of a matter so
vital to most of them, communists always
excepted, and that they need not be un-
easy because it was raised at what, after
all, was no peace conference.
At the end of fast week the finishing
touches were being put on the Union
(Ltd.) charter, and a conference of Poles
summoned —very tardily—to discuss the
“Provisional Government of National
Unity” promised at Yalta was being
held at Moscow. Invited as “demo-
cratic leaders from Poland and abroad,”
were former Prime Ministers Mikola-
jczyk and Witos, M. Witos being described
as one of the 16 democratic leaders who,
as casually announced by M. Molotov at
San Francisco, were arrested while on
their way to Moscow at the Soviet Gov-
ernment’s invitation and with Mr.
Churchill’s concurrence. It transpired that
he was not one of them, and that “the
trial of the 16 arrested Poles,” on charges
of having “organised terroristic acts of
diversion and maintained illegal wireless
transmitters in the rear of the Red Army
in Poland,” was to “begin in a few days.”
The conference which is to have so
sinister ari accompaniment or sequel was
obviously arranged to oblige President
Truman and to assist him in getting the
requisite majority for the charter, “two-
thirds of the Senators present.” This now
seems likely, and most English-speaking
people, with Viscount Cecil, “would much
rather have an incomplete organisation
for peace than none at all.” But an
organisation in which Russia, with so
many doubts to remove, has so much
veto power is no present matter for en-
thusiasm, and its treatment of Poland —
unrepresented and avoided as a subject at
San Francisco —will remain the acid test.
Tarakan to Borneo.
The importance of Tarakan lay in the
possibilities which its recapture offered
for the development of its large oil re-
sources for purposes of war. Its basic
potential uses as a forward base for the
further prosecution of the war assayed
less in realisation than in expectation.
The assault on the Brunei Bay area,
on Borneo’s north-west coast, promised
a vastly greater reward. Its taking will
provide the Allied fleets in the Pacific
with a forward base capable of quick
development. From its airfields the heavy
bombers of the West Pacific Command
will be able to raid in strength both Indo-
China and Malaya.
The anchorage at Brunei Bay is 12
miles wide and 17 miles long. It pro-
vides good shelter, and great numbers
of vessels could swing there freely. The
approaches are easy.
Off the northern edge of the bay and
forming its northern arm is Labuan
Island, with the triangular Victoria
Harbor, only 725 miles from Singapore.
On the southern shore of the bay is the
port of Muara or Brooketon. A little
further south, six miles up the river
which empties into the bay, is the river
anchorage at Brunei town.
The Brunei Bay area was the meeting
place of four different pre-war adminis-
trations. The four States came together
in a corner there: British North Borneo,
Brunei, Labuan* and, on the south,
Sarawak. British North Borneo was
administered by a Governor appointed
by the chartered company. Brunei was
an unfederated Malay State. The Sultan
was nominally its head, but his authority
was limited to matters of religion ; in
all else he had to act upon the advice of
the British Resident, who was respon-
sible to the Governor of Singapore.
Labuan Island was originally part of
Brunei State, but in 1846 the Sultan
offered it to the British Government for
the establishment of a settlement, and
till 1889 it was governed as a separate
colony. The British North Borneo Com-
pany then administered it for a time. In
1912 it was established as a separate
settlement within the framework of the
Straits Settlements.
Sarawak, of course, was the domain
of the White Rajah, Sir Charles Vyner
Brooke, who had full powers over in-
ternal affairs. The Japanese established
the Sultan of Brunei as head of the entire
area, but administration generally was
under the control of their army.
The pre-war population of Labuan
was about 9000. At Victoria there was a
cable station of the Eastern Extension
Company on the Singapore-Hong Kong
route. Brunei town had 1200 people,
with 20,000 in the district. Jesselton,
capital of British North Borneo, is 70
miles to the north; Kuching, the capital
of Sarawak, and with a population of
35,000, the largest town in the area, is
200 miles to the south.
At Seria, in Sarawak, about 70 miles
south of Brunei Bay, is the largest oil-
field in the British Empire. It was not
in full production before the war, but
could turn out about 700,000 tons of oil
each year. Pumps, engines and cranes
were destroyed in December, 1941 ; oil
stocks were fired and wells plugged with
cement ; but it is believed that the Japs
have developed the field. Rubber pro-
duction is important also. Before the
war the total area under cultivation was
244,747 acres, turning out 93,000 tons of
rubber each year.
There were two landings, made simul-
taneously on the morning of June 10.
The primary objectives were the capture
of Brooketon, on the mainland of
Borneo, to establish it as a base for the
movement south towards Brunei and the
taking of Labuan Island. A third sub-
sidiary landing on the s&me morning was
aimed at seizing Muara Island so as to
secure the approach inside Brunei Bay
to the Brooketon docks area. Muara
was necessary also because heavy equip-
ment must needs be unloaded from the
landing ships for transfer to smaller craft
which could negotiate the shallow
channel leading to the mainland.
The landing on the mainland was made
on the seaward side of the low, flat,
narrow peninsula which, jutting north
from Brunei bluff, forms the southern
arm of Brunei Bay, and is about three-
quarters of a mile across to Brooketon,
on the inland shore of the bay. From
Brooketon a road winds south to Brunei
town, some 15 miles away, headquarters
of the Sultan and of the British Resident.
On Labuan Island the assault troops
went ashore directly in the area of Vic-
toria Harbor and township. Their first
objective, after clearing the town, was
the high ground on the further edge ( of
the airfield, just beyond the town. ' •
Labuan is reminiscent of Tarakan.
It is very nearly the same size, 35 square
miles in area, running ten miles from
north to south and six miles at its widest
point. The high ground is in the north,
at the opposite end of the island to Vic-
toria. It rises to no more than 336 ft.
in three main fingers or ranges, joined
by webs of mangrove swamps. North
and west is jungle. On the east coast
there is some cultivation.
The Japs had established two airfields:
one just outside Victoria, the other on
the west coast. Like the rest of the Jap
airfields throughout the length and
breadth of Borneo, they had been tar-
gets for heavy bombers based at Moro-
tai and in the Philippines. In the five
days preceding the landings the aerial
bombardment had been intensified. The
R.A.A.F. First Tactical Air Force was in
command of the operation, using its own
squadrons and those of the U.S. 13th Air
Force. It provided cover for the, convoy
and for the troops after they had made
their beachhead.
Engaged in the operation there were
230 ships. They included H.M.A.S.
Manoora, Westralia and Kanimbla,
carrying troops ; the frigates Hawkesbury
and Barcoo, with the force screening the
convoy; the cruiser Hobart and the
destroyer Arunta, with the bombardment
force of the U.S. Seventh Fleet. Lachlan,
the frigate which did the hydrographic
survey for the landing on Tarakan, was
in Brunei Bay three days before the
landing. The tiny Tigersnake, an
auxiliary survey ship, and the corvette
Glenelg were in on an operation for the
first time.
The bombardment force arrived in the
area with the- minesweepers two days
before the landings were scheduled. It
reported large fires started by the aerial
bombardment, also fires which indicated
that the enemy was destroying stores.
JOHN BRENNAN.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The New Aristocracy.
For the benefit of 338 delegates to an
A.C.T.U. Congress at Sydney which
lasted five days, inconvenienced some-
what by a strike of Trades Hall
cleaners, special supplies of smokes
and beer were made available by
“Labor.” Each delegate could have 4oz.
of tobacco or 80 cigarettes, and for each
there was over 25 pints of beer. Aus-
tralian soldiers may buy from their can-
teens 2oz. of tobacco or 70 cigarettes a
week each, if available, and sometimes
there is a bottle of beer. R.A.N. ratings
at sea can buy 100 cigarettes or the
tobacco equivalent a week each, and there
is no beer.
There was indignation when people
compared the lot of the union delegate
with that of the fighting man, just as there
was when they compared their transport
“facilities” with those of ComYnon-
wealth “Labor” Ministers flashing round
in their 1942 fluid-drive Chryslers; but
it should be remembered that union
bosses and “Labor” politicians are the new
aristocracy and that aristocracy has its
privileges. This was made clear when
some of the same crowd of union bosses
met in Melbourne recently to give the
“Government” its orders: eleven of the
16 Ministers available were present to
receive them. To 77 delegates
priorities” were issued; to 66 “travel
vouchers” ; and 70 received “travel allow-
ances or other expenses” far exceeding
those paid to civil servants. Total cost
of the conference to the taxpayers it
lasted two days —was £1146; it went down
as Labor and National Service General.
Expenses. , ,
One of the leading members 'of this
aristocracy, present at both conferences,
was the communist Thornton, who


boasted that “JVe made strikes our busi-
ness” and who is a declared enemy of the
White Australia policy. This Thornton
“represented Australia” at a so-called
World Trade-union Congress in London,
and the taxpayers willy-nilly, con-
tributed handsomely to his bills. They
are to have this privilege again,
for Thornton is to “represent Aus-
tralia” at another World Trade-union
Congress and also at the 1.L.0. Con-
ference. It will be the third of his
jaunts abroad during the period of the
war which till June 21, 1941, he bitterly
denounced as “imperialist,” demanding
a Hitler peace.
Though the old aristocrats had privi-
leges they also had responsibilities
to their nation. The new aristo-
crats accept none. One of the first
demands of their Sydney conference
was for a “prosperity” loading of 6s. a
week on the basic wage. Prosperity! A
bitter word to land men, with the most
productive part of eastern Australia reel-
ing under drought, with the majority of
farmers kept solvent by subsidies from
tax-money, with the savagely-taxed
middle-class unable to make ends meet
from income and forced to cut into what
is left of their savings.
Another demand was that all male
unionists should be privately taxed not
less than £2 a year for the “privi-
lege” of being a unionist, all females earn-
ing 90 p.c. or more of the male wage to
pay the same, and other females and
juniors to pay at least £l, As there are
far more than a million unionists this
would give the new aristocrats a total
income far greater than the tax-revenue
of the State of Tasmania before uniform
income tax came in—in 1940-41,
£1,727,822; for legitimate trade-union
purposes £500,000 would be ample, in-
deed generous. There being no limit to
the audacity of these new aristocrats,
none of whom is known to have made
two blades of grass grow where one grew
before, they ordered the “Government”
to make it compulsory by regulation for
every person in a job or after one to join
a union and pay the private tax, closing
their chin-music by electing three com-
munists to “the executive” —there were
five vacancies.
Millions Don't Matter.
Winter discontents at Canberra:
Last week we had a brief diversion from
the spectacle of the Commonwealth Bank
(Caucus Control) Bill being bludgeoned through
the House, the bludgeoning being in the hands
of a Minister old in years but junior in status
and juvenile in intelligence who was an ardent
advocate of the Lang “plan” of interest-
default.
This Minister, a Mr. Lazzarini, had one reply
to requests for elucidation of the measure,
which he himself obviously did not understand
—“the clause means what it says.” To various
objections to a proposed industrial finance
department, leaning on Savings Bank ad-
vances and with unlimited power to buy shares
without reference to Parliament, all he could say
was that the manager of the show would need
“no great banking knowledge” but would be
expected to save “young Australians of inven-
tive genius from big combines,” implying that
B.H.P. was one; “I can remember when B.H.P.
crawled and cringed to members.” And in a
clumsy attempt to soothe the feelings of the
myriads of decent people whom his “Govern-
ment’s” crazy neglect of housing threatens to
send back to oaves and gunyahs, he said “the
Commonwealth Bank could build homes for the
people interest-free, except for the cost of
issue.”
Thereby he unwittingly gave a warning of
what this crazy legislation may lead to. In
the time of Denison Miller, whose name has
been dragged in by every Ministerial speaker
as an excuse for a form of control which he
never had .and never wanted, - many war-service
homes were built by the Commonwealth Bank.
Not one was built “interest-free,” nor would
any such proposal have received a moment’s
consideration from Denison Miller.
The brief diversion was provided by a man
whose ideas of public expenditure are poles
apart from “Labor’s.” “Labor” cares neither
how much public money it spends nor how it is
spent. Auditor-General Abercrombie, the man
in question, is concerned to see that all expendi-
ture is made with proper authority and that the
public gets value for if. In his 1943-44 re-
port, which was tabled, he challenged two
powers-referendum items, one of £5256 impu-
dently charged to “post-war education,” and
another of £43,050, carried up to the end of
January, 1945, (the referendum was held in
August, 1944), as having been made without
Parliamentary authority. Both amounts were
incurred in supporting the “ ‘Labor’ case” for
the referendum. Other items he challenged or
set down with or without comments are sub-
joined.
“Through unsatisfactory features of a
serious character,” a certificate of the cor-
rectness of the trading and profit and loss
account of the Parliamentary refreshment-
rooms was refused.
Claims for expenditure on transport of
the Speaker, who is also Controller of
Leather and Footwear, were presented:
July 1, 1943, to March 19, 1944, £1233,
and March 20, 1944, to December 31,
£1229. The first was accepted by the De-
partment of Supply; the second was refused
by that department on the ground that “the
mileage represented cannot be regarded as
transport undertaken as Controller of
Footwear.” The bill was met from “the
item covering conveyance of members and
others.”
Allied Works Council expenditure on
capital works in 1943-44 amounted to
£50,500,000. There were “many instances”
of estimates being exceeded, “delays, over-
time costs, changes in plans, inadequacy
of details and inexperienced employees”
being “factors.”
For 300-fon wooden vessels the Common-
wealth is paying “an exceptionally heavy
price”; £2,000,000 for 32 ships mostly built
in Tasmania; average £62,500; cost per ton
much greater than for standard 9000-ton
steel ships built by such concerns as the
Lazzarini-hated B.H.P. “Various forms of
inefficiency” noted; Tasmania Wooden
Shipbuilding Board accounts “insufficient to
provide any reliable information of assets
and liabilities at June 30, 1944” —a new
management has improved the accounting
methods.
There have been “large losses” of stores
and supplies consigned to the army at
New Guinea and Darwin, and in spite of
safeguards introduced they “continue on
considerable scale.”
Other losses: “A.B.C. Weekly,” £7553
(£28,661 in two years); three hotels at
Canberra, two now run as hostels, £6987;
Food Control transactions in “the purchase,
processing and sale of vegetables,” £144,456.
And there has been a continuation of
“unsatisfactory features” mentioned in two
previous reports: “the incompleteness of
departmental records of assets held at air-
craft production annexes and absence of
stocktaking.”
Unfortunately the faithful watchdog’s powers
are small. He can report but cannot secure the
reform of wanton carelessness and extrava-
gance, much less the punishment of those re-
responsible. And he has had to put up with
the repeated insolence of the Minister of
Munitions, Mr. Makin, whose share of the
fleet of gorgeous Government cars was mucked
up while he was travelling on his private affairs.
Especially when “Labor” is in office, the
Auditor-General’s reports are kept from the
public until the financial year is nearly over,
are never debated and are ignored by persons
in high places Unless they are stung beyond
control. If “Labor” had its way, “Labor”
would retire him on the minimum pension,
which in the case of many retired public ser-
vants will next month bring in less than will
go into the homes of many thousands of old-
age pensioners. But that is beyond “Labor’s”
power —at least for the present.
"Free" Medicine.
“Galenus”: “The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will not be able to implement
its Pharmaceutical Benefits Act on July
1 because the medical profession has de-
cided to withold co-operation.” Thus
Dr. J. G. Hunter, general secretary of the
Federal Council of the B.M.A.
The principal reason ascribed for this
decision was objection to the fixed
pharmaceutical formulae prepared by the
Government, which limit the right of
doctors to prescribe for patients as they
consider best, and do not take into
account the fact that every case is differ-
ent and calls for different treatment in
one detail or another. The profession
also objected to being threatened with
three months’ gaol or a £5O fine for
prescribing without examination of a
patient, a frequent necessity in country
districts. Moreover, the scheme, Dr.
Hunter contended, would standardise
medicine and would be incompatible with
the maintenance of professional freedom.
The Government has spent large sums
in all States on the appointment of
supervising pharmacist staffs and other
officials and on accommodation and
equipment. It has done this in the face
of repeated warnings that the B.M.A. —
which means the majority of all practis-
ing doctors in Australia —will not co-
operate, It has had before it the example
of New Zealand, where a somewhat
similar scheme had to be recast, at great
inconvenience and cost.
Last week its Senator Fraser said it
was “improbable” that the “benefits” would
begin to flow on July 1. One “reason”
was that “the ‘Government’ intended to
amend the Act.” Another was that it
had “not been possible to arrange for
the release from the forces of most of
die technical men appointed to administer
it.” Nor had “the work of pricing the
formulary” been “completed.”
It wiil be interesting to see what hap-
pens to Pharmaceutical Benefits when
these obstacles are surmounted. The
antics of mushroom growths of Com-
monwealth bureaucracy suggest no lively
picture of what may happen to the lowly
taxpayer, his wife and offspring should
a ruptured appendix, a premature laljor
or a twisted bowel occur in the house-
hold after office hours. Much more than
a free bottle of medicine would be needed
in such cases.
Two Unconventional Clerics.
“L.L.”: The last has not been heard of
Father Tucker and Father Coaidrake, the
two unconventional clerics who caused a
brief sensation by occupying a suburban
verandah in Melbourne for six weeks to
prevent the eviction of a widow and draw
attention to the inequities of the landlord-
tenant regulations—now being altered in
the Canberra fashion, with a Common-
wealth Rent Controller, plus department.
The Brotherhood of St. Laurence has now
formed itself into a trust to acquire slums
which are structurally sound, put them
into habitable condition, with play, laun-
dry and garden facilities and proper sani-
tation, and let them at a rent based on
the tenant’s income, portion to be set
aside for further repairs and additions.
To cover a ten-years’ plan £20,000 is
being asked for from the public. There
will be a house manager to teach care of
children and use of leisure.
The slums of Collingwood and Fitzroy
are better built than many houses in
modern suburbs. All they need is an
intelfgent architect to get them recondi-
tioncji. The present practice is to knock
them down and send the bluestone of
which they are constructed, perfect build-
ing material, to the crushing mills to
make road fillings.
“ROLL OUT THE BARREL—FOR THE GANG’S ALL HERE.”


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN LANGUAGE
An Examination of the English Language and English Speech as used In Australia from
convict days to the present, with special reference to the growth of indigenous idiom and its
use by Australian writers. By Sidney J. Baker. 437 pages. 21s. (post. 6d.).
H L Mencken, author of “The American Language” writes: I have no suggestions to oiler.
Your plan seems to me to he excellent and your execution of it is perfect. You have done
a really magnificent job.” ,
NEW BOOK BY IDRIESS
lIORRIE. THE WOO DOG. With the A.I.F. in Egypt, Greece, Crete and Palestine. By lon L.
Idriess, "written from the Diary of Private J. B. Moody, A-I-P. With 17 illustrations. <s. 6d.
(post. 3d.).
SUCH IS LIFE. Certain extracts from the
Diary of Tom Collins. Recommended by
The Advisory Board of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. New supply. 10s. 6d. (post.
6d.).
AUSTRALIAN COMMERCIAL DICTIONARY.
Being a selection of Accounting,_ Business,
Legal Words and Phrases, compiled by R.
K. Yorston. An excellent reference work.
18s. ((post. 6d.).
CHARTING A CONTINENT. History of
Marine Exploration and Hydrographical
Surveying in Australian Waters. By Lt.-
Commander G. C. Ingleton, R.A.N., Ret.
Fully Ilustrated. 12s. 6d. (post. 4d.).
RUSSIA AT WAR. By Ilya Ehrenburg. 13s.
6d. (post. 4d.).
THE ART OF ALBERT NAMATJIRA. Third
edition, with 21 illustrations. 12s. 6d. (post.
4d.).
AXISTRADIAN INSECTS. A Handbook by
Keith C. McKeown of the Australian Museum.
Second edition. 400 illustrations. 12s. 6d.
(post. 4d.).
DRIFT. Australian Stories by Peter Cowan.
9s. ((post. 3d.).
KANGA-BEE AND KANGA-80. Australian
book for Children written by Dymphna
Cusack Illustrated by Matt-Slater-Wigg.
Paper Cover, 3s. 9dt (post. 2d.).
IT’S ’ARD TO GO WRONG IN NEW
GUINEA. By Kay Grant. Illustrated. 2s.
(post. 2d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.. 89 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(e) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a«
and the following table indicates instal*
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months •
LOAN
inc. Disct.
£lO
£2O
£3O
£4O
£5O
£lOO
Weekly Fortnightly Monthly
Instal.
3 II
7 9
II 7
IS
19
18
Instal.
7 9
15 5
I 3 I
I 10 10
I 18 6
3 17 0
Instal.
16 8
1 13 4
2 10 0
3 6 8
4 3 4
8 6 8
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept,, 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Last week Speaker Rosevear descended
to the floor to make two partisan
speeches. In neither did he refer to the
Auditor-General’s revelation that it had
cost the taxpayers £2462 for his transport
as Speaker and Controller of Leather and
Footwear for the 18 months to December
31, 1944; roughly £3l 11s. 3d. a week,
and value of free travel in Government
trams and buses not reckoned in. The
Commonwealth Bank Bill was his sub-
ject, and he professed to be outraged at
the publication of replies of Labor poli-
ticians to communications sent to them
by the Bank Officers’ Association, natur-
ally anxious about the future of its mem-
bers under Caucus control of banking,
particularly the large number in the fight-
ing services. “Breach of confidence,”
“depth of political rudeness,” “sabo-
tage,” “Mr. Menzies wants to burden
the Commonwealth Bank with redundant
employees... .he did that to win a paltry
argument in a fit of vituperation against
the Speaker”—these were some of his
most un-Speaker-like expressions. Men-
zies replied drily that the member for
Dailey had “set out to prove that five
banks should be converted into one,”
and he himself had “never heard a case
for the amalgamation of industry into a
few hands put more simply.”
• Archie Cameron —and not he alone —
interpreted Rosevear’s speeches as efforts
to push his claims to the leadership
should Curtin—no better, and worried
as well as ill —have to stand down. “The
first,” Cameron said, “reminded one of
the roaring of a lion, the second of the
howling of a dingo.”
The hon. member for Dailey argued
that if five bank branches had been closed
in a country town during the war that
proved one bank could handle all the
work. If that argument be accepted why
not carry it further and say that instead
of there being three or four butchers in
parts of Dailey there should be only one,
thus saving overhead and running costs;
or that by closing some hotels it would be
possible to sell cheaper beer. I should like
to hear the hon. member for Dailey put
that argument up to the Liquor Employees
or the Licensed Victuallers.
The Parthian shot was; “If ever the
hon, member for Dailey comes face to
face with impartiality one of them will
perish.”
With service votes to be counted,
Canada’s Liberal Government is sure to
retain office, though it may not have a
straightout party majority. It held doubt-
ful electorates by promising to send only
volunteers to the Pacific, whereas the Pro-
gressive Conservatives came out gallantly
for conscription. Even so, they gained
nearly 30 seats on their numbers in the
last Parliament, 65 or so altogether; but
to set up a Government of their own
they would have to invoke the aid of the
C.C.Fs. or Labor-socialists (20), the Social
Creditors (13) and other groups, and they
would almost certainly decline the honor.
Mackenzie King was hard pressed in the
Prince Albert division of Saskatchewan,
and his Minister of Defence, General Mc-
Naughton, again failed of election.
Queensland Premier Cooper, manag-
ing to get a hearing in London, said his
State would welcome British migrants
and industries after the war. Then, pos-
sibly fearing that he’d be knocked down
in the rush, he added that of course
there’d be no welcome until everybody
already in Queensland had a job. The
old stale tale!
After weeks of cackling in the press
and elsewhere, housing authorities in
Victoria have laid an egg. It is an ex-
perimental conversion of an army hut
erected in an inaccessible suburb by the
Commonwealth Disposals Committee to
show the house-hungry people what is
coming to them. The original cost of
the shack was £lOO. Cost of removal
to its absurd site—it could have been
erected on a vacant block in Melbourne,
where everybody could see it —was £5O;
linings and subdivisions, £200; fittings,
£100; labor, £l6O. Lined with fibrous
plaster, the shanty is luxuriously fitted
with an enamel sink, a £35 elevated gas
stove, combustion stove in living-room,
bath and interior sewerage. Total cost,
not including land, £7OO. If the com-
mittee had set out to prove that emer-
gency methods of solving the housing
problem wouldn’t work they couldn’t
have done it better.
Brisbane’s Lud Mayor Chandler,
replying to criticism of the City Coun-
cil’s bus services by State Transport Min-
ister Walsh, pointed out that thftugh
Walsh’s Transport Board had absolute
authority as to where, how, why and
when buses shall run, and what fares
shall be charged, neither the council nor
private bus owners had any representa-
tion on the board. But who ever heard
of “controlled” people being allowed a
say in the “control”?
W. J. Wallwork, the Perth stipendiary,
is a very unusual magistrate. In five
“I’ve mislaid two articles a Deputy Prime Minister and a portmanteau. I’m
not worrying about the Deputy Prime Minister, but the portmanteau
is immensely valuable —it contains my foreign policy.”
months three of his verdicts in war-time-
legislation cases have been taken to higher
Courts, and each has been upheld. One
was a rent matter; another concerned
expired butter coupons ; the third related
to the rail permit demanded from a girl
traveller in the terms of an order made
under National Security (Land Trans-
port) Regs. Wallwork dismissed the case
against her, ruling that the requirement
violated Section 92 of the Constitution,
and the Full High Court unanimously
agreed with him. A native of Fremantle,
he was a Treasury clerk and a clerk of
courts (at 26) before he became a magis-
trate, as he did at Broome in 1933, before
he had turned 30. A man of such parts
should be put in the way of qualifying
for a judgeship if he hasn’t done it
already.
The Union lack and Old Glory are fly-
ing over the Governor’s palace at Trieste.
Their appearance was the signal for Allied
and Italian flags to break out from every
building, and when Alexander’s men
marched in they were “festooned with
flowers and carried shoulder-high through
the streets.” A bitter day for Marshal Tito
and his conquering hosts and hostesses
and the korz of communist imperialism ;
but the chronicler, working in some of
the old familiar pseudo-romantic bunk,
recorded that “Tito’s withdrawing forces
behaved magnificently.”
Earle Page on Scully;
“If you would see his monument, look
round.” Eggs so scarce that you need a
medical certificate to get them; 6,000,000
laying birds to be sacrificed because
poultry-farmers can’t get feed; every pig-
farmer cutting the throat of his stock for
the same reason; the milk supply reduced;
butter production down 70,000 tons a year
and shipments to Britain reduced from
113,000 tons to 41,564 tons; fodder con-
servation, provided for by our Government,
neglected altogether, and the wheat posi-
tion such that the harvest has dropped from
153,000,000 bushels to 38,000,000 bushels.
And all because of bungling; “incompet-
ence and muddling without precedent.”
And —“outstanding feature” —in West-
ralia, which had a pretty good harvest
last year and could have doubled it but
for “controls,” Scully is now “paying
farmers 12s. an acre not to grow wheat.”
No party has ever had all the seats in
the Senate. Labor won 31 in 1914, the
year of the double dissolution (it would
have been 32 but for McGregor’s death
between nomination day and election
day), and after the 1919 election there
was only one Labor Senator —Gardiner
—for nearly two years, when a nominee
arrived from Queensland to make it two.
Labor will have 18 in hand at next year’s
election, when four Laborites and 14
Oppositionists will have to face the music,
so it will be possible for it to possess all
the 36 seats in luly, 1947. Possible, but
not even remotely probable.
A furniture manufacturer in Fitzroy,
Melbourne, might be called a sort of acci-
dental local Hampden. In all innocence he
made a better and more comfortable chair
than the one he was permitted to make
by Dedman’s W. 0.1., and, although he
sold it at the fixed price and didn’t make
a penny extra profit, he was fined £5 with
costs for “contravening the regulations.”
One of Deddy’s legion of “investigating
officers” admitted that the offending chair
was superior to the article specified in
the permit, and was sold at the same
price, and that if the offending person
had applied for a permit to make the
kind of chair he did make he would prob-
ably have got it. “Socialisation” would
soon see thousands of such cases.
Under Commonwealth Government
control, enthusiastically recommended by
Ward, £37,938 was lost in a single N. S.
Wales mine, Coalcliff, in a trifle over a
“working” year, March 12, 1944, to
March 31, 1945; so naturally Ward’s
crowd has “taken over” another N. S.
Wales mine. Midfield Greta. The excuse
was a strike, which had led to 20-odd
strikes in other mines for two days— i.e„
two-fifths of a “working” week.
While another litter of coal strikes was
in the picture, and while managers of
public utilities were wondering whether
Sydney people would get a full issue of
lighting and power for the rest of the
month, Beasley, addressing N. S. Wales
unionists at an A.L.P. conference, said
“You mustn’t think that because you have
a Labor Government you can do as you
damned well like,” What else have they
been taught to think?
The temporarily shelved proposal to
nationalise Australian doctors opens up
interesting questions. The politicians who
propose it demand through Parliament
that every doctor, chemist, nurse and
masseur must pass exacting examinations
and have the highest qualifications before
they are allowed to practise. Yet the
qualifications for getting into Parliament
are the same as they were in Tudor times.
Nearly a third of Queenslanders live
in Brisbane. In Logan alone there was
an enrolment of 16,032 at the 1944 State
election, compared with 9987 in 1937.
Eight Brisbane electorates are above the
maximum quota under the Electoral
Act; no country electorate is above it;
six are below it. So the city is to gain
at least another seat at the country’s ex-
pense. In effect, the bad old process of
enlarging the metropolitan population at
the expense of the rural one is being
accelerated in Queensland as elsewhere
in Australia,
“C.S.”: That Sydney wool firm which
received a small parcel of wool samples
from its Melbourne branch and found it
had been “passed by censor” (B.
23/5/’45) needn’t think it is alone in the
distinction. To Mildura (Vic.) came a
letter from a Cairns (Q.) man by airmail.
The envelope bore two embellishments:
“Opened by censor” and “passed by
censor.” Canberra still denies that there
is an internal censorship.
F. Ehrenfried Baume, the Great War
Correspondent, became a favorite in Cer-
tain Quarters when he protested in 1941,
after the evacuation of Crete, that British
battleships were being held as “show-
pieces,” and, in 1942, that since 300,000
Tommies had been carried from Dunkirk
across the Channel in “small boats” a
greater number could make the return
passage, also in “small boats.” He will
be a Marked Man if he doesn’t stop let-
ting fly at the Workers’ Fatherland, as he
did after a personal tour of Scandinavia:
While British officers in Sweden, specially
sent, are trying to help British and Rus-
sian prisoners on their way hack the Rus-
sians are not co-operative Many Rus-
sians who have got to Finland are being
shot as collaborators with Germany— I
have it from a good source in Stockholm
that Russia is putting every obstacle in the
way of Russian prisoners being repatriated
at all. They have a Japanese way qf look-
ing at prisoners.
In Oslo’s grand hotels the Russian
official delegation, grim-faced and surly,
occupy the best rooms. They have the best
of everything these delegates, and they
like to order British officers out of rooms,
but don’t succeed. In fact, they are a
headache and a pain in the neck.
Ehrenfried winds up with a reference to
“this uneasy peace in Europe, which most
people distrust even now,” and a cryptic
warning: “No place is too remote to start
trouble again.” Flat blasphemy and not
to be endured.


Keep the home lights burning
Take every possible care of the Exide Batteries of your house-lighting equipment. Refer
regularly to your wall chart. Should the need for expert opinion arise, report the
matter to your Exide distributor or write to us immediately. By takinor care of your
Exide house-lighting, car and radio batteries, you not only get mont! anger service
from them, but you help Fight-
ing Services, who need all the
batteries that Exide are able
to supply.
ẁ
ẃ
SB
ẅ
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN
THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
Though now almost completely re-
covered from a long illness, knight Alfred
Davidson has decided to call it a day
after having been g.m, of the Bank of
New South Wales for over 16 years,
Thomas Baker Heffer, who takes over
as g.m., has been assistant g.m. for
more than two years and acting g.m. for
the past seven months.
Raymond Leane, who gets a knight-
hood in S.A.’s birthday honors, was
wounded in the first war three times,
had eight “mentions” ; and then he was
Commissioner of Police in Adelaide from
1920 to last year. Judge Angas Parsons,
on retiring from the Bench, gets a K.B.E.
Claude Gibb, knighted in England at
47, was a Port Adelaide boy, and Master
of Engineering at Adelaide Uni., £ut
latterly has been doing big work in
Britain as Director-General of fighting
vehicles and weapons, W. J. Spafford
gets an 1.5.0, for long services to agri-
culture and wheat-breeding. Hunkin,
C.M.G., is Director-General .of Man-
power and the main authority on
civil service classification. Also in the
South Australian honors, Senior Chap-
lain Kendrew, now 85, was in Egypt till
invalided in 1916, and has since then
done great work for returned soldiers.
Mrs. Hone, wife of Dr. Frank Hone and
mother of the tennis and cricket stal-
warts, gets an M.B.E. for long years of
work in the interests of child-welfare.
Recently in Brisbane, George Bernard
Shaw, looking extremely fit! In fact,
fitter —he gave his reason for being in
R.A.F. uniform as having enlisted in
Nottingham as an air-fitter. He was not
in favor of gassing the Japs, and had
never worked out which is which, but he
certainly was George Bernard Shaw. He
proved it by producing his identity card,
or what passes for such in the R.A.F.,
to a “Sunday Mail” reporter.
“X.S.” farewells a character:
Passed on at 62 in Melbourne, Henry John
Stokes, about whom there were wide diver-
gencies of opinion. One section regarded him
as a cross between Robin Hood and the more
romantic aspect of Ned Kelly. From this side
came stories of his many acts of goodness.
He paid the debts of many hard-up families,
and men prominent in the community foday
and holding good positions are said to have
owed their success to the fresh start they got in
life from Henry. Another section points to his
association with the notorious “Squizzy”
Taylor, surrounding which there was a great
deal of shooting, a bitter feud having developed
befvyeen Squizzy’s henchmen and Stokes’s.
Stokes and the law were in frequent disagree-
ment. In 1935 he was convicted of having con-
spired to rob the Commonwealth Bank at Bal-
larat, which had £BO,OOO in its vaults at the
time he was alleged to have taken an interest
in it, but Stokes maintained throughout the
trial that it was he who was the victim of a
conspiracy—it landed him with a sentence of
four years. Gambling clubs became his major
interest after his internment, and he caused a
sensation when he leased a steam yacht and
gave luxurious parties on the bay, at which
large sums changed hands. The Stokes estate
is expected in police circles to cut up for a
considerable figure.
Had an 80th birthday, Henry E. Boote,
editor of the “Worker” at Sydney for
many years, after having previously put
the Queensland “Worker” on the map.
Received a knighthood for his work
on the R.A.A.F. Research Committee,
Dr. Sidney Valentine Sewell, of Collins-
street, Melbourne. Born at Ballarat in
1890, and educated at Caulfield Grammar
and Melbourne University, he is an exam-
iner for the M.D. degree of the University
of M.L. Breeding stud stock is his re-
creation. Clifden Henry Eager, also
knighted, is the son of a Congregational
minister who came from Dublin in 1855.
Born at Sorrento (Vic.), he took to the
law, became a K.C, in 1935, and was
Minister without portfolio in the Argyle
Government. In 1943 he became Presi-
dent of* the Leg. Council. Brigadier
George Hodges Knox, who becomes
C.M.G., has been Speaker in the Vic-
torian Assembly since 1942. He com-
manded the 23rd Battalion on Gallipoli.
The appointment of Keith C.
McKeown as senior scientific assistant
to the Queensland Museum, and second
in command to Director Heber Long-
man, is welcomed heartily by the State’s
naturalists. McKeown’s booklet on
Insect Wonders of Australia was selected
by the Advisory Board of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund for publication last
year in the Australian Pocket Library
series. He moves north after 16 years
with the Australian Museum in Sydney,
Brigadier L. M. Inglis, D.S.O. and bar,
M.C., a Timaru (M.L.) lawyer, has been
selected as president of one of the five
military legal courts to boss Germany in
the British sector. A campaigner of two
wars. Brig. Inglis collected his M.C. in
1916. In the present war he has com-
manded the Second N.Z.E.F. when
General Freyberg was wounded or absent
on consultations. Born at Mosgiel,
Otago, he was grounded at Balclutha and
polished off at Waitaki High.
rfymock’s are shortly to publish a col-
lection of stories by “Standby,” mostly
from The Bulletin, under the title Little
Known of These Waters. “Standby”
knows quite a lot about those waters,
having served as chief officer on various
small ships carrying supplies to the troops
in New Guinea. His name is Richard
Sydney Porteous ; age 48 ; and, invalided
ashore, he lives at Mackay (N.Q.). Born
in Melbourne, he enlisted in the Bth Light
Horse at 17, had his 18th birthday on
Gallipoli, collected a Turkish bullet in the
jaw and three mentions in despatches.
After the war he jackerood and then
managed a Central Queensland cattle
station ; then went to sea as an A.B. and
retired with a coastal master’s ticket.
Before the present war broke out he was
running a tourist launch around the Bar-
rier Reef.
Back in Australia, after a great success
on the other side of the world, Noel
Mewton-Wood is the Melbourne lad who
was playing concertos with ease at an age
when most boys play marbles with some
effort. Of a Yarraside musical family,
he had his early piano training from his
mother, a sister of once widely-known
pianist, organist and conductor Frederick
Mewton. When the lad was seven his
mother noted with astonishment that a
small girl of eight was entering for a
Melbourne Uni. music exam., and sent in
MEWTON-WOOD.
Noel’s name as a starter. The authorities
wrote back questioning the given age;
but when he faced them he ran easily
through his pieces, topping his section.
It brought him under Bernard Heinze’s
eye; at nine the boy was granted a
special bursary by the Uni. Conserva-
torium, where he studied under Waldemar
Seidel, and a few months before his
fifteenth birthday was off to London, a
committee of admirers footing the bill.
After study at the Royal Academy of
Music and with Schnabel at Lake Como,
he was referred to by Sir Thomas
Beecham as, in that acute judge’s-opinion,
“the best talent discovered in the British
Empire for years.” His debut was a
triumph—playing the Beethoven Con-
certo in C Minor, with Beecham and
London Philharmonic Orchestra, in a
packed Queen’s Hall. Meanwhile, Mew-
ton-Wood has composed two sonatas, a
ballet suite, a string trio and a piano con-
certo.
By now politics must come as easy as
breathing to the cheerful-looking member
here depicted by Mcßeath William
Hugh Everard, who has been represent-
ing the one constituency (Evelyn) in the
Victorian Assembly for 27 consecutive
years; last time he faced the barrier he
romped home by the best margin he’d
ever recorded. In his case the political
knack is inherited —his father was a
member of Victoria’s first Parliament.
Another member of the family—also a
William —has represented Melton Mow-
bray in the House of Commons for a
quarter of a century. Evelyn’s Bill Ever-
WILLIAM HUGH EVERARD.
ard reads deeper than most of the poli-
tical fraternity; was Speaker for a
number of years and also Chairman of
Committees, and has always battled
staunchly for the man on the land.
Queensland University Senate has
appointed Hugh Brandon assistant
organiser and examiner in music. A
Fellow of Trinity College of Music, he
has been organist and choirmaster at
the Brisbane City Presbyterian Church
for many years.
From John Brennan: — .
He’s taken Kanimbla in as a troop-landing
ship on the invasions of Morotai, Leyte and the
Lingayen Gulf, and he had Bathurst, the first
R.A.N. corvette, for something over two years
in the Red Sea and Persian Gulf area, but
Commander A. V. Bunyan, back with Kanimbla
to carry A.I.F. troops to Brunei Bay, still re-
members with a certain hankering for adven-
ture the greater excitements of life on British
troop transports in the Mediterranean and the
Dardanelles during the last war. He was just
a boy then —14 when first he went to sea in
1916. And he’s been a sailor ever since. Com-
mander Bunyan came to Australia first in 1922
with three tugs that were brought out for John
Brown. He stayed around the place; or as near
to it as a sailor ever stays. Now he calls Mel-
bourne home. In 1929 he went back to Eng-
land to make a first trip as second officer on
Huddart Parker’s new Westralia —H.M.A.S.
now, and doing the same job as Kanimbla.
Later he took command of Triona for the
Phosphates Commission, and spent his time to
the outbreak of the German war running be-
tween Geelong and Nauru. He’s had a Navy
tanker, Karumba, since; a spell as first lieut.
in the sloop Swan, another as executive officer
of Manoora during her amphibious training, and
a tour in command of Swan on New Guinea
coast patrols. But whether he’s been chasing
Arab dhows in search of errant Vichy French-
men, blockading Djibouti or keeping a weather
eye out for a Japanese suicide ’plane, he’s
mostly been cursing the German raider which
sunk Triona, or thinking of the possible new
ship he’ll get when the war will be over, or of
the excitement on the Nauru run when a Fili-
pino seaman runs amok.
The Grand Vizier who, faced with the
prospect of having his head chopped off
unless he could state the number of
stars in the heavens, got out of it by
'saying “There are 20,000,000 —if you
don’t believe me, go out and count them,”
was possibly fortunate in not having run
up against Dr. J, M. Baldwin, just re-
tired from the job of Government
Astronomer in Melbourne. Dr. Bald-
win has been counting stars for 37 years.
It is nearly 50 years since Melbourne was
given the task, along with 18 other ob-
servatories of the world, of charting and
cataloguing the firmament, Melbourne’s
sector being the whole region from 64
degrees south to the South .Pole. Since
then 1149 photos have been taken and
every star in the field of vision has been
measured. Three volumes of the cata-
logue have been printed and five await
publication, though nobody knows by
whom, the State having gone out of the
observatory business and even packed off
its great telescope to Canberra. Other
important work of Dr. Baldwin’s was
observing the minor planet Eros when it
approached to within 16,000,000 miles of
the earth in 1931, and plotting the course
of southern comets.
Monsignor Percy Davis, who cele-
brates in Adelaide his 50th year of priest-
hood, was a Sydney boy, at St, Stanis-
laus College, but has spent all the half-
century in S.A. since being ordained in
Rome.
The McLeay brothers, Adelaide mer-
chants, seem to feel that they are cut out
for politics, George M. is already a Sen-
ator. John was a former Assembly mem-
ber, but is at present marking time as a
city aldermen. And Reginald has
announced his intention to seek L.C.L.
endorsement for the Boothby seat in the
next election.
Into the silence;
Alban Cyril Morleyj 8.A., LL.B., who lately
passed on at Auckland (M.L.), was a monocled
Englishman who, educated for the Church, took
to law and accountancy, both of which profes-
sions he practised with success in Melbourne.
He was the author of a standard work on
accountancy. Morley had great -political ambi-
tions, but, though he shepherded Corio (Vic.) 1
for many years, he failed to win the seat, as
he also failed in St. Kilda.
In Sydney, at 88, John Robinson, who, origin-
ally in the State audit office, transferred to the
Commonwealth service in charge of the work in
Sydney in 1900. He retired many years ago.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 94, W. E. Allison,
who started as a comp, on the Auckland
“Herald,” but soon headed off on the Thames
gold rush and did remarkably well. A Scot by
extraction, all his commercial ventures turned
out trumps, beginning with his promoting the
Devonport (Auckland) Steam Ferry Co. in 1880
with a capital of £lO,OOO. He was chairman
for over half a century, the company maturing
into a huge concern. As founder of the' Taupiri
Coal Mining Co. Allison was again successful.
A member of the Auckland Harbor Board for
22 years, he was, as well, the first Mayor of
Takapuna and also of Devonport; represented
Waitemata in the House of Representatives for
six years, and was a member of the Upper
House for 14 years. A racing owner and
breeder, he was the founder of the Takapuna
Jockey Club and many years president.
In Adelaide, at 62, Herbert William Gart-
rell, Professor of Mining and Metallurgy at
Adelaide Uni., where in his youth he gained
his B A. and B.Sc., and had lectured for the
past 35 years. He was an Old Digger.
* In Adelaide, at 30, James Joseph Rice, M. 8.,
B.Sc., recently released from the R.A.A.F. to
become house surgeon at the Adelaide
Children’s Hospital, where he passed on sud-
denly in his sleep. While at Adelaide Uni.
he captained the cricket and football first teams.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 79, William Goss,
one of the Dominion’s best tennis players,
though he did not start playing the game till
he was 31. Manager of the Goss Timber and
Box Co., he was last of the original members
of the Canterbury Timber Merchants’ Associa-
tion, of which at one time he was president.
At 86, in Melbourne, Harcourt Bell, senior
director of Bell and Valentine. He designed
and built the first newspaper press and the first
four-color press in Australia.
At 75, James Wright Munro, one of the most
gentle and popular of M.L. Labor members.
He represented Dunedin North. A baker, with
little or no education, he was one of the foun-
dation members of the first M.L. Labor party,
and was a member for 23 years.
In Adelaide, at 65, John Gladstone Sinclair,
former g.m. of the S.A. Farmers’ Union, and
past president of the S.A. branch of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Secretaries. An Old Digger,
he was a former Legacy Club president.
In Brisbane, Mrs. M. E. Mansfield, widow of
Judge Mansfield. Drs. E. and M. T. Mans-
field and Mansfield, J., are her sons.
L. Ramsay, secretary of the Commonwealth
Public Service Board, who has passed on at
Canberra at 53, hailed originally from Mackay
(Q.), and was in the State P.S. from 1906 to
1929. Well known in Brisbane football, both
as a player and referee, he helped establish
Rugby Union in the A.C.T.
“Barkly’s” farewell:
Bill Reilly, once of Camooweal, was buried in
Brisbane 12/6/’45. It is 32 years, almost to
the day, since first I met Bill. He was then
running a pub in the ’Weal. Apart from run-
ning the pub he was about half the town. The
late Paddy Synnott was the other half. Bill was
in everything, president of this, chairman of
that, secretary of some other thing, patron of
what-not. He put his heart and body into it,
too. And when that big heart and giant body
got behind anything then something had to
move. He did his share to open the back
country; he earned any easy times he had in
his later vears.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”: In allowing only an extra
1080 gallons of suds among the three
hotels in the vicinity of Sydney Trades
Hall for the delectation of 338 delegates
who gathered last week in the Goulburn-
street lamasery for the A.C.T.U, confer-
ence, Keane, the Minister for Beer, seized
the opportunity to display the high states-
manlike qualities which his admirers
always knew he possessed. Sydney beer-
drinkers who, unless they happen to be
ex-international centre-forwards, stand
but a slender hope for fighting through
the 5.45 p.m. scrum to get to the counter,
will rejoice that the union bosses assem-
bled in conclave have, except for a trifling
extra allowance of five pints a day, been
placed on exactly the same footing as*
themselves. This is Democracy! That
the Returned Soldiers were flatly refused
any beer at all for their conference is quite
beside the point. After all, the Diggers
merely fought for their country.
* * * *
“Sixth Divvy”: “X.P.8.1.’5” reference
to the song “Blarney’s Boys” reminds me
that there was a song the boys of the
Sixth used to sing back in the giggle-suit
days of Ingleburn. A verse of it went:
I’ve got a date, and I hope I won’t be late,
With the daughter of Mademoiselle from
Armentieres.
She’s tres bon, she’s a darling is Yvonne;
I’ve waited to meet her now for twenty years,
After we’ve wound up the watch on the Rhine.
And taken the washing off the Siegfried line
And fixed up Mr. Hitler, then I’ll keep that
date of mine
With the daughter of Mademoiselle from
Armentieres.
Of the old originals of the First Battalion
whom I heard sing it so lustily I could
count on the fingers the few that remain.
None of the lads was there to take down
the washing or keep that date with
Yvonne.
* * * *
“Poppet”: Less than 20 years ago,
when a few daring souls were suggesting
that Australia ought to be starting a
motor industry of its own and spending
less money abroad, it was argued by those
who opposed such a development that the
production of even a 4-cyl. engine of the
sort used in the cheaper cars was beyond
the capacity of Australian engineers. The
only people who weren’t a bit daunted
by that assertion were the Australian engi-
neers. World War II has given them
ample opportunities of demonstrating that
the sky is their limit, and that they can
go a good long way in that direction.
Latest announcement is that Lincoln
bombers (d sort of super-Lancaster) are
being made here.
Rolls-Royce “Merlin” engines from Eng-
land will be used at first, but later Aus-
tralian engines made at Lidcombe (N.S.W.)
will be used.
If Australia can turn out an engine to
do the job of a “Merlin” the country’s
proficiency in mechanical engineering
can’t be very far improved upon.
* * * *
“Alkali Ike”: I see where Big Chief
Bluefeather, a redskin employed in Holly-
wood as technical adviser on a “Western,”
has picked Rita Hayworth and Rosa-
lind Russell as the “best squaws” in
the place, one for her “vitality—the type
to keep any wigwam warm,” the other
because “her sense and sharpness would
be highly valued in the tribe.” I don’t
doubt the one about keeping the tepee
warm, but something must have hap-
pened to the Indian nations all the way
from the Algonquins to the Yaquis to
make a squaw valuable for anything else
than rearing a family and cooking. If
this should bring the reply that the
squaws and maidens now occupy the
same position as their politicalised pale-
face sisters, then my last hope of a haven
in a mad world is destroyed.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Bankruptcy Court
here has said good-bye to a former
country baker who has been before it
off and on for seven years. Both start
and finish of the case were unusual. The
baker went broke through illness caused
by the bite of a poisonous spider. He
has become solvent again because, said
the Official Receiver, “a woman who
refused to give her name called at my
office and gave me £ll6 to enable 20s.
in the £1 to be paid.”
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: A queer happening came
to light in Hobart when a passenger was
charged with having driven a tram with-
out having the official qualifications. The
man charged is a pianist and leader of a
dance band, and has been blind since
his first year. In dismissing the case
the Solon remarked that the blind man
“If those are the Admiralty charts you’ve been looking for, Prendergast,
I’ll inspect them in the Wardroom.”
had offered to hold the controls while the
driver made up his sheet. The Tram-
ways Department evidently did not re-
gard the matter very seriously as it fined
the driver only three days’ wages.
He Hs * &
“Grinner”: Adelaide “Advertiser”
also had something to say about Drift,
a book of Australian short stories re-
viewed on the Red Page (B. 13/6/’45):
Beds on the verandah, the harsh light
shining through uncurtained widows, shelves
made of boxes sons on relief, complain-
ing mothers, boozing husbands skinny
sheep, foraging pigs, bad seasons, falling
prices.... you buy a large slab of depres-
sion for your nine shillings... .Admittedly
the stories are well written But there is
no cheer in them.
“No cheer in them” —a charge that can
be sustained against so many otherwise
good Australian writings. Yet the Aus-
tralian character is probably the most
cheerful and optimistic in the world, and
the country is full of people who have
made a success of life. It’s time some of
our writers woke up to the greatness of
the country and the opportunities it holds,
and got rid of the mental attitude that
ennobles the waster and the ignorant and
belittles the intelligent and successful.
He He * #
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide man has had
to face the odd charge of “having failed
to take all reasonable precautions to en-
sure the safety of a pistol in his posses-
sion.” It was stolen from his car and,
when he admitted that his car had been
left standing unlocked he was fined £1
for having been robbed. S.A, does not
like pistols. It hanged the last man who
used one fatally.
s{c H* jji jjj
“Oxmead”: Touching the local
demand for 1930 pennies (B. 13/6/’45),
I remember when I was a schoolboy a
similar craze in England for copper coins
bearing the 1864 date. In that case the
legend was a more picturesque one. The
story ran —Heaven only knows how it
was started—that in that year a bar of
gold accidentally got into the recep-
tacle where the material for copper coin-
age was being melted and went into the
output before the mishap was discovered.
The yarn, probably a pure fabrication,
died hard and doubtless accounted for
the scarcity of 1864 pennies, though I
never heard of anyone getting more than
its face value for a specimen.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Clooter’s” contention
(B. 6/6/’45) that “any respectable brickie
on a small house job ought to put down
800 or 900 bricks in a day” does things
to my ego. For a quarter of a century
I’ve been under the impression that I was
reasonable, respectable and a fair trades-
man. Apparently I flattered myself, since,
though always on piecework, I could
never average anything like that. A little
thing called conscience was the nriain
deterrent. Perhaps there are brickies who
can combine workmanship with extra-
ordinary speed, just as men are born who
can sprint a hundred yards in nine and a
fraction seconds, but the speed mer-
chants I have known have held to the
slogan “Don’t pull the scaffold down till
we’ve got the money ; then bolt before
the job falls over.” Why does the layman
always discuss bricklaying from the aspect
of quantity, never quality? After all,
he is the sufferer when slather-em-whack
methods lead to cracked walls, damp cavi-
ties and smoky chimneys.
* »* * *
“S.T.S.”: Whyalla, the B.H.P. port on
Spencer’s Gulf (S.A.), which started as a
mere shipping place for stone from the
Iron Knob and Iron Monarch in the back
country, has been busy all through the
war in building ships, but has had to
appear in the newspapers just as “an
Australian port.” With a £3,000,000
pipeline from the Murray, its original
lack of water is overcome, and it is claim-
ing to be one of S.A.’s most important
towns. It has launched the Murrum-
bidgee of 9000 tons, with the Murray on
the way, and other ships with river names
are to follow.
* * ♦ m
“Avon”: Maoriland’s Licensing Com-
mission, which has been several months
on the job, has lately been taking some
medical evidence on the Demon. A typi-
cal view was expressed by an Auckland
medico:
The properties which make alcohol attrac-
tive to those who drink it are its rubefacient
effect on the lining of the stomach, pro-
ducing an agreeable sense of warmth, its
property of dilating the peripheral circula-
tion, producing an agreeable sensation of
glow, and of removing from a slight to an
increasingly greater extent those inhibitions
and controls which civilised man gradu-
ally built up to make his actions harmless
to his fellows. In its less developed form «
this produces a feeling of liberation from
the constraints of modern life, giving a
sense of freedom and enlargement. In suit-
able dilution, alcohol produces these effects
without any considerable development or
recognition of the essentially toxic nature
of the substance which produces them;
but the margin is small and can easily be
over-stepped. If the effects of alcohol
could be' maintained at this minimal level
of toxicity, its use in such quantities suit-
ably diluted could be regarded as reason-
able and allowable.
The witness went on to urge that licensees
should be made responsible for the
quality of the liquor they sold.
* * * *
“Barfly”: A young Australian pianist,
repatriated from England by A.8.C., has
astonished the United Order of Froth-
blowers (Australian section) by telling
how he gave recitals of classical music in
hotel bars in the Old Dart, and was list-
ened to politely and appreciatively. Syd-
ney “D.T.” put it up to some of the lads,
who pointed out it wouldn’t do here.
“The way things are now,” said one, “we
don’t want music with our beer. All we
want is beer.” “People won’t keep quiet
in bars to listen to music,” said another,
“while they have to stand up and fight
to get drinks,” Anyway, I understand
music of any sort is prohibited in N. S.
Wales hotel bars. It is permissible to
broadcast what won the ’urdles, but
Schubert’s “Ave Maria” would get the
joint pinched as disorderly. But I remem-
ber in the old days, when the pubs were
open in the evening, which is when a beer
goes best, and when strong drink hadn’t
been made dear, weak and scarce by
cockeyed legislation, we had music and
enjoyed it. The perambulating street
bands —usually a harp, a fiddle and a
cornet —used to come into the bars and
play what the patrons wanted —anything
from an Irish jig to the choral air of the
Ninth Symphony. Of course, in those
days, incredible though it may seem, you
might sit on a plush sofa and rest your
pewter half-pint on a little table while
discussing this and that. There was no
necessity to hurry—plenty of beer and
plenty of time.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Mead, not beer, nor
ale, was the national drink of Britain up
to the time of Henry VIII, and honey
entered largely into its composition. All
sorts of herbs, besides hops, were em-
ployed in making ales. Dandelion ale, a
palatable light intoxicant, was fairly
popular up to 60 years ago, and spruce
beer (non-intoxicating) was in favor as
a tonic for anybody who had been
bruised or subjected to physical shock.
The wonder is that with such a variety
of herbs available for beer-making only
hops should survive.
* * * *
“Q.Q.”: The wife of the new-rich
tradesman bought a picture at a Mel-
bourne art show for 15 guineas. “It’s a
lot of money to pay for a picture,” she
said to the manager. “But, my dear
madam,” was the reply, “this is a rising
young artist, and he may be one of our
most famous painters some day.” “May-
be, but I only wanted the picture to hide
a discolored patch on the wall of my
sitting-room,” grumbled the lady.
* * * *
“J. 1.”: Prof. Scott (B. 30/5/’45) ac-
cepted Premier Holman’s will to do for
the actual deed. Holman, speaking at a
La Perouse celebration, said that he was
making the site of the monument and
about two acres besides a gift to the
French nation. Scott noted this promise
in his Life of La Perouse, but what he
didn’t note was that when a slice of
Stikinthmud, Dingo Flat, or any other
place is made, irrespective of whether it
be to a nation or to Bill Smith, it has to
be done by legal process. A lawyer him-
self, Holman knew this, and had a proper
bill drafted. Then an adviser drew for
him a picture of crooks and “wanteds”
dashing into French territory and sitting
down there, fingers to noses, until hauled
out by costly extraditions. The Premier
saw scrawled “Filed” on the bill, and
thereafter kept discreetly silent about the
gift to France.
KEANE’S CONSIDERATENESS.
“Special extra rations of beer and tobacco were
made available to delegates of the A.C.T.U. Congress
in Sydney last week.”
Paltry, I think, to grudge these sturdy fellows,
With weighty issues hanging on their votes,
An extra ration of the stuft that mellows
Acerbity and kindliness promotes,
Material to inflate their vocal bellows
And clear annoying hoarseness from their
throats.
Quite indispensable amenities,
Surely, upon occasions such as these.
That nothing sweetens toil like well-filled
trenchers
The most ascetic wowser should admit,
And a sufficiency of “modest quenchers”
(Dick Swiveller’s expression, wasn’t it?)
Should give no opportunity for censures
When men are well assured they’re doing their
bit,
Either in council or against the foe
In open field, pro bono publico.
No Sybarite myself or eager grasper
Of costly luxuries, I find no fault
With those whose taste is for a humble gasper
And, now and then, a swig of hops and malt.
In hot debate such comfort's soothe the rasper
And bring recriminations to a halt.
I hold him wise who never looks askance
At either sedatives or stimulants.
And, after all, to be quite fair and candid,
These favored delegates might well maintain
The inexpensive extras they were handed
Leave scant excuse for critics to complain
When they might just as coolly have demanded
Cigars like Churchill smokes and dry cham-
pagne.
And found indulgent Keane, no need to state,
Equally ready to co-operate.
w
PIPARDS.
A MARKED DISTINCTION.
“Great poets have sometimes rightly preferred to
sacrifice accuracy of sound and correctness in rhym-
ing rather than do injustice to some noble thought;
lesser ones cannot afford such license.” —
—Preface to a Rhyming Dictionary.
Say, do you rank yourself a poet, brother,
A dinkum bard within whose heart there beats
High hope of being yet acclaimed another
Swinburne or Shelley, Tennyson or Keats?
Do you foresee in years to come your pages
Enriched by sentiment serenely high
And noble thoughts—the sort that future ages
Will not let lightly die?
D’you feel a touch of that divine afflatus,
Whene’er you spur your Pegasus along,
That’s destined to secure for you tfye status
Accorded to the master sons of song?
Do you anticipate, as ’twere a moral,
That soon or late there will arrive a day
When grateful hands will wreathe your brows
with laurel
And garland them with bay?
Well, if you do—and if your bright predictions
Are soundly based —you may pursue your
goals
Oblivious of the manifold restrictions
Devised for less imaginative souls.
You needn’t have the slightest apprehensions,
When it may suit your book, in cutting free
From all the rigid rules and stiff conventions
Imposed on chaps like me,
If you’re a poet, even in the making,
With academic laws you may dispense.
The very liberties with such you’re taking
Will serve to emphasise your eminence.
Can anything to self-esteem be sweeter
Or postulate assurance more sublime
Than license for assassinating metre
And playing hell with rhyme?
But we, less gifted souls, who merely go on
Our humble, halting, undistinguished ways,
Who never deal in noble thoughts and so on
To put some ginger in Our artless lays,
We can’t unfortunately claim exemption
From canons inculcated in the schools.
Our jingles would be ruined past redemption
If we defied the rules.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Taurus”: The tyranny of the cove be-
hand the counter is by no means confined
to the cities these days. We were journey-
ing from Brisbane to Cairns via the
western route and our train had stopped
at a town between Hughenden and
Charters Towers. We hurried over
to the smaller of |wo pubs. The
only occupants of the bar were Bung,
his wife and daughter, who awaited the
influx of customers. The carefree
entrance of our little group was arrested
by the command “Now, gentlemen, half
to the front and half to the back and
you’ll all get served !” We split up as
directed, and in due course Mum handed
the empties to Dad, Dad pumped and
Daughter served. We gulped the luke-
warm beer in silence and, too flabber-
gasted to fill ’em up again, the four of
us returned dejectedly to the train.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Wage-fixers who have
to listen to interminable arguments
on the theme of similar-pay-for-
similar-work might gain illumination by
joining in a cigarette queue I frequent.
This queue has two pigtails, and at the
time of my arrival one of them invariably
has 20 to 30 more customers than the
others, with old hands still attaching
themselves to the longer queue. They are
wise ; that queue is served by a man, and
the superiority of his service to that of
the woman handling the other (though
she is no slouch) is approximately 30
in each hundred. It is just a matter of
smart handling of the packets of fags
and assessing the charge and change.
* * * *
“The Second”: The choosers of tug
names have often had in mind historical
associations. The neat grey hull with
Heroine as its title is a reminder to
Sydneysiders of the vastly different
Heroine that brought Leichhardt from
Port Essington a century ago. A Hero
acquitted herself well in Governor Phillip’s
time. Challenger, under Captain G. S.
Nares, carried out much exploratory
work in Australian waters and left her
name and those of her crew here and
there along the Barrier (Challenger Bay,
Nares Rock, etc.). Alacrity (Lieut. Moore)
did like service for Fiji. Torch, Success
and Panther are other names connected
with early navigation and exploration
that have been bequeathed to tugs.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An object-lesson in honesty
in advertising has appeared in a Mel-
bourne daily;
Carlton, 9 Station-pl.—Small cottage in
shocking condition, vacant; accept £l5O.
That didn’t daunt prospective buyers, who
were pestering the agent before breakfast.
* * * *
“Bennie”: At the meatworks where I
toil the foreman, egged thereto by the
manager, gave us a lunch-hour lec-
ture on the wickedness of pinching
unconsidered trifles. He ended his
stern warning at 12.45, and was back
on the job when the one o’clock
whistle blew. With an awful eye
he regarded Noxy, who seemed to be
rooted to where he stood. A minute
"Sing? Why, 'er an me Was preemer-donners of our pickle fact ry!"
passed and another minute passed, and
Noxy was still statuesque. The foreman
moved up to him. “Don’t you know the
whistle’s gone?” he asked subtly,
“Gone?” exclaimed Noxy. “You don t
say so! ’Struth, these meat-workers’d
take anything, wouldn’t they?”
h= * * *
“Viz”: Art is flourishing in all the big
drapers’ shops, but how many of those
who crowd the galleries are sufficiently
interested to make painting a pastime for
themselves? Winston Churchill said “To
have reached the age of 40 without ever
handling a brush or fiddling with a pencil
and then suddenly to find oneself plunged
into a new and intense form of interest
and action with paints and palettes and
canvasses, and not to be discouraged with
results, is an astonishing and enriching
experience.” These days the beginner will
have to mix his own paints from com-
mercial pigments with white lead, raw oil
and thinning oil, all still available in small
quantities. Brushes are off the market;
but there are a few palette knives which,
in any case, are easier to use. The results
probably will not be art, any more than
the average limerick is poetry, but the
important thing is not so much what the
painter puts on canvas as the effect which
the attempt has in sharpening his powers
of observation and making him aware
for the first time in his life of the real
shape and color of familiar objects.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A unique record for sticking
together is held by the five Warner
brothers, of Tumbarumba, in the Riverina.
Named Vernon, Albert, Alfred, Ernest
and William, they joined the Sixth
Division on the same day. After fighting
in Greece and Crete they were all taken
prisoner on the same day. They spenl
four years in the same prison camp
—and stepped ashore simultaneously in
England, free men again.
* * * *
“Pip” on the mingling of soldiering and
education:
Study in the army is by no means easy.
Long tiring days, stunts at night, hurricane
lamps and complete absence of privacy and
quiet greatly complicate the student’s pro-
gramme. But a proportion of soldiers have
taken advantage of the spare time they get and,
either privately or through Army Education
Service, have enrolled for various subjects. Most
of the courses are intended for use in later
life. Accountancy is popular, especially m
technical units, and there is many a merry dis-
cussion on banking procedure or principles ot
taxation. Some soldier-students are doing
matriculation subjects with a view to taking
full-time courses under the rehabilitation
scheme. Diesel engineering is a popular trade
course, as are all those connected with motor-
cars or electrical equipment. Not all the
courses have a post-war object, however. A
40-year-old solicitor in this show is learning
shorthand. The weird symbols always fasci-
nated him, and this is the first opportunity he
has had of delving into their mystery. A com-
mercial traveller is browsing through architec-
ture and a bank clerk has nearly completed
ticket-writing. A lot of soldiers began courses
with wild enthusiasm, which gradually petered
out. Latest war developments have sent them
diving into old boxes, and more prodigals re-
turn to the fold every day. Even so, about
three-fourths of the soldiers continue to resist
the enticements of A.E.S.
* # * *
“Wodgil”: An old Westralian colleague
recalled to me a “dago Must Go! ” cam-
paign launched by Jack Drayton in the
Kalgoorhe “Sun” in 1902 or thereabouts.
It was aimed at the Italians who cut mine
fuel in the salmon-gum and gimlet forests,
to which a woodline ran from Kurra-
wang. Some of them were pretty wild ;
but, wild or not, they were indispens-
able : Australians shied away from wood-
cutting in a dreary region where green
vegetables were scarcer than Barcoo rot.
Heedless of this awkward industrial fac-
tor, Drayton kept his articles going till
everyone else was sick of them (above
all, his staff), insisting tha f versions
were “dagoes” and must sed the
dignity of the capital lette: . n head-
lines. “Smith’s Weekly, which
Drayton was associated w ? was old
but still full of beans, has r • is agita-
tion, with its own saws ; modern in-
stances, during the war yc ■: id now
Sydney, core of its heart •n< uojne, has
gone all mushy about a jullv M: i Mario
Bianchi, who owns that her heart is “still
in Capri,” and that the very expensive
jewels she sports, even “on the lapel of
her navy-blue tweed coat, with its white
window-pane stripe,” are gifts from
Mario, whom she married in 1940. Mario
himself, though he arrived “nursing a
sore arm” after the “shof’-pitters had
done with it, and in no amiable mood
“By the way , young man, who gave you permission to marry my
daughter ?”
•
(“What’s wrong with us, anyway? What
are they afraid of?”), has been senti-
mentalised (with portrait), it being re-
corded that “he has a restaurant named
El Borrachio in New York” and
has invented a famous lamb stew-
(recipe given; ingredients unprocur-
able). And Sydney’s favorite pug is
Italian in lineaments and complexion, as
well as extraction, though, as the “Daily
Telegraph” mentioned in a life-history
spread over two pages, he “changed his
name by deed poll” to something Irish.
Ah, well, it always was a crool city for
crusaders!
* * *
“Galenus”: With the restoration of
peace in the Middle East drug-smuggling
will probably be well on the way to re-
vival, although with Japan out of the
picture heroin supplies will be short. Pre-
war operators were often persons of real
ingenuity. Camel-meat has for long been
a main foodstuff in the Nile Valley, and
some 35,000 of the animals are brought in
annually for slaughter and sale. The drug
squad learned casually that an offer of
£EIO had been refused for a miserable
beast not worth £E3 in open market.
Seized and slaughtered, its rumen, or first
stomach, yielded on post-mortem 27
closed metal tubes, each about six inches
long and inches diameter. They were
weighted with lead to prevent regurgita-
tion and contained opium. From 18
camels there were recovered in such con-
tainers over 37 pounds of hashish and
147 pounds of refined opium, worth
around £2200 Egyptian. Probably the
game could be countered by X-ray
examination, but from what I’ve seen and
smelt of camels the operator’s job would
be a horrible one.
“Ike Hollar”: “Magister” (B. 6/6/’45),
if he is a schoolmaster, should know why
the children of today are not
as conversant with the old saws
as were those of a former gen-
eration. In my schooldays our
copybooks were a complete
course in the proverbs from
“All Things Come to Him Who
Waits” to “Virtue is its Own
Reward.” If the meaning of
a phrase was not clear at first
sight we asked what it meant.
Those old copybook maxims
have been superseded by
matter-of-fact statements about
the grass being green and the sea wide
and blue, and in a great many schools
no copybooks at all are used,
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: My daily morning
mentor is astounded that over 2,000,000
Berliners have returned to their devas-
tated city, but there doesn’t seem to be
anything* astounding about it. Vesuvius
periodically slops over and buries Neapoli-
tan vineyards and olive groves, but the
inhabitants always go back. There used
to be a volcano in East Java with a
crater lake which the rains gradually
filled with water. When the water
reached a certain level the congealed
mud of the crater bottom collapsed and
there was a mighty explosion, followed by
a mud flood which slowly spread down
the side of the mountain, smothering the
fields and villages of the natives. The
occupants used to leave their houses and
repair to the lowlands until the flood
had subsided and the floor of the crater
had once more solidified, when they
would return to carry on husbandry as
usual. When Dutch engineers provided the
crater with a concrete bottom and drew
off the surplus water through sluice
gates there was much more migration
from that district than ever before. I
suppose it is a matter of associations.
Even the heap of smoking rubble that
is Berlin has more pleasant associations
for a Berliner than the newest model
city that could be constructed.
* * * *
“Traymon”; By the law of averages,
Winston Churchill, rising 71, can look for-
ward to several more years of life and
health. Longevity of British Prime Min-
isters of the last century is remarkable
considering the strain under which many
of them lived. Gladstone died at 89.
Other octogenarians were Russell (86),
Lloyd George (82), Rosebery (82), Bal-
four (82) and Palmerston (81). Disraeli
lived to 77, Aberdeen and Oxford to 76,
Salisbury to 73. Campbell Bannerman
died at 72, MacDonald and Chamberlain
at 71. Derby just reached the allotted
three score years and ten. Baldwin, at
78, is still going strong. With notable
exceptions, such as Hughes and Smuts,
Dominion Prime Ministers have seldom
lived long enough to assume the mantle
of elder statesmen.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: An important
amenity of life which has disappeared
in war-time is the bachelor button. These
were studs that were pressed through the
cloth where once a button sat and riveted
to a sort of clip button by a tap of a
hammer. My first, second and third
wives all hated the contraptions, as
women hate anything that helps men to
stand alone. They like men to beg to
have buttons sewn on. But bachelor
buttons will come back, and if in the
future you hear hammering in the next
flat you will know that some strong, silent
man is asserting his capacity for self-
help and his scorn of feminine assistance.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: One of the main
doors of the Mitchell Library is decorated
with bronze medallions of navigators and
explorers who put Australia on the map,
but Hume does not appear among them,
though Ho veil does. In 1824 Governor
Brisbane sent Hamilton Hume and Hovell
(a master mariner) with a party to
examine and report on the unexplored
country to the southward of the Lachlan.
The expedition reached Port Phillip after
locating the Hume (now known as the
Upper Murray), the Mitta Mitta, Ovens,
King, Goulburn and a number of lesser
streams. Hume was an exceptionally fine
bushman, with considerable experience m
exploratory work. He accompanied
Captain Sturt as second in command on
the expedition that led to the discovery
of the Darling. He was the first Aus-
tralian-born explorer of note, and this fact
alone should have given him precedence
over Hovell, whose only connection with
Australian exploration was his part in
the expedition to Port Phillip.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Esk D.”: George was trudging along
the road on the ten-mile jaunt to his
camp at Alluvial Creek when Billy
Hobbs, in his battered utility, pulled up
beside him. “Hop in,” Billy invited, and
George thankfully deposited his sugarbag
of groceries in the back and climbed in.
Billy, a bit of a doer, stepped heavily on
the accelerator and drove wildly and reck-
lessly up the bumpy road. Now and then
he glanced slyly to see how George was
taking to the swaying, jolting ride, but
the prospector sat up stiffly with one hand
clamped to his pocket and stared straight
ahead. At the gate to Kane’s place Billy
slammed the brakes on suddenly and
stopped with a jerk that nearly sent
George through the windscreen. “Better
than walkin’, eh?” he said with a grin at
his passenger’s discomfiture. “You’re not
scared of ridin’ in these things, George?”
“Aw, no,” replied George. “Not f’r me-
self. But I wasn’t too sure how this
packet of detonators in me pocket’d stand
the trip.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Droving and dealing in
sheep on our own account, we stopped
one afternoon to interview a cocky who
we’d heard had a mob of wethers for
sale. Sam and this cove took a fancy to
each other on sight, and started yarning
about almost everything else but the deal
in view ; so I left them at it and went back
to our mob of nondescripts on the road.
It was late that evening when Sam re-
turned to the van where I’d bedded the
sheep down for the night. “How did you
get on?” I asked. “Not bad,” replied
Sam. “But I didn’t buy the wethers. Y’
see, that poor cow’s been nursin’ his jura-
bucks along f’r iso long it’d seem like
robbin’ him t’ buy ’em at present values.
An’ if we paid out enough t’ square things
with him on the deal we’d go broke.- So
I pretended t’ fix the windmill f’r him an’
came away.”
* # * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We slipped into the bar
as an argument between some locals
reached a climax. “Bah!” snorted one
of them, and turned impatiently to refute
somebody’s logic. He caught Mat’s eye ;
each stared at the other a moment, then
Mat grabbed my arm. “Come on,” he
said aloud, “let’s drift. They even talk
like flamin’ sheep here.” In dead silence
we departed.
* * * *
“E. 2”: The rabbits and kangaroos
were plaguing Dan, so he bought a couple
of greyhound pups. One night, when
they were almost fully grown, they got
out and tackled a mob of wethers in
Kelly’s paddock. It cost Dan a cheque
and a promise to destroy the killers.. As,
shotgun in hand, he was taking the
hounds to a bend of the river, a stranger
pulled up and eyed them apprais-
ingly. “Y’ wouldn’t sell ’em?” he in-
quired. “Aw, yairs,” Dan replied quickly.
“But they’d set y’ back twelve quid.”
“Cripes, y’re hot, aren’t y’?” said the
stranger. “Might be a pretty high price,”
Dan agreed, “but that’s what they corst
me —thirty bob apiece an’ nine quid f’r
the sheep they killed. Y’ wouldn’t expect
a man t’ sell ’em at a loss, would y’?”
“Visitor”: Grange, a seaside suburb of
Adelaide, has astonished itself by picking
up about 1000 fresh oysters, washed up
on the beach. It lies about the middle
of Adelaide’s 15 miles of sandy beach,
far from any rocks whatever. , .
H* H* H* H^
“B. A. Ker”: The gang came trooping
in for tea to find the hut in semi-dark-
ness, the hanging lamp missing from its
customary place. The only illumination
was provided by hurricane lamp artd
candle, by the light of which the cook
was cutting up the meat. Considering the
difficulties, the babbler was not in a bad
humor. “Had a bit of trouble with the
lamp,” he explained ; “nothing serious ;
I’ll fix it as soon as tea is under way.”
Characteristically, Happy offered to “have
a go at it,” but Cooky wouldn’t hear of
him delaying his tea. “0.K.,” said Happy.
“I can eat from memory,” and proceeded
to do so, starting the meal off in a jocund
spirit that ran right throughout the first
course. Somebody at the far end of the
hut declared he had just cut through the
toughest shadow he’d ever known, while
another voice plaintively begged its neigh-
bor to cease poking forkfuls of nutriment
in its owner’s ear. Happy’s voice broke
out again, complaining that he had been
gnawing a bone and had chewed up to
his elbow before realising that the bone
was finished. Only old Ned remained
“ Good-bye , you, and see if you can t get transferred to a suicide unit!
aloof and surly, grumbling something
about a tooth when asked why he wasn t
eating. Halfway through the pudding
course Cooky literally came to light with
the big hanging lamp, triumphantly plac-
ing it in its customary possie. Old Ned
immediately marched up to the safe and
began cutting off some meat. “Toothache
gone?” Happy asked. “Didn’t say I had
a toothache,” Ned grunted; “I said I
was too long in the tooth to fall for that.
And when you’re as old as me you’ll
know that the light always fails when the
cook knows the meat’s blown!”
*** # *
“Jack Cade”: The decline in the use
of plug tobacco (B. 16/ 5/ ’45) is con-
nected with the rise of “militant” trade-
unionism. In the days when the boss was
able to enforce the edict “No smoking
during working hours” the nicotine
addict who found it difficult to last out
four or more hours without a smoke
found some solace in a “chew” the
plug was adapted to both smoking and
chewing. And, of course, it was better
tobacco, being much more carefully pro-
cessed ; many chew addicts held that
their particular brand was treated either
with molasses or liquorice. The sailor
also chewed, work on a wet deck not
being conducive to keeping a pipe filled
and alight, even if the bo’sun or the mate
didn’t object. So Jack had twist, easily
got out of a damp pocket with a wet
hand and easily bitten off. Some of our
present-day cut-up smokes don’t even
pretend to be tobacco, their labels merely
indicating that they are “Smoking Mix-
tures.”
* * * *
“Harap”: I don’t like inflicting cruelty
—even mental —on a bird, but Maggie
asked for it. The tree’ with the nest in it
was an isolated one in the middle of a
paddock, and I couldn’t do my job with-
out setting the theodolite up fairly close
to it. As soon as I started to take a sight
Maggie would swoop at me, and, as the
performance seemed likely to continue in-
definitely, counter - measures became
necessary. Next morning I cut a pole
aboyt 6ft. long, stuck it in the ground
near the tree and hung from it a mirror
which flashed in the sun like a heliograph.
I stood by the pole until Maggie had
made a few swoops; then moved off
and set the instrument up about 20 yards
away. After circling round a few times
a puzzled bird decided that the only way
to meet the situation was to retire to a
branch of the tree and do some watchful
Waiting. Maggie still hasn’t figured it
out, and her worried look is deepening.
He * H< ❖ ,
“Old-timer”: Old Mac, with one dog,
was pushing a small mob of shorn wether
weaners across the red plain. It was hot
and still, and the hooves cut up the red
dust which rose in a cloud that hung
above them. There was a thunder head
in the north, and Mac kept an eye on it,
hoping to get the sheep home before it
burst. Before long the shornies had lost
their whiteness and turned a bricky color.
Mac looked more like a Soshone Indian
than a Mallee cocky, and the red dog was
redder than ever. As they neared the
gate into the homestead paddock rain
began to fall in big drops—drops heavily
impregnated with red dust from the upper
air—and soon man, dog and sheep were
%
plastered a nice shade of terra-cotta. At
the open gate the sheep baulked, and
Mac, peering through the downpour, saw
one that kept breaking away and back
again. He yelled to the dog, but there
was no answer, so he edged in along the
milling wing of the wethers and flung
himself upon that sheep. He sat up, hold-
ing it, and it licked his face and wagged
its tail. Mac let it go, crying “Go an’
wash y’rself, Kelpie; if this had happened
near the gallows y’ might ha’ got y’r
throat cut.” Then he scraped the red
mud from his face and added “Gripes,
if I got down on me hands an’ knees I
s’pose the bloomin’ dog would work me
through the gate.”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; Reference to the
Pass of Victoria (B. 16/5/’45) recalls the
three stopping places gazetted in 1840
by the N. S. Wales Government as being
on the road to Port Phillip: Gundagai,
Albury and Violet Creek. Gundagai has
become the most sung-of place in Aus-
tralia ; Albury is the most important rail-
way junction; Violet Creek is Violet
Town and still unimportant.
* * * *
“Ned”: The auctioneer had brought
a prospective buyer out to give Josh
Drew’s farm the once-over. The lay of
the land was ideal, the soil was good, the
farm horses and 'dairy cows in sleek con-
dition, the fences straight, the mill in
working order and everything else dandy;
but the pigs were so thin that you, could
almost see the distant mountains through
them. The prospective buyer sarcasti-
cally asked if the market for separated
milk was extra-good. “Well, y’ see,
mister,” ; aid Josh, “it was this way: them
pigs’ mother died when they was only a
few day old, so me missus rears them
on the b attic. When she wanted t’ feed
’em she used t’ call them by tootin’ away
on me old cornet. They was doin’ well
until the Army sticks a camp in that big
hill paddock next door. Then them
soldiers get blowin’ their bugles so much
all day that these here pigs just ran the
lard off ’emselves helter-skelterin’ up the
hill t’ the boundary fence.”
**l * *
“Patrol Leader”: Nature provided man
with a useful article when she turned out
the bailer shell, one of the largest shells
found in our northern seas. Because of
its widely-open, roomy cavity and smooth,
corrugated ridge at one side, easy to grip,
the shell, as a bailer on boats, is better
than anything man has ever produced for
the purpose. We proved this in Torres
Strait, a big shell presented to us by the
Mer Islanders coming in mighty handy
when we were caught in a squall while
out fishing in a dinghy. That shell, 14in.
long and across, now contains my
small electric bedside lamp at home, for
which purpose it is ideal. The Torres Strait
natives also make wide use of the shells
for domestic purposes. Although the
natives relish the meat of the big snail
that inhabits the shell, we could never
be tempted to sample the rubbery-looking
stuff. An ugly creature with a broad and
thick fleshy “foot,” the snail spends the
whole of its existence ploughing along
beneath the surface of the sand feeding
on small molluscs, worms and other tiny
creatures. The creature is difficult to
detect; invariably only a few square
inches of the smooth brown shell pro-
jects above the sand just behind the snail’s
“siphon”—a long, fleshy tube, for all the
world like an elephant’s trunk in minia-
ture, through which water is drawn as
required. Poking up out of the sand, this
greyish tube at first glance looks like a
stem of some sea plant.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That seems a queer argu-
ment of “Anthropo’s” (B. 13/6/’45) that
it is evident the dingo didn’t evolve on
this continent because it is a “mammal,
all our other quadrupeds being marsu-
pials.” Aren’t marsupials mammals?
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Can’t help wondering what
the average bush youngster thinks of the
latest pronunciamento of the N.S.W.
Minister for Labor that the Factories and
Shops Act forbids any boy under 16 to
carry a load of more than 301 b. Bush
lads of 13 and upwards who think noth-
ing of lugging a couple of buckets of
milk or water around, of helping Dad
load manure, dried fruit, wheat, oats, etc.,
of lumping logs and spuds, shoving big
collars on big horses, hand-drafting sheep
through a wire fence and sundry other
performances would sneer at the Minister
and his Act, and declare anyone of their
own age who couldn’t handle more than
301 b. a sissy.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: As the invari-
able two brown-and-black striped, emulike
chicks follow Mrs. Cassowary through
the N.G. bush they keep up a continuous
“chick-chick-chick,” and are thus easily
hunted. Mostly, coastal natives eat the
birds as chickens —for they take two years
and a half to grow up—but on the large
volcanic island of Karkar, where the
cassowary isn’t indigenous, the boongs
canoe miles to the mainland to barter
the chickens to take home “to makem
big fellas.” Then after many moons
they are devoured—everything except the
bones and feathers —at a sing-sing. Inci-
dentally, the leg-steaks from wild casso-
waries I’ve eaten are as good as any beef.
* * * *
“D. Y. Dick”: Commenting on the
turtles that “Moyhu” saw travelling over-
land, “Bad Australian” (B. 6/6/’45) ob-
served that “the old Israelite chronicler
knew his turtles.” “8.A.” should brush up
his Biblical education—the “turtles” were
not chelonians but birds —turtle doves.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The oldest known civili-
sation is that of Egypt. Yet when the
scientist digs down through its various
layers he finds right at the bottom the
Stone Age Egyptian, on about the level
of the primitive Australian aboriginal.
A little higher up the scale we find an
Egyptian equipped with a form of boom-
erang and also the bullroarer, two things
common to the Australian. Which seems
to indicate that before he set out for
this continent our abo. formed part of a
great Stone Age civilisation which spread
over Asia, Europe and the north of
Africa. Again, many of our earlier an-
thropologists were struck by the resem-
blance between the Totem cults of the
North American Indians and our abos.
It is suggested that the N.A. Indian
originated in Asia and crossed that con-
tinent via the Behring Strait or the
Aleutian Islands where a land bridge
may have existed in far-off times. So
one branch of that Stone Age race may
have wandered or been forced down into
Africa, another across into America,
while our abo. wandered south to this
continent.
MY NEIGHBOR.
As down to the city and homeward again
You pass by my window in shadow and shine
’Tis closely you cover the hurt in your heart
From the eyes of the wide world, Oh, neighbor
of mine.
Thus to-and-fro faring, ’tis good to behold
How, seeking no solace, you shoulder your
cross,
Not stumbling, but steadfast, and warmed by
the hope
Of a gain of great measure replacing your
loss.
And brave was your bearing when- warward he
went,
And brave through that season by havoc made
grim,
When, patient and tearless, you waited and
watched
For word from the battlefront telling of him.
But when the word reached you your joy
seemed to me
A fountain of waters, bright waters and
sweet,
As out-of-doors rushing to tell the good news,
Eyes shining, feet dancing, you wakened the
street.
Sun bright was the smile that you wore on that
morn,
That smile you still wear in defiance of grief,
Though gone from it now is the freshness one
sees
In the prime of the dewtime on blossom and
leaf.
On the deck of the hell-ship I picture him now,.*
Young manhood unquailing, heroic and fine,
And hold that in facing the world without fears
You do him high honor, Oh, neighbor of
mine.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Zake”: For years Big Larry, who
when he was out in the bush f(ad no
need to utter more than a quiet word or
two to get his team of 14 bullocks to do
anything, used to put on a stunt when
passing through a township to stun the
inhabitants with science and satisfy his
own vanity. Plying an enormous whip, he
would give an exhibition of vocal pyro-
technics that was truly awe-inspiring. Big
Larry became celebrated for it, but he
doesn't do it now. For one day he
lobbed into Tiewire, the inhabitants of
which are a cheerful crowd. Larry had
been seen coming from afar, and just as
he drew abreast of the pub in the town-
ship’s only street, and was taking in a
great lungful of air to start off his invec-
tive, a small wiry-looking man came
round the corner of the pub driving a
goat attached to a billy-cart. Wielding a
small thin whip, he beat Larry to the
bellow by a split second. His language
scorched all vegetation within a radius
of the half-mile over which it could
clearly be heard, and in the 15 minutes in
which he kept it up he hadn’t used the
same Aord twice. It was the first time
anyone in Tiewire had ever needed 12
beers to revive him.
“E.C.8.”: Something seems to be
wrong with “Esk D.’s” account of the
vacuum-caused collapse of George s gal-
vanised-iron piping (B. 30/5/’45). If the
hinged lid at his inlet end was water-
tight the flow at the nozzle would cease
immediately the lid was shut. If it was
not the pipe would drain out gradually
from the nozzle. In either case there
would be no vacuum in the top sections.
* * *
“Jaibee”: No wonder “Zake’s” fencer
(B. 6/6 / ’45) could give no reason for
placing the small end of the split post in
the ground; there is every reason for
doing the reverse. Rot invariably com-
mences in the outer circumference and
works inwards. Therefore, it is clear that
placing the big end in the ground will
provide greater substance to resist decay,
and if the foundation remains firm the
upper part will take care of itself. Big
end up causes the post to be top-heavy,
with consequently more ramming re-
quired. Moreover, who wants to ji§§cr
through unnecessary thickness when
boring for the wire?
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Congratula-
tions to “Moyhu” (B. 30/5/’45) on his
revelations concerning the high body
temperature of the female lyre-bird. The
phenomenon was well known to the abos.,
who used to train the birds to act as
footwarmers on cool nights. The coldei
the night the hotter did the fowl become,
a feature which limited their use to low-
level country on account of the risk of
setting the possum rug bedding on fire
should snow fall. In really severe winters,
when other food was scarce, Bmghi got
alone quite well on the hard-boiled eggs
laid "by his footwarmer pets. The low
temperature of the male birds, to which
“M.” also refers, is very marked in the
New Guinea species which I discovered
during one of my expeditions to the
Da-mnl-iah country. At the cannibal
feast with which I was welcomed by
my <old friend Wotta Woppa, chief of a 1
Da-mnl-iahs, I noticed that the piece de
resistance, a particularly tender young
missionary, was stuffed with male lyie-
birds Wotta explained that this was
done to keep’m that pfeUer .fresh-
weather him dam’ ’ot. The deliciously
cool jungle-juice served with the meat
course had been brought to the perfect
temperature by allowing a couple of live
“ | g ? £ bu. too overdone to retain any
real flavor.
* * * *
« X .E.D”: Sam took a job on Riley’s
- mixed farm, and all went well until
Rdey called for a hand Wlth some bee "
bives b e was shifting. Sam was lifting a
hive on to the truck when the lid slipped
sideways and an angry bee shot cut and
scored on the tip of his nose. Followed
“Just dump them here—Til take them inside meself.”
a crash as he dropped the box and fled.
“Why didn’t y’ load ’em, y’ careless
cow?” Riley howled as he dodged bees
and tried to straighten the damaged hive.
“A man ought to sack y’!” “Y* dop’t
need to,” Sam replied, squinting over the
lump on his snout. “I’ve been in most
things in me time, bar jail, an’ I reckon
I c’d stand that, but I’m hanged if I’ll
stay here as a perambulatin’ pin-cushion
f’r blasted insecks in your flamin circus.’
* * * *
“Wippegong” : With a couple of lean
brown exiles from the N.S.W. western
slopes, who for the last few months have
been flying vital supplies into the Irra-
waddy Valley with the same regular cer-
tainty and long hours that once marked
the carting of their wheat, we set out
across the paddy-fields to make the most
of a day off. A string of mud-plastered
water-buffalo returning from the tidal
swamp snorted with even more hostility
than the wild, bally bullocks back home,
but we stroll on and sit down for a
smoke under a banyan of sorts, and
watch the little lung-fish skipping oyer
the mud, and a solitary monkey prowling
across the track beyond. A mob of stnali
creamy cattle, attended by a flock of
cattle egrets, stirs interest, and after in-
specting these we wander on to a village
of bamboo and thatch shaded by big
mango-trees. The monsoon is approach-
“ There's a small island hereabouts We should be approaching shortly !”
ing, and all grain is being finally sorted
and stored. Older men are handling heaps
of paddy; girls are cleaning pulse, like
split peas, over a long, sloping sieve made
from fine bamboo stri er girls are
spreading carpets of b' chillies to
dry. Under a shed s ■ stone mill,
like a huge egg cup v feavy shaft
up the centre. A youth toss- ki a bucket
of grain, then takes a - T-shaped
handle from the roof, si lower end
of the T on to a bar he upright
shaft, grabs the top of aid with a
to-and-fro motion spins the shaft; and
rice flour begins to trickle out at the base
of the mill. A garrulous female drawing
water from a well refuses to recognise
the strangers, but keeps up a quick-fire
commentary on them, to the embarrass-
ment of those more friendly ; but they all
come forward for cigarettes, and a little
girl, with hair parted in a circle at the
base of a tuft on top, conquers her con-
fusion for the sake of a boiled lolly.
Strange new world to Australians, but
not so strange as a formation of auto-
harvesters would be to these Burmese,
squatting beside their threshing-floors of
cow-dung and clay.
* * * *
“Blime”: Jim’s sheepdog is old and a
dependable worker, yet his most exhaust-
ing job in life is doing nothing. This
self-appointed task occurs every year at
shearing and crutching times. As soon
as the boss pulls -in his machine the old
dog takes up his position alongside and
concentrates on the job in hand. A
movement from the jumbuck and the dog
becomes pop-eyed, A spasm of kicking,
and he rises and strains forward eagerly.
Then his hackles rise. A curse or two
from Jim bring an answering rumble
from the canine throat as the old Border
trembles in his all-absorbing desire to do
something about it. Then, as the sheep
quietens, his neck hair subsides and once
more he folds back into his watching
position. Lunch and smoke-oh are his
only breaks through weeks of shearing,
and he ends the days as knocked up as
his boss.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Pat has decided horse-shoers
are born and not made, and I’m begin-
ning to wonder myself where the knack
lies, after watching Jack shoe nags that
always beat the other blokes. The repu-
tation of a big rangy bay in particular
tempted Pat to test his skill, but the
would-be shoer ended head first through
a paling fence and instantly lost interest.
Hearing of the incident, another young
blood of some years’ experience arrived,
swearing he would get shoes on the tor-
nado. He did; after he’d roped him.
Yet, except for growling about getting
all the tough ones, Jack shoes that nag
cheerfully enough, and never yet has he
used a rope. Through a lifetime at the
game he has bean laid out only once, and
that, he says, was his own fault. He
talks to each nag, asks its requirements
and opinions, gives it friendly advice.
and ignores its boss as of no consequence
—after said boss has paid for the three
drinks necessary to start him on the job.
Asked how he manages the bad ones,
Jack grinned knowingly and confided to
me that it’s his “pussonality.”
* * * *
“Bo”: A long, lean cove with a
straggling inverted V moustache that
accentuated the natural pessimism of his
expression, he came staggering down the
bush track with the biggest and queerest-
shaped swag we had* ever seen, Later,
passing near the camp he had pitched,
we had watched him carefully measure
out by steps a rectangle. At the four
selected points he dug a hole about 1 Sin.
deep with a mattock. Then he started to
put several pieces of iron together, and
then we saw it was an old Italian bed-
stead ! When he had assembled the criss-
crossed fencing-wire that made up the
mattress he lowered the four legs into
the holes he had prepared, after which
he. rammed them until the bed was firm.
We started yarning to him, and casually
I asked if he always thus shortened the
legs every time he made camp. He re-
plied in a dignified way that he did, and
when I asked him why, he said that if
he' didn’t he would, when he looked
down at the ground the next morning
from such a height, suffer from vertigo.
“But,” I pursued, “wouldn’t it be better
for you to get the legs shortened by a
blacksmith and save digging holes every
place you pitched camp?” The long
bloke looked at us lugubriously. “An’ wot
blanky juse would a man ’ave then for ’is
mattock?” he asked.
* * * *
' “Plane Creek”: When I first took up
land on the N.Q. coast I was warned
about the stinging-tree so many times
that I took a mental photograph of the
dreaded Gympie with me the first time
I went into the scrub to shoot a turkey
for dinner. Presently I found a Gympie,
and, having examined it, started to go
on, puzzled as to how bushwhackers could
be so stupid as to collide with a plant
that was so different from all other flora
of the scrub. Then I felt the coarse,
hairy leaves of a small plant touch my
legs, bare from the knee down, since I’d
rolled up my trouser-legs before crossing
a stretch of rain-soaked grass. I had
just time to identify it as a flourishing
sucker from a root of the near-by sting-
ing-tree before 24 hours of torment
began.
Hs * * *
“Naturala”: Little wonder that grass-
hopper or locust quickly assumes plague
dimensions given anything like favorable
circumstances. In order to dig the hole
for her eggs Nature has fitted the female
with a tool practically on all fours with
a two-bladed post-hole digger. The after
part of the locust is long and only slightly
tapering. At its end it is fitted with a
bayonet-like ovipositor. Surrounding this
are two shovel blades, slightly dished
and with serrated edges. So the female,
digging her nest, works each blade
rapidly in a slightly circular movement,
cuts out a shovelful of earth, lifts and
throws it aside. And so to the full depth
of her abdomen. In this she deposits
about half her 150 or so eggs, then digs
again. Another factor that makes the
locust so devastating is its possession of
three stomachs. The creature thus is able
to gorge itself with great rapidity. Then,
like the cow, it chews the cud when at
rest.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Most species of wild animals
when trapped Will, with the courage of
desperation, sometimes show fight. I’ve
even had a possum jump at me. But,
just as it is with a fox or dingo, the
driving force is plain fright. Worse than
a cat to release is a really bad dog, the
most troublesome I’ve struck being a
big greyhound caught on a steep slope,
and fighting mad with pain and fright.
The amount of trouble encountered de-
pends mainly on the nature of the animal,
for just as humans react differently to
alcohol, so some dogs are too concerned
with sorrow for themselves to want
stoush. My old sheepdog, long grown
contemptuous of traps, stepped care-
lessly the other day, then hampered his
release by an urgent desire to put his
muzzle on my hand and tell me about it.
His ludicrous wails of self-pity were over-
done, and the presentation of his paw
for sympathetic inspection lasted long
after he’d forgotten which mitt it was.
* * * *
“Melbn”: For the first time in its his-
tory Melbourne is beginning to realise
what a drought means. Having had to
get rid of some of its racehorses and a
lot of its Clydesdales, it is still faced with
a fodder shortage due to the depredations
of black swans. These graceful birds, to
the estimated number of 5000, have de-
scended on the Metropolitan Board’s pas-
tures at Werribee where thousands of
stock are fed, and are eating up the seeds
of nut grass. They are protected birds,
so the board can’t do anything about it.
THE PRUNERS.
Snick, snickety, snock is the secateurs song,
This month we are pruning the vines.
There’s a bit'e in the air where the frost lies long
On the leafless and listless lines.
But the secateur blades are ruthless ami keen,
Snickety, snock and the long canes die,
While the blood of the wounds drips palely and
green
And the pruners glance at the sky.
Snick, snickety, snock, the warm wind, is fiesh,
And Lord, but the rain is good
When the ache of the cold is a knife in the tiesn
And the ice is white on the wood. . .
Twill be warm when the bunches hang rich m
the sun;
Snickety, snock —there’s a spur will bear
When the vineyard is green and the summer
begun
And the grape-smell rich on the air. (
Snick, snickety, snock —cut ’em close, cut em .
Cut the dead wood and barren away.
Leave order and promise where chaos has been,
Bring growth springing strong fronr decay.
There is much to be done ere the fruit-buus
appear; , . . .
Snickety, snock and the pruned vines stand
With their bare arms spread, all brown and aus-
tere, , ,
And their feet planted firm in the land.
Snick, snickety, snock is the secateurs song.
Who cares for the bite of the frost?
Rub up the cutter and tighten the thong,
The prize is assessed by the cost.
There’s a song to be sung for a job that is
done —
Snickety, snock in the frost and the ram
When big golden bunches hang rich in the sun
And the grapes come to harvest again.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
•Mb
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CVANOGAS
‘IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS
manpower
THEM”
A boy can use the Sib.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.
. *
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Ltairy Stock
/ Sterilised
bone flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K. Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Award’s and Values.
“Bulago”; On a comparison of beef-
cattle-show awards with subsequent
prices of prizewinners at auction, it some-
times occurs that a beast in a certain
class makes a higher price than the win-
ner of the class. Almost every cattle or
sheep show produces similar instances ;
nobody blames the judge for it.
The explanation is that a judge works
on a basis that ignores a number of
factors which concern the sale value of
an animal. Theoretically the judge
should have no knowledge of the owner-
ship of the animals, therefore pedigree
does not enter into his calculations ; he
assesses the comparative superiority of
each according to the recognised
standards of the breed.
Before the war, when labor was more
plentiful, owners were not permitted to
parade their own animals before the
judge at some shows; rams had their
horn brands covered with- tape. Thus a
beast from a comparatively small or new
stud occasionally beat those from the
most famous studs. This advertisement
gave many a new man a start and a place
that would otherwise have taken years
to accomplish.
When a man considers buying a stud
sire he is influenced to a degree by the
judge’s opinion and uses similar standards
in looking over the animals for sale. But
other factors intervene. The man has
been building on certain blood lines, and
he will want to purchase his new sire
from a particular stud. He will be look-
ing for an animal with the characteris-
tics required to correct faults and weak-
nesses in his herd or flock. These factors
may rule out of his choice every cham-
pion in the show, leaving ones that are
worth more to his stud than any of the
blue ribbons. The value mounts when
another breeder wants the same animal.
A glance over show records of the
past 20 years will show where new studs
have flashed into prominence, flickered
for a few seasons and then dropped into
oblivion. Many old-established studs
never exhibit at shows, but every breeder
knows the value of pedigree, and that
if he buys a sire from a well-known
family it is more likely to breed true
than a more showy and less expensive
animal from a new stud. And, as was
said, the values mount when the com-
peting buyer appears.
Fodder Conservation.
“E. 2”: Here in the rich dairying
country of n.-e. Victoria a year of semi-
drought followed by complete drought is
a grim lesson that short-term fodder con- \
servation, plus overstocking, doesn’t pay.
Choicest dairying land in these parts is
the black, silty soil of river flats—prices
run to £5O an acre—and in good times
clover, rye-grass and cocksfoot, liberally
top-dressed with super., provide a
knee-deep pasture. Millet is a good
follow-on for green feed through the
summer, thus ensuring a longer
period of lactation. Oats, if planted
in February or March, usually stand
feeding-off through the winter and
cutting for hay about December;
pumpkins and maize are extensively
grown. Average annual rainfall is from
25 .to 40 inches, and winter growth is
usually slow.
In good seasons oaten- and grass-hay
provides sufficient fodder to supplement
the scanty winter growth and bring the
cows in in fair condition in August. From
then on the clovers and grasses grow
rapidly, the peak of the season being in
October and November, and grass is cut
in December as it begins to dry off.
Seasons are earlier and shorter on the
loamy terraces and foothills.
Dairymen would be well advised to
build up fodder reserves sufficient to carry
them through a whole season, preferably
as silage. Low cost of storage and high
feed value of properly-cured silage argues
well in its favor, and the stuff keeps in
good order for a long time. I know
silage pits, over which pasture grew
thickly, that opened up in prime condi-
tion after eight years, having been sub-
merged under three floods during that
lime.
Of course fodder conservation can’t be
worked to full advantage in conjunction
“ Let' s see him again in somethin less formal .”
with overstocking, but heavier stocking is
permissible after reserves of fodder reach
a satisfactory level. A small reduction
in the size of butterfat cheques can be
regarded as the price of sound insurance
against the heavy losses of drought times,
and the practice of keeping on hand
plentiful reserves of fodder should not be
allowed to lapse through complacency in
good seasons.
Jeep on the Farm.
“P. McM.”: The jeep has been
described as an ideal vehicle for the farm,
but an investigation of its capability by
the National Committee on Agricultural
Engineering in Canada found that jeeps
were not satisfactory. Reasons: trans-
mission will not endure more than a
4 h.p. load, speed is too fast for farm
work, and when.'throttled down it lacks
sufficient power. The jeep transmission is
designed for military purposes only, and
will not stand up to continual running in
IoW gear. Whilst the jeep draw-bar pull
varies with the load and terrain it is not
likely to replace that of the tractor.
Possibly a post-war version may be
made for agricultural work, but the un-
suitability of the present design plus the
difficulty of getting parts make it a bad
buy at the moment. However, the com-
mittee reported that military standard
two-wheel drive trucks and all types of
trailers would be handy for the farm.
Try Artichokes,
“Myrrhee”; They’re heavy yielders and
easy to produce, can be grown amongst
fruit-trees and in sunny corners of the
garden, grow well under a wide range of
soil and climatic conditions, thrive in
ground ranging from light, sandy loam to
heavy clay and on land tcfc poor for other
root crops.
Try them in poultry runs, where they
may become perennial and provide
shelter and shade. Artichokes are
drought-resistant and not susceptible to
frosts provided the tubers are covered
with soil, rarely contract disease or suffer
from pests.
Tubers will wither or rot if bagged for
longer than three weeks. Dig in the
autumn and pit as for potatoes, using
only a light covering of earth, or leave
in the ground and dig as required. The
tuber stores up little or no starch, and
is useful in the diet of diabetics.
Rates of sowing vary from 6cwt. to
lOcwt. per acre. Plant small, whole tubers
4in. to sin. deep in rows 2ft. 6in. to 3ft.
apart, with 15in. to 24in. between plants.
Time of planting in Victoria, August to
October. The crop takes about five
months to mature.
Para Grass.
“Nuffin”; Para grass is held in the
highest esteem by dairymen on the tropi-
cal Queensland coast. Nevertheless, its
popularity is not nearly as great as it
should be. Much poor swamp land would
grow para, and its food value is very
high. The grass itself would render a
priceless service in cleaning up stagnant
water, which is a breeding ground of
stock parasites. It is perhaps the world’s
best grass for binding the banks of
rivers and preventing water erosion.
As well as its use for grazing purposes,
it can be cut green and chaffed, and stock
are very partial to it. Para * grass is a
.giant of the couch family of nutritious
grasses, having 12in. leaves, and is
variously known as Bancroft grass, cow
grass, Panicum muticum, wonder grass
and giant couch. It develops strong,
rapid-growing which -travel up to
200 yards. An analysis in the “Queens-
land Agricultural Journal” credits para
with 24.8 p.c. crude protein, 0.6 p.c. crude
fat and 23.3 p.c. crude fibre when young
and succulent.
Cyprus and' Pine.
“Pat O’Day”: The golden cypress
(Lambertiana horizontalis a urea), to-
gether with the towering dark-green
cypress (Horizontalis), provides orna-
ment and adaptability to drought condi-
tions. The heavy loam soil of some parts
of the southern N.S.W. tablelands- par-
ticularly in Gundagai district —seems suit-
able for holding them down till they
reach maturity. Not so the light sandy
soil in coastal districts. Furthermore, the
salt air does not treat them well,
whereas they can withstand the hot, dry-
ing winds of summer inland.
With a drought like the present one
to contend with, absence of water, in-
tense heat and now early frosts, drives
of the lovely golden cypress, interspersed
with the tall, dark-green Horizontalis
type, not only provide beauty in an other-
wise bare landscape but make an excel-
lent windbreak.
The N.S.W. Forestry Commission is
to be commended for making available
at minimum cost quantities of Pinus
insignus for planting, either for beautifi-
cation or the more necessary shelter-belt
or windbreak.
Nowadays, with shortage , of man-
power and the need for conservation of
water for stock, a type of tree that re-
quires practically no attention and will
grow on mediocre soil is most useful.
Inland districts with a medium rainfall
should plant them.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nulfin”: A conjunctivitis symptom in
pigs is the presence of matter in the eyes
and general illness, which may lead to
death. The eyes should be bathed with
a solution of a teaspoonful of boracic
acid in a pint of lukewarm water, after
which a preparation comprising 20 grains
zinc sulphate and 4oz. boiled water
should be used in drops to the eyes.
Green feed should be given daily, lucerne
for preference.
“Myrrhee”: Pigs grow and thrive
better if salt is added to a cereal diet.
All cereal rations should include crushed
limestone and salt mixed in proportion
of four to one and added to the feed at
the rate of 2\ p.c. This is equivalent to
21b. crushed limestone and salt to
every 1001 b. of feed.
“Plane Creek”: Rapid spread of Lippia
weed over black-soil plains in sheep
country need not worry graziers, accord-
ing to Dr. White, Queensland Govern-
ment Botanist. Sheep have a liking for
the straggling creeper and keep it from
competing dangerously with indigenous
pastures. Dr. White reckons that where
the plant grows plentifully along the
banks of watercourses it’ll hold erodable
soil and stop silting.
“P.R.A.N.”: The best procedure to
secure a full stand of bearing paw-paw
plants is to sow single seeds at intervals
of three inches in lines six inehes apart,
just pressing the seeds below the surface.
The seedbed should get the morning sun
but be shaded from 11 o’clock onward.
When the tallest plants are six or eight
inches high the most forward ones should
be pulled out, as these are invariably
males. When about half the plants have
been thus extracted those remaining
should become fruiting trees. To ensure
success put two plants in each situation.
When they flower remove one.
“Orroroo”: If lemons are woody and
thick-skinned dig a trench around the tree
about a foot from the butt. Put lib. of
washing-soda ip the trench and fill with
water. This makes the lemons juicy and
thin-skinned and improves the tree. Other
citrus trees can be treated in the same
way. Wood ash dug in around the tree
is also beneficial.
“Plane Creek”: Prepare the lettuce bed
by stirring plenty of old stable manure
into normally fertile, well-drained soil,
cultivated to a depth of 12in. During
the cool months lettuce seedlings trans-
plant quite well, but they’ll reach maturity
two or three weeks later than untrans-
planted lettuce. Lettuce patches should
be kept saturated with water. Plant Im-
perial 847 Black Seeded for bumper
crops all the year round in mild and
warm climates.
“V.G.L.”: When fed in the breeding
pen the rooster often allows the hens
to eat most of the food, with consequent
loss of condition and fertility. Feed
him in a yard by himself on whole maize
or good quality grain and allow him an
hour to eat it.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Epidemics Imperil Europe.
(N.Y. “Times” report.)
Although there has been no disastrous
epidemic thus far, the situation in Europe
is regarded as threatening, says a report of
the United Nations Relief and Rehabili-
tation Administration’s Health Division.
Absence of real disasters, says the
report signed by Knud Stowman, chief
of the Epidemiological Information Ser-
vice, may be traced to the low endemic
level of most diseases preceding the war
and to the advance of preventive medi-
cine.
The report warns, however, that there
are “grave potentialities” for epidemics
because of the debilitated condition of
peoples in many countries, the increase in
refugee movements and the fluid state of
civil administration.
It says that “louse-borne typhus pre-
sents an immediate and grave danger for
Europe,” causing severe epidemics in some
areas; that diphtheria has become a
“leading disease of the war” on the con-
tinent, and that there also has been a
steady increase in infantile paralysis,
dysentery, tuberculosis, malaria and
syphilis.
The “new” disease of this war has been
epidemic jaundice, the report says, add-
ing: “From an obscure existence among
the garrison of Malta and in a few Ger-
man Army units, it assumed proportions
to interfere occasionally with military
operations and spread among the civilian
population from the Libyan Desert to
North Cape. The disease is not really
new, but was known in World War I,
when at times it was confused with Weil’s
disease. It occurred also among civilians
in various countries, but had never been
considered capable of setting up veritable
epidemics. Epidemic jaundice is clearly
a virus disease of an extremely higti
degree of infectivity and capacity for
covering distances. Since its potentiali-
ties are unknown and means of combat-
ing it have not so far been devised, this
disease deserves to be closely watched.”
The mortality rate has not been high so
far, ranging from one a thousand to one
a hundred.
“The number of tuberculosis cases,”
the report says, “has increased greatly in
France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Ger-
many, Austria, Czechoslovakia and Hun-
gary, and it has doubled in many parts
of this area. Among these countries the
Netherlands is undoubtedly the worst'
sufferer. In Italy the situation is likely
to become worse than ever before, and
Poland faces an unprecedented calamity.”
“In several ways,” the report concludes,
“the outlook is darker than in 1918, be-
cause the destruction of buildings and
displacement of persons is far more wide-
spread than during World War I. But,
on the other hand, the endemic level was
lower to start with in 1939 than in 1914,
and the world is now better equipped to
deal with many of the important infec-
tious diseases.”
Why Hirohito is Spared.
(From “United States News.”)
The Japanese militarists, not the Em-
peror, are blamed by American officials
for the war. Yet the Japanese people do
the will of the Emperor. He is depicted
as a tool in the hands of the militarists.
But every official deed of the Japanese
Government must have the sanction of
the Emperor.
The U.S. policy towards the Emperor is
one of “wait and see.” Former Ambas-
sador Joseph C. Grew, now Under-
secretary of State, has come closer to
defining that policy than anyone else.
He emphasises that he never has advo-
cated either the retention or the elimina-
tion of the Japanese Emperor after the
war, that he wants to see what is the state
of mind in Japan after defeat and mould
post-war action to fit the circumstances
that exist at that time.
The other agencies of U.S. Govern-
ment are holding to this line. The
Office of War Information calls the Em-
peror no villainous names, such as were
heaped upon Adolf Hitler. Neither does
it exalt the Emperor. Some fighting
men, like Admiral William F. Halsey,
have some ripe descriptive names for the
Emperor and don’t hesitate to use them.
But they do not reflect the official atti-
tude.
In a sense, for the Japanese this war
already is a religious war. To them the
Emperor is divine and his mission is to
rule the world. Their Emperor is god-
like and holy, the father of the Japanese
people, a person to be obeyed and
venerated. He has been raised to this
exalted spot by the Japanese ruling
classes in 70 years, the span of one life.
A latter-day Japanese statesman defines
the Emperor’s position in this way:
“The Emperor is to the Japanese mind
the supreme being in the cosmos of
Japan as God is in the universe of the
pantheistic philosopher. From him
everything emanates; in him everything
subsists ; there is nothing on the soil of
Japan existent independent of him. He
is the sole owner of the Empire ; the
author of law, justice, privilege and
honor, and the symbol of the unity of
the Japanese nation. He has no Pope or
Archbishop to crown him at his acces-
sion. He is supreme in all temporal
matters of State as well as in all spiritual
matters, and he is the foundation of
Japanese social and civil morality.”
This combination of godship in man
complicates any approach by the Occi-
dental mind to an understanding of
Japanese thinking. Men who have been
longest in Japan are quickest to admit
that they have no way of knowing what
will be the Japanese reaction to anything.
For that reason they hesitate to do any-
thing that might add to the fanatical reso-
lution of the Japanese.
To the Japanese the Emperor is an
embodiment of the State. They die for
him and the State. They commit hara-
kiri when they fail. They do many
things that the Occidental mind cannot
fathom. And their mental reflexes do
not react in the same way as the Occi-
dentals’.
When the grandfather of the present
Emperor lay dying in 1912 thousands of
citizens of Tokyo gathered nightly in
front of the palace (it did not become a
castle until 1936) and prayed for his re-
covery. The god to whom their prayers
were directed was none other than the
divine Emperor himself, an old man,
sick and dying.
Some Americans of Japanese ancestry
think that if Japan ever is to fall in step
with other nations the fetish of Emperor-
worship must be wiped out. They con-
tend that what the Japanese have in the
tying of religion to the State is only a
complete flowering of the same idea and
fiihrer worship that Hitler was planting
in Germany. The Japanese had beaten
him to it by more than half a century.
Students of the Far East think that
there may .be one fatal weakness in this
teaching. That weakness is Hirohito, the
man-god of Japan. For the militarists,
when they make the decisions and write
the rules, make and write them in the
name of Hirohito, not in their own names.
The Emperor’s voice is supreme to the
Japanese soldier and civilian.
This thought lies behind the decision
to wait and see before making positive
plans for disposing of or retaining the
Emperor or the imperial system after the
war. If the Emperor said “Stop the war”
the Japanese soldier and civilian might
be inclined to obey. And this irrespective
of the wishes of the war lords.
Hirohito is described as a weak-
willed but well-meaning man, not the
kind who would exhort his subjects to
fight to the last. It is asserted he did not
want war, and he is reported to have told
his generals so.
Towards Singapore.
(From a London “Fortnightly" article by
Admiral Sir Herbert Richmond.)
Even when a landing shall have been
effected and a base established on the
coast of China the task that lies ahead,
the expulsion of the Japanese from the
whole of China and the other misappro-
priated territories, is one of vast dimen-
sions, demanding the greatest possible
effort on the part of the Chinese them-
selves.
The Chinese armies lack arms, and
until they have been properly equipped
little can be expected of them. Though
the Burma Road has recently been re-
opened and convoys have reached Kun-
ming its carrying capacity is far below
the requirements: at the most it appears
to amount to some 18,000 tons monthly,
a figure that will by no means serve
the needs. Air carriage may be # cap-
able of exceeding this, but the com-
bined road and air will still not suffice.
Shipping alone can do this, and in order
that shipping shall operate a port, or
ports, must be at its disposal and the sea
route must be secure.
The combined forces in the Pacific will
have the task of capturing the necessary
ports, but the duty of opening the sea
route will lie with the forces in the Indian
Ocean. That route runs through the
Malacca Straits, and the*''' stra ; ts are
flanked by the Japanese-oc Malaya
and Sumatra. We have h ur xperi-
ence of what it means to e nvoys
through waters with shore . rcraft
close at hand. The Malta ( :■ r c mid
not be used, except at the o t ;avy
losses, until the enemy hat n brown
out of Sardinia and Sicily. The Malacca
Straits are longer than the Malta Channel,
and at their ?nd stands Singapore.
Therefore, the essential preliminary to
the equipping of the Chinese forces is the
expulsion of the enemy from Malaya,
from the fortress of Singapore and from
Sumatra. It is a large task, and one that
cannot be begun until troops and their
transport are set free from other services,
But when it becomes possible to do this
the circumstances under which the cam-
paign will be conducted will all be favor-
able. Both territories will be isolated by
sea, as Singapore was isolated ; the Allies
will enjoy the advantages of the initia-
five and the choice of both when and
where they intend to make their descent;
the enemy will suffer the disadvantages
of being unable to foretell when and
where the blow will fall and of being
unable to be strong everywhere or rapidly
to reinforce the point attacked.
French Treason Trials.
(From an article by the Paris correspondent of
the Manchester “Guardian")
For the French “collaborationist”
trials special civil courts were created, one
for each of the 26 judicial areas into
which France is divided. In areas where
there is pressure of business, and that is
nearly all of them, the court can be sub-
divided into sections sitting concurrently.
Both verdict and sentence are given by
a regular magistrate sitting with four
jurymen who if they outvote him over-
rule him.
The purpose was to combine judicial
experience with popular opinipn in the
hope that the result would both be com-
prehended of the people and avoid
flagrant injustice. The prosecutions are
conducted in the normal way by
magistrates of the Ministere Public under
the direction in each area of a Commis-
saire du Gouvernement, as would be the
case if the trials came before a military
court.
The trials before these courts are being
concluded at the rate of anything from
30 to 90 a day. Appeals are only allowed
on points of law and to a local court.
There is thus no central machinery for
harmonising the sentences except by act
of amnesty. Nor is it easy to imagine
one which would not create a bottle-
neck. Eighteen thousand seven hundred
cases await trial, and a total of about
50,000 is expected—apart from the trials
of former members of the Vichy Govern-
ment.
The tragedy is that this machinery is
not convincing the general public that
justice is being done or that any particu-
lar system is being applied. The judg-
ments of any one court —not to mention
those of different courts —offer extra-
ordinary contrasts. The typist secretary
of one of the chief news commentators
of the German-controlled Radio Paris
was condemned to life imprisonment,
while M. Albertini, the right-hand man
of Deat, was condemned to five years.
Meanwhile, an officer with a fine resist-
ance record who shot two prisoners con-
demned to death but amnestied, because
he believed it would be a greater economy
of blood than firing on a crowd which
was howling for their lives, was con-
demned to seven years by a regular mili-
tary court. The public fails to make a
coherent picture of this. There is, further,
the problem of numerous notorious col-
laborators still at liberty.
It is evident that the magistrate is often
overruled by his jurymen, but it is he
or the prosecutor who is publicly attacked
in the local press. The magistrates’ moral
position is weak, anyway, because, like
other public officials, the great majority
of them have sworn loyalty to Marshal
Petain.
As to the juries, it can be said that they
are sensitive to press attacks, for their
sentences usually become more ferocious
after complaints about leniency; that the
amount of money earned by the accused
increases comprehensibly the guilt they
attribute to him ; and that in the old un-
occupied area, where Petainism was to
begin with very strong and resistance
weak, sentences are more ferocious than
in the old occupied area where resistance
gained strength very early.
Ten-yearly Treaty Revisions.
(“Collier’s” editorial comment.)
Ex-President Herbert Hoover, whose
views on how to keep the peace always
make sense, recently suggested some ad-
ditions to the Dumbarton Oaks plans for
world security organisation after this war.
One Hoover proposal:
Provision for revision of onerous
treaties between nations at, say, 10-year
intervals, in order to assume that the
peace settlements are dynamic and not
st£ hj c * , cor , c -
That sounds like clear common sense
the coming peace is o e a y
durable than the Long Truce o - ■
Such a provision would put
psychological brake on some nation s im-
to rush to war over a irea y Y
which it felt itself injured. T ®
fact that at some set date it wo
its chance to state its case for treaty
vision ought to handicap is war me
ehants and fire-eaters.
This provision, too, would empha
the proposition that the pea e s tt m
were not intended to freeze t lings -
ever as at the time they were signed ,
th at the peacemakers recognised the
that nothing in the world is cha g e ,
or should be. ,
That, in turn, would point up anoth
highly important tact; namely, that aft
the peace documents and world security
Two V-campaigns were waged in
this war. One was British spon-
sored and its V stood for “victory."
Two fingers raised in the V-sign
and the dot-dot-dash rhythm from
the opening bars of Beethoven’s
Fifth Symphony were used to good
effect in upholding morale among
the Allied nations and wearing
down German morale. The V-cam-
paign launched by the Germans was
of a different type. Its initials stood
for “Verhichtung,” “Vergeltung,"
“Verwiistung ” annihilation, re-
venge, destruction. V-l was a jet-
propelled flying bomb travelling at a
speed of some 250m.p.h. It made
its appearance by the middle of
June, 1944, when it was launched
against London and the British
Channel ports in order to disrupt
the flow of Allied invasion supplies.
V-2, which came into use by last
September, was a rocket-driven
bomb of extreme speed (about
2000m.p.h .) and larger dimen-
sions than V-l. During nine
months of undiscriminating V-
bomb terror thousands of British
civilians were killed, and close to
1,000.000 homes damaged. The
weapon failed, however, to make
any of the V-targets areas unusable.
In the end the German V stood for
“vergeblich” —in vain.—“ Christian
Science Monitor."
agreements are all on file they will not
work automatically. There will have to
be a world of persistent effort, goodwill,
give-and-take, co-operation, and so on —
by peoples even more than by politi-
cians—if the peace machinery is to be
kept oiled, tuned up, improved from time
to time and operating all the time. Unless
that fact is planted deep in the collective
mind of mankind we can see little
chance that the planned peace machinery
or any other can work for long.
The Mosquito.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Charles J. Rolo .)
The Mosquito—bomber, fighter and
reconnaissance ’plane—has proved itself
master of almost every field of aircraft
usage.
This triple menace of the R.A.F. is,
quite literally, made of wood and glue.
The only metal in the Mosquito is in the
ailerons, engine cowlings and a few acces-
sories. Screws, which would weaken the
wood, have been replaced by glue. A
liquid plastic is used on all parts which
absorb shock. Brushed on cold, it
hardens inside the grain and makes the
joint stronger than the wood itself —so
strong that it won’t come apart under a
hammer and chisel. The chisel will break
first.
The Mosquito is designed for simple
construction. The fuselage is built in
separate halves, so that the work of in-
stalling the controls, fuel tanks and other
equipment —a cramped job in a completed
machine —can be carried out quickly and
comfortably by a team of four men or
girls. On the shop floor stands a jig, a
long frame exactly the shape of half the
fuselage. Over this is stretched a skin
of plywood sheets, each the thickness of
a penny. Plywood is light, pliable and
yet tremendously strong. On to the ply-
wood sheets is glued a thin layer of balsa,
the lightest wood known. Over the balsa
another layer of plywood. The Mosquito,
in fact, is a sandwich —plywood bread
with a balsa filling. The sandwich is
compressed against the jig, in eight hours
the glue has set, and there is one-half of
the fuselage. When installation work has


Keep uour refrigeration
equipment in good order
rTrrf f
n
*»*
■,vV>
f.
t '
for
SERVICE
RING
k JA i
Ik 1161 M
a ■■■;' : V *0
R. WERNER & CO. Em
FINEST REFRIGERATION SERVICE
IN AUSTRALIA
Factory & Head Office:
BURNLEY ST., RICHMOND
INTERSTATE AGENTS:—
N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO., PTY LTD., Clarence St., Sydney. M 6445-6-7.
Newcastle Branch: 265 King St., 81481-5.
S.A.: W. J. WHITE, 30 Grate St., Adelaide.
W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., 894 Hay St., Perth.
Q’LD.: G. A. ROCHE, PTY., LTD., Or. Ipswich Rd. and Reis St. Woolloongabba.
TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.), LTD., 36 Argyle St., Hobart. 59 George St., Launceston.
W.J.H.
w
FOR THE W$R TODAY ...
SAND TYRES
These specially designed
end constructed tyres,
used with such marked
success In desert warfare,
were evolved In 1 930 by
DUNLOP
tor TUB WORLD TOMORROW/
Before the war Dunlop foresight
made possible many of the inven-
tions which subsequently helped to
outwit the enemy. During the war
Dunlop research and inventions have
continued to contribute towards
victory. Out of all these enterprises
today are being born new ideas
and new ideals for tomorrow. When
peace returns you will feel the full
benefit of all that has been achiev-
ed by Dunlop technicians in war.
DUNLOP
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
034
been completed the two halves are simply
glued together and the fuselage is ready
for its wing*
The Mosquito’s wing is made of Oregon
pine, Canadian spruce and English ash.
Plywood one sixteenth of an inch thick
is bent into the shape of a shark’s nose
to give £i streamlined leading edge, cap-
able of standing up to enormous strains.
The completed wing skeleton is strength-
ened with a plywood covering and bolted
to the next fuselage in the assembly line.
Then the undercarriage is attached, and
in a few days the R.A.F. will get another
Mosquito.
The Mosquito is the most completely
streamlined ’plane in the skies. The
wings and fuselage are sharply tapered,
and most of the nofmal projections, which
result in drag, have been eliminated. The
engines are slung below the wings, and
an ingenious system for releasing heated
radiator air does away with outjutting
air scoops, thus adding 15 m.p.h, to the
Mosquito’s speed. Both the wings and
the fuselage are covered with a fabric
impregnated with airplane dope, a syn-
thetic which gives a glossy, ivory-smooth
surface. This finish, plus the elimination
of rivet-heads, of which metal bombers
have upward of 500,000, adds a further
25 m.p.h.
The Mosquito’s wooden construction
gives it several advantages, other than
speed, over metal aircraft. Its vital parts,
being thicker than those of metal
machines, are more likely to be pierced
than shattered by bullets or flak, and can
absorb any amount of punishment with-
out breaking up. Running repairs of all
kinds are far easier to carry out. Prac-
tically all that is needed is a small hand-
saw, a pot of glue and some strips of ply-
wood. If forced down over the sea, Mos-
quitoes will float for some time. Wood
is also an insulator against cold ; Mos-
quito pilots don’t need special clothing,
and the heating system is seldom turned
on below 10,000 feet.
Construction of Mosquitoes requires no
specialised training. Britain has welded
400 construction depots and subcontrac-
tors into a continuous production line.
Canada has mobilised 120 more.
The far-ranging commando of the skies
has special qualifications for action in the
vast Pacific theatre. The Germans did
not find an answer to the triple-threat
Mosquito. It probably won’t be long now
before the Japanese feel its sting.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
President Truman is the first soldier to be-
come Cqmmander-in-Chief in nearly 40 years.
The Civil War produced a number of Presi-
dents who had fought in the Union armies in
that conflict, of whom William McKinley, who
rose from the ranks to be a major, was the
last of a long and notable line of soldier-states-
men. Theodore Roosevelt served in the Spanish-
American War as a lieutenant-colonel of the
Rough Riders, and succeeded Leonard Wood in
command, with the rank of full colonel. Since
Roosevelt, president from 1901 to 1909, all
the Presidents have been without military ex-
perience until now, President Truman having
served as captain of artillery in the first World
War. — G. R. Brown; N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
During the 57 months of the war up to June
1, 1944, Nazi bombers damaged or destroyed
3.375.000 houses in Britain, an average of nearly
2000 a day. But in the next four months
their V-l robots destroyed or damaged
1.125.000 more houses, an average of 9000 a
day.— “ Collier’s.”
* * * *
It is being said that world peace depends
upon World-wide prosperity. That may be true
but, if so, the outlook for world peace is dismal
because the world has never been prosperous
in all places at the one time. In many part's
of the world being less hungry than usual
passes for prosperity.— Samuel Crowther; N.Y.
“Journal-American.''"
* * * *
“We [U.S.A.] are shifting from a 3000-mile
haul across the Atlantic to a 7000-mile haul
across the Pacific. The jump-off, instead of
being from our East coast with its wealth of
port facilities, is from the West coast where
they are few. The Philippines Islands, with
one good port, must take the place of England
with many, and 600 miles of open sea must still
be crossed to reach the mainland, instead of the
26 across the English Channel. We need all the
superiority of men and material that is pos-
sible to concentrate against a savage and de-
termined foe, who has proved that he will
fight to the bitter end.” — U.S. General Stilwell.
* * * *
What we who have lived in the outside world
find hard to comprehend is the degree to which
the Germans have been cut off from every-
thing that has happened for the past 12 years
behind the wall of Nazi censorship and propa-
ganda. They have only begun to get a dim
idea of the cruelties and barbarisms practised
systematically by the German invaders through-
out Europe. They can have no idea how bit-
terly they are hated everywhere.— American
syndicate writer Marquis Childs, after visiting
Germany.
* ♦ ■ * *
No international organisation will be able to
establish world conditions which make for
peace if it does not give dependent peoples
who are determined to obtain self-government,
and who are found capable of self-government,
the assurance that they can obtain that right.
—Former U.S. Under Secretary of State Sumner
Welles
* * * *
R.A.F. experts have revealed that prompt
.• tUtf r A p onH American Air Force
ation by the R.A F. and American Air Force,
combined with the D-day invasion of No
mandy, saved London and other English cities
from possible annihilation by a Nazi secret
weapon. The R.A.F. experts said: “This
secret weapon, which was neutralised first by
efficient bombing and then by the capture of the
firing sites by Allied armies, was a rocket
shell of 1201 b. with a 401 b. warhead. The
firing site was discovered at Marquise Mi-
Mnvpsmips a village near Calais only 85
mi?e^ S from’ it was’captured it
was found the Germans were preparing to
launch day and night attacks from a battery
of 50 long-range guns with 40-foot-long barrels,
The shell was of 6in. calibre, and the German
plan was to rain it on London at the rate of
10 per minute, thus driving rescue workers, fire-
men and police to shelters while flying ■ bombs
and V2s fell at regular intervals to cause ie
“ destruction Tffie vas mostly
er g rou ud, aud some p
350 ft. down. The ’W hiwe been
untepuiiJ, in deep-inclined shafts.
Washington rost.
* * * *
U.S. Navy plans for a post-war fleet of 1191
fighting ships were disclosed by the House
Appropriations Committee in recommending to
Congress a Navy Department budget of
$24,879,510,546 for fiscal 1946, which begins
July 1. The committee cut $452,655,104 from
the estimate previously approved by the Budget
Bureau. Such a fleet would be more than three
times the size of the American combat fleet on
rw 7 IQ/LI Tpstimnnv taken in recent closed
Dec. 7, 1941. Testimony taken in c osea
heanngs and now made public shows that the
United States will end the war with 1528 combat
ships—destroyer-escorts and larger and sub-
marines. Of these, 337, which will be obsolete,
will be scrapped, nased as target ships or other-
wise disposed of. Of the remaining 1191,
Admiral Horne said, 482 will be retained on
active status and 709 on inactive status. Ihe
latter vessels will be berthed at piers rather than
at anchor and will be kept from rusting by de-
humidificatioq apparatus. Small maintenance
crews will live aboard them. As for smaller
ships, 510 auxiliaries, including landing craft,
will be kept on active status, along with 83
mine craft, 178 patrol craft and 1023 district
craft. To be put on inactive status will be
1182 auxiliaries, 462 mine craft, 450 patrol
craft and 751 district craft. Disposed of will
be 3482 auxiliaries, 349 mine craft, 1258 patiol
craft and 668 district craft. —Raymond J. Blair;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Japan may fight on regardless, preferring
suicide to capitulation. But the men who
really rule Japan are not fanatics. They know
the world they live in. Pearl Harbor, as they
saw it, was no rash venture but a coldly cal-
culated risk in which, in the framework of the
situation as it appeared to Tokyo in December,
1941, the odds were overwhelmingly in Japan s
favor. The gamble turned out disastrously for
Japan. Now the problem facing Japan’s leaders
is not how to achieve victory, for that is out
of the question, nor how to save the empire,
smce that empire is irrevocably lost. The prob-
how £ saye anything of the wreckage
of Japan - S hopes and ambitions. In this particu-
j ar> R uss j a ’ s threatened entry into the Pacific war
may o ff er j apan a way ou t. Japan cannot
surre nder to the United States or Great Britain
without a complete loss of face. She might
surrender to Russia who, at any rate, was
neutral during the past three and a half
years and has not yet entered, the war, and
with whom Japan still maintains diploma ic
relations. This is a possibility well worth watch-
tag .-Wash,n S ,on "Pos,- correspondent.
* * * *
Few motion-picture stars ever received such a
torrent of letters and gifts as does the supreme
commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force.
people from all parts of the world send General
Eisenhower such things as tooth-brushes, ginger-
bread, cigarettes and sweaters. Occasionally
t j lere are ep i dem j cs of certain gifts. Once he
was swamped by hominy grits> whicb he turned
over tQ the hospitals. Another time, for no dis-
r£ason J there was a plethora of four .
Jeaf doyers Many of the letters reC eived by
General Eisenhower have the opposite purport:
the writers want something. Mostly they ask
f or autographs or pictures. Some would appre-
date receiving the general’s battle-jacket, a five-
star cluster, his necktie. Youngsters beg for
German helmets, uniforms or pistols. One
small boy asked for a “genuwme Tiger Tank.”—
N.Y. Herald Tribune .
* * * *
“Failure to maintain these [Pacific] bases
essential for our defence raises the fundamental
question—how long can the United States afford
h continue a cycle of fighting and building and
winning and g * ying awayj only to fight and
build and w j n and g j ve away again? Rich as
wg we do not have thc human or physical
resources to dissipate our patrimony, generation
a £ ter generation, in this manner.” — U.S. Admiral
, Fleet Frneit J Kins
°f the *' eet ’ Lrnest * ing '
. ,
Can it matter who is the slave or who does
the enslaving? Slavery is always, under all cir-
cumstances, immoral. Accepting that as a
standard, we can proceed politically and eco-
nomically to punish the Germans. If we re-
ject that moral criterion we can only punish
ourselves by failing, to resist our own degrada-
tion.—George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. Sun:
* * * *
Yj le ma tter of foreign airlines subsidised by
foreign Governments,looks pretty ticklish. Such
an a j r iine, unlike a privately-owned one, is
something of an arm of the Government that
subsidises it. We would do well to keep
in mind the fact that any airline must have
or make maps of the terrain its planes fly
over—a fact which has interesting implications
militarily.—JV. Y. Daily News.


Missing Friend.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of MAR-
GARET AITKEN (or Aiken) who was a daughter or
the Marriage of DONALD AITKEN (or Aiken) and
BARBARA ANDERSON MacLEAN who went from
Scotland to Australia about the year 1924 and who
was married to AXEL or of her sister
CATHERINE who married JOHN JOHNSTON whose
father had a Foundry in or near Sydney please com-
municate with MESSRS. .WATT, SON & CO. Solici-
tors 183 SJ. Vincent Street Glasgow C. 2. Scotland?
STOPwur Rupture
Mark ® LoeaHan
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
Accountancy
THIS war has proved the vital
necessity for trained and qualified
’"accountants, both for business and
government departments. That neces-
sity will be even greater because of
the great problems of administration
and finance in all aspects of post-war
reconstruction.
NOW is the time to prepare, study
and to qualify in Accountancy-Secre-
taryship, and thus put yourself in the
way of securing a key position and
with it professional status and an
assured living. The success of your
training under H. & R. is certain,
because for 45 years H. & R. students
have consistently secured more honours
places in the Accountancy examinations
than secured by all other coaches
combined.
Why not consult H. & R.
about Your future career , and
the opportunities of the post -
war period?
Call, write or phone for full
particulars .
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
ffownMowJ Ov>Md by Hmtogwoy & tobwtto. Cty. Mi
Professional Tutors
k 24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St.. Sydney
Please send me FREE copy of your
96 pp. ‘Guide to Careers in Business.’
Name Age.
Address
Career Interested in 24/642
Oo
• IOiSKREO T RADI MAR
ITTTn
rn
PROOf • f ROM AC
The Finest Leathe
Preservative
-7
FOR
NUGGET'
•iMS/Sr
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
SHOE POLISH
. . A GOOD POLISH
Have a Coca-Cola
. . .Viva ! (Yeah Man)
w.
wsr
I
%
m
wm
a'
mmy*
u
' ■■
or being the good neighbour from
Brazil to Bondi
In many lands, from
Alaska to South Africa,
from Brazil to Bondi,
Coca-Cola is spreading
the custom of the pause
that refreshes that re-
freshing moment
devoted to just being
friendly.
m
|4tTU
high-sign
Jt’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.Ai
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
N
5788
CRAVEN A
UouU eutpbeeiate tkch
•0
Ol ible In 10’s & 20’s
m
in ■i—ii ■ ■ 11 ir ■
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The -Victorian Tragedy, by Esme
Wingfield-Stratford, and The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony (one-vol. edition), by H. H. Richard-
son.—3645.
To buy Speeches from the Dock. —3646.
Information Sought.
Summary of Kingsford Smith’s notable
flights? . . .
In June, 1927, around Australia in Bristol
Tourer; June, 1928, U.S.A. to Australia m
Fokker F.7-3M Aircraft VH-USU (“Southern
Cross”); 1928, non-stop flight from Point Cook,
Vic., to Perth, W.A., and return; September,
1928, Richmond, N.S.W., to Christchurch,
MX.; October, 1928, return flight across
Tasman Sea; June-July, 1929, England-Aus-
tralia flight in 12 days 18 hours (record); June,
1930, Ireland to Newfoundland, 32 hours
12min.; October, 1930, England to Australia in
an Avro Avian in 10 days; October, 1933, Eng-
land-Australia by stages in Percival Gull in
7 days, 4hr. 50min. (record). On November 6,
1935, Kingsford Smith left England for Aus-
tralia in the Lady Southern Cross and was last
heard of near Burma His aircraft was pre-
sumed to have crashed into the sea.
* * * *
Is it an infringement of the Copyright Act to
put songs on lantern slides and show them at
public concerts?
The owner of the copyright has the sole right
to produce the work “in any material form”
and to perform the work in public. The Aus-
tralian Performing Rights Association, 66 Pitt-
street, Sydney, will, on request, state the terms
on which use can be made of any composition.
*,* * «
How is it that the last line in every news-
paper column is on a level with the last line
in preceding and following columns?
Columns of type are spaced to the correct
length by inserting “leads” between paragraphs
or headings. A lead is a small space strip of
1, li, 2 or 3 point (a point equals one 72nd
of an inch) in thickness. After spacing the
columns to equal length of page they are
locked in a steel frame known as a forme. 1
* * * *
How many bowlers have taken all ten wickets
in an innings in first-grade cricket? The best
figures for an Australian?
When the war stopped all first-class cricket
55 players had taken all ten wickets in an
innings. The best figures by an Australian are
Bill Howell’s 23.2 overs, 14 maidens, 28 runs v.
Surrey at Kennington Oval (Eng.) in 1899. It
was Howell’s first match in England.
*}* * *
(1) What were the tour figures of the N.S.W.
Rugby Uniop “Wallabies” team in England
(1908-09) ? (2) The scorers ?
(1) Played 31, won 25, lost five, drew one;
points for 438, against 146. (2) Tries were scored
by Russell (24), Carroll (15), Dix (9), McKivatt
and McCabe (eight each), Hickey (five), Row
and Moran (four each), Smith, Mandible, Craig,
Prentice, Richards, Griffin (three each), Barnett
and Burge (two each), McMurtrie, McCue,
Wood, Gavin and Daly (one each). Car-
michael kicked 52 converted goals, five penalty
goals, one goal from mark; Hickey and Daly
one goal each.
Brief Answers.
T.P.8.: Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney,
can supply an extensive list of books on the
subject K.J.K.: Get in touch with the De-
partment of Information J.A.K.: Figures
are not available S.G.; (1) Australia’s popu-
lation passed the seven-million mark in 1939.
(2) N.S.W. 2,789,123, Vic. 1,918,774, Q’land
1,029,613, S. Aust. 598,091, W. Aust. 468,311,
Tas. 243,057, N.T. 8852, A.C.T. 12,868....
R.D.: Brendan Bracken was born in 1901 and
educated at Sydney and Sedbergh; elected M.P.
for North Paddington in 1929, member of Privy
Council 1940, Parliamentary Private Secretary
to Prime Minister 1940-41, Minister of Infor-
mation 1941-45, now First Lord of the
Admiralty... .M.M.B. and A.P.L.: The selling
and buying of pennies at more than their face
value is illegal... .M.H.: William Booth was
born in 1829 and died in 1912.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
C.L.: Make it more compact by leaving your-
self out J.F.L.: New Guinea landscape in-
teresting; city stuff commonplace D.H.E.;
More words than birds in “Magpies and Curra-
wongs”... .L.A.: Just a hash... .P.C.: They
ramble R.K.: Wordsworth beat you to it.
M.P.T.: It’s been done many times
EX.: Indistinguishable from all the other poems
entitled “Australia” and announcing that we
have gum-trees and kookaburras A.J.Q.:
Satire neither fierce nor funny J.P.S.: “Oh,
Lord, may we to Hades’ depths descend.” You
do Featherweight S.A.E.: The
right feeling in both; there should be fewer
elevating thoughts and more definite pictures.
D.I.M.: Lilting but thin; too many obvious
rhymes E.M.: Cannot help you get your
bathroom mended by publishing watery verse
about it P.A.F.: Sugary K.McC.: Atmo-
sphere good, story slight... .V.P.: Very few
graziers drink champagne for breakfast
G.F.S.: Farce... .D.A.: Eve with red finger-
nails no improvement on biblical version....
8.P.8.; Dull L.C.R.S.: “Return of Ronald”
returning G.M.C.: You’ve been reading
Damon Runyon 8.F.: Improvement
KG.: Watery J.K.D.: Hand-wringing hero
seems a bit of a siss G;K.: Try a daily
K. 8.: For a good bush yarn something more
than gum-trees and rustic conversation needed.
T.S.: Avoid last-war slang M.R.: Use
more dialogue... .T.A.W.: Heavy latinity of
phrase weighs it down P.O’K.: Wellsian
romance without the Wellsian touch G.R.:
Come a£ain A.H.: Humor strained.


gap
Last Years Will
may not meet to-day*§
conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 66 years’ prac-
tical experience in the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hildcr; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
99-81 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
m
PCTA/Bia r J
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
( Dividends To Nominal
Pref. lie- Ee-
Feb., Profit.* 11.6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
1935.. 84,387 87,188 t Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87,188 t 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
5.8 p.c. •
1937. .109,416 43,598 4J 56,250 9,573 75,057
193?. .113,026 43,593 5 „ ~ 62,500 6,9'33 81,990
1939 . .107,695 43,593 5 „ „ 62,600 1,602 93,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 5 „ ~ 62,500 4,856 88,448
1941. .111,732 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942.. 110,363 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. .109,257 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 3,163 101,508
1944. .111,385 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,291 106,799
Reserves.!
Surplus after revaluing plant, £316,153 1
Goodwill (£273,153) written off ~ f 106,799
To depreciation reserve, £43,000 . .J
1945. .114,761 43,594 5 p.c. = 62,500 8,067 115,406
* After deducting debenture interest. t Two years.
+ Subject to goodwill, etc., £273,153 in 1944.
§ Excluding depreciation reserve (£43,000).
What has happened here? To get the
picture into perspective it is necessary
to go back to 1926, when the present co.
took over this more-than-century-old uni-
versal provider for £2,900,000, paying
£1,900,000 cash and £1,000,000 in 7 p.c.
debentures. Goodwill figured in the deal
at £272,373 (since increased to £273,153),
and machinery, plant, etc., at £370,042.
To cope with subsequent expansion of
the business, additions costing £234,309
were made to plant, etc. Also, besides
maintaining the equipment, etc., in a state
of up-to-date efficiency, allowances for
depreciation of this item for the 18 years
to February 23, 1944, totalled £581,657
leaving it with a net book value of
£22,694. The depreciation allowances, or
part of them, together with surplus earn-
ings, enabled the debenture debt (secured
by mortgage over the freehold) to be
reduced by £860,000, leaving it at
£140,000 at the end of February last, and
now carrying about half the original rate
of interest.
Recently the board decided to have
freehold and leasehold properties, and
machinery, plant, etc., revalued by inde-
pendant valuers on the basis of replace-
ment cost in 1939, which can be taken
as substantially below any likely post-war
replacement cost. The valuation figures
were £1,356,615 freehold and leasehold
and £338,847 machinery, plant, etc., leav-
ing a surplus over book value of these
items of £241,732 and £316,153 respec-
tively.
In the latest accounts machinery,
etc., has been taken in at the valuation
figure. The surplus was used to rub
goodwill out of the books, and the re-
maining £43,000 was tossed into a specific
reserve for depreciation, which, of course,
is not available for distribution. The
surplus in respect of freehold, etc., re-
mains as an inner reserve, and, on the
basis of the business as a going concern,
so does the value of goodwill, which has
been widened and is probably worth more
than was paid for it. The juggling of the
figures has not affected either earning or
dividend-paying capacity one way or the
other. The ords, however, can now see
the whole of their capital intact and
£115,466 besides, whereas £166,354 of
their money was unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books a year or so ago.
The co.’s earnings are subject to a
wider range of influences than most other
traders, because of the universal nature
of the business and the wide area it
covers —stocks range from regulation-
frozen machinery and hardware lines to
dry-goods and women’s and men’s fashion
goods ; and country trade, which has been
dislocated by transport and other diffi-
culties, used to figure prominently in turn-
over.
Clothes and drapery rationing, the price
ceiling and a host of other restrictions,
have stifled free competition and service
as they existed pre-war. The general
effect of controls, etc., upon aggregate
turnover of a number of Sydney retailers
is seen in the following table, which shows
percentage change in sales compared with
the corresponding period a year earlier;
Average Three Months Ended
A
f \
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939-40.. +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.6
•1940-41.. +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 -2.4 +B.O
1942- —-6.0 -19.3 -18.8 -6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4
With the easing of war demands a few
more goods for civilian use are coming
on to the market, and the purchasing
power of clothing coupons has appre-
ciated a trifle. As controls are relaxed
and the seller’s market, which developed
under war conditions, gives place to a
buyer’s market again, competition can be
expected to become keener, and exes,
more difficult to restrain. Turnover, how-
ever, should benefit from deferred buying
in all directions. And A.H. and Sons,
which is alive to its problems, is prepar-
ing to take advantage of opportunity as
it occurs, as the strong cash holding
suggests.
The co.’s factories have been engaged
on munition production and other war
work, from which little or no gain has
been looked for, and a lot of space has
been made available to Allied and our
own armed forces for storage and other
purposes. Last term drought affected many
country customers. Still, after setting aside
£55,234 (up £408) for depreciation and
providing something for taxation, the
board was able to write net earnings
£3376 better at £114,761. That was 5.7
p.c. on the £2,000,000 of share capital,
of which £750,000 carries a cumulative
7 p.c, p.a., reduced to 5.8 p.c. under the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act. After
handing the prefs. their reduced rate, the
balance was 5.7 p.c. on ord. capital. The
div. was kept at 5 p.c., and the £8667
that remained lifted free reserves to
Is. lOd. per ord. share.
The financial position improved:
1937. 1944. 1945.
Ord capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures .. 600,000 —•—
Mortgage .. .. 245,000 140,000
Creditors, etc. .. 84,633 142,577 179,314
Tax reserves . . 43,682 185,713 215,814
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 1,281,236 1,139,173 1,114,883
Plant, etc. .. 256,951 51,176 338,847
Stocks .. . . 757,221 757,661 831,095
Book debts . . 224,469 169,115 129,918
Cash, etc 63,289 342,857 831,899
Last term £105,000 was clipped off the
mortgage debt and £73,434 was added to
stocks. To do it book debts and cash,
etc., were reduced by £39,197 and £10,958
respectively, while £36,737 was added to
the amount coming to trade credito r s.
The more or less liquid surplus (£757,784)
was £61,441 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
1935 . . 16,057 7 p.c. = 6568 9,489 113,368
1936.. 18,822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125,615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7,248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund, £2OOO .. 146,947
1939.. 27,366 7 p.c. = 6662 t ~,.,1
To contingencies, £2500 ( ibo,isi
1940.. 30,077 7,p.c. = 7517 1
To contingencies, £2500 j
1941.. 28,585 7 p.c. = 8891 I, Q
To contingencies, £l5OO ) 18,194 203,40 a
From inner reserves, £25,000 .. 228,405
1942.. 42,823 7 p.c. = 10,211 32,612 261,017
1943.. 44,024‘7i„ ~10,960 33,064 294,081
1944.. 35,674 8 „ „ 11,691 23,983 318,064
1945 .. 43,634 8$ „ ~ 12,422 31,212 349,276
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
From the start the policy of this sound
24-year-old Australian fire, marine and
accident office has been to keep the div.
moderate and build up strength, a policy
which has been to the benefit of both
policy-holders and shareholders. When
the books last closed there was £349,276
of reserves, subject to unexpired risks, to
support and assist £146,138 of paid capi-
tal. The two combined, together with
£371,390 coming to outsiders, etc., were
invested in this way:
1940. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £120,825 £146,188 £146,138 £146,188
Sundry
creditors*.. 247,274 379,511 348,747 371,390
Public
securities 221,073 315,328 358,579 376,323
Fixed deposits 32,500 65,000 69,250 87,250
Cash, etc. . . 57,262 88,641 99,884 81,983
Shares subsid. 4,996 4,996 4,996
Book debts., etc. 54,590 149,609 84,084 120,827
Freeholds . . 195,401 202,000 202,000 202,000
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
For the. 12 months to the close of last
accounts that lot turned in £29,861 (up
£1822), out of which taxes, rates and
repairs made off with £18,027, leaving
£11,834 (up £1817) net. This net figure,
equal to 8.1 p.c. on capital, was only
£5BB less than the div. called for. So
practically the whole of the underwriting
surplus was available to swell investments
and returns therefrom. Largest item in
the investment portfolio is low-interest-
bearing Government securities, up £17,744
last term. As soon as the Government
will allow the co. to do so, attention is
to be turned to financing co-operative
building societies, a commendable step
designed, among other things, to hasten
solution of one of our most pressing post-
war problems.
In its underwriting activities the co. has
stepped along like a thoroughbred. Fol-
lowing loss of 18 Asiatic and island
agencies, owing to the Jap invasion—no
capital loss showed up in the accounts—
more ginger was put into the hunt for
business in India, the Middle East and
elsewhere. And the international marine
market provided some nice pickings. In
Australia the “pegging” agreement has
reduced competition among insurance
offices to a minimum this for man-
power reasons and, as a war-time
measure, the Federal Government became
self-insurer of all cargoes owned or partly-
owned by it, thus affecting the volume
of local marine business. Still, owing to
war activities, rising prices and expanding
merchant inventories, there has been a
steady growth in fire, workers’ compen-
sation, personal, accident and other in-
surance, but income from motor-vehicle
cover has shrunk by about one-third since
war began.
Since 1939 the growth in the co.’s net
premium income amounts to £118,194,
or 52.7 p.c. Last term there was a slip
of £28,650 in gross premiums (£545,921),
due mainly to the drop in marine war-
risk rates. But re-insurances (£203,440)
were £36,868 less, leaving net premium
income £B2lB stronger:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio, Ratio.
19'26.. £97,486 £55,048 £33,890 50.5 p.c. 34.7 p.c.
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 C 5.9 ~ 32.3 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 ~
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1939.. 224.287 132,110 77,277 58.9 „ 34.4 „
1940.. 251,039 145,280 90,180 57.9 „ 35.9 „
1941.. 266,267 148,269 110,931 55.6 „ 41.6 „
1942.. 302,454 154,324 130,222 51.0 „ 43.1 „
1943.. 334,988 160,267 156,276 47.8 „ 46.0 „
1944.. 384,203 165,249 143,357* 49.4 „ 42.8* „
1945.. 842,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9* „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
The loss rate (down £1 12s. p.c.) was one
of the best in the co.’s history. And exes,
were only about 2s. p.c. heavier. That
left the underwriting profit £6143 stronger
at £31,800, equal to 21.7 p.c. on capital.
Thus the net return from all sources was
£43,634 (up £7960), subject to unexpired
risks. The £43,634 was 29.8 p.c. on capi-
tal, as against 24.4, 30.1, 29.3, 19.5, 21
and 18.6 p.c. back to 1939. Half a point
was added to the div., making it p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a.,
and more than twice as much was put by
than was distributed. It needs to be
remembered, however, that the loss rate,
over which the management has no con-
trol, is always' more favorable in times
of an expanding than a contracting
economy, and that marine underwriting
is a long-winded business.'
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £> £> £,
1935.. 80,880 8 p.c. = 25,780 5,100 282,194
1936.. 31,295 8# „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937.. 33,005 9J p.c. - 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938.. 37,091 9|p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939.. 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000 343,412
1940.. 42,020 10 p.c. ■= 37,596 4,424 347,836
1941.. 43,100 10 „ „ 37,596 5,504 353,340
1942.. 37,702 10 „ „ 37,596 106 353,446
1943.. 38,006 10 „ „ 37,596 410 353,856
1944.. 38,200 10 „ „ 37,596 604 354,460
Added contingencies reserve, £22,000.. 376,460
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,078 377,538
Net earnings of this stoutly-ribbed, well-
handled business averaged £39,682 for
the half-dozen years to the close of last
accouilts, compared with an average of
£33,527 for the preceding six years. A
creditable performance, considering the
blanket thrown over the co.’s turnover in
the civilian market by difficulty in ob-
taining supplies of newsprint and of
printers’ and other requisites, owing to
war developments and the shipping prob-
lem, and the effect of Government war


MAASEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for every man’s
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
X
VS
Fixed Prices
MENTMORE
Supreme .. 16/
Diploma .. 18/
Autoilow .. 26/
☆
14ct. solid
nibs, iridium
pointed.
gold
XM»
w
r
KQtSltf
v&j'-ww/y
S M]STRALIbi URWA^S
FfaSSR H?n»t V y sTrTh'd, five Hn'd e.
ff Twfcnhj Three P iJ
[796,523 11 — -r&~*h
vfafA
W‘
£2 millions
off your taxes each year
THE FIRST CHEQUE, £796,523, represents the
profit received during the last financial year
(1943-44) by the Government from the 3d. sur-
charge on Air Mails carried by the various Aus-
tralian Airline Companies.
THE SECOND CHEQUE, £1,250,000, represents
the conservative estimate of aihounts paid each
year by these Companies in Registration Fees,
Primage and Customs Duties, Sales Tax, Company
Tax, Wages Taxes and* Profit Taxes. Some ex-
perts place the figure at £2,000,000.
IF THE GOVERNMENT NATIONALISES AIR-
LINES this revenue will be lost and it will have to
make good the losses by additional taxes. And
to this increased burden of two million pounds
placed on the shoulders of wage earners will be
added the losses that follow every Government
* experiment in transport.
Register Your Protest Now
Released by
AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT
50 Market Street, Melbourne
McCORMICK-DEERING^*
Tractor fo»?r
im nniirupvAiu'
m JUMMmr II.W Ik
“If
m*
at S
F armall
LEADERS FOR
MORE THAN
30 YEARS
8 !
Model W-4
KQ ■'■v'
» v
Mode/ WD-6
L
lUS ORE than thirt y y® ars '
experience of
building and using farm
tractors backs the efficiency,
economy, and adaptability of
the latest McCormick-Deering
tractors now available for
vital food production ... Full
range includes “ Standard ”
and “ Row-crop," kerosene
and diesel-fuel models on
steel wheels, or on rubber
tyres for approved purposes
... A “permit to purchase"
must be obtained . . . For
prices, full details, and help
with your application, write
to our branch house in the
capital city of your State, or
. . . See Your Nearest
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
AGENT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRIS, - SYD. - MELB. - ADEL. - PERTH
McCORMICK PEERING
spending and taxation upon costs, which
have failed to exhibit the rigidity pro-
mised by imposition of the price ceiling.
Although local newsprint mills in Tas.
came into production and eased the strain,
they have been unable to cope with
demand. Hence the rationing of this com-
modity and reduction in the size of news-
papers, which have been fed in their
attenuated form partly from pool stocks.
However, a steadily improving volume
of lend-lease supplies over the last couple
of years has considerably relieved the
positiond and assisted E.D.’s turnover.
End of hostilities in Europe has re-
moved the war-time isolation of Swedish
and Finnish producers, and made more
pulp available to British paper mills. But
it is too early yet to say when supplies
from thefce sources are likely to come for-
ward in volume again, or exactly what
effect they will have upon prices. One
thing certain is that mills in Canada and
U.S.A., to which Australia turned for its
supplies of imported paper, will fight hard
to retain the business.
In a world which has lost its
old balance and might not quickly
find a new one it is difficult to
say exactly what will happen in inter-
national trade. Two important factors
will be the international debtor and credi-
tor position and the depredations and cur-
rency inflation that have taken place in
enemy-occupied countries; Meanwhile,
local controls over imports, foreign
credits and other things continue to
operate. Their removal is called for as
shipping and supplies become available.
Last term the co.’s turnover continued
to expand, and the stationery manufac-
turing business of Galwey and Co. Pty.
was bought at an unstated figure, and is
being conducted as a subsidiary. Shares
in subsidiaries (£36,081, cost) shot up
£34,085. The co.’s other offshoot is
Edwards Dunlop (London), which has
done good work as overseas buying agent
for the parent. How well equipped the
parent is to take care of opportunities for
further development of the business as
and when they occur the following table
shows:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £375,965 £375,965 £375,965 £375,960
Liabilities .. 109,650* 147,673 205,0(8 229,601
Tax reserve .. 68,562 61,888 76,910
Freeholds .. 120,565 126,381 126,381 126,381
Stocks . . 137,258 209,922 195,317 187,407
Debtors . . 445,781 390,551 314,313 284,026
Cash, etc. . . 118,822 228,191 370,779 471,599
* Including tax provision, etc.
And most of the assets are worth a lot
more than their book value. Last term
£22,000 was taken from inner reserves
and put in the window. Cash, etc. (up
£100,820), comprises cash (£70,027, up
£13,021), Government securities and
shares in other cos. (£362,335, up £50,682)
and shares in and advances to subsidiaries
(£39,237, up £37,117). When the books
closed more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities, including the tax reserve,
by £636,521, or £23,078 more than at the
previous balance.
After allowing for taxation and other
contingencies, and writing off capital ex-
penditure of £3658 (£9ll in the previous
term) on vehicles and plant, there was
little change in declared net earnings,
which were equal to 10.2 p.c. on capital
as against 10.1, 10 and 11.5 p.c, for the
three preceding years. The 10 p.c. div.
is more secure than the published figures
alone suggest.
With only a dozen producers operating,
and with tailings cyanidation—formerly
a substantial contributor to the yield—
reduced to small proportions, Victorian
gold production in 1944 receded to the
post-depression ebb of the 1930’5. Divi-
dends, however, advanced £35,000 com-
pared with 1943, thanks to the spectacular
revival of the A 1 mine at Gaffney's
Creek. Details of the State’s perform-
ances over the last five years compared
in this way:
Year. Gold Divs.
Dec., Yield. Value Paid.
Fine oz. £ £
1940 .. .. 180,567 1,924,200 566,760
1941 . . . . 149,769 1,600,500 444,560
1942 .. .. 101,497 1,060,900 302,020
1943 . . . . 56,511 590,500 195,075
1944 .. . . 54,086 568,000 229,875
Main cause of contraction has, of course,
been withdrawal of mine labor for other
work ; also important has been the reduc-
tion in grade by such leading producers
as North Deborah, at Bendigo, and Vic-
toria Dredging, at Newstead. The effects
on individual dividends have been as
follow:
Victorian Gold Dividends.
f -j Calendar Year
Mine. 1941. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £
A 1 Consolidated .. . . 13,500 103,500
Central Nell Gwynne .. 32,500
Chewton Gold Mines .. 1,989
Cocks Eldorado .. .. 6,875 6,875 6,875
Deborah Gold Mines .. 36,600 9,150 9,150
Eureka Lead Mining .. 3,000
Freeburg Dredging.. .. 7,875
Gold Dumps, Pty... .. 3,600'
Hercules G. M. .. .. 4,361
Ironbark G.M. .. .. 3,103
Ironbark South .. .. 18,708 -
Maude and Yellow Girl .. 4,500 11,250 2,250
Maxwell Consolidated' .. 18,325
Morning Star .. . . 20,000 30,000 20,000
North Deborah .. ..100,800 44,800 38,400
Rutherglen Gold Dumps. . 7,500 —•—
Sheepshead G. M... .. 625
Victoria Gold Dredging ..106,250 75,000 31,250
Wattle Gully G. M. .. 54,000 18,000 18,000
Some improvement in the man-power
situation is reflected in a State gold yield
of 17,357 fine ounces for the first four
months of 1945, an increase of 14950 z.
compared with the corresponding period
of 1944. Immediate post-war prospects for
the industry depend largely on the price of
gold and the manner in which a number
of mines which reached the div. list in
1940-41 continue to open up; also upon
exploration outside established goldfield
areas, particularly in the east of the State.
One interesting find awaiting develop-
ment is the Red Robin, at Hotham
Heights.
* * * *
Westralia is looking forward to ‘‘big
development” and “large employment of
men” at Yampi Sound, where Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd., is opening up the
iron-ore deposit on Cockatoo Island, Co.
recently asked the State Arbitration Court
to review and alter the decision of a local
Reference Board regarding payment for
walking time. Union’s representative
claimed that payment was justified be-
cause the men had to walk 1| miles up-
grade in a hot climate to work. Co. says
such payment should be expunged from
the board’s decision regarding classifi-
cation of work. The Court reserved its
decision.
* * * *
The board of New Golconda told a few
shareholders who met in Perth the other
day that there was nothing to add to the
recently-issued annual report, except that
consideration had been given to two or
three propositions, but no action had been
taken. Co. was floated during a before-
war boom, and shares went to a premium
on whimpers that a lot of gold awaited
extraction from an old Murchison show
which had been acquired.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department has pub-
lished a new mineral map of the State.
All mineral deposits are not shown, but
the occurrences of known commercial,
or potentially commercial, value are. To
assist prospectors, railways and main high-
ways are also shown.


ŵ
i I ' 88
ca
mm
The name “CAL-TEX” came into
being with the discovery of huge
oil resources in the British Protec-
torate of Bahrein (Persian Gulf) by
the CALifornia-TEXas Oil Company.
Texaco, a world-wide oil Company
which has served Australia for
many years had large marketing
and distributing facilities.
So . . by consolidation of the huge
resources of the two companies, the
name “CAL-TEX” was born and
it became possible to develop the
new and strategic source of supply
WHICH HAS PROVED SO VALU-
ABLE TO AUSTRALIA DURING
THE WAR YEARS.
The management and policies of
the Company remain unaltered.
You get the same friendly service,
unsurpassed quality and nation-
wide distribution you have enjoyed
for many years. From now on ask
for “CAL-TEX.”
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FINEST OIL SUPPLIES
o
%
so
03 2
IS
SI
1 ' I' -o ftoy
s*'
rawn
to convey coolness
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
R 6C Me.
w
Business, Rollery, Etc.
World Trade
The war began with the economic
world out of balance. It will end with
it even more out of balance. The one
compensating factor is that those who
administer finance, not excluding inter-
national finance, appear to have learned
a great deal about their job over the past
ten years, and the public, through the
operation of lend-lease, has had the
opportunity of gaining an insight into
the realities of international trade.
Of course, there will always be an
American newspaper proprietor or Sena-
tor who believes that Britain put it over
the United States financially during the
present war—in baseball parlance, “we
wuz robbed.” There will be a similar
attitude by some citizens of almost every
country towards the behavior of any other
country. But those people who are cap-
able of learning anything have had a
remarkable monetary lesson unfolded to
them in the operation of lend-lease and
mutual aid. It is that, quite apart from
the question of assisting mutually in a
joint war effort, it doesn’t pay to be the
creditor of a country which cannot pay.
The Governments of the United States and
Canada have quite freely acknowledged
that a hangover of war debts in their
countries’ favor would be a grave danger
to employment in their own as well as
other countries after the war finishes.
It is to be hoped that this realisation
persists in peace-time. It will be more
difficult to sustain after the war, because
the home Government of each country
will not be such an avid war-time con-
sumer, and, after early post-war home-
market shortages are attended to, various
industries and individuals will be seeking
an export trade, and it will not be so
simple then to produce goods for export
without the country receiving payment for
them.
While the war was on a Government
could incur many kinds of losses and
cover them up under the heading of
mutual aid to a fighting Ally. Taxation
paid for it all. When Allies cease to
fight it becomes increasingly difficult to
justify supplying certain of them with
goods at a loss—and at a tax cost to the
people of the country contributing the
goods. Even the argument that to do so
is to provide employment in depressed
home industries causes friction.
Yet countries with a strong manufac-
turing capacity will still be seeking mar-
kets in countries which are economically
weak all round, and agricultural coun-
tries will canvass custom among the
nations'from whom they obtain their
more refined manufactures. The United
States, which almost invariably sells
to the rest of the world more than
it buys from it, has sectional inter-
ests which even now are growing
jealous about the “trading advantages”
which countries receiving lend-lease
aid appear to be securing irrespec-
tive of how desperate the post-war
trade prospects of the lend-lessees seem
to be.
There are many conflicting factors
accumulating in the outlook of inter-
national post-war trade. There are
the interests of individual exporters to be
considered ; combined, these individuals
grow into groups of political importance
because of the employment they give.
Their employment value then may con-
flict, in the case of a country like the
United States, with the general financial
policy of the nation, particularly so far
as the tariff and exchange position of
other countries is concerned. Because
of their political influence, separate
groups of industry may make it difficult
for a country to do the straightforward
and obvious thing needed to help world
trade to .run smoothly. “Pressure
groups” of this kind are present in al-
most every country, exercising in one
case a strong influence in the direction
of boosting their exports, in another pres-
sure towards increasing tariff protection
against outside competition.
Europe presents a cloudy problem at
the present time. No one knows whether
France will become industrially and
financially strong again, and the question
of Germany’s position is even more
vague. The important queries are
whethef European countries will for-
get politics and settle down to industrious
pursdfts when peace arrives, and whether
they will be able to manufacture the kind
of goods for which other countries will
be prepared to exchange their produc-
tion. “The free exchange of goods and
services” is a phrase full of economic
significance, but in order to get a reason-
ably free exchange of goods internation-
ally countries must not overproduce the
same kinds of things. So long as war
threatens there will be a natural ten-
dency for nations to become self-suffici-
ent, and that means that countries trying
to sell surplus production abroad will
meet with political opposition in many
cases.
Nearly four years ago Mr, Churchill
and the late President Roosevelt approved
the Atlantic Charter, under clause 4 of
which they agreed “to endeavor, with
due respect for their existing obligations,
to further enjoyment by all* States, great
or small, victor or vanquished, of access,
on equal terms, to the trade and to the
raw materials of the world which are
needed for their economic prosperity.”
Many have accepted this to mean
that there will be a sweeping-away of
tariff barriers by Britain and the United
States after the war. But notice has to
be taken of the qualification at the be-
ginning of the clause; what it is en-
deavoring to do will be done “with due
respect for their existing obligations.”
Already it has been stated that the
United States does not expect the clause
to interfere with British Empire prefer-
ence. And Mr. Eric Johnston, president
of the United States Chamber of. Com-
merce, told British businessmen two years
ago: “Americans overwhelmingly have
no inclination to try to revise your eco-
nomic methods or your political methods
in the international field. On the other
hand, they do not intend to revise theirs.
... . Only our extreme and unrepresenta-
tive theorists in the United States want
to start with a new heaven and a new
earth. Americans overwhelmingly want
to start with things as they are and see
what co-operation between Britons and
Americans is possible. This can be
accomplished without injury to conscience
on either side and with benefit not only
to both sides but to other peoples as
well.”
In Canada there has been great indus-
trial development during this war, and it
seems that this Dominion would be in
a strong position to seek export markets
after it is over. Special bank and insur-
ance corporations have been set up to
further and protect post-war Canadian
overseas commerce. There is a feeling
among some Canadians that war-time
conditions have exaggerated the impor-
tance of the country’s manufactured ex-
ports, and that after the war it should
concentrate upon internal development
out of its own resources. But certain
raw and semi-manufactured materials
have always been staple Canadian exports.
Morris W. Wilson, president of the Royal
Bank of Canada, recently said: “Within
the probable future it is inconceivable
that Canada can hope to absorb her nor-
mal production of wheat, pulp and paper,
and minerals. It is obvious that the
Canadian standard of living depends
upon markets abroad for its primary pro-
ducts.” The Canadian White Paper on
employment expects the post-war physical
volume of exports to be about 15 p.c.
above pre-war level.
India, too, has become much more in-
dustrialised since war began. Its acti-
vities are not nearly so comprehensive
as those of other Dominions, but in the
field of cheap cotton goods alone it has
gained a large measure of independence
from outsiders. It remains to be seen
whether, in India and similar Asiatic
countries, markets will open up for other
European and American goods in place
of cottons, etc., and whether manufac-
turers outside of Asia will be able to
seize the opportunity.
The United States has become a greater
manufacturing country than ever under
the stimulus of the present war. It has
been able to supply the Allied war effort
with an enormous quantity of arms and
materials and at the same time maintain
a standard of living higher than in any
other belligerent nation. During the war
additional wealth has flowed to it, especi-
ally prior to the introduction of lend-
lease, when “cash-and-carry” was the
principle. It now remains to be seen
whether the lessons of lend-lease, plus
the objectives of the international bank
and currency fund, succeed in influencing
this U.S. production potential in a way
that will not cause utter disorganisation
of world markets.
One-way traffic in trade with the United
States cannot go on. It may* be that
organised Labor will interfere with the
production potential of the United States
when the war ends, as it is now doing
in Australia. But that would be anti-
social and anti-progressive for the world
as a whole.
Great Britain has lost much trade and
investment income during the war. It
has suffered economically in many other
ways. But the war has resulted in tech-
nical progress being made in Britain at
probably a greater rate than in any other
country. In scientific developments it
has led the world. Under the blanket of
war-time controls, too, there has been
an opportunity to iron out many econo-
mic obstructions that existed internally
before the conflict started. As external
trade is the life-blood of Britain, it will
be singular if artificial economic difficul-
ties have not been attended to, or marked
for attention.
The alteration in the basis of taxa-
tion on motor-cars suggests that there
is now a greater measure of co-operation
than ever between the Treasury and the
Board of Trade. As Britain will still
greatly depend upon overseas countries
for its food and raw materials, it will try
hard to re-establish markets in South
America and Asia, as well as in the
Dominions. In Latin America it will be
up against strong United States competi-
tion.
Soviet Russia has been visited by Mr.
Eric Johnston in the interests of United
States trade. His trip evoked criticism
in Britain to the effect that there was
more chance for real Russian trade reci-
procity with Britain than with the United
States, Russia possessing few exportable
commodities not already produced by
America. In any case, Mr. Johnstoq’s
trip does not seem to have had very pro-
mising results.
So we stand at this stage of the war.
In order for world trade to run smoothly
in later years each country will have to
try to put its house in order politically
and economically, and the strong export-
ing countries wifi, have to consider the
weak. The higher the productivity of
the weaker nations, the greater their
buying power will be externally. That is
a fact which makes it so difficult to ham-


HARTS
Circular Charts lor al) types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
o! Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
1 Accuracy guaranteed Got our fcguotatlon.
JACKJSON & OSIILIVAN
OUEEN SIREEI PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. OLD.
The
Bank of Australasia
Small Loans Department
Bank of Australasia Building,
154 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
(Phone : Central 632)
and at
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
(Phone: BW4411)
Also available at all Branches throughout
Australia.
AGENCIES WANTED
FOR NEW ZEALAND.
The principal of a New Zealand firm of Manu-
facturers’ Agents, R. W. Sharp, Ltd., 164 Cashel
Street, Christchurch, will be visiting Australia
for the purpose of interviewing manufacturers
with a view to present and post-war trade.
Timetable; Sydney, June Bth to 15th inclusive;
and from July 6th t'o July 28th inclusive; Mel-
bourne, June 17th to June 27th inclusive. Corre-
spondence enabling interviews to be arranged
will be appreciated. Address letters to —
R. W. SHARP, s
C/o Masonic Club, Sydney,
or C/o
Commercial Travellers’ Club, Melbourne.
/vr\
\ 1 x
C?
\
Production is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer if
you have difficulty in obtain-
ing Standard Gillette blades.
Clearing the way! Nothing escapes the keenness
of Gillette. Through beach-head troubles or home-
front stubbles, Gillette smoothes the path. The Blue
Gillette is not ‘demobbed’ yet. But the Standard
Gillette still detects the enemy wherever it bristles
on the home frontl
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Help by Saving—Save by buying War Savings Certificates.
Looking forward... anticipation
... is the privilege of youth ...
pleasures are doubled thus. With
Victory, a treasure awaits re-
discovery by those whose hearts
are young ... the treasure of
OLD GOLD. When you find
it again, each box will truly be
‘treasure trove’ for you.
(DID Cf)ID
CQC
m
44 lUi
§p
<=> O
o
o
string defeated enemy countries econo-
mically without affecting our own export
markets.
Ministers of the Federal Government
are beginning to talk of tax reduction
after members of the Opposition (especi-
ally Menzies) and other people have
pressed the matter hard. Mr. Chifley has
now promised some relief in the 1946-47
taxation year—still a deuce of a long
way off. When taxation cuts do come
they should be made in a manner
that will encourage production, the basis
of our material wealth, employment and
living standards, and not merely in a way
that will encourage spending. To do the
right thing in a taxation review may
require some political courage. But con-
siderable political guts will be called for
soon to make up for a previous lack of
intestinal fortitude, indicated particularly
by a continuous yielding to selfish trade-
union demands and the introduction of
costly, wasteful and demoralising “social
security” stuff. The stupid banking legis-
lation is another matter that will bring
knotty problems requiring more than
political finesse at a later day.
* * * *
The great spending power of over £540
million in the savings banks —well over
double the figure of before the war-—as
well as note hoardings, war loans and
other savings and deposits, indicates a
position in which a strong desire to spend
money will coincide with a post-war
shortage of housing and most other
civilian requirements. Some price con-
trol is indicated for a period. But all
such controls will need to be based on a
plan of ultimately assisting civilians to
gain rewards for their thrift and indus-
try to gain strength to launch new enter-
prises, to give greater employment and
to provide cheaper goods.
* * * *
Institutions which have suffered great
repression in Australia during the war
have been the trading banks and the
Stock Exchanges. Australia has benefited
by neither course of Government action.
All the restriction of their initiative that
was necessary to the successful conduct
of the war the trading banks offered vol-
untarily, but one of the first acts of the
Labor Government upon attaining office
was to introduce banking regulations
that were implemented in an almost hos-
tile manner, not so much by the Treas-
urer as by W. 0.1. “expert” Dedman.
Dedman and Ward (then in charge of
man-power) adopted an air of swaggering
intimidation towards the banks, though
Dedman, his eyes apparently opened by
the frequent ineffectiveness and waste in
his own department, has decided to keep
his tongue quieter than of yore, and he
has thought fit to deny that he ever
closed any bank branches, though hun-
dreds were closed. The Stock Exchanges
have been kept under the control of the
Treasury, with severely restricted price
range, and beneficiaries in deceased
estates, together with persons forced to
sell securities to pay income tax, have suf-
fered badly. All the Government’s
“restrictive” activities have failed to pre-
vent response to war loans from being the
worst in the Allied world. Which goes to
show you can’t clamp down totalitarian-
ism on one section of the economic com-
munity and expect the confidence of the
rest to remain unimpaired.
* * * *
Australia, whether it fully realises it
or not, is awaiting a return to competi-
tive conditions in finance and industry.
A revival in freedom of investment, of
employment, of industrial venture and
of travel and transport, as well as hopes
of a recovery in living standards, depend
upon the re-establishment of competitive
conditions in all business and stability
of national finances. It would be per-
missible in a return to free competition
to allow Governments also to compete
with private industry provided no special
privileges, such as exemption from rates
and taxes, were allowed to State under-
takings, and provided all facilities ex-
tended to State products were also
granted to the output of private firms.
Where a State department that was in
competition with private enterprise
showed continuous losses it would be
time to close it down. In many cases it
would plainly be ridiculous for the State
to set up in competition with private
enterprise, but occasionally there are in-
stances where a State enterprise should
be as efficient as any other, and in such
cases State entry into business might be
justified where there was evidence of a
price ring or an inefficient or oppresive
monopoly on the side of private enter-
prise, But Government control of indus-
try as a whole is a thing not at all to be
desired. The Crown should do no more
than police industry. Britain and the
United States, the most advanced coun-
tries in the world, reached their present
state through freedom of enterprise. Aus-
tralia, far less developed than either, is
much more in need of the spirit of ven-
ture and ambition at this stage. There
should be the promise of big rewards for
big individual efforts in a young country.
We should have a maximum of enthu-
siastic workers and administrators and
a minimum of obstructive departmental
and trade-union-official deadheads. These
obstructionists are riot getting the
majority of the people anywhere.
* * * *
Canada’s Munitions Minister Howe
expects price control to stay in the Do-
minion for “months, perhaps years.”
But four-fifths of the controls on busi-
ness and industry are to be removed
almost immediately. Referring to the
results of price control, Mr. Howe com-
pared the present buying-power of the
United States dollar with that of Canada,
Uncle Sam’s coin having suffered the
greater depreciation. He said: “After
the battles of Europe and Asia we shall
have the battle of inflation,” mentioning
that the Dominion Government’s finan-
cial policy had done much to head off
the menace. Canada certainly has a
splendid record in this war on the in-
dustrial and financial side. It has not
been without labor troubles, but the Gov-
ernment really has governed and the
people really have .made a good showing
on the home front. War loans are an ex-
ample. It is customary for about one
in four of Canada’s population to sub-
scribe to war loans. Australia rarely
shows as good a result as one in 15. It
has been unnecessary to obtain assis-
tance from the savings banks in recent
Canadian loan flotations.
* * * *
In a world where it is very hard to
learn the truth about anything of a poli-
tical nature it is a good thing for a
country to have traditions that are in-
stinctive to the population—traditions in
which the people will have faith, though
not necessarily blind faith. These tradi-
tions can be that political differences are
settled in a spirit of good humor, that
the principle of a “fair go” should prevail,
that the people as a whole are hospitable
and tolerant, that in uncertain times the
people endeavor to be certain in them-
selves of their own behavior even if they
can be certain of little else, and (in Aus-
tralia) that the “world” is still wide and
reasonably free. In addition, the funda-
mentals of ordinary human good be-
havior —respect for the rights and pro-
perty of others, the right of others to
express an opinion, as well as a fighting
respect for one’s own reasonable rights —
have a great national influence. Aus-
tralia will need all its decent traditions
and instincts to guide it during the dis-
turbed post-war years. It is well known
that war is a source of domestic unity to
most countries, though in Australia during
the present war unity was not as evident
as one would have wished to see. The
Government which refused to form a
national Ministry was not one which
gave much guarantee of national unity.
After the war there is likely to be more
individualism, as well as a very disturbed
economic and political situation, with
seekers after power distorting the truth
and making reckless bids for public
offices. Australians she nder the
question of whether the> not been
miseducated for many ye t in mat-
ters of politics, and they s ! endeavor
to work out their political destiny as
much in a spirit as in a system. If they
attempt to tie themselves unimaginatively
and humorlessly to one political dogma
or another there is sure to be social
friction and a retarding of economic and
social progress. There is a tendency
nowadays for subversive elements to
stress “realism.” Their “realism” is often
a morbid sort of materialism. While full
regard for facts or “realities” is some-
thing to be cultivated, in human nature
not all facts are purely material. And
human nature is an enormous factor in
any form of Government, especially
British forms of Government.
* * * *
The position with regard to charter
rates paid by the Commonwealth to ship-
ping cos, remains most unsatisfactory,
Some concerns are finding it impossible
to provide for depreciation, post-war re-
placements or dividends on capital. The
Government does not appear to care a
hoot, although it is very concerned about
keeping up the flow of excessive war-
time pay to seamen. The Government’s
own shipping account, as charterer, can’t
be very healthy. It is being slugged on
the wharves and at sea for labor costs,
but it prefers to pay heavily in this direc-
tion rather than offend the unions. A
pretty packet of shipping trouble is build-
ing up for the post-war period. The
anarchy, indiscipline and waste in the
industry will have to be rooted out before
there is reasonable efficiency again. As
to the inadequate charter rates paid to
shipping cos., it seems that some of the
underpaid ones may have to air their
grievances in the High Court. The Gov-
ernment appears afraid to do the decent
thing voluntarily by an employment-
giving industry.
* * * *
One of the steadiest div.-payers, as
well as the most solidly expansive, among
Australian textile cos. during this war
has been Bradford Cotton Mills, which
has paid 10 p.c. in every year of the war.
Prior to 1939 it made some 12| p.c. and
15 p.c. distributions, but shareholders
have been quite satisfied to accept 10 p.c.
on all the new ord. capital put in.


THE SERVICE MAN
A.I.F. at Brunei Bay.
“Ek Dum”: In a brief week troops of
the Ninth Division, A.1.F., under the
command of Major-General George
Wootten, have acquired control of the
Brunei Bay area of British North Borneo,
along with Labuan, the island on the
north-east of the bay, 43 miles from tiie
Brunei River mouth, which is Britain’s
oldest bit of colonisation thereabouts.
The assaults were made in the normal
routine manner—l| hours’ bombardment
from the sea ; further softening up by
naval ships and aircraft combined ; finally
landings by two forces —one took care
of Labuan, under Brigadier S. H. Porter;
the other landed at Green Point, near
Brooketon, and invaded Muara Island,
which covers the river mouth, under
Brigadier W. J. Windeyer,
Each set of landings was made in
about battalion strength, with strong
artillery support. General MacArthur,
C.-in-C. South-west Pacific area, and
Lieut.-General Morshead, G.O.C. First
Australian Corps, were present.
Before the operation Major-General
Wootten told the troops that they would
have abundant equipment, and that more
was available if needed.
Unfortunately, the operation has been
reported with considerable lack of pro-
portion. The fact was dwelt upon that
the enemy was taken by surprise, and
the advantages of “landing where he
ain’t” were canvassed with some
approval and even ecstasy, it now
being established to the satisfaction of
a lot of South-west Pacific exponents of
strategy that this procedure has a devas-
tating effect.
All the evidence is that the enemy was
not surprised, and that he did not intend
to fight at Brunei or on Labuan against
a foe with command of the sea and
air. He moved down the island, putting
a strain on his attackers’ resources, play-
ing for time and ultimately perhaps
creating another position such as that
which exists in New Guinea.
When the enemy “isn’t” where a land-
ing is made it means that the naval and
air bombardment has done damage
which will have to be repaired, shells
have been wasted and the land units or
formations of the foe will still have to
be dealt with all the same in some other
position.
In New Guinea, though the islands are
“conquered,” virtually as many divisions
as there were before the later conquests
took place are needed to deal with the
enemy there, who is only beginning to
fight his main defensive battles.
The Japanese who got out of Lae had
to be fought at Finschhafen and Sattel-
berg, at the cost of hundreds of Austra-
lian lives. The enemy who “wasn’t” at
positions round Cape Gloucester and to
the east, or at Gasmata and Open Bay,
is now holed up, supposedly over 40,000
strong, in a firm base in the Gazelle
Peninsula (Rabaul), and it looks as if
he will either have to be contained by a
substantial force, using great resources,
or have to be fought in battles as
grim as those on Okinawa. The Jap
who wasn’t at Sio on the Maclay coast
or at Madang is now behind Wewak, en-
gaging the attention of the full veteran
Australian Sixth Division under tropical
conditions which, like those in the other
New Guinea areas, produce wastage of
man-power through sickness and tropi-
cal exhaustion, apart from wounds.
But the Jap who was at Buna-Gona,
at Finschhafen, at Tarakan, at Iwo,
Tarawa and Okinawa is a thing of the
past. The accounts in respect of him
are closed, with the balapce on the
right side of the ledger, and experienced
officers, veteran fighting men, ships and
attack equipment all released for other
duties and engagements. Whatever
higher strategy may dictate, the fighting
leaders of the A.I.F. will have regretted
that the enemy was not waiting in
strength to fight it out with them on
Labuan and the Brunei Peninsula, which,
juts out on the south side of Brunei Bay,
instead of retreating south-eastward
along the coast towards the oilfields.
Labuan Landings
As it was, Labuan was torn to pieces.
Some observers estimated that three
times as much shell was pumped into
the little island before the landing on
the morning of June 10 as into Tarakan
in an equal period.
The Beaufighters and bombers which
raked the island met some ack-ack fire,
but it was not heavy. Only a single
enemy float ’plane appeared to make a
vague attempt at bombing the fleet.
Eventually the units went ashore, fol-
lowing a creeping barrage, on two beaches
beside Victoria near the south-eastern
corner of the island on one side of
Victoria Harbor, their objectives Labuan
main airstrip and the town. Cavalry
commandos landed at Port Hamilton at
the south-western point far on the other
side of the harbor and swamp areas to the
left some time later.
In the harbor landings Westralians were
on the left and South Australians on the
right. The Westralians found Victoria,
the pretty little port and capital, to be
a rubble heap, the countryside pitted with
craters and raised roads through the
swamps destroyed.
Buildings were smashed flat. Power
lines were down and the way often
barred with fallen trees and branches,
which had crashed under the strafing or
the bombing and naval fire. The Wes-
tralians, meeting no major obstacles to
begin with, pushed up the bitumen road
(now called MacArthur-road) towards the
aerodrome, \\ miles away.
The right wing moved forward. Some
Japs armed with rifles and various
types of demolition charges were met
they were quite obviously earth-
scorchers left behind in the certainty that
they would perish. This they did in short
order, sinpe the A.I.F. advance was
facilitated by the fact that the enemy had
failed to indulge in land-mining and
booby-trapping on the scale employed in
Tarakan.
The left wing had worse luck, for the
lads ran into booby-trapped ground and
strong pillbox defence on the hill in the
naval area. This was overcome only after
the terrain had had careful attention
from the sappers and after flame-
throwers had been brought up,
Labuan’s famous swamp land, whose
mosquitoes nearly wiped out the first
settlers a century ago, proved a major
obstacle which even held up the tanks.
By sundown the right-wingers had
taken the Labuan airstrip, wiping out
without much difficulty Japs who died to
the last man in its defence. Victoria and
its water-supply were in Allied hands.
It had been easier than had been
expected. The enemy obviously had not
possessed the profusion of materiel which
he had thrown round so lavishly on Tara-
kan. It was certain that before long
land-based aircraft would be in operation
from the Labuan aerodrome, upon which
the R.A.A.F. construction units
two seasoned squadrons under Group-
Captain W. A. Dale pounced while
smoke of battle was still rising round
it. There had been no display of
Japanese artillery, and ships and shore
guns behind the Australians had the
range of all likely positions in the re-
mainder of Labuan, including those round
the main uncaptured airstrip—Timbalai,
towards the centre of the north coastline.
The 25-pounders barked throughout the
night, and there were some fierce raids
by infiltrating Japs on established posi-
tions ; but most raiders were unable to
return home.
Morning rose on many a filled crater
and many an improved bit of track. The
Labuan airstrip already looked from the
air less like a bit of mosquito net, because
of the bomb holes filled up. A stream of
amphibians was piling stores, ammuni-
tion, weapons and men ashore at a great
rate. Matildas wandered round the
swamps like mastodons, and the bridge-
laying Covenanters were at work casting
their 40ft. bridge strips forward.
A Pocket Develops
The most powerful opposition en-
countered anywhere, either on the island
or on the mainland, was south and west
of the Labuan airstrip, where Westralian
units were meeting opposition which
General Morshead described as “annoy-
ing, rather than on a large scale.”
However, steps were quickly taken to
encircle and wipe out this pocket.
The commandos coming from the left-
wing swamp area beyond the head of the
harbor soon threatened to cut them off
from the north. And another cavalry
commando unit from the south pushed
up the left or inner flank of the Wes-
tralians. A squadron of Beaufighters
shrieked overhead at tree-top height, and
it was not long before the area held by
the enemy was a mass of ruined bunkers.
By Tuesday morning advanced troops
were nearly two miles north of the
Labuan airstrip. By Wednesday evening
they were within two miles of Timbalai
fields, on the northern or opposite side
of the island from the Labuan field.
Through Hill and Swamp
. The advance was not easy. The climate
is the usual tropical climate. The terrain
is mixed rolling ridge and glutinous
swamp. As the interior of the island was
reached the features of defence became
more familiar and more like those of
Tarakan—booby-traps ’■sometimes, con-
sisting of a fused 5001 b. aerial bomb ;
foxholes with m.-g. parties or snipers;
bunkers with heavy m.-g. posts.
But there was an abundance of artillery
aqd mortar batteries to blanket these
positions, and the advance was not hurried
at the expense of life. Much was saved
by the operations of .the R.A.F.’s Auster
spotters. The swamps presented the
greatest difficulty. At some points troops
had to wade through them armpit-deep,
and tanks were often glued down in them.
And where they had been crossed by roads
the Japs had carried out very effective
demolitions.
By the week-end Timbalai had been
captured, though it was obvious that it
would take some delousing, since the
enemy had sown parts of it with T.N.T.
like a cornfield. By June 16 the whole
island was in Allied hands, save for
snipers and stragglers and for one pocket
in which the Japs had concentrated
about a company for a last stand in a
tough hill position.
Attack on the Mainland
Meanwhile, the mainland attack had
proceeded with even greater speed. , The
flank landing on sandy and low Muara
Island—-“Muara” equals “mouth” —had
been made as a covering operation.'' The
main landings were made after much
preparation—careful minesweeping, the
usual small-ship hydrographic survey,
with buoying of channels and careful
shoreline reconnaissance. And finally the
heavy blast of bomb and gunfire, which
set the whole coast bouncing about, fol-
lowed by the searing rocket blast from
the close-support L.C.I.s. But most of
the attackers were more pleased with the
weather than the barrage—some of them,
after a tempestuous voyage, had been
wondering whether they would have re-
covered from their seasickness before the
attack began.
The landing on Muara was made with-
out opposition, and within 24 hours the
island, which commands the river mouth,
was in Australian hands. Apparently
there were on the island Aot even any of
the wild pigs for which it was once
famous.
There were two mainland landings—
one aimed directly at Brunei Bluff; the
other just to the north raced over Cape
Pempelong to take the town of Brooketon.
The Bluff points out on the south
of the bay somewhat cautiously on the
southern side of the river like a sore
thumb. Surf and the currents made the
landing of artillery no easy matter for
the divisional artillery under Brigadier
T. C. Eastick, but the boys towed ashore
their 75mm. pack howitzers —weapons
which in the kind of fighting likely to lie
ahead might be worth pure gold—
through 60 yards of surf.
Opposition was sketchy to the last
degree—none on the beach, and that in-
land far weaker than on Labuan. In fact,
it could scarcely be said that there had
been organised resistance at all, as the
Australians swept into Brooketon on the
Peninsula and up the river towards
Brunei, which lies round a lake formed
by the riverbed, cradled in a hilly amphi-
theatre. The enemy obligingly had made a
track from Brooketon to Brunei through
swamp and jungle. The river is a grand
stream, more than half a mile wide at
the mouth, and, higher up, about twice as
wide as the Brisbane in its town reaches.
From the river the route to Brunei is
beautiful. Passing Pulo Chinimin, the
Looking Glass Island, on the left, the
voyager sails between two sets of bril-
liantly colored hills—red soil, green
timber, waving palms, quiet trading ves-
sels and the curious little prawn-catching
canoes among the occasional alligators.
A sharp twist to the right several miles
from the mouth suddenly brings Brunei
basin into view, with its nipa-palm huts,
standing on stilts out of the water on
the mudbanks in the foreground and the
solid Chinese town behind. Several
streams and creeks run into the basin and
the hills round it hold good defence posi-
tions.
One force, taking the river route,
landed two miles above Brunei, where
the river narrows down to 60 or 70 yards
wide, cutting off the town. It seized high
land overlooking its waterfront.
The second force came down the road
and through the jungle. By June 14 it
was only two miles from Brunei and had
taken the airstrip, which is not of great
importance.
Thence it was an easy step into Brunei,
but the main force of the birds perched
there had flown, leaving, as in Brooketon,
a scorched waste behind them.
No Australian Prisoners
A few startled Japanese patrols were
met and dispDsed of. A few mines and
traps were found, sometimes without
fuses. The substantial Chinese quarter
had been burnt out the day the convoy
sailed from its base, showing that the
enemy knew what was afoot. Sumatran
prisoners rescued declared that 120 Euro-
pean captives, mostly civilians from
Malaya, but including 30 Australians, had
been removed about a month or so ago.
A few sad relics told that there had been
British and Australian military prisoners
in the area, though there Was no sign of
the men of the Eighth Division, some of
whom were known to have been in the
north of Borneo a few months ago.
Eager Dyaks, thirsting for the blood
of the Japanese, began to come in. About
1500 Chinese, Indian and Malay prisoners
were released, most of them mere bags
of bones.
To the south along the road to the
Seria-Miri oilfields, rising smoke told that
the enemy was in retreat in that direction.
There was believed to be a force of him
totalling up to 5000 somewhere in the
region.
The aircraft patrols and the U.S. p.t.
boats, which had done splendid co-opera-
tion and reconnaissance work during the
landing period, made excursions as much
as 120 miles south-westward along the
coast. Where there were oilfields great
knives of flame were seen slashing the
sky. Ail the information from native
sources suggested that final destruction
of oilfield equipment had begun some
days ago.
Commanders’ Praise and Warnings
All the Australian commanders, as well
as General MacArthur (“execution flaw-
less ; a splendid performance”), issued
orders of the day congratulating the
troops on the accomplishment of the first
stage in the invasion of western Borneo.
None, however, suggested that the cam-
paign was anything but beginning. General
Morshead spoke of “the tedious and ardu-
ous campaign which lies ahead”:
The enemy will run with the best of
them if given the opportunity, but with-
out that opportunity he will fight to the
end We know that the real fighting is
yet to come. We have to negotiate the
familiar terrain of jungle and cross bridge-
less rivers and swamps, as well as knife-
edged ridges and mountain masses. There
are no roads in the area. With all this we
have to tackle an enemy who will fight to
the death when cornered.
General Blarney radioed his congratu-
lations on the “splendid initial success.”
The Japanese declared that on June 16
the A.I.F. w ? as already on its way down
the coast to Tutong, 18 miles towards the
oilfields, of which it is on the outer
fringes. This was later officially con-
firmed. But before the Miri and Seria
fields are reached about 75 miles has
to be traversed, and, apart from endless
swamps and small streams, the substan-
tial Baram River crossed. And signs
suggest that once more the enemy may
have left, unless a force landing from the
sea cuts him off.
At Balik Papan
With the fall of Tarakan (save for
pockets), after some stiff, small, bitter
fights in the final phase, two Australian
forces were lodged opposite each other,
one on either side of Borneo, about 150
miles apart.
Almost at once the Japanese reported
that the third phase of the “waist opera-
tions” against Borneo was in being, in
the shape of a battleship, aircraft and
cruiser bombardment of Balik Papan, the
great oil port of the Macassar Strait.
It lies a'bout 400-miles crowfly down
the coast from Tarakan, and about 200
miles airline from Banjermasin, the capi-
tal of Dutch Borneo, which is some dis-
tance inland on the Barita River, running
into the Java Sea on the south.
Balik Papan sits on the north of the
inner corner of a deeply-indented bay,
and normally holds about 30,000 people,
of whom 1000 are Europeans. It is the
refinery centre and port for the Samar-
inda field, 60 miles northward, from which
oil is piped to the tune of something over
a million tons a year in peace-time.
Tokyo reported the approach to the
port of an Allied naval force consisting
of three battleships, a carrier, 16 de-
stroyers and about 50 other warships.
On Brooketon Bluff.
John Brennan: There was not the
slightest opposition to the landing ot
A.I.F. troops on the mainland of Borneo.
It was a clear, still, hot day; the sea
was calm as a millpond. As the landing
craft circled, offshore the bombardment
roared overhead. This is standard
operational procedure and it never loses
its impressiveness. The low flat land
of the peninsula behind Brooketon was
soon obscured by the smoke of the ex-
plosions, and the shellbursts moved back
and forth along the high ground running
back from Brunei Bluff and dominating
the area of the landing beach. As the
boat waves formed and the rocket ships
added their final, sweeping salvoes to the
barrage the heavy bombers made a last
run on the area behind the beach.
The peninsula country was easy for
movement. It was lined with swamps


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
UN xxiu W aL.ES —In Divorce.
TO JAMES DENNIS SINCLAIR WOODS late of
Svdnev formerly of Eabaul New Britain.—-TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN MARY WOODS has filed a
for Divorce No. 2200 of 1945 on the ground
nf desertion without just cause or excuse for three
vLrs and upwards If you wish to defend you may
E iwfcrwy* ssrs
SStosiiTs
Solicitors 133 Pitt Street Sydney.—(n.s.) O. K-
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED ELI BATCHELDOR. —TAKE NOTICE
that BEATRICE NELLIE BATCHELDOR has filed a
Petition in Divorce No. 419 of 1945 on th ® £ ro ™
of desertion without just cause or exceuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Sixteenth day of
July One thousand nine hundred and forty-five and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. E. WHATMORE G. C. M. GEE & CO.
Solicitors 14 Spring Street Sydney, (h.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN BADHAM.—TAKE NOTICE that ROSA-
LINE MARY BADHAM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1114 of 1945 on the grounds of your
desertion. If you wish to defend the suit you
may enter an appearance on or before the 30th
day of June 1945 at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney and a copy of the
petition may be had without charge from S. S.
MITCHELL Solicitor Bank Corner Wickham N.S.W.
(n.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHILIP BERNARD SMYTH late of Newcastle.
-TAKE NOTICE that ORZALENE MAY SMYTH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1056 of 1945 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 24th of July 1945 and obtain
a copy of petition without charge from J. K. DiAUJN
Esq. Solicitor of 115 Pitt Street Sydney—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
0
and thickets, but the swamps were
shallow for the most part, and the
bottom was firm, hard sand. There was
no sign of defensive positions. Within
an hour of the landing the first troops
were across the peninsula and into the
tiny town of Brooketon, and the first
patrols were moving on the high ground.
Brooketon had been almost completely
destroyed by the aerial bombardment,
but it was obvious that the place had
been deserted for many weeks. The bar-
racks area had been vacated of all equip-
ment. The gardens on the outskirts of
the settlement had been long abandoned.
There were air-raid shelters, but no sign
of defence works. Behind the barracks
area were two wooden guns pointing to
the sky and manned by dummy figures.
The first assault force was composed of
a New South Wales battalion which
fought with distinction at Tobruk and
Alamein and in New Guinea during the
landings at Lae and Finschhafen. Its
commander is a Sydney man well known
in legal circles, a one-time member of the
Sydney University Regiment. So soon
as the first of the support ships were un-
loading their cargo inside Brunei Bay in
the area of Brooketon he regrouped his
forces to push on down the road towards
Brunei town. The battalion had obtained
its first objectives without casualties. It
found two Japs who had been killed by
the bombardment, and another wounded.
Another two Japs were shot as they were
seen running away, but this was the only
sign of the enemy, and they were
obviously no more than stragglers.
Leaving the peninsula, the road —no
more than a sand track for vehicles in
many parts —winds up through hilly
country towards Brunei, 16 miles away.
Here there were more recent signs of
enemy occupation. Hidden in a coconut
grove at the base of the ridge behind
Brunei bluff was a large Japanese head-
quarters area. The buildings were quite
new and well furnished. They had been
untouched by the bombardment, but they
had been hurriedly vacated —and not
recently, A truck parked by one of the
buildings had not been moved for at least
a week. In the sand of a pathway was
the clear imprint of a Japanese two-toed
shoe, made perhaps that morning. But
there had only been the smallest of de-
tachments there then.
A little further along the road a house
had evidently been occupied the night
before.
The forward battalion pushed on fairly
rapidly—in column of route. By night-
fall its advanced companies were some
four miles down the road to Brunei —two
and a half miles in a direct line from their
landing beach. During the night a truck
came driving down the road from the
direction of Brunei. The outpost opened
fire. In the morning the truck was found
with five dead Japs and one who was seri-
ously wounded. They apparently had
not been informed of the landing.
The force which landed, on Muara
Island could not find a solitary Japanese.
The unloading of supplies was quickly
begun.
Bougainville and Wewak.
“Ek Dum”: A statement from Vic-
toria Barracks, Melbourne, on June 16
declared that more than 10,000 of the
enemy had been killed in the Bougain-
ville and New Guinea mainland areas
since the arrival of Australian forces last
November. It is estimated that 21,000
Japanese still remain in these two areas,
apart from those in Rabaul, New Ireland
and other enemy-occupied lands —previ-
ously placed at about 50,000.
The Bougainville fighting has reached
an interesting stage, in which the Austra-
lian leaders have been using heavy punch-
ing power combined with a very suc-
cessful feint on the right flank at the
Hari River front, while, far on the left
flank, avoiding the enemy and travelling
by little-known tracks across rough hill
country, an outflanking force swept
nearly five miles behind the enemy’s
rear across the Ogorata River. About
200 native carriers went with the detach-
ment, and tracks were soon in process
of improvement in its wake.
Having produced a puzzled state of
mind in the enemy, General Savige’s men
then struck hard across the Hari River
with everything they possessed, including
strong tank support and flame-throwers.
The enemy attempted to stave off the evil
day with a fierce counter-attack, but his
luck was out. The Australians quickly
burnt, blasted and hunted him out of the
positions on the Hari River escarpment
and drove on nearly two miles to Hari
Village No. 1 to consolidate, while a
second force rolled down the Buin road
thrusting eastward.
In the north of the island the land-
ing forces on Bonis Peninsula were up
to their necks in fierce small fighting, in
which it was reported on June 16 the
enemy lost 200 dead. Australian forces
suffered some casualties.
The Wewak battles go on among the
foothills with unabated vigor. The A.I.F.
during the week cleaned up several more
villages in the Maprik area and else-
where, but the enemy is still full of fight
and shows an aggressive tendency to
drive behind Australian forward posi-
tions, so that even coastal defences have
to be constantly on the alert for his sal-
lies, one of which produced some ex-
citement on the Wirui Mission road dur-
ing the week-end.
T'ruk Bombarded
Admiral Nimitz reported that Truk
was being bombarded by an Allied naval
squadron (portion of the Royal Navy),
which is hammering its airfields, docks
and store areas.
Some months ago Truk was reported
so strong that direct attack would be
too costly to justify the attempt, having
regard to its isolation.
It is a large lagoon, surrounded by a
reef, with only three or four tricky en-
trances, of which the channels are easy
to mine. Inside are groups of well orga-
nised islands, high and dependable, some
linked to form a strong inner harbor.
The attackers encountered little defen-
sive activity as they plastered Truk facili-
ties with fire and explosives. The group
would be extremely valuable as an inter-
mediate base between Australian and
northern operational waters.
The Philippines
General MacArthur’s H.Q. put the
total of Japs killed in the Philippines at
402,000, which is 150,000 in excess of
the numbers which General MacArthur
believed originally to be in all the islands.
Nevertheless, the campaign is far from
over. In Leyte itself General Eichelberger
has declared that he is facing the greatest
reservoir of Japs in the Philippines, and
months ago it was optimistically con-
cluded that the campaign there had closed
with more than 120,000 enemy dead.
There has within the past few days been
fighting within 30 miles of Manila. In
the north the campaign for the Cagayan
Valley has proved that the gateway to
the iast strongholds was not flung wide
open by the taking of Baguio, as was de-
clared in some quarters at the time. The
enemy still holds Aparri, the northern-
most port, and must be able to dribble
at least some supplies and men through
the seas to the north from Formosa.
In Mindanao, having lost Davao, or
its battered remains, the Japanese have
made for the mountains, into which,
according to the official
they are “being driven deeper every day.”
Little news of the fighting is coming out
of the Philippines, where the campaigns
seem likely to stretch out to a full year
or more from the date of the first land-
ings on October 20.
Jap Losses in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Fighting in Burma con-
tinued to focus round the routes from
Thazi and Toungoo to the Shan Hills
and in the area just to the north-west of
Pegu, where probing British-Indian
patrols at the end of May encountered
opposition strong enough to thrust them
back on their firm bases. The enemy
concentrated in this region early in June,
since it presented the Jast area in South
Burma through which he could filter
out, the shorter and normally better way
across the head of the Gulf of Marta-
ban, via Mokpalin, further south to
Moulmein, having been sealed off.
His policy towards the end of the first
week in June seemed to be to shift gradu-
ally northwards in the Pegu area, where
about three regiments have been making
it awkward for Fourteenth Army forces
in the area, which have had to stave off
strong attacks aimed to destroy their
route-block. By slanting northward the
enemy, can find better crossings over the
Sittaung, after which he apparently
hopes to achieve concentrations in the
Shan Hills of all the forces trying to
escape eastward on the Thazi, Toungoo
and north-of-Pegu routes.
On the Thazi route the enemy is put-
ting up a very stiff resistance to hold the
road and rail —the road is well placed
for defence, guarded on either side by
hills. As on the Toungoo-Mawchi road
further south, he mined and booby-
trapped this highway and blew up what-
ever bridges he has had time to destroy.
Nevertheless, British Indian troops
pushed to within a mile of Kalaw, which
lies on the rail and road from Meiktila
to Taunggyi, on the route which links
with the railway built by the Japanese
from Thailand. Later the enemy staged
a fast retreat in this area. At the week-
end contact with him had been lost south-
east of Kalaw.
The fight up the Toungoo-Mawchi
road continued fiercely mile by mile,
with flanking swoops by Gurkhas and
other seasoned troops co-operating with
direct thrusts by tanks. There was copious
artillery and mortar support and as much
air backing as the weather will allow.
By June 8 the Fourteenth Army troops
were about 22 miles along the road, but
meeting substantial resistance. It took
some days to break down a bunker posi-
tion for about 400 troops near the 22-mile
post, but the Gurkhas got through by
sheer hard fighting.
There are still many thousands of
Japanese scattered through the back-
blocks of Arakan and down the coast
and round the Irrawaddy Delta, which
is being combed by adventurous Royal
Naval motor-boats —they have bedn
reporting good bags, but few Japs are
surrendering. The capture of 21 in a
single lot in the Bassein region was an
event.
The monsoon, while it continued to
hold up close support and point-bomb-
ing and strafing, did not keep the Libera-
tors on the ground, and the enemy has
been taught that even bases on the Gulf
of Siam, 1200 miles away, and ships and
depots along the Singapore railway from
the Siamese-Malaya border northward,
are not safe even in thunderstorm
weather.
Since the bombing of Jap railway com-
munications began in March it has been
no uncommon thing for 250 miles of the
Chiengmai-Bangkok railway to be
strafed, rolling stock broken up and
traffic disorganised for days together.
Flying at the present stage calls for
plenty of determination, since the pilot
never knows whether he will find him-
self hurled upwards hundreds of feet at
a time by storms or dropped almost to
the treetops in 500 ft. airpockets.
The Fourteenth Army, while it has no
intention of giving the enemy any rest
through the wet season until all his
pockets west of the Shans and the Pegu
Yomas are wiped out, can afford to
pause in the rains to count laurels of
which it may be proud. It estimates
the Japanese casualties from Feb. 1, 1944,
to May 31, 1945, to include 108,240 killed.
In the Northern Zone.
“Ek Dum”: The battle to occupy
Okinawa was nearly over at the week-
end ; but the battle to keep it will go
on, since it is within fighter and easy
naval range of Japanese mainland bases,
and it will be full of objectives for the
bomber and the Kamikaze crew. The
Americans are in process already of turn-
ing the island into a huge material dump
built round as many airfields as its
countryside will carry. Admiral Nimitz
rightly says capture of the island “practi-
cally cuts off all enemy positions to the
south, makes the Japanese positions further
south untenable and establishes the Allied
forces on the inner approaches of Japan.”
The final attacks on the escarpment
were made during the week. Marines in
some places climbing 500 ft. walls with
the aid of ropes ; but the heart appeared
to have gone out of the enemy opposition
by comparison with the manner in which
he fought for the Shuri Line. His last
positions were softened up with in-
cendiary jelly in hundred-ton lots and
terrific rocket blasting, after which the
next half-mile of advance toward the top
of the peninsula was made with com-
parative ease, having regard to the nature
of the ground.
At Ororu Peninsula, south-west of
Naha, main mopping up was completed,
and a record batch of 100 of the enemy
surrendered. Heavy fleets of 829 s and
carrier-borne craft at the week-end were
savagely attacking strategical and tactical
objectives from Amami, 180 miles south
of Kyushu, reckoned part of one of
Janan’s homeland fortress areas, to
Honshu.
Shipping Losses
Tokyo’s public attitude is a strange
mixture: anger at the fall of the island
and at the wholesale bombing of Japanese
cities; exultation at the losses sup-
posedly inflicted on the Americans and
the “success of the kamikaze technique”
in use against shipping.
Admitted, losses certainly have been
heavy both in men and ships. A U.S.
Navy spokesman declared last week that
Admiral Nimitz had admitted that 30
ships had been sunk at Okinawa and a
“very substantial number” (of which
Admiral Nimitz had designated 45)
damaged, some seriously. Those damaged
included two “major units”—battleships
or capital aircraft-carriers. The ships sunk
included ten destroyers, four mine-
sweepers, one destroyer transport, two
ammunition ships, a gunboat, an auxiliary
high-speed transport and nine landing
craft Though mines and shore batteries
contributed to the damage and loss, the
major part was done “by aircraft, chiefly
suicide machines.”
Heavy Loads on Tokyo
The main raid on Japan during the
week was one by 520 8295, which dropped
3000 tons on Osaka.
Last month 24,000-odd tons of bombs
were dropped on Japan. General Arnold
has said that after, a month from now
the average will be at the rate of 2,000,000
tons a year—3s62 tons a day by 829 s and
another 2000 tons per day by smaller
craft. .
This means 160,000 tons a month,
which is twice the peak load carried to
Germany over shorter ranges from Britain
by the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. combined—
apart from intimate tactical bombing
in the closing months of the European
war. _ , .
It means a steady average of about
400 829 s per day in use, some carrying
their bombs 1500 miles from the
Marianas, and the employment of, crews
for bombers alone totalling about 200,000
per month. A large order, and it is to
be hoped that it can be fulfilled. Nothing
is said of action by British heavies, which
at this stage are capable of carrying
heavier bombs than the Americans.
Chinese at Wenchow
Chinese troops advancing from Foo-
chow were, at the week-end, in the out-
skirts of Wenchow, about 150 miles froth
Hingpo, and 200 miles from the important
Japanese bases on Hangchow Bay. the
advance brings this area within easy
fighter range of Shanghai, which is under
300 miles by airline from Wenchow.
That the progress can be capitalised
by the American air forces depends
on whether or not the conquest is
stable, which remains to be seen, haying
regard to the number of Japanese still on
rear and flank of Chinese spearheads.
In South China the Chinese successes
have led to the usual development a
series of Japanese offensives at various
points on the Indo-China highway which
appear to be making ground.
“Ek Dum”: About 1200 Australians
arrived in their native country last week
—4OO wounded, mostly from Tarakan, but
some from Wewak and TOO p.o.ws. from
E Most'of the TOO were in reasonably good
condition, considering their experiences,
and their faces have the look of men who
were glad to be out of Europe at any
cost, as well they might be.


V
1
c
K
c
S
V6&-
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because ol
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe It to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and Inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay! Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KID.NEX FILLS te*day,
SPORTING NOTIONS
Melbourne’s leading riders L. Meenan (over
the jumps) and A. Breasley (on the flat), and
punters with them, had a highly agreeable day
at Caulfield on Saturday. Meenan had two
mounts Intermission in the Toolambool
Hurdle and Zalmon in the Wanda Steeple—and
got both of them home. Breasley’s only
mounts were Old England, Simmering and Ver-
sailles, and he won on all three. As for the
punters, favorites won four of the seven events',
and two out of the other three winners were
only half a point off outright favoritism. Form
was so sound that one newspaper tipster named
the first five winners in a row, compared to
Randwick on the same day, when all the news-
paper prophets put together didn’t pick a soli-
tary winner.
The Grand National double is only a few
weeks ahead (July 7 and 14; though when the
printer reached for this page the authorities
were due to meet to discuss suspending all
racing because of the fodder shortage). Nearly
all starters in the Toolambool Hurdle were to
be National Hurdle candidates, and, except
for Not Guilty, who fell, it would be hard to
make out a case for any of them apart from the
place-getters. Intermission (10.8) jumped par-
ticularly well, going freely a few horses back till
nearing the second-last jump, where Meenan
moved him up, and went on to win in a
canter from Hiatus and Isambard. Illumina-
tion failed to see out the furlong or so over
two miles, after leading most of the way.
Hiatus ran such a patchy race that he might
easily do better. The same goes for Isambard
—one of the best hurdlers in the country —who,
under top weight (11.7), plugged along pretty
well, racing into form.
Earlier in the week Intermission (trained by
the very successful D. McCormick) was coupled
solidly with Winterset in the Nationals double.
Also during the week Gay Invader —scratched
from the Toolambool Hurdle —was taken away
from the McCormick stable by his connections.
Other possible National candidates absent were
Bay David and Solvent, who prior to Saturday
were respectively first and second favorites for
the National Hurdle.
On Saturday’s running, even the great Win-
terset might have staunch opposition in the
National Steeple. Zalmon won the Wanda
Steeple (two miles, three furlongs) in 4.254,
bettering by 3£ seconds Winterset’s course record,
and, because of the little racing he has lately
had, he should be improved by the run.
Accelerate and Hearsay contributed to Zalmon’s
time and win, cutting at each other in front,
with Zalmon bowling along behind them. John
Milford (second) looked like troubling Zalmon
at the turn, but Meenan may have been
having him on. West Haran was third, a
fair way back. Zalmon —yet another of the
notable David breed of jumpers—won last
year’s Grand National Hurdle, was second in
the Grand National Steeple and in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle, and then won the Australian
Steeplechase. Others Winterset may have to
contend with include Parentena and, if he can
make the trip, the South Australian champion
Lime Rock. Still, Winterset is not only one of
the best of the present day but one of the
best ever.
Two others of Saturday’s Caulfield winners
of special interest were Simmering and Ver-
sailles. Carrying -9.11, Simmering won the 11-
furlongs Richmond Handicap by a neck from
Gala Chief, with Arduli next. Considering that
she’s on the small side, it was a fine perform-
ance by the winner; while Gala Chief’s close
second with 9.5, taken with his recent wins,
was also very good. The very game Rosny
Plate win by Versailles was also a handicapper’s
triumph. The Phaleron Bay four-year-old horse
had to carry 10.3, giving no less than 121 b. to
such a performer as Tea Cake, and a lot of
poundage to the rest of the big field. Beating
Tea Cake half a length, with Aggressor two
lengths away, Versailles covered the six fur-
longs in I.l ls.
* * * *
After a week of heavy rain, attendance for
the first day of the A.J.C. Winter meeting at
Randwick on Saturday was down about 9000
on last year, but there were still 27,250 to go
more or less blithely to a punter’s doom. The
form shown might be wisely regarded with
reservation. Five of the seven races were won
in precisely the same way—by a lightweight
running along behind the stampede up to the
home turn, and then taking advantage of its
easy burden in the glue-like going to stage a
winning sprint up the last, straight, two fur-
longs.
The debacle opened with the June Juvenile
for fillies. Coming into the straight' for the last
two furlongs, the favorite, Lakshmi Vallis,
moving up from well back to fourth place and
going nicely, looked as though she would have
to fall over to lose. She did. Over the last
few yards the Hua-Night of Love filly Lady
Charming, with bottom weight, just headed
St'efanoya (Te Hero-Miss Stefan), with the
Greenwich-Glossary filly, Even Time, a close
third. Time for the six furlongs, I.lBs, was a
fair indication of the state of the track. J.
Duncan rode the winner and went on to a
treble, winning also the main event and the last'.
At her last Randwick start the four-year-old
Marabou mare Marabelle showed a glimmer of
form—third to the dead-heaters Lunar and Fort
Denison—but then failed at other tracks. How-
ever, she seems to like the going at Randwick,
and in the mile Encourage ran Pennicuik down
with a very stout finish. Chatster, with 151 b.
more than the winner, was a commendable
third, and High Tension, with 8.7, a neck be-
hind Chatster.
The Encourage second division went to Wan-
sey with High Tide close beside her and Vau-
cluse three lengths back. Wansey carried top
weight, 8.7 —the next highest-weight winner for
the whole day had 7.5—50 her win, with due
allowance for the poor class, was about the
day’s best performance. High Tide, a Mid-
stream-High Class gelding, was a promising
two-year-old 12 months ago, and here was
having his first run since then. Need of the
gallop probably cost him the race.
Blue Legend, a black colt by Waikare from
Dalarosa, is another possibly partial to Rand-
wick —his previous best was a fourth on this
course. He took the seven-furlongs June
Nursery for colts and geldings in good style,
beating the Broiefort-Reremoa gelding Mt.
Howitt, and Blanmar. While Mt. Howitt has
yet to win, he has also yet to run a bad race.
The June Stakes (seven furlongs; £lOOO added
money) was the main event, and Petulance took
it from Tahmoor and Star Gold. Very much
a “horse for the course,” Petulance, a three-
year-old Andrea gelding, had won twice pre-
viously at Randwick, over a mile and nine fur-
longs, so the switch to winning a fair-class
sprint is a good effort. Though usually a front
runner, he adopted the tactics of the day for
the sprint, coming through from the rear ovef
the last furlong with a run which proved too
much for Tahmoor. Nevertheless, that very
honest and capable Royal Sun gelding’s second,
carrying 381 b. more than the winner, was the
best performance in the race. Anything that
beats Tahmoor has to make fairly smart time.
In the mile and a quarter Ellesmere Handicap
another of the Hua progeny, Turn Again, got
his eye on the winning post at the six-furlong
mark and thereafter the rest watched him
vanishing into the distance. Gauntlet and Prince
Buzzard made a race of it for the minor
money. For the last, the Royal Mile, the bag-
men were jovially offering ten to one the
field —and well they might. The Pantheon mare,
I Will, won from Confident and St. Quentin.
Prince, in his advancing years, seems to prefer
an extra furlong or two, and his run here,
lumping a solid top weight, marks him for his
next start over nine or ten furlongs in any-
thing like decent going.
* * * *
Magnificent, who promises to be as good as
his sire (Ajax), has had another notable win—
this time in an unusual turf case. His owner,
Alexander Todd McLaughlan, used only
Christian names when entering and racing the
colt—apparently for no other reason than a dis-
like for personal publicity, which is such a
refreshing change as to warrant giving him a
medal. The A.J.C. Committee didn’t quite do
that when the matter was brought to their
attention, but, while fining McLaughlan £lOO
and trainer A. S. Croll £25 for the technical
breach, they dismissed an objection by the
owners of Lucky Stream against Magnificent
being declared the winner of the rich Sires’
Produce Stakes, in which Lucky Stream was
second.
* * ♦ ♦
Striking points of difference stick out in the
N.S.W. and Victorian handling of the fodder
situation. In Victoria a plan was drawn up
and acted on, with the result that some 500
horses went temporarily out of business. In
N.S.W. it was left to trainers to cut down their
teams and it is highly doubtful if more than a
bare few have done so, though there are dozens
of mokes running that would be out under the
Victorian system, and missed by nobody. The
most significant point, however, was that the
outcry in N.S.W. against adoption of the Vic-
torian system was loudly based on the grounds
that it favored breeders I It certainly keeps
in mind the breeding aspect of racing by insist-
ing that two-year-olds shall have the chance
to prove themselves, while temporarily retiring
doubtful and dubious others. The Victorian
system is practically a copy of that adopted
in England to keep horses in training down to
limits consistent with war conditions and im-
proving the breed. The N.S.W. stand appears
to be that that doesn’t count so long as there’s
still racing.
* * * *
Governor Norrie, of S.A., has leased a filly
by Shakuni-Surfine for racing—full sister to the
S.A. Sires’ Produce Stakes winner, Norwich.
* * * *
Any day now, with the ban on racing lifted,
the last of old Man o’ War’s two-year olds will
be seen in .action in America. Big Red, as
they call the old fellow over there, retired from
racing as far back as 1920, and from the stud
two years ago. He turned 28 in March this
year. Sire of such good ones as War Admiral,
Crusader, Mars, American Flag, War Relic and
War Glory, Man o’ War belongs to the list of
bargains. He was bought as a yearling for
$5OOO. This would be a mere chicken-feed
price for a good youngster over there now —as
much as $66,000 has been paid for one —and it
certainly represents bargain rates for the one
that was to become America’s champion, first
on the tracks and then as sire. Incidentally,
that great old English champion Gainsborough
—winner of the Two Thousand Guineas, Derby
and St. Leger—was 30 when he died the other
day, having been foaled on January 24, 1915.
* * * *
Except that Keith Carmody, the hard-
hitting Mosman (N. S. Wales) open-
ing batsman, replaces Stanford in the
second “Victory” Test this week, the
Australian side is unchanged. Carmody
showed good form with the Second
N.S.W. XI in 1938-39, and his 488 runs,
averaging 32.53, was a capital first-grade
effort in Sydney premiership cricket in
1939-40. His fielding is high-class. An
airman, he was a p.o.w. for many months
till the crowning mercy came.
* * * *
Similar experience to that which the
Australians are getting in England quali-
fied A.I.F. men for Test cricket after the
1914-18 war. Collins’s men played 32
matches in England, nine in Africa and
three in Australia, winning 22, with 18
drawn and four lost. On the resump-
tion of Test cricket against Johnny Doug-
las’s XI at Sydney in December, 1920,
six of the Diggers got a place—Kelleway,
Taylor, Pellew, Oldfield, Jack Gregory
and Collins —and helped in Australia’s
all-time record of winning all the five
Tests. Also, all of those players except
Kelleway went to England in Arm-
strong’s team in 1921, when Australia
won three out of the five Tests, with the
other two drawn, and (except Pellew)
were in the Australian XI of 1924-25,
when, against Gilligan’s XI, Australia
won four out of the five.
* * * *
There wasn’t a surprise in Melbourne
football on Saturday unless it was the
number of goals missed by players who
should be better kicks. The best scores
were obtained by three beaten teams —
11.11, 14.12 and 12.10 —the kind of scor-
ing figures all coaches dream about.
South Melbourne, the leaders, had Haw-
thorn served up to them, and, though
the result was never in doubt, both sides
were on the target, South for 20-10, Haw-
thorn for 12.10. Footscray managed to
scrape home from Carlton, 11.20-11.11 ;
St. Kilda beat Geelong, 14.17-14.12;
Fitzroy beat Melbourne, 14.17-11.15;
North Melbourne beat Essendon, 18.14-
12.20; and, somewhat to its own aston-
ishment, Collingwood beat Richmond,
13.12-8.13.
* * * *
Going to Parramatta expecting a com-
fortable win, Randwick suffered its first
defeat. The Greens were outgeneralled
and outplayed at their own open game,
fixe Parramattans scoring three good tries
to one: 14-9. In a game that was notable
only for the lethargic football played by
University, East downed the Students
9-3. Another surprise was the rout of
Drummoyne by Gordon, the Gordon
backs showing marked superiority: 16-8.
Persistent assaults by North in the final
15 minutes of play resulted in a grand
last-minute try that gave the improving
young team a 12-9 win over St. George.
West was too good for Manly, the Vil-
lagers going down 22-16. Rand wick still
leads, three points ahead of East, with
Uni. next and then Parramatta,
* * * *
The Duke of Gloucester was at the
Rugby League match. N.S.W. v. Queens-
land, at Sydney C.G. It was the familiar
farce, preluded by outrageous press-agent
stuff; N.S.W, 37-12. It is not on record
that the distinguished visitor was pre-
sented with a betting card, asked to buy a
ticket in a sweep or offered a shade of
odds Queensland, with 20 points in.
♦ He H* H*
“Sturt”: What should a law-abiding
footballer do when an opponent hits
him? The question has been raised under
Australian Rules in Adelaide. The “com-
missioners” of the League put the aggres-
sor out for four matches, the man de-
fending himself for one match. The
latter, feeling himself greatly aggrieved,
has announced his retirement from the
game.
* * He *
“Ex-Otago”: Recent mention of Colin
Gilray as head of Scotch College, Mel-
bourne, calls to mind what a fine game
of Rugby he used to play. He represented
Otago from 1904 to 1907, the South
Island in 1905 and Maoriland against an
Australian team, and was asked to go
to England with the All-Blacks. He was
one of the noted three-quarter line that
played for Otago University ; the other
two, Macpherson and Adams, represented
England in 1909-10, and Colin Gilray was
chosen for Scotland in international
matches. I should say he was one of
the best wing three-quarters that Otago
produced.
* * * *
“High’s” protest against “Shore” get-
ting the Head-of-the-River race has been
withdrawn. A case of the spirit of
amateur sport triumphing over the squeal-
ing that infests commercial sport in
Sydney.
* * * *
Considered as a foot race, Williams v.
Dundee at Leichhardt was all Williams:
Dundee rarely caught up to him. When
he did he smote Williams severely, and
was rarely disturbed by the fleet young
gentleman’s fists. It was funny in a way,
and the decision was funnier; Williams
on points. Those who backed Dundee
failed to see the humor of it.
On his showing against Joe Grant at
the Sydney Stadium, Eddie Miller is the
best of the lightweights, next to Patrick.
Heavier and longer in the reach, Grant
gained points at the beginning, but he
was soon on the retreat and taking
punishment. In the sixth round a left to
the solar plexus floored him for more
than 10 seconds. More interesting, though
less clever, was a supporting bout be-
tween Warwick and Terrence. Warwick
stopped his antagonist in the 11th, and
there followed a “shower” that realised
£25-odd.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Commandant Mabel Brookes and com-
mittee members of the W.A.T.C. have
done a fine job in creating and furnish-
ing the Wing Club. The lounge presents
a bright homelike atmosphere and it must
have appeared a veritable haven to an
R.A.A.F. Sister who was “signing in"’
after a long trek from Darwin. The
walls have been tinted a faint pink and
skirting boards and doors are painted
white. ‘Large couches and easy chairs
are fashioned of light pine and cushions
are in pastel shades of biege, pink and
blue, all patterned in a large white leaf
design. The carpet on the lounge floor
is of pale biege. Ann Church has deco-
rated the walls with murals featuring
can-can dancers and French poodles.
The dining-room is also bright and
cheery ; light pine chairs and tables carry
out the design of the club furniture and
lace place mats and little pots of flowers,
plus glistening silver on the tables, give
an impression of comfort. Here again
Ann Church has had her way with the
walls and has painted a French watering-
place. Sturdy matelots and pretty girls
in snappy swim suits frolic over the walls.
As yet the club has space only for 17
beds. The cubicles on the first floor
are large and airy. Each bed has its
pretty blue eiderdown and beside each
bed is a locker-cum-dressing table fash-
ioned of light pine. Easy chairs and
large bowls of flowers are scattered
around and the shower-rooms are
modern aqd well fitted. Here, too, are
wash basins, an iron arid ironing board
for those who need them. On this floor
the ceiling is painted blue and the walls
repeat the same tint. Only a woman
could have thought of the large full size
mirror which hangs directly in front of
the stairs. The correct sit of uniform,
collar and tie may be seen as the wearer
comes down stairs.
Mrs. D. Dwyer, mother of a W.A.A. A.F.
member of the club, presides in the
kitchen ; she does all this work in a vol-
untary capacity. Her daughter Marjorie,
a driver in the W.A.A.A.F., goes in the
early hours of Saturday morning to the
market for supplies of fruit and vege-
tables. On Saturday a chef at one of the
leading hotels spends his day off at the
club —cooking.
W.A.A.A.F. officers and members of
the Women’s Air Training Corps are
eligible for membership; the fee is
one guinea per year. Members are per-
mitted to bring their men friends to
dinner and are permitted to entertain
them in the lounge. No permanent
boarders are accepted. A charge of ss.
for bed and breakfast is made, and a
three-course meal, which includes a roast,
four vegetables and a sweet, costs only
Is. 3d. Formerly an officer in the
W.A.A.A.F., and now Deputy State Com-
mandant of the W.A.T.C., Marea Lucas
is a member of the house committee and
helped considerably in furnishing the
club. Mrs. Le Maistre, one of the prime
movers in the Sister Susie Club, is also
a member of the house committee.
Pnina Salzmann is the most-talked-of
person in this city. All her concerts'have
been successful, and her pastel-shaded
and white frocks, with their well-defined
bust line and long-flowing skirts, set oft
her slim, shapely figure admirably. On
one point only was there any criticism:
Australian members of the audience won-
dered why she did not open her recitdls
by playing the National Anthem. Every
other pianist pays this little compliment,
but Pnina gets someone else to play it
for her. At the first recital Melbourne
liked best La Salzman’s Scarlatti items.
Well-known pianists in the audiences
have been Vera Bradford and Phyllis
Batchelor. Mrs. Frank Tait, accom-
panied her husband to one recital,
wearing a squirrel coat and a large
corsage of gardenias. Edna Glasscock
added a short boxy coat of emerald
green to her black frock, and Rita Findlay
made a warm spot of color with her short
dinner frock of ruby-red velvet trimmed
with point lace at the neck and sleeves.
Her sister was attractive in beige, with a
hip-length cape of dyed ermine wrapped
round her trim figure. Mr. and Mrs.
Michael Hall brought Mrs. Eve McLeod
with them. Mrs. Hall was in black, with
a smart hat decorated with ermine tails
to set it off. Mrs. McLeod also favored
black, set off by a gay little flower hat.
Mrs. Ford Paterson’s frock, in petunia
tones, went with a matching velvet hat.
The brothers Tait gave a cocktail party
at Menzies so that women journalists of
this city might meet Pnina Salzmann.
Mrs. Frank Tait was hostess, her black
suit offset by a royal-blue feather toque.
The guest of honor was snugly wrapped
in an Alaska seal coat, worn over a
brown wool frock. Her shoes attracted
much attention. Mrs. Salzman also
donned a fur coat over her black frock.
Both were hatless. Among the guests
were Mrs. Richard Cozens, whose tur-
quoise-blue hat was a perfect foil for her
black Persian lamb-trimmed coat, and
Mrs. Edmund Alcock, whose very large
black straw hat was tied under her chin
with veiling. After the party Pnina was
taken to Heidelberg Military Hospital,
where for an hour she played to a very
large audience of patients and nurses.
Joyce Turner, pictured here, found her
way into radio plays via the stage. She
appeared with Delysia during that lady’s
Australian season, playing juvenile lead
in “Her Past” and a comedy role in
“Mother of Pearl.” She is married (Mrs.
Lindsay Biggins), and has two small sons.
Lindsay is a musician and has A.B.C.
associations. They live in a charming
cottage at Ferney Creek, which means a
great deal of travelling to and from the
city. At the present time Joyce fs Col-
onel of the Women’s Army in a radio
presentation, “Battle of the Sexes,” and is
also rehearsing for a part in The Tin
Pan Alley Players’ production of Ibsen's
“Doll’s House” on June 7, Proceeds go
to the University Union Fund.
Air-Commodore Cobby was the soul
of brevity when he opened an exhibition
of New Guinea and New Britain paint-
ings executed by Sergeant Frank Lee
(A.1.F.). The show was staged at George’s
Gallery, and men from the artists’ bat-
talion were on hand at*the launching.
Sergeant Lee is self-taught, but he has
the knack of depicting jungle and many
of his pictures were sold on the first day.
Betty Randall, appearing in the National
Theatre production of “The Morning
Star,” set off her auburn hair with a natty
black outfit and came along to give her
artist friend moral support. Mrs. Lee
pinned a gay posy in her brown fur cape,
which was worn over the inevitable black
frock. Air-Commodore Cobby, who
seems never to age, produced a 24-year-
old son, well over six feet, and intro-
duced him round with much pride.
A large audience turned out for a per-
formance of Verdi’s Requiem Mass, but
brought rugs with them as well as wear-
ing their warmest clothes. Prof. Ber-
nard, Heinze conducted and soprano Thea
Phillips, contralto Elizabeth Coote, tenor
John Fullard and basso Harold Williams
were the soloists. The Philharmonic
Society provided the choir, women mem-
bers of which must have shivered in
their light white frocks. Never has the
voice of Thea Phillips been heard to better
advantage ’than in the “Libera Me.” In
the audience was Gaye McElvogue,
whose three-piece outfit was in lavender
blue, the coat featuring a Siberian fox
collar. Her smart turban was of match-
ing material trimmed with the same fur.
Not even a painful wrench to her ankle
could keep her away from the concert,
and she came straight to the Town Hall
from hospital. Eve Beecher topped a
black suit with a bright red hat, plenti-
fully trimmed with white braid. The
official party included Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, who was in a formal evening
frock of floral satin, worn with a silver-
fox cape. With her was young son
Julian. A.B.C. manager Moses brought
Mrs. Salzman and Pnina to the concert,
and Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay Biggins were
also in the official party. Later the
Heinzes gave a supper party at their
home in Toorak.
Annette Kellerman is campaigning in
Queensland for the Un Vomen’s
College £50,000 Buildinj She re-
turned to Australia in ' visit her
sister, who owns Nc md, off
Mackay (Q.), and dur g war has
raised £22,000 for pa; >ti< inds by
vaudeville shows. Miss Kellerman was
originally cured of rickets by swimming
in Sydney; then she took up marathon
swimming and became world famous.
From Sydney
Australia’s boys come home! Over
400 of the wounded arrived in Sydney,
many of them from Tarakan, last Satur-
day. They had travelled in the hospital
ship Manunda. A few had been in the
fighting at Wewak, Aitape and Bougain-
ville. The V.As. did a splendid job,
meeting the ship, and handing out smiles,
cigarettes and other bits of cheer to the
returned men, who hail from all the
States. On Sunday about 800 p.o.w.
came back from prison camps in Ger-
many, Poland and other parts of Europe
which the Nazi beast trampled in his
short span of triumph.
Though short as a triumph the years
were long and- bitter to these sons of a
bright land who were forced to labor
under heart-breaking conditions in
mines, on farms or breaking stones.
hours a day some of them
worked, their food a sort of mush of
potatoes and cheese. Their relations
and friends gave them great welcome at
the Showground, where the Y.M.C.A.
hut echoed and murmured with cheers,
laughter and tears. Again the girls of
the V.A.D. did good and smiling work.
Now it is up to all good to
see that these soldiers are given the
chance of a happy future in their own
country.
Pictured here is Norma Yin, one of the
19 debs, presented last night to Mrs.
M. L. Tuan, wife of China’s Consul-
General in Australia, Norma, who now
lives in Ashfield, comes from Bendigo,
Victoria. She is one of Alexander Sver-
jensky’s pupils, and is among Sydney’s
promising young pianists. Before Mr.
Sverjensky, her only brother Jack,
now in the A.1.F., was her tutor.
He is also a pianist and a graduate of
Melbourne University. After the war it
is the ambition of brother and sister to
travel overseas. Norma will then finish
her studies, and both hope to gain much
musical experience.
The Trocadero was bright with banner
and embroidered robe for the Dragon
Festival Ball, now’one of Sydney’s annual
social fixtures, and the young Chinese
girls contributed a pretty interlude as they
made their bow. As usual, the ball was
to benefit the “Warphans” fund, so dear
to the heart of the wife of Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek. Dr. Tuan, incidentally,
is charge d’affaires at the Chinese Lega-
tion in Canberra until the arrival of
China’s new Minister to Australia, Mr.
Cheng.
Storms and floods of devastating
violence have spread havoc and desola-
tion down the coastal areas of the State.
In Lismore alone the flood damage is
reckoned at about £500,000. That is the
mere money side of it. Thousands of
people had to leave their homes and seek
shelter in churches, school halls, police
stations and the houses of residents for-
tunate enough not to be in the path of
the flood waters. The police and
rescue parties worked day and night.
R.A.A.F. ’planes dropped blankets and
food to stricken North Coast towns.
Mountainous seas at Collaroy dashed
waves inside some of the sea-front cot-
tages. Parts of some of the houses col-
lapsed and some, broken by the im-
pact of the waves, were washed away.
Bruno Bana, a theological student at St.
Patrick’s College, Manly, was swept out
to sea and drowned. He and several
other students had been standing on the
rocks watching the heavy seas. A young
mother of Tatham, near Casino, was
drowned with her four children when the
boat taking them to »safety capsized.
These and other fatalities have made June
a sorrowful month. Transport in the
city was maintained well, though, natur-
ally, tram, train and ferry services were
somewhat disorganised.
The invitation for the opening of the
British Centre next Friday is very impres-
sive. It is in the form of a small booklet.
On the white parchment cover the words
“The British Centre” are lettered in black.
Beside the title a red lion stands guard
on a crown. His tail curls in the air,
either in pleasant greeting or defiance,
and he is all dressed up with a crown
on his own head. Around him are scat-
tered a handful of tiny stars or crosses —
it depends, on the imagination. Inside the
cover is a small, but to scale, picture of
the Centre in Hyde Park. Very quiet and
decorous it looks, as though everyone had
gone to bed early. The Centre is already
occupied by servicemen, but the Duke
of Gloucester will officially open the
premises next Friday at noon.
Salute Matron C. J. Shumack, of
Rockdale. Among the Birthday Honors
was a Royal Red Cross for her. The dis-
tinction recalls to memory the bombing
of Darwin in 1942. This Australian
heroine was then matron of an Australian
hospital ship, the Manunda, and her
courage and resourcefulness did not pass
unnoted. Since then service in other hos-
pital ships, in the Middle East and in New
Guinea, has been notched to her credit.
The Young Contingent of the Victoria
League is five years old. It held its
annual meeting last week, and the re-
counting of its growth and its many
activities made good reading. President
Anne Hill was in the chair. The Y.C.
club-rooms are in George-street North,
the premises that once were Nestle’s gift
store. A great deal of spit and polish have
gone into making the club as shipshape
and cosy as it is; and it is only necessary
to glance in on the weekly dancing class
to see how happy and popular the girls
have made the spot. A special word on
the agenda went to knight Thomas
Gordon, “Pennies From Heaven” S. V.
Jones and the committee of the King
George Fund for Sailors.
Dancing every night, moonlight sailing
picnics, trips to the mountains, week-end
bush walks, swimming, tennis and other
outdoor sports and theatre parties are
among entertainment provided for officers
of the R.N. and Merchant Navy. A very
important part of the work is the “adopt-
ing” of five Pacific islands at the request of
the Navy. Already ships have been adopted
and are kept supplied with books, radios
and suchlike. Noted at the meeting were
Lois Graham, Suzanne Crouch, Barbara
Hemingway, Marjorie Todd, Pixie Foote,
Catherine Connor and Aura Jackson.
Commander Richard Jennings, R.N.,
closed the meeting with a little eulogy of
the Y.C.
This is a one-sided view of Grade
Fields’s performance in the Town Hall.
From a seat almost on the extreme right
of the hall, naturally the left side of
Gracie’s face and dress were alone to
be seen all the time. That the right side
of her face and the whole oval of the
well-shaped fa?ade were as vivacious and
amusing as the left could be guessed from
the applause. This was long, loud and
deafening, and came from the hearts as
well as the throats and hands of an audi-
ence getting towards the three thousand.
The left side of the white frock which she
first wore had a sash of green and red.
It was slit to about the knees to allow of
such fireworks as a sudden Catherine-
wheel to emphasise the singing of an
extra-high note. Grade is fun from the
word “go.” Sometimes she swoops to
seriousness. When she sings the “Ave
Maria” or “The Lord’s Prayer” she looks
angelic.
The way Gracie uses her hands reminds
of a well-cut frock by a great designer.
No gee-gaws or trimmings, just line and
fit. Like Delysia, she knows the
value of scarves, and uses them to tone in
with a hundred shades of emotion. Pre-
war memories were awakened in one
listener by the catchy Afrikaans march-
ing song. He had been kept awake one
night in Amsterdam by a near-by carillon
that chimed out national airs, this one
among them; now it is one of hiss prized
pieces of music. On the opening there
were flowers from Admiralty House for
Gracie, and applauding was a party from
the Governor-General’s residence, includ-
ing Viscountess Clive and Brigadier
Schreiber.
Somebody, however, hasn’t been gener-
ous with Gracie. On Friday the mean
one stole a case which contained articles
of jewellery, precious make-up and a
small brooch which commemorated the
launching of a ship by the star. It was
named Gracie Fields and was lost at
Dunkirk.
In addition to the splendidly - bound
address presented by the A.W.L.A. Cen-
tral Welfare committee, Lady Wakehurst
at the last minute packed two books from
the Society of Women Writers. One was
a volume of reproductions of Douglas
Annand’s drawings and paintings, the
other a collection of reproductions of
other present-day Australian art.


HARD HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Jack Carroll, undefeated Welterweight
champion of Australia, popular idol of
boxing fans. Defeated Fred Henneberry
in the greatest fight of his career at the
Melbourne stadium in 1932. A tribute
to a hard hitting Australian.
Despite restrictions, limited supplies
of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN and .22 RIM-
FIRE CARTRIDGES are available
to primary producers for essential
pest destruction subject to police
permits. ALL AUSTRALIAN.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA <S NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
mm. s m
OR FIFTY YEARS T
m
m
m
mm
m
*****
mm
m
II
I A
s»
BE
1895 - 1945
This year Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.,
marketers of Mobiioil, Australia's most
popular motor oil, celebrates its 50th
Anniversary in this Country-A Life-
time of Leadership in Lubrication.
MOBILOIL MUST BE GOOD
TO REMAIN THE LEADER FOR
FIFTY TEARS
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
VACUUM
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
Cr
To-day, more than ever, you will appreciate
the lasting qualities of your “AKUBRA.” . . . .
Each hat processed by the famous “Akubra”
Mills retains shape and colour throughout its
long, all-weather life —a big consideration in
these “coupon” days
Made from best quality Australian Pure Fur
in smart styles and “comfort” fittings,“Akubra”
hats retain their popularity with men who “care.”
AKUBRA
kcds
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND BONDS
SMOKE-OH!
“Express yourself with your hats.”—' "Sun.”
But don’t talk through them.
*i* *i* *i* •i*
“Typiste required for wool.”
“S. M. Herald.”
A hard job for a girl to cotton on to.
*i»
“The bride was given away by her father in
ner mother’s wedding dress.”
—Daily paper.
He was probably the best dressed man
at the ceremony,
4* *J.
Defendant admitted throwing a rotten egg,
but said he did so merely as a joke.”
Court case.
Undoubtedly a clumsy bloke,
All taste and nous he lacked:
A rotten egg’s the sort of joke
That never should be cracked.
F.M.
*l* q*
Paradise Bar.
“Citizen-controlled hotels proposed.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.’’’
Now here’s a scheme that’s really cap-
tivating. With lots of hope and hops it’s
scintillating. All citizens would start co-
operating, and thus the scheme would
thrive. Old faults, of course, would need
elimination, and they could surely use an
innovation such as a clock, of wondrous
valuation, which stops at half-past five.
Yair.
*
“Human hair for switches. G.P.0., Sydney.”
— S. M. “Herald” wanted ad.
Must be light in color.
*!♦
“The children were expected to clean and
dress themselves neatly. If they failed their
mother birched them.”— Woman’s paper.
One way or another she made them
smart.
4* 4* 4*
The Ideal Match
Switching on the light, the stadium-
manager’s wife sat up in bed and angrily
regarded her sleeping spouse. A broad
smile was percolating on his face, the
smile of a man who- has achieved some
ultimate satisfaction. He was softly mur-
muring to himself,
“Henry!” Her elbow torpedoed his
floating ribs, and he woke with a start.
“Don’t do that, my dear!” he com-
plained. “I was just having a beautiful
dream.”
“What was it about?” she queried sus-
piciously.
“I though I was organising the greatest
contest of my life. I was in the stadium
office signing up Mandrake the Magician
with Superman! ”
T. W. N.
Sometimes a girl can make a sugar-
daddy extremely bitter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ware rushed his opponent to the ropes,
smashing heavy rights and lefts to the face,
and finishing him with a terrific hook to the
jaw.” —Boxing story.
That made him look the worse for
Ware,
.4* 4* 4". 4*
Crane drivers and engine drivers declared
the coal black.”— “Sun.”
* The coal was pulverised at this,
t + 4**
“Members of the Women’s War Comforts
Section of the A.C.F. would be able to turn
cakes into money.”— “S.M.H.”
That’s making their cake dough,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Artist Fined for Sly-grog.”— “Sun.”
He could draw beer, at any rate.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some of these budding authors are too
blooming conceited.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Winter Confession.
I had a cat, a perfect pest.
It was a little her.
I had a knife; a bright idea ....
And then I had a fur.
E.
Among the Hon. Geniuses.
“Tokyo Radio claims that a Jap scientist'
has succeeded in increasing the alcoholic con-
tent of apple cider to a point where it is
usable as ’plane fuel.”
The brilliant Tokyo scientist Professor
Wachabloke Kumagutsa has explained
that he first got the idea for this amazing
new fuel, which he has named Newyork-
pippinzol in honor of the ancient warrior
Shogun Wakko Übute, when he observed
a businessman who had been drinking
gin-and-apple-cider cocktails take a nose-
dive as he came out of his club.
Eventually the professor evolved the
perfect mixture by using fortified cider
and pure alcohol on a 50-50 basis — i.e., one
container of each. Immediately he poured
the eggcup of cider into the 10,000-
gallon tank of alcohol he knew by the
subtle change in viscosity, luminosity and
in particular the odor, which took on a
fragrance closely resembling that of
cracked granite which has been long ex-
posed to cool sunshine, that the new fuel
could be used in an internal, and even
an external, combustion engine.
Hon. Kumagutsa is about to proceed
with his latest scientific innovation. This
involves feeding straight into the engines of
suicide ’planes whole pineapples which
have previously . been impregnated with
the juice of mothballs.
Broadcasting over Tokyo Radio in the
English session, Prof. Kumagutsa ex-
plained his invention thus: “It are non-
complicatedness themselves ne plus ultra,
as a theoretical whatsthis. Extra-initially,
and to commence with, if pippin apple
juice wildly successfulness, why not utilis-
ing juiceness of pineapple? Slightful dif-
ferentiations in skin, maybe yes, but so
am crocodile and flea, yet flesh and gore
probability same subcutaneously; so
with probableness same engine-turning-
over properties in pineapples as with
luscious fruit which caused Hon. Adam
and inamorata to be booted incontinently
out of Eden.
“Also, mothballs, containings naphtha-
lene, a slap-up power fuel of highly
cracking point which jakaloo for rev-
ving up fortissimo minus knock and
causing profoundly fewer carboning up
of cylinder, also keeps silverfish (noxious
animal) from destroyingly chewing
pistons and carburettor and generally
mucking up smoothness of whizz-round.
Special separating gadget will screw top
off pineapple pronto. Hon. kamikaze
pilot thusfully enabled to poke discarded
tops hither and yon circumambiently by
panel pins over machine, confoundingly
tricking Allied ack-ack gunners into
thinkings aerial pineapple plantation be-
coming peripatetic, and so holding fire
until alas too late and bang! Hon kami-
kaze pilot gallantly pushes himself,
’plane, pineapple plantation (ersatz) and
pluralities of TNT into star or portboard
side of battlewagon, who chucking fast
sugardoodle Davy Jones’s lockerward in
considerable hiss of steam and furious
swearings of discomfited seadogs.”
According to Domei, another cele-
brated Nipponese scientist, Professor
Yortu Slojo, has successfully crowned ten
years of intensive research by evolving
ẅ
Misadventure.
A gallant knight in days of old,
Who loved a wench, but not the
flagon,
Set out with lofty heart and bold
To slay a fiery dragon.
He found the monster’s horrid lair,
And, entering with fearless eye.
He wildly rushed upon it there
And waved his sword on high.
The dragon felled him on the spot,
And gaily swallowed him for tea.
Unfortunate ; but that is what
Occurred —so don’t blame me !
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Decline of Outdoor Life
Ever since the growth of towns the
majority of the population in civilised
countries has led what might be termed
an indoor life.
The days in which every man tilled his
own piece of ground, knew the call of
every bird and the name of every flower
and herb, and was familiar with every
feature of his environment, no matter
how wooded or mountainous it might
be, have gone for ever.
Both city and country dwellers seem
to fear the open air. To them a picnic
means aching muscles and stale, ant-
infested sandwiches; while even on ferry
trips they travel inside, “to avoid the
wind.”
For these people the joys of a climb
simply for the view, and with no other
object, is purposeless, and the magic of
a camp fire a thing unknown. A long,
glorious walk to view a sunset would
seem to them insane. For them only
the drab sameness of pavements, and the
roar of trains, trams and buses. They
walk with lowered heads, as if afraid of
the glory of the heavens.
The gardens and parks of their city
remain places they rush past in trams
and buses, places they always mean
to visit, but never do. They exist, but
do not live. They cram their days with
trivialities and rush for their homes at
the close of each day with complete
satisfaction.
They pity the poor cranks who prefer
a tramp in the country to one of the
“screen’s greatest romances” a la cinema.
—John o’ Groats (Q.).
A.I.F. Equipment
If “J.A.L.” (B. 30/5/’45) went through
the N.G. campaign he did so with sur-
prising lack of observation. The Kokoda
Trail, the floor of the Markham Valley,
the approaches to Salamau and Buna, the
rock-strewn slopes of Shaggy Ridge, the
tortuous paths from Scarlet Beach and
the jungle tracks from Aitape to Wewak
are all littered with personal equipment
that the Australians found a hindrance.
Discarded respirators, webbing, cloth-
ing, tin hats, mosquito nets and ground
sheets traced our advances in all these
sectors. Not because this equipment was
faulty—but because the troops were more
mobile without it. The gear they did
carry into battle was equal to the per-
sonal equipment carried by any other
soldiers. This did not include the “Kit-
bag, universal” —an article that is not
taken out of Australia by men headed for
battle stations.
The Americans are now favoring short
leather gaiters in preference to the ankle-
to-knee type they first used in the jungle,
G.l.s offer fabulous exchanges for our
slouch hats —not as souvenirs, but to wear
under the terrific equatorial sun. They
would rather carry the Australian water-
bottle. It is of handier shape, better
finished and more suitable for tropical
conditions. Yanks readily admit that the
.303 rifle has no superior.
Fundamentally, the Australians are well
equipped. If there has been complaint
about the lack of mechanisation it is not
that it is unavailable. The truth is that
there are too many incompetents in
authority along the supply routes. They
have a fixed idea that greater credit will
reflect on them if they keep their men
working like overtaxed draughthorses.
Few of them are acquainted with the
correct usage of the mechanical aids at
their disposal. This is reflected in the
tardiness of essential mechanical equip-
ment reaching the battle areas. A shake-
up in various base directorates would
afford surprising results. — Gebla (Ex-
A.1.F.).
The Digger in Fiction
“Whiz” (B. 30/5/’45) seems to resent
the “earnest aim of Australian writers”
when they represent the Australian soldier
as lacking in polish. It is not the writers
that are at fault. If “Whiz” doubts
this let him listen to the wireless in a
soldiers’ hut; let him find out how many
officers are competent to conduct a C.A.B.
discussion ; and let him find the propor-
tion that could discuss intelligently any
current problem or phase of culture.
It is unfair that the Australian soldier
should be made to use Cockney slang,
but let me remind “Whiz” that most Aus-
tralian soldiers know only two adjectives
and both are banned by editors, so other
slang must be substituted.
Certainly it is farcical to have our
soldiers singing “Waltzing Matilda.” Per-
sonally, I have heard very little singing
from soldiers —Australian soldiers, any-
how.
Beer is the most important item of a
soldier’s life. Frequently in the M.E.
we had no potatoes, vegetables and so on,
but beer was always there. In the M.E.,
as in N.G., it received an amazing priority
in shipping. The liquor bills of Australia
compared with our education costs may
help “Whiz” to believe that the writers
paint a true picture.
Or perhaps “Whiz” could discuss the
M.E. with some of the soldiers. How
many would be found at the excellent
chamber-music recitals there compared
with the number found in low dives? It
was so rarely that I saw another Aus-
tralian at one of these recitals that I
would make a note of it.
I recall an instructive lecture on Pales-
tine given by one of the Palestinian police
to a group of us on our way to that coun-
try. The only questions asked the official
concerned the price and availability of
booze.—XNX (N.S.W.).
Taxation on “Super Ann”
“Jaibee” (B. 25/4/’45) is at great pains
to put the official viewpoint in as favor-
able a light as possible. He points out
(1) that the Commonwealth Superannua-
tion Act exempts the fund from taxation,
and (2) that contributions paid into the
fund are eventually distributed in the
“Hey, mind how y' bang it—We: Want them hat-peg things of without
crackin' em!
form of pensions, plus an amount from
consolidated revenue. ,
These statements might mislead me
unwary into an assumption that the
amount of superannuation received by
retired officers is also exempt
income tax. This, of course is not the
case, as under the beneficent Mr. Chifley s
social services taxation scheme (intro-
duced in 1943) these pensioners are com-
pelled to pay a moiety of the amount
received (by way of income tax) to help
provide the benefits contemplated by our
kindhearted Treasurer. I should know,
for my superannuation (which is con-
siderably below the basic wage) is taxed
at the rate of 7s. 9d. weekly, and at the
source, too. . ~
I think everyone is favorably dis-
posed towards an efficient scheme of
social services, financed on a contribu-
tory basis as far as possible, but it does
not require much imagination to picture
the bitterness of superannuated officers,
and others who have provided a modest
competence for their old age by other
means, when they see their limited re-
sources ruthlessly taxed to provide ameni-
ties for others, who in many cases
neglected opportunities to make similar
xhe “additional benefits” referred to
by “Jaibee” are of negligible value, and
future visionary benefits are little solace
to the aged officer, who is denied the
full pension for which he contributed,
and on which he based his commitments.
—Tisop (N.S.W.).
Help for the Sick
Many sick people need fina l sist-
ance, and free medicine (e T that
measure is “implemented”) wil only
one of their lesser worries. Cou iple,
for example, are frequently I to
make long trips to the city fc alist
treatment, and for some of them the
cost of fares is crippling. Real help
could be given by allowing these people
free rail or bus passes, A medical certi-
ficate would have to be produced before
obtaining a pass. In an urgent case,
where there has not been time to procure
a certificate, the fare could be refunded
later.
No new organisation would be needed,
for free passes are already issued to stu-
dents, railway employees and so on. The
cost would not be great and, as doctors
and chemists are not concerned in the
matter, they would offer no opposition.
—Niles (Q.).
The Improvement of Politicians
“Retiring Age” wants politicians, like
civil servants, to be compulsorily retired
at 65 (B. 6/6/’45) to make room for
younger people. This would have dis-
posed of Mr. Churchill in 1939.
There is no fixed relation between age
and ability and wisdom. Freud was an
old man in his body but younger in his
mind at 70 than is a girl young in body
but whose ideas are as old as her grand-
ma’s. Titian painted better at 90 than
a young “modernist” of 20 because he
had fewer prejudices, and Socrates at 70
was mentally the youngest man in
Athens. . ...
A better way of improving politicians
would be not to pay them. Then you
might get a better type. But politics is
(or are) nonsense, anyway .—Lord Luvus
(Vic.).
Misfit Farmers
I have no love for boards and com-
missions in general, but I think the
Queensland Rural Reconstruction Com-
mission deserves a cheer for recommend-
ing that unsuitable farmers should be
weeded out. The commission feels it is a
waste of time and money to assist men
who obviously are incompetent.
There are many farms in Queensland
which have always been financially un-
satisfactory, barely enabling the farmer
to exist. With a shortage of food in view
after the war against Japan is ended, the
greatest productive capacity of our farms
ought to be aimed at, and the only way
to make farms produce their maximum is
to have them owned or managed by men
of proved capacity. — Bennie (Q.).
Brisbane—a Study
With a residential population increase
of over 80,000 during the past 12 years
and a large military establishment since
1941, Brisbane is the untidiest and worst-
served of Australia’s seven capital cities.
Most of the metropolitan area still has
no sewerage, and what there is of it is
creating a vigorous nuisance at the river-
mouth. There is a water-shortage every
summer, suburban railway services are
shocking, and the tram system is
dangerously congested at peak hours.
Bottlenecks and level crossings obstruct
traffic in main streets and endanger life,
the market accommodation is woefully
inadequate and the housing problem has
become a nightmare. Rats swarm, gar-
bage-disposal arrangements are of the
crudest description, and the mosquito pest
grows more trying every summer.
War conditions, together with the
idiotic antics of the man-power authorities
in refusing to release men from wood-
and-water joey camp duties, are largely
responsible, but if the published reports
of City Council meetings are any guide
nobody in that august body seems to be
taking any definite interest in improving
matters. — Gryllus (Q.).
Political Education
Looking back over a lifetime whose
earliest dogma was that one Britisher
equalled ten Boers, and in which I even-
tually reached a stage where I had no
fixed ideas at all, I am once again moving
toward a conviction. Three years in a
mifhition factory where I came in close
contact with a f.a.q. cross section of Aus-
tralian humanity—most of it younger
than myself—has convinced me that a
definite effort should be made to give
our youngsters a knowledge of basic eco-
nomic and social facts.
It should be possible to devise a text-
book for school use which could be free
from political bias, but which would give
a foundation of knowledge to enable an
adolescent to check up on the propaganda
which is hurled at him from all sides.
Such a book, well written, could be made
very interesting. It might contain chapters
somewhat as follow;
(1) The Constitution, Parliament and the
Courts.
(2) Money—its creation and purchasing-
power ; foreign exchange.
(3) Taxation—direct and indirect. How
levied and how used.
(4) Public finance.
(5) Public companies.
(6) Insurance (proprietary and mutual sys-
tems).
(7) Foreign trade (how exports finance im-
ports).
(8) Outline of foreign social systems.
(9) Outline of ancient social systems.
(10) World religions.
There is, of course, the risk that an un-
scrupulous Government might use such
a textbook for political propaganda, but
the penalties of ignorance outweigh such
dangers. — Harap (Vic.).
Psychology in the School
I would like to add two very important
points missed by “Country Teacher” (B.
16/5 / ’45) in his outline of needed educa-
tion reforms. ■ .
Firstly, some form of instruction in
mind-management should be included in
the curriculum of primary and secondary
schools. Secondly, teachers should be
given a proper understanding of child
psychology. ,
More than 80 p.c. of mental ills, such as
neurasthenia, inferiority feelings and in-
troversion, are born in the schoolroom,
due to the inability of the teacher to
understand the mind of the child. Sar-
casm uttered in front of the whole class
and negative suggestions such as “You
have no more brains than a rabbit or
“You will never get on” are mortifying
to the child, and long after the incident
has apparently been forgotten the nega-
tive suggestion is still doing its insidious
work in the subconscious mind.
Teachers apparently do not realise that
the emotional tone pitched in childhood
sets the keynote of conduct in later life.
Sense of failure contracted during child-
hood bars the way to success and happi-
ness for more than 75 p.c. of men and
women. However irritated the teacher
may be, he or she has no right to repri-
mand with words that sink deep down in
the subconscious mind.
There are plenty of teachers who blame
young students for- inattention, but there
are few who can tell the unhappy, humi-
liated and discouraged boy or girl how
to focus interested attention, adding to
the store of knowledge in the subcon-
scious level of mind which otherwise is
clogged up with the garbage of miserable
memories of failure. —J. K. D. (Q.).
The Captive Division
As Hitler’s reign has terminated and
Tojo’s is coming to a close, I wonder
whether Mr. Curtin and co. have begun
to make any provision for the rehabilita-
tion of the 20-odd thousand Australian
p.o.w. soon (I hope) to be released? If
nothing has been done it is about time
something was.
Undoubtedly, the released men will de-
sire, as soon as they reach Australia, to
spend no little time with their friends and
relations, but the reaction must surely
come. Every man will need a long rest.
Surely the Federal Government could be-
gin now to make some arrangements for
their accommodation. These men will
have much to get used to: rationing, beer
and smokes queues, strikes, overcrowd-
ing, black-marketing and many restricted
privileges. We who have seen their in-
troduction and gradual expansion haven t
got used to them yet, so what of the re-
leased p.0.w.? Moreover, I would sug-
gest a p.o.w, employment bureau.
If we begin now to make preparations
for the release of these Diggers, not only
will we show a practical feeling for their
years of exile, but we will bring much
consolation to the friends and relations
who have waited so long and so patiently.
—John McKenzie (N.S.W.).


ŵ
CHARLES RUWOLT PTTL”
