

OYAL
PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/* VoL 66—No. 3430
Wednesday, November 7, 1945
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
WESTMINSTER ABBEY: EDWARD THE CONFESSOR’S CHAPEL, WITH THE SHRINE.
f J'HIS, the most famous of the chapels of Westminster Abbey,
is immediately behind the High Altar. Edward the Confessor
was the founder of the present Abbey, and his shrine was built
by Henry 111, but only the marble basement of the original structure
remains. The chapel also contains the tombs of Henry 111, Edward
I, Edward 111, Richard II and Henry V, and of six queens. The
Coronation Chair (on the left) was made for Edward, and encloses
the celebrated stone on which first the Irish and then the Scottish
kings were crowned. Since the time of Edward I, who brought
the stone to London in 1297, the chair has been used at every
coronation. That to the right was made for the use of. Queen
Mary when she and William of Orange were crowned.


This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
V
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE..
m
ftiMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
V
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE.-
The Red Page
TIME RUNS ON.
Uncle; Willie, my boy, Kylie "Ten-
nant’s Time Enough Later, published by
Macmillan.
Willie : Uncle, I say it with the great-
est possible regret, but I am afraid I am
not worthy of it.
Uncle: Bless my soul, Willie, you do
remind me at times of a red-backed
spider* but surely you can read a novel?
Willie: Uncle, I am frightened of it.
Uncle: Now look here, Willie, I know
that Kylie Tennant is inclined to carica-
ture ; and that—in spite of the fact that,
remembering Dickens, you can’t make a
rule against the practice—her caricatures
don’t “work”; they tend to clumsiness.
I don’t think I can really ask you to
accept Big Bill Drew, the roaring father
of the family in Time Enough Later,
either as a human being or a caricature.
He reminds me of James Doolittle in
Shaw’s “Pygmalion.” Nevertheless, there
is less caricaturing in Time Enough Later
than in any of Kylie Tennant’s recent
novels. And the Drew family is not bad
fun.
Willie: That, Uncle, is not precisely
what is troubling me.
Uncle : Very well, then, you little
toad, I grant you that a good deal of this
author’s humor also fails to “work”;
again because of a heavy-handedness.
When ten pages are devoted to a descrip-
tion of some workmen and others carry-
ing a piano up some narrow stairs I do
not roar with laughter, Ido not even
smile. I am pained. I am not altogether
averse to what is known as custard-pie
comedy; but I am certainly not won by
unsuccessful custard-pie to more than
the geniality inspired by a well-meant
effort. Nevertheless, there is much less
custard-pie in this novel than in, for
instance, Ride on. Stranger. Besides
being gratifyingly simpler and therefore
a great deal more attractive in form, this
novel is altogether lighter, freer and
gayer.
Willie: If I remember rightly, Uncle,
Ride on, Stranger was about a stubborn
little female named Shannon who, after
an exploration of the bohemian world of
Sydney and a brief and uninteresting
marriage, settled down happily to a spins-
terish life in the country. What, exactly,
is Time Enough Later about?
Uncle: To put it in a nutshell, my lad,
Time Enough Later is about a stubborn
little female named Bessie who, after an
exploration of the bohemian world of
Sydney and after sending her two suitors
marching off into the night, settles down
happily to a spinsterish life in the country.
Willie: I think I should like to put
Shannon and Bessie in a nutshell. And
not let them out again.
Uncle: Well, Willie, if you had sus-
pected that the novelist was falling into
the trap of repetition I think you do
wisely to point it out. This novel is in-
deed Ride on, Stranger all over again:
but since it is a simplification, a clarifi-
cation of it, and a vast improvement,
the point should not be stressed too
severely.
Willie: Uncle, I am not greatly
troubled about the repetition. 8ut....
Uncle ; But what ?
Willie: This 'book is going to be very
bad for me.
Uncle : How could it possibly
Willie : Uncle, it is the women. They
discourage me. Every time I meet one
of Kylie Tennant’s women characters I
want to rush off to the bush and be a
hatter. I want to be a bachelor and
raise pigs. I want to emigrate to France
or Italy or Manly—somewhere where
girls are girls. I want to see Greta
Garbo,
Uncle: Why, you young whipper-
snapper .
WiLLif! : Uncle, they are frumpish;
Uncle, they are lumpish.
gUNCLE:. When I was your age you
ragamuffin ——
Willie: When you were my age you
didn’t want to be put in your place by
some lumpy, dumpy, mumpy, frumpy,
humpy, bumpy, stumpy, grumpy little
maternal monster any ftiore than I do.
They are stubborn, these Kylie Tennant
heroines; they are sturdy; they are
stocky; they are pugnacious; they are
“sensible.” The Powers of earth and air
preserve me from “sensible” women!
They are motherly ; they make their men
take medicine. They are pugnacious.
They throw their lovers onto “the cold,
hard pavement” or they send them march-
ing off into the night. And then they turn
round and dig at the earth. Dig with
spades. Uncle, they dig me into the
ground. I am buried ; I am done for.
These heroines are Woman’s Revenge on
Man,
Uncle: Willie, my lad, there is some-
thing in what you say. I must admit I
found Shannon a trifle repellent. But I
assure you Bessie is a far more pleasant
character.
Willie: I’ll bet you Bessie is bossy.
Uncle; Yes, Bessie is a little bit
bossy. And I grant you that in the last
chapter she is left digging her lovers into
the ground, as you put it. But all the
way through the novel she is quite prettily
in love with her fantastic photographer
Maurice Wainwright. And it is his fault,
rather than hers, that their affair ends with
a burial instead of a marriage. It struck
me, I must say, as peculiar that Bessie’s
honor was so miraculously preserved on
so many occasions—first by a visitor,
then by a gramophone record, then by
Bessie’s going to sleep, then by a moth,
then by a mosquito, then by a horse and
then by another interloper—but the idea
of this novel is that there will be “time
enough later” for love.
Willie; If one is to interpret that as
meaning there will be time enough later
for Kylie Tennant to knock Bessie and
Shannon on the head, I agree. She is
a prolific novelist, and she has gusto. But
time runs on.
Uncle : In the meantime, Willie,
granting all that you say, Time Enough
Later is still a very merry little novel.
There is one charming character in it, a
woman named Esther who lives alone
in a shack on the mountains and passion-
ately collects beetles. And here the land-
scape is beautiful.
Willie : If Esther is a mad old spinster
I shall read about her with pleasure. I
like mad old spinsters, just as I like
beetles. But not. Uncle, young beetles
like Shannon and Bessie.
History or Oratory?
It is hardly likely that all the colonists
coming to Australia in the early days
found the voyage “unutterably” boring;
hardly likely that all found “horrible” the
adventure from the old land to the new;
hardly likely that not one of the colonists,
some of whom are admitted to have left
“small dear sights,” should think of Eng-
land as “home.”
Consequently, a good many of Mr.
Clive Turnbull’s wild and wounded
generalisations in Bluestone, the Story of
James Stephens (Hawthorn Press, Mel-
bourne), must be regarded, like those in
his earlier Mulberry Leaves, as overstate-
ments :
It was from such conditions as these
that our forebears fled, conditions so
lamentable that they were eager to tear
up their roots from home, to say farewell,
perhaps for ever, to all the small dear
sights, and to risk the hazards and endure
the discomfort and unutterable boredom of
, the long sea voyage to an unknown and
perhaps unfriendly country. It was horrible
as that. Only their sons and grandsons,
in the freedom bought for them by those
great men —for such they were—turn senti-
mental eyes to a “home” that never ex-
isted.
The James Stephens of Mr. Turnbull’s
monograph is believed to have been the
pioneer of the Eight Hour Day movement
in Australia. A stonemason, he took part
in a Chartist upheaval in Newport, fled
to London, became “one of the leading
agitators for the four-o’clock movement”
and then emigrated to Melbourne. In
1883 the Trades Hall Committee, dis-
cussing Labor pioneers, recorded:
Working one day during the summer of
1855, under an almost tropical sun and with
seared hands driving the burning tools over
hard Victorian stone, his [Stephens’s] mind
was suddenly seized with the simple but
now dearly-prized Messing of the sub-
division of the wage-earner’s day into three
parts, viz., eight hours’ labor, eight hours’
recreation, eight hours’ rest, and, calling on
his fellow-workmen in language well re-
membered today, exhorted them to lay the
foundation of that principle, the complete
achievement of which is now nearly accom-
plished by every class of labor through-
out Australia.
Mr. Turnbull quotes one contemporary
pen-portrait of Stephens: “The wasted
frame of a once-powerful man. A large,
well-formed head and intelligent face, on
which a full beard, now white and
grizzled, appeared ... the muscular
hands, bronzed and bruised, as they lay
prone by his side, told of the rough usage
through which they had passed in the
battle of life.”
In spite of this bit of description and
a few other facts or incidents with the
stuff of life in them, Bluestone is a hol-
low, an empty little book. Stephens is
not a living figure in it but a stock
character labelled Worker.
It may have been that Mr. Turnbull
couldn’t find much biographical material;
but, taking Mulberry Leaves as further
evidence, it would seem that before he
starts writing he works himself up to a
state of righteous indignation in which
all poor men are good, all middle-class
men suspicious characters and all rich
men wicked: and the result is not history
or biography but Trades Hall oratory ...
“a few choice words,” as they say.
This is the second volume of a series
Mr. Turnbull is calling “The Australian
Heritage.” He proposes to add to the list
Bonanza, the Story of George Francis
Train -, ■Eureka , the Story of Patrick
Lalor ; The Story of Francis Adams ; and
The Story of Paddy Hannan. It is a good
idea; but it’s to be hoped that in future
volumes he offers more facts, more word-
pictures, a touch of humor and fewer
noble sentiments.
Old Masters and Copies.
The case of Hans van Meegeren who,
acquitted of collaboration with the Nazis
in Holland, is now alleged to have forged
seven Vermeers, provides another in-
stance of the difficulty of distinguishing
between a genuine Old Master and an
imitation.
Van Meegeren is alleged to have
secured over £1,000,000 by false pretences,
largely from high-placed Nazis, by forg-
ing the Vermeers, one of which was “dis-
covered” in Paris and was bought by
Rotterdam Museum, of all places, for
£125,000. Vermeer was an extraordinarily
capable painter with only a score of
authenticated pictures to his credit, and
he used techniques which were regarded
to have been “lost” and unknown to
modern artists, few, if any, of whom
could even attempt to copy them.
To show that he could do it Van Mee-
geren volunteered to paint in court
“Christ Preaching in the Temple” and
astonished the experts, who said it
accorded with Vermeer’s style and even
reproduced the famous Vermeer blue and
red. So either Hans is an extraordinarily
gifted painter, in which case it is diffi-
cult to understand why he should descend
to forgery instead of painting in his own
right, or the critics are deluded, I am
inclined to subscribe to the second sup-
position.
Only an artist with a similar under-
standing can judge between the work of
an Old Master and a copy—critics and
“experts” who apply chemical tests can’t
do it simply by looking. And even
artists can be deluded.
Two competent artists in Melbourne
were surveying a pupil’s copy of a Corot.
One of them declared that it was impos-
sible to distinguish original from copy.
The other said “Yes, it is impossible to
distinguish between them while they are
hanging together. But I’ll go into the
next room and you can bring in either
the original or the copy and'Til tell you
which you’ve brought in.” He did it at
the first go—in fact, everybody picked
the copy without any difficulty whatever,
F. S.
SUNDRY shows.
Sydney art exhibitions:
A pleasant water-color at Kenneth Mac Queen s
exhibition at the Grosvenor Galleries is The
Waterhole”; a pale but suave landscape, rather
like a Harold Herbert, in which the artist has
courageously attempted to show that a couple
of kangaroos are a natural part of the Aus-
tralian countryside, and has succeeded. Finely
and delicately painted, the animals are not
mere studies for a naturalist’s notebook, but
as proper and as necessary an adjunct to the
landscape as are the cattle in a Gruner oil.
This is something of a departure for Mr. Mac-
Queen, who is usually concerned less with the
life of the earth than with its shape: tending
to freeze it into a geometrical pattern. When
he paints a breaking wave, for instance, his
foam is solid: not without a certain formal
charm, but hard and motionless as ice. When
he paints a cloud, too often it is a white cigar.
“Sinking the Tank,” showing farm laborers in
action, has an unusual and attractive warmth;
and, though its over-dramatised sky puts it
among the unreal landscapes, “Queensland
Beach”, in a harmony of blue water and
greenish-brown foreshore, shows a nice piece
of observation. The characteristic experiments
such as “Afternoon Tide” look their best at a
distance a little greater than that usually re-
quired by water-color: about the width of the
average room, when their lifeless patterns look
quite natural and pleasing, like the patterns of
landscape one sees from an aeroplane.
Kenneth Mac Queen’s exhibition stands out
among the current crop in Sydney because the
artist does seem to have extended his powers
to the full. His water-colors are sizeaMe; there
is a certain cold opulence about his work. It
may have its limitations, but it is a wholly
creditable performance. Paul Beadle, a London
sculptor having a joint show with Hal Missing-
ham at the Macquarie Galleries, presumaMy lets
himself go when he tackles his sculpture. Here
he shows pencil drawings only; good, strong
and sincere work within that limited medium.
The best that can be said for Mr. Missingham’s
efforts is that they have a touch of humor.
They look like indeed, they may be—quick
sketches done with a fountain pen on the backs
of envelopes and, though they are harmless
enough, it really would not matter very much
if Mr. Missingham put them in the cellars of
the N. S. Wales National Gallery... .where,
being the newly appointed director, he is re-
ported to have put some works of rather greater
importance.
Hayward Veal’s show at the Royal Art
Society gallery is neither as flippant as Mr.
Missingham’s nor as impressive as Mr. Mac-
Queen’s. The artist is very much a Meldrumite,
with the curious affection of all that fraternity
for backgrounds of a sticky chocolate-brown
which represents, presumably, eternity.
Applied to landscape, the method results in a
picture flat and commonplace or, when subtlety
is aimed at, merely vague. A couple of bright
yellow daffodils or about six dabs of bright
pink representing a spray of blossom look
effective against the chocolate-brown; but at
best this is a very slight statement.
Of Lou Vernon’s return from radio to
the stage as the 'heavy father in Sydney
Minerva’s “Pink String and Sealing
Wax” it need only be said that he lived
up to his beard: for he sported a magnifi-
cent ziff and carried it with aplomb.
Brought from Doris Fitton’s Indepen-
dents, Sumner Locke-Elliott, as his down-
trodden son forlornly interested in
bicycles and barmaids, made an excellent
first-appearance and showed a welcome
restraint. Minnie Love, playing wife to
the Master, and Shirley Nicholls, Pat-
ricia Burrington and Lesley Pope as their
three rebellious daughters, were all not
only capable but charming. Shirley
Donald, playing the part of a pub-
lican’s erring wife who seduces the
downtrodden youth, poisons her hus-
band and (the heavy father is a chemist)
nearly involves the whole family in
disaster, seemed to introduce an element
of raw melodrama that robbed the last
act of some of its appeal. A short lady,
encased in a tight-fitting gown to her
ankles, she looked too much like some
sort of a cocoon struggling out of its
sheath; awkward in her movements and
correspondingly bizarre in her speech.
However, it is difficult to poison a pub-
lican without being accused of melo-
drama, and Miss Donald certainly gave
the requisite impression of vitality.
Written by Ronald Pertwee and attrac-
tively set in the ’eighties, the play has
crisp and witty dialogue and, if not of
world-shaking importance, is a welcome
change from the characteristic Minerva
programmes. It may be, now that the war
is over, that all plays do not have to be
about an American soldier and a flapper.
At the talkies:
“A Royal Scandal” (Sydney Mayfair) :
Comedy on the love-life of Catherine the
Great, spun by Lajos Biro with wit and dex-
terity. The whole of the action takes place in-
side the St. Petersburg Palace, and the enormous
multi-roomed setting is* itself a work of art.
Charles Coburn, silk-smooth as the crafty
Chancellor, Tallulah Bankhead as the man-
eating Catherine, and Anne Baxter as a maid-
in-waiting, handle a lively play with great verve.
“I Live in Grosvenor Square” (West’s, Adel-
aide): Plea for trans-Atlantic unity, British-
made. An American soldier is billeted on a
duke, whose grand-daughter (Anna Neagle) is in
love with an English officer, but at once falls for
the visitor. The rest is a contest in chivalry,with
each of the men giving up his own claim; till
at last the author kills off the American for a
final church scene on “Mrs. Miniver” lines.
Pleasant of its kind.
“Waterloo Road” (Melb. Athenaeum): Pre-
ceded by a trailer in color of “Henry V,” de-
picting London as it was in the days of Shak-
speare, is the story of a private soldier who
goes a.w.l. on hearing that his wife is playing up
with a pugilist. The aggrieved husband tracks
down the potential seducer during a blitz and,
in a battle for British morals which must be
about the bloodiest screen fight on record, com-
pletely dwarfs the attendant Battle for London.
He mars the beauty of the handsome boxer and
returns triumphant to his unit, leaving his wife
happy and repentant with a baby in the offing.
Anything but Shakspearean, though well acted.
Sydney Independent’s version of “The
Barretts of Wimpole Street” was polished,
psychologically plausible and not too
remote from the historic love affair of
Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett.
It was also something of a personal
triumph for Marie Rosenfeld, whose fine
and sensitive interpretation of Elizabeth
Barrett was largely responsible for the
success of the show. The character of
Elizabeth is a difficult one to portray on
the stage—it is apt to turn awkward and
“lumpy,” at best eccentric, in inexpert
hands. Miss Rosenfeld’s Elizabeth was
alive and dignified and moving. At times
she rose from the prose of the play into
the very poetry of drama. John Alden, as
Browning, was disappointing. Poets are
a notoriously misunderstood race, and
Browning has had his share of misrepre-
sentation, but it is doubtful if he has ever
been so thoroughly misinterpreted before
—he was like the average schoolboy’s
notion of a poet, all emotion and gesti-
culations. In any other company Ross
Buchanan’s Papa Barrett would have been
outstanding, but, like the rest of the cast,
he is overshadowed by Marie Rosenfeld.
Dorothy Darling, as the feather-brained
Bella, and Jessica Noad, as Henrietta,
were both capable. In the difficult and
highly emotional scene where Henrietta
clings to her father’s legs she is extremely
good. As is usual at an Independent first
night, the applause was hearty and sus-
tained.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
/
n
■*>
VI ■
A
ST*
ES7*
IP
(\
Hk*
■
m
'•'i-
-J
1
Ik
i
KB
if
&
&
2
*
M
ri os
. ■ ■
m
m
mm
1
/
ii
/MEI
*u -
V.
Hi
■
r
*y
pj||y : y
ife: )'-.
■ /
-
<■ v m
■■■ > ''■■ ' . ■*•<-;'*'
r?V
i f,
IP
m
i M \
f '
! mj
B
MM
■ill
i ■: .!
! *''i > VC»
„t i I
V? "■ g
W/-
m
w/
W€m%S tßSrm
i. .
iite.
99
BUY NOW FOR A RAINY DAY
'No coupons.
MEN'S LIGHTWEIGHT WATERPROOF JACKETS 100%
waterproof, full cut for ease, storm fronts. Reinforced rustless
buttons, special armhole ventilators. In a serviceable Grey,
the Coat weighs 200z5., and will give long service. Suitable for
Golfers, Fishermen, Hikers, Farmers and all outdoor wear.
Sizes: 36 in., 38 in., 40 in. and 42 in. chests. Price 257-
No coupons.
NOTE.— We are holding stocks for our country Clients— to
save disappointment order NOW.
.303 RIFLE AMMUNITION .303 Rifle
Cartridges are now available from us
. . . at the price of 25/- per hundred.
A, district Police Permit must be obtained when ordering.
Permits are free.
• Lower Ground Floor —Pitt Street.
ENGLISH COTTON TWEED TROUSERS,
for hard wear, 3 pockets, belt loops,
adequately cut, soft inside finish. Neat
dark patterns. 30" to 50" waist. Price, 20/1
4 coupons.
i v
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY
'RNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


PERKINS'S BAY
BY BRIAN JAMES.
• I ONG JACK RYAN and Teddy
Sims were going swimming. It was
a very hot day, the first real heat
““ of a summer that had beeii un-
seasonably long in coming.
Down on the flat the pale-green wil-
lows that lined the Cookabundy looked
cool and inviting, the more so that they
shaded the long waterhoLe called Per-
kins’s Bay.
Hereabouts the Cookabundy had en-
tered its middle age: river gums on the
flats, huge trees scattered here and there,
never close together so that each tree
was a distinct individual; deep soil
banks, very steep on the concave side of
a bend ; willows and a few big sheoaks;
and long paddocks of lucerne and corn,
occasionally a strip of pumpkins. The
flanking hills were low and gentle-sloped,
and the big ranges were a dim blue in the
distant east like a half-forgotten
memory. Very soon the Cookabundy
would be really an old-man river—a little
old man.
Long Jack and Teddy were making
down the ringbarked slope to the flat.
Long Jack was tall and bony, with a
rather good-looking face that made him
conceited and walk in a ludicrous manner
about halfway between a strut and a
stroll. He was now laying down the
law in a high-pitched, nasal tone. “I
said to the old man Tye had enough
and I’m through’ ”
“And what did he say to that?” asked
Teddy from the corner of his mouth.
Teddy always talked through one corner
or the other, and it gave him a shifty
look, especially as his eyes also could
look through their corners. Shrewd
observers reckoned it was a gift, and
would come in handy for Teddy when he
got into jail, which they hopefully pre-
dicted he would do sooner or later.
“Gawd—you should have heard him!
He was worth hearing,” said Jack with
no little pride, though the admiration
was for himself and not the old man.
“He says ‘Youse is always complaining,’
and I says ‘Why not? It’s me that keeps
the bloody place together’; and he yells
‘Don’t you swear in front of me,’ and I
yells ‘Too bloody right I will, and I
ain’t said anything yet, either’; and he
says ‘lt would be cheaper to pay a man’;
and I says I’d like to know where you’d
gel a man for the few miserable bob yqu
sling me a few times a year—unless you
got one of the Lynches, one of the sillier
ones, that is.’ ”
Teddy laughed lightly and mirthlessly.
Presumably the sort of laugh that would
also come in handy in jail. Teddy was
nearly five-feet-four and lightly built, and
he had a pear-shaped head, but 'he was
a holy terror with his fists, and “game as
a bull-ant” ; he loved fighting, too, no
doubt because he didn’t seem to notice
getting hurt. “That’s good—about the
Lynches. Guess he didn’t like that.”
“He didn’t. Just shut up. He’s scared
as blazes that I’ll leave. So I just says
‘Not a bloody tap more today!’ and
w'alks right off without telling him where
I’m going.”
THEY were passing Lynches’ place—a
few hundred yards to their right. It
bore the courtesy title of farm, and there
was a rusty mower and a rickety hay-
rake and a tumbledown dray under a
big yellow-box tree to prove it. Only
the dray was any present use —the tur-
keys roosted on the shafts and the fowls
on what was left of the sides. The Lynch
home bore a striking resemblance to the
dray.
There were a lot of Lynches, and they
ran much to a pattern, though it varied
from half-silly to very silly. There were
Lynches that might be seen in public and
1 ■'hes that might be viewed only in
' private.
dark my wurrds, I said, when
them two got married thurrty-three
years ago ; I said then that it would come
out in the thurrd generation, just like it
always does and always will. You’ll see,
I said, they’ll have a pack of ijits—that
is, if they have anything.” These
words were reiterated from time to time
by Cornelius Joseph Regan (old C.J. of
the Round Swamp). He was a true pro-
phet, and not the less so in the mournful
satisfaction he derived from foretelling
awful things that came true.
There was noise over at Lynches’—
there generally was, something like an
Irish civil war that did not have the
support of the aristocracy.
“No doubt about it, but they’re a queer
lot, them Lynches,” said Long Jack. “1
can see the old man with one of them
woikmg for him!” He gave a chuckle
at the humor of it. “Fancy having
Fonny or Nacie or even Michael Francis
about the place!”
“Fonny” and “Nacie,” by the way,
were convenient diminutives for Alphon-
sus and Ignatius. The longer “Michael
Francis” was, for some reason, nevei
shortened. Perhaps because it sounded
funnier that way. All the Lynches had
names much above the ordinary, and
tradition had it that old Father Moran
was responsible, apparently considering
that no Lynch had any capacity for
making a proper choice of good saints’
names.
KJ OW from the ramshackle Lynch
* home, Michael Francis was seen
emerging and hastening aslant the slope
as though to cut off Long Jack and
Teddy. There was a big silly grin on
his face as he came up to them.
Also there were enthusiasm and sur-
prise. These were always there.
“Holy cripes!” was Michael Francis’s
greeting. “I see you two coming out of
the trees just now. Holy cripes, I did.”
“How’s the girl?” asked Teddy.
“Aw, she’s line. Haven’t asked her
yet, though. But she’ll keep all right.”
A look of simple cunning passed over
Michael Francis’s face, and he moved his
mouth from side to side to extend his
young black moustache, of which he was
very fond and proud. The young fellows
roundabout had made him believe he was
a “great masher now” with the girls, and
that Thelma Herring, whose father was
shire president (and still climbing), was
pining for him. Furthermore, it was
pointed out that old Herring was break-
ing his neck for the match, because
Michael Francis’s father worked on the
roads for the council—he had secured
the job somehow when he retired from
active farming. “He likes to keep things
in the family, old Herring does,” they
told Michael Francis, and Michael
Francis thought there might be some-
thing in that, too.
“Where are you two going now?” he
asked.
Long Jack and Teddy exchanged
glances—Teddy, on account of his gift,
not having to turn his head.
“We’re going to Perkins’s Bay for a
swim. What about coming in?”
“Holy cripes, no! Not me.”
“But you’re a good swimmer.”
“Used to be. Can’t swim a bit now.”
“We’ll, come along, anyway.”
Michael Francis seemed glad enough
to do so. There had been a big
“Donnygo,” as he called it, up at home
just now, and he didn’t think he’d go
back there any more. He wasn’t very
clear what the row was about. Cross-
examination revealed nothing very intel-
ligible.
Near Perkins’s Bay Sid Hudson was
turning over some ground for late corn.
A cloud of dust surrounded him and
his team as they crawled over the pad-
dock. The three waited for him outside
the fence. The team of two big bays
grunted qnd heaved, and pricked ears
hopefully at the three leaning at various
angles over the top rail. Dirty drops of
sweat were falling from the horses’ flanks
and bellies. *
“Whoa! ” called Sid, and threw the
single furrow onto its side.
“She’s too dry.” Long Jack was prop-
erly critical,
Sid agreed: “That’s what I said to the
old bloke. Should have been ploughed a
fortnight ago. But he knows better. He
always does.”
“We’re going in for a swim, Sid. You’d
better come, too.”
“My oath, I will!” Sid drove the team
along the headland to a spot where they
wouldn’t be in view of the Hudson home.
Then they all went down the oblique
track in the steep bank. It led to a
narrow, gravelly beach, and upstream
from that to a short-clipped stretch of
water-couch, very soft and very green.
Here were three other young chaps in
the act of undressing. There were Amby
Horan, Peter Smith, who worked in the
butter factory in town and who came
out most afternoons to “do a line” with
Amby’s sister, and did it mostly through
Amby, as it were ; and “Boy” Sinclair,
the horse-breaker. These greeted the re-
inforcements with profane vigor.
A SPECIAL welcome was accorded
Michael Francis—mocking, patronis-
ing, solicitous, but not profane. At least
that was so on the part of Amby and
Peter. “Boy” Sinclair didn’t say much
at all except “Aw, leave the'poor simp
alone.”
There was rapid undressing. Swimming
togs were simply not heard of in that
part of the world in those days, and
would have been considered effeminate
if they had been. Towels were likewise
not in favor: “What do you want a towel
for when you dry in a minute?” Women
and girls didn’t swim, and kept away
from Perkins’s Bay. It wasn’t thought
nice for girls to be able to swim. Cer-
tainly, the two Donovan girls could swim
—learnt with the boys, they did. But
then, no one wanted to be like the
Donovan girls.
All but Michael Francis were soon in
a complete and unblushing state qf
nature. The inevitably lewd and natural
remarks were passed, and “Boy” Sinclair
trotted over the gravelly beach and dived
into the clear water. He was a good
swimmer, - and in powerful breast-stroke
swam down the long stretch in the shade
of the willows. The others were nego-
tiating with Michael Francis. “Aw, come
on, what are you frightened of?”
“Holy cripes—l’m not frightened of
anything, but I can’t swim now.”
“You needn’t go into the deep water,
Michael Francis. And if you did, we’d
pull you out.” It was Long Jack who
was most insistent. But it was Teddy
Sims who issued the final warning—“If
you don’t undress, Michael Ffancis, we’ll
just chuck you in as you are.”
They had all gone to school with
Michael Francis. He and the other
Lynches had always been fair game, and
on that score alone had almost justified
their existences. But no one had ever
seen Michael Francis stripped, and there
was a persistent rumor that, in addition
to his mental deficiencies, there were cer-
tain grotesque physical aberrations and
blemishes as well. Curiosity as well as
anticipation of getting fun out of Michael
Francis was in the urging to undress. -
Now he took off his shirt and folded
it with maddening precision, and, pro-t
curing a small boulder, he placed it on
top of the shirt. Then he took off his
bluchers, and placed them one on each
side of the boulder. He tucked up his
trousers above his very dirty knees and
grinned amiably; “I’ll just be having a
little paddle.”
“Like hell, you will,” said Teddy.
“You’re coming in with the rest of us.”
“Shake it up, Michael Francis!” ex-
horted the others. “When you get in
we’ll find it hard to drag you out again.”
Michael Francis took off his pants. It
was quite disappointing, really: there
it was really Michael Francis’s first essay
they could see.
In spite of his boast that he could
swim once and had forgotten how to,
it was really Michael Francis’s first essay
in the water. The general notion seemed
to be to cajole him into the deep water
and enjoy his antics. There were plenty
there to pull him out. He was sure to
be as funny in the water as anywhere
else. They led him along the gravel into
the shallow water. He gave a squeal like
some animal when the water came to his
knees.
“Good, isn’t it, Michael Francis?”
enthused Amby Horan. And Michael
Francis said “He! He!” in an ecstatic
sort of way.
They urged him forward, “It’s only
up to your navel anywhere here,” they
promised. And Michael stepped forward
gingerly, saying “He! He!” and “Holy
cripes!” every now and then.
T'FIAT shelving gravel came to an
* abrupt end and dropped straight down
twelve or fifteen feet. They knew that,
and of course Michael Francis didn’t.
They waited expectantly for the great
moment.
It came. Michael threw up his arms
and disappeared with a noise that sounded
like “Bloh.” It was worth waiting for,
and a joyous shout went up: “What oh!
What oh!”
Michael Francis reappeared, helpless
and horrified, and disappeared again. Just
then “Boy” Sinclair came over from the
opposite bank. “You bloody fools, you’ll
drown him!”
Michael Francis appeared again, and
“Boy” was almost straight on to him.
Michael Francis clutched “Boy” wildly,
round the neck it seemed, and they both
went down after a brief struggle. No one
else seemed to have much presence of
mind left. The struggling pair reappeared
—locked together, and no one was able
to pull them out. “Get them next time
and don’t miss!” called Amby Horan,
But there wasn’t any next time.
“God!” someone said after an eternity
of waiting. They were all white-faced
now. And they knew, too, they weren’t
such wonderful swimmers after all, and
not a decent diver among them.
There was frantic and ineffectual
diving. But fifteen feet of water was too
much. They were nearly drowned them-
selves when they got back to the surface.
Peter Smith got right down once. He
was all in when they fished him out. At
last he blubbered: “They’re there all
right,” as though it was a matter of
merest conjecture that they were in the
water at all.
But the minutes and minutes went by,
piling up into such time as everyone
knew was hopeless. They kept up the
useless diving. There was no help to be
had. Nothing they could do, and a deep
sense, not so much of guilt, as of looking
foolish. It was unspoken, but if it had
gone to words it would have been Blast
the Lynches for putting us into this fix!
And there was “Boy” Sinclair, too.
Decent fellow, “Boy.” Just too bad!
There was a road on the other side of
the river, about 150 yards from the line
of willows, and running paralleL There
came the sound of a horse cantering, and
Long Jack and Am by Horan splashed
through the shallow and up the far bank.
They yelled wildly and incoherently.
What help they expected it was hard to
say. But they yelled and gesticulated
tragedy. By chance the horseman was
Keith Sinclair, “Boy’s” older brother. He
jumped from his horse and ran over the
strip of lucerne.
“What is it? What’s wrong?” he
gasped.
“ ‘Boy’!”
The three were running down the bank
by this.
“Drowning! Hasn’t come up!”
Keith was in the water in a twinkling.
He was the, calmest of them all. “Now,
just where?” he asked.
He dived. He could dive. It was ages
before he broke water again. He took in
great gulps of air. “There—are —
two . . . Don’t know —if I . . . Who
is?”
“Poor silly Michael Francis,” Long
Jack Ryan fairly wept.
“Do my best Be ready—
when”
There was another age of waiting. This
time the three came up.
THERE was no end of shock and ex-
citement over the double drowning.
Stories and rumors and accounts went the
rounds and differed widely. It was Teddy
Sims who first saw the necessity of some
sort of consistency. Pretty quick that
way was Teddy.
“We must give about the same sort of
story,” he impressed on the others. Also,
Teddy saw the simple importance of
accounting for Michael Francis’s being
in the water.
“He just come in, see! We reckoned
he could swim. How was we to know
he couldn’t? Don’t say too much. Don’t
know—if they ask. Just say simply that
—he came in. See?”
It was wisdom, even if it wasn’t of the
highest kind. And it worked. There may
have been doubts in many places, but
the coroner returned the usual verdict,
with the usual salutary recommendations.
In a way, those swimmers got a sort
of fame simply because they had been
present at a tragedy. Certainly they had
made no rescue, but, then, that was be-
yond their powers. Some people said,
of course, they might have done better.
Keith Sinclair was the only real hero —
and a very broken one for long after.
But the others were half heroes—or at
least they had a value for the sake of
their morbid interest. They didn’t seem
anxious to say too much, however. And
people said that was natural, and gave
them credit even while they craved for
more detail.
The Wenn family, at the Grey Box,
cashed in very considerably on their own
account, because Tom Wenn had been
talking to “Boy” Sinclair “that very after-
noon, just before he went along to Per-
kins’s Bay.” It seemed that Tom was
the “very last person” “Boy” had spoken
to before he went to the swimming hole.
But the Wenns had always been lucky
that way —always some member of the
family was the last before or the first
after when anything really worth while
happened.
Cornelius Joseph Regan (old C.J.)
asked everyone again to mark his words,
and appeared to have had a pretty clear
foreknowledge of the drowning, though
he hadn’t seen fit to mention it before it
happened . . . “It always shows in the
thurrd generation . . . always has . . . and
always will.”
Father Moran came out to console the
Lynches, which was very decent of him,
the Lynches being what they were. Mr.
Lynch was already back at his road work
and Mrs. Lynch was a bit dazed . . .
“And I do want you. Father, to take a
gobbler back with you Leo can have
his head off while you wink.”
Father Moran, good man, didn’t want
the gobbler, but he took it just the same,
and Mrs. Lynch was delighted, as though
a load had been lifted from her mind.
Over the hill at Ryans Long Jack
for some reason or other didn’t have
another row with his old man for ever so
long. But Teddy Sims got into jail all
right—just after the annual show.
Perkins’s Bay took on a sinister reputa-
tion, and the young fellows found other
holes in the Cookabundy for their
swimming.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3430
Wednesday, November 7, 1945
ANOTHER VICTORY FOR COMMUNISTS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
H.C.E.
One hitherto unconsidered feature of
“ ‘Labor’s’ foreign policy,” such of it as
has not been handed over to Communist
union bosses, is its great and growing cost
in terms of money.
,A “hang-the-expense” note was struck
by Dr. Evatt when he set up the Mos-
cow Legation, on which £30,000 a year
is being spent to no identifiable benefit.
There was also set up by Dr. Evatt a
school for training young diplomats of
both sexes. Now it is hard to pick up
a paper without reading that some
gentleman or other is “representing Aus-
tralia” in some remote country, and that
others have been appointed or expect
to be appointed to “represent Aus-
tralia” in other distant parts of the world.
Last week’s issue included a Mr.
McMahon Ball, who has been named
“Australian Government political repre-
sentative attached to the Allied Com-
mander in the Netherlands East Indies”
—supererogatory, since the determina-
tion of Australian relations with the
N.E.L has been left to the Communist-
controlled Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, with assistance from the Com-
munist-controlled Seamen’s Union and
other unions controlled by Communists
and fellow-travellers, and from the
A.C.T.U. and “affiliated” Labor Councils.
Mr. McMahon Ball was one of the
huge staff with which Dr, Evatt sur-
rounded himself at the United Nations
conference in San Francisco. There
were besides Dr. Evatt and Mr. Forde,
who was permitted to open his mouth
now and then for another purpose than
that of taking in food, four politicians
classified as “assistants and consultants,”
twelve other “assistants and consultants,”
seven “advisers,” a secretary and “two
assistants to the secretary,” three private
secretaries, three “press relations officers,”
two military aides, a “finance officer”
and ten young women designated “cleri-
cal staff.” So far the bills have not been
disclosed to Parliament, but they must
have been enormous, and out of all
reason considering that the thing resolved
itself into a one-man show.
In less expansive days a delegate from
the trade-unions, another from the
Employers’ Federation and a man from
Australia House were considered suffi-
cient to speak for Australia at Inter-
national Labor Office conferences.
“Labor” has altered all that. To the
1.L.0. conference in Philadelphia last
year went Minister Beasley with a large
party. To the one at Paris last month
went Minister Fraser, two Labor poli-
ticians who jhad missed out at the elec-
tions of Federal Ministers, two gentle-
men from the A.C.T.U. and two em-
ployers. In the general spawning of
“organisations” this 1.L.0. has become
of very doubtful value, especially as
Russia still refuses to recognise it. But
Trades Hall worthies see in it a chance
of introducing the 40-hour week by
international treaty with Panama or some
other country, in the process cunningly
manipulating the Commonwealth Con-
stitution and getting round the result of
the powers referendum, and assurances
that Ministers would never, never think
of such a thing—well, not in respect of
“full employment,”
One of. these now-questionable assur-
ances came from Dr. Evatt. The Parlia-
mentary reports (August 30) are quoted:
Mr. Anthony: It is not intended to’use
the powers given under this international
agreement [the charter of the United
Nations] to override the decision of the
referendum.
Dr. Evatt: It is not. By approving of
this charter we do not attempt to give to •
this Parliament any additional legislative
powers. What is done under this obliga-
tion will be a matter for the consideration
of the Assembly or the Economic Council
year try year. Any proposal or convention
put before the different countries will have
to be either accepted or rejected. But
it is equally true that, should a specific
agreement on employment, or, indeed, any
other subject, be made by Australia as a
result of the working of this organisation,
it will not only be within the power of this
Parliament, but also its duty, if it approves
of the agreement, to ensure that it shall
be given effect and that it shall not be
a dead letter. 1 do not want to enter into
a long legal discussion. 1 merely say that
the idea that this was merely a means of
overcoming the failure at the referendum
to obtain a general power in respect of
employment... an attempt to induce 50
nations to do something which would enable
us to reverse the referendum decision .. .
is fantastic.
The suggestion itself is so “fantastic”
that nobody made it. Nor did anyone
suppose that if a radical alteration of
industrial conditions were attempted by
way of a treaty with some foreign country
and an exercise of the external-affairs
power undreamt-of by the makers of the
Commonwealth Constitution, Parliament
would not be asked to sanction it. But
that Parliament has, and may conceivably
go on having, “Labor” majorities. And
there is nothing in its record of subser-
vience to the unions which are campaign-
ing for “full employment” and a 40-hour
week or in that of Dr. Evatt, as the Min-
ister responsible for the production of
never-enforced National Security regula-
tions against.strikes and “absenteeism” and
the enforcement of never-enforced indus-
trial legislation, or even in his plausible
speech on the United Nations Charter
Bill to warrant the belief that appease-
ment of these unions and the A.C.T.U.
and the Communists by tricky legalistic
methods will not be tried.
Another feature of “ ‘Labor’s’ foreign
policy,” as marked at international con-
ferences, is that there is always a wrangle
with the British at the worst possibl’e time
for wrangles with the British, even if war-
ranted, which they are not. Even the
appearance of disunity within the British
Commonwealth when unity is the prime
need is apt to be bad for the British Corn-
wealth and to have nasty foreign reper-
cussions, even in Java. Moreover, the
wranglers always look for support be-
yond Britain and the United States to
small-fry countries, particularly Latin-
American republics. The Beasley per-
formance at Philadelphia was summed up
in a headline in one of his favorite
papers: “Beasley Attacks Britain’s
Refusal to Declare Policy on Native
Races.” He found a champion in
Mexico, but Mexico deserted him when
he put up for a place on the governing
committee and was defeated, his only
backers being “Iran, Iraq, Egypt and
several South American republics.”
At Paris “Mr. A. E. Monks, of the
A.C.T.U., took a stand on behalf of
small Powers similar to that taken by
Dr. Evatt at San Francisco.” Supported
by “the Belgian, Cuban and Mexican
workers’ delegates,” Mr. Monks “strongly
opposed the proposal that amendments to
the 1.L.0. constitution could be made
only by consent of of the eight
great industrial Powers.” In “an acute
debate,” a British delegate pointed out
that “the great States kept the 1.L.0.
going,” and argued that it should not
be possible for them to be voted down by
a “sudden” cabal of small countries.
This view prevailed, and presumably Mr.
Monk received the condolences of the
workers’ delegates from Cuba, Mexico,
Guatemala, Honduras, Haiti and other
hopes of humanity. But a Mr. Kenny,
“member of the inter-State executive of
the A.C.T.U.,” found consolation in “a
decision in favor of a 40-hour week,”
made by “a draft convention of the
1.L.0. in 1935," and argued that “by rati-
fying this decision, the Federal Govern-
ment could introduce a 40-hour week
throughout Australia by legislation.”
“Dr. Evatt’s stand at San Francisco”
is sufficiently well known, it having been
the subject of millions of words. When
free to speak, Mr. McEwen, one of the
16 “assistants and consultants,” made
some wounding remarks about it. Not
so well known is the fact that Dr. Evatt,
in his “fight” for something or other
(abroad, he is always “fighting” for some-
thing or other, though at home Com,-
munists and all manner of lawbreak-
ing union larrikins have found no
more fight in him than there is
in a frilled lizard), found admirers
among the representatives of Chile,
Colombia, Cuba, Iran, Mexico, Panama
and “El Salvador,” the “El Salvador”
gentleman being, however, “unavoidably
absent” when a ballot was taken. In the
final vote on “the Yalta formula” the
actual objectors and conscientious ab-
stainers consisted of Colombia, Cuba (ob-
jectors), Peron’s Argentina, Australia,
Belgium, Bolivia, Chile, Egypt, “El Sal-
vador,” Guatemala, Iran, Mexico, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Panama,
Paraguay and Peru.
Present indications are that unless
middle-class taxpayers strongly object
(“Labor” is finding pressing reasons for
humoring them) Australia will be saddled
with the cost of establishing legations in
all the countries mentioned where they
don’t already exist. It will matter nothing
that Australian trade with some of them
scarcely amounts to a bag of flour or
birdseed. But Canberra officials and
young diplomats in training should not
imagine that the prizes will be reserved
for them. Judging by the appointments
to the Moscow washout, “Labor” poli-
ticians and Trades Hall worthies will
have prior claims. And it may be that a
rather large number of “Labor” politi-
cians will be unemployed after the
general election.
R e d Fascists and the Forces.
Any thoughtful person whose youth was
at its spring when World War I ended
cannot fail to regard with misgiving the
changes which have been taking place in
Australia during the six years of World
War 11, changes identified with irrespon-
sible, sport-crazed and feminised jour-
nalism, and with leaders and politicians
who have risen with the growth of Com-
munism and Leftist Laborism.
When World War I ended the Common-
wealth had Jess than five-sevenths of its
present population. Its secondary indus-
tries were developed only to an infant
stage. Yet its fighting men had won for
it a proud military reputation which had
palpable effects at the Peace Conference.
It was a distinct nation with supreme con-
fidence in itself, in its system, and in its
ability to build its own future. And it
had that great thing leadership, centred
at first in a dynamic little man who,
though capable of differing bitterly in
party warfare and of making ghastly
blunders, could be relied upon when the
need arose to crystallise national opinion
and to hold his own as the voice of his
country in any company.
The end of World War II sees in the
seat of this forceful fellow a gentleman
of whom even that part of the press
which affects to idolise him cannot say
better than that he is “good and grey,”
and whose pipe seems greater and more
prominent than himself in the minds of
those who encounter him, judging by the
publicity which it receives.
The Forde of 1918-20 was a young
man who spent much of his time draped
across an armchair in the rococo fast-
nesses of Brisbane Parliament House, in-
diting congratulations to constituents
blessed with happy events and copying
out extracts from the poems of Ella
Wheeler Wilcox to be retailed to an
astonished Assembly which still boasted
a forest of wirewhiskers. That era would
have roared in derision at the idea that
this unwarlike incarnation of platitudes,
who failed to reach office when Queens-
land Ministries were at their lowest ebb
of quality for forty years, could ever be
a war-time Army Minister with an enemy
at the gates.
Yet the changes which have brought
into power a crop of rulers who not
only did not fight in the last war, but
in the later phases tried to prevent other
people from fighting, and whose “policy”
between the wars made it almost impos-
sible to defend the country without out-
side help in 1941, 1942 and 1943, is symp-
tomatic of the deeper and more alarming
changes of which their “ascendancy” is
the outward symbol.
Patriotism was once the directing force
in our public life. The word “Common-
wealth” had a literal significance and
embodied an almost religious aspiration
towards greatness which was not the pre-
rogative of any party, which raised an
equal warmth of feeling in the followers
of Deakin and of Fisher. The defence
system was the creation of all parties,
which differed only in their eagerness to
outdo each other in implementing it as
their mutual instrument of policy.
-And the citizen soldier who risked his
life became, from sheer motives of grati-
tude, regarded as somebody a little above
and better than his fellows. His com-
manders were revered as crusaders for
ideas which were esteemed as crystallis-
ing the best virtues of those whom they
led and whose efforts they orchestrated.
The captains of France, Gallipoli and
Palestine were certain of a preference in
public life if they cared to enter it. When
they returned from overseas they were
carried high through the streets by cheer-
ing crowds of their own men. By the
electors scores of them were carried
shoulder-high into seats in all Parlia-
ments. It mattered not whether the seats
were normally Labor —like Brisbane,
which dislocated its usual loyalties to
enthrone Donald Cameron, commander
of a Light Horse regiment in Palestine —
or Fremantle or Flinders.
Thus there flowed into the national
Parliament Bruce, Neville Howse, V.C.,
Gellibrand, Elliott, Glasgow, Ryrie, Page,
Latham, Hawker, Bell, Brand, Cox,
Gullett, Collett, White, Sampson, Casey,
Street, Fairbairn and many more. Those
who had fought to save the country be-
came, by common consent, its rulers for
many years.
Had Chauvel, Monash and Brudenell
White cared for Parliamentary honors,
seats and office would have been theirs
for the asking.
Today their soldiering would be a han-
dicap rather than otherwise to them in
many quarters. If recent election
examples are any criterion the brash
young demagogue who has done no fight-
ing has the edge on the fighting soldier.
To have shown qualities of leadership
and to have risen to be an officer is to
attract the sneers of a large section of
the electors and to place the man with
such claims at a disadvantage. Officers
are no longer carried shoulder high by
cheering crowds of soldiers. The A.M.F.
itself, bewildered, bitter at neglect and
suspicious, is threatened with faction.
The country has had dreadful samples
of what is going on within the past week
or two.
A mere routine inquiry by the Army
into the domestic matter of a gen-
eral’s escape from a war front at the
point of surrender, an inquiry generated
by a report extraneous to the A.M.F.
and perhaps to the advantage rather than
the disadvantage of the general con-
cerned, has been applied to the purposes
of every disruptionist with a grudge
against the High Command or with any-
thing to gain by weakening the unity of
outlook of the defence forces.
A sudden series of charges likely to
smirch officers as a class and divide them
from their men has sprung, fully formu-
lated, from two Communist-controlled
bodies, the Sydney and Brisbane Trades
and Labor Councils.
From soldiers of the Eighth Division
there have been heard isolated complaints
of a piece with those brought to light by
these Trades and Laboi Councils. The
whole detestable business raises anxious
thoughts in the minds of those who know
how the situation is being used for evil
and dangerous purposes by avowed Com-
munists.
The Government seems blind and deaf
to what is happening. It has allowed the
services not only to become saturated
with Communist propaganda but perme-
ated by Communist agents. It was dumb
and inert when revolting lies were circu-
lated about the treatment of Indonesians
at Bundaberg fQ.) by the friendly and
humane Dutch. A Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” man dealt with this affair in a
pithy sentence;
Communists in camp, primed from out-
side, told exaggerated stories of the scuffle.
Leftist elements in the R.A.A.F. magni-
fied minor differences between the Dutch
and the R.A.A.F.
And with a flash of spirit rare in these
days and all the more refreshing on that
account, the secretary of the Bundaberg
Trades and Labor Council —which must
be a very different sort of Trades and
Labor Council —summed it up as “a Com-
munist plot to bring discredit on the whole
working class and the Labor party by
stirring up racial hatred at the Bundaberg
aerodrome among the followers of a self-
confessed Japanese collaborator and our
Dutch Allies.”
Indonesians were alleged to have been
shot and bashed by brutal Dutch pro-
vosts. They turned up unmarked by
sticking plaster or bandages, and “all
smiled and smoked as the train pulled
out.” The whole wicked tale, propagated
by bodies which are now propagating the
tales of Eighth Division officers’ “wrong-
doing,” was invented in v the interests of
colored insurrectionaries in Java, who
have foully murdered British officers, at-
tacked bodies of British troops and are
even now a threat to the safety of every
white woman arid child, every Australian
prisoner-of-war and every British soldier
in the East Indies. The agents of the
same Communists by every means in
their power'are hampering the Dutch in
sehding arms to protect their families —•
those same Dutch who voluntarily de-
clared war on Japan in support of Aus-
tralia when such a declaration meant the
inevitable occupation of their territory
and perhaps the destruction of all their
nationals in the East Indies, and whose
ships have been placed at Australia’s ser-
vice for every operation in which they
could be employed, down to the bring-
ing back of Australian prisoners-of-war
and thousands of wounded.
The fact that these things can happen
without arousing the sense of danger
shows how dulled the powers of appre-
hension of Australian people have
become.
It seems hopeless to expect the “Gov-
ernment” to do anything but crawl to
Communists responsible for the wicked
and destructive strikes. Supineness in the
face of deliberate attempts to divide fight-
ing services is another matter. There
can be few things more dangerous to a
country than sinister sectionalism inside
armed forces, especially when it is im-
plemented by a foreign conspiracy which
aims at setting up conditions favorable
to open insurrection and to the estab-
lishment of a Red Fascist dictatorship
of the proletariat, “according to the
theories of Lenin and Stalin.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dutch Disabilities.
The present position in the Netherlands
East Indies would not have arisen but for
the unique and sad position of the Dutch
in regard to troops.
Holland was the first country on the
French approaches to be invaded (May,
1940), and the last to be liberated. In
the German invasion it lost its army and
all its armament. Practically the same
thing occurred in the Netherlands East
Indies when the Japs overran those
islands.
Dutch forces and resources in the
East Indies were placed wholeheartedly
at the disposal of the Allies. It
would have been a poor lookout for
Australia, in particular, had it not been
for Dutch shipping, Dutch aircraft and
the Dutch bulwark in the East Indies
during the period when raiders were thick
in the Pacific and the Indian Ocean.
Dutch ships of great tonnage such as
the Oranje were handed over as A.I.F.
hospital ships. When the Japanese war
broke out the Dutch mercantile marine,
liners like the Nieu Amsterdam, used
as troop carriers, and Dutch West Indies
oil refineries played a notable part in the
saving of Australia from invasion and in
the defeat of Japan.
Knowing that they were temporarily
sacrificing the last of their resources and
placing their susceptible native popula-
tion for years under the tutelage of cun-
ning Japanese conquerors, the Dutch
showed a far better spirit than did some
North Queensland Communists and near-
Communists under the threat of invasion.
They did not wait for Japanese attack
but declared war. Their Navy fought to
the last ship in the battle of the Macassar
Strait and elsewhere in the actual defence
of Australia’s north, and the delay which
they and other Allies secured in those
forlorn-hope actions helped to change
the course of the war.
After the invasion of Java and Sumatra
the Dutch had next to no trained white
troops. When Holland was about to be
liberated, they proposed that 30,000
Dutchmen should train in Westralia and
join in the Allied effort to recapture their
own islands.
On the score of the paramount demands
for material and instructors for U.S. and
Australian troops, already far more ad-
vanced in the technique of Pacific war-
fare than the Dutch could hope to be
for a long time, the proposal was deferred.
Had there been danger to Australia at
the time every Red Fascist union leader
would have been screaming in panic in
favor of immediate acceptance.
Within the past few days 1600 Dutch-
men have been brought to Australia. It
was suggested that they should be allowed
to train here so that they might take their
place under the Allied Command in which
their naval ships and airmen served
loyally right up to the Japanese surrender.
They have not been landed.
The attitude which refuses a faithful
ally the right to do what the Dutch Gov-
ernment was allowed to do with its native
troops and air and naval personnel in
Australia throughout the war is surly,
ignoble and disgraceful.
The Commonwealth Disposes.
“Bumpkin” : As a farmer in a small way
I journeyed to Fisherman’s Bend in Mel-
bourne to attend what a large brochure
described as i Most Extensive Auction
Sale of Machinery and Surplus Equip-
ment, ordered by the Commonwealth Dis-
posals Commission. There were acres
of it, covering the spots where artists
used to paint the reedy swamps swarm-
ing with ducks, ibises and seagulls, and
I had joyful expectations of picking up
a few necessary articles, domestic and
productive, cheap.
When I arrived the auctioneer’s sten-
torian voice was describing the virtues
of 304 Wooden Mallet Heads and
Handles, all to be sold in one lot. He
passed on to 100 Heavy Buckets, 30
Shovels, 20 tons of Boots and Shoes in
bags, 600 Tableknives, 36 Handsaws
1200 Dessertspoons, 10 sets of Harness
(complete other than Pole Chains), 22
Rakes and 39 Tinned Steel Water Boilers.
When he announced the imminent dis-
posal of 11 tons of Scrap Canvas I
realised that I was present at the usual
display of official stupidity.
If the commission had an ounce of
acumen in its composition it would long
ago have established open marts on the
lines of the wreckers’ yards scattered
about the city and suburbs, where farmers
and thrifty housewives could see the
things they wanted and buy the quanti-
ties they required and if they needed a
covering for a haystack wouldn’t have
to saddle themselves with 11 tons of use-
less canvas. With experienced men in
attendance it would by now have sold a
good half of its stock and relieved the
shortage which is holding up small busi-
nesses in all directions.
By its way of mismanaging the busi-
ness the Government has played into the
hands of dealers who can afford to
buy huge lots wholesale and recoup
themselves by selling retail at exorbitant
prices so that the public will be paying
for the war twice over.
Yet we are supposed to have a Govern-
ment specially concerned about protect-
ing the interests of the workers.
Another Promise.
A REMARKABLE remedy for the great
booze scandal in N. S. Wales has been
put forward by the U.L.V.A. That asso-
ciation of publicans has informed the
McKell Government that it “would like
to see trading hours fixed from 10 a.m,
to 10 p.m., with an hour break or so, so
that customers could go home to dinner.”
It suggested also “reconstruction of the
Licensing Board to give it the status
of a District or Supreme Court,” and that
licences should be issued to “sporting
and social clubs in existence before
1939”; also to restaurants to sell unforti-
fied wines.
In N. S. Wales, as in other States, the
Trade is sorely in need of friends. For
THE MASKED WRESTLER-PREMIER.
“Fellow-sports and electors, you’ll see him unmasked and ready to take on anyone
NEXT SATURDEE NIGHT.”
good and sufficient reasons it has never
had so many critics. Yet its thoughts run
to giving beer hogs an hour off and
preventing newly-formed returned ser-
vicemen’s and other clubs from holding
licences.
Doubtless the Trade has been encour-
aged to make these requests by the
notorious unwillingness of the “Labor’
Government to take this booze scandal
by the throat and shake the innards out
of it. Elected in 1941, when it set up a
special committee “to investigate” the
liquor business and “make recommenda-
tions,” and re-elected in 1944, when it
set up another special committee to
investigate, etc., etc., the Government
made promise after promise of licensing
reform, every one of them washed out
by Time as carelessly as a barmaid sops
up the swill on the average hotel counter
when the beer’s “on” and the mob is
struggling for a drink. The Premier him-
self, fresh from a tour which must have
opened his eyes to the dreadful drinking
conditions in his own State, is out with
yet another promise:
Any suggestion that the State Government
will not introduce reform legislation is un-
warranted. I have given a definite promise
to the country that an amending liquor
bill will be brought down during the present
session and that promise will be kept.
When? Next week? Next month?
No; “Whether it is introduced before
Parliament adjourns for the Christmas
recess depends on progress made with
legislation now before the House. If the
bill is not brought down before Christ-
mas, it certainly will be when the session
resumes in February or March.” Before
the election of June, 1944, Mr. Geraghty,
a publican-member (“Labor,” of course),
threatened to do terrible things to black-
marketeers and adulterators in the Trade,
Mr. Geraghty has since been satisfied to
utter forcible-feeble things from a far-
away fence.
Poet-Prophet.
Poets may not be “the unacknowledged
legislators of mankind,” but they are
among its prophets.
To Tennyson a hundred years ago
came a vision, dreadfully realised in our
time, of “the nations’ airy navies grap-
pling in the central blue.” In another
poem his mind turned to Britain, “whole
within herself,”
A nation yet, the rulers and the ruled—
Some sense of duty, something of a faith,
Some reverence for the laws ourselves have
made,
Some patient force to change them when we
will,
Some civic manhood firm against the crowd
As true now as when it was written, and
so is this picture of the Mad Continent:
But yonder, whiff! there comes a sudden heat,
The gravest citizen seems to lose his head.
The king is scared, the soldier will not fight,
The little boys begin to shoot and stab,
A kingdom topples over with a shriek
Like an old woman, and down rolls the world
In mock heroics, stranger than our own.
Revolts, republics, revolutions, most
No graver than a schoolboys’ barring out;
Too comic for the solemn things they are,
Too solemn for the comic touches in them.
Such scenes and mock heroics and serio-
comic touches have been repeated of
recent months, not in France, which has
its De Gaulle, a stern and increasingly
admirable figure, but in other European
countries which have become the prey of
Communists. They have been repeated
farther afield. In Indo-China and Indo-
nesia observers have seen the little boys
begin to shoot and stab, egged on by
Communists, local and distant, mindful
of their own skins,
Britain and its sister-nations and the
great Republic have been saved from the
fate which has overtaken the vanquished,
and from the turmoil and oppression
which threaten to overwhelm some of
the apparent victors, by the sense of duty,
faith, reverence and elasticity which
Tennyson saw in his country in 1851.
They are not yet out of danger, needing
increased reverence for “the laws” them-
selves “have made,” and, above all, for the
laws of God. And they will always need
to be vigilant in defence of the right
and in performance of the duties insepar-
able from rights, especially when there
are so many Communists about.
Two Meetings.
“J.G.H.” attends both:
The scene is the interior of Brisbane’s fine
City Hall. There is a large crowd, for Com-
munists are celebrating the 25th anniversary of
the founding of their “Australian” party.
Dominating the centre of the stage is a ros-
trum draped with the hammer-and-sickle flag.
On it's left the head of the chairman is visible
above the top of a broad, low table draped
with the Union Jack. At the rear is a semi-
circle of speakers and officials.
The atmosphere is slightly strained. One
can sense a defiant combativeness short-circuit-
ing from platform to audience and back again.
One is conscious also of a deep-rooted inferior-
ity complex.
Raucous voices are raised in denunciatory
speeches. Tubthumping orators of the Sydney
Domain variety rail at Australian institutions
and individuals. Ugly words echo and re-echo
through the hall: “ scoundrels liars.”
Proceedings are delayed while the chairman
pleads for money. A surprising amount is
offered and collected. There is some uncertainty
about standing up when a pianist plays the
National Anthem at the beginning; at the end
all rise as one man for the playing of the
Internationale.
In the same hall, 24 hours later, another large
audience. No hate or inferiority complex here;
the people are cheerful, anticipatory, glancing
round for friends. Nor are there any flag-draped
tables on the platform. Just three rather com-
fortable-looking chairs, a pedestal for me
speaker’s notes and a glass of water.
Three men walk down the centre of the haU.
There is a great burst of handclappmg. ine
organ thunders “God Save the King.’
And Menzies comes to the microphone, belt-
possessed, lucid, logical, good-humored, he
proceeds dispassionately from point to point,
catching the occasional interjection as deftly
as the slipsman fields the flying 6afl> t 0 tur 9
it in a flash upon its originator or toss it
casually to his audience, driving home the in-
terrupted point. . . ,
Menzies, polished, urbane, witty, skilfully
pleading his case before a jury of 1500 electors
without abuse, without tubthumping.
Only once a flash of anger. A biting whip-
lash falls on the shoulders of a persistent
interjector, a tall man in militia uniform.
“Communists have been looking at me for a
long time, but 1 have never grown so feeble
that I cannot, on any platform, fail to express
my utter and undying contempt for them.
Nothing startling when you see it in print.
But it brought a thunderclap of applause and
the tall militiaman starts to his feet, shouting
incoherently. . , , ,
The speaker sits down. A few words of
thanks from the chairman, J. B. Chandler, Lord
Mayor of Brisbane and leader of the Q.Pi •
group in the Assembly; a short reply from
Menzies, and the meeting is over.
I see Menzies has lost his old father. The
father was a coachpainter who worked at the
old Phoenix foundry in his native Ballarat,
changing his calling, as so many Australians
do—in his case to country storekeeper. In
the true Scottish tradition he brought up a
large family and gave them the best education
that his modest means could provide. Four
sons and a daughter survive him; all have
served the public in their different ways—as
he did himself, as shire councillor, M.L.A. for
Lowan (he was always a Protectionist) and
member of the Victorian Council of Agricul-
tural Education for 28 years, chairman for
two. “Bob” was the apple of his eye. And
“Bob’s” proudest day as Prime Minister was
when he brought his father and mother (now
a widow) to Canberra and showed them round.
Members of all parties joined in welcoming the
aged pair.
Why have so many worthy people fallen for
bitter campaign worked up by Com-
munists against this fine old Australian’s son,
who came out of a workingman’s home and
has risen so high by his own exertions? Surely
they should not deny him the credit that in
corresponding circumstances they gave to his
friend Curtin, to whom he was always fair,
and of whom he said, when Curtin became
P.M., “if it comes to his attacking me I know
all my wounds will be in front.” Surely they
should appreciate those other pertinent facts
of this man’s career —that there is no blot on
his name, that he gave up a princely income
at the Bar to serve the nation, and that as an
orator he can take care of himself among the
best in the world? _
The Debt to Poland.
Of Chamberlain’s policy in 1939,
which, after every possibility of preserv-
ing peace with honor had been exhausted,
brought the British peoples into the war
with Germany united, except for the
Russian parties, and with clean hands,
F. A. Voigt wrote in the September issue
of his brave and honest magazine “The
Ninetenth Century and After” it
was “as realistic as it was honorable.”
Had Britain entered into an alliance
with Russia on Russia’s terms, the partition
of eastern Europe —and perhaps of even
more—Germany would have become master
of Europe—and more —without an armed
effort. The end would have been the
dissolution of the British and Russian
empires.
It was because Poland, together with
Britain, said “No” to Germany, and, tp-
gether with Britain, said “No” to Russia in
1939 that war came and did not come too
late. And because it did not come too late
it was victorious. Without the aid of
Britain and the United States Russia could
not have withstood the power of Ger-
many—it is even conceivable that Russia
would have capitulated*“peacefully” to Ger-
many.
Nevertheless, in complete disregard
of the terrible results to victors and
vanquished of the partitions to which
Russia was a party in the eighteenth
century and in 1939, there has been
another, “carried out by Russia with
the connivance of Britain and the
United States, which has made one
half of Poland part of the Russian
empire and the other half the helpless
vassal of that same empire.”
Amid the resplendent victories achieved
by British arms, it stands out as a dark and
terrible political defeat, a catastrophe so
deep and wide that it cannot be patched up
or passed over.
Be that as it may, there are already indi-
cations, even though a Red regime has
been installed, that Polish nationalism will
prevail over Polish Communism. A
call-up of Poles for general service has
been bitterly resented. In the presence
of “huge Russian garrisons” there were
angry inquiries as to whether the con-
scripts were not fated to be deported
to the U.S.S.R., as, in Mr. Voigt’s words,
were “a million Polish men, women and
children, hundreds of thousands of whom
are still eating out their hearts with nos-
talgia for their lost native land, and are
getting killed off by hard labor, disease
and exposure to a rigorous climate in
regions as far afield as Komi and
Kamchatka.”
It is known at Canberra that many
Polish soldiers want to come to Australia,
and on their military record and behavior
they would make good and faithful Aus-
tralian citizens. Their old comrades of
the A.I.F. would be glad to welcome
them.


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start, because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
ynmpiainfs. But be sure you get DOAN’S.
Illustrated Modern Library
Bock production of tomorrow? It’s here today, in the opinion of the artists, designers,
production men and women, publishers and distributors, who have collaborated on The
Illustrated Modern Library titles. 180,000 copies sold in advance of printing.
Certain it is that the production of these books, designed and illustrated by top-flight men
and women in their fields, is a notable contribution to bookmaking.
Illustrated with Paintings, Lithographs, Drawings and Woodcuts by famous
artists. Size, x4| inches. Attractive binding, and boxed.
Limited stock only. 12/6 each (Post. 6<L).
THE WISDOM OF CONFUCIUS. Edited and translated by Lin Yutang. Illustrated
by Jeanyee Wong
PICKWICK PAPERS. By Charles Dickens. Drawings by Donald McKay.
THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV. By Dostoyevsky. Illustrated by William Sharp.
EMERSON’S ESSAYS. Illustrated by John Stewart Curry.
THE HISTORY OF TOM JONES. By Henry Fielding, with numerous drawings in
color by Warren Chappell.
LEAVES OF GRASS. By Walt Whitman. Illustrations by Boardman Robinson.
Other titles to follow.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereaqh St.. Sydney.
Do you need a /
%hm4
JL p(m /
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
JhifmlEmk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
Breaking an old rule to which Curtin
himself subscribed, Chifley intervened in
the Victorian election campaign, making
two platform speeches in which he
attacked Dunstan and asked the electors
“never to send him to a Premiers’ con-
ference again.” Victorians have no illu-
sions about Dunstan, but they were be-
hind him to an elector when he came out
against the distribution of income-tax re-
ceipts and of Commonwealth expend!-
ture on the carriage of troops and troop
supplies which grossly favored Chifley’s
State and Queensland. Nor do they like
to be told, as they were, by a gentleman
from N. S. Wales, whose Government’s
abject servility to Communists has,
among other injuries, resulted in their
being chronically short of coal for their
railways and gasworks, that they live
m “the most backward State in the Com-
monwealth”—“a hillbilly State,” accord-
ing to one account.
Long gone are the days when Vic-
torian electors used to look to the Mel-
bourne dailies for guidance. Early in the
present scrimmage the “Herald” wrote
encouragingly of the Liberals, but it soon
weakened. The “Argus” beamed on
Labor, but retreated when Cain expressed
his delighted surprise. And the “Age,”
with friends in all parties and among the
Independents, shows no trace of the spirit
that actuated David Syme. In each case
there has been a marked tendency on the
leader page to turn to “safe” topics.
ty -u 45 * *■ f „
* e > r? K ITw. IZLtI
Westralian Libeials have won a c y
and the C.P. man Horwood went oh, to
the first count. In the end Brand the
Liberal, beat die Übonte Newton-
brother of the late airman-member—by
308 to an effective poll of 3604. Since
tQI4 whpn the Countrv nartv arrived in
r en r*; U r- t wWn
Westralian Oreenough has been
enner c.r. or i.a r.
Macfarlan, Victoria s caretaker Pre-
mier, who is a lawyer, is challenging the
constitutionality of the payroll tax, which
is collected from Government employers
as well as private wage-payers. Section
114 of the Commonwealth Constitution
says “A State shall not... .impose any
tax on property of any kind belonging
to the Commonwealth, nor shall the
Commonwealth impose any tax on prop-
erty of any kind belonging to a, State.
In Webster’s New International prop-
erty” is defined as “possessions irrespec-
tive of their ownership ; wealth; goods.
The Full High Court has heard argu-
ment for and against the contention of
three companies that “nationalisation”-
of-airways legislation is inconsistent with
Constitutional Section 92.. . .“Trade,
commerce and intercourse among the
States, whether by means of internal car-
riage or ocean navigation, "shall be abso-
lutely free.” Fourteen counsel were
briefed, •
Ward’s New Order for Papua and New
Guinea has received qualified support
from a strange quarter —the Chicago
“Tribune.” The general effect on the
natives will no doubt be the subject of
a departmental or royal commissioner’s
study in a year or two. Meantime, it is
reported from Lae that A.W.A.S. there
are not allowed outside their barracks
without an armed soldier escort. At night
only parties of six are allowed out, and
two of the escorts must be armed.
Revisiting the N.S.W, coalfields at the
week-end and meeting a sprinkling of
miners gathered for “aggregate meetings”
about the onety-oneth “code,” Baddeley
was delivered of a Great Secret —his
“Government” is to Open coalmines at
Camden, Awaba and Grafton, provided
it can find anyone to work them. He
alleged that electricity generated from
Grafton coal would be cheaper than that
generated from the Nymboida hydro-
electric scheme. Baddeley’s “Govern-
ment” wants to grab control of all local-
government electricity enterprises—worth
about £40,000,000 and pioneered and de-
veloped by shires and municipalities—
which would certainly mean dearer elec-
tricity and place every country district
under the capricious and unwanted con-
trol of a city department.
On water conservation the N.S.W, Mair
Government spent £840,000 in 1941, and
that was little enough. Frith, the
Agrarian from Lismore, points out that,
with signs of the drought still everywhere
evident, the McKells are providing
quarter of a million less in their 1945
Budget.
On October 22 the Canadian Govern-
ment launched its ninth Victory Loan,
one of $1,500,000,000, and on Sunday it
came over the air that indications pointed
to the customary over-subscription.
Chilley was on the air the same night
concerning his Fourth Victory Loan of
£85,000,000. He said “The number of
subscribers represents an all-time low
since the war with Japan began,” and
“Australia cannot afford a Black Satur-
day,” interspersing these remarks with
references to “complacency, self-excuse
and timidity.” Nothing about the current
and competitive orgy of racehorse and
lottery gambling. Nor did the P.M. say
that Canadians have not been taught by
Ministers and members to look upon in-
vestors as scoundrels or to regard punting
as the one pursuit worthy of a free and
enlightened worker.
Evidently at it too long, Edmund
Dwyer-Gray, the Tasmanian Treasurer,
collapsed while inthrojuicin’ a bill and
had to be taken to hospital in a desperate
condition. Though he is nearly six years
younger than Senator Collings, still in
the Commonwealth Ministry, Dwyer-
Gray has had a longer association with
public affairs than any other man in
Australia, Hughes excepted. Fifty years
ago he was known in Dublin, bitterly to
the Parnellites, as “young Mr. Gray,”
editor of the very political “Freeman’s
Journal.”
Noted as it is for exact information of
what goes on behind the scenes in the
Labor world, Lang’s “Century” came
out with a story that seemed incredible.
It was to the effect that Baddeley, author
of the pensions scheme, now hopelessly
insolvent, that took one-tenth of the
N.S.W. coalminers out of the mines in
February and March, 1942, of all periods,
had invented another for N.S.W.
Assemblymen; £6 a week on defeat or
retirement after nine (9) years’ service.
There are 90 Assemblymen, who get £875
a year, with a great deal more for Min-
isters, Speaker and Chairman of Com-
mittees, and during the war years they
hadn’t to do much more than hang round
and draw their salaries. Last week the
“Century” declared that “Caucus” had
“adopted the plan” and that an attempt
would be made to reduce the qualifying
period to six years, the only other obliga-
tion being payment of £1 a week part
of the time. That would mean that a man
entering the Assembly at 26 could loaf on
the community at 32 for the rest of his
days if he lived to 100. The “Century”
allowed that “the Upper House could
defeat the legislation.” If it didn’t, no
taxpayer would lift a finger to save it.
A Melbourne citizen bought a block
of land for £l2O. In the course of years
the block cost him approximately £2OO
in interest, rates and taxes. He has just
got a peremptory notice from the Hous-
ing Commission informing him that it
had been “taken over,” and as full com-
pensation he would receive £4O. Curious
how bureaucratic Labor always hits the
small man.
For generosity to allies, Canada is
equalled only by Britain (Canadian
“mutual aid” to Australia, given in goods
tremendous in amplitude and variety, was
worth £ISJ million Australian in 1944-45),
and the Government doesn’t fail to pro-
tect its people. A tribute from the Wash-
ington “Post” of-September 15:
Exactly a year ago the Canadian Gov-
ernment adopted the basic principle that
goods that had been off the market during
the war must reappear at 1941 prices. The
policy still stands.
Our “Government” of Workers’ Friends
never thinks of anything like that.
Questioned by a select committee, J. A.
Ellis, the Westralian Commissioner of
Railways, was candid enough to say there
was “no economic justification at all for
unification of gauges.” He allowed that
it could be justified “from the defence
point of view.” Referring to the Kal-
goorlie-Fremantle section, he said it
would bring no additional revenue to
speak of and the additional operating cost
was reckoned at £310,000 p.a.; but every-
thing would be all right “if the Common-
wealth pays the whole capital and re-
coups the annual loss indefinitely.” And
this apropos of only one length of 360
miles or so. A bleak prospect for the
taxpayers, few of whom would ever ride
on the unified lines.
Fraser, the “Labor” M.H.R. for Eden-
Monaro, has received bushels of praise
from press pals, even when he said silly
things. Rushing in where Chifley and
Forde feared to tread, he championed
Bennett and attacked Blarney, the latter
for administering “a smack in the face to
Ministers who defended him when he
previously made ill-advised statements
and took ill-advised action.” Newspaper
reactions to this outburst must have come
as a rude shock. The “Daily Telegraph”
heavily scolded the young man. The
“Daily Mirror,” issued from an office
where he was once employed, banged
Bennett, his advisers and supporters un-
mercifully. Even the “Sun,” who con-
ferred its disastrous patronage on the
general, saw fit to pipe down. Somebody
must have said something at Canberra.
He couldn’t have breathed it to the too-
zealous juvenile from Eden-Monaro.
An expedition has left Melbourne for
Tasmania to search for Tasmanian tigers.
Sydney newspapers discovered a “tiger”
with a lair in Macquarie-street—a “tiger”
that was to fight uniform taxation to the
last ditch and spring savagely on black
markets, the booze racket and other
things. That “tiger,” “Tiger” McKell,
turned out to be all sound and promise.
When last heard of he had just returned
from Brazil —where his host, the dictator
Vargas has had to retire —and got lost
in a free-for-all fish fight.
The petrol ration for an average pri-
vate car is seven gallons a month. After
a Cabinet discussion Ashley announced
that, stocks having diminished because of
“reduced tanker allocation” and the dollar
position having become more difficult,
there was no possibility of the ration
being increased. Just seven days pre-
viously readers of “S. M. Herald” had
read how “owner-trainer J. C. Bendrodt”
was taking a horse to Melbourne for the
Cup:
War Eagle is travelling in a one-horse
float with two attendants. Mr. Bendrodt
and his assistant are trailing the float by
car. They will see to it that their Cup hope
gets every attention on his 600-mile trip.
Every 100 miles the horse will be taken out
of the float for a feed, drink and exercise.
Ike float is packed with fodder.
The bit about fodder must have been
read by many land men with special envy.
And car-owners who don’t run dinner-
dance joints or pubs must be still won-
dering whether “Labor” has one law for
these gentry and another for them.
South Australia is to have a novel kind
of local option. Under a measure intro-
duced by Playford the prohibition on
betting shops in “the metropolitan area”
is to remain, but the objects are to be
permitted in other parts “unless the muni-
cipal or district council has passed a
resolution or alternatively held a poll of
Assembly electors and obtained a Yes
majority.” No municipal or district
Council is likely to stand out against a
demand for an Assembly poll and, with
the women voting, the chances of the
betting shop brigade will be slim. There
are women punters in the country, as in
the cities, but they are very much in the
minority.
Communists seem to be able to get
anything they like into “capitalistic
newspapers, and their lies go into circu-
lation without check or comment. Thus
Haldane, the Communist professor, got
immense publicity for an assertion that
Britain is bound by the terms of the
Anglo-Russian alliance to disclose the
secret of atomic-bomb manufacture to
Russia. A deliberate and disgraceful
falsehood.
Anything that happened in the war
against Japan is outside the scope of the
Anglo-Russian alliance, and so, neces-
sarily, is anything arising from any such
happening. The alliance makes no mention
of the war against Japan ; it refers ex-
clusively to the war in Europe, and to
the possibility of another war in Europe,
originating in German aggression. In
each case “full military assistance to each
other” is pledged, but there is nothing
about the sharing of military secrets,
which, in any case, Russia did NOT
share. The parties also pledged them-
selves to “work together for the organi-
sation of security and economic pros-
perity in Europe,” and to be “guided by
these two principles”:
They will not seek territorial aggrandise-
ment for themselves, and they will not inter-
fere in the internal affairs of other States.
One party has stuck to the two principles.
The other has grabbed Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania (all in enemy occupation
when the alliance was signed), Bessarabia,
Ruthenia, three-sevenths of Poland and
parts of Finland and Germany, and is
after part of Italy for one of its puppets.
And it is trying to add Czechoslovakia,
Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary and Yugo-
slavia to its collection. s ,
Max Werner, who predicted that Hitler
would be utterly defeated by the end of
1943, is now trying to be a political seer.
In an article on the French elections and
referendums he wrote that De Gaulle
was doomed: “the real question is not
whether he can stabilise his regime, which
is impossible, but when will he fall?”
In contempt of the prophet the French
people gave De Gaulle so decided
a mandate that Werner’s Communist
friends have been reduced to saying
humbly that they are prepared to serve
in a De Gaulle Government and help to
remould the Constitution according to De
Gaulle’s ideas.
Mentioned at a Prahran Council meet-
ing on the authority of a Victorian Hous-
ing Commission official that a laborer on
a commission job had limited his barrow-
loads of cement to two shovelfuls instead
of twelve. According to a leading con-
tractor a plasterer took a day and a half
to fill in three pudlicks—holes left in a
wall for scaffolding. For a go-slow strike
had been ordered by a Communist union
boss who was 33 when the war broke
out but was presumably “reserved.”
Molotov told the Anglo-American cor-
respondents in Moscow that censorship
of their messages, which have a way of
getting lost, would remain, • they having
failed to give “substantial reasons for its
abolition.” A poor return for the great
fme the press boys gave the man in
’Frisco.


NOTHING ATOMIC ABOUT IT.
“This gas-bomb from Australia, Attlee, is all fizz.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”; I had always regarded Eng-
land as one of the few sane spots in a
batty world, but I fear that opinion may
need revising. One of those inevitable
cultural institutes in the Old Dart hit
upon the idea of bringing art to the beer
drinker by hanging paintings around the
taverns —what could be a worthier sight
than a thirsty man appreciating simul-
taneously two widely-divergent joys of
nature? But then I read that the works
which were to delight the amber of the
wassail-fancier were to be of the “con-
temporary” ilk. What if the same horrific
idea catches on in our own capital cities?
The 4 p.m.-6 p.m, rush is bad enough.
But to have a look, while still cold
sober, on a one-eyed magenta Amazon
with elephantiasis, holding in a long
scrawny claw a disembowelled cadaver, is
something that even the hardened Sydney
hogswiller would boggle at.
* * * *
“Alexander”: On the hush-hush list
until recently was a British Admir-
alty armament depot situated in the bush
25 miles from Perth. After the fall of
Singapore the Admiralty established a
depot capable of handling armaments
of all ships (from battleships down to
motor craft) serving in the Pacific. The
place, which covers 370 acres of ground,
cost £1,000,000. A vast amount of
ammunition was stored in the great maga-
zines. Early in 1944 a fire broke out
and began to spread towards the maga-
zines, but through the presence of mind
of women employees disaster was pre-
vented. Before the fire brigade arrived
they had manned the hoses and checked
the flames. The depot is now engaged
in breaking up mines. Explosives are
dumped at sea and other parts sold as
scrap metal, through the Salvage Com-
mission.
jf; Jsjc
“Jurumudi”: The most significant
thing about the present rumpus in Java
is the use of the word “Indonesian.” It
was unknown when I lived in the country
—I fancy the Dutch coined it later as a
geographical description. But now we
hear of Indonesian rights, Indonesian
ideals and aspirations and the Indonesian
people. The word can be defined, no
doubt, as meaning an inhabitant of one
or other of the ten thousand islands
which used to be under Dutch domina-
tion. But, if you are asked for an
example, to whom are you going to point?
To a Javanese, a Sundanese, a Madurese,
an Arab, a Parsee, a Eurasian or a
Chinese —and, if you expand the defini-
tion to what the Dutch used to call the
Outer Possessions—to a Dyak, a Sun
Dyak, a Bugis, a Menangbabau Malay or
a Booloodoopie? I suppose what it actu-
ally means is that sundry individuals out
of Java’s 45,000,000 have become nation-
conscious. But what is a nation? The
town I lived in in Java was divided into
Javanese, Malay, Balinese, Madurese,
Arab and Chinese kampongs, with a tiny
settlement of Europeans and Eurasians
sandwiched in between them. It was a
delightful linguistic and racial muddle in
which “Indonesians” had no place.
* * * •
“Bo”: It is Paris at dead of night.
Through the window of a “luxury” flat
two sinister figures creep. One of them
holds in his hand a flat disc. The disc-
holder creeps across the room and winds
up a handle. A few seconds pause, and
then the night is made more horrible by
the wailing sounds of “Lili Marlene.” A
girl starts out of bed and makes across
to the gramophone to switch the thing off
—a natural reaction. Then it is that guns
bark and the victim falls back dead. And
so yet another “fascinatingly beautiful”
spy—or should it be spyess?—bites the
carpet, thus emulating the Fiihrer she
once served. The theatrical manner in
which the lady is bumped off is obviously
due to a desire on the part of the avengers
to add vividness if not veracity to the
screamer headlines of our afternoon guff
“You must be patient, Thora. Six years' absence takes a bit of
adjusting, you know!"
press. She makes the 147th “beautiful”
spy in a row to be eliminated theatrically
—no one would think of killing, let alone
publicise the killing of, a lady spy who
couldn’t make Joan Fontaine look, by
comparison, a gargoyle. Foreign Gov-
ernments apparently spend fabulous sums
in the employment of beautiful girl spies ;
it is estimated that it costs £75,000, which
goes mostly in bubbly, frocks and beauty
culture, to get the plans of a military
rival’s new water-bottle stopper, which is
about the most important thing any lady
spy has ever landed outside the realms
of Oppenheim, Le Queux and co. If I
had to employ a lady spy I’d pick some-
one middle-aged and inconspicuous.
* H= t- *
“X.S.”; In response to the prayers of
outraged parents, Victorian Education
Department is considering eliminating
from its reading-books horrific stories
like “The Hobyahs,” in which a dingo
gets its legs cut off. If this yarn, which
has been running in the school books for
30 years, has such a disastrous psycho-
logical effect on the children it is a
wonder they have survived the slaughter-
ings, murderings, man-eatings and giant
killings of the Brothers Grimm, Hans
Andersen and the anonymous story-
writers of the Mother Goose group, who
have provided the literary pabulum of
millions of kids the world over. And
what about the children’s pages of the
dailies? In one of these a gorilla-like
individual has been pursuing a bodyless
head for some weeks past.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: According to a dispatch
from Manila a vast American espionage
organisation was operating even at
General Yamashita’s staff conferences.
By means of a microphone secretly in-
stalled in the Japanese war-room at
Santamesa, Manila, by American and
Filipino service agents, the American
forces steaming into Lingayen Gulf for
the landing could hear the “Tiger of
Malaya” outlining Japanese defence
plans. This is the best war-time joke for
several decades and ought to convince
the Japs that they should go back to the
arts and crafts which once upon a time
made them an inspiration to the West.
I remember showing round the cable
station at Shanghai a top-hatted little
polysyllabic Jap who was obviously try-
ing to pick up a few wrinkles on the latest
developments in submarine telegraphy on
the Western model. A few years later
I was able to observe in Japan theTesults
of his researches —an old-fashioned tele-
graph key that must have worn out half
the wrists in the Japanese telegraph sys-
tem and caused innumerable breakdowns
amongst the unfortunate operators who
had been compelled to use them. What
the curious gentleman didn’t know was
that Shanghai at that time was a cable
backwater and that an entirely new auto-
matic system was on the point of being
installed there,
* * * *
“Dial-sighter”: The boom of the one
o’clock gun on yellow old Pinchgut,
“asleep in the sun,” is seldom heard by
Sydneysiders these days, their city having
become too big and too noisy. Some
years ago the brighter radio boys
conceived the idea of broadcasting the
explosion. The expert called in, ex-
plained that it couldn’t be done,
because the blast would reach the mike
before the sound and blanket it, but was
ordered to get on with the job. All sorts
of devices were tried, from hiding the
mike in an empty ship-tank to burying it
in a sandbag, all without result. One
day, having shoved a couple of pounds
of powder into the gun and rammed it
down with wads of newspaper, they
looked up to see the time-ball on the
Observatory on the move, and somebody
leapt to fire the gun. There was a flash
and a bang, and the ramrod shot from
the muzzle straight for H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, riding at anchor a rods away.
The officer of the watch almost had a
pink fit, but the Navy handled the deli-
cate situation with its usual nonchalance,
and the radio boys thereafter compro-
mised by tapping a drum in the studio,
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A returned p.-0.-w. who
left his partner to carry on his business
in Melbourne when he enlisted was being
given a reception, and everybody was
anxious to believe that the dreadful ex-
periences he had been through had left
their mark. “But you do look thin, you
know,” said one young lady ; “and your
hair has gone grey.” “Yes,” he retorted,
“my hair’s gone a bit grey. But look at
my partner’s!”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The “shanghai case” in Adel-
aide is over at last', after being contested
in the courts for nearly two years. A
boy had an eye damaged, and a Judge
awarded him £3OO against the other boy’s
parents and guardians. The Full Court
upset this on appeal, and now the High
Court has thrown out a counter-appeal,
and so there is no award. Latham, C.J.,
said that a shanghai is a common object
in boyhood life and can’t reasonably be
prohibited altogether. The boy (13) had
been warned of its danger, and told not
to take the thing away from home. He
had disobeyed ; but the S.A. Full Court
had rightly held that the parents had taken
all reasonable precautions.
“Galenus”: A returned Eighth Divvy
lad told me that his worst experience as
a p.-0.-w. during more than three years
in Malaya and Siam was the close-
quarters view of the tragedy of cholera
amongst his mates. All had been inocu-
lated against the fell disease before leav-
ing Australia ; many had been reinocu-
lated in Singapore, and he could not
understand why so many had died of it.
He was surprised, too, that typhoid had
not also broken out as a result of the
unspeakably filthy conditions under which
they had had to live. The explanation is
that the immunity afforded by the stand-
ard anti-cholera inoculation lasts for three
or four months only. For continued pro-
tection, reinoculation every three months
is necessary. The immunity conferred
by anti-typhoid inoculation lasts for
several years or longer. Hundreds of
Australian and British lives would have
been saved had the savages of Nippon
made supplies of anti-cholera vaccine
available to prisoner M.Os. for periodic
renewal of immunity.
* * * *
“Pookie”: “Purist’s” horror of the tardy
preposition (B. 10/10/’45) may be justi-
fied, but there have been many eminent
offenders. Let them step forward:
Bible: I will not leave thee, until I have
done that which I have spoken to thee of.
Jonson : Prepositions follow sometimes the
nouns they are coupled with.
Bacon: They are the fittest timber to make
great politics of. /
Milton: What a fine conformity would it
starch us all into!
Burton : Fit for Calphurnlus and Democritus
to laugh at.
Pei s ys: There is good ground for what he
goes about.
Swift: The present argument is the most
abstracted that ever 1 engaged in,
Defoe : Avenge the injuries ... by giving them
up to the confusions their madness leads them
to.
Burke: The less convincing on account of
the party it came from.
Lamb : Enforcing his negation with all the
might he is master of
De Quincey: The average, the prevailing,
tendency is what we look at.
Peacock : Which they would not otherwise
have dreamed of.
Mill: We have done the best that the exist-
ing state of human reason admits of.
Arnold : Let us see what it amount's to.
Thackeray: So little do we know what we
really are after.
Kipling : Too horrible to be trifled with.
* * * *
“J.A.W.”; Discovery of a Lord Nelson
letter in Christchurch (M.L.) (B.
26 /9 / *45) recalls that another town of the
Dominion, Nelson, claims to possess the
original of Lord Nelson’s last letter to
Lady Hamilton. The screed, unfinished,
is dated “October 19 and 20, 1805.”
Pahiatua is also in the running. In the
possession of the Bolton family is a letter
from the great Horatio to “Mid’n Hind-
marsh,” dated 8 April, 1803. Young
Hindmarsh, afterwards first Governor of
South Australia, was in Bellerophon at
the Battle of the Nile. When all the
officers were either killed or wounded he
took command and saved the ship from
destruction. The letter conveys Lord
Nelson’s appreciation.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Fear of infantile paralysis
is ingrained in Melbourne parents, after
recurrent epidemics, and when a four-
year-old showed symptoms of stiffness in
his limbs the frenzied mother rang up a
doctor. He hastened to the scene and
found the child suffering from nothing
worse than indigestion caused by a surfeit
of green plums but, to make doubly sure,
he went through the usual routine, and
tried the child’s reflexes by tapping its
knees with a spoon. A couple of days
later a friend asked the child how he was.
“Oh,” replied the youngster, “the doctor
cured me by hitting me with a silver
spoon.”
THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
“The British Government has announced its decision
not to give monetary rewards to the leaders of the
nation’s armed forces in the war, ‘as it would not be
in accord with the spirit of the times to single out a
number of individuals for special recognition.’ ”
The generals and admirals in earlier days than
these
Who led fheir men through tough campaigns to
crowning victories
Could reasonably look to find the debt our
nation owed
To them expressed in more than one appreciated
mode.
Along with Parliamentary votes of thanks there
came their way
Titles and sometimes an estate (for instance,
St'rathsfieldsaye),
And, as a more material reward for skill and
dash
And memorable feats of arms, a thumping wad
of cash.
But with propriety, we learn, this last no longer
chimes;
It isn’t in accordance with “the spirit of the
times.”
The sums our rude forefathers held were nothing
but the due
Of those who made Trafalgar’s date and that of
Waterloo
Red-letter days in history, were right enough
for them,
But in a more enlightened age such methods we
condemn.
Though hundred-thousand money grants were
deemed quite comme il faut
For Haig and Beatty up to five-and-twenty
years ago,
And half as much to signalise in slightly less
degree
All that was owed to Jellicoe and French and
Allenby,
No more hard cash awaits the man to eminence
who climbs
In war—the notion jars upon “the spirit of the
times.”
Desist, you statisticians who’ve been trying to
assess,
By the standards of the Motherland’s munificent
largesse
To Nelson and to V?ellington in days when, all
allow,
A thousand stood for thrice as much as what
it’s good for now,
Quit idly speculating what reward should be
the due
Of those who’ve brought the bacon home in
World War No. 2.
Titles and decorations theirs assuredly shall be,
A nation’s glowing gratitude, a place in history,
But boodle holds for some a hint of something
that begrimes.
And linking up illustrious deeds with dollars
and with dimes
Is ruled antagonistic to “the spirit of the times.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
AN IDEAL SITE.
“A site in Central Australia for rocket research
and kindred purposes is to be made available for the
British Government.”
How few there are of all the world’s waste
lands,
From this and suchlike items one deduces,
Whether they’re frozen steppes or desert sands,
That can’t be turned by willing hearts and hands
To some good uses.
John Bull, we know, is careless of expense
When scientific problems he’s attacking,
But in his little isle it’s commonsense
That room for dangerous experiments
Is sadly lacking.
He looks across the seas some' spot to tap,
Some sprawling No Man’s Land, to speak
with frankness,
That even earthquakes wouldn’t spoil a scrap.
Some area where there’s nothing on the map
Excepting blankness;
Some wilderness untrod, forbidding, vast,
Where even the unutterably furious
Havoc attending an atomic blast
Couldn’t, with nought to harm or hurt, be
classed
Really injurious.
Where could research more fittingly be sped
With safety into rockets, bombs et alia
Than in the region uninhabited
That some observant Prof, has dubbed the Dead
Heart of Australia?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“You should have had these fangs out long ago.”
“Frosty”: The sight of a solitary kite
(diamond pattern, brown paper, with a
long ribbon for a tail) flying over a Syd-
ney suburb on a sunny afternoon set me
thinking about the remarkable cheapness
of the amusements of boys in the days
when I was one. One could buy marbles,
of a sort, for six a penny; the materials
for cricket (backyard) and rounders could
be picked up anywhere ; games such as
“fox and hounds,” “bar-the-door” and
“I spy” cost nothing whatever; and for
even the most ambitious kite project the
only out-of-pocket expenditure was 6d.
or at most Bd. for a ball of string. Which
was just as well, for in the ’eighties and
nineties of last century most Australasian
parents had to be careful about money.
Most youngsters then got through the
years from four to twelve without spend-
ing more on amusement than would keep
a modern boy going for a quarter. But
they didn’t have any less fun.
* ♦ * *
“Jamwood”: I go all the way with a
Sydney restaurateur who objects to the
current fashion of applying the term
“souveniring” to common theft. He was
moved by a Ministerial statement show-
ing that for the year to June 30 the
N.S.W. Government railway refreshment
rooms had lost the equivalent of £7746 in
articles stolen and broken 42,264
glasses, 15,036 spoons, 7692 forks, 8712
knives, 35,244 teacups, 16,236 bread and
butter plates, 9888 dinner plates, 1140
teapots, and so on. According to the
restaurateur and a hotelkeeper, every Syd-
ney cafe and pub with a dining-room have
had the same bitter experience on a mas-
sive scale. It is improbable that there
would be so much “souveniring” if the
thing were called by its right name and
so dealt with instead of being considered
clever. Similarly, I don’t think that there
would have been nearly so many so-called
a.w.l. cases (66.431 in guard compounds
in 1944) if chronic absentees from camps
had been called deserters and their rank
offence desertion, as used to be the case.
Being a.w.l. was also regarded as clever.
And the war loans would have travelled
better if all forms of betting and buying
of lottery tickets were bluntly described
as “gambling” instead of “investing.”
“Investing” is the term used in all
the Sydney daily and Sunday papers.
Calling things by their proper names may
not, as a Chinese philosopher said, be
“the beginning of wisdom” (I prefer the
Scriptural version), but for people who
are weak and foolish it may be the be-
ginning of good social behavior.
* * * *
“Norther”: I’m wondering what advo-
cates of “full employment” are going to
do with the type of bloke who was
lumbered before a Queensland court for
vagrancy-. He told the police he didn’t like
work; he had left a good job in N. S.
Wales. To the magistrate he said, “Might
take a job next time I come out if I feel
like it.” Confessing that it was hard to
know what to do with such a person, the
Bench handed out six weeks’ jail. The
weary fellow is only 26 and I make bold
to say he has a lot of soul-mates, not only
on wharves and in coalmines but in
lesser-advertised occupations. “Full-era-
ployment” advocates may report that, in
a planned world, such fellows would
starve, but that seems easier to threaten
than enforce.
?■< -v si s
“X.PJ8.1.”: Old Sixth Divvers finding
Jap invasion money must remember with
a regretful sigh the simplicity of Diggers
in dealing with the stacks of Italian lire
that fell into their hands after the capture
of Tobruk in 1941. Thinking that the neat
piles of notes found around every Itie
H.Q. were valueless, since Libya
seemed certain to become a British prov-
ince, they carelessly tucked handfuls
into their haversacks, and, in most
cases, didn’t bother further about it. But
a few with knowledge bought up practi-
cally every diamond ring, gold watch, and
jewellery trinket in Benghazi, the Italian
Army footing the bill. Others still
shrewder worked through Egyptian, banks,
and had large sums remitted home. When
news of all this reached my platoon we
bitterly remembered a day when, in
uncontrollable revulsion against weeks of
the desert and bully beef, we slaughtered
the fowls of one of Musso’s Libyan
cockies, who watched glumly, in obvious
fear of the barbarous Australians. A little
ashamed of ourselves, we took up a
collection for him, urging each other' to
“chuck in a few off those useless Dago
notes.” For a moment the old boy gaped
uncomprehendingly at the enormous wad
we offered him. Then, as he hastily
grabbed it, a smile of marvellous happi-
ness suffused his face, and he scurried
away chuckling gleefully, leaving us with
a few small notes that we had retained
as mementoes, some uncomfortable
suspicions and six dead and very bony
fowls.
* * * *
“Hist”; A few lucky philatelists will
be able to show in their albums letters
posted on Australian warships in Tokyo
Bay on the day of the Japanese surrender.
From (he cruiser Shropshire came en-
velopes marked “H.M.A.S. Shropshire
Official Signing of Japanese Surrender.”
They were franked with a 3d Australian
stamp, postmarked “Tokyo Bay, Japan.
2nd Sept., 1945,” The cruiser Hobart
used a similar postmark to commemorate
her presence on the day.
* # * *
“Oxmead”; A reminder in one of
“S.T.S.’s” legal brevities that the meaning
of the little word “just” depends largely
on the inflection employed set me think-
ing of that thoroughfare in London of
which a light-hearted bard wrote over a
century ago:
In Craven-street, Strand, many lawyers are
found:
In the Thames at the bottom coal-barges
abound.
Fly, Honesty, fly'Jo a safer retreat,
For there’s craft in the river and craft in the
street.
Which effusion set another cheerful bard
asking:—
What should Honesty want with a safer retreat
Than attorneys and barges, ’Od rot ’em?
For the lawyers are just at the top of the street
' And the barges are just at the bottom.
* $ * $
“T, McN.”; I’ve been waiting for
something like this from the land of
ingenious publicity. New York an-
nounces that novelist Albert Payson Ter-
hune, who died in 1942, has dictated a
book to his widow from “the other side”
which is about to be published, and an-
other is on the way. The widow says she
is giving all royalties to charity. She was
searching for something one day when
Al. suddenly told her where to find it.
A couple of days later he told her to get
pencil and paper and started dictating,
“Dying,” he told her, “is like awaking
to a beautiful morning. There is no
punishment for sin except that people
who have wronged others have to stand
alone, unable to advance until they have
shed all cruelty and hate.” Personally,
I’d like to be able to believe in these
spoken messages from the dead, but I’m
still waiting for someone to explain how
the departed who are recorded as having
spoken managed to take their lafynxes
with them.
* * * *
“Juttio”: They aren’t all atrocity
stories that come from the p.-0.-w. camps
in Asia. Warrant-Officer Fred Hodel has
told “N.Q. Register” of a boxing match
between Cpl. Alf Wells, of Townsville,
and Sakamoto, a Jap officer. Wells, with
cobbers of the 2/26th Batt., was pointed
out to Sakamoto as “Australia’s No. 1
boxer,” whereupon the Jap challenged
him. Wells was far from fit, but he ac-
cepted the challenge and went for a k. 0.,
which he got in the second round. “The
Japs gazed at their stricken champion in
stupefaction. The Diggers would have
loved to acclaim Wells, but there was
none so indiscreet as to do it with the
Nips looking on. They stared poker-faced
at the fallen idol and saved their cele-
brations for afterwards. The Jap officer
gave Wells a snake-skin wallet and told
him to ask his guards for food. From
then on,” says Model, “Wells almost
assumed a degree of divinity in the eyes
of the Nips.” “Almost assumed a degree
of divinity” is not exactly Digger lan-
guage, but I get you, Fred.
**’ * *
“Phono”: It is adherence to Noah
Webster rather than a tradition reaching
back to the Mayflower (B. 17/10/’45) that
is responsible for those American modes
of pronunciation that sound so odd to
Australian ears when emitted from the
talkie screen. And as Noah and his sue-
cessors Drs. Goodrich and Porter were
etymologists of the very highest tonnage,
I for one am not prepared to challenge
the correctness of their decisions. They
put the accent on the first syllable in
“address,” make “futile” sound “fewtle,”
insist on the broad “a” in tomato, and,
in short, stand wholeheartedly behind
English as she is spoke by educated
Americans.
*** . *
“Ex-Roundsman”: The tightness of the
present-day housing situation in Bris-
bane may be judged from a story told
by the secretary of the Real Estate In-
stitute to the Brisbane Rotary Club,
Summoned to the telephone at 5 a.m.
he was informed by an anxious voice
that the tenant or one of his houses had
died two hours previously. Thanking
the caller for the information, he ex-
pressed sympathy and the natural sup-
position that the caller was a relative of
“Now, Crowley, do I get the next dance or don't I?"
the deceased householder. “Oh, no,”
came back the answer in a relieved tone,
“I’m somebody wanting to be your new
tenant! ” Four similar calls and inquiries
were received before breakfast.
*.* * *
“Bull-ant Bill”; Notwithstanding all
the expensive fancy machines for earth-
shifting, the good old man-wielded banjo
still holds the record when it comes to
really sticky jobs. A stolen Army utility
was found bogged in a saltwater flat at
Cribb Island, near Brisbane, A heavy
truck was sent to extricate it, but itself
got bogged. A wrecker-truck was dis-
patched, complete with all latest gadgets
to pull them out, but the slough spread
its sticky grip a little further and in-
creased its score to three. An annoyed
military authority ordered out a bull-
dozer to settle the silly business in short
order. It wallowed bravely in, but within
10 minutes the mud had it beaten too.
Man-power and shovels got busy on the
three would-be rescuers and had them
out in much less time than they had
taken to get themselves well and truly
stuck in. The original victim followed
soon afterwards,
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland at last has corn-
pleted what is called her Main Trunk
Railway. The North Island was linked
up from north to south and from east
to west 20 years ago, but the link be-
tween Canterbury and Marlborough in
the south, commenced 40 years back, has
broken even Fernland records for slow
construction. The reasons for this tardy
progress have been twofold—engineer-
ing difficulties and political opposition,
North Islanders have never ceased pro-
phesying that the South Island M.T.R.
will “never pay for axle grease.” “What
is the use,” they have asked, “of open-
ing up country so terribly bleak that in
winter cattle are driven on the frozen
rivers in preference to the bogged
roads?” One expected result of the com-
pletion of the line between Christchurch
and Blenheim is the ending of the
Lyttelton-Wellington “ferry service.” The
existing Picton-Wellington service will
benefit—until such time as air travel gets
so cheap that both railways and steam-
ship lines go out of the passenger busi-
ness,
* * * *
“Tiki”: Judging by an account of the
activities of German mine-layers which
has been published in the M.L. news-
papers, these gentry were very much more
industrious in Australasian waters than
the public suspected. The Hauraki Gulf
(on which Auckland is situated) was
sown with 228 mines of the moored con-
tact type. One of them copped the
U.S.S. Co. liner Niagara. Harbor
entrances of Wellington and Lyttelton
were also well peppered, and the route of
coastal steamers along the Bay of Plenty,
Since VE-day the German Admiralty has
given full information about the activities
of its minelayers. Admiral Kurt Weger,
who commanded Raider 36, one of two
heavily-armed minelayers operating in
N.Z. waters, disclosed that the mining
of Hauraki Gulf was completed in dark-
ness i n seven hours—7.3o p.m. to 2.30
a rn —[ n June, 1940. It was a year later
that Raider 45 laid magnetic and acoustic
e ggs outside the heads at Lyttelton and
Wellington. M.L. defence authorities
soon knew of these activities, of course,
and main channels were made safe with
very little delay,
* * * *
“Jumbuck”: News which, if substan-
tiated, should be of good cheer to the
Australian wool industry comes from
the London “Daily Mail,” which has
been interviewing Mr. Booth, overseas
representative of the Australian Wool
Board. He is reported to have spoken
of the development somewhere in this
continent of “secret processes which make
it possible to give short-fibre sheepskins
the appearance of high-grade furs,” and
of experiments in the production of
moth-proof and unshrinkable woollens,
Pre-shrunk fabrics, woollen and other-
wise, are no novelty, but the moth-proof
fur sounds a little too good to be true.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Solitude”: After a lengthy and
thoughtful scrutiny of Thompson’s rain-
gaUge, Seventyfiver decided he would
make one, and a few days later I noticed
our best oil-drum had been elected to a
major position in the enterprise. A sawn-
off stump was set up in the open near
the hut, and the drum tied firm with strips
of greenhide. Then came a lull, the only
proceedings I could detect being exhaus-
tive inquiries found the district. Next
Seventyfiver arrived home with a long,
thin glass tube he’d got from a chemist
somewhere, and with the aid of a foot-
rule proceeded to paint inch and half-
inch marks up its length. The points, he
decided, could be guessed at near enough.
Two months later came the first shower,
the old chap spending the time dashing
between the guage and the hut and yell-
ing progress reports to me and Bruiser.
That was eight months ago. He is still
keen on the contraption, and carefully
records each fall, but what gets him is
the way this district has changed. “Y’
mightn’t believe it, Sol,” he told me the
other night, “but I remember when this
country’d get a dashed good shoot o’
grass after a inch o’ rain. But here we
had six inches only a few days ago, an’
nine the week before, an’ damn me if the
ground ain’t dry again awready!”
* * * *
“B. C. Ack”: Watching the jungle
waken always enlivened the 0400-0600
hours’ guard shift up north. Willie Wag-
tail was consistently the earliest riser, his
first chirp sounding long before any sign
of light. Leathernecks were the next up,
followed by honeyeaters, and, finally,
the shining starling roused himself just
in time to see the last of the flying-foxes
winging off to the mangroves. Down
south I’ve heard a skylark singing all out
in the pitch dark at 4 a.m. and the spur-
wing plover seems to be semi-nocturnal.
But for restlessness the fantail cuckoo
is a winner—l’ve heard its mournful cry
all through a moonless night after a day-
long session.
“B. A. Ker”: We were all strangers to
each other —the gang that started when
the quarry reopened—and, most of us
being green to the work, the day seemed
interminable. From two o’clock onward
a weary voice would inquire every occa-
sionally “What do you reckon the time
would be?” and the big joker would
shield his eyes with his hat, observe the
position of the sun, then announce
“Twenty-three minutes past two,” “Eleven
minutes to three” and so on. The first
time his guess was considered a lucky
fluke, but when it was found that his
guesses never varied a minute from
Charlie’s watch his gift began to cause
some comment. Next day a new chap,
who had replaced one of the fellows that
couldn’t “take it,” was frankly sceptical.
His cynicism cost him drinks for the gang.
Every time the big bloke was asked the
time his guess was dead accurate.’ During
the afternoon a piece of loosened stone
came bouncing down the face, was
diverted and shot out to strike the human
chronometer a glancing blow on the head.
He didn’t appear to have been hurt, and
we had forgotten the incident when the
boss came down. The opportunity was
too good to miss. Yes, he considered
himself a sport; moreover, he’d bet drinks
for the gang to one drink that no man
could be so accurate. It was money from
home. - The big chap shaded his eyes
with the battered felt, and promptly gave
his decision. It was forty minutes slow!
We were dumbfounded —until somebody
had a brainwave: “That knock on the
head must have upset your system.”
“Yair,” agreed the big ’un; “it must
have.” It wasn’t until three months later
that the wizard let us into the secret:
the stone striking him on the head had
stopped the tiny lady’s watch that he had
been carrying pinned to the inside of
his hat.
* , * * *■
“Moyhu”: The she-cat’s facility in con-
cealing her young is largely due to the
male cat’s passion to destroy its own off-
spring. Tom, as a rule, kills the males
only and, to this extent, his Herodian
conduct bears the imprint of reason.
Occasionally, however, he will slaughter
indiscriminately both male and female
kittens. Restoration of sanity usually
occurs whea dearth of females so in-
creases competition among the older
males that little energy remains to in-
dulge in lesser pleasures.
* * * *
“Esk D.”; Rain came to Upper Widgee
at an opportune time for ploughing, and
Fagan and McKenna, at loggerheads
again, had each a day’s work sin sight.
McKenna had a plough, but his horses
had been lost in the drought; Fagan’s
horses were in good nick, but his plough
was beyond repair. The urgent state of
affairs called for reconciliation, but the
latest argument left the pair at the height
of pigheaded ness and a direct approach
“Your name is Mud!”
was out of the question. Then, one morn-
ing McKenna found a notice propped on
his gatepost:
To Who It May Consern.
I will not be home thursday. The horses
will be in the yard the bfe coder with the
loose stufin goes on old daisey. I will
be using the team friday with a plow left
in the 3 corner padock.
Fagan.
Which accounts for two strips of
freshly-turned sods. The row goes on
as before.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Once when I wanted to
find an old Croweater mate I had simply
to consider his approximate age and the
place where I last knew him and work
out from this data his present probable
locality. If he were a “rural worker” it
would be almost certain that from the age
of leaving school to his early twenties
he’d work in a mustering camp, either on
an Oodnadatta-side cattle run or on one
of the larger Elder, Smith or Kidman
sheep stations that lie east and west of
Farina. When he was about 25 he’d
then do one of two things, depending on
his type: either he’d become a windmill
expert on, say, Mt. Lyndhurst or Bel-
tana, or he’d move south to an easier
billet with stock on one of the smaller
sheep stations east of Leigh Creek.
As he approached 30 his calculations
of the high cost of matrimony would
induce him either to get a job in one of
the railway gangs, when his whereabouts
could easily be discovered.because every-
one on the north line knows someone
“in the railways,” or to drive for one of
the large carriers in the Hawker district
or on the Broken Hill line ; and everyone
knows the drivers of the mail- and wool-
lorries. But now, thanks to Tom Play-
ford’s Leigh Creek coalfields project, my
favorite mate-tracing scheme looks like
being thrown badly out of gear.
* * * *
“Old-timer” 1 : One wintry Saturday
night “Curyo” Charlie drove into Turrif
on his way to Woomelang races and
found the place in a ferment. The Turrif-
Lascelles football match had that day
been decided, and word had come that
the special train from Ouyen had broken
down and would be two hours late.
Hence about 300 people wandered dis-
consolate in the cold darkness of the
single street without anything to eat or
distract their minds. “Curyo” sought out
the policeman. “Look,” he said, this
mob’s likely to get rough. They 11 start
playin’ up if y’ don’t do somethin. The
Law looked coldly on him and inquired
“What can I do?” “Well,” said Charles,
“y’ got t’ keep the peace. I was thinkm
if y’ got a car an’ run down t Lascelles
an’ brought back a lot o’ bread an save-
loys an’ things we could feed this mob
an’ keep ’em quiet till the train comes.
You could do it in an hour.” The Law
seemed pleased. “By cripes,” he said,
“that’s a good idea. I’ll get Rogers s
car.” Seventy-three minutes later the boy
whom “Curyo” had seduced with silver
reported the approach of headlights from
Lascelles way, and “Curyo” courteously
informed his customers that “It’s the last
spin, gents. The bobby’s comin with
tucker for everybody an’ I’ll have t close
the joint.” After which he folded up his
table, his numbered cloth and his Yankee
sweat wheel, put them and sat down
to await the coming of the food, half a
hundred notes the richer.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat missed his step on
the chaff stack and hit the ground, 18
feet below. His left arm hung limp ; there
were blood and bruises on his face ; he
was dazed. The boss and me got him to
the local hospital, where they put him to
bed. I said to the matron “Look, don’t
take any notice of me mate if he gets a
bit shirty. He’s all right, only he can’t
stand wimmen.” Five days later he
walked on to the job, his left arm in a.
sling.' “Cripes,” he said, “I wouldn’t
want t’ be in that hospital long. Them
wimmen gimme beans. Y’d a thought I
was a king or somethin’ the way they
fussed round. Had the bloomin’ matron
cord bin’ me hair an’ one of them nurses
offered t’ write letters for me. The other
blokes in the ward got properly narked
’cos I got extra tucker. An’ the night
nurses used t’ bring me cocoa, an’ one
of <’em slipped me a bottle o’ beer. Hey,
you didn’t pay ’em extra or anythin’ like
that, did y’?” I shook my head. “No,’’
I said ; “it’s got me beat.” The boss,
who’d heard all this, said “No. But y’
did tell ’em he was a woman-hater, didn’t
y’?” Mat looked at me, and then we both
looked at the boss and said “What’s that
got t’ do with it?” But the boss only
grinned and walked away. We couldn t
make it out.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Why are the magpie resi-
dents of Queensland so much less aggres-
sive during the nesting season than are
their relatives that live further south?
The worthy pair who have owned this
stretch of country for several years past
are now busy again with a young family.
School-children pass daily within a
dozen yards of the tali greygum where
the nursery is located, but no notice of
them is taken by the fond parents. In
Victoria such interlopers would be chat-
tered at, pecked and buffetted every time
they appeared. Is this diminished aggres-
siveness due, perhaps, to the fact that
“tame” magpies, caged or wing-clipped,
so often seen in former days as unhappy
captives in southern houses, condemned
to lifelong solitary imprisonment by
reason of their talking® abilities, have
never been popular in Queensland?
Traditions of robbed nests and enslaved
younglings may be the impelling griev-
ance there, prompting defensive measures.
Or does a more genial and liveable cli-
mate improve magpie tempers, as it so
often does with human ones?
* * * *
“Nagheer”: “Patrol Leader” (B.
24/10/’45) has overlooked the sole living
organism which inhabits the smooth sum-
mit of the Outer Barrier Reef, unpro-
tected by pot-hole or crevice. For a
thousand miles and more it crests the
very parapet, enduring the 40,000-ton
hammerstrokes dealt by vast gale-driven
breakers on every 20 yards of it, five
times in each minute, perhaps for days
together; the never-ceasing suck-and-
draw of hissing spates of broken water
as the tide rises and falls across it; the
glare of the tropic sun when the parapet
lies bare to it between tides. Crabs, fish,
anemones, sea-worms, a host of other
creatures parasitize and destroy the
coral, live and dead, but it has no known
enemy. Through the seasons and the
centuries it pursues its lowly life, flower-
ing, seeding and growing again. It is a
tiny, lichenous, sea plant. Should you
land again on that grim parapet, “P.L.,”
seek it under your feet, a flattened,
humble-looking, grey-white meshwork,
slippery to the touch. And do it honor,
as surely the most persistently vital of
all living things on earth or sea.
* * * *
“Bootle-oh”: Was very interested in
“Zake’s” carefully-compiled list of uses
to which the “humble dead marine” may
be put (B. 24/10/’4s)j The troops up
north had another use which I add to his
list. Beer was usually delivered in casks,
and most of the lads provided themselves
with bottles cut off just below the neck.
They made excellent “schooners.”
» * * *
“Notaden”: A recent happening in the
Murphy’s Creek district, only eight miles
from Toowoomba, capital of the Darling
Downs, illustrates the extent to which
the dingo pest is increasing in South
Queensland. Hearing his dog yelping
for help just before dawn a grazier found
it being held down by a dingo while
others, attacked it. He ’ beat them off
with an iron bar and kept the scared
hound under protection until daylight.
Early next morning another uproar
roused him to action. Seven dingoes
were at the unlucky animal again. The
trusty weapon came into action once
more. He knocked over two warrigals;
the others came at him savagely for a
while, but he beat them off again.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Charlie was having trouble
with O’Halloran’s wandering bull “Only
one thing to do,” confided Ben. “You get
a bottle of carbon and chuck it on the
brute. You can take my word for it,
nothing you sling that stuff on will ever
come back.” A week later, calling to see
how Charlie had got on, the first thing
Ben spotted was the garden fence smashed
down and O’Halloran’s bull cleaning up
the last of the cabbages. Presently down
the slope behind the house came Charlie.
He was harnessed with strap and drag
chain to a fence post that he pulled grunt-
ingly into position by the gap. “You
were right about that carbon,” he greeted
Ben. Ben gaped at the bull. “Eh?” he
inquired. “Yes, I got a bottle,” explained
Chas., “and poured it in a tin so I could
chuck it easier. Couldn’t get near the
brute on foot, so I rode old Bess. It
wus plain bad luck Bess stumbling just
as I pitched the stuff, and getting it all
down her shoulder like she did.” Charlie
shouldered his drag chain, and turned
to start back for another load. “I landed
in them carrots that aren’t there now,”
he added, waving a hand resignedly.
“But,” wearily, “it’s just like you said;
old Bess hasn’t come back.”
* * * ■ *
“Limby”: Radar is certainly getting
into a wide field. Having done an excel-
lent war job it is now to be used in the
polar regions to locate whales when they
are “blowing” on the surface. The
Admiralty has given the necessary per-
mission to instal the machines on three
large whaling factory tankers for a trial.
« * * *
“Bo”: For years Mrs. Learight had
been mentioning at appropriate intervals
the desirability of an outside pantry
annexe. Stung, at last to action, Sam was
measuring up for the needed timber one
day when Joe the rouseabout helpfully
suggested that the old disused hut near
the woolshed outstation might come in
handy. Sam remembered that it was still
in fairly good order. So next day he had
it jacked on to a low flat-top and hauled
in. The long pull was accomplished with-
out incident, but when the hut was being
taken off it slipped, and one end came
down wallop from about four feet. How-
ever, it held together, and after it had,with
much rough handling, been manoeuvred
into its position alongside the kitchen
Sam walked into it to have a look around.
As he started to toss out the door some
old bags lying on the floor there was
a stir, then up from some more bags a
figure slowly wriggled. A little old
man sat up, scratched himself; then
his truculent whiskered face looked up
into Sam’s and he roared: “Hey, I don’t
mind y’ sharin’ this joint for a doss, but
if y’ want a loan of a blanky blanket for
yerself arsk for it first, see?”
THE BALLAD OF CHANGI CHIMES.
[“The day after most of the Australians left
Changi camp for home the prison clock, of
its own accord, began irresponsibly chiming.”]
The clock on Changi’s grey-walled tower
Went crazy overnight—
Its hands showed ten past two; its bell
Boomed in the evening light.
No ordinary range of chimes .
By the bell that hour was rung,
But only after fifteen notes
Did silence grip its tongue.
Four years to the men in Changi Gaol,
It rang “Lord, be my guide”— •
To those enslaved a song of hope,
The knell of those who died.
Perhaps, like Lear, it snapped, insane
In one heartrending jangle,
And crazy weights like gallows men
Within its walls now dangle;
Or, maybe, learning that abroad
Peace by all bells was voiced,
It broke the laws of Time and Cog
And privately rejoiced.
ŵJJ».
VAL VALLIS


“C.E.”: Having reached the financial
goal he had set himself, Bill began put-
ting into practice the plans that had en-
couraged him through nearly 50 years of
hard work. A day-wages bloke was put
on to help the regular, and an enormous
armchair set up on the verandah. One
ring from the old sheep bell strung on
one of the arms summoned the missus
for instructions, two rings brought her
hurrying with a glass of home brew, three
notified his desire for tea. With his feet
on the verandah rail, Bill really enjoyed
life for about six months. Then Mrs. Bill
died. At once the bereaved set about get-
ting a housekeeper, and after some weeks
the first applicant arrived. Carefully, Bill
explained about the meals for the men,
the house and himself to be cared for,
the cows that must be milked and the
garden to be dug and planted according
to season. The lady demanded £4 a week,
“Wha-a-t!” Bill gaped. “Cripes, what-
inell’s a woman want money for, any-
way? Y’ ain’t gettin’ it, see?” The
second applicant arrived. “Two even-
ings off each week,” she stated in a busi-
ness-like voice, “and one day a fort-
night.” Bill shook his head. “Not good
enough,” he growled. “I don’t want any
half-time worker.” Followed another un-
comfortable month, all prospects
steadily refusing the conditions; then Bill
landed an elderly pensioner in need of a
home. Two days she reigned ; then, fed
up with Bill’s candid opinions, which fol-
lowed her like the reverberations of a
thunderclap, she packed up. As the gate
clicked the old bloke heaved a sigh.
“Hanged if I know what’sa matter with
’em nowadays,” he growled. “Seems
there’s only one thing for it. A man’ll
have t’ git married again.”
* * * *
“Becar”: The exhibition of wildflowers
staged recently by the South Australian
Field Naturalists’ Society brought forth
unusual and rare exhibits. From West-
ralia came wild white orchids, the largest
“To he perfectly frank. Superintendent, We suspect foul play!
known of the species, and the Dry-
andra formosa, the only living plant
today which is a relic of the Stone Age.
From the Adelaide Hills came the rare
Edwardsii boronia. A notable exhibit
was the Todea barara, a king tree fern,
of which there are only six known plants
in South Australia. Indicating one of
the many uses to which the wonderful
variety of our native flowers can be put
was the work of at* Adelaide exhibitor.
Flowers specially treated so as to retain
their color were pressed between two
layers of parchment bound together with
a silken cord at the edges, to form a
lampshade. Attractive in themselves, the
fairy-like effect when lit up was exquisite.
* * * *
“Rooster”: “The PipeFs” story of the
moth and the sparrow (B. 24/10/’45)
bears out the observations of leading
Australian naturalists. Most butterflies
and moths have the characteristic of emit-
ting odors. The insects are equipped
with a delicate arrangement consisting
of two flaps on the underside of the body,
together with a superfine “brush,” said
brush being concealed when the flaps are
in position. If molested, or otherwise
irritated, the flaps are thrown wide open,
the brush is projected, and vibrated
rapidly. This emits and spreads an offen-
sive odor. Most birds only make the
initial mistake of tackling these skunks
of the insect world. Incidentally, even
the moth larvae are protected in the same
way from the swooping attacks of forag-
ing birds. Some caterpillars eject a vis-
cuous, strongly aromatic fluid at their
enemies, with such force and accuracy
that the would-be assassins retire hastily
to cover.
* * * *
“The Heel”: Young Jim returned from
his first trip to town the proud pos-
sessor of a tin whistle. We suffered in
comparative silence until, becoming over-
confident, he tootled his pipe on Sunday
afternoon. The Sabbath, at our place,
was dedicated by all hands to sleep, so
at the first shrill peep Tom rose in
wrath and forcibly secured the offending
instrument. Owen loaded up the old
muzzle-loader, and dropped the whistle
down the barrel. The fiendish scream of
that whistle as it departed for the hills
set every horse on the place snorting and
galloping and had the dogs bolting for
the scrub.
* * * *
“Turon River” : “One-eyed Willie” (B.
10/10/’45) should be barred from assail-
ing Bulletin readers with his lies about
his horse walking off leaving him sus-
pended in mid-air with his arm wedged
in a galah’s nest. I should know, being
personally acquainted with one “Bill the
Dill” who actually lived through that
unenviable experience. Bill confesses that
he was at first perturbed about his pre-
dicament until he remembered the toma-
hawk he always carried at his belt. Razor
sharp, it needed only one stroke to sevei
the trapped arm just below the shoulder
and free himself. The fact that Bill still
had two massive arms doesn’t weigh with
him when Bill, with dramatic emphasis,
recounts the story. As he says “nothing’s
impossible, like the way I grew this ’ere
noo arm without even leavin’ a scar!”
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: It may console
“8.A.K.” (B. 3 /Ift/'’4s) to know that you
can brew vinegar from hardwoods, espe-
cially the white hardwoods of W.A. West-
ralian white gum contains abundant acetic
acid. A slab left lying on a polished steel
machine plate overnight will rust it jdmost
beyond redemption before morning. When
vinegar was especially valued as an, anti-
scorbutic, isolated settlers steeped white
gum chips in hot water and so obtained a
supply. The fibrous heart of the Xan-
thorrcea or blackboy also yields acetic acid.
« * * *
“Limbo”: Tasmania’s Fauna Board is
having its worries. Anglers grumble be-
cause large trout won’t rise to the flies ; a
recent ?ilb. catch in the Derwent was
hailed as a novelty. There have been,
abnormal shoals of whitebait about, and
the netting of them is blamed for the shy-
ness of the fish. Hitherto whitebait has
been chief item on the trout’s menu. The
platypus is accused of destroying the fish
ova, and the board is to investigate the
discovery of four dead plats, at Lake St.
Clair. On the whole the board is doing
a good job, as Witness its appoint-
ment of outdoor officers of the Forestry
Department as honorary rangers under
the Animals and Birds Protection Act.
“Wonk”: Dad ran hurriedly through
the bfitch of letters. “It ain’t come, Ma,”
he announced solemnly, “an’ this was
the last chance.” He hitched his pants,
and turned to stare gloomily at the mail
cart pulling away from the gate. “Y’
know,” he went on, “it’s a wonder old
Stokes ain’t sent us a invitation. We’ve
always been good friends, an’ cripes, I’ve
helped him out of a hole more’n once.
Remember how I grassed his milkers that
summer when he was short o’ feed? Yair,
an’ rode inter town for the doc. when ‘
u Sorry, old man; you'll have to stay. You've hardly enough points."
his missus was down with a poisoned
leg? Cripes, I’ve done a lot for Stokes.
An’ now —now here’s the whole districk
goin’ to his daughter’s weddin’, an’ us
not even asked. Ingratitood, that’s what
I call it.” He paused to watch the mail
cart as it turned on the narrow track
and came slowly back. “Nearly forgot to
give you this,” called the driver, hauling
out a white envelope. “Stokesy sent it.
Told me to give it to you last trip, but
it clean slipped my memory. Hope it
ain’t urgent,” he apologised, as Dad
glanced at the enclosure. “Aw, cripes,
no,” was the reply. “Just an invite to a
weddin’. Pity y’ remembered the thing.
They always pick us for their celebra-
tion, somehow. Ah well,” DAd heaved a
long-suffering sigh, “reckon that’s another
blasted present I got t’ buy.”
* * * *
“Homo”: Re those New Guinea
natives finding fever medicine in earth
from the banks of a stream (B. 3/10/ ’45),
primitive peoples the world over seem to
have the instinct to go to Mother Earth
for medicine and similar relief. In south-
west W.A. many of the roots which the
aboriginals were obliged to eat at certain
seasons, being of an acrid, burning nature,
had painful effects on mouth and tongue.
Relief was found in highly plastic clays
from the banks of rivers. Coated over
the tongue and allowed to dissolve slowly,
applications gave considerable relief, so
much that lumps of such clay were nearly
always to be found in a gin’s gunny sack.
* * * *
“Munja” : Faith-healing has long been
practised by the abo. In the Tjingelli
tribe, for instance, Binghi firmly believes
that he can cure a headache, by removing
his lubra’s decorative head-rings and
wearing them himself. As soon as the
pain passes into the head-rings pain and
rings can be thrown away. Stomach
pains are cured in a similar manner, the
rings being placed on the sufferer’s abdo-
men and thrown away when relief
is obtained. For muscular injury or
strain, sure that his pain is “spell -
inspired, Binghi seeks the medicine-
man. His fears are promptly con-
firmed, though he is promised a certain
cure. A possum is caught, killed and
“sung.” The skin ’is then removed and,
hairy side up, placed on the affected
part. A fire is quickly lit, a flat stone
made very hot and placed on the possum-
skin ; there it stays until the victim can
stand the heat no longer. The hot stone
melts the fat, which is supposed to sink
right through the skin to heal the injured
muscle. Within two days Binghi is fit
again, though carrying a burn the size
of a saucer.
* * * *
“Blime”: The boss was collecting
cows from the run. Dingoes had been
bad in the back country, and he counted
20 cows whose young calves had recently
disappeared. Some of the beasts travelled
badly, and when I met them they were
strung over a long stretch, with the boss
and a tired dog struggling with the tail.
“Bet I’ll shift these crawlers d’rectly,” the
boss snorted, catching up to where I held
the lead. “I’ve got old Ginger tied at the
foot of the spur. Always was a better
dog than Nigger on cattle. A few
minutes later he slipped Ginger s chain
and sent him back. An old cow spotted
him, and came urgently to life. Then an
indignant snort challenged from further
back, a bawling began near at hand, and
in a few minutes more that excited mob
were after Ginge to a cow. Cripes, but
wha’ssa matter with ’em,” gasped the
boss as the dog, after a valiant defence.
decided hastily that a, dead hero had
nothing on a live coward. Then we re-
membered the dingoes and realised that
the cows were color-conscious.
* * * *
“J J.”: Was camped with an old moun-
taineer in a gully in the Abercrombies
(N.S.W.) one summer, and, happening to
go out of the tent just on dusk, saw about
a dozen green tree-frogs on top of the
ridge-pole. I called the old chap out to
have a look at them. His eyes narrowed,
he looked nervously around, sniffed at
the still, muggy air and said “Come orn.
Down with the tent and get our gear up
the hill. • Somethin’s cornin’.” Half an
hour after we’d picked a spot well up the
hill that gully came down in flood.
“Yair,” said the old cove, “when y’ see
them golden-bellies gettin’ up trees an’
things y’ can bet somethin’s cornin’.” The
flood shower had fallen a good ten miles
away.
* * * *
“E. 2”; “No, I don’t go in for maize
now,” said old Tom. “The wallabies kept
raidin’ the maize paddick an’ nippin’ the
ends orf the tender young cobs. I didn’t
like t’ charnce poisonin’ the cobs, an’
them wallabies kept clear of snares an’
baits. They came at night, an’ the dawgs
were useless once the wallabies took coyer
in the scrub outside the paddick. Best thing
I could think of was t’ sew some old wal-
laby skins t’gether an’ male a soot wot’s
the dead ring of one of the critters when
the moon’s up, an’ I git among the mob
without raisin’ their ’spicion. Then I grab
one by the tail an’ perceed t’ drag it orf
t’ a quiet spot t’ wooden it, when—
bash!—an old buck hops into me, tooth
an’ claw. Yair, I must’ve had his fav’rite
doe, fr he tears the soot orf me an’
keeps on dealin’ out wot-for. Lucky
old Blue broke the chain an’ came after
me an’ druv him orf.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Probably because he was one
of those easy-going fellows who agree
with what everybody says, Harry Gross
had been listed by the residents of Tank-
stand as a man afraid of his wife. One
day Harry was coming home with a heavy
load of firewood when the axle broke.
He was negotiating the rim of a hill, and
as the whole outfit tipped over Harry
was pitched out and pinned. His head
was perilously close to a stump, and a
forward movement by the horse, which
had struggled to its feet, might have
crushed him. Hour by hour he spoke to
the restive horse, soothing it. Around eight
o’clock that night he weakly answered
the calls of some searchers, and soon
the sight of a swinging lantern came into
view. It was his neighbor Harrison, with
Brody from across the creek. Five
seconds after they had released him
Harry fainted. As Harrison bent down
to attend to him Brody looked along the
track just as Mrs. Gross, lantern in hand,
came hurrying anxiously along. “By
cripes,” observed Brody slowly, “it just
shows y’ how she's got the wind up him.
Soon’s as he sees his missus cornin’ he
goes out to it.”
PHILLIP BAY.
Where meteors drag lonely down the sky,
No pearly gates for me, no golden halls.
No streets of stars to fry celestial feet.
Sea winds have company of sands, of gulls,
Of waves that murmur everlastingly
Along the locked lagoons of Phillip Bay.
Constant in traffic, steadfast in repose,
This earth and water has my heart in stay.
No endless, empty calm. I shall come back
Where wool’s to load, where winch to crane-
hook calls,
The ships like crowding trees along the quays.
And flower-soft through poplars —old St.
Paul\
No heavenly lights for me. My night will
hold —
Pacing the labyrinthine Milky Way-
Gold, quenchless lanterns droning in the water
Where Hopetoun Channel threads along the bay.
I’ll hurry back each year to see September
Burn elms in Kobe Street, each bud and ember.
While still from Newtown Ridge late afternoon
Lights Reedy Lake, and fires the Bellenne.
I’ll winter where the lumbering sou’wester
Over the town a careless rainstorm spills,
And carves the grass to passionate disorder
Along the brave flanks of the little hills.
From places grand and knowledge wide
Death will ray strength deliver
To the bald hills of Barrabool,
And small-time Barwon River.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN' 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAQGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREB,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral fixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
'T
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.3 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
. All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3SB3S, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM’
Cyanogas blower (Pat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
suXSln'IZu’JL, Amir. m. 7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John s College and
an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees.
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum. _
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late James Murphy,
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their sons
to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University
of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be. .
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 7th January, 1946, in
the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the lltn
February, 1046, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may
be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Uneven Wool.
“Sheepo”; Most graziers know that the
wool on the front of a sheep is finer than
that about the breech, but few seem to
realise that indiscriminate mating can pro-
duce fleeces containing anything up to a
dozen different qualities. It should be
obvious that if a strong-woolled merino
ram is mated with a fine-woolled merino
ewe the resultant progeny will develop
fleeces in which strong and fine fibres are
intermixed. It is more than 30 years since
manufacturers in England raised the ques-
tion of uneven staples in fleece wool, but
it is doubtful if many smaller graziers
have done much to correct these faults.
Breeders of fat lambs naturally con-
centrate on carcass, and where English
breeds are used as sires, either with pure-
bred or crossbred ewes, it is not to be
expected that any degree of evenness can
prevail in the wool. But there is no reason
why so much unevenness should be found
in so many merino flocks. Too often the
desire to out-breed wrinkles and grow a
medium type of wool is pushed to ex-
tremes. Instead of the process being
gradual and rams of medium types being
mated with wrinkly, fine-woolled ewes,
the drastic and incorrect use of strong-
woolled rams is adopted. To in-breed or
out-breed the same rule applies; the
correction must be made gradually.
It is not enough to select the right types
of sires for correction purposes. Ewes
from the mating must be carefully exam-
ined at shearing time, and anything not
approaching uniformity culled out. One
culling is not sufficient: uneven types
should be culled out each year until some-
thing approaching uniformity prevails.
Such uniformity and average evenness of
fleeces can be obtained only by discrimi-
nate selection of sires and drastic culling
of breeders in each successive progeny.
Bushfire Fighting.
“J.R.D.”: Recently all bush, town and
forest brigades in Victoria outside the
Melbourne area were brought under uni-
fied control. Bush brigades are equipped
with up-to-date power-driven units,
bought in many cases from funds raised
by a special shire rate. This is much
more satisfactory than relying on public
subscriptions, when the cash mostly
comes from the enthusiasts who form the
brigade and do the work.
In N.S.W. bushfire-fighting is largely
left to a few far-seeing individuals who
raise funds and .give time and services to
form a brigade. The State as a whole is
about as well organised to tackle a big
fire as it was to repel an invasion four
years ago. Hundreds of bushmen realise
the danger,' but thousands more refuse
to acknowledge it or to interest them-
selves in the general defence.
Many N.S.W. shire councils deserve
censure for their lack of support It is
a safe bet that by far the greatest propor-
tion of up-to-date bushfire-fighting equip-
ment in N.S.W. is privately owned or has
been purchased by subscription.
Fighting a bushfire is like fighting a
war/ A number of brave, resolute indi-
viduals working independently with fire-
beaters will make only a small impression
op a big fire ; but, trained to work to-
gether, supplied with up-to-date equip-
ment and well organised and le’d, they
will get results, just as a modern tank unit
will fight a decisive action where snipers
would only have a nuisance value and
would fail to stop the enemy.
Each district has its own problems call-
ing for different tactics. Fighting a grass
fire on open country is different from
fighting one in timbered, hilly country.
Again the likeness to war comes in. The
open country lends itself to manoeuvre
by mechanised forces —big trucks can get
right to the edge of the fire, carrying
“He's his old self again since the feed picked up.”
power-driven pumps and heavy tanks of
water. Where a fire is roaring up a
heavily-timbered gully it is not a matter
of putting the fire out by direct attack but
of limiting its spread by strategic means
—burning a break ahead or by assem-
bling forces at a spot where there is a
better chance of checking it.
Stock Licks.
“Archap”: Are they essential for sheep
and cattle? Latest advice from the
C.S.I.R. is that where stockowners are
satisfied that common salt licks benefit
stock there is no reason why they should
not be used, but any general statement
on the value of licks might be misleading.
The C.S.I.R. and others, as the result of
experiments, have failed to show that
common salt or phosphatic licks have any
economic value when supplied to sheep.
It is common knowledge that phos-
phatic licks are of economic value when
supplied to cattle, and that calcium or
finely-ground limestone licks are fre-
quently of value when supplied to sheep.
In addition, cobalt, copper and possibly
some other minerals are of value to stock
in areas where those minerals are defi-
cient.
Licks which contain foodstuffs are
usually not of value, as the amount ol
carbohydrate or protein consumed is
generally too small to be beneficial;
usually such licks are very costly. There
the matter rests for the present, but when
more scientifically-trained personnel be-
comes available the Council is to con-
sider a request from Queensland graziers
for experiments with both salt and stock
licks to determine their effects on various
ages of cattle under a variety of condi-
tions. ,
Potato Growing.
“Rooster”: After planting watch the
weeds. Best way to beat ’em is to wail
for the first hot day- after they appear
then harrow both ways. A few potato
seedlings may be pulled out in the pro-
cess but they can be replaced. If harrow
ing is continued at regular intervals the
weeds cannot ©verrun the paddock, which
must result in bigger and better crops.
Scarifying and hilling should be regular
work during the growing period. Hilling
should be even, with the soil thrown well
up towards each row to prevent exposure
to weather of surface tubers. During
flowering scattered weeds should >. be
pulled.
Heaviest crops are obtained in Gipps-
land from Greysoil Carmens, with super-
phosphate at lewt. to the acre. Careful
cultivation increases the yield by two
tons per acre, digging is made easier. Cut
seed is preferable, providing the cutting
is done just prior to planting, so that
there is ar minimum of bleeding.
Soya Bean.
‘Sans Changer”: “H. Early” (B-
-15/8/’45) neglected to mention the amaz-
ing array of by-products obtained from
the soya bean. As a fresh vegetable it
has a very high nutritive value. Phos-
phorus, iron and calcium are present in
generous quantities.
Pre-war there were 50 factories in
U.S.A. engaged in turning out such by-
products as insecticides, printers’ ink,
waterproof materials and rubber com-
pounds. Plastics made from the bean
have been known to usurp metal. One
American manufacturer successfully bum
an experimental all-plastic motor body ot
soya bean and a few other faim pro
ducts, and a wool-like fibre has been pro-
cessed to a high degree of perfection.
Although the soya product does not con-
tain the strength of wool technicians be-
lieve it can be made so, using it in the
meanwhile for clothing and upholstery
textiles.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pat O’Day”: One reason for the
failure of lucerne to germinate when
sown with a cereal crop is that the
lucerne seed is sown too deeply or on
too roughly-prepared land. It is not pos-
sible to sow both wheat and lucerne to-
gether with a combine and set the seed
at the desired depth for each. The only
way is to sow the wheat first, then harrow
the land if it is uneven. Sow the lucerne
next, then cover lightly with a chain or
harrow upside down.
“Myrrhce”: To make algae-polluted
dam water palatable to stock dissolve loz.
bluestone in one gallon of water, and,
using one pint of the solution to each
thousand gallons of dam water, sprinkle
evenly over the surface of the dam.
Repeat treatment if the water again turns
green.
“Curate’s Egg”: I found my Torres
Strait island vegetable-raising attempts
frustrated by all manner of pests. From
the rough deal crates in which galvanised
iron was packed I built a series of giant
cradles, set on stilts some 3ft. high. Filled
with soil in which the seeds were sown,
the cradles wem then covered by wire-
netting, which stymied the wild-fowl pests
as did the wooden stilts the reptilian
variety. Giant lettuce, tomatoes and
beans resulted. There was the added ad-
vantage of being able to water and har-
vest the crops'without bending the back.
“Bogan Joe”: After small pigs are
weaned don’t cut down the sow’s feed.
Give her plenty, for she will not make
more milk, than she can absorb at two
months after farrowing. The more milk
she has the better chances of a big litter
next time. Best time to put to the boar
is late on the second day of heat or early
the third day.
“E. 2” : “Petrified” hessian has many
uses besides lining for the hen-house. With
12ioz. hessian two paintings with a mix-
ture of equal parts of cement, fine sand
and water makes the best job. Erect a
framework and fasten the hessian securely
to prevent sagging ; it is thoroughly wetted
half an hour before the first wash is
painted on both sides. The second coat
may be applied on one side only a day
later, sealing the hessian, and the sheets
are more durable if kept moist a few
days. They may be detached when dry
for lining sheds or a variety of temporary
outdoor shelters. The latter give good
service for a year or two.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Stalemate on Peace.
(Condensed from a review in “United Stales
News” after the failure of the London con-
ference.)
The latest stalemate in the effort to
restore the world to peace is related to
these factors;
Russia is determined to have her way
in the Balkans just as she had her way
in settlements related to Poland and in
the fixing of Germany’s eastern border,
Britain, after giving way on Poland
and Germany, is determined to refuse
to agree to a Russian sphere extending
over the Balkans and into the Mediter-
ranean.
The U.S. is going along with Britain,
on the theory that Russia, at some point,
must be forced to show her hand and to
reveal whether her aims are purely
nationalistic or whether she sincerely is
interested in international co-operation.
Other nations involved line up with
one or other of these viewpoints.
This situation raises a question as to
whether the Big Three will be able to
work out and agree upon broad peace
settlements that will permit the world to
get back on its feet.
The record of troubles in establish-
ing the basis for peace is a long one.
At Moscow, in October, 1943, the then
Secretary of State for the U.S., Cordell
Hull, obtained agreement to act jointly
in matters relating to surrender, dis-
armament and post-war security. This
did not stop Russia from giving Tran-
sylvania to Rumania or Britain dividing
the Balkans into spheres of influence.
At Tehran, in November, 1943,
Messrs. Churchill, Stalin and Roosevelt
confirmed the Moscow agreements. They
left “friends in fact, in spirit and in pur-
pose.” This optimism did not last long.
In the Balkans, Russia went ahead on
her own, keeping out Britain and the
U.S. and setting up pro-Soviet Govern-
ments. Trying to offset this, Britain went
into Greece to prevent Left-Wing ele-
ments from seizing control of the Gov-
ernment.
At Yalta, in February, 1945, Messrs.
Roosevelt and Churchill thought they
had secured Russian commitment to
joint policies during war and after. That
belief quickly died. Russia continued to
keep Britain and the U.S. out of the
Balkans. Latest Russian moves there,
made without consultation, are recogni-
tion of the Hungarian Government and
a trade agreement giving her 50 per cent,
control of economy.
At San Francisco, in May, there was
agreement on an international approach
to world problems.
At Potsdam, in July, Messrs. Attlee,
Truman and Stalin agreed once more on
European problems. But two months
later, when it came time to work out
these latest agreements, there was an
open split as to exactly what had been
agreed at Potsdam.
At London, finally, no attempt was
made, through compromises that could
not be kept, to covey up failure to agree
on basic differences. When U.S. Secre-
tary of State Byrnes and British Foreign
Secretary Bevin could not win Soviet
Foreign Commissar Molotov away from
his Balkan programme, the Big Five
Foreign Ministers agreed that they or the
chiefs of State had to meet again, to find
a solution to their differences. But they
could not agree how sucb a meeting could
be brought about. The split dividing
Eastern and Western Europe was
admitted.
Behind this split is a difference in out-
look and ideas. Russia is putting up "a
fence behind which she can build and
rebuild without interference. She wants
to end for all time any possibility of
invasion from the West. Britain is not
willing to be shut out of the Balkans by
Russia or anybody else. She, also, wants
military and economic security in the
West. The logical outgrowth, as she sees
Russia taking what she can, is to form
economic and political ties that strengthen
Britain’s position. This, in turn, in-
creases Russian fears of a Western bloc,
and leads her into decisions to take more
and more. France, much like Britain,
has traditional ties to the Balkans and
wants security from German aggression.
But, as Russia builds up Eastern Europe,
France’s demands for taking the left bank
of the Rhine from Germany and inter-
nationalising the Ruhr are being made in
a less forceful manner. France is find-
ing that her interests lie more with
Britain than with Russia.
The U.S. is trying to take a middle
position to shape and assure a basis for
collective security in the world. But it is
easier for Britain and the U.S. to work
together than it is for Russia and the
U.S.
As the situation now shapes up Ger-
many stands to gain from this split in
Europe. In Britain, the U.S. and France,
questions are being raised as to the ad-
visability of dismembering and stripping
Western Germany, as agreed at Potsdam.
A strong Germany in the West under
British-French control is considered a
better counter to a closed Russian bloc in
Eastern Europe than a Germany stripped.
Italy is in much the same position.
France is warming up to Italy in direct
ratio to Russia’s bids for Mediterranean
controls.
In the Near East and Middle East,
Russia is putting pressure on Turkey by
asking for border regions peopled by
Armenians. She is backing Pan-Arab
sentiment in the current Arab-Jewish
controversy that finds Britain in the
middle. Britain wants the U.S. to share
that burden.
In the Far East, the effect of
differences is being felt. Russia wants
an Allied Control Council in Tokyo
before she will agree to an Advisory Com-
mission to sit in Washington. In Korea,
no one knows what is going on in the
Russian zone. In Manchuria, the Chinese
claim that industrial equipment is being
given to Outer Mongolians. And there
are questions as to whether Russia is let-
ting China control Inner Mongolia, as
agreed to by treaty.
In the Pacific the Russians hold the
Kuriles while the U.S. controls bases
south of Japan. That line-up is not satis-
factory to either country.
Signs point to another Big Three con-
ference to find a way out of this maze
of conflicts. If such a conference does
not reach a compromise that both sides
can fulfil in good faith there is little hope
for a lasting peace.
Britain’s Commercial Policy.
(Condensed from a London “Times” review of
the position.')
The economic discussions in Washing-
ton passed from the facts of the
British economic situation to the pro-
priety of British commercial policy.
American opinion is much disturbed
over the United Kingdom’s lapse, now
more than a decade old, from the free-
trade doctrines and practices which were
the staple of British policy for so long.
It can make allowance for the necessities
of war which clearly dictated a policy of
regulation ; but apparently it regarded the
policy adopted in the thirties as a tem-
porary aberration which need not and
would not be continued on the return of
peace.
The change in British policy in 1931-
33 affected the whole system of world
economic relations. England did not give
up free trade lightly; indeed it was done
with the greatest of reluctance in condi-
tions for the creation of which the policy
of the United States must bear no small
responsibility. All through the twenties
and on into the great depression Britain
maintained an open market into which
other countries by dumping their sur-
pluses could export their unemployment
or raise much-needed foreign exchange.
All through this period Britain assumed
the whole burden of readjustment, when-
ever British exports were excluded from
former markets and new capacity to pro-
duce identical products was created over-
seas under the shelter of protective tariffs.
Only when the combined strain of domes-
tic unemployment and a flight of capi-
tal abroad had produced a political crisis
did Parliament sanction the revolution in
fiscal policy. Even then the change was
hesitating, timid and experimental.
The foundation of free-trade policy
was the doctrine that imports are paid
for by exports, with the implication that
imports can, therefore, be left to produce
the necessary exports. Experience in the
12 years after 1920 had undermined this
foundation. It had shown that imports,
instead of stimulating exports., might lead
to the curtailment of foreign lending, or
to the repayment of foreign debts, or to
the accumulation of balances not drawn
on.
Such balances might be subsequently
used to pay for exports; but, in the cir-
cumstances in which the United King-
dom found itself after the last war, they
might also be used to buy British assets
at home or abroad, or to drain the United
Kingdom of its gold and foreign currency
reserves. And in all these cases the use
of the sterling proceeds of British imports
gave no employment in the United King-
dom, The country decided after 1931 to
follow the example of the United States
and every other important country, and
to use protection as a method of main-
taining or expanding employment.
If the current income which other coun-
tries acquire in this country is not spent
on exports to maintain employment, it is
agreed that the Government should do
something about it; preferably something
to maintain exports, but, if that is im-
possible, imports must be reduced and
domestic employment restored by mak-
ing at home substitutes for them. The
effect of unbalanced imports is too im-
portant to be left to the chance that, if
free multilateral transactions are per-
mitted, someone will buy a sufficient
volume of British exports. The ratio
of British exports to imports has declined
for a generation, and the war has left the
gap wider than ever.
The American remedy, a loan, is no
remedy; only a drastic reorientation of
British industry and its relations with the
rest of the world can restore the equili-
brium dislocated by two wars. It is im-
perative that some arrangement should
be made to tide over the transition from
war-time pooling to peace-time com-
merce, and there is an unstinted appre-
ciation in this country of the American
readiness to help. But a loan, though in
the immediate short term it may be in-
dispensable, must be at the same time
recognised by both sides to the bargain,
however generous, as more likely to defer
than assist such a reorientation.
It is no kindness to a man who has
suffered a serious loss of income to make
him a loan if it merely enables him to
go on living beyond his income. And,
until this reorientation is effected it will
be necessary, whatever temporary aid is
given, for this country to take as con-
scious and deliberate measures to ensure
that exports follow imports as it is to
ensure that savings are balanced by
investment.
The contrast is not a simple one
between an expansive and a restrictive
policy. The United Kingdom needs and
will pursue an expansive policy; the ele-
ments of restrictiveness which were still
present in the new commercial policy of
the thirties will, it is to be trusted, be dis-
pensed with. But what is feared, and
must be averted by appropriate means,
is the deflationary influence on employ-
ment aJid prices in Britain of a refusal
of other countries to take British exports
while pouring into the United Kingdom
their surplus products, as they did before
1932.
The United Kingdom is unlikely there-
fore to return to free trade. It may, out
of consideration for American prejudices,
forgo some of the methods of protection
with which it has experimented ; they are
not essential to the new situation. But
freedom to deal with the problem must
be safeguarded in any agreement that is
to stand. What is essential is to move
back towards a balance between pur-
chases from abroad and sales to abroad,
finding new exports to replace those
which have been lost and restricting im-
ports so far as that replacement is impos-
sible.
“The Totalitarian Abroad.”
(Prom Victor Kravchenko’s “American Mer-
cury’’ account of his time as a Russian official
in Washington. Kravchenko joined the Com-
somols (Communist Youth ) in 1925 and the
Communist party in 1929. After service in the
Red Army he was in charge of an armament
engineering department in the Sovnarkon
('Council of People’s Commissars ). In Washing-
ton he served as an official in the metals section
of the Soviet Purchasing Commission in con-
nection with lend-lease operations. He an-
nounced his decision to break with the Soviet
regime in April, 1944.)
In Washington, D.C., hundreds of men
and women live the rigidly controlled lives
of citizens of the world’s greatest dic-
tatorship. Though residing and working
among Americans, these people remain
the terrorised subjects of a totalitarian
State. They do not share the free speech,
free press and other civil rights of their
American neighbors. What they read, what
they think, whom they meet is as com-
pletely prescribed and supervised as if
they were still inside the frontiers of
Russia. Their every word and action is
subject to a fantastically elaborate system
of spying. I was myself one of these
strange “totalitarians abroad” until I broke
away from the Soviet Purchasing Com-
mission which has been in charge of Rus-
sian lend-lease activities in the United
States.
To appreciate the extent of the super-
vision, bear in mind that only the most
trustworthy comrades are ever sent
abroad. It is a kind of accolade of offi-
cial confi4ence. Candidates for foreign
posts are examined and investigated for
months before being allowed to taste the
forbidden fruit of capitalist life. They
are thoroughly instructed in their duties
and especially cautioned about the temp-
tations that will surround them: the
“bourgeois fleshpots,” capitalist-Fascist
spies and agitators. Usually they are not
permitted to take all members of their
immediate families with them—a fev
hostages are useful insurance against pos
sible backsliding.
Having arrived abroad, they art
watched and induced to watch one an
other day and night. They must repor
every new American acquaintance —noi
merely his name and address, but his poli-
tical temper, his economic contacts, his
attitude toward Russia. Further contaci
can be maintained only with official per-
mission and on condition of continuous
and exhaustive reports. Americans oi
Russian origin or descent are particularly
suspect, since they might be supporters
of some anti-Stalin faction.
The Commission required us to keep
it informed in detail about servants, laun-
dresses, English teachers and other people
entering our households. Apparently
these were carefully investigated, and if
found unsuitable we were ordered to dis-
miss them.
All our mail to friends and relatives in
Russia had to be delivered open for for-
warding by the Commission —despite the
fact that it would be censored at the
other end anyhow. In the same way arriv-
ing mail, although already stamped by
the censor in Russia, was read by the ap-
propriate Commission officials before
being turned over to us.
We totalitarians abroad were forbidden
to visit night clubs, to see “counter-revolu-
tionary” pictures or plays, to listen to
radio commentators “unfriendly” to the
Soviets.
The taboo against mixing with Ameri-
cans did not apply to those whom we
needed to cultivate for business or poli-
tical reasons. Valuable gifts were pre-
sented to Americans whose goodwill we
considered useful. The recipient may
have thought it a personal and spon-
taneous gesture, but in every case it was
the end-product of an official discussion
and decision. Even New Year cards
were sent to American official and busi-
ness acquaintances only with the consent
of the proper authorities concerned.
When I first arrived at the Commission
headquarters I did not report to the
President of the Commission, but to the
ranking Communist emissary in America.
As the direct plenipotentiary of the Cen-
tral Committee of the Communist party
of the Soviet Union, he was the most
powerful Soviet official in the United
States. He had no direct contact with
Americans. He took no part in any
Soviet-American negotiations. As far as
the official American records go, he was
just another functionary connected with
the Commission. Yet his word was law
for everyone from the most menial Soviet
employee to the most important Soviet
military, economic and diplomatic repre-
sentative, He spoke with the voice of
the party, which is the real government
of Russia.
“You should have no misconceptions
about our relations with the United
States,” he told me in the course of that
first interview, “Today we regard our
relations with capitalist America as dip-
lomatically and militarily useful. This
does not mean that our interests will
always coincide. In the war itself, and in
the future peace period, our roads and
aims are quite different. If you bear that
in mind, you will understand why you
must remain vigilant, suspicious and
aloof.”
The same dual system of authority pre-
vailed in every section of the Commis-
sion. In my own metals division, the
technical chief conducted conferences of
a business nature. But when our party
members got together he became just one
of the rank and file while the Communist
secretary was boss.
The size and complexity of the espion-
age and surveillance to which the Soviet
official abroad is subjected are truly stag-
gering. Every one of us was obliged, as
a loyal party member and in sheer self-
protection, to report suspicious words or
acts of any colleague. In addition, the
par|y had an array of special agents de-
ployed throughout the Commission de-
voted to spying on the people around
them. Beyond that —and most frighten-
ing of all —was the network of agents of
the N.K.V.D., the State political police
(formerly known as the 0.G.P.U.), who
spied on a more professional basis.
The Commission in Washington, pre-
cisely like every factory, office and insti-
tution in the Soviet Union, has a Special
or Secret Department. This serves as the
eyes and ears of the regime, watching
every citizen, tracking down every symp-
tom of disloyalty or discontent.
Under the Soviet-American arrange-
ment only a limited number of Russians
can come in under ordinary diplomatic
passports. Additional intelligence per-
sonnel were, therefore, brought in under


I
k
k
Time for my
CAPSTAN
c®
\*
&»■
a»
tmpMe<i jjaaaurite Glqawttz
The Miracle of
LIFE ASSURANCE
How does it work?
When you were a young
man and took out your first
Life Assurance Policy, at the
same time as thousands of
other young men, did you
understand how your Life
Office would be able to keep
its promises?
Perhaps you wondered
why all the Life Offices
needed to build up such
.large Funds as they do?
THE explanation is very
"*• simple; While you were
young, only a few of your
contemporaries died each
year, and so your Life Office
was able to build up a Fund
with all the premiums it
received.
Later, however, more and
more of your contemporaries
—more and more of those
As a consequence, the claims
on the Fund increased, and
the number of the original
group paying into the Fund
grew less. But for the
strength of the Fund that
had been built up all the
claims could not’have been
met.
But for the strength of the
Fund established by all those
who pay their premiums
regularly, there could be no
security in Life Assurance.
That is the simple explana-
tion of the miracle: the
simple explanation as to why
Life Assurance is the greatest
co-operative institution in the
world. The immense growth
of this institution is based on
the fact that Life Assurance
has the will and strength to
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
the guise of economic functionaries of
the lend-lease and trading missions.
Whatever the specific work of a Soviet
economic representative, a major part of
his obligation is also to obtain all pos-
sible data about American business firms,
technology, military affairs, scientific pro-
cesses, etc. The instructions I received
before leaving Moscow for the United
States were sufficiently explicit and can
be summed up in one sentence: Get all
the information you can; give none in
return.
Late in 1943 the Communists, who con-
stituted about 90 per cent, of all the
responsible officials in the Commission,
were called to a special meeting. A very
long document had just arrived from
Moscow. It was signed by Mikoyan,
Commissar of Foreign Trade, and was, in
effect, a detailed set of instructions on the
kind of military and economic data about
the United States we must look for, how
to gather it, how to cover our traces.
Although in general it merely reiterated
instructions given to me, and to all others,
before we left Russia, it was obviously
intended as a refresher course and as a
reminder. Although the exigencies of
war had made us temporary allies in
Europe, I was constantly warned, we must
not trust any American.
An immense total of highly detailed
data about military, political and econo-
mic affairs has been gathered by Soviet
agents in these war years, and before that
through the Amtorg Trading Corporation.
It has been supplemented by a continu-
ous study of the American general and
technical press: a large staff at the Com-
mission was engaged in reading, clipping,
sorting, digesting and analysing printed
matter.
Thus in America we continued our
familiar existence, spying and being spied
upon, living in constant fear of the poli-
tical axe. Small wonder that an order
to return home usually alarmed us to
the point of panic. It might be a per-
fectly routine recall but it might as
easily be the first step in a purge leading
to exile or even to physical liquidation.
Russia and the Exiles.
(Condensed from the Chicago “Daily Tribune.”)
A shockingly base proposal has been
submitted to the United Nations by Russia
and its two satellites, Poland and Yugo-
slavia —that U.N.R.R.A. food and relief
be denied to the million or mon? dis-
placed Europeans who, through fear or
antipathy, are unwilling to return to their
former countries.
Nothing could have more clearly shown
that new tyrannies are thriving where old
ones had done business than this attempt
to induce political conformity on pain of
starvation. The Communists have only
compulsion to offer. If their system is
revolting to the instinct for liberty, then
they submit to their intended victims the
alternative of starving to death. It has
already been tried and proved, as the fate
of the kulaks recalls.
This proposal represents a depth of
moral degradation for which even the
most hardened observer of recent de-
velopments in Europe may be unprepared.
The United States is providing 72 per cent,
of the expenses of U.N.R.R.A., and per-
haps an even larger share of the supplies
which the international agency distributes.
Even so, the Russians have the temerity
to suggest that we become their accom-
plices in driving their fugitive slaves into
already prepared dungeons. They would
have us revive the Dred Scott decision
and write it into international law.
What could have persuaded them that
our principles are this debased? Could
it have been their experiences with us all
through the recent past, when, time after
time, we have given in to them to an
extent that can only suggest that the policy
of appeasement will never end?
When Russia was savagely attacked by
a powerful enemy this country poured
its wealth and its war material into
Russia, without the slightest provision for
recompense. At Tehran and Yalta, and
again at Potsdam, Russia was granted
every demand. Our leaders have sold
half of the continent of Europe into
bondage to Stalin. They have given
Russia the licence to pillage the industries
of Germany. What they have pledged in
return for the purely formal assistance of
the Red Army in bringing Japan to its
knees no one knows. Never once have
they stood up against Russian rapacity or
for the American principles of liberty,
justice and fair dealing.
As long as this is the spirit of our
representatives Russia will press us merci-
lessly for more.
If we have been cast in the role of
Lady Bountiful for the whole world it
is the fault of our New Deal spendthrifts
and appeasers. Men who for years have
been so spineless, the Russians are bound
to reason, will not revolt even if the most
overweening demands are thrust upon
them. They apparently think that our
demoralisation is now so complete that
we will not even be outraged by such a
proposal as has been made in .London to
implement Soviet tyranny with American
money and food.
n rx* m.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The meeting of the Council of Foreign
Ministers in London failed to accomplish any-
thing because the United States and Great
Britam desire a democratic, liberal solution of
the territorial problems of Europe and Soviet
Russia pursues a strictly imperialistic course,
holding what she has taken no matter what
hardships, physical and spiritual, such occupa-
tion imposes upon the native population. The
United States is told, in effect, to keep its nose
put of the Balkans, but Soviet Russia demands
a voice in the American management of the
occupation 1 of Japan, and Senator Pepper’s
visit to Soviet Russia launches a campaign
to encourage this country to lend Russia
$6,000,000,000. There is no limit to what that
country wants and no point at which it gives.
Then in Asia, Americans discover that half of
Korea and all of Manchuria —because that
country is dominated by its railroads —have been
given to Soviet Russia for five days’ fighting in
the Japanese war. Then a vast campaign is
conducted in the United States to malign
General MacArthur, to lower his prestige among
his own people, to give the impression that he
favors Filipino “Fascists” and the Japanese,
and he is booed by Communists in Madison
Square Garden. Simultaneously comes the Rus-
sian demand for greater participation in the
occupation of Japan* Who directed the booing
of MacArthur in New York? Was it the ally
who was demanding that his authority be cir-
cumscribed by a council and at the same time
conducting a propaganda campaign to get this
country to put up six billions of dollars of
credit? — George E. Sokolsky in N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Mr. Eden: I am sure the Government will
bear in mind that the difficulties of the Dutch
in Indonesia are very largely due to their own
action, as allies, in declaring war on their own
account against Japan. Mr. Attlee: Yes, we
are very conscious of the fact that throughout
all these years the Netherlands Government
stood with us, and that the difficulties that - face
them inevitably arise from the conditions of
waging war. We are keeping in very close
touch. — The “Times” report of the Commons
debate (17/10/’45) on the Indonesian situation.
* * * *
Finland, promised independence under its
armistice agreements with Russia and Great
Britain, is being Russified commu-
j£ c ° d nia ’ Tbc Russians are dictating to schools.
kbor unionSj industry an d the Government.
Finnish Communists, trained in Moscow, j
the reorgan i se d Finnish police in co ' ope . r - a in
w jfh the Soviet secret police. Member mem .
the Communist party now is a requisi e posts
bership in the reorganised po rded \ 0 those
m the constabulary have ee _ their own
favor of Stalufs international-
ism, much as Quisling worked for Hitler inter
nationalism against the foreign policy o
Norwegian Government. The mam i .
is that Finland lost its war against Kussi^
whereas Norway, as an Allied nation, w
war against Germany .—Hal Foust in
Chicago ‘ Tribune.
* * * uniMnjpr is
Russia, with the bluntness of a c otplHte
building up a deep defensive barrier o
States on its western frontier from tie .
the /Egean, with an advance line from ore
to Trieste. Moscow has set up puppet uu
ernments in Poland, Rumania and Bulgaria,
loyal Reds always in the Ministries o n .
and Justice. Concentration camps are 1
with thousands of the opposition. Unaer
armistice terms the Russian army must e e
by the occupied country, and there are lau,
Soviet troops in Bulgaria and more than a mi-
lion in Rumania. The Russians lack food at
home. It is cheaper to keep an army abroad,
R uman ians and Bulgarians say the Reds requisi-
tion food and ot her supplies for a far larger
number of troops than they have in either
, i tri u llS cia Osten-
country and sod to excca; to usre^
sibly, an Allied a a ministering
sians, British Americans V tw?
the armistice , terms '"Xthe Russians treat
Balkan countries. Aclua y, i- .-handed
b°th the American* .^ Br . ° comm i s .
manner. Ihey hold ses. measures with-
slon among themselves and p Americans
out e .y. e ? troubling to inf. _ From
or British, who leam about y
a Chicago Tribune correspondent.
** . ,
In the course of. controversy as to wnetnei
Britain shall replace her devastated forests with
softwoods or with slow-growing hardwoods,
§, h. Howard, Indian Inspector-General of
Forests, argues that wood is relatively inde-
pendent of the value of money; that a ton of
woo d today is exchangeable for the same
amo unt of food, clothes, iron, etc., as in 1938
or> f or that matter, in 1908. He sums up his
arg uments by saying: “A forest approaches
go ld in stability of value, but it grows. If
go ld could grow at even 2 p.c. compound
interest would not everyone prefer it to a
gilt-edged stock at 3 p.c.? A nation cannot
do better than invest in forests.” Even taking
into account the natural hazards of fire and
disease which can ruin trees but have little
effect on securities, few can dispute that properly
cultivated timber can be as as money in
the bank.— New York “Sun.”


Missing Friends.
COLLINS.—IP GEORGE COLLINS husband of ADA
ANN COLLINS late of Parkville will communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY of 472
Bourke Street Melbourne he will hear something to
his advantage.
TO EDWARD JOSEPH MORGAN formerly of Clive
Street East Brighton in the State of Victoria Em-
ployee of Macßobertson’s Confectionery but now of
parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
RUBY EVELYN MORGAN has instituted proceedings
for a Divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an Appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the 23rd day of November 1945
the case may proceed in your absence IF you intend
to defend the suit you must also file an Answer in
the said Office on or before the 2nd day of December
1945 AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
copy Petition and copy Citation in the suit may be
inspected at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor. —
JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES STEPHEN FAULKNER late of New-
castle in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MARIA FAULKNER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3567 of 1945 against you
on the grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter an ap-
pearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 4th day of January 1946 and
a eopy of the petition without charge from
JOSEPH WALTER KENNY Solicitor 160 Castlereagh
Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
HARTS
Circular Charts 4o» all types d
Recording Instruments lor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
ragged—
if he is 1
less, won’t
or Is out
sorts —he n
b e suffer
from digest
disorders. St
oim on a con
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
QUEEN STREET
PTV. LTD.
BRISBANE. Q’LD.
is dull,
loose or
If your
dog’s coat
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS l/f>
SKIN LOTION 8/t)
lODINE' DOG SOAP .. -/})
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BRANDALERA
iSJg
&
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
t/ie~ i Slkdlefzai.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 12 6i
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 „ ..W .. 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
Made by
FORD SHERIISKSTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
GLOB I T E Travel Case*
1
t
rm
m
m
i
m
y
92,000 TROUBLE-FREE
MULES IN A MERCURY
A 1939 Mercury Sedan, used night and day in all
weathers for essential hire-car work, has completed
92,000 miles without requiring any repairs. The
cylinder-heads and sump have not been removed and
the only replacements have been one set of spark-
plugs. The body-work is as good as new.
Small wonder that Mr. F. C. Burgess the satisfied
owner writes: “This performance has convinced me
of the car’s reliability and worth. As soon as possible
I intend to become the proud owner of the latest
model Mercury.”
FORD V-8 CARS. TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
rone
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic,
CRAVENA
5785
.. aie always
smeM+pedt!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
MADE SPECIALLY
m
PREVENT
Ug
*
THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Work for part-time typist.—3667.
To buy Pattern Poetry Part IV. —3668.
Information Sought.
How does the Commonwealth make interest
from the printing of notes and the minting of
coins ?
The Commonwealth Bank has the notes
printed and coins minted and buys Common-
wealth securities against them. The securities
bear interest, and profit is interest minus cost
of minting and printing and managerial
charges.
(1) If a wife dies intestate does her husband
inherit her estate? (2) Is a woman’s husband
her next of kin? (3) Is a will necessary?
(1) Husband gets one-third, next-of-kin two-
thirds between them if there are issue surviving.
If there are no issue and the estate is under
£lOOO the husband would receive the lot. If
over £lOOO he gets £lOOO plus half the residue;
next-of-kin would receive the remainder. (2)
Children first, then husband and then down the
line of relations. (3) It may save much trouble
and expense.
How was the English thoroughbred racehorse
evolved ?
It is descended in a direct male line from
three horses imported to England about 1728:
the Byerly Turk, the Darley Arabian and
the Godolphin (either an Arabian or a Barb).
Descendants of these three horses are the
Eclipse, the Matchem and the Herod lines,
which are held to be the three outstanding
families throughout the history of English
racing. Eclipse was sired by Old Marske,
grandson of the Darley Arabian. His dam
Spiletta had for her grandsire on her own
sire’s side the Godolphin. Herod’s great-
great-grandsire was the Byerly Turk, and the
name of the Darley Arabian commences the
pedigree of Herod’s dam Cypron. The grand-
sire of Matchem was the Godolphin, his dam
having the Byerly Turk at the beginning of her
pedigree. Eclipse was foaled in 1764 and was
never beaten, winning 26 races. In 23 years
at the stud he sired 344 winners.
Brief Answers.
J.W.: Philatelic societies do not undertake to
value or dispose of non-members’ collections.
J. H. Smyth, Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, will advise if reference is made to The
Bulletin. .. .J. 8.: Dyke’s Automobile and
Gasoline-engine Encyclopaedia, from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, 50/-, can be used for refer-
ence, but it is not a job for an amateur
J.W.W.: If you are in Trade Credits (Austral-
asia), Ltd., write to Bridges, Steel and Watkins,
10 O’Connell-street, Sydney, liquidators. Shares
in Trade Credits, Ltd., 26 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney, were recently quoted in M.L. at 9s. 6d.
buyers, no sellers A.C.: Contact N.S.W.
Rugby League, 308 Pitt-street, Sydney J.T.:
Information insufficient to trace case; if further
dates are furnished record may be found....
C.J.C.: Dispute is brought before Court on
summons served on parties concerned. Diffi-
culty is not in bringing disputes before Court
but in enforcing Court’s orders when they are
made... .S.V.F.: (1) The moral question in-
volved is one of services rendered. A free
gift, unrelated to services or their cash equiva-
lent, and not in exchange for assets, tangible
or intangible, would be difficult to justify. (2)
Impossible to say; everything depends upon
circumstances surrounding each case. (3) Com-
pany Formation, Management and Practice,
by Sidey, and Company Formation and Practice,
by Tuthill... .H.P.McI.: A chairman cannot
force a person to vote; he can only ask him to
do so Nemo: The Bank of N.S.W. was
established in 1817 in Sydney, and a paid capi-
tal of £3625 was subscribed by the public,
T. J. Campbell was president... .Painter:
Send name and address J.A.: A copy may
be obtained from the Registrar-General’s De-
partment, Sydney J.P.: It would be advis-
able to consult the Pensions Department, Bris-
bane... .J.K.: Send address and a pamphlet
on the course will be mailed to you.,. .R.T.F.:
If the estate is passing to widower or children
nothing would be taken Clamp: The device
should not be used on colts.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. ■ MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
F.8.T.: “Jhe terrific import of this gigantic
catastrophe, the deadening, sickening, soul-
killing realisation that he was now alone in
the world fell upon him with the abrupt state-
ment of a bursting black cloud.” That state-
ment fell into the w.p.b. shortly after,....
G.L.S.; Racing yarn a non-starter K.L.T.:
Remorseful murderer an old friend... .J.S.
Try a daily 8.J.D.: Apart from his ginger
whiskers “Uncle Joe” seems quite unremark-
able.... L.J.: Slang is ephemeral at the best,
and unintelligible at the worst, and in any case
no substitute for the King’s English....
A.H.M.: Formless, as a story, but promising.
L.B.McN.: “Drifting Sands” drifts
T.A:. Excessive use of the exclamation mark
inhibits any faint desire to laugh J.F.O’N.:
Sentimental K.S.D.: Come again
A.N.T.: “Jacqueline Adair was perhaps not
the type of broad that everyone would shoot
their eyes at, but her particular type of blonde,
curvacious beauty was enough to send Tonks
Michigan ringing for his bodyguard whenever
he took her out, as he reckoned on her knock-
ing cold any punk that set his peepers on her.”
You have clearly been reading those fountains
of Australian culture the Sydney “D.T.” and
“Herald.”


S MM
Over 6y years of
service, iByB-i§4s
On the 14th of June, 1878, The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited was established as
the first Corporate Trustee Company in Australia,
its purpose being to provide a more efficient means
of meeting the needs of the community in Estate
Administration.
Since then, the Company has provided the im-
partial advice and assistance of a Permanent Cor-
poration as Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent,
and in other business of a fiduciary nature, to which
activities it is solely devoted.
By making a Will, appointing as Executor or Co-
Executor this old-established Company, you ensure
the careful and efficient administration of your
Estate and obtain the benefit of.over 67 years’
specialised experience at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your solicitors, or write or call for
a free explanatory booklet.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Sic Alexander Stewart (Chairman) | D. Stuart Murray} Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sit Lennon Raws,C.B.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.H.J
Sic Alan Newton, M.S., Melb„ F.R.C.S., Eng.
«
General Manager! W. Sydney Jonet.
Manager! K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS*
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart:
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
*
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russetl French.
Incorporated In Victoria la 1878.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
AH classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
' TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Claims F W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
t Dividends-
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, seizes.
’36 194,702 10ip.c.= 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c,= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. •• •• 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 . . ■ • 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Special reserve disappears, £25,000 . . 424,794
’43 254,069 60,000 7.5 p.c.=165,000 28,569 453,363
Patent rights reduced, £1,027 • • 454,390
’44 257,487 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 258,775 60,000 7.8 „ „ 162,000 36,775 526,652
This is one of Australia’s half-dozen
biggest industrial undertakings. The en-
terprising management made the most of
changing needs and opportunities as they
occurred, partly by adoption of improved
methods, based on up-to-date technical
and market research. And growth of
the undertaking, which has been pro-
nounced over the last decade, continues.
After much research a way was found
to make from local timbers much pulp
previously imported. Plant for the pur-
pose was erected at Maryvale (Vic.), and
alongside was set up fast-running
machines to turn out wrapping papers,
container board and a variety of related
products. To meet the outlay £1,970,000
of fresh capital, which brought with it
£lOB,OOO of share, premiums, was gath-
ered during the half-dozen years to the
. close of accounts in 1941, raising paid
capital to its present figure—£3,2oo,ooo
in 1,000,000 6 p.c. £1 cum. prefs., 600,000
£1 ords. and 2,000,000 16s. ords.
War shut off imports and widened the
co.’s field, defence annexes were erected,
additions were made to all mils —Mary-
vale, Melbourne, Fairfield and Bradford
(Vic.) and Botany (N.S.W.) —and total
output stepped up from 89,000 tons pre-
war to 117,902 tons last term. Mean-
while, the co.’s research staff and plan-
ning committee have mapped a pro-
gramme of development to meet expected
post-war commercial demand. This pro-
gramme includes installation of new plant
at Fairfield and Botany, and extensions
and additions at Maryvale and elsewhere.
Also, production of new products is being
investigated ; one, lignin, the main con-
stituent of wood pulp, has many possible
uses in the plastics field.
To finance part of the new programme
£2,250,000 3| p.c. debentures were offered
and fully subscribed shortly after the close
of accounts. The issue was underwritten
by lan Potter and Co., Melbourne
brokers, at 20s. p.c., and has a currency
of 25 years, subject to the co.’s right to
redeem after 20 years. There is no specific
provision in the trust deed for creation
of a sinking fund, but the co. may buy
and hold, re-issue or cancel the deben-
tures bought as the board sees fit. Since
last term’s net earnings were 6.9 p.c. on
shareholder’s funds (capital and reserves
combined) the debentures ought to be
very helpful to the ords., though new
money seldom earns at the same rate as
old, for a while at any rate. The Gov-
ernment’s policy of high taxation and low
interest rates is conducive to finance by
debentures rather than equity. The co.
has the right to issue further debentures,
ranking pari passu with the existing issue,
provided net tangible cover does not fall
below £2 per pound of debenture capital.
When all the money on the present issue
is in, and allowing for estimated prelimi-
nary exes. (£30,000) and the final div.
(£111,000) and including provision for
taxation and contingencies (£342,500) but
not deferred maintenance (£110,201), net
tangible cover on the basis of figures at
June 30 last will be £2 16s. 2d. per pound
of debenture money.
Output of paper and board last term
increased by 643 tons, despite tapering
of defence orders and shortage of essen-
tial raw materials (wastepaper, etc.) for
manufacture of cardboard. Approximately
16,000 tons of cereal straw was bought
and used as a substitute. After depositing
£110,201 with the Treasury for deferred
maintenance, and allowing £317,671
(down £52,985) for ordinary depreciation,
there was a spring of £22,828 in gross
earnings (£697,216). Exes. (£438,441, in-
cluding £235,102, down £527, for taxa-
tion) took £21,540 of the increase. The
net result (up £1288) covered the pref.
div. and a shade over 9 p.c. on the
£2,200,000 of ord. capital, compared with
8.9, 8.8 and 8.3 p.c. for the three preced-
ing terms. The div. was kept at 7.3 p.c.,
or enough to enable the holding cos. to
pay their pref. divs. and show 6.2 p.c. on
their combined ord. capital.
Australasian Paper and Pulp and Cum-
berland Board Mills, which own 77.6 p.c.
and 22.4 p.c. of the operating co.’s ords.
respectively, maintained their ord. divs.
at 6 p.c. Nothing is said concerning the
scheme, under consideration when war
broke out, for distribution of the operat-
ing co.’s ords. among those on the hold-
ing cos.’ registers.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1941. 1944. 1945.
Pref £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord. ~ .. 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,200,000
Mortgages.. .. 16,319 13,253 13,574
Deposits . . .. 152,984 10,024 50,325
Other creditors .. 427,717 320,599 200,459
Tax reserve, etc. . . 200,000 343,000 842,500
Freeholds and plant 2,943,973 2,882,340 2,194,918
Shares other cos.. . 23,242 25,373 30,234
Stock .. . . 1,002,012 1,161,808 1,163,744
Book debts . . 544,305 696,616 630,031
Cash, etc 45,727 222,616 535,783
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for depreciation and deferred
maintenance, etc., an extra £40,301 of
deposits and a reduction of £65,584 in
debtors’ balances, enabled cash, etc., to
be strengthened by £313,167. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£1,752,934) was £334,398.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c.= 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 .. • • 20,989
1936.. 30,019 Si p.c. = 25,218 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 ~ „ 26,881 6,657 32,462
1938.. 36,871 9J „ „ 28,375 8,496 40,948
1939.. 37,121 10 „ „ 29,868 7,253 48,201
1940.. 21,319 8 „ „ 23,895 45,625
1941.. 21,579 6 „ „ 17,920 3,659 49,284
1942.. 16,221 5J „ ~ 16,427 49,078
1943.. 18,342 6 „ „ 17,921 421 49,499
1944.. 19,942 6 „ „ 17,921 2,021 51,520
1945.. 18,121 6 „ „ 17,921 200 51,720
Just as Sydney had eaten this old-estab-
lished and once highly-prosperous cater-
ing and refreshment business out of some
of its troubles, war arrived. And with
it came keener competition and trading
and other restrictions that bumped up
costs and slowed down the rate of net
earnings. Turnover kept on expanding
with the temporary growth of population.
Shortages of staff and materials and
the up-swing of costs were the trouble.
The factory and branches —there are 41
in and around Sydney—were respectively
declared “essential” and “protected”
undertakings. Still, supplies to 45 retail
distributors had to be discontinued in
1943, owing to shortage of factory labor.
The rationing of tea, sugar and butter
affected the extent and variety of the
catering service, while the rising cost of
labor and commodities pressed heavily
against the Government ceiling oyer sell-
ing prices. Then Government rationalisa-
tion measures slowed down the i ate at
which costs were advancing, and the div.,
which had tumbled from 10 p.c, in 1939
to 5\ p.c. in 1942, has remained steady
at 6 p.c. for each of the last three years.
And, for the next year or two, appear-
ances are that it will be a struggle to keep
it there.
Last term turnover held well, despite
further reduction in the meat ration,
which left the co. with only 40 p.c. of its
normal requirements. A lift in award
rates for restaurant employees was partly
offset, six months later, by an increase
in the co.’s charges, sanctioned by the
Prices Commissioner. Gross earnings
(£341,973) stepped up £8845. Exes.
(£323,852), which got a little benefit from
termination of a couple of leases —Bondi
Beach pavilion in 1944 and Hollywood
pleasure grounds last term—took all the
gain and £lB2l besides. That left the
net result (£-18,121) a shade over 6 p.c.
on capital as against 6.6, 6.1, 5.4, 7.2, 7.1
and 12.4 p.c. back to 1939.
Speaking broadly, a catering business
expands or contracts according to the
quality of the service it is able to pro-
vide, Recognising this, the board has
decided to put in hand, so soon as cir-
cumstances and Government permit.
plans for re-organisation of factory and
restaurants, based on ideas gleaned oy
the chairman, knight Samuel Walder, dur-
ing a visit to Europe and America m
1939. First step was taken last term,
when land adjoining the factory was
bought. A new building is to be erected
and some £20,000 worth of new equip-
ment installed. Among other things, this
should help in the battle against costs,
which looks like becoming more intense
before it begins to ease.
The financial structure is being slowly
strengthened:
1941. 1943. 1944. 194=5.
Capital • • £298,682 £298,682 £298,682 £298,68-
Mortgages .. 126,614 125,144 12M44 119^144
STcred.- Alai .17.11 ' 70,509 60.621
Freeholds .. 295,560 298,381 298,305 305,477
Leaseholds .. 16,121 11,146 8,300 5,977
Plant etc 104 977 93,721 86,010 79,691
Stocki :. 20.906 24,502 22,743 21.783
° a etc. debt °! S .’ 46,709 41,742 55,853 46,996
Shares to other 79;105
* Including provision for taxation.
Last term £11,488 was snipped off the
outside debt, £7172 was added to the
book value of freehold, and cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £8857. The uiore
or less liquid surplus (£33,452) was £1671
better than at the previous balance. What
shareholdings turn in isn’t mentioned.
The Newcastle subsidiary (paid capital
£14,526), with'seven branches in the steel-
and-coal city, paid 12 p.c. for the year
to June 30 last. Other holdings include
Pearson’s Fish Cafe, Sargents (Whole-
salers), which does the buying, and City
Estate Property Estates.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
(— *——Dividends— \
p re f Towards Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 16,292 14,571 Nil 1,721 18,175
Premiums on leases, £482 .. .. 18>0o^
1937.. 20,084 14,571 24 p.c. = 5,803 18,367
Premiums on leases, £1317 .. . •
1938.. 24,180 14,571 3J p.c. = 8,705 904 20,588
Premiums on leases, £2369 .. • • 22,957
6 p.c.
1989.. 22,466 8,571 3f p.c. = 8,705 5,190 28,147
Premiums on leases, £1265 . . .. 29,412
Taxation charged reserves, £6416 .. 22,990
1940.. 19,347 8,571 Nil 10,776 33,772
Premiums on leases, £1204 .. .. 34,976
1941.. 14,407 8,571 24 P-c. = 5,804 32 35,008
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,008
Prom reserves re leases, £3490 .. 21,518
1942.. 14,490 8,571 24 p.c. = 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £lO,OOO .. 11,633
1943.. 30,586 8,571 5 p.c. = 11,607 10,407 22,040
From reserves re leases, £4032 .. 18,008
1944.. 38,850 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,350 34,368
To staff fund, £5000.. .. .. 29,358
Unexplained addition, £lO,OOO .. 39,358
Unexpired premiums, hotels, £6,359 45,717
1945.. 38,882 8,571 6 p.c. •= 13,929 16,382 62,099
To staff fund, £llBO 60,919
Net earnings are not as good as they
look over the last couple of years. Last
term no specific provision was made for
taxation, and the £20,000 provided for
the purpose in the previous term was
£ 10,000-odd short of requirements. The
£lO,OOO was charged against accumulated
tax reserve, reducing it to £35,000, which
is considered ample to meet the bill for
the 12 months to June 30 last. Hence-
forth provision is to be made out of each
year’s earnings to meet the assessment
thereon when the bill arrives. Also, the
£38,882 of profit shown last term leaves
out of the reckoning £lO,OOO dropped
from somewhere into general reserve and
unearned premiums on hotel leases valued
at £6359, There was a contraction of
£16,957 in gross earnings (£177,993).
Exes. (£139,111) were got back £16,989.
Thus the net result was enough to pay the
prefs, their full contract rate and show
13 p.c. on the £232,144 of ord. capital,
compared with 13, 9.4, 2.5, 2.5, 4.6 and
5.9 p.c. back to 1939. An all-round 6 p.c.
was distributed, and it is doubtful
whether anything better need be looked
for.
The co. is in the wine-arid-spirit and
general-merchandising trade; headquarters
are at Rockhampton, and there are
branches at Charters Towers, Cairns, In-
nisfail and Bowen. The business ran into
trouble during thejslump of the early
1930’ 5, when £150J)00 was lopped off
capital (prefs. and ords. alike), and
branches opened during the preceding
decade in eastern State capitals were
closed. Until a couple of years ago it
was a struggle to pay the pref. div. and
hand the ords. a modest helping. That
was because the final chapter of the
slump story was not written until the
close of accounts in 1940. For the two


MAJVSEASE
the perfect comfort malo
support for everyraan’i
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
PLAN FOR HIS
FUTURE,TO;
Wise is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available 1
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& CtHtBAL IMSOBANGL CO, LTD.
rie»bOritce Vi-373 Brisbane
WIHOHLO HOUR* ANGEL PIACI, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE COLLIN!) ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
9 f f y
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
VAXOS
n
\saX'®°
wm
im
fROW
CATARRH
INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA. ANTRUM, & SINUS TROUBLES
These distressing complaints are all caused by germs in the
bloodstream, and lasting relief can only be obtained by defeat-
ing these germs. Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a Vaccine
which, instead of being injected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth) and is produced by an eminent
medical bacteriologist. Upon absorption into the blood-
stream, Vaxos quickly sets to work destroying the attacking
germs and neutralising the poisons created by them, with
the result that-the patient soon feels brighter, headaches and
body pains vanish, and health steadily improves. With
continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to the disease
is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for children
and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer need-
lessly; obtain Vaxos from your Chemist to-day.
"Vaxos" costs only 21/- a large bottle containing 24
c.c. s, which is sufficient for several weeks' treatment for
chronic cases. The medium size bottle for milder cases is
obtainable at a cost of 12/6.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe
type) for Rheumatism,
Neuritis, Sciatica, Myositis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Spondylitis.
Vaxos No. 3 for Roils, Pimples,
Carbuncles, Acne, Psoriasis. Der-
matitis, Eczema, Impetigo, Septic
Sores and most Skin Infections.
m
WMsM
m-v.
ORAL VACCINE
If your Chemist is oat ot stocKs, write to
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.). 582 Lit. Collins St., Melb.
WHEN
YOU CAN
ONCE MORE
fOUR ALL THE
WEEK-END . .
I
I
m
»/
YOV r LL DO MORE
MILES SAFELY
ON . . .
DUNLOP
TYRES
D S 3
MOST PEOPLE
THROUGHOUT THE
BRITISH EMPIRE
RIDE ON
DUNLOP TYRES
years to that date £60,000-odd was written
off for bad debts. Then war set the north
buzzing with activity, and the board
seized the opportunity to strengthen the
co.'s hotel investments and to jettison
some of its more troublesome retail-store
interests. Net earnings over the last three
years reflect the benefits.
Though recent earnings cannot be taken
as a reliable guide to the future, the busi-
ness is in better shape than it has been
for a long time. The newly-acquired
agency for Phillips Electrical Industries
and for Ford motor vehicles for portion
of North Queensland, including Towns-
ville and hinterland, should help future
turnover. Balance-sheet figures compare
as follows:
1941. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Overdraft .. 150,503 130,425 34,696 45,878
Sundry creditors 134,477 149,025 129,011 117,180
Properties and
plant .. 378,217 357,409 352,423 360,509
Shares, etc.*.. 59,037 46,716 13,620 13,570
Stocks .. 82,298 71,903 121,008 122,652
Book debts .. 188,022 214,009 150,569 157,049
Cash . % .. 300 420 2,347 4,197
* Amount invested in retail stores.
Over the last three years debtors’ balances
have been worked down, the amount com-
ing to outsiders reduced and stocks
strengthened. Last term the co. bor-
rowed from Peter to pay Paul, but there
was an improvement of £11,973 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£134,410).
And when the books closed there was
only 7s. sd. of outside money at risk in
the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders (excluding the tax reserve)
compared with 14s. 2d. three years earlier.
Zinc Investments (paid capital £250,000)
netted £11,249 for the year to June
30 last, and paid 2\ p.c. (£6250).
Another 2} p.c. was sent out on August
17. The whole of the capital and a bit
more are represented by Government secu-
rities and cash (£25,755), 196,367 £1 f.-p.
ords. in Associated Pulp and Paper, and
119,250 B shares of 17s. Bd. each—36,ooo
paid to 13s. 3d. each and the balance fully
paid—in Minerals Separation and De
Bavay’s Processes. The question of a
return of capital is still in abeyance, be-
cause the board is unable to assure share-
holders that the paper co.’s scrip, if dis-
tributed, would be free of taxation in their
hands. The paper co. paid 6 p.c. last
term, and its shares are jammed at the
ceiling price of 375. 9d. on ’Change. No
new royalty business has been written, nor
divs. paid, by the De Bavay co. for some
time.
* * * *
Westralian Government says it will do
its utmost to resuscitate the mining in-
dustry. It expects to raise the wind
from the Commonwealth Government to
the tune of £3,000,000 or thereabouts for
the purpose. If it is successful, loans,
repayable out of profits, are to be made
to cos. whose properties closed down
during the war owing to shortage of
labor and Supplies, to enable them to
hasten development, equipment and out-
put. part of the three million is
to be used to help quicken production of
minerals other than gold, and in aiding
prospectors and further geological
surveys.
* * * *
A manpower official discussed the
labor position with the Westralian Cham-
ber of Mines the other day. When
Prime Minister Chifley visited Perth in
August last, a deputation stressed the
need for goldmining to be placed on a
footing to absorb large numbers of men,
and asked for immediate return of im-
pressed machinery and release of key men
to prepare the mines for increased produc-
tion. Some properties, closed during ffie
war and still idle, can’t be brought into
full operation right away ; workings will
have to be unwatered and cleaned up, and
there is bound to be delay, perhaps long
delay, in delivery of necessary new plant,
especially engines.
* * * *
North Kalgurli, Ltd. (W.A.), reports
a profit of £65,473 stg. for 1944, com-
pared with £71,228 for 1943. Div. is 9d.
as against l\d. The annual report is
expected to record a further increase in
the intrinsic value of the co.’s Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile property.
* * * *
Scrip in North Kalgurlie (W.A.), is in
strong demand in the market, but
to get. The co. has large reserves of
good-grade ore, and therefore good pros-
pects of increased production and divi-
dends when enough manpower and
materials become available. Its work-
ings are shallowest of the big Kalgoorlie
mines; deepest level on its main (North
Kalgurlie) lease is only 900 ft., and in its
next best block (Kalgurlie) only a few
hundred feet lower. Bottom workings of
the other big Milers —South Kalgurlie,
Perseverance, Gt. Boulder and Lake
View —are from 2000 ft. to nearly 4000 ft.
below the surface. A North Kalgurlie
director, probably chairman C. T. Ley,
is expected to arrive from London before
long.
* * * *
“O.B.,”: Wiluna, Lake View and
Goldfields Australian Cos. are said to be
inclined to take over the Prophyry
blocks, near Edjudina (W.A.), over which
they hold an option that expires in about
a year’s time. Extensive boring has been
carried out with, it is stated, satisfactory
results. If the option is exercised share-
holders of the vendor Porphyry Co. will
be on the pig’s back.
* * * *
When a claim is pegged on Hampton
Plains Estate, owner of 216,000 acres free-
hold east of Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), the Estate reserves the right to
peg adjoining blocks. Thus, if the strike
of the pegger’s ore-body be north and
south, the Estate could mark off a lease
on the north and one on the south of
the pegger’s ground. Celebration, White
Hope and several other mines, dead or
alive, are on the Estate’s property.
* * * ♦
E. P. (Ted) Mackey, a well-known
Westralian mining man, has retired. He
was on the board of a number of de
Bernales cos. On his first inspection of
Yellowdine, in 1934, he took an option
and passed it on to de Bernales. Yellow-
dine Gold Development, formed in Lon-
don by de Bernales, has since paid over
£500,000 in dividends. Years ago Mackey
was part-owner of several producing
shows at Southern Cross, was mayor of
the town for a time, and used to be a
member of the executive council of the
Westralian Chamber of Mines. He
helped many a lame mining dog over a
stile.


but never bothered
The heat in a modern bakers oven
does not distress the Cold-drawn Seamless Steel Tubes
that bear the brunt of it. In making Steel Tubes for
any purpose, the steel to suit the purpose is carefully
chosen. That goes for everything from hypodermic
needles to 8-inch pressure cylinders —and for the
variety of Steel Fubes for industrial,
domestic and recreational use pro-
duced at British Tube Mills ( Aust .)
Tty. Ltd., Kilburn, South Australia •
LI W 4» S
R 6i Me
BI2J
rCRNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTT< UTO. <«. -
BRANCHES in ALL CAPITAL C1T163
WHEREVER the Timber Industry pene-
trates and tall timbers are felled,
powerful Internationals prove their stamina
and value on heavy log and timber haulage
—over rough corduroy bush tracks and
steep mountain trails—from forest landings
and sawmills to the highways for speedy
transport to city or country centres, where
dressed timber is urgently required for
home building and a host of other works
of national importance. -
In all other industries, on ALL classes ot
transportation. International trucks are pro-
viding the most reliable service at low cost.
For essential work, immediate delivery can
be arranged . . . Capacities up to 4 5 tons
Full information available at our city
showrooms and from any of our Authorized
Metropolitan Distributors or Country Local
Afircnts*
A “Permit to Purchase *’ is necessary •
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Wages in the United States
In the United States the increased cost
of living has caused hardship in many
homes, particularly where hours of em-
ployment have dropped following the fall
in Government spending on war con-
tracts. Hundreds of thousands of ex-
servicemen are now returning to their
former jobs, cutting down the opportunity
for others to earn the additional money
which so far has helped to meet growth
in living costs. In America the availa-
bility of goods and services during war-
time has been greater than in the Com-
monwealth, thus encouraging the idea of
spending. Savings have reached infla-
tionary proportions nevertheless. Strikes
for higher wages have been widespread
in the U.S.A., demands being for an extra
30 p.c., on an average.
President Truman last week issued an
order under which wage rates may be
unpegged in certain circumstances. The
conditions enumerated are:
(a) Where the percentage increase in
the average ordinary-time hourly earn-
ings since January, 1941, has not equalled
the increase in the cost of living between
January, 1941, and September, 1945,
( b ) Where necessary to correct in-
equities among factories in the same
industry or locality,
(c) Where necessary to ensure full pro-
duction in any industry designated as
essential to reconversion and in which
existing rates are inadequate to attract
the needed man-power.
Apparently no increase follows auto-
matically, Bargaining between employer
and wage-earner seems still to be im-
plied, but the Government will not object
to any mutual agreement where it com-
plies with the conditions laid down.
The increases, where granted, will not
be taken as grounds for rises in
prices. “We must ‘hold the line’ on
prices,” said the President. “If these
twin objectives —stability of prices and
higher wages —were irreconcilable the
outlook for all would be black. Fortu-
nately, this is not so, for while the posi-
tion of different industries varies greatly,
there is room in the existing price struc-
ture for business as a whole to grant sub-
stantial wage increases.... Congress is
now considering elimination of the excess-
profits tax.”
Where it is clear that an industry can-
not equitably bear wage increases, it may
be permitted to lift prices. Truman
added: “Labor must recognise the diffi-
culties of industry and not demand more
than industry can pay. It has the stern
responsibility to see that the demands for
increases are reasonable. Labor must
also strive constantly for greater effi-
ciency and productivity. It must avoid
disputes and wildcat strikes.”
President Truman said his action had
three main objectives. The first was the
maximum production of civilian goods.
Second was to remove Government con-
trols as quickly as possible and restore
collective bargaining and free markets.
Third was to avoid both inflation and
deflation. “One of the major factors de-
termining whether we shall succeed in
carrying out this policy is the question
of wages and prices. If wages go down
substantially we face deflation ; if prices
go up substantially we face inflation. We
must steer clear of both these dangers.”
The New York “Times” criticises the
new wage policy as “wiping out profit
margins and thereby slowing down pro-
duction.” The U.S. Treasury estimates
that all active companies earned 7 p.c.
on their capital and reserves in 1944.
That was after paying taxation. In 1936
the comparative figure was 4.7 p.c., 1937
4.9 p.c., 1938 2.3 p.c., 1939 4.3 p.c., 1940
5 p.c., 1941 6.9 p.c., 1942 7.8 p.c., 1943
7.5 p.c. The sharp rise in business ac-
tivity from the “low” of 1938 was “stimu-
lated by the outbreak of war in Europe
and later carried to unprecedented heights
after the U.S. entry into the war,” accord-
ing to one New York banking authority.
A much fuller use of plant capacity has
followed, and marginal producers have
been showing profits. The decline over
the last couple of years has been because
of a rise in raw-material and labor costs
—the latter in spite of pegging—while
Federal taxation has been increasing.
Companies are taxed 95 p.c. on excess
profits, with all taxes limited to 80 p.c.
of earnings.
In Australia company earnings have
shown a different experience from that
in the United States. In the last pre-war
year a list of representative companies
earned 6.8 p.c. on capital and reserves.
In 1942 the figure was 5.7 p.c., in 1944
6 p.c. There is no immediate prospect of
a reduction in war-time company taxes
here. In this country also wage-pegging
has only been nominally effective. It is
estimated that wages and salaries rose
from £433 million in 1938-39 to £595 mil-
lion in 1943-44 (up p.c.) and then
declined slightly, to £584 million, in 1944-
45. The war started with the basic wage
at 795. It is now around 975, Average
wages have been much higher than the
base wage, and during the peak years of
munition production a lot of overtime
was worked. On the wharves and in the
shipping industry there has been a really
great inflation in wages. 1
Stock Values and Taxes
Manton and Sons, Ltd., the Melbourne
retail firm, has come up against the 1 axa-
tion Commissioner on the question or
stock valuation. Many other concerns
are in the same boat. Manton’s chairman
(F. E. Lampe) says that “although the
amount written off at stocktaking to pro-
vide for actual depreciation in value ot
particular items of stock has necessarily
increased during the war years, the prac-
tice of depreciating stock to its then actual
value and the principles upon which the
amount has been arrived at are those
which the company and all prudent
traders had adopted in pre-war years.
Moreover, we believe it to be completely
in accord with Section 31 of the Com-
monwealth Income Tax Asses§ment Act,
which sets out that stock may be valued
either at (a) its cost price, (b) market sell-
ing value or (c) the price at which it can
be replaced.”
Mr. Lampe contends that war-time
styles and substitute merchandise in-
crease the risk of stock loss, and
that such losses should be acknowledged
as they occur — i.e., at the time normal
stocks are replaced by the war-time
variety. But the Taxation Commissioner
seems to take a different view as far
as can be ascertained, the commissioner
claims today that ‘market selling value
means the ‘marked selling price’ of any
one of a particular line on the day stock
is'taken, such price not to be reduced by
any allowance for selling expenses.
Mr. Lampe comments:
The only other alternative would have
been to value stock at cost, which would
have presented a false statement ol profit.
Economists repeatedly point to the desira-
bility of ironing out the troughs of depres-
sion and placing the economy on an even
base. It is difficult to imagine any method
which would be more certain to create
troughs of depression than this ruling ot
the commissioner relating to stock valua-
tion. If his opinion, which is contrary to
all sound business practice over the past
100 years, is not upset, it will result in
some businesses declaring losses instead of
profits,' severe dividend reductions and finan-
cial chaos. These are strong words, but
if is high time they were given expression.
It is our firm belief that the commissioner’s
interpretation of the Act is incorrect,
and should the preliminary estimate of the
extra taxation involved in our case prove
to be correct it is our present intention to
contest his ruling in the High Court. In
this decision we are supported by our
auditors and by counsel.
Businesses are confronted with the obvi-
ous difficulty of meeting losses on “Ded-
man” and similar stock when new styles
and standards become available, while
the Taxation Commissioner is opposed to
the carrying forward of what may turn
out to be excessive stock reserves into a
period when taxation rates may be lower
than they are now. But it is hardly right
for the Taxation Department to interpret
a provision of the Act one way for many
years and then, when it suits it, to inter-
pret it another way. A number of firms,
with stock reserves paid additional taxa-
tion as a result during the earlier years
of the war, especially importing concerns
which had to make a clearance of their
stock without hope of replacement.
The poor support given by wage-
earners and other medium-income-earners
to the various war and victory loans in
the Commonwealth since the beginning
of 1942 is revealed in Commonwealth
Bank figures. For some reason no de-
tails are supplied of previous war loans,
which were mostly raised during the term
of office of the Menzies and Fadden
Governments. Here is the official tabu-
lation :
Total Cash Invest- £lOlO
Sub- ments up to Over
scribed, to £lOOO. £9990. £lO,OOO.
£mii. £rnil. £mil. £mil.
Second Liberty
Loan, 1942.. 37 13 5 19
War and Con-
version Loan,
1942 ..83 29 12 42
Third Liberty '
Loan, 1943.. 102 23 8 71
Fourth Liberty
Loan, 1943.. 126 30 13 83
First Victory
Loan, 1944.. 151 27 11 H 3
Second Victory
Loan, 1944.. 114 26 12 76
Third Victory
Loan, 1945.. 107 24 11 72
Out of total cash subscriptions of £720
million during the period only £172 mil-
lion was put up by subscribers contribut-
ing less than £lOOO per loan. That is
indeed a very poor showing by those who,
in the mass, have collected by far the
largest part of the war-time Government
spending. Greatest single source of in-
vestment in war loans has been the
savings banks. And, up to a point, this
kind of investment has all the inflationary
features of central-bank-credit expansion.
♦ * ♦ *
Shareholders in Bradford Cotton Mills
agreed to the increase of £1,000,000 in
nominal capital last week, carrying the
total to £2,250,000. Paid capital at present
is £894,993. Shareholders were told that
they would be given first priority in the
case of any issues, “with one exception—
that is, in a case where shares are issued
to another concert* for a union of in-
terests. or for obtaining ‘know how’ or
new methods from an overseas concern.
Beyond an explanation along those lines,
shareholders were told nothing about the
proposed use to which new capital issues
might be put; the matter had to be left
to the discretion of the directors. Not an
entirely satisfactory situation from share-
holders’ points of view, but possibly justi-
fied. Time will tell. The chairman de-
clared the motion to be earned unani-
mously. Only two shareholders raised
queries. R. I. Webster (managing direc-
tor) and A. W. Keighley, one of the foun-
ders of the business, are at present abroad.
There is a great shortage of cotton goods
in Australia at present, as well as a defi-
ciency of cotton-manufacturing capacity.


TOURISTS TO CEYLON.
For dependable and courteous service and
reasonable rates—
Tourist Agency having numerous pre-war
Associations with Britishers, Australians
and Americans. : : Highly Recommended.
DEP’S TOURIST AGENCY,
19/5 Puvulingam Place,
Borella, Colombo, Ceylon.
STOPyour Rupture
Worries!
mark (£ ,iocahon
otYOURRUFTURL
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
11l
&
m
'S
ASP, imJS&r
Established 1808 In Itelgn of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England >
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia Si New Zealand.
%hs <%bua) Herald
£30,000 Grant
for the Encouragement
of AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
and ART
Australia has already produced men
and women of outstanding ability in the
creative arts.
There are many more such men and
women, and in order to find them ... to
encourage their efforts and to help them,
“The Sydney Morning Herald” has set aside
this Grant of £30,000 the largest
amount yet to be offered in prizes for such
competitions in this country <£25,000 to
be devoted to prizes for the best novels,
war stories, short stories and verse, and
£5,000 for art.
Novels should be from 70,000 to 100,000
words in length, and short stories from
2,000 to 4,000 words. The list of prizes
and other details will be published shortly.
Novels, Short Stories, Verse and Art
S.M.H.I.
EVERY NATION
HAS ITS SHRINES
This noble building houses the famous Mitchell
collection of historical documents, relating to
the discovery of “The Great South Land,” its
subsequent settlement and development. It is
the natural home of ALL records of signifi-
cance concerning Australia.
The Trustees appeal to those possessing docu-
ments of historical interest—log books, diaries,
letters, manuscripts and any other papers—to
make them available to the Library, either by
way of gift or purchase. They are part of the
nation’s history.
Communications to —The Principal Librarian,
MITCHELL LIBRARY
SYDNEY
!
Listen to
A
“Treasures of the Mitchell ”
V
Australian History dramatised,
2UW every Wednesday, 9.15 p.m.
Industrial Harmony
The Prime Minister is to issue invita-
tions to trade-union leaders and repre-
sentatives of the Chambers of Commerce,
Chambers of Manufactures, Employers’
Federation and other bodies for the pur-
pose of meeting together and discussing
the causes of industrial unrest in Australia
and means of restoring harmony. Mr.
Chifley wants all States represented. The
40-hour week, the basic wage, holidays
and bonuses will probably be considered.
In Sydney Mr. Guy Anderson, president
of the Trades and Labor Council, said:
“Some good may result from it, pro-
vided there are practical men dealing with
the questions and they realise that, under
capitalism, disputes cannot be eliminated,
but by sympathetic handling industrial
unrest can be minimised.”
A week earlier the Leader of the
Senate Opposition (George McLeay),
himself an employer, had recommended
the appointment of an expert committee
with the object of investigating the rele-
vant industrial and economic matters for
the purpose of establishing lasting peace
in industry, so as to restore steady pro-
duction and to allow the nation to pro-
gress. The committee, he suggested,
should have an Arbitration Court Judge
as chairman, and three representatives
of both employers and employees as its
members. The present disastrous crisis
in the country, reflected by continual
stoppages and go-slow campaigns, was
costing Australia a unique opportunity
for national development, Senator
McLeay said. He recommended profit-
sharing with employees, employee-parti-
cipation in the management of industry,
and extension of family endowment to
provide for a wife as well as children.
He believed the expert committee should
consider, among other things, the ques-
tion of whether the basic wage should
be assessed on the minimum needs of
an individual instead of a small family
unit.
It was true, said McLeaf, that there
was a wave of industrial malaise in many
other countries, but nowhere was it as
acute or potentially serious in its impli-
cations as in the Commonwealth. Ordi-
nary people were suffering deprivations,
shortages and a standard of living much
lower than necessary because Australian
industry had been brought below its ordi-
nary productive level by industrial unrest.
The chairman of Cumberland Paper
Mills, at the annual meeting in Sydney
on October 25, commenting on the
number of strikes taking place in order
to get higher wages and reduced work-
ing hours, said the tragedy of it all was
that strikers’ objectives, if gained, could
not improve their position or living
standard, as higher costs would offset
wage increases. The only way to im-
prove living standards was to produce
goods cheaper so that money would go
further.
Mr. Anderson went on to say that trade-
unions should consider the idea of profits-
participation. After an employer had re-
ceived, say, 5 p.c. on his capital, he and
his employees might share the balance
on a fifty-fifty basis, the wage-earners’
whack being paid free of taxation by the
grace of the Government.
Some suggestions being made now for
the purpose of restoring industrial har-
mony are practical, others impractical.
Something practical will have to be done.
But not a great deal will be achieved
merely by making concessions to militant
unionism. Perhaps a number of conces-
sions will need to be made to rational
unionists in order to persuade them to
get rid of racketeer domination in their
unions. Racketeering in unionism must
be broken up before there will be any
chance of reason and harmony prevail-
ing. And for no other purpose except
“background” let Mr. Chifley be re-
minded that it was the then Minister for
Labor, Eddie Ward, who did most to
break up the Industrial Relations Council
in 1942. After he had done the damage
this Minister made a typical, cheap
threat: “Perhaps as I extend the man-
power regulations I will be able to fit
the employers’ representatives into some
vital war work.” Thus, and in many
similar ways, were seeds of the present
industrial crisis sown nearly four years
ago.
Australian delegates, from Beasley and
Evatt downward, have been beating
round the world demanding an inter-
national policy of “full employment,” and
show annoyance if anyone suggests instead
“fullest practicable employment.” Yet the
Government represented by Beasley, Evatt
and now Senator Fraser is in the most
unhappy economic mess of all the Eng-
lish-speaking countries. It is the most
backward with re-employment planning,
its financial arrangements are the most
uncertain, and it has more industrial
anarchy than any of the others. Aus-
tralia’s “full-employment” advocates show
weakness and lack of realism in their
resentment against the word “practic-
able.” They appear prepared to chase the
shadow of “full” and abandon the obvious
substance of “fullest practicable.” The
fatal error in so-called full-employment
schemes is that most set a full-employ-
ment target and disregard everything else.
Full employment, or the nearest practic-
able approach to it, depends largely on
good organisation. If the necessity for
this organisation is ignored—it involves
a patient and skilful correlation of the
factors which make the industrial and
economic wheels go round, as well as the
factors which make up human nature —
and, instead, a set of Government con-
trols and edicts, plus a policy of finan-
cial manipulation, is relied upon, then
the weight of bureaucratic control and
interference in industry may cause the
theoretical “full-employment” structure to
collapse completely.
* * * *
Up to date response to the Fourth Vic-
tory Loan has been a bad show. Origi-
nally planned to close on Wednesday of
last week, the loan has been left open till
next Saturday. The people have all the
money necessary to make the loan a com-
plete success. Whatever political feelings
they have in the matter —and at past elec-
tions those who have accumulated most
money during the war have voted for the
present Government —the population are
under an obligation to fill these loans and
then to see that the money is wisely spent.
* * *
Savings-bank deposits at the end of
September totalled £593 million, up £8.3
million during the month. The growth
in six years has been £351 million.
* * * *
During the war 1,150,000 tons of pig
lead, 700,000 tons of recoverable spelter
and 40,000,0000 z. of silver came from
Broken Hill and Port Pirie. In addition,
antimony, cadmium, copper and sulphur
were produced in important quantities.
The Australian price of lead remains at
£22 a ton, the level fixed in 1942. It is
the lowest in the world.
A view of “United States News” on the
implications of blocked sterling balances,
estimated to total over £3500 million:
A trading advantage rests with Britain as
a result of the sterling debt. Iraq, for ex-
ample, has what amounts to a large bank
balance in England that can be used to buy
British products when they again are avail-
able. This pound balance, however, cannot
be spent anywhere else because the sterling
is blocked. Thus, Iraq must buy British
goods if the bank balance ever is to be
cashed.
That situation prevails throughout' an
area that embraces much of the world.
Blocked sterling accounts are held by British
dominions and colonies, Egypt, the Middle
East, Latin America, Sweden, Denmark,
Belgium, Holland and France. Conse-
quently, Britain now is in a position to
dominate the trading practices of those
nations, a position from which U.S. officials
believe Britain should withdraw before
dollars are advanced.
“U.S. News” enumerated India, Egypt and
Ireland as the largest holders of blocked
sterling.
Supporting the Fourth Victory Loan
in Martin-place, Sydney, Premier Mc-
Kell said that after the last war Com-
monwealth Government expenditure actu-
ally increased for a time. That is so, but
it represents no argument in present cir-
cumstances. The cost of the last war
was an incidental alongside the expendi-
ture on re cent show, and it would be
almost a n economic impossibility for a
, , C, „ _
democracy to carry on with a higher per
capita Government expenditure than we
have seen in Australia over the past four
years. McKell, no doubt, was trying to
emphasise the fact that the first couple
D f years of peace will be loaded with
heavy rehabilitation and transition costs,
even though war costs should be rapidly
decreasing, and m that he was justified,
But he brought confusion to the issue in
drawing a parallel between this war ana
the last. There are too many confused
issues and too much loose, “convenient”
thinking in national financial matters
already.


Public Notice. _
I, ROSA WALDMANN, of Czechoslovakian nationality,
born at Linz, Austria, and resident six years and 11
months in Australia, now residing at 262 Johnston
Street, Annandale, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friend.
IF DAVID HYDE, who was born at Carrigtwohill,
County Cork, Ireland, and who is reputed to have
gone to Sydney, New South Wales, about 14 years
ago, and who has relatives in New Zealand, United
States of America and Ireland, communicates with
the undersigned he will learn of something to “is
advantage.—V. B. WILLIS, Solicitor, Box 203, Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the partnership
heretofore subsisting between HAROLD EVANS
PARKER, AUGUSTUS WILLIAM SCHRADER and
BENJAMIN SMITH carrying on business as Ventilat-
ing Engineers and Sheet Metal Workers at 197
Catherine Street Leichhardt under the name of H.
& S. PARKER ENGINEERING PRODUCTS was dis-
solved by mutual consent as from the Thirtieth day
of June One thousand nine hundred and forty-tour
on which date the said AUGUSTUS WILLIAM
SCHRADER retired from the partnership and MR.
BASIL EVANS PARKER became a partner AND
NOTICE IS HEREBY FURTHER GIVEN that such
partnership then subsisting between HAROLD EVANS
PARKER, BENJAMIN SMITH and BASIL EVANS
PARKER carrying on business as Ventilating Engineers
and Sheet Metal Workers at the aforesaid address
has been dissolved by mutual consent as from the
Fourth day of December One thousand nine hundred
and forty-four All debts due to and owing by the
said late firms will be received and paid by the
said HAROLD EVANS PARKER and BASIL EVANS
PARKER who will continue to carry on the said
business at the same place. . . , ~
DATED at Sydney the Twenty-third day of October,
2945. For H. & S. PARKER ENGINEERING
PRODUCTS, per H. E. PARKER.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH WILLIAM THOMAS GREENALCH late
of Sydney New South Wales., TAKE NOTICE that
GRACE LOUISE GREENALCH filed a Fetation for
Divorce No. 1792 of 1945 on the grounds of your
desertion during three years and upward without
just cause or excuse If you wish to defend you
mav enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 3rd day
nf Tanuarv 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. BARKELL & PEA-
COCK Solicitors 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.
(1.5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COUR? OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT JOSEPH LE MARSENY late or
Sidney in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that a decree for restitution has been made
against you requiring you to take back or return home
and render conjugal rights to your wife MART
VERONICA LE MARSENY within 21 days of this
da*y and to file in the Divorce Registry King Street
°s pl sr
sS U Forert Lodge Tnd'FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
wife m^ U forthWitl^ o ™etition lt for th
m divorce.— (L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar m Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Revolution on the Doorstep.
“Ek Dum”: Events in the East Indies
developed last week in a smouldering,
dangerous way.
Before October 26 the British officers
who had gone to Soerabaya were seized
and thrown into a jail, outside which a
mob howled for their deaths. On
October 28 it was reported that real fight-
ing had begun for the first time between
British troops and Indonesian insurrec-
tionists, the latter armed, of course, with
Japanese weapons after having been
organised under Japanese tutelage. Many
of them wore Japanese uniforms. The
Japanese commander in East Java ad-
mitted having armed them in a major
way—he said under a threat that if he
did not yield thousands of women and
children would be murdered.
The Indonesians began the hostilities
because they “resented” an order to sur-
render their arms which, being Japanese
arms, were Allied property under the
terms of the surrender. A brigade of
Indian troops had been landed at Soera-
baya, under Brigadier Mallaby. With
this slight power behind him, the British
commander ordered the Indonesians to
evacuate the docks, the naval base and
the seaplane base.
Indonesians, largely youths, had else-
where been murdering compatriots who
dared to differ from them —murdering
them in ways productive of disgust and
horror in any breast but that of an
Asiatic terrorist or an “Australian” Red
Fascist leader.
According to the Indonesian leaders.
Dr. Moestoppo, Dr. Soekarno’s deputy
in East Java, called on Brigadier Mallaby,
who told him that, apart from the
evacuation of the essential defence areas
of the port, arms must be handed in and
that they could in public be carried law-
fully only by the authorised military and
police. The brigadier also ordered that
the boycott of food for Eurasians must
cease and that the public services should
continue to function under Allied super-
vision.
Leaders Lose Control
That was on October 29. Moestoppo
said he would “try to comply with the
order” on October 31. Immediate hap-
penings showed that he and the other
“leaders” had lost control to a rabble
acting under the incitements of a gang
of Communists, some of whom had
received tutoring in Australia.
Dr. Soekarno flew to Soerabaya in an
R.A.F. Dakota and arranged a truce for
October 30, when a peace conference
between the Dutch and himself and his
lieutenants was to take place. His Indo-
nesians went on with their attacks.
Dr. Soekarno’s remark, “These men
are crazy,” fell on deaf ears. British
outposts were overruh by Indonesians in
Japanese tanks, and other Javanese tank
units (also Japanese-armed) attacked the
British forces holding the railway station
on the south of the city.
These events had been heralded by the
Indonesians firing on a British officer and
six others who were driving peacefully to
a conference with the Indonesian police
chief. They had to run the gauntlet of
a hail of bullets in their race to safety,
during which a Sepoy was killed. The
Indonesians also savagely fired on British
guards at a hospital, and at troops quar-
tered in a school. In the hospital about
6000 Dutch and Eurasians who had been
rescued from the Japanese were being
succored.
However, a truce was signed by Dr.
Soekarno and Brigadier Mallaby. Under
the terms of the truce there was to be an
immediate cease-fire. All armed troops
were to leave the streets. The British
proclamation of martial law was shelved
pending a meeting between Major-
General Hawthorn, the British field com-
mander, and Dr. Soekarno.
British casualties had been:
Killed: Two British officers, one Indian
officer and 17 other ranks.
Wounded: Two British officers, three
Indian officers and 54 Indian other ranks.
Dr/ Soekarno had been forced to face
a howling mob, which danced round his
car and fired off its weapons. An Indo-
nesian tank fired on him as he drove to
Soerabaya, and during his return to
Batavia, his aircraft, since it bore R.A.F.
markings, was fired upon from the
ground and a soldier hit.
Brigadier Mallaby Killed
On October 30 matters took a very
serious turn. After the signature of the
terms of the truce Brigadier Mallaby,
with three captains and three Indo-
nesian “leaders,” left his invested H.Q.
to try to stop the fighting at several
points at which Indonesians, many
in Japanese uniforms, were attacking
isolated sections of the small force of
2000 British troops, who were outnum-
bered and exhausted.
The Indonesians announced that there
would be no cease-fire unless the British
troops surrendered. This ultimatum
Brigadier Mallaby refused. He and one
of the captains were then murdered. The
other two captains escaped by the skin
of their teeth into a canal, in which they
hid till night.
The fate of newspaper correspondents
and Red Cross workers was reported at
that time to be obscure. Thirty British
lorries sent, with the foreknowledge of
the Indonesians, to rescue 800 women and
children from the residential quarter of
Soerabaya had been seized and burned,
and it was believed on November 1 that
the women and children might have been
killed.
Collapse of Dr. Soekamc
Under the impact of this tragedy Dr.
Soekarno tried to curry favor with his
followers in typical Oriental fashion. He
declared that “the British first caused
misunderstanding on October 27 by
dropping leaflets demanding that the
Indonesians surrender their arms” —
which, as has been said, were Japanese
arms.
Lieut-General Christison, the British
C.-in-C., at once issued an order demand-
ing the surrender of Brigadier Mallaby’s
murderers, and holding Dr. Soekarno and
his deputies responsible. The unfortu-
nate doctor said feebly that in a few days
he proposed to hold a general election,
though how this could be achieved with-
out rolls and in the current state of the
country he did not state. In the mean-
time, he had flown to Magelang, a town
in Central Java, where a truce was estab-
lished after reinforcements from Sama-
rang had saved the situation for a small
Gurkha force.
The last heard of the doctor before
this was written was that he had flown
off somewhere “for a rest,” after having
announced that Indonesians could not
expect to achieve freedom till their right
to it was recognised by the whole world,
and urged his “subjects” to stop fighting
the Allies, who were not their enemies.
At Magelang
As at Soerabaya a truce was agreed to ;
but here again there soon were signs that
it was not worth the paper it was written
on. It became necessary for the British
Command to send a Thunderbolt squad-
ron to prevent a hostile Indonesian
column rushing the small garrison after
the uneasy peace had been settled.
At Soerabaya on November 1 Brigadier
Pugh, who succeeded the murdered Briga-
dier Mallaby, said that he had fulfilled
every agreement he had made with the
Indonesians, but they had fulfilled none
of theirs. They had not attempted to
carry out terms which involved the ex-
change of prisoners and equipment, arms
and vehicles. They had not returned the
bodies of British officers killed. They
had refused to indicate the burial places
of British dead. They had failed to give
facilities for the evacuation of European
women and children —there were 4500 in
Soerabaya, some of whom, despite the
truce, still had to be fed by parachute —
though this was presently guaranteed by
the presence of H.M.S. Sussex, the Bin.-
gun cruiser which brought the Duke of
Gloucester to Australia on his first visit
eight years ago, and which succored Aus-
tralian prisoners in a generous manner
after the recapture of Singapore. Sussex
was supported by other warships.
Brigadier Pugh said that the Indonesian
delegates with whom he discussed evacua-
tion had indulged in “deliberate evasion,
non-co-operation and a complete lack of
humanitarianism.”
At the week-end the events in Soera-
baya had led the Dutch to cancel'their
projected negotiations with Indonesian
leaders. These they now considered irre-
sponsibles who had lost control of their
“Nationalist” followers. The commanders
of these natives openly repudiated the
“leaders” at the week-end.
Temporarily the Soerabaya situation
seemed better, but large, well-armed Indo-
nesian forces, which from the manner
of their movements must have owed much
of their training to the Japanese, were
assembling in Central Java. The general
gravity of affairs in the island was shown
by the consultations between Queen Wil-
helmina and Mr. Attlee and by the an-
nouncement that 75,000 British and Dutch
troops were being sent to the N.E.1.,
where a strict war-type censorship has
been imposed.
Contingent from Australia
While Red Fascist leaders were cele-
brating “Russia’s day. of revolution
at Sydney in the usual servile fashion and
decorating bewildered Indian seamen with
Soviet emblems, another problem was set
the hard-pressed British Command by the
arrival of the Esperance Bay from Aus-
tralia with 1400 Indonesians, mostly sea-
men, who, at Red Fascist instigation, had
refused to work Dutch ships in Austra-
lian ports, but among them Indonesian
Communists who had been brought here
from Dutch New Guinea jail camps. This
was the choice consignment of color
which was farewelled so enthusiastically
by Comrade Elliott, of the Seamen’s
Union, and other Red Fascists on October
13.
The Australian “Government” had
allowed the Indonesians to go without
being searched for arms. Such a pro-
cedure would, of course, have insulted the
Indonesian “comrades,” and the “Gov-
ernment” would not have dared to order
it without the consent of union leaders
on the Communist Central Committee,
which, in important matters, now seems
to be the real Government of Australia. It
all shows how* alarmingly easy it is for
insurrectionaries to obtain arms in Aus-
tralia. The putative Government will
have to answer for it.
After the ship left the Australian coast
it was discovered that fears expressed by
Mr. Fadden on October 19 were only
too well grounded. Made insolent by
Red Fascist patronage and arrogance the
Indonesians produced weapons. 1 hey
refused to allow any disembarkation at
Koepang, in Timor, for which some of
their number were booked. Here 100
Australian troops, commanded by Colonel
Bartley, were taken aboard, and their
presence probably prevented bloodshed.
The Indonesians insisted on going
direct to Batavia, whither they were
escorted by H.M.A.S. Arunta. TTiere the
ship anchored off the port. I ear-gas
bombs and smoke bombs having been
sent off to her from the Arunta, and the
threatened guard having been suitably
reinforced, the Indonesians were taken
off and were reported to be likely to be
sent back to Koepang, where presum-
ably the Allied Command desires them
to be.
The only reaction from the Australian
“Government” was a public statement by
Mr. Calwell that he would ask Mr. Makin
for a report as to why the attempt was
made to land the terrorists at Koepang.
The idea that the captain of an Aus-
tralian-controlled ship should desire to
get rid of 1400 armed savages before they
ran amok would not once have appeared
singular to Mr. Calwell; but that gentle-
man, who, before he joined the Ministry,
denounced Red Fascists in good set terms,
now seems prepared to eat out of their
hands.
Meantime artisans who had been asked
to work on Dutch aircraft at the Rose
Bay (Sydney) Qantas workshops refused,
it being the dictum of their union leader,
Comrade Anderson (also president of the
Communist-controlled Labor Council)
that they must not “help the Dutch Gov-
ernment to oppose the Indonesians in
their fight for liberty and independence.”
As usual, the attitude of Red Fascist
union leaders involved is a mere echo of
Moscow. Moscow’s concern at British
support for the restoration of Dutch rule
in Indonesia and French rule in Indo-
China, and its zeal for “the political and
economic equality of colonial peoples,
have been expressed in the official “New
Times.” Utter hypocrisy in view of the
Soviet’s record of dictatorship, bloodshed
and police government (described graphi-
cally by Mr, Churchill in the House of
Commons) in Eastern Europe.
New Guinea Evacuations.
“Ek Dum”: One of the most delight-
ful things about Mr. Forde is the infinite
variety of his conclusions.
On October 5 it was reported that an
order had been promulgated throughout
the First Australian Army (H.Q., Lae) to
the effect that “approximately 45,000”
troops were to be kept in the New
Guinea-Moluccas area until at least June
30, 1946, without leave or reposting, re-
gardless of previous service, and that
troops for release must have 178 de-
mobilisation points, irrespective of time
of service in the islands, tiine of last
leave or any other consideration.
Next came a statement (October 27)
that “through the efforts of Mr. Forde
and Mr. Ashley,” six Liberty ships had
been placed at the disposal of the Com-
monwealth solely for troop transport,
that they were expected to bring home
24,000 to 30,000 troops before Christmas,
and that final evacuation, leaving behind
troops to guard 250,000 Jap prisoners,
could now be expected to be complete
next February or March.” The number
of guard troops is estimated'' at 80,000.
Now, Mr. Forde, in response to a tele-
gram from Mr. Fadden calling atten-
tion to the reported order issued in Lae
and the announcement regarding the
Liberty ships, has issued the following
gem:
I intimated that world-wide transport
situation was the sole factor involved m 9 e "
termining the number of our troops which
could be brought to Australia, and that no
other considerations were being permitted
by the Government to weigh against the re-
turn of these members at the earliest pos-
On present shipping situation, orders
have been issued that members for release
up to December 1, 1945, require 179 points
or over and, provided transport can be
made available, members with these points
will be brought to Australia. Such release
points are reviewed and promulgated each
month, according to the shipping transport
position.
Air and sea transport is being used to
the utmost capacity in returning troops to
the mainland.
No announcement or statement has been
made at any time that troops now overseas
will be required to remain there.
The policy of the Government is to bring
all troops home and, immediately it is pos-
sible to relieve garrison troops in the
islands by fresh troops from the mainland,
this will be done. However, this will not
take place in 1946.
In reference to my further represents -
tations, eight Liberty ships have been made
available by the British Ministry of Ship-
ping and will call at Borneo and Morotai
late in November on their way down to
Australia. Each ship will embark approxi-
mately 1500 men, and it is expected this
additional batch of men, numbering about
12,000, will be home about the end of
November.
Since the cessation of hostilities approxi-
mately 70,000 men have been discharged
from the services, and everything possible
is being done to speed up the rate of dis-
charge. It is expected that more than
200,000 will have been discharged between
the date of cessation of hostilities and the
middle of January next.
It seems to be about time that the
Defence Department inaugurated a new
section of Public Relations to co-ordinate
the utterances.
Mr. Fadden says he has been told by
a serviceman (as the writer has been told
by others) that transport aircraft fre-
quently leave Morotai only half loaded.
And he cites the case of a serviceman in
New Guinea, who told him that, after
53 months’ continuous service, including
28 months in New Guinea and the Solo-
mons, he had been notified that he would
be one of the Rabaul garrison.
Among the forces there will be hearty
agreement with Mr. Fadden’s comment
that the Minister’s dictum that garrison
troops in the islands would not be re-
lieved for at least 14 or 15 months “re-
quires further explanation.”


s
/
'/Si
Every day in some way, ycu use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
From a battleship’s electrical equipment to
emergency lighting in great hospitals. Exide
serves you in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide.
It will still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
NR EVERY PURPOSE
•tv*
PERSONAL ITEMS
Howard Florey, sharing with Profes-
sors Alexander Fleming and Chain the
Nobei Prize for the discovery and de-
velopment of penicillin, is a South Aus-
tralian Rhodes scholar, now 47, who,
though Professor of Pathology at Oxford,
is an Adelaide University and Cambridge
product. He was Lecturer in Special
Pathology at Cambridge at 29 and Joseph
Hunter Professor of Pathology at Cam-
bridge at 33. Fleming was the actual dis-
coverer of penicillin, but it was Florey
who took the drug to the United States
during the blitz and with Chain solved
most of the inherent problems, producing
it in serviceable quantities and standardis-
ing it. Honorary consultant to the Army
since 1943, Florey visited his native land
a year or two ago, and while here, paid
a glowing tribute to the advanced stage
of war-time pathology and surgery
reached by Australian military hospitals.
Adelaide is now two up on other
Australian universities in the matter
of native-born Nobel prizewinners, the
second being Sir Lawrence Bragg, suc-
cessor as Cavendish Professor of Experi-
mental Physics at Cambridge to Maori-
lander Lord Rutherford, still another
Nobel prizewinner. Bragg’s prize was
won jointly with his father, for more
than 20 years a professor at Adelaide
University. Both Bragg the younger and
Florey wear the old school tie of St.
Peter’s College.
Having put up a record that will prob-
ably never be approached, let alone
beaten, R.S.L. Federal president Gilbert
Dyett will retire from that post six
months hence. He has been the Diggers’
president for over 26 years and has done
great work for them, particularly in his
sound leadership at the annual congress
gatherings, at which no one has ever
matched his ability in cutting the ground
from under wild or woolly proposals.
Tasmanian Treasurer Edmund Dwyer-
Gray, who collapsed on the floor of the
House the other day, belongs to a dis-
tinguished Irish family; himself born in
Dublin in 1870. His father was M.P.
for Stephen’s Green division, Dublin ; his
grandfather was Sir John Gray, M.P.,
who shared a cell with Daniel O’Connell
when that Irish patriot was incarcerated
in Richmond Bridewell, Dublin, in 1844 ;
and his grandmother was Caroline Chis-
holm, whose services on Australian immi-
gration earned her the sobriquet of “The
Emigrants’ Friend.” Dwyer-Gray landed
in the Speck in 1898, and continued the
career in radical journalism he had started
in Ireland, where he edited the “Free-
man’s Journal,” by publishing the “Voice”
and the “World” in Hobart. He became
M.H.A. for Denison in 1928, was Pre-
mier for a year, and has been Deputy-
Premier and Treasurer since 1940. He
has friends in all parties.
Retiring at the end of the year, C. E.
Cowley has been lecturer in charge of
the sheep and wool department of Sydney
Tech, for over quarter of a century and
a teacher and writer on his pet subjects
for most of his life. W. G. Hunt and
G. R, Phillips, of Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd., Bridge-street, Sydney, are treasurers
of a fund being raised to give the expert
an appropriate send-off.
Father of Federal Opposition Leader
R. G. Menzies, and himself one-time
M.L.A. for Lowan, James Menzies, who
has passed on in Melbourne at 83, was
another of the many examples of how
the man with the right quality can push
along in Australia and give his sons a
handy start in careers. Born at Ballarat,
James Menzies was a coachpainter there,
afterwards becoming a storekeeper. The
Menzies Boys’ Home at Frankston (Vic.)
was largely his creation. Of his other three
sons, apart from “Bob,” K.C., one is
Victoria’s Crown Solicitor, another Act-
ing Trade Commissioner for Australia in
M.L. and the third Controller of Produc-
tion Orders in the Department of Muni-
tions.
From an old friend —“Bellerive”:
I accord my thanks to The Bulletin for
having published my old age samples of verse,
and will endeavor a little later to forward further
samples. Light occupation of a morning, a
around on a fine afternoon, and allotted
time to the pen, keeps me going, otherwise my
declining days would be dull and monotonous
and maybe I’d be borne earlier to the shadow
of the trees. Two years ago I was a very sick
"jan. Twas Providence and the care and
attention of my devoted wife that saved me.
...
Out of hospital with a stiff leg but
otherwise fighting fit, Wing-Commander
(Nicky) Barr, M.C., D.F.C. and bar, is
here ‘ depicted by Mcßeath, making his
exit from the R.A.A.F. Barr’s name
made headlines for daring exploits in
North Africa which brought him his
decorations. Shot down three times,
he bailed out twice (hence cater-
pillars), the last time not fortunately;
he was badly injured and taken
prisoner, and sat behind the barbed wire
m Italy for 14 months. When that coun-
WING-COMMANDER BARR.
try capitulated he, with two companions,
escaped to Austria but was again cap-
tured. On two occasions he attempted
escape, the second time getting back to
the Eighth Army lines. His two com-
panions received fatal wounds. When a
member of the Lord Somers (Vic.) Camp,
Barr’s pal was “Bluey” Truscott of im-
mortal memory. While Truscott made
fame in England Barr was doing likewise
in the Middle East, the camp itself mean-
while having become the training ground
for I.T.S. pilots. A Victorian Rugby Union
forward and a member of the 1939 Aus-
tralia team, Barr joined the R.A.A.F. after
the side’s enforced return without playing
a match. He leaves the service to take
on the position of organising secretary
for the unique Mildura (Vic.) District
Development and Investigation League,
working for the welfare of returned
servicemen and the development of its
own community.
Creswick (Vic.), home-town of the
Lindsays and John Curtin, maintains its
reputation for producing distinguished
sons by the appointment of Lieutenant-
General John Northcott, C. 8., M.V.0.,
to the command of the Australian con-
tingent for the occupation of Japan.
Northcott had his education at Gren-
ville College, Ballarat, and Melbourne
University. Severe wounds knocked him
out of the last war on Gallipoli, where
he was adjutant of the 12th Battalion.
In 1927 he was the C.M.F. staff officer
attached to the present King when he in-
augurated Canberra. Northcott graduated
p.s.c. at Camberley (Eng.) in 1933 and
thereafter did valuable work for the
A.M.F. in various posts. In 1936 he
visited Canada and U.S. on a special
mission, and when the Jap war began he
was Director of Operations and Intelli-
gence. As Deputy Chief of the General
Staff he visited London with R. G. Casey
as Australian military adviser to the
Dominions War Conference. In 1942 he
became C.G.S. He has held active corps
commands during the present war.
“W.K.R.”: On one of the British
carriers, homeward-bound, came Sur-
geon Commander A. C. K. (Tim) Yates,
D.S.M., once of Sydney Grammar and
Sydney University, making his first visit
here after 16 years. After taking his
F.R.C.S., he decided to settle in Lon-
don. Yates was a good all-round sport —
member of Sydney ’Varsity’s first eleven,
on the two mark at Royal Sydney and a
grade baseball and tennis player. He is
esteemed in the Silent Service as a dry
humorist. One story told about him is
of an interview he had with a Sea Lord
on being transferred from a cruiser to a
carrier. The S.L. advised him to learn
to fly so that he would get a better idea
of the psychology of the “boys up above.”
Yates blurted out: “Well, sir, in private
life I am a gynaecologist, but I’ve never
had a baby.”
“Retiring”—anyway, that’s what he
calls it—from active business and the
management of the N.S.W. branch of
Vacuum Oil, Dan Aarons, captain in the
Old A.1.F., and one of the best-known
of Australian battalion officers in World
War I, in which he was the manager of
many a healthy scrap. Highlights in his
war career were topping off by his com-
pany of the “saving” operation at H£bu-
terne in March, 1918, the success of which
came to the battered British forces “like
an invigorating draught,” and the later
one in the same area on April 5 that year,
in which the first waves of the German
attack got so knocked about by his men
that the balance of the enemy effort
“seemed to be on hands down, along
saps, go as you please— sort of Anzac
rules.” Aarons, too, was one of those
present to see the Germans break on “Der
Schwarze Tag” (Aug. 8, 1918), and he
was mixed up in the Courtine French
affair of August 23 following, in which
L. D. McCarthy, who was a member of
his 16th (Westralian) Battalion, won the
V.C. Aarons himself had enlisted in
Perth, and came out of the war a captain
with a Military Cross and bar. He has
had 43 years with Vacuum, though foi
the past two years he has managed Pool
Petroleum Pty., Ltd., a war-time organ-
isation. His retirement is not likely to
bring him much leisure, for his activities
in connection with Legacy (of which he
is a vice-president) and various other
public movements are enough to provide
an active, man with nearly a full-time job.
Lieut. Bob Quinn put up a record when,
this year, he won the Magarey Medal in
S.A. football for the second time (B.
26/9/’45), no previous player having won
it twice over such a long period—seven
years. And in the meantime he had won
BOB QUINN.
the Military Medal and been so seriously
wounded that it was thought he would
never be able to play football again. He
belongs to one of South Australia’s most
noted football families. Himself captain
of the Port team, his father also cap-
tained it back in 1904, and, also like the
son, played for the State. Three brothers
of Bob have played for Port, one of
them, Tom, also “representing.” Bob,
who is 30, served with the 2/43 Battalion
and was commissioned in the Middle
East.
Eric F. G. Boyd, here depicted by Scor-
field, is a son of A. A. Boyd, of ML
Morgan (Q.). He has won his spurs in
E. F. G. BOYD.
both world wars as well as in the peace
between. A mining graduate of Sydney
Uni., he served with Stoddardt’s 2nd
Light Horse in World War I, and lost
an arm at Gallipoli. In 1924 he went to
Malaya, where he became general man-
ager, and then managing director, of
Austral Malay Tin, as well as president
of the Malayan Chamber of Mines. He
has also had a say in shaping that
country’s affairs as a member of the
Federal Council (F.M.S.), and of the
Perak State Council. The Jap found him
first as an officer of Perak’s local defence
corps, then as a liaison officer of Eighth
Division, A.1.F., when it went into action
in Johore, and finally as a p.-0.-w, at
Changi. He speaks highly of the Chinese
and their sympathy with p.-0.-w during
the occupation, and, except for the effects
of 3\ years’ scanty diet, seems none the
worse for his gruelling experience.
Into the silence:
At 56, at Caulfield (Vic.), Harold Asher, a
son of a leading Richmond printer and publisher
and a pne-time editor of “Table Talk.” His
own only son, Keith, was killed in the torpedo-
ing of a Japanese transport carrying prisoners
of war.
At Wairoa (M.L.), at 101, Rev. William
Burnett Scott Raeburn. Scottish-born, he
landed in Maoriland as a young man, his first
charge for the Presbyterian Church being in
the Waikato. Till a fortnight before his death
the veteran preacher conducted a weekly ser-
vice at his own home.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 75, Dr. Charles
Edward Adams, D.S.C., F.R.A.S., Dominion
Astronomer for more than two decades from
1911. Born at Lawrence, Otago, he won the
first engineering scholarship at' Canterbury Col-
lege, where he was a colleague of Rutherford.
At Longford (Tas.), at 72, Percival Arthur
Harrison, for close on half a century a Laun-
ceston insurance and share broker. Another
member of the family, Charles, who passed on
last January, pioneered trout fishing in Apple
Land, and the sport there today owes much
to his forethought and industry.
At Euroka Springs, N.Q., G. H. Stokes, 74,
formerly in charge of the Indian remount branch
of the Sidney Kidman interests and later a
well-known N.Q. cattle-buyer.
In Rockhampton (Q.), with tragic suddenness,
at 52, Romuald Hayes, R.C. Bishop of Rock-
hampton since 1932. Founder and first director
of St. Columban’s Mission to China and the Far
East, and former brilliant scholar and athlete
of Xavier College, Melbourne, Dr. Hayes was
one of the first Australian-born bishops ap-
pointed when Vatican policy for Australia
underwent a historic change.
In Adelaide, at 83, Henry Tassie, former
member of the Legislative Council, Chief Secre-
tary and Minister of Mines in S.A. He was
chief of the Caledonian Society for many years,
and president of the Institute of Accountants
and the Australian National Federation. In
business life he was senior partner of Tassie
McKee and Tassie, public accountants.


2 TWO BARS
Factory supplies are being
maintained regularly and the
situation is slightly easier to-
day. Ask your retailer for
Standard Gillettes... by name.
To obtain extra service from your Gillette Blades
use both edges equally. Identification marks
have been placed on the ends of the blade which
project beyond the razor head (see illustration).
These enable you to use the two sides alter-
nately, thereby obtaining maximum benefit from
both cutting edges.
STANDARD
Gillette Blades
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
5.T/T27
gv*'
Rl
IS
hVt:
f OR
WHIT*
SPORTING NOTIONS
Some of the most pleasing performances of
the V.R.C. spring meeting were put up on
Derby Day. It wasn’t that times were anything
out of the box —the going was a shade soft.
Nor were the results pleasing to the sort
of punters who take their losses badly and
loudly. It was just that the day saw several
good horses —a couple of them somewhat under
a cloud —come into their own, which at any
time should be enough for anybody taking a
sporting interest in the sport.
The punting vocalists took it very well when
that finest mare now racing in Australia, Tran-
quil Star, went out at 20 to 1 and downed the
next-best of her sex, Flight, in the 10-furlongs
Mackinnon Stakes, with the Caulfield Cup
winner, St. Fairy, cutting the odds-on favorite,
Lawrence, out of third money. Now in her
eighth year, winner of close on £28,000 in stakes,
Tranquil Star got there by a head, having raced
on the outside of Flight, head-and-head, over
the last two furlongs.
A protest against Tranquil Star, based on
crowding, was entered by Flight’s rider, O’Sulli-
can, but was dismissed. Perhaps just as well,
for the sake of local, if not world, peace, the
great Melbourne mare being so romantically
popular that .backers of the beaten cheer her
wins lustily, whether her late previous form
had been good or bad. In this case it had not
been good. Yet even on the Sydney course that
afternoon her win was loudly cheered, the crowd
suspending its vigorous hooting of a winner
there to cheer her home, then returning again
to lustily hooting the local prad.
Unplaced in the Mackinnon as a four-year-
old, Tranquil Star won it the next year (1942),
was second in 1943 to that good w.f.a. per-
former Araana, and has now been t'he_ winner
in the past two years. By Gay Lothario from
Lone Star, she made it a double on the day
for her sire’s offspring, Marocain (from
Wrapper) having won the mile Wakeful Stakes
(for three-year-old fillies), defeating the South
Australian speedster Norwich, Miss Ajax and
a fairly good field of others, of whom Kitbag
ran a very promising race. Questing, who
beat Magnificent in the Rosehill Guineas, and
Irish Gem failed under the 9st. burden that
Norwich also carried. Hence, as Norwich gave
the winner over a stone and was going great
guns at the finish, she seems to stand out as the
best of the bunch.
The rousing reception accorded Tranquil Star
was repeated in reverse gear when Magnificent,
starting at 15 to 1, downed odds-on Don
Pedro, second-favorite Attley and a dozen
others in the Derby. The win was greeted with
boos, curses, hisses, the tearing of tickets and
other unfortunate noises. Since, as well as all
this, scribes practically unanimously explained
Magnificent’s win as due rather to the slow
running of the race than to any quality in
the colt, the best of Ajax’s sons to date can
surely be written down as the most under-
rated horse in the country.
Magnificent’s recent defeats—placed behind
Questing in the Rosehill Guineas, then un-
placed in the Caulfield Guineas and last in the
Cox Plate —which led to all the noise, seem
capable of explanation, quite apart from the
fall he was reported to have had in a float and
the atrocious racing conditions in which the
Cox Plate was run. Before winning the
A.J.C. Derby the colt underwent what it is
now the fashion to describe as an “old-
fashioned” preparation. He was tested so
thoroughly for stamina over the Derby dis-
tance and further that some fair judges
thought his trainer, Croall, was overdoing it.
Since that win Magnificent had been running
and being beaten over shorter distances, foi
which he had not been trained, and by horses
specially trained for such races, until last
Saturday he got his chance again to live up to
his stamina preparation.
It is part of the underrating business that
Magnificent has nearly always won at fairly
good odds, and has only twice been a winning
favorite, though he has been only that many
times unplaced. The plain fact about tire
colt is that he has now won better races than
his sire had won at the age, and has suc-
ceeded where his sire was beaten. He cannot
now match Ajax’s record of being only once
unplaced in 46 starts; but Ajax was beaten in
both A.J.C. and Victoria Derbies —by Avenger
and Hua respectively—and, as well as winning
both those stamina events, Magnificent has also
to his credit the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, Sires
Produce, Champagne and Hobartyille. That
would translate as “good horse” in any lan-
guage.
Another of the good-horse performances on
Victoria Derby Day—the Melbourne Cup, with
all its attendant excitements and ritualistic
accompaniments was just coming on when this
page went to the printer —was that of the
Dhoti-French Gem colt Royal Gem in the mile
Cantala Stakes. From his dam, at least, this
colt should have inherited some stamina.
Apparently it was decided that he was not a
Derby possibility, but would excel at a mite—
the latter part of which he has amply justified.
Starting a strong 9-to-4 favorite, he not only
won brilliantly but was the first three-year-old
Cantala winner, and he carried 51b. above
w.f.a. La Patrice was a good second, and the
outsize New Zealander, Typhoon, showed his
first sign of form since coming over.
Kinderscout stock added first and third places
in the five-furlongs Maribyrnong Plate (two-
year-olds) to their sire’s good record, Bold
Beau, with a weight advantage, winning from
the Dhoti colt Hindu Prince and British Boy.
Commonly rated a Melbourne Cup pointer, the
13-furlongs Hotham Handicap was won by
Arduli (not in the Cup), from Great Victory
and Oatcake; the Cup pre-post favorite, Silver
Link, having been withdrawn when it was given
out that because of an oversight in the framing
of the conditions the Hotham winner might
cop a penalty of no to 101 b.
Stewards had an unusual protest to deal with
on the Flying at Rosehill, the rider of the
third horse past the post, Melhero, protesting
against both first and second. The frequently
unlucky Melfort horse struck trouble throughout
the race, and, coming through like a winner
in the last furlong, had to be checked sharply
50 yards from the judge, where Fermanagh
moved across him. Melhero got going again
inside Fermanagh, but the race was then over.
It most probably cost Melhero the race: he
finished brilliantly, while the winner, Bravo,
was tiring after leading all the way. The
stewards did the only fair thing, placing Mel-
hero second ahead of Fermanagh,‘but leaving
Bravo the winner.
All this, combined with a considerable delay
in hoisting the green flag, no announcement
as to the nature of the protest and the fact
that the numbers were accidentally put up in
the wrong order in the first place, gave the
mob plenty of scope for a loud and prolonged
“demonstratifn.” Also, of course, Melhero was
a short favorite. The curious thing about these
so-called “angry scenes” is that the majority of
participants seem to enjoy them as a huge joke.
There are far more grins than scowls, and in
this instance the frequent cries of “Rub out the
judge!” indicated that most of them hadn’t
the foggiest idea of what all the fuss was about.
Bravo, a bay four-year-old
Due from Demng Do, was a successful two
year-old and rather a mudlark, wmn g
successive races at Randwick, each on ,
heavy track. He has been raced very sparmgiy
since then. t
Veiled Threat, Kiaree and Nightbeam with-
drawn, Prince was the class horse of the mne
left in the H. L. Carter Handicap. With a
71b. allowance for B. Robards he earned a
featherweight, 7.5, and started favor
5 to 2. A. Podmore rode a medy-judged race
on Buzz Off, keeping him handy while Lady
Marie was doing the early pacemakmg a
moving up gradually to take charge at
distance. But he failed to hold Prmce who
finished brilliantly on the outside and was a
half-length to the good at the end, with
Shining Night, also running on well, a halt-
length behind Buzz Off. It was a great f'> nis h,
another couple of lengths covering half the
also-rans.
Prince had not previously won at 12 fur-
longs, but his recent runs suggest that with age
he prefers a bit of distance to the seven and
eight furlongs trips that were once his mark.
Win or lose he’s an honest galloper and always
gives supporters a sight over the last couple
of furlongs.
With Orion, who finished solidly at his first
start to snatch the Burnside Two-yeaj-old Stakes
from the tearaway leader Driffield, F. W. Hughes
chalked up another success for his imported
sire Titan, who stands at Kooba stud. Another
Titan colt, Tamasha, one of the few of that
breeding offered at the last yearling sales, where
he brought 2500 guineas, was a 5-to-4-on
favorite, but jumped into the air at the shirt:
and never settled down. Rising Star (Double
Remove-Sweet Anabel) was a moderate third,
and the Ajax colt My Hero next best. Drif-
field (Myosotic-La Chanson) should not be a
maiden much longer.
Titan, a son of the English sire Hyperion and
a brother to Hyperides, sired seven fwo-year-
old winners in his first season. Orion was the
first winner from his second crop. Most of his
progeny, including recent winners in Marshal
Tito and Tactician, have raced in Hughes s
red-and-white checks.
An unlucky second at two previous starts,
the Nuffield colt Field Captain made no bones
about winning the Castle Hill Handicap for
three-year-olds, taking over just inside the dis-
tance and going away at the post. Marshal
Tito was second. Strauss’s third, after he’d done
all the pacemaking, suggested a return to form.
Favorites won the other two events, a Novice
and a Welter. A Newcastle winner, the Silver
Standard gelding Silver Spear, started at twos
and duly did the right thing, with Open Air
and Fast Flash next. The Tiger, finishing
strongly after getting the worst of the run-
ning, was fourth. In the nine-furlongs Parra-
matta Handicap Babillard gave the crowd the
result it wanted and F. Shean his first winner
since returning recently after 12 months’ suspen-
sion. King Step and Darnley filled the places.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Two-year-old; Driffield, 1; Te Tana, 2;
My Hero, 3. Flying; Gay King, 1; Oriental,
2; Bruce Wood, 3. S.T.C. Handicap ; ’ Shining
Night, 1; Wellesley, 2; Loyal March, 3.
Welter: King Step, I; Magic Wand, 2; Invic-
tus, 3.
* * * *
S.A. Jockey Club has suddenly “reviewed”
and cancelled its ban on riding licences for
the leading jockeys, Bastian, Carling, Siiburn
and Dodd. The S.A.J.C. says that this leniency
is not the result of any “outside pressure.”
Simply, the offence that cost them their licences
on August 1, though never having details made
public, has had three months’ punishment, and
that’s now considered enough.
* * * *
On January 1 Longford (Tas.) Racing Club
celebrates its 100 years, in action with a pro-
gramme which is to include a £lOOO Centenary
Cup event. The club held its first meeting at
Longford on March 17 and 18, 1846, when the
course was described as “newly-formed from
forest land, with stumpholes filled in with hard,
loose earth.” The first Cup was won by Yeo-
man. Sober Robin, winner of the first steeple-
chase, was raced by the grandfather of present
chairman Norman Field.
* * * *
In matches last week the Australian
Services XI found some of the Indian
batsmen as hot as the local curry. At
Lahore the North Zone Indians piled up
410 (Pettiford 2 for 101, Cristofani 4 for
58). Services rattled up 351 (Pepper 77
and Hassett 73), and all but three of the
side got double figures. In their second
innings North Zone scored 103 for seven
wickets, and Pepper (5 for 45) and Petti-
ford (2 for 45) had a bit of revenge.
In the second match, at New Delhi, v.
Princes’ XI, the Services declared at 424
for eight wickets. Hassett scored a
rattling 187 and Williams 100 (his first
century with the team). Princes’ brought
joy to the 20,000 barrackers by hitting up
401 (Ellis 4 for 90, Roper 2 for 53, Miller
2 for 58). In their second knock the
Services made 304 for five wickets (Has-
sett 124 not out; Carmody 58). With
his “double” Hassett became the first
Australian to get in the record-book for
such an effort against India. Hassett,
incidentally, scored 122 in each innings
for Victoria v. N.S.W. at Sydney in
January, 1940—and yet N.S.W. won that
match by 177 runs!
* * * *
“Sixty-five”: Von Nida’s intention to
compete in the British Open at St.
Andrews next year should put Austra-
lian golf in the world spotlight once
more. The last time was when Jim Per-
rier almost beat the young Scot, Hector
Thomson, in the final of the British
Amateur nearly 10 years ago. I’ve seen
all the British professionals in action
recently and Von Nida is as good as any
of them. Henry Cotton and young Dai
Rees, the Welsh pro., may give him most
trouble. Rees—-in my opinion one of
the best in England—is very much like
the Von in both style and build. Chief
opposition, of course, will come from
the Americans.
* * * *
“Fawer”: The Katoomba Golf Club
has resurrected its annual gold cup car-
nival for amateurs, setting it down for
December 1 and 2. There are eight
events in all, 36 holes each day —18-hole
Stablefords morning and afternoon on
Saturday, with a 36-hole Stableford oyer
all, three stroke events on Sunday, with
the gold cup for the 36 holes. Any
amateur can play in all eight events for
155,, plus 4s. green fees, and handicaps
are readjusted to a limit of 14. Entries
close November 27.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Brompton, an Adelaide
suburb, has a new sports ground that may
be unique. This is a great brick-making
district, and an old-time pug-hole, 30ft.
below the level of the adjoining road, is
to be a sports oval, the steep side making
a good grandstand. The present idea
is to have half the year, in summer, for
coursing behind a dummy hare —a new
thing to Adelaide —and the winter half
for Soccer.
* * * *
W. Sidwell, in England with the
R.A.A.F., played such attractive tennis
in the Wimbledon matches that Stanley
Doust, a Davis Cup player of some years
ago, commented: “Sidwell, like many
Australians, has obviously moulded his
play on the great Crawford. 1 would not
be surprised to see him go further than
his Davis Cup captain.”
* * * *
Seeing that George Elliott had out-
pointed Cliff Bowen on two occasions
and that after other beatings Bowen had
announced his retirement from the game,
the matching of these pugs at Leichhardt
had no element of sportsmanship. Bowen
lost every round. He was knocked flat
on his back in the fifth round, and by
the tenth his eyebrow was swollen so
badly that the referee asked him to sur-
render. Game, though battered, he fought
on until halfway through the eleventh,
when he was so helplessly beaten that a
halt was called.
The Royal Marine Jimmy Brunt,
though a star among third-raters, was
no match for “Tommy Burns” Murphy
at the Sydney Stadium. A right floored
Brunt before the bout was a minute old.
Regaining his feet at “two,” Brunt fought
as best he could for the remainder of
the proceedings and saw the 12 rounds
through, but the Queensland welter re-
ceived the only possible decision. Despite
this quite a few hoots were heard when
Joe Wallis crowned “Burns.” The latter
came in a stone heavier than Patrick,
whom he is to meet shortly. Too much
of a handicap for the lighter man, who
has been out of the game so long— under
the doctor’s care part of the time.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Flemington was a wonderful sight on
Derby Day, and a wonderful harvest was
reaped by the bookmakers. The crowd
did not take kindly to the defeat of the
Victorian colts by Magnificent, but its
pride rose superior to the feelings engen-
dered by the loss of its money when
Tranquil Star beat Flight, St. Fairy and
the unfortunate Lawrence in the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes, There have been
many more dressy Derby Days, but the
displays for which the gardeners were
responsible have seldom been surpassed.
Melbourne has been agog over the visit
of the battleship King George V, or
“K.G.5,” as her intimates call her.
Cheering thousands lined Port Melbourne
pier and gave the monster a rousing wel-
come. Later in the day Capt. Schofield
entertained members, of the press and
told them something of the adventures
of his ship in the Pacific. Capt. Schofield,
who has been in the Royal Navy since
he was 13, was a cadet at Osborne and
saw service in World War I. He was
present when the Atlantic Charter was
drawn up. First public appearance of
King George V was when she arrived in
New York harbor with Lord and Lady
Halifax aboard in January, 1941. A
little later Captain Schofield took over
command of the battleship. Second-in-
command is Commander Colin White.
Of interest to women is the decoration
of the captain’s quarters on “K.G.5.”
Small chairs, easy chairs and couch are
covered in the chintz which is used to
make the curtains which cover the port-
holes. It has an off-white ground and
shows a gay pattern of cornflower-blue
flowers. Pictures of Mrs. Schofield and
the children occupy places of honor and
give, except for the grey paint and a big
desk, the impression of an English
drawing-room.
With the arrival of “K.G.5” came the
R.N. Victory Ball, a gay and colorful
affair. Decorations, the inspiration of
a British W.R.N.S., were very original.
Signal flags were draped along the facade
and on the stage was a sea wall with a
sailor in a small boat in the foreground,
fishing-nets and seagulls. The bandstand
was draped with the White Ensign, and
red-and-white bunting was entwined with
the tall fir trees and scarlet azaleas which
formed island-like decorations among the
cabaret tables arranged around the danc-
ing floor of St. Kilda Town Hafl. Naval,
Army and Air Force uniforms, many of
them opulent with gold braid, were per-
fect as a background for the women’s
colorful dresses.
Vice - Admiral Rivett-Carnac was
accompanied by his wife, who had just
arrived in Melbourne. Her frock was of
lime-green simply made on tailored lines,
the bodice decorated with crystal but-
tons. The First Naval Member, Sir
Louis Hamilton, was also in the official
party. Among the dancers were Valerie
Purves, dazzling in a gown of amethyst
taffeta, and Mickey, in a tailored white
crepe frock. Lady Gifford, there with
her Commander, danced in a tangerine
and white floral frock. Mrs, Tom
Mackay, cool in lily-green, pinned a fresh
pink rose on one shoulder. Newly-wed
Major and Mrs. Reg Atkinson also
danced. Valerie Palmer, down from the
Western District for the festivities, was
striking in a chiffon frock of tomato
shading. With her was Major Michael
Keeble, of the King’s Royal Rifle Corps.
In brilliant sunshine Prudence Brod-
ribb arrived at Christ Church, South
Yarra, for her wedding. Prue is the eldest
daughter of the Keith Brodribbs, of
Frodsley, Tasmania. Her father handed
her to the care of the bridegroom, the
Hon. Christopher Hankey, Royal
Marines, second son of Lord and Lady
Hankey, of Surrey, England. The bride’s
frock of white and silver was lent by her
sister, Mrs. Roy Gatenby, of Tasmania,
who wore it on her wedding day. The
skirt was trained and over it a second
train fell from a bustle, and the bodice
was fashioned with brief sleeves. Long
white gloves added to the picture. A
billowy tulle veil was held in place with
white lilac, and similar flowers, with
white roses, were carried. The bride
was attended by Mrs. Roy Gatenby,
matron-of-honor, and her other sister,
Margaret, was bridesmaid. They were
frocked alike in pale pink crepe de chine,
with deep rose velvet ribbon encircling
the waist and ending in trails at the back.
Capt. Richard Hermon, best man, and
Major Higginson, both of the Royal
Marines, attended the bridegroom.
At the G.H. ball that opened the social
events of the racing carnival Sir Winston
Dugan and Lady Dugan were hosts to
over 1000 dancers. Many of the young
guests were girls who ordinarily would
have made their debut at G.H. but who
have been swept into the services or
other war jobs. Partners for these girls
were men of the, services, including re-
turned p.-0.-w. and officers of the King
George V. The ballroom was a delight-
ful sight, with flags of the Empire and
Allied Nations draped on standards at
either end of the room. The official
party entered to the roll of drums, led
by the staffs of the Governors of Vic-
toria and South Australia. Sir Winston
Dugan opened the ball with Sir Willough-
by Nome’s daughter Rosemary, who
favored a soft blue silk organdie frock.
Her father danced with Lady Dugan,
whose gown was of sea-green and silver
brocade lame. The fitting bodice, cut
high at the back, and with two magni-
ficent clips of amethysts and diamonds
at each side of the front neckline, had a
long tailored skirt finished at the back
with a peplum. The green of her gown
was repeated in her large ostrich-feather
fan.
It was a night for lovely gowns. Many
young matrons wore their wedding attire
of filmy lace or heavy white satin. Pic-
tured here is Eleanor Wilbur-Ham, whose
gown, one pf the loveliest seen at the
ball, was one her grandmother wore at
G.H. in 1883, when the host was the
Marquis of Normanby. It is of duck-egg
blue brocade made with an old-fashioned
bodice and fitting the slim wearer snugly.
Dainty ruchings of the same material are
used for trimming, and the skirt is full
and reaches the floor.
Lady Elizabeth Scott, niece of the
Duchess of Gloucester, looked attractive
in a simple cotton evening gown} It had
a scarlet background with ah imprint of
huge white sunflowers. Cut low at back
and front, it had slim shoulder straps for
support. Mrs. Bob Essington Lewis was
one who wore her wedding gown. Of
fragile needle-run white lace, it had short
puffed sleeves and a long-trained skirt.
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith chose a white satin
gown printed in green flowers, cut low
back and front. Many other gowns fea-
tured the backless vogue. Valerie Purves’s
ceil-blue satin gown, the bodice heavily
embroidered in silver and crystal beads,
was cut to the waist at the back. Angela
Sturt clad her graceful figure in heavy
white crepe. One shoulder was com-
pletely bared, the other held the strap
which supported the gown. A three-
cornered tunic at front ended in a long
graceful fold of the material at back.
Gardenias were worn in her fair curls and
on the front of her gown. With Rose-
mary Norrie was her cousin Eleanor
Kearns, whose frock was of softest rose-
pink shading. With Flag-Lieut. John Her-
bert, son of humorist A. P. Herbert,
was Angela Fairbairn, whose frock was
in soft blue romaine. Mary Lisle John-
son chose a gown of blue and silver lame,
the bodice finished with the new cap
sleeves.
Visitors from Adelaide included Isobel
Coles, who was in a tailored frock of
black crepe, and Mrs. R. Dutton, who
chose white lace. Margaret Campbell
was another who chose white ; her gown
of white crepe was sewn at the neckline
with crystal beads. With her was her
twin brother, W.O. David Campbell. With
Major J. A. Hutchinson was his wife,
whose gown of deep brown was sewn
with blue stones. She is the daughter of
the Norman Martins, at the time of the
ball on their way to London, where he
is to be Victoria’s new Agent-General.
Mr. and Mrs. A. A, Lord were among
the dancers, Mrs. Lord wearing with her
mist-blue suede crepe frock an unusual
necklace of aquamarines and moonstones.
Royal Marines from “K.G 5” were on
duty, and their uniforms, with those of
other services, made a brave showing
among the colorful gowns of the women
guests.
From Sydney
Eight hundred women each with the
flash of summer in hat and frock were
in the Trocadero before one o’clock on
Wednesday of last week. The rally was
in the interests of Legacy, and the guests
were members of the city’s many women’s
organisations. Legacy has raised the
torch and calls upon the women of the
State to keep the flame brightly glowing.
The idea is to form groups working for
Legacy in every district and suburb.
There will be thousands more legatees
since World War ll—lsoo soldiers’
children have been made wards this past
year, and as the care, medical, dental,
recreational and educational Legacy be-
stows on each works out at £25 a year,
the women present at the lunch saw a
full-time peace job ahead.
Many of the fir£t World War legatees
were soldiers themselves in World War
11, and the debt to their wives and babies
must be paid. Women at the lunch
were invited to form groups of torch-
bearers for Legacy, and the idea was
warmly received. In the official party
were Mayoress Harding, Miss Kate Egan,
Mrs. Charles Tilden, Major Joyce Snell-
ing, the Norman Nock lady and Mrs.
C. J. Pope. The Mayoress spoke fluently,
and Saide Parker, Director of Appeals,
made a speech in which the emotional
and the practical aspects of Legacy were
neatly blended. , A doll’s house of noble
proportions and a Persian cat show are
two of the many money-raisers already
offered to help the cause. t
One of the city’s pleasant and popular
musicians is the wife of Professor Faw-
sitt, who occupies the chair of Inorganic
Chemistry at Sydney University. Mrs.
Fawsitt, best known as a singer, plays
both violin and piano, and studied the
three expressions of her art in Germany
and England. Nicholson’s has published
a book of “Songs for Little Folk.”
There are 12 in the book, and words
and music are by Mrs Fawsitt.
They tell the round of a child’s day—
keeping a store; catching locusts; re-
garding a turtle sleeping on a stone.
Drawings form a border to the music
which is in the middle of the page, A
number of other songs have come from
Mrs. Fawsitt’s pen. Many of them have
been sung over the air, in the Town Hall,
and at music clubs. Evelyn Hall sang
“Peace for Everlasting” at the farewell
to Lord and Lady Wakehurst in the Tro-
cadero. This has also been sung by
Evelyn in the Sydney Town Hall and the
Newcastle Town Hall. Norton Trevaire
photo.
There was a sort of shining morning
look about the singers and musicians
who gave the programme at the Wool-
lahra Music Club s meeting last week.
Youth was smooth on their brows.
Terry Hart was the violinist, Jacqueline
Talbot got a nice effect from the alliance
of a cream and honey contralto and the
softness of pink lace. Slender Michael
Mann was the pianist, and Frank Winter
Lisle the baritone. Mr. Justice Roper
and his good-looking wife received the
guests. Among these were Oliver King,
from Rose Bay, who really began the
music - club movement in this State,
composer James Brash, Mr. Justice
Nicholas, the Roland Fosters, an
English visitor Lady Wavertree, Mrs.
Florence Taylor, who had previously given
a dinner party at Princes in honor of
Lady Wavertree, and sister Annis Parsons,
Mrs. Lorenz and Mrs. J. Fitz Patrick.
No matter what the unpleasantness in
any part of the world, the women and
children of England seem to get the
backwash. Who would think that a
printers’ strike in Australia could have
any bearing on the Christmas goodies in
homes in every county of England? Yet
last week women in Sydney going in
search of cartons In which to pack a few
sweet things for friends in England were
told that cartons were off, for the present,
owing to the printers’ strike. As every
man in the British Navy in Sydney sends
home parcels, or so it would seem judg-
ing by his numbers at every hamper
counter in the city stores, it’s to be hoped
that the carton shortage will soon ease off.
The Josef Kretschmann Club, which
had limited its reunions to two a year
during the war, is again in full motion,
and holding an evening of music every
month. These are pleasant occasions and
the idea, of course, is to meet for the en-
joyment of the arts in memory of one
of Sydney’s early musicians. Last Monday
genial music critic A. L. Kelly was the guest
of honor, and he told of the days when
he was a very beginning critic and used
to talk Beethoven with the then ageing
Kretschmann.
The Lyceum Club rooms housed this
meeting, and there was a full muster.
Nora Mack and Violet Semple were the
singers on a programme which included
Doris Fitton and two members of her
Independent co. in the sleep-walking
scene from “Macbeth.”
Another success was notched up by
Mrs. Eva Rutherford last week. The
gift afternoon arranged by her for the
E.-S.U. Red Cross crowded the Lyceum
Club (the E.-S.U. is, after many years,
looking for new quarters —the eyrie on
the roof garden of Farmer’s, which has
been its pleasant home for so long, is
needed by the firm), and the gift stall
was quickly piled with powder, baby
garments, small toys and such like
seasonal presents. Before the music pro-
gramme was over the stall was bare.
Orchids allowed themselves to be com-
mercialised in the cause, and were prizes
in a lucky competition, and the subject
of a Dutch auction.
Mrs. Harry Twigden wore with her
black frock a small black lace hat
banded with mushroom pink. She was
the afternoon’s pianist and played Schu-
mann and Chopin works, the music fervid
and tender and following the two com-
posers’ wide sweep of imagination. Mrs.
Oscar Gregory sang a group of
Russian songs. Mrs. Iris Lamphier’s
flexible voice gave proper value to Shak-
speare numbers. Esther Kahn was the
afternoon’s accompanist. Mrs. Persia
Porter, Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, Dollie
Hollander Moore, Mrs. Hamilton and
Mrs. Wallace Turner were among the bat-
talions of E.-S.U. gift-bringers and -buyers.
There was a full programme for the
boys and girls at the Youth Recreation
Exhibition in the lower Town Hall
(basement in former days) last week. This
exhibition was part of Health Week, and
though the Fourth Victory Loan seemed
staggering along for lack of vitamins
£ s. d., the small citizen was encouraged
to grow bigger and better with games
and exercises that took in all age groups
onwards from the pre-school child.
There were ring games, puppet shows,
folk dancing and marching, ball games.
Girls and boys from the playgrounds
maintained by the City Council took part
in these with spirit. The exhibition
was opened by Sydney’s Mayor Neville
Harding. At the opening Alderman E. S.
Marks, who is the chairman of the
Council’s Health Committee, proved by
figures that the child of today is taller
and weighs more than the youngster of
the dark old ages of 20 years ago. This
is due to better health conditions.
Partners at St. Vincent’s Hospital dance
in the Paddington Town Hall fell easily
into three age groups. There were the
men in tails and white ties, the younger
ones in dinner suits and the youngest in
ordinary lounge suits —they are the lads
who have not had a chance to proem e
evening suits owing to coupons and
soldier occupations. The dance proved
how wrong was the idea that the public
ball had faded away with World War 11.
The Paddington Town Hall wasn’t
crowded; it was packed. There were 33
debs, as pretty and fresh as field flowers,
and they received social benison from
Mrs. Bertie Kelly. She was handsome
and upright (a lesson in deportment to
any deb.). Her frock was black, soft and
.filmy. It was sleeveless, and its shoulder-
straps glittered with rhinestones. Just
the right touch of dazzle was in her
diamond tiara.
Mrs. E. P. Bateman, president of the
ball committee, who received the official
party, wore almond-green chiffons, em-
broidered in moonstone-like beads. The
hall was bright with flags from the In-
domitable, Mrs. Donovan Foy’s frock
was of a deep amber tone. Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy’s black lace frock and
white ermine coat were luxury without
ostentation. St. Vincent’s Maternity Hos-
pital benefits.


THAT-
&
=
s
cil£
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become Incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if -you wish, as solo Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
mKISCXOiiS—James Burns - B. J. Nob worthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitch
I* T VV Black. Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Bo* 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
7M JUfyki
Leadership
w
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass produced to microscopic
precision standards, is‘another Pyrox “Beacon" of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained exports, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY . . PYROX PTY., LTD.
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eijes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty- Lid.. King Street. Sydney.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food —50/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
J.E. LONG&CO
Wallangarra.
iCj V
7/t^
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. _ Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
ŵ
To men
whose
business takes them inter-state
ttOWEVER you travel, be sure that you’re by
adequate insurance. In the air, for example, you 11 - e
all the safer for an aviation policy which covers you a
all times, while flying, without the tiresome necessity of
arranging a policy every time you enter a ’plane.
EDWARD LDMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD-
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle. Canberra and Alice Springs,
SMOKE-OH!
“Something Wrong With Police.”
—“Daily Telegraph.
Whatever it is, it should be arrested.
•J*
“ ‘As usual, the women’s voice, which should
be most articulate on behalf of their own sex,
is not being heard,’ says a writer.”
Husbands, reading this, were struck
dumb with astonishment.
* 4* * *
“Did I sit down with a broken heart when
my husband skipped?” —“New Ifiea.”
After giving him too much rope?
4* + 4* *i*
A woman need not be two-faced to
have a double chin.
4* 4* *l* 4*
Some of these wife-deserters slip out
of double harness without leaving a trace.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Verdict.
A sage beside the sandy shore
Regarded closely, front and back,
The latest things the ladies wore.
His only comment way “A-lack !”
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4«
It’s peculiar how shallow people can
usually be found in shoals.
4* 4* 4* 4* ,
“The recruit was instructed to bride and
saddle a horse.” — “Humor.”
As his first lesson in becoming a groom.
4* 4* 4* 4* .
“Your profession is no key to your worm
as a wife.” — Woman’s paper.
In fact, it may lock the door to mar-
riage altogether.
V t .
“No Hindu woman would mention her hus-
band by name.” — “World’s News.”
Ignoring him completely, in true
European style.
a *b. . .
“Modern women differ from primitive women
just as highly domesticated animals differ trom
wild animals.” — Woman’s paper.
But no really modern woman can be
described as highly domesticated.
a .,
“Maybe if you doubt her she will P rovl( |®
a list of love-lorn swains whom she callously
brushed off like so many troublesome leeches.
Poor suckers!
“Everything necessary for forging currency
was in the ‘studio.’ An article on printing
banknotes was found also.” — “S. M. Herald.
Apparently the owner had made a note
of it.
•I*
“The festivities, which lasted for four days,
culminated with a snake dance.”
—Report of Lebanese wedding.
What of it? Festivities which last for
four days frequently end with dancing
snakes.
Clear-cut.
“ ‘This is only the beginning, see what I
mean,’ read a message chalked by vandals on a
blackboard at Rozelle (Sydney) Public School.
Police say the message intimates that the van-
dals intend to make another raid on the school.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
The public may lightly suppose that
any member of the Force could turn on
brilliant feats of deduction like this at
will. Not so. Only gifted policemen
could do. it, and then only when they
combine a sound knowledge of the differ-
ential calculus with a mastery of the
principles of ratiocination, plus an ability
to look through choked-up drains with
both eyes open, use applied psycho-
analysis and a footprint wrench and
distinguish the sound of a bee and a
blowfly in a brassfoundry while blind-
folded.
I am reminded of this by the necessity
I once had to enlist the Law’s aid.
It was in the days when the method
of police recruitment was for the Com-
missioner to go„down to the wharf when
an immigrant ship came in and grab
anyone with a name like Hegarty or
O’Flaherty, give him a uniform and a
truncheon, and explain what a malefactor
was.
The wife and I had come home one
night and found the house ransacked. I
rang the local police station. Next after-
noon Constable O’Gahagan arrived.
“This is fhtherruptin’ me checkin’ o
dog licenses, which is impar-rtant this
time o’ year,” he began. “Oi can spare
y’ a few minutes an’ Oi hawp ’tis no
frivolous charge ye’ll be mairkm’. What
is it” —he went on, as he stood among
the litter from pulled-out chests of
drawers —“have ye been wroitin’ threat-
enin’ letters to the Tax Commissioner?
Have ye been scalin’ on the trams or have
yer childer been waggin’ it from skule
an’ ye want me to froighten ’em loike?
I took him and pointed out the broken
pantry window, and then went through
every ransacked room. I told him there
was about fifty pounds’ worth of jewel-
lery missing, as well as two of my suits,
the wife’s fur coat and all the silverware.
After I had finished he pondered deeply
for about ten minutes. Then he said
“Now Oi wonder phwat could be the
throuble here: it moight be arson with a
bit of bigamy on the soide, though it
could be blackmail with deliberate intint
to utter--an’ that’s a hangin’ matter. Has
anny mimber of yer family been actin
queer lairtly? Oi warn ye that onny-
thing ye say may be used agin ye if ye re
proved guilty.”
Patiently I explained it was a clear
case of burglary. 1 showed him the mask
I’d picked up near the window, and
pointed to a man’s muddy bootprints
leading from the forced pantry window
through all the rooms —it had been rain-
ing heavily that afternoon. But
O’Gahagan wasn’t impressed. “Oi’ll have
a look around and for-rm me own
opinion,” he said.
Ten minutes Tater he returned, triumph
written on the map of the Disthressful
Counthry. “Very diver,” he observed,
“but an O’Gahagan can’t be fooled. Oi
found a crowbar floatin’ about in the
bath. Oi’ve impounded it as an eksissory
before the fact. It’s a blunt instrument,
an’ that’s somethin’ they use betimes for
mur-rders. Oi’ll have to conduct a
search for the, victim —probably a tall,
wizened, nuggetty felly wid knock-knees
an’ pigeon toes, two elbows an’ mangy
oibrows, somewhere betwixt twinty-wan
and noinety an’ dressed in a dark black
coat. Oi also found footprints under the
busted windy. It could have been maird
be a hivvy man cornin’ in, but it wasn’t.”
“What the devil do you mean?” I de-
manded.
Constable O’Gahagan looked at me
sternly. “Yer missus is under arrest
fer hommycide,” he said dramatically.
“Oi’ve wor-rked it all'out. She put on
your crabs an’ jumped out the windy
backwards carryin’ the body so as to
make out it was a marn cornin’ in be the
footprints. An 1 ye’re under arrest y’rself,
char-rged, on the ividence, wid havin no
lawful means o’ support, bein’ found on
enclosed primises, offinsive langwidge,
bustin’ the bettin’ an’ gamin’ laws, an’
incitin’ to riot. Git yer cawt on! ”
80.
Interior Decoration.
“A photograph of a beautiful Italian girl has
been found inside a fish caught in Falmouth
Harbor.” —“Daily Telegraph
Though in his more indulgent moods
He dedicates his soul to Her,
When, as will frequently occur,
A cosy tete-a-tete concludes
With frankly critical remarks,
A bloke might easily accede
Thus to a sudden urge to feed
His erstwhile girl friend to the sharks.
So many fish must be adorned
Internally with women scorned,
I wonder, did the Lord provide
Some Israelite’s discarded donah
As flotsam in the whale’s inside
To make a pin-up girl for Jonah ?
P. M. LUSK.
Motive.
Pull the blind down, nurse, till shadows
Softly fall around the room;
Pull it down so all about me
Is immersed in sombre gloom.
Ah, my spirit has been yearning
For the shades to fall like this.
Thank you, nurse, and bless you!... i
Now then.
How about a little kiss ? : _:
T. W. N.
Feathered.
She didn't even argue when
He gave his chair up to a hen.
Nor even when he built a path
To lead the ducks into the bath.
He slept with roosters on his bed.
And let the chicks perch on his head.
But still she didn’t argue, though
She thought he was a bird. And so.
While fat his pampered poultry grew,
She took his nest-egg then she flew.
EVE THE ORPINGTON.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Socialism and Gambling
It is surprising to find Bishop Burgmann
condemning gambling, for the Bishop of
Goulburn has done his bit in popularis-
ing those socialist philosophies which are
the immediate cause of the marked
decline in individual initiative and respon-
sibility.
The citizen has been constantly given
the impression that all who work for
wages are “exploited,” that all who
seek to better their lot by providing goods
or services of use to the community are
swindlers, and that real prosperity will
only arrive when everyone is employed by
the Government to produce as little as
possible or else is allowed to retire on a
Government pension drawn from the in-
exhaustible funds of “vested interests.”
Obviously one of the reasons for the
increase in gambling is the confidence
of many in the indefinite continuation of
vote-buying money handouts by paternal
Governments. Unearned money, with
the prospect of plenty more! So the get-
rich-quick idea becomes a national philo-
sophy, production of real wealth is
neglected and living standards fall. —
Dickie (Q.).
Makers of Slums
I agree with “Cocky” (B. 10/10/’45). 1
have seen Government-built dwellings,
occupied for a few months, which are
fit only for pigs to live in.
A foreman in charge of sewerage works
told me that he dared not attempt any
work which he could not complete in a
day, for, if he left any trenches not filled
in but with the pipes laid, he would arrive
in the morning to find hoodlums had
broken every single exposed pipe.
If sjum-minded people are to be given
good homes at charity rentals, then the
Government Social Services Department
should see that they maintain a reason-
able standard of hygiene and cleanliness.
—Recco (N.S.W.).
Enforce Industrial Law
“One of the greatest wonders of your
country is the power wielded by union
leaders,” said an observant overseas
visitor. But Australians are not surprised.
They know the modern union boss as a
dictator, one who holds the community
to ransom. In Australia responsible
Government is, and has been for years, a
misnomer. Even in Russia, where the
Commissar wields a lot of power, he is not
a law unto himself.
What the man in the street wants to
know is why arbitration in industrial dis-
putes is not enforced by law? Strikes
reach dangerous dimensions, in contempt
of the public good, if not the public peace.
But the worst aspect is the holding up of
the Arbitration Court to ridicule.
That arbitration tells unfairly in favoi
of employers is untrue. It tells in favor
of labor, since the employer agrees to
leave to the decision of the uninitiated
technical points with which he alone can
really deal.
Today strikes are deliberately engi-
neered to impress upon the worker the
reality of the “class struggle.” A secret
ballot on any strike issue should be com-
pulsory, and it shduld be carried out by
public officials so as to avoid trickery.—
Adala (S.A.).
Spirit of Service
The socialisation of industries, an idea
which is being toyed with by the Chifley
Government, will not achieve the ends
at which it aims. One of the greatest
difficulties will be t© get employees to
give a fair day’s work. And unless they
do Australia cannot hope to compete on
open markets with other nations.
A fair day’s work can be secured by
payments by results, or piecework; but
this is not practicable in many industries,
and there is a prejudice amongst workers
against those who produce more than the
average.
It seems that the only way to have
everyone contented with his job and
happy to produce a fair day’s work is by*
re-education of the people to an appre-
ciation of the dignity of labor and the
contentment which comes with the know-
ledge that any work, no matter how ap-
parently unimportant, is a contribution to
society according to one’s ability. This
will take many years, but we should start
now with the school children.
I am reminded of an Allied soldier I
met. He was a private soldier in a labor
battalion and obviously happy and proud.
I asked him what he did in the Army, and
he said “Sir, I am a builder of aero-
dromes.” A euphemism, perhaps, but that
man had the right outlook. — Major
(A.1.F.).
Service Medals
If “J.A.L.” (B. 17/10/’45) is concerned
with the failure to recognise service in
Greece, Crete and Syria, he should be
even more concerned with a similar omis-
sion which concerns the members of the
B.E.F. who fought in the Battle of
France in 1940, none of whom have re-
ceived special recognition for that cam-
paign.
The explanation is simple. It is a prin-
ciple of the British system for campaign
awards that medals commemorating
campaigns are struck only for success
and actual achievement (/.<?., at the con-
clusion of a successful, campaign).
The members of the original B.E.F.
who fought in Europe up to the time of
the fall of France receive the 1939-45
Star only. On the other hand, members
of all units who landed in France (or
served in Belgium, Holland or Germany)
between June 6, 1944 (D-day) and May
8, 1945 (VE-day) receive the France and
Germany Star in addition.
There is a parallel case for service in
Greece and Crete. Personnel who took
part in the early campaign and evacua-
tion receive the 1939-45 Star only. Mem-
bers of the units who served there be-
“Babes away!”
tween June 11, 1943, and May 8, 1945,
however, are awarded the Italy Star as
well.
The Africa Star took precedence only
over the 1939-43 Star in the Army. The
reverse was the case in the Navy and
Air Force. The clasp to the Africa Star,
denoting specified service in North Africa,
was, however, awarded and was denoted
by the usual silver-gilt emblem worn on
the ribbon of the 1939-43 Star.
Since the new conditions have been
published both ribbons are now worn
by these two services. The silver-gilt
emblem may, however, now only be worn
on the 1939-45 ribbon by those members
of the Air Force who flew as air crew
personnel in fighter aircraft engaged in
the Battle of Britain between July 10,
1940, and October 31, 1940. The clasp
is not available for personnel who flew
in aircraft other than fighters, notwith-
standing that they may have been en-
gaged with the enemy in the air during
the qualifying period. The clasp to the
1939-45 Star is now most highly prized.
The conditions of award of the
Defence Medal at present give no indica-
tion that it is likely to correspond to the
General Service Medal of the 1914-18
war. To qualify for this award, per-
sonnel must have served for at least 12
months in non-operational areas over-
seas from, or outside Australia —which
automatically cancels out the award of
this medal for service in such places as
Darwin.
The conditions of award for all the
campaign stars are at present provisional
only. Further orders are likely to be
issued extending the conditions to in-
clude men not at present qualified.
—A.D.G. (R.A.A.F.).
Soldier Settlement in Queensland
The Federal Government should make
up its mind what it intends to do with
regard to settling returned soldiers on
Queensland grazing lands.
The State Government has suggested
that small areas of grazing selections or
grazing farms should be included in the
scheme agreed to 'between the Common-
wealth and State Governments, but so
far Canberra has not said whether it
approves or disapproves. The Queensland
grazing industry gave well of its sons to
the fighting services, and it would be an
injustice to offer them farming or mixed
dairying land on their return to civil life.
Graziers suggest that men with pas-
toral experience should be settled on
grazing land with which they are con-
versant. Impracticable as this might be
in many cases, a man with only grazing
experience would do better at grazing
than at any other branch of farming.
The Queensland Government has taken
action, if somewhat belatedly, to make
stock available for returned soldiers’
dairy farms. It is offering up to
£8 per head for 18 months old
heifer calves from grade herds; the ob-
jective this season is 3000 calves. A§
the Commonwealth-State scheme envis-
ages dairy farms being ready to the point
of production before a returned man
takes over, and as about four mil-
lion acres of agricultural and dairying
land in Queensland has been “frozen”
for soldier settlement, 3000 calves this
season will be all too few, but some
action was necessary to encourage owners
of grade herds to breed up to assist sol-
dier settlement.
If the Federal Government does
approve of sheep and beef cattle country
being included in the scheme, similar
action will be necessary to obtain the
young stock required by returned sol-
diers in those industries. This makes
it particularly urgent that the Govern-
ment should announce its policy without
further delay.— Agric. (Q.).
Army Waste
The wastage of food and clothing going
on in military camps is scandalous. When
surplus stores are on hand the favorite
method of disposal is to burn it, bury it
or dump it into the sea.
Nobody has yet made the soldier like
Army biscuits. If bread is to be had they
prefer it. And so you will see troops eat-
ing the last scraps of bread and the bis-
cuits being burned.
Coming home from a Pacific station
we were put on the ’tween-decks. In
order to clear a hatch, some cases of food
had to be shifted. Some had broken and
the O.C. ship ordered me to throw them
overboard. I protested against dumping
380 tins, some of them 101 b., containing
fish, bacon, bully beef, fruit juice and
milk. My mates backed me up. We were
then allowed to stack the food in a corner
of the hold.
When we arrived at camp in Brisbane
kits which had been in the store for R
year or more were returned to us. As
we were already loaded like packhorses
we had to throw away the gear which had
been in store. Greatcoats and pullovers,
flannel singlets and woollen socks, shirts
and trousers-r-hundreds of them —were
burned.
Europe is starving and facing the winter
short of clothing. Why doesn’t the R.S.L.
appoint men to collect the clothing which
troops now have to dump and to see that
no more food is put into pits and buried,
burned or dumped into the sea? In one
short week I have seen enough stuff
wasted to feed a hundred families for a
month and clothe them warmly for a
year. — Hal (A.1.F.).
Army Huts as Homes
I hear the Government has abandoned
the idea of using surplus Army huts as
homes. What is wrong with using hutted
camps in their entirety to alleviate
the housing problem? Sanitary arrange-
ments, laundry facilities, recreation
grounds and even community centres are
already there, and, as most of the camps
are near a town, usually transport facili-
ties. Cost of dismantling, transport and
re-erection would be eliminated, and
homes would be available at low cost,
with no overcrowding problem. Children
would grow up in good wholesome coun-
try air.
By using these camps for civilian hous-
ing decentralisation would be encouraged,
•as many firms would open up in the
country if labor were assured. — Übique
(Vic.).
. #
Churchill Memorial
Tell A. H. P. Moline (Tas.) (B.
24/10/’45) that the British Empire Union
in Australia is launching a Churchill
Appreciation Movement to take the form
of Churchill Empire Buildings.
A sub-committee of which the writer
is a member is proceeding with organi-
sation and assistance from Tasmania
would be welcomed.
The hon. secretary of the British
Empire Union, 19 Bridge-street, Sydney,
will be pleased to furnish further infor-
mation to anyone interested. —E. L.
Champion (N.S.W.).
Future of Tobacco-growing
I grew tobacco for 11 years prior to
the war, and now after four years away
from it have to decide whether to take
it up again. After Army life I can’t see
myself going back to the old slavery,
working from daylight till dark seven
days a week, and then only just making
a living.
The policy of the Government seems
to be to arrange duties at a level which
will enable the Australian grower to
struggle along just on the breadline (pro-
vided he doesn’t get more than his fair
share of droughts). If the Government
does not want us to grow tobacco and is
content to import requirements from
America, let it come out in the open and
say so. The alternative is to arrange the
tariff so that the industry gives a
fair return to Australians. Optimist
(R.A.A.F.).
Those “Whisky-swilling Planters”
In writing from Malaya before the
Japanese blitz bright young journalists,
whose knowledge of tropical life had
probably been gained from intensive
study of Hollywood talkies, referred
sneeringly to “whisky-swilling planters.”
The Perak Local Defence Corps,
formed early in World War 11, was com-
posed almost entirely of ex-servicemen
of World War I, all over military age,
many of them planters. Before the Japa-
nese war they spent a lot of their non-
working hours modernising their own
military knowledge and training Asiatic
members of the Corps.
With the over-running of Perak by the
Japanese, most of the Asiatics elected to
remain with their homes and families;
the European members formed themselves
into a small unit, 70 or 80 strong,
which was attached to the 11th Indian
Division as L. of C. troops. All through
the retreat down the Peninsula they
guarded vulnerable points, drove trucks,
helped build the Slim River defence line
and took their share of bombing, casual-
ties and hard living.
When the Bth Australian Division came
into the fighting in Johore the battered
11th Indian Division, which had been
fighting without cease since the campaign
opened, had a short spell, and the Perak
L.D.C. was withdrawn to Singapore
Island and there disbanded. Those still
alive and unwounded—ages ranging from
45-67 —without exception joined other
units, some to work on wharves, some to
the police, some to the Army, British and
Australian, and the majority to the newly-
formed Air Observers’ Corps. And there
they stuck till the end —and did their
three and a half years as prisoners. Not
bad for “whisky-swilling planters.”—
X-changi (Formerly F.M-S.).


mo®®
AI RCRA FT
INSTRUMENTS
were made in Australia by
Amalgamated Wireless. These
included such highly technical
aircraft navigation instruments as
the Directional Gyro and Gyro
Horizon, Sensitive Altimeter,
Rate of Climb Indicator and Air
Speed Indicator. In all 22 dis-
tinct types of instruments, with
well over 60 variations, were
manufactured by A.W.A.
mm
S-W?:?
m
_______
i .. ioV:
■; : SI
’
''m, wm
:
m
Jill
liliili
lllilllli
- ;
" .. ' ’■
mm
11 ' ' Mzs:cS
v,_••.•:• ?*■?
;»: , i
.
iililii
.
:
;<x|x%|xy:;i:W : < : X:% ; : 11 W- 1
&
m
m
: : : : :': : x':
liili
•:•:•■
Wm
'mmrnmm
M
iTw ..^
f> :■
*r
; «. ■
58
y
w
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A'ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
