

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No, 3404
Wednesday, May 9, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Offi;e, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
CASTLE RISING, tranquil now, but once the centre of turbulence and intrigue.
CASTLE RISING, four miles from Lynn, Norfolk, is attributed
by one authority to Alfred the Great. The grounds for this
supposition are the arches,'still to be seen, which are characteristic
of Saxon architecture. If this is the case the stupendous earthworks
which surround Rising are of a later period than' the castle itself,
for they date from the Conquest, a line example of Norman camp-
making. After the Battle of Hastings the property was taken from
its possessor, Stigand of Canterbury, and bestowed by William I
upon his half-brother, Odo of Bayeux. When Odo rebelled against
William Rufus the property was granted to William d’Albini; and
his son was made cup-bearer to Henry I. It is to him that the
castle is attributed; but whether the Saxon theory is true or not,
the edifice encloses a building erected before his time, that is to
say, before the middle of the twelfth century. The most interesting
passage in the annals of Rising is its connection with Isabella,
Queen Dowager of England. Her husband, Edward 11, was on bad
terms with Charles IV of France; and as Isabella was his sister,
it was hoped that she would bring about a settlement between
them. But once in France she made common cause with the exiled
Lancastrians, and gave her affections to the most powerful of
them, Roger Mortimer. She came over with him to England,
Edward II was deposed and was killed some weeks later, and
Edward 111 declared king. During his minority Isabella and
Mortimer ruled England; and when the king reached the age of
eighteen he sent his mother a prisoner to Rising for the rest of her
life and had Mortimer beheaded. She outlived her lover twenty-
seven years, and was buried near him—with the heart of her
murdered husband, so they say, on her breast.


I Learn ‘
[Story
Writing
at how:
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. .
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. 1 *
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
In Personal Vein.
Speaking from the heart, rather than with
that heed
for accuracy, reason {cowardice, veiled),
which somewhat the years have taught
me, somewhat failed
in teaching, I would say there is certain
need
even at this hour to remember that men
bleed
much the same blood, attackers and
assailed;
that shattered dams pour death; that
those discs nailed
flush to the earth were cities, whether a
deed
be guilt or the judgment on it. This
heart’s-word
I would not match against logic; there's
no doubt
only the one-eyed man walks straight
through his brain,
and some considerations are better
deferred
ten years, twenty years hence; but, in
personal vein,
it is well that the heart sees and still
speaks out.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Notes on Namatjira.
When Albert Namatjira’s paintings
were shown in Sydney recently there was
the normal and necessary disputing about
their merits. Some said they were as good
as Heysen’s, which was over-generous ;
some said they were undistinguished,
which was not true of his best work ; and
the critics of the morning -dailies said, of
course, that they did not reflect the
aboriginal mind, which was mere mad-
ness.
The Rev, J. H. Sexton, ip Australian
Aborigines (Aborigines’ Friends’ Associa-
tion, Adelaide, S.A.), declares that “the
call of the anthropologist to go back to
the dream-time of the aborigines is a
hopeless one,” and the same may be said
of art critics who want Namatjira to
paint “more like an aboriginal”— to sub-
mit for their patronage, that is, crude and
childish scribbles on bits of bark.
It is not only a hopeless demand on
the part of the critics; it’s meaningless.
For a mountain must look very much
the same to an aboriginal as it does to
a white man ; it wouldn’t look especially
like a lawn-mower, for instance, nor a
fish, nor even like a wavy white pothook
on a piece of bark; so that, faithfully
reproducing the contours and the beauty
of his native land, Namatjira was doing
precisely what was asked—accurately
reflecting the aboriginal mind. The critics
were apparently disconcerted to discover
that an aboriginal artist doesn’t see moun-
tains upside-down.
Perhaps Namatjira might be able to
use the primitive art of his people for
some kind of decorative effect, as various
Australian painters are trying to do, but
the time for that sort of experiment is
obviously after he has learned to paint
as well as Heysen ; when he is completely
at home with a civilised method of expres-
sion.
And that’s what was certain about his
exhibition: that here was an aboriginal
who could paint water-colors which, be-
yond all the disputes, could immediately
be compared without patronage with the
standard paintings of the day.
The trustees of the New South Wales
Gallery (who, half-heartedly trying to ap-
pease the primitive school in Sydney, are
succeeding in pleasing nobody these days)
didn’t buy a Namatjira ; but the public —
as had happened in Melbourne and Adel-
aide —had red tabs on every picture be-
fore the exhibition had been opened an
hour. Obviously, it wasn’t only the in-
trinsic merits of the paintings nor even
their possible value as an investment that
could appeal to so many buyers: the
public was eager to buy the work of an
aboriginal who could paint as well as a
white man.
It seems reasonable to deduce that Aus-
tralians are anxious for a chance to be
proud of the aboriginal. They are proud
of Namatjira, just as they are proud of
members of his race who enlist in the
A.I.F. They will help the aboriginal most
generously if first he will help himself.
And there’s this, too, to be said: if an
aboriginal can paint as well as the full-
blooded Namatjira there’s nothing the
race can’t accomplish.
All of which might be read as a chapter
implied but not expressly stated in the
Rev. Sexton’s book. Wordy and, except
in its lively attack on the anthropologists,
not a very exciting little tome, Australian
Aborigines is comprised of a number of
reprinted articles, amounting to a plea
for the missions and for Commonwealth
control. Possibly its most telling argu-
ments are two photographs: one of a
mission family totalling (with children,
grand- and great-grandchildren) what
looks like about 257 souls and what is
certainly not fewer than fifty; and the
other of Namatjira painting in the Centre
above the caption “The artist furnishes
a striking illustration of the manner in
which the gifts of the aborigines develop
and flower under the influence of Chris-
tian missions.”
Though the art critics of the Sydney
dailies would probably disagree, Mr. Sex-
ton is also impressive when he refuses
to regard the white man’s civilisation,
with all its faults, as. a “so-called
tion” inferior to that of the gunyah, the
tribal rites and the drawings on bits of
bark.
Somersaults in the
Mountains .
Jones ap Jones : Somersaults turn
green bullfrogs in the mountains but a
frog a man is not.
Taffy: Not required are criticisms of
Welsh novels. Nor the roaring of a red
bull, whatever.
Jones: Front to back is the novel
Heinemann has published of Rhys
Davies, The Black Venus entitled.
Taffy: Front to back is the elephant
to ignorant savages but right way round
indeed is Rhys Davies’s novel.
Jones: Front to back is every Welsh-
man talking.
Taffy: Reading upside down you are
perhaps, like a bearded monkey on a tree,
for front to back no Welshman has ever
been heard talking, indeed to goodness.
Jones: Devil the what doing are you
now then?
Taffy: Saying am I clearly and dis-
tinctly as a small brook singing in the
grass that green and growing is this
comedy of village life.
Jones : Twittering of sparrows true
criticism is not. Backwards I say this
book is growing.
Taffy: Not funny is it when chaste
and time-honored custom of courting in
bed is put on trial by the deacons, hey?
Jones : Twisted the ropes are that
from the bat-haunted belfry hang. Not
not funny said I the novel was, hey, hey.
Taffy; Not admirably centralised this
discussion is, is it, when the lovely Olwen
Powell, whom all the young men do
court according to ancient practice, also
put on trial is at the instance of the vicar
and the foreign woman Mrs. Drizzle, hey,
hey, hey?
Jones: Hey,' hey, hey by braying
donkeys eaten. Denial not made that
novel admirably centred is.
Taffy: Howling of a hippopotamus
in the mud the lamentation is of reader
unable to admire humorous characteri-
sation of lusty squire Moesen Rowlands,
vindictive dwarf Lizzie Pugh and fat
little preacher Noah Watts whom Olwen
in the end before Rhisiart Hughes
chooses, the slithery ferret; not to men-
tion assorted farmhands who court Olwen
for her money or her person instead of
her noble mind so admired by Noah
Watts; not to mention delightful coffin-
maker who also pays court to Olwen
and with arts of a wise widower so
nearly captures her. Not funny is it, hey,
when silent and lugubrious courtier dives
under bed in thunderstorm?
Jones; Better that he should not dive
under bed back to front.
Taffy: Hooting of owls, mysterious,
is heard in the land. Not funny is it,
hey, when person unknown one night
throws gravel at window of Mrs. Drizzle,
intimating wishing to court her in bed?
Jones: Funnier if person known and
not one night but many nights.
Taffy: Not funny is it, hey, when
women of village march in body to Ty
Rhosyn farm to complain to her mother
that Olwen is stealing all the young men?
Jones: Mildly funny is not uproar-
iously funny. No chance of bringing
home bacon the novelist has when pig
has already been killed and eaten.
Taffy: Hit hard my tomahawk can.
Jones: Also not to sneeze at are two
gigantic boots. Front to back is novel
because trial of old custom and Olwen
Powell, which should be grand finale, is
opening chapter. How care now about
machinations of Mrs. Drizzle when
already decided it has been that custom
is lawful and Olwen may proceed?
How find any drama in onslaught of
village mothers at Ty Rhosyn when
Olwen perfectly secure?
Taffy : Sharper grows tomahawk.
Jones : Back to front is whole idea of
book as implied in title.' “Black Venus,”
hey, is statuette kept by dwarf Lizzie
Pugh? Symbolises, hey, hey, lovely
person of amorous Olwen Powell whom
Lizzie Pugh loves, hates and envies?
Novel originally set out to show Olwen
as village queen of love, beautiful and
amorous, black Venus of the mountains
of Wales.
Taffy; Welsh people not black. For
those who say so tomahawks furiously
sharpened.
Jones: Fly through the air mountain
rocks cannot, but great boots may in-
deed. Novel shows Olwen in the end
as another Mrs. Drizzle, bossy, mannish
and repellent. Have to follow this
character right through life. Book should
have begun with courting scenes, led up
to trial, and concluded with rejection of
Rhisiart and marriage to Noah Watts.
Also an impossible goblin is the poacher
Rhisiart.
Taffy : Goblins frequently seen in
Welsh mountains.
Jones: Goblins my great boots. If
Irish people their revival may have and
turn entire population into fairies, Welsh
people may goblins become, no doubt.
Fun it is. But novel is not to consist
only of goblins, quaint folklore and
people talking backwards ; art of prose
does not consist entirely of searching for
extraordinary similes in the animal king-
dom. May be done once for a stunt, but
ten thousand writers in English magazines
writing like this at the moment. Stunts
pall. Novel amusing, but Welsh setting
not to be excuse for inferior workman-
ship.
Taffy : Howling of purple tomcats for
tomcats most correct is ; but a cat a man
is not. Welsh people all right. Welsh
novels all right. Boots no good against
tomahawk. All well with Welsh?
Jones: Indeed to goodness, yes.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Sons of the Morning,” a £lOO prize-
winning verse play by Catherine Duncan
in the 1945 Playwrights’ Advisory Board
Competition, was the only indigenous
drama staged at the Cema festival in
Melbourne. The action takes place in
the main room of the Velenzas farm-
house in the Cretan hills, into which
stumbles an Australian major wounded
by German paratroopers, followed by an
Australian sergeant trying to catch up
with his unit, who, in turn, is followed
by a Nazi, promptly overpowered and
captured. The massive, bearded, baggy-
pants farmer is a passionate disciple of
the patriot Venezelos, and is prepared to
fight to the death for Cretan freedom.
The major has a more generalised con-
ception of freedom, but is disillusioned
about it; still, he fights on. The sergeant
fights because his father died on Gallipoli.
The old Venezelist’s daughter is affianced
to a young Cretan businessman who
doesn’t mind to whom he sells his goods,
but prefers the Germans, who seem likely
to stay longer than the Australians. The
girl’s affections switch over to the ser-
geant, and a triangular situation develops
against a background of retreating British
troops, Greek guerrillas, fifth-columnists
and advancing Germans. There were
some effective moments, but the verse
form didn’t save the play from a touch of
the banal and the journalistic. Charles
Allen was good as the indulgent and philo-
sophic major and William Ryall as the
sergeant. Les Davey, who looked like a
reincarnation of Garibaldi, and Robin
Mackay as his daughter, were the best of
the other New Theatre performers.
“Cauboy”: An apologia for the
commercial theatre issued by Frank
Tait, of J.C.W., pointed to the Firm’s
past achievements when it brought
out the Vanbrugh, the Thomdyke, Dion
Boucicault and many others, varying this
dramatic fare with magnificent seasons
of opera and ballet. Mr, Tait pleads
that the war has prevented similar gifts
in recent times. True enough; though
these artistic plums were rather widely
spaced in a large suet pudding of London
and Broadway musicomedy and farce, and
many of the actors were well past their
prime. But there are still 25 theatres
in London and more in New York show-
ing new productions of artistic merit.
An intelligent selector could choose a
few at least of these to raise the Aus-
tralian theatre out of the dull stew into
which it has fallen. Overseas actors can't
be brought here any more than can musi-
cal virtuosi, but what is wrong with Aus-
tralian actors? There are dozens of
extremely capable ones in amateur
circles, just as there are competent musi-
cians. If Mr. Tait thinks the war is to
blame for the low standard of the theatre,
how does he explain the way the concert
platform has maintained its standard and
increased its public?
Adelaide Repertory successfully staged
“To Have and to Hold,” by Lionel
Brown, in which Marie Ney played the
lead at London Haymarket. The play
is concerned with a young English squire,
crippled in a riding accident, who realises
that his wife is in love with a cousin from
Argentina who is managing his estate,
and quietly arranges that, for whatever
may be left of his life, things can go
on as they are. Frank Gunnell and
Donald Noblet, with Joy Watson, handle
the delicate triangle situation; Ralph
Binns and Ruby Litchfield provide the
comedy ; Gillian Fry and Max Hillier are
valuable recruits.. William Claridge pro-
duced.
At the talkies :
“Larceny Incorporated” (Sydney Civic):
Comedy in which Edward G. Robinson works
himself up from the prison gates to legitimate •
Big Business. His scheme to tunnel from his
Wn queerly-acquired business premises into the
next-door bank is frustrated by a vengeful
escaped fellow-convict. While Robinson is
talking the prison warden out of the pin-
striped suit he is wearing or trying comically
to wrap up a travelling case for a customer,
there is also told a neat story of a go-getter
#nd his- underlings forced into an unwilling
honesty.
“I’ll Walk Beside You” (Sydney Lyceum):
Not so sentimental as you might expect—a
simple romance handled with restraint by Eng-
lish stage actor Richard Bird and Lesley Brooks,
with a solid bit of characterisation by Percy
Marmont as a music-loving, philanthropic village
rector.
Ben Levy’s “Mrs. Moonlight,” put on
by Melbourne National Theatre under
Cema auspices, offers a situation with
which no human being can identify him-
self. We can identify ourselves with the
Greek myth of Tithonus, the beautiful
youth whom Venus made immortal but
forgot to make immortally young, so that
he was doomed to grow older and older
and see his teeth drop out and his head
become balder and could do nothing
about it. But we can’t identify ourselves
with a girl who is doomed to maintain
the youth and beauty of her teens despite
the ageing of her body, and at 70 looks
younger than her daughter. Through
three acts the too fantastic Mrs. Moon-
light bemoans her fate, returning at 15-
year intervals to the husband and family
she has deserted and bewildering them
with her mysterious beauty. Gloria Mel-
lody is a good actress, but could hardly
hope to make this role convincing.
Melbourne Little Theatre, which con-
templates building its own playhouse, had
its 100th performance at St. Chad’s, South
Yarra, with “Burning Gold,” a play of
today by Falkland L. Cary and A. A.
Thompson—and so much of today that
it might have been a press correspon-
dent’s despatch from England. A county
family with a centuries-old estate is faced
with accommodating some bombed-out
orphans. Reactions are mainly along the
lines of class-distinctions, but a son of the
house who is in the R.A.F. hotly inter-
jects that in his experience a bomb
doesn’t discriminate between classes. A
son is killed in action in the army and
the airman returns from a sortie blinded
and crippled. The airman throws a
bombshell into the family circle by an-
nouncing that he has been thinking
during his convalescence, and, as heir to
the estate, he intends to become a tenant,
along with any bombed-out families in
the near-by village who care to share
equally with him this ancient heritage the
family has held in trust for generations.
The cast gave the usual lively Little
Theatre presentation, and Frederick Mc-
Mahon, who is a natural actor, painted a
speaking portrait of a rural canon.
A retrospective show of Max Mel-
drum’s pictures at George’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, is a complete exposition of the
lifework of this distinguished painter.
Meldrum has spent his whole life at a
single purpose—trying to discover what
the eye actually does when it looks at
Nature. Most artisfs haven’t the foggiest
notion of what their eyes are doing, and
all their brushes do is to dish up the con-
ventions of one school or another. Mel-
drum has probably pushed impression-
ism to its furthest extension, and the
record of his efforts is in this exhibition.
Paintings by John Salvana were shown
at the Rubery Bennett galleries, Sydney
—the work of an artist who loves the
bush, spends most of his time in it, and
never ceases to learn new things about it.
He steadily makes progress. “Yarrama-
long Valley” and “Storm Clouds” are en-
tirely successful in capturing local
characteristics and atmosphere. Salvana
has no formulae; he paints what he sees,
and the Australian bush is endless in its
variety. Nearly all the pictures were sold
at the private view.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
dgfdgfdg
SELECTED GLOVE SKINS for making
Ladies' Gloves. Black Kid, soft and
supple, no dye on inside. One skin large
enough for one pair of gloves, 17/9 each
GLOVE CHAMOIS, especially selected
skins, for one pair of gloves ... 8/6 each
Glove Patterns, with instructions, state
size required 1/9
SHEEP SKINS, with short wool, dyed Red,
Saxe, Green, Gold, Lemon, Rose. Skins
are large enough for two pairs, 22/6 each
(Half skin for one pair may be purchased.)
uuiiuunw xur ougs. Belts,
Beanies, lackets. Vests, Toys, Novelties,
etc. In shades of Tan, Nigger, Royal,
Rust, Emerald, Gold, Black, White. As
supplies are limited, please give second
colour when ordering. Prices, 5/6 to 12/6
GRAINED LEATHER for Sandals, Shop-
ping Bags, Brief Cases, etc. Black, Navy
or Brown. Skins vary in size. State what
the skin is required for .. 8/6 to 15/- skin
PRINTED BASIL. Red, Blue, Green and
Navy. Sizes and shape of small sheep
skin. A fancy leather for many uses.
Prices 2/6 and 3/- skin
ROAN SUEDE in Tqn and Grey only.
Prices from 3/6 to 7/11 skin
Note. —All these leathers are sold by the s\in,
at the prices quoted. Shins are different sizes
and shapes —approximately the size, of animal.
Prices according to size.
When ordering, state for what the s\in is
required, and we will select one suitable.
Slipper Pattern, state size
9d. each
POSTAGE EXTRA.
• Ground Flow, Pitt Street.
AMTHOMV
FAMOUS
UORDSRMS
LOW PRICES
TELEPHONE:.M24OI (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


THIS IS JAPAN
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THE colonel is
briefing his crews
for another raid
over Japan, He
talks about the
weather, harking back
to it time and again.
This time it’s a
matter of the first im-
portance, for the tar-
get is in inland Japan, a hundred
and twenty-five miles north of Tokyo,
further than the 829 s have ever
ventured on a raid; a round-trip
distance of 3800 miles, more than
18 hours in the air. It is a daylight strike
—which means a take-off hours before
dawn—and it won’t be possible to
rendezvous for formation till the ’planes
are close up to the Japanese homeland.
Pilots and navigators mutter a little,
but somebody says “There hasn’t been
a weatherman yet who didn’t like predict-
ing hurricanes just for the hell of it.”
They go happily enough out to the trucks
which will take them down to the strip.
There’s a checking of the crew, a quick
look over equipment; then the Super-
fortresses, slim of fuselage for all their
tremendous size, are taxi-ing to the ready
strip at the end of the runway, lining nose
to tail, their whirling, four-bladed pro-
pellers flashing arcs in the glare of the
landing lights.
The take-off is easy. There’s a slight
drop towards the sea after the ’plane is
airborne, then the long, steady climb as
the ’planes head north.
The darkness is complete, and in it
there are a hundred ’planes. It is a relief
to come out above the cloudbank to the
friendly brightness of the stars, though
the only warning of the presence of other
aircraft is the sudden, occasional flash of
an exhaust.
The co-pilot takes out a cigarette
and, without lighting it, puts it be-
tween his lips. He asks over the inter-
phone if anyone of the crew can notice
gasoline fumes. The radio operator
thinks he can. “No smoking,” the co-
pilot says. When after an hour he gets a
“No fumes here” answer his cigarette is
wet from sucking. He tries to light it,
then takes another.
The gunners and the bombardier are
asleep, stretched out on the floor of the
middle compartment which, pressurised
like the others, remains as warm as it was
on the ground. The four huge motors
make little sound inside the compart-
ments, and pilot and co-pilot talk across
to each other normally without using the
interphone.
The co-pilot is the oldest man in the
crew. He was working in a dairy in
Florida before the war, and he has had
twenty months in the European theatre.
He was flying R.A.F. Lancasters there
with a composite crew of Britishers,
Australians and New Zealanders, and he
made twenty-eight flights over Germany.
He starts to talk about the Superfortress
now, saying what a wonderful ’plane it
is and what it can do. It has all the
latest improvements. The fire-control is
the best he has seen or imagined. “But,”
he says, “I’m a bit biased. I still like the
old Lane.”
The pilot laughs. He’s a youngster
who was flying as instructor for three
years until he got a 829. His only opera-
tional flying has been over Japan. He’s
taken his crew up eight times now, and,
apart from the co-pilot, none of them
has flown on missions with anyone else.
He’s proud of them and he knows they
are a good team. The ’plane is named
after his, home town: “City of Bakers-
field.” It already has nine bombs painted
below the name, but once it was flown
by another crew.
“If it weren’t for the hell of a long
way you have to go, things aren’t nearly
as bad here as they were in the E.T.0.,”
says the co-pilot. “The flak’s nothing.
Over any of the German cities you could
get out and walk on it.”
The flight-engineer happens to hear
that. He takes it up over the interphone.
“What about that night over Nagoya
when we were in that damned searchlight
for two and a half minutes?” he asks.
“There was too much of the stuff around
then for my liking. And those night-
fighters, You don’t get a chance to see
’em.”
“We’ve been lucky, though,” says the
pilot. He explains. City of Bakersfield
made four incendiary raids on alternate
nights—Tokyo, Nagoya, Kobe and
Osaka. Over Nagoya he thought he
wasn’t going to be able to lose the search-
lights. The only damage was a small
hole in the fuselage, but there was more
flak around that night than he wants to
see again.
The navigator calls up position on the
interphone. “About that,” he says. “I
used to think I liked night raids best,
but now I’d take the daytime. You can
see what’s going on.”
It is becoming lighter; a grey-green
morning with dark clouds above and be-
low. The sea when it appears through a
gap in the lower layer of cloud is black
and broken with white-caps. Ahead and
to the left is another Superfortress.
“What’s its number?” the pilot asks.
“Yes, that’s Joe,” he says to the co-pilot.
“I told him I’d try to stick with him.”
A FTER a short time the lower layer of
cloud clears, but the morning is still
dull. Iwo Jima shows up ahead, a tiny
darker spot on the dark sea, the cone of
its volcano at one end—little bigger than
the ships which are grouped in the shelter
on its northern side.
“There’s the Rock,” says the pilot.
“You wouldn’t give two bits for it, would
you? Just a lump of rotten earth, and
they reckon it’s the toughest place the
Marines ever tackled. But it’s been
worth it. Couple of weeks ago sixty-nine
twenty-nines put down there from one
raid alone. There are anything up to
half-a-dozen forced down or going in for
gas every time. It’s • a cinch now, no
matter how much you get shot up, if you
can make it back to Iwo.”
“They’re getting Psls off there now,
too,”, says the co-pilot. “We had ’em
along for the first time as escort the other
day. The Nips aren’t going to like it
when the Mustangs are making regular
trips. They’ll take care of any Zeros
easy enough.
“Here it is. Now we’ll see whether the
weatherman’s on the ball. Co-pilot to
tail-gunner,” he calls over the interphone.
“It’s going to be pretty thick. You’d
better keep an eye out for anything com-
ing behind. Some of the others ought
to be catching up fairly soon-”
“Roger dodger,” says the tail-gunner.
“What say we give ’em a burst if they
come too close? Scare the living day-
lights out of ’em,”
The thick cloud crowds in around the
’plane, fogging the glass of the cabin.
There is little rain save for an occasional
sharp, sudden gust. Sometimes there’s a
glimpse of the other ’plane still in its
same position ahead and to the left.
Wreathed with cloud fog it looks like
some gigantic ghost ’plane, the huge tail
fin with its squadron marking alone un-
changed from reality as if the one part
forgotten in a mystic metamorphosis.
“Joe’s whooping it up a bit,” says the
pilot. “The colonel’s with him ; he must
be getting anxious or something. We’ll
have'to stooge around for an hour or so
until the others catch up.
“By the way,” he says, “the colonel was
one of the originals with the old Nine-
teenth, the group that escaped from the
Phillipines, and was the first American
group in Australia. It was sent back up
to Java and then driven back out of there
again. He was up around Darwin for
a hell of a time. He reckons Sydney’s a
'wonderful joint. I’d like to work a deal
to get down there for a while, but I don’t
suppose we ever will now.”
The ’plane shoots suddenly out of the
cloud, and for the first time as the wisps
of fog which edge it rush straggling by
there is an impression of speed. Ahead
is only the vastness of the ocean, the
sky cloudless and bright with sunshine,
and low down upon the sea a thick haze
of heat.
The bombardier is awake. He has
come crawling up through the tunnel* to
his position in the nose of the ’plane and
is rummaging in a cardboard box for a
sandwich. “What did I tell you?” he
asks. “All these weathermen have to ask
their wives if they ought to take an
umbrella when they go to the office.”
“For all you know this might be next
week,” says the navigator. “If there’s
anyone else in the whole Pacific gets in
more slack time on these trips than you
do they must have to hold his eyes open
while he drops his bombs. Next war I’m
going to be a bombardier or a munitions
worker, nothing else.” He looks at his
chart and makes a few calculations.
“Should be about two minutes off,” he
says.
“That’s right, I think it’s just over there
under the haze,” says the co-pilot. “Yes,
there’s Joe just beginning to circle. Hell,
we’ve got 57 minutes to wait. Better take
her in close and follow in under his side
on the turns.”
“Let me know when any other ship
joins the formation,” says the pilot into
the interphone.
The ’plane ahead begins a slow wide
circle, passing beside the marker for for-
mation. It’s a tiny island, just the rim
ajid crater of a long-dead volcano, noth-
ing else, its sides rising sheer in rock
hundreds of feet out of the sea. There’s
a faint fuzz of green on parts of it,
which might from this height be huge
trees or just low, wind-swept scrub.
Not the slightest sign of habitation
nor any place where it would seem an
approach to the island might be made
from the sea. Perhaps a helicopter might
find sufficient level space to make a
landing on the top of the rim. The maps
show no other land within fifty miles of
the point.
“Two 829 s at six o’clock; coming up
to join formation,” says the tail-gunner
over the interphone. Then after a little
while “Three more high at nine o’clock.
Must be another squadron. Can’t see
their numbers,”
The ’planes are falling into their pattern
now, the several squadrons flying at
different altitudes, circling in opposite
directions. There is another group form-
ing up in the distance over to the west.
The speed of the formations can be
gauged again as they cross and pass each
other. The pilots wave to one another
as they come into position.
There is a slight puff of smoke from
the lead ’plane and three or four red
flares from a flare pistol chasing each
other down to the sea.
“Here we go,” says the pilot.
'THE ’planes complete their turn and
head north £gain, flying tight in for-
mation. The third element is still short
one ’plane. Above and below, to left
and to right there are other formations.
The sun glints on the silvered bodies of
the ’planes. The heat haze is rising thick
and unsteady from the sea. Everyone is
awake now.
“You can switch the guns on and test
fire,” says the pilot. “Let me fire the
nose guns.”
It’s over a minute before he pulls the
trigger, and then far ahead and below
is a flash of tracer bullets and a group of
sudden tiny splashes on the broken sea.
The pilot climbs back to his seat at the
controls a little shamefacedly. “I didn’t
hit the wave I was aiming at,” he says.
The haze is thickening and reaching
higher into the air. “This is what they
call the Japanese noonday haze,” says the
navigator. “Looks as though were’re not
going to be able to see a damned thing.
We’re coming up off Hyosho now. It
should be over at about 11 o’clock, about
thirty miles or so away.”
There is nothing to be seen but the
haze. It is becoming difficult to distin-
guish the lower formations, though the
ones above are bright in the sunlight.
“Better put on the flak suits now,” says
the pilot. “And everybody keep a look-
out for fighters. They can come any time
now. I want a report when everybody is
ready.” His voice somehow is different,
as though he is giving orders for the first
time during all the trip.
The heavy flak suits —metal jackets
covered with canvas —go on top of all the
rest of the gear, hanging down like sand-
wich boards front and back over the
rubber life-jackets, or Mae Wests, and
over the parachute harness.
After a few minutes there can be seen
faintly in the west a line of beach and
breaking surf.
It becomes clearer, broken by head-
lands with shadowy hills behind.
“Ten minutes to 1.P.,” says the navi-
gator.
There is a river coming down through
the beach, and beyond it another. The
land behind seems covered with lagoons.
“He’s got us close in, all right,” says
the navigator.
“Tail gunner to pilot: Fighters, about
seven, high at seven o’clock. Not coming
in. No” —his voice changes— “they’re
twenty-nines.”
“Two minutes to 1.P.,” says the navi-
gator. P
“Yes, there’s Joe turning now,” says
the pilot. “I’ll take it, Steve.”
The co-pilot drops his hands away from
the wheel and down by his sides, wiping
them on the legs of his trousers below the
flak suit. They are wet with perspiration.
The formation turns westward in a wide
sweep towards the land.
Over the beach the haze has cleared
surprisingly. It is a promise of perfect
bombing conditions over the target.
BEHIND the beach on the flat land
before it runs into the hills there are
small farms and patterned roads. What
look like lagoons are probably flooded
rice fields.
Nowhere is there any sign of life. There
is no wisp of smoke from the tiny houses;
no movement on
the roads. The
hill country beyond,
though not very high,
is broken and wild,
but the farms seem to
run up its sides. The
day is hot and the
Superfortress bumps
in the up-chrrents of
air over the hills. The pilot glances quickly
at the co-pilot and says “It’s pretty
holey.”
The co-pilot sits leaning back looking
completely relaxed in his seat. His head
turns slowly the whole time from side
to side as he searches for signs of fighter
opposition. No one speaks in answer to
the pilot.
Beyond the low hills is a valley, pat-
terned again with farms and roadways.
The formation follows along its length.
To the west is the mountainous central
range, and high in the midst of it the
broad light-blue expanse of Lake Inawa-
shiro-ko. It is mid-spring and warm and
bright with sunshine, but as far as the
eye can see to the west the ridges are
capped with snow. It is all a contour
map of Japan, colored to show the dif-
ferent elevations—from the light green
of the valley floor, through the darker
green of the mountain slopes to the
snowy ridges, not white, but lightly
golden, like sand in the sunshine, and
light haze.
This is Japan. It is a beautiful land;
calm, peaceful, like any other land any-
where. This is the land whence came
the people who in August of last year
on the island of Guam took forty-eight
Chamorran laborers into a tiny clearing
in the jungle, bound their hands behind
their backs, forced them to kneel, then
lopped their heads from their bodies with
swords so that they fell one on top of
the other and their heads rolled between
their legs or hung by threads of skin and
sinew and their old straw hats fell among
the heap of bodies. From this land came
the people who, when the city was already
lost, to their forces, burned Manila,
These are some of the things that we
have seen and know. This picture-post-
card land of valley and lake and snow-
streaked mountain range is the land from
which these people came. The hundred
and more huge silvered ’planes which fly
above it now have come 'from Guam,
from off a two-mile tarmac strip in a
man-made clearing in the jungle.
Below in the floor of the valley there
is a winding river and beside it a rail-
way line. There ahead is the town of Kori-
yama and to the north of it the target —
the Hodagaya Chemical Industries plant.
There is no mistaking it. Other forma-
tions of bombers have gone in ahead, and
dark-red fires and the thick, mile-wide
column of lazily-spreading smoke almost
obscure the two high, black smoke-
stacks.
“Hold it,” says the bombardier. “Bomb
doors open.” And then after a little
while “Bombs away.”
The ’plane lurches slightly, but it is
scarcely noticed. Slowly, like pebbles
tossed from a giant hand, five-hundred-
pound bombs are falling away from the
’planes on either side.
The formation turns south slightly and
east, for the long run out to the coast of
Japan. The pilot turns in his seat and
looks back towards Koriyama. He points
with his finger but he says nothing. The
smokestacks cannot be seen now. The
base of the lazy, waving column of smoke
is ringed with angry fire. The smoke is
billowing slowly five thousand feet above
the ground. Just above it there is an-
other formation of ’planes.
There is no sign of life anywhere on
all the wide land below. There is no flash
of gunfire. In the sky there is only the
sun, and beneath it the untroubled for-
mation of American ’planes.
The line of beach and surf falls behind
and then runs parallel to the formation
on the west. Out over the sea the co-pilot
says “That’s the kind of raid I like. The*
more of those the better. I’ll take it.”
The pilot releases the control. After
a long while he says “All right, you can
stow the flak suits.” (
The bombardier climbs up out of his
seat. “Right on the nose,” he says.
“Would you believe it? Go in over Japan
at midday and they haven’t got a ’plane in
the air and don’t even fire a shot. You’d
think the suckers would have enough sense
to get out of it and let us all go home
to mother. I think I’ll get some sleep.
Won’t I tell that weatherman off, though.”
There is only the long trip home. Pilot
and co-pilbt take it in turns to go back
to the centre compartment and sleep. The
automatic pilot flies the ’plane, but one
of them stays near the controls, lying
back, eyes closed, listening to the music
which comes through the earphones
picked up by the radio compass.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3404
Wednesday, May 9, 1945
CONFUSED SITUATION ON THE STYX.
“Suicides first; shell cases and hemorrhages next trip.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
HITLER AND CHAMBERLAIN
Defeat came to Germany much as it did
in 1918. In each case there was a final
desperate throw for victory, by Luden-
dorff in March 1918, by Rundstedt in
December, 1944, which yielded fleeting
and delusive gains, followed swiftly by
irretrievable disaster.
In the second week of August Luden-
dorff abandoned hope. A fateful month
for militarists, August saw the outbreak
of hostilities in 1914, and in this war the
beginning of the Battle of Britain (exactly
22 years after “Germany’s Black
Day”), the U.S. landing in Guadalcanal,
the taking of Florence and Kharkov, the
invasion of Southern France and the
smashing , Argentan-Falaise success, to-
gether with the meetings of Mr. Roose-
velt and Mr. Churchill out. of which came
the Atlantic Charter and the Quebec plan
of campaign. At the end of April, an-
other fateful month for militarists —
month of the crime against Norway and
Denmark, the capitulation of the Yugo-
slav army, the British evacuation of
Greece and the first American bombing
of Tokyo—Rundstedt was a captive, or
about to become one (there is some un-
certainty as to the date), and the German
armies, beaten everywhere except in
places where at the moment they could
not be got at, were surrendering in vast
numbers.
In each case also the defeat of the
guilty nation was the end of the head of
the State. The Kaiser wept into inglori-
ous and undisturbed exile. In its agony
and humiliation Hitler’s Germany was
informed by radio from some hideout
that Admiral Doenitz had become their
Fiihrer, Hitler having died in the ruins
of Berlin.
Dead or alive, Hitler was finished.
Death was the only service he could render
to the country he has ruined and the
others he has desolated, the only atone-
ment he could make to his many millions
of victims, the dead and the maimed, the
homeless and the hungry—and what a
poor atonement! Like Napoleon, whose
career of conquest he emulated and from
whose downfall he learned nothing, he
“tried to rule without moral principle.”
Even before he became a man of blood
he was a giant liar.
First of the lies on which he Lose to
power was that the German army had
not been defeated in 1918, but had been
undone by traitors and weaklings on the
home front. Those of his surviving dupes
who may still be credulous on that score,
if the frightful calamities he has brought
upon them have left them capable of any
such feeling, can never be insensible to
the completeness of the German defeat
in his own war. Whatever they are and
wherever they have been, the grim evi-
dence of it is inescapable. The losses in
dead and wounded have been concealed,
but going on the hordes of prisoners
taken by the armies of Field-Marshals
Alexander and Montgomery, the Ameri-
can generals and the Russian marshals,
they must have been terrific. Since
records began to be made no such hosts
of beaten men have passed under the
yoke or been gathered into compounds.
Of another military adventurer who
invaded Poland, Russia, Denmark and
Norway, and who died miserably after
the flower of his nation had perished in
his useless wars, a sturdy old Englishman
wrote:
He left the name at which the world grew pale
To point a moral or adorn a tale.
Until this generation passes away there
will be no inclination in any anti-Axis
country to use Hitler’s name as a means
of adorning tales, but pointing of morals
with it has begun already. The main
moral for mankind is that no people
great in numbers or with a great capacity
for mischief can afford to place its desti-
nies in the hands of one man, and that
when such a situation arises, unless the
possibility is foreseen and provided
against, the wofld can never be safe.
But it is quite on the cards that a senti-
. mental Hitler literature will grow up in
Germany, and even a Hitler legend. The
Napoleon legend had such power over
the French, the concocted parts more
than the elements of truth, that 33 years
after Waterloo (only 27 years after the
burial at St. Helena) another Bonaparte,
then called the Prince-President, was in
the saddle at Paris as Napoleon’s nephew
and heir. As far as the world knows.
Hitler never married, but when the toils
were closing round him he may in his ex-
orbitant egoism have bequeathed his
Fiihrership to one of his youthful
favorites, as he named Goring and Hess
as his successors in the first of his
speeches on the war. And, since there are
no fools like German fools, such a be-
quest or a plausible claim to one may be
accepted, as the French accepted the
direction of the dying Emperor.
Hitler had his chance to be honest in
a great way when he met Neville Cham-
berlain, and his professions were so fair-
seeming that, in the judgment of ob-
servers like Sir Neville Henderson, they
deceived steadygoing Germans who dur-
ing the negotiations had cheered Cham-
berlain in the streets. Within six months
he had proved as false as hell. After the
entry into Prague his word was taken
only in quarters where policy was domi-
nated by fear and greed ; and all his asso-
ciates have had bitter cause to regret the
association. One after another they had
to declare war on his Germany, and
some of them fared worse at his hands
than even the kindred, neighboring,
peaceful peoples, Norwegians, Dutch and
Flemings, on whom he made war in his
barbarous conception of it, horrible
though their sufferings have been. In the
case of Italy and Rumania it was a
crueller fate to be Hitler’s allies from the
beginning than to be his declared enemies;
and the prospects of these wrecked and
decimated satellite countries remain bleak,
whereas the Little Peoples that trusted
and remained constant to Britain will
assuredly rise from their ruins.
For the last two years of his life Cham-
berlain was reviled by the Left-Wing
brotherhood, particularly during the
period when English-speaking commu-
nists were campaigning for a Hitler
peace; and reviled he still is. The main
counts of the Left-Wing indictment
against him, at least two of which have
made some appeal to people who are
not Left-Wingers, may be here sum-
marised :
(1) He refused to intervene on the Red side
in the Spanish civil war by, in the first place,
ordering “Hi M. Unriskables” to barge into
Spanish ports.
(2) He would not fight for “Czecho.”
(3) He failed to bring off a Russian alliance.
(4) When war came Britain was unprepared,
all the services being undermanned and short
of equipment, and the army being controlled by
Blimps—proved in a multitude of smart draw-
ings by Mr. David Low, whose military career
had begun and ended with an agonised appeal
for his exemption from compulsory service,
washed out, to his exceeding relief, by the de-
feat of the first conscription referendum.
(5) Having, as a Tory leader, been instru-
mental in withdrawing the R.N. from Eire ports,
he was too much of a craven to regain posses-
sion of them and force Eire into the war.
A categorical reply, necessarily longer,
especially as manoeuvres at the San Fran-
cisco conference have to be mentioned;
(1) Correct; but Chamberlain was here apply-
ing the soundest maxims of British policy,
sources of the great moral strength it has
shown and the great trust it has inspired
throughout the war —“never let civil strife de-
velop in Britain, and never interfere when it
breaks out in other countries.” From the civil
wars which have racked other countries, and
which have weakened France to this day, Eng-
land has been free for three hundred years,
and there was no social-revolution business
in the struggle between the Parliament and the
Court, nor did it involve all the population—
a considerable body merely looked on, holding
with a scornful divine that it was. a case of
“Scribes and Pharisees on the one side, publi-
cans and sinners on the other.” Chamberlain
was also applying knowledge of the Spanish
character, gained over the centuries, trans-
mitted by shrewd observers like Wellington,
and possessed by none of the critics or even by
any of the nations that did intervene, openly or
surreptitiously (what did any of them, Italians,
Germans, French or Russians, profit by it?),
and of the immense sentimental and cultural
appeal that Spain still has for its former colonies.
At San Francisco all the Americas, snubbing
Russia and intending to snub Russia, voted to
admit Argentina. For reasons other than its
own military strength, Latin America is a very
important part of the world, and without its
benevolent assistance Britain would have been
hard put to it to carry on the war. This assist-
ance Chamberlain’s non-intervention policy
secured.
(2) Correct also; but again Chamberlain
was guided by tried principles of policy and by
facts which his critics ignored. He knew that
Czechoslovakia had become a prey to fierce
racial animosities, and that a war for such a
country, with which Britain had no alliance,
a war which it would have had to wage remotely
and alone —for France refused to fight and no
offer came from Moscow or Washington—
would have been desperately unpopular in all
parts of the Empire except among Fireside
Fusiliers. In a 1938 war Czechoslovakia would
have been finished in 48 hours. Even now,
with “liberation” approaching, it can be nothing
more than a puppet State, shorn of Ruthenia
hy Russia. Its delegation at San Francisco has
been reduced to a shivering support for every
instruction that comes from Moscow; Molotov
has its, vote in his pocket.
(3) Chamberlain tried to bring one off, but
not at the price Russia demanded —another
partition of Poland and extinction of the Baltic
republics. Hitler was agreeable to these terms,
and even while an Anglo-French military mission
was in Moscow, at Stalin’s invitation, Molotov
signed up with Ribbenfrop. Thus was removed
the one restraint off Hitler’s madness for war,
fear of a struggle on two fronts—to the con-
fusion of his commanders, it was to become a
struggle on three fronts, with tremendous Anglo-
American blows struck from the south. When
communists got over their 1939 shock they gave
it out, in the first of their “explanations,” that
when Russia had Sovietised its neighbors it
would let the “imperialist” combatants exhaust
themselves and, itself unscathed, march over the
debris to a Sovietised Europe. It hasn’t worked
out that way, but some people are performing
as if it had; among them Tito, greedy for
Trieste.
(4) Well, only the enemy was ready, or
thought he was; but the year gained at Munich
was not wasted. It would be difficult to demon-
strate that Britain was not better prepared on
September 3, 1939, than Russia was on June 22,
1941, or the U.S.A. on Dec. 6 of that year.
The three arms were in pretty good shape and
growing stronger every month. Training was
sound and equipment excellent, save for some
inferiority in tanks—never quite overtaken by
any of the Alliqs, though in the end it didn t
matter. There was radar; there were heavy
bombers, Lancasters and Halifaxes; there were
Spitfires and Hurricanes and the men to fly them
and win the Battle of Britain; there was a
blockade, resumed methodically by the Royal
Navy, at battle stations and in splendid shape,
as if November 11, 1918, were only the day
before yesterday; there was a great stirring
among scientists and inventors which was to
bring magnificent results, beginning with the
answer to the magnetic mine. Lastly, there were
leaders of unsurpassed quality in service or at
call: Cunningham, Ramsay, Fraser; Portal,
Harris, Pile, Tedder, Leigh-Mallory, Coning-
ham; Wavell, Alexander, Montgomery, Mount-
batten, Dempsey. The rest is known.
(5) No dispassionate Saxon would profess to
understand, much less justify, the proceedings
of “the melancholy example round the corner.
But it was surely better in the long run that
Eire should be a neutral, permitting volunteer-
ing (and a great many young Irishmen joined
the British services), then a coerced and nomi-
nal combatant. At least there were no nasty
consequences such as were felt in Australia
and other countries after the Easter Week
rising in 1916,' no alienation of the Irish-
American vote —so important to Mr. Roosevelt.
Nor did Britain lose in moral stature by per-
mitting a dissatisfied part of the Empire, situ-
ated near its heart, to exercise its right, guaran-
teed under the Statute of Westminster, to
contract out of the war. As for shipping
losses in Irish waters, there is no evidence that
they were ever serious. They seem to have
been smaller than the shipping losses in. the
St. Lawrence; certainly they never approached
the grim toll of 1914-18, when all the ports
and anchorages in Ireland were British, and
when the Lusitania and the battleship Audacious
were among the many ships sunk otf its coasts.
In the crowning mercy vouchsafed to
the English-speaking nations Chamberlain
should be remembered. Having exhausted
every means of preserving peace with
honor,* having done nothing and left noth-
ing undone to prevent help coming from
the Americas —and it came, magnifi-
cently—and with a Cabinet strengthened
by the inclusion of Mr, Churchill, Mr.
Eden, Sir John Anderson and Lord
Woolton, he took the British peoples into
the war united (except for the commu-
nists), as they could not otherwise have
been ; united in a good cause. The good
cause has triumphed, as it will triumph
over the sole remaining enemy, and over
any country that may challenge it, with
or without war as an instrument of
national policy and with a tricky tech-
nique.
Lucky Australia.
Just how lucky this country has been in
the wars it is almost impossible at this
distance and in such peaceful surround-
ings to realise. It applies even to the one
that did get unhealthily close and is still
going on in the north. Only a few hun-
dred lives have been lost on Australian
soil, nearly all in places so remote from
where the bulk of the people live that
they might have been in another country.
Except for the torpedoes fired in Syd-
ney Harbor and the shells that fell in
Rose Bay and Newcastle three years ago,
all the cities have remained untouched.
At the worst their inhabitants have suf-
fered inconveniences. There have been
food and other shortages; but nobody
has felt hardship or gone a day hungry.
On the contrary, a great many—apart
altogether from black marketeers and
others battening on the community—
were never so well off in their lives. Even
tiie food shortages have in large measure
resulted from bad political management
and from the necessity of feeding others.
If anything, the general feeling would
have all along supported still greater
shortages if the balance had been sent to
Britain.
Of the frightful devastation that has
been Europe’s price in its second general
war inside a generation there has been
here nothing but the shadow conveyed in
such descriptive accounts as correspon-
dents have taken the time off from being
political oracles to write, and what has
been seen in newsreels and the like. Even
to the most lively imaginations that sort
of thing must always remain a shadow
only. It is no substitute for the reality.
In one period of six weeks German
robot bombs alone killed 4735 British
civilians, injured 14,000 more and de-
stroyed or damaged 817,000 houses. That
came at a time when the worst of the
’plane-bombing blitzes were over and
Britons were beginning to feel that they
had been through the most that could be
asked of them. To them, all along, the
war meant that the 46,000,000 of them
had to face five years of- personal hard-
ship, destruction and death. There are
few British homes that have not suffered
tragically under one head or the other,
or through the great British part in the
fighting on all the fronts and on “every
wave that breaks.”
Altogether more than 126,000 British
civilians have been killed or severely
wounded, and nearly 14,000 of those were
children. One out of every five houses
in Britain has been damaged; so have
14,000 churches and religious buildings,
1000 schools and 500 hospitals. Of the
horror when bombs smashed into crowded
schools and hospitals, some of the hospi-
tal cases casualties of other bombs, there
can be no actual idea in a country where
crowds gather if a tram, say, dints
a mudguard of a car and a policeman
on point duty crosses over to take par-
ticulars.
And, of course, even what happened
in Britain is less than what happened over
the last year or two of the war in Ger-
many. Details of the terrific damage
there, both by unprecedented bombings
and later by similarly unprecedented
shellings, have yet to come out. The
Germans, as a war measure, kept their
tragic figures to themselves; but certainly
nothing like it ever happened to their
country before, if to any country. It has
been reported that the damage encountered
by the invading armies has been more
rather than less what had been estimated
from air photographs and such-like data.
The German stand in the last months
resulted in whole cities and towns having
to be pulverised; of course, with indescrib-
able and unimaginable human suffering.
And then there were Rotterdam, where
the Germans themselves started the
dreadful business of obliterating defence-
less civilians, and Lidice, Warsaw, Stalin-
grad and all the rest. The destruction in
all the countries involved will take many
years to cover up, let alone make good
again. And with it there has been fright-
ful suffering through starvation and the
consequent diseases, from which whole
peoples will now take generations to re-
cover, if some of them ever can. Through
all, as well, has run the grim sowing of
hatreds, the ultimate results of which no
one can now estimate.
Compared to all this, or to whatever
may be thought the least of it, Australia’s
lot has been extremely lucky.
There are the fighting casualties —and
these will mount further now with every
day the war in the North lasts —but to
home-fronters there is nothing except the
few minor shortages apd inconveniences.
That, however, holds a danger that will
hardly be known in the countries that
have suffered so very heavily; that have
known war and all that war means at
first hand. Unscathed themselves in two
wars —though they did get a fright when
the Japs were closing down through New
Guinea and yells of alarm were going
up from politicians and newspapermen—
Australians may be excused for feeling
that they are a new Chosen People.
Twice saved, the second time apparently
miraculously, they might easily fall into
the frame of mind of accepting that what
has been in the past should be again in
any future.
What has been in the past was a
country left defenceless by gabbling poli-
ticians, who bleated that a chatter-house
at Geneva was a sure substitute for the
training of Australians for a fighting part
in war and the setting up of an adequate
defence establishment. A politician or
two of the same calibre have been
gabbling their share at San Francisco,
from where it is, of course, confidently
anticipated that a this-time foolproof
means of avoiding all wars for ever will
duly emerge.
The very real present danger is that
Australia will again accept whatever
emerges as sufficient warrant for once
more leaving itself defenceless, for
whittling the good fighting services it
will have down to nothing. Only a week
or two back a thinking R.A.A.F. man
who dropped in at this office brought up
that very question of political ineptitude
once more leaving Australia dependent on
others to come to its rescue in the nick
of time, as America did in the present
war. It was suggested to him that surely
the country, and its politicians, had had
too severe a lesson, too great a scare, to
let that happen again. One danger, it
was further suggested, was that the poli-
ticians, while they would this time favor
defence, would be inclined to put full
dependence on only one of the services
the air arm. Even as to that the R.A.A.F.
man declined to be optimistic. He
countered with the suggestion that ex-
pecting even that much was giving poli-
ticians credit for more than their due.
His own expectation was that they will
again cut everything to the bone as soon
as the post-war clamor for lower taxes
finds them amenable.
Perhaps the R.A.A.F. man was a shade
pessimistic. If so, he had fair reason to
be. He was just back from seeing how
Australia’s part in the war up North was
being conducted up to when he left, and
what he had to say on the equipment ot
the fighting Australians as compared with
the equipment that had been used in the
same places by Americans would have
taken some of the pompous wind out ot
sundry noisy gentlemen, if such a taking
out were at all possible. What may act
against his pessimism is that this time
Australia will insist on remaining always
adequately protected. Admittedly,' this is
optimistic, since Australia has got out o
it all so light; but to accept the opposite
is surely to condemn the whole count y
in advance as a collective ass.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Ward's Wards.
There are various reports of what Dr.
Evatt said as guest speaker at a Chamber
of Commerce lunch in San Francisco, and
one, ascribing to him the statement that
“Australia will accept the principle of
trusteeship in regard to Papua and the
mandated territories,” has started trouble.
No Government led by Mr. Churchill
or dominated by his spirit can possibly
“accept the principle of trusteeship in
regard to” any British colony, nor is any
Australian Minister entitled to make such
an offer on Australia’s part without Par-
liamentary instructions. And none have
been given ; the subject of the Forde-
Evatt mission wasn’t even debated.
A report of a later address to news-
papermen has it that Dr. Evatt said “Aus-
tralia did not favor international trustee-
ships.”
Very confusing ; but all accounts agree
that at the Chamber of Commerce lunch
he referred to Australian administration
in Papua as “a model,” “recognised” as
such throughout the world and attested
by “the loyalty of the natives when the
Japanese invaded Papua in 1942”; they
“fought for us,”
Naturally, the Minister refrained from
informing his hosts that when the Ger-
man war broke out his present colleagues
were not keen on fighting for these loyal
natives, even by deputy. On the contrary,
their whole party tried to impose an in-
superable legal obstacle to the protec-
tion of Papua and the mandated terri-
tories by called-up men from the main-
land and Tasmania.
Mr. Ward, moving a series of Defence
Act “amendments” which had stood in
Mr. Curtin’s name, said in the House
(September 21, 1939):
We take very strong exception to the
Menzies Government arrogating to itself
the power to compel Australian troops to
go out of this country to defend these
particular territories.
The “argument” was that the defence of
the territories should be left to the hand-
ful of white settlers and administrators,
plus volunteers from the mainland, if any.
In its ignoble way this was consistent,
for Mr. Ward and party had never shown
any interest in Papua or the mandated
territories except to point an attack on
“imperialism.” It was also consistent
with Mr. Curtin’s practice, which is to
insert square pegs in round holes, that he
should have placed Papua and the man-
dated territories under the control of this
very Mr. Ward when it had become diffi-
cult to prolong the gentleman’s tenure of
Labor and National Service. The change
was made almost four years to the day
after Mr. Ward introduced his Defence
Act “amendments” throwing the natives
to the wolves. And the fourth anniversary
found him exuding bathos about the
natives, who now figured as heroes, heap-
ing braziers of charcoal on the heads of
their imperialist oppressors.
The Fuzzy-wuzzy angels have been vic-
tims of shabby treatment. It has taken
this war to make many people realise that
the Fuzzy-wuzzy angels are worthy charges
of the Commonwealth.
The fact, without the blither, had been
known to a multitude of Australians and
of people abroad whose lively interest in
the work of Hubert Murray and of the
succession of New Guinea native admin-
istrators was stimulated by their annual
reports. The Ward slur was followed by
a promise that “the Fuzzy-wuzzy angels”
would receive “the gift of a comprehen-
sive plan of social development.”
So far, though the Minister can com-
mand the services of experts like ex-
M.H.R. Garden, ex-M.L.A. Donovan and
ex-Alderman Green, the “comprehensive
plan of social development” has not made
its appearance..
A “Fuzzy-wuzzy-angel” kite has been
flown from Mr. Ward’s department, but
it has led only to a distracted remon-
strance from the Papuan Public Service
Association, which implores the Govern-
ment not to “allow all the tributes to the
natives’ gallantry in the war, all the pro-
mises about guarding their interests after
the war, to be made a hollow mockery
by ill-advised action.” As for the un-
willing exiles from Papua and New
Guinea who were settlers, their opinion
of Mr. Ward’s measures, or rather his
lack of measures, would scorch paper.
Putting a Darlinghurst demagogue in
charge of their affairs and those of the
natives was the Government’s worst effort
in the field of unconscious humor.
Wrongly Sited.
A variety of organisations now function
with the avowed object of saving the
forests, the soil and the water resources
of Australia. Some of them are private
bodies, others are Governmental, still
others are composed of private and de-
partmental persons. But all are city
movements, with headquarters in the city
and almost exclusively city membership.
A fair sample is the Soil Conservation
Board of Victoria and a fair sample of
activities is this statement from that
body:—
The board made an extensive inspection
of the Mallee and Wimmera from February
12 to 16 to see that area in the present’
drought. The board was accompanied by
officers of Government departments' and
conferred with municipal councils, farmers
and .graziers, and a spirit of co-operation
was evident throughout The board made
a very careful examination of farms where
erosion had occurred and also inspected
farms where farming methods had prevented
drift in normal years.
After which, presumably, the members
returned to their Melbourne fastness,
worn out with “extensively inspecting”
and “very carefully examining” in four
days an area of well over 20,000 square
miles.
It isn’t their fault, nor is it the fault of
all the other city conservation organisa-
tions. What’s happened to the country
folk? The logical places for conservation
organisations, their staffs, equipment and
headquarters, are places like Benalla,
Horsham, Mildura, Warragul, Swan Hill
and their counterparts in other States.
Until conservation movements are decen-
tralised conservation will be stultified.
Neither Bourke-street nor Pitt-street ever
planted a tree, grew wheat or shore sheep,
and to expect them to conserve the
nation’s land wealth is as absurd as to
expect Underbool or Bruce Rock to
worry themselves about the lighting in
St. Kilda-road,
Frenzy and Phlegm.
Justice, the word and what passed for
the thing, had a great innings in the
papers last week.
There was, first, the case of Mussolini,
who with 15 other Fascists and his young
mistress was shot in the back, without
even the pretence of a communist “trial,”
by Italian communists, of whom nothing
was heard during the years of his tinsel
glory until the stab in the back, June 10,
1940, whereupon they became his servile
instruments untjj June 22, 1941.
The mutilated bodies were “strung up,
heads down,” in the Loretto Square,
Milan, whence Mussolini set out for the
March to Rome. Photographs of them
were taken for the journals which go
in for that sort of “illustration,” the
cameramen, aided by armed communists,
having to push their way through “a
frenzied crowd, spitting at and stamping
on the corpses.” One correspondent, a
Baltimore “Sun” man, found the sight
“sickening”:
The bodies of all the Fascist’s' were
covered with bullet-holes and gashes.
Many had their eyes gouged out. Musso-
lini’s body, cased in the uniform of the
Fascist militia, was trampled in the mud.
His right hand lay across his stomach;
the other was twisted under him. His face
was almost unrecognisable. He had been
kicked to pulp.
But a Milan Radio communist voted the
proceedings exhilarating:
People spit upon Mussolini’s body, but
this is only a continuance of justice. Never
have so much hate, rancor and thirst for
vengeance been seen. This is justice.
This is a good example, and will be fol-
lowed by others.
Another “example” was vouched for
by “Columbia Broadcasting Service’s Bill
Downs” as having “happened just east of
the Rhine.” Sydney “Sun’s” Sunday
supplement reproduced the story with
gusto, mentioning it as one of “a few”
cases in which “gaunt stupefied Russians
and Poles” had “spirit enough to settle
personal scores”:
Standing by the side of the road was
a big Russian watching the Allies move
in He had been badly treated, particu-
larly by a farmer’s daughter, who had
taken a delight in trying to prove that the
Russians were low-rate human beings. The
moment he was free he took the Hitler
maiden behind a barn. Under ordinary
conditions it might have been called rape,
but this time it came under the heading of
justice.
There follows the beginning of a Syd-
ney “Morning Herald” message from
Germany:
The American troops who liberated
32,000 prisoners from the notorious
Dachau concentration camp were so en-
raged by the sights they saw that they went
through the camp shooting every German
within sight. Dozens of S.S. guards were
slain with machine-guns, pistols and rifles,
according to a correspondent of the Asso-
ciated Press of America. Polish, French
and Russian prisoners seized the weapons
of their guards and joined in the slaughter.
And the end of the same message:
Josef Kramer, former commandant' of
Belsen, fears lynching by his German co-
prisoners in the Allied prison camp where
he is held, closely guarded. A large number
recently attacked him in the compound,
and British guards had to beat back his
assailants with rifle-butts to save him.
A supreme example of duty informed
by the spirit of justice. By all accounts
Kramer is the vilest Hun criminal unhung;
and doubtless had the Tommies obeyed
their instincts they would have joined the
lynching party or let it have its will. As
it was, they obeyed orders and protected
the creature so that he might be held for
a fair trial.
There are savages and semi-savages
still at large in Europe, some in fancy
uniforms. Good old Tommy remains
true to the noblest traditions of his race.
The Buck-passers.
Melbourne, which remembers the police
strike, when looters and rioters went ber-
serk, read with no pleasure that nearly
1000 policemen had passed a resolution
saying they were the lowest-paid and
hardest-worked force in Australia, and
concluding ominously;
We take .this opportunity of warning the
Government and the public that this asso-
ciation will not accept any responsibility
for any crisis which may be brought about
by neglect or apathy.
Chief Secretary Hyland admitted that the
force was 200 below pre-war strength
and was overworked. He blamed Man-
power.
Favorite remark of State Ministers:
“That’s a Federal matter.” Favorite
remark of Federal Ministers: “That’s a
State matter.”
FAILED TO FINISH.
“So sorry, backed wrong horses.”


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” I 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
‘■jjufi® 1
A V° V '<
~.s e «e
» "* e vA*' 4 uu»
» ,o *f >.V«
V° ttt o ® % tV»e . a tV»e< _ o t\s
&**•■&}*'* ,
£“V e ' "*«<*• „ 9«' te "^e
%e ’I"- . 600? 0
s ' s * ve» tS ,
*®< e f***
tcW 6
y\
CN
n <
C.\ \
Ov V
POLITICAL POINTS
Hitler, September 1, 1939 (titles
omitted):
If anything should happen to me my
first successor will be Goring; and if any-
thing should happen to Goring my next
successor will be Hess. If anything should
happen to Hess a successor will be chosen
from among the bravest and most capable
men in Germany.
Something happened to everybody, Hess
first. Hence the rank outsider Donitz
(Sydney “Sun”), Doenitz (other papers)
or Doughnuts.
Curtin was a bit better last week, but
it will- be some time before he can return
to his task, and Chifley is Acting P.M.
and shaping pretty well. Beasley is Act-
ing Minister of Defence, He had to give
up Supply and Shipping three months ago
because it was too much for him in his
state of health; so the substitution is
characteristic of his Government, though
it would be considered amazing in any
other country.
A week at San Francisco:
Above the welter of words emerged a mild
announcement that “some strain” existed be-
tween Anglo-Americans and Russians over
“differing interpretations of Yalta” regarding
Poland. Molotov tried to beat the gun by
agreeing not to oppose Argentina’s admission to
the palavers if the Lublin communist “Gov-
ernment” was admitted. “No dice,” as the
Americans say.
On Argentina Molotov got a demonstration
of American strength, every American State
votmg for Argentina’s inclusion. Chagrined
over the exclusion of the Lublinifes 'he
got off a gibe about the admission of India
and the Philippines, “though they are not in-
dependent nations at present.” There might
have been retorts about the independence of
Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and other
countries, and it might have been said that
Russia hadn’t fired a shot for the freedom of
the Philippines or any other country in the
Pacific, but nothing was said.
Dr. Evatt supported Argentina, though his
colleague, Mr. Ward, told a May Day crowd
in Sydney that he had “misgivings.” He and
Forde are “staying at separate hotels.”
At the week-end Molotov, after “repeated
request's,” admitted that 15 vanished Polish dele-
gates who had gone to meet the Russians on the
strength of Churchill’s word that they wouldn’t
be molested had been arrested and charged
with “diversionary activities against the Red
Array.” Expressing “great concern,” Britain
and U.S.A. refused further discussion on
Poland until given a “full explanation” of the
arrests.
There are some precious innocents or
seeming innocents reporting the confer-
ence at ’Frisco. One, discussing “the loca-
tion of the headquarters of the new world
organisation,” found Russia’s reluctance
to “accept Geneva” understandable, since
“she suffered rebuffs there in the past”
(the crowning rebuff was expulsion), but
considers it “strange” that “Vienna should
be suggested by the Russian delegation.”
Why strange? Russia has a puppet Gov-
ernment there, set up in airy contempt of
Yalta and all that.
Some straight speaking at Canberra on
the equipment question, and by a Labor
leader, too':
We have a duty to the Australian soldiers.
They are of us. We should declare that if
they are not fully equipped they will not
be permitted to go into action again. The
fact is that our men did not have ade-
quate equipment, and it is not right to cover
this up. Ministers should be more frank.
But it needn’t be imagined that the
speaker had New Guinea and Bougain-
ville in mind, or Curtin, Forde and
Fraser. It was Beasley, fulminating three
years ago on the campaigns in Greece
and Crete.
Rhodes is a name much in the public
eye these days. One of America’s coming
men, who did a great deal of the
spadework for the world security organ-
isation, is Congressman Fulbright, a
Rhodes scholar. Ribbentrop’s successor
as Foreign Minister, Count Schwerin
von Krosigk, is another Rhodes scholar.
And from Rhodes House, Oxford,
through the mouth of the Australian-
born Dr. C. K. Allen, Warden and
secretary to the Rhodes trustees, came a
pregnant statement of the case for the
rule of law as against the caprices of
authority and anarchy in all its forms.
We have to choose between two opposing
principles; the view that policy and ex-
pediency are the supreme consideration and
the view that justice is an end in itself, to
be pursued at all costs. The latter view is
represented in our society by the rule of
law, which is perhaps more vital to the
health of democracy than any other institu-
tion.
In Australian industry, especially where
communists are in control, the rule of
law has gone to the bowwows.
Melbourne “Argus” headline:
Landslide to Communism in France.
Though it was expected to be that, the
occasion being the municipal elections
and the franchise universal suffrage, ex-
cept that masses of alleged “collabora-
“ INFORMATION” TO P.M.G.
“There is only one reason why the Government wishes to retain A.B.C.’s monopoly of
news broadcasts. About 85 per cent, of A.B.C. news is drawn from daily newspapers
and newspapers’ cable services. It is factual and accurate. The remaining 15 per cent, is
Labor propaganda.” —Sydney “Sun.”
“Nice work, Don — that’s if we don’t have to put it together again.”
tiomsts” were excluded, it was nothing
of the kind. The Communists did not
even get a majority in Paris, with
its Red belt, winning only 27 of the
90 seats. The peasants once more re-
jected them and the Christian Democrats,
who have changed their name to Popular
Republicans and whose leader is Foreign
Minister Bidault, polled strongly.
Scully to the Representatives: To
31/1/ ’45 £15,270,000 was paid in sub-
sidies to 97,033 dairy farmers, and since
1939 about 5700 dairy farms have
ceased to supply milk or cream to fac-
tories. So production depends upon
something more than doles.
The 900-odd authorities concerned with
housing spent a whole week in Mel-
bourne considering how many army huts
could solve the problem. A conference
discussed it, architects drew attractive
pictures of huts turned into suburban
villas with creepers festooned about them,
and a war was waged in the dailies on the
question of whether the camps could be
reconditioned and turned into community
settlements or whether the huts should be
transported and re-erected in city sub-
urbs, which promptly raised the further
question of suburban building regula-
tions. The number of families which
could be accommodated in these dream
towns was variously estimated to be any-
thing from 1000 to 50,000. Then it
turned out that there were no army huts
aching to be occupied, Victoria’s four
biggest camps being fully used and cer-
tain to be fully used at least until after
demobilisation has been completed. The
ineptitude of civilian housing authorities
almost makes the Allied Works Council
seem like a regiment of archangels.
Lang Labor has elected Dr. Foley, who
has heaps of friends and foes, to the
Phillip-ward seat in Sydney’s City Coun-
cil, held for many years by Paddy Stokes,
who was Lord Mayor and Minister of
Agriculture. The result was a facer for
the A.L.P., for the doctor got a thumping
majority over its man Carroll —there were
two other starters, another Carroll and
the a.w.l. ex-alderman, Sloss —and Phillip
ward is part of the electorate of Clyne,
the Speaker, and Beasley, the Minister.
In fact, it may lead to a hasty exit to
Washington if Beasley decides that his
seat is shaky and could be lost if the
Big Fellow went after it, as he contem-
plated doing in 1943.
The deadly parallel for two paragraphs
circulated in Sydney on the same day,
one by the very obliging branch of the
U.S. Office of War Information.
0.W.1. Bulletin. S. M. “Herald.”
It requires 15 Liberty At least 19 ships, in-
ships to move the eluding some with sup-
equiptnent of one U.S. plies for operational
Army division, in addi- areas, are tied up in
tion to a varying the port of Sydney
number of transport because of industrial
vessels to carry more disputes,
than 10,000 men in
each division.
No wonder Federal Arbitration Judge
O’Mara, referring particularly to the
Mort’s Dock strike, said “the present state
of affairs will not long be tolerated by
the Admiralty.”
In all cases where ships are held up
they are held up by Labor unions. If
Labor politicians object their objections
are never recorded.
Ghifley is giving a bit of tax-relief to
people with small incomes and others
living in selected “zones” —nearly all
Labor “zones.” This “zone” business, as
Menzies smartly recalled, was declared
unconstitutional by Dr. Evatt when a
High Court Justice. Chifley hopes that,
like maternity payments and old-age pen-
sions, it will never be challenged.
City people who tune in to commercial
broadcasting stations are getting a service
of, news unbroken by boring boosts for
politicians like Beasley, Ward, Daly and
Haylen. But not country people. In
their case Don Cameron and Calwell
can t provide land lines or something \
but country reactions are so hostile that
the Calcamerons already show signs of
“reconsidering the matter.” The elec-
tions are only 16 months off.
Sydney “D.T.’s” Sunday issue, which
has an abounding admiration for Reds,
has told us how the job in Italy was
finished, and by whom. Not by Alex-
ander, Mark Clark and Freyberg, not by
the men of the Eighth Army and the
Fifth Army, but by a parcel of cowardly
communist savages, woman-killers and
defilers of dead bodies:
Italian communists declared that the
iron-fisted handling of Che “Reds” by the
Badoglio Government, appointed by the
Allied military authorities at the fall of
Rome, was largely responsible for lengthen-
ing the Italian campaign. This week they
got hold of Mussolini, his mistress, Clara
Petacci, 15 other high-placed Fascists. The
question of handing them to the Allies was
not discussed. Mussolini and Petacci were
shot, their bodies kicked, spat on, finally
strung up by the heels. There followed
the surrender of all German forces in Italy.
Characteristic of a paper which de-
nounced members of the Opposition at
Canberra as “Anglophiles” and yelped
at British policy, British generals and the
British war effort while crawling on nose
and belly to Moscow.
Sydney “Sun” records that “observers”
in San Francisco “thought it regrettable
that Evatt blocked Forde” —who was
asked for a statement on the Ninth
Division in Borneo —“from dealing with
a matter peculiarly within his own pro-
vince.” Though it may seem a little
excessive, “peculiarly” is right.
Producing a Melbourne paper and
reading an advertisement, Tommy White,
M.H.R., inquired whether it was true that
the advertiser was selling pencil-
sharpeners made at the Government
small-arms factory at Lithgow (N.S.W.)
or whether there were visions about. After
calling for a report —a procedure never
omitted by any of the 19 “Labor”
Ministers —Makin admitted that it was a
fact, and drifted into the usual foggy “ex-
planation.” Pencil-sharpeners! Forde’s
secret weapon!
The bridge over the Hawkesbury,
begun in 1938, was opened at the
week-end and named Peat, our rulers
having gone all historical. Vehicle owners
have to pay a toll; politicians can cross
toll-free.
The Canberra correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Argus” on a running sore of
Commonwealth politics:
Since the session began on February 21
the Senate has sat for ten days. It met on
April 26, but for only half an hour be-
cause of lack of business; it then adjourned
to May 8, and Senators walked across
King’s Hall and listened to the equipment
debate in “another place.”
And that tells only part of the shocking
story. The first two sittings occupied two
hours 37 minutes, the fourth and fifth
three hours 54 minutes ; average one hour
37 minutes 45 seconds. The longest of
the ten lasted four hours 58 minutes,
opening time being 3 p.m. and closing
time 9.58 p.m. with two hours off for
dinner. On one occasion the Senate actu-
ally sat till 10.28 p.m., but dinner-time
that day was two hours 35 minutes.
“Cine Ma”: Calwell has announced
the personnel of the National Film Board
which is to put Australia on the world
map with screen propaganda. They are
young Dr. Coombs, the Director-General
of Post-war Reconstruction; J. F.
Murphy, Secretary of the Department of
Commerce and Agriculture; Common-
wealth Librarian Binns and Professor
Stout, of the University of Sydney ; with,
of course, Calwell himself as chairman.
And State Directors of Education are to
be asked to nominate representatives.
If this characteristic collection doesn’t
empty every cinema in this country and
others I’ll boil my hat for soup and
drink it.


CHAI6' nG
BATTE.WI
1/44
This man is completely nuts. He’s got a
crazy notion that by increasing his idling
speed he charges his battery! And oh! how
it eats up petrol Coupons.
The wise way to keep your battery in tip-top
shape is to get a fortnightly check-up and an
occasional re-charge from your nearest Exide
dealer. It will give you many extra months
of service.
£xise
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
“The greatest in history” has been said
of so many events in this war that it has
become a correspondents’ cliche, but it
can be applied all right to the surrender-
ing and the releasing towards the end of
the business in Europe. The bag of gen-
erals and admirals —105 of them in April
—was so huge that they became merely
small game. On May 3 alone 20 generals
handed their swords to Montgomery.
Field-Marshals von Rundstedt and Von
Kleist joined the bag, then the old Crown
Prince, who hadn’t much time for der
Fiihrer. Others gathered in included
former German Ambassador to Italy Von
Mackensen, former Foreign Minister Von
Neurath, Hitler’s former aide Buchner
and former Governor-General of Poland
Dr. Frank. The released included King
Leopold of the Belgians and family; the
Princess Royal’s son Lord Lascelles;
Lords Haig and Hopetoun; General Alex-
ander’s son, Captain Michael Alexander ;
Daladier, Schiischnigg, Blum, Reynaud,
Gamelin and Weygand, and the tennis-
player Borotra ; Lieut. John Winant, son
of the American Ambassador to Britain;
and General Bors, who led the Warsaw
rising. Pastor Niemoller, who locked
horns with Hitler for a while, was also
taken over.
Going to an important health post in
Europe for U.N.R.R.A., knight Raphael
Cilento, one of the world’s leading authori-
ties on tropical diseases. South Austra-
lian-born, he collected his M. 8., 8.5.,
M.D. at Adelaide Uni., was sub-
sequently Duncan and Lalcaca medal-
list of the London School of Tropi-
cal Medicine at Townsville (Q.) for
over five years, Director of Public
Health and Quarantine in New Guinea
for four years, and, since 1934, Director-
General of Health and Medical Services
for Queensland. Now 52, he has written
a swag of books on his main subject, is
a barrister and did his bit in the last war.
Formerly a caterer in Melbourne,
Squadron-Leader William C. Rees has
U.N.R.R.A .’s enormous job of administer-
ing food supplies in Germany, Rees estab-
lished the Scone Cottages which are a
feature of most large Victorian railway
stations.
Back from England, where he reported
on his survey of Japanese atrocities,
Queensland Chief Justice Webb was com-
missioned by Governor Leslie Wilson to
act as Deputy Governor. Late Chief
Justice James Blair acted as Lieutenant-
Governor for many years, but no appoint-
ment has yet been made to the
Lieutenant-Governorship.
First president of the Westralian Arbi-
tration Court was an able Irishman,
Moorhead. Another, Walter Dwyer, is
retiring after holding the job for 19 years.
Bom in Tipperary nearly 70 years ago,
Dwyer arrived here at 16, spent three
years as assistant - master at Christian
Bros. College, Melbourne", then joined
W.A. Edufiation Department. Articled
to a Perth solicitor, he got his LL.B. in
1907 and was admitted to the Bar. In
1911 he won the Assembly Perth seat for
Labor, but lost it in 1914.
Don Bradman retires from the presi-
dent’s chair of the Commonwealth Club
in Adelaide, after the usual year’s tenure.
The club specialises in striking changes,
and its new head is Dr. Charles Duguid,
noted for religious and charitable work
as well as in his profession ; and in line
to succeed him is Prof. Douglas Mawson,
geologist and Antarctic explorer.
There’s fairly complete all-round Aus-
tralia representation among those in
charge at the English “South Coast town,
before the war a favorite seaside resort
for Londoners,” where A.I.F. prisoners of
war from Germany and Italy are cared
for in transit. Major B. St. P. Gillett,
of Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has charge of the
medical staff; Captain J. Mallyon, of
S.A., is amenities officer; Captain J.
Kowarzik, a former Apple Isle civil ser-
vant, and N-S.W. cricketer Lieut. A.
G. Cheetham look after the centre in
general.
S.A. Savings Bank has bagged Gordon
Beaumont Smith to supervise its newly-
formed Architect’s Department for the
benefit of home-builders. Smith, who
served his articles with Woods, Bagot,
Jory and Laybourne Smith, was admitted
to the S.A. Institute of Architects in 1925,
and hung out his own shingle in 1933.
Unable to enlist, he joined the engineers
service branch, Keswick, in 1941, and
later transferred to the Department of
the Interior. Now 41, he designed the
Pioneers’ Memorial for the S.A. cen-
tenary.
Here presented by Scorfield, an author
with the good name for one of Colin
Grant Clark, though maybe the queues
that line up for a new book by him
aren’t the ones that lines up for the best-
sellers. Clark’s tomes carry such titles
as The National Income, Economic Con-
dition of Great Britain (with Prof. Pigou)
and Economics of 1960, the author being
COLIN CLARK.
very much in that line himself : Eco-
nomic Director of the Queensland Bureau
of Industry; Queensland Government
Statistician and Financial Adviser to the
Treasury since 1938 ; Deputy Director
for Queensland of W. 0.1. since 1942.
Son of James Clark, of Townsville, he
was born in 1905, educated at Oxford
and subsequently became assistant sec. to
the British Government Economic Ad-
visory Council and lecturer in Statistics
at Cambridge. He married in 1935, and
there are six sons.
Completed 27 years’ incumbency of
Melbourne’s most posh church, St. John’s,
Toorak, the Rev. Archibald Law, D.D.,
who lately passed his 76th milestone.
Born at Maidstone and educated at
Trinity College, Melbourne, Dr. Law was
ordained a priest ih 1897, and served at
Wangaratta, whose cathedral was built
in his time. Strong on anti-liquor, he was
president of the Local Option League,
and of the mort of church plays he has
written, one, Mr. Job of Australia, was
given metropolitan presentation at the
Transpontine Playhouse, with the white-
bearded leading character discoursing on
drink and other social problems much
after the fashion of the author. Some of
Dr. Law’s publications have had circula-
tions of 300,000. During his sojourn at
St. John’s over £25,000 has been spent
on a replica of a thirteenth-century Eng-
lish village church.
A p.o.w’s adventure:
Thomas Wilkinson, of Mayfield, Newcastle
(N.S.W.), joined the Royal Marines in England
in ’4l. Captured by the Germans after a spec-
tacular raid on enemy-occupied Tobruk, he was
one of 17 survivors of the landing party. Taken
to a p.o.w. camp in Italy, Campo 51, near Alta
Mura in the Bari district, Wilkinson and three
other prisoners escaped after overpowering an
Italian officer and corporal. They travelled as far
as Roco Imperial, at the end of the Gulf of
Taranto, intending to steal a fishing boat and
sail into the Mediterranean in the hope of
being picked up by a British patrol, but were
cornered and captured and consigned to a tenth-
century castle overlooking the bay. Every morn-
ing for a month after that the guards came into
the cell where Wilkinson was placed in solitary
confinement and informed him that he was soon
to be shot for his assault on the officer and
corporal. The Swiss representative of the Inter-
national Red Cross got wind of the affair,
however; provided a lawyer to defend him,
and got him sent to a p.o.w. camp m
Northern Italy. Two days after the capitulation
of Italy Wilkinson was away again, following
the Apennines down in an effort to reach the
British forces. He found them at last, but
there were a lot of Germans between them and
him, so Wilkinson settled down and had a ring-
side view of the battle of the Sangro River.
One night he slept in the German lines, and
next morning when a fierce artillery barrage
sent the Germans under cover he walked towards
it and met paratroopers of the New Zealand
Division. He had been 31 months On the way.
He collected the B.E.M. for some very useful
information he’d picked up on the road.
“Kings Pawn”: The recently dead
Frank Marshall, who looked like a
Shakspearean actor, was U.S. chess
champion for 27 years, but was only once
challenged during that long reign. He
learned to play when he was ten, and
even before he became champion was
travelling backwards and forwards pick-
ing up some of the big prizes in European
tournaments, then returning to gather
those in the U.S.A. In Breslau in 1912,
when he beat Levitsky with a move that
looked like a gross blunder but which
proved the key to one of the most bril-
liant checkmates in chess history, spec-
tators showered the board with gold
coins. In Montreal (his home town) he
established in 1914 the world record for
“simultaneous” play, meeting 155 players
at once in 1\ hours and defeating 126 of
them ; only eight games were lost. Mar-
shall resigned the U.S. championship in
1936, but remained captain of the Ameri-
can team for the Hamilton-Russell Cup,
which U.S.A. won in the four contests
played before the war stopped such
events.
L. F. Loder, who succeeded Theodore
last year as Director-General of the
Allied Works Council, has taken his coat
off now (he had it off when the artist met
him) to a new job—permanent head of
the Federal Department of Works.
In the Air Force in the last war and men-
tioned in dispatches, Loder afterwards got
his degree in engineering at Melbourne
University with first-class final honors,
and also pulled off a research scholarship.
L. F. LODER.
Designing engineer to Johns and Way-
goods, the lift people, he later joined the
Victorian Country Roads Board, was
chief engineer of that concern for 12 years
and chairman for five years. Born in
1896 at Sale, in Gippsland, he was
grounded at “Wesley,” where he was an
exceptionally fine middle-distance runner.
He has a son who is treading fleetly in
his footsteps. Another is overseas with
the forces.
Travel, when he can go on it, won’t
be anything new to Gunner F. A. Jessup,
winner of the N.S.W. Travelling Art
Scholarship. Jessup, who began his art
studies with Dattilo-Rubbo, continuing
with Frances D. Ellis when she took over
the school, joined the A.I.F. at the be-
ginning of the war and went off to the
Middle East. From there at every oppor-
tunity he sent work back for criticism,
and after his return he spent every leave
working in the studio from early morn-
ing till late in the evening. As enthusi-
astic as ever, he still posts work down
from up north for criticism whenever
opportunity offers.
Adelaide’s St. Peter’s College is having
the portraits painted of all its old head-
masters —about a dozen of them —to
hang in the new dining-room. The com-
mission was entrusted to Goodhart, an
old St. Peter’s boy, early last year, and
the job is now about completed. As the
life of tire college is about 100 years, and
as only two of the former heads are now
alive and they are in England, the job
was a rather tricky one, old photographs
being the only data available in most
cases. Goodhart, whose studio is at
Victof Harbor (S.A.), has for some time
been partly engaged on sculpture.
Vice-Admiral Louis Hamilton, K.C.8.,
D.S.O. and bar, First Naval member of
the Commonwealth Naval Board, was in
command of Prince of Wales the year
before she and her consort, Repulse, were
lost off Malaya. Before that he com-
manded various cruisers, and was in the
Narvik operations in 1940, where he
earned the bar to the D.S.O. he’d won
in the Cameroons in 1915. He became
K.C.B. last year, when he also received
the Russian Order of St. Stanislas. He’s
54.
President of the, New Education Fel-
lowship and prime mover in education
reform in Brisbane, P. M. Hamilton,
M.A. (Melb.), B.Litt, (Oxon), Dip. Ed.
(Oxon), is head of the Brisbane Boys’ Col-
lege, to which he graduated from Scots’,
Warwick, and Scotch, Melbourne. He
went to Oxford as a Victorian Rhodes
Scholar, and won “blues” there, as
in Melbourne, for athletics and tennis.
In Palestine in World War I, he was men-
tioned in dispatches.
L. A. Westcott, former g.m. of Mt.
Morgan —he resigned ill —is now in
Brisbane as a consulting engineer. He
first went to Mt. Morgan in 1905, left in
1918, tried farming, managed a mine in
Victoria and others in W.A., then returned
to Mt. Morgan as g.m.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 97, E. G. Abell, an hon. life
member of the Institute of Patent Attorneys of
Australia, and the Real Estate Institute. A
Londoner originally, he retired from his prac-
tice at 92.
In Brisbane, at 77, Rev. W. Scott Laurie,
former Moderator of the Presbyterian Assembly
in Queensland. He came to Australia from his
native London in the ’seventies.
In Broken Hill, at 58, John Harold Forth,
formerly of Nine Mile and Eagle Hawk
stations in the West Darling country. He was
local layman on the Western Lands Board,
member of the B.H. District War Agricultural
Committee, and for many years member of the
Pastoralists’ Association Council.
At Clapham (S.A.), James Anderson, lead-
ing teacher of elocution in Adelaide for over
30 years. In his youth he won many major
awards, including the grand championship at
Ballarat, where he later became judge.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Charles Conway Mason,
wife of Lieut.-Col. Mason. Known to thousands
of Diggers in the last war, she worked assidu-
ously at Saltfleet canteen on the east coast of
England, with the Church Army Social Centre
in London, for the Australian Red Cross in
Rome, Nice and elsewhere.
At Wairoa (M.L.), at 74, Jack Hikawera
Mitchell, a scholarly Maori who had just com-
pleted a history of the Wairoa Maoris, entitled
Takitimu.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 74, William Henry
Feldon, sculptor, whose work adorns many
buildings in M.L. One of his pieces is a hte-
size statue of Joseph Ward, to complete a set
for Invercargill’s P.O. square, the other two
being Jellicoe and Kitchener.
Mrs. Frank Fisher, widow of a leading Adel-
aide lawyer and mother of another, was of
the Sellar family in Melbourne. A good writer,
she was a leader in charitable works, especially
the Port Adelaide Seaman’s Mission. She had
never been quite well since a bad motoi-smash
in Melbourne, in which a friend driving was
killed, ten years ago.
At 83, Robert Melrose, after a long illness.
Squire of Rosebank station in the Adelaide
hills, he was a leading breeder of stock, espe-
cially pedigree pigs and cattle. He had some
years in the Leg. Council of S.A., and was
president of the Royal Agricultural Society
and the Woolgrowers’ Association, and an
Elder Smith director. Alex. Melrose, lawyer,
pastoralist and Bulletin writer, who died last
year, was his brother.
Now been presumed lost with other pas-
sengers of the Melbourne Star, who were re-
turning to Australia in April, 1943, Sister
Eileen King, Military Medallist of the 1914-18
war. A native of Brisbane, Sister King was
among the first 40 nurses to leave Australia in
1915. In the second German war she nursed
London civilians in the grim blitz days.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Lao-dah”: International peace confer-
ences seem fated to provide food for the
comic spirit. The Versailles conference
was held in the famous Hall of Mirrors,
but even those dignified surroundings
didn’t save it from being funny, even to
John Maynard Keynes, now high up in
official British economic circles, who,
although he represented the Chancellor
of the Exchequer, resigned to write that
wildly humorous effusion The Economic
Consequences of the Peace. At San Fran-
cisco, so we are told, delegates were faced
with an elaborate stage, on which the
flags of all nations had been arranged “in
alphabetical order,” with a large blue
rostrum resting on a powder-blue platform
and golden chairs for the chairman and
secretary of the conference and Califor-
nian leaders. Difficulties arose about a
national anthem, and the delegates stood
up when the Opera House band played
“Lover, Come Back to Me,” while, owing
to a little misunderstanding between
Army and Navy, the Haitian delegation
got the loudest reception, the bands of
both services greeting it with a simultane-
ous fanfare. The most engaging item was
the report that Hollywood was disgusted
with Broadway getting the contract for
arranging the proceedings.
* * * *
“Bo”: At the N.S.W. Police Confer-
ence a sergeant, opposing a motion for
equipping cops with shoes instead of
boots, pointed out that shoes came off
more easily than boots, “and,” he asked,
“what could be more humiliating in such
circumstances than to be wearing socks
with holes in them?” The Sydney cop,
of course, is celebrated for his sartorial
fussiness. I recall seeing one attempting
to arrest a large beetle-browed bullet-
head with a blue prognathous jaw in a
back lane up at Dario, The usual crowd
was urging the prospective captive to
“sock it into ’im.” I must admit it was
a slashing go. By the time the Lor had
the hammerlock on his adversary and the
patrol-car had arrived the cop’s tunic
had only one sleeve, and the rest of it
was a mass of dusty ribbons ; his trousers
were right off, his cap was a pulped mass,
his shirt was waving in the breeze and
his suspenderless socks were ripped down
to his boots. As the prisoner was bundled
into the car I expected a look of justi-
fiable pride to suffuse the cop’s face;
instead he buried it in one hand —easily
—and sobbed. I asked him the reason.
He pointed to the top of his underpants,
and there was no tape on one side. “I
wouldn’t have had this happen for the
world,” he said sadly. “I asked the wife
last night to sew that tape on. What will
everybody think of me!”
* * * *
“D.I.H”: Since our best-loved sar-
major has come back from leave his little
pupils have been rather crudely referring
to him as “the boy with the ten-guinea
tusks.” His earlier titles were not so
grandiose or so polite, but while he was
away sarg. seems to have transferred his
savings to his mouth, which now looks
like a goldmine. But Blondie, the can-
teen stewardess and sarg’s big heartache,
is as unresponsive as ever. The first time
sarg. wanted toothpaste there happened
to be none available. “What about
brasso?” inquired Blondie.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I don’t agree with Irene
Webb, the actress, who said in Melbourne
that Australians speak badly because they
are nervous and lack confidence. All
Australians don’t lack confidence, but
most of them speak with a slur which is
recognisable the world over. I have heard
it coming from the’interior of a Customs
houseboat in central China, and the
owner, who was blowing up his “boy”
for accepting a bribe of soap from a
passing merchant, certainly wasn’t ner-
vous. Australians speak as they do be-
cause of habit, just like other races. They
“Which one of them is your missus , Clarrie?"
"I'll give you three guesses"
learn the Footscray habit if they happen
to have been born in Footscray, just as
Englishmen would learn the Oxford accent
if they were educated in Oxford. Some
Australians might feel nervous if they
went into an English drawing-room, but
that would be because of their belief that
the prevailing English accent is the stamp
of educated people. It isn’t. It is just as
much an accidental habit as the Aus-
tralian accent. G. B. Shaw and H. G.
Wells are highly educated men, but they
don’t speak in either the Oxford or Cam-
bridge manner,
* * * ♦
“Balander”: Announcing the creation
of a commission to control the motion-
picture business in Queensland, Local
Government Minister Bruce said the ex-
hibitors had asked for it themselves. If
they did they’re likely to be sorry. It is
hinted that the commission will, among
other things, fix prices for film rental,
limit the number of cinema houses in
a district, set a standard for buildings—
a needed reform but one that could be
easily embodied in building regulations—
see that all exhibitors got a fair share of
“star” and “filler” films and possibly pre-
vent exhibitors from being producers and
vice versa. All very desirable to the
trade, no doubt, but submitting to Gov-
ernment control is likely to raise up a
new crop of grievances and difficulties,
as other forms of private enterprise have
discovered,
* * * ♦
“Norther”: Exiled white Papuans are
beginning to wonder if they’ll ever see
their homes, businesses, mines or plan-
tations again. After the Japs were shoved
back most of the exiles got into a flutter
of excitement, preparing to return, but
the dragging months are slowly killing
their enthusiasm. A.N.G.A.U. is still in
possession, nearly three years after the
last Jap was accounted for. It is a top-
heavy, dreadfully slow organisation, using
thousands for the job that a few hundred
did before the war and costing Australian
taxpayers a fortune. Minister Ward an-
nounced that a “provisional Govern-
ment” would be set up under Nat. Sec.
Regs., and that means direct control from
Canberra and a big chance that Leonard
Murray will have to make way for a
Canberra appointee amenable to the
party. Papua, as Beatrice Grimshaw once
wrote, makes her adopted people her
own, and there isn’t an exile but is
anxious to get back there. Under Mr.
Ward’s idea the new authority will have
the right to stop anyone going back who
isn’t sweet with Canberra. A strange
way to reconstruct a territory!
* * * *
“B en b o w”: The statement (B.
21/3/ ’45) that only two white men made
the long climb to R. L. Stevenson’s burial
justifies me in a long-cherished scepticism.
School readers and other romantic pub-
lications are unanimous that R.L.S. was
buried at the spot where he habitually
lounged and enjoyed the view during his
last long illness. His epitaph gives some
color to this theory, but ever since 1928,
when I puffed up the “Road of the Lov-
ing Heart” from Vailima, I’ve wondered
how an advanced t.b. case ever made it.
* * * *
“Coadidose”: Wed I read “Lord
Luvus’s” advice (B. 25/4/’45) on how to
keep warb, it was a freezig day,
so I decided to try his bethod. It
was barvelous. I wedt about id shords
ad siglet ad by dight I was a host itrestig
blue color; by skid was covered with
the best sapple of gooseflesh I have ever
seed, ad I was sdeezig codtidually. Thed
by wife cabe hobe, ad her codserd was
very touchig ad host gratifyig. Id do
tibe she had a blazig fire goig, ad I was
sittig before it with by feed id a bustard
bath. She gave be sub aspirid ad (all
praise to the doble “Lord Lubus”!) she
biraculously produced sub whisky ad gave
be a stiff dobbler. What is bore, she
said I bust have sub bore every tibe I
sdeezed. This bordig she says I bust stay-
id bed ad read a burder yard, which she
wedt to the library to get, idstead of
gettig up ad bowig the lawd. By word,
I thik “Lord Lubus’s” idea of uddressig
whed cold is bagdificedt!
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”: Mention of Mrs,
Hemans (B. 25/4/’45) recalls a tribula-
tion of my schooldays, when our class
was required to parse the opening lines
of “Casabianca”;
The boy stood on the burning deck
Whence all but he had fled.
All I remember about my transcription
is that it libelled the memory of
the noble youth by making it appear
that “he had fled,” despite the
efforts of the authoress to emphasise
his immobility. I still have a suspicion
that there’s something wrong with Mrs.
Heman’s grammar, despite the august
authority of Macaulay, who tells us how
Astur “shakes the brand which none but
he can wield.” I venture the opinion that
“but” (as quoted) is a preposition and
the pronoun that follows should be “him.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne’s Regent
Theatre, almost completely gutted by fire
after a Saturday-night crowd had emptied
from the playhouse, was one of those
ornate emporiums of the arts with which
movie magnates greeted the advent and
sensational success of the talkies. So
completely had the theatregoing public
deserted the flesh-an’-blood theatre that
the old His Majesty’s, in Exhibition-
street, when burnt down had to wait
several years before it was rebuilt. Its
only occupants during the intervening
years were movie actors making talkies
for Thring, who watched their efforts
from a seat in the blackened circle. The
flicks are now regarded as so important
that when the Regent’s destruction was
conveyed to Lud Mayor Nettlefold he
offered his Council’s co-operation in re-
building. There was an immediate out-
cry from home-hungry people who
pointed out that 400 houses could be
erected for the money it will cost to re-
build the theatre. Authority has sanc-
tioned only such work as is required to
make the building safe.
♦ * ♦ *
“K. Ley.”: On his only child’s ninth
birthday Jackson took her into town to
an animal shop with the idea of buying
her a pup of a breed suitable for the
limited space of the Jackson menage.
Outside the shop Jackson met an old
mate and began swapping reminiscences,
the little girl meantime gluing her nose
to the window behind which several pups
romped. Presently Jackson felt his hand
plucked and a little voice said “Daddy,
there’s a lovely little puppy.” He looked
at the eager face, fished a couple of notes
from his pocket and absently said “Well,
you buy it, dear.” He was conscious of
her departure and return, of some change
pushed into his hand, and went on talk-
ing. Eventually the old mate departed
and Jackson took his daughter and her
pup home, observing that it was black
and tan and had enormous feet. That
was eight months ago. Now Jackson and
his wife are faced with feeding and ac-
commodating a bounding Great Dane,
already nearly the size of a pony. “It’s
a good job,” says Mrs. Jackson, “that
you didn’t meet your friend outside the
elephant-house at the zoo.”
“Avon”: R.N.Z.A.F. lads
operating in the Solomons have
developed a technique to cope
with especially difficult condi-
tions. It is hard to find the Jap
positions, which are well camou-
flaged, and some of them are
very near Australian-occupied
territory, so that “pin-pointing”
is essential. Reconnaissance is
performed in ’planes that can
circle in leisurely fashion over
enemy territory. These ’planes
are called “Smoky Joes” because,
when they spot a supply dump,
a transport park, or what looks
like a base, they drop smoke
bombs on it, then signal to the
nearest bomber squadron to
come to the kill, indicating at
the same time whether daisy-
cutters, incendiaries or general-
purpose bombs will be best
suited to the task. “Smoky Joe”
pilots and observers are picked
for “Jungle eyes”—not every
flier has them—and they achieve
what seems to less-gifted col-
leagues something . very near
clairvoyance.
“Curtain Raiser”: The British (and
parent) C.E.M.A. Council for En-
couragement of Music Arts—
announces in its annual report that a
million people attended 722 symphony
concerts given by the London Phi ar-
monic, Halle and Liverpool orchestras;
108 concerts were given in rest centres
for the homeless after air raids, 7662 in
factories, villages and hostels and to Allied
forces. Two permanent repertory com-
panies dispensed drama. The Govern-
ment grant was £175,000.
THE “STOOGE” QUESTION.
"A ‘stooge’ question is one put by a private
member to a Minister with the set purpose of giving
the latter an opportunity to make an apparently
spontaneous and devastating reply.”
—Canberra definition.
There are questions in Parliament no one
denies,
That are framed to elicit straightforward re-
plies
And the light of official pronouncements to
throw
On something that somebody’s wishful to know.
There are others as clearly employed and de-
signed
To blacken some person’s good name from be-
hind
The sheltering wall, the impassable hedge
Of what’s euphemistic’lly termed privi/ege.
But there’s never a query that offers so huge
A scope for chicane as what’s known as the
“stooge.”
It’s loaded with cunning and fashioned with
care,
But put with a pleasantly innocent air
And if the trained jackal’s immediate concern
Was something he’s really desirous to learn,
And not to enable his lion to emit
A roar that’s a proof of his wisdom and wit,
An apposite answer intended to show
That there’s little or nothing His Nibs doesn’t
know.
Or cannot find out when he makes it his biz,
In short to proclaim what a wonder he is.
You may hear it on hustings, I sometimes sus-
pect,
Devised on behalf of the would-be elect
When questions from all who may ask are
allowed
How often there comes from the fringe of the
crowd
A voice that enables the bloke on the stump
To play out a card he considers a trump,
Something pungent and crisp to be greeted with
cheers
But what hitherto were indifferent ears,
And to warn you as well that the candidate
knew
Quite well what was coming—and schemed for
it, too.
It’s a palpable schlenter, a readied-up job,
But it still seems of use for deluding the mob.
So, brother, when next you should read of the
sort
Of question that’s quelled with a smashing
retort,
A blend of cold logic and slick repartee
That stamps the composer, whoever he be,
A practised past-master in matters of State,
A wizard in knowledge, a tower in debate,
A ruthless detector of humbug and smoodge.
The interrogation, you’ll guess, was a “stooge.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
BOUND FOR BRAZIL.
He’s off for a holiday jaunt and a spell
From the worries of office, our Premier McKell,
And it goes without saying we’re wishing him
well
And that travel will give him a thrill.
Many men, many cities he’ll doubtless survey,
Far more than Ulysses contrived in his day,
And be welcomed in lands a whole wide world
away,
Including Brazil.
It’s there for himself he’ll be able to see
If Rio’s the harbor it’s cracked up to be
Compared with the waters round Circular Quay.
Rich meats in his honor they’ll grill
And pile on his plate in munificent cuts
At banquets where wine will be waiting in butts
And genuine coffee be served with the nuts
That come from Brazil.
Grave senors a-glitter with sashes and stars,
Like the figures you see on a box of cigars,
Will greet him, and congratulatory pars
Society journals will fill,
Expressing the pleasure of dons and grandees
That an eminent statesman from far overseas
Should have found the occasion while hitting
the breeze
To glimpse at Brazil.
You grumblers who grudging and critical grow
When overworked Premiers globe-trotting go.
And wonder how much of the taxpayers dougn
Will be needed for footing the bill,
Set your your minds on one part of the pro-
gramme at rest,
For here is an item that Lang can attest:
It’s not as a tourist but just as a guest
With nothing to pay when he’s served with the
best,
Mac’s bound for Brazil.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD


“Wodgil”; The closing days of the
German war saw Dunkirk, scene of its
grandest episode, still occupied by Ger-
mans, who had been besieged for seven
or eight months by a composite Allied
force, k mainly Czechs. A fantastically un-
predictable denouement; and a “Times”
correspondent’s notes on the siege are in
character;—
The perimeter of the German defences
is 45 miles long, enclosing the beaches
from which the British evacuation took
place in 1940. The front line varies from
ruined houses of a village shared by Czechs
and Germans to vast areas of flooded fields
where the armies watch each other across a
waste of water. By day there is no cover.
Hence by day Allies and Germans sleep
and by night they patrol and fight. The
commander of the garrison is Rear-Admiral
Frisius, and his officers include Tuerke,
who commands all the Volk units and runs
an assault course at the same time. Tuerke
is known to his men as “Old Brandy Bottle,”
by reason of his habits,- and is generally
seen going about with a bottle of brandy
under one arm and a bazooka under the
other. Candidates passing out from his
assault school have to do a one-man patrol
on their own through Allied lines before
they receive a diploma signed by Tuerke or
any promotion or decorations, which
Admiral Frisius distributes generously to
maintain morale, failing adequate supplies
of food. There has been very little deser-
tion, partly because only officers and
n.c.os. are aware of the location of mine-
fields. The 500 civilians who elected to
remain are nearly all French or Flemish col-
laborators.
A change in the Allied command brought
a polite note from Admiral Frisius con-
gratulating the new man on his promotion
and hoping for a continuance of the good
relations established in his predecessor’s
time.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”4 It has been estimated
that by 2040 Yale University will have to
provide accommodation for 200 million
books, requiring 6000 miles of shelving
and an index file of 750,000 drawers. So
serious has the space problem become
that one university is experimenting with
microphotography. It is possible to
microphotograph a whole issue of a daily
newspaper on a piece of film the size of
a postage stamp and then read a print
of that film in an enlarger. The latest
notion is to print the book qr paper on
the back of the index card,’ which is at
present wasted, so that the person who
looks up the title of a volume will merely
have to turn the card over, put the film
in an enlarger and comfortably sit back
and read it projected on a screen.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”; An unusual advertise-
ment appeared in the Melbourne “Argus,”
authorised by a candidate for a suburban
constituency at the next Assembly elec-
tion. This gentleman says he needs sug-
gestions for a people’s policy. Instead of
submitting his ideas to the people he
wants the people to submit their ideas
to him. This, he says, is the people’s
chance to say what they would like a
politician to stand for. He offers to pay
the person who submits the best list £5O,
and promises that if elected he will hand
his three years’ Parliamentary salary to
any charity nominated by that individual.
This looks like the furthest extension of
democracy anybody has attained to, but
I shouldn’t like to wager it is within the
electoral law.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A statesman whose
memory is probably not very popular in
lapan just now was II Kamon No Kami
Naosuke. It was he who was mainly
instrumental in throwing Japan’s doors
open to foreign trade and residence after
200 years of voluntary isolation. He
wiped out opposition with the execu-
tioner’s sword and gaol sentences. He
was lord of Hokone, and his ancestors
had served the rulers of Nippon faith-
fully for centuries. A U.S. envoy, Town-
send Harris, was in Japan in 1858
pressing the Yedo Government for a
commercial treaty, and Naosuke, as
Premier, signed it, with the almost unani-
mous disapproval of the Court and the
gentry. Treaties with other European
countries followed, embassies set sail for
America and Europe and young Samurai
hastened thither to learn the secret of the
white men’s wealth and power. They
returned full of awe and admiration for
Western efficiency and progress, and the
process started which was to turn Japan
from a nation of artists and craftsmen
into a nation of businessmen and soldiers.
Naosuke did not live to see the full re-
sults of his action. He had his head
chopped off by political opponents two
years after the signing of the treaty. There
is a monument to his memory in
Yokohama.
* * * *
“Kaya”: Sydney owns some souvenirs
of Captain Cook, most of which, until
Japan ran amuck, were to be seen in the
Australian Museum. They comprise an
inlaid dressing-table, a ceremonial sword,
a Bible said to have accompanied the
great navigator on his three voyages of
discovery, an ornamental box given to
Cook by Elizabeth Betts (who be-
came his wife), a tapa cloth waistcoat
made by her but never worn, the coat-of-
arms granted in recognition of Cook s
services, the sternplate of the Resolution,
a Hawaiian feather cape (gift of a native
chief), a shoe buckle, a tumbler, a mathe-
matical instrument case, a rule and a
compass. These, now in “a place of
safety,” will, on their return to public
life, be housed in the Mitchell Library.
The Mitchell also' possesses some docu-
mentary relics —books, portraits and offi-
cial papers, diaries and a copy of the
“The Wishin Pool, lady, is only for chuckin coins in.”
journal kept by Captain Cook on his first
voyage of discovery. Volumes of draw-
ings by artists who accompanied Cook
on his explorations are also cherished.
“Rover”: The first of the Captain
Cook pilot vessels, mentioned by “Kay”
(B. 11/4/’45), is not “now used for other
purposes in the Port of Brisbane.” Her
remains lie in a ships’ graveyard outside
the mouth of the Brisbane River, off
Bishop Island (more popularly known as
Wreck Island because of the numerous
hulks there). Close by the rust-eaten
skeleton are the remains of the Bingera,
the first turbine steamer to sail Austra-
lian seas, and the Lucinda, in the cabin
of which the draft of the Commonwealth
Constitution was signed by members of
the Federal Council at Sydney in 1899.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: Believe it or not, there’s
a vacant cottage in Sydney near Redfern
station that is seen by thousands
of people every day and yet has
never been occupied. It is maintained
in good order, and although the noise of
passing trains might be a drawback,
what’s that to a house-hungry Sydney-
“Of COURSE I came in wearing a choker. Why ?”
sider? It’s a icady-cut home built on
a rock by a timber firm as an advertise-
ment.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Melbourne “Argus” must be
uneasy in its mind over the stuff it con-
tracted to buy from the erratic Drew
Pearson, It published without comment a
Leftist yarn about alleged British intrigues
in Albania and another purporting to give
reasons for Moscow’s antipathy to the
Swiss Government and its demand for
the dismissal of the President of the
little republic; but when the gentleman
went on to assert that U.S. advanced
patrols reached Potsdam on April 13
and had to fall back because Stalin
objected the “Argus” became a prey to
conflicting emotions. So it hedged in
headlines: “Drew Pearson’s Washington
Merry-go-round Says Americans With-
drew from Berlin Area.” Presently there
arrived a Drew Pearson “report” of the
San Francisco conference, the tone of
which may be judged from the wprds
“Distrust of the U.S. State Department
is one reason why the Russians demand
a strong all-communist Poland.” It ap-
peared in the Russophile Sydney “D.T.,”
which sneered at Anglophiles, but not
in the “Argus” of the same day.
* * * *
“1.E.5.5.”: The idea that the Disposals
Commission is selling stuff cheap is no
longer cherished by radio technicians who
are among its prospective customers.
Seeking ex-service radio equipment, long
since superseded by up-to-date “tropical-
ised” types, an organisation planning to
adapt or rebuild these outfits for life-
safeguarding utilities was asked £154
each. When these sets were made before
the end of 1940 the manufacturers
charged about £2OO for them, but now
they are regarded as antiques —and in
radio antiquity isn’t a realisable asset.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: I don’t doubt that the
youngsters “Athos” knows (B. 18/4/’45)
lap up Australian nursery Thymes and
abo. legends, but that doesn’t dispose of
my contention that abo. folklore won’t
endear itself to Australian children be-
cause it hasn’t the associations of Grimm,
Andersen, Little Red Riding Hood and
Cinderella. When an Australian writer
relates an abo. folktale he must do it in
terms of the European tradition —other-
wise the Australian child wouldn’t under-
stand it —and the result is no more like
the abo. folktale than the Technical Col-
lege students’ fresco in the entrance to
the Victorian National Museum (ostens-’
ibly based on abo. motives) is like the
decorations on the native wommerahs,
spears and baskets inside. I once dished
up the folk stories of a neighboring
country, and the book I wrote was a
great success with Australian and Eng-
lish children. If I had been as literal
with this folklore as Sir Richard Burton
was with The Arabian Nights I doubt if
it would have got past the censors.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The outburst of the Speck’s
Premier Cosgrove on artificial insemina-
tion was too’emotional to carry convic-
tion. What harm would be done to me,
Mr. Cosgrove or anybody else if a woman
who would otherwise be childless had a
baby by this method I can’t imagine.
There is no warrant for supposing that
the mother of a “test-tube baby,” to use
the current erroneous and disparaging
description, would feel any less affection-
ate towards her offspring or her offspring
any less affectionate to her than in the
case of normal infants. So in what way
would society suffer?
* * *
“C.W.D.”: “Pink Tape” (B. 11/4/’45)
is right about early hostility to type-
writers, but he can’t have the first type-
writer in Australia arriving in 1887. in
1876 my father, a civil engineer attached
to the roads and bridges branch of the
N.S.W. Public Works Department, had
writers’ cramp that made writing his re-
ports an agony; so he got a type-
writer from America. The firm the
transaction went through imported an
additional machine on its own account.
When my father’s first typewritten report
reached head office it was returned with
a red-ink query on the margin “What is
this?” Father explained. Back again
came the report with another marginal
note: “Put away that useless toy! ” But
in the end Dad was allowed to use his
machine conditionally on signing the re-
port in, his own handwriting.
« * * *
“Pip” on washing day in the Army:
Up north and in the islands everything is
soiled after a few hours’ wear and a complete
change every day or two is a necessity. Most
soldiers go without underwear, so that the stan-
dard items for attention are shirts, slacks, socks
and towels. Usual method is to put the lot in a,
bucket of water, tip in a generous supply of
soap powder, and let it all stand over-
night. A rinse in the morning and the
job is complete. There ara certain dis-
advantages, such as the attraction of white
towels for the green in shirts, or the lia-
bility of socks to shrink. When that happens
to socks one chap gets hold of the heel and his
mate grabs the toe and between them they
drag it back to a reasonable length. When
obtainable, hot water is used, but for the most
part it is a luxury. Laundry equipment varies.
A bucket, a dish or a cut-down petrol drum
is in common use. Occasionally improvisa-
tion is necessary. A tin hat is partly effective;
a messtin can be used at a pinch, and even a
haversack holds water for a short period, lent
ropes and pieces of signal wire make good
clothes-lines. They are stretched in every con-
ceivable direction so there is always a risk
of decapitation when wandering over unknown
areas at night. Ironing, of course, is a lost
art. If a crease is required for a special
occasion a night under the blanket does the
trick for the slacks. Army laundries up north
generally manage to wash some of a mans
clothes each week, but what you get back is a
matter of pot-luck. g
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Strange how old wives’
tales linger. A woman took her ten-year
old daughter to a* Coll ins-street specialist
and told him that the child, who was left-
handed, had been in an aunt’s care
while mother was in another State on
war work and auntie had been try-
ing to educate the child to use her right
hand. “Well, what of it?” said the
physician. “Why, doctor,” said the
anxious mother, “everybody knows that
that is a very dangerous thing to do and
may lead to madness.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: The impression lingers that
France owns a piece of land at La
Perouse on Botany Bay, for whenever
distinguished Frenchmen visit Sydney
some newspaper is sure to refer to the
“bit of France in Australia.” Several
attempts have been made to have the
land on which stands the monument
erected to the memory of La Perouse and
the tomb of 'Father Louis Receveur dedi-
cated as French* territory. There is a
legend that Governor Phillip promised
this to the dying Father Receveur. In
1880 Captain Mathieu, of the French
navy, offered to buy the land, but could
not because the area was part of a mili-
tary reserve. In 1917 a bill was intro-
duced in‘the N.S.W. Parliament to give
the land to France, but it was dropped
or amended to death. But there is some
“foreign soil” in Australia. In the Syd-
ney Botanical Gardens, behind the Con-
servatorium of Music, is some Belgian
soil, taken from the graves of British
soldiers who died at Mons, in which the
Mons Tree has been planted as a memo-
rial.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; It was Hearne, homing from a
game of euchre with a neighbor, who
noticed smoke billowing from Purdy’s
one-roomed shack, and Purdy’s blue-and-
black cocker spaniel rushing in and out
the door, barking frantically. Hearne
tore up the road and got Kellett and his
two boys to come down. While their
bucket brigade was operating the thought
struck Kellett that Purdy might still be
inside. Young Jim Kellett dashed in, and
half a minute later emerged leading the
bewildered owner, still half-asleep. It
took Purdy nearly a minute to grasp the
situation ; then he let out a wild yell,
turned and, hurling aside those who
sought to restrain him, dashed back into
what now was fast becoming an inferno.
Driven back by the heat, the anxious
watchers could do nothing. Hearne
opined that Purdy’s life’s savings, if he
had any, might have been the magnet that
had drawn him back into the flaming
shack. Then out, coughing and clutching
the top half of a hamper, staggered
Purdy. The others saw his burden —a
litter of nine pups. “They was under the
bunk!” croaked Purdy, who emitted a
strong smell of singed hair. He gasped
for breath, then: “I ’ad to git ’em. I’m
—expecting—two quid—each—for 'em. I
want it to pay”— here he jerked his
thumb over his shoulder at the blazing
shack —“f pay orf the mortgage! ”
* * * *
“J.D.J.”: The bottle-of-water weapon
(B. 21 /3 / ’45) is for a rearing horse, not
a bucking one, and is claimed to be a
sure cure by all the people who have
never tried it. A good waddy would be
just as effective. I had a thoroughbred
mare who was useless for racing because
of a habit of rearing. One day she reared
up just as she was entering the stable and
struck her head on the beam over the
door, knocking herself out. It cured her.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: First news of the
Bougainville fighting reached us as we left
Hinchinbrook Passage and entered Rock-
ingham Bay (N.Q.); where 73 years be-
fore Lieut. Mourilyan, of H.M.S. Basi-
lisk, ran down a small schooner carrying
the emaciated remnants of a band of
Bougainville islanders involved in one of
the bloodiest mutinies in Pacific history.
Her torn sails flapping against' broken
masts and rigging and her uncontrolled
rudder swinging loose, the schooner was
apparently derelict, but on boarding with
an armed party Mourilyan found on the
bloodstained, disordered deck 13 gaunt,
emaciated black men, too weak to stand.
They were the survivors of a party of 80
Bougainville islanders kidnapped by
the crew of a schooner which had
been engaged for years in the native-
labor trade. A few days after leaving
Bougainville the captives mutinied, took
possession of the schooner and threw the
crew overboard. Then, ignorant of sea-
manship and navigation, they drifted
helplessly for the next seven weeks,
travelling more than 2000 miles, until
boarded by Mourilyan. When the food
and water ran out the natives resorted to
cannibalism, and 67 of them met their
end in this way. The 13 survivors were
returned to Bougainville. The day after
he ran down that schooner Mourilyan
discovered the N.Q. harbor which now
bears his name and the mountain range
named after his ship.
* * * *
“A.C.”; Struck a beachcomber up
around Evans Head (N.S.W.), who, when
settling down for the night, put his feet
on the rolled-up coat he used as a pillow.
Noticing the way I looked at him, he
explained “Yer see, I used to walk in me
sleep, and I worked it out that it was
caused by me top half going to sleep and
the lower half stayin’ awake. Now I put
me feet on the piller just to show them
that they are supposed to rest, too. So
far it’s worked.”
* * ‘ * *
“Old-timer”: “Aichess” (B. 2/5/’45)
misread my par. about George and the
tykes. They weren’t his. Like George,
they were station-hands ; it was a dark
night, and their sense of smell didn’t
begin to work until they’d downed the
mysterious creature flying silently over
the ground. And as for that so-called
sense of smell, I once had an old sheep
\
“ Sorry , Madam, but I must ask you to haul down the White Ensign—
it’s only for warships
hound named Jack. On the day I ac-
quired him he and I went out to an out-
station and stayed there six months, the
sole inhabitants being Jack, two horses,
the hut cat, myself and a few thousand
wethers. For the six months I lived
mainly in shirt, trousers, hat and boots.
Then came the day when I shaved, dolled
myself up in my best clobber and came
out of the hut to set out for the town,
40-odd miles away. Jack was talking to
the cat about something, looked up, saw
me, let out a startled yelp and got ready
for fight. “Y’ silly old goat,” I roared.
The voice was familiar enough, and he
grinned, came forward, smelled me curi-
ously and then sat upon his stern and
awaited orders. But if I hadn’t spoken
I’m certain he’d have rushed me first and
done his smelling afterwards.
* * * ♦
“Betcha”; In this East Gippsland dis-
trict at least the most likely place to find
a fox is in a tree. He prefers one with
a hollow well up from the ground, and
the trunk needs only a slight lean to help
him make the grade. A burrow is occa-
sionally patronised, but I’ve more often
come upon him in a high tree stump
whose hollow top, warm in the sun, affords
a comfortable hide-out with an easy view
over the top of anything approaching.
Yes, Johnny can climb all right, and uses
green trees, too, very often. I’ve re-
turned his stare from the high fork of
a yellow-box, disturbed his siesta among
the green leaves of a patch of suckers
and seen him stretched at ease along the
straight limb of a she-oak. Even his
vixen shows her preference for trees by
selecting a log or low hollow for her
family if one with all mod. cons, is avail-
able at the appropriate time.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: That remarkable fowl the
lyrebird defies the conventions of the
feathered world by nesting in the winter
months. No particular attention is paid
to the choice of aspect, and many nests
may be found in the tree-ferns of sun-
less gullies where a fall of snow lasts
for weeks. One nest was found ten feet
below the surface on the timbers of an
old shaft. The female lays one egg,
and the youngster, at first a ball of fluff
with o.s. claws and head, keeps the old
birds hopping to satisfy its appetite. Like
many another only chick, it demands
and gets—the attentions of its parents
until well on in life, and the hen-bird will
put over a pretty selection of tricks to
draw off a pursuer even when the young
’un can fly as well as herself.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: A cyclone had torn
off a few hundred feet of a North
Westralian jetty. It was lonely woric-
ing down in the Indian Ocean, but
Bill the diver didn’t lack company.
On the very first day he noticed the
frenzied scattering of fish, skipjack and
the like, as the schools sought refuge
among the piles. Then like a slow-moving
torpedo a vast shape swept along, survey-
ing the diver momentarily with .a baleful
eye. Beachcombers and others fishing
along the jetty had little luck. Fish were
plentiful, but the catch was seldom landed;
at the sight of a silvery form ascending
to the surface the torpedo surged for-
ward, snapped—and all the angler re-
trieved was his catch’s head. Then came
the day, the tenth, when the white pointer
stopped, swung round and took a long
look at the man. That night Bill the
diver took a firm pound of dripping from
off the ice, bored several small holes and
inserted cyanide into each, filling up with
melted fat. Next day below he watched
for his visitor’s coming, then released the
dripping. As the lump floated upwards
the shape surged forward and snapped,
and was quickly bound for disintegration.
* * * *
“Arty Hill”: River speed (B.
18/4/’45)? At the point where the Inker-
man Bridge spans the Burdekin (Q.) the
river is not particularly fast-flowing, but
some of the coastal streams further north
approximate in volume of water and
average fall per mile many of the swift
New Guinea rivers. We tested the Busu
River, near Lae, with a piece of wdod
over a plotted course. Speed was 9.174
m.p.h.
* * * *
“Big Water”: It is generally believed
that the Murrumbidgee was discovered in
June, 1823, by Captain Qurrie and Major
Ovens (B. 18/4/’45). then in 1824-25 it.
was crossed at Majurigorjg by the Hume
and Hovell expedition, which put in some
time along its banks and on the return
journey in 1825 recrossed it at practically
the same spot. Before Sturt’s expedition
(1829) down the Murrumbidgee many
settlers had passed through, notably
Henry O’Brien, of “Douro,” Yass, whose
shepherd’s hut at Jugiong was the first
building on the ’Bidgee ; also Ben Warby,
Guise, Stucky, Roberts, Mrs. Rose
and others near Tumut. Incidentally,
didn’t Sturt begin his boat trip a good
deal lower down the river than Yass?
* * * *
“Anthropo”: More fanciful fiction has
been written concerning “pointing the
bone” than on any other aspect of primi-
tive aboriginal society. Actually, the bone-
pointing business was much the same as
an Italian secret society sending the
potential victim a printed black hand —
behind such a demonstration lay the
threat of actual violence, with a record of
success in the past. When the pointed-at
person refused to react in the traditional
manner he was, to use an American term,
“put on the spot.” Most implements used
by the aboriginal were of stone or wood,
but he made occasional use of bone.
From the leg bone of the emu a long
thin dagger could be ground. Brought
to a needle-point, and with the victim
held down by strong arms, this point
could be inserted below the ribs on the
left side and pressed upwards until it
found the heart. Withdrawn, it left only
a small puncture, with practically no
blood. That was the real bone-pointing,
the sequel to the other ceremony when
the marked man refused to die.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Tell “Pee Jay Bee” (B.
25/4/’45) that English oaks are tempera-
mental in choice of climate and soils.
Only youthful vigor carried those in
Parramatta Park (N.S.W.) to even an
18in. diameter. Most of the Park trees
are poor effigies of the real thing, the
locality being unsuitable. But on the
Brucedale property at Bathurst (N.S.W.)
there is an oak which I stepped as 120 ft.
from branch-tip to branch-tip, and it’s
over 6ft. in girth. That tree was planted
120 years ago by the original Suttor, who
was the envoy of Sir Joseph Banks with
the first botanical collection —and knew
his business. Other fine specimens are
at Mount Wilson (N.S.W.) and Mace-
don (Vic.).
* * * *
“Lebon”: “M.U.R.” (B. 18/4/’45)
xsks: “What is a good seat on a horse?”
A very old riding-school ditty sums it
up:
Your head and your heart hold boldly up,
Your heels and your hands keep down.
Your knees well into your horse’s side,
And your elbows into your own.
* * * *
“C.E.”: The mid man dropped his hat
on the floor just inside the kitchen and
turned to the dinner table. “What we
got, Ma?” he inquired. “Rhubarb? Aw,
take it away, will y’? A man ain’t come
down t’ that, surely.*’ He seated himself
heavily, skittled his plate with his folded
arms and surveyed the collection.
“Scones!” he remarked testily. “Gripes,
Ma, why don’tcha make somethin’
decent? Ain’t we got no bread? Never
could see anything in noo scones except
indigestion.” In a worried burst of speed
Ma produced the bread. “Don’t forget
we promised to go over to the Hugginses
for tea tonight. Dad,” she reminded pre-
sently. “Can you come in a bit early?”
“Awright.” Six hours later, freshly
shaved and cleaned, Dad was swopping
yarns with Bill Huggins across the tea
dishes. He looked up in response to Mrs.
Bill’s query. “Why, yes missus, don’t
mind if I do,” he chirruped heartily,
handing up his plate. “That there rhubarb
tart tastes good, an’ them scones just
'makes a man eat.”
* He * *
“Ned Loh”; The agent, a trifle hazy
about crops, waxed enthusiastic about the
Queensland farm he was trying to sell;
so many acres fit for the plough, so
many acres ploughed ready for a crop,
etc., etc. “Any mint?” asked the buyer.
“No I don’t think so,” said the agent,
“but I’ll see to it that a crop is put in
if you buy.”
% *
“Colonial Cove”: Although West-
ralia’s convict period was never as lurid
as that of N.S.W. or Van Demonia it
had its highlights. On March 4, 1859,
six members of the chain gang made a.
break from the quarries at North Fre-
mantle. Reaching Garden Island by
small boat, they seized a larger boat
and, after announcing that they were
making north for Java, sailed away.
The pursuit boat, of course, went south.
A month later five escapees, led
by one John. Williams, gave them-
selves up through hunger to a party
of Government surveyors at Shark Bay;
the missing member they had murdered
because he got up at night to pinch an
extra drink of the precious water. All
lifers, they were condemned to death,
but were spared, Governor Hampton
being too short of labor to waste any
over a mere killing of a fellow convict.
Three years later Williams dug hitnseu
free, and got away on an American
whaler. Four years passed, and, run-
ning his eye over a batch of newly-
arrived convicts, Senior Warder Duggan
recognised Williams, now Alexander
Smith, who had again been transported
from London. A hundred lashes waj his
welcome home. But the very next year
saw him over the wall again, this time
heading a party of eight, Williams, last
over, took a bullet in the shoulder from
a guard. Leaving the others he headed
south to the Vasse. Forty miles on he
way he came to Murray River, swollen
with winter rains, where he met an a bo.
trooper. Pretending to surrender, he
grappled with and strangled the black,
then, with others coming, he plunged
into the stream. But the current was
strong, his wounded shoulder stiff, an
the aboriginals watched him drown.
EMBARKATION.
The last hawser swirls like a shark’s fin
by the ship’s side; the engine’s pulse has
quickened
as the bows turn out to sea.
Let me be moss,
or sea-wrack clinging to the coppered piles,
not living, journeying to unknown lands;
not breathing—lest my country’s air become
a vague, nostalgic, land-blown thing.
But I am finer texture, flesh well-shaped
and limbs well-lined, as from my bunk I watch
the deepening distance of the evening air.
I cup my hands around the porthole’s curve;
within its crystal sphere of light there blend
the present and the past. I dare not seek
the future —enough to see the hills I know
writhe into mountain-monster, and expose
a sand-gold belly by the waterline.
My land! A war-dull mind may watch you
shrink
as small and strange as in this witches’ glass,
or memory feel you blur, as evening comes
to dim you now .. . Already there are sounds,
sea sounds, and engines pounding at my heart!
Irrevocably borne through surge of seas, •
the rhythmic bow descends a thousand graves.
Ashore, the wharf lights are dissolved to stars —
soon will those eyes be closed; their fleeting
ghosts
will peer in the night-wake and the land’s voice
be lulled to whimpering in the salt wind’s song.
But in the night a deeper cry asserts:
“Much that you loved you held in common
store; ,
such love grows pallid in its own desire
and only exile can restore the light
of sapphire to the sky, gold to the sand,
and lend you Corot’s eyes to see some tree,
in slow pavane with its own shadow bend,
or Rembrandt’s to perceive the dignity
that time has chiselled on your mother’s face.
“Go unafraid into the battlefield,
knowing each moment that you hazard there
prospects a panful of familiar soil
till all the clod of commonplace becomes
awakened treasure, gleaming, permanent.”
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


“Bad Australian”: “Moyhu” (B.
25/4/’45) overlooks the habits of the
tree-dwelling platypus and the carni-
vorous propensities of the wombat.
One bright moonlight night, on my way
home from Dinny Hogan’s unlicensed
premises atTumbleup, I paused awhile to
observe a shoal of duckbills feeding on
the luscious fruit of a giant geebung tree.
Presently I became aware of a rustling,
crackling noise, and a large, stout middle-
aged wombat emerged from the under-
growth and, after a preliminary sniff or
two, began climbing the tree. The, terri-
fied duckbills fled before the baleful glare
of his great red eyes, their beautiful
iridescent plumage gleaming iti the silvery
light of the moon like jewelled tapestry.
The voracious carnivore marked one for
his prey and, following it out on a long,
thin limb, ventured a bit too far: the
limb bent nearly double, he lost his grip,
fell and, striking the ground with terrific
force, exploded with a detonation like
the crack of doom. When I had disen-
cumbered myself of the resulting shower
of wombat giblets and recovered from
the shock of the explosion I looked to
see how the platypus had fared, but he
had disappeared, together with the rest
of the shoal, into the umbrageous fast-
nesses.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: Every farm in this N.Q.
valley has its pair of magpies and butcher-
birds. They do not stray any distance
from their chosen territory, and the four
young ones that the two pairs of birds
rear each summer are ruthlessly belted
away on attaining full size. This natural
law is strictly obeyed, no matter how
plentiful food may be near where the
youngsters are, hatched. My nearest
neighbor had had his “maggie” couple
for more than 30 years when the lady
mag. was accidentally killed during a
cyclone. They sadly buried the dead bird,
which had always been easily recognised
by her deformed leg. Next day the male
bird was found dead in a three-inch deep
puddle of rainwater: suicide was the ver-
dict. Within a week a fresh pair of
“maggies” was fast becoming civilised.
:|c * ♦ *
“Manor”: Frank, the new lighthouse-
keeper, was very anxious to impress us
with his resourcefulness. One morning,
while we were bathing in the bogey hole,
a large stingray swam in through the
channel. We scrambled out of the water
“I got out and left it UP there."
and sat down to await the “all clear.”
Frank had a better idea. He rushed up
to the toolshed and came back armed
with a spade and mattock. As the ray
cruised past he made a swing at it, but
didn’t bargain for the results. The mat-
tock stuck fast in its back, and out to
set it swished, complete with “periscope,’!
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Though I claim that fresh
Murray cod is the best of all edible fish
—properly cooked it is an epicure’s
dream—there is a qualification. Any-
thing from a pound to about eight pounds
weight fills the bill; after that they get a
bit oily. The really big fellows become
rank. Once had a steak off a 72-pounder,
landed just above Euston, and it wasn't
my idea of cod at all. That was the
biggest X ever saw actually landed, though
I saw the head of a 105-pounder in Mil-
dura. It looked like the entrance to a
railway tunnel, and it set me wondering
what was the record weight for a Murrdy
cod, a point I’ve never seen settled,
though there was a claim that the champ,
came from the Goulburn River (Vic.) and
turned the needle at more than 1501 b. I’m
listening.
“Wakool Will”: Some swear by the
yabbie as bait for cod, but differ as to
whether it should be used raw, and set
either high or low in the water, or boiled,
in which case it should be secured to the
Hook with an elastic band. Then there
is the fellow who believes in a live carp
and another who favors the tree-frog.
The wichitty grub has its adherents, and
so has the common mussel. A piece of
hare or rabbit or even entrails of duck
or poultry have been reputedly successful.
Sparrows, mice and bats enjoy popularity,
and centipedes dipped in boiling water
have been quoted. Any one of these
lures is good if the speckled wonder js
in the humor; but the daddy of all bait
is available immediately after lamb-mark-
ing time. With these on the hook and the
lines attached to sound springers, you
won’t go to sleep on the job.
*** < »
“Moyhu”: Although a notable leaper,
the kangaroo has never done well over
hurdles. Essentially a fugitive, the ’roo
has to be chased to get the utmost speed
out of him. Some of the earlier trainers
used horsemen for this purpose, with
small success because of the ’roo’s tend-
ency to break away from the course when
the pursuers came close. Les Gaffney,
once a promineht trainer on north-
western Victorian courses, unsuccessfully
experimented with an in-season doe as a
decoy. He ascribed failure to the quarry,
which would coquettishly slow down
until the bucks had almost overtaken her
and then bound away, consequence being
temperamental upsets among the runners.
The use of an off-season doe was even
less successful, as it streaked away from
the ponderous bucks which, realising the
futility of pursuit after hurdling one or
two obstacles, stretched themselves at full
length on the ground and sulkily refused
to budge.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The big white bull came
up the rise with a majestic, defiant action.
The splashes of mud and stains of travel
could not entirely rob that hide of its
snowy whiteness, nor the harassing he
had received take the arrogance from
those enormous shoulders and massive
head. Only two of his herd were still fol-
lowing him —like faithful wives about to
commit “suttee” for him, it seemed to me.
One of them, goaded by a sharp stabbing
pain in the rump, surged forward, collid-
ing with the big leader. With eyes glow-
ing red and short horns menacing, he
would still have turned and fought it out
had that been possible. But the trap was
sprung behind him. A “croonch,” and a
cow lay dead ; another preceded the other
cow’s collapse. A shadow moved over-
head, and suddenly a whirling arc de-
cended. The impact would have killed
a cow on the spot: it did not drop the
white bull. Nothing but iron walls could
have contained the bovine fury that
roared and stormed as it tried to clamber
out of the narrow, high enclosure. Again
the shadow poised above, moved as the
agonised creature plunged and fought,
poised again, struck swiftly, missed, fol-
lowed again—and connected squarely
where the hair curled the middle of
the wide forehead, “0.K.,” said the
slaughterman from his catwalk above the
crush, as he put down the seven-pound
hammer and pulled the rope that lifted
the iron side and let the slaughtered
beasts roll out to the waiting chainmen.
“He was a tough blankard.” I don’t
think I’ll do another tour of the N.S.W.
State abattoirs until a less barbarous
method of killing has been evolved.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The first time we hit
Mildura for the fruit-picking the big
fellow had to learn to ride a bike. I took
him out to an open place where a flat
"No; they're not all for the kids, sir—the tank's for the missus!”
slope ran down between an old one-way
disc and a clump of box-thorn, got him
aboard the grid and pushed him off. Ten
yards later he crashed. Two hours later
ten yard§ was still his limit. “Look here,
he said, “you go away an’ leave me alone.
You make me nervous. I’ve ridden pig-
rootin’ horses and banana-backed steers,
cable trams and snigged logs, an’ if I
can’t ride this thing I’ll eat me hat.” 1
withdrew with the admonition “Well,
pick a spot between the disc and the box-
thorn an’ aim for it.” From behind a
shed I watched Mat kick himself off. He
kppt the grid up and straight for about
20 yards, then veered, wobbled and dived
head first into the box-thorn. As I helped
him pluck a few thorns out and dabbed
the punctures with iodine, I said “Why-
inell didn’t y’ fix yT eye where I said?'
He winced. “Gripes,” he howled, a
man’d need three ruddy eyes, like one
o’ them Cyclops or Hydras or somethin .
Howinell could I keep one eye fixed
ahead when I had me right on the disc
an’ me left on the hedge? Ow, what s
lhat in me arm, a flamin’ crowbar?”
» * * *
“Chuck”: Horatio’s main virtue is a
dogged persistence in carrying out in-
structions, so it was with confidence Pete
took himself to town for overhaul and
repairs after drumming it into Horne
to pump water daily for the stock and
to wire if anything turned up. It did.
A drought. Horrie’s first wire read
“River very low. What’ll I do?” The
reply broke records getting back. “Dam
the river.” After someone had explained
to Horrie that it wasn’t indifference on
the boss’s part, he got to work building
a rock wall across the stream, only to
find a few days later there wasn’t enough
water left to run. “River gone dry.
“What’ll I do?” he dispatched urgently.
“Dig a well under the bank,” he was in-
structed. Again Horrie got to it and
sank a hole, following it deeper each day
as the water dwindled. A bit later he
again sought the P.O. “Rock bottom at
20ft. Water almost gone. Stock weaker.
What’ll I do?” The reply came: “Pray. ’
Next day a terrific thunderstorm hit the
district, and with the river running free
the postmaster was surprised to see Horrie
humping his knot through town. “What!
he growled ; “not walkin’ out on a sick
man, are y’?” Horrie gave a snort. “His
own fault,” he growled resentfully. “Likes
t’ keep me workin’, that’s all, when he
c’d just as easy ’ve given me them last
instructions in the first place.”
* * * • *
“Wippegong”: Posted again, and in the
few days’ leave wangled before report-
ing, a fellow looks more carefully at the
land he knows best. You’re glad enough
to leave the last station; the dust and
winds have been foul this summer—but
you take an interest in the three inches
they have had just after you left; the
fairways needed that rain, and it will
freshen up the bit of' garden you were
nursing down at the section. You take
the nippers out for a couple of picnics,
more to gain a few more memories than
to give the colts any bush training—you
gave the eldest lad a grounding in that
before joining up, and he’ll have to do
what he can for his brothers till you get
back. From the train south you see roads
and towns that stir memories of good
times and hard ; catch sight of distant
ranges that drew the feet when they were
free to roam; cross rivers where the
camping was always good ; but you note,
too, the erosion, and turn to thinking of
all the jobs that will be waiting at home
when it’s “all over.” There are a couple
of days to kill before the boat sails, so
you slip up to the old, wide valley where
you grew up, and take a cobber who
hasn’t been to those parts; go out to the
gullies where the tree-ferns fringe the
creeks that wind below the woolly-butts
and the blackwoods which, with their feet
in moss, go clawing upwards for the sun.
And there, out of sight of the metropolis
and all that has crawled to the surface
therein these days, a fellow feels that
there are still good reasons for the things
he is doing ; feels he has a vested interest
in the yellow-bobs coming close tor
crumbs, in the recital floating down from
the lyrebird up the gully, in the flash ot
crimson parrots against the dark ridge
across the creek. Down the road a
couple of cosy homes snuggled in out ot
the wind lead thoughts to the good days
ahead, days of relaxation and quiet and
ease; then the next house is almost
hidden by the blackberries that have
strangled the garden, and you wonder
which of the services that chap is m and
how long it will take him to get the place
straight when he comes back—-if he comes
back. Probably -he’ll need a hand;
another of the jobs ahead. Back to town
and time to be moving; but on the way
to the station for the last time were
held up in the midst of a surging mass
by a huge semi-trailer rumbling down
the street with three magnificent blue-
gum logs aboard ; and the blokes from
the bush watch them go and don t teel so
damned futile after all.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”; The coastal strip be-
tween Exmouth Gulf and Broome (W.A.)
can usually be depended on to supply
the continent’s biggest blows, but occa-
sionally the north-east seaboard can
throw up a super-hurricane. On January
19, 1918, a cyclonic depression developing
east of Mackay (N.Q.) sent coastal baro-
graphs plunging. The “centre,” barograph
reading 27.55 in., struck Mackay early in
the morning of the 21st, shoving a tidal
wave before it that almost drowned the
city. Approximately £1,000,000 worth of
damage was done in Mackay alone, and
20 people were killed, 30 in the whole
district. That day 24.70 in. of rain fell,
followed by 17.25 in. next day, and 13.60
on January 23. That January Mackay had
just 80in. of rain, about 20in. more than
it usually gets in 12 months.
AUTUMN.
Grey sky, grey water, and a grey ship of war
end March in misty silence; and Autumn
walking
the ways of rain is scarcely here before
it is of winds and winter we are talking.
So long was summer that by now it seems
the mountain voice of soft, progressive
thunder
is but a sound remembered out of dreams:
it is not strange, but still we wake and
wonder
that winter should be here—its lustrous skies
like balm upon the spirit’s anxious fever,
the cold and sudden rain that wets our eyes
more sweet than tears or triumphs whatsoever.
April, as lovely as a child’s embrace,
draws briefer days about us: summer is over.
We see in Winter’s pale and peaceful face
the likeness of a dear familiar lover.
N.SW.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
• TOWNSVHjLE, CHARLEYILLB, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
BONE
Tor
FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
i ■
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 7124 T Adelaide, 588 Perth.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Rams dropped Oct./Nov., 1943,
are now ready for delivery.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gm
per head.
k
H. E. KATER & SON - - - Egelofara, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
CERTAIN DEATH
dfgdfgdfgdg
CYanogaS
(Regd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can nse the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND “DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS .”
Sydney Beef Show.
“Bulago”: It was mainly an exhibition
of sale bulls. With a few exceptions, the
female side was very weak, largely due
to the dictum that breeders must be pre-
pared to accept a minimum reserve bid
of 150gns. Stud cattle destined for show
are usually unaffected by drought, but
some of this year’s exhibits looked as if
they had just got out of a concentration
camp. Straight from the paddock—and
not a very good paddock, either—against
the sleek, well-prepared animals, the con-
trast was startling.
Four States were represented on the
catalogue, and over 20 studs appeared
either for the first time or after some
years’ absence. Cudgeena and Hamble-
don made a welcome reappearance.
There was better representation of
Devons and Red Polls.
Among the Shorthorns a noteworthy feature
was the strong swing toward a predominance
of rich, dark red, with deep roans of the same
tinge. Coonong sent a compact team that were
hard to beat in any class. In one big class
for bulls 15-18 months, Coonong won all three
ribbons with progeny of Calrossie Red
Baronet. A beautifully proportioned deep roan,
Coonong Naval Lord was champion and junior
champion, Hambledon Sovereign was reserve
■and another Coonong, Noble King, was junior
reserve. The cows were nowhere near the male
standards and numbers were relatively small.
Herefords with 282 entries must have con-
stituted a record. There was one class of over
70 bulls. With half‘that number in the judg-
ing ring started to bulge, so the class had to
be judged in relays. The winner, Windsor
Royal Robin, went on to win the champion-
ship and junior reserve championship ribbons.
It may seem strange that there could possibly
be a better bull in the show than the champion,
but it was so. The Windsor bull was beaten
for junior championship by Colly Creek Elec-
tric, but the latter being under 12 months was
debarred from entering the open championship.
Last year’s champion, Windsor Lancaster, had
to take second place to his stud mate. Hereford
females were not particularly remarkable.
Aberdeen-Angus breeders gave the judge
some hard thinking. Quality was good.
Kahlua maintained its taste for blue ribbons,
and its team of compact, mossy-coated black
polls also won the junior championship, but in
the open had to give way to Booroomooka
Memory. Abington won junior reserve ribbon.
Of all the polled breeds none can equal the
Shorthorns in the rapid advance toward per-
fection. A few years ago they were represented
by a few hornless animals with the general
Durham characteristics, but today they come
closer in comparison with their horned
brethren than any other breed. Nine studs
were represented, and all participated in
awards. The Killen cattle were shown in tip-
top conditivn, and two stud mates divided
championship honors, the open going eventually
to Antrim Romulus, a rich, red roan of beauti-
ful lines and proportions. Peel River lifted all
four female championship ribbons with two
beautiful roan heifers.
The Polled Herefords also made a good
showing, but there was a definite tail. The
Miltbn cattle took a lot of beating, but Wanta-
badgery scored well and won the bull champion-
ship. These polls have made great headway of
recent years. Milton took reserve and both
junior bull championships.
Havilah and Table Top Devons were joined
by Ban Ban this year. This useful breed de-
serves wider attention. Havilah maintained its
position well out in fron,t, but its cattle would
be hard to beat anywhere, and the results are
no discredit to its competitors. Only two studs
represented Red Polls, and awards were fairly
evenly distributed. There seemed to be a tend-
ency to swing toward milk rather than’ beef
production in the cattle paraded.
Sterilise the Hands.
v “J.W.R.”: Even “Sheepo” (B. 18/4/’45)
falls into fhe common error of exhorting
his correspondence class in farm surgery
to sterilise the instruments, while saying
nothing about the hands, Hygienically,
“So THAT'S how he brings 'em back alive."
the hand, are lhaj.
instruments fot such operations as lamb-
marking or castration of larger animals.
Tf -it - is °° m ™ on to f e an operator
. Wlth ° at6 the sterillsed I { v
ff° m snow Y clc J h ®. as a preh-
mm ary to thrusting unwashed hands into
the vitals of his victims. In the castra-
tion of horses and bulls especially, when
cnrairallv rlirtv rrmpc arp npppccarilv
“[V !
handled by the operator tor controlhrit,
the patient, it is essential that the hands
should be washed thoroughly at the last
moment before operating <
r , , , ,
For such washing of the hands plenty
of clean water and soap suffices, so long
th w „ Qhin „ • j,... thnrnimblv and
as * e wa - n S 1S done t o oughly, and
as thoroughly repeated should the hands
have to be used for anything but actual
s “ rger y-, , Th . e ri f sk ° £ dangerous germs
being cained into the wound by the
smooth surfaces of metal instruments is
small in comparison with the danger of
manipulating exposed living tissues with
dirty hands.
Pasture Improvement.
“Pat Ater”: Rotational grazing, con-
trolled by subdivided paddocks, is the
essence of successful dairy farming, but
it’s not much use restricting grazing pad-
docks to five or ten acres each on an aver-
age 100-to 200-acre dairy farm unless
they’re sown to improved pastures. That
means something more than paspalum in
warm coastal districts and perennial rye
on the tablelands and inland areas.
Just as paspalum is the summer
standby of warm and wet districts, so
must Phalaris tuberosa become the back-
bone of winter pastures, and with it go
perennial rye, cocksfoot and clovers.
Round the Phalaris and sub. clover the
quick-growing Wimmera rye, white and
red clovers can be added for good winter
and spring pasturage. On the rich flats
of coastal areas prairie grass and lucerne
should be sown in mixtures.
A mixture recommended for the
N.S.W. South Coast by Government
Agrostologist Whittet consists of peren-
nial rye (certified) 101 b., white clover 31b.,
sub. clover (mid-season sfraip) 31b., red
clover 21b.; a total of 181 b. of seed to
the acre. On flats of lower fertility and
uplaad areas like Moss Vale sow Phalaris
tuberosa 31b., white clover 31b., sub.
clover (early strain) 21b., sub. clover (mid
strain) 21 b ; 101 b. in all to the acre.
The full allowance of lewt. super, to
the acre should be used as a dressing
with the seed sowing. On clovers the
dressing should be an annual one.
Lucerne needs seed inoculation for a high
germination count.
Whatever the mixture, remember
Phalaris as the winter and spring stand-
by of cooler, inland regions. There’s
nothing to surpass it. A paddock of it
on coastal slopes, too, will yield a cut
of splendid silage, as well as winter
grazing.
For hay put down a stand of red or
sub. clover or lucerne"; make it into
silage if time permits. A pit of 60 tons
was cut by Tom Naughton, of Gilmore
Valley (N.S.W.), consisting of sub. clover,
lucerne, with spear-grass and perennial
rye. That, with another pit of 90 tons
of maize saw his head of 80 Jerseys
over the worst drought in 30 years.
Farm Trees in Queensland.
“Bill C.”: Where trees are required
for checking erosion and for fodder, pick
varieties that are known to do well in your
locality. Some of the following trees may
be grown from seed or cuttings in
Queensland, but the others must be grown
from rooted plants.
The carob-bean ( Ceratonia siliqua).
evergreep, 20-50 ft. high, suitable for in-
land or the coast; raised from seed, the
carob is leguminous, grows well on arid
land, can stand winter frosts and severe
summer heat. It breaks strong westerlies,
provides shade and bears heavy crops of
an edible bean.
Weepipg willow ( Salix babylonica ) and
“pussy” willow (£. caprea) are suitable
for almost all climates, but they require
fresh, running' water. They are particu-
larly useful along the banks of creeks
and will grow from cuttings. Stock like
their foliage, so they must be protected
from stock until they are well established.
Plants of the Chinese weeping elm
(Ulmus chinemsis ) should be bought from
a reliable seedsman. Evergreen, the elm
rarely exceeds 30ft. in height, but it is
very hardy and may be planted in all
districts. Stock are very fond of Chinese
elm foliage. Pinus imignus and Arau-
caria excelsa (Norfolk Island pine) both
100-footers, fast-growing and good for
coastal, inland and highland planting, are
suitable for breakwinds and shade.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Beware of your nags
straying into dense scrub in search of the
succulent scrub couch. Though this grass
becomes more plentiful the further north
you go on the N.Q. coast and horses
grow fat on it, they may get a mouthful
of stinging-tree from seedlings growing
amongst it. Then you’ll have to choose
between giving ’em a merciful bullet .or
letting them destroy themselves in a fit
of madness.
“Myrrhee”: It is safe to feed barley,
wheat, oats or maize to sheep if intro-
duced gradually and not fed more than
fib. per head e daily. Begin with Ifoz.
per head daily for the first two days, then
increase by foz. daily until each sheep
is receiving from 4oz. to Boz. a day, suffi-
cient for the maintenance of the average
sheep.
“E. 2”: Spray apricots, peaches and
nectarines for shot hole in autumn as
soon after the leaves have fallen as pos-
sible. A second spraying to control leaf
curl should be made just before the blos-
soms open in early spring. Bordeaux
mixture made up to 6-4-40 is effective
against these fungus diseases.
“Bob M.”: A cane-knife can be turned
into an efficient grass-cutter. Remove the
wood from the handle of a worn knife
and bend the last five inches of the handle
at right angles. Insert this in the slit of
a new axe-handle and fix with bolts. A
short stay-wire across the corner com-
pletes the job.
“Bennie”: To prevent digestive troubles
in young ducks, add a little creek sand
to the morning mash, about one table-
spoonful to lib. of mash. Later, leave
off putting it in the mash, and have a bed
of coarse sand and grit where the ducks
may get it any time.
“Nodup”: It is awkward to solder up-
side down, so try this. Tin the iron
heavily on one face only. Use that face
uppermost and the solder will stop where
you want it.
“Plane Creek”: A belt of timber will
certainly prevent wind erosion, but if the
ground between the trunks carries no
grass washing may occur during heavy
storms. There is no sheet erosion, but
the storm-water flowing to lower levels
forms gullies. I have seen bad gullying
of heavily-timbered country where there
was little grass. Most of the water came
from a barren ridge above the paddock;
a surface cover of grass adds tremen-
dously to the absorptive capacity of any
soil.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
Reparations Bill.
(From “United States News.”)
The total of the claims against Ger-
many, even if only the most obvious
damages to civilians be counted, far out-
runs her capacity to pay in full.
There are civilian victims in Europe by
the millions. Property of all kinds has
been destroyed. Even farm lands have
been made unproductive. In Holland
broken dykes have flooded 300,000 acres
with salt water, and it will take five years
to restore the fertility. Vast Ukraine
areas have been gashed and torn. From
70 to 80 per cent, of the livestock in
some areas of Europe is gone. City after
city has been flattened.
After the First World War the repat-
riation bill, arrived at by adding all sorts
of things—including pensions for war
veterans and payments made to their
families while they were in service—•
reached only $33,000,000,000. By the
time 30 conferences and various experts
had evolved all sorts of plans Germany
was given 70 years to pay this reparations
bill. She would not have finished, under
the Young Plan, until 1988.
But still Germany failed to pay. The
most comprehensive study sets the total
that Germany paid up to the time
of the Hoover moratorium in 1931 at
36,481,200,000 reichsmarks, or about
$9,120,300,000. A great deal of this went
to pay the costs of collection, for the
army of occupation, for interest and for
various other expenses.
Germany tackled that debt with her
industrial machine intact. Her people
were hungry and there were food riots.
But the plants were there, ready to make
peace-time goods. This time the German
industrial plant has been shattered by
bombs. Few heavy-goods industries will
be left by the time the war is ended.
The creditors are approaching this
problem realistically. They will handle
Germany as do the creditors of a busi-
ness firm that is not able to pay its debts.
Their armies will move in, as officers of
the law, to seize the assets. The repara-
tions committee members in Moscow will
act as receivers. They will weigh the
German assets against the claims, take
what can be had for quick settlement
and operate the rest of Germany under
a receivership for the benefit of the
creditors.
There are varying names for this pro-
cedure. Some speak of it as making Ger-
many the economic slave of Europe. But
whatever the name, the German economy
will be operated by the joint committee
for the benefit of the rest of Europe until
the damage done by German armies in
the affected countries has been repaired.
Reparations experts are keeping before
them the lessons of the last war. They
want to make the reparations job a short
one. This will make the generation of
Germans that caused the damage pay for
it Ten years, not 70 years, is the time
spoken of most often.
In all phases of the reparations prob-
lem the Allies are keeping in mind the
lessons of the past. They are fully aware
of the shock that acceptance of payments
in kind gave to the European economy
25 years ago, of how hard it is to make
collections, of how the effort to collect
in cash failed, and of how a -disarmed
Germany managed to lay hands on guns
again.
Cash demands will not be important
this time. Goods and services will be
the topmost claim. And the Ruhr will be
occupied from the outset. The receiveis
will run Germany, and any sit-down
strikes will be dealt with in summary
fashion. .
After the last war the Allies had all
sorts of troubles with payments in kind.
Germany was to build ships for the Allies.
But a depression hit the shipping industry
and the Allies refused to accept any more
ships.
For reconstruction of devastated areas
Germany was to furnish animals,
machinery, tools, stone, brick, tile, wood,
window-glass, steel, lime, cement, furni-
ture and heating apparatus. But when
the German Government began making
these payments French producers and
labor organisations protested. They
wanted to do the work themselves and be
paid in cash from Germany.
The coalmines of France and Belgium
had been wrecked. Italy normally im-
ports much coal. These countries agreed
to take free coal from Germany. Under
the Dawes Plan, over half of the Ger-
man payments were to be made in kind,
chiefly coal.
But the British coal trade had been
stimulated by the closing of French and
Belgium mines. When free German coal
hit France prices fell, french railways
and sidings were clogged with coal.
France began selling the coal in Holland,
Scandinavia and Italy for whatever it
would bring. This cut into the British
export market. A coal strike closed mines
in England and tied up all industries for
three months.
Throughout the operation England
refused to accept payments in kind. She
wanted cash to pay her own war debts
to the United States, wanted markets in
which to sell her goods to get cash. She
helped to restore Germany in order to
broaden her own markets.
But this time all of Europe can absorb
vast quantities of German materials. Mil-
lions of homes have to be rebuilt. In-
dustries have to be recreated. • The
demands for all sorts of goods will be
endless. And the peoples are not able
to buy. They will have to have these
goods before they can become self-sup-
porting. It will be the job of the repara-
tions committee to get these things.
Unlike the last war, when destruction was
confined to the ground over which sol-
diers fought, the present conflict has
spread destitution to all corners of
Europe. The economy is flat. Goods are
needed to restore it. Germany will supply
those goods.
East Prussia, with its agriculture,
Silesia, with its metals and coal, will go
to Russia and Poland. Four million or
more young Germans will rebuild what
the German armies destroyed in Russia.
Others may be used elsewhere. Farm
machinery and livestock will be taken.
Forty per cent, of the German industrial
output will be taken. And that industry
will operate under United Nations
receivership, with troops handy to enforce
any decision.
A German on Germany.
[From a “Free World” (U.S.A.) article by the
leading German author Thomas Mann, who has
for years been an exile in America.]
It is impossible to demand of the
abused nations of Europe, of the world,
that they shall draw a neat dividing line
between “Nazism” and the German
people. If there is such a thing as a
people, if there is such a thing as a Ger-
many as a historical entity, then there is
also such a thing as responsibility—quite
independent of the precarious concept of
“guilt.”
The world has gone through five years
of a war full of suffering and sacrifice, a
war unleashed by Germany ; and from
the very first day of this war Germany’s
opponents Were faced by the combined
German ingenuity, courage, intelligence,
discipline, military efficiency—in short, by
the whole power of the German nation,
which stood as such behind the regime
and fought its battles. They were not
faced by Hitler and Himmler, who would
be nothing at all if the strength and blind
loyalty of German manhood were not
fighting and dying with misguided valor
for these criminals.
It was a terrible sight to seen an entire
nation gambling desperately and rushing
to hell with its eyes wide open. Attempts
to break away, to unseat the regime, to
save what of substance and of future
might still be saved, failed ignominiously.
Never had a nation acquired more cruel
rulers, masters who more ruthlessly in-
sisted that it should perish with them.
The national catastrophe which the re-
gime carried in its bosom is at hand. For
12 years we had to wait for it with a
mingling of horror and hope. Yes, we
wished it —for the sake of the logic of
morality, out of genuine hatred, out of
desire for the punishment of absurd
wickedness in accord with the moral
lesson.
And now that the debacle is here, ruin
of unprecedented extent, an all-embrac-
ing, moral, spiritual, military, economic
bankruptcy without parallel—now our
pity for so much misguided history, for
so much imprudence, for so much loyalty
to dead ideals, for so much defiance of
the real demands of the present world-
now our pity nevertheless equals our
satisfaction: it is a pity that is by no
means purely altruistic, for everything
German is concerned and is placed in
jeopardy, including the German spirit,
German thought, the German word; and
we are forced to face the question
whether in future “Germany” in any of
its manifestations can dare to open its
lips in human affairs.
Satisfaction? Certainly, we experience
it. The disgrace of a disgraceful
philosophy that tortured and exiled us;
the exposure of the lame-brained, syco-
phant intellectuals who mistook the vilest
travesty of Germanism for the real thing
and who saw in a disgusting clown, a
hysterical swindler, the “savior,” the
“charismatic leader”; who spinelessly
took part in every abjectness, prating the
while of “change in spiritual structure,”
for which “the old standards were no
longer valid” —I can still hear them.
The downfall of National Socialism
into limbo, into the underworld to which
it always belonged—for it was scum of
the underworld, the lowest, that had risen
with it to the surface —why should it not
fill us with satisfaction! And more than
satisfaction —it is comfort and bliss to
experience the restitution of the honor
and liberty of the European peoples, par-
ticularly the renaissance of France from
the deepest humiliation.
But at what cost! What incalculable
destruction has been wrought by the folly,
the besottedness, the political mysticism
of a people—of our people! How will
it be to belong to a nation, to work in
the spiritual tradition of a nation that
never knew how to become a nation, and
under whose desperate, megalomaniac
efforts to become a nation the world has
had to suffer so much!
To be a German author —what will
that be? Back of every sentence that we
construct in our language stands a
broken, a spiritually burnt-out people, be-
wildered about itself and its history; a
people that, according to reports, despairs
As regards the servicemen, it
seems a safe bet that very few of
them, on their return from the wars,
will relish the idea that to get and
hold jobs they must join labor
unions. That, we’ll be hearing from
a lot of them, was not what they
were fighting for. If labor organi-
sations try to be tough about it we
think a lot of the boys will fight
them ; and when we say fight we
mean fight. The sensible procedure
would be to drop all notion of
dragooning these men into unions
and concentrate on selling them the
idea that it will be to their interest
to join unions. — “Collier’s.”
of ever governing itself and prefers to
become a colony of foreign Powers ; a
people that will have to live in solitary
confinement, like the Jews of the Warsaw
Ghetto, because the fearful accumulation
of hatred round about will not permit it
to emerge from its boundaries—a people
that can never show its face again.
One thing is certain: there must be an
end of the martial Reich that never
understood the meaning of the word
“liberty” ; that regarded- as “liberty” only
its own right to enslave others. The
mechanised romanticism called Geimany
was such a curse for the world that no
measure whatever that tends to destroy
it as a State of mind can be disapprovec .
The hope remains that, With the CO-
operation of the German will itself, pui 1-
lied by cruel suffering, a form of govern-
ment and of life for the German peope
may be found that will encouiage e
yelopment of its best powers an
it to become a smcere c -
brighter future o m
Compromise V. Principle.
(Comment by the American syndicate wmer
David Lawrence.)
A strange mood of practicality is
sweeping the United States. It is one of
the phenomena of the war most difficult
to explain It extols compromise and
looks askance at those who insist on ad-
. . •
heience op P • .
One wonders what the .
sailors will think of it when they come
home—whether they, too, will join the
ranks of the so-called practical men who
say principle is theoretical or idealistic.
One wonders, on the other hand, whether
the servicemen will not see through the
sham of the practical philosophy and ask
some searching questions.
For if it is right to be practical in 1945,
why wasn’t it right, they may ask, to have
been practical in 1939? The records
show that Russia, for instance, was nego-
tiating with Great Britain early in 1939
and wanted assurances concerning certain
Polish territory, but the British felt that
adherence to the pledges which guaran-
teed the territorial integrity of Poland
was paramount. If Britain had been
more practical would Stalin have signed
the alliance in 1939 with Hitler which
gave the Nazis their hoped-for assurance
of a one-front operation and which en-
abled Germany to start the war?
There’s another question, too, which
will have to be answered by the school
of thought which espouses the practical.
Hitler wanted the city of Danzig. He
argued that the Polish Corridor set up by
the treaty of Versailles really bisected
German territory. In the case ot
the Sudeten section of Czechoslovakia
populated by Germans, the Municn
Conference in 1938, which was governed
wholly by practical philosophy, gave
Hitler distinct encouragement. If the
British and French statesmen had been
practical in 1939 and had given Flitler
his Danzig and revised the Polish Cor-
ridor setup as simply a mistake of 1919,
just as Stalin now argues that the failure
to grant the Curzon Line to Russia was
a mistake of the Versailles Conference,
would not such appeasement in 1939 have
kept Europe at peace, as it did in 1938.
If a small matter of European terri-
tory, thousands of miles away from us,
is unimportant —as so many of the prac-
tical folk are saying about the partition
of Poland —then why was the European
war permitted to break out in Septem-
ber 1939? If weak nations like Poland
are to be carved up in 1945 why couldn t
they have been carved up in 1939 and
saved the millions of lives and the maim-
ing of millions more in this war that now
has gone five and a half years?
The practical folk may not be able to
answer these questions without reveal-
ing their own inconsistency and their
own lack of logic. The adherents to
principle who are sometimes called per-
fectionists can, however, answer those
questions unhesitatingly and can face the
returning servicemen without equivoca-
tion. For the idealist believes implicitly
that this war was begun and will be
fough to the end to secure respect for
principle, to maintain the pledged word
of States, and to revive morality among
States. The basic principle behind the
worthwhile sacrifices being made today
in this war is a belief in fundamental
justice. Along with that belief goes a
condemnation of evil, no matter whether
it rears its head on the side of an ally or
a foe.
The believer in principle cannot con-
done in an ally any behavior that emu-
lates that of the totalitarian enemies now
being crushed by the sword. The reason
for this war, as the defenders of principle
see it, is that neither Hitler nor any other
totalitarian ruler can be trusted to keep
the peace no matter what concessions
are given. Appeasement and comprom-
ise never pay in dealing with the selfish
or with those greedy for or with
those who exclude the Four Freedoms
from their people.
The sooner the victory is won the
sooner discussion on fundamental issues
can be carried on without the hysterical
cry that to speak the truth about our-
selves is to aid the enemy.
Trends in France.
(From a report by the “Wall-street Journal”
Paris correspondent.)
In establishing workers’ committees in
every enterprise, General de Gaulle has
been careful to preserve the right of the
employer to pronounce the final word.
Even where the State takes over opera-
tion of property from private owners he
insists on these owners being indemni-
fied. He dreads bureaucracy as much as
the Left-Wingers profess to dread it.
Along with them, he is all for freedom
for small enterprise.
Will the country follow this line of
development? When the millions of war
prisoners and deportees and refugees, as
well as the women of France (for the
first time), go to the polls how will they
vote? Will the titter divisions between
right and left break out again? Will the
political pendulum swing violently this
way and then that? Will one Govern-
ment do this and undo that, only to see
it undone or redone by its successor?
Or have the long years of suffering bred
a sense of unity and measure without
which, in the general’s opinion, the nation
cannot recover its economic and political
rank?
These are questions which neither
Frenchmen nor foreigners can answer.
He who attempts to guess, however, must
remember certain things; Never did
France sink so low as she has sunk today,
and the greater the suffering the deeper
the lesson. Never was the task of recon-
struction more formidable, and therefore
the call for effort more imperative. If,
then, this people have not lost their pride,
they will shrink from repeating their mis-
takes^—at least for awhile —and it is a
good sign that during the first half-year
after liberation under General de Gaulle’s
leadership France has displayed a re-
markable patience despite lack of food,
heat and work.
Furthermore, it is well to remember
that France remains the land of small


»w • : x- •'
THIS
TREAD
PATTERN
-:v
DUNLOP
WAS
ORIGINATED
IN 1926 BY
and is the basis of
all bar-tread patterns
DUNLOP
First with the Latest in Rubber
D 28
■
*****
zy*
.“?Va:».
I iiir S' Sr % \ %
ih«"fiv
A,
«fcS
8*
** m
Official despatches credit the Hawker Typhoon single-seut fighter (2,200
h.p. Napier Sabre) with brilliant successes against German units in France 9
where , in one month alone, Typhoons fired 21,000 rocket projectiles . It
mounts four cannon guns and can carry eight rocket projectiles under its
wings . Its speed exceeds 400 m.p.h .
DESIGN FOR BATTLE
The fire-power of British
combat aircraft has grown
progressively throughout
the War. To-day single-
seat fighters can fire a salvo
comparable with a broad-
side of 6-inch naval guns.
"Design for Battle” the
principle adopted by the
Air Staff years before the
War—led to the provision
of the 8-gun fighters which
clawed down the German
raiders in the Battle of
Britain.
Shell - firing cannon suc-
ceeded the machine-guns.
And now British fighters
mount rocket projectiles of
unprecedented destructive
power, while the efficiency
of aircraft gunfire has been
doubled by the new British
gyro-gunsight, which en-
sures that to-day’s heavier
armament is more sure than
ever of a “kill.”
British aircraft designers
have wedded each advance
in armament with a combat
’plane perfectly suited to
exploit that advance to the
full.
The versatility, foresight
and ingenuity so admirably
displayed in design and
production of the world’s
most efficient battleplanes
will be available to meet all
needs of the Air Age of
To-morrow.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
farms and small businesses, reflecting an
ineradicable individualism, than which
nothing could be less suited to a Soviet
economy. Even socialists and commu-
nists in their joint clamor for true nation-
alisation of big industry are at pains to
declare their championship of small
industry.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
“If we ever come to a state —I do not be-
lieve it will ever happen—where the British
Commonwealth speaks with one voice, whether
it be in the Council of the League of Nations,
at Dumbarton' Oaks, at San Francisco or at any
other conference which may be held in the
future, then I want to tell you that it is as cer-
tain as night follows day that the friction,
difficulties and differences which would be bound
to arise under those conditions would irre-
trievably break those Commonwealth nations
to pieces.”— Canadian Resources Minister T. A.
Crerar.
* I * * *
For upward of 200 years Russia and Turkey
—not to mention Britain, France and the rest of
Europe—have been periodically at odds over
the “Straits question.” Several wars have been
fought over control of the Dardanelles. Russia
has yearned for the right of free passage from
the Black Sea to the warm waters of the Medi-
terranean, in time of war as in time of peace,
and now she aims to get it. Washington’s in-
terest in the matter is only less keen than
London’s. The future peace of the world is
involved. England and France fought Russia
over this issue and it was largely to put a stop
to the Kaiser’s Berlin-to-Bagdad aspirations that
Britain entered the World War. The British
Empire is still spread over one-quarter of the
habitable globe. The line of Empire passes
through the Mediterranean and the Middle East
—more so than ever since the invention of the
airplane. Turkey, astride the Dardanelles, is
in the middle of that line. Obviously, any
Power stronger than Britain which superim-
poses itself over Turkey and the Near East will
be in a position to cut the British lifeline more
or less at will.— Washington correspondent N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
# *
It definitely is true that Stalin, not Roose-
velt or Churchill, was responsible for the de-
cision not to invite France’s General de Gaulle
to the Yalta Conference. General de Gaulle
jumped to conclusions when he attributed his
lack of an invitation to Roosevelt. — “United
States News.”
* * * *
The post-war treatment of Germany must be
severe to be effective. But if it is so severe that
Allied sentiment within a year or so will react
in favor of the “mistreated Germans,” the
reparations settlement will collapse. That is
what happened before, and there will be plenty
of Germans trying to make it happen again.—
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
Professor Quincy Wright, of the University
of Chicago, in his Study of War covering the
years 1480-1941, hands in a report which raises
a slight doubt as to the dead-pan sincerity with
which the Big Three of Yalta could pat them-
selves on the back and boast of their peace-
loving records. Here is a part of the professor’s
list of the wars in which various nations en-
gaged between 1480 until after Pearl Harbor;
Great Britain 78, France 71, Spain 64, Russia
61, Austria 52, Turkey 43, Sweden 26, Italy 25,
Holland 23, Germany 23, Denmark 20, China
11, Japan nine. The professor gives U.S. a
pretty good break. He marks it down for en-
gaging in only 13 wars from the founding of
the Republic up to and including Pearl Harbor.
Reason: He doesn’t include the small (com-
paratively) but still bloody minor campaigns
against the Indians. War Department records
credit 110 “wars” against the Indians. — John
O’Donnell; N.Y. “Daily News.’ 1 ’
* * * *
Lord Cranborne in a recent speech aptly
pointed out that the British Commonwealth is
the first world-wide organisation of States that
has founded itself upon the idea of consent.
Hitherto empires have been established upon
compulsion. Freedom has been confined to
unitary political entities, whether small, like
the City States of ancient Greece, or large, like
the United States of today. But during the last
war the British Empire started a political ex-
periment that is unique in human history. It
began to merge the Empire into a Comnrnn-
wealth, to abandon the notion of compulsion
for that of voluntary agreement. This experi-
ment is still in process of completion. The
Empire still in part exists; it has not wholly
become Commonwealth. But the ultimate goal
of all parts of the Empire is complete free-
dom within the bounds of voluntary participa-
tion. Lord Cranborne was right to draw atten-
tion to the unique character of this experiment.
It is one of the most significant political de-
velopments of our times, and perhaps of any
time. —“ Christian Science Monitor.”
♦ * * *
The horror which the Nazis have made of the
continent of Europe demands strong measures,
but already good internationalists are begin-
ning to wonder how long the solution of Euro-
pean problems will be left to three non-Euro-
pean Powers. Sometime the peoples of
Western Europe, more than 300,000,000 of
them, will insist on taking charge of tjheir own
affairs and not merely waiting for Messrs.
Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill to decide for
them. General de Gaulle’s attitude will cer-
tainly be duplicated in the small countries, par-
ticularly if they feel that the net result of the
war for them is a free hand for the commun-
ists to preside over the liquidation of a desolate
Europe.—“ Saturday Evening Post” editorial
commefit.
* * * *
The House of Lords performed a valuable
service by debating the resolution of the Mar-
quis of Reading that all Government war
controls and regulations should be terminated
as soon as military necessity permits. The
resolution proposed that they be replaced,
where necessary during reconstruction, by
measures providing protection for people and
their businesses against arbitrary and obscure
orders. Lord Geddes, who was president of
the Board of Trade after the last war, warned
that unless the Government accepted and fol-
lowed up the principles laid down by the Mar-
quis of Reading, the demobilised citizens will
take the law into their own hands as they did
in 1919 and refuse to observe the mass of half-
baked controls. It is impossible, Geddes em-
phasised, to enforce any law which hasn’t the
intellectual and moral support of the majority
of the people, as the United States learned
when it tried to enforce complete prohibition. —
London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
« * * *
It has now been revealed that Earl Browder,
communist leader, has never had his civil rights
as a citizen restored,' although President Roose-
velt commuted his four-year sentence for pass-
port falsification. Browder, former Presidential
candidate of the disbanded Communist party
of America, was convicted of using a false
name in an application for a passport to Rus-
sia. His sentence was commuted May 15, 1942,
after he had served approximately two years.
Attorney-General Biddle has defended the
President’s action in testimony before the
House Appropriations Committee just made
public. “The sentence was far too long and
was imposed because of his being communist
and not for the crime he had committed,”
stated Biddle, who explained that Browder was
not pardoned, therefore did not regain his
rights of citizenship, including the right to
vote. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * =N
If some foreign correspondents would throw
away their Homburg hats and quit imagining
that they are statesmen they would perform a
service.— “ Wall-street Journal.”
The U.S. Army knows it will have the biggest
headache in its history when men from the
European theatre are moved to their second
war. Letters already are pouring in: “My boy
has served his time; let someone else go.”
But Japan must be licked, and the only way to
do it is to send seasoned men there. — Scripps
Howard Washington staff.
* * * *
Lord Woolton, speaking at the concluding
session of the British Association divisional
conference at the Royal Institution, disclosed
that in 1940 Britain was faced with a drop of
50 p.c. in food imports, and was saved from
starvation by the application of scientific know-
ledge to the problem of securing the right
foods, not to satisfy appetites but to give
nutrition. At the same time scientific re-
search applied to agriculture was making it
possible for British farmers to increase the
yield of the land beyond the most hopeful
public expectations. Now, in a “combined
operation” in which the scientist had played
such a conspicuous part standards of health
were well maintained, and in many respects
improved, while agriculture was serving a great
national purpose.— London “Times.”
* * * *
Two illusions about the South African armed
forces must be dispelled. The first is that the
country is divided on the war issue into an
English-speaking section supporting the declara-
tion of war and an Afrikaans-speaking group
opposing it. That is not true, for it has been
computed that over 50 p.c. of the forces bear
Afrikaans names, and the outstanding military
leaders have been Afrikaans —men like Smuts,
Van Ryneveld, Brink, Pienaar and De Villiers.
The second is that the Union entered the war
“in the defence of Britain” or “to rally round
the Mother Country.” This conception is not
only entirely wrong, but shows a lamentable
ignorance of the development of South Africa
as a virile, self-governing, independent nation.
Springbok soldiers, airmen and sailors are in
this war today because they realised the immi-
nent danger to their own country and to their
own way of living.— London “Times.”
* * * #
Golden Hind is the name of the Royal Navy’s
new depot in Australia, the main base of the
Pacific Fleet under Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser.
It is customary for shore naval establishments
to be named like ships—Devonport naval bar-
racks are H.M.S. Drake and Portsmouth’s
H.M.S. Victory—and in this case the choice is
peculiarly appropriate. It was on entering the
Straits of Magellan, leading to the Pacific, that
Drake renamed his flagship Golden Hind, in
allusion to the crest of the offical patron of his
expedition, Sir Christopher Hatton. Not only
was the Golden Hind the first English ship to
sail from the Atlantic into the Pacific, she was
also the first to circumnavigate the globe, 1577-
80. It was in her that Drake was knighted by
Queen Elizabeth at Deptford on April 4, 1581.
There the ship was ordered to be laid up for
preservation, but in the following century her
timbers decayed. A chair made out of the
wood was presented by Charles II to Oxford
University.— Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
In the early summer of 1941 gangs of work-
men in the West Country (Eng.) started cutting
a great trench through the fields. The trench
drove eastward and along it was laid a pipeline.
Most people thought it was emergency water
supply for bombed cities, but it was the be-
ginning of a great oil fuel artery system which
within a couple of years was to spread itself
over the face of Britain. Some details were
given by Mr. Geoffrey Lloyd, M.P., chairman
of the Oil Control Board. “Since 1941,” he
told a press conference in London, “we have
constructed in Britain an elaborate, inter-
connecting pipe-line system a thousand miles
long and studded with scores of secret under-
ground storage tanks holding large reserve
stocks. It is a wholly British achievement —
British in conception, planning and execution,
the work of Brtifish engineers, employing British-
made materials and British labor throughout.
Without the pipelines the build-up of the Allied
air offensive to anything like the desired scale
would have been impracticable and the prob-
lem of providing the huge petrol needs of the
invasion armies greatly complicated. Already no
less than 2,400,000,000 gallons of oil, including
hundreds of millions of gallons of aviation
spirit, have been carried to the main centres of
consumption, especially airfields.” — Manchester
“Guardian, . v


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO one REW 'a private soldier in the Army of the
United States of America. —TAKE NOTICE that
PETER LOGGIE has filed a Petition No. 4405 of
1944 for divorce from his wife, DOREEN EVELYN
LOGGIE on the ground of her alleged adultery with
you You may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
4th June 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from J. J. KIELY Solicitor 17
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
Wales—ln divorce.
TO HAROLD CHARLES SEARCH late of Bennett
Street Hamilton in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that ZONA ESMA JOYCE DUNN
SEARCH has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 294 of
1945 on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards. You may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Thirty-first day of May
1945 and obtain a copy petition free of charge from
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & MCDONALD Solicitors
of 17 Bolton Street Newcastle or JOHN CORCORAN
& Co. Solicitors Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD WALTER WILLIAM PITT late of 44
Drumalbyn Road Bellevue Hill New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE ROSE PITT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1289 of 1945 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 20th
June 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from CLIVE DAVIES & SHARPE 14 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK LIDBURY.—TAKE NOTICE that
MAVIS LIDBURY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2219 of 1943 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards You may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Sydney by the 31st day of
May 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition from
JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors Assembly Hall
2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, registrar
in Divorce.
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished. Approved by Board ot
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED —the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
. HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOK
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE. . IT¥vrl
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
fill in and mail this coupon.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD..
,30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81032.
Kindly forward we FREE illustrated pamphlet
mi the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
address
.8N.5.44
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON sometimes known
as Arthur James Pascoe formerly of Christchurch in
New Zealand (a son of Lavinia Martha Heighten of
Auckland Deceased).—TAKE NOTICE that by an Order
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand enquiries are
being made for the abovenamed Arthur James Heigh-
ten (or Pascoe) or his issue as beneficiaries under
the Will of his Aunt Ada Pascoe Deceased This
missing man lived in Christchurch New Zealand
and left there about 1897 and if alive is now aged
about 74 The said Arthur James Heighten (or
Pascoe) and all persons claiming to be his issue or
to be representatives thereof are required to com-
municate with the undersigned executor on or beiore
the 30th day at September 1945 failing which they
may be excluded from participation in the said
Estate Persons knowing anything of the missing
man are requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
THE TRUST MANAGER,
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
Queen Street, AUCKLAND, New Zealand.
A message to Executives
It “"i f"
iJSsr
/f
r |
IRMr
r^”
Every man, in a position of trust and responsibility,
should make it his business to recommend that his
Company’s insurance be written by Edward Lumley &
Sons, who, as Bennie S. Cohen & Son, have over the
past fifty years become Australia’s leading insurance
brokers effecting insurances with Lloyd’s of London.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
WsgW/t
u
2# STRONG IN THIS FORM..
ft
n
W/jy/
,
W/Oy BUT STRONGER STILL IN THIS!
11l '> u
The monarch of the forest, towering high above the
undergrowth, is the very epitome of strength. Yet, the
solid timber comprising that mighty trunk has only a
fraction of the toughness to he found in Plywood.
And so, skilled artisans pare selected tree-trunks into
veneers, from one-quarter to one-hundredth of an inch in
thickness, and glue these veneers together in such a way
that the grain in each alternate layer is at right angles to
that above and below it. This makes Plywood practically
unsplitahle. It will not warp, twist or crack and acquires a
strength out of all proportion to timber in its original form.
hug*
'V'
fill
7‘
'A
• yjAp'r
USES
III 1
it 1 ..
UNL
in l
OF
ha
TH
/%
m
«p
CRAVEN "A*
You’ll appreciate their
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT - SORE THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Accommodation, Sydney, for ex-serviceman
and wife. —3628.
To buy English Sounds, by Walter Ripman,
and Plays for Youth, by C. H. Lockett. 3629.
To buy What Is Art?, by D. S. McC011.—3630.
To buy Ford Car Supplement originally sup-
plied with 15th edition of Dyke’s Engine Ency-
clopedia.—363l.
Information Sought.
Is a publican forced by law to serve a drink
on demand or can he discriminate?
In accordante with National Security legisla-
tion a publican must supply on demand a
reasonable quantity of drink if he has sufficient
stock; he must refuse to supply males under
18, females under 21, Australian aborigines and
persons under the influence of liquor.
In what foods is Vitamin E found ?
Analytical methods for the determination of
Vitamin E have not been sufficiently developed
to ensure accuracy, but it is known to occur
in the oil from seeds such as wheat, rice, cotton
and corn as well as in green plant foods and
leafy vegetables. In fact, Vitamin E, which is a
fat soluble material, is very widely distributed.
What agreements exist between Germany and
Britain regarding the use of poison gas in war,
and when were they reached?
Both countries were parties to the Hague
Declaration in 1899 against the use of asphyxiat-
ing gases in shells, and to the 1907 Convention
against the use of poison or of poisoned
weapons of any description.
How is the cost of domestic electricity supply
calculated in (1) Sydney, (2) Brisbane?
(1) A certain minimum of units (kilowatt-
hours) per quarter, calculated on fhe basis of
2j kilowatt-hours per 100 sq. ft. of external
area of the house, is charged at 4|d. per unit.
In a home with electric cooking all the rest
of the electricity used is charged at 0.7 d.;
in a homo without electric cooking, Id. per
unit. (2) Latest schedule available provides
for a charge of 4|d. per unit for the first ten
units, Ud. for the next 20 units, Id. for the
next 150 units, and id. for all units over 180.
Brief Answers.
C.8.L.: A bait consisting of one-tenth ounce
sodium fluoride, 11b. of sugar, 3oz. honey and
one pint water, all boiled and stirred, should
eradicate the ants... .J.R.W.: A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson was born near Molong, N.S.W., in
1863. He died in 1941 H.H.; It was not
necessary, even before a recent legal decision,
for a farmer buying a property which he in-
tended working himself to invest in war bonds.
A.W.: It is the first line from a song in
Stevenson’s Treasure 151and.... P.K.: It is a
salt-water lake in South Australia R.S.:
Send name and address Heroic: In the
Metropolitan area of Sydney during 1940 and
1941 the race meetings totalled 110 and 111
respectively.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address mnst appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no U.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor. ,
A.S.A.: Beware of melodrama... .C.S.: Not
a hope... .M. 8.: End weak S.T.; “Hear
my history... .I’ll tell my ta1e....1’1l speak.
You’ve hardly tightened it when saying
everything three times over H.F.0.: “I con-
sider it very appropriate and, in all, a grand
poem.” Well, it’s appropriate P.M.; I
would like to have it placed before the people
of Australia as an inspiration to future efforts.
Place it on the mantelpiece as a reminder not
to include conventional moralisings in future
efforts L.G.C.: Usual observations on de-
sirability of living under a gum-tree... . W.J. :
Anguished appeal noted; verse attractive in
places, but thin and repetitive F.J.S.: Beer
poems insufficiently intoxicating H.L.; Lan-
guage antiquated... .P.M.J.: It' bmps....
DVF : That theme has whiskers down to its
waist....H.E.R.: Still awkward.... S.T ;
Rhyme the thing. .. .R.C.: Not a bad little
boat till she sank in the last stanza...-L-J-l- •
And on and on and on they ramble H.J.S.:
No “dids” P.M.: Conclusion just misses.


Are You a Business
i
or Professional
Man
If so, your days are possibly so fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 67th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M,S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. %
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwalladet.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
o
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursep
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Uog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/I)
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
STOPvouoßupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days*
free trial offed. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO„
(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLMN
General Industries, Ltd.
Parent Co.
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 4,946 155,290
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,549
1935 75,630 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. s= 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 12i „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 12| „ „ 79,646 904 8,607
1939 103,528 20,851 121,, „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Assets revaluation. £4882 .. .. .. 179,249
1940 154,060 20,851 121p.c.= 79,646 63,563 232,812
1941 112,206 20,851 12£ „ „ 79,646 11,709 244,521
3 942 111,386 20,851 121 „ „ 79,646 10,889 255,410
1943 99,505 20,851 10 ~ ~ 63,717 14,937 270,348
1944 90,239 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
1945 89,968 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,400 281,419
§ Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, jo Feb. 28, 1935.
From factories at Sydney, Footscray,
Adelaide and Perth the two subsidiaries
(Metters, Ltd., and Metters K.F.B. Pty.),
in which General Industries holds all the
shares and little else, turned out a wide
range of stoves —the line on which the
business grew up-baths, gas-heaters,
builders’ hardware, enamel goods, radi-
ators and other electrical equipment, etc.
The fortunes of the group were thus part
and parcel of the experiences of the
building trades, which explains the jolt
earnings got in the early 1930’s and their
subsequent recovery.
Though war brought private building
practically to a standstill, it also created
a big substitute demand for war goods,
including munitions and items of heavy
equipment, etc. The change involved
many technical problems associated with
plant conversion and precision work.
Considering these and other difficulties,
including dilution of skilled labor, scarcity
of materials and the steady rise in costs,
especially in taxation, the business has
made a very satisfactory showing over
the last half-dozen years. Only a fraction
of total output, and that drastically
rationed, has been available for civilian
consumption.
Factors mainly responsible for the
easing of earnings over the last five years
—before that the figures in the table re-
late to the holding co. only—have been
shortage of suitable man-power and rising
costs. Last term demands of the Govern-
ment and Allied forces “materially
diminished.” The man-power released
was transferred to production of essential
civilian requirements. This production is
a long way short of immediate repressed
trade needs, which cannot be fully met
until sufficient operatives, skilled and
otherwise, are made available by man-
power. The time is now approaching, if
it has not already arrived, when the Gov-
ernment should make a start in this
direction.
With the easing of building and other
controls connected therewith, demand for
this co.’s products is likely to tax plant
capacity for some time. If the antici-
pated big post-war demand for builders’
hardware and home fittings, etc., is to be
met without undue delay, then the sooner
a start is made to build up adequate stocks
of raw and manufactured materials to
meet it the less dislocation will there be
when the time arrives. Where plant has
been employed on work for which it was
originally designed the switch from war
to ordinary trade production will be a
comparatively simple problem of replace-
ments and repairs. But where new plant
has been instated or old plant converted
to handle materials and turn out war
products alien to normal trade require-
ments its reconversion, if this is possible,
is likely to be a much more complex and
expensive matter. Only the most efficient
equipment, operated by co-operative
labor, will enable costs to be kept at
competitive levels.
Last term’s £89,968 (down £271) of
profit was written after making an un-
specified provision for taxation and de-
preciation, and includes £2796 dropped
from somewhere into reserves. It was
enough to pay the parent’s prefs. their
7 p.c. and show 10.8 p.c. on the £637,167
of ord. capital, compared with 10.8, 12.1,
14.2, 14.4 and 20.9 p.c. back to 1940. The
div. was stepped down from 124 p.c. to
10 p.c. in 1943, and has remained at the
lower figure since. And 10 p.c. is worth
only 6.25 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood
before the financial spring-cleaning in
1934.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures for the group:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £935,04.1 £935,041 £935,041 £935,041
Creditors . . 132,808 170,160 145,799 136,342
Tax reserve . . 98,441 265,388 190,713 165,479
Staff Fund . . 12,645 15,521 13,243 11,938
Freeholds . . 314,176 335,164 321,552 329,423
Plant, etc. .. 400,119 428,206 423,931 419,806
Stocks . . 485,047 593,438 480,818 539,091
Book debts . . 242,875 285,841 177,176 151,559
Shares other cos. 24,630 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash, etc. . . 837 32,453 206,847 146,442
Last term £58,273 was added to stocks in
preparation for approaching demand.
Debtors’ balances were reduced by
£25,617, while £9457 was chipped off the
amount coming to trade creditors, and
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £60,405.
The more or less liquid surplus (£547,963)
was £8247 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance •
T . EX ~
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£>£££, £,
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 f 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 f 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 .. 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 f 946,439
Loss property, £1574 944,865
1938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 191,188 t 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 .. 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51,115 107,750 209,923 f 1,347,160
Unexplained addition, £1852.. .. 1,349,012
1940.. 399,134 116,314 117,299 164,533 f 1,513,545
Loss property, £124 1,513,421
1941.. 429,941 105,993 123,892 200,056 1,713,477
Unexplained addition, £525.. .. 1,714,002
1942.. 437,430 186,011 114,336 135,9781 1,849,980
Unexplained reduction, £942 .. 1,849038
1943.. 445,567 250,201 107,901 87,465 f 1,936,503
Unexplained reduction, £ll .. .. 1936 492
1944.. 459,563 271,863 105,387 81,362 f 2,017,864
*Net funds apart from capital.
. ,oj tAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
+ After paying 14 p.c. on prefs. and 3i p.c. on orda.
This 24-year-old Australian life office
continues to give a satisfactory account
of itself. Set on its feet by managing
director E. J. Mooney in 1921, the busi-
ness is now spread throughout N. S. Wales,
Queensland, Victoria, South Aus. and
Westralia. Most of the life contracts are
for industrial assurance, and a small
amount of fire and other business is
written as well. At end June last busi-
ness in force, including bonus additions,
totalled £6,028,630, of which £4,669,831
was industrial and £1,318,799 ordinary.
Bonuses to policyholders began at the end
of the first decade, which is a very credit-
able performance, and have continued to
flow regularly at satisfactory rates since.
They came in the early stages from a
well-selected bunch of first mortgages.
Later a lot of money was invested in
freehold premises in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and rents figured more promi-
nently in earnings. War brought a com-
bination of low-interest rates and high
taxation, together with the pegging of
rents and channelling of surplus earnings
into Government securities. One result,
common to all life offices, has been a
shrinkage in net interest earnings, and
with it a contraction iri the rate of
bonuses to policyholders.
The amount of new business put on
the books last term was £683,620, of
which. £516,320 was industrial and the
balance ordinary. The year’s total in-
come was £459,563 (up £13,996), made up
of life premiums £359,088 (up £8025), fire
premiums, etc., £2900 (down £3) and in-
terest and rents £97,575 (up £5974).
Death claims amounted to only £23,540,
which suggests care in selection of risks
as well as light war strain under this
heading. The small volume of surrenders
(£8999, down £357) reflects, among other
things, prosperous industrial conditions in
the lower-income groups. Maturities
(£239,221) were £24,410 heavier, which is
in keeping with the age of the co. and the
class of business.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., and handing shareholders an all-
round 7 p.c. (£951), £81,362 of the year’s
takings remained. Together with £2OOO
from the bonus reserve, this was added,
to the assurance fund, raising it to
£1,989,898, On a 3£ p.c. interest basis,
the actuary figured liabilities under
policies at £1,977,708, leaving £12,190
available for distribution. It was used
(£11,203) to pay bonuses to policyholders
at the same rate as for the previous year.
and the balance to pay shareholders the
div. already referred to. The surplus was
arrived at after making the usual pro-
vision for claims notified but not settled,
and after putting aside £4421 to cover
the carry forward from the previous year.
Appearances are that preparations are
being made to strengthen the basis of
valuation and thus further widen the
protection for policyholders.
After deducting taxes the net interest
return on mean funds (excluding share
capital) was £4 9s. lid. p.c. The gross
return was £5 Is. 3d. p.c. Exes made oft
with 26.2 p.c. of the year’s net premium
income, or 20.6 p.c. of total income. They
are satisfactory rates considering that
most of the business is industrial, in which
agents must be employed to collect
premiums.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1041. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital . . £14,010 £14,010 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. 88,612 36,777 26,126 27,068
Mortgages.. .. 886,987 930,766 888,109 825,848
Freeholds . . 619,912 681,125 694,275 705,835
Govt, securities . . 95,302 115,506 231,022 372,039
Cash, etc 6,965 10,626 11,509 22,462
Debtors . . . . 4,378 4,843 6,927 7,150
Loans on policies 126,076 131,331 118,781 99,638
Equipment . . 15,431 15,498 11,471 10,713
Shares in other cos. 11,647 11,672 15,146 15,846
. * Other than under policies.
Outstanding movement last term was the
growth of £141,017 in Government
securities. Mortgages were reduced by
£62,261 and loans on policies by £19,143.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends k.
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 5.4-7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1935.. 28,356 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written oft' plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ ~30,800 16,875 45,68.6
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 „ ~30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO 60,490
1940.. 62,520 11,200 7* p.c. =33,000 18,220 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. *.. 75,810
1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 4,153 79,963
To staff fund, £5OOO 74,963
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO,OOO . . . . 96,821
1943.. 56,531 10,697 6 p.c. =26,400 19,434 116,255
To staff partners, £lO,OOO . . . . 106,255
7 p.c.
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 .. ..114,143
1945.. 54,386 11,200 7 p.c. 12,386 126,529
To staff partners, £11,750 . . . . 114,779
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
To get this business into proper focus
you must first know the Wunderlichs.
The three brothers* Ernest, Alfred and
Otto, born in London and educated there
and in Switzerland, set out in life with
distinctly different aims, but came to-
gether and built up in Australia the suc-
cessful manufacturing business that now
bears their name. Ernest, whose hobbies
were astronomy and music, first came to
Sydney with some European manufac-
turing agencies in 1885. He founded the
business and was chairman from the time
it became a public co. in 1908 until his
death last month. Alfred, a musician,
too, who was also trained for commercial
life, joined his brother in 1886. He
now steps into the vacant chair at the
heard of the board table. With him
at the table is his other brother, Otto, a
doctor with a leaning to literature. After
serving as a medical officer with the
British forces in the Boer War, he came
to Australia on a visit to his brothers in
1900, and decided to throw in his lot
with them.
Before the outbreak of the present
global conflict the co. turned out archi-
tectural terra-cotta (popular in treating
the facades of public buildings, etc.),
tiles, showcases, shop fronts, asbestos-
cement (durabestos) sheets and r other
building materials, from factories spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. For the prosperous decade
to 1930 ords. averaged a shade over
12 p.c., £107,360 worth of share certifi-
cates to staff partners was paid for out
of earnings, and £36,454 was distributed
in divs. thereon as well. For the next
half-dozen difficult years the ords. aver-
aged 4.6 p.c., which called for £33,000-
odd more profit than was earned over the
same period, after paying pref. divs. Then
the tide turned, the old policy of distri-
buting profits as they were earned was
abandoned, and for the nine years to the
close of last accounts the average ord.


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ * * •
DAVIES Sc COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. A'ust l ’*'
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
emobilizalion
for Peace.-
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
This is an important thought for
all men and women in the fight'
ihg forces or in essential services.
Are you planning and preparing
for your post-war future? Are
you training and qualifying
NOW for the new business con-
ditions that will come after the
war—when all businesses will be
in a great rush to get their goods
back on the market, when many
new products will be exploited,
and when the man or woman
who has trained and qualified in
some specific business subject will
have the preference over the un-
trained person.
Prepare Today for Tomorrow’s
Opportunities
Consult H.R.I. about your future.
Consultation costs you nothing.
Let us help you to choose the vocation
for which you are most suited seek
our advice _ start training NOW I
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
__
Professional Tutors
I 24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
■ 24 Chain Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Be and In all Capital Cities, Newcastle
Jr and Launceston.
I Please send me FREE copy of your 1
I 96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.’’ 1
I
| Address J
| Career Interested in 24/669 I
Name. —...... Age..
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
slowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a degree,
if passage is frequent and scanty, accompanied
by burning and smarting Nature may be warn-
ing that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking
the excess acids and waste out of the blood.
Most people pass about 3 pints a day or about
3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood,
when due to funtional kidney disorders, may
be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting
up nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years. They
give happy relief and will help the 15 miles of
kidney tubes flush out poisonous waste from
your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a special
remedy for the kidneys and will give quick and
lasting benefit. Old and young alike can take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS with
perfeqt safety,
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
INTERIM DIVIDEND NO. 56.
NOTICE is hereby given that a first interim
dividend of per cent. (6d. per share sterling)
in respect of the year ending 30th June, 1945,
less United Kingdom income tax at 10s., in the
£ (3d. per share sterling), has been declared
and will be payable on 28th June next t'o all
persons registered as holders of shares on the
Australian register at the close of business on
sth May, 1945. The net amount of dividend
is equal to 3d. per share sterling. The transfer
books will be closed from 7th to 9t'h May, both
days inclusive.
For Lake View and Star, Limited,
WM. THOMAS, Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, 27th April, 1945.
lie’s learnt a lot
about wireless ...
That's why
when he comes back
his new radio will
have to be a real
engineering job.
r.
“His Master’s Voice”
True-to-life RADIO
After the war your local Radio dealer will once again
be fully equipped to serve you with new “H.M.V, n
Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated In England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R6/44
1 ONE BAR
!
2 TWO BARS
Production Is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer if
you have difficulty in obtain-
ing Standard Gillette blades.
To obtain extra service from your Gillette Blades
use both edges equally. Identification marks
have been placed on the ends of the blade which
project beyond the razor head (see illustration).
These enable you to use the two sides alter-
nately, thereby obtaining maximum benefit from
both cutting edges.
STANDARD
Gillette Blades
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Saying means Safety, Waste means Disaster. Buy more War Sayings Certificates.
div. was 6.7 p.c., and £106,462 net was
added to reserves.
Since war began the gap in turnover
caused by stoppage of all but essential
private building has been largely filled
by Government orders of one kind and
another on defence account. These orders
tapered last term, and private construc-
tion remains fettered. After paying staff
partnership divs. (£1340) and allowing for
taxation (£43,440, down £4997) and de-
preciation (£29,338, down £3786), the net
result was £10,102 lighter at £54,386. That
was enough to pay pref. divs. and show
9.8 p.c. on the of ord. capital,
as against 12.1, 10.3, 13.1 and 9 p.c. back
to 1941. The div. was kept at 7 p.c., and
£11,750 was sent to the staff fund.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1940. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors . . 107,878* 215,564 135,442 143,696
Tax reserve . . 97,924 112,820 120,774
Staff funds . . 30,601 52,050 64,650 73,600
Freeholds . . 318,703 323,679 312,477 299,186
Leaseholds . . 200 •
Phyit, etc. .. 158,307 158,491 156,775 152,113
Stocks.. .. 188,873 335,346 327,234 309,475
Book debts . . 118,623 183,787 154,264 117,553
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 56,328 89,539 100,961 196,862
* Including tax provision.
Last term surplus earnings, etc., together
with reductions of £17,759 in stocks and
£36,711 in debtors’ balances and £8254
added to creditors, enabled cash and in-
vestments (mainly Government securities)
to be strengthened by £95,901. The more
• -
or less liquid surplus (£275,820) was £6273
stronger than at previous balance.
One of Australia’s greatest post-war
problems will be to overtake arrears of
home and other building. And the time
is now ripe for the Government to make
a start on the problem by relaxing some
of the financial controls and by releasing
as much man-power and materials for the
purpose as can be spared without imped-
ing our actual war effort. Owing to
structural changes in the nature of pro-
duction —output of war goods passed its
peak a year or so ago—much man-power
is now being wasted by failure to re-
direct it to nationally urgent civilian
requirements.
Burma Corporation’s valuable Bawdwin
silver-lead property, one of Burma’s
richest natural resources, was re-
captured almost intact by Chinese
troops on Feb. 21 last. These mines,
which yield zinc, copper and other
metals besides lead and silver, are
estimated to have been capable of pro-
ducing 80 p.c. of Japan’s war-lead re-
quirements. There is no evidence of the
extent to which the Japs used them, if
at all. After destroying power plants,
the co. hurriedly ceased operations in
April, 1942, when enemy forces arrived
on the spot. Since then damage has been
done by American bombing, the extent
of which has not yet been announced.
Pre-war 10,000 workers, mostly
foreigners, were employed on this prop-
erty.
* * * *
“Iona”: Victoria, too, has an impres-
sive list of gold nuggets (B. 18/4/’45),
chiefly found in the western half of the
State. In all 736 nuggets over 50oz. in
weight have been recorded, 12 of which
exceeded IOOOoz. The largest, the “Wel-
come Stranger,” was found an inch or
two below the surface at Moliagul in
1869, and weighed 25200 z. gross, yield-
ing 22850 z. net. The “Welcome,” dis-
covered 180 ft. down at Bakery Hill,
Ballarat, in 1858, had a gross weight of
22170 z. The “Blanche Barkly,” which
weighed 1743i0z., was found at
Kingower. Three nuggets of 16190 z.,
1117 oz. and 3680 z. respectively, were
found close together in a claim at
Canadian Gully, Ballarat. In 1853
a slug of 101 loz. was won from another
claim there. Dalton’s Flat, near
Canadian Gully, yielded the “Lady
Hotham” of 11770 z. in 1854. Dunolly
has produced 126 nuggets of over 50oz.
each, one of them turning the scales at
over IOOOoz. Rheola, 15 miles north, has
98 nuggets to its credit, of which three
went over IOOOoz. Among the nuggets
found ip quartz mining, 27, ranging from
lOOoz. to 5000 z., were taken from the
Woah Hawp and North Woah Hawp
mines at Ballarat from 1909 to 1911 at
depths between 400 ft. and 1000 ft. Three
lumps from the outcrop of the Matrix
reef, at Rheola, aggregated 24000 z. gold.
Records are incomplete, owing to early
conditions on some of the fields, where
public announcement of a big find often
made things risky for the owner.
* * * *
According to Westralian Chamber of
Mines annual report, the State’s leading
gold producers in 1944 were Lake View
and Star approx. 91,0000 z., followed by
Gt. Boulder 64,8700 z., Wiluna 39,0000 z.,
Central Norseman 29,6750 z., North Kal-
gurli 27,4420 z., Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
22,9690 z., Sons of Gwalia 22,6570 z.,
Boulder Perseverance 20,3980 z., South
Kalgurli 15,6030 z., Paringa 15,4460 z.,
Comet 13,1250 z. and Moonlight Wiluna
12,0190 z. Wiluna with 392,246 tons, Lake
View with 278,171 tons and Gt. Boulder
with 248,313 tons far outdistanced the
others in ore treated. At the end of 1944
4031 men were employed in the industry.
Of these 993 were at Wiluna, Edna May,
Moonlight Wiluna, Norseman and Comet,
which are “protected undertakings” be-
cause they produce “strategic” minerals
as well as gold.
* * * *
Linden Gold (W.A.) shows a loss of
£358 for the 12 months to end of Oct.
last compared with a loss of £156 for the
previous year. Directors recently decided
not to acquire an “important” property
under option, because development would
call for more capital than the co. has or
could raise at present.
U K. shareholders in Star Exploration
have applied for about 20,000 of the
100,000 2s. shares which the co. is offer-
mg at par. Shareholders resident outside
thc U K, have until July 31 next to apply
for their whack. Issue is not under-
wntten, but certain shareholders, includ-
mg a director, of the co. are prepared,
free of all commission or other payment,
to takejip any shares not applied for.
The London market’price of shares
in Lake View and Sons of Gwalia, two
Westralian gold-producers, have strength-
ened lately; those of the former from
below 18s. to over 195., and of the latter
from about 225. 6d. to 265. The cause
is continued good developments at the
south end of Lake View’s property, and
improved prospects in the bottom work-
ings at Gwalia.
* * * *
The mica mine at Yinnietharra (W.A.),
opened up by Department of Supply and
Shipping in 1943 to meet pressing war
demands, has closed down, owing to high
cost of production and tapering of war
demand. Other mica deposits occur in
Westralia at Napier River, about 76 miles
east-nor’-east of Derby, and in the Mulla-
lyup, Collie and Northampton areas, but
none is being worked at present. Aus-
tralia’s biggest producing field is at Hart’s
Range, Centralia.
* * * *
From London: Opinion here is that
f ussia wan ' s all ' he il can £or
fore,en exchange for post-war purchases,
etc -» and that the Soviet 18 anxious to
hun T production of the yellow metal,
Most Siberia’s forests are reckoned
t 0 be auriferous, particularly in the Lake
Baikal region. Last available figures for
the Soviet’s gold yield are those for 1938,
when aggregate value was placed at
£5tg.45,000,000. Big Russian finds be-
come State trusts, and the smaller ones
communal artels. Discoverers get lots of
praise for their finds. Female as well as
male geologists report on the most likely
places to find the stuff.


‘/m
pwv
NEW
REDUCED
PRICE
7/6
'I
GOLDEN
Platignmn
FOUNTAIN PENS
MAD E Tti tNOI A N 0
TtMT*
tHL *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS— James Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager — L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 bridge; street,
PHONE: B 7901.
SYDNEY
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
p
cz4* (zM'otel
FRGIHG H PARK
Tlie one tiling you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. , . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
m
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Business Rollery ,Etc.
Financial Difficulties After the War
Something evident even before World
War II is over is that inflation will be a
peace-time problem in every belligerent
nation that still retains the currency with
which it began the war. Some countries
which have been occupied by the Ger-
mans, such as Greece and Poland, may
simply abandon their pre-war currency
and start afresh, or “reconstruct” it on a
much devalued basis. Their economic
systems have been practically beaten into
the dust, and they have to suffer the re-
sultant confusion and impoverishment as
well as the military oppression of the
past and subsequent political upheaval
upon being liberated. The abandonment
of its currency by a country is no general
advantage to it. It shatters confidence
and penalises the thrifty. It is not a
thing to be contemplated by a people un-
less it is economically in extremis.
China has suffered great inflation,
which has been a principal factor in the
deterioration, of its war effort. The
Chungking office of the United Nations
Relief and Rehabilitation Committee has
to revise its expenditure budget every 10
days in order to keep in step with cur-
rency inflation. The Chinese dollar, in-
ternally, is worth only a small fraction
of what it was before the war. The cost
of living in Chungking has risen 200
times since 1937.
There has been inflation on a less
severe scale in Britain, the United
States, Canada, Australia and other
Empire countries. For a nation which
has been right in the battle Britain
has been able to control price inflation
with remarkable success. It has kept,the
rise in prices to under 31 p.c., though, as
in the Commonwealth, the price index is
not fully representative, and subsidies
have played a part in the achieve-
ment. It is a possibility that after
the war lower shipping costs may
help to reduce living / expenses in
Britain, although, if Government food
subsidies are cut out and lend-lease aid
terminates, it may be some time before
the position becomes at all clear. The
most that is certain is that there should
be reduced hazards and losses in bringing
food, etc., to Britain, the more economical
methods and routes should be once more
available, and labor should be more
plentiful, with war waste reduced, while,
on the other hand, official cpntrols over
prices and spending are likely to grow less
and less effective. . .
In the United States the rise in living
costs during the war is estimated at 25
p.c., and there is more of an open market
for living requirements in the country
than in any other warring nation. Canada
has kept its rise down to 18 p.c., while
in Australia’s case the official figure is
about 22i p.c., though few will believe
that it is a true reflection of living costs.
New Zealand has concealed its cost-of-
living index since the end of 1942, when
the war-time rise was estimated to be
14 P- c - . . , , , f
In the case of Britain a good deal ot
the price inflation that has occurred has
been the result of increased costs of
buying in South America, India arid
similar countries and the steeper shipping
freights. In addition to that, there have
been the higher wage rates paid for the
working of overtime, the disruption to
industry caused by bombing, and the
pressure of spending power in relation to
the limited amount of commodities avail-
able.
In Australia there should never have
been as much inflation as we now see.
We depend on no other country for our
principal food supplies (tea excepted), and
a big proportion of our clothing, espe-
cially woollens, is made here. We, there-
fore, are not so susceptible to movements
in world living costs and freights. Certainly
we have had a shortage of man-power
under a system of Government “control,”
but much of our increased labor costs
has been due to uncontrolled industrial
selfishness and lack of industrial discip-
line. Early in the war, the present Gov-
ernment failed to tax adequately the
majority of wage-earners, with the re-
sult that a huge volume of spending-
power banked up in relation to the dimin-
ishing supply of civil goods available. The
use of bank credit extensively to make up
for the lack of taxation revenue and
public support to war loans brought
about monetary inflation that has been
followed by price inflation. Control of
prices by the Government cannot effect
a “cure” of this position; it can only re-
distribute the effects of inflation by
charging it largely to the “investor” or
“business” class or by deferring it for the
time being through a system of price con-
trol and restrictions on spending.
Australians have to their credit in the
savings banks now about £539 million,
compared with £245 million before the
outbreak of war. In the five years before
the war the growth had been only £35
million. The rate of increase now is
slowing down under the influence of
heavier taxation and reduced overtime
earnings, but the big war-time growth well
illustrates the financial anomaly common
to most countries during this war —mone-
tarily the people appear to be growing
richef, whereas it is quite clear that, as
nations, they have grown poorer.
If the whole world conflict were to cease
tomorrow it would take a long period to
restore pre-war living standards in any
country. The productive development of
most countries during this war has been
in respect of munitions manufacture, not
civil goods. Some of the munitions “po-
tential” may be convertible to civil use
later on. But in Australia at least our
railways have deteriorated greatly during
the war, while manufacturing plant has
been wearing out, without adequate
Replacement or maintenance in many
cases. Suburban homes are beginning to
lack paint, and there are great shortages
of housing and household articles. A
national , stocktaking would not show
assets to have increased in proportion to
the piling-up of paper money.
In a country where the currency
is not backed by gold the value
of the people’s savings and earn-
ings depends greatly upon the rela-
tion between the quantity of money
they hold and the availability of things
they want to buy. Savings-bank and
similar figures show the accumulation of
money to be huge throughout Allied
countries, while not only is there a
shortage of civil goods but there is a dis-
location of the civil production machine.
In Australia, too, there has been a ten-
dency for production per head of the
population to fall, owing mostly to mili-
tant interference by trade-union bosses
and communists, and this has further
added to the disequilibrium between
spending power and production available
for purchase.
Inflation of costs and prices, caused
variously by excessive creation of money
to finance the war, by war-time disloca-
tion of production and by increased labor
costs and black-market operations, will
create problems in every country in the
post-war period. There will be a tendency
for housing prices to soar when the war
is over and price controls are relaxed,
there being such a shortage of homes and
such a large amount of finance available.
There will be a similar inflationary ten-
dency in the cost of many other things,
export commodities included.
Exchange rates between nations will
need readjusting according to the respec-
tive depreciation of the currency of each
and according to the volume and flow
of post-war trade. The international cur-
rency stabilisation fund may come into
the picture in this connection, though
the proposed form of the fund is already
being widely criticised. Unstable ex-
change rates are a cause of trade dislo-
cation.
The monetary inflation that has
occurred in Australia during this war
will tend to put a premium on land
values and shares in companies owning
working assets and real estate when the
conflict is over. Ordinarily in such circum-
stances money should be “cheap.” But
present conditions show that the eagerness
on the part of investors to buy good in-
dustrial shares on ’Change is not accom-
panied by a similar desire to acquire
Commonwealth loans carrying 2\ p.c. and
3} p.c. In spite of all financial and legis-
lative “steering,” the public noticeably
baulks at subscriptions to war loans.
With prices of all commodities and
property held down artificially now, there
are fears that money and fixed-interest
stocks will lose value when war-time
regulations are removed and prices find
their natural level.
If the Government has difficulty in
borrowing public money after the war, or
in converting old loans, it may mean
either continued recourse to inflationary
bank-credit borrowing or the levying of
heavy taxation in peace as in war. The
greater the disorganisation of private in-
dustry at the end of the war the greater
will be the need for Government spend-
ing in order to maintain employment.
Maintenance of heavy taxation would
retard industry’s recovery.
Our Australian Government, more in-
terested in politics than in the facts of
finance, has paid greater attention to its
economic yes-men than it has devoted to
the warnings and advice of experienced
financiers. Rather like some unfortunate
gentlemen in Europe, it has believed it
could get through by “wishing,” regi-
mentation, and by legislative controls.
But it can’t beat economic laws and
human nature. And so the accumulated
inflation and financial prejudices of war-
time will be carried into the peace.
Thorough and determined efforts
should be made now to curb further in-
flation, to minimise the disturbing effects
of inflation already banked-up, to reduce
wasteful Government spending (with the
objective of restoring public confidence
in the Treasury and reducing the Gov-
ernment necessity to borrow and tax) and
to give industry every opportunity to pro-
vide both employment for returning ser-
vicemen and former munition-workers
and commodities for civilians who have
war-time savings to spend.
Financial confidence can make our
post-war transition period much
smoother. All aspects of the Govern-
ment bond market need close considera-
tion to win this confidence, and the bank-
ing legislation needs to be dropped. The
position of the central bank might reason-
ably be strengthened, but the board should
remain, and the trading banks should be
freely competitive in ordinary trading
activities. A politically-controlled bank-
ing system could produce further inflation
on a scale that would destroy our credit
structure.
Treasurer Chifley has stated that the
Commonwealth Bank has been asked to
notify the trading banks that war bonds
bought as a condition of property pur-
chase may now be returned to the person
who lodged them. This is the result of
the High Court’s ruling that it was not
within the powers of the Treasury to de-
mand a proportionate subscription to war
loans in cases of investment in real estate.
* * ♦ *
Referring to the proposed Government
control of banking in Australia, the Life
Offices Association has advised holders
of life-assurance policies as follows;
In other countries the political manage-
ment of currency and credit in peace-time
has led to serious inflation, with all its dire
consequences, one of which has been the
destruction of the value of life policies and
the people’s savings generally.
The safeguarding of the premiums paid
by policy-holders is the first duty of every
life office. In view of the grave danger of
inflation that would follow the political
control of credit, the association trusts that
wise counsels will prevail and that no Gov-
ernment will assume powers dangerous alike
to Government and people. It is vital that
both the Commonwealth Bank and the
trading banks should discharge their appro-
priate functions free from the dangers in-
herent in political direction.
Among the people’s savings that would be
imperilled are those which, with confidence
in ultimate values, are put into policies of
life assurance. The present cash value of
the investments of policyholders amounts to
roughly £350 million, of which over £lOO
million has been subscribed to Australian
war loans —a notable contribution to the
war effort, which on several occasions the
Treasurer has gracefully acknowledged. The
ultimate protection to be afforded to present
policy-holders for their security and that of
their dependants is, in Australia alone,
more than £7OO million. These savings of
policy-holders are essential for the well-
being of the community in peace and war.
The inflation of war-time methods of
finance has been in itself loss enough to
policy-holders. They, like all other thrifty
people, should be spared the losses that
are bound to arise if wanton political
monkeying with the national finances is
persisted in.
*
Representatives of the Commonwealth
Government on the Aluminium Commis-
sion are G. H. Watson, a mining man
and managing director of Waddingtons,
the Sydney motor-body concern, and W.
Scott, a director of Waddingtons and a
public accountant; he has associations
with the Secondary Industries Commis-
sion. The Tasmanian Government’s
representatives are L. R. Benjamin, gen-
eral superintendent of Australian News-
print Mills, and H. W. Williams, State
Director of Mines. The cost of establish-
ing the aluminium industry in Tasmania
is estimated at £3 million, half to be pro-
vided by the Commonwealth and the rest
by Tasmania. The venture does not start
off under auspicious economic circum-
stances. Aluminium is now being over-
produced in countries with far cheaper
electric power than Tasmania. .Canada,
with its enormous hydro-electric power
resources, seems to have a natural set-up
for the production of aluminium. The
main excuse for aluminium production
in the Commonwealth is that of defence.


MANSEASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for every man’#
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
JACKSON & O’SULLI VAIN
HARTS
Circular Charts Jo» all typae of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation.
QUEEN STREET
PTY. LTD.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips. G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
meats which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURALBANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
m
9
m
m
i m
ill
m
“Don’t let your money
bite yon, Joel”
The Gate Keeper’s Sound Advice
\Y7HEN Joe was flashing his money about on pay-
W day, old Harry, the gate-keeper, offered a word
of advice: —
"Put some of it into Life Assurance, Joe, or
you’ll be like I am at 65. I flung it around when I
had it, and didn’t hold on to any of it.”
Good advice. Save first, then spend the rest
with safety.
An A.M.P. policy can be designed to give you
as much money as you need, when you will need it
most.
Ask for particulars from any A.M.P. Office or
representative.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
Mi. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
fiirSe!?' ce /l
.JJ&’V ,<S2&£
II
• *;'c
T|J
'
7
.
J> E-ESTABLISHING yet an-
other of Australia’s overseas
air links, Qantas, operating DC 3
aircraft now provides a civil air-
line service to New Guinea via
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Towns-
ville, Cairns and Port Moresby,
For full particulars apply to
Qan
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE ; PERTH *V •
10WNSVIL.E 7isn '
s
Taxation Unrest
Inevitably the question of post-war
taxation policy arises more frequently as
the war generally draws nearer to a con-
elusion. The ’Canberra Government
adopts an attitude of discouragement to
any ideas of overall taxation reduction,
and many people feel that they are being
double-crossed in sight of victory after
having made extraordinary financial exer-
tions to help the Administration in its
undoubted war-time economic difficulties,
There was no more solid supporter
of an adequate taxation policy than
The Bulletin during the period of war’s
greatest strain; it was contended here
that what wasn’t contributed deliberately
and scientifically by taxpayers to pay for
the war effort would be contributed,
through inflation, haphazardly and un-
justly by the whole population. But this
paper insists, now that the necessary war
expenditure is decreasing, that all un-
called-for Government expenditure should
be cut to the bone, with, firstly, a proper-
tionate reduction in borrowing, and,
later, some relief from taxation levies.
The Government’s objection to this
policy really is that it is finding its spend-
ing privileges a source of political influ-
ence and socialistic power. In order to
retain those spending privileges it has to
raise the money by some means or other,
and taxation is the most certain and non-
inflationary method. Not that the Gov-
eminent has been wideawake to the
dangers of inflation all through ; on the
contrary, it created a great deal of in-
nation through its Treasury-bill finance
until price control threatened to break
_
The Taxpayers’ Association of Queens-
land contends that plans should be
made to effect ‘“considerable reduc-
tions m taxation after the war ends.”
It does not overlook increased war-
debt commitments and future defence
charges, as well as repatriation and simi-
lar ?°sts. ft questions “social
security” tax levies, contending that such
schemes “should be on a contributory
basis from the point of view of sound
finance and for the good of our morale.”
The Queensland tax body believes that
if our economic affairs are - well con-
ducted after the war there should be a
lift m taxable incomes by reason of the
higher wages and the return to employ-
ment of ex-servicemen. Customs and ex-
cise revenue may be higher than before
the war, and both exports and imports
should be on a large scale. The sale of
surplus military equipment might bring
in “several hundred million pounds,” and
this should have the effect of reducing
interest commitments if the proceeds are
used to pay off portion of our war debt.
The association proposes that “those
new taxes which have been imposed and
those which have been increased, and
which, in either instance, have the most
direct bearing'upon employment and in-
dustry, should be waived or restored to
pre-war level or as near thereto as
possible.” Taxes placed in this category
are payroll tax, increased income tax and
increased sales tax. The comment is
made; “Any attempt to keep the above
at their present level is calculated to re-
tard employment, to cramp enterprise and
to stultify individual initiative.” Further,
“the level of income tax is so high that
individuals are strugglng to meet their
commitments, and, if that level is con-
tinued, there is grave danger that many
will strive less when more striving will
be necessary in the national interests.
Moreover, a slowing-down in any general
way will defeat the anticipated revenue
from income taxation.”
R. G. Menzies, in the course of dealing
with the taxation legislation now before
the Reps., suggests, ultimately, four
methods of taxation reduction, namely
(1) a cut in sales tax on essentials, such
as building materials when housing
schemes gain velocity ; (2) a percentage
cut in all income-tax rates, the highly-
taxed benefiting in the same proportion
as the less-heavily-taxed ; (3) greater con-
cessions in respect of children and other
dependents, with deductions allowed in-
stead of rebates ; and (4) the extension
of the deduction system to cover educa-
tion, including university education —
“nothing is more important to the future
of our country than the achieving of a
higher level of education and general
technical training.” Mr. Menzies recom-
mends that something be done along the
lines of proposals (3) and (4) immediately.
When bigger concessions are possible the
second suggestion should be made opera-
tive.
The comparative willingness with which
Australians allowed themselves to be
taxed for the purposes of war should not
mislead the present Government for a
moment/ It is undoubtedly true that in
order to make economic adjustments in
the change from war to peace tax rates
heavier than pre-war will be necessary.
But any abuse of taxation privileges for
political purposes will bring the whole
matter into disrepute. And, whether
justified or not, high taxation discourages
enterprise and full employment.
The Third Victory Loan, a cash opera-
tion of £lOO million, was “oversubscribed
by £6| million.” There were “about
400,000 subscribers,” an exact total not
yet being available. The preliminary
figure suggests that one in every 18 of the
population supported the loan. There
were “about 410,000 cash subscribers” to
the Second Victory Loan, and 452,000 to
the previous operation. Popular support
to loans in the Commonwealth is far
poorer than in Canada, where savings
banks make very few subscriptions as
banks. Canadian depositors withdraw
their savings and make individual appli-
cations to war loans on a far more exten-
sive scale than do Australians.
♦ * * ♦
Nuffield (Australia) Pty., Ltd., has been
registered in N. S. Wales with a nominal
capital of £1,000,000 All capital sub-
scribed will come from Britain, mainly
from the parent concern, Morris Motors,
Ltd. The Australian co. aims to make
cars “when suitable conditions are
assured,” in the meantime producing car
bodies and extending its manufacturing
activities. Among those on the board of
the co. will be George A. Lloyd (manag-
ing director) and James N. Kirby (tech-
nical adviser), who had a great deal to
do with the production of Beaufort and
other aircraft at the C.A.C. works in
N. S. Wales.
* * * *
Ford has submitted plans to the Com-
monwealth Government for the manu-
facture of cars in Australia. A capital
of £7,500,000 is spoken of. The V 8
engine is proposed to be standard in
vehicles of varying types and wheelbases.
* * * *
The latest British Budget provides for
an expenditure of £5565 million, which
is about £5OO million less than for the
preceding year. The figures are regarded
as preliminary, the end of the war in
Europe and prospects of a general elec-
tion being factors bound to disturb early
estimates. Taxation rates in recent years
have taken, on an average, an annual
sum equal to £BO for every adult and
infant in the country.


THE SERVICE MAN
Sunset in Germany.
“Ek Dum”: There seemed to be a film
of uneasy apathy over the world’s rejoic-
ing at the great events of the week which
were bringing the Second Great War vir-
tually to a close. Partly it must have
arisen from a general numbed weariness,
but partly it may have come from the
all-too-potent reminders of the horrors
and dangers which still lurked beyond
the bounds of war.
No civilised human being could con-
template without loathing and foreboding
the bestiality with which Mussolini and
his associates, including a young woman,
were destroyed and their mutilated
corpses exhibited to a frenzied mob by
a gang of communist ruffians. Turning
it over in his mind, no reflective citizen
of the Empire could fail to remember the
atrocious Red rising on the Rand after
the last war, the wretched communist in-
surrection in Greece, extolled at a May
Day demonstration in Sydney, or the
effprts of communists to form “a people’s
army” in Australia.
However, Mussolini was dead and the
last of the armies of Fascist Italy and
Nazi Germany in the Mediterranean zone
were finished. Kiwi spearheads of the
glorious Eighth Army were in Trieste,
outstripping the vanguard of Marshal
Tito’s mighty legions, much to that gentle-
man’s disgust. Surrounded, with no road
to take save ope which would lead them
head on into droves of- French and
American armor rushing down to the
Brenner Pass, the broken 22 German and
six remaining Italian divisions had one
resource left.
Alexander’s Triumph
It must have seemed almost unbeliev-
able to the plenipotentiaries of Colonel-
General Wietinghoff-Scheel, the German
C.-in-C., who walked the Versailles-like
avenues of Caserta almost under the
shadow of Vesuvius smoking away to
the south-west. In 1942 the spearheads of
Rommel’s army had sat on the edges of
Qattara, whence in time of peace tl\e
glow above Alexandria is plainly visible,
and considered what they would do when
in a few days or weeks they were at
Shepheard’s Hotel.
Now the man who in September, 1942,
had been methodically planning to deal
with them among the low hills of Ala-
mein did not even deign to meet them
in the great old Bourbon Palace of
Oflscrtn
Instead his Chief ‘of Staff, Lieut.-
General W. D. Morgan, coldly accepted
their abject surrender. They agreed to
hand over all land, sea and air forces,
hostilities to cease at noon on May 2,
Greenwich time.
All the great Axis armies of the south
were to be disarmed and immobilised, to
become the prisoners of Field-Marshal
Alexander and under his orders. With
them were handed over all the arms and
equipment, all the defences and all the
Alpine and other areas of Italy and
Austria to the very doors of Berchtes-
gaden, which itself, with a miserable rem-
nant of Nazi leaders, was on the eve of
capture by the U.S. Seventh Army.
Attempts had, it transpires, been made
for a month by the enemy to come to
terms. Now there was no bargaining, no
parley. The German plenipotentiaries
were not even dignified by being in uni-
form. They signed with shaking hands
and were told: “Thank you. I will ask
you to withdraw now.”
Outside, the man who had been the
subject of their jeers when he retreated
out of Burma, and of their confident
contempt while he planned the offensive
campaign of Africa which began with El
Alamein, was glimpsed by correspondents
chatting with Red Army officers.
Death Throes
Germany was in its last throes. Its illness
had become mortal the day that Field-
Marshal Montgomery broke the defences
of Cleves and prepared to cross the
Rhine. Its death agony began as the
American and British armies, coming
from the west, sliced its territories into
ribbons right down to the Austrian
borders. The Allied hand was raised to
give the coup-de-grdce when the Ameri-
cans had crossed the Elbe, within an
hour’s ride of Potsdam, and the Russians
had begun to move with their peculiar
transport, camels included, upon the
capital, and' to swarm over the rubble-
heaps to which the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F.
had reduced most of its main quarters.
In a few days all the authority of the
Third Reich had disappeared. Its im-
portant commanders of the early days of
the war —Von Leeb, who drove to the
gates of Leningrad ; Von List, who con-
quered the Balkans, Von Rundstedt, who
had fought to the Volga and smashed the
armies of Budenny—had gone home to
await surrender.
The political leaders who had been re-
sponsible for the loss of millions of Euro-
pean lives and for destruction and suffer-
ing the impact of which would be felt
by the human race for generations, ap-
peared to have vanished like thistledown
as the Russians occupied the last defended
ruins of Berlin, and Montgomery, sweep-
ing across the base of the Danish Penin-
sula to Ltibeck, on the Baltic, cut off all
the great German ports, Norway, Den-
mark, Holland and the armies of the
north from the rest of Germany.
Goebbels’s voice had last been heard
prophesying that the end of the war
would be sudden. Goring had dis-
appeared nobody knew how or where —
destroyed himself, died of apoplexy or
become the victim of some other dreadful
and ignominious fate.
Himmler was heard suggesting to Count
Bernadette plans for surrender to the
British and Americans. Then he vanished.
Bormann, who had succeeded Hess as
Deputy Fiihrer, had gone also into the
silence. And none seemed to know the
whereabouts of Keitel and Guderian.
Nightfall in Wilhelmstrasse
Last to fade from the stage was Adolf
Hitler, if he has faded. He went out as
he lived, with plenty of trumpets and -
Wagnerian music. Strangely, the first
heralding of his departure was the arrival
in the Allied lines of the west of several
Germans prepared to prophesy, including
his chief radio spokesman, Lieut-General
Dittmar. Dittmar and the rest were
all convinced days before the re-
ported demise that Hitler was about to
die of a haemorrhage of the brain.
At the beginning of the week it seemed
as though somebody was afraid he
might be dead too soon. Hamburg Radio
on April 29 proclaimed him alive, and
declared that only a few hours before he
had decorated some officers with the Iron
Cross. This the High Command con-
firmed with an announcement on May 1
that “the German garrison, herded to-
gether in a narrow space in the centre of
Berlin, rallies round its Fiihrer and is de-
fending itself to the last against the
enemy’s massed attacks.” Next day at
noon he was described as fighting as a
common soldier in the northern suburbs
of Berlin, not long after Hamburg Radio
had said that it seemed as if the war
would be over in a few hours.
About nine o’clock that night Hamburg
suddenly cut off its programmes and
warned all German radio stations to
stand by for a solemn announcement. For
nearly an hour and a half it played selec-
tions from Wagner’s “Twilight of the
Gods.” Then the solemn announcement
was read, a sequel to several rolls of
muffled drums:
It is reported from the Flihrer’s head-
quarters that our Fiihrer, Adolph Hitler,
has fallen this afternoon, at his Command
Post in the Reich Chancellery, fighting fo
his last breath for Germany against Bolshe-
vism. On Monday the Fiihrer appointed
Grand Admiral Doenitz as his successor.
Our new Fiihrer will speak to the German
people at the end of this announcement.
There followed Bruckner’s Seventh Sym-
phony, which commemorates Wagner’s
death. Admiral Doenitz followed in a
speech, short and staccato. He declared
that his mission was to save western
Europe and the German people from de-
struction by the advancing Bolshevists,
and that while the British and United
States forces hindered him in his task he
would fight to the last against them also.
Then came “Deutschland fiber Alles” and
the Horst Wessel song—probably their
last appearance.
The new Ffihrer’s spokesman added a
word or two which spelt the final end
of the historic Nazi hierarchy—Ribben-
trop had been deposed and replaced by
Count Schwerin von Krosigk, a former
Finance Minister and Rhodes Scholar.
It was natural that Hitler’s passing
should be received with doubt, especially
in view of the silent fading away of his
boon companions. Curiously, no Ger-
man seemed ready to deliver any
memorial oration. The Russians had, they
said, not been able to find any trace of
his body in the Reich Chancellery the day
after his death. And there was a curi-
ous circumstance about his announce-
ment of his fate. The music played over
Hamburg Radio was familiar on great
memorial occasions, such as the death
of a leading general or the commemora-
tion of “the heroes of the Ukraine” or
“the heroes of the Volga.” But one little
piece was missing which had never been
known to be missing on such an occasion,
even when the deceased was a common
soldier—a sad little soldierly air, “I Had
a Comrade”;
I long to feel your friendly grip
Whene’er the strife is near.
You cannot clasp my hand.
But in the Eternal Land
O rest you, comrade dear!
The omission could scarcely have been
an oversight when Adolf Hitler went out
minus these fervent good wishes.
However, President Truman said that
he had every reason to believe that Hitler
was dead. On May 2 the Moscow com-
munique announced the capture of
Goebbels’s assistant, Dr. Hans Fritsche,
who was supposed to. have told his cap-
tors that Hitler, Goebbels and the new
Chief of the General Staff, Field-Marshal
Krebs, had all committed suicide, a tale
in conflict with a statement by Admiral
Doenitz that his predecessor had “died a
hero’s death.” Another version, relayed
by General Eisenhower, turned up. It was
to the effect that Himmler and General
Schellenburg had told Count Bernadette
at Liibeck on April 24 that Hitler had a
haemorrhage of the brain and might live
48 hours. Certain it is that Hitler’s an-
nounced point of his departure marked
the going down of the sun for his empire
of violence.
Monty on the Heath
The result of certain proceedings of
Field-Marshal Montgomery, which had
passed almost unnoticed, suddenly loomed
large. The urge of the drive which had
begun with the Guards’ swoop on Zeven
after the fall of Bremen, and the hunt of
the Fifteenth Scottish Division and the
Sixth Airborne Division over the Elbe,
developed in power and strength. British
armor poured in a torrent across the base
of the Danish peninsula to Liibeck and
far beyond Luneburg Heath, where Ger-
man officers were trained in thousands
for the Kaiser’s war and Hitler’s.
The still blue-grey of the Baltic spread
out before the racing spearheads. They
could see the southern coasts of the
Danish islands. And they had drawn a
net round every great German port of
the north, had cut off the invaders in
Holland, North Germany, Denmark and
Norway from their homeland. Hamburg
fell, and its radio went silent until it was
reopened with the chimes of Big Ben
under the auspices of 8.8. C. Then was
heard a sarcastic English voice, substitute
for that of Lord Haw Haw, who had
suddenly become “unavailable.”
Prisoners rolled in in tens of thousands,
mingled with great masses of released
and rejoicing p.o.w, German traffic was
jammed on the roads, where many armies
were squeezed and immobilised between
the Russians advancing from the east
and the British from the west. Rocket
Typhoons were tearing them up while
the heavy bombers of the R.A.F. were
holding their last Devil’s Picnic in Ger-
many proper over the ruins of Kiel. The
remaining German warships were being
scuttled or sunk along with the last of
merchant shipping.
By this time the scene was set for a
northern version of the drama played out
a few hours before at Caserta.
While the Eleventh British Armored
Division had clattered into Liibeck the
Sixth Air-borne Division, which includes
the air battalions of many a famous Eng-
lish county regiment, stormed on to Wis-
mar, only 30 miles from Rostock, which
the Russians had captured. Junction with
the Russians followed in a period when
prisoners were pouring in in floods.
Oldenburg and many another coastal
city far to the west were in the hands of
the British Second Army. Resistance m
devastated Holland was about to col-
lapse before the Canadian onslaught.
On Luneburg Heath, in the shelter of
some of the birch trees which abound
there, was drawn up a caravan which had
been familiar all the way from Nor-
mandy. It was a simple and unimposing
habitation on wheels outside which a
cageful of canaries sometimes sang and
in which lived the little man who had
fought the tactical battle of El Alamein
and chased Germans all the way from Tel
el Eisa to Tobruk, and from Tobruk to
Tripoli, and from Tripoli to Italy, and
from Normandy to the Baltic. There was
a bit of camouflage netting hung around
the caravan and, in the offing, a patched
and battered staff tent, which looked as
if it might have spent a lot of its life in
the desert. Between the two a Union
Jack on a white staff made a splash of
color against the silver birch trunks.
’ At 6.20 p.m. on May 4 Field-Marshal
Montgomery came out of his caravan with
the Commander-in-Chief of the German
Navy, Admiral Friedeberg. Him Monty
had met previously under the Union Jack
and sent away with an hour to consider
the German need for unconditional sur-
render, after the wonderful little English-
man had shown him on an operations map
the extent of the disaster which had be-
fallen Germany.
Followed by Rear-Admiral Wagner,
Chief of the German Naval Staff, and
General Kinsel, Chief of Staff to Field-
Marshal Busch, German Army Com-
mander of the North German and Scan-
dinavian Group of enemy armies, the
Briton and German walked to the staff
tent.
There the group, with waiting British
officers in battle dress, gathered round a
trestle table roughly covered with Army
blankets on which there were micro-
phones and a few papers. Field-Marshal
Montgomery faced the microphone:
The German High Command agrees to
surrender all German armed forces in
Holland, in north-west Germany, including
the Friesian Islands, Heligoland and all
other islands, Schleswig-Holstein and Den-
mark.
The German Command will carry out at
once, and without argument or comment,
all further orders issued by the Allied
Powers on any subject.
Disobedience to orders or failure to
comply with them will be dealt with by
the Allied Powers in accordance with the
accepted laws and usages of war.
This instrument of surrender is written in
English and in German. The English ver-
sion is the authentic and final text.
He sternly called each German to sign
the text. When this had been done —the
German Admiral signed weeping—the
little Marshal added: “I will sign for
General Eisenhower,” trusted Supreme
Commander and bosom friend, and put
his signature on the document with an
ordinary steel pen in a wooden holder.
Without another word Monty walked
quickly back to his caravan and closed
the door behind him.
Those who knew him would have
needed some great pretext to induce
them to interrupt him, for they knew
that, in the strange manner of the devout
English fighting man, he had locked him-
self away in the solemn moment of vic-
tory to pray.
Fighting in the British-Canadian zone
did not end until 8 a.m. by Greenwich
time on Saturday, May 5. There were
the usual senseless last bursts of firing. At
a few minutes before “Cease Fire” the
R.A.F. shot down probably the last air-
craft which it would destroy over Ger-
many during the Second Great War. It
was a Focke-Wulf, of the type which had
so often screamed roof-high along the
streets of southern English towns, mach-
ine-gunning women and children.
British, Canadian, Polish, Norwegian
and Dutch troops shared in the triumph.
In Holland and adjacent areas 130,000
Nazi troops gave in. The Netherlands was
a sad ruin in which tens of thousands
were dead and whole populations of cities
had become living skeletons. The Polder
dykes were down, Walcheren and other
rich parts were awash, Rotterdam was
half destroyed, other towns were torn to
bits. But the country was free once more,
five days short of the fifth anniversary of
its invasion.
Denmark, after suffering last vengeful
shots, was in the hands of an Allied Com-
mission with the Union Jack flying over
a British H.Q. in rejoicing Copenhagen.
Prisoners by the Million
Prisoners were pouring in on a scale
with which it was almost impossible to
cope —there would have been hundreds
of thousands more if the British com-
mander had not refused to take over three
armies which he rightly believed to be
the prey of the Russians.
Up to the middle of the week the total
Allied bag of prisoners in the West since
D-Day had been just over 2,600,000,
apart from those Germans and other
enemies killed, wounded and missing. The
greatest catch for a single day had been
53,000-odd. This record was easily
beaten by the second British Second
Army a day or two before the final sur-
render of the North German Armies with
the capture of 83,000 in a day.
Then, within 48 hours, the two British
commanders who had planned the fight
of Alamein and the beginning and the
end of absolute German defeat accepted
capitulation from 2,000,000 more—-the
British Twenty-first Army Group had
completely annihilated 79 German and
satellite divisions since June 6.
Another 500,000-odd surrendered to
General Devers and his Americans and
French in three armies in the south,
where Patton’s Third Army was at
Linz, Austria. Czechs had taken over
Prague, after some muddled tank fight
ing round th& city, and the Eighth Army
of Egypt and Italy had linked with the
armies of France in Austria.
It seems that since the beginning or
June the western Allies had disposed or a
least 8,000,000 Germans and satellite
troops, figures which advertised the ridi-
culousness of the estimates of Eastern
front casualties which had been vouched
for by Moscow reporters.
About Allied figures in the west, there
could be no doubt since correspondents
were present to see for themselves. Bu
on the eastern front darkness still reigne .
Two Voices .. ,
Little remained to be written by May
7, three days away from Winston
Churchill’s fifth anniversary as British
Prime Minister. The armies of General
Alexander had pushed their way on the
last stage from Alamein into Central


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
EDWARD JAMES EASON, late of Taree and
Armidale N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
MAY EASON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2474 of 1942 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three .years and upwards
You may enter an appearance at the Divorce Ofiice
Supreme Court King Street Sydney before the Fourth
day of June 1945 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from K. V. SWAIN Solicitor
10 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO EDNA MARY CLAMPETT, formerly of Lucebice
Court, Herald Street, Maroubra.—TAKE NOTICE
that your husband HENRY JOSEPH CLAMPETT,
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4040 of 1944
on the ground of your desertion for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the First day of June 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from ALLAN
UTHER & MANSFIELD Solicitors 350 George Street
Sydney—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
ARTHUR LEE, son of George Philip Lee and Emily
Lee (nee Creig). Would the above or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts communicate with SNOWDEN
NEAVE & DEMAINE, 433 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne ?
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of or being
able* to supply information relating to THOMAS
HENRY RIGBY, a son of Thomas Rigby and May
Louisa Rigby (nee Rowling), who was born at Mal-
vern, Victoria, about 1890, and whose father, Thomas
Rigby, was last known to be residing at Waverley,
New South Wales, about 1900, are requested to
communicate with the undersigned.—MANNlNG,
RIDDLE & CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney,
N.S.W.
S&me/tJ ffloi/al ffiujtle ffiim
~ ' T ' f • ‘ ■ - ' ’ • ‘ ■ w
Europe. Hitler’s birthplace and his Salz-
burg eyrie were in Allied hands. General
Patton on a 130-mile front had swept
through Pilsen from the west on the night
of May 6. The Russians, who had at
last broken through the Moravian Gap
from the Neisse, were sweeping in three
army groups from the east 150 miles
from the American front. It was in their
zone that the last substantial remnants
of German armies remained to fight,
though some still held out on the French
coast and in Latvia.
The culmination of the week’s joyous
news came when it was known that free-
dom had come to Norway, that gallant,
uncomplaining, sturdy land, the first to
be invaded, the last to be liberated. A
British mission had flown to Oslo on
March 6. And on that day the German
Minister in Stockholm signed the terms
of surrender for 200,000 more troops and
300 U-boats mnd their crews.
The announcement on the morning of
May 7 that Victory Day would be pro-
claimed probably “today or tomorrow”
virtually brought hostilities to a trium-
phant close. After that the announce-
ment of the general capitulation was a
formality.
Thus ended the Second Great War,
which had begun with children singing
the “Lambeth Walk” as they fared forth
from Waterloo on September 3, 1940, to
escape the horrors of German bombing.
It had taken six bloody years to write
into history for the Nazi hierarchy the
second verse of the theme song which
their Deutschlandsender played that
night, and which was quoted in these
pages at the time. (“Morning red, morn-
ing red..,.. Soon the trumpet sounds to
strife”):
Ah, how soon
Fades the glorious life of noon.
Morning, high on charger proud;
Twilight, in the musty shroud,
Cold and stark within the tomb.
Up Against It.
“Ek Dum”: Tojo, the Japanese
Foreign Minister, came out with an
angry statement on Germany’s attempt
to carry on its war against Russia while
asking Britain and the United States for
peace. He added that this procedure
would “violate the tripartite pact, which
did not recognise peace arrangements
initiated without consultation between
the contracting powers.” Therefore, he
said, Japan would reserve the right to
free itself from agreements with Ger-
many.
This will be easy, since there is now
no Germany. Mr. Tojo’s design seems
to be to keep well on the right side of
Russia. His country sorely needs a
friend, and there is some hope for it in
that the trend of Russian propaganda,
which has markedly changed its note
within the past few days, suggests that the
U.S.S.R. might use its attitude toward
Japan as an instrument in bargaining over
European problems with the Western
Powers,
One of the reasons why Tojo will need
a friendly Russia is that the Allies have
now been able to appraise at first hand
the results of their bombing and strafing
of Germany, both strategical and tacti-
cal. The survey has assured them that, at
the present rate of growth of their long-
distance heavy striking power, they will
be capable of literally pounding Japanese
industry, communications and electric-
power supply to bits and piling the debris
in heaps within a year from the time
they begin serious operations, though it
will take several months to get into stride.
No doubt the baker’s dozen of Jap
diplomats whom the Russians have
allowed to leave Berlin for Sweden, will
be able to give a first-hand account of
what it is like to be under the thumb
of the R.A.F. at close quarters.
Meanwhile the 829 forces of the
U.S.A.F, continue to give southern Japan
weekly samples of what is in store for
them, though as yet only the first gusts
of the storm are being felt. The latest
raids before the week-end were an attack
on air installations in southern Japan on
May 4 and a double blow at a Kure
naval aircraft factory next door to one of
Japan’s biggest naval bases, and on the
heavy industries and military and naval
bases on Kyushu serving the Ryuku area.
Battle on Okinawa
On March 4 the Japanese tried to
land 600 troops behind the U.S. lines
on Okinawa, at the same time throwing
in a heavy counter-attack supported by
tanks and strong air forces following an
intense artillery barrage. Enemy aircraft
were about as thick as in any action
fought in recent times. On May 3 and 4
the enemy lost 168 machines.
Both the landing attempts and the
ground attacks were soon disorganised by
strong barrages and naval gun and
carrier action and a large proportion of
the 4000 wildly charging Japs destroyed.
On the morning of May 5 the U.S.
troops continued their offensive against
87-metre Hill, east of the Asa River.
It is deadly fighting on a very con-
stricted front, and, in spite of the power-
ful assistance available from the sea, the
going is slow, though the kind of desper-
ate assault made by the Japanese on
May 4 is usually an omen of the approach
of their end.
They have lost 34,462 men killed and
700 prisoners, including 297 labor troops.
But the Americans on shore have paid
dearly considering their resources and the
scope of their advance —2337 killed,
11,432 wounded and 514 missing.
The U.S. Navy has admitted the loss
of 20 light surface craft in the Okinawa
area —one report says five destroyers are
included —and the significance of the com-
panion announcement that the greater
part of the vessels were destroyed by
suicide aircraft is shown by the naval
casualties for the area —5551, including
1131 killed, against only 30 killed in the
Guam, Tinian and Saipan campaigns.
Sir Bernard Rawling’s R.N. squadron
has resumed its attack on the Sakishima
group.
On Mindanao General MacArthur s
troops, after a little bitter mopping-up,
occupied Davao, the last large town in
the Philippines in Japanese hands.
The Ninth on Tarakan.
“Ek Dum”: In the early morning of
May 1 troops of the Ninth A.I.F. Divi-
sion, supported by small N.E.I. detach-
ments, landed 3| miles north-west of
Lingkas on Tarakan, off the east coast
of Borneo and about 200 miles south-east
of Sandakan.
The island had been tattered for some
time ’by Air Commodore Cobby’s
R.A.A.F. squadrons, which included
Group-Captain Clive Caldwell’s Spitfires
and Group-Captain Arthur’s Kittyha\yks.
The landing was in surroundings which
must have seemed strangely "familiar to
men of the Ninth Division. Tarakan is
much like any isle off the New Guinea
coast —rain-soaked at all seasons of the
year, jungle-clothed, a land of alternat-
ing razor-backed ridges and swamps.
Familiar, too, was the bungling silence
which covered the identity of the landing
forces and of their actual operational
commander, though Sir Thomas Blarney
and the Corps Commander, Lt.-General
Morshead, were mentioned. At first the
official references were to a “famous
Australian division,” but as the Japanese
knew from bitter experience where all
the other “famous” A.I.F. divisions were,
guessing would have been easy, even if
A.B.C. had not been allowed to say
that one of the first ashore was Lieutenant
Tom Derrick, V.C., of Sattelberg and
South Australia. However, pictures pub-
lished in New York made a laughing
stock of official ostriches in Australia.
Later it was announced that the opera-
tions were und«r the general control of
Major-General George Wootten, victor of
the Finschhafen campaign, co-operating
with Admiral Royal, U.S.N., and Air
Vice-Marshal Bostock, R.A.A.F. The
landing was made under command of
Brigadier D. A. Whitehead. It was the
first time in the Pacific that Australians
had been told the names of the leaders
and the divisions involved early in a
campaign.
The landing was covered by R.A.N.
ships attached to the Allied Seventh bom-
bardment and mine-sweeping fleet, under
Rear-Admiral Russell Berkey. Three
cruisers, including H.M.A.S. Hobart
(Captain R. R. Dowling, R.N.) and six
destroyers, among them H.M.A.S. Warra-
munga (Lieutenant-Commander John M.
Allison, R.N.), covered mine-sweeping
operations in Batagau Strait—many
mines in those regions had been laid by
the R.A.A.F.
H.M.A.S. Lauchlan (Commander D. G.
Tancred, R.A.N.) buoyed the long chan-
nel between Tarakan and Mendoeloen
under the noses of the enemy.
All was ready by Sunday night, April
22. At midnight on April 30 the convoy,
which included H.M.A.S. Manoora (Cap-
tain A. P. Cousin, R.A.N.R.) and
H.M.A.S. Westralia (Commander E. W.
Livingstone, R.A.N.R.), veterans of many
a previous ship-to-shore attack, each tow-
ing an L.C.T., entered the channel under
guard of Hawkesbury (Lieut.-Commander
H. J. Weston, R.N.A.R.), Barcoo (Lieut. -
Commander C. G. Hill, R.A.N.R.) and
Burdekin (Lieut.-Commander T. S.
Marchington, R.N.R.).
The invasion took shape about 6.30
a.m. The enemy had known for at least
four days what was in the wind, but made
little attempt to prevent the attack or even
to deal with the A.I.F. Independent Com-
pany troops which landed on Sadau
Island, off the Tarakan coast, to estab-
lish artillery positions to cover the main
landing. This was implemented with a
wealth of landing craft, tanks, bulldozers,
cranes, jeeps, half-track weapon-carriers
and guns of all calibres. Never before had
Australians gone into a Pacific battle so
equipped or so well supported.
On a Muddy Shore
The point at which the attack was
made seems to have been at the base of
a peninsula full of jungle and razor-
backs, but the best approach to Tarakan,
which lies inside a considerable bay
covered on the sea side by swampy fore-
shores.
The coast is a muddy shore, on which
the mosquitoes are apt to be a yard long
and to travel in clouds a mile thick. It
had been dressed for the occasion with
under-water obstacles and bpoby traps.
Once on terra firma the columns had
two roads to operate on across the steep
ridges, with a deep swamp along one
flank of a main advancing column.
The Japanese did some ineffective
shelling of the beaches, and followed this
with concentrated fire, of which the
staple came from automatic arms from
well-concealed positions burrowed into
the earth of the jungle. It was fortunate
that resistance was not heavier, since some
of the landing craft of deep draught went
ashore in the shallows on the muddy
bottom some yards off shore, and were
forced to use their landing ramps.
Advance on the Airfield
The troops, led by tank spearheads, at
once began to converge along the two
main roads and through the surrounding
country on Tarakan town and airfield.
The weather favored them with three
rainless days—something abnormal in
Borneo. But resistance toughened as they
moved forward.
The landscape was thick with well-
hidden and -protected defence-posts, and
the favorite road-building material
appeared to be land mines, which went
up in front of the tanks at a great rate.
To the normal pleasures of night fighting
were added some engaging novelties, in-
cluding a new habit developed by the
enemy of rushing madly upon an Aus-
tralian position and hurling a 75mm.
time-fused shell into it like a large
grenade.
The Ninth, however, include some of
the most experienced jungle fighters on
earth. They went about the job methodi-
cally and thoroughly, cleaning up posi-
tions as they absorbed them and keeping
down their casualties to a remarkably
low level.
On May 2, after the landing, the beach-
head was two miles deep and nearly a
mile wide. By the evening of that day
the invaders had fanned out through
swamp and jungle to four miles from the
landing beach, and were within 300 yards
of the aerodrome.
Enemy Defences
The most elaborate tank-traps and de-
fences in general had been laid out. There
were time-bombs and contact bombs,
hand grenades harnessed to trip wires
and large calibre shells buried to the nose,
fired on contact by means of a pressure
plate fitted to their fuses.
The main Japanese concentrations had
not been encountered up to May 3. But
at that stage the battle began to grow
more intense. Mines were thick, and
troops were held up again and again by
“woodpeckers” and mortars as they
assailed the ridges dominating the first
airstrips to be approached. Flame-
throwers were needed for use against the
stout pillboxes which became numerous
as the force neared Tarakan. But the
main Jap strength still lay ahead in the
jungle-covered hills and swamps. Their
positions were being heavily shelled and
strafed, but they appeared unable to do
anything about it, and none of their air-
craft had shown up.
Tarakan township and the airstrip which
was rushed by a veteran A.I.F. battalion
were captured after four days’ fighting.
Even with Tarakan taken, though it
is an important oilfield, it is only an island
off other islands, which in turn are in the
mouth of the Sesajang River ; and the
Sesajang flows out of a terrible foreshore
dominated on the south by wide hills.
The eyes of anxious Australian prisoners
somewhere on the Borneo mainland must
be turned eagerly towards Tarakan. For
the bush telegraph of those regions and
the Chinese will long ago have brought
the good news of the landing—the first by
Australian land troops north of the
Equator and the latitude of Singapore.
In New Guinea'
Australian patrols both in the Aitape-
Wewak area and on Bougainville are
making further progress against main
objectives. The A.I.F. advance on Wewak
has been rapid. By May 5 the Cape Wem
headland had been taken, and the enemy
had been driven right back to the town,
while the R.A.N. blasted his six-inch
gun positions to the north. Wewak was
under fire from three miles away.
On the Hongorai River, covering the
Buin-Kahili perimeter, Australian posi-
tions were freed during the week from
the attentions of a six-inch gun which
our own guns destroyed, but the Japs are
plainly strengthening their defences
against the attack which they obviously
believe to be imminent.
Australian casualties from January 1
to March 31 totalled 1468.
Triumph in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Almost forgotten since the
glories of European victory was the con-
clusion of the Burma main campaign in
a manner no less glorious to Britisti arms.
It is not much more than a year since
Sydney newspaper editors were exercising
their gloomy pens on the perennial sub-
ject of British military incapacity, while
American correspondents begged the
Supreme Command to get rid of “the
royal playboy.”
In September Lord Louis Mountbatten
was able to announce that his “incapa-
city” had cost the enemy 300,000 casual-
ties in the Imphal campaign. And six
weeks later he launched a drive down
the Tiddim road “which pushed his spear-
heads across the Chindwin, 287 miles
from the starting point of General Slim’s
Fourteenth Army, within 46 days.”
By March 19 he had Mandalay, had
pushed on to Meiktila, smashed the de-
fences there. Thence he travelled hell-
for-leather over 350 miles to Rangoon,
mopping up Pegu and Prome on the way
and cutting the escape route to Moul-
mein and Malaya, British parachute
troops dropped between the sea and Ran-
goon and cut off retreat from that direc-
tion and were the first to enter the port.
So while Sir Arthur Power’s ( naval
squadron cleared the sea routes and bat-
tered Car Nicobar with 15-inch guns, the
British Imperial troops entered Rangoon
almost on the day when Field-Marshal
Alexander, whose brilliant retreat from
Burma with a.tiny force was one of the
feats of the war, received the surrender
of the German (and Fascist Italian)
armies of Italy. They had fought their
way through 800 miles of Japanese-held
territory in six months, and arrived at
their main destination well ahead of the
monsoon.
The victory will have a tremendous
effort on the Japanese war. It brings the
Allies within easy fighter reach of all the
enemy’s Malaya-Thailand railway sys-
tems, and puts them within measurable
distance of being able to cut off all the
Japanese in the Malay Peninsula by
throwing a cordon across the northern
part of the Peninsula.


J
V C> '9
BOOKS OF THE DAY
The Great Mystics. A scientific Study, of
Mysticism. By G. Godwin. 4/- (post 2d.).
Collected Poems of Sylvia Lynd. 9/6 (post
3d.).
Krark, the Story of a Carrion Crow. By
Kenneth Richmond. Illustrated. 12/- (post
4d.).
And Yet France Smiled. Anecdotes and laughs
against the German invader. By R. Neville.
5/6 (post 3d.).
The Making of Modern China. A short Hi B '
tory. By O. and B. Baltimore. 13/9 (post
5(1.) •
Poems: 1934-1944. By lan Mudie. A handsome
volume. 10/6 (post 4d.).
Knitcraft. An Annual of Knitted Fashions,
Season, 1945, with beautiful coloured plates,
complete hints and instructions. 4/6 (post
to Calvary. By Alexei Tolstoy. Stalin
Prize Novel. 14/- (post 6d.).
Two Australian Books for Children.
TWO Little Girls. Photographs and Verses.
By Joan Kenmore. Author of ihis, My
Son.” 7/6 (post 4d.).
The Story of the Platypus. By Leslie Reed.
With designs and colored plates. 5/6 (post
4d.). __
Hall Marks and Date Letters. Gold, Silver,
etc. By A. Tremayne. 4/» (post ~d.).
Sesame and Other Poems. By John Thomp-
son, with drawings by John Andrews. 10/6
(post 4d.).
The World’s Greatest Short Stories. Forty-
two masterpieces. 512 pages. 9/6 (post 6d.).
World Famous Books in Outline. •Thirty-five
of the World’s Literary Masterpieces. 51-
pages. 9/6 (post 6d.).
Fourteen Minutes. Short Sketches of Austra-
lian Poets and their work. Based on Wire-
less Talks. By H. M. Green, Librarian of
the University of Sydney. 6/- (post 3d.).
U.S.S.B. The Story of Soviet Russia. UJ
Walter Duranty, author of “I Write As l
Please.” A stimulating and fascinating
book. 18/3 (post 6d.). , . , . ..
How to Write. A witty and scholarly treatise.
By Stephen Leacock. io/- (post 4d.).
A New Life. A Play by Elmer Bice. 6/6
A K°night There Was. By Mary England.
This small book carries a message of en-
couragement to all those who have loved
ones fighting their country s battles. 5/6
Why^You* 1 Lose at Bridge. By S. J. Simon.
Death * Pays a Dividend. The t ra ®£
in arms. By Brockway and Mullally. 6/6
Anglo-American Brains Trust. Here s Your
Answer. 7/3 (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
At the AJ.C.’s Warwick Farm meeting at
Randwick on Saturday a dead-heater quoted by
McShortodds at 33 to 1 paid on the ss. tote
£lB 18s. 6d. win and £6 3s. 9d. place, and a
winner at the same familiar quote for outsiders
on Sydney courses paid £26 12s. 6d. and
£7 15s. 6d. The comparison no doubt has
it's bearing on the fact that, though the crowd,
29,170, was down about 5000 on that for the
same day last year, the £139,644 put through
the tote represented an increase of more than
£17,000.
The tasty dead-heater was the Midstream-
Glynt three-year-old bay filly Fort Denison
(G. Podmore) in the nine-furlongs Carlita Han-
dicap for three-and-four-year-old fillies and
mares. Smallish but compact, with one of those
shapely heads seen in old paintings of thorough-
breds, Fort Denison came with a wide run from
the turn under her featherweight of 6.10 to
catch the Beau Pere-Nightlight brown filly
Lunar (9.2; W. Cook) in the last stride, with
the four-year-old Marabou mare Marabelle
a handy third. The three-year-olds have cer-
tainly proved their superiority in such events,
and in their share of others, this year. There
was strong backing for the Mr. Standfast-Spear
Queen brown filly Four Square; a close fourth
after having been a long way back at the
turn. Scene, who has performed well in open
company, ran such a poor race that she may
have had her mind on the fodder situation, re-
ported to be so bad that cutting down horses
in training is right on the cards, somewhere
about 500 to be sent looking for grass from
Melbourne and ditto from Sydney.
Like Fort Denison, one of the F. W. Hughes
string, the bay colt Tithonus (by Titan, from
the smart pony Speak Easy), ridden by G.
Weate, won a division of the Two-year-old
Novice, running right away from topweight
Tamaroa and bottomweight Junior, the last-
named another of Hughes’s breeding, by his
Metropolitan winner Dashing Cavalier from
Motive. A week earlier Tithonus got away
poorly at Canterbury, but in the straight un-
wound a run that carried him flying past every-
thing but the winner, his stablemafe Tactician.
Yet the favorite on Saturday was the so-far
unplaced Golden Sovereign-Gloriole colt War-
spite. Like practically all by his sire, very fast
early, Warspite led for a furlong or so.
Tithonus isn’t such a stylish looker as Tactician,
and may be a shade weak in the hindquarters,
but if he develops a bit there he should stay.
His win increased Titan’s sireing lead to 11
two-year-olds this season. Sonning, a' beautiful
big filly by Ajax-Bubbles, needed the run, and
may need another, but should then come good.
Ridden by A. Mulley, who’s in exceptionally
good form, Sajakeda (Genetout-Cineraria) im-
proved on his fast Rosehill fourth to win the
other Two-year-old division nicely from
Columnist and Lilibet, and as the time for the
six furlongs 13 yards, 1.14, was a second faster
than Tithonus’s, with weights about the same
and the races similarly run, the form may have
been sounder. Deliverance (Manifoba-Night-
light) led to the turn. Personality, a tall Mam-
toba-Du Barry colt, looked as if the race would
improve him.
Mulley made it a double by getting Silver-
elda home from Vermeil and the Queenslander
My Wish in the Flying. When the winner last
stuck form a year ago she won three in fairly
quick order, two of them at a mile. Vermeil,
showing his first sign of form this time up,
looks an early winner. He’s a game finisher,
very hard to down when at his best. Old
Freckles led for a, while, but the best has been
seen of him. The track wasn’t fast, so Silver-
elda’s 1.12 i for the six furlongs 13 yards was
pretty good.
Mulley was also on the Warwick May Handi-
cap winner Prince, a half-head to Wellesley,
who now is running consistently but without
luck. War Eagle was a length and a half
away. Prince has developed this year into one
of the best middle-distance performers around,
trie 11 furlongs of this event probably about
his limit. Bon Terre ran well enough to sug-
gest an early win on one of the other tracks.
Old Bragger (N. Tomlinson), winning the
Highweight from Wilton Park, paid the big
winner’s dividend mentioned earlier, while Buzz
Off paid £7 19s. 9d. for his third placing. The
day’s other event, the Novice for three-year-
olds, was won narrowly by Spearex (W. Cook)
from bottomweight Survivor and topweight
Right Royal. Most definitely a likely stayer,
Spearex is beautifully bred for the r6le —by
Spearfelt from the Heroic mare My Treasure,
from Rythona. A fair performer in Brisbane,
My Treasure went to the stud a very fine big
type of brood mare.
* * * *
In a grand finish, with nothing between four
of them over the last bit, the six-year-old Mani-
toba gelding The Trapper won the Ascot Thou-
sand, run at Mentone on Saturday. Lately
changed hands at the bargain figure of 375
guineas, the winner had a head to spare from
Duntroon, with Finlarig half a length away
and half a neck to Private Chat. Simmering,
burdened with 9.10 and giving the winner 2st.,
was locked in on the rails till it was too late
for a winning run.
Keplerian, a Law Maker five-year-old, was
backed down from 100 to 1 to a quarter of
that quote in the six furlongs Leicester Handi-
cap and duly landed the money from Lone
Wind and Sir Change, in another stirring finish,
and in the Seacombe Trial Hurdle the success-
ful country flat performer Edgarley only got
there by a head from Walladale, with High
Flash third. There was, however, nothing close
about Kinderson’s defeat of Wondering and
Euxine in the Cranbrook Handicap for two-
year-olds. Consistent but hitherto unlucky, the
Kinderscout colt was last when they got going,
but had a clear run on the rails all the way,
shooting through at the turn to win with ease.
Badly drawn and carrying top weight, the
Valiant Chief-Curlis colt Valcurl proved best
of the present three-year-olds in action by com-
fortably defeating Oxford Street, Princess Amy
and 18 more of them in the Ellesmere Handi-
cap. »
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances).—Maiden
Two-year-old (colts and geldings): Tamaroa, 1;
Don Giovanni, 2; Deliverance, 3. Maiden Two-
year-old (fillies): Lilibet, 1; Franjean, 2; Son-
ning, 3. Flying: Vermeil, 1; Western Monarch,
2; Kingsdale, 3. Canterbury Handicap: Kim-
bell, 1; Qualeta, 2; All Scot, 3. Three-and-
four-year-old Handicap: Murray Stream, 1;
Ascertain, 2; Four Square, 3. S.T.C. Handi-
cap : War Eagle, 1; Wellesley, 2; Goose Boy,
3. Encourage: Survivor, 1; Chatster, 2; Magic
Wand, 3.
* * * •
E. Abel’s Ornamentation-Naivete bay gelding
Dan Patch added the Wagga Cup to his recent
Albury Cup—both among the top N.S.W.
country trophies—by comfortably defeating
Farm Hand and Grahamstown. The winner
was at 9 to 2; Lilette, up from Melbourne,
favorite at evens. Last year’s Wagga Cup
winner, High Notions, had a long lead at the
turn, but there ran to the outside fence.
* * * •
A member of this paper’s staff who’s now
where the shooting is evolved one of those
things we’ve all heard about —a sure “system.”
Eventually came the day —it was at Rosehill—
when the “system” duly flopped and its inventor
went broke. The lesson it taught him wasn’t
that he was lucky to have got out of it with
his bootlaces but that the “system” failed only
because he hadn’t started with enough capital.
By knocking off smoking and going without beer
he built up another bank; not only that, he
induced another enthusiast to go in with him.
Eventually came the day —Rosehill again—and
they were both stony. Anyone can make what
moral he likes from the sequel, which is that
both of them still firmly believe in that system!
Touching on the foregoing, probably the
most naive of all “systems” is that religiously
adopted by generation after generation of small
punters —that of “following” a certain jockey.
The naivete of it is best demonstrated by the
season lists of jockeys’ performances. In
the Melbourne list for three-quarters of the
current season one jockey who has ridden his
share over the years, A. Cooper, has the record
of four wins and 10 other placings against 133
times unplaced. Even A. Breasley, who heads
the Melbourne list with 38 firsts, two dead-heats
for first and 53 placings, has 92 nowheres in
his record, and that’s extraordinarily good.
The next three—W. Williamson (19 winners),
H. Badger (17) and T. Hoppo (13*)—all run to
over 100 nowheres.
The most remarkable performance of ajl in
the Melbourne jockeys’ list is that of the cross-
country rider L. Meenan, though he figures only
15th. Meenan’s record for the period: Winners
6, second 4, thirds 3, unplaced 4. That, no
doubt, is part of the picture of the cramped
odds Melbourne punters cheerfully accept about
hurdlers and steeplechasers, compared with the
much better than Sydney prices they regularly
get about flat performers. The ex-Sydney cross-
country rider G. Shell provides a bit more
of the picture. Shell's record for the period:
Winners 3, second 1, third 1, unplaced 4.
At least one of the riders well up in the
Melbourne list rode more than 50 successive
losers, and over the same period such leading
Sydney jockeys as J. Thompson and W. Cook
have had runs of 20-odd and 30-odd succes-
sive losers. It can happen to the best of them.
In 1928 Steve Donoghue, who passed on in
England in March this year, rode 100 races
without landing a winner. Incidentally,
Donoghue could be quoted in favor of a longer
apprenticeship in learning to ride before riding
in a race than generally prevails. Steve started
as an exercise boy when most boys are still at
school, but he was 22 before he had his first
ride in a race. He remained a jockey till he
was 53, and in his career got home some 1840
winners. When he was riding in America —
where he rode, among others, the English horse
Papyrus in the match race won by the American
horse Zev —Donoghue was already almost 40.
Although in his prime small and short, he rode
a longer stirrup and sat straighter in the saddle
than is the general Australian style.
Like quite a number of good Australian
jockeys—Maurice McCarten is a noted current
exception—Steve Donoghue took out a trainer’s
license when he stopped riding, but didn’t turn
out any outstanding winners. In the Sydney
lists for this first three-quarters of the season
McCarten, who did extra well last season, is
having another pretty good year, at present run-
ning fifth. B. Payten, who heads the Sydney
list with 15 firsts, would be miles in front if
his seconds had just made it—he had no fewer
than 27 of them. F. Cush, A. Anderson and
H. Darwon run next in numbers of winners.
In Melbourne F. W. Hoysted led in 17 winners
to head the list, with L. Robertson (15) in next
place, but Robertson’s winners earned
£21,305 10s. to Hoysted’s total of £14,320. J.
Thompson heads the Sydney jockeys with 29*
firsts, a leading margin of eight winners and
a dead-heat (he had 216 mounts!), with J.
Duncan, W. Cook and A. Mulley next, then
the Queenslanders G. Moore and N. Mc-
Growdie.
* * * *
Footscray, which always starts the
season well, continued on the winning
way by downing Fitzrpy, last year's
premiers, 14.14 to 12.9 on Saturday,
whereupon there was great rejoicing from
Kingsville to Sunshine and somebody
tried to hoist the Tricolor from the Bray-
brook wireless masts. The V.F.L. con-
test is getting a trifle mixed, since Rich-
mond, at home in a slightly supercilious
mood to South Melbourne, was jolted
by a 15.19 —13.11 defeat. Collingwood
beat Melbourne by 10.21 to 11.12 and St.
Kilda actually got a win over Hawthorn,
15.10 —11.13. Geelong came up to North
Melbourne and the usual licking. North
14.15, Geelong 10.15; and Essendon,
busily kicking 22.18, only stopped occas-
ionally to let Carlton have a kick or two
for their 7.8.
♦ * * *
Randwick and University remain the
two unbeaten Rugby Union teams. On
Saturday Uni. displayed all-round super-
iority to down Drummoyne 17-9. North’s
forwards bottled up the ’Wick fliers to
hold them to 9-all at “lemons,” but from
then it was a rout; Randwick 34, North
9. Expecting an easy win, the Parra-
mattans found themselves being bustled
and tackled into confusion by St. George,
which scored four tries to two to win
12-8. Showing vastly improved form and
combination, West registered its first win
of the season by trouncing Gordon 22-8.
The opposing skippers and an East for-
ward were sent off in the Manly v. East
tussle, which East deservedly won 8.3.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide thinks its recent
veteran bowling turnout may be a record
one. Applications were so many that age
77 had to be made the minimum. The
112 who took part averaged an age of
82}, and the senior rink was 88. Among
the players were John Cowan, former
Cabinet Minister, Senior Chaplain Ken-
drew. Dyer, of the S.A. XI in Joe Dar-
ling’s time and old-time football player
J. J. Woods.
* * * •
“M.P.”: The tidy figure of 950,000
miles —about 38 times round the world or
a couple of return trips to the moon —is
reckoned as the distance traipsed in pur-
suit of the elusive pill by Joe Kirkwood
since he started his career as a trick-shot
golfer entertaining Australian troops in
1915. Other figures in his record include
tournaments played in 70 countries and
on 3822 golf courses. Recognised as the
world’s best in his line in the U.S.A.,
where he has been molesting the fairways
on and off since 1921, Joe is shortly to
have another lash at entertaining the
troops —this time Uncle Sam’s.
♦ * * *
“Back Stop”: Choosing the next
Australian XI after the war will be
a headache for selectors. Of the
16 who toured England in 1938
only Brown, Hassett (both in the
forces), Barnes and O’Reilly (and he’s got
a doubtful leg) look possibles. Some have
been killed in action, and most of the
others have given the game up. Picking
a team should be deferred for at least
two seasons to give servicemen a chance
to show their ability.
* * * *
“Seventy”: “P. McM.” claims (B.
18/4/’45) that Charlie Turner did not use
“body swing” when bowling. But surely
every bowler has to do that! In the Test
at the S.C.G. on February 1-4, 1895, when
England was defeated by an innings and
147 runs —the best victory until eclipsed
by the innings and 200 runs at Melbourne
in 1937-38 —Turner found the wicket to
his liking (33 overs, 3 for 18 and 4 for
33), and when he put venom into his
efforts Turner’s body noticeably swung
with his arm. That match, by the way,
was Turner’s goodbye to Test cricket—
and what a goodbye!
* * * •
N.S.W. bantamweight champion Eric
McCready conceded five pounds—it
seemed much more —to the State feather-
weight champion, Sid Knight, at Leich-
hardt, and outboxed him. “Sports” didn't
care for Knight’s showing, and hooted
him in the eleventh ; but the man was
really hurt; a sitting shot had caught him
on the chin. He saw the next round out,
but was a clear loser.
With smart lefts to head or body, Joe
Grant appeared to outpoint Ron Heron
at Sydney Stadium, but Heron’s aggres-
siveness must have impressed Joe Wallis,
who declared it a draw. Heron attacked
always, but missed frequently, whereas
Grant, boxing on the retreat, often got
home on the somewhat heavier target.
An accidental butt opened a gash on
Heron’s left check in the tenth —punches
very seldom cut a boxer’s face —and
thenceforward Grant was decidedly
superior. However, the verdict brought
no noticeable complaints from the cus-
tomers.


Women's letters
From Sydney
Lady in the news is the Governor’s
wife. As the time of Lord and Lady
Wakehurst’s departure draws near from
morn to dewy eve she flutters from
ope group to another, being enter-
tained, opening centres and exhibi-
tions and flower shows. She does
all this with as much verve and
as warm a smile as though she were just
in the first instead of the last lap of her
years in this land. Last week Lady
Wakehurst, among other places-of call,
visited the Scarba Babies’ Homes at
Bondi, opened the Junior Red Cross ex-
hibition and on Saturday opened the
British Centre Officers’ Club in Mac-
quarie-street. In the evening she was the
guest at a farewell party given by officers
of all the Australian Women’s Services
at Oak Lodge, Woollahra. The chrysan-
themum show at Anthony Horderns,
opened during the week by the vice-regal
lady, was a pageant of flower beauty, and
will benefit Legacy, The work of the
Land Army girls received laudation from
Lady Wakehurst at the yearly meeting of
the Australian Women’s Army Central
Welfare Fund, another of her engage-
ments last week.
Bowlers made for 165 Phillip-street
last Monday at four o’clock to smile in
congratulatory fashion when the presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Bowling Association
handed over to the British Centre’s presi-
dent, R. J. Bartley, a cheque for the
amount raised by the bowlers for the
centre. The Phillip-street address will
henceforth be the premises of the Navy
branch.
No. 129 Macquarie-street, the just-
opened British Centre Officers’ Club, is
one of those tall, old-fashioned stone
houses towards the Bridge-street end of
Macquarie-street. It has been redecorated
and refurnished and combines cheerful-
ness and grace. Much of the credit for
general effect goes to architect Miss E.
Nosworthy. Beigey-pink and deep-blue
upholstery, cinnamon-brown carpets and
vellum curtains patterned in green give
the old home an air of welcoming com-
fort. There were flowers —masses of,
chrysanthemums —in every room on the
opening afternoon. Tea_ was served by
members, senior and junior, of the Vic-
toria League. Chairman Mrs. H. S.
Nicholas and deputy-chairman Mrs. H.
H. McNall received the guests, among
whom were Mayor Neville Harding and
his wife.
The aims of Brotherhood Week, first
yearly celebration of which is now in full
swing, are very completely summed up
in these words of the late President
Roosevelt:
It is a solemn duty for us to keep our
country free of prejudice and bigotry, so
that when our fighting men return they may
find us living by the freedom for which
they are ready to give the final measure
of devotion.
The movement started 12 years ago in
America, where it has become a yearly
event of note. Sydney’s Mayor Neville
Harding is president of the N.S.W. com-
mittee. Coadjutor-Bishop Hilliard is the
chairman.
Thea Rowe, on the eve of her depar-
ture for the North, telephoned to say fare-
well and to say that with her one-woman
show she is touring Australia keeping
alive traditional British songs. The char-
acters in such songs as Caller Herrin,
“Dashing Away with Her Smoothing
Iron,” “Charlie is My Darling,” “The
Laird o’ Cockpen” and “Widdicombe
Fair” are interpreted with rapid change
of costume. Thea depicts as many as 80
characters in her full-length recital. Re-
cently she gave a show in Canberra, and
the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester with
their suite were present. The Duke asked
for a special item, “There is Nae Luck
Aboot the Hoose.” The Duke was in-
terested to learn that although the enter-
tainer’s work is bound up with the old
British songs she is a fifth-generation Aus-
tralian. ■ ~ , . . .
The P.E.N. Club which, m this city
ox).y rate, went into recess for most of
the war years, is now emerging from its
seclusion upon which no bomb (thank
heaven!) fell, and is preparing to enter-
tain writers visiting this country. It is
proposed to call a general meeting of
members of the society at as early a date
as possible to discuss future events and
elect office-bearers.
The Hereford, the Aberdeen Angus and
other aristocrats of the pasture—in spite
of weather conditions they were in splen-
did fettle —have had their parade in
the city. Crowds of country and city
admirers trekked out to the Common-
wealth Wool Stores to admire the sleek
beasts. One day Lord Wakehurst went
out and hung prize-winners with ribbons
and gauds. Mrs. Castle-Roche and
daughter Lorna were again among exhibi-
tors ; so was Mrs. Barwick. In spite of
catering difficulties these war days, both
the Aberdeen Anguses and the Herefords
had dinners thrown in their honor. The
toast of the first-named was drunk at
Usher’s. Glasses were raised to the Here-
ford at the Australia.
A Caledonian Market and a gilt Cin-
derella coach will be much-visited exhibits
at the A.C.F. fair on May 18. The coach
will be close to Pitt-street, and will be
raffled by the Anzac Buffet. The Cale-
donian Market, run by the N.S.W. Ladies’
Golf Union, will be up towards the Eliza-
beth-street end. In between there will
be 20 other stalls. Altogether the com-
mittee is out to raise £10,000. To make
the job a success about 700 workers will
be kept busy at the stalls and selling but-
tons.
Phyllis Raisbeck, who sings the part
of Yashoda in the present production of
Dr. Bainton’s “Pearl Tree” at the Con-
servatorium, has a splendid record as a
singer of oratorio. Her contralto voice
has the right qualities of reverence and
emotion for such works. She was noted
for her singing in the Philharmonic
Society’s recent presentation of “Stabat
Mater,” and she will be heard in the
society’s approaching season when “St.
Paul” is the work chosen. The singer is
a fledgling of Neville Smith’s studio.
Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
Next Sunday marks the second anni-
versary of the sinking of the Australian
hospital ship Centaur off the Australian
coast, a tragedy that shocked the nation
to its soul and was lightened only by the
heroism of the victims, notably Sister
Savage, only female survivor, who, despite
her own suffering* tended the injured on
her raft until rescue arrived. The sur-
vivors, with relatives and friends of the
lost, will hold a memorial service at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral at 3 p.m., Canon
Tugwell officiating. The service will be
broadcast, and afterwards a wreath will
be laid on the Cenotaph.
Australians who have visited the graves
of their’soldier dead in France and those
who made the pilgrimage to Villers-
Bretonneux to see the unveiling of the
great memorial there will remember
Charles S. Atkin. Charles, a Digger of
World War I, married and settled down
in France after the armistice. He has
not been back to his native land since,
but the thought of it is ever with him,
for he was, till the Germans swept
through France, custodian of Villers-
Bretonneux. When the Boche came he
made his way to England, and there he
has labored in one of the auxiliary war
services. Writing to a Sydney friend
recently, he tells how he is looking for-
ward to returning to Villers at the earliest
possible date.
Up in David Jones’.s art gallery two
depressed-looking little cypresses flank
the steps leading to the stage. Here
against the back wall are sternly set five
upright chairs, like unrelenting critics.
But there’s not a jarring creak coming
out of any one of them, because the show
they look down on is pretty good. It is
a cabinet exhibition by the Royal Art
Society, and such paintings as Erik Lang-
ker’s “Hawkesbury, After Rain,” and
John Salvana’s “Valley Farm” are ex-
planation in themselves why young men
in their thousands have gone out to
battle for the preservation of such peace.
There is melancholy of departed life and
laughter about “The Old Cottage,” by
P. A. Morse. Only three women ex-
hibit : Dora Toovey, Elaine Coghlan, and
Loma Latour.
From Melbourne
With the restoration of Paris, her de-
signers are coming quickly back into the
realm of fashion, and shops in this city
have been quick to take advantage of the
new interest thus given to the subject of
clothes, more especially in the clothes
which suit two generations. In these days
mother and daughter wear attire of
almost the same cut, though daughter
may be more daring in the hat she
chooses. An example of this varied ap-
plicability of style was seen at a luncheon
party last week, at which Mrs, Fred Ham-
mond and her daughter, Mrs, Lance
Drummond, were guests. Mrs. Ham-
mond’s suit of grey pencil-stripe tweed
went with black accessories, while her
daughter, garbed in similar material,
chose soft grey accessories. The suits
were cut on the same lines.
At more formal parties, at which both
Mrs. Hammond and her daughter are
guests, both wear black but with dif-
ferent accessories. It was the French who
first discovered the universal usefulness
of black ; now Australian women have
made black almost a uniform. In these
days of rationing the “little black frock”
has been invaluable, for it may be dressed
up in so many ways and see service for
almost any occasion.
Joy was mixed with tears when news
came to the Dutch residents in Melbourne
that Holland had been freed, though the
scene at the Netherlands Indies Club was
a very jolly one. As soon as the news
was announced the club was decorated
with the flags of the Allies, hnd orange
flowers appeared on the tunics of uni-
forms and in the dresses of the women.
Many luncheon parties were given in the
club, and drinks were “on the house.”
Assisting Miss Joy Oliver and Mrs.
Joffre Breen, hostesses at the club, was
Lieut. Henke Cluwen as host. He saw
that guests had filled glasses when the
toast to the Queen of Holland and Prin-
cess Juliana was proposed, and toasts
were also drunk in honor of the men who
set Holland free.
Music was discoursed by an orchestra
of Viennese refugees. Col. Fiddeldey
was among those who celebrated, and
Col. de Vries had also a small party with
him. Pat Hoogveld, an Australian lass
who married a member of the Dutch
Air Force (now posted missing), took the
rejoicings quietly. Her smart black out-
fit was crowned with a turquoise-blue felt
hat in which a black osprey was placed.
Commander Quispel and Lieut.-Com-
mander De Grooet also entertained small
parties.
The elfin charm of 18-year-old Robin
Mackay is hinted at in this, her latest,
portrait by Spencer Shier. Robin s
parents are the Colin Mackays, who are
keenly interested in the career which their
only daughter has chosen. When Robin
left St. Catherine’s she went on to the
University to do an Arts course. She
will finish it, but the stage is her target,
and already she can claim a measure of
success in the theatre. She played Liza
Dolittle in the National Theatre produc-
tion of “Pygmalion,” a very bright per-
formance, and will appear in the Univer-
sity revue and also in the play which
Keith Macartney will produce for Queen’s
College. In “Sons of the Morning” Robin
brought her wistful charm into play as
the only feminine character. In between
lectures she finds time to pop in at rehear-
sals at various theatres, and in this way
improves her knowledge of stagecraft.
Winter has not yet come to Melbourne
but the concert season has commenced,
and twice the Town Hall has been packed
with ardent music-lovers. The Canadian
conductor. Sir Ernest Macmillan, has
proved a great attraction. This musician,
who combines the appearance of a cherub
with a Puckish smile, brought out the
best of which the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra is capable, and received a great
ovation on two memorable occasions. At
the second concert a party from Govern-
merit House was present Lady Dugan,
a charming figure in black with a striking
red-and-gold-embroidered jacket, was ac-
companied by Miss Lisle Johnson and
Mrs. A. Lord. Also in the party was
Chief Justice Herring’s lady, whose dinner
gown was midnight blue. The Vice-
Chancellor and Mrs. J. D. G. Medley,
also in the vice-regal entourage, later gave
a party, which included Dr. Canby, who
is giving a course of lectures at the Uni-
versity on American Literature.
Alannah Coleman sported a coronet of
gay flowers perched peasant style on top
of her head. Elizabeth Patterson had a
scarlet coat over her black frock. Betty
Ince’s small hat of red velvet flowers was
relief to her black frock ; she was with
the Robinson lady, also in black. Her
pancake hat was adorned with a silken
cord which hung down to the shoulder at
the back. Uniforms were greatly in evi-
dence. Group-Officer Clare Stevenson
was in a group of smartly tailored
W.A.A.A.F. officers. Richard Farrell,
who scored a success as pianist in the
Tschaikowsky B Flat Minor Concerto,
came from Sydney to appear at these
concerts. A Maorilander, he has been
studying for the last five years in the
Harbor City.
Ope of the most popular secretaries
the Y.W.C.A. had had in this city
recently went to <pairo to work for the
association in the Middle East. In a
letter from Cairo Miss Burton says:“
The, most exciting event of my first week
in Cairo was the arrival of Mrs. Churchill.
With another Y.W.C.A. worker I was in-
t vited to meet her at a dinner given at the
residence of the British Resident, Sir
Edward Grigg, where she was staying. We
were the only women guests. 1 had an
opportunity of talking with Mrs. Churchill
after dinner and she told me how interested
she was in the work of the Y.W.C.A. She
said she would appeal for another quarter
of a million this year for the British War
Services, but did not, however, tell me if
she proposed sending to the Dominions
for help in raising the money. Her visit
to Cairo this time is in connection with the
Red Cross, and she was wearing the Red
Cross uniform. The following day, as Mrs.
Churchill wished to see some of our work
in the desert, we arranged for a visit to
Tahag, which was the first club to be estab-
lished in the desert. Although it was short
notice, a most imposing array of people
gathered to meet the visitor. There were
British and South African nurses, British,
Palestinian and Polish A.T.S. and officers
from the garrison. Mrs. Churchill, on re-
quest, broadcast a cheery message, from the
camp. Our next call was to Tel-el-Kebir,
a club of which the Y.W.C.A. may be very
proud. Two years ago there was nothing
but desert, and now one drives up to a
solid stone building with three wings, sur-
rounded by a garden, which literally has
blossomed like a rose. The building con-
tains three large lounge rooms and a smaller
one for women only; a terrace covered
over from the heat of the sun where teas
are served, a dining room and a big hall
with a stage. The dining room has been
arranged to appear like a baronial hall, with
a wrought-iron gate, a knight in armor
(made out of petrol tins), polished tables
and rush chairs. It was into this lovely
setting we brought Mrs. Churchill, who
expressed amazement at everything she saw.
Recently an appeal was made for funds
to help the Grey Sisters in their work.
These ladies are to be found in homes
which need help, and if the mother is
away ill in hospital one of the Grey
Sisters comes in, feeds the children, gets
them off to school and then proceeds to
clean up. A party to help this cause was
held at lovely Ripponlea, and many per-
formers gave their help in the entertain-
ment of guests. Among them was Joy
Beattie, of “The Desert Song” co. She
sang the waltz song from “La Boheme,”
and with that one item raised £l5OO.
People walking down Coll ins-street last
week turned for a second glance at a
very exotic-looking young woman. She
was Russian-born Pnina Salzman, paus-
ing in this city on her way to Sydney.
Puina, which means “pearl,” is a pianist
of genius. She was discovered by Alfred
Conor when ne was on tour in Palestine,
and he persuaded her parents to allow
her to continue her studies in Paris. In
Egypt this young girl gave over 100 re-
citals for the troops, and she is now in
this country to give recitals for the Red
Cross. Her hats and her shoes, plus her
good looks, give passers-by an eye-ful.
Bells pealed and choir boys sang their
sweetest for the wedding of Arlette, only
daughter of Wing-Commander and Mrs'.
L. J. Wackett, of Beaumaris, to Flying-
Officer Edmund Perkins, R.A.A.F. The
bridegroom, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. W. Perkins, of Killara, Sydney, was
attended by Flying-Officer R. G. Pen-
telow and Flight-Lieut. J. Hunter. St.
Andrews, Brighton, saw the nuptials,
Archdeacon Hewitt officiating. The
bride’s trained gown of ivory satin had
pearls embroidering the bodice, and she
carried a posy of gardenias which
matched the flowers attached to her tulle
veil. Bridesmaids Kay Picken and Miss
Lorys-Mant were attired in organdie,
with mid-Victorian bonnets trimmed with
ostrich-feathers. Many guests attended
the reception at No. 9.


v'
m
.
&..s \
mr
FAIR SHARE FOR AUSTRALIA...
NOT TO RE EXCEEDED
You get 6 ounces of butter a week Tbe people
of Britain get 2 ounces. In other foods, too,
Australia is better off better off, in fact, than
almost any other country at war.
In the face of this, we can hardly do otherwise
than cheerfully accept the small food sacrifices
that war makes necessary. As a nation, it is
one of pur main war jobs to send at least
sufficient food to ensure the maintenance of
the low-level rations of the people of Britain,
as well as to help supply the huge land and sea
forces fighting in the Pacific.
To meet these needs we must produce all the
food we can. We must not plunder the nation s
food resources by buying on the black market.
We must conserve all we can and waste
nothing! Always bear in mind that >—
FOOD IS STILL A WEAPON OF WAR
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F 66.82.45
J I not
,ohn e .bout the f« lltrC '
drea vf A
WE » 4V J
P
■yv
M
W
.
V
VO
Every voting couple’s plan for
the future centres inevitably round
a home . . . equipped with new
labour-saving devices, artistic fur-
nishings. ... .
FEITEX
FELT and TEXTILES OP AUSTRALIA LTD. /Jp
Manufacturers of Plain $ Marbled Felt ex
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR LOANS
on.
Ft. 40.10
SMOKE-OH!
“Lost, small Port, Monday.”
—’’Great Northern” (Sydney).
Coastal shipping will be diverted pend-
ing its recovery.
*i* •{•
“The only thing that worries me is that my
face is a funny shape and I can’t seem to get
my hair to look nice round it.”
—Woman s-paper beauty feature.
Don’t despair, dear. Just get a job as
a ballet-girl and nobody will notice your
dial.
•F *F *F *F
“He made his way to the verandah for a
cigarette and a spot of quiet thinking.”
—Short story.
A more sensible man would have dis-
pensed with the quiet thinking.
•F *F *F *F . „
“Suitcase, containing Sydney Hospital.
—Lost advt. S. M. “Herald.
The most absorbing case they’ve ever
known.
•F *F *F "F
The Gift of the Gab.
“Two kidnappers arrested in U.S.A. charged
their victim with defrauding them of the ran-
som money by persuading them to invest it in.
a chewing-gum factory.”
My cousin Frankenstein also had a
persuasive tongue, as his call-up proved.
After 20 minutes with the man-power
officer Frank had not only secured his
own total exemption, but had wangled
an extra dozen hands for his factory,
which was engaged in making some
rather inessential gew-gaws for use in
tawdry finery.
Frank had quite a way with the itiner-
ant salesmen who used to call. It wasn’t
safe, in fact, to leave him alone in the
house, as we discovered one day when he
sold the radio, the grand piano, eleven
coffee spoons and my aunt’s cat to an
unwary agent from a furnishing firm.
The trouble with Frank was his over-
confidence. He had to give up his job
as a racecourse urger after the terrible
day when he staggered home, broken in
mind, from a four-hour interview with
the taxation authorities.
After that Frank was no use for selling
anything, so we bought him a little to-
bacco kiosk, where he is reasonably
happy.
' Plum.
•F *F *F *F
“Do you think that a woman should confide
everything in her husband?” — Woman’s paper.
It depends on whether she’ll get a good
hearing or a cross examination.
•F *F *F *F
“If your friend’s boy makes a pass at you,
knock him back, no matter how much he
attracts you.”— Woman’s paper.
In short, don’t accept forward passes!
* “Allow the lady to carry her own purse.”
—Dorothy Dix.
Your hands will then be able to clutch
still another parcel..
•F *F *F *F
“dance of cauliflowers in the Vegetable
Market today.”— “Sun.”
But consumers paid the piper, as usual.
“Fountain pen, Conway Stewart, engr. W.P.B.
—25/12/’4O, lost Thursday.— S. M. “Herald.’ ,
Some absent-minded editor just dropped
it automatically.
•F *F »F *F
Explained.
“On several occasions my wife spent the night
with the co-respondent in the local cemetery.”
—Divorce report.
A funny place in which to gush
Of love until the dawn:
Compelled to listen to such mush,
No wonder graveyards yawn.
F. M.
■f. a *f
A Pretty Wit, Forsooth.
“At the San Francisco Conference Mr. Forde
cracked a joke. He said, referring to the Big
Five of the Security Council, ‘lf the United
States Constitution had given to the five original
major States a similar entrenched position I
don’t think many Constitutional amendments
would have been carried.’ ” — Cable.
When the full import of this clever
sally sank into the Conference a remark-
able scene followed.
It started when the delegate from
Nicaragua let out in a cracked soprano
a giggle which caused his ginger handle-
bar mo. to oscillate violently. At once
the Chilian delegate, who was sitting im-
mediately opposite him, let out a bull-
like roar of mirth; and within a few
seconds the table was in a roar.
The Russian delegates unanimously gave
vent to that uproarious humor which is
so strong a part of their national make-
up by tilting their chairs back and star-
ing fixedly at the chandelier. The French
delegate pounded the Chinese represen-
tative between the shoulder-blades and
gasped “Sacre nom d'un petit cochon!
Zat Admiral Forde ’e ees a yair’ droll
fellow, n’est ce pasV ’ The Chinese held
his shaking sides.
When 'the last guffaw had died away
and the waggish Frank resumed his
hilarious speech it was evident that the
reception accorded his brilliant bon mot
had fired him to even greater heights of
coruscating humor.
“And now, gen-tel-men,” went on the
Pride of Australia, “the clauses in the
section I was referring to are” —here he
put a thumb in each ear and waggled his
fingers —“are as devoid of meaning as
er —as a —um —as a printed document!”
At this there was a fresh outburst of
ribaldry. Two of the delegates were
seen clinging to each other helplessly as
tears streamed down their faces, while
the Mexican representative staggered
around weakly, holding his aching back.
“And,” went on the Conference’s star
funny man, when he could make his voice
heard above the laughter, “and don’t
forget, gen-tel-men, when a clause in a
section is unworkable there is a strong-
er —possibility that it will be found in
the end to be—um —inadequate!”
Immediately the conference broke into
howls of merriment. After five delegates
had received treatment for hysteria the
up-and-coming comedian launched into
the peak of his facetious form.
“There is,” Frank went on, as he
twisted a wisp of hair into a spike and
looked at the point of his nose, “a regret-
table tendency to regard this basic sec-
tion with its tricky clauses too lightly—
but I solemnly warn Conference that the
clawses are those of a tiger!”
At this masterpiece there were fresn
paroxysms, and a Hollywood talent scout
who was present as an observer was
heard to remark: “Say, who is this
knockabout guy with the dead pan
from down-under?” After which he ex-
citedly jotted down something on his
shirt cuff and made a dash for the
nearest ’phone.
“But,” went on the devastating jester
as the roars at last subsided, “the sec-
tion which is the subject of our profound
deliberations today is fraught with great
dangers. We should address ourselves
to the task of eliminating them!”
At this Conference started to break
up as shrieks of irrepressible laughter
left the members helpless.
Outside, Frank was later discussing the
morning’s work, and he was looking
rather thoughtful. “You know, Bert,”
he said, “I thought I went over rather
well, though I say it, perhaps, who
shouldn’t. Especially did my quips and
cranks, my banter, persiflage and whim-
sicality seem to convulse them; but” —
he went on —“what do you think they
were all laughing at after I made that
last statement? It was straight stuff, yet
they acted just as if they had seen a big
joke! ”
Bert looked his leader slowly up and
down,
“They had, Frank,” he said sourly.
Bo.
Dangerous Detection.
“Saugus (Massachusetts) Town Council will
employ under-cover ‘sniffers’ to ferret out
drinkers among council employees.”
—“Sunday Telegraph. ’
Of all the types of halitosis,
A subtle, alcoholic smell
Like a well-patronised hotel
Admits no other diagnosis;
So when you’ve swallowed on the quiet
A round or two of mixed potations.
Don’t waste your breath in explanations,
Or she will just identify it.
Now, if the folk of Saugus brew
The mingled . onion-beer-and-cheese
Effluvium that eddies through
A tram’s congested human freight.
Among the sniffers one foresees
A pretty high replacement rate.
P. M. LUSK.
Psychic.
“Spirits are known to have a sense of
humor,” declares a medium.
If this is correct,
I strongly suspect
They would only make light of things
once in a while,
And, when one relates
A good yarn to his mates,
They would merely react with a ghost of
a smile.
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
cannot be vested in Government to carry
out a multitude of projects necessary for
the prosperity of all. These valuable
citizens can be greatly hampered by ex-
cessive Government dictation and inter-
ference and greatly discouraged by exces-
sive filching in taxation of the results of
their labors.
National character is lowered when
kindness is extended to the unworthy at
the expense of the worthy.
By no means a negligible danger is
vote-buying by placing more and more
people directly dependant on Govern-
ment doles or in important ways subject
to Government favors.
The curtailment of land and other real
property transactions so that the war may
be financed is creating a position that
may mean, when the war is over, a boom
to be followed by a terrible depression.
Far wiser brains and direction will be
required then than are needed in a war
Government whose main function is
spending.
The good middle-class and workers are
the people who suffer most from bad
Government. — Jas. F. Farrer (Vic.).
The 1939-43 Star
There has been considerable outcry
about the failure to award the 1939-34
Star to members of the Eighth Division
who served in Malaya ; but what about
those lads that served in New Guinea
in 1942 and 1943,? The men who fought
at Milne Bay, Kokoda, Wau and Sala-
maua can claim to be the saviors of their
country—they were the first troops to
Australian Fisheries
I agree with “Turana” (B. 4/4/’45)
about the prospfects for the establishment
of an Australian fish-canning industry.
Up to 1939 one of the biggest canned-
fish importers in Australia brought on
an average 50,000 cases of salmon a year
into N. S. Wales. About 70 p.c. was
Canadian, 10 p.c. Alaskan and 20 p.c.
Japanese. In 1937-38 another big im-
porter laid in a stock of nearly 200,000
cases of Japanese salmon. There are
many other importers, and they found
the demand so brisk that during the eight
month salmon-importing period cargoes
of the Vancouver-run boats (three-weekly
service) consisted almost solely of salmon
and newsprint.
From 1935 onwards the Japanese were
also getting their brands established on
the Australian market. Owing to the
tempting price and rather good quality
fish (a Sockeye), the Jap salmon trade was
going ahead with remarkable rapidity
when 1939 applied a stopper.
There are four main grades of salmon:
Sockeye (rich, deep red). Red or Cohoe
(a good salad-serving red), Pink (mainly
a cooking salmon) and Chum (a white,
rather inferior quality cooking salmon).
It has been said that Australian salmon
is coarse, tough-fibred and inferior of
grade. Certainly pre-war canning efforts
were disappointing, mainly because of
lack of experience in this work ; but even
if we admit that our salmon cannot com-
pete with the excellent Alaskan and
Canadian Sockeyes, or even the Reds,»
there is still a huge market in the cooking
salmons. Pink and Chum.
In addition to salmon, hundreds of
thousands of cases of sardines and/or
sild are imported each year, mainly from
Norway, although Canada apd Britain
had entered enthusiastically into this
trade just before the war. Norway also
exports a line of tinned shrimps, very
neatly put up, but not at all comparable
with similar crustaceans of our own.
Canned imports from Japan included
oysters in 13oz. tins (a poor type of
oyster, far inferior to the Australian)
and mushrooms in olive oil, in tins (an
indigestible and leathery dish). These
novelty lines sold well, particularly when
exhibited attractively and boosted by
clever advertising.
The Japs also turned out an excellent
and very popular line of canned crab ;
but again, what is wrong with our own?
In fact, what is wrong with any of our
fish? Are we going to forever ignore
this great potential industry, not only as
regards supplying Australia but also
overseas needs? — Sach (A.1.F.).
The Position of Labor
A confusing feature of Australian
politics is that all factions have combined
to lift the Labor party to a position that
no party has any right to occupy. We
ask a candidate not “To what party do
you belong?” or “What is your policy?”
but “Are you Labor or anti-Labor?”
When an attempt to merge the Q.P.P.
and the new Liberal party in Queens-
land failed and all and sundry rushed into
print to air their views of the failure
nobody appeared to know or care
whether the two parties had anything in
common beyond opposition to Labor.
There is a real need for a strong party.
Liberal in fact as well as in name, but if
the new party is to be merely a new home
for the Nats, and the U.A.P. it will soon
perish. Both these defunct parties had a
socialist element, whose “policy” (a suici-
dal one) cqnsisted mainly of trying to
capture the Labor vote by a semi-
socialistic expenditure of public funds.
As Britain has shown, the existence
of three or four strong parties is
not inconsistent with stable govern-
ment, but the present set -up in
Australia is entirely unsatisfactory and
fraught with danger. — Bidaugh (Q.).
The New Liberal Party
It will be a real Liberal party when it
looks to the real interests of people from
the top to the bottom and is out to pro-
tect the real, honest interests of worthy
citizens against the unworthy, dishonest
and selfish. The party should emphasise,
before it is too late, that Government at
its best is an extravagant user of the
people’s money. The proportion lost in
collection and expenditure is very insuffi-
ciently understood or people would not
ask so often for Government to carry
out projects' for them.
The great variety of wisdom and ex-
perience possessed by private individuals
“You have a most REMARKABLE Wink, Mrs.
Higginbotham!”
stop and push back the threatening Jap
savages—yet they are not entitled to either
of the two senior service medals of this
war.
Australians get decorated if they took
part in one or two days’ fighting at Saint
Nazaire, Dieppe, Lucania and other
places, or if they spent a period in Persia
of Palestine. This introduces the problem
of recognising the splendid work of the
A.LF. men who were in both the M.E.
and N.G. A silver “rosette” (similar to
that worn under certain circumstances on
the 1914 Star and, by the R.A.A.F., on
the 1939-43 Star) could be placed on the
Africa Star of those who served in other
theatres of operations (specifically New
Guinea). — Bunty (N.S.W.).
The Bog of Lawlessness
If any one doubts that we are slipping
into the bog of disorder let him examine
the history of the recent shearers’ strike
in Queensland.
The sinister hand of the communists
was behind this strike. They engineered
and directed it. It broke out last January
and lasted until March, dislocating the
whole of the grazing industry and inflict-
ing great hardship and loss on graziers.
Shearers’ rates are fixed by an Indus-
trial Court award, and the rates are
pegged under the National Security Regu-
lations. The strike, therefore, contra-
vened the law, and was declared to be
an unauthorised strike by the Industrial
Court, which ordered the shearers back
to work. This order was flouted.
The graziers appealed in vain to the
Prime Minister and to the Attorney-
General to have the law upheld. The
union, whose policy is arbitration, and
which had an application before the
Court for increased rates, opposed the
strike, but control passed out of its hands
(and the equally impotent hands of con-
stituted authority) into those of the strike
committee.
Here is the spectacle of members of a
powerful union, supporters of the. Gov-
ernment party, not only breaking the law
themselves but openly inciting others to
break the law and intimidating those un-
willing to do so.
Contrast the inaction of the Govern-
ment where miners and shearers are the
law-breakers with its prompt prosecution
of master-bakers on strike. There is now
one law for those who enjoy the Gov-
ernment’s favor, or whom the Govern-
ment fqars, and another law for the rest
of the community.
It is an outrage on the community when
the law is not enforced; it is a double
outrage when the law is administered
with partiality.—Law and Order (Q.).
The Exchange Rate
Farmers do not export wool, wheat and
meat, but the prices received by exporters
to a large degree govern {he prices paid
to growers. In saying that exporters have
been selling wool, wheat and meat at
prosperous prices since the rise in the
exchange rate in 1930 “Anti-Inflation”
(B. 25/4/’45) is just using his imagina-
tion.
In the ten-year period to 1930 wheat
averaged ss. 2d. at ports. In the next
decade, with the help of the exchange
rate, it averaged only 3s. 3d. at ports. In
the pools of World War 1—1915-2I —1915-20 —
wheatgrowers received 4s. B+d. per bushel
at sidings, as against an average of 3s.
B|d. at sidings since 1939.
Similarly, wool fell nearly 50 p.c. in
price in the decade after the higher ex-
change rate than it was in the previous
decade. During the period 1916-20 the
average price paid to growers was 15fd.,
and in addition growers later received
3.69d t out of the profits on the 7,154,621
bales handled by the Central Wool Com-
mittee and 8.A.W.R.A., making a total
of T9.19d. per pound received for that
wool. During the present war six clips
have been appraised, the first three at
13fd. average price, and this last three
years at a fraction under Possibly
growers will get divs. out of possible
profits on the sale of the huge carry-over
stocks, but that does not alter the fact
that they are getting less today than they
did 30 years ago. Costs are higher, which
means lower buying power for wool and
smaller wheat cheques.
“Anti-Inflation” must look elsewhere
for the cause of our inflated prices.—
K. Me. (N.S.W.).
The Future of Gold
We in Kalgoorlie have had our serenity
disturbed by visits from some of the
Great.
Mr. Dedman has been here advocating
support for the Third Victory Loan. We
were surprised to learn that he “personally
is most optimistic” about the future of
gold, possibly because he , has just
made the discovery that Russia is one of
the-world’s greatest gold producers, and
no doubt will still settle international
commitments by means of the precious
metal.
Coming from a gentleman who, when
here a few years ago, was strongly of the
opinion, held also by many of his
colleagues, that gold’s only useful func-
tion was the filling of teeth, this was more
than surprising; especially as he helped
to hamstring the goldmining industry. No
doubt we shall hear talk shortly about
“rehabilitation” of goldmining, for
which, 1 suppose, plans by “experts” are
already being prepared— Tex (W.A.).
This Price Fixing
Price-fixing may have beneficent re-
sults in some mysterious realm with
which I am unacquainted, but in the
things I am interested in it seems to
accomplish the opposite to what its
creators intended.
Melbourne retailers automatically
charge the maximum price for tomatoes,
good, bad and indifferent. Barrowmen
charge the same price as the shops, so
that even in the luxury shops there is no
inducement to stock a good tomato. The
wholesalers have no inducement to buy
good stuff, as they get no more for it
than for the inferior grades, and' the
growers, who are always subject to the
law of supply and demand, have no in-
ducement to grow a good tomato or be
careful about how they pack it. To make
matters worse, growers tend to get lax
in their age-long battle against the various
plant diseases, and the consequences of
that might well be catastrophic.
The people who get it in the neck are
the public, who are supposed to be
protected. And the trouble runs right
through. I know a greengrocer who
bought a consignment of plums. He first
put the maximum price ticket on the top
grade. When top-grade sold out he
shifted the ticket to the next grade, and
when second-grade sold out he moved it
to the remnants. When last seen he was
merrily selling at top price stuff which in
pre-price-fixing days he would have
dumped in the dustbin. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
A Droving Record
Minister for Commerce Scully is re-
ported by “Hansard” to have told Archie
Cameron that of 9225 cattle shifted by
the Government from the Kimberleys
to Queensland in 1943 3083 died. If the
figures are correct the Government has
established a record —the greatest droving
loss in Australian history.
What could have happened to those
3000 - odd head en route? They
weren’t speared by blacks, they didn’t
die from pleuro., redwater or anthrax, or
even thirst, and it is incredible that they
died from natural causes. In the ’eighties
the Durack brothers overlanded 2000
mixed cattle from Malvern Hills, (W.Q.)
to the Kimberleys. The trip occupied
more than two years and country through
which the Duracks passed was occupied
by hostile blacks, but less than 10 p.c. of
the cattle died en route. The Govern-
ment-conducted trek of two years ago
lost 33 p.c.— Drover (N.S.W.).
Teach Debating
Why is it that such a minor position is
given to debating and the art of speech in
school curricula? Seldom are classes
organised in sqch subjects. More often
they are regarded as “extras,” and in
many cases debates are held only at night.
The value of debating in schools cannot
be questioned. Young speakers develop
poise and self-possession as well as the
invaluable gift of-clear expression.
Unfortunately, it is generally only the
outstanding few who are called upon to
take part in debates. The others
mainly plead nervousness, but surely the
qualities of self-control and clear thought
are what are chiefly needed today. Would
not our schools, both primary and
secondary, be ideal fields for developing
these qualities ?—Oratio (S.A.).
Australian Authors’ Handicaps
I suspect Will Lawson (B. 18/4/’45) is
angling for a bite. Australian writers
(novelists included) who never get a
chance to become best-sellers should
blame the Australian publisher, not the
bookseller. Orders for books by Aus-
tralian authors have repeatedly been
under-supplied by the publishers to the
extent of 50 p.c., the excuse given being
shortage of paper. Yet the same pub-
lisher can manage to reprint huge editions
of English and American authors.
I can assure Mr. Lawson that the local
bookseller is quite satisfied with local
publishers’ terms and also that profits
from the imported book are not on any
grandiose scale. Exchange is 254 p.c.,
calculated on net invoiced price, to which
must be added postage, insurance and
bankers’ charges.
Australian booksellers cannot “charge
what they like for overseas publications.”
Their retail scale is fixed
by the Prices Commis-
sioner, and the current
schedule—a slight reduc-
tion on the former one
has been in operation
since January 15, 1945. A
book published in Britain
at 2s. 6d. (assuming the
normal trade discount of
33| p.c.) retails in Aus-
tralia at 4s. (not 4s. 9d.).
On the previous schedule
it would have been 4s.
3d. The exception would
be an educational text-
book, which might retail
at 4s. 9d., overseas edu-
cational publishers being
a law unto themselves,
and for some obscure
reason always hard on
the bookseller and the
unfortunate student. It
is to the credit of Aus-
tralian publishers of edu-
cational texts that they
have not followed tins
example.
When Mr. Lawson
quotes one of his own
books, published by
Brown, Sons and Fergu-
son, he should add post-
age and insurance to the
trade rate of Bs. 4d. Exchange at 25j
p.c., plus bank charges, would make the
landed cost at least 12s. 2d. Incidentally,
the retail price of the book he refers to
is 19s. 6d., not 20s.
It should not be overlooked that most
booksellers here have to employ a buying
agent in London. Either that or they
frequently have to fall back on the whole-
sale bookseller, whose commission varies
from 74- to 10 p.c. And there’s the per-
petual problem of depreciation. Until
we have some kind of “clearing-house”
system for books overstocking will re-
main the Australian bookseller’s major
worry-
J.(Tas.).


%
:X-
-%
m
' T ■-
i'
■%.
--•
•*<«***•»
SM3r ZM
. ■' /
:: .
.
m
**** ,
Cl
\
***-%.
K
1 m
.-■■>
i
tin
Pi
S&gtM
1 ■
Philips are planning things
for a Brighter World
Keep in touch with your
Philips Radio Dealer
Your radio today is a priceless
possession. Keep in touch with
your Philips Dealer and he will
keep it performing at its best.
There will be many marvellous
new Philips receivers when peace
comes , incorporating the latest
techniques made possible by war-
time development in electronics.
For years Philips scientists and engineers have been busy working for the
United Nations at war. When war struck Europe, Philips manufacturing
plants throughout the free world re-doubled their efforts and enlarged their
capacities to produce the vital weapons needed for victory.
Their zeal and purpose were twofold: first to keep faith with the ideals of
democracy, and second, with the great Philips public which in the past
had relied upon the high quality of Philips electrical products in a wide
range of devices and appliances essential to modern living.
Philips are famous for their 50 years of contribution to human welfare
through their pioneering work in lighting, radio, television, X-ray and allied
electrical fields. When peace comes, the world may look to Philips for even
greater developments in electricity and the field of electronics. Their war-
time electronic achievements make possible new aids to living, new ven-
tures in entertainment, and substantial benefits to medicine and industry.
Look to Philips, then, for the things that will make a better, brighter world.
PHILIPS
PHILIPS
THROUGHOUT THE FREE WORLD TODAY PHILIPS
RESOURCES ARE DEDICATED TO HASTENING VICTORY .
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney . . . Melbourne . . . Adelaide . . . Perth , , , Brisbane
PL 7-45
