

ƒ
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3391
Wednesday, February 7, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CHARLECOTE HALL.
\\I HEN he found this view, Washington Irving said he delighted
* ** in these hospitable estates. And Charlecote Hall is among
the fairest of the country houses built beside Shakespeare’s Avon.
As is so often the case, the architect of this house is unknown,
but it may have been built by that mysterious person John of
Padua. There has been a family of Lucy at Charlecote since the
thirteenth century. The Thomas Lucy of Elizabethan times was
a Puritan ; his tutor was Foxe of the “Book of Martyrs” and it was
Jbefore this Lucy that tradition says Shakespeare was brought.
for having been poaching among the deer. In retaliation the
Bard of Avon issued a lampoon which necessitated his depar-
ture to the safer distance of London. Sir Thomas Lucy was
further satirised as Justice Shallow, in the “Merry Wives”; “I thank
you for my venison, Master Shallow'.” Like so many Elizabethan
houses —Charlecote was rebuilt by Sir Thomas —this one also is in
the form of the letter E. The Good Queen, an inveterate caller,
visited Charlotte during the year 1572, and it was on her departure
that Sir Thomas Lucy received his knighthood.


iwsraa
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. U 6 AGE
The Red Page
A MAKER OF MELBOURNE.
The first scientist who contrives to
make a man in a test-tube will probably
be burnt at the stake or given an earl-
dom, And in the meantime there is con-
siderable excitement about the fact that
somebody has kept the heart of a chicken
alive for a few years. As a corrective
to over-enthusiasm for the feats of science
it might be kept in mind that Achilles
and Agamemnon, as created by Homer,
have been alive and kicking since the tenth
or eleventh century b.c.
The relevance of this to the publica-
tion of Frank Wilmot’s Poems (Lothian ;
selected by Percival Serle) is that Wilmot
created a city. A city where
The knots of slimy eels writhe under the rustic
bridge,
The sunbeams burrow among the quivering
elms,
The tufts of cloud throw shade on the level
lawns,
Where a world is clean and green;
And all the way from Caulfield station to town
The encroaching pigface pours
Its molten magenta down the sides of the cut-
tings.
It might be objected, of course, that
the man made in a test-tube will be a
“real” man, or that Wilmot (he signed
his poems “Furnley Maurice” was man-
ager of Melbourne University Press and
died in 1942) was not a navvy who built
a “real” city; but that is to suggest that
a fact is more real than an image—a
proposition obviously absurd when mil-
lions of “real” men have lived and died
and passed utterly from the memory of
mankind, while Achilles and Agamem-
non, Medea and Cleopatra, Falstaff and
Macbeth still tower in the minds of men
as vividly as the day they were created.
The “real” Melbourne could be blown
off the face of the earth tomorrow ; Wil-
mot’s will live as long as there are readers
for his poems—and that should be for a
considerable while.
This is the real mystery and achieve-
ment of art, and it is why the public,
however it may admire the mechanical
ingenuity of the scientist, speaks of the
artist as “inspired”—or did in more
reverent ages. The landscape painter or
poet makes trees and clouds and moun-
tains for men’s otherwise desolate minds;
the visionary makes gods and devils and
witches and bunyips—“forms more real
than living man,” in Shelley’s phrase;
and the writers whom men, with pardon-
able self-approval, call the greatest, make
men—Achilles, Falstaff. From this point
of view it might well be argued that the
most important achievement in Austra-
lian poetry to date is Kenneth Slessor’s
creation of Captain Dobbin ; and, though
a balladist is not quite the same sort of
animal as a poet, it is to be remembered
that “Banjo” Paterson made a man from
Snowy River.
Conrad said the creative writer’s task
was to “make see” ; poets in medieval
times were called “makers.” What pre-
cisely, then, does Frank Wilmot make
us see; what did he make?
A horse, certainly. An unforgettable
horse. He comes ipto what is probably
the best of Wilmot’s “Melbourne Odes,”
“The Victoria Markets Recollected in
Tranquillity”:
An old horse with a pointed hip
And dangling disillusioned under-lip
Stands in a harvest-home of cabbage leaves
And grieves.
Well, it is something to have given a
horse to literature. Something less than
to give an Achilles or a Cleopatra ; but
still something far more difficult and far
more valuable than it may appear. Be-
sides, the horse in the Victoria Markets
isn’t only a horse ; it is also a wry, comic,
sardonic self-portrait, a “picture of the
artist as an old horse.”
All the way through this ingeniously
constructed ode there run two themes in
a sort of counterpoint. Ironically parody-
ing a line from “Rule Britannia”:
When Batman first at Heaven’s command —
Wilmot sets up in the reader’s mind the
absurd and pompous music of the con-
ventional triumphal ode that might have
been written to celebrate Melbourne’s
centenary and sets up too—a shade wist-
fully, perhaps, because he would have
liked to have lived in Wordsworth’s times
and to have written an elaborate and
ceremonious poetry—an image of the sort
of poet with a capital P who could seri-
ously have believed that Heaven had sent
Batman to Melbourne.
Then, moving counter to this theme,
mocking it through all the mazes of the
Victoria Markets, past the vegetable
stalls, past the butter and the poultry and
the meat and the rabbits, past the dole-
fully second-hand clothes and the infin-
itely second-hand books, disguised as the
old horse the poet plods with his griev-
ing under-lip, his realistic eye, his stout
heart and his mournfully humorous mind.
Gentle curates and slaughtermen
Murder the cattle in the pen:
Body, Spirit, the Word, the Breath
Only survive by so much death.
The old horse with, the pointed hip
And disillusioned under-lip
Stands in a drift of cabbage leaves
And grieves.
There are crudities in the “Melbourne
Odes,” not only the technical infelici-
ties that occur everywhere in Wilmot’s
poetry, but unpleasant sarcasms and
cheap jokes. Nevertheless, their humor
is their chief virtue. It keeps the poetry
real. It makes the poet real.
In all his poetry Wilmot created no
man or woman: no human being except
himself. Light sketches there are; a
glimpse of a woman in some love lyrics ;
an old Chinaman irt the Markets; an
impression always of Ihe vast and vague
mass of mankind, pictured in some mem-
orable lines:
A force that throngs the byways and the streets,
A dark, enormous influence that pours
Its passion through the light and vainly beats
On spired churches and closed college doors —
but no man or woman drawn at full
length, painted “in the round.”
In his early and middle periods Wilmot
“made” surprisingly little of anything.
The earliest poems are largely devoted
to the announcement that he has ex-
tremely poetical “dreams”; but what
those “dreams” are (a common fault of
immature poetry" this, noticeable some-
times in Shaw Neilson) he fails to specify.
If a man comes up to you and says he
had a dream about a pink elephant or,
like Blake, about a tiger burning bright,
he is “making” something; if he merely
announces that he has poetical dreams
he creates nothing except a vague sort of
portrait of himself as a man of dreams.
In his middle period we find a much
stronger Frank Wilmot writing with pas-
sion, with agony, with tortured honesty
about the last war; writing with an in-
tense sincerity that whips his homespun
style into an impressive eloquence.
What lives, what is “made” by these
poems? There is no picture of battle,
no portrait of a soldier, but a cry of tor-
mented humanity.
An old cry. It is curious how quickly
topical poetry fades. The last war was
not so long ago ; every word Frank Wil-
mot wrote of it can be applied to the
present war; yet the poems read with a
strange, pathetic remoteness, seeming as
far from present realities as Words-
worth’s sonnets about Napoleon them-
selves now “old, unhappy, far-off things,
and battles long ago.” It is the image that
lives most vividly in art; the thing made ;
the sudden little flash of light that reveals
a tree as it has never been seen before, or
the great glow through which a Falstaff
emerges in the fullness of his humanity;
not high thinking, but rich making. What
remains most alive in these war poems
is again a picture of the author: how he
struggled with the stubbornness of words,
how he won to a minor triumph, how he
wrestled in thought, how poignantly and
sharply he saw the irreconcilable duality
of man’s nature and the gods’, how ruth-
lessly and fiercely honest he was.
Having tried hard to be a poet of
“dreams” and then a philosopher, Wilmot
also struggled to be a poet of nature;
and, as with all except a couple of stanzas
of Bernard O’Dowd’s “The Bush,” it is
really astonishing how little of nature is
in his nature poetry.
There are, of course, some glimpses
of the landscape in “The Gully”—a “baby
bracken spray” in the first stanza, “tall,
ghostly gums in glacial silence dressed”
in the second, “the mellow clamor of the
cattle-bells” in the third; but, unless the
four or five lines about the gums in the
snow stay in the mind, you can read the
long poem from end to end without com-
ing across a single memorable picture.
Much is said, and said with some elo-
quence ; nothing is made. And this Frank
Wilmot admitted. The rocks would have
to give to some other poet, he said in trite
but modest phrases, their “awesome
majesty” ; somebody else would have to
create in literature the “tranquil elegan-
cies” of the gums.
“Measure me by my love and let me
go,” he said. And that is precisely how
“TTie Gully” must be measured. It is
not a picture of the gully so much as a
statement of the poet’s love for it; not
a creation of the bush but a segment of
the author’s mind ; and so, once again,
a self-portrait.
Take the “dreamer,” the philosopher
tortured about war, the lover of the bush
and the wry humorist of the “Melbourne
Odes” and you have a pretty com-
plete portrait of Frank Wilmot. It is
a strong but not a great picture. A writer
needs to be a Walt Whitman if his faults
of technique are to be rated unimportant
beside the vigor of his personality, if we
are to remember him as a man and forget
that he tried to be a maker.
Apart from the strong but yet minor
attraction of his personality, Frank Wil-
mot’s claim to survival lies in his “Mel-
bourne Odes.” Here he did create some-
thing, and something more than a picture
of his own mind.
The writing is rough, crude, violent;
the reader will find “no gracious burb-
ling nor arts to please” he roars in one of
his impossible phrases:
No gracious burbling nor arts to please,
No hypocritical felicities.
Buy and be damned to you! Sell and be
damned also!
Decry the goods, he’ll tell you where to go!
Always muddled, wavering from false
romanticism to crude colloquialism,
Frank Wilmot never achieved style. But
by solving the major problem of construc-
tion he largely atoned for his uneasiness
with the minor niceties of technique. And
—“Buy or be damned to you!”—the
speed and passion of the odes carry
them roughshod over their own faults.
A touch of roughness may be necessary
—is certainly sometimes attractive —when
rough scenes are to be painted.
Wilmot was busy creating:
Gobbling turkeys and ducks in crates,
Pups in baskets and trays of eggs
Rabbits skinned in a pink nude row,
Little brown kidneys out on show.
“Cheap today, lady, cheap today.”
Slimy fish slide off the tray.
Women pondering with a sigh—
“ Spend or perish, buy or die!”
Packed with babies and Brussels sprouts
It’s a rickety pram for a woman to shove —
and creating thereby the whole rich,
earthy life of the city of Melbourne, and
he simply couldn’t be bothered with
“gracious burbling.” It was a rickety
pram for a poet to shove, there’s no doubt
about that; but it was packed with real
babies and real Brussels sprouts, and Wil-
mot “shoved” it along real streets in a
real city.
Fifty Guineas for One-acters
Fifty guineas is offered by the Wagga
Wagga (N.S.W.) School of Arts Literary
and Dramatic Society as prize-money in
a one-act play competition—thirty guineas
to the winner and three other prizes.
Arrangements have been made to pub-
lish the winning plays—if they’re good
enough—in book form, with a royalty
to the authors; and the Society will
stage them, again paying a royalty.
The Playwrights’ Advisory Board, Syd-
ney, will judge the competition, which
closes on June 30, 1945. Details from
the Literary Secretary, School of Arts,
Wagga.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The scene —and this is a true story —•
is the Council Chamber of a New South
Wales town where 60 citizens have met
to consider ways and means of honoring
the services of a retiring mayor. It has
been practically decided that an illumi-
nated address and cash would meet the
occasion.
First Citizen: Illuminated addresses
are sixty years out of date, and what I
think is we should get a picture done in
oils and hung in the Chamber, and I
move accordingly.
Stunned Silence.
Second Citizen: That is a very fine
thought, but suppose we had him done
and they put in all this character busi-
ness, like a man suffering from a terrible
disease?
Third Citizen: If we have him done
in oils, how do we get him up here?
The 60 citizens begin to discuss, all at
once and in loud voices, the “have him
done in oils ” theme, which rapidly be-
comes transformed into an argument
about the Archibald Prize and con-
temporary “art criticismfrom which
emerges a general impression that Art
nowadays is something not to be
monkeyed with.
It is decided to present the mayor with
an illuminated address.
MacHoots.
A loan exhibition of French and Eng-
lish paintings culled from private col-
lections at George’s Gallery opened the
new art year in Melbourne, They
ranged from a lovely little landscape by
Corot to a modern example by Marc
Chagall of a rural dwelling described as
Russian though it might just as well have
been Australian, judging by the promi-
nent position given to the outhouse. I n
between were an admirable “Bridges of
the 1 Seine” by Albert Marquet, some
Johnses and Sickerts, a conventional Sir
Thomas Lawrence portrait, some sketches
by Epstein and a Utrillo.
At the talkies:
Nunnally Johnson’s adaptation of the Flovd
Deli play “Casanova Brown” (Sydney Regent)
is a light, bright variation on the old theme
of a father trying to play mother to a baby
Gary Cooper and Teresa Wright obviously find
the fare to their liking.
General Mark Clark’s landing from a British
submarine to prepare the ground for the
Allied invasion of North Africa is made into
a routine thriller in “Candlelight in Algeria”
(Civic). James Mason, who has one of the
best speaking voices in filmdom, is the British
officer who outwits the Germans.
As the conceited young bank clerk who rises
to fistic fame Errol Flynn revels in the title
role of “Gentleman Jim” (Sydney Plaza)—the
Hollywood version of James J. Corbett’s life
The theme is treated in light comical vein but
is saved from the ridiculous by the performances
of Ward Bond as the mighty John L. Sullivan
and Alan Hale as the jovial father of the pug-
nacious Corbett family. The romantic interest,
Alexis Smith, is elegant but insipid.
The technique of the suspense-thriller changes.
The old notion that the identity of the mur-
derer must remain hidden until the last minute
has been superseded by letting the audience
into the secret early in the story. That there
need be no lack of thrills on this account has
been amply demonstrated by Alfred Hitchcock
in “Suspense,” “Sabotage” and Shadow of a
Doubt,” and now by Robert Siodmak in Uni-
versal’s “Phantom Lady” (Sydney Lyceum).
Here the murderer is a close friend of a man
under sentence of death for the crime, and is
always on hand when the condemned man’s
secretary and the detective are following up
clues. Franchot Tone, Ellen Raines and Thomas
Gomez are an efficient trio.
Brian Aherne and Rosalind Russell, who kept
“My Sister Eileen” bubbling frothily, are
again teamed in “What a Woman” (Mayfair), a
comedy of a career woman who is brought out
of her absorption in Big Business by an up-
roarious set of circumstances, and made to
choose between two men. Miss Russell does
her best work in such a role —she has a flair
for what might be termed 150 w.p.m. commer-
cial comedy in which wisecracks fly like chaff
before a gale. Asa foil to her executive snappi-
ness Brian Aherne sits on the back of his neck
with his hat over his eyes and makes laconic
asides, while newcomer Willard Parker shows
distinct promise in a tamed he-man-author role.
Writer-director Irving Cummings has done a
nice job of work.
The jubilee show of the Photographic
Society of N. S. Wales at Farmer’s Blax-
land Galleries, Sydney, demonstrates the
preference of the great majority of ex-
hibitors for straight bromide (a little
“controlled” in printing, perhaps) over
such processes as bromoil and bromoil
transfer, which give much greater lati-
tude in selection and emphasis. On this
occasion even those who are masters of
bromoil are represented by better work
in the less elastic medium. Cazneaux, Dr.
Julian Smith and Monte Luke are among
“specially invited” exhibitors. Dr.
Smith’s group of 15 prints, all straight
bromide, is devoted to children; Caz-
neaux is at his best in a portrait of Dr.
Smith ; Monte Luke in a portrait of Caz-
neaux. The other permutations sug-
suggested by this arrangement have been
attended to in previous exhibitions.
“F.S.”: “Angry Penguins” has done it again,
this time in the realm of painting. Passing
along the Street of Bikes in Melbourne, one of
its editors saw two paintings in a bikeshop
window. The sight intrigued him and he made
inquiries. He found there were three others and
that they had once been in the possession of
the celebrated Professor Henry Alfred Tipper.
I well remember the professor. He used to
ride a funny little bike round Melbourne with
smaller and even queerer bikes strapped all
round him, and when he came to a vacant
allotment he would unload his stock-in-trade and
give a demonstration of trick riding; one of his
bicycles, having wheels far from circular in
shape, providing intense amusement for the
juvenile population. He had shaggy white hair
and a shaggy beard, dressed as quaintly as
Sydney’s Chidley, was as harmless as they make
them and rode off to eternity last April. Some-
body was evidently fascinated by the elderly
eccentric and painted him into every picture. He
is represented cycling along in sublime indif-
ference to a traffic policeman’s signal; racing
on his diminutive machine against a large youth
on a boneshaker; camped by the roadside with
his firebox in what looks like a Gippsland land-
scape, with cyclists, de-afforested hills, Noah’s Ark
cows grazing in paddocks, dead gum-trees popu-
lated by koalas and (possibly) kookaburras. The
artist signs himself “H.D.”; “Angry Penguins
hasn’t yet found out who he is, but Professor
Tipper would probably be amazed to know
that he had been the subject matter for a grp
Australian artist whose paintings, according
to his discoverers, “bear the unmistakable man
of the natural artist”; of a man “who accepts
his own vision of the world with simple un-
questioning faith and paints it because he wants
to”; and who is a “rare, psychological social
type, displaying a curiously autonomous sensi-
bility which operates with a sublime indifference
to the artificial demands made by society pn
his personality, with its coercive and restrictive
framework of conventions, styles and judg-
ments.” He would be even more surprises
to leant that the artist who immortalised nun
displays “a startling sense of fife, expresse
through an unfaltering sense of form, pattern-
texture and color, with the anecdotal eye or tn
traditional ‘primitive’ at work weaving intricate
patterns of almost humorous stories and obser-
vations without any loss of formal unit),
and that “there is a strong and unmistaKau.-
Australian flavor” in his pictures—no dou
contributed to by the almost umdentitiam
kookaburra.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service
hs C&A£ (r£ /jcru/t
CARPETS
New Carpets are
scarce! Therefore it
is wise to take every
care of your present
carpets.
\
aft
\
m
&
S.w
V
&
&
(Sis
S'
~i
V
■V.\
J&
v/,y
V.
Vj
\
ma
IJ
JK
i
r W«W;:<
s* ... «
#■•■■■■ ...#
■J
m
mm
Carpet 1 Squares should be turned so that
the wear will be even and stair carpets
require moving at various times. To pro-
long the life of Carpets they should be
taken up periodically and beaten or
shampood.
Our price for beating Axminster Carpets
is 6d. sq. yd.; for Shampooing, 1 /6 sq. yd.
We have experts who will Lay, Turn, or
Move Carpets.
Men's time is 4/6 per hour plus
fares.
Time is charged from leaving
shop until return.
We also suggest that New Underfelt will
help greatly in protecting Carpets.
Price . 6/6 per yd. 6ft. wide.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
’Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


THE HERO OF TIDAL CREEK
By RODERICK FINLAYSON.
THE Crammers’ place at Tidal Creek
is a topsy-turvy shack built of odds
and ends and stuck on a scrubby
kind of no-man’s land behind old
Ashley’s section. Dogs and children
swarm everywhere.
The younger children run or crawl
naked, the older ones wear little more
than ragged pants or bloomers, even the
biggest are all bare-legged. There are
so many and they pop out here and
dart there so bewilderingly that you can’t
quite count them.
These fine hot summer days all the
Crummer tribe play down by the creek.
They splash in the water-holes in the
half-dry bed. Some of them jump in,
old pants and all, but others strip off
their few rags and go in naked.
The bed of the creek is bkek mud, and
soon the pools become soupy with
churned-up mud, but the Crammers seem
to like it all the more. They shriek like
fiends, and leap up and down in the pools
and duck each other. They leave the
creel# and chase each other among the
cabbage-trees growing on the bank. The
wilder ones scale up the tall swaying trees
like monkeys. One or another of those
below seizes a slender trunk and shakes
it furiously until the palm-like top rattles
and threatens to spill out the clinging
youngster. The sun glistens on their
brown, wet bodies. The black mud dries
blue-grey on their arms and legs and
faces.
Soon they leap again into the water-
holes.
Playing these pranks in the creek one
Sunday they happen to see an under-
sized boy strolling along the bank. They
stare as animals do at a stranger.
“I know who it is,” shouts a Crum-
mer youngster. “It’s young Jake. He’s
staying with his Uncle Ted for the holi-
days. A towny!”
One of the older Crummer girls, a big,
fair hoyden named Mabel, calls out'
“Come on over here and have some fun.”
The boy, who still feels new and
strange to the district, is shy, but he can’t
walk away without looking foolish. So
he dawdles over to the Crummer children.
“Come on in,” yell the kids in the
creek.
Jake, brought in in town, tries to put
on an air of dignity to look the man
of the world before those backblock kids.
He feels that he’s getting too old to prance
about in muddy creeks. His hot summer
suit helps him to feel like that.
The Crammers, who notice his suit and
his awkward manner and his oiled hair,
nickname him “Gussy.”
“Come on in,” they yell again.
“Gussy! ”
“No, it’s too cold,” says Jake, feeling
choked with the heat of his best clothes.
The big-limbed girl Mabel shouts “Yes,
let’s put Gussy in the creek.”
“No,” Jake says, starting to back off.
Mabel makes a rush at him, and he
runs for it, followed by a yelling, laugh-
ing, barking rabble of urchins and dogs.
The big girl, unhampered by shoes or
much clothing, can run faster than the
boy, and she catches him before he has
gone far.
“Come on,” she shouts. “Take his
clothes off and chuck him in the water-
hole.”
“No, no!” Jake cries.
Mabel tries to carry him, but he’s like
a slippery eel. So she holds him tight
and tickles him.
“Don’t,” he gasps. But she only
squeezes him tighter and tickles him more.
He gives up struggling. Mabel giggles
and her breath is hot on his cheek. One
fat, soft arm is around his neck, and it
presses against his face suffocatingly.
“Come on, now,” she giggles in Jake’s
ear, pulling at his shirt. “We’ll just plomp
him in the water.”
But before she can do more Jake bites
the soft, stifling arm.
“You little devil!” Mabel yells, drop-
ping him.
The others laugh and jeer at her. She
cuffs the ears of some of the smaller fry
and goes off in a sulk.
“Oh, goody,” the- youngsters cry.
“Gussy bit Mabel.”
Jake would like to escape, but the
Crammers don’t give him a chance. They
want to make a lot of him because he
bit Mabel.
“Come on, you got to have some kai
with us,” they yell.
“I better get back to Uncle Ted’s for
tea,” Jake stammers.
They don’t listen. They carry him off
up to the shanty.
MRS. HOPPY CRUMMER is up at
the shanty. She looks like a badly-
preserved Egyptian mummy.
Just home from the bogs, she carries
in a kerosene-tin full of newly-gathered
kauri-gum nuts and keeps up a continu-
ous scolding in a squeaky sort of gib-
berish. The Hoppy Crammers are sup-
posed to live on the sale of kauri-gum
nuts —the dirty little knobs of kauri-gum
that the gum-diggers wouldn’t bother
with. Mrs. Crummer delves them from
the bogs.
Mr. Hoppy Crummer is long and rat-
faced. In dirty pants and dirty singlet,
with a fag-end hanging from his lower
lip, he sprawls on a stretcher-bed read-
ing the weekly paper.
“Here’s Gussy,” the kids yell. “He bit
Mabel. Give him some tucker.”
Mrs. Crummer is too busy setting about
scraping the dirt off the kauri-gum to look
at the boy. She scolds too much even to
hear what’s said to her.
Mr. Hoppy Crammer looks around the
paper and leers at Jake.
“Bit Mabel, did he?” he says. He
looks the boy up and down with red-
rimmed eyes. “Starting young, ain’t he?”
he sneers.
He continues to stare rudely at the
boy’s clothes. At last he says, sarcasti-
cally, “ ’Scuse me not getting up. Had a
bit of an accident once. Need lots of
rest.”
“Accident!” screams the eldest-looking
daughter over in a corner nursing a strug-
gling baby. “May as well tell the truth.
You was shot.”
“Were you in the last war?” Jake asks
politely, thinking how nice Mr. ‘ Cram-
mer’s modesty is.
Mr. Crummer shuts his eyes tight. “Ah,
don’t get me thinking of them days, boy,
dont,” he says.
“I’m sorry,” says Jake.
“Aw, shut up,” the nursing girl screams
again. “We all knows how you was
shot.”
“Well, what’s the difference?” says Mr.
Crummer, suddenly opening his eyes.
“Feels just as bad after youse shot,
don’t y’?”
“Lazy hound,” the girl says. “Nothing
wrong with y’.”
“There y’ are, that’s how the rising
generation treats us bumt-out men,” says
Mr. Crummer, sinking' back on the bed
and disappearing behind his paper.
“Some of us try to remember” —Jake
begins timidly.
But from behind the crackling paper
something like a sneer or a snigger stops
him.
Mr. Crummer begins to bellow for tea.
NO one takes any more notice of the
gawky and now thoroughly uncom-
fortable boy. A girl called Alice begins
to blow up a smoky fire smouldering on
the open hearth. The other kids pile mugs
and scones and sticky jam-tins on the
table.
They give Jake a stale scone spread
thick with rancid butter, with a scraping
of tasteless jam on top. The first bite
sticks. Jake can’t swallow it. He keeps
chewing it at the side of his cheek where
he gets the least taste, until he can drop
the rest under the sofa. No one can per-
suade him to have more. They can’t make
it out. All the young Crammers gorge on
scone and butter and jam and can’t be
filled. There isn’t a crumb left.
Jake sits stiffly in his stiff suit and
stares hard at a mason-bee that’s build-
ing its clay nest in the sleeve of Mr.
Crammer’s coat hanging on the back of
the door.
Mr. Crummer, who has appeared from
behind the paper again and is sucking
noisily at a mug of hot tea, eyes the boy
staring at the old coat and says, “Let ’em
plaster it up, let ’em fill it full of their
blasted clay and spiders. What’s clothes?
Only hide-outs for moths and mason-
bees. I won’t need clothes much
I guess. Don’t need no coat now. Don’t
never go out —hardly.”
He feasts on the boy’s look of surprise
with malicious enjoyment.
“Only needs a nice warm jersey for my
little jobs, don’t I?—for going out at
nights. You ask the damn gossips around
here.
He raises his voice to a sort of mock-
ing whine. “Then’ll tell you, see? What
for does Hoppy Crammer always wear
sandshoes. Not for his game leg—oh,
no! They’se nice and quiet for creeping
and snooping around places at night,
eh?” He gave a feeble spit, as if he had
a tea-leaf or a nasty taste on the tip of
his tongue. “Nice neighbors we got
around here, eh?”
“Aw, for Pete’s sake dry up,” his lov-
ing daughter sighs again.
Jake grins sheepishly and can’t think
of anything to say. He doesn’t know how
to take this talk.
“What will Uncle Ted think if he finds
out where I’ve been?” he wonders. He
feels he ought to go, and yet he doesn’t
know how to escape.
Mr. Crammer picks up his paper and
shakes it peevishly. He addresses no-
body in particular. “Here they spouts
about peace—world peace and loving
brotherhood,” he says. “He-he! Think
it over.” Mr. Crammer puts his mug
down and sinks back upon the bed.
Mabel comes in, still looking sulky.
She moons about without trying to help,
humming to herself a bit just to attract
notice.
Jake’s eyes follow her in what he
imagines to be quick, secret glances. But
she knows that he’s watching, almost
staring at her. She pats her hair, she
bends with exaggerated casualness to put
on a pair of old shoes. She gives her
skirt a twitch, and stretches out her legs
pretending to admire the shoes.
Jake feels his cheeks burn. He’s
sure that he’s made a fool of himself. All
afternoon he knows he’ll go on making
himself look foolish. He feels like a little
kid, and he’s ashamed for not being
more of a man. He considers himself
growing up. But his awkward undersized
body shrivels with self-consciousness on
the sofa.
He wants to come again to see Mabel.
He fancies himself being bold and non-
chalant, but he knows that he won’t come
back here to be laughed at. He fumbles
with his handkerchief, hoping to hide his
embarrassment, and ends by giving his
nose a good loud blow.
“D’ you always wipe y’ nose with that
kind of a glad-rag, Gussy?” young Bill
asks, bringing Jake back to his rowdy
surroundings with added discomfort. He
tries to grin cheerfully, and everyone has
a good laugh.
AFTER the meal the whole Crummer
tribe squat around the big bush-
whacker chimney-place and roll cigar-
ettes. The bigger ones roll skinny cigar-
ettes of homemade tobacco for the little
ones. They all puff happily, even the
two-year-old. They fill their mugs with
beer, and drink and smoke.
Jake sips some beer, but he refuses a
cigarette. The smell of the others’ smoke
is enough. He’s afraid that one puff of
Crammer tobacco would turn him sick.
“What’s the matter with him?” the
mother asks, taking an interest in him
for the first time. “Don’t eat, don’t
drink, don’t smoke, don’t yap. What’s
the matter?”
“But he bit Mabel,” yells Alice.
“Ya! he can’t smoke,” says Bill.
“Yes I can,” says Jake.
“Well, come on, have a puff,” they all
shout.
“I only smoke a pipe,” Jake tells them
in desperation. “I’ve left it at home.”
“And I got to go now,” he says, taking
out the boyproof watch that he wears
with his best clothes and making out that
he is shocked to find it so late. “Uncle
Ted will be wild. I have to get his tea
ready.”
And he grabs his hat and with many
embarrassed and stuttering good-byes and
thank-yous he backs out.
But not to escape yet. Outside he runs
into Jim, who must have slipped out the
back to waylay him.
“Give us your watch,” says Jim.
“I couldn’t do that,” Jake says. “It’s
a —a keepsake from my great-uncle
John. He’s dead.”
“Ho, youse pretty mean, Gus, ain’t y’?
Well, give us a tanner to buy some jelly-
beans,” Jim says. He sees Jake hesitate.
“Aw, come on, give us just a tanner. I’ll
show y’ where the old man got shot.
And, taking it for granted, he makes off
over the rough paddock.
Jake follows Jim to a stump some hun-
dreds of yards from the shanty.
“There,” says Jim, squatting and point-
ing. 1 “See all them little shot holes in the
stump? Them’s the shots what missed
him. Mum dug the shots what hit him
out of his leg with the pig-sticking knife.
We got ’em and kept ’em in a painkiller
bottle for a long time. Bub got the bottle
and swallowed ’em,” Jim says.
“But your dad was wounded at the
war,” Jake says, surprised.
Jim just' stands there grinning and
waiting.
“Anyway, how would he be snot
here?” says Jake.
Jim just waits and grins.
“Well,” says Jake, bringing out ms
little leather purse and fumbling in it,
“here’s the sixpence for the jelly-beans
for showing fne the shot-holes.”
As he hands it to Jim and turns to go
on his way across the paddock he cant
help noticing that the shot-riddled stump
is in a direct line with old Mr. Ashley s
fowl run. Easy shotgun range, too.
Family Progress.
How the path wavers from the stables here
Down to the orchards half a mile away;
Wavers and wanders, hesitates, goes on,
Skirting some obstacle long-vanished now.
Perhaps Cousin Rose shied trembling to the right
When William’s arm stole slyly Tound her waist
Without preliminary proprieties—
Through the high grass she ran, one hand to
heart,
Till at last, pushing back the ivy leaves,
She cooled her blushes at the water-butt.
Now the path widens where great-grandpa
stood,
His children brought to an obedient stop,
Nightly, his stick held threatening a star,
He demonstrates upon astronomy
While James, behind his coat-tails, catches moths
Or, dusk-defended, pulls his sisters’ hair.
Then we go on again till James has grown—
See those dark trees that we avoid —almost a
man,
He took his gun there once and shot himself:
No, no one quite knew why.
And at this tree-stump Batty Tom would halt
To ease his back, spit on his hands and scan
The sky for rain, the kitchen-yard for Dot;
Laden he went, with windfalls for the pigs.
And this dried shallow here? A trickle ran
Cutting across the paddocks from the left
Where father in his childhood often played
Angling for tiddlers with a battered tin —
And almost, now, I see him crouching there
With brown, bent head, profoundly knotting
string.
Up the slight rise and on; that ant-hill there
Was where we hid, so often necessary
When angry voices called us, then forgot.
And here’s the gate, much as it always was,
The wire between the fence posts still awry.
While up above the crows in steadfast flight
Over the paddocks mock our crooked way.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Child and Lion.
She looked so proud in her spotted blue frock,
Said the woman to the pigeons in the park;
Her eyes they .were blue and her hair was long
and black,
And I saw her run away on the stone beasts
Riding on the back of the lion.
Rapids of wistaria were running here that day,
Said the woman to the pigeons in the park;
Sky was in the water, sunlight in the spray,
And I never thought of harm when she skipped
away to play.
Riding on the back of the lion.
That old stone lion he was never known before,
Said the woman to the pigeons in the park,
To open his mouth in a slow and stony roar—
It might have been a greeting to the sweetness
that he bore,
Riding on the back of the lion.
I watch that lion and the whole world reels,
Said the woman to the pigeons in the park;
God alone knows what a mother’s heart feels
When she watches her daughter as she laughs
and kicks her heels,
Riding on the back of the lion.
There was moss on his mane and his flanks
were stone,
Said the woman to the pigeons in the park;
And he stretched out his limbs with a kind of
' rocky groan,
And the stone lion walked and my daughter
was gone,
Riding on the back of the lion.
Coo said the pigeons, we’ll tell you what we’ve
seen,
Coo to the woman in the park;
Gleaming through the thickets where the leaves
are dark and green,
Shy and white and eager goes a maiden of six-
teen,
Riding on the back of the lion.
Aye, we have seen her with the summer on her
breast,
Said ihe pigeons to the woman in the park;
Flame around her shoulders on that roaring
golden beast,
We have seen her riding like a princess to a
feast,
Riding on the back of the lion.
Roaring at the traffic and knocking people
down,
Said the pigeons to the woman in the park,
That lion and his rider came blazing through
the town,
And her black hair was streaming, her legs were
strong and brown,
Riding on the back of the lion.
Haggard grew the rider and the lion more huge,
Said the pigeons to the woman in the park;
And they took that lion and they shut him in a
cage
And he tore at the bars and she whipped him
in her rage,
Riding on the back of the lion.
The wire-walker’s parasol, the clown’s red nose,
Coo said the pigeons in the park;
They came to the circus as everybody does
And the gods chewed peanuts sitting in their
rows
While she rode on the back of the lion.
The fool in the sawdust has got his heart’s
desire,
Said the pigeons to the woman in the park;
The wire-walker wobbles if you put him up
higher;
But your daughter flew to heaven when the
tent caught fire,
Flying on the back of the lion.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vo!. 66—No. 3391
Wednesday, February 7, 1945
ANOTHER GHOST VOICE.
“Almighty God created our nation. In defending our existence we are defending His works. fact that the Almighty has protected me I regard as confirmation
of my mission. Only He Who called me to this duty can relieve me of it.”— Hitler on “the 12th anniversary of our seising pozver.”
“I said all that thirty years ago.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H, Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
~ Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87911.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THIS OTHER WAR.
The weight of force now massing against
the Germans has revived hopes, which
may be liars again, that the end in Europe
will come soon. If it does there will no
doubt be dancing in the streets; the
arrangements launched four months ago
in Sydney and elsewhere for bell-ringing,
halting traffic and having a general beano
will come into their own at last. The
war will be considered as good as over.
Actually, it will be only half over, and
far the more important half from this
country’s point of view will be the half
still to be fought out. At the moment
this other war is in partial eclipse—a
result of the whole frightful business
being treated by organs of enlightenment
as a day-to-day entertainment specially
staged for the benefit of home-fronters.
It is presented as an exciting serial; the
main aim to produce a good story a day.
Hence the emphasis on the sweeping
Russian gains, the effect heightened by
playing down the rest of the fighting to
the extent of leaving the Pacific half as
practically a forgotten war.
Before the bells start ringing it should
be worth taking at least a glance at this
forgotten war as a sobering tonic in ad-
vance. In a general view it is going
favorably enough. Without an exception,
every offensive action launched against
the Japs since the Allies gained the initia-
tive has succeeded or is succeeding. In
such places as New Guinea, Tarawa and
Burma it has been marked by some of
the most bitter and costly fighting seen
on any front; but man for man, ship for
ship, ’plane for ’plane, the Allies have
decisively proved themselves the superior
fighting side. As with Germany, it no
longer needs strength of faith to see that
eventually the Japs, too, will be beaten.
Whether eVen the most realistic of Japs
see that as deafly is another matter.
Some who profess to know that strange
race well and understand it hold out the
hope that already those in control of
Japan realise that their war has been lost.
Sounding suspiciously like the old “push-
over” crowd at it again, these prophets
are predicting that “after Germany is
beaten, after Russia joins in, Japan then
suddenly will surrender, will give up
without a fight to the last man.” This
line of prophecy—heavily qualified by the
Russian part of it, seeing that Russia has
a non-aggression pact with Japan lasting
at least until next year—is based on the
belief that the Jap leaders, knowing they
are beaten, will give in rather than see
their country subjected to either sustained
air assault or invasion.
The Jap leaders, it is said, will reason
that, though with the kind of peace that
will be enforced Japan will appear to be
ruined, the nation will be saved intact as
a nation; the Allies’ memory will be
short, with the claims of trade further
shortening it; and if not in 20 years,
then in 50 years, Japan will be rising to
power again, half a century being nothing
in the life of a nation.
The soothsayers even have a comfort-
ing word on the scores of thousands of
Japs that the A.I.F, apparently has been
mainly dedicated to wiping out, and the
hundreds of thousands of them scattered
elsewhere. These, they happily expect,
will pack up and go home on an order
from the Emperor, who, they contend,
must be specially preserved for that par-
ticular purpose.
Thus the soothsayers—none of them,
unfortunately, engaged in the crude busi-
ness of fighting the Japs. Some of those
so engaged have been optimistic enough,
but mostly they have revised their ideas
and sworn off crystal-gazing for life.
They have come to see the Japs indi-
vidually as creatures that could belong
to another planet. They see the Jap as
cruel, barbaric, inhuman and fanatic to
the point of seemingly preferring death
to life. By civilised standards, they dis-
count his courage, seeing his readiness to
die as merely moral cowardice. By mili-
tary standards, they discount his ability as
a fighter. They have seen Japs advancing
needlessly in the face of heavy fire, being
wiped out by the thousands. They have
seen Japs committing suicide in scores,
not only in preference to surrendering
and living but in preference to continuing
the fight.
All that, these authorities with first-
hand experience point out, writes the Jap
off as a fighter to be feared —the terrific
fighter he seemed at the height of his
victories ; when he was prepared and had
the offensive initiative, and the other side
was most unready. That there were such
Jap fighters and that not all of them have
yet been wiped out by any means is
accepted; but it is also now accepted by
those actually fighting them that they
never represented more than a limited
proportion of the Jap army ; that the pro-
portion of comparatively poor fighters is
already showing out and will show out
more and more. Comparative casualties
—the Americans claim in their favor a
proportion as high as 13 to I—would1 —would
seem to support these ideas, considering
the very different casualty rates on
Tarawa, in New Guinea and elsewhere in
the earlier fighting, though the sheer
weight of all-round fighting power now
turned on the Japs must come promi-
nently into the reckoning.
So always, those who know the Jap by
fighting him insist, must come the fanati-
cal Jap willingness to die. If this is
rightly diagnosed as the opposite of indi-
vidual courage—as a result of the Jap
being “a trembling serf, not a hero”; a
suicidal automaton produced by centuries
of training ; willing to die merely because
told —then the soothsayers could perhaps
be right in their rosy expectation that
Japan’s leaders, realising that the game is
up, will bring their lost war to a sudden
end and call the scattered forces home.
An order to live could be acted on as
promptly as thfe order to die; but the
realists occupied in the grim business of
the actual fighting are yet to be convinced
that any such order will be given, how-
ever desperate the war may look to
Japan’s leaders.
Instead, they base their plans on the
prospect of that same Jap willingness to
die itself causing hard fighting all the
way. Even if the war in Europe ends
soon, this other war, as they see it, might
drag on for years. Shifting the full
Anglo-American weight against Japan
must take a considerable time from when-
ever the war in Europe ends ; and then
the fighting will still be ahead. Failing
surrender, that fighting, according to
these authorities, will have to be mainly
done by infantry. Mainly by infantry the
Japs are now being fought in the Philip-
pines and in Burma; mainly by infantry
they will have to be rooted out of all
their still vast holdings everywhere, and
the huge Jap army in China will have to
be met and beaten.
Even then there would remain the Jap
homeland. In this calculating view the
combined American and British fleets can
meet and wipe out the Jap navy and
roam the Jap seas at will, completely
isolating Japan from outside supplies, and
Japan, as the Japs live, could still last
for years. Jap cities could be rocked with
bombs —so have German cities been
rocked for years. The only place that
has yet surrendered under bombing, with-
out need of invasion, was a small Medi-
terranean island, open to and subjected
to sea bombardment as well.
Weighing such considerations —and re-
membering the fanatical Jap willingness
to die ; even civilian Japs, as in the mass
suicides on Saipan, where women, child-
ren and old men waded out into the surf
and drowned themselves and mothers
destroyed their children before taking
their own lives —one close observer of
this other war is convinced that
The final act of the drama might have
to be an actual invasion and physical con-
quest of the Japanese mainland. It is no
question of landing 40,000 men for the
conquest of Saipan—an operation which
strained the present Pacific resources to
their utmost —but of landing half a million
men on a hostile coast and fighting a
battle on the spot. Such a landing was
effected and such a battle won in Nor-
mandy, but that was from a base only 70
miles away, and a base, moreover, which
itself produced a very high proportion of
the materials of war necessary.
Unless the soothsayers who see in the
crystal Russia presently joining in and
then Japan suddenly surrendering under
threat are right for once, it adds up to
what it certainly has been to date —a
long, hard, difficult and costly war; and
with the main fighting still to come..
History by Many Hands.
William Henry Chamberlin, who
knows Soviet Russia, devoted a
“Harper’s” article to correcting errors
perpetrated by writers who profess to be
mines of information on that subject.
There are so many of these persons at
large and their wild and whirling fancies
have been published in so many parts of
the earth that it would be beyond the
capacity of any one man to debunk the
lot; but within the limits Chamberlin had
to impose upon himself he did a most
workmanlike job. Among the writers
from whom he quoted are Dorothy
Thompson, Emil Ludwig, Walter Duranty,
Leland Stowe, Joseph E. Davis, Arthur
Upham Pope and Anon. (N.Y. “Nation”
and “Life”). Howlers and Chamberlin
corrections are subjoined.
Dorothy Thompson: Stalin was born in a
tribal society ruled by feudal princes. In his
childhood the masses of the people of Greater
Russia were serfs who could be beaten by their
masters and sold. —There is not the slightest
evidence in any biography of Stalin that he ever
owed allegiance to any tribal prince. Serfdom
was abolished in Russia in 1861. Stalin was
born in 1879.
Arthur Upham Pope: Stalin is a Russian
workingman.—His only trade or occupation be-
fore the Revolution was that of a professional
revolutionary. And he is a Georgian.
Dorothy Thompson : The Soviet Union con-
sists of six Federated Republics.—The number
of Union Republics in 1939 was 11. Since that
time the Soviet Government has proclaimed the
existence of five more.
Walter Duranty: Tsar Nicholas II came to
the throne through the untimely death of his
elder brother. —He had no elder brother. He
succeeded his father.
Leland Stowe ; Suvorov defeated Charles XII
of Sweden at Poltava. —Peter the Great defeated
Charles XII of Sweden at Poltava in 1709.
Suvorov was born in Moscow in 1729.
Joseph E. Davis: In the Duma, the legis-
lative body created by one of the Alexanders,
almost a third of the members were priests. —
The Duma was established after the proclama-
tion of a Constitution by Nicholas II on October
30, 1905. The largest number of priests elected
to membership of any of the four Dumas was
46 out of 422.
Joseph E. Davis : Total revenue (profits)
from industry was approximately 51 billion
roubles in 1935 and 62 billion roubles in 1936. —
The contribution to the national budget from
the profits of industries (all State-owned) was
1.7 billion roubles in 1935, 3.2 billion roubles
in 1936. Mr. Davis apparently confused two
very different figures: gross value of industrial
production and revenue from the profits of
nationalised industries.
Emil Ludwig (in Stalin, published 1942):
Bolshevism is a form of society under which
everyone is working seven hours a day, re-
duced to six in the case of dangerous occupa-
tions. For 80 p.c. of the workers every sixth
day is free, for the other 20 p.c. every fifth
day.—The eight-hour working day and the
seven-day working week were made the rule in
Soviet industrial establishments by Government
decree in June, 1940.
“Life” (Soviet issue, March, 1943): Evil
genius was Tsarina’s friend, the malevolent priest
Rasputin Alexander 111 died of terror. —
Rasputin was never ordained as a priest
Alexander 111 died of kidney trouble. »
“Nation”; The Western Powers, ganging up
on the struggling Soviet Union, compelled it to
sign the Treaty of Riga in 1920. —There is no
evidence from Soviet or other sources that the
Western Powers interfered with the Polish-
Soviet negotiations that led up to the Treaty
of Riga. It was signed on March 18, 1921.
The two periodicals and all the writers
have had many Australian readers,
and their perversions of history have
been copiously supplemented- by the
efforts of Australian writing boys, com-
munists and others, with an added
issue of patronising advice to the
British on the necessity of borrowing
Soviet strategy, tactics, weapons, generals
for Egypt and Timoshenko for the
Second Front, which was Demanded early
in 1942. In this kind of journalism the
young lions of the Sydney “Telegraph”
are pre-eminent. One of them was at it
again last week in an article headed
“Now is the Moment to Strike on the
West Front.”
The question now is when do we launch
our supplementary offensive? We have
reached the critical moment for this blow.
We should demonstrate our military effective-
ness on the Continent. We must share the
battle honors or we will lose authority
and prestige at the peace table. We must
demonstrate our ability to put an army
across the Channel and drive it to the heart
of Germany if we are to claim equality
with Russia in the political and economic
settlement.
And while English-speaking lads die in
the snow and slush the editorial We will
keep Sydney inviolate from Fascist beasts,
Japanese butchers, Franco Spaniards and
Papandreou Greeks.
The supremacy of the “Telegraph” in
this field has been disputed by Mr. F.
Ehrenfried Baume of “Terewth” and the
“Daily Mirror.” That paper, greatly
excited about the Russian offensive, has
dug up a “military writer,” who “quotes
Napoleon as saying that when an invad-
ing army gains possession of a capital it
is regarded as the end of the war” ; and
the “military writer” agrees with bells
on:—•
History fails to record a single country
winning a war once its capital has fallen,
unless the Government is able to transfer
to a friendly country.
Napoleon did say something like that
when he reached Moscow, though it
wasn’t technically the capital, and he must
have thought it when Murat’s army occu-
pied Madrid. Nevertheless, his wars
against Spain and Russia ended in disas-
ter. On the other hand, Berlin was twice
occupied during the Seven Years’ War
without Prussia being licked.
The career of Frederic 11, that success-
ful man of blood, has a bearing on the
present struggle, of which, since he
grabbed Silesia, and was a party to the
first partition of Poland, it was one of
the remote causes. Frederic’s leben-
sraum policy certainly inspired Hitler’s,
and Hitler is now trying to invoke among
all the German tribes the spirit which
Frederic inspired among his Prussians.
What Macaulay wrote of Frederic in his
account of the War of the Pragmatic
Sanction could be applied to Hitler with
little alteration.
“Without any declaration of war, with-
out any demand for reparation, in the
very act of pouring forth compliments
and assurances of goodwill” Frederic
attacked Maria Theresa, and “occupied
Silesia without a battle.” Forced to fight
as an ally of France, Bavaria and
Saxony, he turned dog on them and
signed a peace ; then, with Austria show-
ing unexpected strength, “without notice,
without any decent pretext, he recom-
menced hostilities.”
The memorable year 1745 followed. The
war raged by sea and land, in Italy, in Ger-
many and in Flanders. In the autumn
Frederic made peace with England and,
before the close of the year, with Austria,
But with the first robber out of it the
war went on till 1748. “It was termin-
nated by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle”
(Aachen). “Of all the Powers taking part
in it the only gainer was Frederic.” But,
like Hitler, he was held morally bankrupt
and the master-criminal of the age.
By the public the King of Prussia was
considered a politician destitute alike of
morality and decency, insatiably rapacious
and shamelessly false. On the head of
Frederic is all the blood which was shed
in the war which raged during many years
and in every quarter of the globe. The
evils produced by his wickedness were felt
in lands where the name of Prussia was
unknown; and, in order that he might rob
a neighbor whom he had promised to de-
fend, black men fought on the coast of
Coromandel and red men scalped each
other by the Great Lakes of North America.
Like nearly all German wars till the
last, the Seven Years’ War, except the
North American part of it, was fought on
German soil. Frederic fought mainly in
Silesia, Brandenburg, Saxony and what is
now Czechoslovakia. He and his lieu-
tenants won many battles and combats
and lost many. In the second year, 1757,
the Prussian General Bevern was twice
defeated in Silesia, and was “compelled to
retire behind the Oder, leaving the for-
tresses of Schweidnitz and Breslau to
their fate.” Marching to the rescue
Frederic learned that Berlin had been
“entered by a body of Austrian raiders
under Hedik and plundered,” though the
raiders soon retired. In 1758, in the
battle of Zorndorf, which is near Kustrin,
he managed to beat the Russians, though
it was a near thing.
In 1757 100,000 Russians had advanced
into East Prussia, but achieved nothing.
They were back next year.
Utilising the winter snows, General Fer-
mor, who had succeeded Apraxin, crossed
East Prussia (January 10) and attempted to
annex the province, driving out all the
Prussian officials who refused to swear
fealty to Catherine. This took time, and
when the period of thaw supervened the
Russians were immobilised and could not
advance till summer dried the roads.
In the summer of 1759 the Russians
took the field again under still another
general, Soltikov. They worsted the
Prussians under Wedell and, junctioning
with the Austrians at Kunersdorf, near
Frankfurt-on-the-Oder, gave the King
a terrible drubbing. But “as usual, he
was saved by the sluggishness of his
enemies, and ultimately the Russians, hav-
ing consumed all the food and forage in
the districts they occupied, were com-
pelled to fall back on their own frontiers.”
In 1760 Frederic, contending with the
Austrians and the Russians, marched into
Silesia again, and, though in several tight
corners, reached Breslau on August 17.
The Russians now abandoned the cam-
paign in the open field and besieged Kol-
> berg, on the Baltic coast. Frederic
manoeuvred for some weeks between Bres-
lau, Schweidnitz and Glatz. He was sud-
denly recalled by the news of the capture of
Berlin on October 9 by Cossacks and Aus-
trians. On October 11 the King was in full
march, but the news of his approach was
enough and the enemy dispersed.
He beat the Austrians at Torgau, “his
last great battle.” Though in 1761
50,000 Russians from Posen and 72,000
Austrians from Glatz severed his com-
munications with Prussia, “ultimately, as
usual, the Russian commissariat broke
down and in September their general,
Buturlin, withdrew the way he had come.
The war petered out, and the King
returned to a desolated Prussia.
Almost every province had been the seat
of war, and of war conducted with merciless
ferocity. The fields lay uncultivated. The
very seed corn had been devoured in the
madness of hunger. Famine and contagious
maladies produced by famine had swept
away the herds and flocks. A sixth of the
males capable of bearing arms had perished
on the field of battle. Whole battalions
were composed of deserters or prisoners.
In some districts no laborers, except women,
were seen in the fields; in others, the
traveller passed shuddering through silent
villages in which not a single inhabitant
remained.
But “the whole Continent at arms had
proved unable to tear Silesia from that
iron grasp.”
It seems improbable that the Austrian-
feorn Hitler will get the same measure ot
devotion from the people on whom p is
policy has brought sufferings unimagin-
able in 1745. If his latest mouthmgs
mean anything he will try. But there i>
one bad omen for him and his Germans
who see the toils closing round them-
many of whom were not exempt from
superstition even in happy times. Fred-
eric’s greatest cavalry leader, whose
charges decided the issue at Zorndor •
was General von Seydlitz. Hitler has
no bitterer enemy than another Genem-
von Seycllitz, a leader of the capture-
officers who have been urging surrende.
from Moscow.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Preference.
The present Australian Government has
accepted the principle of preference for
servicemen (and others) —and that is such
“news” that it has been featured in the
dailies.
It should have been taken for granted.
Instead, it led to a division of Cabinet,
the militant-pacifist members of which
wanted the principle applied to everybody
who’d been in any way engaged in war
work. Those members, according to
reports, were overruled at the deferred
meeting by Mr*. Curtin, who had to over-
rule them to be consistent. As far as
words go, the P.M. is so pledged to pref-
erence for Diggers that if it was turned
down he would have to get out —at least,
he would have had to do so in the days
when responsible Ministers held them-
selves responsible for their pledges.
The bill being hatched is, as reported,
fair enough—preference in employment
to all enlisted members of the fighting
services and to civilians who have been
“in actual contact with the enemy,” all
to be graded on a life-risk basis, with an
arbitrator to decide involved cases.
It is still tentative, depending on wjiat
Caucus decides, with the union bosses
telling Caucus what it must do ; and the
union bosses will have to somersault to
tell Caucus to accept. If they do, they
will do it grudgingly, on the very per-
suasive ground that failure to grant pref-
erence to the men fighting the country’s
war would certainly wreck this or any
other Government.
Diggers will now wait to see whether
the bill, when produced, hasn’t any strings
to it, such as “all things being equal,”
or, which is only too probable, compul-
sory union membership.
Changes at Canberra.
The last Federal Labor Government,
Mr. Scullin’s, began on October 22, 1929,
with 13 Ministers and at the finish (Jan.
6, 1932) there had been 19. Mr. Forde
was among them all the time, Mr. Beas-
ley for 16 months and 12 days (he then
became leader of the Lang group), Mr.
Chifley for 10 months and three days
and Mr. Holloway for three months and
nine days.
Mr. Curtin’s Government began
(October 7, 1941) with 19 Ministers, and
there has been only one more, Mr.
George Lawson having gone out and
Mr. Calwell come in. Now, with Mr.
Beasley no longer able to stand up to the
strain of Supply and Shipping and Mr.
Chifley needing some relief, there has
been some reshuffling. Senator Ashley,
who was P.M.G., moves to Supply and
Shipping, leaving the ornamental Vice-
Presidency of the Executive Council to
Mr. Beasley. Senator Don Cameron
goes from Aircraft Production to the
Post Office, Aircraft Production being
passed on to Mr. Makin (Navy and
Munitions). Mr. Dedman (W. 0.1. and
C.5.1.R.) takes Post-war Reconstruction
from Mr. Chifley, and Mr. Lazzarini
(Home Security) is really to have some-
thing to do as Minister of Works —at
least it is so asserted.
The changes, though dignified with big
words like “integration” and “organisa-
tion,” are of no consequence. How-
ever “reintegrated” and “reorganised”
as a Labor outfit the Ministry will remain
a sorry combination, overburdened with
passengers, without drive and without
courage where union anarchy is con-
cerned, without comprehension in the
case of the land industries, and with wild
ideas on the dangerous subject of which
it knows least, banking. Concerning which
Mr. Ward said last week, unrebuked by the
P.M., that all the Ministers are for “the
final elimination of the private banks,”
disagreeing only as to “immediate steps.”
Had the best men from the other side
been taken in three years ago Australia
would at least have had the satisfaction
of knowing that the serious problems de-
veloping would be tackled by the
best brains in Parliament. Certainly
the drift to chaos on the food front
would have been averted. Privately and
publicly the Agrarian leaders and mem-
bers warned the Government wha( it was
letting Australia in for with its fatuous
wheat-restriction measures and the like,
its failure to place the farmers in a posi-
tion to meet its commitments to the
nation and our jellies, and its idiotic belief
that drought couldn’t happen under a
Labor Government. Now there is to be
another “temporary reduction in the
meat ration,” and “a leading miller has
expressed the fear that there may not be
enough wheat for all the flour needed
in N. S. Wales,” though Mr. Scully
denies that there will be any bread
rationing.
We Can't Eat Plans.
Commonwealth Food Control or Mr.
Scully or the Department of Weird and
Wonderful Notions or somebody or other
at Canberra has got hold of an idea for
an agricultural - machinery - production
programme “involving £9,000,000.” The
thing is being planned by a “Federal
inter-departmental committee, which is
investigating the machinery shortage foi
the Government.”
Ordinary people, of course, think that
the best way to find out what machinery
a farmer needs is to ask him and then
let him send an order to a machinery
firm ; but then they aren’t ordinary people
at Canberra.
So the inter-departmental committee,
after “investigating,” will prepare and
present a report, and this report will
go before Cabinet, when Cabinet meets,
and be submitted to Parliament, when
Parliament sits. After which, if the
report is accepted, the Munitions Depart-
ment is to be made a directing authority
“to ensure that production targets set by
the Department of Commerce” (what
made you think we could keep Mr. Scully
out of this?) “will be attained by com-
panies previously engaged in agricultural
machinery production.”
With that added to the existing muddle,
confusion, procrastination and form-
filling on the food front it is obvious
that anybody who has a bushel of wheat
or a tin of meat or a preserved egg had
better hang on to it, if hanging on to it
is still within the law.
Why Switzerland?
Seeking an excuse for boycotting the
international aviation conference, which
our Mr. Drakeford attended, Moscow
found one in the invitation extended to
Switzerland, accusing that country of
“undemocratic practices and pro-Fascist
sympathies.” It launched the accusation
and withdrew its delegates when those
gentlemen were actually m North
America.
There followed “a storm of indignation
throughout Switzerland.” Recording this,
a New York “Times” man (Daniel T.
Brigham), cabling from Berne, pointed
out that neutrality has been the national
policy of Switzerland from its foundation
—that and “maintenance of the sovereign
right of self-government”—and that while
the Swiss Government, “for reasons of
national security,” had “had recourse to
the suppression of the Communist party,”
it had “adopted similar measures against
the Fascist and Nazi parties, at consider-
ably greater military risk.” In other
words. Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany
are neighbors, whereas communist Russia
is far away.
Considerable sympathy with the Swiss
• was expressed in American papers. There-
fore it was astonishing to read on the
authority of the New York “Herald-
Tribune,” a very good paper, that there
was “a partial economic blockade of
Switzerland” which might be “converted
into a total blockade if Allied demands
are not met.”
It was added that the U.S.A. was
“likely to demand that Switzerland
stop passenger, coal and other traffic
from Germany to Northern Italy, ban
the export to Germany of strategic
goods, and cut down other exports.”
Mr. Stettinius was quoted as saying
that “the whole economic relation-
ship of the United States with Switzer-
land is under consideration.” All this
when the enemy is in a position to strike
at the Swiss on three sides, and when the
extension of the war to Switzerland might
suit his book.
The home of the brave, honest and
humane Switzer has been one of the
bright spots of Europe. If the Mad Con-
tinent had 20 republics like Switzerland
it might become sane.
In these terrible years of war the tre-
mendous difficulties of the little republic
as a land-locked neighbor of Germany
and German - occupied Italy should
surely be treated with sympathy and
understanding, especially considering
the services it has rendered to nearly all
the United Nations as Protecting Power,
and its generous treatment of refugees and
escaped prisoners of war.
This is one of the features of U.S.
foreign policy which are very hard to
understand. The U.S.A. has virtually
boycotted the Argentine on the ground
that it has a dictatorship with Axis sym-
pathies (denied). Brazil, which has had
a dictatorship without elections for many
years, is in high favor.
A Visit to the Markets.
“Bumpkin”: I went there at 4 a.m.,
“there” being the Victoria Markets in
Melbourne. From the aesthetic viewpoint
it was a raw, rough, colorful, noisy and
animated picture, and a poem could have
been written about it; but from the
economic aspect it was a tragedy,
Scores of trucks and carts, manned by
Greeks, Italians, Czechs, Chinese and
some Australians, rolled up, gorged with
parsnips, onions, carrots, cabbages and
turnips, but, it being summer, the domi-
nating note in the vegetable symphony was
lettuces—green pyramids of them. Buyers
began streaming in with their barrows.
Unfortunately, the weather forecast was
cool and cloudy, and the growers were
looking anxious. Dealers and suburban
greengrocers went the rounds, turned their
noses up at the potential materials for
salads, and bought small quantities of
parsnips, carrots and onions,
Nobody wanted lettuces that morning,
A young market gardener repacked his
truck and took his 60 cases home to feed
to the pigs, only to find that his father,
profiting by the visit of two cousins, had
cut an additional 90 cases. The price
of a lettuce in the shops remained at
tenpence or a shilling. Two shillings a
case was the ruling price at the market,
This is no exceptional occurrence. It
happens almost daily, and the waste of
food, water, fertiliser and effort in the
course of a year must be colossal. A
farmer of my acquaintance ploughed in
an acre of cauliflowers in perfect condi-
tion because it wasn’t worth his while
to truck them to market,
It should not be difficult for the gentle-
men who are organising the food supply
of the nation to hit on methods of
remedying the situation. One presents
itself quite easily.
Why not revive the old rural markets?
Every town should have its own markets
to which local produce could be carried.
This would save petrol, rubber and labor
and give the country people what they
seldom get—fresh vegetables at reason-
able prices. It would also revive all sorts
of other trades, and each town could
manufacture its own cheeses and other
foodstuffs.
Because of these decentralised markets
the standard of living of rural French-
men is higher than that of Australians.
In Paris itself there is not just one
market, as in Melbourne, but one in
almost every street.
Moreover, in normal times, the French-
man lives incredibly cheaply compared
with Australian standards.
QUESTION OF “INHIBITIONS.”
“From me to you, Digger, and—as I said to America three years ago—‘without any inhibitions.’”
“The gentleman on your right seems to have got ‘inhibitions’ bad.”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD., *
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
I"!
iii!
IIH
HIM
!!£-
tbd
Op
on affe
Time
mi
ZJHE PASS^
your
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts, or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is S% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4lh Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Points
Though a stranger to the district and
in no way helped by a Weaver barrage
against Independents (there were six)
Eric Hearnshaw looks like winning the
Ryde Assembly seat comfortably; and
that will advance the Liberal party every-
where. Hearnshaw topped the poll,
his majority over McKell Labor being
upwards of a thousand greater than that
of the late member (Shand, Ind.) nine
months ago. The result was a facer for
the Sydney dailies and weeklies that
played safe. “S. M. Herald,” breaking
with “Australia’s Leader,” supported
Hearnshaw, but when Menzies entered
the contest with a speech in his best style
Granny, on the evidence of space and
headlines, considered it less important
than the incident of “a 14-year-old Rams-
gate swimmer” who “waited in vain for
an hour and a half at North Sydney for
Swimming Association officials to give
him a time trial.”
The just word from the seat of Gov-
ernment, as it appeared in “S. M.
Herald”:
Canberra, Thursday.—Most of full
Cabinet time today was devoted to a
general financial revue.
And “revue” must be pretty right. But
the performers are so poor and the pro-
grammes, as advertised, are so rotten that
they will end by getting “the bird.”
In his first Australian broadcast the
Duke of Gloucester said he had met
Australian soldiers in the Middle East,
Australian airmen in Libya and “all the
RjA.A.F. squadrons in England,” and was
“looking forward to visiting all the fight-
ing forces in and around Australia.” It
has not been stated whether the P.M. will
accompany him to New Guinea, but the
P.M. should.
That ardent 1942 Second Fr enter
Abram Landa, M.L.A., has been heard
once more on the theme that Sydney
University should be thrown open to all
the young fellows who qualify by
examination, regardless of the military
obligations imposed on young fellows in
previous war years. A young woman
supported him in a Letter to the Editor.
The secretary of the National Union of
University Students replied that the
lady’s views were “not those of the
majority of Australian students,” and that
his Council had “consistently upheld the
quota system,- as administered by the
Universities’ Commission, as striking a
just balance between the demands of
man-power and educational standards.”
Another “S. M. Herald” correspondent,
while stigmatising Landa’s attitude as
“hysterical, paltry and ridiculous,”
pleaded for forgiveness:
One can forgive Mr. Landa for his pro-
test against the application of man-power
regulations to university students when one
remember that many of his constituents
are vitally concerned in quotas and his
last electoral majority was very small.
This shocked Abram into unwonted
silence,
P. J. Clarey, M.L.C., president of the
A.C.T.U., giving it lip at the summer
school of the Institute of Political
Science:
The old order is doomed. It is simply
a question of whether it prefers to die
violently or simply fade away.
If this fustian reaches America it will be
read with astonishment, not only by the
President and Dewey, but by Green
(A.F.L.), Lewis (United Mineworkers)
and even Murray (C. 1.0.). All stand
for the American system of government
and the American system of free enter-
prise. Beck, of the Teamsters, the great
Pacific Slope aggregation of unions, re-
cently went east to interest financiers —
yes, financiers —in post-war development
of his part of the U.S.A. Clarey should
try to keep in touch with American
thought and practice, even if it means
reading less Left Wing rubbish.
Admiral Sir James Somerville, head of
the Admiralty delegation to America, is
reported as telling the “Herald-Tribune”
that the recent strikes in the Pacific were
“colossal.” Well, a lot of people have
been telling the miners, wharfies, slaugh-
termen, etc., the same thing, but it doesn’t
seem to impress them.
It has come out of Canberra that the
undebated decision to allow each member
a secretary-typist has led to some of the
boys giving the jobs to close relatives who,
being listed as temporary public servants,
may keep themselves anonymous and are
responsible to nobody for the hours they
work or the kind of work they do. Some-
body wants an annual return made to
Parliament. Since politicians themselves
will have to initiate any action, it can be
“HOW WOULD IT BE IF I ASKED THEM TO CALL ME ARTIE?"
assumed that no more will be heard of
it —from them.
Big Three Meet, so the headline ran.
Towards the end of 1943, when Chiang
Kai-shek was in Cairo with Roose-
velt and Churchill, but not Stalin, they
were the Big Four. At Tehran, with
Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt present,
but not Chiang, the term was still used.
Now it seems to have disappeared for
good, unless De Gaulle can force his way
into the restricted circle. Offensive to
excluded leaders and nations, and with a
bad Versailles history, it should never
have been resurrected.
James F. Burns, U.S. Director of War
Mobilisation, on professional athletes and
racing men who till the end of 1944
were permitted to follow their pursuits:
The existing war situation demands the
utmost effort that the people can give
to the support of the armed forces. The
operation of racetracks is not conducive to
this all-out effort. And professional athletes
between 18 and 26 have proved by their
great’ physical feats upon playing fields
that they are physically fit and as able to
perform military service as are the
11,000,000 men in uniform.
So racecourses were closed on January
3, and professional athletes were
called up for examination by mili-
tary doctors. Objectors, if any, were
referred to an official statement that
18-year-olds are being sent to the
Western Front. Perhaps professional
athletes in these parts, particularly Syd-
ney, are different- at least, they and their
powerful patrons seem to think they are.
The story of the Palestine Jews Mosha
Cohen and Itsak Salzmann, who shot
Lord Moyne at Cairo on November 6,
was left unfinished. It came out that the
murderers had been placed on trial in
an Egyptian court, and that there had
been threats to blow up the courtroom
and shoot the Judge, also that the death
sentence had been imposed, but whether
it was carried out or commuted was not
revealed. It seems queer.
To the making of diplomats at Can-
berra there is no end. One week’s issue;
Lieut.-Colonel Hodgson, locum for Wil-
liam Glasgow at Ottawa, to be Minister
to France.
L. R. McGregor, Director of War
Supplies Procurement in the U.S.A., to be
Minister at Large in South America, with
headquarters in Brazil.
Alfred Stirling, External Affairs Officer in
London, to be High Commissioner in
Canada.
It was supposed that Beasley would be
going to Washington (where Eggleston is
“acting,” though still accredited to
Chungking) and Makin to Ottawa, but
more prudent counsels prevailed.
Curtin still remembers what happened
when Scullin took Moloney and BrennSn
abroad and how vain were Scullin’s
pleadings to the wild men of Caucus,
always ending with the words “Brennan
and Moloney concur.”
The latest move in Melbourne to deal
with the house famine is to call for appli-
cants for the job of Registrar of Co-
Operative Housing Societies at £lOOO
p.a. Applicants are required to have a
knowledge of co-operative housing legis-
lation and the requisite skill for drafting
rules and regulations. Unfortunately,
houseless people can’t sleep under a rule
or cook a meal in a regulation.
The corns, having grabbed Eureka,
N.S.W, Labor has borrowed the name of
Henry Lawson for a Labor College. The
college is to teach the boys almost every-
thing required for the equipment of
Labor politicians except finance. Mc-
Kell, who breeds trotters, runs “bigger
and better” Government lotteries, set up
the Sydney Turf Club and encouraged
the Badly measures designed in the in-
terest of “that good and useful sport dog-
racing,” said at the “official opening” that
“such a development in Labor’s educa-
tional programme” was “vital at a time
when the world is steeped in materialism.”
Henry, who wasn’t much of a politician,
and wasn’t a “sport” at all, would have
loved that.
Two years ago President Roosevelt had
to intervene in a quarrel between Henry
Wallace, then Vice-President, and Jesse
Jones, Secretary of Commerce, which he
did by publicly rebuking both. Last month
he astonished Americans by asking Jones
to surrender his job to Wallace. Jones
replied by publishing the correspondence
and asking the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee to take the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation out of Wallace’s hands on the
ground that Wallace knows no more
about finance than a crow, and “would
jeopardise the future of the country with
untried idealistic schemes.” Wallace’s
retort was that Jones was “a man of
limited vision and stunted imagination,”
and that he himself, if confirmed in
office, would “use the lending power to
assist little businesses in a drive for a
free and prosperous America.” He seems
to be a mixture of Scully and Lazzarini.
The Senate Commerce Committee re-
ported against the appointment. There
was a small Senate majority for it, con-
ditionally on the duties being restricted as
suggested by Jones,
After publishing roods of Russian-war
“news,” the pith of which has been ap-
propriated by “Australian” communists
as propaganda, “S. M. Herald” came out
with a page article against “Australian”
communists and complacently printed
bundles of approving letters. Alongside
one budget it scolded the young King
of Yugoslavia for being against “the
granting of unrestricted legislative power”
to “the National Liberation Council,” and
included the Poles in London.
King Peter has learned nothing, it seems,
from the consequences which have flowed
from a similar show of intransigence by
the Polish Government in exile.
The “intransigence” consists in Petqr and
the Poles objecting to have the
destinies of their people and country
decided by communists, which is pre-
cisely what the “Herald” objected to in
its anti-communist article.
Responding to congratulations on his
knighthood, Lud Mayor Nettlefold thus
let himself go on his Vision for the City
of Melbourne:
My vision is for a city of justice, where
none shall prey on others; a city of plenty,
where vice and poverty shall cease to
exist; a city of brotherhood and happy
homes, where all success shall be founded
on service and honor given to nobleness
alone; a city of peace, where order shall not
rest on force but on the love of all for the
city wherein they dwell.
Fired by the Nettlefold vision, the city
dads contemplated a plan for the com-
memoration of the centenary of the in-
corporation of the city, which is ill-
equipped with parks and breathing
spaces, by the erection on the Western
Market site of a £1,350,000 commercial
building with two floors for parking cars.
It is expected to provide a net return on
capital of 4.87 p.c.
“Bumpkin” goes fishing:
In a report on the Victorian fish industry the
State Development Committee has discovered
that there is a black market in seafood. It
wants a controlling authority to keep detailed
records of fish sold at the point of distribution
and another to check supplies at the catching
points. It is time something was done about it.
I spent a few days at a fishing town at Christ-
mas and talked to the fishermen, fine people.
Each man limits his catch to six boxes because
they are all terrified of a glut. “Cray” men
excepted, they don’t go out on Fridays and
Saturdays; the “cray” men, for some reason
or other, have given themselves an exemption
ftom the restrictions. A trip to the grounds
may take three hours. When the six boxes are
full the men return, although if they stayed
another half-hour they oould often fill their
boats without using any more petrol. The
sea, they say, is teeming with fish, and last
year was a marvellous season. But what are
they to do? If too many fish are sent up to the
market dealers take a hand and employ an
effective method of restriction by not sending
back so many boxes.


(Wcutdo
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Australia on his way home to M.L.,
Major W. S. Jordan, M.8.E., parachutist,
has spent most of the past two years in-
side occupied Europe, Three times
wounded, and with most of his ribs
smashed when he parachuted one night
on to a mountain in Greece in 1942, he
still has one arm in plaster and limps.
After an interlude in Egypt with pneu-
monia, before which he’d had 15 months
in western Greece with E.D.E.S. and
E.L.A.S., who shot his M.L. second-in-
command, Jordan dropped in the Midi
three months before the invasion of
southern France. He still wears the
Maquis’ black-and-silver parachute badge
tucked beneath his lapel. Now 35, he
was for three years before the war with
Auckland “Herald.” His father, Bill
Jordan, of Mudgee (N.S.W.), was a col-
league of Ned Moss, owner of Vaals and
one of Australia’s few really successful
punters.
Here pictured by Mcßeath, Wing-Com-
mander Fred A. Collinson, known as M 3
at R.A.A.F. headquarters, has the ticklish
job of selecting the right chaps to carry
WING-COMMANDER COLLIN SON.
commissions in the R.A.A.F. for all ad-
ministrative and ground staff duties. An
old hand at the war game, he got back
from the last show with a good fighting
record, joined the N.S.W. Transport
Board and eventually became the State’s
registrar of motor vehicles. In that post
he was responsible for introducing the
new type of motor number plate (letters
and figures idea), and had the original
No. AAOOO attached to his own car. The
artist comments: “Despite the desperate
expression, developed through years of
working out the other fellow’s problems,
Freddie Collinson’s looks belie him, for
beneath the .furrowed brow and lined
features lies a very human understand-
ing.” •
Lieut. W. A. Spowers, appointed
A.D.C. to Governor Casey, of Bengal,
comes from Casey’s home town, Gee-
long. Educated at Geelong Grammar,
Spowers joined the A.I.F. in 1942, as a
lad of 17, and went overseas. He trans-
ferred to the Seaforth Highlanders, then
to the Parachute' Brigade ; was wounded,
and returned to Australia on leave last
year. His father, Lieut.-Col. Alan
Spowers, D. 5.0., M.C., now p.o.w. in
Germany, is a director of the “Argus”
and “Australasian.”
An airman’s appreciation:
R.A.A.F. and U.S. Airfield Construction
Squadrons have been in the van of MacArthur’s
thrust with highly-organised methods and a
Wealth of specialised heavy equipment, yet only
a few years ago these outfits were unknown
and the R.AA.F.’s only (and unofficial) strip-
builder was Jerry Pentland. He has a senior
rank and, I believe, initials, but he will always
be known as Jerry Pentland. An old-timer in
New Guinea flying, Jerry was instructing (under
protest) in the R.A.A.F. when things became
grim up North, and it wasn’t long before he
was back there with a hotchpotch of aircraft
—old and new, big and small, some Air Force,
some civilian. Jerry pioneered the strip-building
game, sometimes to rescue civilians marooned
in the Owen Stanleys, sometimes to open up
country such as the south coast of Papua, at
a time when the Japs were coming through
the gap, and that was about all of New Guinea
that we had left. Kerema, Bulldog, Abau,
Amazon and a host of others were either made
or started by him, while for rapid construction
his effort at Bena Bena in July, 1942, has been
given a whole chapter in a book a cobber of
mine is writing. Jerry had no equipment, and
fit native “boys” were all earmarked for
hauling on the Kokoda trail, but he was not
easily beaten. With the march of progress
came inquiring officialdom asking Jerry to
“show cause why” certain strange items were
being acquired by him. He produced a balance-
sheet which staggered the official boys:
To hire of 50 Marys for 10 days—
Two bolts of Turkey Red. Price
To hire of 20 old men for five days—
One hundred sticks of Emu Twist.
Price
Etc., etc. etc.
The accountants retired in confusion.
Dr. Andrew Arthur Abbie, released
from the army to succeed F. Goldby as
Elder Professor of Anatomy at Adelaide
Uni., is an Englishman who came to
Sydney after matriculating at London
Uni. in 1922. In 1929 he graduated from
Sydney Uni. M.B. B.S. and B.Sc. (in
anatomy), and was appointed to the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital. Awarded a
Walter and Eliza Hall travelling medical
scholarship in 1932, Abbie spent two
years with Grafton Elliot Smith when
that distinguished Australian was Pro-
fessor of Anatomy in the University of
London, and collected his D.Ph. He was
awarded his M.D. in 1934 for brain re-
search work while at Amsterdam. Senior
lecturer in anatomy at Sydney Uni. in
1935, he has published Principles of Ana-
tomy and Human Physiology. He’s 40
tomorrow (Feb. 8).
Archer Kyffin Thomas, who replaces
Ralph Simmonds as editor of Melbourne
“Herald,” is a member of South Aus-
tralia’s leading newspaper dynasty. He
is a son of Evan Kyffin Thomas, who was
the grandson of Robert, founder in 1836
of Adelaide “Register,” the first issue of
which was printed in London. Robert’s
printing premises there were sadly in
need of repair. Application for relief
from his landlord brought a flat refusal,
so Robert decided that, as he had to shift
somewhere, he might as well shift a long
way, and threw his fortunes in with the
South Australian Company, which had
just been formed and was painting a
bright future for pioneers in the new
colony. Emigrating with his wife and a
large family, Robert printed his next issue
in a tent at Glenelg. He was a fighter,
and, although he got all the Govern-
mental business, his uncompromising
criticism of the way the affairs of the
colony were conducted lost him his prin-
cipal mainstay, but didn’t crush the paper,
which remained Adelaide’s leading daily
until it was absorbed by Melbourne
“Herald.” Archer Kyffin Thomas is 39,
was educated at St. Peter’s College,
edited Adelaide “News” for three years,
and was a war correspondent with the
U.S. Pacific Fleet for six months last
year.
Celebrated his jubilee of bookselling in
Melbourne, Sydney L. Hall, who started
at five shillings a week with old Cole,
of the famous Arcade—and ran all the
way from Brunswick to snatch the job,
jobs being rare in 1894, the boom having
burst. Hall managed Cole’s secondhand
and schoolbook counter for 25 years,
then realised his ambition to be a book-
seller on his own. Now he has upwards
of 100,000 volumes and a larger em-
porium than his first employer’s.
“H.W.”: Melbourne has a number
of remarkable old hands still on the
job in addition to Fred. Heath (B.
24/1/’45). John Donaldson, of Mutual
Life, is 92, and attends his office daily.
Howlett-Ross, the elocutionist, is still
editing the “Australian Financial Gazette”
at 88, and shows no signs of weakening.
Another of them is ex-Federal Post-
master-General G. H. Wise, who, head-
ing for 92, is the oldest practising solicitor
in Victoria.
Recommended for a V.C. at Messines,
given an immediate award of the D.S.O.
as a lieut, twice mentioned in dispatches,
wounded in the left arm and back to
France again despite the arm being para-
lysed at the time—that’s a bit of the
record of Col. N. F. Bremner, subject of
the accompanying Bill Prior drawing.
COL. BREMNER.
Commanding a battalion in V.D.C.
fortress areas for the past three years,
the colonel has been “Brem” to all hands
in it. A Queenslander (born at Too-
woomba), he captained the Warrego
Rugby Union rep. team for four years,
and started his soldiering by enlisting
at Charleville in 1915. He was in
Egypt and France till 1918, with the old
15th and 47th battalions —private, corp.,
sarge, second-lieut., ending as captain.
Back in Australia he couldn’t settle down,
so he headed for India, and there, with
no more commercial experience that he’d
been able to gather in his pre-war ser-
vice with the P.M.G.’s Department in
Queensland, he joined the David Sassoon
merchant and banking firm; was with it
12 years, passing through all its depart-
ments to become manager. In 1932 he
headed home again, subsequently joined
Davis Gelatine, and these days is one of
knight George Davis’s chief executives.
Ernest W. Robinson, Australian Metro-
politan Life’s new g.m. at Sydney head
office, is one of those genial coves mel-
lowed by travel and experience. An
Englishman from Stoke Newington, he
E. W. ROBINSON.
got his early Australian training under
the late J. W. Turner at Sydney Fort-
street High, was in Queensland for Met-
ropolitan Life in 1911, and with it
in Victoria until 1943, when he succeeded
J. A. Henderson as g.m. Aside from life
assurance, his main interests in life are
gardening, literature and golf, in about
that order. While in Melbourne he was
president of the old Athenasum in Col-
lins-street, Victoria’s oldest literary insti-
tute, dating from 1839, and the fore-
runner of the Mechanics’ Institutes.
From one of the family:
“H.W.M.” was considerably astray about'
James George Baillieu. James was not, as
stated, a French refugee. He was born in 1832
at Haverfordwest, in Pembrokeshire, Wales,
where his mother also was born. His
lather, Lambert Francis Baillieu, was born at
Bristol, to which city James’s grandfather came,
at an early age, from Liege, Belgium. Lambert
was a Professor of Music, and a letter written
by him in 1847 to his brother, Frederick, at
Cambridge University states “My second son
James has just gone to sea in a fine vessel of
one thousand tons. He is a good boy and I
have no doubt he will do well.” James, who
was one of a large family, sought adventure at
the age of 15 to relieve the burden upon his
parent's. A year or so later, when he arrived
in Australia, he swam across The Rip from
the Quarantine Station to Queenscliff, but the
only wreck he left was the wreck of a drunken,
bullying captain. James was married in 1853 to
Emma Lawrence Pow, of Markbury, Somerset.
Their family, born and reared at Queenscliff
consisted of 10 sons and four daughters.
William Lawrence Baillieu was the second son.
He emulated his father by helping to maintain
the home in his early teens. By his achieve-
ments in life he proved himself a great Austra-
lian, of whom this country might well be
proud, and to his family no finer son or brother
can be imagined. The gift to the Melbourne
University, under the will of his late brother,
is a fitting tribute to his memory. Incidentally,
Clive Baillieu, now visiting Australia, is “Big
Bill” B'aillieu’s eldest son.
C. G. Roberts, appointed chief engineer
of the Victorian Country Roads Board,
has had a very different career from that
of his father —Tom Roberts to painters
of his generation. Born in Dor-
chester (Eng.), Tom Roberts came to Mel-
bourne at 13, and went almost straight
away into the National Gallery school.
Afterwards he roamed England and
Europe, still studying and painting, ex-
hibited at the R.A. and then returned to
Australia to join with McCubbin, Streeton
and Conder in starting a new school of
Australian landscape. With his friends he
argued and painted over the countryside
across which his son will make his high-
ways. Born in Sydney, C. G. Roberts
went at an early age to London to be
educated at St. Paul’s School, the Royal
Military Academy and East London
College, graduating B.Sc. and going
then to a job with the Ministry of
Transport. After serving with the Royal
Engineers in the last war he returned to
Australia and joined the Country Roads
Board.
To tour Australia for A.8.C., Sir
Ernest MacMaillan, conductor of the
Toronto Symphony Orchestra, is a man
of some musical substance. Born at
Mimico, Ontario, in 1893, he started
appearing on the public platform at the
age of nine. His advanced studies began
in Edinburgh. Then he was a church
organist in Canada until a second visit
to Europe landed him in an internment
camp, the 1914-18 war having started.
He was a prisoner at Ruhleben when he
.composed a setting for Swinburne’s “Ode
to England.” It gained MacMaillan the
degree of Mus. Doc. from Oxford, con-
ferred on him while the war was on.
Returning to Canada after his release, he
was a church organist again until he got
his present position.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 80, W. M. Ewing, whose first
job in Australia was as engineer at the Bowen
(Q.) freezing works. He learned shipbuilding
in Glasgow, and soon was with the A.U.S.N.
all along the coast, including the wreck of the
Tenterden off Cape Northumberland. Then he
was helping to construct the Tremantle harbor
works, and next the Outer Harbor of Adelaide,
where he stayed as a Harbors Board dockyard
manager.
In S.A., at 65, Horace Stanhope Cowan, of
the Adelaide Stock Exchange. He played inter-
state football in his young days, then spent
several years farming in the south-east. In
the last war he was a Comforts Fund Commis
sioner in France for three years.
In Melbourne, at 58, Arthur James Waller,
for 28 years headmaster of Scotch College junior
school. He was a Presbyterian elder, session
clerk and member of the Assembly. His son
Keith is in the Australian diplomatic service.
At 77, in New York, Harry Neville, actor,
of Launceston (Tas.). First treading the boards
in Australia, he went to U.S. in 1901 and made
his first Broadway appearance in “Embezzled
Heaven” with Ethel Barrymore. He was
Churchill’s manager when the British P.M.
made his lecture tour in S. Africa after the
Boer War.


Society
“Bar Din”: In the ’nineties of last cen-
tury an arbiter on etiquette and decorum
was one Duckworth, who wrote an
Encyclopedia of Useful Knowledge.
He discussed the manner of a gentleman
in train, tram or bus: “A gentleman
should give his seat to any lady who
may be standing in a public conveyance.
For this favor she should thank him,
which courtesy he should acknowledge by
a slight bow.” That was all. Duckworth
was adamant regarding the complete im-
propriety of any further conversation,
the parties not having been introduced.
I’d like to have Duckworth as a fellow-
passenger on the 5.5 p.m. tram to New-
town.
* * * *
“V. Cluse” attends a funeral:
Oft have I wandered through Sydney’s South
Head cemetery. By the tomb of the Fairfaxes,
above the simple stone bearing the words
“George Lambert,” beside the memorial to a
State Governor or the vault of a warrior I
have stood and thought of many things. But
it had not hitherto occurred to me to wonder
whether any of them had been buried in a
silk dressing-gown.
That distinction was reserved for Donald Day,
known to his cohorts as “Donald the Duck.”
Donald’s exit was sudden, bullets being strongly
suspected. In life he had been accounted a
racketeer and a leader of the “underworld.”
But neither this short and disparaging history
nor difficulties incident to four arrest's were
impediments to surviving friends and relatives
being invited in “S. M. Herald’s” “hatched,
matched and dispatched” section to “follow
’im ’ome,” as Kipling sang. Swathed in his
silk dressing-gown and laid ,in a silver-mounted
cedar coffin, his shot-shattered face restored by
surgery, he was borne to the Fairfax —pardon
—South Head cemetery.
There Donald was planted, with floral fare-
wells from “The Chow,” “His Elizabeth-street
friends,” “La Belle,” “Nancy,” “Daphne,”
“Violet,” “Charlie,” “His loving wife” and a
lady who said that to her he would “always be
the thousandth man.” C. 1.8. men stood by
and a “S. M. Herald” reporter noted testily
that they “knew most of the mourners,” who
“followed along paths lined with the graves of
many illustrious pioneers”; in fact, “many per-
sons stood on the last resting-places of re-
spected Sydney families.” Whether or not the
scribe heard a ghostly snort from the near-by
Fairfax tomb was not set down. If there was
such a snort it may have been occasioned by a
shade reading a special “S. M. Herald” article
of the day before, proving, on figures supplied
by Mr. Commissioner Mac Kay, that there was
no crime-wave, and printed cheek by jowl with
a leading article declaring that the com-
munity was “alarmed” by the “wave of shoot-
ings” and that this “foreign gangsterism”
would have to be “stamped out.” But all
that, and a lot more, can’t stop me wondering
about that silk dressing-gown.
* * * *
“Clooter”; Arrival of the Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester at Canberra led
to the P.M.’s wife holding a press con-
ference, just like the President’s wife;
and to the assembled reporters the lady
said “My impression of the Duke and
Duchess is that Australians will find
them easy to get on with.” Well, that’s
a relief. I was a bit worried that if I
ran across H.R.H. in a tobacco queue
or on a crowded Watson’s Bay tram he
might be a bit stand-offish.
* * * s*«
“Hist”: Out of U.S.A. comes at last a
justification for those scarlet-tinted flapper
fingernails. Girls working on tomato-
picking or -grading are supplied with a
stain polish of exactly the color of Grade
I tomatoes (which have 90 p.c. good red
color, as against 63 p.c. for Grade II).
If a fruit tones with their nails it goes
into top class.
* * * *
“Nakh”; The Government-fixed quotas
for Melbourne University make interest-
ing reading. Agriculture’s allowance is
25 students, architecture 10, arts 15, com-
merce and economics 15, dentistry 40, en-
gineering 90, medicine 140, science 140,
social studies (for women only) 20,
veterinary science 10 and law six. Why
the law gets only six students it is diffi-
cult to understand in view of the belief
modern Governments have in rule by
regimentation, which begets a bewilder-
ing array of contradictory regulations
needing hordes of expert forensic wits
to disentangle ; but the emphasis put on
engineering and science, together with
sickness and bad teeth, is significant. The
fact that architecture is to have only 10
disciples and arts 15 may indicate that
“Cet on with the game , Prendergast—remember what Drake said.”
the Government doesn’t think those acti-
vities important.
* * * *
“Avon”: A cynical commentary on
the value of the evidence of eye-witnesses
is provided by a happening in Maoriland.
Towards nine o’clock on a summer’s night
—near the end of the long evening twi-
light in the northern parts of the 900-
miles-long Dominion —a particularly bril-
liant meteor rushed across the sky, travel-
ling from s.-w. to n.-e. and hissing loudly.
It was seen by thousands from as far
south as Timaru and as far north as
Auckland, and many of these people
wrote to newspapers or told reporters
about it. Their estimates of the time the
apparition took to cross the sky ranged
from 30 seconds to seven minutes. The
color of the visitant was described by
different observers as blue, green, purple,
pink and dazzling white. Some people
say they saw and heard the meteor ex-
plode with one loud report, whereupon
it turned red. Others, reporting this dis-
integration, testify to a series of explo-
sions. Some say the meteor left a
trail of sparks; others saw a “spiral-
shaped trail of smoke.” Possibly differ-
ences in time and latitude account for
some of the variations reported.
If! * * *
“Pookie’s” vignette:
Sunday morning at King’s Cross and very
few people about as yet. Two blondes in
shorts going beachward and a woman in a
dressing-gown returning from the comer shop
with a bottle of milk and half a loaf of bread.
A violinist and a woman with an accordion
have played “Lili Marlene” and “The Shores
of Tripoli,” collected their quota of coins and
moved on. Now a man takes up his position be-
neath our window and sings “Danny Boy”;
someone throws him a small coin, hoping he will
likewise seek pastures new. The hope is vain.
He picks up the offering, unlocks a wooden
box, stows the coin away in it and relocks it
carefully. Then he carries on from exactly
where he had left off. A second figure comes
down the avenue, a shabby man searching for
bumpers. A few coins roll within his reach
and, swiftly scooping them up, he abandons his
quest and is stealthily decamping when an in-
dignant female voice halts him. “Give that
money back to the man who is singing. 1
didn’t throw it to you.” Rather sheepishly the
caitiff obeys. The neighborhood is now deh-
nitely interested, heads pop out from windows
and the would-be usurper has to run a battery
of stares as he retreats. He dawdles, stops,
then returns and has a whispered conference
with the vocalist. A florin changes hands and
finds its way into the wooden box. Then the
intrigued avenue hears a number “by request
—“Pennies from Heaven.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: An elaborate feat of
opium-smuggling occurred in pre-war
Manila. A company of Europeans arrived
and asked for a permit to start a gold-
mine. A lease was granted, and the
machinery (mainly British) began to
arrive. It was set up so slowly that offi-
cialdom became suspicious, A large con-
signment of boxes was intercepted by the
Customs and found to contain genuine
mining machinery of the latest pattern.
But every hollow part was stuffed with
chandu.
* * * *
“Tiki” remembers:
Whatever Clement Wragge was as a meteor-
ologist (B. 24/1/’45) he certainly was a pic-
turesque character. I met him in M.L. early
in the century. He was visiting a small country
town to supervise the erection in the domain
of a little weather station —thermometer, ram
gauge and humidity indicator. The domain
curator (a gardener frae Glasgow, a verra
serious mon), two blokes with shovels who
were to plant the weather hutch, Wragge and
me (representing the “Waipukumarana Gazette”)
foregathered on a drizzly morning. Clement was
all in black, with a cloak like a villain in melo-
drama and a slouch hat with a great wide brim.
He carried an ebony cane with a gold knob,
and suggested to my irreverent mind the Duke of
Plaza Toro. McParritch, the gardener, was
anxious to talk to the great man about isobars
and drought cycles, but Clement seemed deaf
and persisted in expounding heterodox views on
rose-pruning. At last McParritch gave if up.
“Weel,” he said, “where shall we pit the wee
hoose, Misterrr Wrrragge?” “There,” said
Clement, indicating a spot of turf with his
cane. “And let the door face north.” With
which he left us and marched off to the
entrance gates to catch the next train back to
the city. I never saw him again.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: I’m beginning to fear the
impact of official and/or departmental
phraseology on the language. In these
days of controls and a multitude of offi-
cial announcements, it is noticeable that
ordinary people are beginning to say they
“purchase” or “acquire” instead of “buy”
goods; many refer to a future date as
“in due course,” and speak of the “dis-
posal of articles” or the “transfer of the
goods in question.” And, time and again,
both in conversation and ordinary busi-
ness letters, I come across “in excess of
requirements” instead of surplus, and
one manager even offered to “dispose
with satisfactory results to both parties
6f a surplus in excess of require-
ments.” Quiller-Couch, who hated com-
mercialese, must be kicking holes in his
coffin.
* * * *
“Airscrew”: The principle of the pin-
up girl is at least 1470 years old. Soldiers
painted the rock frescoes on the walls of
a look-out post a quarter of the way up
Sigiriya Rock in central Ceylon. The
soldiers were guarding the then King of
Ceylon, Kasyapa, who had taken refuge
there from his many well-earned enemies.
The sojourn lasted 15 years, when Kas-
yapa, very foolishly, came down off his
rock, was defeated and killed. During
their long sentry-go the guards, who must
have become fairly browned off with
looking over a ledge at the dark-green
oozy jungle below, painted pictures of
the court ladies and ladies-in-waiting of
the Queen’s entourage on the rear wall
of the ledge. The “National Geographic”
describes them thus;
At first one would assume that the figures
are completely naked from the waist up,
but closer examination shows that they are
clad in a filmy gauze up to the neck line.
Coronets, tiaras, aigrettes crown the head;
flowers and ribbon adorn the hair and ears;
neck, breasts, arms and wrists are loaded
with a plethora of the heaviest ornaments
and jewelled gauds. The colors are in clear
orange, yellows, greens and reds, and it is
evident that they were executed at a time
when art was pure and strong, fresh and
young, and fog and smoke were not a neces-
sary part of the palette’s setting.
* * * *
“Arter”: “F.S.” (B. 31/l/’45) is in
error in ascribing to me a tendency “to
father on the masters (of ‘modern’ art)
the sins of their disciples,” But Ido
saddle on the disciples full responsibility
for the sins of the alleged “masters” they
write their nonsense about. Matisse is
not a demigod to every swallower of
second-hand aesthetic opinions because he
was a well-trained, competent painter,
who gave sensible advice to artistic
aspirants, but because most of his work
would sicken a healthy cat. I am quite
aware that Matisse, Picasso, Dali and
Modigliani—the list could be extended—
proved in their student days their capa-
city to paint sanely and even beautifully.
But the success of Cezanne and Gauguin
(innocent of early proficiency), whose
compositions were an insult to common-
sense, led Matisse and co. into the jungle
of primitivism, where hang many fine
plums. Gilbert explained the psychology
of the ga.-ga art racket in “Patience,” 20
years before it invaded the field of pic-
torial art;
If this young man expresses himself in terms
too deep for me.
Why, what a very singularly deep young man
this deep young man must be!
* * * *
“Monday Island” traverses “Friday
Island’s” reminiscences of World War 1
(B. 17/1 /’45);
Italian destroyers didn’t work with the Aus-
tralian and French flotillas. They remained at
their moorings behind the boom defences,
to the disgust of the Australians and
more particularly of the French, who missed
no opportunity of ridiculing the Italians when
they bumped against them ashore. The Aus-
tralian and French ships did alternate four-day
patrols. Claude Cumberlege wasn’t the first
“Comdr. D.” Lt.-Comdr. Feakes and Comdr.
G. F. Hyde (both Rear-Admirals later) were
ahead of him, in that order. Parramatta wasn’t
always flagship. Various ships of the flotilla had
that distinction at different periods. Only the
three Australian-built ships (Huon, Torrens ana
Swan) were of 10,000 h.p. Yarra
and Warrego were of 9000 h.p. Bertie Creer
was never in command of Yarra. He was first
lieut. of her for a period prior to World War I,
and his twin brother Reggie was his opposite
number at the time in Parramatta. Bertie had
his first destroyer command in the early twenties,
being then in command of the flotilla-leader
Anzac. “Kabby” was named after the plan-
tation of Kabakaul, in New Britain (a few
miles from Rabaul), where he was picked up the
day the Naval Brigade (with a stiffening of
ratings from Parramatta and Yarra) landed in
Sept., 1914, to take a short cut through the
coconut plantation to the German wireless
station. It was here on that day that Lt.-Comdr.
Elwell, R.N., and Dr. Pockley (Pockley was
the only military man to land) were killed m
action. “Kabby” was anything but a bulldog.
He was a black (brown under the muzzle) short-
haired medium-sized dog, with a Ipng snout and
of a nondescript breed. Neither was he drowned
at Gib. He was given a lethal needle (by Hugh
Wall, I think) to end his suffering. For some
time he had been in great pain, the result ot
several years’ over-feeding by his friends of the
lower deck. Perhaps “Friday Island” was think-
ing of Huon’s bull-mastiff Bruce, the terror ot
all the Brindisi dogs. He was washed over-
board and lost during the severe gale en-
countered by the flotilla in the Bay of Biscay
on the voyage to Plymouth at the end of Dec.,
1918.
UNWANTED MIGRANTS.
“Replying to a complaint by Premier MoKell
that Victorian dingoes were border-hopping into
N.S.W., Premier Dunstan pointed out that ‘it was
difficult to get dingoes to recognise where one State
begins and the other ends.’ ”
An unaccommodating beast, the dingo!
Still, it can scarce ’gainst his account be set
That, being unacquainted with our lingo,
He cannot read the “Government Gazette,”
And learn thereby from sternly-worded orders
And regulations with the force of laws
The penalties prescribed for hopping borders
Without sufficient cause.
A dinkum Aussie, howsoever hated
And sprayed with comminatory remarks,
It might be fairly said he “Federated”
Before the big idea came to Parkes.
From shore to shore he battled for subsistence,
From north to south he ravenously ran,
Before Victoria came into existence
Or New South Wales began.
No stretch of country safe from his intrusion,
By pastoralists cursed and bards unsung,
Except for an occasional allusion,
Like Lindsay Gordon’s, to his “hot, red
tongue,”
He ever moves, ensanguined and multivious,
Toward sheep that pasture on a thousand
leas,
Completely and admittedly oblivious
Of State-made boundaries.
Hither he makes his stealthy way and yonder,
Triste (as Virgil’s) lupus stabulis.
Blood money on his head, where’er he wander,
Of all we cherish the antithesis.
With high and low combining to taboo him.
And relegate him to extinction fell,
What, you may fairly ask, is Dunstan to him,
And what on earth McKell?
None question that the gain woulc} be extensive
To the possessors of our flocks and herds
If only all obnoxious and offensive
Pests could be headed back by printed words;
But calm reflection shows no chance of stop-
ping
By any means officialdom employs
Fauna (and flora) from that border-hopping
Forbid to men —and boys.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE TEST OF SALESMANSHIP.
Who is the perfect salesman, who?
Surely the chap who can induce
A fellow-man his bunce to blew
On something quite devoid of use
To him who’s parted from his dough.
A radiator, let us say.
To tribes in Darkest Africa,
An ice-box to the Eskimo.
Who is the perfect salesman, who?
One who persuasively can fork
The money from a rigid Jew
In payment for a side of pork?
Or trade a load of roofing slates
To swagmen camped beside a creek
In ridge-pole tents? Or sell a sheik,
A desert sheik, a pair of skates?
Which is the better salesman, eh?
The enterprising racketeer
Who gets a Rechabite to pay
His price for some illicit beer?
Or that ingratiating one
Who kids some never-touch-it bloke
To buy a pipe he'll never smoke,
Or sells a pacifist a gun?
Who is the perfect salesman? Whose
The best technique? Well, you must sense
How difficult it is to choose
From such a wealth of excellence.
Sure, they could vend, some sturdy souls,
Gadgets to warm a nigger’s pelt
In Africa’s equatorial belt,
Refrigerators at the Poles.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


• C P,' : _“ I to ° would have been de-
ceived by Ern Malley, but hoaxer hoisted
by own petard has touched off un-
conscious sources inspiration. Work too
sophisticated, but has elements genuine
poetry.” Thus Herbert Read, an English
critic, in a cable to “Angry Penguins.”
I should like to know how Mr. Read
explains the process whereby the two
confectors of the hoax, neither a genius,
collectively produced works of genius.
“w a -r» \* a ,• *.,-**
Wodgil : In dealing with murderers
ot both sexes, Britain has none of the
sentiment which overwhelms Australian
Labor Governments. A young woman
ot a type that gets acres of space in the
"Gracious , man, that's my blancmange!"
flapper press, being addicted to all the
fashionable amusements, has, with an
American soldier, her paramor, been sen-
tenced to death for the latest of a series
of fiendish crimes—they murdered and
robbed a taxi-driver in atrocious circum-
stances.. I have read somewhere that
she was started on her dizzy career by
winning a beauty competition, standby of
theatre managers and flapper - sheet
editors who believe in getting as close to
the knuckle as the Law allows. In beauty
competitions young women reveal to
gloating crowds nearly everything they
possess except their immortal souls. They
are fine for circulation and the box-office.
But when a girl is weak or silly they are
apt to have unhappy results, as the grave
of a Queensland beauty can testify. 5
* =£ * *
“Tuart”: Seventy-seven and stone-deaf,
Charles Maurras has been sentenced as a
collaborationist” to solitary confinement
for life. “Solitary” may not mean in
France what it means in Australia ; all
the same, the sentence has a dreadful
sound, and the whole proceedings against
Maurras inevitably suggest a" contrast
with the British Government’s concern
for the good treatment of Wodehouse,
whom it evidently regards as having be-
haved like one of his silly-ahss characters
—nothing more. Maurras is a royalist,
but there have always been royalists in
France, and they have seldom been
traitors. He is also a distinguished writer,
and as such was elected in 1912 to the
Academy, becoming one of the 40 Im-
mortals. He is far from being the only
illustrious Frenchman whose head has
been demanded by communists, here fol-
lowing the tradition of the ruffians of the
Great” Revolution. On their lists was
the name of Dr. Alexis Carrel,
eminent in surgery, science and litera-
ture —Man the Unknown is one of
the great books of the age. Dr,
Carrel saved many last-war soldiers. Old
Diggers among them, from death by in-
venting a method of treating infected
Wounds, notably gas-gangrene cases.
He was marked down for destruction for
continuing under the Vichy Government
research work he began when the war
broke out. Possibly escaping a com-
munist lynching party, he died (at 71)
While awaiting trial.
“Lord Luvus”: “Collaboration” is a
Word now in everybody’s mouth, and
4 is likely to be stretched until it covers
Anybody who disagrees with the prevail-
ing fashion in politics or social behavior
a nd fulfils the function “witch” fulfilled in
l be Middle Ages. Then tens of thousands
°f innocent women were burned on the
Assumption that when they changed their
dockings they caused storms, blasted
Jops or gave murrain to the cattle, and
mat they travelled through the air on
broomsticks, transformed themselves into
Animals and grew rich by becoming col-
‘morationists with Old Nick. The modern
Otellectual laughs at the idea of witch-
craft, but is he any less gullible than the
medieval witch-hunters? If we come to
flink of it, we are all collaborationists
t some sort or other. lam (compul-
sorily) a collaborationist with regard to
the Priminister. I’m not one of his political
supporters, but if I travel on a train or
grow a cabbage or pay my taxes (the
alternative being to go to prison) I am
collaborating with him.
'* * * *
“F.S.”: Although Charles Wheeler,
head of the Vic. Nat. Gallery school, got
the best of the argument with Clive Turn-
bull, the “Herald” art critic (B. 17/1/’45),
the work of the students Mr. Wheeler
was defending doesn’t altogether bear
out his statement that pupils of the school
are taught to paint what they see Thev
no doubt think they are painting what
they see, but if the current exhibition of
last year’s output is a record of what
they saw conditions at the school must
be peculiar. Where students have painted
the same model at the same time from
slightly different angles some depict her
as light against darkness and others as
darkness against light.
* * * *
“Slot”: Afraid “Jihoe’s” theory (B.
24/1/’45) that swy (for two-up) is a Cor-
ruption of swahi is a dud. Neither is his
suggestion acceptable that the change
occurred in the M.E., if his reference is
to the present war. My cobbers and I
used swy in T 7, after picking it up from
Fritzies watching us from a cage near
Plug-street, who discovered the name of
our hobby and translated it literally as
“zwei herauf.” Swy is not confined to
the forces. At most suburban “schools”
to have a swy on is to bet two bob on the
fall. My friend Posh, who attends a select
seminary where small change is not much
in evidence, tells me that to have a swy
on there means risking a couple of quid,
while a “gaudy swy” signifies laying
down a couple of tenners.
* * * Jfr
“Hamfat” remembers:
Though Australian entertainment history has
Wxlhamson-Maggie Moore (of American origin)
at one end and American talkies at’ the other —
both very profitable—it is none the less true
that in the interim American theatrical effort
m Australian has mostly had a record of failure.
Successes like those of Tittell Brune and Cuyler
Hastings were under Australian management,
J. C. Williamson having become fully Austra-
lianised. Such ventures as the Stern and Evans
Comedy Co., the Stanton Dramatic Co., the
New York Travesty Stars, the Waldorf Shak-
spearean Co. and the co. headed by Olga
Nethersole flopped astonishingly— most of them
went broke. The most surprising failure was
that of the New York Travesty Stars, with
Dill, Barney Barnard and the statuesque Maud
Amber, who provided a gale of laughter from
curtain-rise to curtain-fall. The Palace, Sydney,
was too small a place for such a big, costly
show, and an effort to meet the position by
charging higher prices antagonised the public—
in those days it was prepared to fight an increase
in anything. The highly-paid principals, who
had been sending their cash back to the U.S.A.,
followed it when the crash came, only Barnard
being willing to put his money back into giving
the venture another chance. Some wreckage
stayed in Australia; Jack Goodall, for instance,
remained to represent a wide variety of animals
and birds in pantos.
* * $ *
“Curtain Raiser”: Taking his stand
with his back to a Corot and a Daubigny,
actor Edwin Styles started to open an art
show in the new gallery of a Melbourne
store. Waving a dramatic hand at a
“modern” Russian picture, he invited the
audience to contemplate the decline in
the art of painting. “Look at that pic-
ture,” he said, pointing to the Russian—
“it is difficult to believe that only 60
years separate that extraordinary affair
from”—whirling round—“these two beau-
tiful old things.” He got the biggest laugh
of his career. Immediately behind him
stood two elderly directors,
‘** * *
“Sirius Cove”; Prophecy concerning
national destinies is always risky. That
first Major Ross (B. 31/1/ ’45) wrote to
Under-Secretary Nepean in 1788 that
“this country will never answer to settle
in. Although I think corn would grow
here, yet 1 am convinced that if ever it
is able to maintain the people here it
cannot be' less than probably 100 years
hence. I, therefore, think it would be
better to feed the convicts on turtle and
venison at the London Tavern than be
at the expense of sending them here.” I
trust the present Major Ross, of H.M.S.
Howe, has a copy of that letter in his
scrapbook.
• * * *
“Pawang”; A correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Herald” writes:
. I would like to offer a suggestion regard-
ing the appellation “offal” applied to cer-
tain meats. Because of illness I have eaten
these meats exclusively, and consider they
merit a better title. I would suggest “medi-
cal meats,” “minor meats” or “nutritious
meats.” The first has the advantage of
appealing to the invalid whose appetite
needs whetting.
There are some who would give it an
even more distinguished title. The other
day I visited the farm of a man who
raises poultry for the Melbourne market.
He was decapitating innumerable fowls
and chickens and throwing the heads,
livers and other fragments into a huge
bin. I asked him what he did with these
side-products. “Oh, that offal!” he said.
“It goes to the incinerator.” It
isn’t regarded as offal in those
parts of Europe which have the
highest reputation for good
cooking. It is used to make very
special dishes, which connois-
seurs smack their lips over—for
instance, the combs of chickens
are a delicacy that Nero would
have fancied. In pre-war days
one Melbourne hamanbeefer
imported them in tins and sold
them at high prices.
“Adelaide”; Four days were taken by
the trial of two Chinese seamen, steward
and engineer, for the alleged murder of
another engineer by driving a triangle of
nails into his head and dropping the body
into the Port Adelaide River, where it
was found a month later. The jury took
only half an hour to find each of them
not guilty. They were separately de-
fended by Alderman and Millhouse, and
each one swore cheerfully “The other
fellow did it; I only helped him to get
rid of the body.” They were promptly
brought to trial on a charge of conspiring
to defeat the course of public justice, by
secretly disposing of a dead body, and
received four years and three years nine
months respectively. When the request
of one of them to be shot instead was
interpreted. Chief Justice Napier made
the acid comment “I am afraid I cannot
oblige him —whatever my opinion may be
as to his deserts.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Applause in the movies, is
it (B. 14/1/’45)? The wildest yells I
“So long, Governor, an thank you for havin' me at your place.”
ever heard in any theatre were near the
end of “Seventh Heaven,” where the hero
worked in the sewers of Paris and ssed
to emerge at intervals to say “I am a
very remarkable fellow.” He married a
timid girl, whose big sister used to bully
her, even to thrashing with a whip. But
after he had gone to the war she acquired
a baby, and with it a sense of responsi-
bility ; so when Bad Sister tried the old
tricks the young mother seized the whip
and heartily thrashed her. And the
“house” always nearly took the roof off.
An early Sydney notable:
The real pioneer of North Sydney—a few
grants had been made across the harbor be-
fore his time, but the country was still wild
bush was James Milson. He came t'o Sydney
from Lincolnshire in 1804, well-equipped with
iritroductions, seeds and plants. When he
called on Governor King the latter advised
him to settle on the North Shore. “It seems
to be nothing but rocks and stones,” said
Milson —“not enough soil to grow anything,
let alone grass to feed stock.” “Well, more
rocks will soon be needed for ballasting ships,”
replied King, _ “and here on this side of the
settlement it is all leasehold, with no security,
and you can get no land.” Milson took the
grant, and never looked back. The hungry,
rocky soil soon supported a fine garden and
orchard, and its owner was presently supplying
most of the ships in the Cove opposite with
milk, meat and fresh vegetables. By 1820 he
had become a contractor for shipping supplies,
had a farm at Castle Hill and a cattle-station
on the Wollombi. His homestead stood where
the north-eastern pylon of the Harbor Bridge
is now, facing a little indentation then known
as Cockle Bay,
* * * *
“Hist”: The special issue of stamps
foreshadowed by the P.M.G, to mark
the arrival of the Gloucesters will be
H.R.H.’s second philatelic appearance.
To commemorate the coronation of
George V in 1911 Newfoundland issued
a set portraying the entire Royal family.
The Duke, then 11-year-old Prince
Henry, appeared on the six cents value.
British countries stick pretty closely to
the precedent which prefers the head of
the reigning monarch on their stamps, but.
jubilees, centenaries and the like have
frequently been made the excuse to bring
in other members of the ruling house.
Princess Elizabeth has considerable phila-
telic popularity ; her first appearance was
on a Newfoundland stamp of 1932 and
her most recent on the 1944 M.L. Health
stamps. Queen Elizabeth —not the sixth
George’s beloved lady, but the Virgin
Queen —adorned a Newfoundland stamp
of 1933, one of a set marking the 350th
anniversary of the annexation of the
colony. Other old-timers to receive phila-
telic honors are Charles I (Barbadoes,
1927), James I (Newfoundland, 1910) and
William IV (Cayman Ils, 1932).
Sjc ;J{
“Pip” on a military bete noire :
Feared by the average soldier more than all
the staging camps and L.T.Ds. put together is
General Details Depot. A rare few regard it
as a haven, for they go to G.D.D. for discharge,
but the majority dread the place, as it is from
here that re-allocations of surplus personnel
are made. The unfortunate whose unit has
just been reorganised, without a niche being
found for him, is marched out to G.D.D. and
the experts go to work on him. After passing
through innumerable orderly rooms, having his
name and number jotted down by a battery
of nonchalant n.c.os., and after filling in
reams of form?, he draws two blankets from
the “Q” store and settles down on the boards
for a sleep of sheer exhaustion. The ensuing
days bring misery. The victim is interviewed,
investigated, medically boarded, blood-grouped
and re-vaccinated. Then the mental aptitude
section takes him in hand, and he spends a
bewildering half-day with psycho-analysis. It
may be that the results of all these experiments
are promising and the subject is pronounced an
officer type, with a bent for artillery or engin-
eering, as the case may be. Two days later he
is fallen-in with the rest on parade. A tough-
looking sergeant-major eyes them all off with
distaste before stopping at the fifth rank and'
ordering “From here to the left, Attention.
Right turn. Three paces forward march.
\ ’re all in infantry.” A bored corporal marches
the soldier away with his fellows. He still looks
dazed a week later.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The beer shortage re-
minds me of the time Euston, oldest
town on the Murray, ran dry. It was a
blazng New Year’s Day; there were a
picnic race meeting, meetings of old
friends, several fights and a general thirst.
By 4 p.m. the beer ran out and extra
supplies brought from both pubs went
soon afterwards. With a river full of
water on one hand and Billy Leslie s
store chockful of lemonade and kola on
the other, the mob thirsted mightily and
watched the Mildura-road, looking for
George Becher and his horse team and
the beer he had on board. Just on sun-
down word went round that George had
broken a king-pin, or become bogged in
the sand, or was lost and demented or
something out at the Reindeer Gate, 17
miles away. A motley collection of
cars, sulkies, buggies, horsemen and
cyclists left that town at t speed. I
would have been with them only some-
body knocked me over in the bustle and
I was forced to sit on the bush nurse’s
verandah, having the limb splinted and
bound, and watch the dust of their going.
What’s more, when the cows came back,
having rescued the doings, nobody gave
me a thought until next morning.
*** • *
“Betcha”: Views on the training of
sheep dogs differ widely. In sheep coun-
try as soon as a pup shows promise his
owner collects the advice of every enthu-
siastic layman he meets. “Don’t let that
pup near sheep till he’s old enough to
start training,” advises one. “Let him
play round with the mob so he’ll get to
know and like ’em,” urges another.
“Don’t check him till he grows a bit.”
“Cure .his faults early and y’ won’t have
any trouble.” “Don’t hit him or y’ll spoil
him.” “Let him see who’s boss from the
start.” “Work him with an old dog so
he’ll learn the ropes.” “Teach him on
his own or he’ll be useless without an-
other dog.” And so on. Met old Mick
the other day with a bunch of wethers.
“Gripes, there’s the makin’s of a dorg,”
said Mick, admiring my new pup. “Now
don’t you let that bloke near sheep till
y’ got proper control over ’im; see?
Obedience, that’s the thing.” Mick
glanced round, discovered his jumbucks
had strayed, and whistled his mong. The
tripe-hound trotted down the wrong side,
stringing the sheep badly. “Sit down,
Mug,” roared the old chap. “Sit down,
blast y’. Sit down.” The unheeding
mong trotted on, dashing in at intervals
and committing the (to me) unpardon-
able fault of biting. “Nips a bit hard,
that chap,” remarked Mick, watching the
limping sheep. “Have t’ break him off
that sometime.” Just like that! Yet, if
the biting is an inherited tendency, and,
barring a muzzle or a bullet. I’ve still to
learn how it can be satisfactorily stopped.
* * * *
“Bolloween”: Yorkshire woolbuyers
have developed a sense of humor since
1838 (B. 17/1 /’45). In the early ’nine-
ties a station on the Bogan used a home-
made lever woolpress. The counterweight,
christened “Bangeloe” by the lads, was a
large rock weighing a couple of hundred-
weight ; it earned the heartfelt curses
of the pressers who had to man-
handle it. When cleaning up one shear-
ing the pressers dumped “Bangeloe” into
the centre of a bale of locks and sewed
her up. Months later a large crate
arrived at the station together with a bill
for freight and other expenses. In the
crate was “Bangeloe,” home again.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were out in the
Benanee country in a year when ’roo-
skins were worth about 2s. 6d. a pound.
Some of the locals were making a good
thing out of it by lying in wait on the
tanks and shooting the ’roos as they came
in for water. We bought a couple of
guns, a stack of shells and got set on a
small tank one night. It was bright
moonlight, and presently Mat nudged
me and pointed to a big ’roo on the oppo-
site side. I raised the gun, but Mat sud-
denly grabbed it. I looked at him. Then
he said “Listen, Bally, this don’t seem
right to me, waitin’ to down poor devils
cornin’ in for a drink.” I thought of the
price of the guns and ammo., and argued
the point about it, but he silenced me
by saying “Look, if you had a down on
a bloke would you wait till he come into
the bar for a pot after a long, hard day
to get him? No, we can earn a livin’ in
plenty other ways.” And right there we
stopped being kangaroo-hunters.
“M.U.R.”: Jackson and Bill Toomey
were riding through one of the back pad-
docks when they spotted a big old-man
’roo tangled up in the fence. Jackson
was carrying a rifle and wanted to shoot
the ’roo/but Bill laughed. “Why waste
a shot?” he said. “I’ll fix that cow.”
“Beggin' y'r pardon, sir, but shouldn't you pin it on me other side?"
He dropped from his horse, ran at the
struggling ’roo and grabbed it by the tail.
The ’roo, thus having a purchase, put in
a prodigious bound and cleared itself of
the wire. It then lit out for the border
and all points west, doing about 40 m.p.h.,
with Bill hanging to its tail. He
hung on for about 50 yards, bobbing up
and down like a tin tied to a dog’s tail,
then let go and rolled head over heels
into a clump of. roly-poly. “Get y’r rifle,
shoot the cow, shoot the cow!” he
shrieked to Jackson, but Jackson had
fallen off his horse and was in convul-
sions of mirth upon the ground. Fret-
fully freeing himself of prickles, Toomey
walked to the horses and said “Go on,
laugh! If you an’ me was ’roo-huntin’
for a livin’ we’d starve.” “We would
not ” gasped Jackson, “unless we had t’
live on the ’roos you caught.”
“Kit”: Towards the end of the year
the old man Too leaves his harem and
leads a solitary existence ; but occasion-
ally a joey whose mother has been killed
earlier in the season will attach itself to
the old fellow. In return for companion-
ship the joey will act as a scout and keep
a lookout while the old man sleeps
through the hot midday.
* * * *
“Humberstone”; Surely “Sundowner”
(B. 24 /1 / ’45) is mistaken in believing
that a bull doesn’t trample his victim.
Ernest Thompson Seton, in his Wild
Animals at Home, relates a narrow escape
he had when the bull from a herd of
range cattle followed a blood scent back
to Seton’s camp one night. “Uttering
that dreadful war-be110w.... he walked
dow« the narrow space between our beds
and the wagon. Had I jumped up and
yelled he might have trampled one of
us. That is the bull of it! A horse steps
over.” Again, Helen Simpson, in Under
Capricorn, describes the revenge the
people of a small South American
country took on a man who had deceived
them by a bogus treasure hunt. He was
condemned to enter the bull-ring un-
armed, and was “liquidated” (almost liter-
ally) by a bull known to the populace as
El Majador, “The Kneader” ; the name
is significant.
* * * *
“Hector”: Any starters for the Wheat-
humpers’ Cup? Galloping Jack, other-
wise John Galvin, of Clifton (Q.) —3200
bags stacked solo in hours—will race
all-comers over 50 yards carrying a bag
of wheat 1801 b. to 2001 b.; wheat up, will
accept 50 yards in a hundred from’ a no-
wheat-carrying sprinter. The sprinter will
have to break evens to beat Hec.’s mate.
Now will you pull your heads in?
* * *
“Sarina”: The difficulty in combating
the fruit fly (B. 10/1/’45) is due to two
trees. The hardy and heat-resisting im-
ported guava bears enormous crops of
pear-shaped fruit which ripen in the
autumn. The indigenous “cluster” fig,
which grows along damp gullies, crops
prodigious clusters of plum-sized, yellow-
red figs on every branch, the trunk and
even the surface roots. Both trees are
chopped down by sensible fruitgrowers
when found near an orchard, but they
are extremely rapid ratooners.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: One of the strongest and
least-known of Australia’s timbers is the
Queensland ghittoe, or, saffron-heart.
Seldom attaining to more than six feet in
girth, it is best identified by the big, yel-
low-barked roots which run over the sur-
face of the ground around the base of the
trunk. Although it will take gaps out of
•an axe edge, it is quite easy to saw. Un-
fortunately, only about 1 p.c. of ghittoe-
trees is worth felling, the wood mostly
being too heavy for ordinary pur-
poses and too brittle, but even at that the
1 p.c. is worth hunting for. It has a grain
as straight as a stick of celery, and when
green splits just as easily as Launceston
palings. This class of ghittoe must surely
be the strongest of flexible timbers; it
can bend like whalebone, and I’ve seen
a piece three feet long by oiily |in.
square bear the weight of an 18-stone
man in the middle without breaking.
The best ghittoe is particularly prized for
its use in the making of longbows. Most
bow-woods lose their strength after a few
years; but ghittoe grows stronger with
time. I have a ghittoe bow which when
made 20 years ago had a 351 b. pull; to-
day it is over 451 b.
V * * *
“Plane Creek”: Whilst Nature throws
a protective curtain of vegetation over
abandoned farms and areas whence all
timber has been cut (B. 10/1/’45), the
second crop of vegetation is seldom of
any use. For instance, when I first took
up land on the N.Q. coast there was gum
aplenty on the flats, with a sprinkling of
messmate. The woodcutters came pres-
ently and cleaned up all but the mess-
mates. Then messmates sprang up every-
where. -The whole country is now vege-
tated with sapling messmates, which are
useless. Scarcely a gum exists on the flat.
* * * * r-J
“Esk D.”: The farmers around Wid-
galong Creek, their stock feed dried off
and the surrounding forest tinder,
looked out worriedly on the blue haze of
smoke from far-off blazing mountains.
Calmly but hurriedly they organised
among themselves so that, in the event
of a local outbreak, they could at least
save the homesteads and confine the
flames to a small area. Look-outs were
posted, horses were kept saddled in readi-
ness, and all the men were constantly on
the alert to turn out at a moment’s notice.
Then a steady stream of smoke wafted
into the sky from the head of the creek.
The signal was hoisted, and in a matter
of minutes a cavalcade of galloping horse-
men swept up the road and into the clear-
ing where the old stamper battery had
been. There they found a little, blackened
old fossicker with singed whiskers lean-
ing on a beater of bushes near a small,
round patch of black and smoking
ground. “Gripes, that was a close thing,”
he gasped. “Me campfire got away in
the grass an’ I jist got her out in the nick
o’ time. Y’ know, you coves are bloomin
lucky,” he added earnestly. “If it hadn’t
bin f’r me bein’ camped here on the spot
t’ stop it all y’r farms ’d be goin’ up in
smoke by now.”
* * # *
“R.H.G.”: Squeaking Tree” (B.
3/1/’45) describes accurately the right
way to mount a restive horse. I had this
explained to me in detail by the head
stockman of Belele station, north of
Meekatharra, in nor’-west W.A. in 1925,
when 1 was a gawking jackeroo. It still
gives me pain to see the average country
horse “wrangler,” who may have handled
horses all his life, mount in the hap-
hazard fashion that is picked up with-
out training. The American cow-puncher
always mounts facing the front, stepping
up into the saddle as if the first rung
of a ladder, but this is defended on the
score of the peculiar stirrups, which won't
turn, as ours will, being lashed on to the
saddle-skirt. Our allies claim also, quite
wrongly, as “S.T.” points out, that their
way stops the bronc from biting them in
the seat of the pants.
* * * •
“Fancar”: If the Greek ran away from
his soil-erosion problem (B. 17/1/’45) the
German didn’t. When the Teuton left
his nomadic life and turned to tillage he
began a determined onslaught against all
timber growing on arable land. As Nora
Wain points out, the
great numbers of Ger-
man placenames ending
in metz, hau, rode,
schwand, brand and
hagen indicated how
thoroughly the old Ger-
man had hewed, rooted
up, burnt and enclosed
enormous areas of
forest land. When sea-
sons of drought and
flood succeeded each
other and when wind
blew away both seed
and soil, the old Ger-
man speculated as to
cause and effect. Hark-
ing back to old half-
forgotten tribal nature
lore, he realised that
forests did have power
over rain clouds, and so
he began the task of re-
planting just as deter-
minedly as lie had de-
stroyed. So the love
and lore of the forest
became a sacred and in-
tegral part of the best of
German character, in-
spiring her writers,
musicians and artists. It may be seen,
too, that no matter ho\y ruthless and how
prodigal of German manhood her leaders
have been, even Hitler has not sacrificed
the German forests to a State emergency.
When Australia can say her forests are
her soul and salvation our soil will be
safe.
* « * *
“Blime”: The old buffer had been
camping on the river, but when the cold
weather *set in he asked permission to
sleep up at the sheds. Usually he left
pretty early, but the morning I Visited the
sheds just after daybreak I expected to
see him around, and was surprised to find
no sign of him in the chaffhouse. Th e
woolshed, too, was empty, and the con-
glomeration in the toolshed showed no
foreign additions. I had just decided the
old derelict had moved on, when move-
ment in a large pile of straw and manure
attracted my attention. Presently there
was a violent upheaval of the stable clean-
ings, and out climbed the old chap. Bend-
ing, he picked up three or four sacks he’d
borrowed from the chaffhouse, spread
them on the fence and was turning to
make off when I hailed him. “Good
gosh,” I exclaimed ; “surely you can find
a better place than that to sleep.” He
eyed me tolerantly. “Easy t’ see y’ aint
a gardener,” he remarked. “Nothin
wrong with a good old hotbed on nights
like these.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Sam was helping “Posthole
Joe sink a well, and they were using a
windlass with two buckets, one very large
and the other small. Joe, down below,
filled them both to the brim. When 1
came on the scene Sam was straining
heavily to drag the big one clear and
empty it. “I s’pose you feel pleased when
it’s the little bucket coming up?” I J e '
marked. “Aw, I dunno,” said Sam. in
fact, I’d just as soon it was the big nn
Soon as I start pullin’ the small one j
can’t help thinkin’ it’ll be the big blankara
next wind.”
A MOOT POINT.
“The correct plural of ‘platypus’ still remains
a matter of debate” (B. 24/l/’45),
A singularly puzzling cuss,
Our duck-billed friend the platypus,
What headaches he supplies for us!
He stumps the etymologist
As well as the zoologist,
And baffles the philologist’.
His habitation rural is,
His dwelling intramural is,
But what the deuce his plural is
Provides a field that’s wide and spacious
For fertile pens and tongues loquacious,
A problem for the disputatious.
Professors turn a scornful eye
On such a term as “platypi.”
“Greek with a Latin tail,” they cry.
Compatriots of Euripides
Of Athens, and Phidippides,
Would doubtless back “platypodes,”
Explaining that it copied is
(How plausible a prop, it is!)
From “octopus —octopodes.”
While yet another clique discusses,
Ignoring academic fusses,
The fittingness of “platypuses.”
Most birdlike of all earth’s mammalia,
Thick-furred enigma, inter alia
You’re rich in riddles for Australia.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Zake”; Pickett’s Mammoth Circus had
given a one-night show at Tim’s Crossing,
and the circus hands were loading on to
the special train at the small platform,
when it was noticed that the big Bengal
tiger that did the blazing-hoop act had
escaped from his cage. The manager
rushed up to the stationmaster, who was
sitting in his 6ft. x sft. office poring over
a few official forms. The S.M. heard the
tidings from the manager’s ashen lips, and
then threw dowh his pencil, what time a
worried look crossed his brow. “This
time it’s over the odds,” he declaimed.
“I’ll bet it’s those deadbeats camped
near the cutting. Last week Mrs. Salter
lost two jellies and a tin of jam from a
box of stuff delivered here from Crow-
fly ; a couple of days ago a parcel con-
taining a shirt disappeared; yesterday
morning a case of peaches was broken
open and some pinched. And now it’s a
tiger. As soon as I have these other cases
cleared up I’ll attend to yours, though
we might have to send for the railway
detectives. But, look here, mister—this
pinching is getting monotonous.”
sp * * *
“Pat Ater”: The paper wasps’ nest
was hidden in a corner of my window-
frame and under the eaves, but there was
just sufficient space under the overlap for
the sizable black-brown spider, whose
web enmeshed some of the cells, to retire,
apparently if combat became a bit hot.
Evidently that spider had astutely
summed up the situation as a long-
term larder right at hand. Only one
corner of half a dozen cells or so was
enmeshed at a time, and Mrs. S. philo-
sophically waited while the wasps pro-
duced families for her delectation. Even
new cells were completed while the star
boarder was in residence —on the pent-
house. Usually it’s the other way round
—baby wasps usually dine off spider
which has been drugged, hog-tied and
sealed in the wasp larder.
* * * *
“Bo”: Harry Timmins, the not-very
bright hand from Cooper’s, came rushing
up to the McComus homestead. He was
cut and bruised and, dripping muddy
water up to his middle, and as Mrs.
McComus came out to the back veran-
dah he gasped out: “She’s... .in....
the dam!” Mrs. McComus rushed
outside, calling “Marjorie,” and when
there was no response she gave one
awful shriek which brought Sam Mc-
Comus hurrying from the milking bails.
Mrs. McComus screamed “It’s Marjorie!
She’s in the dam!” To the distant dam
tore Sam followed by his spouse and
Harry. The water was muddy and still
in a sinister way, but Harry kept point-
ing and saying “She’s at the bottom!”
There was one way to empty the dam in
a few seconds, and Sam took it. He
flew up to the house and grabbed some
gelignite. Thirty seconds after he was
back the southern bank went up in the
air and the dam rushed over the pad-
docks, swamping a crop and taking a
barn with it. As the dam emptied Harry
pointed excitedly, and waded through
the slush to the —bike lying on its side.
As he lifted it up and took it to dry
land he said slowly to the dumbfounded
Sam “Be cripes, if I’d me toes in the
pedal straps I mighta got drownded!”
* =H * *
“Solitude”: “Who’s the kid?” Seventy-
fiver’s head jerked indifferently towards
the new hand. “Young Stokes,” I told
him. “Used t’ live out Black Mountain
Way.” “Wha-at!” he queried. “Not a
grandson of old Jeff Stokes?” “That’s
him.” Seventyfiver’s jaw set grimly, and,
scenting a mystery, I began trailing.
“Well, I don’t hardly like rakin’ up a
dead man’s sins,” he answered after a
bit, “an’ this ’ere kid might be awright.”
A few more promptings and he went on.
“Over 50 year ago it wus I struck Jeff.
When we wus both shearin’ up Upsan
Downs.” I nodded encouragement.
“Ain’t that the place Sandy sez -y’ gave
a bloke all your shearing cheque an’ had
to hoof it to the next shed?” Seventy-
fiver thought for a minute. “Tha’s right,”
he agreed, “Poor little cuss got word his
“The ‘ Flappers' Weekly ’ Would like your opinion on Beethovens
symphonies—which is the best?”
old man pegged out, an’ he had t’ leave
sudden. Yair, Jeff Stokes wus there
then.” He shook his head solemnly. “No
good, that Stokes. Got money off me
soon after he arrived, an’ I daresay it all
went on beer or t’bacca or somethin’.
Met him a coupla years later down near
the border, but no, he never paid me
back. No principles at all.” “And I
suppose you never heard from the chap
that got your 40-quid shearing cheque,
either.” “Tha’s different.” Seventyfiver
shrugged, disinterested. “But don’t y’
see,” with growing earnestness, “old Jeff
borrered that two bob off me.”
* * * *
“8.A.”: If “Moyhu” (B. 24/1/’45) has
seen echidnas being fed on slop food
and others digging and “disappearing into
anthills” in search of their natural fodder
he has had a unique experience. Such
echidnas as I have seen when in need of
a meal waddle along to their favorite
formicary and start a double shuffle on
the roof, whereupon the infuriated ants
rush out in thousands intent on destruc-
tion of the invader. The wily mbnotreme
thrusts out his long, extensile, worm-like
tongue, and the insects, still hot under
where the collar should be, swarm over
it and are held by a viscid secretion pro-
vided by glands discharging into the
animal’s mouth. Then he swallows his
catch, thrusts his tongue forth once more
and repeats the process until he is sur-
feited.
♦ ■ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Blime”: Buff and Big Harry were
draped on the bar competing for the
honor of holding the most. Each had a
pretty good effort to his credit when
Harry disputed Buff’s claim of a three-
pot lead, and the argument started.
Harry, 18 inches taller and with a lead of
five stone, strode uncertainly to the door,
where he tripped over the step. Buff’s
boots tangled themselves in the big
bloke’s legs, and, sprawling helplessly on
top, he went to sleep, Harry being “out”
already. Then Buff sat up, yawned, and
waited for his stirring opponent to come
round. “Now will y’ b’lieve me?” he
crowed. “Talk about a scrap,” he recited
to a delighted audience an hour later. “I
tell y’, I picked up the big cow, slung 1m
round an’ banged ’is dial on the hitching-
post.” In a corner of the bar a be-
wildered mountain with a huge beefsteak
over one eye sat vainly trying to re-
member.
* * * *
“B-gar”: It wasn’t so anomalous as it
might appear for the old stockowner
to ask his returned-soldier son what the
feed was like in Egypt (B. 24/1/’45). In
spite of the preponderance of desert sand
in Egypt there are numerous fields of
green, and as a result of irrigation ber-
seem thrives. Light Horsemen of the last
war knew only too well how the old
walers relished a feed of that, a sister-
plant of lucerne. It wasn’t until after
the Armistice, when we were sent to keep
order in the provinces, that I realised just
how much can be done by irrigation in
arid country. We rode past thousands
of hectares of berseem, and it was a pleas-
ing sight to see the fields of green amidst
the sands of the desert.
“Mrs. Stumpjump”; Tell “Mac F.” (B.
10/1 /’45) that he’ll be lucky if he lifts
the baby bonus off that indigent
The bonus belongs to the missus. But,
generally speaking, maternity hospitals
get their patients to sign a form making
the bonus payable to them.
» * * •
“B. A. Ker”: Smithy was anything but
a nigger-driver ; in fact, his estimate of
a day’s work was always on the conser-
vative side; but the two fellows clearing
the hill-paddock weren’t doing anything
like a fair thing. Yet no matter when
he rode out to “see how they’re going”
both men were always working conscien-
tiously. Several times he debated sacking
the pair, but, being strictly just, realised
there was a possibility that one only was
a loafer, letting the other chap carry him.
Then one day he returned from a visit
to the hill paddock, strode into the
kitchen, rung a chair-back with his old
hat and announced triumphantly Ive
picked out the loafer at last! I’ll hunt
g im at the wee k-end. Yair, I just rode
U P and there was the tall, skinny joker
standing in the s h a de of a tree calmly
u - a smo ke.” For the first time in
her j? fe Mrs Smit h doubted her hus-
hand’s justice “But Jim ” she protested,
„ wh e J ven the mos t’honest worker in the
WOl q d m i g ht stand in the shade for a
• t rnlk a cigarette'” “Of
h a e \o^ lS her
SDOUSe “ bu t a poler wouldn’t he’d have
h *j s ’ Qn th( T track as he was loafing
and be grafting like a slave when the
boss arr f vet | That’s why Fiji sacking
the nuggettv bloke ” Involved logic, but
it worked out right
* * * *
“Moyhu”; The frill-neck lizard lay on
the bleached limb of a dead apple-box,
} ubed to slumber by warm sunlight and
t he subdued roar of a bee-nest located
near b y. As the day opened up, the
lizard crawled along the limb and peered
into the hollow, but the unfriendly recep-
tion caused the reptile to lose hold and
fall, claws outstretched, on to the back of
a dozing tan-colored dog. That dog moved
promptly off the park, increasing its pace
as it passed the mouse. The other dogs
joined in. Dad, coming outside and
catching a fleeting glimpse of reddish-
brown canine, took it to be a fox the
dogs were after, and was soon in pursuit
on horseback. The tenth circuit of the
hundred-acre paddock ended in a bushy
corner, where Dad concluded that the
fox had given him the slip, and, dis-
appointed, called it a day. The lizard
meanwhile had dropped off the mong,
and now, from the topmost splinter of
a 10ft. stump, soberly watched Dad and
the exhausted mongs file homeward. Just
then the tan bitch spotted the reptile. For
a moment she stood motionless, and then,
with hackles stiffly erect, she tote past
Dad and the other dogs at top speed.
Dad turned upon the drooping canines.
“There’s speed and stamina for yer,” he
said contemptuously. “And let me tell
yer this, if there’s any more pups
drowned on this property it won’t be hers.
Get meV
* * * »
“S.G.”: Mum announced that, before
I could go to the picnic in our
little Queensland town, I’d have to
boil some tar and apply it to the fowl-
roosts. Anxious to get to that picnic and
aware that Mum never suspected her
authority would be flouted I saved time
by simply slapping the tar on cold. Next
morning Mum thought her chooks had
been stolen —until she went to the fowl-
house and found them all stuck to their
roosts, ankle deep in tar. Then the band
began to play.
* * * *
“J. Dale”: Repartee, is it? I’m in a
store in Mackay (Q.) buying a cane-knife.
It was near closing time, and the assist-
ant was anxious to get me satisfied and
close up. In came another cane-knife
buyer, half-stung, who butted in with
maundering remarks and held up pro-
ceedings until the exasperated shopman
yelled “Listen, mug, do you want an
eight-ton knife or a ten-ton one?” The
drunk eyed him owlishly, drew himself
up and with dignity replied “If y’ haven’t
got a twelve-ton knife I don’t want any.”
Then he stalked out.
He * * *
“W. 0.2”; It’s a far cry from H.M.S.
Howe to a former R.N. vessel, claimed to
be the oldest still afloat in the Pacific,
whose hulk is used as a sand and gravel
barge on the Brisbane River. Launched
in Scotland in May, 1881, and intended
for service as a river gunboat in the Far
East, the vessel became H.M.S. Gayun-
dah (abo. word for “lightning”), flagship
of the old Queensland Navy. A twin-
screw vessel of 360 tons, with a length
of 115 ft. and a beam of 26ft., the Gayun-
dah, after Queensland’s Navy was dis-
banded in 1901, was used as a
coastal patrol vessel until World
War I, when she became a floating
battery and mine-sweeper. Condemned
as obsolete in 1919, her hull was bought
by a Queensland shipping firm for use
as a lighter. The old ship’s last adven-
ture was in 1930, when she sank without
warning at her moorings on the Brisbane
River. She was subsequently raised, and
ever since the stout little hull, which
looks as if it will last for ever, has been
carrying sand and gravel up and down
the river. The original binnacle and
compass of the historic vessel are in the
Brisbane Naval Depot.
“Better sew him up right away , Nurse—remember a stitch in time
saves nine.”
SKYLARK HILL.
These slopes were ploughland once; the long
running
Up to the ridge to blow along the sky
Still dips and swells across forgotten furrows
Where larks can nest and hear the wind sweep
by.
The first wild rains that broke the drought have
slackened
And the dark hurrying clouds plot more to
fall;
From farms where men press hard at the urgent
ploughing
The freshening gusts bring clear the sudden
call
To jingling horses, and the strange, soul-
clutching
Smell of damp earth upturned; and surely
now
The old land weeps, remembering in past
seasons
The tread of hooves, the deep bite of the
plough,
The rich heart broken and bared to cruel
weather,
The stir of springing crops and the harvest’s
load.
Not in a short time are such pangs passed over.
But whether the tears that soak the hollows
flowed
For joy or grief at lying now untroubled
By savage share and weight of standing gold,
Under the rainy sky, all striving ended,
I shall not know until I, too, am old.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, .STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: i BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
Free
cohcor
from
D HA R
Alkali
D W ALL
O
Lime
ASTER
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is on exception- ;>
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a r smooth, glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa- * '*■ '
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed In Juie Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R- PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
SYDNEY .. . MELBOURNE. .. BRISBANE . .ADELAIDE. ..PERTH
PX4-44
er
m.
M i
(M M
■\
>5
r
fM:
CAROB BEAN SEED, 1/-perdoz.,5 /-per 100.
Apply K. BROWN, “Raino,” Tingha, N.S.W.
f
to RABBITS
I
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CVanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM” -
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
MeeXJ'throuJ'hout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
LTD.
EGELABRA MERINOS
lour times wrasera of fee
P«mt oo two occasions. Also
Eon, Syibff Sheep Shew, 1940,
RAMS FOR SALE
Orders are now being booked for the
Rams to be classed before the end of
February.
Prices from 5 gns- to 15 gns. par bead.
Cop- Winners of Ist
of Grand Champion I
/
H. E. KATER Sr SON - -
Telephone;
Egeldbm, Warren, K.S.W.
to
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Wool Surplus.
“Graz.”; Much of it—estimated by
one authority at 13,000,000 bales—will
be absorbed by (1) an enormous civilian
demand when the goods are available,
and <2) a large reduction in the amount
of wool grown.
The United Kingdom sheep popula-
tion is down by over 25 p.c. since the
war started, and all war-ravaged coun-
tries are likely to be similarly affected.
The U.S.A. 1944 clip dropped 8 p.c.
below the 1943 clip. Drought conditions
are reported from Argentina, In Aus-
tralia production is falling and the 1945
clip will be lighter than the two previous
ones. Since shearing sheep losses have
been heavy and last year’s lambing was
the lightest for some years. In addition,
our wool yields are much less owing to
excess sand, and the production of pure
wool will be less than bale-weights sug-
gest.
World stocks of woollen goods and
wearing apparel are depleted. France,
for many years our second-best cus-
tomer, has her mills ready and is eager
for wool and coal to get them in action.
Her pre-war imports were 1,300,000
bales annually, Australia supplying over
600,000 of them. Belgium and Russia
are negotiating with Britain for supplies
of wool. Russia is increasing her spindles
and looms by 75 p.c. Woollen goods are
likely to figure prominently in Britain’s
post-war export programme. Wool is
now displacing rubber for many indus-
trial purposes.
“Outback”: A post-war wool-market-
ing scheme for the U.S.A., propounded
by the Dean of Wyoming Agricultural
College, does not envisage any alteration
in America’s fiscal policy in the imple-
mentation of the Atlantic Charter, The
scheme provides for Government con-
trol of the wool market, and includes
Government purchase of the domestic
clip and all foreign wool now in Amerisa
or to be imported later, this foreign wool
to be sold at the same price level at which
the Government buys the domestic clip.
The scheme also provides for a sys-
tematic scaling down of domestic prices
“until they reach the level of duty-paid
foreign wool.” The fixation of a one-
price level envisages the importation of
foreign wool only to supply actual needs,
and so “the surplus would soon melt
away.” The scheme has the support of
the executive committee of the National
Woolgrowers’ Association, also of the
board of directors of the American Farm
Bureau Federation, but is opposed by
the wool merchants and manufacturers
of woollen goods, who consider that the
scheme will extend the area of Govern-
ment control in business, is inflationary
and “will make the price of finished
goods so high that foreigners will under-
sell our wool.” They also point to the
danger of high prices inviting an in-
creased use of synthetics. At the annual
convention of the Wyoming Wool-
growers’ Association it was made a
recommendation that no wool held in
the U.S.A. by foreign Governments
should be sold in the United States, and
that serious consideration be given to a
quota system for regulating the importa-
tion of wool and wool products.
Feeding Pigs.
“Plane Creek”: Keep enough pigs to
clean up dairy waste, and grow crops for
’em on the farm! They’re liable to t.b.
if allowed to run wild in cattle paddocks.
Maize is too risky for poor, droughty
soils. Substitute a good variety of grain
sorghum. It will resist drought and
ratoon under favorable conditions.
Maize and sorghum are richest in carbo-
hydrates, having little protein. Good
fattening crops include sweet bucks and
artichokes, both of which can be grown
with little trouble. Peanuts make fine
feed for growing pigs, but do not over-
feed them. Arrowroot is coming into
favor as a crop for pigs, and turnips and
pumpkins are useful.
Kikuyu grass and clovers make good
grazing. Don’t graze too heavily. Lucerne
is easily the best forage for pigs in dis-
tricts where conditions suit. Cow-cane
and elephant grass grow xVell in the
Queensland tropics, and can stand up to
rough handling by many pigs.
Row-sow maize in Queensland until
January, weather permitting. Sorghums,
sweet potatoes and ’chokes may also be
planted. Kikuyu roots spread freely
through the warm weather. Hardy
clovers may be put in at any time, but
lucerne is best sown during the first half
of the year.
Dairying Sidelines.
“E. 2”: It is wise to go in for systema-
tised bookkeeping to determine what
lines give the best returns. Skim milk,
grain and other crops and fodder in
excess of herd requirements will deter-
mine what extra stock may be kept; good
management and a knowledge of the
markets should ensure a fair margin of
profit.
Except under very favorable condi-
tions, it doesn’t pay to keep pigs where
supplementary feed has to be bought.
Where maize, barley or other grain can
be grown good profits are possible;
pumpkins, too, help to eke out the
"rations, but should not constitute more
than half the feed given. Pig-grazing
areas should be separate from cow pas-
tures. Young pigs need to be kept grow-
ing,'only possible if adequate supplies of
suitable feed are available. Overstock-
ing may make it obligatory to sell imma-
ture stock on a weak market, but after
careful management it should be pos-
sible when necessary to hold on for
better prices.
Where grazing is assured calves may
be raised for the beef market. Pure
Jerseys are not very profitable, but good
sorts follow mating with a well-bred
Hereford bull; the Hereford character-
istics will predominate if the bull is
worth a cracker. Reserves of fodder
should be adequate so that the cattle may
be sold in prime condition when the
market is good.
Costs of herd improvement can be de-
frayed by the sale of surplus young bulls
and heifers. If the business is conducted
with proper recording of butterfat tests
and the use of pedigreed sires of proven
stock, it should not be difficult to sell
calves at fair prices. A steady demand
exists for good dairy cattle, and breeding
them is a profitable sideline.
When stock are on agistment in an-
other district it pays to make fairly fre-
quent inspection of their condition and
the feed and water supplies. Uriless
specified in an agreement, it has been
held that the owner of the land let for
agistment is not responsible for com-
pensation where stock are lost through
drying up of waterholes or lack of
fodder.
Sand Drift.
“Jock”: Reports. of competitions (B.
3/1 / ’45) are valuable as the practical
ideas of men who have tried. The
Moody brothers, of Balaklava (S.A.),
have been fighting sand ever since they
stopped fighting in the 1914-18 show.
That they have little drift this year,
which is worse in these parts than in 1914,
shows how successful they have been.
They have found lucerne grows well on
sand, even when planted with the original
crop of rye-corn. However, the lucerne
must be very carefully grazed—over-
stocking allows the sand to move again.
Rye-corn, besides growing two feet high
where other crops might grow two inches,
will make edible hay if stacked for 12
months and then fed in dry weather. In
wet weather it becomes tough.
The greatest instigator of drift in this
country is the rabbit, and he should
always be kept as scarce as possible.
While sheep will not cause drift in coun-
try bearing spear-grass, the rabbit digs
down to eat the roots and soon has the
sand moving. As pine grows fairly well
on the Moody place, it is encouraged,
and the mallee is cleared. The arguments
against the mallee are that it roots near
the surface and prevents the growth of
grass; it provides abundant shade and
the sheep camp in this shade and stir up
the sand, and its surface roots provide
good shelter for rabbit burrows. There-
fore mallee is cleared from sandhills, but
in other districts where other trees will
not do well it must be left.
All these opinions from practical men
should be gathered together, and when
the Federal Parliament finishes provid-
ing canteens for coalminers and opens
its heart to the men who are trying to
hold this moving land of Australia the
money will not be wastefully spent.
“Tummer”; It appears paradoxical
that one of the chief causes of soil
erosion in the back country is water
conservation —yet it is so. In earlier
days stock was periodically moved awav
from holdings in dry areas, otherwise
they died of thirst. Those particular
holdings were necessarily rested, were
free for some time from the heavy, soil-
cutting and dust-stirring tramping of
stock, weathered the various droughts
and had a fair chance to recuperate
Immediately water was made available
stock were kept on such country until
such time as little or no vegetation re-
mained —and even hand-fed after that.
Hand-feeding on dry, grassless lands
leads to wind erosion, as the constant
heavy tramping of stock turns the solid
upper crust of earth to powder.
The common idea now is that trees
are sacrosant. This, again, may in many
cases be a mistaken idea. When trees
are cleared on land suitable for pasture
improvement the resultant grass growth
is more resistant to the onslaughts of
soil erosion than the trees it replaces.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Try this lick when
heavy milking cows take to self-sucking:
Stir 251 b. bonemeal, 151 b. fine salt, 21b.
each of sulphate of iron and yellow sul-
phur together. Next dissolve 2oz. of
potassium iodide in water, and pour over
the dry ingredients. A large tablespoon
of the mixture should be given daily, be-
ginning immediately symptoms of mineral
deficiency become evident. The addition
of a little molasses will make it more
attractive. If many milkers are suffering
put the lick out in troughs.
“Jesmond”: A cure for internal and
external ear canker in degs and cats is
equal parts of iodoform and boric acid.
As much as will lie on a sixpence should
be gently blown into the ear through a
paper funnel. One application is usually
sufficient, though it may be repeated in
a couple of days if there are still signs
of irritation. Give the patient a light
diet and keep the bowels dpen.
“Bennie”: Save all wood ashes and
throw them about the fowlyard floor,
then gather up and spread on the garden,
being careful that it does not come in
contact with the foliage. Thus are fowl-
houses kept clean and the garden well
manured.
“H.C.”: To estimate the quantity of
butter-fat in a given weight of cream
multiply its weight in pounds by the test
percentage and divide by 100. Thus, in
781 b. of cream testing 40 p.c, there are
31.21 b. of butter-fat.
“L.F.P.”: After fitting an axe-handle
on and tightly wedging with wood, drill
a yin. hole through head of axe. Through
this place an iron rivet. If properly done
it will never come loose,
“Pat O’Day”: Soil erosion means
nothing to settlers on the saltbush
country. Near the South Australian
border, for example, the saltbush covers
a soil rich in content for sheep. There is
water to be got at easy depth; no dust
to blow out into the Pacific; rabbits are
non-existent in this treeless, level country;
and the natural ti-tree forms a thick
hedge equal to a fence. Sheep
raised on saltbush soil of this type
mature quickly; it is not unusual
to see six-months-old lambs as large
framed as hoggets, and the settlers
there don’t hold a gun at Nature’s head.
They refrain from over-stocking and
they do plant lots of sub-clover.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Resurgence in France.
(Condensed from an article by the London
“Times” special correspondent in Paris.)
No one returning to Paris after long
absence can understand what is happen-
ing in France today without trying to
learn what life under the Germans has
been for more than four bitter years.
They haye left their mark in some way
or other on nearly every man and woman
you meet.
A high price has been exacted from
France for her liberty, not merely in
material destruction, which has swept
away railways and bridges and sometimes
whol£ towns, but in the far more searing
human values. Children have died of
cold in Paris. Only the well-to-do have
not gone hungry. There is hardly a
family among large sections of the popu-
lation which is not directly afflicted by
the execution, often after vile tortures,
of the 115,000 hostages or members of
the resistance movement, or by the de-
portation of 400,000 political prisoners,
to say nothing of the 800,000 prisoners
of war and another 800,000 workers sent
to forced labor in Germany. Nothing
has been heard of them since the landings.
The Germans called Paris <thc “city
without eyes,” for the unseeing stony
stare with which the Parisians regarded
them. People remained indoors as much
as possible. Nearly all of them asso-
ciated in some way with the underground
fight knew what it was to wait, heart in
mouth, whenever their children were not
at home to time, or when the door bell
rang for anything but a rendezvous.
Nearly all had reason to fear the Gestapo.
For four years France was being bled
by the mounting toll of the enemy’s requi-
sitions. Rich though she still is in abund-
ance, her agriculture, the whole of her
national economy, was being undermined
by the 400,000,0001. turned out each day
by the presses of the Bank of France as
the cash price of the occupation.
Most hideous of all was the Gestapo,
w'hich, working through the worst ele-
ments of the French secret police, and
with unlimited sums of money—French
money—-at its command, preyed on fear
and avarice, on the golden chance of
wreaking personal vengeance. French-
men began to fear one another. Such
was the price offered foC denunciation.
Sometimes, it seemed, even the Germans
were astonished by the number of anony-
mous letters addressed to them.
That is what French people cannot
forget, and is at the bottom of the present
outcry for action against collaborators
and traitors. All the time, under a sur-
face that probably looked more normal
than was imagined in London, the im-
placable struggle went on. The pure
flame of national resurgence inspired by
the heroic legend or mystique grew up
round the lists of men and women who
had died and suffered for France. When
the final uprising of the people came
youths were ready to fight Tiger tanks
•with of petrol. There was ex-
hilaration in running the gauntlet of
bullet-swept streets, and the eager hands
of women and children helped to tear up
the cobblestones and make the barricades.
No revolution was better planned.
Everything was ready. Agents of Gen-
erals de Gaulle and Koenig had long
since arrived in the country to link up
with the Council of National Resistance
v/hich, in the imperative name of unity,
had brought together all the patriot
groups formed on party lines in the under-
ground. Secret transmitters were in con-
stant touch with London, and some con-
ventional phrase casually interpolated
into a wireless programme could be the
signal for action.
There • is an indefinable tristesse in
Paris now that the fierce joy of liberation
has passed. Its texture is the deep long-
ing to see France rise again to the posi-
tion of a strong Power and have her
mentality understood by the outside
world, before all by Britain, which —
though French ignorance of what has
been happening to us is astonishing —has
never been nearer to French hearts. The
prestige of Mr. Churchill is unbounded.
General de Gaulle enjoys the overwhelm-
ing confidence and gratitude of the
nation, and although the man is largely
unknown, especially as a statesman, he
is the only authority capable of saving
France from anarchy during the difficult
transition from the revolution to the
Fourth Republic.
Everything comes back to this inarticu-
late desire to see France great again. The
spirit of young France burns hot, and on
all sides one encounters an impatience to
have dope with the old order, a spirit
that might make for injustice if it were
left uncurbed.
More mature counsels call for a re-
turn to order and discipline, away from
the lawlessness in which large sections
of the population have lived during the
occupation. Far transcending political
trends are the critical material problems
that will call for the utmost administra-
tive skill of the Government for many a
day. In many ways France, with her
bridges down, factories idle and railway
and road transport destroyed, is back in
the Middle Ages.
U.S.-Russian Friendship.
(N.Y. “World-Telegram” comment.)
Among the issues that burden Ameri-
can-Russian friendship three stand out.
First is the American feeling that
Russia should be helping to lick Japan,
instead of taking a free ride. We think
that distrust is unjust. Before it poisons
friendship more officials publicly should
spell out Russia’s legitimate reason for
concentrating on Hitler’s defeat first.
Since Stalin has openly pronounced
Japan an aggressor nation, a franker dis-
cussion is in order.
Second is the American fear that
Russia in eastern Europe is trying to set
up a puppet sphere in violation of the
rights of small nations and of Stalin’s
pledge in the United Nations declaration
and the Hull-Moscow pact. That fear
is justified, in our judgment, by Russia’s
acts in Poland and elsewhere. If the
American public is misinformed as to
that Russian policy, the sooner Russia
sets at rest these fears of America and
the small nations the better it will be for
friendship. But if there is a Russian
policy of domination in Eastern Europe,
in justice to all the United States Gov-
ernment should state openly U.S. oppo-
sition.
Third is America’s uneasiness over
communist activities in the liberated
European States and in America. Diplo-
matic recognition 11 years ago was based
on the pledge of each to refrain from
interference in the internal affairs of the
other. There are too many signs that
Moscow, despite official disavowals and
disbanding the Communist Internation-
ale, is backing favored persons and rar-
ties in other countries. We doubt that
this will produce peace in Europe. We
know that it will not produce American
friendship for Russia.
Churchill-Roosevelt Differ.
(From the “United States News.”)
It has become obvious that a severe
strain in the relations be-
tween the U.S. President and the British
Prime Minister. On how their differences
arfe settled may depend the shape of the
post-war world. On that, too, may de-
pend U.S. willingness to enter into a
general world-security organisation and
to maintain the war settlements.
A slight coolness in the relations of
these two men first appeared last spring.
At that time Mr. Churchill was actively
at work on his policy of trying to weld
the British Commonwealth and Empire
together with Western European nations
into a bloc that could hold its own with
Russia and the United States. Mr. Roose-
velt appears not to have liked this new
version of world-wide balancing of
power. The President also was some-
what annoyed by what was an apparent
effort on the part of Mr. Churchill to put
Britain in a position of middleman be-
tween the United States and Russia. Like-
wise, Mr. Roosevelt was concerned by
the Churchill objective of maintaining the
status quo in India and of demanding
restoration of Hong Kong to the British
Empire.
This rift between Churchill and Roose-
velt was covered up through the summer
and autumn in the interest of the Presi-
dent’s campaign for re-election. At
Quebec, in September, the atmosphere at
the meeting of the two was very chummy.
Mr. Churchill, for Great Britain, evidently
wanted Mr. Roosevelt re-elected because
he represented a known quantity, opposed
to a nationalistic course in post-war
policy. Mr. Roosevelt, on his part, evi-
dently wanted to avoid disclosure of
differences of opinion in order to pre-
serve the campaign argument that any
change would upset the harmony and
close working arrangement of the Big
Four of Roosevelt - Churchill - Stalin-
Chiang.
It was after the election that indications
appeared of a shift of policy by Mr.
Roosevelt. The period when Mr. Roose-
velt could go along with Mr. Churchill
on issues of political policy and still
maintain his standing with the American
people appeared then to have come to an
end. He apparently came to the con-
clusion that he could not induce the
.people to be enthusiastic about the use
of force to impose Governments upon
liberated peoples. The fact that Mr.
Churchill placed upon General Eisen-
hower the responsibility for using force
to impose a Government on Belgium did
not add to the White House enthusiasm.
The record suggests that in the argu-
ments that have been arising during war
years Mr, Roosevelt most often has had
his viewpoint accepted on issues of mili-
tary power.
Mr. Churchill wanted U.S. to concen-
trate its military power in Europe. Mr.
Roosevelt, however, insisted upon allo-
cating an increasing proportion of U.S.
strength to the war with Japan. Mr.
Roosevelt won this argument. There now
is some indication that the Pacific forces
of U.S. are less pressed for men and
materials than those in Europe.
Mr. Churchill wanted an Allied cam-
paign through the Balkans. Mr. Roose-
velt opposed such an operation, and
favored the opening qf a second front in
France at the earliest moment. Mr.
Roosevelt won this argument, with the
aid of Josef Stalin.
Mr. Churchill has sought t® induce the
United Slates to accept permanent com-
mitments in Europe and in the Mediter-
ranean area. Mr. Roosevelt has not re-
sisted strongly, but public opinion in the
United States seems to be causing him to
pull back.
Mr. •Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt both
appear to have agreed upon unconditional
surrender as the only basis for an end to
the wars against Germany and Japan.
The idea was that of the President.
The British Prime Minister has a record
of victories for his viewpoint that is at
least as long as that of the President.
Mr. Roosevelt opposed acceptance of
Charles de Gaulle as the de facto leader
of liberated France. Mr. Churchill
pressed for General de Gaulle and won.
Mr. Churchill argued against accept-
ance of Chiang Kai-shek and of China
as a full-fledged member of the Big Four.
He lost the argument at the start, but his
view that China is far from a big Power
may yet prevail.
Mr. Churchill favored the idea of
regional groupings of nations as opposed
to an over-all league of nations, Mr.
Roosevelt, at least publicly, opposed that
idea and stood for a world association.
Mr. Churchill opposed giving too much
importance to the Atlantic Charter, with
its promise of self-determination for
peoples. He sought to whittle down the
meaning and importance of that Charter
as it applied to Poland, Greece, Belgium,
Italy and other allies and enemies. Mr.
Roosevelt has opposed the blunt way in
which Mr. Churchill deflated the Charter,
but appears now to be resigned to going
along with the general idea of deflation.
In general, the basis of differences be-
tween Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill
appears to trace to the conclusion of the
British Prime Minister that the United
States may not always be prepared in the
future to use its influence and power to
assure stability in Europe and the Far
East. Mr. Churchill cannot be sure that
the United States will not again revert
to its traditional policy of backing away
from co-operation in time of peace and
then stepping in to help out the British in
time of war that results from failure of
peace-time co-operation.
It also is true that both men are stub-
born individuals with positive viewpoints.
Even if the President were prepared to go
along with the Prime Minister on his
ideas for ordering the post-war world,
Mr. Roosevelt might find himself in
trouble with Congress and with public
opinion, to which he is sensitive.
The showdown, however, is likely to
relate to the form of decisions concerning
the proposed United Nations political
organisation and agreements in the field
of post-war policy related to aviation,
shipping, currency stabilisation and oil,
among others. Mr. Roosevelt cannot
underwrite commitments without appro-
val of Congress. He cannot get approval
of Congress, which is likely to block U.S.
adherence t« political decisions which
Mr, Churchill has been making. This
suggests a wider and wider range of
Roosevelt-Churchill arguments as time
goes on. And Mr. Stalin, in the mean-
time, will add a few words.
Canada Produces.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” Ottawa
correspondent .)
Canada’s Minister of Agriculture, J. C.
Gardiner, has announced that farm in-
come advanced from $664,300,000 in
1938 to $1,396,300,0000 in 1943, and that
in 1944 it leaped upward by another 25
per cent, to a record total of
$1,750,000,000.
This increase in the income of the
738,715 farms in Canada has been
achieved despite the fact that 410,000 men
and 100,000 women have left these farms
and joined the fighting forces or entered
war industries during the past five years.
The most impressive gain has been in
livestock, notably hog marketing, which
has risen by 123 per cent.
Canadian exports of domestic mer-
chandise for 1944 were estimated to reach
the unprecedented value of $3,500,000,000,
or approximately $12,000,000 each working
day. These exports are made up of farm
products, somewhat over a billion dollars;
wood, wood pulp and paper, valued at
$363,000,000, base metals and war equip-
ment.
The increase in industry is shown by
the advance in the weekly payroll of em-
ployees from $14,200,000 in 1939 to
nearly $40,000,000 in 1944. Despite the
enrolment of nearly a million men and
women in the forces, there are twice as
many people working in industry as
before the war.
During 1944 the Munitions and Supply
Department spent nearly $8,000,000 a
day for shells, ships, guns, fighting
vehicles and other war supplies. Pro-
duction was continued at the same high
level as in 1943, but, owing to improved
manufacturing methods and the comple-
tion of war construction, the cost was
reduced by a million a day.
Only about 30 per cent, of Canadian
war production is delivered to Canadian
forces, 70 per cent, going to others of
the United Nations.
Among the main items of production
have been 314 10,000-ton ships, 368
frigates, corvettes and minesweepers;
3640 tanks, 67,221 gun-barrels, 122,509,000
shells and 4,200,000,000 rounds of small-
arms ammunition.
Warning to Britain.
(From a report by the London correspondent
of Chicago “Tribune.”)
A warning that Russia’s post-war policy
will commit Britain to territorial changes
running counter to the Atlantic Charter
was sounded in Edinburgh by George
Waters, former editor of the influential
newspaper “Scotsman.” Waters said :
“At the end of the war Russia will be
by far the most powerful military State
in Europe, and the old balance of power
will have disappeared. Nevertheless,
Russia will not be satisfied with the secu-
rity of her present frontiers.
“By territorial adjustments she will
realise the long-cherished Czarist ambi-
tion to be master of the Baltic. She will
control not merely the southern shores
but the whole area, including Denmark,
Norway and Sweden. Never in her his-
tory has Russia been nearer achieving
control of the Dardanelles and a seat on
the shores of the Persian Gulf than she
is today.”
The former editor warned that Soviet
ambitions of territorial gains would affect
Britain in three ways; “(1) Britain pre-
sumably would be a guarantor of the
peace and would, therefore, find herself
committed to territorial changes running
counter to the first three points of the
Atlantic Charter.
“(2) Britain would be a consenting
party to the methods Russia employed
in 1940 and ’4l for the subjugation of
eastern Poland and the Baltic States.
“(3) Britain would be helping Russia
put herself in a position in middle and
eastern Europe which Germany had
aspired to occupy.”
Waters concluded, “However much
Moscow may profess her desire to see
the small countries on her borders free
and independent and prosperous, there
is and can be no future for them except
as satellites to their all-powerful ambi-
tious and resourceful neighbor.”
Uncle Sam’s Navy.
(From N.Y. “Times .")
The United States Navy, largest in the
world, starts 1945 with 61,045 vessels,
including 1167 warships and 54,206 land-
ing craft, with which “to meet and defeat
the enemy.”
Added in 1944 were 39,971 vessels, in-
cluding 420 warships, 640 patrol and mine
craft, 630 auxiliaries, 557 district craft
and 37,724 landing craft. These aggre-
gate 5,457,490 tons, and the Navy now
has 11,707,000 tons afloat.
Battleships now total 23, aircraft-car-
riers 26, escort carriers 60, cruisers 63,
destroyers 418, destroyer escorts 496 and
submarines 249. These figures include
ships transferred to the Allies.
In the year the U.S. Navy also acquired
30,070 aircraft, of which 26,401 were tac-
tical combat ’planes, and spent
$2,800,000,000 on guns, shells, torpedoes,
rockets and other ordnance items.
Since January 1, 1942, the U.S. Navy
has paid out $66,682,000,000. About


SS@
THE WORLD FOLLOWS BHLTALJVS LEAD..
(V. : . iV S.v’*';
't%rS9=~?
l.Vif*
MM
?>' V
r:
Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
C.B.E,
an officer of the R.A F.,,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was
made in 1941,
JET PROPULSION
FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per l -
- in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of life amongst millions of
people and have been the means of founding vast new
industries in England, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won,
the results of research and experiment during the war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres Ltd.. Coventry, England
42 AVERAGE AIR-MAIL LETTERS
COST YOU 10/6
AIRLINE OPERATORS GET 4'3
For providing the planes, the millions of gallons of petrol, the huge
hangars, maintenance and service depots, the trained airmen, engineers,
mechanics and office staffs, Airline Operators receive IJd. of each extra
3d. you pay for the modern, speedy airmail service you enjoy.
GOVERNMENT REVENUE GETS 6'3
Because they own the airfields and supply navigation facilities (in the
same way as they do for shipping) and administer the service. Govern-
ment Departments get—apart from the 2£d. postage which is the P.M.G s
established right—l2d. out of every 3d. surcharge you pay to airmail a
letter. In the last 5 years this has amounted to £1,109,230.
If the Socialisation of Airlines Bill goes through, you will have red tape
operation as well as red tape administration. Australia’s Airways will
trail far behind those of free countries. The Government revenue pro-
vided by Australian Airline Operators will cease and you will be taxed
to make up for the loss. Talk it over with your friends ... start dis-
cussion groups . . . deal with it at your political meetings . . . remember
the Government is endeavouring to side-step the people’s verdict in the
last Referendum.
Released by THE AIRLINE OPERATORS SECRETARIAT
$26,657,000,000 of this, or about 40 per
cent., went for the construction, repair
and maintenance of naval vessels.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The Soviet press devotes an average of about
50 lines per day to the Western front. Reports
of the Italian front average about 15 lines a
day.— U.S. United Press Moscow correspondent.
* * * *
In the last fiscal year the U.S. Army Service
Forces head, Lieut.-Gen. Brehon Somervell, has
disclosed, 40 per cent, of all army cargo
shipped out of the U.S.A. went into the effort
against Japan, while 30 per cent, of the man-
power sent’ overseas went Pacific fronts or
staging areas. —Washington “Post.”
* * * *
Connection between German and American
cartels was so intimate that even during the
war a certain percentage of receipts on gaso-
line sold to the R.A.F. had to be put aside to
be paid to the German I. G. Farben trust
after the war. —Emil Ludwig; N.Y. “tyorld-
Telegram.”
* * * *
The first snag in the international business
conference at Rye, N.Y., occurred when British
spokesmen said that Britain felt it necessary to
continue its programme of Empire preference
for an indefinite period after the war. Under
this system members of the British Common-
wealth receive favored treatment in tariffs and
other matters. The American representatives
took the position that the imperial preference
programme inevitably tends to hamper com-
merce by giving Government a controlling hand.
Only by Government controls, it was said, can
agreements favoring one nation against all
others be enforced. Hardly had this difference
developed than Arthur Guinness, chairman of
the British delegation, informed the conference
that Britain had no intention of abandoning
cartels, which allocate production quotas, fix
prices, and determine what amount of the pro-
duct is to be fed to the market at any particular
period. The only concession offered by Guin-
ness was a proposal that the cartels be subject
to Government registration and regulation,
which would further serve to limit the workings
of a free world economy. If could easily
have been foreseen that American and British
businessmen would soon find themselves at odds
not only over Government controls but over
all artificial marketing arrangements. British
trade has long been organised upon restrictive
lines, and the British attitude today does not
favor free competition in world markets, but
rather the arrangement of exclusive marketing
rights which ensure Britain a safe outlet for
goods, untroubled by the vicissitudes of com-
petition.—Chicago “Tribune/’
* * * *
About 200,000 of India’s troops are serving
in the Middle East—in Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Pales-
tine, Ethiopia and elsewhere. Three divisions, the
Fourth, Eighth and Tenth, are serving in Italy.
Several thousand Indians, who escaped from
a German prisoner-of-war camp near Epinal,
in France, fought with the French underground
for some time before the Allied victories swept
across France. At least seven Indian divisions
have been serving under Admiral Lord Louis
Mountbatten in Burma or along the India-
Burma border ; nearly half a million Indian
troops, backed by 250,000 Britons. — Hanson
W. Baldwin; N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
China is a backward country that for senti-
mental reasons has been promoted to a position
of military equality with England, Russia and
the United States. Many Chinese are worried
about this distortion of international values ;
they know that China, which is not even united,
cannot live up to a position that involves inter-
national responsibility.— N.Y. “Times” corre-
spondent Brooks Atkinson.
* * * *
The White House definitely is disturbed by
growing evidences that a rivalry is developing
between Great Britain and Russia for dominant
position in Europe, with the prospect that
U.S. will find itself manoeuvred into Britain s
corner. Some high officials now are be-
moaning the fact that this country did not
obtain commitments on issues of broad policy
when its bargaining ( power was greater.—
“United States News.”
* * * *
In the opinion of one of the most experienced
diplomats in Washington, the Big Three—Stalin,
Roosevelt and Churchill—now face a show-
down: they must reach a political understand-
ing covering Europe or most of that continent
may soon be swept by revolution. The diffi-
culty, remarked the envoy, is not between Wash-
ington and London. The, real danger arises
from the wide difference in ideological outlook,
method and approach between the British and
Americans on the one hand and the Russians
on the other. They do not need to clash, but
clash they will unless they get together and
develop a working arrangement.— Washington
correspondent N.Y. “World-Telegram.
*** * .
Mr Churchill now is ready to admit privately
that the experiment of trying to win the war
with bombing alone did not work. United
States News.”
* * *■ •
Within the sound of guns, and before their
soil had been completely liberated, Leftist
groups in Greece, Belgium, France, Yugoslavia
and elsewhere either commenced civil war or
threatened to do so for the purpose of over-
throwing existing regimes. The technique is the
same everywhere. It is to act quickly, to take
advantage of the chaos, hunger and human
misery inevitable behind huge advancing armies
—especially after years of enemy occupa-
tion. The established order is then at its
weakest. That is the moment for organised
minorities, relatively small though they may be,
to seize power. The technique also includes
organised street demonstrations, with women
predominating, some of them carrying babies.
Sprinkled amongst them march troublemakers
whose job is to create “incidents or provoke
armed clashes further to stir up mass emotion.
All this is done in the name of ’‘democracy
and skilfully press-agented to win the suppo-
of genuine liberals everywhere— W dham fniup
Simm; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
Makers of high policy are beginning now
to consider how lend-lease may have its name
changed and may be used after the war to set
nations up in business again with American
goods on what would be close to a gilt basis.
The argument is that it is as much to the
U.S.A’s. interest to see that nations like Great
Britain, Russia, France, China and Poland get
back on their feet economically as it was to
see that they possessed the wherewithal to defeat
Germany. Some officials are discouraging this
discussion now as “premature*.” It is a, live
subject, however. — “United States News.
* * * *
Some say Russia is right to take everything
up to the Curzon Line because she was weak
when Poland crossed that line 25 years ago.
All right, say the Poles, forget about the Pohsh-
Russian treaties of 1920, ’2l, ’22 and ’23, when
Lenin recognised Poland’s frontiers as valid.
But Russia certainly was no longer weak in
1932 when the two neighbors voluntarily signed
their pact of non-aggression. She was still
stronger in 1934 when that pact was renewed
until 1945. But in 1939 Russia went back on
all this when she and Germany divided up
Poland, each taking approximately half. In
1941 Russia did another handspring. bhe
signed a new treaty with Poland, recognising
“the Soviet-German treaties of 1939 as having
lost their validity,” thus restoring Polands
former frontiers. Now Russia scraps this pact,
and London says she is right, and Washington
hedges. ,U.S. Secretary of State Stettinius says
it is all right with us if the Polish Government
in exile agrees—as it eventually will because
it must. Or its successor will. For if this
Government persists in being “unreasonable’
the term applied to Polish “reactionaries who
object to • giving up half of their country—a
more “reasonable” one will almost certainly be
found to replace it —Washington correspondent
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
Sf ¥ * *
In New Zealand, where the pacifist propor-
tion is very high, approximately three men in
every hundred registered conscientious objector
at the beginning of the war. The men are ex-
amined for sincerity under very strict conditions
and have no appeal. Those refused (almost all)
are sent to “defaulters’ camps,” which are in
effect concentration camps, where the men live
behind barbed wire without leave or pay. This
treatment is the toughest given conscientious
objectors by any Allied nation except Russia.
In Russia, where war objection once flourished
under the influence of Tolstoi, the Soviet Gov-
ernment no longer recognises conscience as a
basis for refusing military service. The penalty
for such refusal is five years’ imprisonment in
peace-time, capital punishment in war-time. In
Germany, until lately, the many conscientious
objectors who defied the Gestapo were shot
in the public prisons. Recently, however, the
policy has been changed. A few are still being
shot, but the majority now receive fairly light
prison sentences. In Japan the conscientious
objector voluntarily accepts noncombatant ser-
vice or is forcibly inducted into the army.—
“Harper’s Magazinearticle by William Fifield.
* * * *
Two of the Japanese divisions smashed to
pieces on Leyte were veteran groups from
Manchuria. The transfer of these two veteran
divisions lends itself to speculation. The
Japanese hitherto have declined to withdraw
veteran troops from Manchuria, apparently
because of the threat of a Russian attempt to
retake Port Arthur and the obvious danger
of the bombing of Japan from points within
400 miles of Tokyo. Whether the seeming
shift in policy is due to belief in a more immedi-
ate danger from the United States’ thrust from
the south or whether some degree of under-
standing has developed is a matter for anyone’s
conjecture. — Pacific war correspondent Frank
L. Kluckhohn; N. Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“To hear the pessimist talk, who is happiest
when he is at his most gloomy, < you would
suppose that Anglo-American relations were
going to turn into a series of head-on collisions
on trade, aviation, currency, disarmameitt and
what you will. I believe the pessimist, Ameri-
can or British, is completely wrong. If I did
not believe that to be true I would not be
here today and I would not stay here another
week.” — British Ambassador Lord Halifax,
speaking in New York.
* * * *
The original plan for the great engineering
achievement which defeated the enemy strategy
of denying us to the last the use of French ports
was for two prefabricated invasion ports, one
each for the British and American sectors, but
the American port was much damaged in the
June gale. All the equipment for both harbors
was supplied from Britain, and the cost is esti-
mated to have been about £25,000,000. — London
“Times.”
* * * •
When the French had to endure at the hands
of their allies the blows that we endured at the
hands of the enemy the world had become too
full of war for their suffering to find a place in
its cares or sorrows. They had to suffer alone.
The Nazis tried hard to work up French indig-
nation. But they failed. When Allied airmen
were killed the French people, including those
who were mourning for parents or children
who were victims of Allied bombs, paid them
every honor and covered their graves with
flowers. When airmen were fugitives in any
part of France they could count on help and
shelter. Everywhere men, women and children
could be found who were ready to take the risk
of torture and death in order to help them to
reach safety. The men and women of Bomber
Command are to put on record their gratitude
and admiration for this noble chivalry. They
are'to collect a sum to be used to help French
children who have suffered from Allied raids.
Thus a terrible necessity, cruel alike to British
and to French, may create a new tie between the
two nations, for no comradeship could be
closer than the comradeship of which this gift
will keep the memory alive. — Manchester
“Guardian.”


EYE LOTION
)|br Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co..Pfcy-Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
Jou cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All men s-tvear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Hansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
../fita "pushover/or a
CATERPILLAR
•m.
t ■»
.M
m
’mmsA
mmm
i a
' r
,i
SM
«»
■■-•»•:*
mm
V*
Hi
S5-SSS4S
« &
ii
>:'■- •• •-
1
I
an
&
illar
Cater
;*> , »i -
m 3
s # x ,
■'•>'' -'V -
Wherever there’s a big job
of earth-moving to be done, at
record low cost and in the quickest
possible time, it’s just a “push-over
for a Caterpillar. Its amazing wor
capacity and its giant diesel power take
everything in their stride, turning the work of years into the work of
months, weeks, or even days.
While “Caterpillar” helps to hasten the road to Victory on all fighting
fronts, hundreds of these world-famous tractors, with thousands of work-
ing hours to their credit, are holding the fort on the home front in the
production of essential foods to feed the nation. We look forward to
the day when we will be able to take care of all civilian requirements.
CATERPILLAR D/ES€l
beo. o.s. pat. orr
JRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rafhbone, 57 Cambridge St„ South Grafton. Mr. R, Tweed le, Port Macquarie.
'Phone —Port Macquarie 81. Mr.' D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — %B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475,
Work, Buy War Savings
reunimiAM
CT .6.33.44
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar” is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
■
% m
i m
mw%
/in IVVYItT 11 ! 1
llijAi wf MilAl
■
You’ll appreciate their
ou ts tan din g Quality!
Oblaiiiablo iii lO s & 20%
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
•S3®
\
mmm
:
'
*s*e* *
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Clinical Experiences and Nervous
and Private Diseases, published about 1898 by
Frer.man Wallace Medical Institute, and
Maladies of Mankind, published by the Dr.
Watson Institute. —3574.
To buy Montgomery’s Anne of the Island,
Anne’s House of Dreams, Anne of Ingleside and
Mistress Pat. —3575.
To buy Upsurge, by 3. Harcourt. —3576.
Information Sought.
From which countries are supplies of derris
root obtained ? Latest prices of the root ?
Before the war it was obtained from Malaya
and adjacent parts of Asia; stocks now come
from Brazil under lease-lend arrangements.
Last supplies were sold at Is. 6d. per pound.
* * * *
Meaning of Maori word Temuka?
It is a corruption df Te Umu-kaha, literally
“the oven of strength,” a sacred fire used in
certain war-rites.
* * *
/ am 30 year's of age and employed in a
protected industry. How can I terminate my
employment here and enter another occupation ?
Apply to the local National Services Officer
for permission to leave your present job. 11
dissatisfied with this decision, you may appeal
to the Local Appeal Board.
* * * *
A couple secretly married some time ago now
wish to go through a second and public cere-
mony. Can they do this without incurring any
legal penalties?
If the facts are disclosed at the second cere-
mony and no false statements and declarations
are made, they are not liable. The clergyman
officiating must also set out the facts in his
certificate.
* % Hi
How can I force the removal of cattle run-
ning on agistment on my property if fees are
paid weekly? Must notice be given, and am 1
responsible for the welfare of cattle?
(1) Terminate the agreement. (2) One week’s
notice should be sufficient. (3) Not after ter-
mination of agreement.
* * * *
Method of scouring wool to make bed filling ?
Put fleece in copper, cover with cold water,
add to 11b. soft soap (according to size
of fleece) and bring slowly to boil, stirring well.
Remove from copper, rinse in warm water and,
if necessary, repeat boiling. Rinse, dry in open
air and tease till fluffy.
¥ * ♦ *
(1) Award wage for \9-year-old female
solicitor’s clerk and stenographer in N.S.W.?
(2) Is she entitled to an annual fortnight’s holi-
day in addition to the 10 days’ Christmas break
taken by most solicitors ?
(1) £1 17s. Id. (2) No.
Brief Answers.
J.D.: Catalogue value is £182 for the lot....
M.S.: Poem was written by Whittier....J.H.B.;
You are not entitled to the additional £2 10s.
grant... .D.H.: Loan is not affected by regula-
tions T.M. and Mercury: Forward full name
and address.... J.M-C.: Deuteronomy xx, 5....
A.N.: Quotation is not contained in Kendall s
verse R.MacD.,: (1) Yes, subject to the con-
tract. (2) The owner at the time notice is
given is responsible. (3) No.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.W.S.: Style eighteenth century L.H.C.:
“Cavern” closer 0.C.M.: Unable to imagine
a goat in. a boat with a stoat from a moat....
L.G.: You can do anything you like with
“Nazi swine” except rhyme them with “lime.”
. ...J.P.: It is clear, at any rate, that he
walked... .J.A.MacP.: “It must be recited with
deliberate expression.” Tried that; but it seems
to go best when muttered inaudibly G.N.J.:
“I was once with this homestead connected.”
You are now from this dump- disconnected
H.E.R.; No body in that brew.... J.H.:
“Absence” is only just present H.L.: “At
the same moment the trout gave a startled
splash and flew upstream.” You should have
clipped its wings. .*. .K.1.R.: Note that Big
Jim killed poor old Bill with a pickaxe just
as they found gold. Regret that Big Jim
didn’t break his neck... .L.G.J.: Sufferihg
from a surfeit of grandfathers, though the
old boy’s mildly amusing... .A.P.“Millie was
demented.” Well, take her away and lock her
up F.8.V.: “If this story is as hopeless as I
think it is, can you help me?” Alas, no
J.Y.: “Had he no pity? Had he no remorse?
What was he made of?” He was made of a
thousand other villains from magazine fiction.
W.A.: Try a daily L.P.: Fifty poems
in a notebook m almost illegible pencil. Try
’em one at a time, typed if possible G.R.:
So slim they’re almost invisible.


f/4
I
so*
Vfit
K
q,h>
m e
tU^ e
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings (Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
XSSS 0*7.44
YOUR FAMILY'S FUTURE
NOWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’ experience,
for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox,
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others. Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 38,111 5 p.c. 38,016 95 291,550
1934.. 43,411 54 „ „ 41,821 1,590 293,146
1935. . 80,286 10 „ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. - 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,358
Reserves disappear, £11,150.. .. 304,408
1938.. 99,109 124 p.c. = 95,054 4,055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 124 „ „ 95,054 3,699 312,162
1940.. 97,359 12* ~ ~95,054 2,305 314,467
3 941.. 96,076 12J „ ~ 95,054 1,022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 Hi „ ~ 85,649 9,882 325,371
1943.. 66,378 8 „ ~60,835 5,543 330,914
1944.. 65,988 8 „ ~60,835 5,153 336,067
This co., the only producer of cement
in Victoria, took over the then 30-year-
old Australian Portland Cement —which
had written up its capital by 10s. a share
—for £750,000 early in 1925. For-the
next five years it paid an average of 12
p.c. from profits averaging 16 p.c. on
capital. Then, seeing trouble ahead in
the industry, this co. and Kandos, N.S.W.
(paid capital £673,862), decided to get to-
gether, the idea being to eliminate compe-
tition and reduce overhead. Each passed
its plant, etc., to a new operating con-
cern, Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
for a million pounds in f.p. shares, and
became managing agent for the pty. in
their respective States.
The partnership has been a satisfac-
tory one. Slump out of the way, enough
was passed on to enable each holding co.
to pay 10 p.c. again, and then a run of
12y p.c. divs., until war developments
slowed up the rate of net earnings. There
has been a switch in the nature of demand
to almost entirely Government account,
selling prices are controlled, and there
have been disturbing increases in taxa-
tion, wage, coal, oil, paper-bag and other
costs. The troubles of the industry, whose
plant capacity was well in excess of de-
mand pre-war, are reflected in closure,
before the end of 1942,. of the Standard
Co.’s plant at Charbon (N.S.W.) as a
rationalisation measure.
The operating co.’s plants in the two
States have a combined capacity of some
500.000 tons p.a. The one at Kandos
(N.S.W.), which can turn out up to
200.000 tons annually, shares the over-
crowded market in its own State with
four other producers. The other at
Fyansford (Vic.) has a capacity of
300.000 tons p.a., and high-grade potash
is also produced. This potash, made
from hitherto waste material, has re-
placed imported supplies and thus become
a welcome addition to Australia’s manu-
facturing activities. Of the two plants,
the one in Victoria is the better profit
earner. Its only serious competitor is
Goliath (capacity 100,000 tons p.a.), a
low-cost producer at Railston (Tas.), and
there is little competition under present
conditions.
Construction for defence and essential
services having passed its peak, Govern-
ment requirements continued to taper
last term. Lately plant has been kept
only 50 p.c. employed. This and the coal
and other troubles have had their effect
upon costs, of course. For each of
the last two years the operating co. has
paid 6 p.c. as against 9 p.c. previously.
Hence the drop in this holding co.’s div.
The holding co.’s balance-sheet figures
don’t tell much:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £760,433 £760,488 £760,438 £760,433
Sundry creditors 76 328 120 130
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts .. * 110 110 110 110
Consols & cash 122,886 126,945 122,931 127,371
Everything depends upon the position in
the operating co., over whose figures the
curtain is kept drawn. However, plant is
reported in first-class condition and
ready to step up production as demand
increases and man-power and materials
permit. “It is not an exaggeration,” says
the chairman, “to estimate that a post-
war task involving almost £19,000,000 a
year faced Victorian builders.” This is
about double the previous peak, and does
not include public works. There is also
evidence of a “widespread export inquiry
for cement for a period after the war.”
Much will depend upon Government
policy in respect of priorities and controls.
So far as it has been revealed, the in-
tention appears to be that for some time
to come plant, raw materials and labor
generally will be allotted between essen-
tial and luxury goods and between home
and export markets, not according to de-
mand but according to a central
authority’s estimate of national need. In
the, national interest the time is how ripe
for the Government to make a precise
statement of its intentions concerning
continuance of priorities and controls
post-war.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1934.. 12,081 Bp.c. SGOO 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 „ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9 „ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 „ „ 7000 6,648 80,342
1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 „ „ 7000 7,253 97,013
J 940. . 14,366 10 „ „ 7000 7,366 104,379
Staff provident fund, £5OOO .. 99,379
1941.. 15,354 lOp.c. = 7000 8,354 107,733
1942.. 11,810 10 „ „ 7000]
Staff fund, £lOOO .. 7 810 108,543
To tax reserve, £3OOO J
1943■. 15,965 10 p.c. ~ 7000 7 .> qck iifi kco
Staff fund, £2OOO .. ..f 6.965,11 a, 508
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c. t=i YOOO \ qaa 1994.0 s
Staff fund, £lOOO _ y 0,900 122,408
This sound Australian fire, marine and
accident office is in the same stable as
the Mercantile Mutual. Headquarters
are at Sydney and activities are confined
to the Commonwealth. So the co. has
pulled no plums out of the international
marine pie, where inflated war values
recently yielded some nice returns, thanks
partly to the success of British and Ameri-
can naval and air forces in dealing with
the submarine menace. On the other
hand, Japan’s invasion of Eastern and
Southern Asia, Netherlands Indies and
other near-by islands deprived the co. of
neither assets nor revenue.
In Australia the “pegging” agreement
has reduced competition among insurance
offices to a minimum—this for man-
power reasons —and, as a war measure,
the Federal Government became self-
insurer of all cargoes owned or partly
owned by it, thus affecting the volume of
local marine business. Still, owing to war
activities, rising prices and expanding
merchant inventories, there has been
growth in fire, workers’ compensation,
personal, accident and other insurance,
but income from motor-vehicle cover has
shrunk by about one-third since war
began. However, there has been no
marked fluctuation in A.G.'s net premium
income over the last half-dozen years.
There are underwriting performances;
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55.475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*0.2 41.4
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
1939.. 98,988 4f,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
1940.. 97,753 47,817 43,535 48.9 44.5
1941.. 99,469 44,213 47,934 44.4 48.1
1942.. 95,173 40,869 48,778 42.9 51.2
1943.. 97,652 42,101 46,556 43.1 47.6
1944.. 98,229 48,899 41,666 49.8 42.4
Of each £lOO of last year’s net premiums,
losses (up £6798) made off with an extra
£6 14s, p.c., owing to heavy claims on
account of bushfires in Victoria. This
was partly offset by a reduction of £5 4s.
p.c. in the expense rate, making the sav-
ing £8 16s. p.c. over the last two years.
To what extent this has arisen from
lighter provision for taxation, etc., and
from cuts in controllable exes, isn’t visible
in the published Recounts.
Still, the underwriting surplus (£7664,
down £1331) was 10.9 p.c. on capi-
tal, and interest from investment of
the co.’s own funds turned in 10.3
p.c. net (= £7326, up £266), mak-
ing net return on capital from all sources
21.2 p.c. as against 22,8, 16.8, 21.9, 20.5
and 20.3 p.c. back to 1939. It all gives
the 10 p.c. div. a very comfortable appear-
ance. After paying the div. and sending
£lOOO to the staff fund, most of the under-
writing surplus was available to swell
investments and returns therefrom.
Both policy-holders and shareholders
are well protected. Here is the investment
portfolio in tabloid form:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital ..£70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities . . 28,936 31,120 38,874 41,364
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages . . 41,738 38,469 32,252 31,622
Debentures . . 9,000 7,700 6,000 6,000
Public securities 91,988 119,488 157,988 171,088
book debts . . 8,869 8,888 8,794 6,224
Cash,etc . . 53,854 50,807 51,848 51,337
The co. is a staunch supporter of war
loans. Since the outbreak £79,100, of
which £13,100 was in respect of last term,
has been added to Government securities,
which represent 63.6 p.c. total assets,
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends To Re- Be-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord, Total, serves, serves.
£,£>£,
1934.. 22,675 6* p.c. 2} p.c, 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* p.c. Nil 6.659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £2st)o .. .. 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
1938.. 18,632 6* „ li p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
1939.. 11,787 6*,, 11 „ 15,989 64.756
1940.. 28,307 6* „ 1* „ 15,989 12,318 77,074
Enlisted employees’ fund, £lOOO .. .. 76,074
1941.. 32,033 6* p.c. 24 p.c. 22,210 9,823 85,897
1942.. 23,961 6* „ 14 ~ 15,989 7,972 93,869
1948.. 24,971 6* „ 14 „ 15,989 8,982 102,851
1944.. 27,301 6* „ 24 „ 22,210 5,091 107,942
* Includes 5 p.c. on 240 old prefs.
Because of the importance of super-
phosphate as a factor in rural and
pastoral production manufacturers of the
stuff are important though indirect con-
tributors to the nation’s supply of food-
stuffs, and therefore to the war effort.
Cresco operates three plants in S. Aus.,
one at Geelong (Vic.) and has a £90,043
share interest in Cresco Fertilisers (W.A.).
At Geelong, where the co.’s quota was
being produced by Commonwealth Fer-
tilisers as a war-time measure, because of
the man-power position, production began
again in September last.
War aggravated the troubles which had
beset the industry a dozen years
previously, and, together with shortage of
labor and machinery, has had repercus-
sions on the rural economy at a, time
when maximum production was called
for. Although substantial stocks of phos-
phate rock had been laid in before supply
lines to Pacific resources were cut by the
enemy % local production of super, was
reduced by 30 p.c. in 1942, and has re-
mained rationed since. Diversion of
extra supplies to crops like vegetables,
cottop, tobacco, etc., in other States
resulted in a proportionately heavier cut
in the S. Aus., Victorian and Westralian
quotas. The Superphosphate Industry
Committee was set up to control produc-
tion and distribution throughout the
Commonwealth. Another of the com-
mittee’s functions is to calculate the sub-
sidy to manufacturers to cover loss re-
sulting from the Government policy of
maintaining the selling price of super, at
£5 Is. a ton, irrespective of cost of pro-
duction..
Since Pacific supply lines were cut
Egypt has been the chief source of rock,
at a cost about four times greater than the
pre-war figure of 30s. a ton c.i.f. Also,
the lower grade of Egyptian rock, which
is blended with higher-grade island stuff
in the proportion of three-to-one, has
reduced the quality of super, pro-
duced. Some use has also been made of
indigenous rock as a blend, but local de-
posits aren’t extensive or comparable in
quality with the Pacific article.
Shortage of labor remained chief
trouble last term. The “maximum of
overtime had to be worked to ensure de-
liveries to users on time,” and further
reduction in supplies of rock affected the
volume of sales. There was also a sharp
contraction in the area sown to wheat in
the three States in which the co. is
interested:
Yield.
r —\
Av.perac.
Season. Acres. Bushels. Bushel.
„ . 1 1942-43.. 2,009,027 36,525,459 18.18
S. Aus. j 1943-44.. 1,533,816 20,690,471 13.49
1 1942-43.. 2,145,156 41,803,107 19.49
Vic. 1 1943-44.. 1,793,428 19,733,322 11.00
. ( 1942-43.. 1,753,178 20,600,000 11.75
W. Aus. j 1943-44. . 1,552,358 16,384,944 10.55
Seasonal conditions and reduction in


£l7/10/- S"R» m
DUPLICATOR
I has all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
JACKSON
>by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
& O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'aolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF.
THE
AUSTRALIAH
ABBOT
Filter
Cylinder
1
iLJj
F I
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
jy effiobiliz&tt° n
. jot P ecicc.'
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
This is an important thought for
all men and women in the fight'
ing forces or in essential services.
Are you planning and preparing
for your postwar future? Are
you training and qualifying
NOW for the new business con'
ditions that will come after the
war—when all businesses will be
in a great rush to get their goods
back on the market, when many
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
This is an important thought for
all men and women in the fight'
ing forces or in essential services.
Are you planning and preparing
for your post'war future? Are
you training and qualifying
NOW for the new business con'
ditions that will come after the
war—when all businesses will be
in a great rush to get their goods
back on the market, when many
new products will be exploited,
and when the man or woman
who has trained and qualified in
some specific business subject will
have the preference over the un-
trained person.
Prepare Today for Tomorrow’s
Opportunities
Consult H.R.I. about your future.
Consultation costs you nothing.
Let us help you to choose the vocation
jor which you are most suited seek
our advice _ start training NO If!
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
(Fovndmf ond Owned by Hemingwoy & Robertson Pty. ltd!
1 Please send me FREE copy of your I
1 96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.’* I
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St„ Sydney
and in all Capital Cities. Newcastle
and Launceston.
Professional Tutors
Name
Address
Career Interested in.
■Age.
24/669 I
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Auvt.
* * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Insure with tine
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W., J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
CO/otc/ Twzjd&M
USE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
ƒ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 2S Market
Street, Melbourne. For N.Z.: A. M. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street,
Christchurch. STOCKISTS: Goodail & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
I
m-
ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE in Seven League Boots
The urgent demands of war have given sensational impetus
to electrical development. In the Philips laboratories, in
particular, electrical science has donned “seven league
boots I The discoveries and perfections thus achieved will,
when the war ends, be adapted to the needs of a world at
world in which progress (in illumination, radio
communication and all that pertains to electronics) will
have advanced by half a century in a few short years.
Then, as ever before, the name PHILIPS will symbolise
electrical science in seven league boots.
f
PHILIPS
Lamps and LigKting . Radio
and Television . Transmitting
Equipment • Electronic Devices . X-Ray Apparatus
Electrical Equipment for Industry, etc.
Philips Electrical Industries of Australia Pty. Limited
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
supply of super, contributed to the lower
average yield. The reduction in acreage
is largely the result of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s stabilisation and restriction
scheme, under which growers are paid
4s. l|d. a bushel up to 3000 bushels, and
a much reduced rate on all grain pro-
duced beyond that limit. Together with
seasonal conditions, this has brought
about such a serious shortage in the
current season’s production that wheat
has now been added to the ever-growing
list of rationed products. In the eastern
States the position threatens to become
adequate shipments can be
made available from Westralia before
July next.
There was little change in Cresco’s
gross earnings (£57,443, down £567). The
improvement in the net result (up £2330)
was due to a cut of £2897 in exes.
(£30,142), which include something for
depreciation and taxation. The £27,301
of profit covered the pref, div. and 3.3
p.c. on the £622,200 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 2.9 p.c. and 2.7 p.c. for the
two preceding years. The div. was kept
at Ij; p.c., and it is difficult to say when
better can be expected.
The co.’s finances "are in better trim
than for many years:
1938. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £733,165 £733,165 £733,165 £733,165
Liabilities . . 307,509 204,546 130,468 120,161
Freeholds, plant,
, etc. . . 572,098 535,099 510,457 494,456
Stocks . . 161,499 185,254 98,567 121,836
Shares in other
cos. .. 90,005 90,011 90,043 90,043
Debtors .. 176,124 75,971 98,646 76,411
Cash, etc. .. 87,155 108,668 122,000 141,991
Farm Property,
etc. .. 41,737 62,567 62,760 58,744
Debtors’ balances (down £22,235) have
never been so low, and a “substantial”
inner reserve exists against possible bad
debts. Farm properties, reported to be
yielding satisfactory returns, are partly
foreclosures and partly investments. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£278,821) was £27,316.
Resumption of operations on New
Guinea Goldfield’s property, New
Guinea, await (1) permission of the
Federal authorities, (2) rehabilitation of
plant, equipment, etc., and (3) transport,
especially shipping. Inspection of the
holdings by a party headed by the co.’s
g.m., H. B. Goss, has disclosed that direct
war damage is due mainly to the scorched
earth policy carried out early in 1942,
when operations ceased, owing to the
Jap invasion. Principal losses were de-
struction of the power house at Kunai
Creek, and of buildings, stores, etc., at
Wau and Golden Ridges. Edie Creek
suffered to lesser degree. Still, deteriora-
tion of surface equipment and workings
have eliminated “any possibility of suc-
cessfully restarting the Edie mine and
mill.” At Upper Ridges and Anderson’s
Creek resumption will depend upon
whether the ratio of costs to the price
of gold advances much beyond the 1941
level. The Koranga and Kulolo allu-
vials can be brought into production as
soon as the water races, which have
rotted, are made serviceable. The gravel
pumps and sluicing nozzles of Edie Creek
deep leads and Renrew alluvials can-
not operate until enough power becomes
available. And a satisfactory substitute
’has yet to be found for the indenture
system, which the Government proposes
to abolish, in connection with native
labor. At the end of September last the
co. had £145,628 in cash and Govern-
ment securities to meet £9680 coming to
sundry creditors, etc. Capital is £950,371
in f.-p. shares of 4s. 3d. each. When
operations ceased ore reserves were put
at 58,878 tons assured and probable,
plus 24,000 tons classed as probable,
at Upper Ridges and Anderson’s Creek,
and 559,500 c.y. averaging between 4s.
and 55.,. alluvial on Bulolo River and
Edie Creek. .
* * * *
The Fisher-Owen geological’report on
Mount Chalmers mine (Q.) says the mine
was not opened up sufficiently to enable
previous basic estimates to be checked,
but reckons ore reserves probably
amount to about 400,000 tons, averaging
2.75 p.c. copper and 2.25dwt. gold. In
addition there is some 70,000 tons low-
grade ore in the shallow ground carrying
2dwt. to 3dwt. gold per ton. To prove the
existence of further ore three new drill
holes are considered necessary, but pros-
pects aren’t thought bright. After the
Federal Government had spent some
£BO,OOO of the taxpayers’ money on this
project it was closed down in November,
1943 ; and Mount Morgan, which was to
have treated the concentrates, shortened
its No. 2 furnace by 21ft. in consequence.
* * * *
For the four weeks to Jan. 14 last,
which included the Christmas period,
Mt. Morgan (Q.) mined 68,326 tons
material, of which 41,801 tons was
dumped as overburden. The balance
(26,525 tons) was sent to the sulphide
mill, which treated 26,950 tons for 24050 z.
gold and 179 tons copper, the average
being 2.74dwt. gold and 0.77 p.c. copper,
which approximates budget expectations
for the year. Estimated net loss for the
period was £4300, no allowance being
made for depreciation. For the five pre-
ceding weeks the co. handled a propor-
tionately greater quantity of richer ma-
terial for an estimated profit of £9468.
Lake View and Star’s latest estimate
of ore reserves at 4.097,500 tons, averag-
ing 5.01dwt., is only* 15,100 tons less
than the estimate a year earlier. There
is no alteration in grade. Treatment for
year to June 30, 1944, was 315,175 tons
(down 6000 tons) ore, averaging 5.27dwt.
(down 0.68dwt.), and 794,935 tons of tail-
ings, averaging o.B6dwt. Costs were
275; 0.90 d. against 275. I.Bod. Austra-
lian currency. Profit was £311,819 stg.,
against £389,378 stg. The contraction
was due mainly to fall in grade of ore ;
some rich patches from the eastern
group were included in the previous year’s
mill feed. Div. was maintained at Is. 6d.
stg., less U.K. tax of 10s. in the £. G.
Goldthorp Hay, formerly managing direc-
tor, is chairman. Issued capital is
£560,000 stg. in 4s. shares.
♦ * * *
Kalgoorlie Enterprise (W.A.), Boulder
Perseverance’s subsidiary, put proved and
probable ore at 359,100 tons, averaging
6.3dwt. gold, at the end of 1943, a de-
crease of 44,900 tons and o.o3dwt. on
the figures a year earlier. A total of
53,743 tons (down 8767 tons) of average
grade ore was mined and treated during
1943 at a cost of 40s. 0.94 d. (up 3.38 d.)
per ton.


3)ajuhuffl
Dandruff goes after a tew ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and
fresh . . . banishes scurf, itch-
ing and dryness . . . prevents
failing hair. ,
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
ƒf
ƒ
RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
DUUH 3HI 3XII
513 H
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lP). 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull, •
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BAEKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAEKO
Condition Powders and apply BAEKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BAEKO lodine Dog Soap.
f
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O'Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Britain Now and After the War
Britain has borne an enormous econo-
mic strain in its fight against the Axis.
But it has shown skill and resource
in this respect, just as it has done in the
military field.
Struggling almost alone with Germany
and fighting for time, in slightly over two
years of war (to December, 1941) Britain
sold £955 million-worth of overseas assets
and incurred £765 million-worth of over-
seas debts. The money raised bought
essential war materials and food. Since
then (up to June 30, 1944), in spite of
lend-lease and mutual aid, Britain has
sold an additional £llO million of assets
and increased its overseas indebtedness
by another £1535 million. Added to-
gether, these figures make a total of £1065
million of assets sold and £2300 million
of debts incurred overseas from the out-
break of war up to June 30 last year. All
figures are in sterling.
A large proportion of the indebtedness
has been incurred in South America and
India. Most of the overseas securities
were disposed of in the United States,
some at sacrifice prices—notably Court-
aulds shares. Principally during the last
two years, Britain supplied reverse lend-
lease to the tune of £lOBO million. Of this,
£555 million was provided outside the
British Isles.
During the same period, of course,
Britain received a greater amount of lend-
lease assistance from the United States.
It also received big help from Canada.
But as an indication of the strain im-
posed on Britain in its splendid war effort
the export figures of the country are
revealing. In 1943, on an equated price
basis, the value of total exports had fallen
to 29 p.c. of the 1938 figure. Its com-
mercial hands tied because of war com-
mitments, Britain lost many markets over-
seas, and there were American business-
men, Senators and newspapermen check-
ing up to see that lend-lease materials
given by the United States were not re-
exported in a commercial way by Britain.
It is impossible to make a comparison
between the peace-time production of
Britain and the war-time output; muni-
tions are different articles from the varied
articles of peace-time use. But the
national income is reputed to have risen
from £4604 million in 1938 to £8172 mil-
lion in 1943. Allowing for inflation in
prices, the increase would appear to in-
clude a very real growth in material out-
put, and greater than the recorded expan-
sion in steel ingots and castings, for in-
stance —11.3 million tons p.a. over 1935-
38 and 13 million tons in 1943. Britain’s
greatest war-time industrial effort has
been in the conversion of raw materials
to the refined munitions of war, involving
a huge call on man-hours. As all too few
of these munitions were produced in the
years preceding the war it is impossible
to make comparisons.
A picture that may be quickly built up
of war-time Great Britain is one of great
internal manufacturing activity in spite
of bombing and other enemy interfer-
ence, stimulated agricultural production,
shipping services almost halved, a greatly
increased internal and external debt, an
inflated price level, an abundance of
spending money internally, a pound ster-
ling that is not subject to a free market
in relation to the dollar (being pegged at
$4.03), an export trade down to almost
a quarter of pre-war levels, and a stand-
ard of living that has suffered severely
in some respects, not so much in others.
Average civilian butter consumption in
1943 was less than a third that of 1934-38
averages. Fresh meat and fish consumed
were a little more than two-thirds, eggs
two-fifths. Bacon and ham were at about
two-thirds pre-war level, sugar the same.
But consumption of milk, margarine,
cheese, flour and potatoes rose ; in offi-
cial words, “the nutritive value of the
coufitry’s total food supplies has fallen
slightly between 1938 and 1943, but
rationing and other measures have tended
to reduce the inequalities in food con-
sumption which existed before the war.”
, During 1943 the average Briton bought
55 p.c. of his 1938 average clothing out-
lay (prices brought to the same level).
He, bought 73 p.c. of pre-war shoe re-
quirements, 23 p.c, furniture and furnish-
ings, 33 p.c. hardware, 11 p.c. private
cars, bicycles, etc., 93 p.c. fuel and light
and 52 p.c. other goods (excluding food,
drink and tobacco).
Under war-time conditions wages have
risen in Britain, partly by overtime
worked and partly by increases in the
base rate. Private incomes, exclusive of
Government pensions, etc., and interest
paid to citizens and businesses on their
Government loans, have risen from £4560
million in 1938 to £8075 million in 1943.
The increase of £3515 million has been
partly inflationary. But, even so, a large
proportion of it has been taken away
again in war-time taxation. Net private
incomes of all kinds, after paying income
taxes, have risen less steeply—from £4489
million to £6798 million, a growth of
£2309 million. And indirect taxation has
risen from £582 million to £1249 million
in the same period, which takes away an-
other £667 million of the apparent earn-
ing increment of the people.
Again, in spite of the reduction in pur-
chases of normal living requirements
already indicated, the cost of “personal
expenditure on current goods and ser-
vices” rose from £4138 million in 1938
to £5049 million in 1943. After paying
all taxes and the increased cost of living,
the bigger 1943 incomes of the British
people left only £1398 million' more to
their credit in savings than was the case
in 1938.
The number of income-tax-payers in
the United Kingdom rose from four mil-
lion in 1938-39 to 13 million in 1943-44,
while the revenue increased from £336
million to £llB3 million. Before the war
less than a million manual wage-earners
were liable for income tax, and they paid
£3 million; in 1943-44 the number had
risen to seven million and they paid £2OO
million. Of the aggregate incomes of per-
sons with. £250 to £5OO a year, 3 p.c. was
paid in income tax in 1938 and 14| p.c.
in 1942. Of incomes in the £5OO-£lOOO
group, 11 p.c. was paid in tax in 1938,
28 p.c. in 1942.
Britain has mahaged to pay 50 p.c. of
its war costs out of taxation, and this
policy has helped to keep inflation in
check insofar as internal costs and prices
are concerned. When it is remembered
that the British Budget carries a heavy
burden in the shape of price subsidies
this 50-50 revenue-borrowing position
becomes the more meritorious. A good
deal of the inflation in British costs is
due to shipping difficulties and limited
overseas buying markets ; after the war
there may be a considerable fall in the
cost-of-living simply as a result of re-
opened trade routes and a resumption of
world competition in the sale of raw
materials.
Even with the pound sterling pegged at
the equivalent of 4.03 dollars—which
some people consider flattering to the
pound sterling—the production of many
munitions in Britain is comparatively
cheaper than in the United States. A mile
of cable made in Britain costs £5 175,,
against £8 13s. in the United States.
A particular aircraft tyre priced at
£39 12s. in Britain is entered up at £B7
in America. Comparative figures for a
certain three-ton lorry are £3BO and £BOB.
Though production costs and living
standards depend principally upon out-
put per head, and the “edge” in world
trade supremacy comes from much the
same thing, these money figures, con-
verted at a rate of exchange that is not
acceptable in the “black market” for
dol'ars, is encouraging from the point of
British post-war trade chances. In some
cases the American cost is much closer
to the British cost than in the instances
quoted ; in some cases it is lower. But
if inflation is kept in check and
British workers continue to pull their
weight after the war the Old Coun-
try promises to make a keen bid for
world trade in spite of war-time loss of
connections. World trade is, indeed, more
essential to British prosperity than in
most other countries. The president of
the Board of Trade, Dr. Dalton, has
lately said: “We are now within sight
of the end of the war, when our export
drive must be vigorously resumed if
Britain is to get her food and raw
materials for the future.”
The House of Commons has recently
been considering legislation to increase
the amount by which the Government
may guarantee payment for goods ex-
ported to foreign countries. But exports
most likely will be directed towards
markets where raw materials are await-
ing the return trip, and large guarantees
may not be necessary.
An indication of the technical strength
of British industry can be gathered from
some data contained in a message sent
out by the British High Commissioner in
Australia. Emphasising the difficulty of
assessing the value of all Britain’s war-
time aid to the United States because of
the nature of the services and the differ-
ence in money figures, the leaflet quotes
a 1943 White Paper on mutual aid:
“It is not possible to set money .values in some
forms of aid, records of which are not avail-
able in detail; for instance, the repair services
afforded to United States vehicles by the Army
Repair Service. No figure of such aid is in-
cluded in the total. Over all the wide variety
of technical information the fruits of new re-
search and of battle experience is not, and
cannot be, measured in terms of money. f
“Hie price levels in United States labor and
material most in question are substantially
higher in Britain.” '
The leaflet goes on to say:—•
Among the British inventions and patents
put at the disposal of the United States is the
jet-propelled Whittle engine. The first jet ’plane
to fly in the United States was of the Whittle
design. As the Washington “Post” put it on
January 15, 1944: “Jet-propelled ’planes are
now in production in the United States of
America. When these ’planes come off the
assembly line a number will be shipped to
Britain under lend-lease. It will be fairly easy
to compute the cost of production and write
this down as a debit to the British. But the
jet-propulsion idea was conceived in the mind
of an Englishman —Group-Captain Whittle.
The first jet-propulsion ’plane was shipped from
Britain to the United States also under lend-
lease. Who will undertake to compute the value
in dollars 'of the idea? How is this written
down in the lend-lease account books? Should
we simply credit the British with the jet-pro-
pelled engine shipped to this country, and charge
them with several thousand jet-propelled ’planes
manufactured on the basis of their original?
This is what we have done respecting the patents
for the Rolls-Royce Merlin engine freely made
available to the United States by the British in
1940.”
“That same Rolls-Royce Merlin engine,”
said Mr. Stettinius, “which the British per-
mitted Packard to produce for our airborne
corps without royalty charge, has been used in
our Psl’s and P4o’s.” The latest American
transport ’plane, the D 4, which is being built
for the United States by the Vickers company
in Canada, is also fitted with a Rolls-Royce
engine.
Then the first American fighter Mustang was
built to British specifications with an original
outlay by the British Government of £15,000,000.
The New York “Herald-Tribune” paid tribute
in these words: “The best fighter ’plane pro-
duced in the States —but it remained for the
British to discover it Its full potentialities
were brought out only when British Rolls-Royce
engines were installed.”
“We-have given the United States the Mark II
gyro gunsight, the most outstanding gunsight
ever devised,” said Mr. Oliver Lyttelton, Min-
ister of Proddction, who also spoke of “all the
results of research in submarine detecting de-
vices, radio-location and all branches of scien-
tific research made available to the United
States Navy. As this research has been con-
ducted in Britain on a very large scale for many
years, the British contribution is of incalculable
value.”
Britain provided the original design for
“Liberty” ships. British-designed rockets are
being used most effectively in the Pacific by the
United States Air Forces.
Britain has supplied about a million
spark plugs to the United States of a
British design which has made long-
range bombing a far more successful
proposition. Recently the U.S. Govern-
ment acknowledged that “since early in
1943 virtually every U.S. Flying Fortress
has taken off from British bases with
these plugs in each of its four engines....
Similar British plugs have also been in-
stalled in U.S. Air Force P5l Mustangs
in the European theatre, and 600,000
were shipped to the United States.”
Among other British technical contri-
butions have been power-operated gun
turrets in bombers, steel landing mats,,
naval predictors, degaussing ‘equipment)
fire-control gear, more powerful explo-
sives, improved ship construction, air-
purification in submarines, tank-water-
proofing and jettisonable aircraft tanks
made of wastepaper.
By the time the war is ended many
British inventions and methods will be
common property the world over. But
the encouraging thing is that a pre-
eminent standard of mechanical and
scientific development has been estab-
lished by the United Kingdom, and its
influence should be felt in peace-time
trade as well as in the achievement of
victory. Coupled with an apparent in-
crease in productivity per head and a
lower production cost, ,in the struggle for
trade after the war British technical skill
should help to offset many of the obvious
disadvantages and losses which the war
has brought to the nation.
Australia’s trade will tie-up with Britain
at least as much after the war as it did
before. Britain, unlike many other
countries, will want “food and raw
materials” from us, as indicated by Dr,
Dalton, The strength of the British
market for these products will depend
upon the strength of British trade, includ-
ing exports.
There is still no wide appreciation of
the heavy rate at which the higher Aus-
tralian incomes are taxed. A person in
receipt of a £lO,OOO earned income col-
lects £1845 net at best. If the income
be from property his net amount is
£1545. On an income of £5OOO, personal
exertion, the department leaves the tax-
payer with £1470 ; from property, £ll7O.
A p.-e. income of £3OOO yields £1253;
property, £974. From £2OOO a year
p.-e. there remains £1049; property in-
come of the same amount is reduced to
£B4l by war-time taxes. In Britain, in-
cidentally, an unmarried person earning
£lO,OOO a year has £3138 left after pay-
ing income tax and surtax; the man earn-
ing £3OOO is allowed to retain £1538. Be-
tween £l5OO and £lO,OOO Australian in-
comes are severely taxed by comparison
with the United Kingdom. And at present
Australians are subject to the 25 p.c.
pay-as-you-go surcharge.
* * * *
Three very good broadcasts were made
in various States last week by L. J. Me-
Connan, chief manager of the National
Bank of Australasia. The essence of his
talks was that the people, by their right
of selection, control the trading banks,
that while there is much noisy but usually
personally ambitious criticism about the
“banking system” there is no criticism cu
Australian banking efficiency, and that
present banking changes proposed by
Federal Labor would make the manage-
ment of our currency and the control ot
our credit subject solely to the whims and
fancies of the political party in power.
Pithy, full of commonsense and agreeable
to the ear, the broadcasts of Mr. Me-
Connan represented a successful debu
in this sort of thing.


mi
J,
&L
4^
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige,
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & Hew Zealand.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairmanj F. W. Dvesbnry; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
SECDETADIAL
SCHOOL
A competent private secretary to a businessman must have more than the high skill in stenography and
typing that she acquires at the Macquarie Secretarial School. She must' have the tact y judgment
initiative and understanding of the problems of the day j in which Macquarie students are also trained.
The Principal (Miss D. Chapman) may be interviewed by appointment.
149 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY MA5644
F :
||
mm
tf m
ilpiiii
Iv
mm
**We want
to have fun
together again
/
t
m
■
q i
mm
mmmmm
i
1
V: W-
All the good things of life
that two people can share!
Sailing on a sunny day, laughing at a
movie, lazing on the beach, the active
fun of sports and the quiet reminis-
cent chuckles after. So many of us
have missed out on these things for
the last few years! But if we all pull
together we can bring them back
again soon.
Every one of us must make a whole-
hearted contribution by putting all
our savings into Victory Bonds. You
can have the utmost confidence when
you lend your money to the Com-
monwealth. There is no safer invest-
ment, your money earns a better rate
of interest than if left lying idle in a
bank, and is still readily; available
meet pressing emergency. When the
war is over and you’re planning for
the future together, your Victory
Bonds will give you enough money
in hand to start off on the sort of life
you’ve always wanted.
Australia needs your money now to
meet pressing war expenses. Let’s all
make it a promise to put every-
thing we can into the Third Victory
Loan to hasten a prosperous peace.
The Third Victory Loan opens on March 13. Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you
have cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on
advance subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank or stock-
broker. Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open.
Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
SPV3-113
Addressing the Millions Club in Sydney
last week, F. S. Gaines, Pacific director
of U.N.R.R.A. said: “We came to Aus-
tralia for wheat, but there was no wheat.
We wanted flour, but there was no flour.
We wanted rice—no rice. But there are
many things which this country can pro-
vide us with in spite of your national
calamity.” The audience had to think
twice before it realised Mr. Gaines
was referring to the drought. Even then
there was a doubter or two.
* * * *
U.N.R.R.A. has three main functions
—to combat hunger, pestilence and revo-
lution in regained territories for 18
months after setting to work. The mili-
tary authorities must give U.N.R.R.A.
the first invitation to assist, then the Gov-
ernment of the country involved must
ask it in. Post-war reconstruction does
not come within the province of the asso-
ciation.
* * * *
Whitehall Productions, which is putting
on the shows at the Minerva Theatre,
Sydney, was stated last week to have
acquired a controlling interest in a
London theatrical undertaking and a
lease of the Duke of York Theatre,
London, as from January 1. The
announcement was made by Miss Kath-
leen Robinson and Mr. R. Walton, direc-
tors of Whitehall Productions. Later it
was stated that the announcement was
premature, negotiations not having been
completed for the Duke of York.
It is intended to conduct other theatres
in London and to send theatrical
companies to the provinces, Dominions
and other parts of the world. “In addi-
tion to bringing artists and complete
companies to Australia, we hope to send
promising artists and successful Aus-
tralian companies, preferably with plays
by Australian authors, to London,” said
Walton last week. Arrangements have
been made to conduct an “academy of
dramatic art” in conjunction with these
English theatres. The “Whitehall
Academy of Dramatic Art” is advertised
in Sydney as commencing a new term in
the teaching of voice production, acting,
etc., with Frederick J. Blackman as prin-
cipal, Blackman has had a long career
with the Minerva. Pan-Australasian
Theatres has a sub-lease of the Minerva
from Tivoli Circuit Australia Pty. for
three years from June 24 last. The sig-
nificant figure behind Minerva Centre,
Ltd., is David N. Martin. Minerva owns
shares in Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Pty., Ltd., which holds the majority of
the shares in Tivoli Circuit.
* * * *
In the transportation of American
troops to Britain prior to D-Day a
notable part was played by the great
British transatlantic liners, according to
an official report. During the year to
July 31, 1944, British ships brought to
the United Kingdom 865,000 uniformed
Americans, including 320,500 carried in
the Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth.
All this transport was provided as mutual
aid or reverse lend-lease. At the time
when this great troop-transport job was
on the British-owned mercantile marine
(ships of 1600 tons and over) aggregated
million gross tons, compared with
\l\ million tons at the outbreak of war.
The size of Britain’s merchant fleet has
been restored somewhat since the begin-
ning of 1944. To the end of 1943 Britain
lost 11.6 million tons of shipping, apart
from Allied and neutral.
* =fs * *
During war-time Labor has played-
down its traditional policy of blackguard-
ing “bondholders” — i.e., people who put
money to finance national works and
national defence —but its recurring gibes
at “orthodox finance” suggest that the
old policy is merely politically indis-
posed at the present time. Labor’s prin-
cipal objection to orthodox finance seems
to be that under it there is an obligation
to pay one’s debts, something which
Labor has never relished in this country,
though from time immemorial non-pay-
ment of debts has aroused a quite natural
resentment in the heart of the bilked one,
even if the resentful person happens to
be a wage-earner bilked of his wages.
But whilst Labor does not like repaying
debts, it has few inhibitions in the matter
of creating them —it has never been with-
out advocates of lavish expenditure of
“national credit,” which implies lavish
creation of national debt. If there is
any sincerity, whatsoever in Labor finan-
dal policy its exponents must ultimately
come to the conclusion that wasteful or
ill-judged expenditure, unless repudiation
of debt is to be a party doctrine, adds to
the taxation burden of the nation and
interferes with efficient production and
the raising of living standards. So many
things which Labor does today raise the
query: Does this Government realise that
some time there is going to be a day
when payment for these things will be
really embarrassing, and does the Gov-
ernment expect to be in power on that
day to honor its obligations?


THE SERVICE MAN
MacArthur Takes Manila.
“Ek Dum”: The expected Japanese
resistance on the San Fernando line, 30-
odd miles from Manila, did not material-
ise. On January 30 the U.S, spearhead
had occupied Calumpit, 24 miles from
Manila. Abandonment of the mountain
range which runs along the west coast
from Lingayen Gulf to the Bataan Pen-
insula was advertised by the fact that an
amphibious force was able to occupy
Olanglapo and the Subig Bay naval in-
- stallations, at the base of Bataan, without
opposition, following an earlier landing on
the coastal highway, 16 miles to the north.
When the Calumpit patrol reached its
destination on January 30 it was told
that 200 Japanese had left the town a few
hours before.
The next morning a fresh American
landing was made at Basugbu, 32 miles
west of the Cavite naval base, which is
on the southern shores of Manila Bay.
The landing was made on a five-mile
beach without opposition, though after
the troops were ashore heavy m.-g. fire
began on the right flank. This was soon
got under control of General Eichelber-
ger’s forces, which then began to move
towards the naval base and the route by
which the enemy approached Manila
from the south-west in December, 1941.
Reconnaissance at this stage showed
little sign of Japanese resistance. Four
columns began to push towards the capi-
tal with all speed.
The First Cavalry Division, moving
from Lingayen and down a main high-
way, met practically no opposition, and
on February 3 was parallel with the 37th
Division. The 37th, coming round the
shores of Manila Bay from Malolos, was
more worried by broken bridges than by
small resisting pockets of the enemy.
In the end the First Cavalry took the lead.
North of Malolos the U.S. troops had
to fight their way into Plaridel against
a couple of companies of the enemy, who
lost 350 killed. Malolos was captured on
Feb. 3 —the last big town before Manila.
Resistance has been heavier in the
Bataan area, but there the landing forces
were making good progress on February
5, while the 11th Airborne Division south
of Manila Bay was half-way to Cavite.
Only a few thousand enemy troops
were reported in Manila, from which
smoke was rising. On February 3 Gen-
eral MacArthur, for whom these must
be great and exciting times, told his troops
that he expected the city to fall next day.
He proved a true prophet, Manila
gave him a grand reception.
The drive has been remarkable for low
American casualties —in the first three
weeks, including the Rosario fighting,
33,000 Japanese killed against an Allied
loss pf 1271 killed, 219 missing and 4099
wounded.
Resistance in the North
The Philippines campaign, however, is
not all over. A column north-east of
Tarlac, pushing up the railway to St.
Jose, three-fourths of the way towards
the Baler Bay roadhead in the middle
eastern coast of the island, encountered
stiff opposition. Further north the 25th
Division was involved in heavy fighting.
Still other forces are on a third branch
railway leading to the southern flank of
the Baguio defence region and the
Cagayan Valley.
Here again there was stiff resistance.
The enemy seems to have chosen the
mountain regions which form the greater
part of Luzon for his fortress.
If he is in strength, cleaning him out
will he a long, slow, costly job in lives
and materials.
Control of Manila Bay, however, will
help greatly. On February 1 Tokyo re-
ported U.S. warships off its mouth and
a naval bombardment of Bataan Peninsula.
Prisoners in Luzon
On January 30 a U.S, Ranger Com-
mando worked its way 25 miles behind
the Japanese lines at Cabu, 65 miles
north of Manila, killed 523 guards, de-
stroyed 12 tanks and, at a cost of 27 of
Iheir own men killed and three wounded,
released 513 American, British, Dutch
and Norwegian prisoners. Two of the
rescued men died on their way to the
Allied lines.
The American prisoners were a rem-
nant of the Bataan and Corregidor gar-
risons. The British were mainly soldiers
from Singapore who had been taken
ashore from a ship sunk off the mouth of
Manila Bay. Some of them had worked
with Australians on the Siam-Burma rail-
way and told an eloquent story of the
death and suffering associated with that
horrible enterprise.
The commander of the gallant relief
expedition, Colonel Mucci, was decorated
by General MacArthur with the D.S.C.
In Mandated Territory.
“Ek Dum”: Activity in the Australian
zone of the South Pacific—the Solomons
and the New Guinea area —was limited
to the work of patrols. There was no
major fighting; but in the New Guinea
area, as in the Moluccas zone, the
R.A.A.F. and the R.N.Z.A.F. were con-
stantly on the strafe, keeping the fronts
awake with bombs, rockets and gunfire.
The R.N.Z.A.F. had a cruel loss recently
—eight Corsair fighter-bombers and
pilots, seven of the grand fellows dying
in efforts to rescue the eighth,
A little progress was made in Bougain-
ville by ground forces and New Guinea
native scouts. At the week-end stronger
Jap forces barred the way. The extent of
operations, however, could be judged by
the fact that the excellent, battalion of
New Guinea infantry, composed for the
most part of former ex-Jap prisoners,
had the greatest attention from correspon-
dents. The A.I.F. now controls about
80-miles of the west coast.
In the Aitape region areas are being
cleared of small numbers of the enemy
in dangerous, piecemeal operations in
hill or mountain, swamp or jungle
country seeded with snipers. The snipers
are well-fed and equipped, and are some-
times reinforced in armameqt with a
“woodpecker”—a weapon which its targets
sometimes wish at the bottom of the sea.
The main operations have been centred
round Balif, a large village of the Torri-
cellis, about 20 miles or a bit less from
the beaches. The R.A.A.F. has had a
happy time practising on Balif, and the
infantry were reported on February 1 to
have winkled the enemy out of an arc
of villages six or seven miles long to the
north-west. Since the A.I.F. took over
in the Aitape-Wewak area in November
1492 Japs have been killed.
Surveys are being made of the ap-
proaches to the Gazelle Peninsula. Though
only 50 to 60 miles from Rabaul, this is
savage country, and few whites have
been in it. No fighting has been re-
ported, but on February 5
Army H.Q. announced a new amphibious
landing on north-eastern New Britain,
which brings the A.I.F, 20 miles nearer
to the main Jap force.
Australian Casualties
Mr. Forde said on January 30, dealing
with the war against Japan, that “escapes
and recoveries of missing men more than
offset new Australian Army casualties be-
tween September 30 and November 30.”
Thus, total casualties for the Pacific area
at November 30 —35,961 —were 48 fewer
than the total at September 30. R.A.A.F.
losses had increased in the same period
from 4270 to 4480. R.A.N. losses in
tonnage from the Bay of Bengal to the
Solomons amounted to 20,000 tons.
The Asian War.
“Ek Dum”: British, Indian and
African forces continued to edge closer
to Mandalay against considerable resist-
ance. By the week-end the fight had not
reached a decisive stage. But a large
body of the enemy was surrounded on
the west perimeter and was in process of
being blown to bits from the air. Man-
dalay is being heavily bombed.
More interesting was the battle which
was taking place between Japs sand-
wiched between West Africans, driving
south towards Minbaw, and the troops of
the XV Indian Corps which pushed north
to Kangaw after the landing on Myebon
Peninsula, south of Akyab, in Arakan.
These Japanese are in a pretty serious
position, but are well supplied and
equipped. They treated the Indians to
one of the heaviest artillery barrages
seen on a Burma front as a preliminary
to desperate counter-attacks, made in an
attempt to break out of the corral in
which they are placed between the sea
and the mountains and the two British
land forces.
To February 2 the Allies had inflicted
2000 casualties in this area. The Japanese
had made no impression on their prison
walls, which were becoming a tighter fit
with the consolidation of British-Indian-
African strength in recent landing areas.
Raiding continued on a considerable
scale over the Moluccas, the Philippines
and other South-east Asia and Pacific
areas. The most important attack was
that on Singapore by 829 s from India.
These were reported to have set a ship
in the floating dock afire and sunk the
dock itself. Other damage was done in the
naval area on the north-east of the island.
At the week-end Japan was again
raided from the Marianas, and some
main industrial areas round Kobe blasted.
The Kra Isthmus area of Siam also
had a dressing-down. The U.S. Navy
announced the sinking of a further 24
Japanese vessels by submarines.
In China
Though the first convoy ov£r the
Burma Road has arrived at Kunming,
bringing hope to the weary Chinese, the
Japanese continue to consolidate their
positions. They have entered Suichwan,
the air base in the Kiangsi, which the
U.S. 14th Air Force abandoned after
wrecking it a few days previously.
They have gained full control of the
Canton-Hankow railway, and are menac-
ing further valuable airfields and the
coastal region between Hong Kong and
Swatow.
It becomes more and more evident that
the enemy is more interested in consoli-
dating his military position and com-
munications in China than in any other
zone except the sea.
Liberators at Work
Australian Liberators during the
January 26-27 week-end made a raid
ranking with the Superfortress raid on
Singapore when they attacked the Men-
dalin and Siman power stations —the
longest raid made by Australian heavies
in the S.-W. Pacific. The joint output
of the two stations —Siman is the feeder
station —supplies the whole of East Java.
The crews had to penetrate a deep
valley round which tower 10,000 feet vol-
canic mountains, protected by a ring of
Japanese aerodromes. Two Liberators
swooped in at low altitudes, wrecking the
transformer area at Mendalin and
stopping the machinery, and seemingly
doing considerable damage at Siman.
Thaw Comes in the West.
“Ek Dum”; The week saw the last
vestiges of the German salient in Belgium
wiped out, together with some of the
penetration across the Rhine into Alsace
above Strasbourg, and once more there
was talk by correspondents and editors
of a grand Western-Front offensive.
The Allies are across the German
border on 30 miles of the north. The
frontal forces of the American First and
Third armies gained several miles on a
narrow front in the Monschau area,
south of Diiren and north-east of
the highest points of the Ardennes water-
shed —Der Schwarze Mann, about 2100 ft.
high—past which the axis of Von Rund-
stedt’s attack had run.
Correspondents, once more in their
element, recorded that the Siegfried
Tine had been “forced” or “pierced”
at two points in the northern Ardennes
—in one place about 11 miles south
of Monschau, where the U.S. First
Army was said to have penetrated five
more miles over the week-end without
meeting much opposition. Some advance
was reported towards Priim, across the
watershed south of the Schwarze Mann
area, in continuation of the eastward drive
from St. Vith. Still further south, the
Third Army has a bridgehead over, the
Our River, which flows southward from
the same heights as give, birth to the Roer,
flowing northwards. This penetration is
in the region of Vianden, and on Feb. 2
was about seven miles wide and three
deep over the river.
In Holland the last enemy bridgehead
across the Maas, along its east-west course
to the top, was disposed of near Ger-
truidenburg by the gallant Canadians,
whose casualties have now reached 85,000.
The Siegfried Line has not, of course,
been pierced or forced. It has not even
been reached over much of the front.
Rundstedt’s Achievement
Not so much emphasis is placed on the
strategic advantages gained by Von Rund-
stedt by his daring manoeuvre in Decem-
ber, nor on the fact that it cost the Allies
deadly casualties and much of the
material which otherwise could have been
used in an offensive in concert with or
preliminary to the Russian drive.
Von Rundstedt’s manoeuvre, in the light
of what happened in the East, was obvi-
ously diversionary. Russian plans could
not have been unknown to the German
High Command —were not, in fact, since
the Germans announced as early as
November 8 that an offensive all along
the Red Army front was impending. The
appeals of American supply officers and
politicians for the making up of shortages
in armament and supplies and the revela-
tion that 18-year-old American soldiers
were being used in France must havb
proved an added temptation to the Ger-
mans to strike.
Anyway there was evidence enough
that the Allies were working near the
borderlines of their needs to warrant
Von Rundstedt’s adventure. He kept his
adversaries on the defensive or recover-
ing from his onslaughts and regaining
ground for seven weeks, during which a
drive concerted with or preliminary to
the East Front operations would have
been invaluable.
However, Allied supply conditions are
improving every day as ports are recon-
ditioned and more transport is taken
ashore in Europe. When spring comes
they will improve still more. It must not
be forgotten that a very great bulk of
Russian equipment, transport, arms and
munitions is still provided by the Allies.
On the Rhine Plain
The southern part of the front along
the Rhine shows improvement in keeping
with that in the north, though the fight-
ing has been heavier. The Germans north
of Strasbourg and west of the Rhine,
along the Hagenau Forest front, have
partly withdrawn across the Rhine, and
for some distance towards the Tauter,
having been forced back in severe fight-
ing by troops of the American Seventh
Army, which on February 2 held a
bridgehead across the Moder River. But
the Americans have as yet not regained
a considerable amount of ground which
they held on December 16. They have
about 10 miles to go to reach the main
face of the German defended area and
floods are hampering progress.
The one front on which real gains have
been made is that of the French First
Army in the far south of the Rhine Plain
at Colmar, where in bitter little battles
the Allied troops have captured the city.
Here the Germans still hold a sub-
stantial bridgehead across the Rhine
into the High Vosges, reaching south-
north from near the Swiss border
to within ten miles of Strasbourg. Thus
the enemy holds almost as much as the
Allies of the western bank of the river be-
tween the Tauter —where the German
border runs north-westward from the
Rhine to the Saar region—and Basle.
The Thaw
It has begun on the west as on the east.
There it is a somewhat different matter,
especially after a severe winter. Traffic
conditions have reached their worst from
the viewpoint of snow before melting
begins—the writer passed through Ger-
many at this time of year several years
ago, after a heavy snowfall period some-
what similar to the present one, and
literally did not meet one motor-car on
the roads outside the cities all the way
to Vienna. Main roads will be covered
with ice ; the less frequented ones with
heavy snow, which will be piled up in
the forests.
On the Eastern Front the thaw comes
quickly over the extensive flat areas of
the north. There, in any case, snow
is less a burden than it is when (as in
the west) it slides off hillsides to form
deep drifts across highways in valleys and
passes. On the plains it melts more
quickly and evenly, and the ground dries
with greater rapidity because the sun can
get at it.
In the hill country of the west the
action of the thaw is more violent. Snow
lodged on hills begins to slide in a mushy
mess. As it melts each stream runs a
banker. The countryside under heavy
traffic would soon become a quagmire.
In the forests and colder spots the snow
remains for some time. After the freeze
seems to have broken there are often
fresh snowfalls, followed by fresh flood-
ings. But generally speaking the thaw
period is briefer in the west than in the east.
The natural inclination of defenders in
such periods when they know that offen-
sive movement is impeded is to sit tight
in main defences, retire from positions
in which the thaw might hamper com-
munications and place them at a disad-
vantage and generally hibernate while
preparing for events to come. Apparent
signs of German weakness on the Western
Front need to be regarded with caution,
more specially in view of events in the
east. Against emergencies in the east,
the enemy is likely to hold every man and
gun available until his main reserves have
been thrown into the Oder battle and he
knows what the issue is likely to be.
Defence Still Strong
The salient fact is that in the area
on the northern section of the Western
Front, where the advances are now being
made (Monschau area), the Allies are
virtually only in the same positions as
they occupied in September, subject to
some local advances. Real progress win
not have been made until all the Roer
line has been forced.
The Germans have shown no signs m
panic on the west. Their flak fire has in
the past few days improved in the Ruhr,
where they have introduced two new
types of shell.
Their V-l and V-2 fire against Allied
rear areas has been intensified. They have
brought into use a new smoke shell pro-
jector, and a new type of rocket which u
described as being of heavy shell calibre
and which has the characteristic of a she k
in that it spins in the air and has a she.;-
like accuracy. It is without the « n >
needed as stabilisers on V-2 projectile 3
and therefore can be fired from barrel^


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD NELLIE ELIZA BROAD, formerly of 10
Izett Street, Prahran, in the State of Victoria,
daughter of James Marriner, deceased, or any person
knowing her whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. MORGAN FYFFE & MULKEARNS, of
108 Queen Street, Melbourne, when she will hear
of something to her advantage.
DEMASI, Juoano, deceased. Died 20/l/’4l, of 9
Stanley Street, East Sydney, aged 85. Probably
Italian. His next-of-kin or anyone having infor-
mation about deceased please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ELLEN KEMPTON, formerly of Conewarre, near
Geelong, and of Melbourne, Spinster, daughter of
Elijah Kempton and Sophia Kempton, late of Oone-
warre. Last heard of about 1891. She or her next-
of-kin will hear of something to their advantage if
they communicate with the undersigned. Reward
for information. —CRAWCOUR & HOLLYHOKE,
Yarra Street, Geelong, Solicitors.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES FULLER.—TAKE NOTICE that
CHRISTINA MAY FULLER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4871 of 1944 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Fourth day of
April 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. W. EWART Solicitor 21
George Street Parramatta. —(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE TOWNS, formerly of 34
Parry Street Cook’s Hill N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that HANORA JANE TOWNS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2779 of 1944 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and Upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by Ist March 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
R. F. DUDLEY Solicitor 113 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(n.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —I Sr Divorce.
TO JAMES NORMAN CLARKE late of Carrington.
—TAKE NOTICE that MILDRED MAY CLARKE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4890 of 1944 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 31st March 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from J. K. DIXON ESQ. Solicitor of 115 Pitt Street
Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
€D
am
Zhukov on the Oder.
“Ek Dum”: There has so far been noth-
ing militarily novel in the Russian drive
to the Oder or in its strategy and tactics.
The same approaches and routes have
been used as in wars of the past. On
the routes on which the Germans left
the Reich to attack Poland the Russians
have followed them home. A German
road map would have enabled any “ex-
pert” to pose as a prophet of the Russian
method since in every drive the Rus-
sian columns made for one of the great
German military roads to the Polish
border. It would have been equally easy
to define where German pockets of main
resistance would remain behind the Soviet
lines, as the Russians swept past —
by studying communications which were
vital to the Russians and picking out the
points at which it was needful to the
success of an organised German retreat
that the Russians should be held up.
Thus it was easy to deduce why Brom-
berg was given up and why Thom held
out; also why it did not fight to the
death. It became more understandable
why Posen and Schneidemilhl would be
prepared to stand siege. In East Prussia, a
military map of the 1914 Russian advances
which the writer is using exactly fits the
pattern of the Russian advances in 1944.
The mechanics of the campaign, tqo,
were normal in method, though not in
intensity. In the west the British-Ameri-
can Allies, far more heavily equipped
than the Russians in transport and artil-
lery, have found that every small piece
of progress has called for heavy pre-
paratory bombardment needing days and
perhaps weeks of preparation, this sup-
plemented by the most powerful sort of
bomber attack. But in the advance to
the German border from Poland one two-
hour bombardment by guns in fixed posi-
tions was enough to open the way for
immediate advances of up to 200 miles
through supposedly fortified regions.
There could not have been other bom-
bardments of the same type en route.
The time factor rules out the possibility.
The Russian drive is the kind of opera-
tion which Napoleon would have under-
stood. Sometimes this game has been
played from the east, sometimes from the
west, but rarely against such desperate
odds as it is now being played by the Ger-
mans, considering that six well-equipped
British-American armies in the west are
engaged in digging large holes in their
rear during their recoil from the east.
This factor is likely to prove fatal to
the enemy in the end.
There are three features of this retreat
to which it is worth while calling atten-
tion. The first is that though the centre,
on the direct route to Berlin, seemed little
defended, and the Russians were able at
first to average 30 miles a day, the flanks,
the most dangerous portion of the front
after the screens had been penetrated,
remained firm. To have broken promptly
right through in the Cracow-Gleiwitz area
early in the attack, to have overrun
Danzig from the north, to have
crossed the Lower Vistula when the centre
of the Russian drive was in the same
longitude—these feats would have meant
confusion for the retiring central bodies
of Germans and a devastating and pos-
sibly decisive victory for the Russians.
But the enemy still holds Danzig
when the Russians have long been on the
Oder in the centre. The drive to Breslau
whirled ahead unchecked, while the Rus-
sians on the southern flank had to fight
their way yard by yard into the industrial
areas of Upper Silesia, even now only
partially- under their control. They are
still fighting to make the few miles be-
tween Cracow, which fell with scarcely
a volley, and the Carpathian foothills and
passes to the south.
Hungarian Comparisons
Another feature of the whole move-
ment is its likeness to other movements,
and particularly to other recent retreats
in last year’s campaigns in Hungary.
The German retirement in Hungary
was made in two sections.
The invading forces rollicked towards
the Danube until they came to the great
plain of the Tisza, at Debreczen. Here
the surging Russians who, it was re-
ported, had been slaughtering large bodies
of Germans in their way, came up against
great enemy tank forces. A battle ensued
on the open plains which lasted for many
days. Each side claimed enormous
slaughter of its opponents.
Amid the customary shouts from Mos-
cow correspondents, the Russians rolled
further on. The pace of their advance
obviously was not as fast as it had been.
They reached the Danube and crossed
it. Unofficial optimists saw the fall of
Budapest, even a break-through to
Vienna, as a matter of hours and days.
On December 10 the capture of Budapest
was said to be “imminent.” Forces at
one stage, were actually reported 50 miles
west of Lake Balaton, near the Austrian
border. Last week-end Buda, or a
large part of it, was still in German hands.
Whatever Russian forces penetrated to
Lake Balaton have been pushed back
some distance, and hold their present posi-
tion only through constant fighting.
The strength of the Russian drive had
been sapped by the tank battles at Deb-
reczen, so that it did not retain the im-
petus and power necessary to achieve its
main objectives.
The whole Hungarian campaign was
an illustration of the methods of sponge
defence which the Germans apply both
in fairly open operations and in close
trench warfare harass the attacking
foe in the beginning, but let him
through so far that reserves are not easily
accessible to him, and his equipment is
worn, his spearhead men weary and his
communication line lengthened, the im-
petus beginning to come off his push.
Then strike him hard with heavy armor.
Do this if possible just in front of the
fortified lines which he is to attack. This
then assures at least that he will reach
his objectives with weakened forces
and with his natural momentum off
Before Breslau
This same plan has 'been in operation,
as it was in Poland and Hungary last
year, in the drive to the Oder. The ad-
vances of the Russians Were braked sec-
tionally. A clash was avoided in the be-
ginning. Forces left behind at vital junc-
tions merely interrupted the Russian for-
ward flow. The first defence lines scarcely
resisted. Not even at Lodz did the Rus-
sians encounter real resistance, and there
was no opposition to speak of along the
line of the Warthe River. Otherwise,
there must have been a substantial pause
to cross it. The Russians reached the
Breslau area and took Oppeln further
south within ten days after the offensive
was fully under way.
On January 26 it was reported from
London and Moscow that an all-out
Russian offensive against Breslau had be-
gun. The “Red Star” declared that strong
German forces had broken into the
south-eastern suburbs —Breslau is on both
sides of the river. Berlin was said to
have admitted that the Russians had be-
gun to encircle Breslau and had gained
ground north and south-west of the capi-
tal. Later it was suggested that the en-
circlement had developed considerably.
As was here pointed out, this would
have meant that the Russians had crossed
the Oder and penetrated 20 to 25 miles
beyond. A Berlin statement was to the
effect that the Russians had crossed the
Oder in small force in a dozen places,
but it was declared that all bridgeheads
except one or two had been wiped out
and that the remainder were being
reduced.
Less than a week afterwards Moscow
correspondents decided to forget that the
Oder had ever been crossed, and reported
a new “first crossing” in the Breslau
suburbs.
The advance to Breslau had been
achieved below the flank of German
forces still holding country to the north
and north-east.
This flank was being cleared by
Marshal Zhukov in his direct drive to-
wards Berlin. He had further to go to
the Oder than the armies further south,
and he was hampered by the fact that
Posen, the centre through which half a
dozen main roads and railways run, con-
tinued to be held by the Germans after
he bypassed it. Moreover, he had an
enemy served by the sea and land on his
northward flank. Marshal Rossokovsky
having been unable to cross the Lower
Vistula or its delta, reach Danzig
and control the great Berlin-Danzig
Autobahn, which runs all the way across
Germany in a straight line from East
Prussia to the Ruhr, until too late for
Marshal Zhukov’s purposes.
The Frankfort Sector
From Breslau the Oder slopes away
north-west as it flows towards the Baltic
through an even lower plain. It reaches
its nearest point to Berlin (about 48
miles) at Frankfort, an unreal-looking
town in which the river’s width is miti-
gated by the presence in midstream of the
Ziegenwerder (Goat Island). Frankfort
owns a substantial but unstable suburb
on the Russian side, Damm, which is
shielded from flood-waters by a dike.
This crossing-place is one of the three
which carry direct roads and railways
towards Berlin against which Marshal
Zhukov is striking. The second is Kiis-
trin, where the main line and autobahn
from Danzig to Berlin cross the river.
This highway and railway are blocked
by the Germans holding out in Schneide-
miihl.
The third point to which Marshal
Zhukov, is driving is Stettin, a city of
about 250,000 people, which is 30 miles
inland from the Baltic, shielded on the
east by the appendix of a wide-spreading
sea-fed lake. The appendix (Dammischer
See) is the width of Port Jackson at its
widest. Also from where the Oder makes
its final bend to Stettin and the sea, 30
miles north-west of Kiistrin, a chain of
lakes runs across the marshy plain cover-
ing the main routes to Stettin.
Marshal Zhukov’s two spearheads had
reached the vicinity of Kiistrin and
Frankfort over the week-end. They were,
therefore, approaching the Oder, on two
of the main central routes to Berlin.
A third was supposed to be near Arns-
walde on the main railway from Posen
to Stettin, and to have pushed close to a
crossing on the Oder along a secondary
route to Berlin, 28 miles south of Stettin,
opposite Schwedt.
In the final stages of the drive to the
river German Panzer forces struck.
Stages of Retreat
The three stages in the advance from
the Vistula had been marked by the
changing nature of German com-
muniques. In the first stages the enemy
announced the abandonment of cities and
towns, allegedly “before the Soviets were
aware of our actions,” also of the hill-
defence lines of Kielce and of the Warthe.
During the next interval, while describing
heavy fighting on some routes, their
commentators devoted themselves to fos-
tering the idea abroad that the Russians
were securing an overwhelming victory
which would, in a few days, end in a
victorious entry into Berlin. This was
associated with cunning propaganda cal-
culated to lead docile critics to compare
British-American fighting quality un-
favorably with Russian fighting quality
and enterprise. This kind of stuff some
Sydney papers can be relied on to
swallow, hook, line and sinker.
Next, as the advance slowed up, losing
its initial momentum, first Berlin and
then Moscow reported great tank battles.
These increased in intensity. Both sides
claimed gigantic bags of enemy masto-
dons. Moscow correspondents certified
that 3550 German tanks had been de-
stroyed in 17 days —in effect, that the
equivalent of the armor of 17 or 18 divi-
sions, and of twice the whole armored
force which the enemy displayed in Juhe-
July in France, had been wrecked to the
last vestige by armies which most of the
time had travelled at 20 to 30 miles a day.
Great tank battles obviously had
taken place, during which Berlin claimed
that the German first reserves were
thrown in. These battles were similar to
those of the plains during the advances
to the Danube and Budapest. When they
were over Marshal Zhukov was through
to the Oder front. But Moscow corre-
spondents declare that “an unexpected
thaw” has given the Germans new hope
of delaying the Oder crossing, and that
the marshal is pausing to regroup.
The thaw was not “unexpected.” It
would be possible to name a dozen cam-
paigns which an early February thaw has
cut off in their flower —Napoleon got
caught in one in the Oder region, as did
Frederic the Great.
In East Prussia
The battles for Kdnigsberg and against
the supposedly trapped Courland (Latvia)
forces of the enemy were still in pro-
gress. Neither of these armies can be
said to be isolated while the Germans
are navally strong in the Baltic, even if
there is not a land route open, via Dan-
zig, across the Vistula.
It is obvious that the Germans have
been able to pull back a very large bulk
of their divisions across the Oder without
meeting disaster. The German command
insisted up to February 4 that, though it
had been using reserves for a week, it
had not yet thrown in main reserves.
They, it asserted, were being kept for a
large-scale counter-attack at the right
moment. Fresh crossings of the Oder
in the Glogau-Breslau sector were ad-
mitted, but the Russian bridgeheads were
represented as being “wiped out,” with
“two exceptions,” small and shrinking.
Enemy Versions
The German version of the position
given at midnight on February 4 was that
bitter fighting was in progress on the
whole Oder front, 420-odd miles, but that
the battles consisted of single operations
designed only to secure local stability,
preparatory to the main counter-attack,
which was not yet in being. The first
wave of the Russians had, it was claimed,
been stopped at the Oder, where stiff
fighting was taking place and bridgeheads
had been removed or so narrowed as not to
constitute a serious danger.
In South Pomerania (it was asserted)
the Russians had been stopped at a line
favorable for the future employment of
offensive force against them. Two
columns converging on the Frankfort-
Kustrin area had been halted with the
loss of “75 per cent, of their men and
materials.” Further north, towards Stettin,
only weaker Russian spearheads were
being used, and these were being held in
check. East of the northern reaches of
the Vistula fierce fighting, it was alleged,
continued in Elbing and Marienburg (the
Russians claimed to hold both). It was
asserted that the position at Konigsberg
was unchanged save for “one small pene-
tration” of the defences, due to the con-
tinued pressure of Soviet troops, while
attacks of seven Russian divisions in
Courland (Latvia) had been brought to
a standstill.
The enemy admitted that fighting for
the province of East Prussia was reaching
its climatic point, but the claim was made
that “vast casualties” were being inflicted
on the Russians. Also, it was said that
there was “no end to the flow of Panzers
rolling towards the Oder.” It was added
that “everyone knows that the battle of
the Oder must be fought before the battle
of Berlin can be talked about.”
Russian Reports
Communiques and statements from
Moscow Radio declared the same day that
the Germans were still suffering nuge
losses. In a forest south-east of Kiistrin
a large group had been surrounded, 8000
killed and 9450 taken prisoner, with sub-
stantial supplies. In East Prussia the Ger-
mans had only one-tenth of the province
still in their hands, and their casualties
on February 2 alone were placed at 6000.
The battle for Konigsberg grew fiercer
each day, and the centre of the defence
area was threatened. Here there seemed
to be no thaw ; Moscow reported that
fighting went on in severe blizzards.
It was said that a large force of Ger-
man infantry trapped south of Konigs-
berg had given up attempts to fight a way
back to Germany and was trying to re-
join the Konigsberg garrison. Also that
130 German ships had been seized in the
Kurisches Half, the lagoon between
Konigsberg and the Niemen mouth.
The next few days should give some
evidence of the real quality of German
defence. If it is stabilised along the Oder
the Russians will need to bring up con-
siderable supplies and reserves before
they can make a main attack.
In the meantime the enemy will have to
reckon with heavy bombing from the
west. Raids by the R.A.F. added to his
tribulations, and U.S. heavy aircraft
1000 strong made a concentrated attack
on Berlin. The city was pictured after-
wards as being in a state of chaos.


mm
i.'
m,
mmm
a rO m A T 1 Q
*♦ • H
•*%\v>vy«v.
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY.
W.S. 168.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney. _
Hill ii
Hill 11
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and co
water and telephone in all ro ° ‘
Rooms with private
available. Meals at moderate rates
unexcelled cuisine —Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room ana
Wintergarden, together with a n
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- P er n ||> |
Double Rooms from 13/- P er nlg
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless ■
“METROPOLE.” Sydney-
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 jjj->
SPORTING NOTIONS
Improved even further in looks since he last
raced, the Melfort-Heresme colt Melhero came
with a very strong sustained run to win the
Three-year-old Handicap at Rosehill on Satur-
day by six lengths. A fair way back early,
he did not get to the front till inside the last
furlong, but then ran right away, with Petulance
(50 to 1) next and the well-backed Dowborough
third. The heavily-supported favorite, Recka
Oka, was sent to the outside at the barrier,
was pushed along to take the lead, stumbled on
the way, and tired badly. Though the field
looked quite outclassed by the winner, Good
Idea (fourth) ran a reasonably good race. Mel-
hero’s run was the best seen so far with the big
autumn events in mind —probably the Don-
caster in particular.
For some odd reason Melhero “blew” re-
markably in the betting—from threes to sevens,
with as much as 10 to 1 available in places.
His rider, W. Fellows, does not ride a great
deal in races these days, and it’s some time
since he was on a winner, which may have
had something to do with it. It’s not likely
v to happen next time Melhero is saddled up.
Another excellent run by a three-year-old
was the Felcrag-Sun Cloud colt Cragsman’s
defeat of Lagoon by inches in the Flying Handi-
cap, with Cooringwang a distant third. It
was not a particularly strong field, but Crags-
man’s run in the straight was nonetheless im-
pressive, especially for a colt who hitherto had
been noted as a front-runner. Flight re-
appeared in this event, but at 9.12 was giving
Cragsman 281 b. and Lagoon 221 b. As well, she
was drawn on the outside of the field of 20,
appeared to strike trouble as they jumped away,
i and probably needed the run. She was, how-
-1 ever, fairly well backed, so something better
than seventh, 12 lengths from the winner, must
1 have been expected of her. She is another
who should be right at her top in the autumn.
Tried over a middle distance in the Rosehill
Handicap, Grand Prodige easily won from the
much-publicised War Eagle, with Etching next.
There is staying blood in Grand Prodige—by
Beau Pere from the French mare Providence—
and his finishing run suggested that he might
get an even longer distance without much trouble.
Still —excluding, perhaps, War Eagle, who may
yet live up to the boom —this was another
somewhat indifferent field. D. Munro, who was
on the winner, made a double of it when Air
Link consented to do his best for a change in
the last race. At his best a solid enough welter
performer, Air Link won easily. Though he
failed by three lengths to overhaul the winner,
Marcontine’s second was one of his best runs
to date. The nine furlongs Was about a fur-
long too far for the third horse, St. Elmo.
Another of the day’s very easy wins and
good performances by three-year-olds was that
of Lunar (Beau Pere-Nightlight) in the Three-
and-four-year-old-Handicap. At the end of the
seven furlongs Lunar was eight lengths out and
going still further away from Scotch Gift and
Pell Mell, also both three-year-olds.
The Brazen-Credence colt Bradant beat the
persistently unlucky Strauss comfortably in the
Nursery, with Impudence adding another prom-
ising third to his record. Most of the field
had the better of the barrier draw over the
placegetters.
On the strength of his last Randwick run
Waratah was a solid favorite for the Novice.
He ran a fair race to score another good third,
to Mentone (15 to 1) and Thanks America
(eights).
* * * *
Looking at them on the weights (before
acceptances), Dinkum Aussie, Impudence, High-
gate, Night Parade, and Bon Terre should be
Canterbury Park possibilities.
Though he did not beat anything of much
account, Great Britain won the Wyndham
Handicap (Im. 5f.) in such good style at Flem-
ington on Saturday that he at once took a
leading place in the Australian Cup betting. It
was a slow race, but Great Britain came with
such a fine run in the last furlong that he
appears to be at his best, which would be good,
enough to account for most of the prospective
Cup field. Sir Romeo and Damalis, in the
places, are getting old, and Centenary seemed
to find even this distance too far. The ex-
Sydney performer Two’s Company was last.
One of the lately very successful Enfield breed,
Great Britain won the Victorian Derby in 1943
and seems back to that form.
A number of Sydney riders have lately
broken runs of 20-odd losers; the Melbourne
jockey J. Purtell had been on 64 of them be-
fore ending the run by winning the C. F. Orr
Stakes on Drum Net, on whom he had won
last year before the rot set in. Tea Cake
"No, no, Miss Smythe—you haven't quite got the idea yet!"
(second) has struck form again and should
be worth following; Drum Net, with much the
better of the weights, beat her only half a neck.
Like Tea Rose, Flight and some others of the
sex in Sydney lately, Tranquil Star failed rather
badly under her solid weight (9.6). Like those
others, too, she probably needed the run, and
should do better next start. The Enfield colt
Bootle (fourth) ran a capital race.
Though she still has the job of beating the
brilliant David’s Last ahead of her, La Patrice,
the well-performed three-year-old by St. Mag-
nus-La Jaconde, sprinted the Marine Handicap
six furlongs like a Newmarket possibility.
She took 1.13, but times generally were slow.
She cleared away in the last couple of fur-
longs to beat Veileme by four lengths. It made
a double for Purtell. La Patrice has been given a
61b. penalty in the Futurity Stakes for the
win, but will still carry only the 7.5 with which
she won on Saturday. Nine-years-old former
Sydney sprinter Reception was banned from
future racing in the Melbourne metropolitan
area for playing up at the start.
A like fate may await Three Wheeler, who
beat William Tell and Foxhow very easily m
the Newport Welter first division. Her rai “e >
Lou Robinson, was told by the stewards that
she will be out if she does not improve her
ways. Now a four-year-old, she won on the pit
by four lengths, and it would be a great pity
to see her go. #
The wonderful David breed continued its
great jumping performance in the Summer
Hurdle, Quixotic beating Priority and the 3-to-1
favorite Krallis. Quixotic went out at 25 to l.
* ■* * *
M. J. Hogan, has had a big farewell dinner
from racing officials, pressmen and broadcasters
in Adelaide, after close on 40 years of stipen-
diary stewardship. (The jockeys said their good-
bye previously, the trainers later.) Harold
Rowell succeeds him as chairman.
* * * *
The Adelaide Cup, for Morphettville, May 19,
goes back to two miles, which was its original
distance from the foundation in 1864, but was
cut down to one mile five furlongs in 1884, and
has since remained there. Stake-money for the
race is raised to £3500, which is the highest it
has ever been. The S.A. Jockey Club has
changed a race with a rather colorless name to
the Willoughby Norrie Handicap, in honor
of the S.A. Governor, who hopes to do some
racing himself. Events in the three-days’ meet-
ing commemorate old-time supporters Fisher,
Baker, W. B. Carr and Downer (a steeplechase).
* * * *
The stewards are certainly bringing it home'
to jockeys that they must avoid careless riding.
Capable jockeys are not over-numerous, and
it is to be regretted that recent suspensions in-
clude three or four of the best. A little while
ago it was not unusual to hear it contended
that all the trouble in races was caused by in-
experienced apprentices, though “tricks of the
trade” by older riders were often responsible.
It is good to know that the stewards are not
overlooking that fact. A suspension of the
previous Rosehill meeting raised the number
of jockeys and apprentices then “out” to 13,
which is getting up amongst the records.
* * * *
The capable Chinese rider E. Doon, whose
successes only recently ended his eligibility
for apprentice allowance, was added to the sus-
pended list at the adjourned A.J.C. inquiry
last week. He was adjudged guilty of careless
riding in crossing too sharply, his mount, Eagle
Wings, interfering with Manday Son. The
fact that it was, for these days, an uncommonly
small field (eight) no doubt had a bearing on
the finding. Noted for some time as a rider of
long-priced winners, giving several of the best
tote returns of last year, Doon won the A.J.C.
Summer Cup on Easter Time and the Carring-
ton on Victory Lad.
» * * *
Maiden events, taboo in Sydney racing for
most of last year, are being given a fresh trial.
Three are included in the S.T.C. tvo-days’
meeting at Canterbury on next and the flow-
ing Saturday, one of them for maiden colts' and
geldings and one for maiden fillies. As 1 ell,
an Encourage, Novice and Trial should further
enable moderate performers to earn their fiver-
a-week keep. And, such is the incurable optim-
ism that keeps the game going, the horses that
run last in all these events will probably not
only keep on running in the name of improving
the breed but will have their tote backers. The
main event on the first day is the Frank Under-
wood Handicap, named after one of the oldest
commitm-' memb'" of the c’- 4 Club.
* * * *
Thus early, lists of favoritism for the autumn
double at Randwick are being printed. For
the Doncaster they are headed by the Mid-
stream three-year-old Cold Shower (from Talk-
ing’s dam, Society). Cold Shower looked
unlucky to be beaten by Abbeville in the Aus-
tralia Day Handicap. They met at level weights
(7.10), and it will be interesting to see what
handicappers thought of the run. Cold Shower
struck bad interference soon after the start
and was still last nearing the turn, which made
his three-quarter-length defeat look impressive
He has not yet won at more than six furlongsj
but looks sure to be a sound miler. Abbe-
ville is a proved miler; but both, on present
will be meeting much stiffer opposi-
tion in the Doncaster than any they have so far
defeated.
*** ' *
Cold Shower is coupled with Russia and
Craigie for the Sydney Cup. Here,, too, indica-
tions are that the opposition will be much
stronger than recent fields, with, perhaps Castle
Frontenac, Flight, Cream Puff, Tea Rose, Moor-
land and, if he makes the trip from Melbourne,
Dark Felt to be reckoned with. In any case!
picking them at this stage suggests either a light
heart or a light head.
* * * *
The totalisator turnover on any day at Rand-
wick this season has not fallen below £llO,OOO,
the lowest being £111,897 15s. at Tatt.’s meet-
ing in September. The season’s tote record
is the £192,806 15s. turned over on Metropoli-
tan day.
# * * *
“Pat Ater”: A good-hearted sort was
Victor Trumper. I can see him now, in
the George-street shop that bore the
legend Trumper and Dodge, beaming as
he told me the story of the two plain,
blue glass vases that decorated the back of
the counter. Members of a police boys'
club formed a cricket club. Their com-
bined wealth totalled 13s. 4d., and with
that in hand they came to Trumper and
asked for a kit. Vic did the kids proud
for the money, and someone must have
tipped them off about their good luck-
£s wouldn’t have covered what Trumper
gave them. So they held a tarpaulin
muster and arrived at Victor’s store on
Christmas Eve with the two blue vases.
Trumper said he felt good every time he
looked at them,
* * * *
“Gaol Sneak”: The big money has got
into American basketball. Members of a
challenge team have confessed to run-
ning dead for a consideration, the allega-
tion being that “big-time” bookies, find-
ing their scope in horse- and dog-racing
limited by the U.S. Government’s ban
on both, are responsible. It seems to me
our immigration authorities are missing
a chance, for if the fact that in Australia
you can get set on anything from a foot-
ball game to a sailing race were properly
publicised in America we’d be snowed
under in the rush.
* * * *
“Gallery”: “Wodgil” (B. 24/1/’44) is
right ip saying that boxers are excluded
from the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act, a Labor measure, but at least one
politician moved for their inclusion when
the bill was going through the Legislative
Council. If Simon Hickey, ex-Speaker,
then a member of the Council, had moved
for compensation in the instance of
death alone he would have probably suc-
ceeded ; but solatia for broken noses,
jarred hands, etc., seemed to open too
wide a field. Hickey was generously sup-
ported by James Ashton and Prof. Peden.
H: * * *
Two little-known N.S.W. champions
went to Leichhardt on Thursday for what-
ever glory awaited them and collected it.
with cash. Sid Knight (feather) obliged
the referee to intervene to save Danny
Simmons from further bashing in the
ninth round, and Eric McCready (ban-
tam) stopped Bobby Powell in the fifth
By no means a bad show, though painful
for Daniel and Robert.
Seeing that Eddie Miller had knocked
out Les Fitzgerald in the second rouno
at Melbourne a year ago, it was poor
match-making to bring them together
again at the Sydney Stadium. The inevit-
able end came in the sixth. A leu
knocked Fitzgerald halfway through the
ropes. Miller stepped back, but as Fitz. s
feet were still planted on the ring camas
Joe Wallis gave the box-on signal. One
more Miller punch, a right to the chin,
settled the uninteresting business.


Divorce Notice.
*N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
_ WALES — Tn Divorce.
JO CLARENCE ALEXANDER COLLINS late of
punchbowl in the State of New South Wales. —-TAKE
NOTICE that SARAH BARBARA COLLINS has filed
4 Petition for Divorce No. 4026 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
Jhay enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 30th day
°f March 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
Without charge from FRED A. NEWNHAM Solicitor
*8 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne thrilled at the news of the
safe arrival in Australia of the Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester, Princes William
and Richard and the Duke’s entourage.
Most of the holiday morning was taken
up with listening to broadcast descrip-
tions of the arrival, and Melburnians
envied their fellow-Australians who had
first opportunity of seeing the new
Governor-General and his charming wife.
With time to prepare, this city will put
on a brave face to greet the Governor-
General and his wife when they make
their first official visit to Melbourne.
Even if it is raining, their welcome will
be as warm as the one they received when
they drove through the streets of Sydney,
and perhaps a holiday will be declared.
But as there is no residence here for the
Governor-General, when he comes he
must be a guest of the State.
The Henry Lawson Memorial and
Literary Society held its annual gathering
at Footscray on a Sunday, Mrs. G. A.
Hunter, the president, making the intro-
duction, and others speaking of or from
Lawson. Jack Moir, of the Bread and
Cheese Club, was to the fore, and among
the speakers were Mrs. Nancy Benton,
Misses Olive Nicholls and R. A’Hearne,
“Kerrigan Boys” Harrington, Norman
Hall, Rev. Arthur Banks, Ted Turner,
R. Lee-Archer, W. Pels and the veteran
elocutionist D. J. Ward. Mayor Beaton,
of Footscray, moved the vote of thanks,
and Cyril E. Goode, hon. sec. of the
Society, supported him.
Lud Mayor Nettlefold’s Red Cross
Appeals Committee has met for the first
time this year to discuss its campaign for
1945. In the year ending last November
this committee raised £90,000, and hopes
to do equally well this year.
Joyce Cowley gave up her war-time job
with the Department of Aircraft Produc-
tion and married Chief Petty Officer
Farris Conner, of the U.S.A. Navy. She
is now living in Jacksonville, Florida, and
in letters to her friends tells of her life
in a strange country. She records meet-
ing an American schoolteacher on the
train trip to Florida who asked her, hear-
ing that Joyce was an Australian “Have
you ever been to school? Can you read
and write? Have you electricity or
motor-cars in Australia?”
Joyce records that in the U.S.A. bread
is bought in grease-proof paper and
already sliced.; scones are bought in tins,
and when removed from the tin are
placed in the oven for ten minutes’ cook-
ing. On the trip across America, which
took some days, this Australian girl
found the countryside very much like
Victoria. At one stage of her journey
she found the train even slower than the
one which takes passengers from Mel-
bourne to Echuca.
Joyce remarks on the high cost of living
in America. Describing a visit to a
restaurant noted for its originality she
says the waiters, dressed in loud check
trousers, tied check bibs around the necks
of the patrons who ate chicken with their
fingers. The place is called “The Gay
’Nineties,” and an evening’s entertainment
cost the equivalent of £l2 for her hus-
band and herself. Joyce is a tall girl,
but to be in fashion she has had to
shorten her skirts to the knees and wear
very high-heeled shoes. She finds that
the clothes youngsters don for school are
very queer to Australian eyes. Over a
pair of denim overalls is worn a baggy
sweater, which comes almost to the knees,
and instead of a trim school hat the girls
add to this fantastic outfit by tying a
scarf around the head.
A few years ago two very far-seeing
people bought an old stone church. The
church was in Oakleigh, a suburb just
25 minutes’ train journey from the city,
and it ceased to be a church because
it was not large enough to hold its con-
gregation. Dr. John Heath and his wife
£ileen bought it and made it into a home
surrounded by a lovely garden. The en-
tire ground floor has been divided into
rooms, a central staircase connects with
rooms on the upper storey. The heavy
pak beams which support the roof have
been retained and also the ecclesiastical
■Windows.
Most of the ground floor forms a
studio, for Dr. John is a painter of por-
traits in his spare moments, and many
of his works adorn the walls of the studio.
In this large apartment friends are enter-
tained, and nights given over to song and
music are features of the Heath hospi-
tality. The back portion of the former
church, which was used for a Sunday
school, has now become a drawing-
room, and here are housed Eileen’s-
treasures —cabinets of rare crystal and
china. The walls are lined with book-
shelves, all well filled, and a large open
fireplace adds to the comfort of the
room. A modern heating system has been
installed, and the chilly atmosphere
associated with a church has disappeared.
The upper storey contains the main bed-
room and also the bedrooms of the
Heath boys, John, Peter and Michael.
Recently Phyllis Batchelor gave a short
piano recital in the studio, following a
buffet dinner. Among the guests were
Lieut. Gordon Blackburn and his wife
Royal, the latter in a very attractive
floral frock. Hostess Eileen set off her
brunette coloring with a frock of cherry
toning, and Rita Findlay wore acces-
sories culled from her trip abroad with
her eye-taking outfit, Squadron-Leader
George Christensen, formerly of Bris-
bane, was also a guest, and Joy Mills
and David Rayward were other guests
who enjoyed the musip.
In these days of rationing running a
home is a full-time job. When that is
combined with civic duties life should
be full of problems. But Mrs. Beatrice
Campbell, Lady Mayoress of Melbourne
(pictured here by Broothorn), combines
the two very successfully. With daughter
Margaret, Mrs. Campbell returned last
week from a well-deserved rest in Tas-
mania, and was back on the job at once.
Her first public appearance for the year
was when she presided at a meeting of
the Town Hall Group to discuss plans
for the year’s work. This band of
women has assisted in raising funds for
almost every good cause that has had
Mayoral approval. Each week finds these
women in the large kitchens attached to
the Town Hall, making jams and pre-
serves, which are sold on the stall gener-
ally conducted by them on button days.
Mrs, Campbell is still receiving hun-
dreds of letters congratulating her on her
New Year honor. As Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Campbell will be one of the hostesses
to entertain the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester, and will assist the Mayor to
represent the citizens when the vice-regals
make their first official visit to Melbourne.
Mrs. R. G. Casey, wife of the Gover-
nor of Bengal, now visiting Melbourne,
has fair hair and a slim, lovely figure,
and the climate of India has not robbed
her of her clear, fresh complexion. The
years spent in Washington and the M.E.
have fitted her for a position which
demands poise and diplomacy. Wearing
a green and white striped suit with the skirt
slit at either side (it was copied by her
Egyptian maid from a frock made in
Melbourne), Mrs, Casey received her
guests at a press conference. It was held
in the lovely Casey home, which is in one
of the oldest of Melbourne suburbs. The
house was reconstructed, and Mrs. Casey
furnished it when, so she says, she should
have been getting ready to go to Wash-
ington. Now back in her own country
on a flying visit, she is leaving son Donn
and daughter Jane at school.
Mrs. Casey, herself an artist, intends,
on her return to India, to arrange an
exhibition of Bengali art which will in-
clude exhibits of paintings, terracottas
and carvings, both ancient and modern.
The exhibition will be housed in the
basement of Government House, and
Mrs. Casey hopes to gain permission
from the Bengal Government to allow
the exhibition to be brought to Sydney
and Melbourne.
From Sydney
Australia, for the first time in its his-
tory, has a Royal Governor-General. The
Duke of Gloucester was sworn in with
proper ceremony last week at Canberra.
The Duke and the Duchess are delighted
with Yarralumla, which will be their prin-
cipal home during H.R.H.’s term of office.
The Duke knows the countryside well,
as on his sesqui-centenary visit to us he
fished the Cotter and had some good
riding about the Federal capital. The
Duchess and the Princes have already
made a place for themselves, in Australia’s
heart. Altogether, the appointment is
applauded by the nation.
Last week Sydney’s mental gaze was
turned to Canberra. Everywhere people
talked the Duke and Duchess. Her hats
and the straight poise of them above the
dark eyebrows met with cordial approval
from all women. The Duke’s departure
for Canberra wearing shorts as he drove
his shining car wakened deep envy in
the professional mind. “'Now, why can’t
we come into our rooms to interview
patients, dressed in such a sensible
fashion?” wistfully asked one immacu-
lately tailored medico. And, indeed, why
not? Among women the Duchess’s
willow-wand slimness evokes the deep
sigh of admiration. Curves definitely are
no longer in society. The bathroom
scales are in for an anxious and strenuous
time, for, of course, every woman under
60 will take H.R.H. as her model.
The Viscountess Clive (pictured here)
has come to Australia as Lady-in-wait-
ing to the Duchess of Gloucester. With
her is small daughter Davina, the
Baroness Darcy de Knayth. Viscount
Clive was killed on active service with
the R.A.F. in 1943. Sketching and snow
sports are among Lady Clive’s enthu-
siasms.
Newspaper references to the house-
wifely accomplishments of the Duchess
recall a story told of the wife of one
of her ancestral Scotts. This lady took
deep interest in the condition of her table
and her larder. During one season it
happened that the menfolk of the family
had been more concerned with hunting
their enemies than the good game of glen
and forest. One day, coming home from
one of their excursions, triumphant and
very hungry, they were gratified to see
the serving man carrying an enormous
covered platter to the table> Eagerly
the head of the house lifted the cover.
But underneath was no savory stew, no
venison pasty. There, a pointed hint, lay
a pair of spurs. It is said that the men
of the house took the hint, and never
failed afterwards to ride forth in pursuit
of the day’s meat. Well, if there should
be a butcher’s strike, H.R.H. is a good
rider and a good shot.
Tea and talk over Y.W.C.A. plans for
1945 in the board room of the associa-
tion made an interesting interlude last
Wednesday. The John Butters lady, who is
“chairman,” outlined quite a programme,
and announced the names of four new
members appointed to the Y.W. staff —
a pleasant-looking group whose work
covers a wide field. They are Mrs. Lorna
McEwen, who will he a suburban
recreation worker; Elva Will, an Arts
graduate of Sydney University, who is
leaving the staff of Abbotsleigh College to
join the recreation and programme sec-
tion ; Enid Isaacs, who has taken the
Board of Social Studies course at the
Sydney University, where she graduated
in Arts, and who will be in charge of
schoolgirl activities ; Bessie Mitchell, who
takes over the job of publicity secretary.
Also announced was the buying of a
house at Manly which will be run on the
same lines as the popular Tremayne at
Kirribilli.
After the Keith Waller infant Shirley
Ann had been christened in St. Mark’s
she and her parents received congratu-
lations and good wishes in the Kent room
of the Australia Hotel. Mrs. Keith
Waller was formerly Alison Dent, one of
the first Australians in the W.R.E.N.S.,
if not the very first. Alison was in Eng-
land at the outbreak, and enlisted at
once. Her view of life should certainly
be international. Her romance com-
in Washington (U.S.), where
Keith Waller was on R. G. Casey’s staff.
She V/ as married in Bombay, made her
first home in Chungking, and the couple
are now settled in Canberra. Husband is
in the Australian diplomatic service.
Of many stories concerning Royalty,
taken out of lavender last week, one of
the prettiest concerns Queen Mary. It is
told of her that once while visiting a
children’s hospital in London she paused
at the bedside of a bright-eyed small boy.
Queen Mary asked his name and then
“Where do you live?’ she said. The small
boy replied: “Just back o’ Selfridge’s,,
lady. Where do you live?” Queen Mary
looked, smiled and said, with kindly tact,
“Oh, I live just back of Gorringe’s.”
Gorringe’s is a big department store not
far from Buckingham Palace.
An early date in March is being set
aside for the opening of the British
Centre’s Club for Officers at 129 Mac-
quarie-street. The club is opposite the
Botanic Gardens, a gljd site for British
servicemen with their innate love of parks
and gardens. And, besides, if the trees
pall, there are always the statues to look
at. Alterations and refurbishing of the
building are going on at great speed.
Until the Macquarie-street address is
quite ready for occupation, the Victoria
League offices at 19 Bligh-street are being
used as a temporary hospitality centre.
Here a writing-room is at the disposal
of servicemen. A member of the hospi-
tality committee is on duty each day to
give help to inquirers and to arrange for
entertainment.
While president Mrs. H. Nicholas is in
Tasmania Mrs. H. H. McNall is deputis-
ing, and Marjorie Street is acting secre-
tary to the hospitality committee. Miss
Fornax is already established as club
secretary.
Crowds of country as well as city
friends were in St. Mary’s Cathedral by
ten o’clock last Saturday for the nuptial
mass that united Peter (Mit) Loneragan
and Margaret Fagan. “Mit” is one of the
well-known Mudgee family, and Margaret
is one of the attractive daughters of late
R. J. Fagan and Mrs. Fagan, of Sunny-
ridge, Mandurama. ■ The bride and her
attendants,- sister Marie and Mrs. Cliff
Gearin, suggested an inspiration for a
modern Swan Ballet as they paced up the
softly-shadowed cathedral. The bride
wore sweeping, rose white satins and Car-
rickmacross lace ; her attendants’ frocks
of white marquisette and taffeta were
equally flowing.
Brothers Bernard and Robert stood by
’groom Peter. The reception at the Aus-
tralia had begun to thin out about three
o’clock. Here were many ramifications
of the Loneragan family, including
’groom’s parents, the J. E. Loneragans.
The party was thickly sprinkled with
recent brides, and budding ’teen-olds,
slim Joan Allen among these, in a sky-
after-rain-blue frock. Mrs. Fabian Chow
animatedly talked'* “China” to the pas-
toral Mrs. Whitney. There were uniforms
of the Navy, the A.1.F., the Air Force.
The atmosphere sparkled. Flowered silks
in Mrs John Woods’s suit were among
the noted. Bride’s mother Mrs. R. J.
Fagan was a tall and graceful hostess
in dove-greys.
Four youngsters who have been play-
ing in “Peter Pan” at the Minerva have
yet another excitement to look forward
to, and that is the competition for the
£lOO scholarship awarded bi-annually by
the Royal Academy of Dancing (whose
principal, Adeline Genee of fair renown,
contemplates a visit to Australia) to the
outstanding dancer in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. The four girls who will com-
pete for this honor are Patricia Storman,
Judith Kerr-Stout, Elaine Fifield and
Kathleen Gorham. In “Peter Pan” Pat-
ricia Storman was one of the twins ; the
other three danced a trio in the Fairy
Ballet. All the girls are from Frances
Seully’s studio.
General Blarney, forsaking military
tactics one afternoon last week, practised
armful manoeuvres. He went out to St.
Marks, Darling Point, to godfather the
Will Stuarts baby, and, what’s more, he
carried the infant out of the church.
Another godfather was Major Douglas,
and the baby’s name is Alexander. Now
what profession is that small boy likely
to crave? Mayberry Bevan was proxy
for the real godmother, who is in Mel-
bourne. General Blarney’s wife, very
smart in her Red Cross uniform, was at
the christening party. Another noted was
Mrs. Tom Bateman with her soldier-
doctor husband.


BRANDALIERA
W!
do not experiment with imitations.
0. BBAXDAOBm * CO, LUL BIRIIIKOHAM. KNO
PENS
Every point
Bu aranteed—
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007/8
and at all branches
i
3 J
m
yes.. £.7
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collin# Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Please use less 6RYLCREEM
■ ■
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here is a useful hint.
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yesl you can use the last drop.
Lay-by for Victory. Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps.
Do you know?
msL i
X.
A
To be a wife of Solomon,
you would have to have perfect
teeth. Kolynos does a thorough
job of brightening and cleaning
your teeth because it swirls
away stains and dullness.
1
En
<5=-
Only 30 years ago, a
woman consulted a sorceress
on cure of toothache. She
was advised to take a foot-
bath before sunrise and pour
the water out after sunset.
The scientifically approved
way to help keep teeth free
from decay is by twice daily
cleansing with Kolynos
Dental Cream. ..— v
V.
0o°
\P°
&
Kolynos has been awarded
the Gold Medal of the
London Institute of Hy-
giene for consistent purity
and quality.
God with Gold Teeth.
Heimdale, northern god of
the primitive world, Keeper
of the Heavenly Gates and
Son of Odin, possessed a
whole row of gold teeth.
Are you embarrassed by a dull-looking dental plate when you go to the
dentist’s? One brushing with Kolynos Dental Plate Cleanser will make
it shine like the first day he gave it to you. Daily brushing keeps it
that way. All shops that sell Kolynos sell Kolynos Dental Plate Cleaner, too.
The fierce and warlike Duau tribe of Dabu regarded
the missionary, Dr. Bromilou, as a god! He overawed
them by removing his false teeth. Your teeth will stay
strong and sound when you use Kolynos. Kolynos
swirls into narrow interstices between your teeth and
sweeps away the food deposits that cause decay. Your
local chemist or store sells Kolynos—so buy a tube today.
m
2®
SMOKE-OH!
“Wallet, leather, containing money, car, and
drivers’ reg., etc., lost.”—' “S. M. Herald.”
The car probably has sentimental value,
'b 4*
“Umpires to Work in Shifts.”
—Heading in “Sun.”
Players who have to field in slips will
not then feel so embarrassed.
•j.
“A Los Angeles musician has obtained a
divorce on the ground that his wife pawned his
trumpet without his knowledge.”
—“World’s News.”
She made him go to uncle so he sent
her to mother.
•b *b *l*
Hot and Cold.
“Though Marcia’s love for Henry was like
a burning flame, he was utterly unresponsive.”.
—Magazine story.
About this most romantic dame
A tragic story’s told,
For, though her love was like a flame,
It seems she left him cold.
-i- -i* v
“After all it is the wedding ring that counts.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
On fingers, of course.
•i* *!• *i* *3>
“The face this season must be dramatised.’
— Women’s paper.
But only to a legitimate stage, we hope,
•b
“She showed skill at knitting, but her mental
accomplishments were nil.” — Short story.
Just a knit-wit.
Consolation.
“Tram and bus drivers must stop assaulting
and insulting passengers, a New York Judge has
ruled.”
Although this amounts to unwar-
ranted interference with the recreation
of a hard-working body of men, resource-
ful drivers and tramguards will still be
able to enliven the trip with a little inno-
cent hilarity.
Roars of laughter can, for example,
be raised from the passengers by start-
ing the tram suddenly at the right
moment. The split second after the stout
gentleman has flung his outsize suitcase
on board and is trying to get on himself
is as good as any.
Sudden stops, especially when the tram
is crowded, will generally cause an
hilarious upset among the passengers.
You will then be able to join in their
happy shouts of mirth as they good-
humoredly sort out themselves and their
parcels.
’if you should inadvertently save your-
self from falling by clutching a strap-
hanger’s ear don’t apologise. Pass the
incident off lightly by saying you thought
he was a conditional stopping-place.
Fortified by such good clean fun,
you will be able to see the joke on your-
self when someone eventually pushes
you under a tram. Plum,
►l* •[• -i-
Paragon.
“Putting one’s husband at ease in company
lis an acquired art.” — Women’s paper.
She darns my socks without complaint
And mends my shirts for pleasure’s
sake.
There are no household rules / mayn’t
Ignore, forget, deny or break.
My politics she comprehends.
She doesn’t pinch my smokes :
But this good point all else transcends —
When we are entertaining friends,
She chuckles at my jokes!
P. O. M. C.
*!- -!• -I- -h
. “Marriage automatically cancels all previous
wills.” — Women’s paper.
Henceforth the husband has none of
his own.
-I- -i- q*
Lady, over 45, for light-house duties, three
mornings weekly.”— “Daily,’'' Mosmdn (N.S.W.).
And only a stone’s-throw from the sea.
Customs and Culture.
“According to a leading Melbourne book-
seller, when he sought permission to import
W. E. Southill’s The Analects of Confucius,
a Customs official said ‘You can’t have that.
A lot of Confucius-say stuff. How do you reckon
that’s educational?’ Also, on applying to import
Rev. HE. Fosdick’s Christianity and Progress,
the official asked ‘Who’s this Fosdick?’ And on
being told he was a divine asked ‘What’s a
divine?’ When that was explained the applica-
tion was (ejected on the ruling that ‘only the
Almighty was divine.’ ”
“Now,” said the Erudite Literary
Arbiter pompously, frowning over the list
before him, “I note there is a book here
called Pilgrim’s Progress, by a John
Bunyan. Never heard of him. What’s
the thing all about, anyway? Peppy ad-
ventures of some hobo, I suppose.”
“It is an allegory by a famous Puritan,”
replied the bookseller patiently, “which
has been translated into more languages
than any book except the Bible.”
“Bible? I suppose that’s another of
those foreign best-sellers. But this alley
gory you speak about sounds to me like
it’s a sordid story of bloodshed in the
slums. We can’t have our kids corrupted
with such muck. It’s wiped. Now what
about this Absalom and Achitophel, by
John Dryden? Is this another of them
things like Tobacco Road ? The title’s got
a political flavor about it —sounds like
the names of a couple of blokes who’ve
got the Labor pre-selection ticket for the
Senate. It ain’t all about politics, is it?”
“It is,” replied the bookseller re-
signedly, “regarded as the most masterly-
political satire in the language.”
“Oh, a eh? Don’t that mean
.. • , T thought so.
Sd have\ crook influence,
back; ‘this thing The Vicar o/
Wakefield, by Oliver Goldsmith. Whats
a vicar,
“A clergyman pro bably. We
i, / w- written hv a’carson once we
had tVs probably as
bad. This Goldsmith, whoever he is. is
out after notoriety, if he’s like the rest,
Now this Gulliver’s Travels, by Jonathan
Swift—l suppose he’s some fellow who’s
done a Cook’s tour around some place
and thinks he knows all about it, Tnpe
probably, and anyway what’s the use of
encouragin’ people to travel by floodrn
the joint with travel books at this time,
when the Government’s trying to dis-
courage people from using ’planes and
trains It ain’t patriotic. This stuff's
wiped, too. Now here’s a thing by a
cove called Chaucer, Canterbury Tales,
What is it—the confessions of a turf
urger or something?” „
“It happens to be the earliest piece of
great English poetry, written nearly 650
years ago of a pilgrimage through the
English countryside and is composed of
stories told by those who took part in it.”
“Um Nobody’d want to read stuff
that old, and anyway if you pitch a tale
it means teilin’ a lie, and we don’t want
people to read a book made up of a lot
of&s-it
renun™son’ who had a “ack
at Jack J ohnson^
poet »
“Oh, him. Isn’t he the joker who put
over that parntch-an-deoch-an-Doris
stuff? A booze artist who though, ht
could write! He s wiped Now I notice
a lot of Dago Idles: by
Sir Thomas Browne ; II and
by Milton, and .by
Isaac Newton-lf you can t have titles
rn ordinary English that everyone can
understand we H have to ban em. We-
whats this? Good heavens, you dont
think you re gom to slip a roughie over
with this one, do you?
What is it? asked the bookseller
despairingly
The Erudite Literary Arbiter bent on
the applicant.a look of severe disapproval.
“This book here by a bloke called Alex-
under Pope, whoever he may be: Tk
Rape of the Lock. American pulp crime
stuff, I expect. We wouldn’t stand for
anything like that. And here s another by
the same fellow, Essay on Criticism.
That’s out right away. There’s one thing
the Customs won’t stand for and thats
criticism. Good day.”
80.
Meditations.
I have been sitting still for half the night
Trying to think of Nothing. I have
gained
No due success, and feel exhausted
quite;
For Nothing, absolute and self-con-
■tained.
Is something most unthinkable. Wait on !
What’s that I said ? ‘Nothing is Some-
thing!’ Good!
For Something oft 1 meditate upon ;
Something is even clearly understood.
And Nothing, being Something, it is plain
It must be thinkable. Let’s try again!
T. W. NATHAN .
Refutation.
“According to modern scientists, nothing is
solid.” —Science magazine.
If you believe the things they say
Then come with me and visit Fay,
That elephantine barmaid who
With massive maulers pulls our brew.
With cold, unbiased eye, observe
The vast extent of every curve;
Then join with me and bid defiance
To all those stupid men of science!
NAT.
Advice.
If wise, avoid the scribbling game;
If otherwise, and you must write,
Don’t let your stuff get dull and tame ;
With wit and polish keep it bright.
Sport with your grammar every eve,
And with your dictionary romp ;
But as for punctuation, leave
That complex matter to the comp.
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jd. per line; all others 2\d. per line.
“Weary of Waiting”
The best-trained boxer loses interest if
he goes too long without a fight. As the
serviceman says, he “browns off.” It
seems to me that our nation is in danger
of browning-off, too, if we don’t step into
the ring for another big fight ve
shortly. Inactivity of our fighting fore
brings the risk of diseases other tha
physical. Unrest, indifference, slothfu
ness.
The nature of my duties, and the are
in which they are performed, enable n
to sense the feeling of many army anc
air-force units. Men come to me see c-
ing compassionate postings south or eve
release from the service. Many of thes
applications are made on the flimsie
grounds. When I point out how Aims
they are the men shrug their shoulder
and, in effect, say, “Well, what the blaze
is the good of messing about as we ar
month after month? If we were doing
something worth while it would be dif-
ferent.”
That outlook is becoming far to
common. “Let’s fight or send us home
is the cry. Admittedly, a percentage of
Australians is still in the thick of i
Agreed, a fight—a big fight—may be ju
around the corner for those who hav
known inactivity for so long. But me
are weary of waiting. It is not that the
are eager to kill or get killed, but the
are eager to get on with the job.
The remedy? Not at all easy to find
but there must be realisation of th
potential danger of the men’s outloox
by the powers in command and a cleverly
planned campaign for improvement i
morale, from this angle, until the fight i
on again.— Nimbus (R.A.A.F.).
Repat.
The experience of “Lomond” (B
17/1/ ’45), who found Repat. “an example
of efficiency and perfect co-ordination,
was not mine.
Notified in October that my dis
abilities (war-caused) had been assessec
by the Medical Board at 100 p.c., I wa
instructed to apply for Repat. benefit
and granted the usual 30 days’ leav
pending consideration of my case. On
my return to the Discharge Section I wa
shown a letter from Repat. rejecting my
claim, and was advised to appeal.
I found I could not institute an appeal
until the actual notice of rejection reachec
me from Repat., and, although I made
several personal applications, this was no;
forthcoming for a further three weeks
R.S.L. then lodged an appeal, and in due
course notified me that it had succeeded
This was more than a month ago, but to
date I haven’t heard a word from Repat
I am told that it usually takes “at least
several weeks” before formalities are
completed, the pension rate assessed and
arrangements made for medical treat-
ment. Meanwhile, for all Repat. knows
~~~P T > presumably, cares —I could be
Without funds and in urgent need of
medical attention. Surely it would be
possible for matters to be dealt with
more expeditiously, especially in cases
Where the percentage of disability is high.
XNX (N.S.W.).
As I remember it, Repat. gave us a fair
and even generous deal. The sustenance
of £2 2s. per week during training at the
Sydney Technical College was sufficient
and the training was excellent. The sys-
tem, and a very good one, was to train
then to a 40 p.c. to 60 p.c. efficiency and
to refund to employers portion of the
trainee’s wages until he became 100 p.c.
e fficient, in from 12 to six months.
The trainees mostly responded well,
out the scheme almost failed through lack
°f sympathy and co-operation from em-
ployers, big and small, and from hostility
mown by trade-unions. Ask any Old
jigger if he remembers the days between
1919 and 1924, when his R.S.L. badge
a letter from Repat. was an invitation
to have the door slammed in his face.
Although the bitterness of the struggle
|o re-establish ourselves is still remem-
oered, let’s forget it and avoid a repeti-
tion by insisting that employers and trade-
unions share in re-employment planning,
jhid that they, as well as Repat. and the
jiggers, do their share and accept their
msponsibility.
Let employers and unions be repre-
sented at Repat. councils, and see to it
Pat it is explained to them that the men
p'ho drove the Japs back over the jungle
tdges of New Guinea, the men who
manned destroyers and Spitfires, will not
e turn as sedate businessmen or expen-
ded tradesmen, but will require under-
standing and perhaps a little patient for-
bearance.
Also, the Diggers might be reminded,
ever so gently, that they have been fight-
ing for themselves as well as for the rest
of the community. If this is done a lot
of antagonism and misunderstanding may
be avoided.—K. Steel (N.S.W.).
Papua and War Damage
Evacuees from Papua, conferring in
Brisbane early this month, agreed that
Territorians must continue to emphasise
to the War Damage Commission the
necessity for early payments of compen-
sation.
The fortunes of war threw these
settlers out of their homes with little but
what they stood up in. Although the
enemy remained within their country for
only six months, and has been outside
its boundaries for 2\ years, they are still
compelled to wait in Australia, living a
day-to-day existence, not knowing what
lies ahead of them.
Since it is the usual British practice to
restore civil administration and rehabili-
tate dispossessed peoples at the earliest
moment after the removal of the enemy,
it seems hard to find any justification or
excuse for Canberra’s attitude towards
Papuan colonists. Inquiries and repre-
sentations rebound, unanswered, from the
“If I hear of you recommending me to any more people I'll sue you
for slander."
blank wall of official indifference. If a
press report mentions the possibility of a
move towards arranging for the colonists’
return it is invariably denied within a
day or two.
If the Government has any reason for
its failure to restore the island territories
both evacuees and Australians would be
glad to hear it. —G. R. Richardson
President, Papuan Association (Q.).
Organising the Far West
“Far West N.S.W.” (B. 10/1/’4 5)
need not give up hope. If he can get
one of his shire councillors to do what
A. G. Philp, of the Balonne Shire Coun-
cil, St. George (Q.), did there’s a good
time coming.
Philp placed before his council a
scheme which he called a “New Deal for
the West.” It took into account the Gov-
ernment’s disregard for the west and
western people: costly and inefficient
railways, dear trunk-line service, rotten
roads, apparent disregard for the future of
wool, reduced buying power of the pound
in comparison with cities, hovels of
houses, lack of proper education facili-
ties, lack of amenities and the tough spin
given the women of the west.
Thirty-two shires were circularised in-
viting them to adopt the scheme, and to
call public meetings in the towns through-
out their respective shires. Members of the
A.L.P., graziers’ organisations, C.W.A.
branches and clergymen of all creeds
were invited to speak at these meetings.
From all this branches of “The New
Deal for the West” have sprung up and
it looks as though a strong movement is
in the making. Let western N. S. Wales
follow this good example.— Far West
Q’ld (Q.).
Settling the North
As a hard-working hopeful reared in
the Northern Territory, I have been fired
with enthusiasm by Nelson T. Johnson’s
vision of empire in my homeland: “If
Government provided chances for young
men and women in the Northern Terri-
tory great cities would grow up there
within 40 or 50 years.”
That’s the rub. We haven’t got 40 or
50 years. All the Government will defi-
nitely promise settlers is three months.
Recently I made inquiries about a
block of vacant Crown land open for
selection on the farthest rim of civilisa-
tion, never yet occupied (perhaps it never
will be). I know this country. I have
had 15 years’ experience in cattle, as head
stockman and manager of a run of 3400
square miles, and (for five years) as
holder of a run in desert, with little
permanent water. I’m 2000 miles from
the city, no roads go by my place, and
outside my family and staff white men
are never seen there —but I have not been
a failure.
Even in war-time I am willing to stake
my shilling a square mile in immediate
occupation of a patch of the Territory
that Mr. Johnson refers to as “this great
storehouse of wealth.” Only a bushman
born could hope to run cattle for the first
time on this block of arid wilderness with
a solitary creek—or even to keep himself
alive out there.
Yet I am informed by the Administra-
tion at Alice Springs that if I apply for
the block as grazing license I do so under
this condition: “The license may be can-
celled by the Administrator givipg three
months’ notice to that effect,”
It seems to me that a man can be
thrown out at any moment by the Ad-
ministrator for no reason, and he doesn’t
get decent time to muster his cattle and
quit.
Short-term leases of lightly-grassed arid
lands can only lead to spasmodic over-
stocking and exploitation of light rainfall
country such as this. Permanent settle-
ment requires knowledge and hard work.
To make a home and living for my wife
and children I’m ready to put a new
station on the map. The Northern Terri-
tory pioneers were there 70 years. They
didn’t get far in those Empire-building
regions that inspire Mr. Johnson.
By all means let us have his “definite
plan to open the land and give oppor-
tunities to Australian youth”—but before
we apply don’t threaten to throw us out
any time without reason, and see us off
the run within three months. — Genuine
Settler (Q.).
Dutch Immigrants
The communication on Dutch immi-
grants in “Other Fellow’s Mind” (B.
10 /1/’45) is incorrect in quoting “a
highly-placed official of the Dutch diplo-
matic service.” Netherlands Indies
Government Information Service
(N.S.W.).
A Utopia that Failed
It happened at Lyrup village settlement
(S.A.), on the River Murray, in the ’nine-
ties, after several hundred men (many
unemployed), women and children had
been taken there by steamer, and tar-
paulins handed out for families to make
tents for themselves. In their new world
these Utopians flirted with communism for
two years, but it produced nothing but
bickering, jealousy and intrigue.
First, the settlers appointed a board
of five to direct affairs, but if they did
not do what a hundred-odd camp fol-
lowers wanted them to do they were sup-
planted by another board. Everybody
got sick of that, and a manager was in-
troduced from outside at £2OO a y*ar.
Then there was a big row because the
manager was getting more money than
anybody else. He retired disgusted after
10 months of futile endeavor.
The settlers did not receive money
wages—they got coupons, worth from ss.
to 7s. a day each man. Credit was given
for work done on the settlement, and
50 p.c. could be spent in the store for
rations and clothes. Under this system
a man got everything he required, irre-
spective of whether he did his job or not,
but there were slackers.
One could not even own a fowl; it
belonged to the community. If, for
example, a woman had two tubs she had
to part with one. There were exciting
times when the rations, which arrived
once a week, were distributed. The
settlers did their own killing, and more
rows occurred because somebody was
getting so much more steak than some-
body else. There were, say, 11 joints
and extras tongue, heart, oxtail and
four legs—and these were put on a roster
and the distribution regulated.
Giving out drapery caused most dis-
content, especially among the women
Sufficient would arrive from Adelaide to
supply the settlement; it was displayec
for all to see. Those women would not
bother about yards of material; they
wanted a dress, which they would take
home and bring back in disgust because
it was of the same pattern as another
woman was wearing. Lyrup settlers sick-
ened of communism and tried socialism
for a year. But they found it was not
much better, except that they did get
what they earned.
Eventually Parliament stepped in and
passed an Act to put the settlement on
a different basis, and let the people have
individual blocks on easy terms, extend-
ing over 40 years. Then, instead of hold-
ing meetings every night of the week, and
in daytime, too, as was their custom
under communism, when time was of no
account, settlers under the new block
system often could not make a quorum
at a meeting—said they were too busy to
attend. In time Lyrup became one of
the most stable, debt-free settlements on
the River Murray.— Needles (S.A.).
“Communism” and Russia
Australian communists have some
quaint notions about Russia. They seem
to think that in that mysterious country
the plan of their founder is being fulfilled,
but Marx himself considered that it
couldn’t be unless there were certain con-
ditions which obviously don’t exist at
present.
Marx believed at first that the commu-
nist revolution could only arise in highly
industrialised countries where the means
of production had been centralised in a
few individuals. When his works became
unexpectedly popular in Russia he modi-
fied his opinion. He came to the con-
clusion that if a revolution in Russia
should be the signal for a general rising
of the European proletariat it was con-
ceivable that Russian communism could
be founded on the semi-feudal communal
ownership of land, but he added the im-
portant stipulation that this could not
occur if capitalism continued to be pre-
'served by Russia’s neighbors. If Russia
was surrounded by capitalistic nations
she would be forced in sheer economic
self-defence along the path already trod-
den by the more advanced European
countries.
Well, hasn’t she been? She has her Red
Army, her field marshals, special privi-
leges, monetary and otherwise, for merit.
The proletariat has to serve either in
the army or industry. Soviet Russia has
no hereditary aristocracy, but she has a
political one, and the principal difference
between herself and other European
countries is that the power is more cen-
tralised in the State than anywhere else
in the world except, perhaps, Germany.
Yet Marx’s aim was a classless society in
which the State would wither away.
There is not much sign of withering of
the State in Russia. — Spasebo (Vic.).
Massed-produced Houses
The answer to the present housing
shortage appears to be mass-production,
combining speed of erection with low
cost. One of the drawbacks is the same-
ness of the dwellings.
This can be overcome. In planning
a group of, say, 150 houses five designs
can be used. No two adjoining homes
need be the same. By using different
external finishes, placing houses in dif-
ferent positions on allotments and varia-
tion of fences, driveways and paths,
further individuality can be assured. The
gardens, of course will each express the
ideas of the occupied.
In working out any mass-production
scheme the first building erected should
be a fairly large hall that would serve
the builders as a carpenters’ shop, tool
store and general depot. When the pro-
ject is completed that building should
form the nucleus of a recreation centre.
—T. P. V. (N.S.W.).


ƒ
THE SUN SHINES ON A FAIRY-
LAND OF BEACH, AND ARNOTT'S
MILK ARROWROOT BISCUITS ARE
PLENTIFUL ONCE AGAIN.
mm
* \
V*. :
''
ill
-■- -'ll
• v ♦
ii
/ h
m
*
1
■
ii
111
ii
m
r
m
■
■
mm
I I ■%••■■ ■
Qmotts
m - a FAMOUS
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
THE FIRST FAVORITE OF EVERY CHILD—EASY TO CARRY—EASY TO SERVE
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
