

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66 -No. 3423
Wednesday, September 19, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
IN WARWICK CASTLE—THE GREAT HALL
TPHE Great Hall of Warwick Castle is entered from the inner
court by a flight of stone steps- leading under a Gothic porch,
It is 62 feet long, 40 feet broad and 35 feet high—dimensions which
recall the unlimited hospitality of the feudal barons. In the
spandrels of the richly-ornamented Gothic roof, which was put up
in 1830, are carved the bear and ragged staff, the arms of the Earls
of Warwick, and the centre beam is ornamented with a great boss
and an earl’s coronet. The floor was made in Venice and consists
of alternate squares of red and white Veronese marble arranged
lozenge-wise. The walls are wainscotted with oak panels, browned
by age, and are hung with armour and moose and reindeer antlers,
Near the east window is the doublet worn by Lord Brooke when
he was killed at Lichfield in 1643. Piled round the huge fireplace
are logs of wood, according to the usage of the ancient baron’s
household—for the hall was the only apartment in the castle devoted
to the keeping up of old customs. Over the fireplace is a wind
dial, and opposite to it a complete suit of steel armour and a brass-
studded helmet belonging to Cromwell. The room is pleasantly
lighted by three large Gothic windows in deep recesses. These
monuments of other times carry back the imagination to the
vigorous feudal days, the bold knights and lordly barons. In the
central window is a valuable Grecian sarcophagus, on which stands
an antique bust of Hercules, and in the western window is a bust
of Trajan.


Learn
Journalism
of hoimk
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE, COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
: CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 1«5
The Red Page
A LONG SHORT STORY.
The importance of the long story is
that it tests out the writer to his full
capacity. An inferior writer —even an
apparently hopeless one —may fluke a
good sketch of a thousand words or so,
■ but nobody can fluke it over a distance of
ten or twelve or fifteen thousand
words. Characterisation, style, construc-
tion, dramatisation, all the essentials of
the short story as an art form are put to
the test and no evasion is possible.
As Vance Palmer says in his intro-
duction, “anything” may rank as a short
story these days: “a dream, a dialogue,
a study of character, a poetic reverie;
anything that has a certain unity and the
movement of life.” But, as Mr. Palmer
also says, “There cannot be much conflict
over stories like de Maupassant’s ‘Boule
de Suif.” That unchallengeable master-
piece, he continues, “has almost as much
material substance as a carved stone ; it
seems to exist quite independently of its
author ; you can walk around it and for-
get about him.” And, it might be added,
“Boule de Suif,” like the other stories
that make de Maupassant the accepted
master of the short story in the world’s
literature, runs to fifteen thousand words.
“The Road to Yesterday,” which would
work out at about that length, was better
in the slightly shortened version that ap-
peared in The Bulletin. The opening
is the trouble. Mr. Davison, having the
reader at his mercy in a long short story,
proposes to describe the scenery; and
this he does very nicely, but unscrupu-
lously. However, the gumtrees have
some relevance to his theme, and one can-
not with a completely easy conscience
object to a landscape so feelingly and so
exactly observed as this: —
The thin soil of the ridges ran to no
opulence of leafage, only to grey messmate-
trees, with bare gravel and rocky outcrops
between, and a few tufts of grey wire-grass.
Here was no bird-song, no undergrowth,
no ground life. It was a lean, spare bush;
life clung to these bony heights only by
drawing in on itself; you imagined that
the putting forth of a new leaf would be a
matter affecting deep issues, and notable
in an uneventful calendar.
The story really begins at the seventh
page, where the narrator, who has been
travelling along a Victorian mountain
road to revisit a farm where he had
worked years before, comes to the turn-
off he has been waiting for and starts
talking about his old employer, Arthur
Sims. The theme is struck —Sims is a
man from Kent, striving to make a living
in an Australian wilderness —and Sims’s
portrait is painted with remarkable
clarity: —
Mr. Sims was a man of medium physique
and courageous countenance. Under a
bald head fringed with greying curls he had
fine blue-grey eyes in a bronzed face, a
straight nose, and a good mouth showing
between moustache and grizzled beard.
Hard work had affected him. His gait
was stiff-kneed and he walked with droop-
ing shoulders and dangling hands. He had
a habit —perhaps it was the Kentish accent
—of drawling and distorting certain vowels.
In his mouth “yes” became “yuurce” and
“year” “yuur.” He had a melodious voice
and in his lighter moments would pause in
his work to troll a line of a song, most
often, “I’ll Be a Jolly Pedlar and Around
the World I’ll Roam.”
There is an unforgettable glimpse of
the farmer in the nightcap he wears in
bed—winking at the youthful narrator’s
astonishment at the sight. The family
circle in the evenings is shown, Mr. Sims
removing himself from the noise of
snakes-and-ladders to read his only litera-
ture —a seedsman’s catalogue.
Mr. Sims is trying to “recreate on his
selection the Kentish garden of his youth-
ful recollections.” He is no homesick
dreamer, but, farming carefully, patiently
and arduously, is a man who “lived in
two worlds, that of his present labor and
that of his early recollections, and they
wove in and out of his thoughts as they
worked, each the inspiration of the
other.” When he ploughs an exception-
ally straight furrow it is “crooked as a
dog’s hind leg” by comparison with the
wonderful furrows they used to plough
in Kent. And so the narrator comes to
regard Kent as “a sort of fabled country,
something to look back on much as the
people of the Dark Ages must have
looked back on the fabled days of the
Roman order.”
Harry, Mr. Sims’s son, does , not share
this reverence. He prefers Australian
methods of pruning to Kentish, and once
he even derides a “dear old English
gentleman” his father has been approving.
The story, it becomes apparent, might
have been entitled “The Making of an
Australian,” for Australia is “Home” to
the sons, and even the father, reluctantly,
admits that he left Kent—the land of
serfdom to the squire—for a country
where a man could farm his own land and
be his own master. But the character is
too faithfully observed for any sudden
“conversion” to Australianism on the
father’s part. He has a bitter struggle
with his land and in a memorable scene,
when a great hailstorm wrecks his crops,
curses the alien skies that have inflicted
on him what seems like ruin:
It was a wonderful hailstorm; the iron
roof roared under it. You couldn’t see
fifty yards from the verandah. Ths ground
whitened with hail while you watched. We
stood admiring the transformation, pointing
out the big fellows—like pigeons’ eggs—and
exclaiming over the way the hail danced
back from the verandah ledge. We hadn’t
thought of it knocking every blossom from
the raspberry canes.
Just then we saw Mr. Sims coming in
towards the house from down by the lower
cultivation. He wasn’t running. Indifferent
to the pelting hail, he was walking more
heavily than usual, and his shoulders were
more drooped. We remembered the rasp-
berry canes then. Our voices were hushed
and our eyes fixed on him.
Within a few yards of the verandah he
stopped and lifted a haggard face and a
clenched fist to the sky, and shouted, “Send
it down! Send it down!”
Continued despondency, Frank Davi-
son says shrewdly, was possibly “a
luxury beyond Mr. Sims’s means.” And
also there is something indomitable in the
man. Farming, perhaps, in his inexperi-
ence of Australian conditions, in the
wrong type of country and with methods
sometimes unsuitable, he persists and, in
a measure,, succeeds. He will never join
his son Harry in frankly jeering at Kent;
he never masters Australian conditions as
his son will; but he grows a superb crop
of apples—and forgets to say that Kentish
apples were better. Until old age defeats
him, “he succeeded in making a living
from the selection.”
In a tradition established chiefly by
Henry Lawson (who, in his dark moods,
hated the Australian earth) a good many
contemporary Australian writers would
have finished this story with the picture
of the abandoned selection: an image of
defeat. But Frank Davison, hearteningly
and more truthfully, goes on to record
the family history: “Charlie and Annie
were still in the district, along the new
road, in the red-soil potato-growing
country further back in the hills.” It is
this that gives the story its epical quality:
the sons of the man of Kent have become
Australians; as resolute as the father,
feeling for the new country what he felt
for the old ; at home.
This is an old theme in Australian
writing—the remoulding of the pioneer;
a basic, a fundamental theyne, here pre-
sented with a rare fidelity. It does not —
cannot — seem stale, because the charac-
ter is fresh and vigorous.
Frank Davison has done something
more than paint a vital portrait of Mr.
Sims. “The Road to Yesterday” is a
story that moves unerringly on three
planes of significance: Mr. Sims is at
once himself as an individual; an Aus-
tralian national symbol of almost legend-
ary status; and finally (“In my thoughts
he had come in a way to stand for all
humanity, holding to its dream while
heart and nerve endure”) an image of all
mankind, steadfast against the malice of
the gods. He is a Conradian figure, com-
parable in his simplicity and his staunch-
ness to Captain McWhirr of Typhoon or
Singleton of The Nigger of the Narcissus.
If the story falls short of the Con-
radian heights—as a hailstorm is less than
a typhoon—and if it lacks something of
de Maupassant’s high spirits, it is still, in
its quieter way, a minor triumph of crafts-
manship. Printed separately (and perhaps
decorated with woodcuts) it would make
a book that would last: a work less im-
mediately appealing but sounder and
more mature than Man Shy.
Of most of the other stories it might be
said (with the inevitable half-truth of a
generalisation) that their appeal is not so
much literary as sociological, historical or
geographical. That is, the authors are
less concerned with the idiosyncracies of
character than with recording mass states
of mind, or notable scenes and events —
usually of the war. There are also one
or two stories chiefly of experimental
value.
Vance Palmer might have held more
firmly to what is clearly his own belief,
that de Maupassant (the creator of charac-
ter) was the genuine craftsman ; but he has
made, a lively and enterprising anthology
in which (in contrast to the previous
year’s) there is no story one feels should
have been excluded as merely mediocre,
nor any without its point of interest.
One of the advantages of Angus and
Robertson’s Coast to Coast anthology is
that it joins The Bulletin in giving a
chance to the writer of the long short
story. Cecil Mann reprinted from The
Bulletin in the first number Gavin
Casey’s “Short Shift Saturday,” Beatrice
Davis included a long story in the second,
and Vance Palmer has Frank Dalby
Davison’s “The Road to Yesterday”
(from last year’s Christmas Bulletin) in
Coast to Coast, 1944.
This story is outstanding in Coast to
Coast, 1944, not simply because of its
length but because it is an unforgettable
portrait of an individual. And although
it is true that any bit of writing may be
interesting—may even rank as a good
short story—in the long run it is always
the creation of memorable character that
makes a writer’s name. Next to Frank
Davison, the writers in this issue of the
anthology who are primarily concerned
with characterisation, and whose por-
trayals remain the most vividly in the
mind, are Margaret Trist (“What Else is
There?” is probably the best story she
has yet written) and Brian James. Gavin
Casey, Marjorie Barnard and E. O.
Schlunke are well represented.
Speech from a Caesar.
An Elizabethan lyrist, publishing his
verses in Sydney in 1945, is a disconcert-
ing apparition. Most of us keep neither
a valet nor a varlet and, if we did, would
hardly say to him “Fie, silly lad! ” ; and
such shepherdesses as are to be met at
King’s Cross, when greeted with a cry of
“Tirra lirra,” tend to regard one as a little
peculiar.
Which means that some of the songs
in Hugh McCrae’s Voice of the Forest
(Angus and Robertson) are chiefly for
connoisseurs of antiquities; and even
then the collector would have to accept
them not as'Elizabethan, but as Modern-
Elizabethan ; which (like McCrae’s AuS-
tralian-Scottish) will never bring the same
price.
The publishers (who say that this book
shows McCrae at his “maturest and
best”) and Mr, R. G. Howarth (who
claims in an introduction that the verses
show “a development”—presumably for
the better —from Satyrs and Sunlight)
seem to be mistaking historical and
biographical interest for literary. Any
poem of McCrae’s is of biographical im-
portance ; but McCrae the master tech-
nician allowing an extra metrical foot to
slip into the sixth line of “When I Was
Young” or offering a ballad so obviously
unworthy as “Camden Cricket Match”
is from the literary point of view only
of regrettable interest.
There have always been two McCraes
—a jolly singer and a giant of lyrical
poetry—and it is possible that Mr.
Howarth, seeing these poems as “lighter
and freer” than “the rich sensuousness”
of Satyrs and Sunlight —“clear runnings
from the Pierian spring”—values the first
above the second. But the first is decep-
tive. McCrae may spend his idle
moments pretending he is a bird in a tree
who says (very prettily) “Chip chip
chay”; but when he is truly himself he
rides the Australian sky like an eagle: —
The hawk entowered in the sky,
The lonely lord of heaven.
At daybreak saw him solitary
And yet again at even.
The value of his excursions into
antiquity is not that he can rhyme
daintily in the manner of the Eliza-
bethans, but that at his best he can bring
the antique world rushing alive into our
own, confounding all the narrow
nationalists, the rigid modernists and
the utilitarians because antiquity and
modernity become the one thing, a time-
less dance, contemporary in its energy,
Australian in its freedom and joy: —
On a day,
A day,
A day,
On a distant summer day ...
Every lassock played her lad,
Leg for leg at “Heigh-go-mad”;
Even beldames, dipped in stum,
Creakt for hope some fire might .come.
That is from the new book, and it is
one of eight or nine lyrics both strong
and lovely that redeem the collection
from a triviality which otherwise might
make one wish it unpublished. McCrae
is too big a man to be putting out in a
separate volume the scraps and pieces
which might find their place naturally
enough in a Collected Works.
Also in Voice of the ForesJ, however,
is a remarkable poem in a vein which
McCrae has never yet fully explored; a
direct speech, like that of the later Yeats,
which, carried further, might very well
prove to be his finest utterance; not
antiquity for antiquity’s sake, nor
antiquity forcing modernity to admit that
great art is timeless, but simply a natural
contemporary speech, without inversions
or archaisms; direct, dignified and
powerful:
As if stone Caesar shook
His staff across the wet
Black passages, and took
With marble eyes a yet
Unconquered gaze of Rome;
Marked how the cypress boughs
Stood thick about his home
As when he bent his brows
Three centuries before
Across some Gordian knot
His civic business wore—
Hie jacet the whole lot.
This is a style McCrae has rarely used;
only, it may be, in the unforgettable
“Never Again.” Since the piece appeared
in this year’s Australian Poetry it may be
his most recent. With its violent second
stanza, and entitled only “Fragment,” it
seems an obscure poem, but its meaning
perhaps is simply “To the devil with you
all; for I am Caesar still.” That, of
course, is admitted.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A modem morality play:
Judged simply as a production, Andre Obey’s
“Noah” was the best show the Sydney Inde-
pendent Theatre has put on for a considerable
time. And the play itself is a considerable
literary effort. Obey uses some tricks: Mrs.
Noah wears glasses; Noah’s sons sing “0 God,
Our Help in Ages Past” and “Ta-ra-ra-boom-
de-ay.” But the anachronisms neither jar nor
weary, and the medieval morality plays teemed
with them. And that is precisely what “Noah”
is; under its delightful humor an extremely
thoughtful and well-written morality play, with
an evergreen moral, the conflict between the
spiritual and the material, the devout and the
sceptical. Noah symbolises the former, Ham,
his son, the latter. Some remarkably fine acting
by Edgar Yardley helped to make Noah mem-
orable. He is simple, dignified and homely, a
prophet and a human being—a difficult com-
bination to portray in a novel, let alone on the
stage. Obey and Yardley, between them, suc-
ceed in doing just this. Ham was competently
played by Kevin Healy, as a restless intelligent
personality, mutinous and with powers of
rationalisation. A lesser writer would have
thumped home a moral by making him
a villain. Obey has a surer instiiict, concedes
him vitality and charm, and creates a living
character as well as a symbol.
In a farewell recital at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, Vera Bradford moved confi-
dently through a programme which
ranged from the Organ prelude and
Fugue in A minor of Bach-Liszt and the
Fantasie, Op, 17, of Schumann, with their
complicated mathematics, to the water-
color painting of the “Reflets Dans
I’Eau” of Debussy. The concert was well
attended considering the lady had the
misfortune t® be born in Melbourne. She
is another returned Australian artist who
has found it necessary to look abroad
for the engagements she can’t get in her
own country.
At the show of the Independent Group
(Athenaeum, Melbourne) James Quinn,
whose portraits look rather like maga-
zine illustrations, isn’t independent of his
academic teaching ; Dora Wilson isn’t in-
dependent of a somewhat photographic
view of Nature in her street scenes and
Margaret Peskell isn’t free of a tendency
to see in a landscape what the man-in-
the-street sees. In his “Cup Reader” and
the portrait of a lady Bernard Lawson
isn’t independent of an amiable respect
for the technique of William Dobell.
However, Dora Serle paints still-life
lightly and freshly and Grace Gardiner
has a dancer with a shawl who looks like
a conflagration.
Ambrose Hallen, a memorial exhibition
of whose works has been showing at
George’s Gallery in Melbourne, got 30
years ago at first hand the post-impres-
sionist influences which the young Aus-
tralian “modems” are getting today at
second or third hand. He lived most of
his life in Paris and on a tiny island off
the French coast, exhibited at the salons
and was a friend of Paul Signac and most
of the contemporary painters. Except in
his portraits, he seems to have painted
unself-consciously and as if he liked it,
and his bits of boats and sea and sunsets
have a refreshing immediacy; though his
1908 hat would be regarded as quite old-
fashioned in “modernist” circles. A
great-grandson of the explorer Lawson,
he died at 57 at Warrendyte, Victoria, m
1943, shortly after his return from Europe.
“Gebla”; The Ambrose Dyson whose
art was reviewed on the Red Page (B.
29/8 / ’45) is not Will’s son. His father
was Ambrose Dyson who died when onl}
32 years of age in 1912. The late Amb.
pioneered the sporting cartoons in the
Melbourne '‘Herald,” and his technique
in that field of journalistic art has not yet
been equalled in this country. Unlike ms
brother, the famous Will, he did not rely
on expanses of black to produce his
effects ; but utilised the white space of his
sheet to accentuate the impeccable crato'
manship of his clean, lively lines. ( Th°
Bulletin readers who remember ‘ Hop
will recall that Amb. deputised for that
world-renowned caricaturist during h-
lengthy absences. This was at Hop s own
request, as nobody appreciated more in
capabilities of the artist who died
young.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ike. Oufc/crti
jm.
h
3
BUY TCBW FOB A BAIMY BAY
No coupons.
MEN'S LIGHTWEIGHT WATERPROOF JACKETS 100%
waterproof, full cut for ease, storm fronts. Reinforced rustless
buttons, special armhole ventilators. In gt servcieable Grey,
the Coat weighs 200z5., and will give long service. Suitable for
Golfers, Fishermen, Hikers, Farmers and all outdoor wear.
Sizes: 36 in., 38 in., 40 in. and 42 in. chests. Price 257-
No coupons.
NOTE.—We are holding stocks for our country Clients—to
save disappointment order NOW.
i
9 x ' r: \
-J
liii
m
: ™ :■ I
HB
.303 RIFLE AMMUNITION .303 Rifle
Cartridges are now available from us
. . . at the price of 25/- per hundred.
• Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ENGLISH COTTON TWEED TROUSERS,
for hard wear, three pockets, belt loops,
adequately cut, soft inside finish. Neat
dark patterns. 30" to 50" waist .... 20/1
4 coupons.
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


TO SERVE FOR YEARS
... many, many years!
i
* '
■■ ■ '■ .>4' ■ ■
-4 ... 4.v- v . ;.'4- : 4
y "
,
.. . ,,, .
-4
IBS
’ '*
0
. ;
Pfllpll
Riiiiiii
. ■ ■■
filial. : !
4
,|fcV v 4X.
.
% ■ , Vv-- •'
■ V’
Wmmmm
■h
11
,i
■
' , . - WiltdMs'M ifun* 44 &* w* ’>* *
y Sfe...;
li iiHMi imp
«. ■*
mimm.
mmMi
in
Sllpißp
I AA
b i
HBES
i li
U* NDER the highways o£ tomorrow, corrugated
iron will carry the load for many, many years.
Years that will be free from problems of maintenance and replace-
ment. Armco Multi-Plate Pipe is proving in thousands of installa-
tions that it is ideal for the construction of bridges that require high
load-bearing capacity at low cost. The combination of modern
steel construction with native stone, as shown in this photograph,
makes beautiful durable bridges.
Municipal councillors and engineers are invited to
write for full particulars to their nearest Armco Office.
ARMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY - - - JdELBOURNE - - - BRISBANE -
- ADELAIDE
Al—s


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3423
Wednesday, September 19, 1945
WRONG ADDRESS.
“Evatt, you say, sir? No such name on our list of invitations, sir. Have you tried Australia House, sir?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
DR. EVATT AND FRIENDS.
The Evatt-Forde report on the San
Francisco conference contains a passage
which is probably without a parallel in
State papers, though matter and tone are
familiar to readers of the Sydney daily
and Sunday press:
At the final meeting of the Steering Com-
mittee the delegate of Peru proposed a
special vote, “by way of homage to the
greatest champion of the small Powers —
the Foreign Minister of Australia, Herbert
yere Evatt.” The chairmen of the delega-
tions rose to their feet and carried the
vote by acclamation.
The gentleman from Peru is a Mr,
Gallagher, No doubt ancestral feelings
were stirred in the Gallagher breast by
the spectacle of the gentleman from Aus-
tralia assuming the leadership of such
of the little nations as were willing to
be led as far as they thought it safe to
go, in the process twisting the Lion’s tail.
On various grounds, one being national
pride, qaany of the delegates from these
nations objected to five-Power supremacy
as expressed in the veto power, but for
various reasons—among them a lively
sense of economic dependence on one
or more of the big Powers and fear of
reactions at home if they took too de-
cided a stand—none of them was pre*
pared to bell the cat. Since the Latin-
American countries had to follow the
United States and the votes of the Slav
“republics,” .Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia,
White Russia'and Ukrqinia, were in Molo-
tov’s pocket, only a delegation from a
British Dominion was really in a posi-
tion to do this and get away with it.
Canadians, South Africans and New
Zealanders refused the part of candid
friend, being all intent on the preser-
vation of British Commonwealth unity
and of the new identity of policy with the
United States. Relegating Mr, Forde and
the “consultants” and “advisers” to in-
significance, Dr. Evatt grasped the oppor-
tunity with both hands.
Straightway he became a celebrity,
which had not been the case with his
previous visits abroad as Minister of Ex-
ternal Affairs. On the first of these
tours, in 1942, he had tried Mr. Roose-
velt’s patience and temper by pressing
for a Pacific War Council, on which, in
the words of “Life,” “Australia, China
and the Netherlands could sit, with
Britain and the U.S.A. in an appearance
of equality.” To this Mr. Roosevelt made
a show of agreeing, imperfectly con-
cealing his displeasure, but he never
summoned the Pacific War Councillors
to gather round him ; in fact, the Pacific
War Council had no more influence on
the course of events than the Council of
Trent. Back in Washington in 1943, Dr.
Evatt, according to “Life,” found the
President still outwardly obliging but in-
wardly resentful:
Checking up, he found he had been given
one more ’plane than he had asked for,
and told Roosevelt so. “I know,” replied
the President. “That is for you to fly
home in.”
Going to Britain, the wandering Min-
ister found it expedient to bask in re-
flected glory, that of Mr. Churchill, who
introduced him to Churchill-cheering
crowds.
At San Francisco there was no Mr.
Roosevelt to contend with nor any Mr.
Churchill to take the centre of the stage
as of right. That place Dr. Evatt
grabbed for himself. There was muttered
annoyance in the British quarter, and the
Canadian attitude was one of silent dis-
approval, but from the audi.ence of cor-
respondents came shouts of delight. They
had found the proceedings deadly dull
till “the man from Down Under”
bounded into the limelight shaking the
controversial equivalent of a shillelagh,
and thenceforward they gave him all the
publicity for which he had hungered—
though in his own city of Sydney, where
all the daily and Sunday papers are de-
voted to him, he has had plenty. For
weeks American editors, “columnists,”
commentators and writers of “character-
sketches” (with portrait), as well as the
Gallaghers from the little nations,
showered him with praise.
The praise was not universal (every
aspiring actor has his critics), and it was
most exuberant in localities where twist-
ing the Lion’s tail is a traditional pastime.
It did not extend to the Canadian press,
which values the talents and services
of Mr. Mackenzie King, and which
thoroughly approved of his modest and
useful contribution to the conference, nor
did the Evatt performance come in for
ryuch applause in Britain, except from
admirers like Professor Laski, of “Britain
is a second-class Power” notoriety. The
“Economist,” which, like Dr. Evatt him-
self, has been accused of being Left-
Wing, though never of being kind to
Communists, came out with an article in
which there was a nasty reference to Dr.
Evatt’s “forlorn and impractical attempt
to reach for the moon and secure the
adoption of an amendment removing the
veto from the use of force.” But such
jarring notes, like the very difficult posi-
tion in which Britain finds itself —with
“the till empty,” food and coal supplies
unsatisfactory, so much to rebuild on the
ruins wrought by the bombings and sink-
ings and a new and sinister predominance
visible in Europe and threatened in Asia
—could be and were ignored.
Dr. Evatt came back to Australia a
hero to writing boys but with ominous
signs of inflation at the top. He found
immediate occasion for chagrin at the
failure of his equals, as he considered
them, to take him at his own valuation
and that of his fellow-politicians and
press friends.
An ultimatum to Japan had been issued
from Potsdam without Dr. Evatt’s con-
sent or even his knowledge. In the terms
imposed on Japan it was proposed to use
the Emperor as head of a native Gov-
ernment —spiritual head, anyway —and
Dr. Evatt was for stipulating that the
Emperor should be treated as a war
criminal —though he had made no such
stipulation in the case of the Italian King.
There was a foul British plot to exclude
Australia from the Japanese-surrender
ceremony, frustrated only by an appeal
to General MacArthur and the United
States representative at Canberra. To
cap all, the Council of Foreign Ministers,
British, American, Russian, Chinese and
French, was to meet in London, as
arranged at Potsdam by President Tru-
man, Marshal Stalin and Mr. Churchill
(Mr. Attlee coinciding when Mr.
Churchill had to retire), and Dr. Evatt
was not to be in it.
Events made this Evatt catalogue of
grievances look foolish, and worse.
Behind the Potsdam ultimatum, as it
transpired, lay the incommunicable secret
of the atomic bomb, which finished off
the Japanese war with two throws. At
the surrender ceremony Australia was
represented, along with Britain, China,
Canada, France and New Zealand, but
not India —irrefutable evidence that all
the arrangements were in American
hands, just as all the speeches issued from
American mouths. Had the British had
the ordering of things India would never
have been excluded, it being unimagin-
able that any British Government, what-
ever its complexion, would so depart
from British practice in 1914-18 and
1939-45 as to put such a slight on India
or on Australia; yet for denying any
intention of slighting Australia the
Labor Dominions Secretary was rebuked
by Dr. Evatt and attacked, in one case
blackguarded, by the Sydney newspapers.
The same newspapers, with or without
Canberra inspiration, accused General
MacArthur of being “soft-handed” in his
treatment of the Japs when the general
was actually securing the safety of all
the prisoners-of-war left alive, all the
fighting men and all the men of the
occupying forces—very small at the be-
ginning—in obedience to orders from
Washington and with the cool effi-
ciency which has characterised his opera-
tions and those of the leaders of the
sister services—which goes also for Lord
Mountbatten, Sir Bruce Fraser and the
leaders of our fighting men.
As for the Council of Foreign Minis-
ters, it was announced by Mr. Chifley
that “Australia” had “claimed the right
to participate in the proceedings,” and
that Mr. Attlee had “invited me to nomi-
nate a special representative able to speak
with authority,” which “special represen-
tative able to speak with authority” would
be Dr. Evatt. Mr. Chifley’s Government
was “confident that the obvious justice
of its claim to participate will not be
denied by all members of the Council.”
Before Dr. Evatt. set out on his travels
again, he moved for the ratification of
the United Nations charter in the House
of Representatives. This he did without
explaining why he had not taken the
sense of the House as to Australia’s line
of policy at San Francisco. The like of
this was done in long full-dress debates
in the House of Commons and in the
Parliament at Ottawa, but it is a practice
which Dr. Evatt has never followed, Dr.
Evatt having constituted himself the
architect or artificer of Australian foreign
policy, brooking no interference. He had
arrived in London before Mr. McEwen,
one of the “consultants” who were not
consulted, took part in the debate on
ratification Of the charter and it was left
to Mr. Pollard, another “consultant,” to
reply, which Mr. Pollard did, intem-
perately in some sentences, without im-
pairing the force of the McEwcn indict-
ment :
If ever there was a one-man band, it was
the Australian delegation at San Francisco.
Although there must have been a score ot
committees, whenever anything had to be
said on behalf of Australia the übiquitous
Dr. Evatt appeared and stated the case.
He completely disregarded the existence ot
the dozen consultants and advisers appointed
by the late Prime Minister. His personal
views were consistently put forward as the
foreign policy of Australia.
The day will come when Dr. Evatt will
be what I am now —an cx-Minister of
External Affairs. I had looked forward
to inviting him to say whether as an ex-
Minister of External Affairs he would at
an international conference sit on a remote
back bench as one of the audience while a
comparatively junior member of the External
Affairs Department occupied the chair as
Australian spokesman.
Every time that Dr. Evatt, in the course
of his constantly practised diplomatic tac-
tics, publicly reproaches the British Gov-
ernment he steadily whittles down the
authority internationally attached to the
voice of the United Kingdom. On more
than a few occasions in San Francisco Dr.
Evatt publicly revealed disagreement with
the United Kingdom on an important issue.
About a fortnight ago, practically the whole
of the national news session at 7 p.m. con-
sisted of a statement by Dr. Evatt trounc-
ing the British Government over the
Japanese surrender.
Earlier in the ratification debate Mr.
Menzies had said that “Dr. Evatt’s atti-
tude in the negotiations at San Francisco,
and subsequently towards Britain, merits
the very strongest criticism”:
Public conflict between the Government
and Great Britain may give satisfaction to
some elements not hard to find, but it is
extremely dangerous, and we of the Opposi-
tion entirely dissociate ourselves from it.
And when the Clyne report on the
Australia First cases was tabled in the
House, Mr. Menzies suggested that Dr.
Evatt, as Attorney-General, and Mr.
Forde, as Army Minister, should offer “a
handsome public apology” to the eight
men —two of them returned soldiers,
“loyal subjects,” one of whom died a
broken man —declared by the Justice to
have been “wrongly detained” and to be
entitled to compensation and to “a public
declaration” that they were “not dis-
loyal.”
But the Australia First case is a digres-
sion, and we have left Dr. Evatt in
London, where he arrived on September
7 “in 63 hours,” awaiting a call from
the Council of Foreign Ministers to join
them with full status, deliberative and
voting powers. At the end of the Coun-
cil’s first week of discussions this call had
not come, and Canberra had the dismal
feeling that it never would. A Melbourne
“Herald” man had made the passage from
New York with Mr. Byrnes and party.
He reported that they were “surprised
to hear that Dr. Evatt had arrived in
London” not having been “informed offi-
cially that Australia was seeking a voice
in the conversations”; and “surprise”
was not their only feeling:
The Americans question the reasonable-
ness of Dr. Evatt’s claim to be heard.
They insist that the Pacific will not be dis-
cussed in London, and suggest that a pre-
liminary inquiry would have satisfied Can-
berra on this point. Any attempt by Aus-
tralia to force discussions of Pacific ques-
tms would be resented. Moreover, the
Americans are not likely to agree to Dr.
Evatt seeking admission to the Council
as a matter of right. They are not prepared
to concede that Australia has any more
right to a voice in the settlement of Europe
than Patagonia.
Very nasty, *but natural enough, for it
will be conceded, except by Dr. Evatt
and friends, that our American allies
have had a lot to put up with. With
their loyal and chivalrous feeling for
President Roosevelt’s successor they must
strongly object to the condemnation of
Mr. Truman implied in Dr. Evatt’s railing
at the Potsdam ultimatum because he was
left out of it and at the use made of
Hirohito to secure—as it did —what
every Australian woman with a son, hus-
band Pr brother on a fighting front or in
a prisoner-of-war hell-camp was longing
for. And no doubt they are boiling with
rage at the attacks on General Mac-
Arthur, to which that magnificent Ameri-
can made a dignified and altogether con-
vincing reply, and in which Dr. Evatt’s
Sydney newspaper claque associated itself
—not for the first time —with the pestilent
gang of Communists and fellow-travellers.
Releasing the Fighters.
It was here suggested a little time back
that all those in uniform in Australia
who have their old jobs to return to
should be handed their discharges as
quickly as these could be written out.
Such a course, however, would be too
simple and too sensible for officialdom.
Instead, authority is apparently going to
fantastic lengths to keep the men in.
A characteristic method has to do with
men who happen to be back in Australia
—on leave, or for some other reason—
though their units are still abroad. The
latest ukase heard of regarding these is
that they shall be distributed round units
serving in Australia, there to await dis-
charge or the return of their units. Then,
presumably, all will be discharged in
column of lump. The T.U.C, has urged
the British Government to speed up dis-
charges to avoid “a grave danger of
repetition” of what happened last time.
That can apply just as urgently here.
At Canberra on August 29 it was given
out by Mr. Dedman that men awaiting
discharge would be released to their
homes on leave, service pay to continue
and jobs to be taken if wanted. This is not
being done, though there is not the slight-
est reason for not doing it in regard to
men with their old jobs waiting for them.
Just before the sudden end of the war
caught authority flatfooted, the official
policy was to reduce the ground forces
in the islands to three divisions, with a
corresponding reduction in the air forces.
Among other results, this was to mean
that a “token” force might, “if possible,”
be sent to Singapore. An inglorious
policy, but that was nothing new, and
there it stood —till, suddenly and most
surprisingly, there was no more fighting
to do. The excuse for it was that the
men were wanted back in industries and
on the land. Whatever validity that ex-
cuse may then have lacked, there can be
no question that now, with the fighting
over, it is most emphatically valid. What
is now needed is to get all the country’s
wheels working again as quickly as pos-
sible.
The discharging at once of every man
who can fairly be dispensed with would
start something moving. Perhaps the
idea of officialdom —political or other —
may be that the belligerent boys of the
pens who have been showing such fight
since the fighting ended are going to take
over from General MacArthur and wade
into the sort of mess they seem to want,
possibly armed with atomic fountain-pens.
Unless some such development is ex-
pected—more fighting all over the place
instead of the phenomenon, produced by
General MacArthur’s sane dealings, of not
a single “incident,” not so much as
a thrown tomato, reported anywhere,
though millions of men in many places
and of vicious fanaticism are involved —
then there can be no possible excuse for
hanging on to any, except the indispen-
sable, of those who are in Australia and
have their old jobs waiting for them.
The emphasis on the adjective is im-
portant. To start off releasing all hands
and the cook who happen to be in Aus-
tralia would be most unfair to the long-
service and other fighting men yet to be
brought back. Mr. Dedman, for what
his authority may be worth, has appar-
ently recognised that. “It would be
totally unfair,” he said, “to allow a man
who has no family responsibilities, and
who has served for only a short period,
to obtain a discharge in preference to an
individual with family responsibilities
who has served for a long period.”
Put into effect generally, it would give a
flying start for any new jobs that might
be going, and would ruin the Re-estab-
lishment Act’s preference provisions, such
as they are.
An old job is an entirely different
matter. If there is one thing the Re-
establishment Act appears to be clear on
it is that all those who went from jobs
into uniform must be given the jobs back
again if still available, as most of them
should be. This means that the releasing
of men who have old jobs can make no
possible difference to anybody, since they
would not be getting in ahead of
anybody. The main difference would
be that, instead of the country pay-
ing them, a large number of them
Would be getting paid by private
enterprise. They would be helping to get
the country into shape again as a going
concern ; and that goes for any brand of
industry. Holding to “essential” classifi-
cations now is plainly ridiculous.
Another aspect of the business is that,
the job of seeing the Japs off the premises
completed, those serving in .the islands
should be coming home in droves. There
has been confusion enough already at
some of the discharge-dispensaries, and it
looks sure to be then ten times worse.
The great bulk -of those in uniform
want to get at starting to carve out their
future civilian lives, with the minimum of
mucking about on the way out. By the
way things are being done, they can make
up their minds to the maximum. Especi-
ally with those now in being hung on to,
despite their having old jobs waiting for
them, whole brigades can expect to be
pushed around, and kept waiting, and so
made dissatisfied and disgruntled.
There is everything in favor of an
honest priority system of releasing the
men as they are brought back, though,
with the war over, it may be very much
doubted whether such a system will still
be operated when /the shiploads begin
arriving. Long service in action and
suchlike methods of deciding priority will
be excellent if they can be worked. The
main thing will be to get the job done
expeditiously, or trouble among those
who will be kept marking time can be
written down as certain. Instead of itself
marking time, authority should be now
busy clearing the deck by dispensing with
all those who can fairly be dispensed
with, including any Dugout Fusiliers who
may be holding this essential job up in
order to keep on holding their own jobs
down.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The First of Many.
Off Rose Bay last Sunday afternoon the
windjammer Lawhill lay in Sydney
Harbor under bare poles, an odd sight
among the grey merchant ships around
her. From the heights of Vaucluse, down
the curving waterfront, past the flying-
boat base and on around the New South
Head-road to Double Bay, a distance of
two miles or so, watching thousands
saw the ship’s upper spars thin and black
against the sky, her hull dark against the
greenery of George’s Heights.
The people were banked along every
street and lane that ran down to the
harbor, and more came from the packed
trams and buses that struggled through
the throng. Cars were parked on every
kerb, and others streamed from east and
west and south until it seemed there
wasn’t a vacant square yard anywhere
around the bay or within 500 yards Of
the water’s edge. At and around the
flying-boat base was the greatest concen-
tration, a restless mass of packed
humanity. And at her moorings, the
cynosure of all those thousands of eyes,
rode the sailing ship, impassive, incurious,
beautiful.
While the crowd in silence watched the
ship, a low rhythmic hum came faintly
from the north-east. Instantly the ship
was forgotten. A great stir, a great sigh
ran through the people. Every eye turned
to the north-east; fingers began to point;
heads craned ; there were waves of cheers.
People choked and laughed, wept and
danced; and then, as first one and then
another Catalina swept in over the air-
port and circled preparatory to alighting,
they went mad. No human noise has
ever surged over the waters of the harbor
like that which swept out from the shore
to greet the first men of the Eighth Divi-
sion, A.1.F., freed at last from the long
captivity, as they came home.
Each launch with its load travelled in
a wide circle along the foreshore, and the
standing men waved. Later, as they
passed from the air base, in cars and
buses, into the mass packing the New
South Head-road, all traffic was jammed
and the Diggers got the welcome they
had dreamed of.
They were not very demonstrative
themselves. One man stood in his launch
and looked on his native land, tears pour-
ing down his cheeks. Another sat down
and stood up and sat down again. From
the buses their brown faces looked out
with the old Australian grin on them.
They grabbed a hand where they could,
threw an Australian wink where they
could. Most of them looked well, prob-
ably far better than they did a month
ago, since they had been fed and re-
clothed and had had time to be free. One
youth, in a car with his mother and his
girl, chewed 19 to the dozen and wore
an excited smile of triumph that made
him for all the world like a champion
footballer leaving the ground after his
team has won the premiership. His team
had won a premiership. It had written
into its nation’s annals an epic that
ranks with Anzac and the Somme, with
Tobruk and the Kokoda Trail.
In their long and painful captivity the
Diggers had, as one of them has said,
“planted a legend in Asia that will grow
through the centuries” and, as they passed
slowly along that crowded road, the
people they came back to tried to show
them that in their own country, too, they
are a legend that will never die.
Thus was. another distinctive mark
made in Australian history.
The Australia First Cases.
The report of Justice Clyne on the Aus-
tralia First internments, which were
made on March 10, 1942, was tabled in
Parliament last week. The judicial in-
quiry had occupied more than a year,
and in “expenses” had cost £8204 to
June 30—it is likely that actual expendi-
ture will amount to £20,000. While the
thing was in progress an internee whose
widow has now been recommended for
a grant of £4OO, a 1914-18 soldier with a
meritorious record, died broken-hearted
and penniless. Another, who may be
compensated, was reduced to such a con-
dition that he was unfit to attend the
inquiry.
The text of the report was not avail-
able in Sydney when this paper went to
press, but a three-page precis of Justice
Clyne’s findings, which cover 43 pages,
had been made available to members of
Parliament. In this there was a reference
to a message from Westralia which led
to the arrest of sixteen persons in N. S.
Wales on the ground that they “had
Some relationship” with a group of three
men and a woman about whom it was
“difficult to resist the conclusion, how-
ever strange it may seem, that they were
planning to assist the Japanese who were
threatening to invade Australia.” The
arrests of the 16 were “justified,” but “a
little more caution a little more inves-
tigation would have shown that some of
the persons arrested had never heard of
the Western Australians.”
The Minister (Mr. Forde) acted on the
recommendation by the Army authori-
ties for Ministerial warrants, and his
Honor could not see any sufficient reason
which would have justified the Minister
in not accepting it. But he thought it
“proper to add that the Army authorities
were not justified in recommending the
detention of eight of the men.” In his
judgment each of these men was entitled
to compensation, plus “a public declara-
tion that they were in fact wrongly de-
tained and were not disloyal.” Such a
declaration “should afford them some
measure of redress.”
The men in question and the amounts
recommended are: Keith Percival Bath
(£500), Clarence Crowley (£500), S. B,
Hooper (costs of his appeals and medi-
cal expenses), Edward Cory de la Roche
Masey (£350), Harley Matthews (£700),
Cecil Walter Salier (£500), W. F.
Tinker-Giles (costs of his appeals), M. F.
Watts (£4OO to his widow).
The detention of eight other N.S.W.
men and a Victorian were justified, his
Honor held. One of them was a young
soldier who struck even the counsel assist-
ing the Judge, Mr. Dovey, K.C., as un-
sophisticated, He was a member of the
STALLING FOR TIME.
“The N.S.W. State Parliament is in session again after a six months’ holiday. Premier
McKell is expected back at the end of the month.”
“Wish Bill’d hurry home—l can’t keep this down much longer."
A.I.F. throughout his internment, was
not discharged on his release and was
not present during the latter part of the
inquiry because he was serving his coun?
try as a volunteer in the front line in
Bougainville.
The Government has.undertaken to pay
all the amounts recommended by Justice
Clyne. But there is a great deal
more to be said about the whole matter.
Some of the evidence of Security. Depart-
ment methods and Security Department
accuracy would be enough in most
British countries to cause a national
situation and wreck the Government.
There is an overwhelming case for
the appointment of a Parliamentary
Select Committee, unhampered by the
considerations of Parliamentary privi-
lege which limit the ambit of in-
quiries before a royal commission, into
the whole question of the internment of
Australian citizens by the party in power.
It the facts are as they are represented
in the Australia First and other cases,
even so docile a community as this will
be inclined to pinch itself to make sure
that it has not been living in Nazi
Germany.
Transport Strangling.
A timely warning against attempts to
strangle post-war development of road
transport has been issued by H. W.
Harrison, of the Federal Chamber of
Automotive Industries. He began by
pointing out that, even with the checks
imposed by State Governments, pre-war
road traffic in 1939 provided nearly
50,000 more individual jobs than did all
the Government railways.
Not only will motor transport itself
afford still more employment to ex-ser-
vicemen and others during the years
ahead, if not strangled at the instance of
Railway Departments and railwaymen’s
unions, but it will create an immense
increase of employment in other direc-
tions. Hotels, refreshment-rooms, guest-
houses, stores and small-goods shops will
be required to cater for the needs of road
travellers. These in turn will serve as
markets for local produce. New show
places and tourist resorts will be de-
veloped, land settlement and agricultural
industries extended and rehabilitation
of servicemen substantially assisted.
The war has brought about a vast
extension of Australia’s trgifficable roads.
The great North-South and East-West
highways have opened up millions of
acres that were previously isolated from
any speedy means of goods transport.
The only obstacle that can prevent the
profitable development of this huge area
of practically new country is the fetter-
ing of road transport by hampering re-
strictions imposed by spineless “Gov-
ernments” dominated by railway staffs
and unions. Queensland’s notorious
Transport Strangulation Board has pro-
vided many flagrant examples of the
crippling effects of such a “policy” upon
public convenience and private enterprise
alike. With transport strangulation on
a national scale the new roads would be
rendered of little use, and the new lands
of little value.
U.S. and N.S.W. Miners.
In an article on U.S. coal production in
the “Christian Science Monitor,” which,
unlike the Melbourne “Argus,” is impar-
tial and neutral, it is stated that the
miners number 600,000, of whom “almost
a fourth are in the armed forces,” and
that the mates of the uniformed men
“are mining more coal than ever before
in American history”; indeed, “more
than all the rest of the world put together,
according to an official report of the
United Mine Workers.” And “they are
being paid more than ever before —an
average of about $225 a month.”
Even more striking is the fact that each
miner produces almost 60 p.c. more a day
than 25 years ago. An average miner digs
out 51 tons of coal each shift.
They don’t do that there ’ere in N. S.
Wales. If any of those capitalists seri-
ously proposed that N.S.W. coalminers
should strive for an average of even 4
tons a shift —five a week; U.S. miners
work six—the daily stoppages would
swell immediately into a general strike
like the one in 1940, when Communists
were campaigning against “the imperialist
war” and their coal strike lasted IQ
weeks.
Giving evidence at the onety-oneth in-
quiry, the Commonwealth Coal Commis-
sion’s distributing manager said that the
N. S. Wales output last year amounted
to 11,000,000 tons. This was very little
more than the N.S.W. output in 1913,
when there was scarcely any mechanisa-
tion. True, there isn’t much now, the
Miners’ Federation being against it. With
such as there was, output per man i
1944, the crucial year m each ol the
wars, was 3.11 tons; in 1935, when there
was no war, it was 3.333 tons.
The “Christian Science Monitor
writer, R. H. Markham, visited the
mining families in their homes. He was
told they were owned by the miners,
“all immigrants from the Old World who
arrived penniless,” largely from Serbia,
and he noted that “not many of my news-
paper colleagues have pleasanter homes.
And “along the road my guide pointed
out numerous farmhouses belonging to
miners.” Their high wages are earned by
hard work. They have been told that
myriads of people in war-devastated.
Europe may die for lack of fuel during the
terrible winter in prospect, and they are
working harder. Their union leader,
Lewis, is a queer, combustible fellow, who
has had his quarrels with mineowners
and Washington controllers, but he is no
Communist. On the contrary, he hates
Communists.
N.S.W, coalminers could take a hand in
the humanitarian work of providing coal
for Europe. Britain itself is short of
coal, and they are nearly all British-born
or of British descent. Their industry had
a big export trade before it came under the
Communist-larrikin blight. But, accord-
ing to the Coal Commission’s distribut-
ing manager, “it will take 12,500,000 tons
per annum for the next five years to
rebuild Australian reserves” ; and in the
meantime anything may happen. Lots of
things, all disgraceful to Australia, hap-
pened during the wars as a result of Com-
munist-larrikin control, connived at by
Canberra, whose Attorney-General has
always been too busy—of late in issuing
foreign-policy decrees to Britain and the
United States—to stand up to Communist-
larrikinism in his own State, and virtually
in the outer suburbs of his own city.
Machines and Men.
Among other things, the war forced
mass production to a pitch undreamt-of
a decade ago. Rapid-fire weapons, con-
signing ammunition at an incredible rate,
meant that the ammunition had to be
made at a similarly incredible rate. Old
methods of making and loading cartridges
had to go by the board when the prin-
ciple of the machine-gun was introduced
in light artillery like the aircraft cannon
and the multiple pom-pom. It was
necessary to pour the stuff out in floods.
About the first thing that happened
was the use of unskilled people to operate
machines. Science, realising at once that
the method of training workers in what
was regarded as skilled work was too
slow for a war of the kind just fought,
made a short cut by devising machines
to do the work. These machines, marvels
of ingenuity and precision, were simple
to operate. Any intelligent man or
woman could be brought into a factory,
given a week or two of tuition and then
be set to making munitions. Improve-
ment followed invention and invention
followed improvement until, by the time
the atom bomb fell on Hiroshima, all
that was necessary to turn out war
material was a sufficient number of
machines and sufficient human hands to
start, guide and stop them.
This doesn’t mean that the skilled
tradesman was entirely displaced by
the “dilutee,” It does mean that in
the immediate time ahead manu-
facturers will find readily available
machines that will turn out consumer
goods formerly made almost entirely by
hand. It means, further, that the day of
the apprentice is passing, for anybody
who can follow a blueprint or under-
stand a template will simply have to
adjust the machine to the design, press
a switch and await the result.
And it means that union officials and
their more thoughtful members ought to
be looking closely at this aspect of the
days ahead. The machine age is here.
Four unskilled men can erect a pre-
fabricated house in a day; one unskilled
man with the right machine can turn out
thousands of lipstick-holders an hour;
machines can toss out precision parts
that once took hours of work with hand-
tools and calipers and micrometers ; even
cabinet-making is now done by machines.
Within a fpw years craft unions will no
longer be able to close their books to
membership, for craftsmen won’t be so
important. Unionists who pin their
hopes of future employment to glorious
Government proposals for unified rail-
ways, nationalised airlines and similar
“public works” in this fair country should
contemplate the machine wonders that
have come out of the war before-becom-
ing too complacent.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to Schlesinger Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
ť
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street,
Melbourne. STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
The 54 Common
Errors in English
by G. H. Welford, Director,
Pehnan Institute (O/Seas)
The undivided attention of the pupil is
directed to one error at a time, the correct
form sinks into the subconscious and the
pupil uses it thereafter without hesitation
or self-consciousness. The pupil is shown,
too, how to improve intonation, resonance
and accent.
The study material consists of two books
in open type and flexible covers. Weight
with test papers, 7oz. The fee for the
complete Course, including material, tun
tuitional service and postages to the pupil,
is £2.
E. H. Welford, The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
POLITICAL POINTS
On September 17, 1914, the last Liberal
Government, that of Joe Cook (at nearly
85 still hale and interested in events) left
office, and that day Hughes was sworn
in as Labor Attorney-General. The 31st
anniversary found Billy in the Liberal
party-room along with Spender, their
admission having been agreed to as a
result of the Advisory War Council be-
coming a very unimportant part of his-
tory. Billy will be 81 on September 25.
Aspirants to the succession think he will
be much too old to stand for North
Sydney next year, but none of them
would dare to tell him so to his face.
Chifley, in his Budget speech, said that
war expenditure for 1945-46 was esti-
mated at £360 million —£100 million less
than in the previous year. A gross piece
of misrepresentation. The 1945-46 figure
was arrived at after deducting £2B million
expected to come in from disposal of
equipment paid for in previous years and
£2O million net expected to be recovered
from Britain for past services. If lend-
lease each way is left out of the reckon-
ing Australia’s “war effort” this year is
actually costing £l5 million more than it
cost last year.
The N.S.W. Liberals had a good win
in Manly with E. D. Darby, a young
teacher of parts. Exploiting the real fear
of another depression, and reckoning on
war-time migration having altered the
complexion of the electorate, the Labor-
ites announced that the seat was a cer-
tainty for them, and in their chagrin they
blame ex-Senator Dunn for the frustra-
tion of their hopes, Dunn having come
out as an Independent. He was their
accredited candidate at the general elec-
tion, and he was fairly entitled to another
nomination, but he infuriated the party
by challenging its appointment of a non-
soldier to A.B.C. If Dunn joins the
Lang group, as now seems likely, he may
give the A.L.P. bosses another headache.
A motion of no-confidence in W. J.
Riordan, the Chairman of Committees,
was tabled by Menzies after proceedings
which would have been regarded as extra-
ordinary in other Parliaments. Falstein,
speaking (in civvies) on the Budget,
was asked by Anthony whether he
had got out “under the points sys-
tem.” He was replying when Rior-
dan interposed that he couldn’t dis-
cuss demobilisation, as demobilisation
had been debated already. Opposition
members protested that this was contrary
not only to traditional practice but to
Standing Orders, and Anthony, after mov-
ing that Falstein be no longer heard, was
“named” and suspended. Riordan’s
rulings had been challenged on previous
occasions, and once when he was speak-
ing from the floor of the House he made
his own side laugh by shouting “Order!”
when interrupted. He sits for Kennedy
(Q.), once represented by a Labor Speaker
and a good one —Charlie McDonald.
As shown by the sequel, it wasn’t true,
as alleged by Canberra and the Sydney
dailies, that Britain had tried to exclude
Australia from the surrender ceremony
in Tokyo Bay, It is true that the Dutch
were excluded from the surrender cere-
mony at Koepang, in their own part of
Timor; and the Government that squealed
so much about Britain is responsible. A
miserable anti-climax to a miserable
stunt.
Without consulting Parliamenf, Calwell
has promised to admit as immigrants
close relatives of Jews now in Australia.
Publishing letters exchanged between this
Minister and the President of the Execu-
tive Council of Australian Jewry, the
“Hebrew Standard” commented that, “if
only in self-defence, Australian Jewry
must maintain a ceaseless vigil, not only
on prospective immigrants but on those
who after receiving a haven here have
proved themselves unworthy of it,” there
having been “far too many cases of what
Australians regard as Hun arrogance;
too mariy instances of slick industrial and
business trickery and flaunting ostenta-
tion.” Taken to task by the President of
the N.S.W. Jewish Board of Deputies and
a Dr. Joseph, the “Standard,’V‘for reasons
known to the executive of the Board of
Deputies,” refused to reply.
The “Hebrew Standard” remarks draw
attention to Harrison’s allegations con-
cerning sales of goods listed as salvage,
prefaced by a reference to the Auditor-
General’s note on the Salvage Commis-
sion’s operations for the year to June 30,
1944: expenses, £27,165 ; receipts,
£23,284. Harrison asserted that 500
R.A.A.F. serge jackets had been sold at
Bs. sd. each, 3000 drill jackets at 6s. Bd.,
270 pairs of riding breeches at 12s. 6d.
and 300 R.A.N. woollen jumpers at ss.
“to refugees.” Lazzarini replied that “the
matter” was being “investigated by
officers from the Auditor-General’s De-
partment,” and that “results would be
revealed to Parliament.” Nothing about
suspending all sales until returned service-
men and prisoners-of-war have a fair
chance to bid.
The New York “Times” of August 3
mentions the arrival from England of
“two provincial Premiers, W, J. McKee,
of New South Wales, and F. A. Cooper,
of Queensland, aboard the Queen Mary.”
McKee, also spelt “McKcll,” was to
“spend another month here before re-
turning to Australia ; he has studied post-
war plans in Brazil.” So that’s what he
went there for as guest of the dictator
Vargas, and not to pick nuts or collect
plans and specifications of an alternative
to the tin-hare.
A Labor Prime Minister welcomes a
new British High Commissioner to the
seat of government—report in the third
person:
After referring to all the ties that bound
the Dominion with Britain —history, kin-
ship, language, sentiment, trade and com-
merce, defence and devotion to the same
ideals —the P.M. stressed the importance of
unity within the British Commonwealth
at this time and the desirability of maintain-
ing that unity. For his own part he felt
that, however strong differences of opinion
might be from time to time within the
family of British nations, these differences
were capable of private discussion and full
frankness and of private settlement.
Not Chifley, of course. Chifley and his
Ministers, particularly the External
Affairs gentleman, believe in airing dif-
ferences of opinion, and in Sydney they
have a servile press willing to play the
nasty game and in one case to brand the
Labor Dominions Secretary as a liar,
The speaker was Peter Fraser.
Queensland Chief Justice Webb’s report
on Japanese atrocities, precise, detailed
and horrifying, was furnished many
months ago, and would have “kept” an-
other few weeks. It was published to
serve a political purpose when the rela-
tives of prisoners-of-war were a prey to
agonising fears for their men and, as
a Melbourne “Herald” correspondent put
it in a protest against the commercialisa-
tion of atrocity stories, many were being
treated for neurasthenia. Possession of
the dreadful information during the many
months did not move the Government to
call for a great national effort to rescue
the living victims of Jap barbarism and
avenge the dead, or even to see that Aus-
tralia was represented in the liberating
armies in Burma Or the Philippines. As
late as July 27 the P.M. issued his frigid
statement about its being “proposed that
a token force should, if possible, be with
the British forces in the operations for
the recapture of Singapore”—so timed by
Admiral Mountbatten that September 9
was to have been “Malaya’s D-Day.”
And in the end the glorious Eighth was
denied the immense satisfaction of see-
ing another A.I.F. division among their
liberators.
Retention of the halfpenny added in
war-time to twopenny postage is Senator
Cameron’s latest notion. He says he
wants the money to “modernise post
offices.” They have tuppenny postage in
Labor Maoriland.
An odd feature of the Fremantle by-
election was an inspired newspaper state-
ment that “the first lot of soldiers’ votes,
of which there were between 8000 and
9000,” would be “announced from Can-
berra.” Announced from Canberra they
were, as “service votes,” and Chifley
came out with the complacent comment
that they were 4 to 1 in Labor’s favor.
Actually, there were 1806 for and 870
against Labor, or, transferring the Com-
munist score, 1898 for and 778 against
Labor-Communism. ,Since then dark-
ness has fallen on the subject, and the
departure from electoral practice has not
been explained. Incidentally, all the State
subdivisions of Fremantle have Labor
members except Victoria Park, which
was lost at a by-election because Labor
put up a tramwayman. Trammies have
lost their popularity in Perth.
In a country district not far from Mel-
bourne a bright notion came to a man
who had bought a property for £l5OO,
added £lOOO in improvements and then
failed to make it pay as a dairy farm.
He had it subdivided, and sold one block
for £B5OO, the rest at prices which brought
a profit of £B5OO on the original pur-
chase, and that in six years. Of course,
he had to submit the transaction to the
keen scrutiny of the Sub-Treasury. The
Sub-Treasury passed it. A dairy farmer
in the same district wanted grazing for
his increased herd and was offered a pad-
dock for £3OO. He thought the price fair
and was anxious to pay it, but after six
months of running between the depart-
ments he was told that the deal was off
because there was a discrepancy of £4O
between the owner’s and the Sub-
Treasury’s valuation. This is known in
Labor circles as control of prices.
Sydney “D.T.” announced on Friday
that Senator Keane had said no extra
newsprint could be expected in the near
future, further cuts being more likely. In
the same issue the “D.T.” devoted five
pages to a “form guide” for the Saturday
races. It also had something about the
prisoners-of-war.
Justice Clyne on a grievously injured
man:
Intelligence officers committed a grave
blunder in procuring Harley Matthews’s
arrest and recommending his detention.
Served with distinction in the last war and
was a loyal subject. Was not a member of
the Australia First movement. One fact
upon which Intelligence officers acted was
that Matthews had written an article in the
“Publicist” in July, 1939, relating to Aus-
tralian and British military discipline, but
this article contained nothing prejudicial to
Matthews. Was released subject' to restric-
tions in September, 1942.
Though this Old Digger was well and
favorably known to at least one of the
four Sydney dailies, not one of them said
a word for him during his martyrdom,
which lasted six months. Neither did his
case interest any so-called Council of
Civil Liberties or Fellowship of Writers.
From these quarters came perfervid
championship of the cheeky foreign Com-
munist Kisch, but Matthews was differ-
ent, being merely an Australian, a soldier
and poet of Gallipoli, with nothing Red
in his composition.
A.B.C. has had the effrontery to
engage a war-time immigrant, Professor
Julius Stone, as a “news reviewer” and to
let him join in the disgraceful carping at
General MacArthur, which Wing-Com-
mander Bill Hudson has condemned in
straight Australian. The only subject on
which the professor could be really in-
teresting (though one dose of him would
be enough) is the situation in Palestine,
which has become very nasty again. He
was tremendously copious about it on
the “Jewish Commonwealth” side before
the cold-blooded murder of Lord Moyne
and his Tommy driver.
Laski’s description of Britain as “a
second-class Power” brought on him a
fiery rebuke from Ellen Wilkinson, who,
like many of her associates in the Min-
istry, is a Briton first and a Labor politi-
cian afterwards. Another Left-wing
Jewish publicist whose impertinences have
been denounced from an unexpected
quarter is Ilya Ehrenburg, the “Russian.”
The American journalists who made a
world tour in the interests of a free press
(Australia was part of the itinerary) saw
Ilya in Moscow, and recorded the sub-
stance of his communications in their
report:
Ilya Ehrenburg demanded to know why
there was not free intermarriage of races
in the United States, and “would hear no
other argument but that we were Fascist
at heart.” He also said that the Hearst
press was “dripping Fascist poison in the
soul of America.” [meaning, perhaps, that
it was strongly supporting British policy
in the Balkans], “and that we could not
escape a Fascist future.”
To all of this the American travellers “re-
plied vigorously,” and they “learned later
that the Soviet Government had repri-
manded Mr. Ehrenburg for other extreme
statements.” It has become necessary for
the British Government not only to repri-
mand Laski but to repudiate him.
A soldier awaiting his discharge and
requiring a home in Victoria has discov-
ered to his amazement that a brick veneer
house of four rooms without fencing will
cost round £1350, Which is £l5O above
the limit allowed without a permit. He
must have been at the war too long or he
wouldn’t have been surprised at the way
the bureuacratic mind works.
Going into Vienna with a commission
from “S. M. Herald,” Colin Bingham
found it in a harrowing plight, “the only
city where children with the pallor of
starvation on their faces have begged
bread from me in the street”:
A Government spokesman told me that
much of Austria’s rail and road transport,
accumulated in Upper Austria to evade the
oncoming Russians, was still “congealed”
there, while in the Russian zone the
liberators have taken the great bulk of
what remained, especially rolling-stock.
There was another sarcastic reference to
“liberated Austria.” Here, Bingham, this
won’t do! Don’t you know Russians
must be cracked up?
Hanson Baldwin must have had a
pretty good idea how the war with the
Japs would end when he wrote in the
New York “Times” on August 6 that
“blows against Japan, far heavier than
any yet delivered, are in the making and
may shake the Empire to its foundations.”
That very day the first atomic bomb fell
on Hiroshima. On August 4 a Japanese
had written that “Japan’s surrender
within a few weeks is a possibility for
which America should be prepared.” This
appeared in the Chicago “Sun.” The
Japanese, K. K. Kawakami, is de-
scribed as “one of Japan’s leading news-
papermen, for many years Washington
correspondent of ‘Mainichi’ and ‘Nichi
Nichi’ and a loyal supporter of the
Allied cause during the war.”
Ward told a Labor meeting at Dee
Why, in the Manly electorate, that he
paid £978 in income tax last year and “got
along quite satisfactorily without it,’
which “proved” that cutting of the tax
on higher incomes wasn’t necessary. Two
thoughtful fellows in the audience worked
it out that £978 in tax represented a tax-
able income of £2025, leaving just over
£2O a week for a politician who is not
unduly exerted and who enjoys a fluid-
drive Chrysler, free petrol and a whale of
other concessions which taxpayers who
are not politic don’t get.


OH, TO BE IN ENGLAND NOW THAT MOLOTOV’S THERE!
“The Soviet Foreign Minister is travelling about London with a bodyguard of twelve armed men.”


Im
,-to
s
\S
Looking forward... anticipation
... is the privilege of youth ..,
pleasures are doubled thus. With
Victory, a treasure awaits re-
discovery by those whose hearts
are young ... the treasure of
OLD GOLD. When you find
it again, each box will truly be
'treasure trove’ for you.
CLD <ff>LD
-M
m
m
m
m
fttf
44/VJ
<=>°o
<=• o
o
IT WON'T BE LONG NOW/
—we hope, before you will be able to go out to
that party with a tankful of petrol and a brand
new Masse Battery giving your motor that sweet
surge of power that makes everyone else envy
the Masse owner. Meantime, a fortnightly check-
up from your nearest Masse dealer and an
occasional re-charge may see you through*
Masse
A R t 1 I 6 i S I
BATTERIES •
FOR WORK
0-M
Business, Rollery, Etc.
War Costs Analysed
For the first time since war began it
has been possible to get at more or less
detailed figures of Commonwealth de-
fence expenditure. The information as
provided by the Government would be
far from clear to the average taxpayer,
and The Bulletin has been at consider-
able pains *to assemble the following
details and comparisons. The figures are
all available —somewhere —-in the Budget
papers for 1945-46, but were not itemised
in Mr. Chifley’s Budget speech. In this
table another three noughts should be
added to each figure — i.e., .most items
of cost run into millions:
Actual. Actual. Estimate.
1943- 1944- 1945-
44. 45. 46.
£OOO. £OOO. £OOO.
Navy—
Pay, allowances .. 13,583 14,409 12.705
General exes. .. 2,323 1,844 1.550
General services .. 1,104 1,099 700
Fleet expenses .. 7,741 8,599 7,500
Transport services .. 3,786 5,488 5,500
Naval construction.. 3,608 2,226 2,000
Auxiliary defence
vessels .. 767 4OO
Equipment merchant
ships .. .... 253 86 67
Dock construction,
etc 3,286 1,849 559
Buildings, etc. .. 1,813 1,941 455
Miscellaneous .. 206 299 379
Total, Navy .. 38,470 38,174 31,815
A T.&. pay, etc. . . 110,973 104,928 120,000
Civilan pay .. .. 1,208 1,066 1,050
Camps, training,
maintenance .. 32,774 25,626 20,000
General services .. 7,555 7,862 6,000
Inspection pay, exes. 2,046 1,658 570
Royal Military
College .. .. 26 24 34
A.I.F. in U.K. 370
Arms, equipment,
reserves .. .. 49,471 27,813 24,183
Buildings, fittings,
etc. .. •• 11,085 4,330 2,300
Internees, p.-0.-w. .. 123 222 100
Miscellaneous .. 100 89 150
Total, Army .. 215,361 173,618 174,757
Ail*—.
Service pay, etc. .. 37,248 45,230 50,000
Civil pay, allowances 853 961 950
Meteorological .. 65 84 128
General services .. 16,298 18,164 11,000
R.A.A.F. overseas .. 1,285 1,121 1,170
Training in Canada.. 3,320 237 10
Aircraft, equipment',
stores .. .. 59,830 46,214 21.000
Buildings, fittings .. 8,900 7,377 1,099
Maintenance, rent .. 302 541 851
Total, Air .. 128,101 119,929 86,208
Combined total, Navy,
Army, Air, as above 381,932 331,721 292,780
Department of Defence 228 .175 197
Munitions .. .. 19,176 9,966 7,432
Aircraft Production .. 2,050 1,855 4,724
Supply and Shipping.. 7,436 8,569 8,326
Home Security .. 254 70 60
Reverse lend-lease .. 110,425 89,133 20,000
Interest, pensions,
U.N.R.R.A. .. 26,440 36,958 54,632
Peace officers .. 725 628 300
Price subsidies .. 7,005 10,809 12,500
Land subsidies .. 12,321 14,280 12,985
Administrative, mis-
cellaneous .. .. 15,634 12,391 19,064
Recoverable expendi-
ture .. .. •• 55,755 64,884 8,000
Total defence expen-
diture .. ..639,381 581,439 441,000
Credits —
Miscellaneous .. 43,574 56,854 25,000
Recoveries .. .. 51,394 61,987 28,000
Disposals .. • • 2,602 28,000
Total credits .. 94,968 121,443 81,000
Net defence expendi-
ture .. ..544,413 459,996 360,000
So far only figures for the two past
financial years, plus estimates for the cur-
rent year, are available. The 1942-43
term was the period of highest defence
expenditure with a £562 million outlay,
compared with £544 million in 1943-44
and £460 million in 1944-45. Estimate
for the current year is £360 million, but
that is after deducting £2B million ex-
pected to come in from disposals of
assets and equipment charged up in pre-
vious years. Also, recoveries from the
U.K. Government and others for supplies
is expected to be £2O million more than
this year’s recoverable expenditure. The
comparative total for this year is thus
more like £4OB million.
If it were not for the fall from £B9
million to £2O million in estimated reverse
lend-lease, this year’s true “war” cost
would be about £l5 million higher than
last year’s. And the total tax burden
on citizens is still at the rate of £45 ss.
a head, compared with £46 in 1944-45,
£4l 15s. in 1943-44.
Though details are lacking for expendi-
ture from 1939 to June 30, 1943, we
know that the total cost of the war to
the Commonwealth to June 30, 1945, was
£2lll million, and a partial analysis of
this total has been given by the Govern-
ment (published here last week), but with-
out distinction between the various ser-
vices. Since June 30 (up to August 31)
there has been a further outlay of £6B
million, making the total to the end of
the “shooting war” £2179 million. Of
this, £1416 million was met out of borrow-
ings and £763 million from tax revenue.
In addition to expenses charged to “de-
fence,” during 1945-46 there is expected
to be a civil expenditure of £132 million.
Of an overall expenditure of £492 million
net, taxes, etc., will pay for £340 million,
borrowing £152 million.
Returning to the foregoing table of
“defence” spending, it will be seen that the
Navy, though carrying a greater propor-
tion of permanent personnel, is set down
for a reduction in pay and allowances
this year. Both the Army and Air Force,
on the other hand, are allocated con-
siderably greater sums for pay. Mr.
Chifley has said that there will be no
fall in the cost of service pay this year,
deferred pay alone being included to the
extent of £54 million. It will astonish
many people, especially servicemen, to
learn that deferred pay was not charged
to the Government accounts in the year
in which it was earned, especially in
the Air Force. There is a further liability
of £3O million that will come into later
accounts, Mr. Chifley says.
It will be noted that, under naval ex-
penditure, transport services are expected
to cost £5.5 million this year, slightly in
excess of last year. This may be reason-
able in view of the scattered nature of our
fighting forces. But in the Army vote
the allocation for arms, equipment and
reserves is only slightly lower at £24.1
million, which is not so easily explained.
The total Army vote is a little greater
than last year. The Navy and the Air Force
votes are both down, the latter mainly
because of a cut in outlay on aircraft.
The Department of Munitions is put
down for £1,750,000 of administrative
and general expenses alone in the current
year, compared with £2,269,000 last term.
The total debit of £7.4 million against
the department for 1945-46 does not
appear to include all production costs at
factories, much of these no doubt being
charged to the services using the muni-
tions. But £3 million is included for the
construction of standard ships, compared
with £2.7 million last year.
The Department of Aircraft Produc-
tion, which used to be in the charge of
Senator Cameron, likewise does not show
all costs of production. But administra-
tive expenses are estimated at £700,000
for 1945-46, about £lOO,OOO higher than
for 1943-44. The department is up for
£2 million of new plant and equipment,
partly under lend-lease obligations, it
may be presumed.
Supply and Shipping shows an esti-
mated debit of £4.3 million in its ship-
ping branch for 1945-46, compared with
£2.3 million last year. The Shipping
Board has been making heavy losses, and
is still paying 50 p.c. “war-risk” bonus
to coastal seamen. The Wheat Board,
which manages overseas shipping, is
doing better. Assistance to essential in-
dustries falls to £741,000 from £1,774,481.
War pensions are expected to rise from
£2.7 million to £6 million during the cur-
rent year. The grant to U.N.R.R.A. is
set down at £6 million. The Empire Con-
ference, London, and the San Francisco
show cost £17,485. An occupational
survey in the Commonwealth cost the
Treasury £11,117 in 1944-45 and is ex-
pected tp absorb £30,000 in 1945-46.
The Australia First inquiry is charged
with £8204 up to June 30. A good
deal must have been debited elsewhere.
Security - service administrative costs
charged to the Attorney-General were
£134,184 in 1944-45 and are expected to
amount to £40,000 in 1945-46. Many
people will be astounded to learn that
“peace officers” cost taxpayers £725,100
in 1943-44, £628,510 in 1944-45, and are
down for £300,000 for this year. The only
time they sprang into prominence was
during the censorship dispute, when they
held up Sydney daily newspaper deliveries
at the point of the gun. V.D. campaign
ran off with £25,057 last year, and is
allotted another £25,000 this. The potato
committee managed to eat up £39,732
and has £35,000 to play with in 1945-46.
Last year meat losses of £144,858 were
written off.
Subsidies in order to control price in-
flation and subsidies to agricultural and
pastoral industries are shown separately
in the table. Together they represent
roughly £25 million a year. They, too,
are treated as a “defence” expense.
Manpower control cost a bit over a
million in each of the past two years
and will be only a little less this year.
Price control ran off with £490,000 last
year (£520,000 this). Rationing cost
£510,000 (£394,000).
The Department of Post-war Recon-
struction cost £1,156,759, including
£417,734 administration expenses. In
1945-46 outgo is put at £8,510,000, in-
cluding £3,000,000 for war-service land
settlement, £1,600,000 for University
training and £2,743,000 for technical and
rural training. Services correspondence
courses are in at £300,000. Calwell s
Department of Information cost £297,802
last year; he expects to beat this with
£326,000 next year. Last year’s expenses
included £44,153 which the Auditor-
General suggests was expended in advo-
cating a “yes” vote at the referendum ; it
is charged up as “post-war educational
campaign! ” There was a debit of £5256 in
the preceding year under the same heading.
It should be understood that all these
expenses, which in the aggregate total
£460 million for last year and are esti-
mated at £4OB million (less £2B million
disposals and £2O million excess re-
coveries) this year, are charged up as “de-
fence and war (1939-45) services.” They
cover an extraordinary miscellany. In-
cluded in most of the figures, but not
specified, is a large item for waste. Waste
is inevitable in war, but Australia has
had more than its share of political mis-
management and extravagance. Tax-
payers are still footing the bill.
Harry Hodgetts, the Adelaide stock-
broker, clubman and sportsman who
failed for over £BO,OOO, has been
sent to jail for five years on each
of four counts of fraudulent conversion
and three years on a charge of false pre-
tences. Sentences are concurrent. He
used clients’ scrip to raise money to
cover losses on his own speculations.
Lord Cowrie was one client mentioned.
A shocking case.
* * * *
The Australian Legation in Washing-
ton costs £70,000 to £75,000 a year. That
in the Soviet runs to £30,000, in Canada
to £20,000, India £20,000, New Zealand
£9OOO, Chungking £19,000, Latin America
£20,000. The High Commissioner’s office
in London normally costs about £lOO,OOO.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Missing Friend.
T. KERIN. Write sister. Urgent.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN JOHN GILL formerly of 9 Cater Street
Coledale in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife AGNES GILL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2666 of 1943 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the First day of November
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD Solici-
tors 350 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY.
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In -Divorce.
T0 _ , HARRIS l ate of Wyberba Queensland.
“TAKE NOTICE that EMILY MATILDA MARY
HARRIS has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 1419
of 1944 on the ground of desertion without iust
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Nineteenth of November next and
obtain a copy of the petition without chanre from
FREDERICK McGUREN Solicitor of 81 EHzabet”
D^v e o e rce Sydney ‘~ L ‘ S,) °* K ' BODY ’ Re S istrar in
p
ill
Hill
ill h
fit 111
ill
Tl
Modern high-cbss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4. lines)
Australian-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
From War
to Peace
h/ 5
m
« mj.'w
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BEHSOH WHEELS
T* s Q
o
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
2907
ms
%
ITS
a
£
I: I
C
t&l
SS&
If sometimes your Champion
Fine Cut is in short supply
—it is only because of existing
conditions.
Ask for it as usual—your
retailer will supply you when
he can.
%
%
S'?/*
fry
W
Also in Flake Cut for the Pipe.
X4I2D-9.41
Points from lend-lease articles in
London “Times” of August 28 and 29:
Britain during the war has liquidated some
£2OOO million of foreign assets. In addition the
country has incurred £3500 million of short-
term debt's to other (mostly British) countries
which are held in the form of sterling balances.
Britain, for the first time since Queen Elizabeth,
is a net debtor country. This worsening of
Britain’s international position by some £5500
million has been the result partly of direct
war expenditure abroad (including paying for a
large portion of India’s war effort) and partly
of a “single-minded concentration” on produc-
ing arms which precluded the payment for im-
ports by exports. The imports of arms will
almost immediately cease; they rose from £209
million in 1942 to £652 million in 1943 and to
£1055 million in 1944. Most of the cost was
met by lend-lease from U.S.A. and mutual aid
from Canada. Britain will now be able to buy
in cheaper markets as shipping becomes avail-
able. “At a rough guess” it would “probably
be pessimistic” to assume that more than £3OO
million will be required to buy absolutely essen-
tial supplies from the United States during the
coming year, and that figure, might be substan-
tially cut. Britain, according to official U.S.
estimates, has a £7OO-million gold and dollar
reserve in America. Except for Latin America,
most of the sterling debt has been incurred in
the British Commonwealth, and most of these
countries still find Britain the principal market
for their exports, but their pressure for goods
in place of sterling will grow. Their accumu-
lated need for machinery and other equipment
is great. But they are anxious to spend some
part of their money in the United States. “The
responsibilities laid upon Britain in restoring
the export trade and discharging the sterling
debt are plain enough. Those laid upon the
United States are a reflection of the American
position as the world’s greatest producer and
creditor; not only the changeover from lend-
lease, but also the translation of the sterling
balances into goods and the prospect of genu-
inely multilateral trade which all desire are
dependent upon American decisions.”
♦ ' * * *
It is estimated that the interest bill on
the debt arising out of the 1939-45 war
will cost the Commonwealth £32.8 mil-
lion in 1945-46. Actual cost in 1944-45
was £26.6 million, 1943-44 £18.7 million.
If present estimates are correct, on June
30, 1946, interest on the Commonwealth
national debt will be £43.5 million, with
£32 million payable by the States. The
war should thus be over with the cost of
servicing the national debt at between
£75 million and £BO million a year, com-
pared with £46 million at the outbreak
of hostilities.
* * * *
Wages and salaries paid in Australia
are calculated as having been £584 million
in 1944-45, compared with £433 million
in 1938-39. Pay and allowances of mem-
bers of the forces are estimated to have
been £l9O million and £4 million in those
years, respectively. The net national in-
come of the Commonwealth is computed
at £1256 million for 1944-45, a decline of
£27 million compared with 1943-44, but
£461 million greater than in 1938-39. The
apparent growth of over 50 p.c. in the
national income during the war is in
money figures only, and is partly the
result of inflation, both in prices and in
payments for work and services rendered.
The loss of the economic value of much
war spending also has helped to create
an excessive money supply.
* * * *
In the calendar year 1939 the United
States imported goods to the value of
$149 million (U.S. money) from British
Malaya and sold only $lO million-worth
in return. In 1940 the figures were $268
million and $15.6 million respectively.
Rubber and tin were prominent among
American imports from this region.
Malaya waS one part of the British
Empire from which Britain was able to
collect a surplus of American dollars.
Income from British investments in the
United States was another source of
dollars that helped to offset Britain’s
chronically adverse balance of trade with
the United States. But up to June, 1944,
Britain disposed of £1065 million of over-
seas assets, mostly to the United States
at bargain prices, and the annual income
from these holdings has been lost. (Total
loss of external assets is now put at £2OOO
million). It remains to be seen what hap-
pens with the Malayan trade. Synthetic
rubber is now being produced in the
United States, but it is not as satisfactory
as the German synthetic or the raw pro-
duct. Raw rubber was not at a high
price in the years immediately before
the war, and it is doubtful if the
synthetic product is really competi-
tive for tyre-making purposes. The
extent of damage to plantations in Jap-
occupied territory has still to be ascer-
tained. It is likely that neglect will be a
greater problem than damage. Though
left to the military authorities for a
lengthy period early in the Japanese war,
the Koitaki plantations in New Guinea
suffered serious damage only among the
young trees. The outlook for tin in the
post-war period is less certain than for
most metals. More economical methods
of using tin, together with substitutes,
have cut down world consumption greatly
during the war.
* * * *
Under war-time “control” regulations
it has been the privilege of a section of
officialdom to summon “suspected” busi-
nessmen to Canberra for please-explain
purposes. Very often the businessman
has a perfectly satisfactory explanation,
but in any case he has to try to find acco-
modation in Australia’s most overcrowded
city (officially claimed to be 15 years be-
hind with its building arrangements) and
then perhaps cool his heels for days wait-
ing on some war-time Pooh-Bah in the
civil service or upon some Minister’s con-
venience. Apparently those who live
within influence of fluid-drive Chryslers
don’t appreciate how the productive part
of the Australian population has to
struggle for its existence. It may be true
that there is a ready demand for almost
any production these days, but the big
problem is how to maintain the produc-
tion and preserve productive capacity.
* * * *
Australia is sadly in need of a political
party that will say forthrightly that it
stands for a political and economic sys-
tem basically the same as that existing
before the war, but improved in matters
of detail in the light of experience in war
and in peace, and that it will not allow
any vested interest, whether of Capital
or of Labor, to stand in the way of the
general good, a long view being taken of
the general good, including the preserva-
tion of confidence, justice and national
honor. The Institute of Public Affairs in
Victoria has announced a policy that
meets the foregoing in many respects, and
Mr. Menzies, as leader of the Liberal
party, has stated his adherence to portion
of I.P.A, policy. Some State Liberal-party
organisations need to get a hustle on in
making the party policy clear to them-
selves firstly and to the electors secondly.
Energy and enthusiasm will be necessary
for Australia to do best for itself in post-
war years, and the party which seeks the
reins of Government will have to dis-
play something of the same zeal and fire,
with objectives practical and clearly out-
lined.
* * * *
NoAnan B. Rydge has told holding
cos. in the Greater Union Theatres group
that indications are that the peak
war-time income of the picture theatres
has been reached, and that earnings may
~, ’ c
be down during 1945. There was a sh ? ht
decline m earnings of the group during
1944—from £110,833 in 1943 to £108,350.
Taxation paid last year was £88,515, but
did not cover all liability. Taxation re-
serves stand at £374,892, but the directors
are not sure that this sum is adequate.
The British Ministry of Labor reports
that between October, 1938, and January,
IMS. the wages of ovei: SADO'.OOO manual
workers rose by an average ot 76 p.c. Ihe
f j se a ppjj es mos tly to factory workers.
jyj en over 21 last January averaged
£5 19s 3d a wee k 5 against £3 3s. 2d. in
1933. Wages of women rose more than
those of men because many more women
took on men’s jobs, with corresponding
increases in pay.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”; It must have been crool hard
for the editors of the Sydney morning
papers to bottle up their resentment at
the way they were treated in the matter of
the gruesome Webb report. They had it
in their offices for weeks, set up, with
appropriate headlines, for first publica-
tion. But being in London on a mission
which was falling horribly flat. Dr. Evatt
gave it to the dailies there, so they had
first publication. That set the Sydney
afternoon sheets free to scoop the morn-
ing papers. By the time those indignant
sheets came out with it the thing was
“stale news.” And they have so com-
mitted themselves to Dr. Evatt and his
fits and starts of “foreign policy” that
they couldn’t have a crack at him.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I am all for personal
journalism and against the anonymous
and pseudonymous variety. One of
the gratifying features of signed
articles is that they enable Great
Editors to get away with things they
would hesitate to publish as the
Policy of the Paper. Moreover, they bring
the public into close acquaintance with
engaging characters like Mr. Jack Perci-
val, one of the host of writing boys who
object fiercely to “the soft-handed treat-
ment of the Japs,” and who leave you in
no doubt that if the job-were handed
over to them they would do it ever so
much better. True, Mr. Jack Percival,
with the magnanimity of his tribe, allows
some merit to General MacArthur:
He has lived among Orientals long enough
to understand their psychology. But I, too,
have lived among them for many years,
and there are a few things I cannot' under-
stand.
The “few things” Mr. Jack Percival
“cannot understand” are too long for
quotation, ( but information as to the
“many years” he has lived among
Orientals would have been instructive.
The only thing on record is that he was
a civil internee in Manila during
the Japanese occupation. MacArthur’s
Oriental studies began before Mr, Jack
Percival was born, going back to the time
of the Russo-Japanese war of 1904-05. lie
was a military attache in Tokyo (1905-06),
and his long periods as a soldier in the
Philippines (1903-04, 1922-25, 1935-41)
brought him into relations with Japanese,
Chinese, Arabs and all the Filipino tribes
before he got to know the peoples of the
Dutch East Indies and what not.
So, although the transcendent qualities of
Mr. Jack Percival and his fellows who
began leaping on their idol so suddenly
may be acknowledged by those interested
in their gymnastics, my money is on
Douglas MacArthur.
* * * *
“Earpunisher”: Lord Mayor Con-
nelly’s proposal of a beer garden in
the Alexandra Gardens or the Yarra
Boulevard, to be open on summer
evenings, and afternoon tea dances at
leading hostelries, drew an antediluvian
roar from Premier Dunstan. He re-
marked that country people didn’t have
such sources of amusement and that
there were already plenty of avenues for
gaiety and pleasure in the city without
adding a type of revelry to the gardens
that would give offence to a great number
of people. I remember a great park in a
European city with two enormous art
galleries in it at which the annual salons
were proceeding. Three bands were
playing and a symphony orchestra was
being conducted by a world-famous con-
ductor. There were half a dozen cafes
in the place, all serving wine, beer and
good food to a cosmopolitan crowd of
both sexes and all social classes under
the trees. Playing around were hordes of
children. There were more chairs and
tables and waiters running about them
than 1 imagine existed. This disgusting
orgy went on till ten or eleven in the
European summer evening and the only
drunk I saw was a foreign sailor. Mr.
Dunstan evidently doesn’t credit Aus-
tralians with being capable of behaving
themselves like decent human beings.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Typographical bloomers, is
it? An Auckland (M.L.) paper pats the
City Council on the back for putting
“new wenches in the park to replace the
old ones which are falling to pieces.”
* $ * *
“Scribe”; When A.B.C.’s R. J. F.
Boyer visited Maoriland recently the
National Broadcasting Service showed
him, at its headquarters in Wellington,
one of the most comprehensive archive
“Sorry, Prendergast— can't take you this trip. Shipping space, you know!”
systems in the world. On thousands of
discs every type of broadcast from all
parts of the globe is preserved for
posterity. It is claimed that the total
of special transmissions from 8.8. C.
recorded on wax is greater than is
possessed by 8.8. C. itself. Specially in-
teresting is a record of a speech by an
Egyptian Premier, terminated by a shot
that laid him low. From the day the war
started N.B.S. listened to London every
second of the day and night, making no
fewer than 30,000 discs during the moni-
toring process. From the Saturday night
till the Wednesday that will go down in
history as VJ-Day double staffs kept a
constant vigil not only with London but
Moscow, Guadalcanal, Tokyo, Shonan
and American stations. So it came about
that a few seconds after Mr. Attlee con-
cluded his announcement that Japan had
agreed to surrender Prminister Peter
Fraser was able to lead the Dominions
in expressing thankfulness.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A young woman who
had done a bit of Land Army work dur-
ing the war went to Melbourne Central
Market for a chicken which she contem-
plated leg-roping on her verandah until
it attained a weight sufficient to make a
dinner. Boarding a tram with her prize,
she was stopped by the conductor with
“You can’t bring that in here —passen-
gers are not allowed to carry livestock.”
Briskly stepping to the roadway, the
young woman extracted the chicken from
the basket, wrung its neck, replaced it
and reboarded the tram.
“N. 5 West”; The tramcar was full of
shoppers, in parties of two and three,
and, as usual, hummed with conversa-
tion. Present we were invaded by two
bejewelled and be-furred dames who
opened up a dialogue in voices intended
to benefit all within earshot. The burden
of their talk was their exalted station in
Melbourne society. All other conversa-
tion ceased till, near the city, they de-
parted—followed by all eyes. The silence
was broken by the conductor, who gave
the signal to move on and announced
“B-class stations will now resume their
own programmes.”
* * * #
“J.E.M.”: “Snoop” (B. 15/8/’45) is
over-sanguine about rockets displacing
artillery. The rocket may be effective
fired from a standing platform at a stand-
ing, or slowly moving, target, but its
sphere of usefulness is very limited, and
naval authorities have very little use for
it. The main problem is fire-control.
The system which can place a broadside
of 16-inch shells fired from a ship speed-
ing at 30 knots fair on the upper-deck
of another steaming perhaps in the oppo-
site direction, over 14 miles of tumbling
sea with the ships slewing and rolling, is
ineffective with rockets. This projectile’s
tail is so affected by wind that its dis-
patch at sea is a wild gamble. Also the
charge required to propel a 4in. rocket
is larger than that for a like-size shell.
Until the blast resultant on displacing a
16in. rocket head from its seating can be
controlled the Navy will have to continue
to train gunners.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmania has been cele-
brating the centenary, of St. Joseph’s
Band, of Launceston, claimed to be the
world’s oldest-established band still in
existence. It was the outcome of a tem-
perance campaign conducted by Father
Mathew in 1845, and the first band-
master, John Agnew, was a member of
the 96th Regiment. Among the chari-
table causes the band has helped was a
fund for the widows and orphans of those
who fell in the Crimean War. When the
Irish exile John Mitchell was in jail in
Launceston the band cheered him up by
playing national airs outside the walls.
Alexander Lithgow, a very capable
composer of band music, came from
Maoriland in 1894 to be bandmaster, and
after Lithgow’s health broke down Len
Corrick, of the well-remembered family
of musicians, had the baton. During its
hundred years of # activity the band has
frequently taken part in mainland con-
tests, returning with championship prizes.
The body has produced a sturdy infant,
St. Joseph’s Junior Band (generally
known as the Launceston Boys’ Band,
somewhere about 50 strong). The small
players with scarlet-and-black cloaks over
their uniforms, humping instruments
some of which are twice their own size,
are a familiar feature of Launceston.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: I hope Cema’s enter-
prise in giving Canberra’s four licensed
hotels Saturday afternoon concerts with
their beer will be successful, but I doubt
it. The idea comes from England, where
Dr. Malcolm Sargent popularised high-
brow concerts in hotel lounges. They
were a success there, but that may have
been due to the difference between Aus-
tralian and English licensing laws. The
English law permits evening concerts with
beer, a combination which would be re-
garded as a snare of the Devil in this
wowser-ridden country. Afternoon indoor
affairs ih this land of sunshine suffer
from a lot of competition.
* * *
“Rufus Rawhide” (Stellenbosch): Men-
tion by “Maleesh” (B. 30/ 5/ ’45) of the
use of dogs in war-work recalls the work
done in this field by De Beers, who have
a wonderful kennel at Kimberley, mostly
Alsatians, the head dog being an enor-
mous black fellow bought from Ger-
many for 200 guineas. De Beers, before
using dog guards, lost thousands of
diamonds from their air-conditioning
“Vloers,” the largest of which is four
miles in circumference. Now a dog
guard is stationed every 100 yards around,
leashed Jo a wire in such a way as to
allow the dog to patrol the length of
its beat. Before dogs were introduced
Hottentots crawled through the wire en-
closures using a small piece of canvas
as a cover. Each carried a small torch,
not being visible to the guards as the
canvas acted as a shield. Some of the
hauls from the blue ground were very
valuable and, of course, found their way
into the illicit market.
* * * *
“Pip” has happy memories of supper-
time in camp:
The most pleasant period in the soldier’s day
is that' spent having supper. About half-past
nine somebody produces a brew while one of
the other tent inmates cuts up a cake. The
rest of the fellows hurriedly finish off letters
or play the last hand of cards. Debts settled
and stamps borrowed, there is general relaxation
for a hot drink, cigarette and yarn before
turning in for the night. “Hate” sessions, argu-
ments and discussions of every type commence.
After months, sometimes even years, together
the soldiery never run out of topics of conver-
sation, and when topical subjects have been
exhausted the evergreens of racing, football,
women and what to do after discharge re-
main. These days, of course, the post-dis-
charge plans dominate everything. Over the
steaming cups schemes and dreams are advanced
and discussed. Most chaps are determined to
have a long holiday for a kick-off and then to
look around for a job, preferably one “where
a man is his own boss.” The farmers have
high hopes for the land-settlement scheme, but
the average soldier is distrustful of Government
help. The whole business usually culminates in
a political argument which modulates mysteri-
ously but inevitably to the topic of “women.”
The married men don’t say much, but the en-
gaged fellows start earbashing about their wed-
ding plans. Only the youngsters feel out of it,
showing signs of definite hostility when some-
one remarks, over the rim of his cup, “We
shouldn’t talk about such subjects in front of
Junior.” The possibility of being home for the
two Cups is an alluring conversational sub-
ject and thrashed out regularly. Everything
from cabbages to kings is crammed into a
brief half-hour, and “lights-out” usually finds
some amateur designer sketching on the back
of an envelope the house he intends to build.
The soldier climbs peacefully into his stretcher,
remarking gleefully “Boy, will I be glad to trade
this for a feather bed.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Inducements for musical
virtuosi to stay in Australia are on a par
with those offered to composers (B.
5/9/’45). Melbourne has lost or is on
the point of losing two talented pianists
with overseas reputations. They are
Joyce Greer and Vera Bradford. Both
are going abroad because they find it
practically impossible to get engagements
with our great broadcasting organisa-
tions, the only source of income nowa-
days open to performers. Yet there is
no reason to believe that they aren’t on
at least as high an artistic level as the
last half-dozen musicians who have been
imported. Miss Bradford won scholar-
ships with Percy Grainger and Rudolph
Ganz in U.S. and made a study of
modern touch technique with Alexander
Raab, and she appeared in recitals and as
soloist with American symphony orches-
tras for six years, so she has as good a
record as Kapell, for instance. Yet at
her farewell concert at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, fashionable concertgoers
were conspicuous by their absence. As
for Joyce Greer, an overseas conductor
refused to conduct a concert at which she
was to be soloist and insisted on an over-
seas virtuoso,
* Sfc %
“V.’s” jubilee par:
The “contented wi’ little, canty wi’ mair” atti-
tude is admirable for individual lives, but not
always profitable to a nation. Take the case of
David Shearer, the'S.A. inventor and manufac-
turer of agricultural machinery. From 1890 to
1894 he was at work on the invention of a
vehicle that would run without horse-power. Out
of his researches came a car driven by a steam
motor and that in a year, 1895, when four
motor-cans only were produced in the U.S.A.
Shearer undertook to drive his car from the
Murray to Adelaide Oval, negotiating on the
way the Mount Lofty Ranges. The road regula-
tions, which provided that a man carrying a red
Hag should “walk” ahead of any machinery not
drawn by horse-power, were ignored by him
till a mounted policeman dashed up. “Phwat
do you mane paradin’ about in that t’ing,” the
copper demanded; “an’ phwat is it?” “Just
a horseless carriage,” responded the inventor.
“My own make.” “Your own make, indade
(most policemen were Irish in those days) ;
“an’ how did you get out of the asoylum? An_
phwat’s your name?” “David Shearer, of
Mannum.” “Oh, yis, Mr. Shearer,” the officer
replied in altered tones; “but where are you
goin’?” For answer Shearer produced a
printed form, saying “Look at this. There are
three thousand people waiting for me at the
Adelaide Oval, so I must move on.” And move
he did, after some milder official remonstrances,
rising 1500 feet in the next five miles and reach-
ing his destination amidst tremendous applause.
He did the rounds of the oval in competition
with horsemen, sulky and “high” cyclists, leaving
them all behind. A year later Lord Brassey,
then Governor of Victoria, rode in an advanced
model of the Shearer car. But the inventor
did not then pursue the commercialisation ot
his invention. That first model of a horseless
carriage, an unique exhibition of Australian
ingenuity, is now in the possession of the in-
ventor’s son, Crawford Shearer, at Mannum.
whence his father drove 50 miles to Adelaide
50 years ago.
THE VOICE THAT SEETHED.
What voice is this, awakening a notion
The speaker is determined to reveal
Samples of nearly, every emotion
The human heart may be supposed to feel?
From bellows of triumphant exultation
Observe how suddenly it sinks to low
Murmurs of pitiful commiseration
And mellow groans of woe.
It swings from whooping, riotous and festive,
Indicative of hardly-won success,
To querulous and peevish tones suggestive
Of concentrated gall and bitterness.
It runs the gamut—as the music phrase is—
From madding thrill to sad complacency,
Until you wonder what the blithering blazes
The point discussed may be.
Is it some actor who in ranting fashion
Rehearses, with well-simulated rage,
Some strident role and palpitating passion
He aims to tear to tatters on the stage?
Is-it some Billy Sunday type of preacher
Whose mission is in burning words to tell
The blissful joys of Heaven, and to feature
The horridness of Hell?
Is if some Parliamentary scarifier
Of all the rival party’s wicked ways,
Some demagogue, some “practised hustings liar”
(To quote a pungent Tennysonian phrase)
Who sees these roaring periods as factors
,ln his fierce struggle after place and pelf
To knock the stuffing out of his detractors
And glorify himself?
Ah, no! It dawns on me that I’ve been merely
Guessing, and my conjectures all are out.
Now that 1 get a word or two more clearly
I know what all the barney is about.
No mouthing mummer’s this, no soap-box
bouncer
Seeking with stormy periods votes to catch,
It’s just a raucous radio announcer
Covering a football match!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Well , if y' won't marry us Alfie an' me'll live in sin!"
“Si Arm”: Evidently the principle that
no subject of Hirohito must occupy a posi-
tion where he can look down on his ruler
has succumbed to modern progress (B.
5/9/’45), but I witnessed a royal pro-
cession in Kyoto in 1914 when all houses
were cleared above the ground floor to
prevent this happening. Even then he
drove in a carriage with his flunkeys
above him. The only potentate who was
a real stickler on this prerogative of
Oriental rulers was the Sultan of Djokja
in Java. Somebody sent him a replica
of the coach of the Lord Mayor of
London, and it was never used because
driver and footmen had higher seats than
the occupants. That the Japanese sun-
god cannot look steadily in any one direc-
tion for long without producing in his
dominions a flood, famine, pestilence,
earthquake or typhoon is another tradi-
tional notion, but as it wasn’t used
against the Allied invaders I suppose it
has gone the way of the royal touch for
the king’s evil (scrofula, in common par-
lance), which went out with the Stuarts.
* * *
“D.E.”: There were intriguing touches
in that “S. M. Herald” biography of
Theodore (B. 12/9/’45):
His grandfather was Bishop Theodor-
eseque, of the Greek Orthodox Church,
Galatz, a notable theologian and scholar,
who wore, according to, the custom of the
time and the locality, a beard of majestic
proportions. An uncle was Trajan Theo-
doreseque, a figure in the scientific world of
his day and famous as the inventor of the
first submarine.
I am not carping at Grandpa, and I allow
that his beard “of majestic proportions”
would have been a picturesque addition
to the sights of Chillagoe when all the
male inhabitants played two-up in the
main street. But Uncle Trajan’s place in
history is a trifle doubtful. I have looked
up lists of submarine inventors in several
standard works and can’t find his name
in any. Nor can 1 see that a Tfieo-
doreseque sub. would have been anything
but groteseque in the Danube, which, pre-
sumably, was Uncle’s ancestral stream.
It might have been better for the
“Herald” to claim descent for its new
hero from the Emperor Trajan, whose
place in history is established. lan Hamil-
ton, after “inspecting” the Rumanian
soldiers, all dressed up to kill (the other
sex) wrote; “They look what they are —
rather washed-out descendants of Tra-
jan’s sixth Legion.”
* * $ «
“X.S.”; For the first time in Victorian
legal history a woman claiming to
be clairvoyant has been permitted to
give a demonstration of her powers in
court. The demonstration was amusing.
Asked by prosecuting counsel to get in
touch with her familiar spirits, she took
a pencil, closed her eyes and murmured
to counsel. “You are very tired physi-
cally at times. You should be firm.
At times you feel you are not quite firm
enough. You should think before you
make a decision.” Then the psychic lady
asked “Are you at present doubtful about
some things?” “No,” retorted counsel
stoutly, and that seemed to cast a damper
on the spirits and their interpretress.
“Petermac”: The war-time beer short-
age has had far-reaching effects on beer-
drinkers. Prior to the rationing I never
quaffed more than three beers to cele-
brate something without feeling I’d had
enough. But now I’ve no sooner sunk
a couple than it’s declared “off” and I
turn to gin, brandy and occasionally (very
occasionally) whisky to slake my thirst.
Steady practice at this mixing of drinks
is rendering me immune to spirituous
assortments.
* * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”: When the baggage of
a theatrical co. with which I was associ-
ated in my youth was impounded by a
carrying agency for debt the old man of
the show was concerned over a small tin
trunk, and pestered the firm’s office about
it several times a day. He claimed it was
his personal property. Old Jim had to
open the box to prove that it held nothing
the co’s creditors had a right to seize. It
contained crockery, a primus stove, a few
small pots and a store of groceries and
tinned goods. They were a careful lot,
the mummers of those days. They had
to be. There were others beside Old Jim
who travelled with supplies, which came
in useful if a co. got stranded.
* * * *
“Hist” on postmarks:
Philatelists have taken a keen interest in the
postal history of the wars as recorded by the
many special postmarks used by service post
offices at home and abroad —so keen, indeed,
that the authorities thought if threatened the
secrecy of troop movements and imposed a
National Security Regulation making it an
offence for anyone but the addressee to gain pos-
session of an envelope bearing service post or
censor marks. Such postmarks fall into two
categories. The “military post offices” and
“R.A.A.F. post offices” were branches of the
civilian post -offices established in camps and
Air Force stations (and a few naval depots)
throughout the Commonwealth. There have
been hundreds, from Darwin, N.T. to Seymour,
Victoria; from Bunbury, W.A., to Ingleburn,
N.S.W. Being in use for long periods from
permanent establishment's, these are common
enough, with some exceptions. “Ocean Grove
military post office” (Vic.), for instance, is a
real rarity, having been used for only two or
three weeks prior to the closing of that camp.
In the second category fall the obliterations
of the Army and R.A.A.F. postal services,
ranging from “base post offices” to “unit postal
stations.” Their multiplicity highlights the
astonishing ramifications of a postal service
which follows the troops in time of war. Obvi-
ously, they carry no clue to locality—they were
mobile, anyway—but merely such wording as
“Field P. 0.” and an identifying number. In
emergencies unit postal orderlies sometimes
contrived their own obliterations in the form
of rubber stamps; one such took the form of a
large rectangle enclosing the outlines of a
swan and a boomerang. Others appear simply
to have made blobs with a cork-end or a finger-
tip. Sombre reminders of the Eighth Division
are Malayan stamps postmarked “A.I.F. Field
P.O. No. .” In peace-time a country’s
stamps can be used only within its own borders,
but a world war upsets all precedents. The
A.I.F. took Australian stamps (chiefly the
9d. value for air-mail, ordinary letters being
sent free on active service) to the Middle East.
Mostly these were cancelled with purely military
marks, giving no clue to overseas usage, but
some came back postmarked “Egypt”; others,
during the first advance into Cyrenaica, were on
souvenired Eytie air-mail envelopes, with “Per
Via Aerea—Par Avian” printed in the top left
corner. When the U.S. forces “invaded” Aus-
tralia they brought their own Army postal
organisation, using American-type postmarks,
reading “U.S. Array Postal Service —A.P.O.
No. .” Exceptionally (chiefly on parcels)
current Australian stamps received this can-
cellation; they are prized by collectors. Con-
versely, U.S. stamps are even now being used
in Australia at certain U.S. base establishments
—an example of war-time extra-territoriality.
* * * *
“Eve”: While delivering his weekly
lottery-ticket to an acquaintance, a jewel-
ler, I remarked at last on something
which had interested me for weeks. “You
wear a lot of different wrist-watches,” I
said. “Is collecting watches your hobby?”
He smiled gently. “There’s a reason,”
he said. “A customer who wants to buy a
watch usually steals a glance at the type
of watch the salesman is wearing. So, if
I want to sell watches on straps, I wear a
watch on a strap, and if I have too many
expanding-band types then I wear that
type myself for a week. Silent advertis-
ing, see?” I said I saw.
* * * *
“G’pa” with some commercial history:
“Chevroford’s” theory (B. 15 /8 / ’45) that
Gibson was the founder of Foy and Gibson
calls for an historical excursion. In 1787 the
brothers Marc and Maximilian Foy were mill-
owners near Paris. Max joined Napoleon’s
army and became a marshal. Marc left France
and established a mill at' Moyestown, Ireland.
Here he married Margaret Hennessy. Two sons,
Mark and Francis, migrated to Australia,
Francis in 1853, followed by Mark in 1859. On
arrival Mark got a job with Buckley and Nunn.
Very soon he moved to Bendigo to begin busi-
ness on his own account. He prospered and
opened branches on the various goldfields.
When these petered out he moved his stock on
bullock waggons to Smith-street, Collingwood,
and laid the foundations of what is now Foy
and Gibson. William Gibson, born in Scotland
in 1842, entered the service of Mann, Byars and
Co., Glasgow. In 1881 he resigned his job
of cashier, and in February, 1882, sailed with
“Funny 'ow orl these War criminals' names start with a naitch. There's
'I tler, 'lmmler , ’Ess, an’ now) there's 'Iro'ito."
his wife and son William in the Cuzco for Mel-
bourne, where he joined the firm of Beath,
Schiess and Co. In 1883 Mark Foy decided
to retire, leaving his business to his son Francis.
Capital was needed to expand the business, and
through James Bruce (father of S.M.) William
Gibson was admitted as a partner. The partner-
ship agreement was signed on March 6, 1883.
At that date the staff numbered 32. In July,
1884, Gibson and Foy differed on policy, and
legend runs that a coin was tossed, the loser to
leave Melbourne and begin business in Sydney-
Foy won the toss, but Gibson looked so discon-
solate that Foy generously changed him places
and established in Sydney the business of Mark
Foy, Ltd. The partnership was dissolved on
August 11, 1884. Foy and Gibson was thence-
forward carried on by Gibson, who later took
in two nephews, Samuel Gib'son and John Mac-
Lellan. In 1904 the whole concern was turned
into a public company. William Gibson died
in harness in London on November 5, 1918,
at 76.
# ♦ * sis
“B. A. Ker”; A cottage near my child-
hood home possessed a novelty that
always interested me —two back-doors
side by side, both opening into the same
room and out on to the same verandah.
One night I asked thfe owner, an old car-
penter, the question. “When I was a
young fellow just starting to flutter my
wings,” the old chap explained, “my dad
warned me : ‘At nine o’clock that door
has always been locked ; it always will
be. If you’re not in, that’s your misfor-
tune.’ I had one perishing night on the
verandah, then protested to the old man.
He wouldn’t budge an inch, or extend the
time a minute. So I said ‘All right, I’ll
put in a door for myself.’ And that’s how
the two came to be there.” The
host followed me to the door and locked
it after me. Down the road, remember-
ing a parcel left on the table, I returned
and knocked on the door. The other
door opened, without sound of lock or
bolt. “There’s no need to knock any
time,” I was informed; “this door is
never locked.” “But why lock the other
and leave this one unlocked?” I asked —
and wished I hadn’t. “Because,” the old
chap said stiffly, “my father never locked
my door on me; what right would I have
to lock his door on him, if he should
want to come back for a look around?”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: An aftermath of VP-Day is
the Melbourne divorce statistics. Justice
Lowe, Justice Martin and Justice O’Bryan
are to hear 510 suits this month —455 un-
defended and 55 defended, a local record.
*’* * *
“Macßopus” on some early “con-
trols” :
Price-fixing, basic wages and factory control
aren’t new. Their germ is fo be found in the
sumptuary laws and master-and-servant regula-
tions of the Plantagenefs and the Tudors. A
statute of the reign of Edward 111 enacted
that no more than two courses should be served
at any meal, and each course was not' to con-
sist of more than two kinds of victuals, nor
of more than two kinds of flesh or fish, although
a sauce was permitted, provided it was “not of
great cost.” In the reign of Henry VIII the
prices of meat, ales and wines were fixed, beer
at a penny a gallon. A merchant who refused
to sell wine he had in stock could be made
to supply it to any person demanding it.
If he refused, the sheriff or a J.P. could enter
his premises, seize the wine, sell it to the cus-
tomer, and pay the money into the revenue.
Wages were fixed in the same reign—tradesmen
sixpence a day, laborers threepence and four-
pence a day. If meals were supplied twopence
a day was deducted. Prices of meals were also
fixed —twopence for “two courses of meat,
bread, fish and ale, with fire and candles.” In
Queen Bess’s time wages fluctuated with the
cost of living. Parliament having decided that
the wages fixed in the time of Bess’s pa were
insufficient to maintain a man in comfort,
Under the adjectival Queen Mary no weaver
was allowed to operate more than two looms,
Another sixteenth-century enactment prohibited
any man from owning more than 2000 sheep,
and yet another ordained that every cottage
erected should have at least four acres of land
surrounding it. The population of England was
then under five millions.
CAKES AND ALE.
“They are not long, the days of wine and roses,”
Some minor poet has on record placed,
A sentiment bespeaking, one supposes,
A cultivated and fastidious taste.
His choice of fleeting pleasures none belittles,
But let me echo, on a minor scale,
They are not long, the days of beer and skittles,
The days of cakes and ale.
Roses we know are dainty things and dinky,
Alike the eyes and nostrils to enchant,
And wine (assuming that it isn’t pinkie)
A highly satisfying lubricant.
Yet they’ve been sung till hardly jots or tittles
Are left of their attractions to detail,
While few have stressed the charm of beer and
skittles,
The lure of cakes and ale.
They are not long, the days of radiant roses,
Along with iced champagne and crusted port;
And when a war austerity imposes
Their devotees may find them all too short.
But we, less used to costly wines and victuals,
Have also had occasion to bewail
The shortness of the days of beer and skittles,
The days of cakes and ale.
Each year that comes and goes avails to take us
Further away from pleasurable spins.
Each year, what time our favorite sins forsake
us.
We kid ourselves that we forsake our sins,
Yet, though scythe of Time forever whittles,
Existence surely would be drab and pale
Were there no interludes for beer and skittles,
No spells for cakes and ale.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“E.A.”: My N.Q. school is attended
mainly by the offspring of kangaroo-
hunters and -trappers. I was telling the
youngsters about the pomp and grandeur
of royal courts. They were not impressed
until we came to the death of Charles
the First, when their round eyes
never left my face. Flattered, I made my
description of the trial and execution as
dramatic as I could. In moving tones I
described the last fatal stroke of the axe,
and a deep hush fell over the school-
room. ’ Then came an awed voice: “An’
—an’ did they skin ’im?”
* * * *
“Mun”: “Kasi” (B. 29/8/’45) states a
half-truth only. The Australian pitcher
plant may not be carnivorous from
choice ; the Nepenthes of Borneo are car-
nivorous from choice and evolution. An
examination of N. rajah or N. villosa
offers a story of evolution in miniature.
N. villosa entices its prey by color —pink
and green on the outside, pale yellow and
deep cerise inside —and by a honey-sweet
secretion from the rim. There is a well-
defined band of digestive glands, sur-
mounted by a zone of wax-like smooth-
ness. The rim of the pitcher is flanged,
flanges ending in sharp spines pointing
inwards and downwards. Enticed by the
sweet secretion, insects creep further into
the pitcher, overbalance on the smooth
band and are digested by the acid liquid
at the bottom. An examination of 70
pitchers in the last dry season showed,
apart from the usual crop of flies and
nameless insects, nine large butterflies,
three scorpions, a centipede and four
small lizards, all dead and partly digested.
Size of the pitchers is incredible. Some
measured 17 inches in circumference,
nearly as big as a man’s head.
* * * *
“A. Roper”: “B. A. Ker” (B. 29/8/’45)
hasn’t far to search for the reason of his
pony’s objection to the smell of blood.
A horse has a wonderful memory but
no knowledge of death or disaster. So
let us go back to the morning when he
and the other youngsters were yarded
and left for the day and night to cool
off and fast. Next morning came men
with ropes, brands, searing-irons, knives,
etc. Fires are made and the youngsters
are thrown,, roped, gelded and branded.
The smell of burning hide and their own
blood, and that of others, is part of a
day that drives them crazy with fear and
leaves them so sick and sore that thdy
never forget. Even the fillies, branded
only, carry the memory of the reek of
blood in the yard. When we lived by,
with and for horses, cattle and sheep, we
checked this fear by making the prad
fast, by a bowline in a six-inch rope, to
a tree, and gradually working a fresh
sheepskin along the rope until he would
stand with it draped over his head. It
was anything but a pleasant job, but
when it was all over you could ride him
(or her) into a killing, lamb-marking or
cattle yard, and you could also hitch
him by a cobweb to a shadow. He had
had enough pulling back on that rope.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The life of an out-
back surveyor is still fairly strenuous,
but living conditions are much better and
remuneration much more satisfactory
than that enjoyed by a Government sur-
veyor in 1810-20. George W. Evans, who
discovered and named the Lachlan and
Macquarie Rivers, lived on damper, salt
beef and pork, varied by a fresh meat
diet of kangaroo, emu, brolga, swan and
duck and an occasional dish of Murray
cod or yellow-belly. From 1811 to 1814
he received ss. per day, with a ration of
flour, pork, beef, tea and sugar, but no
rum or tobacco, and from 1814 to 1821
he collected 7s. 6d. per day without
rations.
* * * *
“Get”: Flood rains in June and
August played havoc with road and rail
services in W.A. Worst sufferer was the
Brookton-Corrigin line. Eleven inches
in June and nine since (yearly average
18) made a mess of it. Its 16 washaways
in 60 miles is probably an Australian
record. Since the middle of June the
service on that line has been suspended ;
it, too, was probably an Australian record
—one train a week.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: At the local dance Little
Frank, after having imbibed freely, told
the strange girl of his fistic capabilities.
Several days later, heart-whole, sober and
reduced from a hard-punching heavy-
weight to a puny eight-stoner, Frank
arrived in town for the cattle sales. As
the old truck stood at the petrol pump a
burly chap passing on a bike glanced idly,
looked again, then came back to confront
Frank. “Are you as good a man as you
were on Saturday night?” the cyclist de-
manded. Frank backed off slightly. “Well
let’s see you bash the daylights out of
me now,” invited the big ’un ; “just you
and me —man to man.” The challenged
looked at the hairy chest, clad only in an
athletic singlet, noted the bulging bare
“Can’t unnerstan' w'y he ain't bin collectin' 'ees bread. P'raps he's took
suddenly ill."
arms and bolted for the truck. The big
fellow got in a kick or two, but didn’t
press the matter. Moral: Don’t boast to
strange girls that the copper relies on
his brass buttons for protection—the girl
might be his niece, on holidays.
*** • *
“Mac”: For the Balik Papan area “Pip”
can delete dogs from his army pets’ cata-
logue (B. 4/7/’45). In camp lines here
sudden death is visited on Fido, un-
fortunate host to a parasitic fluke worm
—Schistosoma japonica. Canine pollution
of drinking water may pass young
schistosomes into human bowels, where,
on maturity, they deposit eggs whose
irritation leads to symptoms identical with
dysentery. These symptoms passed, de-
struction of tissues continues if unchecked
in earliest stages. Hardening of the liver
and spleen may occur, leading to
anaemia, dropsy and death within five
years. In addition, authority forbids
fraternisation with native-owned village
dogs on the ground that a bite may infect
with rabies, prevalent in s.-e. Asia and
adjacent islands. But “Pip” can insert
“monkeys, small.” The nocturnal move-
ment of them in the rain forest probably
caused more stand-tos than did Jap infil-
tration parties. Tamed, they are interest-
ing and mischievous companions.
* * * *
“St. John”: Sharks turn on their backs
to take their prey, and will attack colored
swimmers. I have on several occasions
seen sharks go for fish previously stunned
by natives of the Wewak area. On every
occasion the sharks turned to attack the
fish. I know two instances wherein
sharks have attacked natives in the water.
My dad was a mine executive in New
Guinea in the ’3o’s and, whilst at Port
Moresby, saw two shark attacks on native
fishermen. Here at Wewak recently a
party of “Fuzzies” was fishing with hand
grenades. As they were collecting stunned
fish a shark drove at them. Luckily, they
were close to shore and got out.
Evidently the New Guinea natives don’t
believe they are immune, since every
time a shark is sighted they make for
shore and safety.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Most of the dust-clouds
on the roads about that part of the
country usually had Matters’s car. Mat-
ters and his two Queensland heelers in
the middle of ’em, for Matters was the
district’s biggest dealer and was given to
much racing over the earth. The dogs,
which were his hobby, usually rode in the
back seat and their habit, as soon as
Matters’s car came to its sudden stop in
any hamlet, was to pile out and in concert
and with strategy attack the local hounds.
In time it became so that on the advent
of the Matters outfit most of the local
dogs took to the bush and stayed there
until Matters departed, a fact which
amused the dealer very much. One day
young Hunter’s foxy was a bit slow off
the mark and Matters’s hounds, enthusi-
astic at having cornered something after
weeks of fruitless endeavor, tore the un-
fortunate tyke to pieces. Matters gave
young Hunter a quid and considered the
incident closed. The youth invested that
quid in a large and gangling pup of a
brindle color, with incipient whiskers on
its lips, kept the pup in his backyard and
spent most of his pocket money on feed-
ing it. Months went by. Then came the
day when Matte/s raced to a stop in the
main street and his heelers plunged joy-
fully overboard, having sighted young
Hunter with a brindle victim on a lead.
The leading heeler hit the brindle from
the rear, whereupon Hunter slipped the
lead and jumped aside. Three minutes
later one heeler lay in the gutter, never
more to heel, and its mate was shrieking
in fear and pain under Matters’s car,
what time Matters himself danced and
cursed in grief and fury. “Your blasted
dogs,” said young Hunter, coldly, “was
always two t’ one, but they never ran
into a staghound before. An’ if it’s fight
y’ want I’ll oblige y’.” Which is why
Matters bought himself a lugubrious-
eyed cocker spaniel for a travelling com-
panion.
♦ * * *
“Esk D.”: Quicksilver is the extra-
ordinary metal. A mate of mine while
working amalgam under heat got a whiff
or two of gas, which was simply the
vaporised ’silver, and an hour or so later
we rushed him to hospital with symp-
toms of high fever. Recovered from
that, his gums ached for a couple of days
as a result of overstimulated salivary
glands. A week later he was working at
the forge and wiped the back of a hand
across his perspiring forehead. He was
rewarded with a tiny bead of the mer-
cury.
* * * *
“Bo”: Joe McCarthy, licensed to re-
tail fermented and spirituous liquors, was
dozing in. his usual position on the roof-
less verandah. His seat was an old
squared ironbark log and his pillow the
burning-hot west-facing galvanised-iron
wall of his shanty pub, and if Brindle-
mare had ever run a competition to see
who could sleep longest in the most un-
comfortable position McCarthy would
have started a 20-to-l-on favorite. Pre-
sently a horse trotted up; its rider dis-
mounted and solicited accommodation
for the night for himself and steed.
Silence followed the‘request, which was
repeated in a louder voice. Then the
McCarthy mouth opened. “ ’Eard y’ the
first time,” he said in a tired voice.
“Y* don’t need to git so impatient
—there’s plenty o’ time.” Followed
a further minute or so of silence, then;
“S’pose I could put yup,” after which
he lapsed into his comatose state.
“Well, where’s my room?” asked the
guest. Another half-minute of silence,
then: “Show y’ after. I’m expectin’ the
afternoon rush to start shortly.” The
horseman hesitated, then led his mount
to the stable, the dirt floor of which was
scattered with withered bracken, and pro-
ceeded to water and feed him. About an
hour later McCarthy sought out his
temporary boarder on the verandah.
“Hey!” he complained. “I like to see a
cove fond of ’is ’orse, but not that fond
of it that ’e ’as to take it into ’is bed-
room with ’im. The missus says she
won’t make y’r bunk up till y’ shift ’im! ”
* * * *
“E. 2”: But do diamond birds nest
only once in a season (B. 15/8/’45)? I
doubt it. Last November hundreds of
them arrived in this n.-e. Victorian dis-
trict from parts unknown and nesting
began immediately. For every tunnel
used as a nest there were generally up
to a dozen others close by, and, though
they may have come about from trial-
and-error methods, I’ve an idea they were
intended to lead marauders astray. Birds
in the wren and tit class usually rear
several clutches in a season, not exces-
sive considering losses inflicted by a mul-
titude of enemies.
* * *
“Physalia”: An interesting develop-
ment of radar, that remarkable discovery
which did so much towards securing
Allied victory, should be the extension
of knowledge regarding long-range bird-
migration. It is already possible to detecl
a single bird of, say, crane-size at over a
mile, and the great flocks of smaller
migrants which pass to and fro between
continents and even hemispheres will be
detectable at much greater range. There
is a particularly promising field for such
research in Australia, the holiday ground
for so many avian visitors from
afar. The so-called Australian
snipe is one, but it isn’t an Aussie
at all, breeding as it does in Japan.
Sea-curlews, some plovers, god-
wits and many other species of
shore birds, including even the
tiny red-necked stint, barely six
inches long, make the amazing air
voyage to Siberia and back each
year. They leave our shores in
autumn, flying high and travelling
mostly at night to avoid winged
enemies. Arriving, they change
from the sober browns and greys
in which we see them to gay
wedding garb, bring up their
families and return with them in
spring-time. How they keep a true
course through all those thousands
of miles over sea and land can
only be guessed at through gene-
tics or terrestrial magnetism, but
individual birds, identifiable by
some slight deformity such as a
missing toe-joint or a twisted bill,
have been recognised as returning
from year to year to the same
inlet or beach. An Australian scheme
for marking individuals with metal
leg-bands on lines which have yielded
valuable information on migration-
detail in Europe and America was
postponed by the war, but it is hoped that
it may be taken up again, with assistance
from radar regarding height, course and
size of flocks.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Sometimes the Drift to the
Cities goes into reverse. A few weeks
ago the missus, who grew up in an Adel-
aide suburb and had never been further
out than the Murray, made her first trip
north into hard country. I didn’t go along,
and knowing what gibber plain and iron-
stone range look like in the middle of a
howling drought, I was eager to get her
opinion. I got it; “I felt at home straight
away” ; and with it orders to pack up
and go north.
» * * *
“D.R.H.”: One little location-indicator
that slipped past the censofl'can now be
revealed. After some months of absence
in an Australian ship my brother began
to show in his letters a remarkable in-
terest in bird life. Pretty soon he was
describing “a greeny-brown cove, pale
color —looks yellow—on the chest. Dark
head with red around the eyes.” That
sounded very like the northern fig-bird,
which ranges from the Territory to
North Queensland. Later came mention
of a brilliant bird that sounded like the
Rainbow Pitta —range, n.-w. Australia to
the Territory. Significantly it had a nest
in mangroves, A week or two later I
received notice of a mangrove-nesting
pigeon which couldn’t have been anything
but the Torres Strait pigeon. Averaging
out I decided on the coast of Arnhem
Land and a recent visit from the culprit,
home on leave, gave me full marks.
YELLOW-THROATED HONEY-
EATER.
I hear you call, clear, sweet and strong,
I know your note;
Before I see your yellow throat,
I know your song.
I see your olive back and wings
Flash in the sun;
I watch your flight, a cranky one;
You’re catching things
That also fly, your eyes are quick
As eagles’ are.
Your swerving darts don’t take you far,
But do the trick.
I see your head, dark silky-grey,
A lovely shade;
I wonder where the nest you’ve made
Is tucked away,
And whether there your mottled eggs
Are laid at rest,
Awaiting now your smoky breast
And careful legs.
But you’re not ready yet to fly,
You’re hungry still;
I see your dark and eager bill,
And searching eye.
You cut the bark, your bill is strong,
I see you gloat;
And as I watch your yellow throat
It swells with song.
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURGES.


“Pookie”: In Flannigan’s bar the talk
veered to dogs. “Didjer see that red bitch
o’ mine outside?” the stranger asked.
“Well, one time” and he told the
usual yarn of canine sagacity. “A pretty
fair dog,” Long Tom remarked. “Re-
minds me of old Bootlace. You re-
member Bootlace, Flannigan? One of
the best dogs I had. I was bringing a big
mob of off-shears wethers up from
Wagga in the old days. Me mate
got crook, so I had to leave him at Mulli-
gan’s place, and I pushed on by me-
self. A good black dog I had died of
distemper about a week before, and I
only had another half-broken young one
besides Bootlace. As we came out of
some rough country I missed Boot-
lace, but I didn’t worry for a while, as it
was easy goin’ and the pup and me be-
tween us kept the wethers movin’ steady.
By afternoon, when we came into the
tricky country again, I was worried. Still
no Bootlace, and I knew I couldn’t carry
on without him. I camped early, tied the
pup up near the bend of the creek below
the road and waited. Sure enough, just
as it was dark in came Bootlace. It
seems I’d lost two sheep at Mulligan’s
and hadn’t missed ’em. They got amongst
Mulligan’s sheep (he was shearin’ at the
time) and were drafted off with the rest.
But Bootlace missed ’em, and went
lookin’ for ’em. He was so footsore he
could hardly move, but he brought ’em in
all right—ridin’ one and leadin’ the
other,” The stranger nodded to Flanni-
gan. “These are on me,” he said.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Up on the N.S.W.
Dorrigo we ran across a dairy cocky of
the modern school. “I can use a couple
o’ good men,” he said. “But they gotter
be good ; the wages is thirty-five bob an’
keep.” We drew off and held a confer-
ence, resolved that we needed the money
and could endure it for a fortnight, and
conveyed the substance thereof to the
farmer. He showed us round the place.
It had everything—concrete bails, patent
washers, machines, separators, mechani-
cal feed-mixers and so forth. Over at the
homestead he introduced us to his missus
and proudly showed us his lighting plant,
washing machine, patent stove, etc. “As
y’ can see,” he skited, “it’s some place.
Everything’s done by electricity. Bit of a
surprise to y’, eh?” “Aw, dunno,”
Mat drawled, “I reckon I could see it
soon as y’ spoke.” The farmer seemed
“Third floor —mens shirts , underwear , socks; JUMP TO it!”
slightly astonished. “Yair,” Mat went
on, “we could see it was all-electric, all
right, from the hell of a shock we got
when y’ told us the wages.” And once
more we were two digits in the rural
column of the unemployed statistics.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The ghosts of Will
Lawson’s old whalemen will be drinking
.good luck to the recent Hobart move-
ment for reviving the Antarctic whaling
industry, with the D.erwent as its home
station. For many years Antarctic whal-
ing was mainly done by big Japanese and
Norwegian factory ships, each with a
fleet of small, fast, hunting craft, equip-
ped with bomb-harpoon guns and other
gear for killing the giant quarry rapidly,
and inflating it for subsequent picking up
and towing to the factory ship. There the
giant carcasses were hauled up through a
sternport, and rapidly converted by
machine and hand process into a dozen
or more commercial products. When the
factory ship was full she and the hunting
craft steamed back to their home port.
A gross return of £500,000 per trip was
by no means unusual. With the Japs out
of the way, at any rate for a considerable
time, and the natural increase which has
occurred during the last five years, pros-
pects should be good. The more so be-
cause Japanese whalers did not observe
the international agreement against kill-
ing gravid cows and young whales, and
were well on the way towards extermi-
nating the gams entirely.
» * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Timber in its rough
unsawn state will long outlast sawn
lumber, be it buried in the earth as a post
or suspended as a beam. Back in its
early days Westralia built its bridges with
logs straight from the near-by forest, the
only parts worked being those faces
which came in contact with other timber,
such as the ends of a stringer beam where
it fitted to the tops of the piles or its
upper surface where it took the bridge
planks. These were trued off with either
adze or axe, the rest being left in the
rough, though, of course, the bark was
stripped off. With the advent of progress
and numerous sawmills the P.W.D. in
tits pride took to using sawn stringer
beams for its bridges. But with all its
more-recent structures, notably the traffic
bridge across the Swan at Fremantle, a
reversion has been made to the old single
tree beam with its minimum of trimming
with the adze. A more absolute guaran-
tee of strength and the certainty of
durability ■are the reasons.
* * * *
“Physalia”: The lovely fragile shells of
the Paper Nautilus, often to be picked up
on Australian shores, have puzzled many
a budding naturalist by reason of the
complete absence of any trace of an in-
habitant, past or present. Really, they
are the product of the females of a free-
swimming sea-creature somewhat re-
sembling a small octopus. The shell
material is secreted from the animal’s
arms, and the purpose of the shell is that
of a shelter for her grapelike bunches of
eggs during the breeding season. During
incubation the mother rests in the shell
opening, the eggs safe in the inner
chamber, keeping herself in place by two
specialised, arms expanded at their ends
into weblike structures which secure a
firm hold. Occasionally the shell and its
occupants may float ashore, but sea-birds
soon make an end of them, and the shell
floats off with the next tide. The males
are mere dlvarfs in comparison, and do
not secrete ‘shells —another example of
innate masculine laziness.
“Lyertoo”: I was looking at the
coupling on a locomotive in S.A. when a
fitter asked me if I was looking for
“sproggies’ ” nests. Asked him the joke
and he explained that years ago, in an
endeavor to keep sparrows from West
Australia, stopping places on the East-
West line had notices exhibited remind-
ing train crews and examiners to take
special care to detect the nests on trains.
A favorite place was in the couplings
and draw-gear. This chap had found a
nest in an engine that had beep at
Kimber (west coast of S.A.) for some
time. When it came to Port Lincoln for
repairs the dome on the boiler was re-
moved and several nests were found,
Entrance was through a hole about an
inch in diameter through which a pipe
had at one time been passed, but was
no longer fitted. The “sproggies” showed
nice judgment, as the lagging covering
“Paper! Paper!”
the actual boiler shell would protect the
eggs from frying while the dome would
keep prying eyes from the nest,
* * # *
“Dickie Beach”: Who says that fishing
is a starvation game? In one morning's
netting Boyd Bros., of Tweed Heads
(N.S.W.), caught 160 jewfish weighing
45001 b. They sold 38501 b. in the Bris-
bane fish market for £192 10s., and dis-
posed of the rest at or near ceiling price
of Is. per pound, giving a gross return
of over £220, Commission and other
charges would reduce this, but there are
not many other manual industries, except
perhaps bookmaking, that can yield a
return of around £2OO for part of a day’s
work.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “Bandy” George thought a
mighty lot of his cat, and when the big
grey started raiding Tim’s road camp he
hastily offered to pay for the damage.
Tim claimed the price of half a leg of
mutton. George paid up, but as the pass-
ing weeks brought ever-increasing costs
from the road camp he began to get wor-
ried. He could hardly lock the cat up
all the time, yet, no matter how he fed
her. Puss persistently visited Tim’s tent
for an orgy of feasting. George even
tried taking the animal with him to work
and watching her daylight movements,
only to be rewarded with expense from
midnight excursions. Eventually he gave
up, and regularly paid the accounts, till
one night he returned to find the weekly
items greater than ever. With the list in
hand he sought Tim with a protest.
“ ’Bout these things, Tim,” he began. “It
seems mighty strange t’ me. Two pounds
o’ rump, half a cheese, roast o’ beef”
“Strange?” interrupted Tim truculently.
“Gripes, I got that there rump in town
only two days ago. An’ Bob brought me
out the bacon an’ cheese the day afore.
I c’n prove it. Yair, an’ the roast, too.
Now what’s strange about it, eh?” “Me
gettin’ billed f’x ’em,” explained George.
“Y’ see, it’s a bit over a week now since
Tabby died.”
,** * *
“Esk D.”: When Peter Higgs, a solidly-
built, unimaginative toiler, gave up labor-
ing at fencing and road jobs to go on a
little farm at Widgalong Creek he was
warned to beware of Murphy. For a
long time Peter’s watchfulness was un-
rewarded, and he thought it safe enough
to run a small mob of springers on a
grazing lease behind the two properties.
When he mustered several months later
the cows were all there, but half a dozen
calves with them wore Murphy’s brand.
These Peter cut out and turned into a
paddock of Murphy’s; then he got off his
horse, strode over to where Murphy was
grubbing roots and, without saying a
word, landed a vicious punch on his nose.
“There, y’ thievin’ blankard!” he roared.
“That oughta learn y’ not to go trainin
y’r blasted calves t’ suck me cows! ”
* * * *
“Propalong”: The very new manager
was required by the Adelaide firm who
ran the- station to keep a day-book show-
ing in detail the work done by each hand
on the place. As a work of imagination
this record was a masterpiece. It indi-
cated that each one of us rode at least
30 miles, repaired a huge stretch o. fence
or cut an average of 150 mulga posiS
every day of the six- or seven-day week.
A union boss would have died ot septic
indignation after one glance at the thing
and we never spoke of it within hearing
of our saddle-hacks. And then one day
the travelling manager Ironi down south
turned up. I was in the office when he
examined the day-book. For a minute oi
two he flicked over pages, his hard old
dial as expressive as a stretch ot gibber
plain. Then: “Goshamighty, man. Give
us a look at your stores account —quick! ”
The next time I saw that book it was
peppered with days devoted to repair and
maintenance of harness, improvement of
premises (outstation) and general super-
vision of stock.
* * * *
“B. 4”: A Solomon Island kanaka who
worked on our Pioneer River cane farm
years ago was snapped at by a crocodile
as he sat fishing, legs dangling astride a
fallen limb about four feet above the
surface. The boy, now several shades
paler, prepared to catch that croc. First
he purloined a butcher’s hoglet and
buried the squeaker in a sugar-bag. While
the pork was acquiring bouquet he
fashioned a double-pointed hickory stick
about nine inches long. Round the
grooved centre he attached several loose
strands of steel-wire rope previously burnt
for flexibility. To this six-foot leader he
fastened two twisted clothes-line wires.
Two days later he exhumed the scent
and bolted for the river. Hastily ram-
ming the double-pointed peg down the
putrid throat, he suspended the bait on
the twigs of an overhanging banksia, and
fastened the wire rope to the stem. Two
days passed before a taut rope indicated
a bite. Collecting our mob we heaved
on the line, and the pain of the sharp
stick crossed in his tummy brought that
saurian up with a rush. A volley of
Martini Henry slugs in his head sank
him ; but all hands soon heaved him out.
He measured sixteen feet, but as his foetid
breath was longer I fled his other attrac-
tions.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Oxygen has a trick of
linking up in a double atom when shot
with a powerful electric spark—hence the
ozone of the seaside and the freshness of
the air after a thunderstorm. Combined
with hydrogen this double atom forms
hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen, however,
does not link up in a double atom. In-
stead, its atom, the lightest of all the uni-
verse’s 9l elements, has a trick of
doubling the weight of its nucleus, that
centre taking in an extra electric charge
in the form of a proton. Apparently all
water more or less contains this “heavy
hydrogen.” Water can be broken into
its component parts quite readily by
means of a moderate electric current, the
two gases, hydrogen and oxygen, passing
each to its particular electrode, to be
caught in an inverted cylinder, displac-
ing the water with which such is filled
at the beginning. A column of such
hydrogen left to settle soon divides into
light and heavy, the heavy being readily
drawn off from the bottom. Mixed with
oxygen, fired by means of a spark, it
combines to form “heavy water” ; which
actually is as harmless as ordinary water,
but acts as a storehouse for the hair-
trigger “heavy hydrogen.” To free this
heavy hydrogen it is, of course, only
necessary to again pass an electric cur-
rent through the heavy water. Shot at
by electrons emanating from an incan-
descent filament this hydrogen parts with
its extra proton, thus starting the first
link in the chain that ends with the smash-
ing of the uranium atom.
LATE SPRING.
It was a bad Sunday, laughter-proof
’Neath a sullen sky,
A nervous wind hysteric round the roof
Scattering petals to an anxious cry.
Nothing of comfort in the sunless earth,
Hills huddling in a unbroken.
Tashed, muddy-footed, Spring came forth,
Boronia bells for token.
And yet the birds were ready, though the day
Skewed all their flutes a little off the key;
Cuckoo had called the news through wind and
rain,
And parrot liveries set boughs asway.
So that I know, beyond, are heath-torn hills
Bleeding their beauty for the year’s delight,
That fish are leaping where the cascade spills
In wattle-ridden gullies brimmed with light.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


1 The World follows Britain's lead .
SSB
i 3
sa^
|T Ifc
EST'-
'7s*;
MECHANISED WARFARE
TN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank. — out-
■*■ standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war. Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E.,C.8.,D.5.0.,R.E.
The originator of the
Tank, raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
tank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
m
: ;j?v:
a
M
: :
' : - -»
'■•/ -v_, - ''
i4HHi
: L'
£U
■
1
■ Not available in Australia
and not often available in England either! But
it is the kind of Clarks shoe which we hope to be
making in quantity soon for home and export, when
the hundred and one restrictions are removed and strife
gives place to style.
C. fk J. CLARK LTD. makers of Ladies and Childrens shoes for
more than a century at STREET, SOMERSET, ENGLAND
SHOES
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
In Tito’s Yugoslavia.
(From reports by a N.Y. “Times” staff
correspondent in Europe.)
Yugoslavia today is a striking picture
of conflict between the high democratic
ideals repeatedly proclaimed by her
leaders and oppressive, strong-arm
methods in running the Government. It
is a tyranny exercised in the name of the
people by a minority too well organised
and too heavily armed to be disputed.
The vast majority of Yugoslavs almost
certainly approve the democratic prin-
ciples laid down by the liberation move-
ment as the basis of government. A
majority almost as large, lives in terror
of the ruthless attitude of the same move-
ment to any suggestion of opposition or
disagreement.
Americans agree with striking una-
nimity on their feeling of relief when
they leave that atmosphere of tension and
suspicion, when they no longer see streets
filled with uniformed men and women
still carrying pistols, tommy-guns and
grenades, and still feeling themselves at
war with hidden enemies.
The first elections have already been
field m the Voivodma area. A study of
the electoral law shows that voting is free,
blit what does not appear so readily is
I 1 r Ch °‘ Ce ‘ S 'TJ 6 ?- ° ne . l s ay cas
whichever 1 picks iHs’always
the same party.
The National Security Police, known
as the Osna, is strongly reminiscent of
the Ogpu. It is all-pervasive and very
nearly all-powerful. The defence is that
it is indispensable because there are
hidden enemies of the regime everywhere
-agents of reaction and “Fascism.”
If the Government had the support of
80 to 90 per cent, of the population, as
is claimed, it would be unnecessary to
have the Osna, but in the actual circum-
stances, with popular support estimated
by foreign observers at from 15 to an
absolute maximum of 30 per cent., Osna
is obviously needed to help keep track
of the opposition.
The intention of nationalising industry
has been emphatically and repeatedly
denied, but most large plants have been
taken over by the State. The reason
given is that the owners collaborated with
tbe Germans, and in the eyes of the Par-
tisans the mere fact that any factory con-
finued to operate during the occupation
* s sufficient proof of “collaboration.”
In one case a factory owner was sen-
tenced to two years, lost his factory and
all his private property because he gave
roughly $lOO worth of medical supplies
to the Germans. The prosecution ad-
mitted that he had done so under duress,
It also admitted that he had given to the
Partisans many times more in medical
supplies, risking immediate execution if
detected by the Germans—but the State
took his factory, anyway,
Whatever may be the truth of the
matter, the general belief among indus-
trialists and landowners in Yugoslavia is
that the Government is using such pre-
texts to rake into the State ownership all
industry except in cases where it is owned
by outstanding members of the “Libera-
tion Movement,” while publicly proclaim-
ing that it does not intend to nationalise
industry or interfere with private enter-
prise
Som like the owners o£ , he y ard
cigarette factory at Skoplje, have presented
their property to the State, presumably
eSCaPinS aCCUSa,i ° n “ d
, . , . , . ,
on e u° n °? llC u and * mdust . ria *
sabota S e is so broad that it provides
Punishment ranging up to death not only
°! f r f t c °gnisable forms of
sabotage but for anything similar or
. or J? 1 ”® tba f might damage the
lf e f r f ts of the national economy or the
btate s economic policy, whether such
acts ,. are committed intentionally or by
ne Bhgenco. The law holds employers
re sponsible for the acts of their
em Ployees.
Armed with such a law it is easy to
bring into Government ownership any
desired property without proclaiming
nationalisation of industry.
Much the same thing holds true in agri-
culture. Large areas of the most fertile
land in the north have become State prop-
erty, proclaimed as having been seized
from former German owners or other
enemies of the State.
Some of Britain’s Needs.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by Dr.
Melchoir Palyi, an economist on the faculty of
the University of Chicago.)
To understand what Britain is up
against her reconstruction problem has
to be Take the housing situ-
ation alone. Her population has grown
during the war at the annual rate or some
250,000, creating a proportionate volume
of housing demand. Multiply that figure
by the six war-time years, add to it the
normal obsolescence of houses, plus the
need for new homes due to the geographic
shifting of population. The result is that
at least 1,000,000 new homes are needed
at once.
That should mean quite a strain for a
country that did not produce more than
400.000 homes in any single year before
the war. But on top of that pent-up de-
mand some 500,000 buildings have been
bombed out and another 4,000,000
damaged, all of which should be restored.
In other words, it would take probably
ten years for Britain’s 1,200,000 pre-war
workers in the construction industry to
get the country back to nothing better
than “normal” housing.
Nor is that all. British households are
up against the problem of refurnishing
and re-equipping. To give an idea of the
prospective consumers’ demand—not even
counting houses, autos and travel facilities
—a few figures may do. The estimated
supply of boots and shoes of all kinds
amounted to 161,000,000 pairs in 1935 ;
it had sunk to 90,000,000 by 1943. There
were 1,600,000 bicycles in 1935, and only
540.000 in 1943. The number of wireless
receiving sets has fallen from *1,900,000
to the negligible figure of 50,000.
But statistics ignore the run-down con-
dition of what is left. * Without much
exaggeration, one might say that one out
of every three Englishmen has to be
equipped fresh, as if he had been fished
out of water with all ips belongings gone ;
the two others need to replace a great
many things, and all three want new
things.
Report on the Japs.
(Some quotations have already appeared in The
Bulletin from a report by Rev. Willis C.
Lamott on the Japs as he found them in the
course of 19 years as an American missionary
in Japan. The report was published by
“Harper’s Magazine;” and other condensed
extracts are here given.)
The Samurai mentality was achieved
much more fully among Japanese army
officers than among the men. The
Chinese writer Lin Yutang, in his visit to
Japanese prison camps in China, found
that the officers were as fanatically loyal
to the Imperial >Vay as when captured
seven years before, but that among the
men there were many “converts” to the
Chinese cause.
The lower class Japanese civilians, along
with the intelligent Westernised middle
class, are not by any means completely
inoculated with the mystical warrior ideals
of the military. Many of the middle class,
indeed, gave their support to the war, but
it was represented to them as a moral
crusade, a holy war, a struggle to free
Asia from white imperialism and to unite
the nations of the world into one brother-
hood—“the eight corners of the world
under a single sky.” We may expect the
most from the disillusion which defeat
will bring to these educated, urban,
modernised folk.
Much will depend upon the reaction to
defeat of these and other civilian classes.
The Japanese is neither a superman nor a
stoic. He is unpredictable—long-suffer-
ing and patient, but capable of violent
outbursts of emotion; sternly self-
repressed but given to running amok ;
obedient to authority but retaining a pale
beyond which authority may not pass ;
loyal to the State but lacking in public
spirit. Placed under authority, as in the
army, he is helpless and resourceless
when authority is removed. Yet, on the


Built to
Serve!
-
V'V./.V.v.
h.\SM
'<SZ3f>.
lim it!
ft »
aiVV
BW*¥
Always the choice
of the man who really knows batteries
Willard
• . . have the power to carry on!
Distributors for N.S.W.
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. OF AUST. PTY.,
LIMITED,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
WV
W*
■
: V-
Pebothma, Queen of Egypt in
700 8.C., had a real knock-out of a
smile. As one of her admirers said;
"To hide that smile would be to
take away half the sunshine* of life.”
Is yours one of those sparkling
"where - have - you - been - all - my-
life” Kolynos smiles? Kolynos
polishes delicate tooth enamel until
it’s naturally white! Shining!
John Blumer, 17th Century
explorer, wrote that there
was a fountain in Persia
"which caused the teeth of
all who drank from it to
fall out.” In nine cases
out of ten, decay is caused
by the soft, sticky foods you
eat . . . foods that cling
between your teeth and har-
bour decay germs. But
Kolynos Dental Cream is
extra active ... it foams
up between your teeth . . .
swirls away those dangerous
food deposits . . . leaves
every tooth in your head
antiseptically clean.
r
*
M arcellus (Roman
writer) tells of a cure
for toothache. Standing
booted under the open
sky, you catch a frog
spit into its mouth, ask
it to carry the ache,
and let it go.
King James the Fourth of Scotland extracted
teeth as a hobby —found it amusing.
Would you like to try something new in
dentifrice? Kolynos Tooth Powder cleans
teeth safely and thoroughly . . . its super-
fine texture safeguards precious enamel.
Awarded 3 royal warrants! Kolynos was supplied by royal warrant
to King Edward VIII (the present Duke of Windsor) —to the King
and Queen of Spain —and to the Dowager Queen of Rumania. Kolynos
is a scientific dental cream, made from the formula of a brilliant
American dental surgeon, Dr. N. S. Jenkins.
ţ
In 1861, a dentist made a set of artificial teeth for
a wealthy patient. The patient died before the teeth
were fitted and the dentist sued her executor for lost
work and materials. Under Statute of Frauds, the
court ruled out the claim.
KOLYNOS DENTAL CREAM
other hand, as revealed in the prison
camps at Saipan and elsewhere, if left to
themselves Japanese civilians have a
“passion for organisation” and for “doing
everything in groups.” This analysis is
supported by all who have known the
Japanese at close range over a period of
years.
No amount of intense instruction in
Samurai ethics has quite succeeded in
eliminating from Japanese character an
inheritance from generations of Buddhists,
the shikata ga nai (“what’s the use?”)
spirit; clearly a dominant Japanese trait
and one that will surely reassert itself.
Among all classes we may expect a
sudden and violent release of tension.
New leaders will arise, new voices will be
heard, new gospels offered. The people
will be challenged from their shikata ga
nai lethargy by any number of new
schemes and cure-alls, religious, political
and economic.
The “compact body with a single soul”
about which the Jap propagandist waxed
lyrical is really anew achievement for
Japan. The Japanese are, in fact, the
most extraordinary faddists and cultists
in the world, a truth to which anyone
who has lived long in Japan will testify.
Throughout their history incredible crazes
have been wont to sweep the country, a
trend that has been especially noticeable
since the Restoration of 1868. This is
an amazing fact for the Westerner, who
thinks that the Japanese obediently open
their minds and say “ah” whenever the
authorities offer them anew idea, but it
is true.
There should be an enforced policy of
absolute freedom of thought, debate,
teaching and religious belief, with the
abolition of all censorship of press and
radio. Such a policy will undoubtedly
greatly confound the confusion of a
people so addicted to fads and cults.
Nevertheless, the tides of world opinion
and world life must be permitted, even
forced, to flow through Japan. The
people will go to extremes, but in the
end they will discover their proper place
in the life of the world. Only along these
lines lies their salvation.
Nor should we lose sight of another
deeply-ingrained Japanese trait —the de-
sire to stand well with others and to be
“in the swim.” This spirit will be much
in evidence in post-war Japan, and will
be more or less sincere. Therefore, if a
trend toward democratic ways and inter-
national co-operation sets in and con-
tinues for a generation we may expect the
Japanese to follow, and in the process
adjust themselves to life in a civilised
world. But the world must be civilised,
for the Japanese will take advantage of
every lapse into the old ways, particularly
the dark manceuvering of Power politics,
and will use every such opportunity to
assist the nation once more in her climb
to world power.
Since the Japanese of today are the
product of coercive education, imposed
upon them by their own rulers, it would
be folly to coerce them into our own way
of thinking. It would be worse than folly
to impose such a course upon them by
puppets—Wang Ching-weis or Pu-yis—
controlled by the United Nations. To
the Japanese mind this would appear like
an old, familiar and threadbare device,
as indeed it is. It would lead them to
despise us and would do little to com-
mend democracy and democratic ways
to them.
Yet a reconstructed education must be
given a start —a boost or a kick—in the
right direction if it is to succeed. How
this is to be accomplished is not yet clear
to anyone. If it is not done in the in-
terests of democracy it will probably be
done in the interests of the Soviet
national theory. The fact should be faced
that there are probably more and better-
trained Japanese Communists or Red-
tinged leaders waiting to step into the
breach than there are liberals. On the
other hand, most educated middle-class
people will probably be more readily
turned toward liberalism by the post-war
swing than in the other direction. Once
given a start along the right road Japanese
education should be left to the Japanese.
We should, however, not be disappointed
if the results do not conform to our pat-
terns of democracy.
It will be objected that the “leave-them-
alone” policy is not sufficiently hard-
boiled. In reply it may be stated that it
is far more realistic and less dangerous
than certain other proposed policies. It
is safer in the long run than backing a
puppet, who may turn against us,
Japanese fashion, and use us for his own
ends; it is surer than re-education ad-
ministered through the bungling and
inept efforts of Americans, Chinese or
Russians ; it is sounder than following a
master-race complex and attempting to
“run Japan” for a generation or a
century, and then, when the back kick
of post-war reaction strikes us, giving
up the impossible job and benevolently
helping the Japanese get on their feet
again. Moreover, armed rule by victors
over too long a period may have the
effect of putting down the rebellions,
riots and social uprising by which the
Japanese people may for the first time
in history rise to self-consciousness,
The place to be tough and hard-boiled
is at the point of supervising and enforc-
ing the military and economic restrictions
imposed upon Japan, and by a system of
international security making it impossible
for her to align herself with some hungry
Power who will strengthen and rearm her
in order “to preserve the peace of East
Asia.” If the United Nations reserve to
themselves the power to supervise certain
aspects of Japanese national life and crack
down ruthlessly on all infringements, then
the future of Japan should be left for the
Japanese people to work out for them-
selves with- fear and trembling,
For three-quarters of a century the
Japanese have been the problem children
of the world, pampered and praised,
feared and mistreated, patronised and
used to achieve our own particular ends,
In a certain sense we are responsible for
creating their national neurosis. Neglect
by the rest of the world for a lifetime
will be wholesome for all concerned,
Their designs for military supremacy and
imperial expansion crushed, they should
be permitted to live to themselves until
they discover whether they have anything
to contribute to the culture and civilisa-
tion of the world.
A Big Ship at War.
(From a N.Y. "Times” report .)
The role of the Atlantic liner Queen
Mary at war is a story of high adventure
—the tale of a ship with a charmed life.
It has been told by Sir James Gordon
Partridge Bisset, K.8.E., commodore of
the Cunard White Star Line, who stood
on the bridge of the towering sea giant
for more than three years, coursing the
Seven Seas, across the Atlantic, from the
Clyde to Sydney, from Halifax to the
Cape, to Singapore, Bombay and Trin-
comalee.
With tjae exception of one voyage, she
roamed without convoy, streaking across
the Atlantic alone, cleaving the deep-blue
water of the Pacific alone, running whole
divisions on urgent deliveries that un-
doubtedly helped turn the tides of war.
Not once under Sir James’s command
did she sight a torpedo or a submarine.
Piercing war zones time and again, she
was never attacked by air, and the closest
approach to danger was two years ago
off the British Isles when a mysterious
explosion sent up geysers of water 300
feet abeam, leaving her untouched.
“Perhaps it was a spent torpedo at the
end of the run,” the commodore said.
“Maybe it was a mine or something.”
She carried Churchill on four separate
Atlantic crossings, and her passengers
were often the world’s noted, including
Lord Leathers, Lord Halifax and the
Archbishop of York.
So steeped in mystery were the
“shuttle” voyages of the Queen Mary
in the Atlantic war service that a legend
of wild and thrilling stories was built up
around her with the aid, Sir James said,
of imaginative newspaper-writers.
She did strike and sink the British
cruiser Curacoa when Captain Bisset was
not aboard; but the story of her mad
and successful dash through a U-boat
pack of 25 craft was, her captain said,
“with all due respect to the press, a little
exaggerated—in fact, one might say it
was untrue.” And there was the great
wave which, accounts related, struck the
big ship flat abeam, rolled her over to
within five inches of the point where they
don’t come back, with the deck edges
under water.
Captain Bisset, who is something of a
story-teller himself, referred to the author
of this wave with genuine admiration.
But he hadn’t noticed the wave.
One day steaming 100 miles north of
Bermuda the Mary sighted seven lifeboats
laden with shipwrecked men. The big
ships like the Queen Mary never stopped
for survivors, according to strict Navy
orders agreed on by the Admiralty and
American naval authorities.
“We went right on,” Sir James related.
“But we sent a blinker signal that we
would send out word by wireless. Next
day the boats were picked up by American
naval units.”
In one of the lifeboats was a son of
Charles Johnson, veteran Cunard purser
and now chief purser of the Queen
Mary. Knowing his father was on the
big ship, he sat there watching her speed
past without slowing. Later, he sent a
telegram “Father useless as always.
Passed me by.”
The Queen Mary’s record passenger
complement was 15,500 troops, under
sardine conditions, feeding them, sleeping


QualiM
%
■
i
■
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. ... Their judg-
ment has made (frußa&rr (flatly the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(fraaaiirr (flatly is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
Cr-
m
W:
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
dmd&c
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
5.6. C.
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD.. OF ENGLAND
in War as in Peace
af the service of fhe Empire
|f
mm
skip
■ '
.
mmm
m
An important example of how electrical inventiveness has served the
urgent needs of war—will become of great service to industry generally
now the war is won—is the mobile Rectifier Substation.
This is transported by road or rail to wherever it may be required for
providing direct current; for example, on building
sites; for ship loading and repairing; for traction
purposes; or to replace a substation temporarily
out of action.
In this and many other ways, G.E.C. has sur-
mounted innumerable problems in all applications
of Electricity, including the important one of
Electronics—experience which will be of incal-
culable value to all electrical services now.
—Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
(Sole Australian Representatives of the G.E.C. of England),
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
&<s.e.
ELECTRIFICA TION
SCHEMES have been
applied to all in-
dustries: Aircraft,
Chemical, Collieries,
Food, Mining, Smelt-
ing, Locomotive and
Wagon Works, Ships
and Shipyards, Textile
and other Mills, Oil
Fields, Refineries, etc.,
etc.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
them and keeping them from falling over-
board, The Queen Mary never lost a
man overboard.
Sir James said it was his opinion that
the Cunard White Star Line would now
build a third big ship.
Asked if the Mary’s engines were worn
out and if, as a consequence, she was
ready for pasture, the commodore re-
torted: “We wouldn’t think much of our
engineers if that were true.” It was an
affront to the Scots, particularly Scottish
engineers.
U.S. Questions for Russia.
(From an article by Edwin L. James, manage)
N.Y. "Times.”)
As a matter of cold fact, the people of
the United States have no idea of what
is going on in Russian-occupied territory
in Europe. The Russians can know what
is going on in territory occupied by the
American and British because correspon-
dents are free to tell about it; but the
converse is not true.
The net result of the secrecy imposed
by Moscow has been to lend credence to
unfavorable reports. Whether or not it
would be to the advantage of Russia to
allow the full light of publicity on their
occupation can scarcely be said. Perhaps
yes, perhaps no. But the point is that
the Americans and the British have a
clear right to insist that there be full
knowledge of what is going on. They
contributed to obtaining the result.
Have hundreds of thousands of men
from Rumania, Bulgaria and Hungary
been taken to Russia to work? That is
something the Americans and British
have a right to know. If for no other
reason, they have a right to know in
weighing the steps for reparation, which
is to include labor for Russia.
What has become of the assets of the
national banks of countries occupied by
the Russians? Have those assets been
taken away to Russia? In planning for
the economic and financial reconstruction
of Europe all parties concerned have the
right to an answer to that question.
Did the Russians round up all Swiss
officials and nationals in Budapest and
ship them to Istanbul simply because
they wished to even things up with the
Swiss who did not recognise the Moscow
rdgime, or did the Russians have other
purposes? Were members of foreign
staffs in any of the capitals killed or mis-
treated, as has been alleged? Would it
not be better to have the facts than ugly
rumors?
Is there a concentration camp in Hun-
gary where 40,000 persons were placed
by the Russians? Were those 40,000 all
prisoners of war of not? Is there any
element of political coercion involved?
Perhaps not at all. But if not, it might
be to the advantage of the Russians to
have the facts revealed.
How much Russian censorship goes on
in Yugoslavia? Here correspondents
have been allowed in restricted numbers,
but no one supposes their reports are
freely made. Why is a Russian in charge
of U.N.R.R.A. in Yugoslavia? There
may be a good reason, but the question
is being asked whether the supplies are
being used for political purposes. Was
a shipload of flour from the United States
announced as flour from Russia for
which the Americans had supplied bags?
Such matters should be open to investi-
gation.
On a larger viewpoint, if Russia is to
get financial aid from the United States,
as well as other forms of aid, have not
the American people the right to know
what the Russians are doing in the parts
of Europe held by them? It may well be
that full publicity will help the cause
of Russia in America. Uncontrolled
tales grow in the passing of them. Any-
how, the truth should be known.
Present plans call for financial assist-
ance to Russia for some years, and it
stands to reason that Congress and the
public will want to know where the
money goes and how. The Russians, if
they reflect upon that, will see that the
demands of the American newspapers
that their correspondents be allowed in
all parts of Europe is not such a bad
idea so far as they are concerned.
When one reflects that the Bretton
Woods plan and the United Nations
Charter call for close and frank col-
laboration if they are to work, Moscow
ought to see that the maintenance of a
veil of secrecy, which it has kept in place
so far, is going to be a cause for sus-
picion, which, in the last analysis, cannot
be to the advantage of Russia.
Let’s see what goes on in Poland,
Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary and so on.
That is the right of the American people,
and the denial of that right will do no
good to anyone, not even the Russians,
and it will do harm to everyone, includ-
ing the Russians.
Strangest of Wars.
(Described in the N.Y. “Herald Tribune” sup-
plement by Major Frank Owen, of the British
Fourteenth Army.)
The world knows little of the three
years’ savage, slogging war in the Burma
jungle. The Fourteenth Army bore the
main part of it. These men inflicted the
greatest land defeat ever suffered by the
Japanese arms. In Burma 150,000 of the
Mikado’s crack troops died upon the
battlefield.
The Fourteenth Army marched 1000
miles through the jungle to get to Manda-
lay.
In a wilderness where few white men
had ever before set foot 500,000 Allied
troops — British, Indian, American,
Gurkha, West African, East African,
Chinese and Burmese—fought with
artillery, armor, aircraft and all the
apparatus that goes with the great modern
military machine. Armadas of gliders
carried entire armies over mountains
10,000 feet high and landed them in the
heart of an uncharted jungle. Then air
transports supplied them. Hand-to-hand
battles, which seem to belong to the
Middle Ages, of British and Yank bayonet
and Gurkha knife against Japanese sword
and mortar, raged all day and into the
night, ending only with the annihilation of
one side or the other. Only a handful of
men ever surrendered on either side. In
the bloody battles in Imphal and Kohima,
where 60,000 Japanese were killed, we
took fewer than 500 prisoners. The jungle
is a place fit only for war, and war to
the knife.
In Arakan one day I saw a Japanese
bunker position shelled and dive-bombed
for two hours on end. With tank guns
firing at the enemy until our infantry
were within 15 yards of the bunker, the
assault went in with the bayonet. Up
rose the Jap machine-gunners, and our
infantry went down like corn before a
scythe.
Again our artillery pounded the posi-
tion. As the barrage lifted the infantry,
who were our splendid Punjabi troops,
again advanced up the hill. The Japanese
machine-gunners held their fire until the
bayonets were almost at their throats.
Then they shot down our Punjabis. The
bombers were called back once more,
and they unloaded everything they had
on the bunker. The gunners were firing
at the same time, and it seemed that no
living creature could survive that hellish
battering.
The Punjabi infantrymen returned to
their task. We watched them as they
walked steadily up the hill of death, and
felt a kind of cold sickness as they reached
the last few yards.
Then, with a cheer echoed by all who
saw them charge, they rushed the mouth
of the .bunker. As they did there was a
final terrible explosion. When the smoke
and dust had settled there were found 126
dead Japanese in the warren they had
constructed inside the hill.
The Japanese supply system was poor
and their intelligence faulty. The
Japanese were liars even to themselves.
I remember a scene one day at Lord
Louis Mountbatten’s headquarters. Our
men were holding the crest of a hill look-
ing down on a gorge. The Japanese had
established themselves on our side and
were being supplied across a bridge. We
sent forward a party of engineers under
the cloak of night to crawl through the
Japanese lines and blow the bridge. They
did the job with a bang that rocked the
front. Now we knew that the bridge was
blown, and the Japanese knew it, and the
war correspondents wanted to tell the
world of the brave men who had done it.
Mountbatten himself was willing to re-
lease the story, but up rose the Security
Officer. He said “Everyone seems to
know that bridge has gone except the
Japanese High Command. It doesn’t.
The local commander has never admitted
it. Therefore, supplies which are needed
elsewhere are still coming here, and when
there is a real heap we are going to blow
it up, too.”
Not only on the land, but in the air,
too, was this jungle war fought. For
a long time the Japs’ chief strategy was
encirclement of our troops. Mountbatten
and his fighting generals, “Vinegar Joe”
Stilwell, of the American Forces, and
W. J. “Bill” Slim, of the Fourteenth
Army, evolved a method of defeating
“encirclement.” It was the use of the
air for supply and reinforcement.
At Myitkyina, which Merrill’s Ameri-
can Marauders had seized by an auda-
cious march over a 6000-feet mountain,
his troops were supplied for three months
by aircraft which every day flew 200
miles across the top of Japanese armies.
At Imphal, where the Japanese brought
up 100,000 crack troops to invade India,
the British had four divisions completely
isolated for most of the summer.
Far from being disturbed, Slim cooll>
flew out 50,000 civilians and casualties,
replacing them with two and one half


LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
That the famous standard of quality has
been faithfully maintained, is evident in the
“AKUBRA” of to-day
Made by skilful Australian Craftsmen from
Pure Fur, “AKUBRA” hats combine style and
comfort with coupon-value.
It is this combination plus longer all-weather
wearing quality that makes “AKUBRA” the
choice of the man who “cares.” . . .
STYLE • COMFORT * COUPON VALUE
AKl ,D 'RA
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND BONDS
BS
Tes le bienvenu,vieux frere
(GREETINGS, OLD MAN) £ Qo^e
J >•
ae»
w
ft
CO-* 4 ’
6«»**
fT:
I
f.
a way to show friendship to a French sailor
from Bordeaux to Brisbane
A visiting French sailor
may not know English,
but he is quick to know
friendliness when he
sees it. And he always
sees it the minute some-
one says ‘Have a Coke*.
It’s an invitation that
speaks all languages.
Coca-Cola stands for the
pause that refreshes, —
has become a bond of
sympathy between
kindly-minded folks.
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular names to acquire
friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear
Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
THE
COCA-COLA COMPANY, ILS.A;
( Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHtD MANAGEMENT3a. fad.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
full divisions of combat troops, complete
with their guns, wagons, jeeps, mules and
oxen. Now it was the Japanese who be-
came “encircled,” for while this ferocious
battle raged (50,000 enemy de^ and
counted on the field) the U.S. and British
air forces smashed their supply line so
effectively that for the Japs there entered
into the jungle war anew and terrible
enemy—starvation.
♦ The land-air partnership passed irum
a defensive to an offensive phase. The
late General Orde Wingate and his
American comrade. Colonel Philip Coch-
ran, had already made the blueprint tor
this development. One night they Hew
12,000 men in gliders far over the jungle
mountains beyond the enemy front, and
landed them in the midst of the jungle
through which the supply line passed.
It was night when the gliders, towed
in pairs by tugs, took off from an airfield
in India. No fighters escorted this air
armada, which travelled without lights
and had been ordered to land by no
other illumination than the moon. All
depended on surprise—and no man knew
what lay at the end of his journey. Not
one in 20 of the airborne troops, which
included Britons, Americans, Gurkhas
and Africans, had ever flown before. The
landing grounds at which this invasion
was aimed had never been reconnoitred
on foot and were known only by aerial
photographs. Flying 200 miles beyond
the Japanese front, the tow ’planes
circled over the jungle to pick out the
dark strip between the trees.
By bad luck the control glider had been
forced down in the jungle on the way.
No guiding brain, therefore, directed the
procession. Lacking a ground control,
the gliders overshot the landing mark
and ploughed through a field cut up by
buffalo holes and overgrown with grass.
Other gliders came to grief on the strip
itself, and the next arrivals crashed into
them. On the crowded runway men
heaved frantically and tore their muscles
dragging the ■wrecks clear. Then the cry
would rise again, terrible in its urgency,
“Gliders!” The next wave was diving in.
There were grim scenes where the sur-
geons amputated by the light of the
moon. And there were 1 gliders that
crashed far beyond in the jungle with a
frightful cry—and then silence fell while
men hunted frantically in the darkness
for their dying comrades. But the job
was done.
That is how those armies lived and
fought in the jungle. How was it all
done? First, by the imagination and
the determination of the commanders.
Mountbatten and his generals did a
magnificent job. And second, by the
superb comradeship of all the Allies on
the Burma front. They shared in every-
thing: in peril, hardship, heroism and
victory.
Above all, the honor of the Burma
battle goes to the common soldier. He
had the rough end of things, as he
always does. In the shadowland of the
jungle if the soldier is brave few of his
own comrades see it. If he quits per-
haps nobody will see it. Everything de-
pends on the soldier himself, and how he
bears himself in loyalty to his comrades,
to his regiment, to the Army.
The jungle war will read in history
with the glamor and excitement of a
magnificent military design. The drums
will roll and the great ones take their bow
before the world. But I shall see staring
out of the page the soldier —the GI,
Tommy Atkins, Johnny Gurkha and Joe
Chinaman—always suspicious, fed up,
cussing his fate and slogging his way to
glory with a grin.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
In the British election campaign the Labor
party promised a tired people “security.” It
made no pretence about the methods to be
used—Government intervention portending con-
trol of the economy. Mr. Churchill warned
his people that such a programme meant the
sacrifice of their freedom of economic action
and probably ultimately the loss of their politi-
cal liberties. Britons made their choice in no
uncertain manner. Within less than two decades
we have seen people trade liberty for security.
We have seen the result of that decision on
those people and on the world generally. One
may hope that the British people with their
long experience in self-government may find
new channels for the experiment. One may
hope that if they follow the channels already
cut they will turn back before they reach
the ultimate destination. But those are hopes.
To allow any such cloud of optimism to obscure
the evidence we have would be absurdly naive.
—■“ Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Whatever Britain may do about Churchill,
whether it gives him the honors that are his
due or continues to heap ingratitude upon his
head —Churchill, 99 chances to one, will go
down in history as the greatest Englishman
of his time, and one of the greatest of all time.
They can’t take that away from him —N.Y.
‘‘Daily News”
* * * *
The ultimatum to Japan issued at Potsdam
was far different from and much more lenient
than anything communicated to Germany be-
fore the surrender. It makes one wonder
whether the European war might have been ter-
minated sooner if the same kind of constructive
statesmanship had been exercised in the months
before VE-Day —David Lawrence, N.Y. Sun.
j|e ik * *
It is certainly suggestive that, although demo-
cratic countries in time of peace do not prevent
their citizens from emigrating, there was no
movement of unemployed to collectivist lands
with “full employment/’ On the other hand,
a good many people have defied the sternest
prohibitions and risked their lives to escape
from collectivist systems to free countries.
William Henry Chamberlin; Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
American fishermen operating off Alaska are
beginning to tighten their rigging for a post-
war international storm gathering over far
northern waters. At stake will be the deep-sea
storehouse which provides the U.S. with well
over 300 million pounds of fish a year. In-
volved will be the United States and Russia,
and their defeated foe, Japan. In prospect to
calm the waters is a lengthy period of diplo-
matic manoeuvring. U.S. seafood packers
wonder where Russia will use the large amounts
of fishing gear and the trawlers supplied under
lend-lease. Japan’s post-war fishing position is
an enigma. Fish to the Japanese is basic in
their diets. Unless the Japs are to starve, it
will he necessary to provide fish or allot areas
in the Pacific where they can catch their own.
The war probably has ruined the Japanese
fishing industry for years to come. When the
U.S. fleet blasted the island of Hokkaido the
seaport city of Hakodate was reported de-
molished. In peace-time Hakodate was Japan s
Seattle, chief outfitting port for Alaskan fishing
operations. Russia is expected to take back
fishing territory it was forced to give to Japan
in the Portsmouth Treaty of 1905. Those rights
cover the rich areas off the Kamchatka penin-
sula, in the Sea of Okhotsk, off Sakhalin Island
and adjacent waters.— Staff correspondent
‘‘Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
In the western half of pre-war Poland over
which the Warsaw Government rules Com-
munists have previously been a weak minority,
yet at least three-quarters of the Warsaw regime
are of that persuasion. Poland is overwhelm-
ingly Catholic. A memorial to President Truman,
warning that the Polish question is not settled
and that it constitutes a threat to the peace, has
been made public. It is just one of many
straws in the wind. Among others, it was signed
by former President Hoover, Alf Landon, Hugh
L. Gibson, John Dewey, Matthew Woll, Wil-
liam Green, George Creel, the presidents of
Brooklyn College and Fordham University.
Sen. Arthur Vandenberg, one of the principal
proponents of the Charter; Sen. Joseph Ball, ot
Minnesota, one of the Capitol Hill’s leading
advocates of international unity for peace,
and others openly share the general view.—
Washington correspondent N.Y, “World-Tele-
gram.”
jfc sH ♦ *
Before the war there were some 3000 men
employed in shipbuilding in Canada. During the
last two years they have numbered more than
75,000. Employment in aircraft factories rose
from 4000 to nearly 70,000, in chemical indus-
tries from 4000 to more than 60,000. In almost
every other industry the number of workers
doubled, while nearly 1,000,000 persons were
serving in the armed forces. — Ottawa corre-
spondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
With all due allowance for the accidents
of mortality and politics, it is clear that Harry
S. Truman was lifted into the White House by
his performance as an investigator. In 1941
he was just another obscure jumor Senator with
no visible political future. Three years later
he had made himself known, and respected, as
the chairman of a special committee investi-
gating war production and, in consequence, the
almost inevitable choice of his party as. a com-
promise candidate for the Vice-Presidency.
The committee displayed a brand of courage
rare among politicians. It did not hesitate to
criticise labor when plainly at fault. Similarly,
it pulled no punches in its reports on the mis-
behavior of several of the most powerful of
industrial corporations. Many a Government
agency smarted under Truman’s blunt com-
ments, at a time when Truman must have
known he was being discussed as a possible
Vice-Presidential candidate. Such apparently
foolhardy behavior turned out, of course, to
be good politics. It is curious that most poli-
ticians still believe implicitly in the myth that
conspicuous valor in the face of entrenched
pressure groups means political suicide -in spite
of contrary evidence piled up by scores of public
men. In the performance of his investigating
committee Truman proved once more that a
politician can make honesty and courage pay.
From a “Harper’s Magazine” article by W.
McCune and J. R. Beal.
st * * *
Britain remains the purchaser of 90 per cent,
of Irish exports, and the Irish Free State,
which consists of the 26 counties governed by
Mr de Valera’s Administration, is still one
of the biggest markets for British goods. In
commercial matters the two countries are as
essential to each other as ever —London corre-
spondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
American diplomacy is uncertain, although
tending toward restoration ultimately of a uni-
fied Germany, largely on the grounds that
modern Europe with no German political and
economic focus would be a weak and un-
healthy Europe. — Washington correspondent
“Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
President Truman has thrown some interest-
ing light on the Potsdam Conference, especially
on the change from a cash figure for reparations
to the nebulous conception of “surplus Ger-
man assets. But he did not make any more
intelligible the method by which Germany is
being stripped (in the Russian zone at any rate)
of the bare necessities of industrial production.
His explanation of the Polish clauses was un-
easy; though nominally the annexations from
Germany stand over to the Peace Conference,
in effect they have been made already—so much
so, at least, that the Germans are being ex-
pelled from the territories like cattle.—Man-
chester “Guardian.”
* * * *
Relations were bad between Roosevelt and De
Gaulle. There was a chance when the Ameri-
can Presidency changed hands to make a fresh
start. Mr. Truman is known to have expected
to be able to do it. But within a month after
the new Administration came in matters were
just as bad as before. — Washington correspon-
dent “Christian Science Monitor.”


The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR, the completely self-con-
tained sanitary system, I S GUARANTEED AS TO EFFICI-
ENCY AND LONGEVITY by the Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty.
ktd.—a firm of integrity established in 1927. There is
authentic proof of up to 17 YEARS’ CONTINUOUS
SERVICE. You are asked to verify this.
WARNING I-
Though some of the other makes of chemical closets marketed during
our 17 years’ existence have left behind them a record of unfulfilled
promises and guarantees, efforts are made from time to time to sell them
again.
The Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., invites investigation into the history
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the integrity and reputation of
the Company itself.
PRICE:
£l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra.)
Slightly more in other States.
WRITE EOR IEIAJSTRATED
PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO, PTY,
LTD,
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
Est. 1927
m
i
N.B.W. Agents: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney
Queensland Agents: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworth’s Buildings,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Litd., 578 Little Minders
Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: Wm. Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., P.O. Box 629 C, Hobart;
also at Launceston.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Compapy, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
. SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
RAlN—when and where you need it
The patented MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION sys-
tem is extremely adaptable, and each installation Is
individually designed and built to fit YOUR par-
ticular needs.
COST PER ACRE is very attractive, and some pur-
chasers have reported recovering their full outlay
in one season.
COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY IN
ALL DIRECTIONS . . .
This patented Coupling is the only one on the
market that has positive flexibility, for it can be
coupled in any direction to an inclination of 13
degrees and remain watertight. The patented outlet
enables continuous spraying and changing of the
pipe positions without stopping either the pump or
the motor.
QUOTATIONS GIVEN FOR PEANTS SUITABLE FOR 2 TO 1000 ACRES.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION WRITE TO
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY. MA 7858.
Or the Agents: SMITH & GLUYAS PTY., LTD., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 3977.
- . ~C,T
ť
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Ine Wool Agreement.
“Graz.”: From the grower’s point of
view the best feature of the new agree-
ment is that it puts a floor under selling
prices. It is a compromise between
~d mem 1“ . E , aCh
chnrrLded PP T,I d V . . dl n m t tl ! n
charge added and the total will form the
reserve. If at auction a line doesn t reach
the reserve the joint organisation will
take it over at the reserve in the hope of
disposing of it later at a higher figured
Future clips will bear half the cost of
operating the new organisation • this
should not be heavy as costs of
B.A.W.R.A. were light and modern ad
afsr«lf* n 54
"", “
°° llen manuf J actures
next two or thrpp P «l C f * or the
than those of the io t th° nS 'a 1 be less
buvimr in a i/if if St Australia is
bales B of rarrv ' share °V^ C
UK S ? eW > the
ments are bound to hy toLeTu/nWces
moval of wart; C de P e . nbs on the re-
im* mannfar-tiir me restnctlons hamper-
national tra ril eCOV s? of inter-
countries a 6 ablllt y suc h
n tifpc r China to import larger
q th V T-:- u
wrtniomt™ 6 bnt ? s h purchase scheme
on wool crvut . Wer !J° sbare '. n the profits
win xi7a t♦ d 1° countries. Growers
forfJS? tO A? lf * hls share has been
* . 80 ff they are to be given
oriLrUo .■ lon on h°th the local and joint
t £ _ a IQ u s , and what action is being
f • „° J eeci European mills with in-
milrii's7e wools which they formerly
ed in large quantities.
A Good Season.
“Bulago” : From Sydney to the Queens-
*and k° rder and inland to the headwaters
th f Darlin S’ N.S.W. pastoral condi-
for tlme of year are particularly
here except on
t£n
the tail - end ot winter. The Northern
Rivers country has recovered from the
recent floods (there were heavy stock
losses in places) and the country looks
splendid.
Progressive dairy-farmers are realising
the. value of stock inspectors’ recommen-
ati°ns about drenching cattle for worms,
and the value of phenothiazine for pigs
?? d Ca^ t, f is Squally becoming known.
23».rutr-'SSS
a." ■■sswas.rss
will convince them,
In spite of excellent autumn rains most
of New England lacks feed for large
stock, and many sheep show evidence of
tbe usual New England winter drought.
Feeding experiments in the district
fm° U ' d co "r mce graziers that the solu-
°oa n a han p£
countries overseas where provision has to
be made every year for hand-feeding
stock during winter. Here the conditions
are not so severe, and the growing of
green crops for sheep may solve the prob-
lem. All the same, to trust in Providence
to keep the sheep alive during a New
England winter is pure folly. Adequate
winter feeding would cut down the huge
drench bill of New England.
On the slopes and plains there is a
tremendous body of grass. Stock are
fat, and many travelling mobs of sheep
and cattle scarcely affect the stock routes.
Shearing is ending on the western side, and
the season is now approaching its peak.
but shearing generally is about a month
behind. The delay is due to strikes in the
early part of the year, scarcity of
shearers, poor quality of shearing and
showery weather. There is a general
shortage of sheep, but even then shear-
ing periods have dragged on in some cases
to twice as long as usual. This delay, of
course, will be felt in the later shearing
districts in the south-west.
Despite the abundant feed experienced
graziers are preparing for trouble. There
is a lot in the belief that more sheep are
lost during a good season than in a
drought. The mild, showery winter has
kept up worm infestation—it is usually
checked by the normal cold winters—and
though stock are fat now it is because
there is sufficient nutritional feed to
supply the animal and the worms. If the
feed dries off or worm infestation in-
creases suddenly it may be too big to
cure at short notice by drenching. Pre-
ventive drenching should be done. Many
in nodule worm areas have omitted the
recommended dose of phenothiazine at
the end of winter because of the good
conditions; this may cost them dearly,
“I think Mums getting the spare room ready for you now!”
Fly strike has already begun. Lack of
labor is making it hard to arrange crutch-
ing and jetting.
Crops 'are very forward; early-sown
wheat is in full ear. Many are ready for
hay cutting, but wet weather has been
delaying operations. There are some
splendid wheat crops throughout the north
and north-west, but they could do with
a little more dry weather to offset the
danger of rust. Native grasses are show-
ing seed heads, and a heavy body of seed,
combined with fly strike and worms, may
levy a severe toll on young sheep,
Drenching should be done regularly as a
preventive, since a wormy sheep has a
poor chance against fly strike.
The drought cleaned up the fodder
reserves, and continued shortage of labor
and machinery prevents the turning of
abundant pastures into hay. A very few
contractors are working full time on the
job, but owners are mostly forced to let
the golden opportunity pass. Some are
even buying hay from outside sources,
There is, too, fire danger.
N.S.W. is poorly organised for bushfire
fighting. In Victoria every district has its
bushfire brigade, and there is a complete
link-up of all fire-fighting organisations,
In northern N.S.W. shire councils are for
the most part apathetic. A few enter-
prising graziers and farmers have
organised their own brigades, but they
get little or no assistance or encourage-
ment from their shires.
.
Pollination and Pure Seed,
“Bugaldie”: Everybody knows that
there are male and female flowers—some
tropical fruits, such as the pawpaw and
the date, go further and have a male and
female tree. The pollen from the male
fertilises the female, by means of bees
chiefly, and by wind and also other in-
sects. The female flower bears the fruit
or seed, and the male, having fulfilled its
function, shrivels up and dies,
Thus if a Queensland Blue pumpkin is
grown beside a Triamble—these being
two very popular varieties, it is often
done—the fruit and seed, according to
the amount of cross-pollination that takes
place—and it will take place—will be a
mixture of Q.B. and Triamble; an odd
pumpkin may be true to type, but not
many. It may be added that pumpkins
are very susceptible to pollination, and
can easily be done by hand with a fine
camel-hair brush. The same applies to
rock-melons ; if a Rocky Ford is grown
with a Hale’s Best the fruit and the seed
will for the most part be crossed. Pie,
Camel and even squirting cucumbers will
cross with a water-melon, and the result
will be very unappetising,
A cucumber will not cross with a
pumpkin, nor a carrot with a parsnip, but
all the turnip family, which includes
cabbages, cauliflowers, swedes, etc., will
cross. No doubt kohlrabi is a cabbage-
turnip cross. Lettuce varieties will cross,
so will tomatoes.
The “tassel” on a cornstalk is the male
flower and the fibrous growth coming out
of the top of each cob—each fibre con-
necting up with one grain—is the female,
pollination taking place by the wind
shaking the pollen out of the tassel. In
calm weather it is advisable to bend it
over so that the pollen falls out. Wheat,


ARE YOU ALWAYS TIRED?
HOW DYNAMIC HEALTH CAN BE
RECAPTURED!
To be tired is to become stagnant,
like the stream without current; and
how we do load up with waste, if
stagnant, drawn-faced, with tell-tale
wrinkles, sallow cheeks and slow
movements! <(
You can soon recapture the sun-
shine” of youthful eagerness, cheer
and pep with R.U.R. because it is
the "five-fold” health rejuvenator
that sets life’s forces fully in motion.
R.U.R. clears the skin, brightens the
eyes, internally "bathes” the elimin-
ative and digestive organs and makes
the body cells come to life and work
as nature intended them to function.
"I became a different person with
R.U.R. It makes life young again,”
wrote Mrs. M. Forward, 10 Camber-
well Road, Hawera, N.Z. "I am feel-
ing the good of R.U.R. in every pos-
sible way and do not have to study
my diet. It is a good tonic as well
as a cure,” wrote Mrs. L. R. Hodgson,
Hamilton.
Why then are we to wait for liver
troubles, rheumatics, intestinal ail-
w
m.
e
m
Ha
13
*
a
merits, skin afflictions, constipa-
tion, blood pressure, etc., when all
that is needed is the protecting
dose of R.U.R.? Take R.U.R. and
Right You Are! 4/- and 7/6
everywhere.
3HV no* XHDIH axe u a * 3HV*
i\m -uiiwS
fk 'rn.
;
it AVi
~~ -a2C*
“There were Reservoirs
and Grand Canals..
*7 saw a vision in days gone hy and would dream that dream again
Of the days when the Darling shall not back her billabongs up in vain.
There were reservoirs and grand canals where the dry country had been
And a glorious network of aqueducts and the fields were always green.
—Henry Lawson.
That vision of a glorious future for Australia can become a reality in the
peaceful days to come. Back from the fighting fronts and* with an amazing
knowledge of modern tractors and earth-moving equipment, our men could
trap, into great dams, billions of gallons of water now flowing needlessly to the
sea. Then with similar equipment they could build canals and ditches to take
this water to millions of thirsty acres. So would our land become a land of
plenty ... a land fit for heroes to live in. All this can be done with Caterpillar
Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth - Moving Equipment at a fraction of
the cost and the time of older methods.
m -
* * *
*1 imL&km
Laying a pipe line with Caterpillar
Tractor and Sideboom
i
: V. ./'
c a t e 5.5-1“ L. w»rr ”"“"
tvpt TRACTORS anICATt . G „ ee „ S l« B <l.
CA T ® ”‘ CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
« "SSS » SSS'-WTISm»
. xsfili Sw«e«
E^?»S6^2l
Brisbane— Phone, ’ ■ MMTngßirrtiTffy 3B^^
013-33-48
on the other hand, is self-pollinating.
When it is said that wheat is in flower
that is the male, the grain being the female.
Keeping these facts in mind, and that
a vast amount of seed is being produced
—probably not under the strictest super-
vision—and used, the complaint that
there is very little fine pure seed about is
founded on truth. Competent authori-
ties state that to avoid the danger of
crossing the different varieties plants
should not be grown within a mile
of one another.
Phosphate for Legumes.
“Sarina”; Shortage of phosphates in
the soil is responsible for failure of
leguminous crops (B. 18/7/’45). Cane-
growers in N.Q. have been advised to
apply a dressing of super, to cane land
known to be lacking in phosphate before
sowing seed of cowpea or Poona-pea in
late spring. It isn’t hard to discover
whether or not the nitrogen-fixing
bacteria are active in certain soil types.
In localities where green-manure crops
are grown constantly, and where legumi-
nous weeds are acclimatised, there is little
need to worry about the bacteria, for they
exist wherever their host plants grow. If
doubt exists as to whether or not a cer-
tain soil contains these helpful bacteria
I suggest that a few legume plants be
raised in pots containing the soil. If at
maturity the plants do not show numerous
nodules on the roots the bacteria have
not been active and the plants have been
feeding on soil nitrogen only.
Vigorous nodule formation, however,
is evidence of bacterial activity and the
utilisation and storage by the plants of
airborne nitrogen. If the bacteria are
absent and the soil lacks natural nitrogen
a satisfactory legume crop cannot be ex-
pected. Remedy is to buy cultures of
nitrogen-fixing bacteria from your nearest
Agricultural Department and inoculate
your own legume seed.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nuffin”: Irish blight and target spot,
potato diseases that can decimate a crop,
may be controlled with copper germicidal
sprays, especially in cool, moist weather
conditions. First applications should be
made while the plants are quite young
and thereafter about every two weeks.
Scab may be similarly treated. As a safe-
guard against potato moth plant tubers as
deep as practicable, hill up around the
stems and well pulverise the soil.
“E 2.”: Clipping of queen bees works
fairly satisfactorily if the apiarist is on
the job to watch for swarming, as this
allows the queen to be picked up, caged
and placed in a box in which the swarm
will eventually settle. In the hive from
which they issued cut out or destroy all
but one of the largest and most advanced
queen-cells. The swarm is re-hived on a
separate stand and, with queen removed,
may be returned and reunited in the
original hive when the new queen is lay-
ing. Where a constant watch during the
swarming season cannot be ‘kept the
laborious method of cutting-out queen-
cells as they appear often has to be fol-
lowed. It is not a very satisfactory way
of handling the problem, as small cells
on the face of the combs may be over-
looked in the rush and swarms will fol-
low. The work may be lessened if the
apiarist is able to judge with some accu-
racy the approach of swarming in a hive.
“Gip”; Peanuts grow very well in
our light sandy soil in the Mareeba-Dim-
bulah district (N.Q.). Deep soil on the,
river flats, which here are always very
sandy, suit them best. To ensure a heavy
crop hilling-up is the main thing. As
soon as the plants are large enough for
scarifying, hill-up with the horse-hoe. A
month later run the mould-board plough
along, almost covering the entire plants.
Repeat three times, each time covering
the plants except for the topmost leaves.
“Lismore Bill’: This spray will check
downy mildew, aphis and other pests:
Dissolve 2oz. of bluestone in a gallon of
warm water. Slake 2oz. of lime in a
small quantity of water and then make
up the water to two pints. Strain this
into the bluestone water. Dissolve a
small piece of soap in a tablespoon of
kerosene and stir this into the mixture.
Make sure the spray gets on to the under-
side of the leaves.
“Bill C.”: Swede turnips and kohlrabi
are excellent for cattle. Soil need not be
very deep, but break it up well and give
each row a dressing of phosphate fer-
tiliser before seeding. Thin out to 12in.
apart when the plants are well up, and
keep the surface soil well ventilated by
chipping and scarifying. Swedes are
made more palatable by frost. Roots of
both swedes and rabi should be fed
chopped to prevent choking. Best varie-
ties are Elephant and Champion Purple
Top in the swedes, Purple in the rabis.
“Recco”: A cheap and effective way of
lining poultry sheds to keep out the winds
is to nail hessian (if you can get it) on
the inside, secure it at the top with a
batten and again at the bottom in a s
similar manner, after pulling the hessian
as tight as possible. Do not drive the
nails of the bottom batten right in ; spray
with water until the material is nicely
damp, then paint with a whitewash brush,
using a mixture of cement and water.
Leave for a couple of weeks, then tighten
again by means of the lower batten and
repaint, adding on this occasion a small
percentage of lime to keep out the vermin.
“Muffin”; Most meritorious perform-
ance in the official production tests, over
273 days, recently completed in Queens-
land was that of Oxford Carolyn, who
yielded 518.6511 b. of butterfat, which was
67 p.c. higher than her age standard of
3101 b. This Jersey is by Oxford Daffo-
dil’s Count from Oxford Castle. Highest
test of the Guernseys was 396.1221 b., pro-
duced by Laureldale Duchess, by Minna-
murra Topsy’s Sequel from Laureldale
Dulcie, and this yield is 47 p.c. above
her standard. Among the Illawarras
Ardilla Flower Eighth made highest
butterfat figures—396.399lb. or 25 p.c.
above standard. In the same division
Silver Glen Princess showed the highest
milk production for all breeds, 9873.91 b.,
testing 342.2121 b.
“Agric. Alec.”: Farmers no less than
town-dwellers will be interested in the
Monocrete house, the invention of
Clifford Peacock and controlled by the
Monier Pipe people. In brief, the con-
struction is by “insulated concrete
masonry”—rectangular concrete pieces
built round tubular interiors. House,
shed, garage, etc., of the material is pest-,
fire- and weather-proof, permanent and
can be built to any design. Maintenance
costs are small, plastering is done aw&y
with and four men on the job can build
an ordinary house in a day. The con-
struction allows for other materials such
as tiles and timber to be used in con-
duction with the concrete, and the build-
ings are insulated against cold and heat.
Any form of interior decoration may be
used. Cost works out somewhere between
brick and fibro.


ms
m
r-.
. SSf* S :
.
vs*
r-afc&WK
, <o*~
:,y^
■
$f NX ■•>•'
>x-x-xx:-;-:-x : n ;
_ jb
-.-; v x \
V; •' i ‘ • ■ .
■ : -->-V : :
PROTECTION during Peace and War
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE.
throughout Australia.
ECKERSLEV » SONS PTV. UD.
33-103
CLARENDON
m
STH. MELBOURNE SC.S
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
COLDS
act quickly
3-ways
with
DoibieD
&ucaluftiiii SxPiact
Get rid of your cold as quickly as poss-
ible— fight 3 ways with Double “D”
Eucalyptus and drive your cold out in
record time.
1
1
3
TAKE
RUB
INHALE
3 drops of Double “D” on
sugar.
chest and back with Double
“D.”
15 drops of Double “D” in
hot water.
This special treatment with Double “D”
quickly helps clear your head; breaks up
congestion and destroys cold germs in nose,
throat and bronchial tubes. Double “D”
Eucalyptus is pure, strong and always
reliable. Insist on genuine Double “D”
Eucalyptus.
Enormous Sales.
9|cL and 1/4.
SMOKE-OH!
“For sale, cafe plant, complete, suit person
opening first-class restaurant.”— “S.M.H.”
After installing it, -you merely sit back
and watch it grow.
»j. .j. .t.
“Dressmaker required, over 45, by day ”
— “S.M-H.”
But how old by strong electric light?
•b 4* 4* *b
“Stand overnight, steam in a well-greased
basin for two hours.” — “New Idea.”
After this revolutionary treatment you
will never go back to the Turkish bath.
*b *b *l* v
Vision.
“This ancient castle is said to be haunted
by the ghost of an attractive young woman
called Mirabelle, who has been dead over 300
years.”— Travel book.
A pretty face, a shapely bust.
A figure to inspire the lusty —
All these, though Mirabelle is dust.
Convince that she was not so dusty !
Nat.
■J* *b *b 4*
“Ladies’ damaged all-wool socklets, with turn-
over tops, Is. 6d. yard.— Melbourne “Herald.”
That’s stretching it.
•b *b *b *b
“Plain cook wanted.” —“ S. M. Herald.”
Intending applicants must be passed by
the mistress of the house.
*b *b *b *b
“Women lie more skilfully and stick to a lie
with greater resolution than men.”
— Woman’s paper-
And that’s the truth.
Vocational Guidance.
“Private schools where budding forgers can
learn their profession have been established in
England.”— “Sunday Telegraph.’’
There was none of this sissy stuff when
I served my apprenticeship to a journey-
man counterfeiter named Snurge, in the
good old days before “yoomanitarian-
ism” turned a sentence into a rest-cure.
I began in a small way with tram
tickets, which I sold at 12 a penny to
scalers with uneasy consciences. This line
of business, however, ceased to be profit-
able when a gang of pensioned street-
cleaners started selling second-hand ones
at cut rates.
In my third term I graduated to school
report cards, which enjoyed a brisk sale
to some of the duller
lads at a reforma-
tory, but this trade
came to a sudden
end when I was un-
able to resist adding
the comment “You
Beaut!” against the
mark of 100 p.c. in
the “Conduct”
column.
With the help of
an original, lent by
my instructor, I next
began engraving
threepenny bits on
blanks cut from an
old aluminium pot.
As a reward for my
skill, Snurge paid me
with my own pro-
ductions, and even
lent me a non-open-
ing money-box to
keep them in, thrift
being a temporary
obsession of his.
My first attempt
at a fiver, done in
crayon on a piece of blotting paper, was
a beautiful production, and Snurge in-
sisted on having it framed for me. He
then forged me a magnificent diploma
and a reference from the Archbishop of
Canterbury, and sent me out into the
world to get a job.
At the moment I am working in some
sort of a steelworks. There seems to
have been some misunderstanding with
the Manpower authorities about the
meaning of the word “forge.”
Plum.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“A man in divorce said his wife spent all her
days gossiping over the back fence.”
She’s not the only woman who talks
by the yard.
■h
“The eye is the most ill-used part of the
human body.”— Magazine article.
Under the lash all day.
“Your Favorite Station Caning.”
“ ‘The Kiss of Death’ is a Wingecarri-
bee production which is brought to you
at this time every Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday by the manufacturers of Dr.
Boobe’s stinkwort-and-ipecacuanha pills.
It is a heart-warming story of a lovable
family which is suitable equally for the
tiny tot to hear before she says her
prayers at her mother’s knee, or grand-
mother to listen to as she does her tatting.
Ding-dong-ding. “Do you suffer from
ingrown gallbladder, dizziness, warts be-
Don't be silly, dear. He's supposed to be good
at ops."
hind the ears, tight-fitting shoes, itchy
eyebrows, shortness of breath, temper and
money or the hives? Do you puff after
having run only ten miles? Do you feel,
shortly after having received your tax
assessment or after listening for an hour
to Willie doing his piano scales practice,
that your liver needs a blow-through or a
re-tread? If you do or have you are in
need of a course of Dr. Boobe’s famous
pills. Remember, they can be taken
either in your beer or in your bathwater.
“Baby can be given one with perfect
safety in his milk bottle and for the
children it is now available in chewing-
gum and bull’s-eye form. Put under the
roots of your rhubarb or beans they will
stimulate rapid and healthy growth, whilst
one dropped into the radiator of your car
will act as a miracle rust-dissolver. Two of
these pills dissolved in barley-water and
rubbed on the scalp will promote a luxu-
rious growth on long-eroded pates, and
as a tonic for the canary it is without an
equal. Don’t forget to get your supply
tomorrow from any reputable mortician
or licensed oxy-welder.
“Here are a few unsolicited testi-
monials written specially by the publicity
staff of the manufacturers of this great
household remedy.
“The first is from Mr. Roger Rumswiller,
who is a boundary rider living at the
,40-mile hut, Come-by-Chance. Mr. Rum-
swiller writes:
“ ‘Dear Sir. —I am rising 98, and was
unable until last year to get around with-
out the' aid of a bath chair. Since taking
only three of Dr. Boobe’s stinkwort-and-
ipecacuanha pills I have been selected as
hooker in our district’s football team and
my beard- has gone jet black again. I
feel already 75 years younger. I intend
taking three more and confidently expect
to be shortly wearing a bib and feeding
from a bottle. lam getting married this
year, and you may rest assured that all
my children will be reared on these fam-
ous pills.’
“Here is another, from Mrs. Maggie
Tuffun, of Pollyana Flats, Darlinghurst.
She writes:
“ ‘Dear Sir. —Owing to having to screw
around a draughty corner of the light
well for several hours a day so I can
hear what the redhead is talking to the
iceman about I developed a chronic pain
in the neck. This is not to be confused
with my other one, who is at work all
day. My boy-friend, who has obtained
great benefit from your pills whenever he
has had a bad hang-over, gave me some
to take. I am now able to stay listening
for hours in the most awkward position
with no ill effects.’
“And here is an appreciative note
from one of our State politicians. He
says : ‘Sir, Through years of listening to
and interjecting in important debates while
curled up asleep in the House I got that
way that during the other ten months in
the year, while in recess, I developed the
habit of talking in my sleep. My posi-
tion became desperate until a friend
recommended your pills. Now, although
I still talk in my sleep at home, it is,
thanks to the pills, only the same unin-
telligible mumble that I use in Parlia-
mentary debates.’ ”
Ding, dong, ding. “Well, we have left
Derek, who has in his jealous rage just
plunged a dirk up to the hilt in the throat
of his rival Julian. Is this the evil deed
which Aunt Emma predicted when she
read the teacups? Or is it merely some-
thing which is leading up to the deed it-
self? And how will this effect Julian?
And what now of Marcia’s cherished am-
bition to bring fretwork to the tribes of
Baluchistan? And who was the
mysterious masked stranger who put the
poisoned fish-fork beside Count Popin*
jay’s plate? Listen to the next episode
of ‘The Kiss of Death.’ ” —Clang!
80.
A Matter of Degree.
There are as many nuances in love as there
are people. Some like it cold, some like it
hot, but all like to know where they stand.”
—“Sunday Sun” {Fact).
The gipsy maiden crossed in love
Will wield a keen stiletto.
And Spaniards swear by stars above
In alto or falsetto.
The unco’ guid will ever woo
With features stern and rigid.
And Eskimos who. bill and coo -
At best would still be frigid.
*
So take your pick of cold or hot.
But don’t let them bewitch you;
For while they swear, be sure the lot
Are planning how to ditch you.
D. H. E.
Poet’s Paradise.
The ancient poet quaffed his ale
{lt didn’t take him long to sink
The frothy mouthful styled a drink)
And then continued with his tale:
“In halcyon days of yesteryear
The recompense for rhyme was grand —
Thrippence a line, but understand
Each line then meant a pint of beer.”
BRIAN BUREAU.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Prmtimoyne, N.S.W.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
AGENTS
£l7/10/. Mr*
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
Snftmirabhitumtfefe SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
niimj
a i
MR
■ M
- -'
ilum.
ze
e FINE HOTEL
A hotel. certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
f heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
S.
T n 7
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
GO?
TO
LIKE
WHERE WOULD
TT*S>
aEJTTj
%Z
KlStfa
With Pioneer there will be journeys of intriguing
interest . . . journeys of vost voriety . . . holiday
tours of tireless tempo. Pioneer plans are well
advanced and when the restrictions are lifted these
« plans will bring you a new idea of what
holiday service means. Write for in-
formation.
iieer tours
i' :>
Head Office: 140 Queen St., Melbourne, C.l
MJSRK
NEXT TUESDAY
ON YOUR C
OPE KING DRY
OF THE
FOURTH
VICTORY LOAN
fo help the repatriation and rehabilitation of our
fighting men and prisoners of war.
to ensure adequate care for our sick and
wounded and for every man and woman still
in uniform.
to play a part in providing proper maintenance
and training for Service men and women until
they are securely re-established in civilian life.
to invest your savings at an attractive rate of
interest on gilt-edged security.
A
Great
Opportunity
MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
FOURTH VICTORY LOAN
through any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker
REMEMBER our job's not finished yet!
if you have cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid
on advance subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank, or stock-
broker. Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open.
Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO. Fill in the name of
your district when making your application and help your local quota.
4PV25.113
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Coonardoo ■ —3652.
To buy books on the astronomy and astrology
of the Bible. —3653. *
To buy book containing “Banjo” Paterson’s
“The Man from Snowy River” and “Rio
Grande’s Last Race.” —3654.
Information Sought.
What qualifications are necessary before a
town in N. S. Wales can be proclaimed a city?
A city may be declared fo be so under the
Crown Lands Consolidation Act, 1913, by pro-
clamation or notification by the Governor or a
Minister in the Government Gazette. It must
have had during the five years preceding this
proclamation (1) an average population of at
least 15,000 persons, and (2) an average gross
income of at least £20,000. It must be an inde-
pendent centre of population and not a suburb
—whether residential, industrial, commercial or
maritime —of any other municipality or centre
of population. The City of Parramatta was
constituted by special legislation in 1938.
Some information about the home-nursing
course conducted by the Queensland Maternal
and Child Welfare Service?
The course, for girls aged 16 to 18, lasts for
12 months and covers elementary anatomy and
physiology, the cause and prevention of infec-
tion, personal and general hygiene, caloric
estimation, the normal child, the premature
baby, the expectant and nursing mother, elemen-
tary dietetics, natural and complementary feed-
ing, correct feeding methods, over- and under-
feeding, feeding after the first six months, feed-
ing of children of from two to five years, child
management, vitamins and sunlight, constipa-
tion, simple diarrhoea, indigestion, vomiting,
teeth, clothing for babies and older children,
beds and bed-making, good habit formation,
care of babies in hot weather and when travel-
ling, minor ailments, emergency treatments and
signs of illness. At the end of training the
student should be able to take over the care
and feeding of normal, healthy children.
England v. Australia Test cricket in Australia
in 1936-37. (1) What were Fingleton’s scores
and their batting times 2 (2) O’Reilly’s bowling
figures in the same matches?
(I) First Test, 100 runs in 301 min. and 0;
second Test, 12 runs in 55min. and 73 runs in
196 min.; third Test, 38 runs in 118 min. and
136 runs in 386 min.; fourth Test, 10 runs in
30min. and 12 runs in 39min.; fifth Test, 17
runs in 89min. (2) Five for 102 and 0 for 59 in
the first Test; one for 86 in the second; 3 for
28 and 3 for 65 in the third; 4 for 51 and 1
for 55 in the fourth; and 5 for 51 and 3 for 58
in the fifth.
Brief Answers.
Saw Bench: The Sawmills Licensing Act of
1936 requires that a licence must be obtained
from the Minister for Lands before erecting or
operating a sawmill. A licence is necessary for
persons cutting timber on private lands
R.Z.: Nelson Province is one of the chief
apple-growing districts in M.L A.8.R.: Con-
tact “S. M. Herald” W.J.M.; The molecule
usually consists of the union of two or more
atoms P.K.W.: In order to prepare maps,
etc., substantial use is certain to be made of
aerial photography; it would be advisable to
apply to the Public Service Board in the State
in which you wish to be employed, stating quali-
fications and experience J.A.A.: (1) Barton
and Deakin were Federationists. (2) Deakin
was Attorney-General in the first Federal Minis-
try. (3) Reid was Prime Minister and Ivjinister
for External Affairs in 1904. (4) First six Prime
Ministers were Barton, Deakin, Watson, Reid,
Deakin and Fisher E.D.: The dog is suffer-
ing from chorea, the aftermath of distemper.
Allopathic veterinary practice has no cure for
this complaint, and the only hope lies in homeo-
pathic doses of ignatia and cuprum acet. given
three times daily on alternate days.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.A.F.: That Country-v.-City battle is now
in its 20,475 th round... .J.J.C.: “Peace” sees
you fighting hard L.R.D.: Might just be able
to tolerate the “God of Tempest's” in the
modern world, but not his “rude behests”
H.T.: Like the butterfly but not the Jap
A.E.S.: “The Mountain” is flat May B.:
Leave it to General MacArthur J.T.< “I’m
leaving the divvy to be a civvy.” Tantivy, tan-
tivy, tantivy! L.W.: Cop incredible
J.Q.: A woman’s paper might be interested,
but it’s not very likely... .J.D.: Don’t mourn
for the old days, but recreate them E.M.H.:
Usual remarks for the occasion A.M.U::
Turgid A.E.P.8.: A long way after “The
Man from Snowy River” 1.8. G.: N.b.g
C.M.S.: “Oh, to inhale the fragrance of the
flowers, To wander slowly in and out' of rustic
bowers.” Quite A. 8.: Do your own work
and don’t waste energy in indignation
R.K.W.: Overslated.../8.K.: Surely you can
see that the fourth line is dreadful? ... .G.H.S.:
Just a sunset L.S.: Try a bit harder next
time L.M.: Galleons are laden with nothing
in particular except other people’s metaphors.


Ready...
to throw
the switch
.
f
\
Gerrard
Model “TI
Machine
When Peacetime
Production Permits
Today's objective is war, on its bitterest,
broadest scale. In that grim task none
dares relax for a single instant. Gerrard
wire tying equipment is almost entirely
engaged in wire tying food supplies and
other vital munitions consigned to forward
areas but there is tomorrow a day
of new opportunity for you and Gerrard.
FOR THAT DAY GERRARD WILL
BE PREPARED!
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
<■ c t^u
Hi
9t% ||
v »■
ioni S T Gto^
U L U
i
HUB
aaa
ss
D
THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
All the refinements of a Great
Hotel will make your next
visit a really pleasurable one
... if you “guest” at the
HOTEL
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address:
“SANGEORGE”
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON
NEW ZEALAND
SG I
JAPAN NOW
By JOHN BRENNAN.
are gathered here, repre-
1/1/ sentatives of the major
y y warring Powers, to con-
clude a solemn agreement
whereby peace may be restored. The
issues, involving divergent ideals and
ideologies, have been determined on the
battlefields of the world”. . .
.
General of the Armies Douglas Mac-
Arthur, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, began, his voice firm but
low, to speak into the microphones at
9 a.m. Tokyo time on the morning of
Sunday, September 2. His voice was
amplified throughout the ship. The papers
from which he read his speech trembled
in his hands ,
Bchmd him on the captains promenade
deck of the Missouri were ranged the
representatives ot nine of the principal
Allied countries In front of him on
the other side of the green-covered table
on which lay the two copies of the Instru-
ment of Surrender, was the Japanese dele-
gallon representing the Emperor of
Japan, the Japanese Government and the
Japanese Imperial General Headquarters.
Around and about Missouri where she
lay in Tokyo Bay, and stretching out
beyond the entrance as far as the eye
could see, were anchored the ships of the
Allied Task Group, battleships and car-
Tiers, cruisers and destroyers, the multiple
types of transports and landing craft
which had brought American and British
Marines to a landing in Yokosuka naval
base
The people who were to witness the
ceremony had begun to arrive aboard
two hours earlier. The ship was not
dressed in any way, but above the en-
trance to the captain’s cabin was hung
the American flag, with its faded stripes
and 31 stars (not the 48 representative of
the States which now make up the Union)
which Commodore Matthew C. Perry had
carried to Japan 92 years previously. The
first American flag to be flown over
Japanese soil, it was preserved in a
frame behind ghss
For the rest there were only the table
and the two chairs for the signatories.
and built up on the starboard side of the
ship a wooden platform for the cinema
photographers. A naval guard was drawn
up by the forward gangway up which
came the guests and the delegates from
the Powers, A band on the forward deck
played American martial airs.
Most of the men whose names had
been made famous during the war in the
Pacific were there: General Stillwell;
MacArthur’s men, Kreuger and Kenney ;
Spaatz and Hodges; Doolittle, who flew
Mitchell bombers from an aircraft-
carrier for the first air-raid over Tokyo ;
Lieutenant-General Eichelberger, whose
Eighth Army has already begun the oc-
cupation of Honshu ; Twining, who had
command of the U.S. Thirteenth Air
Force in the Solomons in 1943, and who
later went to Italy ; Le May of the 829 s
The Navy, too: Halsey (it’s his ship!
and the Third is his fleet); Kelly Turner
and Sherman, Chief of Staff to Admiral
Nimitz; Wilkinson and McCain • and of
the Marines Lieutenant-General Roy S
Geiger, who had a corps at Bougainville
and at Guam. They smiled when they
met, and laughed and slapped each other
on the back as if they had not seen old
friends in a long time
There were half a hundred other
gen erals. They formed up in ranks in-
board ot the gjeen-covered table,
Above and around th on the
turrets and on the brid abov | it
were al| those others w £, cou|d claim a '
lace a „ d who could d aboard the
shi xhere were almost 250 „
corespondents and photographers.
~ - , p .
. they were all m place the mem-
, er de,e S^ lons wer e
bought by sniall boats from the ships on
W K Uch r , bad come and were piped
? b ° ard . For ( ™ ost P art the X wore
U ” lform wdh . th u e ri bbons of their
decoratl ons on their breasts China sent
X? ™ en ’ beaded by General Heu Yuig-
F ang ' -J^ Sla bad S 1X > t 0t j a } ia
j - ve ”’ Wlt h^ ,ener al Blarney, attended by
Lieutenant-General Berryman, Rear-
dfi^al Moore Air Vice-Marshals Jones
and , Bos Commodore Collins and
Ca P; ain Baltc T*
There were four representatives from
France headed by General LeClerc, five
rr? 1 ™ *be Netherlands, with Admiral Hel-
rncb at the head of the party. Admiral
Bruce Fraser and his party representing
*be United Kingdom were in the white,
open-necked shirts and shorts of the
Navy. Canada and New Zealand
aad ° ne representative apiece, Colonel
b. JVloore and Air Vice-iyrar* -
s bal Nitt.
There were two others, special guests
of General MacArthur, men who two
weeks previously had been held in cap-
tiyity by the Japanese in Manchukuo —
Lieut.-General J. M. Wainright, who sur-
rendered the American forces in the
Philippines in the early stages of the war,
and Lieut.-General A. E. Percival, who
commanded British and Allied forces at
the time of the surrender in Singapore.
Admiral of the Fleet Chester W.
Nimitz, who was to sign the Instrument
of Surrender on behalf of the United
States, came aboard shortly before
General MacArthur. The other parties
were already in place then.
GENERAL MacArthur saluted the
ensign at the top of the gangway, then
walked past the table on which the sur-
render was to be signed and up the ladder
to the Admiral’s cabin.
There was a low murmuring among
the onlookers—“ Here’s MacArthur” ;
but no sound of demonstration. The
firm, determined manner in which he
walked, the fact that he looked straight
ahead, seeing no one as he passed, set the
atmosphere of solemnity and formality
for the occasion.
He wore the khaki shirt and trousers
of the American Army, without decora-
tion other than the circlet of five stars
on his collar which indicate his rank,
and the worn cap with the faded gold
braid on its peak which he had carried
with him throughout the war against
Japan.
The delegates, who had been talking
together and gesticulating, came to an
uneasy attention. , . , ,
At five minutes to nine o clock the
Japanese delegation appeared alongside the
gang-plank in a small boat. There were
eleven representatives from the Japanese
M?nkter N a a V mnra
ShlgtS leTthr 8
dress—frock coat, grey-striped trousers
r d d r I cn
leg wheli he was wounded by a bomb
thrown by a Korean at the beginning of
the “China Incident.” Today he was
wearing an artificial leg presented to him
by the Empress of Japan at that time.
American naval officers assisted him
up the stairway leading to the promenade
deck
Following Shigemitsu was General
Yoshijiro Emezu, Chief of Staff of the
Japanese Imperial General Headquarters,
wearing the uniform of his rank. The
Japanese delegation stood in three ranks
on the other side of the table, facing the
delegates of the Powers across the table.
The silence throughout the assembly was
complete save for the noise of the
cameras. There was an air of dejection
about the Japanese as they stood waiting,
Their eyes were cast down and they fid-
geted under the gaze of the entire
assemblage.
Precisely at nine o’clock General Mac-
Arthur walked from the stairway leading
down from the cabin to stand
before the microphones.
He spoke for some three minutes. The
paper trembling in his hands was a sign
of the nervous tension under which he
was speaking, but his voice was firm and
well-modulated, his manner stern, and he
seemed in complete command of the
situation.
“I now invite the representatives of the
Emperor of Japan and the Japanese Gov-
ernment and the Japanese Imperial
General Headquarters to sign the Instru-
ment of Surrender at the places indi-
cated.”
One of the Japanese representatives
walked forward to the table and placed
on it the papers, opened, containing the
proclamation of the Emperor and the
authority of the delegation to sign the
surrender. MacArthur motioned deliber-
ately for him to leave them there,
The Foreign Minister limped forward,
With MacArthur looking down on him,
he half sat while he signed the first copy,
Then, since he needed to sign near the
top of the large open sheet, he stood lean-
ing on the table to sign the second copy.
As he finished General Emezu came for-
ward and leant on the table to affix his
signature to the two copies,
He had turned away and was back in
his place before MacArthur spoke again,
Then he said, and his voice rang a little
louder, “The Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers will now sign on behalf
of all the Nations at war with Japan.”
jje i ooked U p anc j half turned towards
where Wainwright and Percival were
standing ; then, departing from the printed
order of the ceremonyj he said: % ask
Gen eral Wainwright and General Perci-
val to stand beside me while lsi »
Xt was a masterstroke of showmanship,
j* a-. •» .top™? *
. ee hng of the tremendous emotiona,
" nce
whelming desire to applaud the mam
, r f c . t X at ease now, he sat carefully
a * tXie table and looked at the documents,
took up one of a group of five pens
a .p d began to sign his name. Part way
throughlaid it down and took up an-
°mer. Then he handed one of the pens
to Wainwright, the other to Percival. He
used ad bve, and he finished signing his
name £> * h e second copy with his own
Pf n > w b‘ c b be took from his pocket. He
th u en stood up, walked back to the micro-
phones and read again. The representa-
tlve °f. *,, United States of America will
now sl Bfi-
Admiral Nimitz came forward and
asked for Admirals Sherman and Halsey
to be with him. They stood beside him
while he signed the documents.
“The representative of the Republic of
China”. .. .General Heu Yung-Chang
signed in the company of two of his
party.
“.... .of the United Kingdom. ...”
Admiral Bruce Fraser saluted the
Supreme Commander and sat down at the
table. He used the three pens left by
MacArthur and he presented two of them
to those who accompanied him.
So it went on. Lt.-General Kunezma
Nikolaevich Derevyanko signed on be-
half of the U.S.S.R. General Blarney
signed for Australia, Colonel Cosgrove
for Canada, LeClerc for France, Helfrich
for the Netherlands. Air Vice-Marshal
Isitt signed last for New Zealand. On


07ER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
Iess UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ms
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong-
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone; 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
WOLFES
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
UOOLPHO WOLFE'S ORIGINAL FORMULA
THIS
AROMATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
la warranted not only pure front every Injur
ieua property and ingredient* but U ia alio of
the beat posaible quality.
Br- The attention of Agents and Purchasers
ia invited to the Signature on tbia label, and
to the Title of this Aromatic Alcoholic
Cordial, embossed on the sidca of the Bottle
aa protection against inferior and pernicious
NET: 1 PINT t Ft. OZS,
WOLFE’S
<zJ)r(jmdhc
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
W 8179
m
Wk
ft
'A-
F
4b
fe'
c
men who mad® the
Armoured righting Vehic/e^
When the mighty roar of engines broke the
stillness of the desert at El Alamein, British-
built armoured fighting vehicles set forth on
the road to Victory, but to the technician
back home it had additional significance: it
was to prove a journey of discovery.
From the successful solution
of problems involved in such
arduous campaigns, better
cars will emerge after the
war, when Britain’s auto-
mobile engineers turn their
unique wartime experience
to peacetime account.
I
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AUTOMOBILES TRUCKS • BUSES
expressly designed and built for overseas
one of the copies he seemed to have diffi-
culty fitting his signature at the bottom
of the page.
When he was back in his place General
MacArthur spoke into the microphone
again: “Let us pray that Peace be now
restored to the world, and that God will
preserve it always. These proceedings are
closed.”
He turned immediately and walked
through the passage to the stairway lead-
ing to the admiral’s cabin. The huge
crowd had watched the entire ceremony
in tense silence.
The Japanese left, and a host of Allied
’planes roared overhead.
ALL along the road from Atsugi air-
field to Yokohama the Japanese
people displayed a complete and sullen
indifference to the passing of the first
American troops, as if it was something in
which they had no slightest interest.
Here and there a person caught on a
street corner by the coming of the long
column of trucks turned to watch for a
little while, but in the main the workers
in the fields, the people in the shops, the
small crowds waiting for tramcars in the
city did not bother even to raise their
eyes or turn their heads. They seemed
almost not to hear the noise, not to know
what was happening.
Not even the tiny children showed any
interest; their eyes were dull and un-
excited. In many cases they turned
deliberately and walked away as if they
had been told what to do. One child
only, a toddler perhaps two years old,
clapped her hands with delight as the first
trucks went by.
An older child took her by the hand
and walked away.
Elsewhere a young woman smiled.
The silence was complete. Every few
hundred yards along the road was a
Japanese soldier with rifle or sword.
They stood with their backs to the passing
trucks, slouching, their faces wooden.
All the land was green. The fields were
neat with crops and carefully tended.
There are no fences and the crops grow
down to the very edge of the roads.
Every inch of open ground is cultivated.
Only around the ramshackle farmhouses,
and in the tiny, crowded villages is there
untidiness.
Beside the dusty roads, with their slow,
toiling oxcarts, is the electric railway
which serves the suburbs. The huge steel
towers which carry the electrical power
lines march all over the countryside. The
tiniest, flimsiest hovels are lighted with
electricity.
On the outskirts of Yokohama, where
was the industrial section of the city, there
is acre upon acre of desolation. This was
the target for the fire raids.
Very little high explosive was used,
and the larger modern concrete buildings
are marked only with the black streaks
where the incendiaries have hit. They
are hardly even chipped, and few of the
windows are broken, but around them
complete blocks which once were covered
with warehouses and factories have been
levelled completely. Only the twisted,
burnt iron of their roofs remains. There
are no craters.
The streets have been tidied and swept
clean, the iron and what little charred
timber remains has been collected into
heaps. The whole area is covered with
small iron shacks built out of the wreck-
age. Thousands of people are living
there. There seems the feeling that Japan
can rebuild all this damage.
In the business section most of the
buildings are undamaged. They are fine,
large and modern. It would seem that
troops have been billeted in many of
them. The tramcars are still running, but
there are few people in the streets, and
there seems to be little work.
There is everywhere an air of poverty.
Clothes are worn and ragged; most
people—children, even, and women—
wear in part the drab uniform, trousers
and jacket of the Japanese army, with
gaiters and sandshoes or wooden sandals.
They are docile and quiet, and they walk
the streets or line in queues waiting for
trams or to go to the picture theatres,
speaking very little to each other.
Policemen are everywhere. They shout
and rush at the people to move them out
of the way of the American vehicles.
The hotels are well appointed and un-
damaged, but there is little food and little
beer. The black market functions here as
everywhere. English-speaking Japanese
and interpreters in the city are smiling
and subservient.
It is early to judge, and these are the
impressions of one day only, but there
are many signs that this is a people which
does not yet recognise that it has been
conquered. There is more the feeling:
“We have lost a battle, and there are
other battles.”
Despite the sullenness, there was
evidence by nightfall that the people
know, and are ready to take advantage of
the opportunity to profit out of the occu-
pation forces. Black-market prices had
risen already.
'T'HERE was confusion and delay about
1 the entry of the Allied forces into
Japan.
The Japanese Government asked for
and was given concessions and postpone-
ments. It would itself disarm its forces
and move them from the “area of initial
evacuation”—Tokyo and Yokohama
Bay, the area about Atsugi and south to
Sagami Wan, where seaborne troops
would land—where it was reported there
were seventeen Japanese divisions and
over two hundred thousand naval person-
nel deployed to meet a threatened inva-
sion. It would retain in a very large
measure the functions of government.
There were reasons, of course, for the
dickering: the surrender offer had come
suddenly and ahead of expectations, and
with language difficulties so great the
Allies were unprepared to take over the
government of Japan immediately.
The situation had other peculiarities.
The offer to surrender came from an
enemy with whom there had been no
actual physical contact in his homeland.
It was necessary to establish that contact,
and with a comparatively small force.
Until the surrender was signed it was an
invasion by invitation rather than an
occupation, and there were possible
dangers involved.
Concessions, perhaps, were necessary;
and perhaps it was necessary, too, to
bolster the strength of the Japanese Gov-
ernment, despite the fact that all its
Ministers had served in war-time
Cabinets.
But this had not the appearance of un-
conditional surrender and nothing of the
character of the answer made to Percival
at Singapore when he asked for twenty-
four hours’ delay: “No. The surrender
must be immediate.”
There were the mere mechanical diffi-
culties of landing a sizeable force from
the air. There was the need for ’planes.
In the two weeks before the Atsugi
landing was made the U.S. Air Transport
Command, which had circled the world
with its services during the war, drew its
’planes from Europe and Africa and
China, from all the Pacific. The majority
of the pilots and crews of the huge four-
engined C 54 transports, the Skymasters,
had not flown these routes previously.
They were concentrated at Okinawa, and
they were briefed for a “combat opera-
tion” such as they had never undertaken
before and for which the organisation
was neither designed nor trained.
The operation was flawless. There
were 165 Skymasters flown in and out of
Atsugi on August 30, the day of the land-
ing. They were sent from the one field
at Okinawa at intervals of three minutes,
and in over eight hours they were never
more than a couple of minutes off
schedule. They carried almost six
thousand men, between thirty and forty
to a ’plane, with a load of 960 tons in
all for the one day, and they’d be doing
the same thing for ten days or more.
There were other ’planes—Curtis Com-
mandos and the übiquitous Douglas
Dakotas —from other fields carrying in-
dispensable equipment. They all had to
go into Atsugi.
The first was in at three minutes to
five on the morning of August 30. There
were three hundred ’planes landed, un-
loaded and taken off during the day.
A small airfields communications party
—l5O men —had been taken in two days
previously to report on the field and to
establish radio facilities for handling the
traffic. They had Japanese naval work-
ing parties to clear the hundreds of part-
wrecked ’planes from the hangars about
the edge of the field, and put in strip
lights. Their timetable went without a hitch.
General MacArthur landed in the early
afternoon of the 30th. He had been
beaten by four days by two fighter pilots,
who put down on a field in Kyushu out
of fuel, waited a couple of hours till a
bomber could bring them supplies and
were then allowed to take off again.
Theirs was the first Allied landing in Japan.
The Japanese had been ordered to pro-
vide motor transport until the American
equipment could be brought in. It was
lined up beside Atsugi field, the most
motley collection of vehicles ever
assembled outside a junk-dealer’s—trucks,
motor-buses, sedan cars, tourers of every
make and description. They were worn
and dilapidated, and their motors needed
constant coaxing. Very many of them
were fitted with gas-producers.
Their condition, the obvious lack in
Japan of mechanical equipment or of the
fuel to drive it, was, the clearest possible
indication of the utter futility of the
Japanese endeavor to rule the world. The
realisation among the Japanese people
that they are a defeated and conquered
nation will come with tlie sight of
American road-building equipment and
transport.


The requirements of section 137 of the New South Wales Companies Act
relating to Prospectuses have not been fully complied with In the abridged pros-
pectus and applications for debentures will be received only upon one of the
forms of application annexed to a printed copy of the full prospectus.
(The prospectus Is dated the Thirty-first day of August, One thousand nine
hundred and forty-five. A copy of the prospectus has been filed with the
Keglstrar-General of the State of New South Wales. He takes no responsibility
for its contents.)
FELT AND TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Oompmie i Act of the State ol New South Wales on 7th Jan., 1911.)
Abridged prospectus of an issue of
£1,000,0000f MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
Rate of Interest: 4% PER ANNUM
Currency: 15 to 20 years
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR (£100).
(The Debentures are repayable at par on 31st of August, 1909, subject to
the company's option of redemption on or after 31st August, 1960, upon having
given six months’ notice, free of exchange in Australia.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £2,000,000 ISSUED CAPITAL: £1.490,312
DIRECTORS
Sir Walter Massy-Greene, K.C.M.G., 330 Collins Street, Melbourne; Company Manager.
Henri Van De Velde, 261 George Street, Sydney: Managing Director (Managing Director).
Sir George Foster Pearce, P.C., K.C.V.0., 4 Drake Street, Elwood; Grazier.
Joseph Kentlgem Heydon, 261 George Street. Sydney (at present abroad); Solicitor.
Leonard Alex Lochrln (alternate to J. K. Heydon), 261 George Street, Sydney; Solicitor.
Arthur James Vale, Bank House, Bank Place. Melbourne; Company Director.
Cedi Rhodes Smith. 261 George Street, Sydney; Wool Buyer.
John Henry Tltcben, 261 George Street, Sydney; Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of the Issue will be used to finance an extensive programme of
expansion, including the establishment of important industries new to Australia
and will be expended wholly upon tangible assets.
CAPITAL SECURITY FOR DEBENTURES
The Debenture Capital Is secured by a First Floating Charge over the assets
and undertakings of the Company in the Commonwealth of Australia (subject to
conditions set out In the Trust Deed), together with a guarantee by the Company’s
wholly owned Australian subsidiaries of due performance of the parent com-
pany’s covenant, this guarantee being secured by a First Floating Charge over the
assets and undertakings of the Company’s wholly owned Australian subsidiaries
on conditions similar to those applicable to the parent company.
ASSETS BACKING IN NETT TANGIBLE ASSETS FOR EACH £lOO OP DEBEN-
TURE CAPITAL IS £261/17/8.
ANNUAL PAYMENT FOR DEBENTURE INTEREST IS COVERED 7.74 TIMES
BY PROFITS.
A SINKING FUND OP TWO PER CENT. PER ANNUM IS PROVIDED, THE
MONEY TO BE USED TO PURCHASE DEBENTURES IN THE MARKET,
WHICH WILL THUS HAVE REGULAR BUYING SUPPORT.
APPLICATIONS will be received at any office of the Bank of New South Walei, The
Bank of Australasia, Oommerclal Bank of Australia Ltd., English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Ltd., Union Bank of Australia Ltd., and by any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in
Australia.
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS OPEN AT 10 A.M. ON WEDNESDAY, sth SEPTEMBER.
LISTS WILL CLOSE AT 11.30 A.M. ON SATURDAY, 15th SEPTEMBER, or earlier If
fully subscribed.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. Were & Son, Capel Court, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne (mem-
bers of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
SYDNEY - - Clarence Oegenhardt & Co.. 117 Pitt Street.
BROKERS MELBOURNE - J. B. Were & Son. 375 Collins Street.
FOR ADELAIDE - Gavin P. Gardner & Co.. 20 Grenfell Street.
THE ISSUE: BRISBANE - J. B. & Prank Charlton, 406 Queen Street.
PERTH - - D. J. Carmichael & Co.. 23 Barrack Street.
HOBART - - Smithies and Langford, 140 Collins Street.
The minimum subscription upon which the directors will proceed to allotment
is £1,000.000.
Interest will accrue on all allotments as from 15th September, 1946.
Copies of the prospectus and application forms may be obtained from the
offices of the Company, 261 George Street, Sydney, or Bank House, Bank Place,
Melbourne, or from the underwriters. J. B. Were & Son. 375 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and 44 Martin Place, Sydney, or from the head office and any branch of
the following Banks: Bank of New South Wales, The Bank of Australasia, Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Ltd., English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd.,
Union Bank of Australia Ltd., and from members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
The Company will receive applications made only on printed forms of
application annexed to copies of the complete prospectus.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'solders’ Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
m
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIDGE
GEORGE ST,
Filter
Cylinder
FI
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1936.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 _ „
Written off premises, £2500 )
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 70,000 } .. .. , a S7Q oqs
Written off premises, £2500 ) 1,148 8/y,ydD
1937.. 77,320 4} p.c. = 74,375 } ... ssn , sn
Written off premises. £2500 f 445 880,880
1938.. 81,671 44 p.c. = 78,750 } . 91 RRft Rn ,
Written off premises, £2500 j 421 880,801
1939.. 84,692 4f p.c. = 80,937 } 8 81 556
Written off premises, £3OOO \ 705 881,500
1940.. 91,031 5 p.c. = 87,500 } hi 889 087
Written off premises, £3OOO )
!941. . 90,835 5 p.c. = 87,500 } 335 882,422
Written off premises, £3OOO j
1942.. 90,674 5 p.c. = 87,500 } -194 882 596
Written off premises, £3OOO } 1 8 ’
1943.. 77,503 4} p.c. = 74,375 } inft 009 5 24
Written off premises, £3OOO J 100 888,884
1944.. 81,850 44 p.c. = 78,750 } 19R 889 794
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 1-j8 88 - ,, ‘ 84
1945.. 82,551 44 p.c. t= 78,750 } R „, R BB 695
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 801 88d »b- i! >
Under the new banking legislation,
proclaimed on August 20 last, the future
of the trading banks now rests more with
the Federal Treasurer than in the hands
of their directors. However, if the banks
are permitted to compete with the newly-
embellished Commonwealth Bank on
equitable terms they can continue to share
the fortunes of Australia. But if the
Commonwealth Bank’s powers and privi-
leges—among other things, it pays no
taxation and can be given overwhelming
advantages in interest rates and in over-
seas currency transactions —are to be
used against the trading banks it can
make their business unprofitable, and by
stealth bring about complete nationalisa-
tion of the banking system.
Under the Government’s policy of full
employment, social security and a high
and rising standard of living, such things
as investment, interest-rates, prices, taxa-
tion, subsidies, etc,, are to be so arranged
that trade and industry will always have
jobs for workers and materials for them
to work on. And, it is assumed, there
will always be enough customers able
and willing to buy whatever is on the
markets. According to the Government,
the master-key to this Utopia is expendi-
ture. People will, it is asserted, always
work. And it will be possible to provide
work for them so long as money is pro-
vided to be worked for. By control of
central bank credit and of private invest-
ment through the'trading banks the Gov-
ernment hopes to be able to create induce-
ments and discouragements that will
accelerate or retard expenditure as re-
quired. But the mere making available
or emission, of credit affords no guaran-
tee that money will be rightly used, or
used at all, unless traders can see means
of profitable employment for it.
The fallacy lies in the assumption that
employment, instead of production of
marketable goods at the right cost, or
price, should be the object of national
economic policy. For this and other
reasons transition to a sound peace
economy is likely to prove vastly more
difficult than did marshalling of our re-
sources for war, when cost was not a
primary consideration. To ease the pres-
sure of costs on the present price struc-
ture the Federal Government paid some
£25,000,000 in subsidies last financial
year—mainly to primary producers, other
than wool- and meat-growers—and has
budgeted for a somewhat similar outlay
to June 30 next.
And our capacity to manufacture in
excess of domestic needs has expanded
during the war. If this capacity is to be
used to the full, or further expanded our
manufacturing industries must compete
in export markets with low-cost manu-
facturers of other countries. Obviously,
ability to maintain full and profitable
production, and therefore maximum em-
ployment, in both spheres calls loudly
for immediate reduction in costs. By
maintaining war expenditure at 75 p.c. of
last year’s figure and by failing to give
traders a little relief from the heavy
burden of company taxation (now a
prominent feature in costs) the Federal
Budget for 1945-46 has retarded speedy
rehabilitation of trade and industry and
their capacity to provide the maximum
number of jobs.
The Q.N, does about 90 p.c. of its
business in its home State, where primary
production—mainly pastoral, agricultural
and dairying— accounts for about three-
quarters of total production. Last term
seasonal conditions were favorable in the
northern and coastal districts, but drought
gripped the far-west and sou’-west por-
tions of the State. War expenditure con-
tinued to dominate the financial struc-
ture. But the inflationary trend was less
pronounced, owing to reduction of the
amount of central bank credit resorted
to. Here is a comparison of the Q.N’s
balance-sheet figures;
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
£ £ £ £
Paid
capital. .1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Stock* ..2,690,133 2,665,298 2,963,441 3,018,751
Bills, etc. 384,204 425,115 1,» 10 Q , Q ...
Deposits 9,237,965 9,462,091 J 17 . 62 6,063 19,959,634
Liquid
assets ..4,151,337 4,598,144 15,023,768 17,566,143
Advan-
ces 10,260,491 10,051,672 7,572,605 7,429,232
Premises 573,593 578,862 580,718 577,880
Other assets —•— 88,988 82,505
* Interminable.
Last term a contraction of £143,373 in
advances was accompanied by a growth
of £2,333,571 in deposits, etc., and an
expansion of £2,542,375 in low-interest-
bearing liquids. These include a special
deposit with the Commonwealth Bank of
£7,569,000 —the frozen growth in deposits
during the war. This is only £2OOO-odd
less than the amount the co. has advanced
to traders, etc. The financial position is
one of exceptional strength but low earn-
ing power.
The year’s gross earnings (£397,789)
improved £1920. Trading exes. (£267,747)
were got back £1793, but the tax bill
(£47,491) was £3012 heavier. The net
result (up £701) was 4.7 p.c. on capital.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the net return was only
2.9 p.c. So the interminable deposit
stock, which is costing the co. on the
average 3£ p.c., is more of a hindrance
than a help these days.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
tut . Toße-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1935 232.809 10 p.c. = 150,M0 1- * *
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO )
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 10 „ „ 150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO ~ .. 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.c. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
Assets adjustment, £296.808.. .. 2,200,270
To tax reserve, £40,000 .. .. 2,160,270
War exes, donation, £20,000.. .. 2,140,270
1940.. 346,718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,988
1941.. 392,346 124 „ „ 187.500 204,846 2,541,834
1942.. 415,877 124 „ „ 187,500 228,377 2,770,211
1943.. 624,124 124 „ „ 187,500 436,624 3,206,835
1944.. 542,440 124 „ ~ 187,500 354,940 3,561,775
1945.. 396,800 124 „ „ 187,500 209,300 3,771,075
Peace bonus, 124 P-c., £187,500 .. 3,583,575
The board commemorated end of World
War II by handing shareholders a
bonus of 12| p.c., together with a div. of
like amount, making a juicy 25 p.c. for
the year. The two combined called for
£21,800 less than the year’s profit.
Although the co.’s branches in and
around east Asia —Tokyo, Kobe, Shang-
hai, Canton, Hong Kong and Singapore—
fell into enemy hands, and assets with a
book value of £7o,93odisappeared without
comment, war brought the co. more busi-
ness than ever. This mainly from marine
risks, on which rates were very high while
the submarine and air menaces were at
their peak. These risks originated largely
in U.S.A. and U.K. Nearly the whole of
the rapidly-expanded American mercan-
tile marine was insured in the open
market, and a large volume of builders’
risk insurance on vessels under construc-
tion in American shipyards was returned
to the commercial market more than a
couple of years back. Also the U.K.
Ministries of Food and Supply placed
large contracts covering the bulk of their
imports with the open market.
And the enterprising management lost
no time in extending the co.’s activities to
other fields. New branches have been
opened in India and in East and South
Africa. It should not be long before the
Asiatic branches already referred to are
operating again, and as building and other
trade activity gather momentum the vol-
ume of fire and motor vehicle insurance,
etc., can be expected to expand.
Overseas war income began to taper
last term, and there was still a lack of
ordinary trade to fill the gap. The shrink-
age in net premium income was £173,848:
v x Loss Rspen**
R a te Rfltc
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.e.’ ne'
1910.. £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64 5 28 5
1925.. 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56 2 31 9
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64‘e 308
1939.. 1,405,787 910,489 377,632 64 8 268
1940.. 1,763,659 1,105.966 462,809 62 7 26«
1941.. 1,948,595 1,099,744 570.448 56 5 29 2
1942.. 2,079,841 1,140,948 647,966 54‘s 32 1
1943.. 2,412,183 1,338,808 622,039 55 5 258
1944.. 2,522,086 1,247,031 926,199 49 4 36 ?
1945.. 2,348,238 1,273,796 865,175 3e!2
Losses took an extra £4 16s, of each £lOO
on net premiums. Still, the loss rate was
moderate, the previous year’s figure being
one of the lightest in the co.’s 66 years’
experience. Though a tight hold was
kept upon exes, (down 10s. p.c.), the
underwriting surplus (£209,267, down
£139,589) fell to 13.9 p.c. on capital.
Interest and rents (£172,104, up £5764)
brought in a further 11.5 p.c. Including
an unexplained addition of £15,429 to the
investment and contingencies reserve
(£1,273,796), the net return on capital
from all sources (£396,800, down
£145,640) was 26.4 p.c,, as against 36.1,
40.1, 27.6, 26.1 and 23.1 p.c. back to 1940.
That leaves out of the figuring move-
ments in the reserve for unexpired risks.
These risks are usually a long-winded
business in the marine section. The
£1,500,000 of capital, four-fifths of which
is bonus scrip issued since 1912, has the
support and assistance of £3,583,575 of
reserves. On the two combined the year’s
£396,800 of profit was 7.8 p.c.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
1942. 1943. 1944. 1945.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 998,003 1,134,163 1,418,192 1,383,691
Public securi-
ties .. 3,182,043 8,777,046 4,409,809 4,653,014
Mortgages.. 5,281 5,219 2,331 10,031
Shares, etc. 757,961 656,410 599,627 599,731
Freeholds .. 596,152 596,152 620,818 622,985
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 839,279 918,672 959,882 881,505
Liabilities consist of provision for unad-
justed losses (£809,514, up £43,308) and
sundry creditors, including something for
taxation (£547,177, down £77,809). Avail-
able funds were again channelled into
public securities (up £243,205).
Before announcement of the special
bonus the co.’s f.p. pound shares sold for
£5 on ’Change in Maoriland, In Aus-
tralia they are jammed at the ceiling
price of 70s. 3d. Thus has the Federal
Government officially devalued a private
asset and imposed capital loss where
these things are least desirable—in cases
of forced realisation, such as the winding-
up of estates, etc.
Berlei, Ltd.
( Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 3522 77,910
1940.. 23,206 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 5450 83,360
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 10,296 93,656
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 83,656
Unexplained additions, £2500 .. .. 86,156
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 9,614 95,770
To staff fund, £2224 93,546
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7,304 100,850
To staff fund, £3021 .. • • 1 o mo aev
1944.. 29,789 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 j lUa,Bbd
lo staff fund, £8450 .. *• 1 19111 .n, qvj.
1945.. 38,317 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 S ’ ,a
Latest profit (up £8528) is the best in the
co.’s history. The improvement was the
result of increased production and sales,
both of which are still unequal to cur-
rent demand. War shut off imports of
corsets, brassieres and like feminine
creations, giving the co. practically a
monopoly of the local market. Still, it
has been unable to meet civilian require-
ments, owing to prior service needs and
shortage of labor and materials. To re-
lieve the acute position in the civilian
trade,. the Government allowed the co.
to withdraw from some of its service con-
tracts a couple of years ago, and eased
import restrictions. But British and
American manufacturers were, and still


RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve
ments. Stupendous succes-
of new method of control
The NEO-BARRERE acf‘
like the hand when placet
flat upon the orifice. Yoi
will at once withou 1
effort and in ’all move
ments hold the intee
_ tine in its cavlf
Write To-day ft
LIKE THE Hflno FREE LIT ERA TOR *
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22F), M 3 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big.. King & Castlereagh Sts..
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because! 5f
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest Is Interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and Inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-<
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
iankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
■excess uric acid.
Don’t delay I Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They!
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
POAN’a PACKAGES KIDNEY PILLS to-day,
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Haasel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Position Wanted.
EXPORT MANAGER.
Young, keen businessman, experienced Far
Eastern trade and knowledge of major Euro-
pean and Oriental languages, seeks suitable
position with Australian Company. —Export
Manager, C/o Box 55a, Melbourne. ;
BOOKS TECHNICAL . ..
Consult us for your needs on:
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on McGILL’S AGENCY
application. Flfcabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 Elizabeth Jtreei, me.
STRONGER... LI GHTER ...LONGER -J- A S T I N G
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CAS E S
Commonwealth s3anh of HusttaUa
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1945
LIABILITIES. £ s. d.
Capital Account .. 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 4,369,159 9 1
Ruual Credits Department—
Capital Account .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 445,585 13 0
Development Fund .. 63,038 11 10
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital Account .. 1,749,568 18 11
Reserve Fund .. 3,265 13 11
Special War-time Do-
posits by Banks .. 241,032,000 0 0
Deposits, Accrued In-
terest & Rebate, Bills
Payable & Other Lia-
bilities • • 210,063,625 0 8
£463,726,143 7 5
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits
per Contra .« • • 1,254,920 6 5
£464,981,063 13 10
Rote Issue Department 196,097,356 0 9
Total
.£660,078,419 14 7
d.
assets.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
aS£»*; ;;
Bhort . C *".“m,9«o.K2 i* »
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (includ-
ing Commonwealth
Treasury Bills) .. 257,429,916 14 •
Other Government, Semi-
Govemmental and
Municipal Securities..
Bills Receivable in Lon-
don and Remittances
in Transit
Bills Discounted, Loans
and Advances to Cus-
tomers & Other Assets
Mortgage Bank Loans
Bank Premises ..
6,017,851 2 6
18,087,649 IS 2
27,868,813 9
1,644,394 7
682,063 14
£463,726,143 7 6
Liabilities of Customers
& Others on Letters of
Credit per Contra .. 1,264,920 6 5
£464,981,063 13 10
Note Issue Department 195,097,356 0 9
Total
..£660 078,419 14 7
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1945
£
General Bank Department—
To National Debt Sink-
ing Fund .. 478,298
„ Reserve Fund .. 239,149
„ Mortgage Bank De-
partment Capital
Account .. 239,14#
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund .. 18,403
„ Development Fund 18,403
Mortgage Ban - Department—
To Reserve Fund .. 3,206
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Trea-
sury 2,948,472
„ Mortgage Bank De-
partment Capital
Account.. .. 160,000
8. d.
0 4
0 2
0 2
11 6
11 6
13 11
9 0
0 0
Total .. .. £4,096,141 7 1
0 8
By Profits for Year ended
30th June, 1945 —
Genera) Bank De-
partment .. .. 966,596
Rural Credits De- n
pertinent.. .. 36,807 3 0
Mortoaoe Bank Department—
Profit Year £s. d.
ended 30th
June *46 16,461 14 8
Letts Pre-
vious
Loss 18,186 0 4 „ , 0 ~
—! 3,265 IS 11
Note Issue Department 3,098,472 9 6
Tot At .. .. £4,095,141 7 1
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the
several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
B. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON. Chief Accountant.
H. T. ARMTTAGE Governor.
Sydney, 27th August, 1946
NOTE ISSUE DEPARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1945
LIABILITIES. £ 8. d.
Notes In Circulation .. 186,463,872 0 0
Reserve for Notes not
Presented .. .. 189,654 10 0
Special Reserve—Pre-
mium on Gold Sold .. 6,764,954 10 4
Other Liabilities .. 1,688,975 0 6
Total .. ..£195,097,356 0 9
ASSETS. £ a. d.
Gold and English Sterl-
ing Reserve .. .. 50,367,060 19 8
Debentures and Other
Securities 144,169,103 19 10
Other Assets M M 70,591 1 8
Total „ ..£196,097,366 0 9
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM. Secretary, Note
Issue Department.
G. P. DICKJNSON, Chief Accountant,
H, T. ARMITAGK, Governor.
Sydney. 27th august, 1046
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralta
BALANCE SHEET as at 80th June, 1945
LIABILITIES. £ 8. d.
Reserve Fund . .. 4,124,824 18 7
Depositors’ Balances &
Accrued Interest 367,559,339 16 2
Other Liabilities (in-
cluding Provision lor
Contingencies) M 10,568,007 4 1
Total .. ..£382.247,171 ip 10
ASSETS. £ s. d.
Australian Notes and
Coin 468,476 8 «
Cash Balances A Money
at Short Call .. 40,100,106 14 4
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities .. 304.008.664 17 10
Securities of Other Gov-
ernments and of Local
A Semi-Governmental
Authorities .. .. 32.001,880 9 8
Bank Premises .. 623,518 6 8
Other Assets •• »• 4,380,127 7 8
Tot AT, .. ..£382,247,171 18 10
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1946 Cr.
To National Debt Sink-
ing Fund ..
„ Savings Bank Re-
serve Fund
£ a. d.
401.087 4 6
401.087 4 «
TOTAI. .. .. £802,174 9 0
By Profit# for year
ended 30th June, 1945,
after provision for pay-
ment# amounting to
£600,854 17s. 6d. due
to State Authorities
under Saving# Bank
Amalgamation Agree-
ment# _ ».
£
802,17 i 9 0
Total .. - £802,174 9 0
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the
several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E B. RICHARDSON. Secretary. H, T. AEMTTAGB, Governor.
G. F. DICKINSON Chief Accountant. SYDNEY. 27TH AUGUST, 1945
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor*
General for the Commonwealth (Mfu R. Abbrceombis).
are, in a position very similar to
So only a small, flow of garments much
below pre-war standard and quail y,
recently come from overseas.
With war out of the way competition
from overseas can be expected to sharpen.
Quality, fit, style and price will be impor-
tant factors in the struggle; and Berlei
is well equipped to give a good a^ co
of itself on all scores. As for price landed
cost of imports promises to be well above
pre-war level. Much will therefore de-
pend upon whether the local wage and
cost structure can be stabilised aroun
present figures. The co.’s history and
performance leave no doubt as to the
industrial efficiency of its staff and plant.
Chief danger lies in the possibility of
Government action impairing this effi-
ciency.
To help overcome the labor problem
the board has adopted a policy of de-
centralisation, and a factory has just been
erected at Wollongong. War shortages
have led to local manufacture of a
number of corset materials previously im-
ported. A mill to turn out corset cloths
has been planned for the Newcastle dis-
trict, and elastic fabrics are being made
in quantities limited only by the availa-
bility of rubber. t . .
Last term the co.’s two subsidiaries
paid their usual divs. —Berlei (N.Z.) \l\
p.c.; the curtain is kept drawn over the
figures of the Victorian offshoot. The
London associate is operating at a profit,
but it is not clear from the parent’s ac-
counts what it contributes to the pool, if
anything. After allowing for taxation,
etc., and deducting staff profit-sharing
divs. (£2386), the parent’s net return from
all sources was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 24.5 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 18.4, 15, 16.7, 17.2, 13.7 and
12.5 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and £8450 was sent to
the staff fund. The £12,111 that remained
lifted the lay-by to £121,974, or approx.
15s. per pound of paid ord. capital.
Balance-sheet figures suggest prepara-
tion for brisker^trading:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £190,057 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft .. 32,133 51,815 19,913 48,613
Sndy. creditors* 19,194 40,235 30,494 53,781
Freeholds . . 62,792 62,587 62,410 75,669
Plant.. .. 10,964 11,034 8,648 19,374
Investments!. . 89,854 90,761 90,354 90,229
Stocks .. 105,757 161,778 103,325 203,714
Book debts . . 54,507 53,588 42,131 85,316
Cash, etc. .. 4,297 17,005 62,335 14,099
* Including taxation, t Shares in associated cos.
To carry an extra £100,389 of stocks and
add £13,259 to freeholds and £10,726 to
plant the board went to its bankers for
an extra £28,700 and leant upon sundry
creditors, etc., for a further £23,287 last
term. The more or less liquid surplus
(£247,738) was £6774 less than at the
previous balance.
On ’Change the f 4 -p, ords. are jammed
at ceiling level (395. 6d.), without attract-
ing sellers. The well-protected prefs.
have not changed hands for some time.
Wattle Gully, Chewtown (Vic.), netted
£7534 for the first half of 1945, compared
with £7031 and £7771 for the two preced-
ing years. Two 6d. divs. (total £9000)
were paid. Because development was
well advanced when war broke out ore-
breaking had not to be abandoned in
favor of prospecting. Production is fairly
constant around 3500 z. gold per four-
weekly period, average grade being Bdwt.
or a little under. There is still enough
pay-ore in sight to keep the mill going
for the next four years, and prospecting
is to be resumed on No. 2 level when men
and materials become available. Paid
capital is £38,500 in 180,000 shares of
6s. Bd. each. At end June current assets,
monthly cash and gold in hand, totalled
£12,433. There was £ll3l coming to
outsiders. ,
* * * *
There is little change in the position at
Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie (W.A.). At
end Nov, last the co. (London-controlled
with a paid capital of £100,921 in 2s.
shares) had £2OO in the till. Sundry
creditors, mostly directors’ fees, amounted
to £3420, and there was an advance of
£21,240 from another co., convertible into
shares at par. Wiluna, which holds a
£A220,000 cash option over the property,
on which work was suspended in July,
1942, will proceed with further testing
and development as soon as men and
materials become available. Two shafts
have been sunk to a depth of 500 ft. each,
and 25 boreholes have been drilled. Indi-
cations are that there is some 1,220,000
tons, averaging 5.36dwt. gold, in the
northern section, and about £538,250 tons
of 4.l9dwt. ore in the southern portion,
all above the 1000 ft. horizon. Adjoin-
ing the property to the south is a group
of old mines, owned by Paringa. Here
drilling to 1000 ft. has disclosed payable
values, and suggests a continuance of the
ore channel traversing the Charlotte
mines. Mt. Charlotte’s negotiations for an
interest in this property have been held
in abeyance, owing to the British Trea-
sury’s war-time taboo on the raising of
fresh capital, which should soon be lifted.
« * * *
For the 12 months of 1944 Sons of
Gwalia (W.A.) will pay a first and final
div of Is. stg. a share (=lO p.c.), less
U.K. tax of 10s. in the £, on September
25 ; same rate as for 1943. Because of
the co’s strong financial position Wes-
tralian shareholders continue to growl,
and asked for more. Profit for 1943 was
£51,935. It takes £16,250 stg. to pay a
shilling dividend. At end of 1943 sterl-
ing accounts showed cash £44,679, bullion
£16,249, investments £51,693, stores
£57,132. Creditors figured for £78,874.
Accounts for 1944 will be presented at
the annual meeting in London on Sep-
tember 19,
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.), one of KaL
goorlie’s six remaining Golden Milers,
raised its profits from £26,833 stg. for
1943-44 to £29,747 for 1944-45. A div. ot
13£d. from mining profit and a bonus of
Ud. from non-mining earnings is being
paid, leaving £9706 (up £706) to carry
forward. Ore reserves, three-fifths actual
and two-fifths probable, still average
about sdwt., and at the present rate of
throughput are nearly six years ahead ot
the mill.
* * * *
“Joburg”: The past year has seen
numerous flotations in S. Africa to acquire
options on and interests in properties on
the Orange Free State’s new goldfield.
Anglo-Ajmerican Corp. and South African
Townships, Ltd., transferred their in-
terests on the field to a new co., Orange
Free State Investment Trust, with a capi-
tal of £3,500,000. It is claimed that bore-
hole results justify flotation—as soon as
conditions permit —of at least four work-
ing subsidiaries to deal with one “positive
area.” A lot of money is also being found
to open up blocks on other parts of the
field where the diamond drill has indi-
cated promising results.


PI A W BOW TO
■4 . *.
Modernise
Your
Farm
*Uv
mtn
bX
0
v\N
<4
w.
s
THERE IS NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
After five years of ‘doing without’ the time is
rapidly approaching when you will be able to
go ‘full steam ahead’ on your plans for
modernising your farm with the newest type
of silos, dairies, barns and utility sheds.
Full supplies of Lysaght’s Galvanised Iron
will soon be available for all farm building
purposes—in 6ft. to 12ft. lengths and both
2ft. l|in. and 2ft. l\m. widths —so com-
plete your plans NOW!
’lll9 A-4193
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) PTY. LTD.’
.SYDNEY tr- MELBOURNE' BRISBANE ADELAIDE - PERTH
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
rC.I3 fei
m
m
mm
iSSK:.^
m-.~v&
e^a
: -
-4^.
=s
|5»-jr
g^ai
iii
1
■irs
meg?
The
material
of
,- ' , •
unli
fed
mi
ses
INSERTED BY THE AUSTRALIAN PLYWOOD BOARD
RSMBESOr
uouimnt
It was the ancient Egyptians who
first discovered how to shave down
precious woods and glue them in thin
layers to other woods, in order to pro-
duce many more articles of great and
lasting beauty.
Plywood is the modern application
of this principle. It consists of any odd
number of veneers strongly glued to-
gether so that the grain of the inter-
vening veneers is at right angles to that
of the veneers immediately above and
below.
In this way, the outer veneers pro-
vide the richness and variety of grain
for which many woods are famous,
while the inner veneers, because of the
crossing of the plies, give Plywood a
greater strength than solid timber will
ever possess.
BEST BY TH
FIVE YEAR TE
Taylor’s chemists have
so improved paint’s
lasting qualities that,
to-day, you find cases
stich as the Grand
Pavilion at the Royal
Sydney Showgrounds
where Taylor’s Paint
has already lasted 13
years. Ask your local
Taylor’s agent for
examples in your sub-
urb. Three coats of
Taylor’s Paint will give
your house five years’
full protection.
t*
C
R
PREPARED
AVIOfIV
paint
1 3.5
Three coats of first-grade paint
give 5 years’ full protection.
BEST BY THE FIVE YEAR TEST!
GOVT. RESTRICTIONS LIFTED!
Restrictions on manufacture have been lifted and your pre-war favourites
waitable again at your local Taylor’s agent: MIRAGLOSS
S^!? K ‘P RYING ENAMEL —TAYLOR’S PAVING ENAMEL —TAYLOR’S
ENAMEL FLOOR STAINS SILVAR ALUMINIUM ENAMEL TAYLOR’S
PAI NTS TAYLOR’S KALSOMINE MATTE WATER PAINTS
TAYLOR’S SPIRIT STAINS.
Paint Suppliers to Army. Navy and Air Force.
Made at Sutneriana Avenue, Paddington, N.S.W. (.Tel. FA 2125 ) by
TAYLOR'S PAINTS PTY. LTD.
TktHalfotT
* f OF THE FUTURE!
Your 3 Days Air Trip from Sydney to London
V
To-day, the Empire’s immediate post-
war needs have priority on Australia’s
overseas air routes.
But, in “to-morrow’s” Age of Flight,
thousands of air-minded travellers will
fly in comfort by speedy, modern
Qantas airliners from Sydney to
England in less than seventy hours!
PS
1
- -i.
z
Qantait
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline


t
ţ
ť
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Another distinguished Victorian medi-
cal scientist goes to an overseas appoint-
ment —Brigadier N. Hamilton Fairley,
Director of Medicine, A.M.F., who has
been handed the post of Professor of the
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medi-
cine, London University. He takes the
job in conjunction with the directorship
of tropical research laboratories under
the Wellcome Foundation, which recently
took another Melburnian, Dr. C. H. Kel-
laway. With Major-General Burston,
Brigadier Fairley tackled the tremendous
job of making the South-west Pacific war
zone tenable for the Australian soldier,
and his fight against malaria was as
solid as the military operations. Born
at Inglewood (Vic.) in 1891, he was edu-
cated at Melbourne University and served
medically in Egypt, Palestine and India.
He has won a whole tray of medal and
prizes for tropical research work and
has published a raft of books and
brochures.
Both artist Unk White and The Bulle-
tin man he depicts in the accompanying
drawing, John Brennan, were up about
Japan for the finish. Unk, accredited
then with the British Fleet, is now getting
back into form for newspaper work,
after having been over a vast part of the
Pacific with either Air Force or Navy.
Originally a Maorilander, from Auck-
JOHN BRENNAN.
land, he has been- in Australia since 1922.
John Brennan went into Japan on the
first day U.S. troops landed there. Else-
where in The Bulletin he tells the story
of the surrender ceremony. They move
about to some purpose these days. John
left Tokyo on a Thursday morning,
landed that night in Manila, started out
again on the Saturday morning, was in
Darwin that night, then to Adelaide by
the Sunday night and in Sydney next
afternoon, calling at Melbourne:
Col. F. H. Howland, of Mt. Gambier
(S.A.), has decided to call it a day, hand-
ing over as secretary of the local
R.S.L. branch and its club. On its foun-
dation in 1917 he became the sec.
and set an Australian record with 28
years’ service. Now past the 82nd mile-
stone, he was born in London ; was early
in the West Indies ; back to London, then
to Australia to settle in the Blue-Lake
town in 1881. In conimand of the S.A.
second contingent to South Africa, age
was a bar in 1914-18, and he had to be
content with transport duty to Egypt and
back. In his recent first visit to Gambier
Governor Willoughby Norrie called on
the veteran soldier and thanked him for
his service to the Empire.
Released from a civilian internee camp
at Shanghai, Douglas Murdoch, a’cousin
of Keith Murdoch and a nephew of
Professor Walter Murdoch. He was an
engineer in Cable and Wireless when
Hong Kong was captured and was trans-
ferred to Shanghai.
War artist Murray Griffin, of Heidel-
berg (Vic.), one of the liberated at Singa-
pore, went there with the Eighth Division
and had sent away his first consignment
of sketches when the city fell, but they
were lost by bombing. He was working
as a medical orderly and ambulance
driver when captured. The only Austra-
lian war artist to have been p.-0.-w., he
is an ex-Melbourne National Gallery
student.
The disobeying of an Army order pro-
duced one of the medical epics of the
war. When Singapore capitulated Lieut.-
Col. A. E. Coates, of Melbourne, was
ordered to proceed to Java. When he
came off the boat to take a ’plane he
decided that his duty to the troops remain-
ing was greater than his duty to the
Army, and he elected to stay behind.
Captured, he was sent to Thailand and
became senior m.o. to the p.-0.-w. camps
working on the Moulmein-Bangkok rail-
way, where thousands were dying. There
he performed over 500 operations, mainly
with the butcher’s knife used in the camp
kitchen, which had to be returned after
every operation. Working tirelessly, day
and night with a Dutch chemist, he
produced an anaesthetic from sake,
adding cocaine received from the Japs
and certain fluids, used as a spinal injec-
tion. He got catgut from the
intestines of cattle surreptitiously
killed, and taught native boys to
make crude wooden legs from
bamboo. Tropical ulcers made
it necessary to perform an
average of five operations daily,
but Col. Coates pulled his
patients through. Former sur-
geon-superintendent of Royal
Melbourne and a past president
of the Victorian 8.M.A., he was
born at Ballarat 50 years ago.
An early ’plane to land on
the Jap mainland after the sur-
render was a Lodestar that took
to the ceremony M.L.’s sole
official representative, Chief of
Air Staff Air Vice-Marshal
Leonard Isitt, He was back in
Auckland only 40 flying hours
after leaving Tokyo.
Succeeding Professor of Eng-
lish J. I. M. Stewart at Adelaide
Uni., Charles R. Jury comes
from a post in an English school
to occupy the chair endowed by
his late parents. Born in
Adelaide and educated at Saints,
he went to Oxford in 1913,
joined the B.E.F. the following year, re-
turned to Oxford after war wounds in
1916, and graduated with first-class
honors in English in 1918. During World
War II he has served .with the Intelli-
gence section of the Army as interpreter
in German and Italian languages.
Rabbi Jacob Danglow, who has com-
pleted 40 years at the head of the St.
Kilda, Melbourne, Hebrew congregation,
is the second rabbi there since 1871.
Born in London in 1880, he was a mili-
tary censor in the last war and a chap-
lain to the A.I.F. in France and England.
He is Jewish chaplain to Victorian jails.
There is something good in the state
of Denmark when it produces men like
Johannes Carl Andersen, librarian of the
Turnbull Library, Wellington (M.L.), and
the late Judge Alpers, of the M.L.
Supreme Court. Both arrived in the
Dominion as children with no know-
ledge of the English language and eventu-
ally became masters of it.
First into Japan:
Hiding behind the moustache in Scorfield’s
drawing is a twenty-four-year-old youngster
from Glasgow, Flight-Lieutenant Bob McLean,
who, flying a Douglas Dakota for the R.A.F.
Transport Command, took the first British ’plane
—in fact, the first Empire ’plane —into Japan.
Getting in was easy enough in spite of the fact
that Mountbatten’s York wasn’t allowed be-
yond Okinawa. McLean, having a job to do,
just went on in without asking permission from
anyone carrying enough rank to say “No.”
Getting out was more difficult because that first
week after American troops landed at' Atsugi
there wasn’t any aviation fuel to spare. Mc-
Lean and his crew looked like being held up
indefinitely till Colonel L. Moore Cosgrove,
the Canadian who signed the Surrender hj stru j
ment in the wrong place, scrounged around ana
found enough gas. He’d had enough of Japan
and he wanted a ride out. But even if Mc-
Lean bad had to spit in the tank to get enough
juice to fly the kite out it still wouldn t have
caused him near the worry he had over Berlin
one night when a bomb dropped from a ’plane
above him in the formation tore off the nose
of his Lancaster, and he had to turn and
stagger home with the wind blowing his
moustache back in his teeth, (t wouldn’t have
worried his co-pilot, Flying-Officer George
BOB McLEAN.
Whitehead, or his navigator, Flying-Officer Tim
Hay, very much either. They’ve both had to walk
home in circumstances a good bit more unfor-
tunate. Whitehead’s Halifax was shot up over
Berlih in January of '44. He managed to get her
back over France before ordering the crew to
bail out, and he spent nine weeks roaming the
countryside before the French underground
could get him across the Pyrenees into Spain.
Hay, too, went down into France hanging on
to a parachute in August, ’43. He walked over
the Pyrenees info a Spanish jail (charge: “un-
lawfully crossing the border”) and was there a
month before the British Ambassador got him
out. Both Whitehead and Hay are British.
In the “mad dogs and Englishmen” sense,
the only “sane” member of the crew which
flew to Japan is a Maorilander from
Island, the radioman Graham Sutherland—and
he’s mad about radio. He’s been with the
R.A.F. Transport Command in Europe and the
Middle East. Now all four of them are
stationed in Australia.
Here sketched, with, said the victim,
“my autograph,” Junior Lieutenant T. K.
Lu, of Hopei Province, China. Now
with the R.N.’s Pacific Fleet, he joined
the Chinese Navy at 15, came from the
Tsing-Tao Naval Academy a sub-lieut.,
and first saw action in the Sino-Japanese
War in 1937 on a gunboat. His ship was
LIEUT. LU.
sunk in the Yangstze, but the crew dis-
mantled the four anti-aircraft guns and
peppered raiding Jap ’planes from the
banks. In 1943 the Admiralty began
training selected Chinese naval men, and
with 23 others Lieut. Lu trained at
Greenwich College, then served on
H.M.S. Kent. One of his most vivid
memories of naval battle was when.
H.M.S. Kent sunk nine out of eleven
ships of a German convoy off Norway.
Lieut. Lu is 27, and loves the R.N. life.
“Recco” lists some fliers;
Air-Marshal “Dicky” Williams, major in com-
mand of the last-war No. 1 Squadron A.F.G.,
must have had the knack of picking them
tough. Original observers who served with him
and are still going strong are Air-Commodore
F. W. Lukis, C.8.E.; Group-Captain .Pa™
Mustar, D.F.C.; Wing-Commander G. Findlay,
D.F.C.; Flight-Lieut. Deaton, D.F.C.; Squad-
ron-Leader Hudson Fysh, D.F.C.; Flight-Lieut.
L. W. Sutherland, D.F.C., D.C.M. After
periods of operations ranging from 200 to 400
hours they all qualified as pilots. Squadron-
Leaders A. V. McCann, D.F.C., Bowden
Fletcher, D.F.C., L. Chauncey, Max Lees and
Claude Ramage and Flight-Lieut. Alister Kirk,
D. have served with the R.A.A.F. during
this war, most of them throughout. In civilian
life are George Mills, of A.T.C. and parachute
manufacture; Jim Hawley, D.F.C., also manu-
facturing; Jim Traill, D.F.C., on the land,
Laurie Smith, at R.A.A.F. Recruit Centre,
Sydney. Another of them, Ross Smith, K.8.E.,
M C. and bar, D.F.C. and two bars, created a
record which has possibly never been equalled
and never will. After 200 hours as an observer
he went down to get his pilot’s wings and suc-
ceeded after a total of four hours’ dual instruc-
tion and solo. He was back in the squadron
within a week, and became its best pilot.
As chief administrative officer of Post-
war Brigadier Cyril Law-
rence, M.C., has the tqp job in assisting
young servicemen and -women to resume
their places in the community. His quali-
fications include experience in two wars
and many of the ranks soldiers go
through. Enlisting as a sapper in the
First A.1.F., he was at Gallipoli and in
France, getting his commission in 1916
with the Engineers. Subsequently he be-
came assistant chief mechanical engineer
in the Victorian State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission, and in the present
war he has been C.O. of the Fourth Div.
Engineers and a brigadier with the Thiid
Aus. Corps in W.A.
Succeeding Horace Grose as president
of the Adelaide’Chamber of Commerce,
O. L. Isaachsen, g.m. of the Bank of
Adelaide, is the first banker to hold the
post since 1882, when John Curtis of the
old Bank of S.A. was elected. Isaachsen,
a founder of Industries Assistance Cor-
poration, will be succeeded by Gordon
E. Sunter as vice-president of the
Chamber. Both belong to the third
generation of old S.A. stock.
Into the silence:
Ac Gosiord UN.S.W.), in his 83rd year,
William Caiman Grahame. who was M.L.A. for
Wickham, 1907-20, and Holman’s Minister of
Agriculture, 1915-20. He had 11 children; eight
and Mrs. Grahame survive.
On Kangaroo Island (S.A.), old Alan Morris,
a noted pastoralist of the South-east at the
begininng of the century. He was a keen race-
horse owner, and chairman for ten years of
Tattersall’s Club in Adelaide.
At Kilkiven (Q.), at 67, David Lacey Jones,
who had been shire clerk there for 43 years. A
one-time grazier himself —he owned Euroka
station with his brother —the whims and foibles
of the cheque-signers of the big acreages were
well known to him.
In Melbourne, at 45, Dr. George H. Guth-
ridge, who 10 years ago founded the first private
medical clinic in Melbourne after he had seen
the working of the Mayo Clinic at Rochester
(U.S.A.).
At 92, in Brisbane, T. R. Garrick, managing
director of a chain of suburban theatres. He
arrived in Brisbane as first mate of the Taldora
in 1881, farmed in the Fassifern district and
Darling Downs for 10 years, then returned to
sea as skipper of a coastal vessel.
At 80, in Melbourne, O. W. J. Yuncken,
managing director of Hansen and Yuncken. He
did more to alter Melbourne’s skyline than any
other master builder, his big jobs including the
Harbor Trust structure, N.S.W. and National
Banks, Shell and Myer’s. He also added the
tall tapering spires to St. Patrick’s Cathedral.
At Geelong, at 78, George Sargant, missioner,
itinerant preacher and writer. He wrote several
volumes of Australian bush stories, including
The Winding Track and My Inland Island.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 72, Rear-Admiral
Robert Neale Lawson, C. 8., who in the first
World War spent two years as flag-lieutenant with
Jellicoe. Retiring in 1927, he went to M.L.
and settled in the. Hawkes Bay district, but re-
turned to England three years later. He moved
back to M.L. in 1942, after the loss of his
R.A.F. son, killed in France.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at 77, W. J. Morrell,
Rector of Otago Boys’ High School from 1907
to 1933, ,and vice-chancellor of Otago Uni.
from 1925'ti1l 1933, when he became chancellor.
At 61, Geoffrey Sheldon, one of Australia’s
ablest surveyors. Born at Bundaberg (Q.) in
1884, he went to New Guinea in 1926 and
did notable work there, including the surveying
of the Salamaua to Wau road, the Markham
River Valley road and the aerodromes at Lae,
Salamaua and Wewak. More recently he sur-
veyed the 400-mile military road in the Northern
Territory. Constant attacks of malaria and the
strenuous nature of his work led to an unsus-
pected weak heart, which failed without warning.


<6
In the very
-lESTtNI°^
<« tong
best of
Health”
° n
'ihlo
'SZiL
always /«»
head -
I
4fr.
have
'**o*
eri
fatignf
Ve »tiv e as * *?£
Phy> loS Z
* er Vou s
tablets
did ||
tn
e go. o . ‘I
right frof
***edZ r r
* n the
the first
l e *y best
%*/tk. *°f
Th
e y
** a ’Ve// c
Qr e
OliS. ’*
The revitalising effect of a course of ‘Phyllosan’ tablets must be
experienced to be appreciated. Many thousands owe renewed
health and vigour to these wonderful little tablets. If you
take ‘Phyllosan’ tablets regularly, we believe the results will
astonish you.
Start taking
PHYUO
Jtelps to keep you fit after forty
* Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark 'Phyllosan’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
BAR THEM FROM
YOUR BUILDING..
Time, Wear and Tear are always on the
job—but where Lifts are concerned, in-
telligent, planned and systematical main-
tenance by Waygood-Otis can nullify the
efforts of these three villains.
Waygood-Otis Maintenance is more than
a routine check-up and periodical adjust-
ment—'it is a regular engineering survey
that forestalls the continuous efforts of
Time, Wear and Tear to bring about a
dislocation of lift service.
Ask yourself this—who but the manufac-
turer is better able to service the equip-
ment he designed and built? If yoUr lift
is a Waygood-Otis isn’t it logical then to
have genuine Waygood-Otis replacement
parts and genuine Waygood-Otis know-
how and service?
It will pay you to put your lifts under
Waygood-Otis. Telephone or write your
nearest office for details. No obligation
of course.
ŧ
WITH
WAYGOOD-OTIS
LIFT
MAINTENANCE
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS fAUST.) PTY. LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • BRISBANE . ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
W. 2.
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH VICTORY LOANS.
THE SERVICE MAN
Towards Finality.
“Ek Dum”: In their usual manner of
placing first things last press b6ys
throughout the week have been busy
telling General MacArthur to get to work
and be stern. Any lack of sternness
which the general so far has shown has
been due to the fact that, when dealing
with 5,000,000 armed and sullen Japanese
in the midst of hostile populations
aggregating 150,000,000 —for a great deal
of Korea is hostile and some of the most
dreadful atrocities of which Australian
servicemen were victims were the work of
Korean guards—considerable force needs
to be organised on the spot.
With the access of that force events
moved swiftly. General Tojo so little
agreed that General MacArthur was too
soft that he attempted to commit suicide
by the most ignominious means, and some
other commanders who were not even on
the war-crimes list as yet hastened to
follow his example. Domei was closed
down, then allowed to reopen foi
domestic purposes, only after the sternest
warnings and under the most rigid restric-
tions.
War criminals for trial were grabbed
in handfuls. And with 1,000,000 men of
the Japanese Navy already disarmed and
the Honshu situation well under control
the general even became a little tough
with the Russians who, a fortnight after
the close of hostilities, shot down a Super-
fortress over Korea, the crew bailing out.
The Russians were very sorry.
Wholesale Surrender
Meanwhile, the tremendous job of re-
ceiving surrenders went on over the whole
vast Pacific area.
Major-General Robertson firmly ac-
cepted the surrender of 1400 Japs on the
islands off Wewak and 14,000 in the
Wewak area. Brigadier Stevenson, in the
presence of Britain’s Resident Commis-
sioner in the Gilbert-Ellice Islands, ac-
cepted a starved and sorry Nauru from
the enemy, thus completing the submis-
sion of all the enemy in the Australian
zone. The southern Netherlands Indies
islands were in Australian hands, includ-
ing Timor. With the blundering trucu-
lence which seems to mark Canberra’s
relations with friendly allies, the Dutch
were not allowed to sign the arrangement
for the recovery of their own territory.
At Singapore, the overriding surrender
of the whole of the South-west Pacific
area was signed between General Itagachi
and Lord Louis Mountbatten. Field-
Marshal Terauchi, ill at Saigon, will later
have to bow the knee to the British Com-
monwealth commander.
The Singapore surrender involved the
handing over of 1,500,000 square miles
—apart from the areas already taken by
force of British, Australian and Ameri-
can arms —with populations aggregating
128,000,000 and garrisoned by 500,000
of the enemy.
Hong Kong, too, formally surrendered
to Rear-Admiral Harcourt in the pres-
ence of Admiral Fraser, C.-in-C. of the
British Pacific Fleet.
China’s Problems
At Nanking China ceased to be at war
for the first time since July 7, 1937, with
the capitulation of 1,000,000 Japanese,
troops. Or has she ceased to be at war?
Communist armies have spread them-
selves right across the north. What is
coming out of Russia in the way of
propaganda regarding the Far Eastern
situation is most peculiar and disquieting.
What is happening in Manchuria only
Russians know.
Honshu Is Occupied.
John Brennan: The occupation forces
in “the area of initial evacuation” south
of Tokyo were built up gradually. Ap-
proximately 6000 troops of the U.S. 11th
Airborne Division were landed at Atsugi
airfield, 15 miles west of Yokohama, on
the first day, August 30. They were
taken in with a minimum of necessary
equipment by some 300 ’planes, the
largest-scale air-lift of all the Pacific War.
The ’planes were unloaded and turned
about for Okinawa, five hours’ flying time
away, to repeat the operation day after
day in the weeks to come.
There was no aviation fuel in Japan.
The ’planes needed to carry sufficient for
the return journey or remain stranded on
Atsugi, cluttering up the taxiways. For
more than 10 hours on that first day they
were landing and taking off, at intervals
o f httle more than a minute, from a strip
which none of the pilots had seen before.
The first troops down fanned out in a
security perimeter about the airfield. By
10 o’clock in the morning a battalion had
been detached to make the drive to Yoko-
hama in the worn, dilapidated trucks and
vehicles provided by the Japanese. By
noon it had occupied the city.
Simultaneously with the first landing
of the airborne troops a regiment of U.S.
Marines, the Fourth, built about the old
and justly famed Raider Battalions, were
put ashore at the Yokosuka naval base,
15 miles south of Yokohama and just
inside the entrance to Tokyo Bay, A
detachment of Royal Marines went with
them, and they moved northward to link
with the Airborne Division.
It was spreading the troops thin, but
there were no untoward incidents. The
people in and around the city showed a
complete indifference to the presence of
the troops. Americans wandered the
area in ones and twos. They caused no
apparent comment, and they rode alone,
standing in the trains because all the seats
were occupied by jostling Japanese
civilians. By nightfall there were sentries
spotted thinly through the city areas on a
bridge or at a street corner. Occasionally
they would search the bundle carried,
wrapped in a handkerchief, by a passing
Japanese ; but it was done in the manner
of a gesture to remind the people that
they were there, rather than as any large-
scale search of every passer-by.
Already an odd couple or small group
of Allied prisoners-of-war came wander-
ing into Yokohama, Many of them had
travelled 200 or 300 miles by train from
Kobe and from camps on the west coast.
They had grown tired of waiting in the
camps for the occupation forces to arrive,
and they had w'alked out, making their
own way towards Tokyo. They were
unmolested and attracted little interest.
First Cavalry Arrives
In the next few days weather and
typhoons between Okinawa and Japan
forbade the dispatch of many ’planes.
There were 38 in one day, two the next.
The programme fell a long way behind
schedule, but on September 2, immediately
after the signing of the surrender aboard
the battleship Missouri, the transports
moved in alongside the Yokohama docks
and elements of the Ist Cavalry Division
—men who had fought in Leyte and for
the reconquest of Manila —began unload-
ing. They brought trucks and jeeps and
equipment, and for the first time the occu-
pation forces began to roll through the
streets of Yokohama in strength. There
was now greater interest among the Jap-
anese people.
Bulldozers began to thrust aside the
rusted iron shacks which covered the
burht-out acres where once had been the
industrial section of the city, clearing a
way for the conquerors’ camps. The ships
were unloaded and turned about for the
Philippines for more troops and more
supplies. Already another large fleet of
transports was lying offshore in the
Sagami Wan area, just outside the en-
trance to Tokyo Bay. It was waiting for
the 27th Division to be brought in by air,
following the last pf the 11th Airborne.
Then with the occupation of the area
between Hayama and Hiratsuka the 11th
Corps would go ashore —the 43rd Divi-
sion, the “Americal” Division, the 112th
Regimental Combat Team.
General Eichelberger’s Bth Army was
already proceeding, by invitation, with the
mission with which it had been charged—
the invasion of Honshu in March of 1946.
Its plans for the “Coronet” operation had
already been formulated in outline. That
assault, which was to have carried the
war in the Pacific to a finality on the
Kwanto Plain about the Japanese capital,
would not now be necessary.
Behind the 11th Cofps the 9th was
preparing for a move to Japan. For
months ahead the transports and supply
ships will be busy. It may be five or six
months before the occupation of Japan
is complete and the troops are all in place.
It is to be an all-American occupation,
according to General Eichelberger, and
“400,000 troops will be sufficient.”
South of the Tamagawa River, on
Tokyo’s southern outskirts, the Ist Cav-
alry Division went into a holding posi-
tion. On Saturday, September 8, five
days after the surrender was signed, it
moved in to occupy the capital. There was
no parade, no display. The occupation
of key positions in the city was carried
out as a military manoeuvre, the troops
moving in from their perimeter as widely-
scattered units. In the afternoon General
MacArthur drove into Tokyo from Yoko-
hama to fly the Stars and Stripes from
the top of the old United States embassy.
It was the same flag that flew over the


Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF CLARA JANE BROWN.
WILL PEARSON CHRISTOPHER BROWN, or any
person claiming through him, communicate before
31-1-46 with proof of identification, with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland, New
Zealand?
Public Notice
I EVALD BERG, of Norwegian nationality, born
at Toten, Norway, and resident six years In Aus-
tralia, now residing at Jerrawangla, via Wandandian,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce N ctice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DONALD CHARLES McDONNELL, late of 9
Dellview Street Bondi in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitution
of conjugal rights and certain notices of which per-
sonal service on you has been dispensed with has
been granted to RUTH PATRICIA McDONNELL of
Brownell Street Batlow in the State of New South
Wales in Suit No. 2927 of 1944 A copy of the
decree notice of the time for your return and cer-
tain notices for your guidance may be obtained
without costs on application by you to HERALD
BRUCE BHIERLEY & ENGLAND Solicitors of 109
Pitt Street Sydney If you do not comply with the
decree a suit may be commenced against you at
once for a divorce or judicial separation by reason
of your default. — (1.5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce.)
Launceston District Registry.
TO EDWARD JOHN POWER formerly of Lilydale in
Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed' with a Notice to you
to appear and answer charges in the Petition of
EMILY ANNIE POWER of Launceston in Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of marriage IN DE-
FAULT of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE for the purpose aforesaid on or before
the Nineteenth day of October 1945 an Appearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart
of* at the Launceston District Registry Cameron Street
Launceston. — (1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal
Registrar. N.B. —Friends of the abovenamed
EDWARD JOHN POWER who may see this adver-
tisement are requested to bring it under his notice.
IN ,THB SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN WATERS ((formerly of Brisbane
Queensland).—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM
WATERS has filed his Petition for Divorce No. 8604
of 1945 on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by 12th November 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from A. P. BERNE Solicitor
of 2 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
"In Civil Aviation, enterprise, above
all, will be necessary: a private
venture is responsible only to share-
holders who have deliberately chosen
that particular way of investing their
money, and not to unhappy taxpayers
who are being mulcted of their sav-
ings for purposes in which they may
not be particularly interested, or of
which they may even disapprove.
The ordinary man, I feel sure, would
prefer to do his flying for himself
rather than have his taxes do it for
him, leaving himself stranded on the
ground”
JOHN W. BOOTH
Chairman—British Latin-Amertcan Airlines.
Releated by THE AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT, 50 Market St.. Melbourne
APRONS OFF!
ss
AGA^
:
,
53*
Any woman fortunate enough to possess an AGA Cooker will tell you
how much more leisure she enjoys. Delicious meals just cook themselves
on AGA's scientific, continuous, economical heat-storage principle.
The economy of AGA is assured by a specific guarantee never to born
more than on amazingly small fixed quantity of fuel per annum. AGA's
special insulation keeps kitchens cool. Its vitreous enamelled surfaces are
as clean as a china plate. Operation is simple. AGA Cookers are
guaranteed against faulty material and workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue. R 9.
AGA
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmei
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. S.
Webster & Sons ltd , Hobart.
W.A. Agents; Malloch Bros.
Ltd Perth The Old Aaents:
Queensland Primary Producers'
Co-op. Assn Ltd., Brisbane.
1
<®fcSE.
Pearl Harbor naval base on December 7,
1941.
The Fires of Tokyo
In the centre of Tokyo most of the
business houses, hotels and shops still
stand. They are scarcely marked and
scarce a window is broken.
But for miles around this centre of the
city, down by the docks, out along the
20-mile road to Yokohama, where were
many of the factories and the widespread
industries and the workers’ dwellings of
a city of seven million people, there is
nothing.
On either side for block after block
the earth is covered with a layer of
burnt and rusted iron. There are no
charred timbers; there is little ash;
everything other than the metal has, it
seems, been consumed by the fires.
They must have been tremendous.
Motor cars, trucks, motor buses, were
caught in the streets as the fires swept
across them. There are hundreds upon
hundreds of them lying burnt out and
rusting in the gutters. There are concrete
smokestacks standing, the only indication
that there has been a factory. A row of
machinery marks the place of another.
In miles of country that once was Greater
Tokyo there are only the roadways, the
steel telegraph poles and the fire stations.
The fire engines still lined up in the open
doorways ready for action.
Tokyo seems almost deserted. A very
great part of the population was evacu-
ated to the country. Those who do remain
seem listless and without any work to do.
Shops are closed ; offices are empty. It is
a ghostly city with only the trams and
trains still functioning. They run to a
strict timetable from railway stations,
bumt-out skeletons of steel girders.
The Boys Come Home.
“Ek Dum”: By the time the week’s
surrenders were complete the first Aus-
tralian p.-0.-ws. were home in eight Cata-
linas and some other machines. The van-
guard were a cargo of devoted nurses
from the Japanese main-island camp.
They had suffered, but the brave and
devoted women had little to say.
The first Catalina batches of men
arrived at Rose Bay, in Sydney, on
Sunday, September 16. They were
greeted by crowds among whom were
tremulous old people, family groups,
young, tired wives clutching handker-
chiefs or holding little children by
their hands. There was a strange un-
reality about the scene. As one watched
it seemed that the ghosts of the men one
had seen going away in 1941-42 had risen.
About these men there was one subtle
difference from those of 1942. They
had all acquired a Ibok which one
mentally classified at once as “Oriental.”
It was the mask of hunger, which puts a
uniform expression on millions of Asiatic
faces and which our soldiers had acquired
in learning the lesson that there must
always be a White Australia.
They were gone in a minute. What fol-
lowed seemed as unreal and touching as
themselves. The composure of group
after group along the footpath seemed to
collapse. The writer has seen many poign-
ant and dreadful scenes round the world
but he cannot remember any which
moved him more than the spec-
tacle of those silent people, standing on
the edge of a Sydney pavement in the
dusk, their faces crumpled, their hands
grasping bags, hat, little children as their
tears fell unashamedly.
One wondered in how many homes,
harrowed by the news and experiences
of the past few weeks, the same scenes
were being enacted.
Inquiry Needed.
“Ek Dum”: As the news of prisoners-
of-war not yet home unfolded itself dur-
ing the week there was room for
grief and for satisfaction. Satisfaction
that so many have survived captivity by
a barbarous enemy and that so many of
those have borne themselves in a manner
which is a glory to this country, giving
them a place among the heroes of the
world. Grief at the losses, the worst of
which occurred in areas close to Aus-
tralia’s shores, among soldiers flung into
garrisons which had no chance from the
beginning.
There are cases in which battalions of
boys who had scarcely been taught to
hold a rifle properly are included among
those who have gone. And small forces
have been wiped out, like the 200 gallant
A.I.F. men who were left to face 22,000
Japs in one part of Timor ; they were
virtually abandoned in the face of odds
with which they could never hope to
cope.
Some of the questions which need to
be cleared up are:
(1) What was the force at Rabaul and what
its experience both as to officers and rank and
file? And what considerations induced the
Government to allow it to remain there?
What was its armament, air and artillery sup-
port?
(2) Why were 800 men left on Ambon? Four
hundred are dead.
(3) Upon whose advice were troops thrown
into Java and Timor? What was their arma-
ment, what was known of Japanese strength
and plans at the time, and what efforts were
subsequently made to ascertain the position of
our men and to rescue or strengthen them?
Field-Marshal Wavell should be asked to give
his testimony; General Lavarack should be
brought back from America and given a free
hand to express his opinions publicly. Brigadier-
General Blackburn, V.C., leader of the men of
Java, is available already.
(4) Is it a fact that for months before the
attack on Darwin the member for the Northern
Territory and local bodies had been pressing the
Government for an efficient warning and air-
raid shelter system there and that their recom-
mendations had been ignored? Is it a fact
that, though a blind man could have envisioned
the possibility of a need to evacuate Darwin,
no evacuation plan was in existence and that the
withdrawal of the population was a disordered
operation, followed by looting?
(5) What were the facts about the Singapore
campaign and General Bennett’s escape? This
is a matter which needs to be thoroughly
cleared up. The Australian public would be
shocked if they knew some of the allegations
made abroad, particularly in American reports.
The facts need to be established for this
country’s credit.
(6) Were the marches over the Owen Stanleys
and the Buna-Gona campaign warranted? Were
the great losses suffered by two of Australia’s
best divisions justified at the moment for the
objectives gained? What were the circumstances
of the removal of General Rowell? That
general was sent to Cairo in a job usually done
by a lieutenant-colonel, but later was taken over
by General Eisenhower and appointed to the
important post ol Director of Tactical Studies
in the Allied High Command.
(7) Is it true that a warrant officer who had
escaped from Sandakan camp in 1943 repeatedly
alleged that the men could be rescued with
slight effort since the Japanese position was
weakly guarded and the surrounding islands
in the hands of Philippine guerrillas? Is it
true that it took several months’ pressure be-
fore the Minister for the Army could be in-
duced to see this witness? What steps were
taken to see whether the scheme which he put
forward was feasible, and whether, had it been
carried out, the lives of some at least of the
2500 men who are supposed to have died in
Sandakan could not have been saved?
(8) As to the management - of the R.A.A.F.
in the Pacific zone.
It is a matter which calls for the atten-
tion of the highest type of tribunal —
at least three High Court Judges, selected
not by the Ministry but by the Bench of
Judges themselves, with proper military
and naval assessors. The writer is not
making allegations. Other people—very
important people— are. And if the
inquiries mentioned have satisfactory
answers (as it is hoped they have) the
people and the world should hear them.


FORD...A POWER
TO AUSTRALIA
The first reliable, low-cost motor vehicles were built
by Ford. Those vehicles played an important part
in the development of Australia. They opened up
new areas, carried mails, worked on outback con-
structions, speeded communications in town and
country ... they set a standard of efficiency for
all motor transport. Ford leadership then, in
dependability and value, has continued through the
years, with a series of finer, more beautiful, bigger
and more powerful cars, trucks and utilities.
Since its establishment 20 years ago, Ford-Australia
has specialised in supplying vehicles suited to a wide
range of local needs. During the war years, the Ford
factories have been converted to the manufacture of
landing craft, ships, mines, machine tools and many
other war items. When those widespread resources
can again be turned to peace-time production,
Ford will be still better equipped to supply modern,
dependable, better-value vehicles for Australia’s
post-war advancement.
Look forward to your future Ford
FORD V-8 CARS. TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
?6RS
f=P2-
Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. In Vic.). Reg. Office; Geelong, Vie
mm
Msvure
pf nsf
winter chill
SUMMER HEAT
Keep Winter’s chill from your home —with
C-me-ite, the building board that insulates
your home against heat or cold; keeps your
dwellings at an even, comfortable, healthy
temperature.
Easy to erect, too—just put it right over old
stained walls. Cane-ite’s superb matte surface
takes paint, kalsomine, dye or stencilled
patterns beautifully—or you can get smart
effects with Cane-ite’s natural light buff
suede-like texture.
CANE-ITE
J inch of Cane-ite will insulate your
home better than 16 inches of concrete
or an 8-inch thick brick wall.
Manufactured by
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. Ltd.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane)
Adelaide, Perth
★
Other C.S.R. Products}
Slagwool, Asbestos, PlasieS
Products
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Rosehill meeting on Saturday, with that
club’s big spring events, the Hill Stakes and the
Guineas, provided racegoers with their most
amazing afternoon since the occasion at the
some track when Ajax, starting at 40 to 1 on,
was defeated in a three-horse race.
In the Rosehill Guineas Ajax’s son Magnifi-
cent was at 2to 1 on in a field of 12; 12 to 1
bar one. He struck enough trouble at the start
to warrant the subsequent inquiry, but, recover-
ing his balance, went after them. Delaney wisely
gave the colt his head, and, bowling along
easily, he moved gradually through the field,
took charge as they came into the straight and
looked at that stage a good thing at any odds.
Then the Hua-Questionnaire filly Questing put
in her run, joined the colt, passed him and went
on to a comfortable win, doing the nine fur-
longs in 1.523, only outside Rogilla’s
course record. Monmouth, also finishing well*
was third, and almost relegated Magnificent to
that position. A Merry Mathew colt, The Tiger,
still a maiden, ran very promisingly, finishing
quite the best of the unplaced brigade.
The “Beauty Contest,” a special prize for the
best type of colt or filly, from the point of
view of soundness and conformation, competing
in the Guineas, went to Magnificent, with the
Manitoba-Night Light bay colt Deliverance and
the Veilmond-Little Mutt colt Young Veilmond
runners-up.
Questing had seemed hitherto a somewhat
better-than-average filly, and, filling minor
places, has more than once been unlucky. Still,
with only one previous win to her credit, she
was not regarded as likely to beat Magnificent
or some of the other colts in the Guineas at
fixed weights. However, fillies are notoriously
unpredictable in the spring, and this was one
of those occasions. No excuse could be offered
for Magnificent’s rather mediocre showing. He
appeared to have the race won, but when chal-
lenged had no sting left in him.
The Guineas left the crowd a bit shaken,
but the real fun came with the next race, the
Theo Marks Camelia Stakes, a seven-furlongs
event contested by a bunch of fair-quality
sprinters, of whom Melhero started a short
favorite, others were well supported, and the
the recently-arrived New Zealander, Immediate,
having his first run here, was at longish odds.
Starter Gaxieu got them nicely lined up, yelled
“Go!” and threw the lever; but one end of
the barrier failed to rise, and the field hit it.
War Eagle and Britannic lost their riders, Sir
Neith lost a few teeth, and Soho was entangled
and took no part in proceedings. Immediate
then led the scramble through what was left of
the barrier, what time Mr. Gaxieu gave forth
cries of “Come back! No race!” Subsequently
Immediate’s jockey said that he had not heard
the starter call them back; other riders said
they had heard him, but had kept going because
everyone else did. Immediate led most of the
way and won from Grand Prodige and Abbe-
ville in 1.25, a second outside the course record.
As they pulled up, the starter, in a car, caught
up with them and ordered them back for a
re-run, but the stewards, considering that it
would be a bit severe to do the trip again im-
mediately, postponed the re-run to follow the
last race, and ruled that all bets were to stand —
a bit tough on punters, as the favorite, Mel-
hero, and also War Eagle and Sir Neith, were
then scratched and did not contest the re-run.
Under its own by-laws the tote refunded on
these three scratchings, but accepted no further
bets for the re-run.
Immediate, who is by Siegfried from Quite
Soon, won again, beating Modulation and
Tahmoor, and this time equalling the course
record, held jointly by the very two horses he
beat. At the second running Immediate started
equal favorite at 7 to 2, but, dividends being
calculated on the first running, he paid 19 to 1
on the win tote. It was a doubly good perform-
ance on the New Zealander’s part, and with
8.10 he carried 11b. less than his Epsom weight
and 11b. more than he has in the Metropoli-
tan.
The track was in apple-pie order and other
good times were recorded. Another rank out-
sider, the aged Windbag gelding Bragger, did
10 furlongs in 2.4 to beat Beau Monde and
Good Idea in the Rosehill Cup, thereby equal-
ling Easter Time’s course record. Removal
being withdrawn, the Epsom favorite Shannon,
ridden by Munro, started at odds-on in the
w.f.a. Hill Stakes over a mile and 110 yards.
Shannon was not extended to beat Cold Shower
and Accession in 3sec. outside Mayfowl’s record
for the distance (1.443). The Manitoba-Vocal
four-year-old Wheatland, defeating Dancing
and Hedge Rose in the second division of the
Maiden, took 1.27 for seven furlongs. In the
first division Hawk Craig (Andrea-Coolarran)
beat the Genetout colt Guiding Light and King
Lear in 1.26, and the Talking-French Model
gelding Babillard, took the same time to defeat
Warlock and Laudus in the Highweight.
* * * *
While Sydney’s leading three-year-old Mag-
nificent ran probably his poorest race to date
on Saturday, his Melbourne contemporaries were
in good form at Flemingfon. Don Pedro was
an acceptor for both the w.f.a. Underwood
Stakes with 7.12 and the Spring Stakes for
three-year-olds, in which he had a steadying
top weight of 9.7; both races at a mile. His
usual rider, R. Heather, having a previous en-
gagement in the w.f.a. race, the Gay Lothario
colt took on the three-year-olds.
Conceding 91b. and upward to other smart
performers, Don Pedro did not get away
well, and at the half-mile, with more than a
dozen horses and at least the same number of
lengths between him and the leader, Reveille,
and faced with the prospect of carrying his
big burden right round the field, he appeared
to have the job in front of him. Coming into
the straight he sighted an opening and with
a sterling run forced his way through the field
and at the post was running away with lengths
to spare. He was, of course, favorite; second
favorite was the Tudor King-Geyser colt Fine
Fettle, who took second money, with the Gay
Lothario-Baba colt Gay Lad staging a game
finish and failing by only a head to do better
than third. Don Pedro was not pressed to
travel the mile in 1.38^.
With Don Pedro withdrawn, the Dhoti colt
Royal Gem and the South Australian Chatter
Lad were the only three-year-olds engaged in
the Underwood Stakes, and the result left little
doubt as to their relative merits. It was Royal
Gem’s first race at w.f.a., though on the
previous Saturday he downed an open company
handicap field. The usually front-running La
Patrice missed the start, but had made up the
ground and gone to the front after the first
furlong. She was given no chance to repeat
the bolter’s win she almost had in the Memsie
Stakes, and, close behind her at the half mile,
Chatter Lad made his only showing in the race,
subsequently dropping back and finishing last.
Into the straight it was La Patrice, Amana, St.
Fairy and Tranquil Star. Royal Gem came
through on the rails' to join La Patrice, who
faded out of the picture, the Dhoti colt was in
turn joined by St. Fairy and this pair made a
battle royal of it to the post, where St. Fairy
was a half-length to the good, with Counsel
third. Royal Gem was beaten but far from
disgraced, as it took a well-performed five-year-
old running the mile in 1.363 to down him. Old
Tranquil Star, probably a little knocked by her
record-equalling nine furlongs at last start,
failed to finish on.
The win on St. Fairy made it a treble for
Heather, who earlier brought home the Law
Maker-Joanna colt Liberty Law, narrowly down-
ing Morbell and Latani in the fixed-weight
event for maiden three-year-olds. Another Law
Maker colt, Four Freedoms (from Stage Wit),
took the second division, accounting for Star
Knight (St. Magnus-Wlreaway) and the Fox-
bridge colt Anstey.
Law Maker was represented by three winners
on the day, the other being Solon (from Studio),
who in the seven-furlongs Truganina Handicap
just pipped the rather unlucky Golden
Sovereign four-year-old Regal Coin and the


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING, 1945
To be held on RANDWICK RACECOURSE, SEPTEMBER 29,
. OCTOBER I and 6.
First Day: SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29.
THE A.J.C. DERBY: £5OOO added. (For Three-year-old C«IM ,tg^F.
startiug-1 ONE MIJLB
551 Colm ?TEPHBN P STiKES a f (wdsibfVtlagoV
■-»- l^if^ Y i2f n^TL2siri.S^; «««*
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE: £l3OO added, ror xw FIVE FURLONGS.
THE GEORGE MAIN STAKES : (Welght-£or-age) £J«g FURLONGS.’
THE METROPOLITAN: £4500 added O^
Third Day: SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6.
THE CRAVEN PLATE: ( Weight-for-age). £l5OO AND A QUARTER.
THE CLIBBORN STAKES: (For Three-year-olds). A QUARTER.
THE FINAL HANDICAP: £lOOO added ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
6 Bligh Street. Sydney. GEO. T. ROWE. Secretary.
KSSft
e
They're AMPHIBIOUS
Here’s a watch you can talce swimmingt fisK-
ing, golfing in the rain or for a care-free bath
without the slightest danger to its perfectly-
timed movement. Movado Waterproof Swiss
Watches are now available.
MOVADO
ST. SYDNEY
SWISS
WATCHES
Open 9 to 5
Mon. to Fri-,
9.15 to 12 Sat.
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH VICTORY LOANS.
..
■
ilk
II
takes on a new meaning through
latest addition to ultra-modern
All. equipment
As specialists in super-
accuracy, A.T.L. has long
foreseen that interchange-
ability with its attendant
precision will attain even
greater significance in post-
war production than it has
reached during the war.
A.T.L. equipment and tech-
nical resources have been
developed accordingly. En-
quiries concerning the sup-
ply of production essentials
requiring the finest margins
of accuracy will be wel-
comed.
Latest addition to A.T.L. equipment for
super-accuracy in jig-boring—the Newall Jig Borer.
Accurate to .0001 of an inch, this machine is
universally regarded as a major achievement of
British engineering.
FOR
JIGS . . . FIXTURES . . . MOULDS
PRESS TOOLS...DIES...GAUGES
I
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
IF IT’S A PRECISION JOB, IT’S A JOB FOR A.T.L.
— — — —”
Manitoba horse Spearmain. The lastnamed is
regarded as having an above-average chance in
the Caulfield Cup. St. Fairy is also well sup-
ported for that race and certainly nothing better
could have been asked than his high-class win
in the Underwood Stakes. Another well backed
for the Caulfield, the three-year-old Dhoti coll
Leonard, only escaped the maiden ranks at
his previous start, but on Saturday tackled all
ages in the main handicap and led them nearly
every yard of the 10 furlongs under the feather-
weight of 7.3. Valcurl and Tea Cake were
closest to him at the finish. Leonard was
weighted at 6.11 for the Caulfield Cup, but
can be rehandicapped up to 101 b.
To send the crowd home in a jovial mood,
Badger urged Gayness, favorite for the Manor
Highweight, to just get his head in front of the
50-to-l outsider Logical at the end of the mile,
while Great Victory was third.
• * * •
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—
Three- and Four-year-old Novice: Of the 78
nominations, The Gaekwar, Warspite, Waratah,
Dancing and Guiding Light would have a show.
Three-year-old: Young Veilmond, 1; The Tiger,
2; Deliverance, 3. Clarendon Stakes: Sleepy
Fox, 1; Flight, 2; Removal, 3. Arthur Dight
Quality Handicap: Immediate, 1; Tahmoor, 2;
Repshot, 3. Hawkesbury Handicap: Wellesley,
1; Silver Link, 2; Accession, 3.
* * * *
The South Australian filly Minion (Caithness-
Loveable) gave a curious betting result when
she won,the Balcrest Stakes at Port Adelaide.
As she was starting at 7 to 4 on, tote backers
evidently didn’t think going for a mere place
worth while and went for the win; thus they
received 7s. 6d., while those who played for
safety got Bs. 6d. for the “place.”
H? Jjc *
About 50,000 were at Carlton Oval for
the V.F.L. second semi-final between
South Melbourne and Collingwood on
Saturday, There wasn’t much in it for
two quarters, both sides browsing along
in a sort of kick-for-kick affair, with
South driving for the centre line and
’Wood trying to make it a short game.
At half-time it was ’Wood 4.7 to 3.5 —
scores which tell their own story. In the
third South, sticking to the long game,
opened up the kind of football which has
kept it on top through the season.
With Graham dominating the rucks and
feeding them, the South forwards ran
through the Magpies and had an 11.8-9.10
lead at the change. Collingwood sent
its champion, Fothergill, to full for-
ward in the last, and the game became
a ripper as ’Wood got to within a goal of
the lead. In a furious finish Nash kicked
the winning goal five minutes before the
bell and South won, 13.10-11.11. Colling-
wood gets a second chance against Carl-
ton next Saturday, the winner to play
South in the grand final on September 29.
With only Collingwood, Carlton and
South Melbourne left to play out the
V.F.L. season, Fanning (Melb.) is still the
leading goal-kicker with 67; then come
Albiston (Haw.) 66, Fothergill (’Wood)
60, Burge (Rich.) 55, Nash (South) 54.
In Saturday’s match Fothergill kicked two
goals and Nash four of the 24 scored.
The big scores are in the Association,
where Todd (Williamstown) has 179,
Titus (Coburg) 113 and Stackpole
(Prahran) 85.
* * * *
The St. Kilda V.F.L, team came to
Sydney and played a N.S.W. XVIII on
Saturday. St. Kilda had a grim fight
to hold the wooden spoon in the V.F.L.
competition this season, and it exhibited
this grimness against N.S.W., resolutely
getting itself defeated by 10.18 to 4.24.
* * * *
There were' nearly ties in two
Aussie Rules semi-finals this year. At
Hobart, Sandy Bay and New Town
played a draw in the first semi-final, and
at Adelaide West Torrens and North
Adelaide were level when the bell rang.
The umpire didn’t hear it and West
snapped a goal. The only semi-final tie
in Melbourne history was on 15/9/’2B
between Collingwood and Melbourne.
Melbourne kicked five goals straight in
the last quarter, ’Wood didn’t score and
the draw was 9.8 all.
While Sydney Sports Ground was
given to professionals, so ill-attended
and so uninteresting that even betting
sank to negligible proportions, 14,000
people packed the North Sydney ground
to see the Rugby Union “grand” final
between University and Parramatta. Two
or three times the number would have
been present had the game been played
on the ground that was dedicated to
amateur sport. It was a grand exhibition
of the amateur code, hotly contested
from start to finish. The University
backs prevailed in the first half, being
quicker off the mark and sharper in pene-
tration ; five-eighth Johnson repeatedly
cut through: University 11, Parramatta
nil. In the second half “Parra.” made
repeated determined assaults and con-
tinued to win a feast of the ball, but lack
of finish to movements made it University
11, Parramatta 3. It would have been
closer but for Schomberg’s failure with
shots for goal, one very easy: the lad
had an “off” day. East won the premier-
ship in both minor grades, beating Rand-
wick 17-3 in the reserve grade and Uni-
versity 11-6 in the third grade.
“Geedla”: A mother and her daughter,
who is also a mother, played an outstand-
ing game for Queensland in the recent
inter-State hockey match against N.S.W.
The mother (or if you will, the grand-
mother) was goalkeeper, the daughter on
the left wing. Mrs. L. Weaver is prob-
ably the oldest goalkeeper in the northern
State. She was a leading athlete in Eng-
land during the last war. The daughter,
Mrs. Val. Pope, held discus and javelin
titles in Brisbane before World War 11
and was also a walking champion with a
mighty fast toe in a sprint.
« * * *
Banned from the Sydney Stadium as a
wild man who won’t observe the rules,
Jack Day, now a middleweight, got a
match at Leichhardt with Jimmy Dundee,
and stuck to boxing, plus an occasional
“rabbit-killer.” He isn’t much of a boxer.
A Dundee right had him down for eight
seconds in the fourth round. In the
seventh he hit Dundee behind the neck
with a right swing and both went to the
floor, but were up before a count'could
be commenced. Dundee anticipated
almost every punch Day shot at him,
whereas Day’s marksmanship was rotten.
Dundee the winner on points.
Youngsters made the show at Sydney
Stadium, and it was a much better show
than usual. Leo Heaney, described as
lightweight champion of W.A., ladled out
a lot of punishment to Les Fuller, but
Fuller was a shade superior in boxing,
and was adjudged to have beaten the
Westralian on points. Ted Sprouster out-
pointed Ken Hatcher in another twelve-
rounder. Like Heaney, Hatcher carried
the fight to his foe in every round, but
Sprouster was always too speedy. He
is a promising lad.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Never will flying-boats bring to our
shores more prized, more precious cargoes
than did the eight Catalinas which arrived
at Rose Bay last Sunday afternoon. In
the ’planes were 110 Eighth Division
prisoners-of-war from Singapore. Thou-
sands were in the little park close by to
cheer the men, and there were scenes of
joyous enthusiasm all along the road to
Yaralla Military Hospital at Concord.
Directly the first bus with its great calico
sign “Eighth Division, Singapore,” was
sighted, pleased excitement ran through
the crowds. There were shouts, cheers
and handclasps as some of the
soldiers leaned from ambulance or bus.
Before the procession through the streets
to the hospital commenced, the men had
been given tea and refreshments by the
Red Cross. Major-General Plant gave a
brief and sincere welcome speech. And,
best of all for the men of the other States,
he told them that after medical exami-
nation and a night at Yaralla they could
expect to be sent on leave to their own
States within 24 hours. Never has Yaralla
seen more joyous reunion. Here relatives
and close friends were gathered to greet
their returned heroes.
Four Army sisters and 12 civilian
nurses came home last week. They had
been prisoners-of-war in Japan since the
fall of Rabaul in 1942. Their greeting
at Mascot airport was a rainbow of weep-
ing and laughter. Friends and relations
were there to welcome them, and the
brave young women who have faced
danger intrepidly, were able to relax
into tears themselves. Their eyes
have looked on horrors, they have lived
through a nightmare of privation. There
is much Australia must do to make up
for the terrible three and a half years.
Actor John Wood, who went off with
the Eighth Division to Singapore and for
weary years has been a Japanese p.-0.-w.,
is expected home any day now by an
anxiously-waiting father in Neutral Bay.
It will be remembered that just before
he went away John, who had returned
from London and Hollywood successes,
was playing lead in “Quiet Wedding” at
the Minerva. “The Housemaster” and
“Busman’s Honeymoon” were two other
shows made the brighter by his presence.
When he first went to Singapore the
Sydney actor was busy with play>-produc-
ing for his soldier cobbers, and during
his captivity he has busied himself writ-
ing plays and sketches which have helped
to keep up the spirits of his comrades in
duress.
It was no mere “Wish-me-luck-as-you-
wave-me-good-bye” farewell Mrs. Keith
Morris gave the workers at the A.C.F.
Cafe. This, as will be remembered, closed
its doors a week or so ago because the
premises were needed by the bank, which
had lent them free of rent for the dura-
tion. Mrs. Morris, who had been the
organising secretary, decided to give all
the cafe workers a grand party. Mon-
day, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday groups were bidden at the same
hour to the Australia. Here in the ball-
room were served lush savories and fat-
tening cakes to the voluntary helpers who
had worked like beavers for five years.
Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. Harding, was
in the place of honor, her hands filled
with orchids from the Morris gardens.
The cafd’s good friend Mr. Crocker sal at
her left hand, and had the distinction of
being the only man present. Mrs. Morris,
in a graceful black afternoon frock, and
a small mauve and blue befeathered hat,
made a speech in appreciation of help
given, and of thanks for the glittering
silver salver presented by the combined
groups. The wife of General Miles, smart
in black and white, had a word of thanks,
too, for the solid silver powder compact
which was the tribute paid to her presi-
dentship.
News from London;
Our life of going to bed without having to
wonder whether one will ever wake up has not
yet become a habit —in fact, it is still a won-
derment to me. That one may be allowed to
contemplate the moon and stars at one’s
leisure is almost too good to be believed.
Our election has been a big surprise when
you think what Mr. Churchill has brought us
through. The paper shortage is still acute —
the lending library has become almost a farce,
but on the other hand our National Gallery
is being restored to us, bit by bit, and our
treasures dug out of their hiding-places in the
West country, perhaps even more appreciated
because of having been removed from us for so
long.
Orchid beauties from India, the Philip-
pines, South America (enough Cattleyas
to bankrupt even an army of American
servicemen) revealed their beauties singly
or richly clustered on long sprays at
the Orchid Exhibition staged by the
N.S.W. Orchid Society in Beard Wat-
son’s. This show was a salute to Peace.
Here cream and mauve, yellow, green and
almost fuchsia-toned, the exotic beauties
ignored, in their languorous glory, the
mere mortals who came to gaze. Fifteen
hundred orchid enthusiasts called on
the opening day, when the wife of
Lieutenant-Governor Jordan made the
opening speech. In the display there were
over 400 large plants and one thousand
long and thickly-flowering sprays. Aus-
tralia’s own golden rock-lilies added their
fragrance to the show.
The show benefited the British Centre.
In addition to grown-up helpers, small
girls and at least one small boy sold
tickets for a competition, the prize being
a growing and flowering plant. Gar-
deners did the rounds with their wives.
One young man said “That’s a swallow.”
Then, a trifle dejectedly, “but a very dif-
ferent swallow from mine.” Then there
was he who remarked: “The one of
mine I was telling you about is like that,
only mine is about twice the size, and
much richer in color,” Then there was
the woman who said “Well, I’m tired of
a victory garden—we didn’t get one
tomato fit to eat last summer. I think
I’ll start on orchids.”
Marie Amos, the pretty original of this
photograph, is one of the entrants in the
“Miss A.8.C.” contest. The crowning
ceremony will take place tonight in the
Grace Auditorium. The friendly rivalry
has been waged to aid the Lady Davidson
Convalescent Home at Turramurra.
Tickets are half a guinea each, and reser-
vations may be made by ’phoning M 6991.
With the death of Mrs. P. A. Cameron
the Feminists have lost a gracious as well
as an able leader. Mrs. Cameron had
been president of the Feminist Club for
11 years. She was active in the work of
the Frank Say well Kindergarten at Moore
Park—had been its president over a
number of years—and was president of
the Women to Canberra movement. The
Australian Women’s Flying Club, the
Australian Youth Council, the Federation
of Women Voters and the Health Week
Committee are other activities which will
feel the loss of this talented and clear-
thinking woman.
Sydney tenor Kenneth Neate writes
from England, where he is now installed.
He was sent there from Canada, and he
was busy helping to entertain Canadian
troops at the time of writing. He tells
of meeting Ivor Newton, recognised as a
top-liner among English accompanists. At
a party in his studio Ken met Borgioli
and Ivie Price, old friends of Australia.
Borgioli was very complimentary about
Ken’s singing. Ken has had some broad-
cast engagements, and, what pleased him
most of all, an invitation from Lord and
Lady Gowrie, both of whom have been
interested in his career from its beginning.
With great foresight the workers for
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital are
already getting busy on publicity for the
fair of fairs which they intend to hold
towards the end of the year. The fair,
which will be held in Hyde Park in
October, is a master plan of all the
auxiliaries and centres which work for
the hospital.
Although it was announced at the State
Congress of the R.S.L. that the League’s
Victory Ball would be held at the Troca-
dero ballroom on Tuesday, October 9,
State president of the League James
Neagle states that the date has been
changed to November 20. This change
has been made so as not to clash with the
A.C.F. Victory Ball, also set down for
October 9.
From Melbourne
A new flag flies over the Melbourne
Town Hall. Showing four red bars on a
white ground, it is the flag of the United
Nations and represents the Four Free-
doms. it flew on the occasion of the City
Council luncheon given to commemo-
rate peace. The large hall was given over
entirely to men guests, who had as host
Mayor Connelly. Seated with him at the
official table were the Governor, Sir
Winston Dugan, State and Federal Parlia-
mentarians, representatives of the Navy,
Army and Air Force, and city councillors.
Behind the official table was the stage,
turned for the occasion into a garden with'
lawns banked high with flowers. From
flagpoles hung the flags of England, Aus-
tralia and America and by means of cun-
ningly-concealed fans these flags were
made to wave proudly. The Governor in
his speech paid tribute to the King and
Queen and to the fighting forces.
While this luncheon was in progress the
Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinz, was enter-
taining Lady Dugan, wives of city coun-
cillors and women well known for their
work with patriotic and charitable organi-
sations. The. official table was strewn with
pink petals and centred, as were the other
small tables, with bowls of spring flowers.
Lady Dugan, who was attended by Mary
Lisle Johnson, wore a soft dove-blue wool
ensemble and matching felt hat banded in
white, and sat on the right of the
Mayoress, who looked attractive in her
frock of black matt crepe. A creamy lace
collar and bow was added for contrast,
and her tiny felt hat of marine blue was
finished with matching ostrich plumes.
In her silver-fox cape she pinned orchids.
Seated also at the official table was Mrs.
Keane, wife of Senator Keane, whose
outfit of black was relieved by a pat-
terned blouse.
The loyal toast was proposed by
Mayoress Heinz, and when luncheon was
ended she took the guests to the bal-
cony of the Town Hall, where they
listened to -the speeches at the other
luncheon. At one of the small tables the
Gengoult Smith lady, wearing a gay floral
frock under her black coal, and the
material of her frock making her tiny
hat, sat with other guests. She has just
said good-bye to her mother, the Brookes
lady, who has left Melbourne on a visit
to America, having just finished her job
as State Commandant of the Women’s
Air Training Corps, which did a fine job
during the war years.
Pictured here is Evelyn Clark who
came from Hong Kong five years ago
with her three children, John 14, Rowena
10 and Peter 8. When Hong Kong fell
to the enemy her husband, Walter Clark,
became a civil internee. Now she is re-
joicing because she has received cable-
grams announcing that he is well and
free. Mrs. Clark was born in Egypt
while her father, an officer in the British
Army, was stationed there, and later she
travelled with her parents wherever her
father was posted. While in Melbourne
has led a busy life. She is secretary of
the East Asian Residents’ Association
and has also worked in an honorary
capacity with the Department of Infor-
mation, sending messages to p.-0.-w. in
the Far East. In Hong Kong she
managed a broadcasting station.
Ex-Mayor Nettlefold, presiding at a
meeting of one of the patriotic commit-
tees, stressed the need of giving assist-
ance to Army, Navy and Air Force nurses
who would soon be repatriated. He
said that it was possible many nurses
might need great care and attention, and
after their marvellous work it was fitting
that the citizens of Melbourne should
see that they wanted for nothing during
the rest of their lives. The Florence
Nightingale Trust Fund has reached a
considerable amount, but much more is
needed and a Radio Drive is being organ-
ised to take place on December 6. Any
woman who wants to hold a party for
this cause has only to register with the
organiser, Mrs. Robert Cooper, and she
can go right ahead with her plans. She
also has the right to nominate one of her
helpers and a guest and her party will
have a share of the many prizes which
have been donated. Each hostess on
registering at the Town Hall must pay a
fee of one pound. Parties may be held
later than December 6, and may be given
during the Christmas festivities. One of
the members of the committee for the
Radio Drive is Mrs. Charles Allum,
whose work as president of the Victorian
War Nurses Comforts Fund has given
her a knowledge of nurses’ requirements.
The Austral Salon has been reviewing
its history. It was founded in January,
1890, by a few journalists as a meeting-
place for women writers. From this small
beginning it developed into a club for
women interested in the fine arts, and it
shortly became the recognised introducer
of aspirants to musical fame, there not
being any Conservatoriums in those days.
Ada Crossley, Amy Castles, Florence
Austral and Marjorie Lawrence were
among the salon’s hopefuls. The Earl of
Hopetoun was Governor of Victoria when
the salon was founded, and his countess
became first president. She presented the
salon with its colors, royal-blue and gold.
For many years the president of the
Austral Salon was always the wife of the
Governor of the State, the first break in
this tradition coming when Janet, Lady
Clarke, was elected. She continued in
office until her death, when the Madden
lady took over the official duties. A suc-
cession of well-known Melbourne women
took office as president until in 1942 Mrs.
J. N. McNicol was elected—she is still
president. Besides helping artists, the
salon has interested itself in philanthropy
and has given practical help and assist-
ance to many good causes. The work of
1914-18 was repeated in thewar just ended.
Every first Monday in the month a
musical or literary afternoon is given.
Recently many members attended the
Monday gathering to hear Iris Shaw, well
known as artist and teacher, read the
poem “1940-1942” written by Nora Kelly
of The Bulletin. One of the guests of
honor was Vera Bradford, who i$ leaving
soon for England. She was presented by
the president with a posy of daffodils
and violas in the Salon colors. Dorothy
Wilby, formerly of Sydney and now with
3XY Broadcasting Station, was another
of the guests interested in the poem. As
a next-door neighbor of the poetess she
had a personal interest.
Hephzibah Menuhin, young and golden-
haired, enthralled the audience at the
Town Hall. Wearing a tulle frock of
filmy whiteness over ivory taffeta, the
skirt bouffant and attached to a tight-
fitting bodice, the sleeves made by folds
of tulle, she made a most attractive
figure. She played with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra under the baton
of Dr. Malcolm Sargent. Her public
appearances are rare and it is more than
two years since she has been heard in
this city.
Attended by her personal staff, Lady
Dugan was in the audience. Her scarlet
jacket worn over a black gown was a foil
for her fair coloring, and after the inter-
val she greeted the pianist and her hus-
band, Lindsay Nicholas, and invited them
to sit with her for the remainder of the
concert. With Mrs. Maurice Nicholas,
whose brown ermine coat covered a gown
in parchment-toned crepe, was her hus-
band, an officer in the R.A.A.F. Robin,
only daughter of Air-Commodore and
Mrs. A. L. Walters, enjoyed every
moment of the concert. June and Bill
Aslungul were other enthusiastic mem-
bers of an audience which included Wil-
liam Kapell and Richard Farrell. Ray-
mond Lambert brought his lovely wife
Jill, who snuggled into the squirrel collar
of her black coat and with it wore a small
flower hat. Repeated calls from the
audience brought Dr. Malcolm Sargent
and Hephzibah back to the platform and
many floral tributes were handed to the
pianist.
Ninety-five youngsters are in residence
at St. John’s Home for Boys, Canterbury.
The committee aims to enlarge the home
so that more boys may have the same
chance in life. A Government grant of
£5OOO has just been authorised, and this
will be regarded as the nucleus of a fund
of £20,000, the balance to be raised by
public subscription. With this money a
new home will be built. The idea is to
erect a number of small houses, each with
a “father and mother.” The board of
management has already bought 13 acres
in one of the outer suburbs of Melbourne.
Committees have been formed and are
working very hard to raise money. One
headed by Mrs. Olive Hiring has com-
pleted plans for a very special night at
the San Moritz on September 26. There
will be a floor show, a lucky dip and
prizes for the holders of lucky pro-
grammes. It is also proposed to hold a
ball at the Canterbury institution.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Timber From the Islands
Fears that a shortage of timber will be
the greatest difficulty in overtaking the
lag in housebuilding should be easily
dispelled. Though Australian forests
may not be able to stand up to the anti-
cipated drain of the coming years, in the
islands to the north of the continent will be
found practically untouched forests, cap-
able of yielding a very big proportion of
the requirements of the world in first-
class hardwoods.
Morotai is a small island, but American
Army milling units cut millions of feet
of high-grade timber there, and made
very little impression on the forests. Logs
are easily accessible, and decent shipping
facilities can be provided. The same
applies to Borneo, the Celebes, and other
islands.
Efforts being made to obtain timber
from New Guinea could profitably be
pushed further afield. Modern diesel-
powered milling plants are compact,
mobile and efficient. With up-to-date
logging equipment they can produce
timber at a very reasonable cost. It is
unlikely that friendly nations, looking to
us for foodstuffs and manufactured
goods, would refuse us timber conces-
sions.
Shipping may be a problem, but it is
easier to bring timber from Borneo than
Canada or Russia. The Allied nations
will have a number of landing craft avail-
able for peace-time jobs. With a few
modifications the L.S.T., which can load
almost anywhere, would be ideal for the
transport of timber, and a fleet of these
handy craft could profitably ply between
Australia and the tropic islands.
Stanus (R.A.A.F.).
Atomic-Bomb Possibilities
In peace-time our hearts and our
pockets are all too ready to persuade us
that modem weapons are so dreadful that
nobody could be mad enough to start
another war. That kind of wishful think-
ing was largely responsible for our un-
preparedness.
Even now, we may be sure, there are
many people—and not all of them in
Germany or Japan—feverishly seeking the
secret of atomic explosions, and our
scientists tell us that they will probably
find it. Unless we continue to expend
money and effort on research we may
well find ourselves in a few years con-
fronted by demands backed by better
atom bombs produced by easier and
cheaper methods than ours, and, even
worse, perhaps a counter to our bombs
as well, to- reduce us to abject helpless-
ness.
We cannot be sure that atom bombs
are the last word in war any more than
bombs and aerial torpedoes were the last
word against battleships. May we not
hope that research into atomic energy
and allied sciences may produce some
new means of defence so powerful that
war would end simply because aggression
would be merely suicide?
Be that as it may, in the present state
of the world the best way—indeed,
the only way—to discourage potential
aggressors is to have bigger and better
atomic bombs and bigger and better
’planes or rockets to carry them. —
R. A. J. (S.A.).
Teachers
Enlarging on “Qwertyuiop’s” comment
on squealer teachers (B. 15/8/’45) I may
state that at 18 years of age I started out
as head of an outback school, and now,
at nearly retiring age, I continue to refuse
all offers of town schools.
I am now in the far jungle country of
North Queensland, in my twenty-second
country school. In all of them I have
found the people hospitable, kindly and
helpful. A teacher has only to be “one
of them,” to be interested in their lives
and work, to be, above all, in sympathy
with them in their hardships and sorrows,
and never on any account to adopt a
superior air, to get along very pleasantly
and comfortably.
As for being “policed” by committees,
any reasonable teacher can get every
ounce of willing help he requires from
them, as in country places the school is
the greatest centre of interest. I have had
no difficulty in organising working bees
Sunday after Sunday, but then, of course,
I’m not too proud to wield an axe myself.
My only desire is to be allowed to re-
main in a country school till I retire.
Then I shall settle in the country, —
Bentta (Q.).
Unknown Australia?
Against “Digester’s” doleful picture
(B. 1/8/’45) let me put the Australian
experience of Richard T., from York-
shire.
R.T. landed in Fremantle in 1910 with
his kit of joiner’s tools and £2O. Found
work and kept it. Inside two years he
had his own home of five fine rooms,
built with his own hands, had sent for
his sweetheart and married. Nine years
later an investment of £lO in a co-opera-
tive society returned £250. Buying a
block of land in a promising Perth
suburb for £3O he, on Saturday after-
noons, with assistance which he paid for
at overtime rates, got another four-
roomed wooden house built and sold it
at a profit to the Repatriation Board of
last war. He then kept on building, until
today he has income of at least £2O per
week from flats, together with a fine town
home, a comfortable seaside cottage
down the coast some 50 miles distant,
a profitable orchard in the hills, on which
he employs a manager, a sedan car and
sea-going launch.
I could tell many similar stories. How
anyone fails to make a comfortable liv-
ing in this country is a mystery to me,
for, as Australian-bom, I can look back
on 63 years during which I never wanted
for a meal, and if I had the sky for a
roof it was purely of my own choosing.
—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Eire and the War
As “M.L.M.” (B. 5/9/’45) demands.
Let Justice Be Done to Eire.
Let us not forget that Eire, declaring
herself an independent neutral republic,
deprived Britain of the use of vitally im-
portant naval harbors during the most
“Cripes , a bull '-eye!”
perilous stage of the war, thereby en-
abling German submarines to sink many
British and other ships and to murder
their crews.
Let us not forget that Eire housed
through the war years a collection of
Hun spies, under the guise of an “Em-
bassy,” at Britain’s very front door, and
accorded them full diplomatic privileges.
Let us not forget that Eire opposed
enlistment of her sons in British forces
at the desperate period when Britain
stood alone against Hun savagery and
treated members of her own “army” who
did so as deserters.
Let us not forget that Eire’s “Presi-
dent,” born in the United States, escaped
the death penalty after the last war only
through the misplaced mercy of the
British Government.
Let us not forget that Eire’s “genero-
sity” to France, Calcutta and Italy, “part
of Eire’s thankoffering for her safety,”
would have been far more properly exer-
cised towards war-starved Britain, to
whom alone Eire owes her continued
existence as an “independent, self-gov-
erning republic,”
And, particularly, let us not forget
Eire’s old and oft-proved motto “Eng-
land’s difficulty is Ireland’s opportunity.”
Yes, by all means. Let Justice Be Done
to Ireland. Real justice, not the Eire
variety. — Colbun (Q.).
“Teaching” the Army
“Gunner” (B. 15/8/’45) complains that
“Communists and Left Wingers” have
been busy since the outbreak of the war
instilling their poison in the minds of
servicemen, and that Army organisations
are not free from “Leftist” influences.
What does he mean by “Communists’
and “Left Wingers?” If by the term
“Communist” I am to understand that he
means those few fanatics who are anti-
everything that is not Russian, then I feel
no cause for alarm. After nearly six
years’ service in an A.I.F. infantry divi-
sion, during which time I,have met and
lectured to more men than any other
subaltern in that division, I have learned
to accept those self-styled Communists
with the amused tolerance extended to
them by their mates in the ranks. Their
influence is negligible.
“Gunner’s” general inference that
A.E.S. is an organisation through which
Communist doctrines are disseminated is
a mistaken one. There are still men in the
A.E.S. who have anti-everything leanings,
but they are in a very definite minority
and are being weeded out slowly but
surely. In the early days Communists
did see in the A.E.S. an ideal opportunity
for disseminating their views. The few
who got in lasted, I should say, possibly
six months.
But there is this to be remembered.
An organisation which attempts to pre-
sent the soldier with political, social and
other facts cannot help treading on thin
ground. I would like “Gunner” to give
a lecture on Russia to the average Army
audience of all types of men with all
types of interests and ideas, I know that,
were his talk ever so uncolored, ever so
factual, he would still find men in the
audience to accuse him of showing bias.
I gave a talk on the Polish question,
using background material in part from
the A.E.S., in part from pamphlets and
books from other than Army sources. I
tried, to the best of my ability, to present
an impartial, factual picture of Poland
and Polish-European relations. I was
later accused of favoring (a) Russians,
(b) Catholics, (c) Fascists.
Surely “Gunner” will agree with m©
that in Australia there is room for im-
provement in many things. Why because
I state the necessity for improvements
and the belief that radical changes should
be made should I be classed with people
who believe in shooting those who dis-
agree with them or subjecting them to
slavery? — Education Officer (A.1.F.).
Treatment of Japan
After 14 years’ residence in Japan,
dating from the time when nobody (not
even the Japanese • public) had realised
what the militarists were really up to, I
believe the difficulty will be not to catch
and punish the criminals responsible for
atrocities but to convince them that they
were doing wrong. The Japanese in the
mass lack respect for human life and are
naturally cruel, and at first they simply
will not understand why we are so out-
raged at their treatment of prisoners,
which is no worse than what they inflict
on their own people.
Re-education and re-orientation of the
Japanese mind will be a lengthy process,
but it can be done, largely by working
through the women and the decent
elements among the men and by
surrounding the Emperor as a con-
stitutional monarch with hand-picked
Ministers, some of whom should be
Americans or British. With a few simple
but essential changes Japan’s constitution
would be as democratic as our own.
The dangers of any other than humane
treatment are two. Either "a sense of in-
justice would remain and intensify, lead-
ing to lengthy disorders with the eventual
result of a sort of slum in the middle of
Asia; or Communism among the Uni-
versity students would give a foothold
for Russian influence, which i® the 20’s
seemed like becoming important. To
stern but wise treatment by the Allies
must be joined a concrete and definite
policy. We should know our own minds
as well as the Russians know theirs. —
Osoba (Vic.).
Discipline
Indiscipline was fairly general in the
early days of the A.I.F. The First
Division grew like Topsy, with a scratch
crew of officers and n.c.os. who did their
best against the entirely erroneous im-
pression, held by a good many of the
troops, that a Digger had a license to be
a larrikin.
Troops took their pleasures whenever
they felt like it, and were frequently late
back —days late sometimes. One young
lad, when handed out a fine for a minor
offence, pleaded for seven days’ detention
because he had been told by his mates he
“wouldn’t be a soldier until he had been
in the cooler.” Troop trains were a night-
mare —stops every mile or so because the
safety-cord was being pulled. Cat-calls,
jdfers and whistling were normal, with a
certain amount of thinly-veiled insubordi-
nation. The lads were not vicious, but
they had the wrong idea and, being in-
dividualists, took some time to wake up.
It is a matter for pride to see the same
men, or what is left of them, after more
than five years of war. Large batches
of them are leaving the forward areas to
go back to civil life. Having parted from
their units’ strict control and with the
prospect of early discharge they could,
if they wished, be a worse problem than
they were at the beginning of the war.
Yet they sit on the beach, they file on
to the landing craft and they go aboard
the ships almost as if they were off to
another amphibious operation. “Docile”
is not the word, for they laugh and cheer
not a little. One sees the flash of spirit
as a soldier goes overboard in full kit
and two men, but no more, throw off
their gear and go in after him. The rest
bunch a bit to get a better view, but
there is no crowding, no loss of control.
Going up the ship’s side there is no jost-
ling, no waste of time. No one has to
shout.
It is a triumph of leadership ; and ot
good sense on the part of the men them-
selves. —Centurion (A.1.F.).
A Paterson. Memorial
“J.H.M.A.” (B. 29/ 8/ ’45) is in error
in supposing “Banjo” Paterson was born
at Yass (N.S.W.). He was born at
Narambla, a mile or so from Orange on
February 17, 1864. He was only there
for a very short time after his birth, and
later lived on Illalong Creek Station,
Binalong, and at Buckinbah. Several of
the Paterson children were born at Buck-
inbah.
By all means erect a memorial to a
fine Australian bard, but don’t encourage
Yass in a false impression,—J. L.
(N.S.W.).
“T. 1.”
I take it that “Colbun” (B. 22/8/’45)
when he mentioned the hasty evacuation
from Thursday Island referred to the
removal of women and children. He
gives the impression that this evacuation
was the result of arbitrary action by the
authorities. This was far from being the
case.
The authorities evinced no con-
cern for the safety of the residents, and
these, alarmed at the inadequacy of de-
fence and the rapid approach of the
Japanese,, framed a resolution at a public
meeting asking State and Federal Gov-
ernments to make provision for the re-
moval of women and children should
this become necessary. This was tele-
graphed, through Army channels, to the
Prime Minister, the State Premier and
the Minister for the Army.
After a fortnight, during which the
danger grew much more imminent,
Prime Minister replied stating that “the
provision requested was being arranged,”
or some such words to that effect. The
citizens, incensed at the delay and what
appeared to be an evasive reply, then
telegraphed the Prime Minister request-
ing that something be done immediately.
The response was prompt and disconcert-
ing. It was to the effect that s.s. Ormis-
ton would arrive in three days’ time for
the compulsory evacuation of women,
children, aged and incapacitated adults.
As most of the menfolk remained, there
should have been ample time to pack
clothing and valuables and arrange for
the later dispatch of furniture. Freight
charges, however, were so high that
many of the residents could not have
afforded the cost of removing. But
every evacuee seems to have been
allowed to take as many trunks as de-
sired, for the Army trucks spent two very
busy days carrying cabin trunks and
camphor-wood carved boxes to the jetty.
—M. O. P. (Q.).
Appreciation
Please accept my grateful thanks for
the notice you inserted in The Bulletin
with regard to my son, Ivor Parker. Also,
I must thank you for sending my letter
on to Mr. Price, who has done every-
thing possible to help me. I assure you
both my wife and myself are very grate-
ful for your kindness. —W. H. Parker,
Lord Mayor of Cardiff (Wales).


w
/
FDR P ACE
T’ODAY Victory has been achieved. In
1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
W ATURALLY, we are still fulfilling service demands. The race has been run and
* won.
B
UT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
swung into the race against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
V ARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
* reaching plans made for the widest presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
.r"
.M
K
m
-s&c-i"- ' : ~c
YARRA FALK*
Renowned for tie excellence of its Worsted
Manufactures, att made from Australian virgin wool. |
ABBOTSFORD- VICTORIA* AUSTRALIA-
