

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
«fhe Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3417
Wednesday, August 8, 1945
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE WHITE DRAWING-ROOM AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE.
'T'HE white drawing-room at Buckingham Palace turns out of the
Picture Gallery, and is one of the i;ooms by which visitors
may take their leave after they have been presented in the Throne
Room. The word “drawing-room” was originally “withdrawing-
room,” and was applied to the apartment between the Privy
Chamber, and the State Bedroom —the meaning of the word -has
been totally reversed ; instead of being an apartment of greater
retirement than even the Privy Chamber, the drawing-room became
the Chamber of Presence. After the death of the Prince Consort
Queen Victoria’s Drawing-rooms were held in Buckingham Palace
—St. James’s, was large enough for the receptions of Queen Anne
or the Georges, when the Court was small or split up by political
quarrels, and before the privilege of presentation had become
extended. From Queen Victoria’s time, this description of Court
etiquette is of interest: “When a debutante has found some lady
to present her, the names of both must be written on three^cards:
one is sent with a letter stating at which Drawing-room the ladies
will appear, another is given to the page in the corridor of the
palace, and the third is kept until the debutante reaches the Lord
Chamberlain, who stands next to the Queen and reads out the
names. The lady presented makes a low curtsey, raises the Queen's
hand on the palm of hers, and gently kisses it. If possible, she
also curtseys to the Royal Princes and Princesses who may be
present, standing next to the Queen. The uniforms, the Court
dresses and lofty plumes of the ladies give a peculiar magnificance
to the scene. A page immediately gathers up the train and throws
it over the lady’s arm, and she retires into the Picture Gallery,
whence she can pass into the White Drawing-room on her way out.”


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146 AQB,
The Red Page
South of My Days.
South of my days’ circle, part of my
blood’s country,
rises the tableland, high delicate outline
of bony slopes wincing under the winter,
low trees, blue-leaved and olive, out-
cropping granite —
clean, lean, hungry country. The creek
leaf-silenced,
willow-choked; the slope a tangle of
medlar and crab-apple,
branched under and over, bearded with
a green lichen,
and the old cottage lurching in for
shelter.
Oh cold the blackfrost night. The walls
draw in to the fire
and the old roof cracks its joints, the slung
kettle
hisses a leak on the fire. Hardly to be
believed that summer
will turn up some time again in a wave
of rambler roses,
thrust its hot face in here, give us another
yarn;
another story he can spin into a blanket
against the winter.
Seventy years of stories he clutches round
his bones.
Seventy years of summers hive in him like
old honey.
“Droving that year, Charleville to the
Hunter,
nineteen-one it was and the drought
beginning—
left sixty head in the Mclntyre, the mud
round them
hardened like iron; and the yellow boy
died
in the sulky ahead with the gear, but the
horse went on;
stopped at the Sandy Camp and waited
in the evening.
It was the flies we seen first, swarming
like bees.
Came to the Hunter, three hundred head
of a thousand .
cruel to keep them alive; and the river
was dust.
“Mustering up the Bo gongs in the
autumn
when the blizzards came early. Brought
them down; we brought them
down, what aren’t there still. Driving for
Cobb’s on the run *
up from Tamworth. Thunderbolt at the
Hungry Hill;
and I gave him a wink. 7 wouldn’t wait
long, Fred,
not if I was you: the troopers are just
behind,
coming for that job at the Hillgrove.’ He
went like a loony,
him and his big black horse.”
Oh they slide and they vanish,
as he shuffles the years like a pack of
conjuror’s cards.
True or not, it’s all the same; and the
frost on the roof
cracks like a whip, and the back-log
breaks into ash.
Wake, old man. This is winter and the
yarns are ended.
No one is listening.
South of my days’ circle
I know it dark agaihst the stars, the high
lean country
full of old stories that still go walking in
my sleep.
Queensland.
Judith Wright.
Past and Present
As about the oldest inhabitant of The
Bulletin, it gives me a good deal of
gratification to endorse the Red Page’s
summing yp (B. 18/6/’45) of The Bulle-
tin’s service to Australian culture.
I am not going to qualify the statement
that I have missed no work of quality
in prose or verse that this country has
produced in all the years I have been
associated with The Bulletin, and the
bulk of the best work has always been
brought out by this journal. Call Over
all notable names now being stabilised
in this country’s culture, and you will
find this to be the simple truth.
As to the quality of the present Bulle-
tin, it can be assessed by a simple com-
parison of the average worth-while con-
tributions today and in the past. If, for
instance, Victor Daley be taken to repre-
sent the past standard, then Judith
Wright’s poem “The Hawthorn Hedge” in
the issue of 25/6./’45 —a lyric any literary
magazine in the world would be proud
to publish—is of higher quality. Nor
would I hesitate to say that Brian James’s
“Gant and His Horses” (B. 31 /1 / ’45) is.
as well written —indeed, better in style—
and a good deal more profound than the
best of Henry Lawson’s stories.
And that die quality of the paper all
round is of a higher standard than ever
it reached in the past is apparent and
inevitable, because the old Bulletins
were written for, and very often by, an
unsophisticated people, whereas today it
has a very much higher intellectual stand-
ard to cater for.
The grouch that Australian literature
today, as represented in The Bulletin, is
somehow inferior to that of the
unsophisticated period—expressed by a
few minor malcontents, old or young,
usually in the ephemeral pages of a daily
newsrag—-is based on a universal fallacy.
Papers, like individual writers and artists,
have* to support the illusion of all dying
generations: that the world of today is
a poor affair compared to the world of
their youth—a simple transference of the
fact that they are poorer human beings
in maturity than they were when young
and vigorous, and had the power of re-
sponse which a failing mental and physi-
cal stamina no longer permits. The
mental energy of the average man
reaches its height at the age of 30, and
then rapidly decreases and all perception
of values decreases with it. He has ac-
quired a fixed standard, which has noth-
ing to do with values, but represents his
highest point of response to mental
stimuli.
The really remarkable thing about The
Bulletin is that, as its output has im-
proved, its outlook has steadily clarified.
It is this stable standard in cultural values
that really matters, especially in a world
that has surrendered to intellectual
anarchy.
There is plenty of good spasmodic criti-
cism in English papers, but that has never
been centralised in one paper, as in The
Bulletin. Mencken stabilised values in
America while *he was functioning, but
today that country lacks a final court
of appeal in such matters. A. G. Stephens
achieved a very high standard in the
criticism of prose and verse; that standard
has been maintained in The Bulletin
ever since, and is today as high as ever.
For myself, I find it a very satisfactory
evidence that The Bulletin is function-
ing as the central stimulus to the Aus-
tralian culture that certain attacks are
made on it by the disgruntled underworld
of daily journalism. Indeed, the way the
daily press has suddenly been stung into
attacking and depreciating all works of
established quality in Australian art pre-
sents a very fascinating psychological
problem. It is a last-ditch defence of
mediocrity against the rise of our culture.
You may be sure that if The Bulletin
was not a very potent force in Australia
it would not be attacked. And if you
want to estimate finally just how evident
it is that The Bulletin centralises culture
values in this country, take it away and
see what you have left.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
The Derbyshire Tiger.
la any of Osbert Sitwell’s writings one
has to make allowances for the author’s
caprices. There is, for instance, his
strange admiration of Picasso.
Since he took to prose Osbert Sitwell
has made himself one of the leading
stylists of the day—perhaps the foremost
—and, unlike James Joyce’s, his writing
is anything but surrealist. By comparison
with that of his brother Sacheverell, who
specialises in-decoration and prettiness of
cadence and imagery—almost prose-
poetry —Osbert’s style is severe. Rich by
ordinary standards, it is nevertheless emi-
nently straight forward and solid ; and
indeed Sitwell has won a certain renown
as an exponent not of surrealist tricks
and evasions, but of the long sentence last
notably employed by Scott. Of all con-
temporary prose-writers he would appear
the least likely to go into raptures over
Picasso.
That caprice is probably allied to
another, his most notorious: an equally
excessive admiration for the poetry of
Edith Sitwell, Sacheverell Sitwell and
Osbert Sitwell. Not that the three have
had nothing to say; they have made a
pleasing decoration on the margin of con-
temporary poetry ; but all three (unless
Edith is the exception) have done their
soundest work in prose.
In his autobiography Left Hand, Right
Hand ! (Macmillan ; Angus and Robert-
son)—the exclamation mark after the title
is another typical caprice—Osbert Sitwell
tells an anecdote of his ancestor Sir Sit-
well Sitwell hunting a tiger that had
escaped from a menagerie in Sheffield;
On hearing of its jaunt, and that it had
killed a child, Sir Sitwell “generously went
in person, with a few of his domestics, and
with much trouble, as well as exposing him-
self to imminent danger,” subdued and
killed the animal with his pack of hounds,
as it flashed its cruel tropical streaks
through the cool mountain foliage of the
Eckington Woods; those hanging woods and
deep valleys that once were part of Sher-
wood Forest, full as they always are at that
season of bracken and rowanberries, ming-
ling their gold and scarlet, and of pheasant's
hurtling through the golden and misty air.
And the author himself is rather like that
tiger: not really, in spite of its “cruel
tropical streaks,” a genuine monarch of
the jungle ; but something out of a men-
agerie, half-tamed ; more a curiosity than
a phenomenon.
But, as the extract shows, there is
lovely prose in Left Hand, Right Hand !;
and, as the extract also shows, Osbert
Sitwell knows the sort of anecdotes that
are worth telling in an autobiography.
Caprice makes only one serious interrup-
tion in the present volume ; and that —
an inordinately long account of how
Sargent painted a family group of the
Sitwells, in which the author laboriously
and unconvincingly tries to prove to him-
self that Sargent was an inferior artist—
is not without interest.
That chapter is one of the few occa-
sions in which Left Hand, Right Hand!
enters the world of the arts —as distinct
from the world of the Sitwells. In the
introduction there are glimpses of Yeats
and Shaw:
Though Shelley and Shakspeare have long
been dust, we have all of us been given the
chance of passing in our own streets Yeats,
than whom no human being could look
more noble, with his sweeping grey-white
mane, that appeared to be almost blue,
and his fine and enrapt features, or of
seeing the octogenarian Bernard Shaw
striding down Piccadilly in all the vigor
and sparkle of his unending youth
and later on there is quoted from Augus-
tus Hare’s reminiscences a story of Tenny-
son, on being taken to see a ballet and
finding the ladies of the chorus not over-
burdened with clothes, “rushing at once
out of the box in an agony over the
degradation of the nineteenth century” ;
there is a tribute to the clown Dan Leno;
and there is a delightful glimpse of Arthur
Waley; but otherwise the volume does
not move away from the Sitwell estate of
Renishaw.
Chiefly it is a portrait—and an exquisite
one —of the author’s father; a country
gentleman with a marvellous passion for
landscape gardening, who does not seem
to belong to this age but to the Regency
times Edith Sitwell once wrote memor-
ably about in The English Eccentrics.
Since it brings in the father, and is typical
of the style and material of the whole
volume, the Waley incident may be
quoted in full:
Our dear friend Arthur Waley was stay-
ing with us at Renishaw, and my father
very much admired his translations of
Chinese poetry. My father’s manners are
later in period than himself —about’ the
time of Charles 11, but with a touch, too,
of the Meredithian baronet, Sir Willoughby
Patterne or Sir Austin Feverel, clinging to
them; or again they might belong to the
eighteenth century, as seen through the pale
amber spectacles of one of his favorite
artists, once so famous and now so greatly
neglected, Orchardson. But, formal, ex-
quisite and elaborate though they are, they
could scarcely be more, beautiful than
Arthur Waley’s.
Upon a Sunday morning, then, my father
was walking round the lake which he had
caused to be created, regretting that he
had not moved the old river-bed further
back, and thinking out possible fantasies in
stone, torrents to fall through the hanging
woods above, pavilions upon islands and
decorative effects generally (a few years
before he had determined to have all the
white cows in the park stencilled with a
blue Chinese pattern, but the animals were
so obdurate and perverse as in the end to
oblige him to abandon the scheme). The
lake is shaped like a hour-glass or a figure-
of-eight, and a bridge spans its waist. On
this bridge my father met Arthur Waley
advancing towards him. Each took his hat
off ceremoniously and said to the other,
“How much I wish we were going in the
same direction!” and passed on. Half an
hour later they met again at the same
place, having pursued their contrary courses
as though they were planet's whose goings
and comings are immutably fixed by the
sun, and repeated the salutation.
Osbert Sitwell says (and how attractive
it is to hear!) that his book is not in-
tended to improve the reader’s mind but
to “beguile” it. But he has also the pur-
pose of recording the life and manners
of his period ; and, beyond that, the lives
and manners of past times from which
the present evolved. That —and its inci-
dental entertainment, which is first-class
—is his justification for opening the story
of his life with 80 pages about his dis-
tinguished ancestors, ranging back to “the
immortal figures of the Macbeths.” If
the impression is conveyed that the Mac-
beths, instead of having existed to pro-
vide Shakspeare with a plot for a play,
were born on to this earth to become
ancestors to Osbert Sitwell, one allows
the caprice. Whether he writes about
past times or our own, Sitwell is never
without wit, grace, and that delight in
life’s oddities —the tiger in Derbyshire—
that always makes pleasant reading.
Left Hand, Right Hand! is the first of
a proposed series of three volumes of
autobiography; an impressive introduc-
tion to a work that will probably improve
—at least in topical interest —as it pro-
ceeds.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Borovansky Australian Ballet
closed its account with Melbourne at
His Majesty’s Theatre after one of the
most successful seasons, home-grown or
imported, this playhouse has seen in its
history. “L’amour Ridicule,” chore-
ography and simple story by Borovansky,
music by Albeniz and costumes by the
Borovansky studio, was «ne of the clos-
ing numbers—-light stuff, admirably in-
terpreted by Dbrothy Stevenson, Tamara
Tchinarova, Alfred Ross (a tiptop
comedian) and others. Although the
Australiansky ballet hasn’t departed
much from tradition and needs someone
to inject a bit of local color, its success
augurs well for the future of Australian
opera. An operatic entrepreneur wouldn’t
have to start from scratch in the realm
of singing as Borovansky had to do in
dancing.
Noel Mewton-Wood, who made his
debut at the Melbourne University Con-
servatorium at seven and as the conductor
of his own compositions at the Town Hall
at 14, has now appeared as a fully-fledged
virtuoso, with metaphorical laurel
wreaths from Thomas Beecham and
others about him, at the same Town Hall.
In the colossal Brahms No. 1 Concerto
in B minor, with its stern role for the
piano, he revealed a surprising capacity
to co-operate with his orchestral col-
leagues and conductor Bernard Heinze,
who seemed to be in a mood of more
than ordinary inspiration. The profes-
sor’s excitement almost wrecked the box
on which he was standing and made the
platform tremble, but it also found ex-
pression in a remarkable performance of
Moussorgsky’s weird and haunting “Pic-
tures at an Exhibition.” “Great Gates
of Kiev,” the gigantic climax, brought
the biggest burst of sound out of strings,
brasses and organ that the Town Hall
has heard since the days of Percy
Grainger.
At the talkies:
“A Tree Grows in Brooklyn” (Sydney Cen-
tury): Capable screen translation of the Betty
Smith best-seller. James Dunn as the warm-
hearted father of the slum family, ever dream-
ing of the better times in store for them but
too morally weak to do anything about hasten-
ing that desired day, makes a very human
character. Dorothy McGuire’s reading of the
wife stresses disillusion.
“Keep Your Powder Dry” (Sydney St.
James): The powder, of course, being the facial
decoration sort. A story of three service girls,
making lightweight entertainment with the
accent on the felinity of the fair sex, in uni-
form and out of it.
“Betrayal from the East” (Sydney Civic):
Counter-espionage stuff. Columnist Drew Pear-
son alleges in a prologue that the plot is true.
Consequently it may be set down as one of the
horrors of war that the middle-aged hero
spends his time staring mushily at his fellow-
agent in skirts, while she dramatically declaims
poesy.
Wherefore art thou, Romeo?:-
The first night of “Romeo and Juliet” at
Sydney Independent was remarkable for the
stage management, and the acting of Ivor
Bromley-Smith.
When the nurse visited Friar Lawrence’s cell
she paused for a moment before knocking.
Anticipating her, a thunderous knocking came
from the wings. Startled, she stayed her hand,
and when she did knock, the echo perversely
ceased. And so on. There were other things.
The curtain was always down for a long, long,
time and once it impatiently dropped of its own
accord. Scenery was shifted with gusto, to
the accompaniment of loud conversations con-
cerning hammers and other mechanical matters,
and during the scenes there was much ado
about lights. And on one occasion Capulet and
his lady could be plainly seen hanging around
in the wings, waiting for their cue.
If these things were bad enough to wreck the
show, Ivor Bromley-Smith’s interpretation of
Mercutio was almost good enough to redeem
it. He played the part with vigor, humor and
tremendous vitality. His bantering of the
nurse was excellent, and in the passage with
Tybalt he actually flushes with anger. The duel
was spirited and the death scene can only be
described as splendid.
Paul Phillips, as Tybalt, was competent, and
Verity Marina looked like Juliet, and had a
pleasant voice, but at times ’she seemed to be
reciting poetry rather than acting it. The rest
of the cast fell below the standard of these two
and far below the standard set by Bromley-
Smith. The feuding fathers appeared to be
simple, kindly old men and Bruce Beeby was
an exceedingly anaemic Romeo. He handled
the rapier like a confirmed pacifist and slew
Tybalt with a nervous dab in that gentleman’s
general direction which looked about as lethal
as a disapproving letter. And he gave the
general impression that he was a laggard in
love.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
Hcual (Dho^h
(\Cll*V£S
NA5«t COWCrJtIOK
H«Y I*CVC«
COUP IN tHS HEBO
AN O COTAEIRH
i&k
J. N. 1B»«t
fdortpAfro-mcai-
ANTHONY HORPCRHS*
f*i rPCiS**'. 1
*VD»>M£V
: ■: J
*>ce
'S?
ro«
nOHS
CO
as
nW® e
/OP
roU>>
&V»
\*
YVt
»
****
** g*j£*
~**
Iff T«
Chemistry—Ground Floor.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
■HI
J
r=r
PALACE"
- ..,. ■'
OZ£/
Hr
*Nf
*R
•SEp
Q Ek
r/ c
°ol
W/
c 'o
tOn
P OQ
°H,
•*j£
r*H
mm
rs
mm
mm
■w.
A*** , .**>
«.■»»
Ofi
. /i
eucalyptus
disinfectant
Specially prepared for os«
Ro ooo f Hospitals, Reste*'*™* *
Nd General Ho«s«How «***
Us « One Part of FluTd to 30 Pti
of Water.
o 1 - •**
* 5 CUAN AND REr*ESHT NG
iA%
•*/•* A »Y**“
HORDERN £ SONS U&
BRICKf, ELD Hltti STON**-
***». ~ •*♦» ' r oit
"HALIBORANGE." Manu-
factured by Allen and
Hanbury, London. It is a
palatable tissue building
food tonic. It builds up
and fortifies the whole
human structure .... 5/6
"PALASOL," an outstanding
germicide and antiseptic, spe-
cially prepared by our chemists.
Combats infection, allays skin
irritations, is invaluable for
wounds, scratches, etc., and
prevents blood poisoning.
Prices 1/3 and 2/-
"CLEONOL." The perfect
cleanser for all household pur-
poses, washing and cleaning
all kinds of fabrics, underwear,
suits, gloves, carpets, etc., 1/-
FAMOUS
! HR
M
Ail hckjhwdu’
** AN*
K m tWWIWMk *
Ti»t mrnm
tu& mm
■ mitfti uiiwflM**
I 9** S? *M>V».T*fS.
LOW PRICES
«***
•A**-*.
< **’ M> ****<»»
tmm*
»n> ««£
"PALACE" NASAL DROPS
with Ephedrine relieve nascd.
congestion, hay fever, cold in
the head and catarrh. Prepared
to our formula. Price ~ 1/11
"OWBRIDGE'S" LUNG TONIC,
for colds, coughs, bronchitis.
Prepared by W. T. Owbridge
Ltd., of Great Britain, 1/9, 4/6
"MYELADOL." A preparation that
contains "Super D" Cod Liver Oil,
extract Red Beef marrow, Iron and
Ammonium Citrates with Malt Ex-
tract. Highly recommended for creat-
ing energy, 2/9, 5/6, 7/11, 14/11
"PALACE" EUCALYPTUS
DISINFECTANT —for the
sick room and general
household use. It's clean
an d refreshing l/_
p HONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


99
STORAGE EQUIPMENT
is commissioned at Air Bases
m
g uni
IBSBIp*
iii
mm
i
.
■
iiili
ill
11
,
HM
RH
■
BH
*p |
* **
U
jpPl|P
f :>'
i-m
’ \- ■-■■
i
M
msi
:
’
■
r -
fjjtt *%
S
■ - :" : -■;
m
:
ill\ B'\-?% T i W •■-’Ssr Sail $■
V
■
; :
M
HggpEH
I
1
■
m
■■: .-■
■n
c
v""
;*
' „, '
■
11
B-i:
m
i:
i '■■
: ■ .
■
1 -
H
nn
Isi
«30
<u r
* y '
m?-
■
. :i-J
: esk
mm
r
5
I
SR
■
,-., ;
MSI
■
■
:
|||||L y $ ;■■■
■i :: ; -=J 1%
■
mm
v
iMM
i
i
E
.
»
i i
V •■'
■
iSi
’Wherever Australian War planes are
based, "Steelbilt” equipment is on active
service. "Steelbilt” lockers equip Air-
men’s quarters; repair hangars are fitted out
with "Steelbilt” Bins and Shelving; Opera-
tional flight records are protected by
"Steelbilt” Filing Cabinets. "Steelbilt” is
serving every arm of Australia’s fighting
services. Naturally, that means no more
"'Steelbilt” for civilian use until after the
war. But while we are working top speed
on Defence needs, we are also getting valu-
able manufacturing experience . . . de-
veloping new design features that will
mean big improvements on all "Steelbilt”
equipment when Victory is won.
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS for doors weighing
100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer.
bangor door hangers having been called up for the duration, will
not now be available.
storage.itfimmr
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL’ STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3417
Wednesday, August 8,194 S
DESIGN FOR A “SYMPATHETIC” HIGH COURT.
(Chief Justice, Hon. E. J. Ward. Justices: Hon. E. J. Ward, Hon. E. J. Ward, Hon. E. J. Ward, Hon. E. J. Ward and Hon E. J. Ward. Associates:
E. J. Ward and E. J. Ward.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
„ Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Berth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings { opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
FUTURE DEFENCE.
Those Allied countries that went into
this war of their own free will —Australia
and New Zealand among them —did so
promptly enough, but dourly, in the spirit
of accepting a job that had to be done,
with, in 1939, none of the carefree out-
look and enthusiasm of 1914, except per-
haps among volunteers young enough to
be carefree and enthusiastic. The job was
not overestimated. All along it has been
the tough and grim business expected. It is
not yet over, but the strongest enemy has
been crushed ; victory is certain; and the
pattern for the peace ahead can be seen.
The most striking thing about the new
peace pattern is its resemblance in spirit
to the war from which it emerges, as the
previous peace resembled its war. Then,
as when that war started, feelings ran
high. Except for those already beginning
to plan for another war, enthusiasm for
the peace and confidence in its lasting
abounded. If there is any similar confi-
dence today, for all the decisions of San
Francisco and meetings of leaders of the
three Great Powers, it is very hard to
detect. Instead, as with the war, the
general feeling appears dour.
If this is not merely scepticism it
should be all to the good. As with the
war, it could be the sign of determina-
tion to face up to a tough, necessary job,
and see it through. Either way—whether
the general spirit is one of mocking scep-
ticism or sound commonsense —it should
mean that this time there will be no gay
throwing away of all arms at the bidding
of clowns or cranks or good men with
Brave New World obsessions.
Today, concurrently with the peace de-
signing for the world at large, there would
appear to be more determination than
there was last time on ensuring the
security of individual countries. The pre-
vailing outlook in the U.S.A. is that,
whatever arrangements are made for the
world, that country must remain strong,
not only in the world’s interest but in its
own. Signposts to this are the current
debate on the continuance of compul-
sory military training after the war and
the proposals to secure and maintain dis-
tant naval and air bases. Russia, which
has taken its own steps to extend its de-
fensive land frontiers, is reported also
intent on becoming a naval Power. The
whole structure of the peace is based on
Britain as well as these other two of the
big nations remaining strong.
Of the three, Britain alone is in the
peculiar position of being the heart of
an Empire the rest of which must also
be strong if there is to be strength at all.
No doubt this will be greatly influenced,
as the war effort has been, by Britain’s
own example. This will probably be
sound enough ; but irrespective of what
it is, there are the strongest possible
reasons why Australia and New Zealand
will have to attend to ensuring their own
security ; and sundry proposals for this,
both from the point of view of their
being now a joint Pacific Power and of
their place in the whole Empire scheme
of strength, have already been furthered.
One of the latest is also, in a sense,
one of the most ominous. Speaking in
London, the chairman of the Rolls-Royce
Company, Mr. Eric Smith, averred that
the Dominions had “a right to expect
prompt assistance from Britain immedi-
ately they were threatened.” Therefore
he proposed a special air-borne army, to
to be rushed to wherever required. Sound
enough, no doubt, assuming the possi-
bility of war against any Dominion with-
out Britain itself also being attacked, a
reed that has been leant on before. Mr.
Smith went on to say:
With the development of specialised trans-
ports of a load-carrying capacity many
times greater than anything now existing,
and the provision of military equipment de-
signed to reduce weight to a minimum, it is
feasible that in the future the transport of
whole armies by air will be completed in
one-twentieth the time required to trans-
port them by sea.
The point in this for countries placed
as Australia and New Zealand are is as
obvious as it is ominous—that if it is
feasible for Britain to help defend them
in that way it is also feasible for them
to be attacked by the same method, and
J>y countries considerably closer than
Britain; all the more so if and when the
grand new plans for organising and in-
dustrialising entire Asia are realised.
Some time back the London “Times”
military writer envisaged “an Australian
contingent in peace assisting in the de-
fence of Singapore, just as an Australian
division gallantly, though unavailingly,
attempted to save it in war”; and he was
not referring to “a token force.” With
other such Empire co-operation, the writer
hoped that “the burden of Imperial de-
fence may be lightened” for Britain,
which, he suggested, would then be able
to get along with a professional army of
not more than six or seven divisions, the
bulk of it stationed in the Middle East,
India and thereabouts. He did not, how-
ever, suggest that this force would be
sufficient for Britain’s own home security.
For this he advocated the maintenance
of compulsory national service.
Proposals put forward for Australia’s
home defence in particular have included
the R.S.L.’s advocacy of a standing army
of 100,000, to be composed, for a start,
of members of the present fighting forces.
As these would apparently be volunteers,
the R.S.L. notion of the liking of Diggers
for soldiering evidently runs very high,
and seems to be contrary* to experience.
The R.S.L., however, always has advo-
cated compulsory national service, and
would probably agree that with this estab-
lished the standing army could be con-
siderably smaller than that proposed.
Apart from the R.S.L., others, while
apparently going along with the general
present trend towards ensuring future
national security, have been as dumb as
holed drums on the practical side of doing
so. Even Dr. Evatt, though one of the
very few in his Government to have ad-
mitted that military as well as air and
naval forces will be necessary to carry
through the advanced policy he has advo-
cated for Australia in the Pacific, has not
committed himself by one word on how
those forces are to be provided. Nobody
seems to like getting down to that. The
Australian Institute of International
Affairs postulated in a recent brochure:
The defence of Australia in the post-war
world will involve problems, partly local
and partly regional, far transcending those
faced in the past Decisive defeat of
Japan is a reasonable expectation, but per-
manent disarmament of Japan is far from
assured. There is little historical precedent
to justify the belief that' a nation which has
achieved a military organisation as rigid as
that of modern Japan can ba.cast down by
a single major defeat. If history is any
guide the Japanese will attempt to repeat
their tour de force; and we can count on
an interval of no more than a few decades
before this may be expected.
All the more so, it may be added, if
some of the more recent utterances about
the Pacific war- indicate wavering ; and,
with an eye to the distant future, it might
also be added; Why Japan only?
Assuming that “there will always be
a definite danger of invasion in the early
stages of any war,” the A.1.1.A. writer
proceeded: ■ —
Time is thus the essence of the matter,
and the problem of local defence is to
provide adequate covering forces to permit
the mobilisation of sufficient strength in
Australia to make a surprise attack imprac-
ticable. Provided that there are enough
covering troops available, and that their
training and equipment are properly con-
sidered, then the mobilisation of man-power
and industry can give Australia an armed
force of considerable size, adequately muni-
tioned, and within a reasonable time.
He touched on other aspects of the loom-
ing problem—“steps to assist the opera-
tion of the U.S. Fleet in these waters,”
or, alternatively, acceptance of “responsi-
bility for the defence of bases” with “ade-
quate garrisons” ; the necessity of mod-
ernising rail communications, increasing
population and decentralising industry—
but left untouched the basic problem of
how it is all to be done.
There seems promise enough that a
reasonably strong air defence will be
established here, and there may also be
attention to some of the naval require-
ments. There is no indication up to now
of any practical scheme for putting the
country’s ground defences on an estab-
lished basis. Yet if, as the Institute
of International Affairs grimly expects,
war in due course must come again, the
one thing it now seems most rash to
count on is that it would allow even the
inadequate time for training that the
present war and the previous one luckily
allowed. The Australian national charac-
ter being what it is in respect to peace-
time soldiering, the one sound course
would seem to be compulsory national
training and service.
"Down with Franco"!
“ The World Trade-Union Congress in London
decided that every remnant of fascism had to
be rooted out wherever it existed.”— Thornton,
the communist representative of the A.C.T.U.,
since refused admission to the U.S.A.
And, as if the French hadn’t troubles
enough at home snd abroad, their Foreign
Affairs Committee asked or ordered
the De Gaulle Government “to pro-
mote a joint Allied demarche to bring
about the resignation of Franco.”
This request or ultimatum, repeated
at the end of the Potsdam meet-
ings, was presented when the shoot-
ing had started in Syria. The pre-
text was that Franco had defied all
the Allies by giving sanctuary to
Laval, now a prisoner in France. The
objects were and are to give the com-
munists Marthy and Thorez and their
crowd r-revenge for their failure in the
civil war and to add Spain to the string
of communist conquests which have
already taken in a great part of Europe
—whether they will last is another matter.
\ It is impossible for any English-speak-
ing democrat to champion Franco, but,
in Britain especially, there is a consider-
able body of people who hold that if
the Spaniards choose to put up with him
or to expel him it is entirely their own
affair. And that goes for all the
Latin-American dictators, one of whom,
the Brazilian Vargas, was welcomed into
the anti-Axis alliance and has recently
been host to our Mr. McKell. This atti-
tude was expressed by Lord Phillimore,
chairman of the Friends of Spain, in a
letter to the London “Times,” the argu-
ment being that “one of the great prin-
ciples for which we are fighting is the
freedom of a country to choose its own
Government,” and also:
The choice before us lies between non-
intervention in the affairs of a friendly
country and the anarchy which would
follow any attempt to upset Franco.
Use of the terms “freedom” and
“friendly” was hotly questioned; but
his Lordship stuck to them. Another
“Times” correspondent, P. Fleetwood-
Hesketh, maintained that Franco’s Spain,
“by remaining out of the war, made
possible our successful against
the Axis in the Mediterranean.” He
allowed that Franco’s Spain had acted
in its own interests, going on to liken its
policy to that of the Russians between
September, 1939, and June, 1941. Mr.
Churchill himself testified that when ships
and ’planes were assembling for the great
Anglo-American expedition to North-west
Africa and Franco had it in his power to
be very nasty, his conduct vyas correct. A
German general has since declared that
the High Command was not only kept in
ignorance of what was going on in
Gibraltar, but the landings in North-west
Africa came as a stunning surprise to it
—the worst of the war. And it was said
at the Petain trial that Franco had told
the marshal he would order armed resist-
ance to any German attempt to march
through Spain to Gibraltar.
Franco’s deadly sin in the eyes of
communists is that he beat them at their
own game. By all their rules only Reds
may start civil wars, and with “people’s
armies” they are bound to win.
Franco started a White civil war, accept-
ing aid from two nasty foreign quarters
(a fat lot the foreign meddlers on either
side got out of it!), and after consider-
able slaughter and destruction by both
sets of combatants, though nothing
approaching what some of Hitler’s vic-
tims suffered, he prevailed. He has been
in power ever since. An attempt to over-
throw him by force of arms was made a
few months ago. Little was heard of it
at the time, presumably because it was a
Red fiasco, but a “Daily Express” man
who hates Franco and, as he records,
has been refused admission to Spain, has
told the story:
The pro-Spanish Maquis on the French
side tried to rush the frontier, thinking,
quite wrongly, that Spain was to be in-
cluded in the general liberation. Not much
was heard of the battle at the time, but it
was a very bloody affray indeed, and the
rebels were pushed back across the border.
And there the survivors remain, still
hoping; for “two armies face Franco—
the anti-fascists inside Spain and in
France the exiles of the International
Brigade”; and, there is always the
thought, the dream, of Allied interven-
tion. But the “Daily Express” man
“warns,” somewhat sadly, that Franco
“has mustered some 300,000 men upon the
Pyrenees,” and that “anyone expecting
imminent revolution in Spain had better
think again.” And, by the irony of
events, the easy communist successes
in other countries will quite conceivably
have the effect of prolonging Franco’s
regime until he chooses to retire in favor
of a royalist regime, as he says he is
going to do —in a stark way a humorous
development, but communists have no
sense of humor.
For, though the triumvirs at Potsdam
declared that they wouldn’t let Franco’s
Spain become one of the United Nations,
Britain, its non-intervention policy
justified by events and its foreign
trade and trade routes, to which new
threats are looming up, requiring protec-
tion, is not going to turn Franco out so
that a Spanish Tito may storm in, even if
the gentleman who gave his name to “the
Major Attlee battalion” is now P.M.
Neither is the U.S.A., alarmed at the
rapid extension of communism, with its
“liquidations” and its agrarian “reforms”
and other examples of mass robbery, and
concerned always for its relations with
the Spanish-American countries. And
without their support or connivance it
would be—er—difficult for Soviet Russia
or France or both to send a military ex-
pedition or even to give “the anti-fascists
inside Spain and the exiles of the Inter-
national Brigade” a sufficient amount of
backing.
WhyalLa.
It sits on its stony little hill above the
placid waters of Spencer’s Gulf and
doesn’t worry about post-war planners,
reconstruction experts or anybody else,
being sure of its own destiny and restless
from growing pains. East and south-east
lie the Gulf waters. South and west and
north are the saltbush and gibbers—much
the same today as they were in the pre-
Cambrian age whence sprung the hema-
tite deposits of Iron Knob and Iron
Monarch, the hills of red rock 30-odd
miles to the west from which Whyalla
draws the iron ore.
In the old days the ore went round the
head of the Gulf and down to Pirie smelters
by bullock-wagon. Later a narrow-gauge
railway ran it to Whyalla jetty and boats
took it across the Gulf. That railway is
the only one the 8000 people in Whyalla
have, their connection with the outside
world being by boat, by motor-coach to
Port Augusta or by ’plane to
Whyalla people don’t mind their isola-
tion. Houses are cheap. So are light and
power and water, the water coming from
the distant Murray through a pipe-line.
If the Knob and the Monarch are the
reasons for Whyalla’s existence the pipe-
line enables it to exist. It brings in a great,
fresh stream daily, and by it the furnaces,
the power plant, the workshops and the
shipyards and the people live. Their
rainfall is 8 inches a year —when it rains
—and their model dairy, with its lucerne
and pastures and sprays, their modern
hospital and technical high school, their
pubs and shops and homes couldn’t carry
on without the pipe-line.
Whyalla is a planned town. Unlike
most Australian towns it has no district.
There are no villages or farms or cross-
roads or wayside garages or halls around
it only the saltbush and the gibbers and
the myall, with an eagle or two and a
lizard sunning itself on the stones, and
literally millions of galahs. The pink-
breasted birds have discovered the dairy
and its grass-seeds and its water, and they
settle in clouds when the late-aftemoon
sun paints the distant Flinders Range
with the terracotta and blues and blacks
of distance. Crows sit on the back-
yard fences or float, dark and . aloof,
across the town’s clock and look with
their cold, red eyes on the wide, clean,
treeless streets—each one broken where it
meets a cross-street so that dust can’t blow
more than 200 yards along a Whyalla
street —and hoarsely cry aloud their
wonder at this young city in the saltbush.
A young city it is. The more enthusi-
astic residents declare that it will be an-
other and better Newcastle within a
generation. More stable residents grin at
that with a slow, confident sort of grin
that leaves the visitor wondering whether
they think the forecast too big or too
small. The same visitor would be a dumb
ox indeed who couldn’t feel the air of
permanency and growth all around him.
It’s the high note all along the water-
front, where the shops and ships are being
built. It’s the steady pulse of Whyalla
South, over the hill, where the homes and
streets -and shops are being built to a
plan that puts the housewife within reach
of a business centre two or three minutes
away on either hand, and where the
Murray water is causing lawns and mari-
* golds and trees to spring from earth tijat
hadn’t been used for a million years.
And the small birds are coming in.
From heaven knows where they’re com-
ing in to find homes and chirrup and
chatter in the new young trees, a source
of wonder to the young Whyallians
who’ve seen nothing but crows and galahs
and the harsh-voiced gulls curving in
from the flat Gulf waters. Those same
youngsters must have soles as hard as
those of the nungas, since their roads and
yards and playing fields are even as
the hobs of Hades ; but soon they’ll run
on grass and roll in it and know how it
smells after rain. And, since the saltbush
country responds to water and yields
wonderful fruits, they’ll know what
oranges are like in the dawn and grapes
fresh with light dew.
Back of it all is “The Comp’ny. Un-
ruffled by the soapbox railing which has
been its portion since it established the
Newcastle steelworks, and faint echoes of
which reach the scene of its latest, and in
some respects greatest, achievement, “The
Comp’ny” watches Whyalla’s welfare with
a firm and kindly eye. The days of tents
and “swy” schools are over. Men work
hard and intelligently and save their
money. “The Comp’ny” gave them
work and homes and water and light
and : streets; it gave them medical
care and facilities for education and
recreation. It planned and built their
young city, and it will plan and build for
their future. If any man questions the
worth of private enterprise with vision
and energy, let him visit Whyalla and
there look, listen, ponder and learn.
C. H. S.


PLAIN ENGLISH
This "Big" Business.
When only seven members of the new
British Government had been sworn in
silly newspapers began referring to Mr.
Attlee, Mr. Bevin and Mr. Morrison as
the Big Three. Big Three, Big Four—away
with these stupid and invidious expres-
sions on which a curse seems to rest!
The first Big Four were Wilson, Clem-
enceau, Lloyd George and Orlando. They
were so described when they were labor-
ing on the Treaty of Versailles, which,
after many interruptions from the Japa-
nese, Italians and French, was signed on
June 28, 1919. On the fruits of their
labors it is not necessary to dwell.
But within three months the first
entry had been made in the cata-
logue of ill-starred events. On Sep-
tember 26 the President had to give
up a tour of the U.S.A. seeking
support for the treaty and the League
and return to Washington, where “he
suffered a complete nervous collapse.” On
November 13 the Senate refused to ratify
the treaty without reservations, and on
March 19, 1920, the instrument failed of
the necessary three-fifths majority. A
helpless witness of this wrecking of all
his hopes and of the rout of his party at
the 1920 Presidential and Congressional
elections, Wilson lingered on till February
3, 1924, when he died in his sleep.,
In that fell year 1919 Clemenceau was
refused the Presidency, on which he had
set his heart, and Orlando had to resign
as Premier. The first month of 1920 saw
the Clemenceau Government fall. In later
years Orlando fawned on Mussolini,
accepting membership as deputy on
Musso’s nomination. He finally resigned
in 1925, and for 20 years he remained in
obscurity, bobbing up recently, nearly
forgotten and quite without influence as
well as position.
Only Lloyd George escaped the 1919
hoodoo or whatever it was. He lasted
as P.M. till December, 1922, when the
Conservatives gave him his marching
orders because he had nearly involved
Britain in another war with the Turks.
He never had another taste of office.
In 1943 Mr. Curtin, Mr. Beasley, Mr.
Chifley and Dr. Evatt were styled the Big
Four in Australia. Everyone knows what
happened to Mr. Curtin, but it is not so
poignantly remembered that Mr. Beasley
had a breakdown and had to be relieved
of his duties as Minister of Supply and
Shipping. While the idiotic term was
being applied to these gentlemen the Big
Three met at Tehran: President Roose-
velt, Prime Minister Churchill and Mar-
shal Stalin; and again at Yalta. Five
months after the Yalta meetings the Pre-
sident was dead, and Mr. Churchill
(though he did not know it then) had been
dismissed by the electors, the first vic-
torious war P.M. to be so treated, losing
29 of his Ministers. So in the last week
of the Potsdam discussions another Presi-
dent and another P.M. were in the Big
Three.
From the old stamping ground of the
Prussian kings and kaisers the new trium-
virs issued a 6000-word dispatch which,
as before, has been hailed as settling
everything. As it reads, and, without
general goodwill, plus statesmanship on
the part of the Foreign Ministers, to
whom much of the burden of pacifying
Europe has been assigned, it can settle
nothing. It is beyond the power of any
three elderly gentlemen, however eminent,
to decide the destinies of Europe. Parti-
tion is a word of evil omen in that part
of the world, and two of the elderly
gentlemen, yielding to the third and for-
getting all about the Atlantic Charter,
have given their sanction to two parti-
tions—the partition of Poland by Russia
and the partition of east Germany by
Russia and Russia-controlled Poland.
Meanwhile let it be hoped that they,
if they meet again, and the Foreign
Ministers, when they meet, and Mr.
Attlee, Mr. Bevin and Mr. Morrison will
be spared the impertinences of and the
expectations raised by newspaper and
radio blah-merchants whose label for
their favorites of the moment, Big Three
and Big Four, has so sinister a history.
Threat and Humbug.
Written by a member of the Anti-
Packers’ Union:
I The Labor election victory in Britain, where
mere is a vast majority of female voters who
were tried too high by the bombing, the Spartan
food regimen and the long absence of their men-
folk, is much less relevant to what is likely to
happen in Australian constituencies than the
rout of Labor’s counterpart at the Ontario and
Canadian polls. Canadian conditions resemble
Australian conditions —for one thing, the sexes
are almost equally divided —except that the
Canadian Government has no unsolved food-
production and housing problems and manages
its financial affairs infinitely better than the
gentlemen at Canberra have done.
However, Australian Labor politicians choose
to believe that the British vote will be repeated
in this country, and at Canberra and elsewhere,
with one eye on Fremantle, they broke out into
a series of victory demonstrations. In Sydney
Mr. Ward was the principal performer, hold-
ing forth on his favorite Domain soapbox. In his
exultation he turned, not for the first time, to
the High Court, which recently annoyed him
by declaring that a Perth magistrate was right
in ruling that an order made under the Ward
inter-State transport regulations violated Con-
stitution Section 92. The case was one in which
a girl was charged with having travelled inter-
state to see her fiance, an R.A.N. rating. No
such charge has ever been brought against the
scores of sturdy fellows who travel inter-State
on the business of pugilism, Mr. Ward’s special
recreation, and who have never been required
to fight the Japs in Australian territory.
As reported by “S. M. Herald,” the darling of
the mob said “We can add to the High Court;
we can put' men there who are more sympa-
thetic to the people. We should not hesitate to
see that the will of the people is not thwarted
by those who are not sympathetically minded
towards them. No outside authority or group
of men should be able to challenge the right of
Parliament to do the work the people want
them to do.” And the “Daily Telegraph” re-
port, though condensed, was to the same effect.
Two days later Mr. Chifley was tackled in
the House on his lieutenant’s outbreak. “The
matter.” the P.M. said, “has not had the con-
siderafion of the Government” (any really re-
sponsible Government would have taken it up
at once), but “Mr. Ward has informed me that
the report in the paper was not in accordance
with the remarks he made. I know that he is
given to very strong language at times, and I
think that they exaggerated even that.” To
this the “Herald” replied “We have our re-
porter’s shorthand notes and are satisfied with
the accuracy of his report',” and the “Daily
Telegraph” also insisted that its account was
correct.
Mr. Chifley made some “remarks” on his own
account, saying “I do not deny that I have not
been entirely happy about the High Court.
I am not speaking of any decisions or ques-
tions of impartiality, and 1 do not want to cast
reflections, but there has been great difficulty in
the Court visiting other States. At least a
couple of members of the Bench are of very
advanced years.” So are some of the members
of Mr. Chifiey’s Administration, but their age
is not considered a bar to their being employed.
Actually only one High Court Justice is older
than Senator Collings, who is being permitted
to earn a Ministerial salary as Vice-President
of the Executive Council with nothing to do
except mumble a few formulas and look digni-
fied. Other High Court Justices are younger
than Senator Cameron, the Postmaster-General,
Senator Ashley, the Minister of Supply and
Shipping, and Mr. Holloway, the Minister of
Labor and National Service, and as well or
better able to travel if required. But it is
common knowledge at the Bar that during the
war years the High Court has had very little
to do. It carried on with five members of the
Bench during Justice Dixon’s period of office
at Washington, upwards of two years, and has
performed all its duties without' over-exertion
then and since. Incidentally, five members of
the Court, by majority verdict, varied an order
made by Justice Dixon in a libel case in which
a Minister, Mr. Calwell, is plaintiff; and that
in Sydney three days after Mr. Chifley said
“I have not been entirely happy about the High
Court.”
The age of High Court Justices never worried
the Scullin Government, of which Mr. Chifley
was a member. That Government appointed
Isaac Isaacs Chief Justice when he was 75.
Deciding to make him Governor-General, it
named as his successor as C.J. the second Gavan
Duffy, who was 78. Both were puisne Judges
when the Scullins reached office in 1929. So,
going on Labor practice, the objection that
the High Court Bench is too old is all bunkum,
and the secondhand disclaimer of “the
remarks” advocating the packing of it should
convince only persons credible enough to enter-
tain propositions for trafficking in park sun-
dials and town-hall clocks.
The fact is that Mr. Ward’s “remarks” have
a bearing on the attempted “nationalisation” of
inter-State airlines, the constitutionality of which
is to be challenged, as was known very well
when the bill was introduced. The clumsiness
of their ill-conditioned author has not obscured
their sinister significance.
The Coming Famine.
In a review issued by the N. S. Wales
Department of Agriculture, H. J. Hynes,
chief of the Division of Marketing and
Agricultural Economics, points out that
in the ensuing year Europe will need
about 32,000,000 tons of food from
abroad to supplement its own production.
Normal peace-time food imports to
Europe—never enough to keep all Europe
well fed —were about 6,000,000 tons a
year. -
Mr. Hynes adds that there is now a
world-wide shortage of meat, dairy pro-
ducts, oils, fats, sugar and rice, a short-
age aggravated by war in the Pacific and
drought in the Southern Hemisphere.
Shipping and manpower difficulties and
the general readjustment of things in
the Empire and U.S.A. reduce Europe’s
hopes of getting food from abroad.
About all ■ that can be done by the
Empire and America is to relieve the
groups most in need. That, however, is
more likely to aggravate rather than
reduce the menace in the background—
the menace described by W. Bankes
Amery, leader of the British Food
Mission:
Many countries today, including Britain,
are hungry. Many other countries in
Europe are literally starving World pro-
duction, is insufficient. Yat hunger is the
most potent cause of revolution; and revo-
lution has a habit of spreading far outside
the areas in which it arises.
There is enough evidence coming out
of Europe to convince anybody that order
is being kept there more by good luck
than good management. The summer is
nearly over, and when the hungry mil-
lions come to the autumn and the bitter
winter, violence of some sort or another
is inevitable. To well-fed, warm, lucky
Australians this may seem a sad but
distant picture, but, as Mr. Amery says,
“revolution has a habit of spreading,” and
there are people in this country awaiting
eagerly just such a chance. The best way
to keep violence away is to remove incen-
tives to it wherever they be.
Australia should be making increased
food production fof the hungry world
its most important job after the war, but
at Canberra the Parliament has been ad-
journed after putting through the banking
and aircraft bilfs and scampering through
the rest of the business paper. During
the session the food position was rarely
mentioned except by Opposition mem-
bers, notably Dr. Page, who really knows
something about it. And the Prime
Minister seriously announced (at least his
manner appeared to be serious) that the
members have a sickness called “legisla-
tive weariness.” Labor members have a
sickness, all right, but it would be better
diagnosed as foolish complacency.
* Macquarie's Guardhouse.
J. H, M. Abbott writes in anger:
Sydney’s utter disregard for the relics of early
Australia still existing within its boundaries is
an old and discreditable story. The latest con-
templated bit of vandalism is the threat to the
hexagonal guardhouse which Macquarie built
on the north side of Botany Bay as a check to
smuggling through the big shallow inlet where
James Cook and Joseph Banks had come in
H.M.S. Endeavour.
Fifty years ago David Christie Murray said
of the people who then inhabited the city on the
shores of Port Jackson that they sat on 30-
guinea chairs to look at 30-shilling oleographs.
The proposal to remove the ancient building
that was probably designed by Francis Howard
(Continued on page 8 .)
[J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann, David Ajjams and
Malcolm Ellis, of 252 George-street, Sydney,
sign for any matter with a bearing on the Fre-
mantle by-election.]
HOUSIE-HOUSIE A LA LAZZARINI.
(All Prizes paid in Promises and Plans.)


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Househouhjrs and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
—mm f mma
vm
m
f* ■' -—S Ms
Weight (approx.) 2
u-H
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS' MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
m
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.LTDj
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence St.,
ole Ilistrib. Agrehts: lor N.S.W.. .iivuia, nauen ee co. riy.
Sydney; Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market St.. Melbourne.
_____ Stockists; Goodall & Co. Pty, Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens'
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
~ £6,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.X.A.,
General Manager.
Greenway makes one think that they are still
running true to form.
The destruction of the picturesque Commis-
sariat Stores on the west side of Sydney Cqve,
as a pretext for “urgent improvements” required
by an ambitious department and never put in hand,
was a typical example of the way Sydney treats
its historic landmarks. So the latest proposal
is only what might be expected from a people
who would most likely look on unmoved while
a film theatre dedicated to Sinatra and the
Andrews Sisters was erected on the site of St.
James’s Church or a public-house built inside
the walls of Fort Phillip. Admittedly there is a
certain dreadful consistency in the Sydney
attitude. Materialism has got it by the wool.
While Sunday football for “gates” and betting
rages, by permission of the “Labor” Govern-
ment, use of the Town Hall for high-class music
has been refused by a combination of “Re-
form” and “Labor” aldermen.
Still, Sydney has had so much done for its
historical taste by people like David Scott
Mitchell and William Dixon that it is more than
difficult to understand how it can put up with
such a piece of beastliness as the contemplated
pulling down of the old guardhouse at La
Perouse. If Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart or Perth had the building it would be
much more likely to enclose it in glass than
destroy it.
POLITICAL POINTS
There was no opposition in Parliament
to the granting of £5OO a year to Mrs.'
Curtin. When the same amount was
voted to Mrs. Lyons a grudging spirit was
shown on the Labor benches and a nasty
sneering voice was heard (no prize is
offered for guessing the owner). This
time the only recorded objections came
from servicemen’s wives and widows who
protested that the party wasn’t practising
the equalitarianism it preaches.
British Labor’s programme for the next
twelvemonth or thereabouts, in order of
“priorities” (Associated Press):
(1) Defeat of Japan. (2) Housing drive.
'3) Speeding up demobilisation to make
manpower available for reconstruction. (4)
Building up production for home as well
as overseas markets. (5) Social insurance
and nationalisation of key industries.
Why, it is almost a perfect copy of Aus-
tralian Labor’s programme. If the like-
ness goes any further, God help Britain!
One of six candidates:
Though Labor professes to be overflowing
with confidence about the result of the Fre-
mantle by-election it is on two scores
—the housing muddle, which has placed the
Labor candidate on the defensive (he talked of
little else in his first platform speech), and the
appearance of T. J. Hughes among the six
candidates. Knowing Hughes as a shrewd and
pertinacious fellow, Labor ruefully admits that
he wouldn’t have come out if he hadn’t been
satisfied that (1) stormy weather is working up
for Labor; (2) he is sure of polling a substan-
tial vote, some of which will be drawn from
the dissatisfied Labor element; (3) he may get in
on preferences. Hughes was a Labor member
himself for years; he ousted J. J. Simons when
the Trades Hall had picked a quarrel with
Simons, mistrusting his ability. Retiring for a
couple of terms to study and qualify for the
Bar, Hughes came back to challenge J. J.
Kenneally’s hold on East Perth. Though Ken-
neally was a Cabinet Minister, Hughes de-
feated him sensationally, and became the
Assembly watchdog, a useful article to have
about any House. He has made good as a
lawyer and is no mean hand at figures.
When Westralians were sharply divided
into Gropers and T’othersiders the
early Premiers, Forrest, Throssell, Leake
and James, were all native-born. The
old feeling soon died down, and in the
last 40 years the only native-born Pre-
miers have been Moore, Lefroy and
Mitchell. Morgan, Rason and Wilson
came from Britain, Daglish and Collier
from Victoria, Scaddan from S.A. and
Willcock from N. S. Wales. Wise, who
has succeeded Willcock, was born and
educated in Queensland, where he mar-
ried. Gatton College claims him as a
student, and his knowledge of agricul-
ture has helped him since he went into
politics, the West nowadays being as
keen on farming as it used to be on
goldmining.
McGirr, the N.S.W. Minister for No-
Housing, after prolonged and careful
examination of the shortage, discovered
yet another solution: “Wealthy residents
of Darling Point should vacate their
homes and live in the homes they own
at Palm Beach and Cronulla.” Well,
there’s a big “home” in Macquarie-street
that is empty most of the year and full
of useless noise the rest of it, which could
be partitioned off to accommodate la
few hundred homeless people. A silly
notion perhaps, but not as silly as
McGirr’s.
McKell’s deputy Baddeley, urging the
Blacktown people to vote Labor at the
by-election, told them “the work of the
Housing Commission” had been “re-
organised by the Minister,” who has
appointed also “an expert in prefab-
rication” —and mind the “pre-.” “Han-
sard” and the Statute Book show that
Baddeley’s crowd was far more interested
in racing than in housing till the housing
situation began to endanger votes.
According to “S. M. Herald’s” London
office, 33 Labor members elected last month
are newspapermen ; and very few could
have come from Labor papers. Know-
ing, no doubt, that newspapermen, with
rare exceptions, are failures in public life,
Attlee left the whole 33 out of his Admin-
istration, choosing “a miner with no jour-
nalistic experience” for Minister of In-
formation ; so the yelping characteristic
of contemporary political journalism is
beginning at his expense. Menzies is well
acquainted with the ways of writing boys
and newspaper proprietaries to which
political principle means little and circu-
lation nearly everything. He expressed
his feelings in a complaint as just as it
was witty: “In Parliamentary reporting
as we know it nowadays you don’t get
what Smith, the member, said ; you get
what Jones, the young reporter, thinks of
what Smith said and of Smith.”
“Strict Veg.” is amused;
I read with amusement that the Federal Gov-
ernment had become alive to the fact that the
Simplification of Meals order was being abused
and intended to review it. The S. of M. was
abused from the beginning. I haven’t yet met a
person with the necessary cash and interest in
food who couldn’t get his usual skinful, but
the average citizen paid through the neck for
the Austerity business. Cafes which used to be
“Though I’m not Mr, Chifley I think 1 can speak for Australia. Thank you,
Mr. Churchill.”
satisfied with two or three shillings promptly
asked the full maximum prices of four and five
shillings. Austerity consisted of steadily re-
ducing the size of dishes, so that nowadays in
Melbourne in some places it requires a micro-
scope to identify your vittles. Perhaps Ministers
dine at piecarts. *
According to Sydney “Sunday Sun’s”
Canberra man:
The House’s two distinguished flying
members, young Flying-Officer Maxie Fal-
stein (Lab., Watson) and veteran Wing-
Commander Tom White (Lib., Balaclava),
had a passage-at-arms on the Airlines Bill
This illustrates once again the absurdity
of the censorship. Here’s Maxie gone
and got himself distinguished and nobody
knows how he did it. •
From “ ‘Daily Telegraph’ Service and
A.A.P.” (London) to Sydney “D.T.”:
“The Spanish Dictator (General Franco)
today banned the reference to Spain in
the Potsdam declaration of the Big
Three.” From A.A.P. (Madrid) to “S. M.
Herald,” same day: “The Spanish press
published the Potsdam decision con-
cerning Spain without comment.” lust
as wey. these foreign correspondents don’t
do the racing results.
The last week of July, so cruel to
Churchill, was terrible for his little friend
Amery, who visited Australia between the
wars, the last time as Dominions Secre-
tary. M.P. for Sparkbrook, Birmingham,
since 1911, and Secretary for India and
Burma since the middle of 1940, Amery
had one of the worst defeats of the elec-
tion, and, being nearly 72, he is too old
to come back. And running with Ran-
dolph Churchill for Preston, which-
returns two members, Amery’s son Julian
went down with his partner. Meanwhile,
Amery’s other son John was in the Bow-
street dock, about to be committed for
trial on a charge of high treason. And
no doubt it was whispered in all the elec-
torates that John Amery had been kept
out of the way until the electors went to
the polls, and that if his father’s party
won he would not be indicted.
De Valera, following the course of
events in Australia —as no doubt he
does, if only for the reason that repre-
sentatives of his race, among them his
acquaintance Scullin, are in the ascen-
dant at Canberra —could be pardoned
for imagining at times that Australia is
Eire’s other island. Beyond question, he
would thoroughly approve of the Gov-
ernment’s banning of the book Forever
Amber, of its sour refusal of a vote of
thanks to Churchill (it sent exuberant
congratulations to Attlee), and of its ob-
jections to Mrs. Tenison Woods and the
U.N.R.R.A. and Y.M.C.A. girls going
abroad. And the Federal Labor attitude
to the war did not greatly differ from
his own till circumstances, inoperative
in his case, forced a change. The one
striking point of difference is that De
Valera has never coquetted with com-
munists. Federal Labor extended favors
to communists immediately it arrived in
office, and accepted their alliance at the
powers referendum.
On De Valera’s list of engagements is
(or was) a pilgrimage to Lough Derg,
Donegal, as “a personal thanksgiving for
Eire’s preservation from the war.” Said
“preservation” appealed ,so little to a
great many Eire lads that they crossed the
Irish Sea and joined the British services.
Returned R.A.A.F. mep came across many
and found them good fighters and good
fellows, like Kelliher, V.C., the Kerry
boy who joined the A.I.F. in Queensland.
A large proportion of these gallant spirits
will strike trouble if they return to Eire.
If the Government at Canberra were
really keen on immigration and capable
of prompt action it would invite them
to Australia, and the “unreconstructed”
Polish servicemen in the British forces as
well. They would be sure of a welcome
and support from their old companions.
Scotland once the Liberal stronghold,
finally dissociated itself from Gladstone’s
old party by rejecting Sir Archibald Sin-
clair, Air Minister for five years and M.P.
for Caithness and Sutherland since 1922.
He figured in the closest of all the con'
tests, finishing 61 votes behind the winner,
a Conservative, who beat the Labor man
by six votes. Had the party which ruled
Britain for so many years held out for
proportional representation or preferential
voting it could have got one or the other,
and with the 2,300,000 votes it polled it
might now have 60 or more Members
instead of 11. Humphreys, the old P.R.
man, who never fails to point the moral
in letters to the papers when first-past-
the-post shows freakish results —and his
survey takes in every part of the world
where a Parliament exists —will have
plenty to write about in the next few
weeks.
How many Australians other than
Sixth Division veterans (now returning,
the Government having been baited into
relieving them with marvellous celerity—
for the Government) know what hap-
pened in the skies over Ceylon in April,
1942? Drew Middleton tells the story in
the New York “Times,” drawing on
material furnished by Eisenhower, that <
great general and great gentleman:
When Allied fortunes were at a low eb’b,
there being grave doubts as to whether the
Red Army could weather another summer
of sledgehammer blows, while the British
situation in the Middle East was almost as
precarious, the Japanese thrust across the
Indian Ocean was turned back at Ceylon.
There British fighter ’planes destroyed ’BO
bon\b - ers, and the Japanese carrier force
was withdrawn to the east. At Ceylon the
orbits of German and Japanese power came
close to touching near the Middle East, a
key region, and General Eisenhower regards
this British victory as one of the turning
points of the war.
From Ceylon the Japs, if victorious, could
have turned to the Westralian coast,
drawing an army of invasion from Timor.


Gr
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSANAL ITEMS
If knight Thomas Buckland blew out
the candles on August 1 he must have
got hold of a mighty pair of bellows.
There’d have been 97 of them on the
cake! The latest Australian Who’s Who
lists the G.0.M., who was president of
the of N.S.W. from 1922 to 1937,
as “still director of several companies ;
director of Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd.,
since 1900, chairman since 1906,” and
“the oldest knight whose name appears
in this edition.”
Wilfred Kelsham Fullagar, K.C., who
fills the lack on the Victorian Supreme
Court Bench caused mainly by a rush
of divorce cases, is Melbourne-born and
was educated it Haileybury College, and
Ormond, University of Melbourne. After
serving with the Field Artillery in the
last war he commenced practice in 1922,
became lecturer in law at his Alma Mater
and one of the country’s leading consti-
tutional lawyers. The Victorian Gov-
ernment’s adviser on the Federal referen-
dum, he has business interests: chairman
of directors Equity Trustees, Executors
and Agency and a director of the “Argus”
and “Australasian.”
Queensland fighting families:
Toowoomba (Q.) can claim two notable fight-
ing families, the Doneleys and the Sullivans.
Born there, the Doneleys were before the war in
different parts of the State. Lieut. A. R.
Doneley, of Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, was
recently killed in action in the Wewak area,
New Guinea. Mentioned in dispatches for
bravery in the Middle East and awarded the
M.C. in the fighting up North, he had almost
five years’ active service and won his commis-
sion in the field. He was the third of the
family to be killed in action in this War. Only
a month before him Sergeant Austin Doneley
was killed at Aitape, while Paul, youngest of a
family of eight, survived the sinking of H.M.A.S.
Perth only to die a prisoner-of-war in Thailand.
Another brother was recently discharged from the
. army for health reasons. The eldest of them,
Lieut. George Doneley, is with the A.I.F. in
New Britain, and a sister is a W.A.A.F. sergeant.
Some of Lieut. A. R. Doneley’s exploits in
the M.E. are recorded in Denis Warner’s
Written in Sand. Both sides of the Doneley
family were among Queensland’s pioneers and
one branch is closely connected with the
Tysons. Bernie Doneley, former Queensland
R.U. representative, and one of the best goal-
kickers Australia has produced, is a cousin of
these fighting Doneley boys.
A film has been made of America’s fighting
Sullivans and the name has been given to a
warship. Toowoomba’s are the five sons of Mr.
and Mrs. J. Sullivan. All are in the army.
Lieut. J. R. Sullivan has five years’ service,
as has Lieut. E. G. Sullivan, who was captured
in Malaya. Pte F. J. Sullivan, also with five
years’ service, was captured in the M.E. in 1941,
and reached Queensland recently. Sgt. S. J.
Sullivan has served for four years and has
twice been mentioned in dispatches. Pte. V. F.
Sullivan, with two years’ service, is now actively
engaged in New Guinea. The five brothers,
were educated at the Christian Brothers’ Col-
lege, Toowoomba.
Blowing into The Bulletin office like
a salty breeze, John De Kay, Australian
globe-trotter and freelance journalist, who
has crammed a lot of experience into his
30 years. In 1936 he covered the Spanish
war as a freelance for Fleet-street news-
papers. Back in Australia in 1940, he
was rejected by the Army, Navy and Air
Force because of eyesight trouble, but
joined the Merchant Navy. A merchant-
man he shipped in was sunk in the Pacific
ia 1941 by a German raider flying the
Jap flag, and Kay spent the next four
years interned at Marlag Nord, near Bre-
men, until rescued by the Irish Guards.
A stray bomb killed 80 of his fellow-
prisoners just prior to his release. He
now intends writing a book on his experi-
ences garnered from all corners of the
world,
Andrew Small, succeeding John Mc-
Leay as chief of S.A. Caledonians, came
hither frae Dundee in 1909. Since then
he’s been wi’ the Collingwood Caledonian
Society and Sunshine Scottish Society
and councillor of Royal Caledonian of
Melbourne, and was their representative
at the world’s champion pipe-band con-
test at Dunoon and other Highland
gatherings in 1924. Port Lincoln (S.A.)
Caledonian Society made him life
member.
Director of M.L, Geological Survey
since 1928, an outstanding mining
authority. Dr. John Henderson, has re-
tired. His successor is Montague Ongley,
who at Otago Uni. won the senior
scholarship in geology and the Ulrich
Memorial Medal in mineralogy and
petrology. Geological Survey’s chief
geologist, Ongley’s specialties are oil and
water supplies.
Here on his fourth visit, conductor Dr.
Malcolm Sargent holds that the war has
helped rather than hindered music in
England. He himself has conducted con-
certs there at the extraordinary rate of
up to a dozen a week, and in such un-
usual places as music-halls, cinemas and
hotels. Shortly before he left for Aus-
tralia this time he gave at the Albert
Hall one of the concerts he has latterly
DR. MALCOLM SARGENT.
got into the way of giving early in everty
English summer —concerts dedicated to
children and devoted to the children’s
hospital of the Battersea Central Mis-
sion. A musical ambassador to neutral
countries during the war, Dr. Sargent has
been twice to Sweden and once each to
Spain and Portugal. He made the inter-
esting statement in Sydney that when he
was in Spain he had found German con-
ductors were then no longer welcome
there. He has been greatly taken with
the development of orchestral playing in
Australia, and reckons that this country
should run to Qve first-class symphony
orchestras.
A displaced bishop:
Among those waiting to get back to Thurs-
day Island when things are straightened up is
Bishop of Carpentaria Stephen Harris Davies,
who had to make temporary headquarters at
Townsville when Thursday Island was evacuated.
Formerly a Bush Brother in outback Queens-
land, where he will be remembered driving a
“unicorn” team, the Bishop has occupied his see
for 23 years. In a diocese of 650,000 square
miles, which takes in a large slice of Northern
Queensland, the whole of the Northern Terri-
tory and a few hundred islands, he has plenty
of elbowroom and any amount of racial variety,
and numbers several colored clergy on his staff
as well as European. His cathedral, the Quetta
Memorial of All Souls’, used to be a place
much visited by tourists, and contained an inter-
esting collection of ship-gear from Torres Strait
wrecks. Although away from his base, the Bishop
(now about the ’sixties) had been doing a lot
of trekking by sea and air as well as land.
Many of his island “boys” have rendered fine
service in the forces during the present scrap,
and some have served overseas.
Queensland’s Department of Native
Affairs is to lose, by retirement, one of its
oldest and best-known officers, Herbert
C. Colledge, one-time manager of Warren
State Farm. In 1920 he transferred to
Native Affairs as superintendent of the
Taroom Aboriginal Mission, and since
1930 has been superintendent at Woora-
binda.
“Jurumudi”: Old . Singapore hands
were amazed to hear that Sir Frank
Swettenham, who lately had to announce
in the “Times” that a report of his death
was a bit premature, is still alive and
kicking at 95. Governor of Singapore at
the beginning of the century, he belonged
to the Raffles tradition of colonial ad-
ministrators. A cultured man with un-
usually wide interests, he had a deep
admiration for the Malays, understood
their language like a native and made
them known to the outside world in a
series of books and stories. Nevertheless,
it was during his administration that the
influx of Chinese from the east and
Indian coolies from the west reduced the
indigenous Malays to the status of a
picturesque minority in their own country.
Ordinary seaman to chaplain:
Before the war the Rev. W. G. Morgan,
R.N.V.R., had a parish in and around the
village of Laugharne, Wales. Laugharne is a
fishing village, and Rev. Morgan was himself
interested in fishing. When war broke out he
swapped over to a deadlier type of fishing, on
a mine-sweeper in the North Sea. Later he
served on H.M.S. Revenge during the bombard-
ment of Cherbourg. Now he is chaplain and
welfare officer on a British escort carrier in
the Pacific. Chaplain Morgan enlisted as an
ordinary seaman, nearly all his shipmates being
long-service men. The most important part of
his education, he thinks, was the time he spent
on the lower deck and his discovery of what
he describes as “natural courtesy and good
manners,” only to be found, he believes, in a
purely professional body such as the R.N. in
those days. Whether a man had been a doctor
of philosophy or a costermonger in civilian life
was quite irrelevant and excited no curiosity :
he was judged simply on two counts: his
competence at his job and his quality as a
shipmate. A Cambridge M.A., Chaplain
Morgan spends a lot of time teaching maths.
There is a great interest aboard his ship in edu-
cational work, some of which comes outside
the scope of the Service Educational Scheme.
Nowadays, he says, when men in the service are
largely a cross section of society, it is easy
enough to find tutors on practically any subject.
No doubt for services rendered the
nation as a member of the R.A.A.F. Re-
search Committee, a K.B. was lately
added to the lettering that adready went
with the name of Sidney Valentine
Sewell, M.D., B.Sc., F.R.C.P. (Lond.),
F.R.C.A.P. In addition to attending an
extensive Melbourne practice, with occa-
sional knowledge-seeking trips abroad,
and in between times specialising in
breeding stud stock, Dr Sewell has been
president of the Royal College of Physi-
cians and Aus. Assoc, of Physicians, and
has for 30 years acted as hon. physician
to Royal Melbourne Hospital, as well as
being Stewart lecturer in medicine. Now
65, a native of Ballarat, he runs to a
DR. S. V. SEWELL.
family of eight, the two sons in the ser-
vices since the outbreak, and one of the
six daughters noted as a daring horse-
woman.
One of the younger generation of
pilots who have added to the Australian
flying reputation, Group-Captain Brian
Eaton, D. 5.0., D.F.C., commanded a
Kittyhawk squadron during the Desert
campaign, and on three occasions man-
aged to walk home after landing
behind the Italian lines. His spirit is
fully indicated by his refusal to stop
flying when he had a broken hand. Cased
in plaster right up the forearm, he had
the cockpit modified so he could keep in
the fight. He’s 27.
There’s another noted flying Caldwell
—Group-Captain K. L. of that ilk, Maori-
land’s new air chief at headquarters ip
London. An old-time flyer who saw ser-
vice in the last war and has kept up his
association with the service ever since,
he developed wings on hundreds of
youngsters who have madi M.L.’s flying
force famous. He holds the C.8.E., M.C.
and D.F..C.
Squadron-Leader Graham Andrew, of
S.A., released from the R.A.A.F. to take
a post as medical officer with Unrra in
Europe, was for two years in command
of a medical rehabilitation unit in S.A.
—the first organised by the R.A.A.F. in
Australia. Now 31, he gained his M. 8.,
B.S. at Adelaide Uni in 1941.
“Judy T.”: One Papuan pioneer not
bluffed out of the Territory by the Com-
monwealth’s civilian evacuation order of
February, 1942, was Henry Thomas Cog-
hill, who, at 63, died of pneumonia at
Port Moresby a few months back.
When Jap invasion threatened he went
inland, living on the country with the aid
of his rifle, and, as things settled,
drifted back to the beach, where the
Army supplied him with rations. Bom
■in Gunning (N.S.W.), he was once well-
known as cyclist and sprinter. He went
to Port Moresby in 1910, and thence to
mining on Woodlark Island: Then back
to Moresby, where he and his wife started
a guest-house, and, finally, in 1924, to
Orokolo, where he took up a planting
area. His wife died in 1929, and his
daughter three years later. Thereafter
he lost interest in life, and spent most of
his lime wandering from place to place.
Dr. James Sykes Battye, who retires as
president of the Bank Officials’ Assoc, in
Westralia, is a Victorian who became
chief or the Perth Public Library back in
1894 and Chancellor of Perth Uni. about
nine years ago. Now 74, he’s editor of
the Encyclopedia of W.A. and author of
History of W.A. and History of the
North West.
Into the silence:
At Julia Creek (N.Q.), of pneumonia, at 48,
William Dysart Cameron Gilmore, only child of
Dame Mary Gilmore and the late William Alex-
ander Gilmore (both foundation members of the
New Australia Colony in Paraguay). The son
was educated at Casterton (Vic.), and old Fort-
streeF High School, Sydney. A grazier at
Oarindi near Cloncurry, he was born at Villa
Rica, in Paraguay. His epitaph was “The whole
district mourned him.” His wife and son sur-
vive him.
In Sydney, Dr. F. J. Bridges, for many years
a Bulletin contributor. One of the best of
good fellows, he carried a fine cheerfulness
above a long illness, and, though a sick man
at the time, went in to help the country when
the Japs were heading south. He practised early
at Kempsey, on the N.S.W. North Coast.
In Sydney, at 77, Richard Old, last of the
founders of the legal firm of Asher, Old and
Jones. Waverton, first suburban stop after
North Sydney on the North Shore line, was
named after his home. Two of his sons are
in the A.I.F.
F. A. Sisley, who recently passed on in Syd-
ney, was chief accountant of the ’Wales head
office and for many years managed that bank’s
branches in Western Queensland. A last-war
Digger, he lost a son, Alan, killed in an R.A.F.
operational flight over France. Another son,
after serving in New Guinea, is now a Diplo-
matic Corps cadet.
At Wellington (M.L.), Charles Winforten
Tringham, barrister and solicitor, and member
of the N.Z. Racing Conference executive. A
son, Charles lan, after three years overseas in
the Navy in the present war, is in business in
Australia.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 64, George Allen Lee,
consulting and marine engineer associated with
the building of many M.L. harbors as well as
selecting the site and designing the Mackay (Q.)
port.
In Hobart, at 110, Mrs. Mary Anne Crowe,
claimed to be the oldest woman in this part of
the world.
In Melbourne, at 53, Harry L. Fern, for many
years secretary of the Victorian Artists’ Society
and a consistent painter of pleasing landscapes
who was little heard of except' as an organiser
of exhibitions and a seller of other people’s
pajntings. In a recent show of his own work,
however, he had the unusual experience of sell-
ing almost every canvas. He was contemplating
his pictures on the last day of his show when
two men walked in, one of them a dealer from
Sydney, who promptly bought all the unsold
pictures, and the other an American soldier
who, after looking round the walls, asked Fern
if there were any that could be purchased.
When told they were all sold he said “That’s a
pity. I’d have bought the lot and sent them
to my home town.”
In Adelaide, Oscar Drummond, who, born
at Mt. Egerton (Vic.) and educated at Man-
chester (Eng.), was agent for Penfold’s Wines
in Queensland, and eventually in Adelaide for
a Clare (S.A.) winery. Two sons are in the
A.I.F.
In Manly, Sydney, at 78, Alfred Albert
Edward Ernest Vassa Reid, known in the N.S.W.
Assembly for many years as Alphabetical. He
was Manly’s mayor for three years, and before
that mayor of Penrith.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUOKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. T. C. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
A New Industry for Australia
That Australia might be stronger in War and greater in Peace,
the Commonwealth Government entrusted Pyrox with the
vital task of establishing the manufacture of DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPiMENT to highest world standards . . .
today Pyrox is proud to announce A GREAT NEW
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY, pioneered and built to serve the
Nation now and in the years to come.
‘PtftOX Diesel
FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT.
In Sydney; PYROX PTY. LTD.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 228), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
Public Notice.
Notice to Holders of Belgian Securities.
NOTICE is hereby given by the Consulate-General of
Belgium in Australia that, in compliance with a
Belgian Act of Parliament dated 6th October, 1944,
holders of Belgian bearer-bonds and banknotes of a
nominal value of 100 francs and over, held w,thin
the Commonwealth of Australia, are required to mass
a signed declaration and lodge them with the Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia or one of the trading
banks before September 30th, 1945.
This measure covers all bonds, stocks, debentures
or shares issued by a Government or any public
bodies in Belgium or the Belgian Congo, Belgian
limited companies, trustee companies, or companies
of the Belgian Congo and the National Committee oi
to declare any securities or banknotes will
render them invalid. ,
For further particulars apply to your local bans.
F. F. A. JANSEN,
Belgian Consul-General
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Danger Right Ahead
There is more than a tendency in Aus-
tralia at the present time to gamble our
economic future on a throw of the poli-
tical dice. A country which has lived
very well in the past is becoming resent-
ful, after listening for years to class-
conscious and basically untrue Labor
propaganda, of having to remedy political
and economic faults of its own making.
Where economic and industrial prob-
lems have arisen the common prac-
tice has been, under war-time Gov-
ernment control of nearly everything, to
avoid settlement of the real issue and to
compromise or pay some sort of extor-
tion for'the sake of continued produc-
tion, at the same time making a smoke-
screen by blackguarding a class or an
institution.
The growth in the war debt, with its
problem of post-war interest obliga-
tions, has not prompted economy in Gov-
ernment expenditure, and very little re-
spect seems to be offered to taxpayers
who are providing colossal sums, at a
very great sacrifice to themselves, to
finance both justified and unjustified Gov-
ernment spending.
These are but a few of the many cases
of our Government shying away from
its obvious duties of responsible govern-
ment. To those who believe that a nation
cannot continue to pay wages that are not
earned, that the national credit and cur-
rency must have a backing of solid assets
or useful production, that costs must be
lower than the value of production, and
that misdirected effort and waste of public
money leave an inescapable aftermath,
the present habit of giving way to un-
justified demands of pressure groups, of
stifling private enterprise because of pbli-
tical jealousy or expediency, and of
spending taxpayers’ money prodigally
on deserving and undeserving causes
alike, is one which cannot go on without
eventually bringing total economic break-
down. To those who are all for aban-
donment of tried methods of finance
and industrial control, for ignoring past
experience altogether, our growing diffi-
culties are regarded as a heaven-sent
opportunity for the introduction of social-
ism—an outlook as reckless as that of
the gambler with the dice-box in his hand.
Reckless Politics
Are we, under legislative and economic
action taken by the present Govern-
ment, to burn our bridges behind us
by disregarding production costs, by add-
ing recklessly to the debt burden, by
continuing taxation that disheartens the
skilful and willing and kills initiative, by
promising a Government dole for all —■
however small and unsatisfactory it may
turn out to be —in place of the rewards
that come according to each individual’s
efforts and enterprise, and by placing into
official, bureaucratic hands'all the rights
and initiative that were once possessed
by individuals? If we are to do that we
are to venture into a state of socialism,
to turn back from which we shall have
to build another bridge, and a painful,
socially devastating process the building
will be.
The way the Australian economy is
rolling on, with falling production, in-
creasing costs, growing debt, staggering
taxation and expanding inflationary
trends, one cannot help wondering
whether it is confidence or recklessness
which prompts the Government of the
day to venture into the ever-deeper waters
of financial and industrial uncertainty, as
indicated most pbintedly by its legisla-
tion to take over control of banking and
the airlines.
Disaster Inevitable Unless
It is firmly believed here that the revo-
lutionary economic and industrial poli-
cies cherished by the present Govern-
ment —sometimes they are more political
expediency than “policy’' of any kind
are purely aggravation to the very serious
wounds we have suffered economically
during the war, and that if we do not get
a clear realisation in our minds of the
value of economy, wise spending, mini-
mum taxation, thrift and investment,
utmost production per man that har-
monises with physical and mental health,
and public confidence in the industrial
and financial system, then we may see
conditions of unemployment and indus-
trial distress upon us long before the
“war lag” is made up.
Whatever legislative powers it pos-
sesses, whatever changes it makes in the
social and economic order, whatever
burdens it places upon the more enter-
prising and productive members of our
community, it will be impossible for the
present Government to maintain full and
satisfactory employment along the lines
it has publicised. It is unable to
do. so now, in spite of the tremendous
war-time powers it possesses and the
huge revenue it handles, in spite of the
special treatment our external finances
are receiving under Allied patronage, and
in spite of fixed contracts or strong de-
mand for all our primary products.
It is true that unemployment at the
present time is lower than it ever was
before the war, but that is treating all ser-
vicemen as being fully employed in an
economic sense. Our standard of living
has never been lower in this century ; that
is in a measure due to the war, but it also
ties up very closely with our condition
of so-called “full employment.”
Confidence and Prosperity
The basis of business activity and, con-
sequently, employment in peace-time is
confidence. Industrial confidence is seen
mostly in circumstances where the ex-
port trades are prosperous, seasons are
favorable, taxation is comparatively light.
money is free, interest rates are low, the
growth in the public debt is confined to
expenditure upon reproductive public
works for which there is a real need,
the people are saving as well as spending,
per-capita production is high and per-
capita costs low, and there are few
threats to the ownership of industry pro-
vided industry obeys the laws of the land
and listens to economic commonsense.
Continuance of confidence, apart from
external factors (affecting prices for our
wool and other exports), depends princi-
pally upon costs being kept .from rising,
upon production being directed towards
genuine public and export demand, upon
credit facilities being directed towards
productive ends and not overextended in
the way of “consumer credit,” and upon
stability of prices, interest rates and poli-
tical and industrial conditions.
When Confidence Goes
Prosperity may be summed up as a
high level of production distributed
widely and equitably throughout the com-
munity. This implies wide employment.
Loss of business and industrial confi-
dence occurs when costs (including
wages) rise unreasonably, production
falls, taxation is heavy, public moneys
are misspent or wasted, credit (whether
that of the Government or of private
banks and similar institutions) is over-
extended to the point of losing some of
its value, where Government interference
or trade-union obstructionism prevents
the establishment of a virile and highly-
productive private enterprise, and where
an economy generally inflated as to costs
and currency becomes vulnerable to fluc-
tuations in the export-price level.
It is only too true to record that in
Australia now we have many of the
factors which point to loss of industrial
confidence. We have rising costs, we
have monetary inflation, we have artifi-
cial interest rates, we have falling per-
capita production, we have industrial
anarchy, we have a private enterprise
deliberately thwarted by the Government,
and we have initiative taken from indus-
try and placed in the hands of Govern-
ment officials who are so disorganised,
distrustful of each other and, as a body,
slow-acting and inexperienced in matters
of business that industrial efficiency is in
danger of rapidly disintegrating.
Reform Politically or Fail Industrially
This fall in industrial efficiency, if it
continued into the peace, could deliver a
particularly hard blow to confidence and
prosperity in view of the fact that few of
Australia’s manufactures before the war
were competitive on an open-market
basis with the rest of the world, even if
the shining exception of B.H.P. steel and
certain other products indicated that our
disadvantages could be overcome in time
if tackled the right way.
The fundamental economic weak-
nesses of a country cannot be overcome
by a new political system, by a multitude
of Government restrictions, by a redis-
tribution of incomes through excessive
Government taxation or by taking away
initiative from those who possess the
“know-how” and putting it into the hands
of civil servants. Economic problems
must be tackled as economic problems.
Where economics and politics join in pre-
senting a problem the economic aspect
cannot be ignored.
The Bulletin believed that Austra-
lians generally would have wakened up
to the economic dangers which the
present Federal Government is helping
to create in its maladministration of the
industries and finances of the nation. It
believed that the tyrannies carried out
against individuals and minorities to
please the noisy political mob, the waste
of money to appease militant unionists,
the misdirected and excessive public
spending, the foolish stifling of private
enterprise and the interference with bank-
ing would have told their own political
tale long before this.
That these and a hundred other factors
have not yet told their political tale
means, unfortunately, one thing in par-
ticular: That so long as the political
economy of the nation is not restored to
a stable and enlightened basis so long
does the danger of eventual loss of con-
fidence and economic breakdown con-
tinue to grow. If confidence crashes
< Australians will learn to their sorrow
that it was unwise to gamble their eco-
nomic future on a throw of the political
dice.
Professor Laski, chairman of the Labor
party executive in Britain, has announced
that the Bank of England is to be
“nationalised.” The direction of invest-
ments is to be “planned as part of the
process of industrial reorganisation.” If
Laski’s programme is carried out by
Parliament it remains to be seen what
form the “nationalisation” takes. For
instance, even if the Government ac-
quired control of the shares in the bank
it might still leave the management to
an independent board, as has been the
case with our Commonwealth Bank up
till now. On the other hand, it might-
depending upon the degree of reckless-
ness which motivated it —place the “Old
Lady” directly under political control,
as will be the case with the Common-
wealth Bank under the new legislation.
Professor Laski has not stated that it is
intended to socialise all banking policy,
as is happening in Australia now. There
are five large trading banks in Britain,
apart from the Scottish and minor bank-
ing firms. Following the retirement of
Montagu Norman from the governor-
ship of the Bank of England Lord Catto
took control. It was suggested at the
time in London that Catto’s appointment
would bring the bank closer than ever to,
the Treasury, as the new governor had
acted for the Government from time to
time in a variety of responsible capacities.
* * * *
What is regarded as the last meeting of
the Commonwealth Bank board was held
last week. Knight Claude Reading has
been chairman of the board since 1934
(he followed Robert Gibson), and he has
carried out his responsibilities faithfully.
Under the new banking legislation a
governor and an “advisory take
control. ■'*£'
* * * ♦
The United States has managed to get
along without Government ownership of
a central bank. The 12 Federal reserve
banks are privately-owned —by the other
banks—but ownership does not carry with
it control, the board of seven governors
being appointed by the President for 14-
year terms. The stock of the reserve
banks is contributed in fixed proportions
by member banks; these stockholding
banks elect six directors, but of these only
three may be bankers, and the rest must
be “actively engaged in their district in
commerce, agriculture or some other in-
dustrial pursuit.” The board of gover-
nors elects three other directors, making
a total of nine. Dividends are limited to
6 p.c. on capital.
* * * *
The Reserve Bank of New Zealand
started off in 1934 with a capital of
£500,000 and a reserve fund, provided by
the Government, of £1,000,000. Divi-
dends were limited to 5 p.c. The Govern-
ment appointed the entire first board,
with the right to appoint the majority at
all times. Following on the Savage Gov-
ernment’s rise to office, in 1936 the Gov-
ernment acquired all shares.
* * * *
Addressing an inaugural meeting of the
Institute of Industrial Management in
Sydney last week, Essington Lewis, chief
general manager of B.H.P. and, until
recently, Director-General of Munitions,
stressed the need in Australian industry
for hard work by both management and
staff, for increased output per head, and
for a higher standard of education
within and without industry. He believed
that the Commonwealth should become
“the arsenal of the British Empire east
of Suez,” but this would involve the de-
velopment of a much greater industrial
capacity than the country now possessed.
In matters of industrial education and
organisation Australia could learn a great
deal from both Britain and the United
States, Mr. Lewis said. He was greatly
impressed by the influence of the manu-
facturing factor in each of these countries
in the winning of the European war and
hastening the end of the conflict with
Japan. Mr. Lewis is an extremely prac-
tical man of outstanding experience, and
his advice as to better education stand-
ards and higher output from men and
machines must be heeded.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'solders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
SI has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ct
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE TT ;,
£l7/10/- K-ffins
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY is
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
2/- per copy, or £l/2/6 per annum posted
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
‘ Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F W Duesbury; Sydney
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTIER General ***?*£. ydn , T .
•Phone (three lines): 87361. lirannhes in All States. 12J Pitt street, syaney^
COMSTEEL W.IB
18% TUNGSTEN
m
■
II
. .
■
*.>•
I
■
• t
■
... : : .
u
|i II ||||l :
> ■■
Rwr w 4
■ **
I 8 r ' i I
. f # T
m
iH
m
X kvi-.K
V-
■
i ■. ,0.;.r-...
t
VMiyW.
m
Australian manufacturers are to-day producing precision tools to standards of
accuracy and quality which before the war were believed impossible of achieve-
ment. Slitting saws; twist drills; milling cutlers and gear hobs; these and many
more specialised products are being made, and macte well.
We do not make these tools. But we do make the steel from which they are
made —fine quality high-speed steels capable of giving completely, satisfactory
performance and giving .Australian industries independence oi overseas
supplies, now and in the future.
GOWOHWEAITH STEEt COMPAHY UNITED. HEAP OFFICE & WORKS: WAftftYAß, HXW,
Brunch Warehouses: Sydney « Melbourne - Brisbane —■ Adelaide -> * Perth*
44/12
COMSTE'EI
- > *9r 1 • ,<
Stainless, Heat-Resisting, High-Speed, and
Alloy Steels. Bromet Tips.
iJ
Dream Homes or Real Homes?
Rational people who once believed
that Governments could enter into com-
merce and industry with advantage to
•the public must be feeling discouraged
now that some of the truth of “the hous-
ing programme” is coming out. A check-
up on relevant Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales Government offices reveals that
not only are 'there minutely few actual
houses likely to be available in the near
future, but, also, there is ani amazing lack
of preparation for the time when ma-
terials and labor will be fully available
for housing purposes. There are a
number of building experts and the like
in Government employ who are won-
dering why the blazes they are in their
jobs and when they will be given an
opportunity to do something that hasn’t
anything up to a dozen political or
bureaucratic strings tied to it.
There is too much of the atmosphere
of the bum company promoter about
the Commonwealth Government’s hous-
ing plans, and in some of the State “pro-
grammes” the position is little better. The
Commonwealth Government’s “pro-
gramme” has been mostly wordy vote-
buying, more attention being given to the
idea of • “selling” (or buying) the voter
with a something-for-nothing idea than
to selecting the best housing methods
and getting on with the job. After re-
ports about the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s ambitious housing plans last year,
with “rent subsidies” and other sorts of
financial manipulation, the continued
hopeless position of those who are try-
ing to get a home together emphasises
the truth that a house actually erected
on an allotment by private enterprise,
financed by a private bank or insurance
company, is a far more useful asset to
a person whose expectation of life is
only about 70 years than is the Com-
monwealth Government’s “dream home”
that is still no more than a political pipe-
dream.
The Commpnwealth Government could
do a great deal in the housing problem
were it interested in the realities of the
matter. It could test the many new build-
ing methods now in the public eye, and,
in particular, it could establish standards
in the building of cement houses. There
is every kind of concrete, from impervious
rock to porous pumice; very few mix-
tures and “cures” are good enough for
housing. But there are indications that,
properly handled, cement will make very
good houses, and that it will lend itself
to speedy erection. But the concrete is
best cast and cured before being put into
position.
In any case, brick houses in most city
areas can be built economically provided
all the essentials, including labor, are
available at reasonable cost. Govern-
ment research, guarantees to financial
concerns in respect of house-purchase
loans, plus an investigation of the war-
time rise in the cost of bricks, would
also help. What the Government really
needs to do, in short, is to give the great-
est possible help, in an administrative
capacity, towards assisting the ordinary
building trades to get on with the job
and in seeing that costs, including that
of finance, are kept as low as possible
and the quality of the houses high. If it
is felt that there are “rings” or “gentle-
men’s agreements” that are keeping costs
excessive ‘it should take whatever reason-
able action it is able to, or advise the
State Governments to act. The biggest
“ring,” of course, at the moment is in
labor —a lot of wage-taking ineptitude is
being passed by Manpower on to building
contractors.
On this page a year ago there was pub-
lished a review of the Road to Serfdom,
by F. A. Hayek, an Austrian by birth,
who has‘been Professor of Economics at
the University of London since 1931. It
was thought here to be a profoundly in-
teresting analysis of present-day political
problems, with an inspirational quality,
and the very antidote needed for the
murky, socialistic referendum campaign-
ing carried on by the Government at
that time. Dymocks (Sydney) about this
time produced an Australian edition of
the work. Now the “Reader’s Digest”
(May issue, so far available in the Com-
monwealth only to subscribers) has pub-
lished a condensed version, with a com-
ment by Henry Hazlitt, of the New York
“Times,” that it is “one of the most im-
portant books of our generation.” In a
half-page of U.S. magazine and news-
paper comments a “Fortune” writer is
quoted: “Sometimes it happens that a
small book flashes a long light of warn-
ing and of hope. Such a book is The
Road to Serfdom —one of the great
Liberal statements of our times.” The
argument of the book is Liberalism as
opposed to socialism. But it is no mere
political claptrap. Those concerned
about the drift to socialism through de-
generate Labor politics in Australia are
Lommended to read Hayek's book or
its condensation, and to get hold of Look-
mg Forward, put out by the I.P.A, (Vic-
tofia) and handled by Robertson and
Mnllpn*
* * * *
Tentative figures for United States
automobile production indicate 200,000
cars by December 31 next, with double
that number in the first quarter of 1946.
Employment and reconversion problems
prompted the Government in giving the
“green light” to civilian motor-car pro-
duction so early after the defeat of Ger-
many. It is estimated that in the first
half of 1946 all U.S. war orders will be
no more than two-thirds those for the
corresponding part of 1945 ; business
concerns will be forced to make prepara-
lions for the highly-competiUve con
dit.ons that he ahead. One reconversion
problem ” America will be^the S“Brapta
cal distribution of the working popula
tion It has “P er “" ce^, s0 ™ s M“ h 8;
round during the w > .
end of the conflict appears to be ap
preaching efforts are being made to
revive peace-time industries, where prac
ticable, where there are threats of unem-
Payment in munition plants.
* rmmmmpnf in 1939
The Canadian Government in 19£
raised $142 million m mcmt taxes from
Canadian citizens. In 1 J?
was $ll5l million an mcrea 8
times. The Commonwealth Government s
income-tax revenue has risen fifteentold
since war started.lt was lighter per capita
than Canada’s when war began, and still
is ; but with State taxation added the
Australian burden is now very heavy on
middle and high incomes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bar Din”: War-time privations affect
every walk of life. 1 saw a play recently
in which, at a rather tense moment, one
of the characters evoked a couple of
bottles out of the family “frig.” A
swelling buzz swept through the theatre.
“It isn’t real beer—it’s cold tea,” an
intellectual-looking damsel assured hex
neighbors. The tale spread and interest
flagged. Then the caps were removed
and the actor started to pour out,
“Gripes! ” an incredulous voice from The
Back informed the theatre, “it is beer.”
It was beer, too —no mistaking the
sparkle and creaming foam of it. The
audience became as agitated as a pen of
poultry at Christmas time, and the cold-
tea school of thought was utterly dis-
credited, Then the heroine came over
to the table and lent a hand, but she spilt
some of the precious stuff, and the audi-
ence rumbled disapprovingly. She was
adjured to “take it steady,” and “tilt the
glass!” “Do they do this every night?”
a little man with sad eyes sitting nex( to
me asked wistfully, and sighed,
* * * #
“C.Q.”; A landmark at La Perouse
(Sydney) which I hope hasn’t gone to the
wreckers (B. 25/7/’45) is the old fort on
Bare Island, connected by a bridge with
the mainland and manned in my time by
a garrison of two Crimea veterans. In
the early days the pubs at Botany Bay
were out of bounds to the young staff of
the cable station, as also were the nurses
at Long Bay, except on State occasions,
but for some reason or other the fort had
been forgotten. It had a canteen, and this
was a great solace in the long winter
evenings. The fort, like the old customs
guardhouse mentioned by “J. 1.,” was
beautifully constructed, as with even the
most utilitarian buildings in the old days.
I often wonder why it is that our fore-
fathers could erect jails, powder maga-
zines, wool stores and bridges and could
make them look beautiful, though they
never sought for beauty, whereas
modern architects and post-war recon-
structionists, who are always talking
about beauty, never design a cottage that
isn’t indescribably commonplace and
ugly.
* * * *
“Muffin”: A 14-carat black opal on a
pearl pedestal which for over 26 years has
been stored in a Brisbane bank vault has
emerged from the darkness. An exqui-
site heart-shaped gem, it was placed
in the custody of the National Bank in
a case marked “One piece of black opal,
cut and polished, and pearl pedestal for
same: Queensland Patriotic Fund, De-
cember 16, 1918.” That fund was wound
up years ago, and there is now no
record of the opal. The State Cabinet
decided that it should be handed over to
the Queensland Patriotic Fund, if find-
able.
“Visitor”: Adelaide has given other
Australian strikers a lesson on showing
some consideration for the public. The
employees of the Municipal Tramways
Trust, being unable to agree with the
Board of Management, took the popu-
lation to work on a Monday morning, and
then paralysed traffic by holding a meet-
ing from eleven to four. After a stormy
discussion, the men voted to refer ,to a
Court the matter in dispute ; then got
out the cars and buses and took their
customers ihome again.
* * * *
“Publova,” about Wiseman of the
Ferry;
Solomon Wiseman, whose ferry had the
monopoly of Hawkesbury traffic to the time of
Peat’s Ferry (B. 23/5/’45), maybe had a hand
in the layout of the round-about Northern
road of the hairpin bends. Wiseman’s estate
was hard b’y the worst of all the bends. His
ferry coursed across the narrowest part of the
river, also in his domain. Sol, who liked folks
to think that he “came out” for smuggling,
actually made his debut in the colony over some
timber missed from a Thames ship. Settling on
the river in the ’twenties, he acniwved a reputa-
tion as a harsh taskmaster to the convict gangs
working on the Northern-road. By way of
implying that he was kin to the haughty Wise-
mans of Cobham Hall, Kent, the “King of the
River” named his place Cobham Hall, but he
was not kin to the English family. Till the Old
Bailey sessions handed him a lifer, as an alterna-
tive to the black cap, he was a lighterman-
journeyman employed on the Thames by a firm
importing timber from South America. Unlike
“Coupla seats up the hack, chaps, if you'd like to be comfortable .!”
Peat’s Fairview, which was burned down, Wise-
man’s old place is little altered. It’s the
Hawkcsbury pub now, and the stone lions at
the entrance, which grinned a welcome to par-
takers of Sol’s hospitality, continue to welcome
the thirsty. There’s a haunted room, of course.
I insisted on occupying it, hoping, like other
occupant’s, to be favored with a peek at Mrs.
Sol No. 1, but without result.
» * * *
“Senex”; Looking back on my life,
and picking out the high spots, I suppose
I’ve had the usual number of thrills, from
the day I went into long pants to the
’phone ring to tell me I was a granddad.
I’ve rubbed shoulders with the old man
with the scythe, had lucky breaks and all
the usual ups and downs which go to
make up life. I remember the first time
I got drunk, and my head swims now
when I think of the morning after. Fights,
loves, races won and lost —I weigh them
all in the scale and find them wanting.
The real thrill, the one which let me
know I was a man, which still seems sweet
to me, was the first time the girl rubbed
her cheek against mine and complained
“My word, your face is bristly!”
» * * *
“Friday Island”: Commander Lionel
Robinson, R.N. (B. 25/7/’45), has a claim
to a niche in history on the score that he
was the first man to fire a gun from Eng-
land cross-Channel into the German lines.
Cross-Channel gunfire was common in
World War 11, but “Robbo” did it in
World War I from a gun emplacement
in a marsh down the Thames. The gun
had a range of 84 miles, shell altitude
seven miles. It was the answer to
Big Bertha with which Fritz shelled Paris
(75 miles). Both were useless except
for morale-busting. Train’s sketch shows
that “Robbo’s” eye still has the good-
humored determination his shipmates
remember.
* * * *
“Falcon”-; It can now be disclosed
that the British p.-0.-w. of Stalag 383
collected £5OOO among themselves under
the noses of their German guards,
smuggled the money to England and paid
for a Spitfire. The man who organised
the plan was in touch with the Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Ministry for
Supply, a personal friend. The Germans
allowed the p.-0.-w., when one of their
pals died, to contribute to a welfare fund
for dependants, and the German censors
evidently were deluded into thinking that
the Spitfire subscriptions were thus in-
tended. Early this year a letter in code
was received by the p.-0.-w. telling of
the exploits of their ’plane, christened
“Unshackled Spirit.” The news acted
as a tonic to the ill-fed and ill-clothed
prisoners. As one p.-0.-w. remarked,
“Every time a fleet of our bombers and
fighters flew over we liked to imagine that
the fast fighter right out in front was
our ‘Spit.’ ”
B * * *
“Hist”: The current Australian two-
shilling stamp, in the old'kangaroo-and-
map design, is heading for a philatelic
endurance record. Except for a minor
change in color it has persisted since its
issue 32 years ago. Beauty cannot be
claimed as an excuse for its continued
.existence, whereas the present record-
holder for longevity is one of the most
handsome stamps in the collector’s album
—the big, square, deep-green sd. N.S.W.
stamp bearing the head of Queen Vic-
toria. It had reached the ripe philatelic
age of 58 when a Commonwealth stamp
displaced it in 1913.
* » * •
“Nakhoda” on an air-route develop-
ment :
When the Cocos Islands become a base for
civilian aircraft on the long 3120-mile hop from
Ceylon to Westralia one of the most
isolated groups in the world will be brought
within a few hours of civilisation. In the early
days of cable communication the only connec-
tion between the atoll and the rest of the
world was the three-monthly trip of Governor
Ross’s schooner to Singapore. Beautifully built
by the islanders, she carried the draft of cable-
men going on leave and brought back a new
batch for a two years’ exile. There were no
women on Pulau Tikus, the site of the cable
station, and visits to the other islands of the
atoll could be made only with the Governor’s
permission. For some it was a halcyon exist-
tence, and for two men it was a laboratory
for scientific investigation. Darwin formulated
his theory of coral islands there, and Prof.
Wood-Jones, subsequently anatomy professor
at Melbourne University, upset it with his now-
accepted theory when he was doctor to the
cable station. A young operator transferred to
Cocos sent me a message for reading matter.
As he was a Rationalist I obtained every publi-
cation of the Rationalist Association since its
inception, and the literature filled a large case.
Everybody has his own way of relieving his
boredom, and the general monotony has been
relieved in other ways—a party of shipwrecked
foreign sailors once nearly established a republic
on the islands: cyclones at times left the
inhabitants standing knee-deep in water with
only the cyclone cable to stop them from
being blown into the Indian Ocean; the
Em den and the Sydney provided an astounding
diversion in the last war, aqd an Australian film
company once shot a film there which was about
as much like the life on Cocos as Dorothy
Lamour is like a belle of the South Seas.
“Shoregoing Bloke”: When men of
H.M.A.S. Australia marched from Trafal-
gar-square to the Guildhall they were
sharing in one of the most jealously-
guarded privileges of the Royal Navy—
the right to march through the City with
bayonets fixed, colors flying and drums
beating. The Navy shares this honor
with the Marines, the Grenadier
Guards, the East Kents (Buffs) and the
Royal Fusiliers (City of London Regi-
ment). Where the Navy gained the right
is not known, but in the case of the
Marines the origin probably arises from
a Royal Warrant issued by Charles II
in 1664 authorising them, and the other
regiments who share it, to raised recruits
“by beat of drum” within the City pre-
cincts. The first recorded Marines were
recruited about this time from the
“Trained Bands of London” who were
then disbanded.
* ❖ * *
“Hamer”: According to newspapers
Sydney’s best-dressed man was Howie,
master-builder and Lud Mayor. Photo-
graphs showing a mountain of hats
and piles of clothes backed accounts
of a man who died with enough
clobber to stock a shop. Howie,
who got his suits from London
tailors, always appeared to be wearing a
brand-new outfit, but nobody regarded
him as a dandy in the ordinary acceptance
of the term. The revelation of how he
had wallowed in clothes must have been
a surprise to most of his friends. He was
more blatantly a dandy in regard to his
cars. Those always showed glossy per-
fection, and were of the very latest models
—Howie liked people to talk about his
cars.
* * $ *
“Ike Hollar”; “Radio’s” remarks (B.
25/7/’45) anent comic-strip heroes and
their girl pals give point to a recent
happening in a Sydney suburb. Two
small kids, after giving their relatives a
lot of worry, were picked up by the
police on their way to what they claimed
was an exploration of the Blue Moun-
tains, They had covered 32 miles in two
days, not bad going for eight- and seven-
year-old youngsters. To the boy a fatherly
police-sergeant suggested that on such an
adventure it would have been better to
take a boy friend. “But Speed Gordon
always has Dale with him,” declared
Eight in explanation.
* * * ♦
“Jay”; Built about the time of Water-
loo, Meehan’s Castle, near Macquarie
Fields (N.S.W.), is still going strong.
Once the home of James Meehan, one of
the Irish “exiles” and an early-time sur-
veyor, it is a conspicuous landmark.
Meehan was one of Macquarie’s finds,
and that energetic governor had the knack
of picking good men. Surveys of the
Southem-road, the finding of the Shoal-
haven River and the survey of St. Mary’s
Cathedral site are among Meehan’s
works. The “castle” was built on a grant
from Macquarie, but Meehan did not
long reside there. The next phase was
when Parson Reddall, first Anglican
minister in Campbelltown, opened a
School for Young Gentlemen in Meehan’s
former home. Macquarie’s son Lachlan
was one of the pupils.
» * * %
“Melbn”: A Melbourne suburban
seminary has staged an unusual exhibi-
tion : a two-day show of work by
pupils of Camberwell Grammar and
other schools. What makes it unusual is
that included in it are original paintings
by Lambert, Streeton, Walter Sickert,
Augustus John, Steer and William Dobell
and etchings by Durer and Rembrandt.
lan Bow, art master of the school,
arranged the exhibition.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: A visitor to Sydney put up
at one of the city’s posh pubs. Four days
later he wrapped his soiled linen in a
parcel, presented it to the maid and asked
her to send it to the laundry. That night,
having worn his last clean shirt to the
deadline, he hurried back to the pub,
sighted the parcel on his bed and pre-
pared with some enthusiasm to bathe,
put on clean clothes and attend a small
function. From the bath he went to the
parcel, only to find the linen as soiled as
before and a note announcing that no
laundry was available. He went, some-
what embarrassed, to the function, and
told his sad story to his host. The host
gave him a hint. Next morning he handed
the same parcel to the same maid, to-
gether with a 10s. note. That night the
clothes, laundered, were in his room.
Three days later, having need of the same
service, he sought the maid, but was just
in time to see her vanish down a lift.
Immediately another appeared from
somewhere. She wasn’t at all sure about
the laundry, but a 10s. note resolved her
doubts. In a fortnight at that pub four
different women handled his parcels and
each collected ten bob. He’s trying to
get himself a job as boots or bell-boy or
something, calculating there’s more in it
than running a business.
A POINTER.
“The 23 women in the newly-elected House of
Commons—2o of them Laborites —are all noted for
good commonsense and downrightness.”
—London rnhle.
No more “uncertain, coy and hard to please,”
They tackle new responsibilities,
Spheres of employment obviously not
Anticipated by Sir Walter Scott,
And which would be a source of sheer dismay
To good Queen Vic. were she alive today.
They sweep aside, as bubble, froth and foam,
The myth that “woman’s place is in the home,”
And scout the maxim, by some poet hurled,
“The hand that rocks the cradle rules the wond.”
Through storm and stress, in days not far re-
mote.
By forcefulness they won the right to vote,
And force to boot. Who is there yet forgets
The perils braved by dauntless sudragettes?
And with it went, spoils of that bitter war,
The wider right of being voted for.
“Five hundred kings,” I mind me, was the
phrase
Used of The House in Mid-Victorian days,
Where now, significant of changing scenes,
We find six hundred odd of kings—and queens.
Uncertainty and coyness, none disputes,
Have long been deemed appropriate attributes
For womankind —the same idea you see
In Virgil’s varium et mutab'Ue.
But nowadays, for those who’d votes entice,
They cut the very minimum of ice.
With all capriciousness she must dispense
And bank determinedly on commonsense
Who aims to win the hustings crowd’s applause
And join with men in manufacturing laws.
Strange, when you think of it, that women
should
Here, where they first attained to suffragehood,
With never need to tread the fearsome trail
Of studied lawlessness and fine and jail,
Still find the way so hard, so few me calls
To seven Parliaments’ debating halls.
Take heart, you skirted aspirants for place,
And note that in the cradle of the race
Whene’er your sex a bid for votes essays
Sound sense impresses—and downrightness pays.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Officer of the day — SHUN!”
“Undertaker’s Assistant”; I have just
been to the funeral of a man who repre-
sents the other side of a picture usually
painted in glowing colors. The last time
I saw him alive he was on the way to the
Sydney Lottery Office to buy tickets; he
had in his hand letters ready to post to
similar gambling places in other States.
He told me he held 32 half-shares
(10s. 6d. per half-share) in the Calcutta
Sweep. Since I first met him 45 years
ago he had continually bought tickets
offering the chance of a fortune. He was
a strenuous overtime worker, and, leav-
ing his usual weekly wages with his wife
to cover living expenses, he spent the rest
on what he (following all the Sydney
daily and Sunday papers) called “invest-
ments,” He told me he had never won
as much as a fiver; his best friend,
present at the funeral, said the poor chap
had never spoken of a win, and estimated
that he had spent over £5OOO on his un-
successful pursuit of Chance. Yet he
was always cheerfully certain that he was
“bound to win next time.”
* * * :Jc
“Bo”: “Dario” residents can rightly
claim to be as phlegmatic as any in Syd-
ney ; yet there are times when deep
emotion stirs them. Sufficient tears to
fill a fair-sized dam can be expected, for
instance, when the body of a slain gang-
ster is lying in state in its expensive coffin
surrounded by a mountain of wreaths
(bought On cash orders). But last week
emotion far deeper than any that could
ever be evoked by the mere planting of
a local celebrity shook “Dario” to its
boots, the occasion being a collision be-
tween a tram and a brewery wagon. As
two 18-gallon kegs of beer hit the road-
way and burst shrieks of despair rent
the Oxford-street welkin, and residents
dashed home to get receptacles. As the
first sprinter returned the last of the beef
was disappearing down the drains. Later
a small dog, the only beneficiary, leaned
against the gutter and hiccuped a boozy
defiance to all, as strong men, visibly
affected, gathered in groups and spoke in
hushed tones of the terrible tragedy.
* * * *
“Melbn”; I can’t accept “G’pa*s”
hypothesis (B. 25/7/’45) that the trees
which bow to each other at an angle of
45 degrees across Morrison-place, Mel-
bourne, are seeking light. Morrison-place
is no shorter than scores of other streets,
and its buildings aren’t anywhere near the
city’s limit in height; yet they are peculiar
amongst Melbourne’s trees in their loung-
ing habit. Personally, I consider they
have been pushed out of the perpendicu-
lar by generations of parliamentarians
from Spring-street leaning on them in
their lunch-time. Victorian politicians
are heavy leaners.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; A certain amount of
danger is involved in telling a story about
G. B. Shaw —he may have told it against
himself more effectively and more circum-
stantially. A Melbourne “Herald”
columnist celebrated the Irish playwright’s
89th birthday by recounting how Shaw
had met the Italian'- poet Gabriel
D’Annunzio and greeted him with “I, too,
am a genius”—“a fair example of Shavian
subtlety,” the “Herald” man calls it. Here
is Shaw’s version: “Anatole France asked
me who I was. To put him at his ease I
said ‘Like yourself, M. France, I' am a
man of genius.’ This sounded in France’s
ears so immodest that he retorted
sharply: ‘Ah well, a whore has the right
to call herself a pleasure merchant! ’ ”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Novelist Captain Marryat
would side with “Tongs” (B. 23 /5 / ’45)
rather than “Hamer” in their death-rattle
argument. I recall a character in Peter
Simple, an inveterate liar, who could
never resist the temptation to cap a story
or dispute a claim. He was on his death-
bed, and a watcher by his bedside said
“It’s only a matter of minutes. There’s the
death-rattle in his throat.” Rousing him-
self, the dying man whispered “I once
knew a man who lived 24 hours after the
death-rattle appeared.” “Consistent to
the last,” remarked his friend ; “he died
with a lie on his lips.” I read Marryat
in my early ’teens, and this is one of
two incidents that remain most vividly
in my memory. The other is of Jacob
Faithful’s mother, who died of spon-
taneous combustion following on over-
consumption of gin. There was no men-
tion of death-rattle in her case. A gurgle
would have been more likely.
* * * *
“Barfly”: “Half Pint’s” exegesis on
“selling a horse” and “tarpaulin musters”
as means of combining a gambling flutter
with the satisfaction of a healthy thirst
reminds me that there are 101 ways of con-
ducting these interesting operations. One
of the queerest was the old-established
custom of a newspaper office where I
toiled. Around 5 p.m. someone would
cut a page of the rag into small squares.
These were sold at a bob a time. The
chap who could find the largest amount
of money printed on his slip scooped the
pool and led the way to the pub at the
corner. I remember winning one of these
with a scrap of newsprint bearing part
of a bank balance-sheet.
% * *
“Horseless Horseman” takes a trip:
There’s no train in Australia quite like “The
Endeavour,” which every Thursday leaves
Cooktown for Laura, 67 miles out in the centre
of Cape York Peninsula. When I boarded it
recently at the huge platform—a ghoff of
the days when Cooktown and the Palmer
diggings, 120 miles inland, carried .populations
of tens of thousands —I was the front-seat
passenger next to Bill Gladwell, superin-
tendent, traffic manager, line and mainten-
ance engineer, etc., etc. As the rail-motor
rattles along for miles beside the Endeavour
River and then across the picturesque thousand-
foot-high coastal range, Bill, with the person-
ality and companionship of an old horse-coach
driver, tells you that the railway, built in the
’eighties on the super-elevated style by English
engineers, is the second and most historic line
in Queensland. The Carnegie iron rails were
brought out direct by clipper-ships; the ballast
was all stone napped by Chinamen. Bill ex-
plains all the peculiarities of the birds and the
trees: “Look. Silver gums—good ’possum
country.” He points out tin country, mountains
of untouched red ochre, wallaroos, kangaroos,
cattle with buffalo fly sores, old pub ruins;
then he staggers you by pulling up the “ex-
press” to shoot a wild turkey. At Ncprmanby
River cattle station homestead, with its huge
horseyard and bougainvilia-covered outbuild-
ings beside the line, the country reverts to tim-
bered plains; further on at no particular spot
in the bush we pull up beside a mob of saddle-
and pack-horses watched by blackboys. Here
we lose the owner of Lakefield station—“he’ll
be home tomorrow night after a 50-mile ride
north.” We pass deserted sidings—Battle Camp,
Cattle Camp—cross more rivers and arrive at
Laura, a whitewashed-roofed pub, store, police-
station and three-house township. Here Jim
McDowall, the colorful pack-mailman, meets
us. With 14 packhorses he leaves to ride 151
miles north to Coen, eight days up by one string
of stations and six back by another track. He’s
been running this mail for ten years on his
own without a breaki At the quaint pub we
have a first-class meal and then begin the re-
turn journey. Only instead of cattlemen the
passengers are now prospectors, and before we
reach Cooktown we have mined in imagination
£2,000,000 worth of ore!
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The back-break-
ing old Sydney hobby of making a
rockery is reviving, judging by the
activities of friends of mine who live in
the wide, open, outer suburban spaces,
where men are men and women know
all about their neighbors’ business. I was
about five when the prevailing garden
craze of the time hit my father. Scarcely
a heaven-born gardener, he put us
kids on to the job of gathering the
boulders and heaping them on the
planned spot. Playmates assisted us with
the enthusiasm a kid can always put into
work for any home but his own, and the
rockery was soon complete enough for
my old man to show it to his friends as
an example of his accomplishment. The
outbreak in those days, no doubt, was
due to the fact that people were moving
out to suburbs where the ground was
covered with boulders which had to be
gathered together and put somewhere.
anyway.
♦ * * *
“Jumul”: If anyone is offering prizes
for ambiguous notices, I’m entering this
one, carefully painted on a wall at Bright-
ton Beach, Adelaide:
NOTICE.
By-law 1. Clause 3.
No person shall dress or undress for the
purpose of bathing in this convenience.
By order.
* * , * *
“Monarch Mucker”: All the scares
suffered by Australian east-coasters (B.
1/8/’45) during the sticky days of 1942
were mere trembles compared with the
excitement that hit Whyalla (S.A.) one
night. A big pot of molten metal from
the blast furnaces got loose on its rails,
ignored all orders to stop and turned
over into the flat waters of Spencer’s
Gulf, There was a flash like the Dawn
of Revelation and a roar like the Last
Trump. Wardens, mothers, kids, workers,
police and dogs flew in all directions, the
“You shouldn't have much more trouble with that leak , Min—rain
oughter ease up any day now."
local V.D.C. grabbed its arms and raced
to strategic positions in the saltbush, army
and navy detachments sprang to it. Across
the Gulf at Port Germein a station hand
jumped clean off the pub verandah on to
his utility truck and fled into the
Flinders Range. Out at Iron Knob the
night shift looked enviously east and
wondered what new celebration was on,
Meantime, in Whyalla the excitement had
subsided, and the citizens set about col-
lecting a haul of stunned fish. The few
local fishermen on the beach at the time
scarcely moved, though hunks of metal
splashed all around them —but, then,
fishermen are like that.
» * * *
“23-4”: He was a nice young English
naval officer, full of charm but not
well versed in the wily ways of the world.
He came across the lounge and joined
our party with a deal of shyness. When
somebody suggested threepenny poker he
asked to be excused, saying he’d never
played; so we volunteered to teach
him, assuring him that nobody could
lose much at a “trey” game. He blundered •
along, watching carefully, until a jack-
pot arrived. It went up to aces and and
down to queens, somebody opened and
the opener, another and the novice stayed
in. After four rises, each of which the
Englishman saw, the opener laid down
three queens, the other grinned with a
straight, but the officer blushed and said
“Sorry, old thing, I’ve got three pairs.”
He had, too, and he was so pleased
about it that nobody had the heart to
disillusion him. /
* * * *
“Jerboa”: “Nakh” (B. 13/6/’45) has
the sympathies of Bill and myself. We
had a rat infestation, too, in the Libyan
desert. We made and settled into a dug-
out and a mob of rats moved in at the
same time. We rather liked them at first.
One would sit in the doorway of “Emoh
Ruo,” washing his face with his paws
and watching with quick, bird-like eyes.
He would be small and plump, with silky-
grey fur and a short muzzle ; he reminded
us of the water-rats that used mischiev-
ously to ring the bells of our eel-lines
at night, back home in Gippsland. Our
affections soon changed. The rats chewed
socks, nibbled and defiled rations and
crawled under bedclothes with us. War
began, but their reinstoushments were too
numerous, and the struggle uneven. As we
lay in bed awake, their scampering got on
our nerves. We pulled blankets over our
heads and went to sleep; if the blanket
slipped, we’d be wakened by a rat tugging
the exposed hair. We adopted a cat, and
it strove valiantly till it sickened of
slaughter. Then it became infested with
camel ticks (the cause of a relapsing fever
in humans), and had to be destroyed.
So we just kept on putting up with the
rats.
« $ * *
“Spokeshave”: Chatter at Melbourne
art shows is generally depressing, but
occasionally something is overheard that
is worth repeating. A damsel was intro-
duced to a handsome, well-groomed
young man and told he was a painter.
“I would never have taken you for an
artist,” she burbled. “Have you ever
met one?” he asked. “Yes, but I always
thought artists were dirty people,” she
said. “Some of the great ones were very
dirty people,” he said. “But you’re not,”
she retorted. “Well, I wish I was,” he
said. “Why?” asked the girl. “Well,”
said the young painter, “Michelangelo
was so interested in his painting that he
had no time for washing, and his socks
grew to his feet when he was painting the
frescoes in the Sistine Chapel. I should
like to be as interested as he was.”
CHURCHILL AND CHIFLEY.
Well, Churchill, so they’ve brought you down.
How strange, how undeserved a fate
For one to whom, from King to clown,
They looked to save the State;
Uplifted when your course you set
To victory through blood and tears and sweat.
And high above the storm they heard,
In grim and glorious hours, your voice,
Suiting the accent to the word
And bidding them rejoice
And give the thanks and honor due—-
So much, and by so many, to so few!
But, England saved, and Europe too
(If Joe permits), they turn the page.
You, Churchill, and your Tory crew
Obstruct a Leftist age; «
So down you go to sharp defeat,
Per medium of “the wild mob’s million feet.”
Was that the way of it? These Pinks
And Reds, exultant, have no doubt.
A softer instrument, methinks,
And worthier put you out:
The queue-sick, warworn housewife’s hand —
Poor thing, she’d taken more than she could
stand.
For her and hers your best you did;
It was not, could not be enough.
In those two months the Labs outbid
You—great the power of bluff;
And so you fell. That noble strain
Of eloquence we shall not hear again.
In truth, you “uttered nothing base”;
You comfort brought to prisoned men;
To others you must now give place,
To such indeed as Ben,
Whose message rolls from shore to shore:
“A token force we’ll send to Singapore!”
N.S.W.
TUART.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: I got into the town
about the same time as a young Digger,
son of an old bush mate of mine, where-
upon we foregathered at the usual place
and punctuated our conversation with
the usual refreshments. While we talked
a paper-boy arrived and in the news was
the item about the U.S. Army bomber
which, lost in a heavy fog over New York
city, cannoned against the top of the Em-
pire State building, causing a tragedy
which brought horrible death to nearly a
score of people. 1 read the item out to the
Digger, himself fresh from scenes of
fire and sudden death. He brooded a
moment, then shook his head slowly.
“It just shows y’,” he said, sombrely,
“that you’re likely to hit a stump in the
most unlikely places.”
* , * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: With cash in our
pockets from the cut-out at Nectar Brook
we paused awhile in Port Germein (S.A.),
desultorily debating whether to jump the
rattler to Port Augusta or strike for Pirie
and points south. Then from the Gulf
marshes came Little Bill, whom we
hadn’t seen since Christmas before last,
when he was transhipping at Terowie.
“You blokes seen the town?” he asked.
We had —the whole 20 houses and the
pub. “Bin out on the pier?” “What’s
the good o’ that?” Mat wanted to know.
“Longest blanky pier in the world,”
asserted Little Bill, with pride befitting
a citizen of Port Germein —“come awn,
I’ll show y’.” It was dark, but we fol-
lowed him. Outside the cold air affected
Little Bill, but he wavered on to
the planking and led us on and on,
mumbling various approving comments.
After a long time he discovered lights
in the south. “Por’ Pirie, boysh,” he
said, proudly teetering, then whirled and
faced a dim glow in the west. “Why-
alla,” he announced. We reached the
end of the pier, which is a long way
from land, admired the small lighthouse
and held Little Bill erect. Then we
turned back, but hadn’t taken two steps
before Mat halted, stared towards the
land and then, awe-struck, said, “Cripes,
Port Germein!” It took us an hour to
pacify Little Bill.
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: Beat this for resource-
fulness! Bob, riding Screwtail round
the jumbucks, hopped off to stiffen a
copper-head with the stirrup-iron. The
wriggler got in a nip on his little finger;
Bob ligatured with a bootlace, but had
nothing to scarify the wound. Without
hesitation he shoved the digit between
the pony’s incisors and swung a mighty
uppercut. The doc. trimmed off the
amputation, and the midget was back
on the run next day.
* * * •
“E. 2”: “Can’t unnerstan’ the way you
coves try t’ dance these days,” said Dan,
the night after the Post-Splitters’ Ball.
“Aw, that boogie’s the stuff,” said Billy,
who was forging rivets at the anvil. “I’ll
give y’ a demonstration an’ y’ can try it
y’self—yowie!” He shot into the air
with an ear-splitting yell, grabbed one leg
and spun around, jigged madly across
the yard, pirouetted, leaped in the air and
shed a gumboot, and re-crossed the yard
in three hops, to land with a crash against
the wall of the smithy, “Not bad,” said
Dan admiringly. “But y’ couldn’t expect
me t’ cut them capers the way me rheu-
maticks are.” “Break it down,” said Billy
weakly. "Didn’t y’ see the end fly orf
that red-hot rivet an’ drop down me gum-
boot?”
* * * *
“Wonga”: Schmitzker believed in his
women earning their tucker. It took
some time for me, a newcomer to the
German settlement, to get used to his
stalwart daughters swinging a maul and
wrestling with the handles of the mould-
board. His neighbors expressed little sur-
prise when his wife’s mother, at the age
of 70, came to live with him and he armed
her with a brush hook and instructions
to keep a scrubby comer of one of his
paddocks clean. One day, after passing
the old lady at work and seeing her
feeble strokes at the flourishing lantana,
I met Schmitzker and remarked that I
didn’t think ma-in-law would be much
longer for this world. “Get avay vith
you,” he said indignantly. “There’s a
hundred pounds’ vort’ of vork in that
voman yet.”
* * id *
“Betcha”: A bird can no more tell her
own young offspring than a human at
first sight can pick hers, but most
animals, though not infallible, can do the
job. Even in a mob of hundreds a ewe
trots round busily till her nose tells her
she has found her particular charge. The
skin of her dead lamb tied over the back'
of another hoodwinks her advantageously
at times, but I hadn’t struck the nuisance
of an alteration in tfie smell of her legiti-
mate offspring till the other day. There
had been several days of rain, and visit-
ing the lambing ewes I found the cold
spell had taken its toll. Sorting a few
possible recoveries from the casualties, 1
“All right for landing on; not so good for taking off on a sticky wicket!"
worked their mothers carefully into a
small paddock, and when about a dozen
were through lit a fire and draped the
helpless youngsters round to thaw out.
Then, as it was still raining, I shoved
them under cover for the night. Though
the ewes were still diligently searching
next morning, when I turned the patients
out not one jumbuck recognised her
lamb. Time and again they worked
through the batch, persistently refusing
each, then spent the next few days search-
ing the paddocks and bleating. Toasting
their youngsters by the fire is the only
way I can account for the altered smell.
* * ♦ *
“C.E.”: It is common enough for a
turkey to cover her eggs, but until
recently I hadn’t known a fowl try
the same trick. The,old Black Orpington
had been laying behind the shed, and
each day one egg was taken and one left
as encouragement for further effort. After
about a fortnight of it the old hen de-
cided to go broody, and was put into a
small yard for a few days. Soon after
•she began laying again in the same place,
and when about a dozen eggs had been
collected the nest egg was also taken lest
it again give the chook family notions.
Next day, passing the spot, I noticed a
small heap of green grass, and, brushing
it aside, discovered the freshly-laid egg.
As the nearest grass was some feet away
and no scratch marks were evident, I’m
still wondering how the old schemer
managed it
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: One of the
peculiar things about the north-east coast
of New Guinea is the numerous little-
known, off-lying islands which arc still
active volcanoes. Many of them aren’t
billed on maps as volcanoes, and it is only
when you explore them and see them
belching wisps of smoke that you realise
they are one of a long seam of active
craters that stretch from Rabaul to Japan.
Recently, 70 miles east of Madang, at
wild 60 - mile -in - circumference Long
Island, I saw something new in the way
of volcanoes. Everywhere the imper-
fectly charted, verdantly-wooded shores
rise steeply for five or six hur J red feet
except at each end, where they go on to
form 4500 ft.-high sharp peaks. In be-
tween these peaks, and stretching lor
some miles on the top of the hills, is a
huge fresh-water lake, and out of the
southern half of it rises the low lip of
a crater giving off blue smoke. My native
guide explained that the island ‘ goes
bump, bump, sometimes plenty too
much,” but it hadn’t erupted for many
years. Incidentally, I can’t understand
why, such an admirably watered and fer-
tile island isn’t more populated. There
are only two villages on the s.-e. side, con-
taining 300 natives, yet wild pigs, bush
fowls and reef-life abound.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Most extraordinary
example of camouflage encountered by
our patrol in N.Q. was the method
adopted by the pretty little brownish
masked finch (confined to N.Q. scrubs) to
disguise her eggs. Before she starts to
lay her eggs the bird collects several
pieces of charcoal about the same size
as the eggs, rounds them off with her beak
and places them in the nest. The eggs,
when laid, soon become discolored
through contact with the charcoal, thus
deceiving nest-robbers. One nest we
examined contained three eggs and two
pieces of charcoal, the latter so perfectly
shaped that at first glance it was impos-
sible to distinguish them from the eggs.
* * * *
“Hanko”: We were trying to find old
Brindle’s calf, hidden by her somewhere
in the tussocky river paddock. Suddenly
Choom gave an excited yell. We hurried
to him —and hurriedly halted. From out
its coils a tiger-snake eyed us balefully.
“Git a stick while I keep me eye on
him,” hissed the boss. Choom and I
cast hither and yon, but neither stick nor
stone could we find. Then Choom sidled
to the boss and handed him a pocket-
knife combination of three blades, glass-
cutter, tin-opener and miniature marlin-
spike. The boss fiddled a bit with the
assortment of implements, then let fly with
the hardware. It was a humdinger shot.
The spike pierced the tiger’s shovel-
shaped head and a half-cocked blade
almost? severed what would be its midriff.
The boss was strutting away like a cut-
lunch commando when Brindle, wild-eyed
and slavering, tossed him into a patch of
nettles. “Calf be close about, sir*” Choom
cautioned. “Moind tha doan’ step on
little ’un.”
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”: The day before the
opening of the duck season the township
sportsmen assembled at the pub and con-
spired to put a period to “Dagger”
Datton’s persistent habit of winning the
annual quid-in sweepstake for the biggest
first-day bag. That night the conspirators
got “Dagger” tight on o.p. rum, and
after putting him to bed they placed a
bottle of the same potent tipple in his
coat pocket. “Dagger” didn’t awake next
morning till long after the shooters had
departed. Completing a hasty toilet, he
discovered the rum, took a long, gurgling
swig, then, grabbing his gun and cart-
ridges, went after the others. “Dagger”
lurched along, every now and then taking
a sip or two from the bottle. By the time
he came to a reed-fringed waterhole he
felt so fuddled and drowsy that he laid
his gun on the cartridge bag, with the
muzzles pointing across the water, and
then flung himself down among the reeds.
It was nearly sundown when “Dagger”
opened his eyes again. As he fumbled
about for the bottle a whirring noise
startled him. He jumped up, accidentally
stubbed his toe against the triggers and
discharged both barrels just as a flock
of black duck, that had risen in a com-
pact mass from the waterhole, got in
the path of the spreading shot. That
night “Dagger” arrived back at the town-
ship with a record bag of birds —and
scooped the pool for the fourth successive
year.
* * * *
“Wonk”: “Kelly’s Hat” (B. 11/7/’45)
is conect, for no rational owner would
allow top-heavy posts in his new fence.
As for rotting in the ground, this mainly
depends on the quality of the posts. In
an old fence one will find some of the
posts rotted at ground-level and their
neighbors sound as a bell. What largely
influences the quality of post timber is
the ground in which the tree grows. In
a heavy clay subsoil, for instance, a grey-
boA win produce solid, close-grained
wood ideal for posts, whereas the same
variety taken from granite country, though
straight in the grains and easier to split,
generally runs a pipe and lasts nowhere
near so long as the clay-country posts.
Tire’s a certain amount of truth in the
old claim that the poorer the soil the
ucuti me umber, for undoubtedly the
slower growth produces a tougher and
better-lasting fence post.
* * ♦ •
“Blime”: Bob glanced towards the
tea billy, yelled to Bailey that it was
boiling and made for his lunch. Pres-
ently Bailey came up. He flopped on
the ground, poured himself a mug of tea,
ana, taking a tin from his coat pocket,
began spooning in the sugar. “Cripes,
Bob, these shortages are crook, eh?” he
remarked, placing the tin carefully to
one side. “Just one perishin’ thing after
another t’ go without. ’Course, war-time
rationing’s hard on all of us,” he went
on, “but y’ know, it’s the wimmin ’n’
little Kds I’m sorry for. Now, take my
missus. Always a great one for sweet
things she was, and so was the kids.
Now them kids is lookin’ real off
color, it ain’t fair, I tell y’. The
flamin’ Government oughten allow a
bloke enough sugar t’ keep his kids
healthy, anyway; don’t y’ think?’’
“Aw, I dunno ; they ain’t doin’ bad,”
defended Bob. “My kids seem t’
manage awright.” “Yair? Well I
dunno how y’ do it. Bob,” growled
Bailey, tipping the fourth spoonful
into his third mug of tea and sprink-
ling the remaining sugar on to a large
lettuce leaf. “P’raps y’ don’t use
much’s I do. Cripes, my poor little
shavers ain’t tasted sugar for munce.”
“Plane Creek”: It may be possible to
smoke a bunny out of a log, but not a
bandicoot or kangaroo-rat (B. 11/7/’45).
My experience with these cane- and vege-
table-destroyers is that they invariably
stay put until suffocated or burned to
death. The blacks must also have found
it impossible to smoke them out, for
they adopted an ingenious dodge of
cutting a wedge-shaped aperture in the
log immediately above the hiding ’coot or
rat and hauling the victim out through
the hole. Thousands of logs in this N.Q.
district show evidence of this abo.
surgery.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Andy, a well-set-up 17-year-
old youngster, was helping Joe and the
men drove a large mob of wild-eyed,
mountain-bred Herefords down the wind-
ing highway to the railway trucking
yards. The cattle baulked at a piece of
paper on the turn of a cutting, and it
took a great hullabaloo of barking dogs,
cracking whips and swearing horsemen
to get them past; then the startled mob
went tearing down the road. Andy,
riding hard to keep pace, felt his heart
contract as he saw ahead the curly-haired
daughter of a nearby cow-farmer play-
ing unsuspectingly on the roadway in the
path of the wild cavalcade of beef.
Ramming the spurs in, he forced his
mount through the weaving mass of
cattle, swerved across the leaders, swooped
low, gathered the child up and galloped to
safety. Sixteen years have passed. The
girl, now of great beauty and bail pro-
ficency, is seen on occasions to glance
wistfully up the road. Then one day
another large mob of baldies is observed
coming down in slow procession, in
charge of them a paunchy, bewhiskered
and grimy stockman. Rose, frisking near
the fence with her hard-bitten old grand-
father’s tame pekinese, recognises Andy at
a glance—he is wearing the same hat.
“Oh,” she cries In dulcet tones, “you’re
the gallant man who saved me.” She
produces a small paper bag and proffers
it. “Here, have a cough-lolly.” Pause.
“I’ve been waiting all these years to ful-
fil the solemn vow I made that day to
repay you. Anything you ask of me is
yours.” “Aw, cripes,” says Andy,
flabbergasted. Then he goes on bashfully,
indicating the toy hound, “If y’ don't
mind, I’d be pleased f’r y’ t’ save me a
pup when that bitch has a litter. The
missus’s bin breakin’ her neck t’ git one
of them things fT the kids t’ play with.
SONG OF THE MURRAY.
Ages ago when the world was new,
And hills were heaving and lizards flew,
Laughing I leapt, from shelter swept,
A minstrel, singing my lifetime through.
Mine is a lay of yellow beaches,
. Miles of sweeping timbered reaches.
Rapids tumbling, red cliffs crumbling,
Gnarled red gums where the gang-gang screeches;
Murmur of water, deep and cool,
Within a gumtree-shaded pool;
Lyric of plains and sudden rains
That wash the sky where the eagles rule;
A song of orchards and vinelands green,
Of pastures wide, the bronze wheat’s sheen;
Of misty hills, of timber mills,
Of busy towns and the bushlands clean;
A whisper of perch and fabulous cod,
Of camping grounds the black men trod,
Of moonbeams bright that make by night
My waters a silvery path to God;
A chant of barges and boats cajoled
Through fog and flood by skippers bold;
Of camel trains, of long-legged cranes,
Mysterious dawns and sunsets gold.
Forever I flow by paddock and town;
The brown land lives by my waters brown;
And they who drink at my murmurous brink
Will see their History floating down.
Victoria.
H. E. RAMSAY.


“Bo”: “Dreamy” and Long Bob were
felling a big bluegum in the gully. As
they were getting towards the end
“Dreamy” thought he heard a hissing
sound issuing from some bracken about
ten yards away. He strolled over, stared
for a while at the bracken and, following
his usu:.l custom, was soon lost in con-
templation of nothing in particular. Even
the ominous cracking as the tree left the
perpendicular didn’t arouse him. His
mate’s horrified shout of warning came
toolate for “Dreamy” to act, for by then
the 120-footer was rushing straight
towards him at breakneck speed. As
the great tree hit with a crash which re-
verberated along the gully Long Bob
rushed over, white of face and almost
sick with anticipation of the awful sight.
He reached the tree to see “Dreamy”
standing exactly in the centre of the first
fork, completely imprisoned but with
not a scratch on him. “Dreamy”
looked across the wall of timber at his
mate, then along the branching trunk to
the welter of battered branches at the
top of the tree. “Gripes,” he drawled
calmly, “that’s the quickest fencin’ job
I ever see!”
* * * a*
“Cape Voltaire”: The Australian is an
unimaginative eater. With our tropic seas
swarming with edible turtle, even Syd-
ney and Melbourne know little of the
delights of turtle soup or the succulence of
calapash and calipee, the upper and lower
turtle steaks. Distance in conveying the
shellbacks alive to market should be no
obstacle; our forefathers two centuries
ago solved the problem of conveying live
turtle per sailing ship all the way from
the Caribbean Sea to London. About the
longest a turtle will live out of water is
four days. So just as soon as possible the
big greenback was headed up, alive, in a
large barrel. This, stowed with hundreds
of others in the hold, was turned on its
side, the large bunghole in its waist being
kept upwards. Through this hole the
barrel was filled nearly full with sea
water. And so the turtle, though con-
fined, had both its native element and
space to which to rise and breath. Every
second day a hose provided a freshen-
ing of, the water. No food was required,
the turtle, like all reptiles, being capable
of an extended fast.
“Fancar”: Apparently in the argu-
ment anent the turtle it has generally been
accepted that the slow-moving, ground-
bound gent, has no voice at all. Yet 110
years ago Darwin on his Beagle voyage
closely observed the Gallapagos tortoise.
Of it he wrote:
During the breeding season the male
utters a hoarse roar or bellow which, it is
said, can be heard at the distance of more
than a hundred yards. The female never
uses her voice, and the male only at this
time, so that when the people hear this
noise they know that the two are together.
Darwin went on to say that the Gala-
pagos tortoise was believed to be deaf. It
did not seem to hear footsteps and gave
a deep hiss only when a person over-
took it.
“How're your teeth ?”
“Right as pie — they're in me kitbag !”
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: Mrs. O’Quiver
begged the loan of Outback Occasions
to relieve the family after a surfeit of
Uncle Tom’s Cabin. Young Tim O’Quiver
had borrowed Uncle Tom from the
school library and was all for returning
it when he discovered its melancholy
nature, but his dad stepped in and in-
sisted on reading a chapter or so nightly
to the assembled family. According to
Mrs. O’Quiver, the session usually ended
with Dad, Mum and the six school chil-
dren all weeping, and the two below
school age bawling in sympathy. “What-
ever made him go upsetting you all like
that?” I asked. “Oh,” Mrs. O’Quiver
replied. “Pat wanted to show the kid’s
how grand it was to be free and happy.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Few birds are more maligned
than the pallid cuckoo, due mostly to the
confidence trick it plays on other mem-
bers of the feathered world in the matter
of bringing up its ravenous offspring.
Yet the viticulturist swears not at, but
by, the rascal, for ther„e seems to be no
other bird that is willing to tackle the
hairy vine caterpillars which otherwise
would periodically ravish the crop.'
♦ * * *
“Rover”: No need to go to Borneo
to see Nepenthes, the pitcher plant (B.
18/7/’45).( It grows in parts of the Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.) and locally is
known as the “Dutchman’s Pipe Orchid
because of the curiously-shaped pitcher
or “jug,” complete with lid, at the end of
each of its leaves. Some of the ‘‘jugs'’
measure up to seven inches in depth and
four inches across; they have an over-
hanging inturned rim, which effectively
bars the exit of victims.
“Keep trailing him , Fred—l've got to get this ammo . permit signed
by a J.P."
“Dickie Beach”: “What’s the explana-
tion for Murray fish always moving up-
stream?” asks “Jemalong Jim” (B.
18/7/’45). Quite a simple one: like all
other fish, except such freaks as ceratodus,
they’re liable to be drowned if they don t.
The gill-gear by means of which fish
transfer the dissolved oxygen from the
surrounding water into their bloodstream
is not designed to work in reverse. When
swimming downstream they must travel
faster than the current or the water will
not pass through the gill-plates in the
right direction, and if it does not the fish
suffocates, i.e., is drowned. Other minor
reasons are that fish do not fancy un-
necessary work any more than we do,
and therefore swim as slowly as the im-
mediate occasion requires, and that an
upstream course enables them to see and
collect floating food more easily.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Re “Zake’s” note (B.
4/7/’45) on the gull and the shag. On
south-west W.A. estuaries it is a common
sight in spring to see thousands of shags
in a flock doing over acres of water at a
time, snapping up the millions of tiny
whitebait. Close behind them will be
hundreds of gulls picking up the scraps,
the gull, of course, being incapable of
diving and catching the little fellows for
himself. And there is no sign of hostility
on the part of the shags nor of timidity
on the part of the gulls.
$
“Physalia”: Aussie servicemen in the
Philippines and islands to the southward
thereof have chances of picking up a
nice wad for nothing if they are inter-
ested in sea shells. Thence have come
all of the 22 known specimens of the
Glory of the Sea Cone (Conus gloria-
maris), which sell at anything up to £5O
according to condition, and are sought
after by museums, dealers and collectors.
Though much more graceful in shape
and pattern, it somewhat resembles the
Stinging or Cloth of Gold Cone (Dario-
conus textile ) of our northern waters, and
it is well to be cautious in handling live
specimens of any cone shell. A young
man stung by one (Rollus geographicus)
at Hayman Island (N.Q.) died before he
could be got to hospital. Most of the
more recent finds of Glory of the Sea
have been made in Ceram, but three per-
feet specimens were obtained over a cen-
tury ago from a reef off Juena Island in the
Philippines, later destroyed by an earth-
quake. The only specimen known to
have been brought to Australia was one
from Ceram, bought by Dr, James Cox,
of Sydney, for his private collection and
sold by him to a London dealer. It is
now in the American Museum of Natural
History.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”; “C.A.1.” (B. 4/7/’45)
pins a new one up when he suggests that
a rough end on sawn timber denotes a
moisture-resisting grain. When taught
timber-classing I learned, and found to
be correct, that a rough end from the
meant aged, mellow timber, suit-
able for high-grade joinery and cabinet-
work ; and the stuff most likely to rot
when placed in the ground. Vice versa,
smooth-ended timber meant wood just
mature, close and hard in the grain, suit-
able for fence posts and sleepers. I refer
only to jarrah and other Westralian
timbers.
V * * *
“Nor’ - west”; If “Bogaduck” (B.
4/ 7 / ’45) really can see sizeable fish swim-
ming within stone-throw, but beyond
spear-strike, let him try the kylie, or
boomerang as some call it. Nor’-west
blacks for ages have fished by throwing a
heavy kylie at the schools, getting good
results most of the time. An iron kylie
is even better; one can be cut with a
chisel from thin sheet-iron. Failing that
a length of stout hoop-iron bent at a
suitable angle does very well. Such a
kylie chops through the water like a
sword. Thrown into the middle of a
school of mullet it never misses a kill.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: As the days lengthen
towards spring the vast seabird colonies
on a myriad Barrier Reef islets, stirred
by the mating urge, provide a picture
which lives for ever after in the memo-
ries of those who have witnessed it.
Dense clouds of beating wings whirl
overhead, flocks land or take off inces :
santly, harsh cries rend the air without
pause, the nauseating scent of guano
comes down the wind. Ashore, eggs lie
about the surface everywhere with no
trace of even an attempt at nest-making.
Yet experiment has proved that every
mother bird knows her own egg, and will
return unerringly to it after being taken
far out of sight of it before being re-
leased. Are fresh eggs needed for the
galley? Mark off a space, remove all
eggs from it overnight, and pick up the
new-laids next morning. Later in the
season the parent birds will toil inces-
santly in search of fish to bring home
and thrust down the gaping throats of
their squawking offspring. As summer
comes in they will teach them the busi-
ness of fending for themselves. Then,
too, flocks of migrating strangers will
arrive, many of them from within the
Arctic Circle itself, often so exhausted
that they can be picked up unresistingly.
But let no enthusiastic amateur ornitholo-
gist plan a post-war holiday on such an
islet —the unceasing noise, the smell,
above all the innumerable hungry bird-
lice render such avian cities totally un-
suitable for human residence.
• * * #
“Creel”: We were fishing from a
dinghy near a reef to the south of Lizard
Island, N.Q., when a 4ft. alligator pike
shot from the water and sped off, skim-
ming the surface, his stout body held as
stiff as a poker and inclined forward at
an angle of about 60 degrees. He travelled
fully 100 yards before he submerged, and
we estimated his speed to be at least
40 m.p.h. When travelling out of the
water the fish is apparently propelled by
rapid movements of the tail, which re-
mains beneath the surface. Whether the
pike makes these trips for fresh air or
to escape from enemies is not known. A
vicious brute, the fish is formidably
armed with long jaws equipped with
razor-sharp teeth. Largest we hooked
was a three-footer, but we found it poor
eating.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: About the
queerest snake trick I’ve seen is that of
the New Guinea “coil” snake. Walking
along a botanical-garden-like jungle road
beside the coast near Cape Gourdon
(north-east N.G.), I noticed ahead of us
a blackish-brown snake about 4ft. long.
As we approached it the longtail, instead
of retreating, rolled himself into a perfect
ball with the head and tail somehow to
the inside. I tried in vain to unravel it
with a stick, but my native boy only'
shook his head and said “That pfella
snake ’e makem ball belong ’im strong
too much.” The only thing the reptile did
was emit a white fluid, though the boongs
class the contortionist as harmless. Harm-
less or not, that unsuspecting brown ball
is the best effort at snake camouflage 1
know. \
GOOD-BYE, MY WARRIOR.
He fell at Balik Papan, a bushman brown and
His resting place, his loved one, two thousand
miles between.
She faced the burning north-wind, the drafting
yards behind, , .
“Good-bye; good-bye, my warrior, she whis-
pered to the wind. , .
Jodhpured and spurred and booted, a blue shirt
on her breast, . f
Again she read the message, this woman or
the west.
A rust-roan pawed beside her. His eyes with
flame were lit. .
He shook the sweat-drops from him, and
champed the silver bit.
She turned toward the stallion and stroked his
noble head;
“Oh, never more you’ll see him; he’s dead, old
boy, he’s dead!”
Close by three bushmen waited in silence, loath
to leave;
Always they grieve most deeply those who in
silence grieve;
Above the yarded cattle the dustwrack veered
like smoke, t
And still she stared to northward, and then
once more she spoke: *
“These things, the steers, his horses, he loved •
but yet he went;
And now each hill, each valley, shall be his
monument.
He left us here to guard them, through fire
and flood and hail;
He sold his life to save them, and now we must
not fail. ..
“And we must draft these bullocks before the
sun goes down.”
They took her hand and shook it, those bush-
men gnarled and brown.
She mounted with the pain-knives still searing
at her breast —
Oh, but of steel they’re moulded, the women
of the west.
She wheeled the rust-roan stallion whose eyes
with flame were lit,
The sweat-stains dusked his shoulders, the foam
was on his bit.
She faced the burning, north-wind, the restless
steers behind —
“Good-bye; good-bye, my warrior;” she whis-
pered to the wind.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


Welcome relief from
nagging
H
■■
if** i
H
« ?«. :
mm
Mm
mt
m*
iii*
lluift/ii
G/N PUIS
WEAK KIDNEYS are often the
cause of nagging Backache.
Assist the Kidneys in their action, . .
help them to become stronger
.. . more active. . . and free from
inflammation by taking a course of
GIN PILLS.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly on
the Kidneys, stimulating their action,
relieving inflammation. Gin Pills
quickly help the Kidneys to work
normally again, so that they filter out
accumulated poisons from your body,
bringing welcome relief from nagging
Backache.
DR. SHELDON'S
27 pills 1/9 —60 pills 219.
mm mm
■ M SE I O «* t
I/e/tf
BOOKS
VIOOIS
<3
/S
00
M
U/ot
1k
k!
&dC
di
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
June
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
MEMOIRS OF A MOUNTAINEER
CLOUDLESS MAY ... ._
BEING MET TOGETHER _
CRICKET COUNTRY
THE SMALL BACK ROOM
CLUNY BROWN - .._
SO MANY LOVES _
THE RAZOR’S EDGE
F. Spencer Chapman
Storm Jamieson
Vaughn Wilkins
Edmund Blunder
Nigel Balchin
Margery Sharp
. Leo Walmsley
Somerset Maughan:
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MTHS £l-17-6 12 MTHS £3-15-0 (inc.)
MORGAN'S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of "World Books." I enclose £ / /
My Name is.
Address
WORLD
BOOKS"
is a book club
which releases a
selected modern
book in a special
De-Luxe Edition
to members each
month. These
books cost only
5/9 each, ir-
respective of the
regular selling
price of the
book, cyid are
members' own
property.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Vital R.N.
[The item here given is an extract from a
Nineteenth Century and After’ signed editorial
by F. A. Voigt, who, incidentally, lately was
awarded £lOOO damages and costs in a libel
action against London “News Chronicle.’
Voigt, who complained that an article in the
“News Chronicle''’ had impugned his patriotism
and imputed that he was a mischief-maker in
war-time in the affairs of the United Nations,
was referred to by the trial Judge as having
been “an implacable enemy of Germany” and
“one of the first to draw attention to the
dangers and horrors of the Nazi regime.”]
One thing must be said, not to
exalt one of the three great Allies *above
the other two, but as a fact which con-
stitutes the principal lesson of the war.
It is possible to argue whether sea-power,
land-power or air-power was decisive.
But without sea-power, and, therefore,
without the British Navy, no decision of
any sort would have been possible—
except by the enemy.
It may even be argued that every major
decision was achieved by land-power, or
by land-power in conjunction with air-
power, and that in every one of these
decisions sea-power was but an accessory.
But without sea-power land-power and
air-power could have decided nothing,
would, indeed, have been wholly ineffec-
tual against the armed might of Germany.
Had it not been for the British Navj
England would have been defeated in
1940—and the war would have been over.
Without it the United States could have
taken no part in the European campaigns.
Without it no coalition against the com-
mon foe would have been possible.
The Allies could afford to lose battles
on land and in the air. They could afford
to lose whole campaigns. Great Britain
could afford to lose almost the whole of
her army in 1940. She could endure the
presence, night after night, of German
bombs over her principal cities. Russia
could afford to lose her most productive
agricultural and industrial regions, the
almost complete elimination of her air
force and the immobilisation of her fleet.
The United States was not similarly tried,
except at Pearl Harbor. But it could
have afforded similar disasters.
What none could afford—neither Great
Britain (which is obvious), nor Russia,
nor the United States (which is less obvi-
ous but no less true) —was the defeat of
the British Navy, Had the British Navy
been but weakened, and not even de-
stroyed, in one big action, the war would
have been lost —for all and irretrievably.
In Praise of Infantry.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article by
Field-Marshal Viscount Waved.)
My attention was lately called by a dis-
tinguished officer to the fact that, whereas
in official correspondence and in the press
it is the practice always to use initial
capital letters in referring to other arms
of the service— e.g., Royal Armored
Corps, Royal Artillery, etc. —tile infantry
often suffered the indignity of a small “i,”
I had not, I admit, noticed the small
“i” myself, nor would it have worried
me greatly if I had. But I do feel
strongly that the Infantry arm (with a
capital “I”) does not receive either the
respect or the treatment to which its im-
portance and its exploits entitle it. This
may possibly be understandable, though
misguided, in peace; it is intolerable in
war.
Let us be clear about three facts. First,
all battles and all wars are won in the
end by the infantryman. Secondly, the
infantryman always bears the brunt. His
casualties are heavier, he suffers greater
extremes of discomfort and fatigue than
the other arms. Thirdly, the art of the
infantryman is less stereotyped and far
harder to acquire in modem war than that
of any other arm. The role of the aver-
age artilleryman, for instance, is largely
routine; the setting of a fuse, the loading
of a gun, even the laying of it are pro-
cesses which, once learnt, are mechanical.
The infantryman has to use initiative and
intelligence in almost every step he moves,
every action he takes on the battlefield.
We ought therefore to put our men. of
best intelligence and endurance into the
Infantry.
Yet the Infantry in peace or war re-
ceives the lowest rates of pay, the drab-
best uniforms, sometimes even the least*
promising of recruits ; most important of
all, it ranks lowest in the public estima-
tion and prestige. This is all wrong and
should be set right by methods more
important than a capital I,
The real front-line fighters, mounted
or dismounted, are the men who should
receive such panoply and glamor as are
accorded to this dreary business of war.
The mounted men have always had it —
prancing steeds, glittering uniforms,
sabretaches, scimitars, dolmans, leopard-
skins, and the like in the old days ; the
imposing clatter of tanks and smart black
berets in these sterner days. But the in-
fantryman, who bears the danger, the dirt
and ffie discomfort, has never enjoyed the
same prestige. .
I believe that what the Infantry would
appreciate more than anything is some
outward and visible symbol. No one
grudges the parachutist his very distinc-
tive emblem, but the infantryman is, I
will maintain, subject to greater and more
continuous, though less spectacular, risk
than the parachutist, and should certainly
have an emblem. What it should be I
must leave to others —a rampant lion,
crossed bayonets, a distinctive piping?
It can surely not have escaped notice
that nearly all our leaders who have dis-
tinguished themselves in this war have
been infantrymen—Field-Marshals Dill,
Alexander, Montgomery, Wilson ; Gen-
erals Auchinleck, O’Connor, Platt, Leese,
Dempsey and others. Last war was a
very static war, but there was a fashion
for cavalry generals ; in this war infantry
generals have shown that they can move
as fast as any.
So let us always write Infantry with a
specially capital “I” and think of them
with the deep admiration they deserve.
And let us Infantrymen wear our battle-
dress, like our rue, with a difference;
and throw a chest in it, for we are the
men who win battles and wars.
Realism on Wars.
(From an article by leading U.S. war com-
mentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
In his voluminous A Study of War,'
which should be required reading for
those who create milleniums overnight
with starry-eyed phrases, Quincy Wright
lists 24 wars fought from 1900 to 1941,
and 48 from 1850 to 1900, during the'so-
called “peaceful” nineteenth century. He
lists 15 “general wars” or world wars, in
which “with very few exceptions all the
great Powers of the fime participated”
from 1600 to 1941, or an average of one
“world” war about every 23 years.
In the nineteenth century, the century
of “little wars,’,’ the average period of
(relative) peace between great wars was
,33 years; so far in the twentieth century
the average period of peace between
world wars has been 20 years.
Mr. Wright traces the history of war
through four great stages of man’s devel-
opment —the prehuman stage, the era of
primitive man, the historic age, and the
present stage of “world-contact.”
“No general golden age of peace existed
at any stage of human history, nor did
any general iron age of war. Man was
and is a complex compound of inherited
tendencies and social conditionings, crys-
tallising at different times and places into
numerous exhibiting varying
forms and degrees of violence.”
The outcome of San Francisco, pro-
jected against such a background, assumes
new and more realistic proportions than
some of the shadowy edifices that have
been built up in the public mind. It is
a far less grandiose edifice —the realistic
one —than the dream structure that war-
weary and wishful-thinking people, hope-
ful of “permanent” peace, have con-
structed.
The international organisation born at
San Francisco, in short, is not going to
guarantee peace ; against a background
of many centuries of war no such over-
night change could be expected or hoped
for. Nothing done at San Francisco will
alter the essential nature of man—in
which are buried the complex causes of
war; nothing done at San Francisco will
eliminate or weaken nationalism or
nationalism’s competing ideologies and
economies.
War, in other words, is likely to be
with us centuries hence, long after San
Francisco has been forgotten. But to
state this, to understand the long history
of man’s inhumanity to man and to
realise that war is likely to be a part of
human history for a long time to come,
is not defeatism, is not cause for despair
or frustration nor cynicism or a revulsion
against man himself. The guiding star
still shines; it cannot be attained in a
century or two. But it is nevertheless
worth struggling forward, pushing on; it
would be worth the effort even if we
knew.the star was a mirage. .
N.Z. Air Record.
(From an article by N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
correspondent Gill Robb Wilson.)
Having heard Generals MacArthur and
Kenney praise New Zealand airmen in
the highest terms, I came to New Zealand
to learn how so small a nation could pro-
duce so great and efficient an air arm.
Its squadrons have fought on every front,
have flown every type of aircraft in every
type of operation.
New Zealand air strength began with
the vision of the Government and the
people concerning the nature and utility of
air power in modern war. When the war
began New Zealand, for size and popula-
tion, led the world in number of airports
and airmen. Five hundred of her pilots
were already in England ready to defend
it when Germany struck, “Cobber” Kane,
of New Zealand, was the first ace of
the United Nations. Wing-Commander
Isherwood and his outfit were the first to
go to Russian assistance when Hitler in-
vaded the Soviet Union. It was Air Vice-
Marshal Park, of New Zealand, who com-
manded the immortal defence of Malta
against the Luftwaffe. It was a New
Zealander who first made night-carrier
landings, and another New Zealander
who made Spitfires work as carrier-based
’planes when experts denied that possi-
bility. More than 31,000 New Zealanders
have bombed Germany and Japan in this
war. I could cite countless cases of bril-
liant work by these boys, but that is
unnecessary.
The point I wish to make is not what
the boys themselves did, but what those
behind them did to make a New Zealand
air force possible. It is significant that
the first New Zealand squadron to go to
England to help the mother country was
not a fighter but a bomber squadron. As
far back as 1938 New Zealanders knew
that,long-range hitting power was the
essence of air power.
Nor was the New Zealand Government


I 1
ill?
ms
I'
THE WHICH WHY'AND
WHENOF PAINTING-
QUESTION: WHICH brand of painf has
the Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
used at the Sydney Showgrounds for the
last twenty years?
ANSWER: At the Showgrounds, all
the buildings belonging to the Society
are painted with Taylor's Prepared Paint.
QUESTION: WHY does the Maritime
Services Board officially approve Taylor's
Prepared Paint for wharf and warehouse
maintenance?
ANSWER: Only a first-grade paint
such as Taylor's can stand up to sea-
air. salt-spray, smoke and dust.
QUESTION: WHEN should a property
owner paint his house?
ANSWER: Every five years is enough
—if he uses three coats of Taylor's
Prepared Paint.
PREPARED
PAINT
Three coats of Sirst-grade
paint give 5 years' full protection.
Made by Taylor's Paints Pty. Ltd.. Sutherland Ave«
Paddington, N.S.W. TeL FA 2125.
PAINT SUPPLIERS TO ARMY, NAVY AND AIR FORCE.
At authorised Taylor's
Paint agents you will
find LIMITED STOCKS
available of:
TAYLOR'S PREPARED
PAINTS TAYLOR'S
ROOF PAINTS
MATTE WATER
PAINTS TAYLOR'S
KALSOMINE
TAYLOR'S SPIRIT
STAINS —SILVAR
ALUMINIUM
ENAMEL
•
No civilian stocks yet
available of:
VARLAC QUICK-
DRYING ENAMELS—
MIRAGLOSS QUICK-
DRYING ENAMELS
TAYLOR'S ENAMEL
FLOOR STAIN
TAYLOR'S PAVING
ENAMEL
* BEST BY THE
FIVE YEAR TEST
WORLD FOLLOWS BtUTAKNS LEAD
THE
&
*•#72
m
Slim
■&■
->'T
•f .*.•
PENICILLIN V
DISCOVERED by Sir Alexander Fleming and developed by'
Sir Howard Florey two British Scientists Penicillin
has already achieved wonders in preserving human life, and in
healing wounds which might have proved fatal without its help.
Even so. the full extent of Penicillin's power to help mankind
has not yet been disclosed. The discovery of this new drug
marks yet another triumph for British brains and energy, and
adds one more chebt of gratitude to the long and lengthening list
of benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world
In a widely separated sphere of, activity, another development
deriving from British enterprise has changed and improved the
standards of comfort for millions of people the world over
the development of rayon, and the lovely fabrics made from it,
by Courtaulds. This remarkable textile has steadily appreciated
in beauty and serviceability during the half century since its
inception Research and experiment continue to reveal new
uses and new methods of manufacture which will make post-war
rayons even more attractive, more varied and more useful than
those you admired before the war.
The present unavoidable scarcity of rayons will pass with the
coming of peace, and Courtaulds, released from onerous war
duties, will be free to implement their plans for new and different
products designed to enhance their own and Britain's name as
originators and leaders in the post-war world.
SIR ALEXANDER
FLEMING
of (he Inoculation Depart-
ment of St. Mary's Hos-
pital, London , who dis-
covered Penicillin the
new healer. The illustra-
tion above shows one
stage in the complicated
process of producing
Penicillin.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England. ,
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London. England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre, Fibres, Ltd., Coventry. England
left to lead the way in foresight on avia-
tion. The average citizen understands its
implications. By public subscription a
Spitfire squadron was raised and put into
combat. New Zealand was the first
nation to establish a pre-flight educational
programme.
Two of the bases I visited are among
the most beautiful airports I have seen
anywhere on earth. New Zealanders see
the great advantage of private ’plane
ownership, and because of this fact and
the high purchasing power of New Zea-
landers I foresee a good private ’plane
market here. A fine domestic transport
system exists even now, and the high per-
capita wealth will support it without sub-
sidy in peace time.
Fundamentals of Peace.
[Condensation of a speech by Associate
Justice Jackson, of the Supreme Court of the
United States, addressing the American Society
of International Law. The exceptionally well-
informed N.Y. “Times*’ Washington corre-
spondent said that “many think the speaker may
one day be Chief Justice of the United States-”
He is prosecuting counsel for the U.S.A. in the
war-criminals trials .]
The world (Associate Justice Jackson
said) cannot be remade “by a single
document, or a single conference, in a
single decade, or even in a single cen-
tury.” As Woodrow Wilson said in 1919,
From India through Tibet there
is a difficult caravan trail, 1400
miles long, which leads into the
desert land of Sinkiang, the west-
ernmost province of China. On
this tortuous track, an ancient route
winding through the mountains
that form the roof of the world,
there are 30,000 pack horses in use.
They transport into China such
goods as tyres, auto accessories,
wire, cotton fabrics and medicine.
The charge for carrying a load that
can be placed on one horse is $2OO
in gold or the equivalent, which is
a small fortune in central Asia. The
use of this supply route indicates
that the transport facilities of the
Stilwell road and the pipe line
which parallels it have by no means
solved the supply problems of
China. This being true, there should
not be excessive optimism over re-
ports of Chinese military actions.
There is no doubt an improvement
in the military picture in China,
due in some measure to the open-
ing of the Stilwell road and pos-
sibly also to a decision of the
Japanese to withdraw part of their
forces to their citadel north of the
Yellow River, but the essential
facts are that the Japanese still are-
strong and the Chinese still are
weak. — N2Y. “Herald Tribune.”
“You cannot in human experience rush
into the light.” But unless there can be
devised “instruments of adjustment, ad-
judication and conciliation so reasonable
and acceptable to the masses of people
that future Governments will have always
an honorable alternative to war” all
other p'eace-keeping machinery will fail.
International law —basic among these
instruments —has been handled exclu-
sively by lawyers and by a too exclusive
group of lawyers, through no fault of
their own. So it must be brought “out
of the closet, where Wilson found it,”
and be impressed on the public conscious-
ness everywhere. The free peoples are
readier for this than ever before, actu-
ally in advance of the professionals.
They are prepared, if their leaders really
lead them, to accept courts as bodies
which neither serve nor control policy,
and have a duty toward truth and fact
that rises above duty to nations, Govern-
ments, classes and parties.
But the enemy adopted, and even
some allies and neutrals are leaning
toward, the contrary concept, and think
that courts should reflect and assist the
interest that created them or their mem-
bers. Therefore, the future international
courts must be founded firmly on the
higher—and to us native —philosophy if
the American people are to be expected
to permit them to settle controversies.
These courts must not decide matters of
policy, or political questions; only those
that are really “justiciable,”
But “the ease with which men thought-
lessly fall into step” with the contrary
view “is strikingly illustrated by the atti-
tude of many people toward the trial of
war criminals.”
If the prospect of peace will not be
damaged by the risk of creating a “myth
of martyrdom” among countrymen of
these criminals they should be executed.
But such decisions should be military
and political, not reached through forms
of judicial procedure. So-called judicial
trials, which would be used merely to
carry out military and political policy
already settled, would be farcical and
would destroy confidence in law and the
courts.
Trials of war criminals in good faith
need not be bound by problems of juris-
diction and existing law, as ordinary
trials are. But no one should be brought
before “anything that is called a court
if you are not prepared to establish his
personal guilt..,. ..and if you are not will-
ing to hear everything relevant that he
has to say in his defence and make it
possible for him to obtain evidence from
others.” This, of course, involves the
risk of making such trials “sounding
boards for the defence.” But no one
should be subjected to the judicial form
“if you are not willing to see him freed
if not proven guilty.”
There is no need for a trial of a war
criminal whose punishment has been pre-
viously determined. And the result
would be disrespect for courts and law,
including the international code by
which the world should be guided.
Courts to decide “justiciable” differ-
ences between nations are criticised for
lacking sanctions of enforcement of de-
cisions. But the modern history of Ger-
many has proved that the laws of nations
may not be violated with impunity.
Twice Germany’s disregard of these laws
has called “into being an ad hoc force”
for vindication. Twice it has been proved
that “nothing disintegrates power like
lawlessness, nothing makes force so
effective as the sentiment of people that
it is somehow defending the right and is
exercised in harmony with the higher
moral values.”
But when that force has put down law-
lessness all nations must be prepared
to have law “sometimes operate against
what would be our national advantage.”
That is far less disastrous than the arbi-
trament of war.
In brief, said Justice Jackson, unless
these beliefs and principles animate the
victors and the peace-makers wars will
break through alliances and leagues.
New League Voting.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
Under the old League of Nations the
Great Powers which were members of
the League were all permanent members
of the Council. Substantive decisions of
the Council could be taken only by
unanimous vote of all its members,
whether permanent or not. Each of the
Great Powers, therefore, could always
veto action under the set-up of the old
League. The situation will be no different
in this respect under the plan proposed
for the new League. The permanent
members of the new Security Council —
that is, the Big Five —will continue to
exercise individually the same kind of veto
power which they exercised individually
at Geneva. It is not in this respect but
in another way that the situation will be
changed: the smaller nations which are
members of the new Security Council
will not have the same power of indi-
vidual veto which they enjoyed in the old
Council at Geneva. The change may be
stated this way : the authority of the
Small Nations has been curtailed, rather
than the authority of the Great Nations
enlarged.
This change is made in the interest of
getting prompter and more effective action
than was possible under the old system of
absolute unanimity The new plan pro-
vides that when some step beyond the
discussion stage is under contemplation
the decision must have the approval of
all five of the Great Nations which are to
be permanent members of the new
Security Council, plus the approval of at
least two of the six smaller nations which
will have non-permanent status on the
Council. i s
Two points, in particular, are worth
noting here. First, the Great Powers
cannot, by themselves and on their own
say-so, make a decision involving en-
forcement action ; they must make a case
for such action good enough to win the
support of at least two of the six smaller
nations on the Council. Second, any five
of the smaller nations on the Council
can, by agreement among themselves,
exercise a “veto power” of their own over
any proposed action of the Great Powers.
This plan is admittedly a compromise
—a compromise between efficiency on
one side and democracy on the other.
There is no magic in it. It will solve no
problems automatically. But it promises
to work well enough—on the all-import-
ant assumption that the Big Five them-
selves are able to co-operate in good
faith and friendliness in the interests of
peace and order.
Alternatives for Russia.
(From "United States News:”)
Basically the answer to the question
of the post-war organisation of Europe
and of the Far East lies with Russia.
The alternatives are these:
Co-operation,' in which Russia opens
Eastern Europe and her own borders to


Qua!
.X.'- ..
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. ♦ . . Their judg-
ment has made fflriiHater (Elotlf the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(firuaaiirr (ttlotlf is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
tS
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Crusader CM)
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Jobless—
WHEN WAYGOOD-OTIS
TAKES OVER YOUR
LIFT MAINTENANCE
Time and his accomplices, Wear and Tear, out of work? Wisliful
thinking? It need not be . . . and the way to keep these rascals
jobless so far as your lift installation is concerned is to embark upon
an intelligently planned programme of lift maintenance—Waygood-
Otis maintenance.
Waygood-Otis lift maintenance is engineered to anticipate faults
... to locate them and correct them before they can develop . . .
to replace parts before they can cause a breakdown and dislocate
your lift service.
If your lift is a Waygood-Otis, then isn’t it logical and sound to
expect better servicing and maintenance from the designer and
manufacturer?
Call your nearest Waygood-Otis office and learn for yourself bow
preventive engineering in tbe shape of Waygood-Otis Maintenance
—either Limited or Comprehensive Policy—can pay you dividends.
No obligation.
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. - INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE , BRISBANE , ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION
somiavs ivnioiivm Ana ihsivt qisrejs—mom own
CM/oic / rwu&idd xi&cgjtt
USE
fd
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
rather free flow of trade and travel, and
in which controls over imports and ex-
ports and over rates of exchange are
* , „ . ... io
gradually removed. If this course is
taken, Europe could return slowly to
something like its pre-war pattern, with
industries of Poland, Czechoslovakia
Northern Italy, France, Belgium and
England taking over the role that Ger-
man industry had filled.
Economic nationalism, in which Russia
will continue to operate a tightly closed
economic system, and in which Russia
will use direct controls to orient the in-
dustry and commerce of all of Europe
east of the Elbe River in Germany to-
ward Russia and away from Western
Europe. This same type of nationalism
would be worked out in Asia. Relations
with the outside world then would be on
a planned rather than on a free basis,
Western Europe would face a major prob-
lem of economic adjustment, might be
forced to turn to economic planning and
controlled trade of its own.
All of the signs to date, despite more
optimism ovdr prospects for agreement
with Russia on some political questions,
point towards Russia s choice of economic
nationalism as a basic policy. The goal
would be self-sufficiency, with purchases
abroad during the reconstruction period
aimed at the building of industries that
will permit that self-sufficiency. By tying
nations of Eastern Europe to the Russian
economy, Russia would make those
nations dependent upon her in time of
trouble *
High Cost of Presidency.
(As assessed by Chicago “Sun" Washington
staff.)
.
The expense of being President has
become a matter of real concern to Harfy
S. Truman, the first President of modest
means since the Coolidge era,
Moving from a $l2O-a-month apart-
ment into an executive mansion whose
previous occupant had sufficient private
means to waive worries about expenses,
President Truman has given no indie a-
ti°n of concern, but members of his per-
sonal staff have privately expressed a de-
termination to see that “Harry” won’t
be embarrassed about money matters.
One reason that President Truman has
not been able to lay by a rainy-day re-
serve is that, in addition to the many
ordinary demands upon a Senatorial
salary of $lO,OOO a year, he has paid
back $20,000 over the last 14 years to
creditors of his ill-fated Kansas City
haberdashery business. He refused to go
through bankruptcy, and his share of the
indebtedness was paid from his salary as
county Judge of Jackson County and as
U.S. Senator.
Now he lives in a house which requires
59 permanent and five temporary em-
ployees, which does not include the secre-
tarial and clerical staffs of the executive
offices. His housekeeping budget, as
approved by Congress, is approximately
$150,000, including $99,823 for salaries;
$21,581 for supplies and materials, in-
eluding paints (the White House is tur/i-
-ing a dingy grey from not having had a
new coat of paint since the war began),
flowers, floor wax and incidentals;
$17,706 for utility services—electricity,
gas, water—and $11,561 for “contractual
services,” such as laundry, elevator main-
tenance, rodent and insect extermination,
and a host of other things that have to
be done around a house almost 150 years
old.
The President gets $30,000 as a travel
and entertainment fund, but there are
strings attached to that. It can’t be used
for other than official dinners and recep-
tions. If the Trumans wish to entertain
a group of personal friends they have to
throw the party themselves.
Entertainment was a heavy burden
under the Roosevelt tenancy, but the
President and Mrs. Roosevelt bore it
cheerfully, even to receptions for 400
or 500 people, of which they had to pay
the cost out of personal funds. Presi-
dent and Mrs. Truman just can’t do that.
His salary is $75,000 a year, on which
the taxes will run around $44,000, leav-
ing him between $25,000 and $30,000.
Japs Tough Fighters,
[From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Harold J. Noble, who spent 20 years in Japan,
Korea and Manchuria, and saw the Japs in
action in Manchuria in 1932 and against the
Chinese in 1938. The writer has been in action
against the Japs with U.S. forces in the present
war.]
A false picture has been painted of the
Japanese forces —a picture of a fanatical
soldiery poorly led and equipped, which
fights fiercely but aimlessly, always being
destroyed by a combination of its own
base stupidity and the superior skill of our
own troops. This picture is not only in-
accurate but it is unfair to our men, who
fight successfully against a highly-skilled
foe. The truth is the Japanese are well-
trained, well-led, well-equipped, intelli-
gent fighters. They are a first-class
enemy, and it’s time we began to know this.
me grayest error in war is underesti-
mation of the enemy. Since all other as-
sumptions and plans are dependent on the
estimate of enemy capabilities, failure to
give the enemy his due is the most serious
possible error. We are too tragically
aware of the cruelty of the Japanese
soldier. Because dead Japanese on the
battlefield, skin taut over tortured faces,
buck teeth grinning in the sun, do look
like the bodies of some sub-human race,
even our combat troops tend to think of
the Japanese as a dangerous but unintel-
ligent savage. We must know, however,
that this enemy is well educated in the
normal arts of civilisation and well
trained in the arts of war. He has behind
him ancient traditions of civilised life
and a long tradition of skilled practice in
war. His face is different, his eyes are
different; even when he is dead he looks
different. But alive he is a man to whom
both the weapons of war and the aspira-
tions of peaceful life are as normal as
they are to us.
The basic reason for the Jap’s shocking
cruelty toward the weak and defenceless
lies in the difference between the tradi-
tions of the Greco-Christian civilisation
and an Oriental one not touched by the
leavening of humanitarianism. To the
Japanese a defeated man, enemy or Jap-
anese, deserves to die. To us there is a
dignity in human life which we respect
and preserve. To us the weak have an
inherent claim to our protection. To the
Japanese the weak deserve nothing. The
difference here is a cultural one, and has
nothing to do with military skill. In
judging the Japanese as soldiers we must
avoid the confusion of righteous anger ;
we must put our hatred and our con-
tempt on one side.
Elements essential to military success
are a combative spirit, sound training,
good leadership and at least adequate
equipment and supply. In addition, there
must be an accurate estimate of the
enemy situation, his strength, disposi-
tions and intentions.
Let’s consider these essentials in terms
of the Japanese. There is no combat
force in the world with a more deter-
mined fighting spirit than that of the
Japanese. The final test of such a spirit
is the test of defeat. Almost all soldiers
can maintain morale when winning, but
how do they act when the battle goes
against them? .
The Japanese soldier and sailor is de-
termined to win or die. Here is the
essence of his indoctrination and his
leadership: Fight to the end, fruitlessly
if need be, but die fighting. Actually,
this is the ideal of the soldier in all coun-
tries and in all ages.
Behind this ideal is a sound military
concept. In most battles the issue con-
tinues in doubt up to a crisis. Often the
determination to fight on, regardless of
consequences, will turn that crisis to the
advantage of the resolute spirit, and
turn defeat into victory.
The significance of Japanese battle
suicides is the hardy determination of the
mass of the Japanese that they shall
never fall alive into the hands of the
enemy. When soldiers blow out their
guts on the battlefield we tend to see the
act as futile. Were such action isolated
this view would be sound. But it is not
isolated, for it is symptomatic of the com-
bative spirit of the Japanese in battle.
These remarks are not made in praise
of the Japanese soldier. They are written
in an attempt to show just how tough an
enemy our fighting men are facing, u


books technical...
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
jiiecirmiu kusiu™'"* *uj mvo _ Yachting _ JM
Selected lists supplied free on McGILL’S AGENCY
Est. iB6O. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Consult us for your needs on
Aeronautics Engineering
Air Conditioning Farming
Automobiles Gardening
Boat Building Gliding
Building Mathematics
Business Principles Models
Carpentry . Motor Cycles
Chemistry Nautical
Diesel Photography
Vlnnfptoal H!ntrinAAr{n<r Phvsir.fi
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Built to Serve!
m
Willards are silently serving
on every battle front and home front to-day
Willard
. . . have the power to carry on!
Distributors for N.S.W.
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. OF AUST. PTY.,
LIMITED,
. 160 Casllereagh Street, Sydney.
f
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL ESERS
N
'SW International trucks, imported by the
Government to-ensure efficient road transport,
are available in capacities up to 41 tons . . .
Equipped with Two-speed rear axles; Standard, im-
ported All-steel Cabs; imported Platform, Dropsides
and Triple-purpose Stakesides bodies, also other
approved essential body types .... A “permit to
purchase” must be obtained. Application forms for
official permits, full details of prices, specifications
and all arrangements for purchase and immediate
delivery may be obtained as usual from our branch
house in the capital city of your State, and also
from any Authorized Metropolitan Distributor or
Country Local Agent for International trucks.
Ask for assistance with your application
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (.NC. IN VIC.)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATII
TRUCKS
M.T.-22C-I2
Buy and hold War
Savings Certificates
and Stamps.
the Japanese soldier and sailor were the
ignorant fanatics some writers would
have had us believe we should have been
in Tokyo a long time ago.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
To the callers who come to see him President
Truman has Little to say. He lets them do the
talking. He is proving to be a good listener,
which was something President Roosevelt defi-
nitely was not. The scope of the new President’s
calling list is a constant marvel to the While
House veterans who go back to the early Roose-
velt days. On the official calling list are from
15 to 20 names, each caller carefully budgeted
as to time. At no point in his career would
that have been possible for F.D.R. — Marquis
Childs; Washington “Post.”
* * * *
Seven hundred times since the beginning of
this year lone British R.A.F. Liberators of the
'Eastern Command’s strategic qur force have
taken off with a cargo more deadly to the Jap-
anese than high explosive and incendiary bombs.
The heavy bombers, always flying singly, were
carrying secret agents and their equipment for
delivery at pinpoint targets behind Jap lines in
Burma. This “cloak and dagger” work enlisted
tfie cream of R.A.F. crews —men who know
their job thoroughly and who take risks with-
out talking even among themselves. The Libera-
tors were specifically adapted with a chute
arrangement in place of the tail turret, and
when the moment came first the freight and
then the men parachuted into the night. Pilots
have had to land their cargoes on the summit
of a hill 4000 feet high, or in a tiny natural
clearing halfway up a jungle-covered hillside.
Much of the preparatory work for the final
liberation of Burma was carried out during the
monsoon of the summer of 1944, and the crews
performed startling flying feats in the face of
electrical storms which tossed their great air-
craft about like corks on the face of the sea.
The Japanese did not succeed in a single inter-
ception—a striking tribute to the “security
silence” observed by all. There were losses.
These were inevitable in flights o,ver country
that was either uncharted or incorrectly mapped,
and in weather which would ground every air-
craft except “special duty” flights. But in re-
lation to the value of what was accomplished,
work which could be done in no other way, the
losses were light.— Washington “Post.”
* * * «
While it is true that Japan has been de-
feated on and above the seas and has lost not
only a substantial part of her navy but' of her air
force as well, it is also true that the Japanese
armies are in a position to wage a prolonged
war on the continent of Asia. The average
American assumes that huge Russian armies
are available for the fray and forgets that it
will Cake considerable time to build air bases and
to capture certain supply routes necessary to any
operations in Asia. A glance at the map will
satisfy any observer that supply problems, ship-
ping especially, will be tremendous if war should
break out between the armies on the Manchu-
rian border. — David Lawrence: N.Y. “Sun,"
# * * *
American heiresses have poured money into
Europe’s coffers through the “marriage for
title” route in quantities that beggar anything
short of lend-lease. The last time anybody
bothered to make a concise survey, which was
about 30 years ago, there were 454 American
women, representing the cream of American
wealth, who had married titled foreigners. The
number today, of course, is far greater—some
sources say it has tripled.— Chicago “Tribune.
* * * *
Adolf Hitler, who fed the German people
the myth that he didn’t collect a cent in salary
from the German, State, obtained untold sums
by the simple expedient of issuing a semi-postal
stamp. [A semi-postal stamp is sold at a higher
price than its value for postage, the difference
going to some designated fund.] A lot of those
stamps are going to be burned now by the
Allied Military Government, but some of the
six pfennig stamps with a 24 pfennig overcharge
“For the Fuehrer” will be preserved as his-
torical curiosities. They helped finance Hitler s
pretentious private estate above Berchtesgaden
and guest houses scattered over the Reich.
Heinrich Hoffman, who was Hitler’s personal
photographer for years, said the Fuehrer had
“worked” the stamp scheme to get funds for his
personal use. — N.Y. “Times” correspondent.
* ♦ * *
Like Germany, Japan was by no means un-
mindful of the possibility of air attacks, and
began to disperse her war industries long before
Pearl Harbor. In fact, while Japan s older
industry remains concentrated in the spots that
have been bombed most frequently so tar, a
large part of her new war industries, which she
began P to build up rapidly after 1936, was
already being so dispersed and hidden, and mat
process has undoubtedly continued. That is
why, despite all attacks on Japanese aircraft
plants, Japan is still producing, according to
President Truman’s report, two to three times
as many airplanes now as at the beginning
of the Pacific war. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * u
Everyone who knows anything about the
Near East knows that you cannot touch a
single problem in that stew of Problems
without stirring up the whole mess. Today
it is more dangerous than ever, because
a new force is rising like a genu out of
the steam Like it or not, there is now an
Arab Nation in the world, a “wahda ” com-
posed of all the Arab States and ready to act
Ss a unit against an attack upon any member
of the union —N.Y. “Times correspondent..
9{C H 5 *** *
U S Air Transport Command has become
a network of huge proportions, serving the
most remote battlefronts, carrying mail, pas-
sengers and goods, evacuating wounded by the
thousand and speeding the whole tempo of the
conflict. In May the Command dismantled a
helicopter at Flood Bennett Field, flew it to Lab-
rador, where it was reassembled, and rescued
11 marooned fliers who could not be brought
out by any other means of transpoit and could
be supplied only from the air. In the 60-day
period ended May 31 a record load ot
10,000,000 pounds was transported overseas.
In addition, more than 25,000 passengers, a
third of them wounded, arrived at New York
alone from overseas. When Japan has been
defeated there is reason to hope that we shall
enter an era of lasting peace. But it would be
imprudent not to take to heart the lessons
which the Air Transport Command, as well as
combat airpower, has written in this war.
Future armies will be able not only to strike
with more powerful airplanes and with new
V-weapons of terrible range and effectiveness,
they will be capable of transporting equipment
and supplies to the ends of the earth at
or more miles an hour. The A.T.C. has indeed
opened our eyes to the smallness of the modern
world. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
One of Britain’s tramp shipping firms the
Stanhope Steamship Company —whose vessels
are known throughout the Seven Seas as
Stan ships, has revealed part of the toll ot
war taken of its ships and men. Behind the
matter-of-fact statement lies the saga of the
Stans, a thrilling story of hardship and heroism
—of men who went into the jaws of the enemy
forces who were lying in wait in the Caribbean.
Sea, of merchant sailors who volunteered to risk
the hazards of a winter passage to Archangel
and Murmansk or through Bomb Alley to reach
Malta at a time when naval escorts were tew,
of those men who tried to seize a German
prison ship and her officers, of British sailors
who were sent to long terms _ of imprisonment
because they refused to admit' that they were
beaten, of 247 masters, officers, and men of the
Stanhope Company who were immured in a
North African prison camp until we entered
Algiers two years later. The official statement
of the Stanhope Company reports that at the
outbreak of war it had a fleet of 17- vessels,
of which three have been acquired by the Gov-
ernment. Eight vessels of 71,556 tons dead-
weight were bought. Since September, 193 V,
nine vessels of 81,250 tons deadweight were
built. The company’s vessels have carried a
total war cargo of 2,878,706 tons over a dis-
tance of 2,207,338 miles. Losses have included
the Stanbrook, mined and sunk with all hands;
the Stanholme, lost with 13 lives; and the Stan-
park, sunk by the Admiral Scheer. The Parra-
combe was the first vessel to endeavor to reach
Malta unescorted in 1941. She ran Bomb Ah®Y
and then was sunk by Heinkels when only 40
miles away from the island. The Stan ships
and the Government ships which are associated
with them (being under the management of the
company) have a proud war record. Ine fol-
lowing honors have been awarded to their
officers and men up to date: D.S.C., 15,
D. 5.0., two; D.S.M., 17; 0.8. E., eight;
M.8.E., four; 8.E.M., three; Mentions in Dis-
patches, nine; and Commendations, 11.
London “Times.”
* * * *
As long as 15 months ago American fliers
reported that Japanese plantings around Rabaul
“look like Californian truck gardens,” and were
far too big to be destroyed by oiling or by
bombs. 1 hen, too, places like Wewak and
Rabaul were once valued enemy bases, and
vast stock-piled supplies provide the by-passed
Nipponese. Rabaul, now probably the most
bombed place on the earth, isn’t through as a
battle factor. It is no longer tenable as a Jap-
anese army or navy base, but Yank pilots say
the anti-aircraft fire from Rabaul is still among
the best in the Pacific and “they have plenty
of /’—Gordon Walker; “Christian Science
Monitor” supplement.
# * * *
It does not matter now that Mussolini was a
Fascist or whether the Italian people favored
or opposed his regime. Italy is a fact. Its
people are a fact. And no people, in peacetime,
forgets territory lost to friend or foe. The most
powerful force for unity among the Italian
people has, during their national existence,
been Irredentism—the recapture by Italy ot
areas taken from the Italians by other nations.
It is a matter of Italian soil. A peace which
gives Trieste to Yugoslavia or any Italian soil
to anybody sets the day for a Manin, a Gari-
baldi, a Mazzini, a D’Annunzio or a Mussolini.
If anybody believes that a people who have
persisted in the love of their own soil since
before Brutus stabbed Caesar to this day can
be broken by a war he is due for a sharp and
even startling surprise sooner than is now ex-
pected. ’ Italy persists in spite of the most
shameful historical stupidities because Italy is
not a race nor a nation; Italy is a civilisation so
deeply rooted that it persists in spite of
thing.— George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. Sun.
* * * *
Soviet Russia cannot yet complete her bal-
ance sheet. The costs of war have been enor-
mous and frightful, but the gains are already
beyond the'dreams of Peter the Great, soviet
Russia has not only a window into Europe, as
the city he called St. Petersburg on the Neva
was; Soviet Russia has extended itself into
Europe, to the Adriatic, to Berlin, into the
Balkans, parts of China and Persia, as absolute
master. And Soviet Russia s territorial advance
is not yet complete. In every country com-
munists of native birth act as servants, obeying
the whim of the master, preferring his dictates
to their own country’s interest. And they grow
more fervid each year as they clothe their actx-
vities in liberalistic slogans and as by threat,
smear and blackmail they break down the
morale of their opponents. Out of this war
Soviet Russia has made gains beyond anything
believed possible even by the most ardent ad-
mirers of Stalin or the most suspicious opponents
of his regime.— George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. Sun.


:>■ 3
,
SW
CALTEX
r'
THE
NAME IS
CALTEX
(^UnM^-4ftOUo^^-TBXACO)
CALTEX PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
OnOGAS manpower
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanoßas* blower (Fat’d), BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
sSXSSSI: 'uZjL AMrMa. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and Shipping.
“Graz.”; Six months ago it was ex-
pected that ships Europe-bound to trans-
port servicemen and arms from that
continent to the Pacific would carry
raw wool to feed the idle mills.
But the food shortage is so acute
that for the present little shipping space
is available for wool. In normal times
Europe absorbed 40 p.c. of the world’s
wool, and until these markets are re-
opened wool will continue to accumulate.
The British Government owns over
10,000,000 bales of surplus wool, and
S American countries have large stocks.,
Britain, having paid to growers nearly
15|d. per lb. for most of the pile, is un-
likely to sell for less; but production
costs are much lower in the S, Americas,
and these countries might cut prices in
order to unload their surplus. However,
production is falling. In Britain and the
U.S.A. heavier slaughterings have re-
duced sheep numbers, and wool-produc-
tion is down 20 p.c. and 8 p.c. respec-
tively. The Australian clip is 482,572
bales lighter. Smaller clips are reported
from S’Africa, Argentina and Uruguay.
No reliable statistics are likely to be
available from war-sick Europe for some
months, but starving people are not prone
to have fat jumbucks frisking around. It
will be surprising if half the pre-war
sheep population of Central Europe
escape the butcher’s knife.
Wintering Dairy Cows.
“E. 2”; In bitter weather a warm rug
is as good as a feed. This applies to cattle
as well as horses, particularly those finely-
bred for milk-production, though with a
large herd of milkers it’s not.always prac-
ticable to rug them. The alternative is
adequate shelter.
On rich land, and where clean pastures
are the order, many a farmer will think
twice about leaving an acre or two in the
rough for shelter, though it would pay
dividends in improved condition of the
stock. Access to a few acres of rough
country with plenty of cover is hard to
beat for winter and at calving time. Sheds
cost a bit in the first place, but so does-
the nucleus of a good herd and valuable
cows are worth looking after. Sheds are
worth building if no other shelter is avail-
able.
Many dairymen have their herds come
in a month or more before the spring
season commences, in the hope of getting
that much extra length of season. But
it seldom pays. There’s not much sense
in knocking the stuffing out of cows and
performing the extra work for a slight
gain or a not-unlikely loss in the season's
profits. Only an extra-early season would
justify it, and it’s better to play safe by
having the cows in good condition to
calve when a follow-on of grazing can
be relied upon.
Turkeys.
“E.H.S.”: They won’t hold their
present inflated prices after the war, but
they’ll always command a ready market
at good prices. Before the country was
overrun by foxes almost every settler
raised a small flock as a sideline, and,
although prices rarely exceeded 6s. to 10s.
“Sorry about the trap, mate, but We’re dyin' f'r a yarn with somebody."
a pair, according to sex, they always
gave a substantial profit as no expen-
diture was involved in feeding them.
They got their feed from grasshoppers,
insects of various kinds, young grass
shoots, dandelion buds, thistle and grass
seed, and were always in prime condition
when the dandelion was in bloom. They
camped wherever night overtook them,
and required no attention other than that
of keeping them on their own range.
When foxes became numerous turkey-
raising was discontinued, except where
flocks were sufficiently large to warrant
the expenditure jnvolved in feeding and
protecting them.
In California and Mexico great
numbers of turkeys are raised on natural
pasture with little expense other than the
cost of herding and protecting them from
coyotes, foxes and other predatory
animals. We have immense areas of
country where turkeys could be reared
without artificial feeding, and there
appears to be no reason why a flock
should not show a highly satisfactory
profit after providing for the cost of pro-
tection. None but the best strains should
be used for breeding, as it costs as much
to raise a scraggy mongrel as it does a
first-class bird. Young turkeys require
some attention when their feathers are in
the downy stage, and should never be
exposed to heavy rainfall before being
fully fledged.
Mistletoe.
“Outback”: In some parts of Queens-
land graziers regard the mistletoe as their
most serious menace, as thousands of
trees are being killed by the parasite. The
C.S.I.R. realises that the problem requires
investigation, but so far very little has
been done.
Round Bourke (N.S.W.) 27 years ago
mulga was being killed by mistletoe.
In 1939 the N.S.W. Forestry Commis-
sion reported that early that year mistle-
toe had taken to rosewood, and that prac-
tically all the box-trees between Dubbo
and Mendooran had mistletoe plants on
them. In 1921 the Queensland Forest
Service revealed that on Fraser Island the
eucalypts and blackbutts, also cypress
pine, were hosts for mistletoe, and the
white mangrove was often killed outright
by it. In 1936 it came out that 25 p.c.
of the riverbank gums in the Goondi-
windi district were affected, and that on
one property in the Mitchell district 70
p.c. of the mulga was either killed or
would be useless in two years. Five years
previously there was little or no infection.
And in 1936 it went on record that
bauhinia trees, a great standby for
drought feeding, were infested by mistle-
toe in the Duaringa district (Q.), and that
the deaths of eucalypts in the Harrisville
district, due to mistletoe, Were causing
alarm to beekeepers.
Despite all these warnings, nothing has
been done, although the Queensland Gov-
ernment has for some years kept a close
season for ’possums, as they were said to
keep the pest in check. In grazing country
adjoining ranges, however, foxes have
bred up during the war, and are killing
the ’possums. It is this class of coun-
try where the mistletoe is causing so much
damage, and the position will get worse
until some method of control is evolved.
In 1904 the Victorian Government de-
clared the mistletoe a noxious plant, and
by 1937 it has been almost wiped out in
that State, but the growth in Queensland
today is so widespread and the outlook
so serious that only control by scientific
means is likely to prove effective. Hitherto
attempts at biological control have not
been successful. Some of the more than
30 insect species recorded as living on
mistletoe in Queensland are voracious
breeders, the larvae of the various butter-
flies living on the foliage, but, unfortu-
nately, they keep the mistletoe down only
just so long as their own natural enemies
take to catch up with them.
Boron (or Plants.
“P.R.A.N.”: The results Claimed by
“N.H.” (B. 30/6/’45) on peas and
lucerne by lightly dusting the soil with
common borax and lightly forking it in
might be acceptable if he had grown
other, or control, plots, without borax.
Boron deficiency in a soil is most easily
detected in beetroots, A breakdown and
blackening of tissue occur near the
crown, depressed spots develop on the
surface of the root and penetrate into
the flesh, giving rise to a type of dry rot.
I speak from personal experience and
vouch for the application of borax mixed
with other fertiliser, preferably super., at
the rate of 121 b. per acre, as a means of
overcoming the trouble. That rate is
just under 18 grains troy per square
yard. On garden plots boron may be easily
applied by dissolving borax in water
and applying evenly over the bed with
a watering-can.
Using Blisters.
“Bill C.”: Before putting one on horse
or cow wash the affected part and clip
away the hair. Blisters are chiefly useful
for reducing old, chronic enlargements.
Acute swellings are best tackled with
cold packs, the aim being to reduce them.
Swellings caused by embedded foreign
bodies should, however, be treated with
hot packs to encourage the formation of
an abscess which will burst and dis-
charge the pus and the splinter.
A blister that would make little im-
pression on the crocodile-hide of a
draught horse would be unbearably pain-
ful on the thin skin of a hack. I have
seen kerosene used successfully against
many a fistula in horses, but it is an
agonising remedy. Turps can be drastic
and should not be carelessly applied.
A really good blister (if it is thought
necessary to resort to blistering) consists
of biniodide of mercury one dram, lard
loz., rubbed into the part for a few
minutes. So that the animal cannot lick
the ointment away tie it up short in a
shady place.
Trees on the Farm.
“E.H.S.”: Reafforestation of areas
where the seedlings have not been eradi-
cated is fairly easy. All that is needed
are judicious thinning out, extirpation of
badly-formed saplings and trimming dur-
ing the first three or four years to pre-
vent forking and encourage the develop-
ment of straight, clean stems. Where no
trace of the original timber remains, or
where it is intended to establish a plan-
tation on virgin land, select trees most
likely to succeed on that particular loca-
tion.
The following facts are worth remem-
bering: Redgum is confined almost ex-
clusively to alluvial and loamy flats,
swamp-gum to clayey and crab-hole
country, white and grey box'to stiff clay
and clayey gravel and red and yellow
box to loams in which clay predominates.
Red ironbark and red stringybark do well
on stiff clay, clay intermixed with gravel,
and decomposed slate. Yellow ironbark
and bloodwood succeed best on loamy
soils. Practically the whole of our big
eucalypts, bluegum, messmate, black-
butt, peppermint and mountain ash —are


df
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKO
Condition Powders and apply BAKKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
Dog Soap.
CONDITION I’OWDEIjtS l/«*
SKIN LOTION 8/fe
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/«
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO lodine
BARKO
df
\s 3/ i
li
Si
V >
LV jjA
CS
CL
—-
**%s ,
Just as “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors are
singing a paean of Victory, building airfields
and roads, feeding bombs to bombers and
clearing away the debris of war ... so are
they ploughing, sowing and harvesting mil-
lions of acres to feed the fighting men and
civilian populations of Allied and liberated
countries. Food in war plays a part as impor-
tant as or bombs, so “Caterpillar”
diesel power will help produce it with the unmatched speed, fuel
economy and minim inn maintenance that has made a standard by which
all other tractors are judged
: r- • •
<:
* *,✓ ' . ■■>'■' •.' ■■'■' > *
y.' „&*. ■ r- 4'j&h
mm
■
fMih * y. ' ;■ \
<*. •-* m <
mm
'' < \i,
**; , i
- -
iiiiii»iP
r u
mmm
Nr gj
mm
■ ■ |;
..V*
'S S S
There's only one "Caterpillar" 1
The name "Caterpillar” Is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria. Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors In the world.
mm
illar
Cate
CATERPILLAR D/eset
, f « U.s PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd.. St. Peters. Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St.. Gunnedah. ‘Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Bnaineers- Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St.. South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie .
*phone—Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone—2B39. 102 Melbourne St..
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St., Inmsfail. Phone—lnmsfail 475.
d
LYSAC.MTS
m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
11
WlijnhSw • W ■ • MdM WWBM
mm
■ £
- •.. -
11
i. ;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
W I R
, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
confined to the decomposed basalts and
granitic detritus of the higher ranges, but
biuegum and messmate attain fairly large
dimensions in parts of the foothills where
there is a good rainfall.
There is a tendency to plant pines in
preference to eucalypts, but in country
subject to bushfires pine growing is a
very uncertain proposition. One bushfire
will ruin a pine forest, but the thick,
sappy, non-resinous bark of the eucalypts
affords them ample protection from
injury.
“Hux”:_ R. H. Anderson, the N.S.W.
botanist, says there’s no set rule about
planting eucalypt seed in any one
season. Make tests and stick to the
season that favors sturdy growth. Locally-
grown seed is the best. Select well-
matured nuts from good trees. If only
a few seedlings are needed, sow in
shallow boxes; for quantities, use the
open seed bed. In either the position
should be protected from frosts, hot and
cold winds. Watch drainage. Light loams
worked to a fine tilth help root develop-
ment. Stiff clays cake hard in hot dis-
tricts; and sandy soils become infernos.
Sow seed sparingly, allowing space for
spread. Cover with a layer of loam the
same thickness as the seed. Press a piece
of board lightly over the surface to
flatten the earth down. Water lightly at
regular intervals to prevent the soil dry-
ing out.
As eucalypts suffer setbacks if their
roots are disturbed in moving to their
permanent positions, prick out into pots
instead of the open ground. Transplant
when two inches high and cut the tap
root back to approximately two inches
to develop lateral roots.
Plants are usually ready for their per-
manent positions four to eight months
after potting.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.C”: Animals on dry feed need
more water than those on roots or
grasses. Horses doing ordinary work
take six to eight gallons a day. Increase
the allowance when the weather’s hot.
Hot and tired horses won’t eat till they’ve
had a good drink. Give stable horses
sufficient time to drink ; don’t take the
bucket away the first time they raise
their heads.
“L.C.”: Using the seedbox of the com-
bine or drill and sowing every fifth or
sixth row is the quickest way to plant
the sorghum crop. Setting the drill to
sow about 301 b. of wheat gives the right
thickness. As there’s a variation in size
of grain, and in drills, test beforehand.
With maize planters use ordinary sor-
ghum plates.
“H.C.”; To make yellow axle-grease
drop 2oz. of powdered' resin into one
pint of boiling water ; boil slowly and
stir continuously till dissolved. Add 31b.
of clean tallow, beef for preference.
Simmer over a slow fire for approxi-
mately 20 min.; keep'well stirred. Addi-
tion of loz. of beeswax gives the grease
holding power.
“Hay”; Keep orchard lands free of
old stumps, roots, dead and dying trees;
they provide housing for white ants.
Where ants have attacked young trees
treat with loz. of paradichlorobenzene ;
exceeding the ounce may damage the
tree. To evict ants busy in the trunk
bore iin. augur hole into the centre of it
a little above ground level and blow in
loz, off Paris green powder; seal up with
putty or grafting wax. Small pieces of
softwood soaked for an hour in a solu-
tion of lib. arsenite of soda mixed with
Igall. of water, dried and buried around
the tree, give good results.
“E. 2”: The “Save the Forests” cam-
paign council of Victoria has the aim of
having half a million trees planted on
public reserves and private properties this
winter. Trees will be supplied free to
organised district committees for com-
munity planting, but owners of private
property will be charged for their trees.
A good start, and it will be pleasing to
see the scheme go ahead on a much
larger scale.
“B.”; Rhubarb left over three years
in the one spot grows spindly and the
crowns deteriorate. When transplanting
remove soil from roots and trim roughly,
retaining buds. Trench new positions to
depth of 2ft., and mix the soil at the
bottom with rotted stable manure. If
this is not handy, use seasoned straw
mixed with a handful of sulphate of
ammonia. When filling in around the
plant, press down firmly and mix in
blood-and-bone or fowl manure at inter-
vals at a rate of two handfuls to each
crown. Plants grown from single buds
make the best progress.
“Myrrhee”: A well-balanced mash lor
poultry can be made with potatoes used
with other foods in the proportion 501 b.
potatoes, 301 b. pollard, 151 b. bran and
51b. meatmeal.


■■
m :
V
■mmm
.
8 M
PROTECTION during Peace and War
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE,
throughout Australia.
ECKERSLEV * SDNS PTV. UD.
33-10 5 CLARENDON ST.. STH. MELBOUFTEE SC.S
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
SERVICE STATION
i
ET WON'TBE LONG NOWJ
—we hope* no matter what priority you have,
before you can get yourself a brand new Masse
Battery to put pep into that car of yours. But,
meantime, get your nearest Masse dealer to give
your present battery a fortnightly check-up. A.n
occasional re-charge may mean many extra
months of service.
‘Masse
AH I I C E R 8
ns
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
5-44
SMOKE-OH!
“Here is our special for today. We rate
its chances as second to nine.” —Racing sheet.
Write your own ticket.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Waitress, full-time, over 45, intern it
wanted.” — “S. M. Herald.”
By police or secret service?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Any hope of an old salt qualifying as
a sugar-daddy?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The truth is that women have no monopoly
on a weakness for astrologers.”— “Sunday Sun.”
When feminine hearts are a-flutter
To hear of romance through the stars,
Astrologers know how to mutter
The hooey of Venus and Mars.
With men they have other resources;
Of cunning and guile they are full.
The fool who consults them re horses
Is fobbed off with Taurus the Bull.
D.H E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Modern woman does not need the painter’s
canvas; her own body serves as well.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And many of the finished works deserve
to be hung.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
It’s very sad when a chicken-hearted
husband is domineered by an old hen.
4* 4* 4- 4*
Said She.
“Mae is a friend of mine,” said She,
“so if anyone runs her down to me I
refuse to listen. She is a bit on the care-
less side, though, I’ll admit. I agree, my
dear, that it isn’t right for a girl to be
working back at night alone with a boss
whose reputation, simply pongs through-
out the nation.
“And as for her lovely furs —well, she
must find it hard on her salary to buy
such highly expensive things (not to men-
tion the jewels and rings). But Mae is
a friend of mine, so I feel certain she has
an alibi. And, really, their scandals leave
me cold, for I don’t believe one half I’m
told.
“Poor girl! She suffered a bad mis-
chance that night in the car outside the
dance. He was married, too! And his
wife, they say, made a terrible scene
abusing Mae. It was rotten luck —but I
must declare once more that she ought
to take more care: not all of her friends,
my dear, will try to protect her name as
well as I!”
T. W. Nathan.
4* 4* 4*. 4*
“This war has resulted in girls being given
greater freedom than they ever had before.”
— Woman's paper.
And merely by depriving them of
corsets.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dog.—Lost', June 28, city area, Crossbred
Cocker, black and white, answers to name
Whisky.”— “S. M. Herald.”
A dog of spirit with a well-known brand.
•J* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, pick-ups.”— Advt. in daily paper.
We suggest you flash a roll at King’s
Cross.
“Special mission, I take it, Manderson!"
“Cream square baby’s Basenette, perf. cond.”
—Hornsby (Sydney ) “Advocate.
A blocky little fellow.
“War has brought along queer types of dogs,
dogs that yodel and dogs that like stroked
the wrong way.” —“Sunday Sun.”
The former type should bring a few
notes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman, for cleaning and recep-
tion and delivery counter in our store.”
—“ S.M.H.”
Surely she won’t be expected to lift
the darn thing on to the ironing-board by
herself.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Celebrating It.
“Skipper 111, the grey-nurse shark at Sydney’s
Taronga Park Zoo, is to celebrate the ninth year
of his captivity.”
—Announcement over national radio.
“He’s a restless cow!” said the flat-
head, looking up at Skipper’s enormous
bulk as the man-eater cruised slowly and
endlessly round his watery prison. “Why
can’t he relax like the rest of us? He
gives a fish the jitters the way he’s going
on today.”
“Don’t you know?” asked the turtle in
a superior way. “Why! He’s celebrating
the ninth anniversary of his capture! You
might think he looks down in the mouth,
but that’s only the way nature fashioned
his moosh. Probably he’s busting his
sides laughing every time he remembers
it. After all, although he hasn’t had any
blokes to munch of recent years, he’s
been saved a lot of hard yakka battling
against currents and indigestion through
swallowing kero.-tins in mistake for divers
—sharks are pretty short-sighted, y’ know.
And, if I may say so who perhaps
shouldn’t, he’s had congenial company.
Also he has regular meal hours; he
doesn’t have to go looking for places to
scrape the barnacles off, and he’s not
troubled with suckers”
Skipper happened to pass at that
moment, and at mention of that name his
mouth started to water. “Suckers!” he
remarked in a lugubrious voice. “The
last one I enjoyed was treading water out
beyond the first line of breakers, waiting
for a shoot. He was a stringy coot—l
had dyspepsia for two days.”
“Are you chucking a wild party to
celebrate the big event, Skip?” asked the
flathead respectfully.
The man-eater back-pedalled a few
feet and hung poised over his pool-com-
panion. “Nerts!” he said mournfully.
“They’re too lousy here to pour even a
hogshead of o.p. rum in a poor fish’s
pool so he can celebrate with whoopee —
and look at the wad they’ve made out of
me! The way they act knocks your faith
in human nature. It sets me thinking at
times” —and Skipper 111 resumed his
natatory excursion, but this time as he
swam he sang in a gurgling voice a modi-
fied version of Ko-Ko’s song:
If it happens that I’m ever freed and to the surf
go back,
I’ve got a little list — I’ve got a little list
Of people whom I fondly hope between my tatts
to crack,
And who never would be missed —who never
would be missed.
There's the nitwit who while waiting in the long
tobacco queue
Retails his family hist’ry or some illness he s
been through.
Two-bob punters who■ explain how near they
came to break the Ring.
All reciting tiny tots; and imitators of the Bing.
And pedants who, instead of saying “stop,’
must use “desist,”
They’d none of 'em be missed — they’d none
of ’em be missed.
There’s the radio comedian who pins his faith
to puns;
A feeble humorist —he must be on the list.
And the idiot who started putting sticky stuff on
buns
He never would be missed —he never would be
missed.
All shopmen who with supercilious sneer snap
“No, yer stiff!”
Those Who come in an hour after they
“won’t be a jiff.”
Lug-biters, too, whether they be the ordinary
“hums” r
Or Rugby Leaguers who delight to gnaw em
in the scrums.
And that battle-axe of blahdom, the aggressive
feminist,
I’m sure she’d not be missed — they’d none of
’em be missed.
As Skipper finished his song the tortoise
turned to the flathead and said “He picks
a lot up from these inquisitive blanky
humans who poke their bibs over the rail
to screw at him, y’ know.” As Skipper
passed by again the tortoise yelled out:
“P’raps they’ll give you a cake with nine
mullet on it today.”
Skipper 111 looked down at his pool-
companion glumly. “I’d be stiff enough
to get a bone caught in me gizzard!” he
said. “Ar, celebrating your ninth year of
nearly banging your conk every round on
the edge of a pocket-handkerchief pool
isn’t all beer and skittles.”
“You’re damn’ lucky to be celebrating
your ninth year!” squeaked a yellowtail.
“Cripes, if I ever venture out of this
corner I’ll never celebrate my first
year!”
Bo.
Query for Frankie.
“In an interview, Frank Sinatra was asked
if he was a tenor or a baritone.”
No ordinary human ears
You’d need, I think, if you would try
To classify Sinatra’s cry;
The matter in dispute appears
Superfluous, in any case,
For who, more curious than most,
Would stay to ask a wailing ghost
If it moaned baritone or bass ?
Besides, whatever Frankie’s choice
Of categories for the Voice,
Anent this celebrated wringer
Of unsophisticated hearts
A simpler, sterner question starts
To mind: Can he can called a singer?
P. M. LUSK.
Soda.
There's little in coffee that’s cheering.
There’s little in water or wine.
And don’t mention milk in my hearing,
But soda’s a nectar divine.
My love never wavered, nor shall it,
From soda, my joy, my delight;
The hubbies that tickle my palate
Enthral me from morning till night.
Straight soda I find isn’t suited
To the weak state of health that I’m in,
So I always imbibe it diluted
With whisky or brandy or gin.
B. D. C.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All meti s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Druramoyne,
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTie'^uLleiZn.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: — _ , „
13 months .. .. .. tl 4 0
6 „ 12 6
3” ’ 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia;
13 months .. .. • • 16 0
6 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail t<? members ot the forces In the
Islands —3 months .. ..£l9O
3331
C ,"V
a
m
*
3
All Planes Are Transports!
Aircraft are so varied, being de-
signed for such extremes as high
speed or hovering, stratosphere
flight or local commuting, that the
one common denominator of all
planes is often overlooked. Wheth-
er loaded with bombs or baggage,
paratroopers or paying passengers,
a plane is first of all a carrier, as
functional as a steamship, automo-
bile, train, or truck.
The real use of the plane is for
transportation, the life blood of
commerce and trade. The plane
gives a faster, broader distribution
of goods. Fastest of all carriers, it
gives you access to the world. It
takes the trouble out of travel. It
turns long distance mail into local
letters. It builds business through
faster, better distribution of the
world's goods. Your improved-
standards of living, the higher eco-
nomic status of your nation, will
owe much to air transport, just as
your present way of life owes much
to the steamship, railroad, and au-
tomobile.
Aircraft engine power makes
these gains possible. Just as Wright
power first made flight possible,
so Wright Cyclone engines today
provide efficient power for world-
wide air transport. Their ability to
fly great loads at low costs ex-
plains their choice for leading com-
mercial and military planes.
THE SHAPE OF PLANES TO COME
On the world’s oir routes you will
see the Constellation, another of
the Cyclone-powered transports for
your air travel. Long-range, high-
speed transport, built by Lockheed,
it carries 55 passengers at speeds
around 300 miles per hour. The
power: four Cyclone 18's of 2,200
horsepower each.
fd
CYCLONE ENGINES PAY THEIR WAY
MIGHT
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL CORPORATION
Paterson, New Jersey, U.S.A. A Division of Curtiss-Wright Corporation
REPRESENTATIVES: AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E. L. HEYMANSON & COMPANY, MELBOURNE
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enfogment
CRAVENS
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Bath, by Edith Sitwell.—3638.
To exchange book oj tossus, by rrederick
Chapman, tor Payne Report on Northern 1 erri-
tory.—3639.
Information Sought.
(I) What civilian flying licences are there?
(2) What are the qualifications and tests for
them? (3) What altitude is being taken in re-
gard to granting licences to discnarged members
of the R.A.A.F. wno have had piloting ex-
perience ? '
* * * *
(1) They are in two categories. Private (A
class') and Commercial (B class) Pilot’s Licence.
An A-class licence allows the flying of ’planes only
lor pieasme \inougu tne uOiUer, may witn special
endorsements, carry non-paying passengers).
A B-class licence covers the flying of aircraft for
hire or reward. (.2) For A class the applicant
must produce evidence that he nas conin cU
at least 10 hours’ flying practice, during three
hours of which he has Aau soie ci.arge o, uu
aircraft; must have a cei tiiicate signed by a
licensed flying instructor stating that he has on
three separate occasions caused an aircraft to
spin and has recovered from that spin; must
pass a medical examination; must pass practi-
cal and theoretical flying tests, and must produce
evidence that he has had recent flying experience
in the type of aircraft for which the" licence, is
required. For B class the applicant must fulfil
the A-class qualifications as well as have 100
hours’ solo flying to his credit, (e) t,x-members
of the R.A.A.F., provided they can sho-v satis-
factory discharge papers, are furnished with
private pilots’ licences on condition that flying
hours limitations are met and that tests and
medical examinations are passed. Holders of
R.A.A.F. wings are entitled to a B-class licence
when discharge papers are produced and a medi-
cal test is passed.
* * * *
(1) Some information about employment pros-
pects for a person who has taken a course at
the Australian Forestry School. (2) Would a
person aged 38 be eligible for employment ?
(1) As the Australian forestry authorities are
short of trained field staff, and in view of the
post-war works projects, prospects of employ-
ment are favorable. (2) Age is beyond the usual
range of students, but should be no deterrent
to employment.
* * * *
Is a buyer at an auction sale entitled to a
receipt ?
For any payment of £2 or over a receipt is
essential.
* * * *
Who won the fight, and in how many rounds,
between Queenslander Dick Barker and Herr
Plaacke ? What was their respective heights and
weights ?
Barker defeated Plaacke in seven rounds.
Baricer was 6ft. Sin. and weighed 15st. 61b.;
Plaacke stood 6ft. 3in. and tipped the scales at
14st. 61b.
Did Tommy Burns break any of Jack John-
son’s ribs in their world heavyweight title con-
test at Sydney Stadium on Boxing Day, 1908 ?
Johnson visited Manly Hospital after beating
Burns, and it was said that he went there to
have treatment for a fractured rib. Johnson
would not affirm or deny this statement, but
many ringsiders at the championship still main-
tain that Burns damaged one of his ribs with
a right-hand blow.
Brief Answers.
G. 0.5.: The idea is impracticable; get in
touch with A. G. Webster and Sons, Hobart....
M.K.: Telegraph communication between Aus-
tralia and Poland has not yet been restored....
Australian: An “ established church” may indi-
cate the national religion. In early Australia
the C. of E. was presumed to be established,
but Governor Bounce's Church Act, 1836,
placed all religious bodies on an equal footing.
C.W.W.: Metallurgy is a good profession,
and in view of the industrial development that
is taking place there is ample opportunity for
ad\ancement; try Broken Hill Co., through Bris-
bane manager, Estate Chambers, Creex-street,
Brisbane M.L.: Lottery prize is not taxable
but interest is J.P.: Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, may be able to help y0u....M.N.;
Mud packed betvveen ba.tens would not be
suitable and destruction of parasites would be
difficult K.M.; Commercial fisherman using
nets made from linen thread treat their nets
with a solution of tanin, which is designed
primarily to kill bacteria resulting from fishing
operations E.L.J.: The Purple Heart is
awarded to every United States soldier who is
wounded in action; other questions will Be
answered later.
Answers to Correspondents.
Vane and iiddn-ns m>.si appear on Hie t/.S, .Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
ml/initled ; and no ill.S. trill be returned unless
stamps accompany. SIS shpnld be addressed ti
-
D.C.H.; “Just the old things I’m now of
bereft” is the limit in unpermissible inversions,
.... A.J.D.: Ever read Brennan’s “The Wan-
derer”? H.W.; Spidery... .D.1.M.: How
does it make dp . x OQ many
“of” and nay 1o „ ‘ ’ crags that
literary echoes... .U- • •• , . we ird and
chuckled m the ] i| ht Goo d b theme ’ too vaguely
fay. pie!... .A.tv.. AES’ Bird
tould haTeTen welcome if you'd 'fattened him
o nit LS S • Give up racing—and poetry.
K V” WhaTagain?....P.R.B.: MiUy is silly.
Ca -p pj . why, when you admit the old sent
;•• • . * record his conversation at SUCh pain-
IS a > r) R K • Don’t Want that Sort
ful lengtn .• • • • ■ . ’ , L.F. 1 “With
irsj
at a gulp- ski p° a^d e a lightsome trip.” Look
come VO u cross the street into this office.
twice before you cross ™ for Walter .
....D.P.. *ou neeu


Announcing
A Practical Course in
AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION
One of the qualifications for appointment
as pilot in civil air lines is knowledge
of aircraft navigation. To provide the
necessary training the College of Civil
Aviation, which was established in 1939
for tuition in aeronautical subjects, is
commencing classes to train for examina-
tions for Aircraft Navigator’s Licences.
The training is in the hands of experi-
enced ex-R.A.A.F. personnel. Home
study lessons will be issued to any part
of the Commonwealth. Regular lectures
will be held in Metropolitan centres.
For Syllabus and Full Particulars
Apply to
COLLEGE OF
CIVIL AVIATION LIMITED,
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Phone 8W5452.
St!
m
m
mm
w
v
sz
Big Car
Insurance
Benefits!
Get details early of this splendid new cover for car-owners,
including FREE ROAD SERVICE and complete protection
from any contingency while motoring.
Compulsory Third Party Insurance also capably handled
for you.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN 0 SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra; and Alice Springs
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
McPhee, of the S.S. Tekong
By “STANDBY.”
THE s.s. Tekong was a cranky
ship. Built in the Whangpoo dock-
yards, Hong Kong, by a reliable
firm, outwardly she was all that
could possibly be desired in a three thou-
sand-ton, inter-island cargo vessel.
But by some freak of design or con-
struction she was a cranky ship to handle.
At full speed she was no worse than many
other bad steering ships, but at half-speed
oi slow, when entering or leaving port,
no man, with the possible exception of
Captain John McPhee, could predict
what she would do next.
Captain McPhee was a man of massive
proportions. A thick crop of snow-white
hair, as stiff as the bristles on a deck
broom, stood out in startling contrast
to his florid complexion. Huge shoulders
seemed to jut out from just below his
ears, and his waistline was enormous. He
had brought the Tekong out from China
and had commanded her ever since. A
succession of mates who had left her as
soon as they could find other berths de-
clared that McPhee was just as cantan-
kerous as his ship. They freely admitted
that he was a good seaman.
None but a first-class seaman, they
pointed out, could take the Tekong
in and out of the ports he regularly
visited. His bad temper and unsociable
disposition may have been the result of
many years in command of a cranky and
difficult ship, but, whatever the reason,
it didn’t make him any easier to live with,
and on a cargo vessel you must live with
your brother-officers ; there is no escape.
Day after day and meal after meal you
are seated next to the same man at the
saloon table. After a few voyages you
can almost predict what the man opposite
you will say on any given occasion.
With Captain McPhee the prediction
was a certainty, for he was a man
of absolutely no conversational ability.
He never discussed any incident that
did not directly concern his vessel.
When he squeezed his ponderous
frame into the armchair at the head
of the saloon table the conversation
would cease like the switching-off of a
radio. At various times different officers
had ventured to pass disparaging remarks
on the particularly bad way the Tekong
had been steering during the previ-
ous watch. It was experiment in con-
versation never repeated twice by the
same officer, for Captain McPhee was in-
tensely loyal to his ship and would hear
no bad word spoken of her.
“Don’t talk nonsense, • Mister,” he
would snap. “If you’d keep your mind
on your job and not let the helmsman
fall asleep at the wheel you’d find the
ship wouldn’t wander all over the ocean.
It’s a remarkable thing that I can take
her in and out of every port on the coast
without getting into difficulties, yet you
seem incapable of ham ing her in the
open sea! Kindly pass the sugar, Mr.
Carlson.”
With the exception of the necessary
visits to the company’s office in peace-
time and the equally necessary visits to
the Port Director at Naval Control dur-
ing war-time, Captain McPhee never went
ashore. Apparently he was a bachelor
and a man with no friends he considered
worth visiting. His one love was the
Tekong, and his whole existence was
wrapped up in her.
With the outbreak of hostilities in the
Pacific his worries were increased tenfold.
He no longer visited the same ports year
in and year out. Many of them were
soon in the hands of the enemy, and he
had to go wherever he was most needed.
What he suffered getting his cranky ship
in and out of strange ports, to say noth-
ing of often travelling in convoy, no one
knew, but. he became increasingly difficult
to live with.
His present mate had put in some very
uncomfortable moments on the fo’c’s’le
head.
“ 'Struth! ” he had remarked to the
second mate after a particularly hair-
raising incident in a strange port. “I
thought I was going to finish up in that
Dutchman’s engine-room!”
The outstanding and amazing fact was
that, in spite of many close shaves, up to
the twelfth of August, 1944, the Tekong
had never been involved in an accident,
ON the seventh of August Captain Mc-
Phee received orders to proceed to
a certain port on the Australian coast.
Never having visited the port, he looked
it up in Sailing Directions and found that
the services of a pilot were compulsory.
Eleven a.m. on the twelfth saw the
Tekong, flying the sign P.T. (“1 require a
pilot”) standing slowly in towards port.
It was a day to gladden the heart of any
sailor. The vivid blue sea, its surface
scarcely ruffled by the light easterly
breeze, sparkled merrily in the warm
morning sunlight. At the Tekong’s
fore mast the signal flags, flapping
lazily round their halyards, stood out in
bright contrast to the cloudless sky.
Higher up, a flock of snowy-breasted gulls
dived and wheeled in a noisy effort to
dislodge one of their party from his posi-
tion of vantage on the mast truck. The
noise of their quarreling seemed only to
emphasise the peace of the morning.
On the fo’c’s’le head the old bosun
swung the lead and lifted up his voice
to the bridge in a monotonous “Six ’n’
a ’arf. Still six ’n’ a ’arf.” Standing close
by him, the mate was sipping a large
mug of tea and keeping one eye on the
lead-line and one on the approaching
pilot launch.
But the peaceful morning had no
softening effect on Captain McPhee.
When the launch came alongside tie
looked down from the wing of the bridge
and got his first unfavorable impression
of the pilot.
The man climbing the Jacob’s ladder
was a slim, fair-haired, pleasant-faced
man. To Captain McPhee he looked
scarcely more than a boy, and when the
second mate brought him on to the bridge
the Old Man could only produce a grunt
in answer to the pilot’s cheery “Good
morning.”
“Good Lord! ” he was thinking. “What
the deuce is the sea coming to? Am I
expected to put my ship in the hands of
an inexperienced child?”
The pilot’s appearance, however, was
deceptive. He was thirty-six years of
age and had been going to sea since he
was fifteen. Moreover, he was an expert
at handling a ship in narrow waters and
had what every pilot must have—plenty
of confidence in his own ability. His
seaman’s eye had noted the Tekbng’s
trim lines as his launch approached and,
once aboard, no details of her smart
upkeep escaped him.
“I’ll take you straight in, Captain,” he
said. “Full ahead, please. Starb’d a
little and steady her on sou’-west.” And
then conversationally “Nice smart look-
ing ship you’ve got, Captain. What’s she
like to handle?”
“She is a smart ship.” In spite of the
compliment Captain McPhee was still
feeling resentful that this youngster
should be entrusted with the safety of
his beloved Tekong.
“I’m asking you,” the pilot said, “be-
cause I’ve got to berth you in a pretty
tight corner. I’ll have to swing when we
get inside and put you alongside the
northern berth, head out.”
Abruptly Captain McPhee answered:
“I’ve been taking her in and out of
some damned tight corners for fifteen
years, Pilot, and I’ve never yet got into
trouble.”
The pilot was not worried. Only last
week, with a foul sou’-easter blowing,
he had put a ship of three times the
Tekong’s tonnage into that same berth.
This colossal, red-faced skipper, he re-
flected, was evidently one of those bad-
tempered old cusses who made a point of
being rude to everyone. Oh, well, it was
all in a day’s work. He shrugged his slim
shoulders and settled down to another
routine job of getting just another ship
into port.
UNTIL she was through the harbor
entrance the Tekong really behaved
very well. She came round fairly
smartly at each turn and kept to within
a few degrees of her courses.
The pilot hummed cheerfully to him-
self and felt at peace with the world.
He’d get this ship berthed and be home
in time for lunch. At the same time he
was far too good and careful a pilot to
take chances. His method of berthing
Tekong was clear cut and already worked
out in his own mind.
He would go in with plenty of way
on to counter the tide rip off the entrance.
Once inside he’d go “full astern” with
the engines to take the way off her.
When he had sufficiently reduced speed
he’d stop the engines and let her run
slowly on with a little port helm to cant
her head in towards the wharf. At a cer-
tain spot (he knew the exact place where
he’d give the order) he’d let go the port
anchor, go slow ahead and hard a’port
and swing her round, head out to sea.
The anchor would hold her head and
with the helm hard over her screw would
force her round till she was broadside on
to the wharf and within heaving lines
thrust of her berth. Simple! Why, he’d
done that same manoeuvre scores of
times.
He heard the engine-room ring back
their reply to the order ‘Full Astern”
and watched carefully to see how long
it took her to lose way. All was going
well. The Tekong was only three parts
loaded and was pulling up nicely.
Her head was swinging slowly to starb’d
against her reversed helm, the pilot noted,,
but that wouldn’t greatly matter. Many
single-screw ships had that tendency.
There was plenty of room here and she’d
soon swing back when her engines were
stopped and the helm put hard a’port.
“Damnation!” he muttered. “She’s
getting a hell of a swing up. Too much
of a swing.”
Aloud he said “Stop her. Hard a’port.”
She’s carrying a trifle too much way,
he thought, but she’ll swing back all the
better and the anchor will soon pull
her up. But the Tekong did not swing
back. Still carrying headway, she con-
tinued to swing towards the stone break-
water of the northern wall.
The pilot did a bit of quick thinking.
The spot where he’d intended to let go
his anchor was over two hundred feet
ahead and well to port of his present
position. Still, this spot would do. If
he let her run on much further she’d be
too close to the northern wall to swing
clear.
“Let go your port anchor,” he called.
“Let go the port anchor, sir,” echoed
the mate.
The mate seemed to take a devil of a
time to get the anchor started. He and
the bosun were apparently having some
trouble with the windlass. When at last
it did run out with a clattering roar the
pilot saw that he had swinging room and
no more. He raised his hand and called:
“Hang on at that, please,” when he
judged sufficient cable had run out.
“How much have you given her,
Mister?” he called.
“First shackle just ahead of the wind-
lass, sir,” reported the mate,
“That’H bring her round,” the pilot
told himself.
But it did not bring her round. It cer-
tainly checked the starb’d swing, but to
his amazement the pilot saw that the
Tekong was slowly but surely carry-
ing straight on for the stretch of beach
between the northern berth and the stone
breakwater. Never mind ; he still had
room to force her round.
“Slow ahead,” he ordered. “Keep the
wheel hard a’port.”
But still the Tekong refused to
come round. Certainly her head was
now canted slightly towards the wharf,
but she was like a sulky, half-broken
colt that turns his head in answer to the
pull on the rein, but keeps on in the direc-
tion he wants to go. The pilot was
amazed, but he was far from being
rattled yet. Obviously the Tekong
was dragging her anchor (a thing he’d
never seen happen in this port before).
It was good holding ground and, besides,
she was dragging uphill. There was a
saying amongst seamen “Ships don’t drag
uphill” ; but apparently the Tekong had
never heard of it.
“Give her another half shackle,
Mister,” the pilot called.
“Damn it, that must hold her,” he said
to Captain McPhee, but the Old Man
was fast losing control of himself.
“You seem to be getting my ship into
a devil of a mess, young man!” he
roared. “What the hell are you trying
to do?”
“Bring the swine around,” the pilot
snapped, watching closely for the first
sign of Tekong’s head coming round
to her anchor.
Slowly, too slowly, Tekong’s head
came round ; for the horrible fact re-
mained that she was still dragging that
anchor inshore as she swung. By now
the pilot really was in a jam. The water
was shoaling rapidly and there was no
swinging room now.
He did the only possible thing and
ordered “Stop her,” then “Full astern”
for a moment, and then “Stop” again.
Further astern he dare no go or Tekong
would crash her stern on the stone
breakwater. To keep going ahead was
almost as bad. It would only serve to
drive her further up the beach on which
she’d apparently made up her mind to
come to rest. Gently, with scarcely a
jar, she took the bottom and came to a
stop broadside on to the beach.
At last Captain McPhee let himself
go. In a stream of lurid language he


caught
COLD
after
COLD’
T 1""" ' *■
m
•%n
*
m
6
o
J
m
\mw - aoni
39 111
(1103 SIH
H3IV3 UJOa I JL
35a
■ <i
■iwaiwWßM
7 COULD KILL THAT
MAN WHY MUST
my TRAVEL WITH
BAD COLDS ~
w.
n
YyH
A
COIDS GWIN. WHY DON'T
YOU IMMUNISE YOURSUf
WITH VAiOS NO l ? ‘‘
•sm?( away* / uAvmi
had a coid ton
TWO YCARS fIQ
m
ST
&
V 4
X
!m- fUa
' VAXUS quickly attacks ana neuiranses duucnui ...
blood stream because it is an already DISSOLVED oral vaccine,
which is immediately absorbed into the system. A few drops or
"VAXOS" taken In water each day brings rapid relief and builds
Immunity for up to two years from Chronic Colds, Catarrh, Influ-
enza, Hay Fever, Bronchitis, Asthma, Antrum and Sinus troubles.
Don't suffer needlessly, obtain "VAXOS" from your chemist to-day.
"VAXOS" costs only 21/- a
large bottle containing 24
c.c.'s, which Is sufficient for
several weeks' treatment for
chronic coses. The medium
size bottle for milder cases is
obtainable at a cost of 12/6.
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lib Collins Sf., MELB., CK
vMosn
ORAL VACCINE
vri-'
A**
: :Sf .
sw
5^2
«• **
&
h
m^m»miHts
w
THANKS TO PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES HAVE DONE THIS...
pioneered nearly 25,000 miles of air routes, covering
every main city and provincial town and many out-back
centres. Provided Australia with the world's best trans-
port aircraft and by efficient management, made avail-
able to the Australian public the lowest passenger, air
mail and freight rates in the world, notwithstanding the
high cost of petrol in this Country, which is more than
twice that paid by American Airline Companies.
AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES HAVE PLANNED THIS...
An early extension of 22,000 additional route miles, in- 1
eluding thousands of miles of new freight routes serving
all isolated out-back areas. This will be equal To 32
million annual aircraft miles, plus 6 million freight miles.
Still lower tares and freight rates are planned when the
new-type skyliners now on order reach Australia.
ONLY PRIVATE ENTERPRISE CAN GIVE AUSTRALIA THIS AERIAL DEVELOPMENT
ThT AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT, 50 Market Street, Melbourne
abused the port, the pilot and the
authorities who permitted an incompetent
youngster to take charge of an ocean-
going ship when anyone could see he
wasn’t fit to command a launch.
“There’ll be an inquiry into this, my
lad,” he finished up. “And I’ll see to it
that you get what’s coming to you. If
you’re ever permitted to pilot another
ship my name’s not McPhee. Pilot!
g a h l»
With his large florid face now almost
purple the Old Man so far forgot himself
that he spat on his own bridge,
It was three days before they got
Tekong off the beach, and although she
appeared to have suffered no damage she
had piled up a hefty bill of expenses,
What went on in Captain McPhee’s mind
nobody knew, but it was obvious to all
who came in contact with him that he
intended to keep his threat and take it
out on the pilot. To put it mildly, the
pilot was a very worried man. Over and
over again he went over the incidents of
that fateful morning, but he failed to see
where he had made a single mistake.
One of the worst features of the affair,
from his point of view, was that evidence
and statements would have to be collected
for the inquiry, and the pilot could not
find a single seaman (outside the Tekong’s
crew) who had witnessed the whole
drama. By the end of the week the pilot
had almost come to the conclusion that
McPhee was right. He had made a hash
of the job and deserved all that was
coming to him.
ON Saturday morning one of the regu-
lar coastal ships came into port. Her
master, Captain Jobson, had an exemp-
tion, and did not require the services of
a pilot.
A short, thick-set man whose most
pronounced features were a swaggering
walk and an aggressively outthrust jaw,
he was known all along the coast as a
hard case. Although he consumed large
quantities of beer in port, at sea he never
drank anything stronger than tea. He
had an excellent reputation as a seaman
and stood very well with his company,
He was an old shipmate of the pilot’s, the
two having served their time together.
Within half an hour of making fast he
had heard all about his former shipmate’s
mishap, and, being a man of action and a
good shipmate, he wasted no time in
getting his friend on the ’phone.
“I’m dining at the Grand tonight.
Jimmy,” he said, “and I’m expecting you
to eat with me. Meet me half an hour
before dinner. I’ve got a raging thirst.”
At five-thirty Captain Jobson, looking
very smart in his best shore-going summer
uniform, blew into the hotel lounge like
a blast of sea air. The white, open-
Peeked shirt and the freshly starched
white shorts suited his sturdy figure, and
his outthrust jaw and the angle of his
uniform cap jerked down over one eye
seemed to say: “Be damned to you all.
Stand aside and make way there.”
His eye ran quickly over the half-dozen
couples seated in the lounge, paused for
a moment to make a critical survey of the
prettiest girl and then, catching sight of
his friend at the furthest end of the room,
he bellowed:
“Wot-oh, there, Jimmy me lad!
Where s all this beer? Lead me to it.
“Whats all this I hear about you
stackin em upon the beach? he asked
over his second glass of beer,
The pilot looked around the crowded
bar.
“Tell you all about it at dinner, he
said. “It’s true all right, but it s a long
story, and there s too much of a crowd
here.”
At the dinner-table Captain Jobson
listened carefully while his friend ex-
plained the proceedings leading up to the
beaching of the Tekong, illustrating her
movements by drawing designs on the
white tablecloth with a fork,
“1 suppose,” he said when the pilot
had finished, “Captain McPhee didn t
happen to mention to you that Tekong
was a cranky ship to handle, did he?
He said nothing about her
habits,” .
“He wouldn’t. Now supposing he d
told you that she was damned slow on
her helm at anything less than full speed,
would that have made any difference to
your handling her?”
“Too right it would.”
“And supposing he’d told you that
she’d positively refuse to answer her
helm when ner engines were stopped,
would you still have tried that
manoeuvre?”
“No flaming fear! But what are you
coming at, Steve? What do you know
about the Tekong?”
“Man alive, I was mate of her once
and she scared seven bells out of me on
more than one occasion.”
“Good Lord! I didn’t know that.”
Captain Jobson grinned,
“You don’t know half the ships I’ve
served in since you and I were shipmates,
James me lad,” he said.
“Maybe.” The pilot spoke ruefully
as he absentmindedly retraced his design
on the tablecloth, “But the knowledge
isn’t going to do me any good now. It
looks as if I’m for it. It’s my word
against McPhee and his three mates, and
he’s got the wind up them.”
“Listen, Jimmy,” Captain Jobson leaned
forward and tapped his friend’s knuckles
with a desert-spoon. “This all boils
down to a question of loyalty. In his
loyalty for his old Tekong, McPhee
will lie till he’s black in the face. He’ll
see you or any other good man ruined
in order to save what he considers the
good name of his ship. Well, let him.
The more lies he tells the better. The
Court of Inquiry will hear ’em and prob-
ably believe ’em until they get my state-
ment. Oh, yes ; when it comes to loyalty
I’ve got my own ideas, and when I tell
them what I know about the Tekong
they’ll sit up and start to make a few
more inquiries.
“And what’ll they find out, me lad?
That Captain flamin’ McPhee has been
telling a pack of lies and his evidence is
not worth a damn and you’re still a good
pilot. Any fool will realise that McPhee
should have warned you about the
Tekong’s habits as soon as you came on
to his bridge, and, believe me, the blokes
sitting on that Court of Inquiry ain’t
fools. Listen, see if you can catch that
waitress’s eye and ask her to sneak us
in a couple of pots of beer. I’ve talked
myself dry again.”
IMAGES IN WINTER.
(From a Longer Poem.)
’They were no ‘‘hollow men” who saw
with me
The sleepy, rolling andante of still, water.
Spun tissues of green and purple; and
after
Sluggish spirals of darkness dusted the
sky,
The squat bluffs sliding chainwise into
pits
Troubled by floating color. Each slow
morning
Was the slim beauty around a corner of
sleep.
Vaulting the moss-pocked wharves, a fog
laid nets
Scarving the gullets of slouching, cynical
streets.
A stray word fell like a stoned bird from
the lips.
The street lamps quivered in a jellied iris
of gold;
And someone wading through the tumb-
ling whiteness
Wore mystery with the air of an ancient
ship ;
A thousand petty sirens skirled and filled
The muffled air with a symphony’s com-
pleteness.
Out in the bay, fantastic hulls lay rotting
(.Long since burnt out, pared down for
their iron thoughts),
At grips with the pulling mud, and still
awaiting
The legend of yellow maps, the challenge
of ports.
R.A.A.F.
And sol make the secret yours, my friend
Of long-winded endurance! This is why
(In an era of free-verse, poor company )
/ pin my faith on slipping images
Twisting like smoke or a fish caught in
the hand.
These are some company for the crumb-
ling galleries,
The brain of this, our black synthetic dusk.
I keep a record of the whip of seas;
My candle clasps blue fingers on the desk;
That tattered swagman, Death, on a
Friday night
May pop in with the appropriate
metaphor.
And then our talk is of momentous
things:
A broken harp smouldering from the
brush of wings;
A ship’s brown wooden wheel that brings
the spar.
The gull in a green storm clear as the
maker’s name;
Such huge conceits as these, while the
dodging flame
Of the candle writes cunning shadows on
the air.
The desert edges out its blunt grey sands ;
Our household gods are the clock, the
broken mirror,
And through the seven lean visions of
this terror
I keep my faith with, you, my vanished
friends.
F. WEBB.


X«96D-6.«
** ‘Three-threes’ always please—the secret’s
in the 333’s blend.” Because so many
smokers prefer “Three-threes,” shortages
sometimes occur under wartime conditions.
But keep asking your usual supplier for
State Express “333.’*
T kt g’ecrets j
State Express
“THREE-THREES” CIGARETTES
* Buy War Savings Certificates.
df
CHOOSE YOUR EXECUTOR ON HIS
EXPERIENCE AND PROBITY
VX/’HEN appointing an Executor under your will consider this: Perpetual Trustee
” Company Limited has perpetual existence. Its service is always available.
You are assured of continuity of sound judgment, probity and responsibility.
Your Estate will be managed by a group of highly trained officers working under
the constant supervision of a widely experienced Board of Directors.
An interview with a senior officer of the Company would help you, or, if you prefer,
write for a booklet. “Your Executor and Trustee.” ,
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS;
T H KELLY (Chairman): Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.11.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Executor and Trustee. Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and
others, Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd.
f Dividends
Pref.*
May. Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries, Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 p.c. = 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 3400 8i „ „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ ~ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 3100 7J „ „ 25,371 28,765
1943.. 30,859 3100 7j „ „ 25,371 26,377
1944.. 31,241 8100 „ „ 25,371 23,607
1945.. 31,660 8100 7} „ „ 25,371 20,418
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
The business has been subject to a full
measure of war-time controls and restric-
tions. The co. imports its raw material,
linseed, from India, and the Government
stepped in, through the Division of Import
Procurement, and took charge of that.
Price control has also operated, and dis-
tribution of linseed oil has been restricted
to Government-approved channels. Early
in the present term the co.’s three mills
—at Parramatta (N.S.W.), Melbourne and
Port Adelaide —were closed for a period
because of shortage of linseed. But the
term finished with adequate stocks on
hand and potential output at Parramatta
doubled by the installation of new plant,
and with output of the Melbourne mill in
the process of being stepped up. Attempts
by the co. to encourage the growing of
flax in the Commonwealth for linseed-
supply purposes were not very successful.
There is no lack of demand for the
co.’s products, whether oil or stock food.
This ready market has been one consola-
tion to the board in its difficulties. Appar-
ently the subsidy arrangement and/or
price control under which the co. operates
has been reasonably satisfactory, and in
the past term the co. was able to show a
net profit of £34,660 (up £420) befoie
transferring £3OOO (unchanged) to a staff
fund. The profit was shown after setting
aside £3BOB more for depreciation
(£17,118 altogether) than in the previous
year. The div. remained at an all-round
1\ p.c., and £3189 of profit remained to
help offset .intangibles. Finances have
every appearance of being comfortable,
with strength in fixed-asset values.
At the end of the last war one of the
co.’s big problems was, in addition to
violently fluctuating raw-material prices,
a surplus of oil in relation to stock food
—hoth products being derived by one
process from one raw material. This oil
surplus prompted the co. to induce
Michael Nairn and Co., of Scotland, to
set up here in linoleum manufacturing,
which absorbs a large quantity of linseed
oil. Arrangements were also made with
Blundell, Spence and Co., of Hull, for
the use of well-known oil trade-marks.
After recovery from -the depression the
co.’s earnings showed a strength and
stability not previously evident. Recent
developments suggest that the co. is more
self-sufficient than it ever was. When the
war is over and defence requirements fall
off both the paint and linoleum trades
should guarantee a high demand for
several years. House-painting and -fur-
nishing are both a long way in arrears.
Balance-sheet figures this year are specK
ally interesting:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £867,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 78,022 176,524 127,806 280,896
Deprec. reserve 64,639 87,874 125,530 142,365
Premises . . 85,988 98,524 99,873 108,143
Plant.. .. 129,890 140,988 144,937 245,105
Stocks . . 134,546 198,754 132,299 258,232
Book debts . . 57,300 70,461 85,990 78,684
Cash. etc. . . 83,356 123,227 166,233 115,333
The duplication of capacity of the Syd-
ney plant was achieved by the installa-
tion of the latest type crushing machin-
ery. With other equipment bought for
the Melbourne mill, the net rise in the
book value of plant was £100,168 ; prem-
ises moved up £8270. The building-up
of adequate stocks is measured by a rise
of £125,933 in their book value (to
£258,232). There was a drop of £7356 ’
in book debts (£78,634), The growth in
fixed assets and stock was principally
responsible for the rise of £153,091 (to
£280,896) in the co.’s liabilities and a fall,
of -> £50,900 in cash and investments
(£115,333).
There is £115,747 of goodwill in the
accounts, and reserves, including a market
fluctuations reserve of £lO,OOO, are
£20,418 short of this intangible. But
depreciation reserve totals £142,365,
and other indications are that there is full
tangible backing for the ords., with the
prefs. exceptionally well covered.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves!
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 28,614 1980 6J p.c. = 25,296 168,655
1936 .. 29,318 1980 6£ „ „ 26,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 .. 35,802 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,206
1940 .. 35,080 1980 7 „ ~ 32,690 154,616
1941 . . 37,497 1980 7} „ „ 35,025 155,108
1942 .. 37,008 1980 7i „ „ 35.025 155,111
1943 . . 49.852 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 165,623
1944 .. 69,637 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 185,920
1945 .. 62,360 1980 8 „ „ 37,300 208,940
Though there has been a steady efflux
of Allied servicemen from Sydney, it has
been partly offset by the arrival of British
personnel; and it has been the liberal
spending of servicemen and other tem-
porary war-time visitors which has helped
this modern hotel to show improved profit
figures despite higher costs, rationing of
liquor supplies, staff shortage, ceiling
prices on meals and other burdensome
controls. The service rendered its patrons
is necessarily restricted, and owing to
the accommodation scarcity besetting
Sydney a fortnight is the maximum period
guests are allowed to stay.
The only doubtful factor qualifying the
£62,360 of profit shown—the best result
in the “Wild Cat’s” memory—is that
the co. is limited by Government regu-
lation in the amount spent on renovations,
which in normal times is a very expensive
item for fashionable hotels that have
to keep in line with competitors. In the
introductory table provision for renewals
(£20,000, unchanged) is included with
profits. Also, last term’s provision for
the taxgatherer was £12,000 less at
£37,000. Depreciation allowance re-
mained steady at £lO,OOO.
The profit in the table was sufficient to
cover the pref. meal and show 12.9 p.c.
on the £467,000 of ord. capital, against
12.3, 10.2, 7.5, 7.6, 7 and 7.2 p.c. back
to 1939. The board maintained its 8 p.c.
handout, leaving £23,020 for reserves,
which include £50,000 earmarked for re-
newals but exclude depreciation reserve
(£100,000) and are subject to goodwill
(£25,000), The co, improved its liquid
position by clipping £25,000 off its mort-
gage and reducing the amount owing to
other outsiders (£71,231, including an un-
specified provision for taxation) by
£9809:
• 1939. ' 1941. 1944. 1945.
Stock .. £8,499 £23,172 £6,394 £5,122
Book debts, ,
etc. .. 6,399 5,982 6,050 6,799
Cash, etc. .. 22,663 15,626 102,670 100,405
Liquid assets £37,561 £44,780 £114,114 £112,320
Mortgage .. 275,000 250,000. 225,000 200,000
Creditors* '.. 28,534 37,517 81,040 71,231
Excess
liabilities . £265,973 £242,737 £191,926 £158,905
Property and
equipment . 962,517 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital. 500,003 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
The mortgage (£200,000) is the residue
of the debt the co. went into to finance
its purchase of the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank’s old. premises in Martin-
place some 15 years ago and extensions
of its own property there. The excess of
liabilities (£158,905) receded by £33,201.
Property (£962,517) has remained un-
changed since the outbreak of war ; hence
the relative importance of the renewals
allowance and the amount the co. has
been permitted to lay out on maintenance
and charge against earnings.
The outlook for the future is by no
means dim, seeing that the existing dearth
of accommodation accentuated by dila-
tory Government handling of the housing
shortage is not likely to be caught up with
for a long time after “Cease fire!” is
sounded. Nevertheless, it is obvious that
the Australia will not get into its full
stride until the present controls are
relaxed. »
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serve*.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 9,904 8 p.c. = 3,831 6,573 19,942
1937.. 8,194 8 „ „ 3,331 4,863 24,805
Surplus sale electrical undertaking:, £7500 32,305
1938.. 12,330 11.1 p.c. = 4,626 7,704 40,009
1939.. 9.044 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,418 44.427
1940.. 9,597 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,971 49,398
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,216 65,614
1942.. 13,875 16.7 ~ „ 9,253 4,622 60,236
1943.. 11,037 13.9 „ „ 7,710 3,327 63,563
1944.. 11,744 13.9 „ „ 7,710 4,034 67,597
1945.. 9,295 13.9 „ „ 7,710 1,585 69,182
Twenty-two years ago this co. was
established by rural investors, mainly
local, as a praiseworthy essay at decentra-
lised manufacture of woollen goods.
That was at a time when prices for land
and building, plant, etc., were excep-
tionally high and competition from well-
established metropolitan manufacturers
who had the advantage of substantially
lower costs —especially transport costs —
had to be contended with. The co. ran
into trouble in 1931 and the business was
reorganised, 11s, per share, both pref. and
ord., being clipped off capital. From
then on shareholders got satisfactory
divs. on their reduced capital, reserves
were built up and more attention was paid
to plant, on which the earning power of
the mill hinges.
War’s advent brought increasing de-
fence demands. In spite of the narrow
profit margin allowed on defence con-
tracts, the eclipse of normal civilian de-
mand by rationing, manpower shortages
and absenteeism, higher costs and taxa-
tion and price control, earnings for the
four years to March, 1944, averaged
£3240 better fit £13,031 than the four pre-
ceding years. Last term there was a reces-
sion of £5902 in gross earnings owing to
a falling off in defence requirements
which has been only partially recouped by
civilian demand still shackled by ration-
ing;—
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Gross earnings .. £31,017 £56,953 £40,562 £34,660
Exes 21,420 43,078 28,818 25,365
Exes, include £3561 (up £95) set aside for
depreciation and an undisclosed amount
for taxation. Without sending anything
to staff fund (£lOOO the previous term)
the net result was £2449 lighter at £9295,
and represented 16.7 p.c. on capital,
against 21.1,-19.9, 25, 27.8 and 17.2 p.c.
back to 1940. The div. rate was un-
changed at 13.9 p.c., and enough remained
to add £1585 to reserves, which have
grown by £29,173 since the outbreak of
war. The financial position has steadily
improved: ♦
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. .. £41,636 £55,515 £55,515 £56,515
Liabilities* .. 34,091 37,034 21,747 24,355
Freeholds. . . . 13,815 13,265 13,573 13,516
Plant, etc. . . 21,696 21,598 15,743 18,584
Debtors . . .. 25,35 3 22,825 8 2,30 9 33,007
Stock .. .. 66,329 97,833 82,450 87,026
Shares . . . . 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000
Cash, etc 55 8 6,5 1 7 10,495 11,630
* Including tax provision.
Stocks rose £4576, the board commenting
that “raw materials are held in sufficient
quantities to provide for the continuity
of manufacturing operations, and, having
regard to the magnitude of the turnover,
the quantity held is not excessive.” Cash
benefited by £1135, debtors lifted £698,
and creditors, including unspecified tax
provision, rose £2508, the more or less
liquid surplus (£107,408) improving by
£3901 during the twelvemonth.
Now that the co. will be depending
more and more on civilian requirements
rather than defence orders, the recent
relaxation of coupon-purchasing value
for woollen and semi-woollen goods is en-
couraging, and woollen clothing may enjoy
further freedom as to required coupons as
the war’s end comes nearer. However,
earnings are not likely to feel any sub-
stantial benefit until price control, which,
strangely enough, has in the past favored
metropolitan manufacturers of similar
goods, is relaxed or abolished. The asso-
ciated co., Interlock Hosiery, at Clunes,
and the new sewing-room annexe at
Dunolly are progressing satisfactorily.


Position Vacant.
A Large Australian Company with Houses in all
States requires the services of a SALES & ADVER-
TISING SUPERINTENDENT. Applicants for this
position must have had experience in organising
large sales campaigns utilising all advertising
channels, and must be able to prove that success has
been achieved in this sphere. Applications, which
will be treated confidentially, should state age and
full details of previous experience and present em-
ployment, and be accompanied by copies of testi-
monials and a recent photograph. Commencing
salary, £1500 per annum. Apply in writing to
No. 851 NATIONAL SERVICE OFFICE, 473
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
This position is one of exceptional possibilities,
and the attention of your friends in the Services
with the necessary qualifications should be drawn
to this advertisement.
BURGLARIES •
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
?9-81 PIXT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 15W1931 for particulars
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
Filter
ABBOT
\m
Cylinder
FI
GUTHRIDGE
CAHPEFOOWN,
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PATEK fS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES KINNEAR formerly of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that HENRIETTA CLAIRE ETHEL KIN-
NEAR has filed a Petition No. 1265 of 1945 for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend this suit you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court
King Street Sydney New South Wales on or before
the 31st day of August 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from F. W. REILLY
Solicitor of 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(n.s.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR WILLIAM BOCHKINS late of
Flinders Street Moore Park in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that DORIS BEATRIX
CAISLEY HOCHKINS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2380 of 1945 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards. If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Bth October 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
N. C. ROWLES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(I.S) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
•w (n
How to Simplify
Property Management
New and ever-varying forms of
taxation; changes in the values
of investments ; war-time restric-
tions and amendments in legis-
lation—
All these throw greatly added responsi-
bilities upon people having the handling
of estates.
For the well-informed man of affairs
property-management is difficult
enough, but for those without know-
ledge or experience the problem is
frightening.
Your own observation teaches you that
relatively few women possess this
managerial experience. Their training
is naturally in other spheres—and you,
as a good provider, have relieved them
of the worry and responsibility.
But when in due course you are no
longer there to manage—what then ?
Don't let your love for those dependent
on you blind you to the realities of life.
Safeguard your dependents by drawing
on the knowledge and experience of
those trained over many years for this
very work, and arrange for the Union
Trustee Company to take over your
responsibilities.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS;
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larntt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon, Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H, Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart, M.C., f.C.a. (Aust.);
R. j. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager ; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors ; C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
mmm
Plan now for
your baby’s future ,
THROUGH the A.M.P. you can guarantee that baby
will have the money with which to go to the
University when the time comes; or to start in business;
or to build a house later on.
If a girl it is easy to arrange for a given sum to
be available to her on her marriage.
■ This arrangement will hold good even, if you
should die the week after you take out the policy.
You can make the choice of a dozen different
plans. Such plans call for the investment of very small
sums (weekly or quarterly), but they give immense
return in comfort and security.
Get in touch with any Agent or Office of the
Society.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation,
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
U. C. Buttfiold, Manager for New South Wales.
Hood Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Gold Mines of Australia, a Melbourne-
controlled exploration and finance co ; ,
paid capital £52,219 in f.p. 2s. 6d. shares,
netted £3893 (down £l7 ?)’ °^ 2,2 f,
share, for the year to of March last
Income was £5338, of which £295
management fees, etc., £l3Bl divs.
£lOO7 interest, etc. During the year
most of the shares in other cos.—what
remained after the distribution m r£ L u
tion of capital in 1940—were sold. Here
are details:
—Shares Other Cos.- \
Face Book
Value. Sold. Held. Value.
Vic. Gold Dredging 10/- 2,469 1,200 £lBOO
Morning Star .. 4/- 15,250 1.200 (a) 180
Mt. Coolon .. 10/- 18.800 B °o
Triton . . . • 10/- 2,000 4,450 1891
Atlas . . 3/- 90,000 (b) 3375
(a) Paid to 3/- each, (b)' Paid to 9d. each.
Sales realised £14,195, of which £5944
was capital profit and has been placed to
reserves. When the books closed more
or less liquids, mostly cash and Govern-
ment securities, totalled £71,665. There
was only £lB4B coming to outsiders.
Operations at Triton and Atlas remain
suspended, owing to manpower diffi-
culties, which also affected output of
Morning Star and the dredging co. Mt.
Coolon is marking time in hope of some-
thing worthwhile turning up post-wai.
Intermittent scout boring on G.M.A. s
Guildford (Vic.) leases has disclosed
some pay-dirt along the southern edge of
the flats; thorough testing of the area
awaits release of men and materials.
During the year a prospecting lease,
which includes most of the old Stawell
(Vic.) goldfield, was taken up in hope of
finding new ore bodies. Some rich re-
turns were won at Stawell towards the
end of last century, but little gold has
been taken from the locality over the
last 20 years or more. Deepest shaft on
the field went to 2400 ft. on the Magdala
mine. The lodes are the largest yet found
in Victoria, being from 40ft. to 80ft. wide.
In some cases ore was highly mineral-
ised ; richest patches were obtained at
intersections of different types of lodes.
* * * *
Profit of Victoria Gold, dredging
shallow alluvials at Newstead (Vic.),
toppled from £70,752 to £12,053 for the
12 months to end March last. The div.
was slashed from 6s. to Is. per share.
Drought and manpower difficulties were
partly to blame. Chief blow came from
the drop in recoveries. These, at 1.54 gr.
per c.y., are now more in line with what
can be expected from the 6,000,000 c.y.
or so of wash still ahead. To date, capi-
tal of £129,500 has been returned over
five times:
Year. Treated, Gr., Costs, Net, r —I—Divs. 1 —Divs. >,
Mar., c.y. c.y. Pence. Profit. Share. Amt.
’OOO.
1939*.. 1,218 4.27 4.08 £73,410 4/- £50,000
1940 . . 2,286 4.34 3.68 157,591 11/- 137,500
1941 . . 2,570 3.70 3.28 150,808 11/- 137,500
1942 . . 2,670 2.81 3.30 107,210 7/6 93,750
1943 .. 2,061 3.16 4.27 88,468 6/- 75,000
1944 . . 2,116 2.67 4.08 70,752 6/- 75,000
1945 . . 1,807 1.54 4.86 12,053 1/- 12,500
Total 14,728 3.20 660,283 46/6 568,750
* 8 months.
Recent rains should help the water posi-
tion, but earnings for the current term
may be further affected by suspension of
dredging for two to three months pend-
ing completion of the Loddon diversion
and transfer of plant to the northern side.
Including a well-assorted stock of spares
and stores (£24,262), current assets at
March 31 totalled £48,604. Creditors
figured for £2520. There was also an
accumulated liability for land recondi-
tioning, now under way again after in-
terruption through impressments of plant.
Since the beginning recoveries have aver-
aged 87| p.c. of bore values, while yard-
age indications have been exceeded by
3 p.c.
* * * *
Triton (W.A.), paid capital £480,000
in 10s. shares, reports a loss of £1986 for
the 12 months to end of March last, as
against a loss of £2602 for the previous
term. Maintenance exes., etc., totalled
£18,719, of which £16,810 was met from
a Federal grant for the purpose. Opera-
tions ceased in August, 1942, and some of
the power units and workshop equipment
were taken over by the Government. Last
term the 500 c.f. compressor was returned
and has been re-'erected on its former
foundations. The main north drive on
No. 14 level is being extended —it is still
in low-grade load formation —to lest the
downward continuation of values dis-
closed in the Emu North shoot on Nos. 6
and 12 levels. Resumption of production
and full development of the bottom levels
await men and materials. Owing to
swelling ground considerable recondition-
ing, including re-timbering of levels and
drives, will be necessary before full-scale
production is resumed. Ore reserves
remain static at 226,000 tons, averaging
6.4dwt. An option has been taken over
the near-by Eaglehawk, in which pro-
specting drives in the 130 ft. level have
disclosed 66ft. of sdwt. ore, width 42in.,
and 80ft. of 17.9dwt. ore, width 57in.,
with both faces still in ore. When the
books closed stores figured at £17,935,
and cash and investments at £46,565.
There was £5915 coming to outsiders.
Costs threaten to be more troublesome
post-war than pre-war.
* * * *
Following its appeal to the Federal and
Westralian Governments for further
financial assistance to continue drilling,
Freney Oil reports that Temple Watts,
Commonwealth Technologist, and Frank
Foreman, Westralian Government Geolo-
gist, have inspected the bore (down
4271 ft.), and have furnished reports to
their respective Governments. Drill ihg
was suspended by direction of Common-
wealth authorities at the beginning of
1942 owing to the Japanese menace.
* * * *
In a report on the silver market for
1944 Handy and Harman (New York)
point out that less of the white metal was
used in the minting of coinage, and that
industrial consumption was well-main-
tained. Foreign coinage produced by
U.S. mints during the first 11 months ot
the year consumed 79,102,0000 z., of
which 12,048,0000 z. was supplied by the
Governments concerned. The countries
for which silver coins were minted were
Australia, Dominican Republic, El Sal-
vador, Ethiopia, Netherlands, Philippines
and Sudi-Arabia. Industrial consump-
tion is put at approx. 125,000,0000 z. U.S.,
16 000,000-or-more Britain and 5,000,000
Canada. Among war uses ot the metal
in US solders and brazing alloys take
first 'place, followed by photographic
products, electrical parts, aircraft engine
bearings and military insignia.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Australia’s fronts, save
those of New Britain and Wewak, have
been in transition stages. The New
Britain campaign remains quiescent and
must so continue until more men and
material are available there. In the Wide
Bay-Open Bay area patrols are kept up,
and facilities are being added to, but it
will take considerably more than a divi-
sion to handle the enemy in the Gazelle
Peninsula, now estimated to number
41,000.
The general situation on all fronts has
come at* the right time to allow of the
demobilisation of five-year men, hundreds
of whom have arrived in Australia.
In Bougainville the weather has been
a marked influence in keeping down acti-
vity. Troops are operating under dread-
ful conditions on a countryside which,
off the high ground, can only be described
as a tropical swamp. However, the 15th
and 29th brigades maintained their patrols
on both sides of the Buin Road, meeting
fewer Japs than formerly.
In the Wewak area the two Australian
forces, one in the Torricellis, the other
moving south from the Prince Alexander
foothills, are closing to crush the last im-
portant enemy forces remaining. At the
week-end the two sections of the Sixth
were about 18 miles apart.
Movements are not being achieved
without fighting in the inland area, where
the 2/Ist Tank Attack Regiment, which
has been at work south of Maprik, carried
out a main assault on strong positions at
Jama Two, a little while ago estimated
to be a Jap H.Q. Though not on a large
scale, the fighting was fierce and gusty.
On the Australian side it was carried on
with Beaufort support. A formidable
system of bunker and pit defences was
wiped out, and two villages were razed.
There was further fighting to the north
of Kaboibus, where the 2/6th Infantry
scored in a neat little foray and secured
some positions, while the New Guinea
Infantry probed far to the south, rooting
up small strongholds and burning villages
likely to prove a nuisance.
On the Prince Alexander foothill side
the 2/2nd’s advances along the Big Road
secured positions on high points control-
ling the communication systems south and
south-west of Hambrauri and Bananitam.
The crisis is now approaching fast.
Operations in Borneo consisted entirely
of forward patrol work inward, as
the kernel of a war which the R.A.A.F.
was implementing over 1,000,000 square
miles. Sandakan was reported almost
completely destroyed by air and sea
attacks.
At the week-end it was reported that
Major-General Robertson, G.O.C. in New
Britain, and Major-General Stevens, in
command of operations at Wewak, had
been injured when an aircraft in which
they were flying plunged into the sea. It
was well that it was no worse. Aus-
tralia already has suffered severely in
its higher command through air crashes.
Since 1940 they have cost it the lives of
an Air Minister (Fairbairn), an Army
Minister (Street) and a Chief of the Gen-
eral Staff, its greatest living soldier at the
time (Brudenell-White), and two corps
commanders, one killed (Vasey) and one
discharged (Herring), apart from a num-
ber of valuable senior officers.
The Lightning Strikes Again.
“Ek Bum”: The week opened with a
Pacific headquarters announcement that in
20 days the U.S. and British Fleets had
“erased the Japanese Navy, even as a
potential raiding force,” as well as de-
stroying many military installations and
disrupting land transport.
A specific tally of 68 warships, 207
merchantmen and 640 small craft de-
stroyed or damaged, and of 453 Japanese
aircraft destroyed and 623 damaged, was
chalked up on July 30, a few hours after
a moonlight bombardment of Hama*
matsu, 135 miles south-west of Tokyo, by
a combined fleet which included King
George V and Massachusetts.
On July 30 British carrier - borne
attacks were made on Miyazu Inlet ship-
ping, due north of Kobe, on the Japan
Sea side, where two destroyers were set
on fire and several merchant ships dam-
aged, apart from the bombing of the rail-
way station and the tearing-up of small
shipping at the entrance to Nagoya Har-
bor. On the way the expeditionaries
cleaned up airfields between Nagoya and
Ohama, destroying four machines.
The raid seems to have extended to
Maizuru, one of the capital naval bases,
245 miles due west of Tokyo, which was
visited both by British and U.S. aircraft.
The report catalogued the sinking of a
warship and seven other ships, nine war
vessels, ranging from escort carriers down-
wards, and 51 other ships being damaged.
Destruction of 114 aircraft and damage
to 101 others also was announced.
MacArthur’s Huge Totals
On July 31 General MacArthur’s H.Q.
reported that his aircraft had in three
days destroyed or damaged 100 vessels,
including a battleship, a cruiser, two air-
craft-carriers and several destroyers and
merchant ships. His bombers were
operating all the way down the China
coast as far as Canton, where Philippines-
based Liberators were declared to have
broken up an enemy battalion on the
march. Clouds of bombers and fighters
were reported operating over Kyushu.
The contribution of surface ships was
an excursion into Suruga Bay, 80 miles
south-west of Tokyo, to shell a town
which houses the largest aluminium plant
in the Japanese Empire. It was the
seventh fleet bombardment of Japanese
shores in three weeks.
On August 1 Manila announced that
General MacArthur’s bombers and
fighters based on Okinawa had in four
days flown 2000 sorties — i.e., single-
machine flights—over Japan, using 20001 b.
bombs. The force had cut down Japan’s
Navy and mercantile marine by 250 ves-
sels (250,000 tons) sunk, probably sunk
oi damaged since July 3. In those four
days 130 ships, including warships, had
been sunk or damaged.
On August 1 also it was stated in
Washington that the Allied sea blockade
of Japan was now virtually complete, and
that no shipping activity could be ob-
served in daylight. Next day the Strategic
Air Force (Army) reported that its Super-
fortresses were making the blockade.
Japan’s Blackest Day
August 2 was proclaimed the biggest
bombing day of the Pacific War, 820
Superfortresses being used in operations
over Japan and Japanese waters. One
group mined the approaches to Rashin,
which is in an area only 20 miles from
the Russian border. The bomb- and
mine-load delivered totalled 6632 tons,
which brings the total bombs dropped in
Japan to nearly 150,000 tons —that is,
since the beginning of December —an
average of 20,000 tons a month.
This was the last raid of the Twentieth
Air Force under General Lemay’s com-
mand. During its progress General
Spaatz took over the Strategic Air Force
command and General Lemay became
his C.O.S.
The efforts of 778 of the machines were
directed against four cities which had
earlier been warned of what was in store
—Mito, Nagaoka, Toyoma and Hachioji
on Honshu, and petroleum works at
Kawasaki between Tokyo and Yoko-
hama.
Still another set of marine statistics
was issued. During July 1546 enemy ships
and 1330 aircraft were claimed as
“knocked out” in Japanese home waters.
Thunderbolts, recently added to the
Mustangs of I wo, made their first attack
on Tokyo.
A “large U.S. battleship” and carriers
bombarded Wake Island. Shore batteries
and ack-ack guns caused a little damage.
It must be realised that the bombing
of Tokyo from the Marianas is equiva-
lent to the bombing of Athens or Mos-
cow from London. However, assurances
are given that 11 cities which were warned
by leaflet of their fate have been wiped
out, and another 11 which, like the
others, hold a million people, have been
told what will happen to them in the next
few days.
There is no doubt that tremendous
damage is being done. Large sections of
cities and war industries —if they still
exist in towns —are being destroyed. Most
important of all, the fisheries and
coastal and industrial communications are
being disorganised by the work of the
navies, by the fighters, which are prob-
ably doing as much as the bombers to
break down the country’s resistance, and
by the heavies, whose operations are
more concentrated and whose medicine
is administered in larger doses.
But there is no ground for thinking
that the enemy will not be able to put up
a solid fight against a landing or land-
ings. If there is large-scale resistance
the strain on Allied transport, operating
over thousands of miles of sea, will be
unimaginable. It will be truly said after
this war is over that the problem of dist-
ance in war has almost ceased to exist.
Over in September?
“Ek Dum”: It seems a pity that some
simple official spokesman does not put
the facts of the war against Japan in
their just proportion for the Australian
public.
The impression gathered from the daily
press and from utterances in Washington
which obviously are aimed at the
Japanese is that Japan is beaten already
to molten pulp ; that its people are stag-
gering and “bomb-happy” and need only
the knowledge that Uncle Joe is about
to descend on them to induce them to
throw in a towel—if they have a towel
which has not been reduced to tinder.
Facts and figures lend a much more
sober complexion to the tale.
One fact is that General Spaatz, who
is to command the Strategic Air Force
in the Pacific, has only just taken over
his H.Q. at Guam. Another is that com-
mands throughout the Asian area are
being reorganised, and it would scarcely
be considered worth while to make ex-
tensive reorganisations if the end were
considered near. General MacArthur’s
authority has been extended to reach over
the whole of the Ryukus, and it is an-
nounced that Mr. Attlee and Mr. Truman
have approved a co-ordinated plan for
the defeat of Japan which will involve a
major re-organisation of commands.
Moreover, the full Allied force is not
deployed or nearly deployed. It was
announced in May that the United States
alone proposed to transfer 2,500,000 men
to the Pacific for land operations, and
there certainly has not been time to effect
such a transfer, which is in progress.
Lastly, the cold figures tell their own
story. In the last three weeks of May
about 24,000 tons of bombs were dropped
on Japan. It was announced on August
2 that the dosage for July had totted up
to 42,000 tons. It was not clear whether
this included the Navy’s contribution, but
even if this were thrown in the amount
would fall far short of the 80,000 tons
a month rained on Germany before the
end came.
Apart from the U.S. Eighth and Fif-
teenth Air Forces, the R.A.F. (which
was the largest contributor to Germany’s
ruin by bombing) delivered 470,000 tons of
bombs in 1944, So far the total strategic
bombing of Japan since March seems to
approximate to about six weeks’ bomb-
ing of Germany during the last six months
of the European war.
What may be needed can be estimated
by a glance at the figures for Okinawa.
There, up to the end of the first week
in June 98,000 tons of ammunition had
been hurled into the island defences by
ship and shore batteries apart from the
deliveries of nearly 120 days of bombing
of various intensities.
Although the enemy had only a few
divisions on the island he occupied the
attention of nearly 100,000 U.S. troops,
a large fleet and a powerful air force
for over 80 days.
Climatic Influence
In Japan the winter is mild—as
mild as that of Sydney save in the far
north, in Hokkaido and the Kuriles, and
some of the inner regions. At the same
time it is not so in the United States,
where it slows up production, nor on the
mainland of Asia, where, as in Europe,
it is apt to curtail major campaigning
for months.
The south-east monsoon, which blows
from May onward, is at its peak this
month, begins to die away in September
and ceases in October —a danger-signal
on every front for the Japanese.
Like everything else in Japan, weather
does not conform to the usual standards
and the height of the rainy season does
not follow nature and occur at the height
of the monsoon. The “plum” rains begin
a bit later than the monsoon rains in
India —about mid-June. They continue
till well on into July. Then the rain
slackens off, the oppressive heat of August
arrives and in September the rains begin
again on a large scale, just when the
typhoons of the equatorial region round
the Philippines have limbered up.
With tne amount of hill and mountain
country in the interior of Japan and one-
third of the area of the main islands
covered by forest, and a long sweep of
islands, running through nearly 16 degrees
of latitude from the northern tip of
Hokkaido to the southern tip of Kyushu,
Japan has great advantages for making
a stand, more especially since food supply
is localised and mainly in the hands of
tens of thousands of small families
operating farms of an average of abouf
2\ acres.
The Japanese themselves expect inva-
sion, and their war critics appear to
appraise the present phase correctly as
the early stages of a growing softening-
up effort which has not reached its highest
peak by a long way. Tokyo Radio, quot-
ing a newspaper opinion for which it
appeared to have considerable respect, de-
clared during the week that an attempt at
a landing might be made as early as next
month. It was pointed out that 500 Allied
ships already were gathered in Okinawa
harbors.
Conflicting Views
Sober critics of the situation and those
experienced in judging how much a nation
can stand in battering from the air, even
at close quarters, are not hopeful (while
allowing that great wars have a way of
ending suddenly) that the end of this war,
the like of which has never been fought
before, is near.
The immensity of the preparations
which are going forward speak for them-
selves. Much of the optimism seems to
come from rivalry between the services.
On this there has been acrid comment in
U.S. newspapers centreing chiefly in the
fact that both the Naval Air Forces,
which were in first, and General Mac-
Arthur’s Far Eastern Air Force, which
followed, claimed the knocking out of
the battleship Haruna.
Thus, several views have been aired:
A “high Navy spokesman” in Washing-
ton: “I think the war is over.”
Senior generals at Guam —-where the
Strategic Air Force is based: “Japan will
be out of the war by September.”
General Doolittle appears to believe that
an invasion will have to come. He has said
that the principal weapon of the Japanese
against if will be the suicide ’plane and
that Japanese air power—of which most
critics, official and otherwise, ignore the
existence—is widely dispersed and well
camouflaged.
Admiral Mitscher: “Victory can come
only through the invasion of the Japanese
mainland.
General Patch (who commanded an army
in Europe and now commands the
Fourth U.S. Army): “There is no hope of
Japan suddenly surrendering. The essen-
tials for beating Japan are exactly the same
as those for beating Germany-—technical
skill, stamina and fighting hearts.”
The Japanese view, given over the air,
is there will be a showdown fight on the
mainland. For this all preparations are
being concentrated; for this the Air
Force is being “cleverly” saved, along
with a great mosquito fleet of small craft
whose crews will commit suicide in the
process of blowing the Allied fleet sky-
high. And the enemy boasts of special
weapons “in number as great as that of
the tanks used in Europe.”
The latest announcement of strategic
developments during the week came from
the Twentieth Air Force —one of General
Spaatz’s two forces —which declared that
its Superfortresses had established a com-
plete shipping blockade of the Japanese
home islands and that every important
harbor had been virtually closed by mine-
fields. It was added that this was “the
first time an air force has carried the
brunt of the strategic blockade against
a maritime nation.”
News of the work of the R.A.F.'s
Coastal Command apparently has not yet
trickled through to the North Pacific, And
the Superfortress command apparently
has never heard of Admirals Nimitz and
Fraser.
It is no wonder that General Doolittle,
fresh from Europe, where there was per-
fect co-ordination, should appear slightly
bewildered by conditions in the Far East.
He has strongly appealed for team-work
through unity of command, remarking;
“We had a divided command at Pearl
Harbor.”
There should be no peed for unity of
command at this stage, which is primarily


TO SERVE FOR YEARS
... many, many years!
A i-
■ B I
i m
' £ ■ f,'
.
' ■?-
H
■BHI
m w
.
■x.
•" V • : - : ' •-■ o£fe : -
r
m
Si,.;-.-;--
.
HKf'J',
/
ft Siiir
MM|| Mp
f s :' ’■ ;i
d
■ J
mm
W4mS'y'
#r =■
H
.
H
' -
m
i
. .
Si ’- jiiit; ' ' '„•
.
. ;V
.
s p ,
• x-: ~
. : ■ ■■ ' :■' , ■■. •V■ I ■ ■
rnnk^.
■I
mm
nn
2 I
■ ■
m
mm
:■■ ■■■ ?
..
■
V:
:
m
«
iiiii
I
JE *k„
fflaBaafflas ® *™
■Hljp* ll "' r • . 1 . tip
V
.~J
■
Y : 'fff?inr «i
the highways o£ tomorrow, corrugated
iron will carry the load for many, many years.
Years that will be free from problems of maintenance and replace-
ment. Armco Multi-Plate Pipe is proving in thousands of installa-
tions that it is ideal for the construction of bridges that require high
load-bearing capacity at low cost, dhe combination of modern
steel construction with native stone, as shown in this photograph,
makes beautiful durable bridges.
Municipal councillors and engineers are invited to
write for full particulars to their nearest Armco Office.
ABMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
V
SYDNEY - - - MELBOURNE - - - BRISBANE - - - ADELAIDE
Al—s


il
i \
xfyJ
y^yuj
y^i&Bk
Wi
{ /
vi>
m
i L,
m
'fSZ.
&
w
/..i-'i
(ROMANCE,
OLD GOLD,
GOLDEN GLORY
three famous chocolate
assortments remem-
bered for their
QUALITY!
Ws/i
tv s^
ROMANCE— It is delightful to
dally with memories of the de-
licious past and to dream of
pleasures yet to come,
ROMANCE fitting gift for
charming companion choice,
gracious compliment for an anni-
versary occasion.
ROMANCE
b H
0 v
/'"'/>
nV \ RHO '
Jt\ 70f,
\ 600 I
500
900 /%
ICOO %
rk<'\ ""J"y„
A. 800 /A
1100
400
f~ 30 0 t>« ,Lt3lll -
- =
1000
eußtur--
GOO fr wiLco» iTB
200
1300
100 i,BS.Pt!SQ.IN. 1400
soo T 1100 ~
FAH/uNHEIT ~
1500
|2OO C g&
V M
4OO
V
TftHiH#
Temperature and Pressure
the Terrible Twins
Steam at normal atmospheric pres-
sure has a temperature of 212°F.—
but raise the pressure for reasons of
industrial economy and efficiency
and you immediately raise the tem-
perature ... for temperature and
pressure are complementary ... a
couple, dangerous in the Higher rat-
ings, that materially increase the
complexities of boiler design and
construction.
Very largely the history of the de
velopment of the modern high pres-
sure, steam generating unit is the
history of the taming of these terrible
twins—<a taming which began effec-
tively in 1913, when a Babcock boiler
was commissioned to operate at 273
lb. per sq. in.*—a pressure then con-
sidered high. Thereafter Babcock &
Wilcox progressively upped boiler
pressures to 400, 650, 800 and
1,500 lb per sq. in. in under 18 years
and raised temperatures from some
500° F. to over 900° F.
Thus, the benefits of to-day’s bigb
boiler operating economy and effici
ency stem back to Babcock pioneer
ing, research and development—-and
this vigorous tradition is backed by
Babcock experience of local fuels
accumulated during sixty years ol
building steam generating units for
Australian users.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS—INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
'Wilcox are planning lo put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia,
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
lo ensure that boiler plant built In Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . , ,
work to common purpose with our British
organisation , . , maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost
TIMh H.4S I‘KOVF.I) THE SKHVICK Oh BAHCOCK BOILER PLANT .
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
naval and strategic, but events are being
quickly channelled into a main stream.
Seac’s Part
Whenever the main attack comes it is
likely to be synchronised, at its most
intense early stages, with the Malayan-
East Indian war. Even though no re-
organisation of the command area in this
region has yet been announced, its
strategy is dominated by the fact that by
far the best approaches to Malaya, which
is the heart of the problem of retaking the
islands, the Peninsula and French Indo-
China, are on the west.
This is true both climatically and be-
cause of the nature and length of supply
lines. Ceylon is the central focus of all
the world’s sea lanes and almost equidis-
tant from everywhere that matters. The
command naturally is the prerogative of
Lord Louis Mountbatten, whether opera-
tions come from the east or west or from
all directions.
In this zone, it may be added, there is
none of the rivalry and confusion of
tongues which appear to exist elsewhere
in the Pacific war. Seac speaks with a
single voice, and there is one leader at
a time on the stage.
After the Monsoon
The timing of the campaign in the
Malayan area, where the Royal Navy has
been busy sweeping up the mine|)»off the
west coast, will be determined by condi-
tions which make it easy to synchronise
its gtbatesl blast with that against Japan.
The Malayan Peninsula has two climates.
The east coast has a turbulent summer
period of storms and rain from November
till about April, whereas conditions on
the west during that period, which is
Japan’s best campaigning season, are
more placid. This is the reason that the
bulk of settlement and main road com-
munications are on the west, and it can
be said, as it was said in the campaign
of 1941-42, that whoever holds the west
coast roads holds Malaya.
The Japanese chose December to strike
at Malaya because west-coast rainfall,
in the north, is at its lowest in December,
January, February and March, and
their drive was timed to reach Singapore
when the rainfall there was at its lowest,
i.e., in February. The same factors will
influence Allied operations to some
extent, though probably not to the same
extent, because of this better wet-weather
equipment.
If the Malayan campaign is over by
next March it will be a matter for con-
gratulation. And if Japan surrenders
before the summer of 1946 we shall have
been surprisingly lucky.
If there is anybody whose opinion is
worth anything in Australia who believes
that the war will end before then the
writer has yet to meet him. The opinions
of some people who have been in the
North Pacific zone in the past few months
even incline to the belief that 1947 and
not 1946 will be the year of victory.
The only factors which could bring
victory in 1945 would be political.
Potsdam and Europe.
“Ek Dum”: Marshal Stalin, Mr.
Truman and Mr. Attlee have finished
their meetings in Little Willie’s Potsdam
Palace and gone home. There is talk of
another meeting in Washington. The
hope in some quarters is that Marshal
Stalin will arrive as a savior announcing
that the Game is Up with Japan in conse-
quence of the U.S.S.R. having decided,
very tardily, to open a Second Front in
Siberia.
There is considerable censorship in
Europe, so that little is known outside
that dark, hungry continent of what
people there are thinking or even of what
they are doing. But the decisions of the
triumvirs cannot have filled them with
hopes of peace to come or of stability in
' a political sense.
The German war came because Hitler
robbed weaker neighbors, alleging that
the stolen areas were racially German or
had been parts of German empires, and
that the inhabitants in the main wished to
return to the Reich.
The leaders of Britain and the United
States have condoned an exactly similar
steal of East Poland (made in the first
place in conjunction with Hitler) on pre-
cisely similar grounds. And while they
are taking measures to prevent future
aggression by Germany apparently not
one word was said at Potsdam about the
Russian “annexation” of the three Baltic
States, whose non-communist inhabitants
who showed a tendency to resist were
dealt with exactly as were resisters in
those little countries which became
Hitler’s prey.
Appeasement of Russia
The problems which the Big Three are
alleged to have solved resolved them-
selves somewhat as follow: (1) how to
dispose of Germany; (2) how to manage
the remains after Germany is disposed
of; (3) how the rest of Europe will
be ’ allowed to manage itself consistent
with the imperialist aims and interests of
the U.S.S.R.
First of all, Russia is to get, together
with the Baltic States, East Poland
and the pieces of Finland which
Moscow has made its own, the Kdnigs-
berg area in Germany. It has no
economic significance worth mention-
ing, but has considerable military im-
portance, and will bring Russia within
reasonable distance of having full con-
trol of the Baltic shores and of Poland,
as well as the Balkans.
. Next, the Polish “Government” is to be
given all the German or German-
held areas east of the Oder, from
the junction of the West Neisse and
the Oder to Swinemunde. South of this
part of the border the Poles, subject to
Moscow’s arrangements, will have every-
thing east of the West Neisse right down
to the Czechoslovak border, including
the Silesian coal and industrial areas.
The Poles thus get Breslau, and many
German cities are cut in half.
Since Poland’s communications are in
the hands of the Russians, its resources
at Russia’s disposal and its “Government”
a Moscow creation, these amount to
annexations by Russia. The amount
of independence which Poland at
present possesses may be understood
from the fact that, though it was the
first country to fight Hitlerism, it enjoys
po right to separate reparations. It has
been left to Russia to settle Polish claims;
and this settlement, of course, will be
entirely dependent on Poland’s subservi-
ence.
It was agreed that elections conducted
by secret ballot should be held in Poland.
All “anti-Nazi parties*’ would have a
right to take part—which will be
suitable to the provisional Government,
since only one party and some fellow-
traveller organisations have been allowed
to function. All Poles who are abroad
are to be allowed to go home and to
enjoy the same property rights as the
Poles already there ; and this also will
suit the existing Government and its
Moscow mentors, since the provisional
“Government” did not even wait to be-
come a Government before it began seiz-
ing estates and doling them out to its
friends.
No date was fixed for the election, but
the provisional Government has an-
nounced that it will be held when all the
absent Poles come home, where most
absent Poles are afraid to come. So it
seems that it will be possible to stave off
the election for a long time, as possibly
by the time it has become due a wave of
love for the U.S.S.R. will have swept
Poland and it will have voted itself by
an almost 100 per cent, majority into the
U.S.S.R. —the Red Army, doubtless, as in
the Baltic States, voting enthusiastically.
Even if an election is carried out with all
the safeguards and in the kind of secure
atmosphere enjoyed by the elector at
British and U.S, polls, no word seems to
have been said at Moscow about what
will happen if, by any chance, the electors
produce a majority which does not suit
Moscow.
Only one guess is needed. In the mean-
time Poland is virtually governed from
the Kremlin.
Germans still in Poland are to be re-
moved to what remains of Germany after
the provinces east of the Oder and the
West Neisse, Sudetenland and Austria
have been taken away from that country.
Reparations
It needs to be prefaced to consideration
of reparations that Russia did not wait
for any agreement before beginning to
send both laborers and materials east-
ward out of its occupied zone.
It is to receive unspecified repara-
tions from its own occupation zone
and appropriate external German assets,
which include 15 per cent, of such
useable and complete industrial capi-
tal and equipment from metallurgical,
chemical and machine manufacturing in-
dustries as is unnecessary for German
peace and economy in the British, U.S.
and French zones, in exchange for an
equivalent value of food, coal, potash,
timber products, petroleum products and
other products to be agreed upon. The
Russians are to have two years to collect
their reparations from the British-Amen-
can zones, but five years to pay for them.
All German assets in the western zones,
apart from this agreement, are to be at the
disposal of the rest of the Allies, including
France and Belgium, which want the Saar,
the whole of the machinery of the Ruhr,
large slices of the Rhineland and a fe"
other trifles. The United States will re
ceive virtually nothing from reparations,
the British very little. The Continent gets
almost the lot. Russia’s share will include
half Germany’s movable property.
Under these conditions the Germans
(not to mention the Austrians and some
others) are to be governed in tripartite
zones. The contribution of Russia to-
wards feeding the western zones, which
in normal times produce only 15 per cent,
of Germany’s food, does not seem hlceb
to make any German fat. The British
and Americans are charged with tne
responsibility of feeding the people
of these zones, which hold much tn«
greater part of the German population,«


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LILIAN FAIRHALL of Cairns in the State of
Queensland. TAKE NOTICE that CLYDE LANCE-
LOT FAIRHALL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
349 of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you desire to defend the case you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 15th day of
October 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES
Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
IN THE COMMONWEALTH COURT OF CONCILIA-
TION AND ARBITRATION.
In the matter of the National Security (Industrial
Peace) Regulations
And in the matter of an award of the Court dated
the sth day of January 1943 wherein
THE AUSTRALIAN THEATRICAL AND AMUSE-
MENT EMPLOYEES’ ASSOCIATION (an Organi-
sation of Employees)
And HOYTS THEATRES LIMITED and others (Em-
ployers) are parties
AND in the matter of an application by the Aus-
tralian Theatrical and Amusement Employees Associa-
tion to have the said award as varied declared a
common rule of the Theatrical picture show and
amusement industry in the States of New South
Wales Victoria Queensland South Australia Western
Australia and Tasmania: —
To the organisations and all employees bound by the
abovementiohed award and to all other interested
persons or associations: —
WHEREAS the Australian Theatrical and Amusement
Employees’ Association has made application for an
order declaring the abovementioned award as varied
a common rule of the Theatrical picture show and
amusement industry in the States of New South Wales
Victoria Queensland South Australia Western Aus-
tralia and Tasmania NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN:
I. THAT the said application will be heard by
the said Court at Melbourne in the State of Vic-
toria at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon of Monday
the 17th day of September 1946 when interested
organisations persons or associations personally or
by legal or other duly authorised representatives will
be heard on the said question.
11. THAT organisations persons or associations
intending to oppose the declaration of the said
common rule shall in writing to be received by him
on or before Thursday the 13th day of September
1945 notify the Industrial Registrar 468 Lonsdale
Street Melbourne of their intention so to do.
111. THAT if intending objectors fail to give such
notice of intention to object or having given such
notice fail to appear or be represented at the hearing
the said award as varied may in their absence be de-
clared a common rule as requested by the application
binding upon them.
IV. THAT any order which the Court may make
on the said application may be in terms differing
from those contained in the said award as varied.
V. THE following are particulars of the matters
to be made a common rule as aforesaid:—
The provisions of the said award as varied in-
cluding the provisions therein relating to wage rates
and the adjustment thereof pay night termination of
employment hours of work and time off overtime
meal intervals payment for work during meal in-
tervals absence from duty work on Sundays and
holidays and payment therefor annual leave pro-
visions re travelling provision of meal by employees
accommodation for employees special costumes for
female employees keeping of time books posting of
award and Union notices establishment of employ-
ment bureaus sub-contracting discrimination against
members of Unions intimidation of employees and
board of reference,
VI. THAT copies of the said award as varied
may be inspected free of charge at the Principal
Registry of the Court 468 Lonsdale Street Melbourne
and at the District Registries of the Court at the fol-
lowing addresses: —
119 Phillip Street Sydney
Supreme Court Building Brisbane
45 Flinders Street Adelaide
Court of Arbitration Perth \
High Court Registry Hobart.
DATED at MELBOURNE this 27th day of July,
1945.— MURRAY M. STEWART, Industrial Regis-
trar.
F 2
#
pVf ‘
O*
-C0* S
pEV
p\S>’
RC<
vO^
€>
to
*Vt*
to
oo^
HILLMAN MINX
J%e Greatest Achievement in Light Car design
Since its inception the Hillman Minx has held a
world-wide reputation as the light car with Big
Car comfort and exceptional performance / coupled
with strict motoring economy.
The Minx, dressed in camouflage, has been serving
on all fronts, but as soon as its present official
duties cease it'will be available again to uphold the
reputation of "The greatest achievement in Light
Car design."
A PRODUCT OF THE
(mmmm
Manufacturers oft
HILLMAN . . . HUMBER . . . SUNBEAM-TALBOT
Cars
COMMER .... KARRIER
Commercial Vehicles
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: John McGrath Ltd., Cathcart House, lie Castlereagh
Street, Sydney (temporary address).
Resident Representative!
C. H. HORDERN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
neep uour refrigeration
equipment in good order
rrrf?
rT r J
it'
• <»
I
x>^\lv
A
for
SERVICE
RING
JA
1161
m
***■
PTY
CO
R. WERNER & <
FINEST REFRIGERATION
IN AUSTRALIA
LTD
SERVICE
m
Factory & Head Office:
BURNLEY ST., RICHMOND
INTERSTATE AGENTS;— „ -
N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO., PTY LTD., Clarence St., Sydney. M 6445-6-7.
Newcastle Branch : 265 King St., 81484-5.
S.A.: W. J. WHITE, SO Grate St., Adelaide.
W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., 894 Hay St., Perth. _ „
Q’LD.; G. A. ROCHE, PTY., LTD., Or. Ipswich Rd. and Reis St. Woolloongabha.
TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.), LTD., 36 Argyle St., Hobart. 59 George St., Launceston.
W.J.H.
W. 5
the cost of the half-starving British. Yet
British-sacrifices and sufferings made the
winning of the war possible.
Why China?
Generally speaking, policy, subject to
the terms of the Potsdam declaration,
is to be determined from time to
time by a conference of Foreign Min-
isters meeting in London and represent-
ing Britain, the United States, Russia,
China and France. Exactly what the in-
terests of China are in Europe it would
be interesting to know. They appear to
be interests which give the Chinese a
paramount claim to representation oyer
the British Dominions, the Scandinavian
countries and Belgium and Holland.
Surely these countries have earned the
right at least to a group voice, especially
since part of the duty of the conference
will be to prepare for a permanent peace
settlement, as well as to take up matters
which may be referred to the Council of
Foreign Ministers by agreement of the
participating Governments. Its early
duties will be to draw up peace treaties
for Italy and enemy Balkan Powers and
to settle outstanding territorial ques-
tions.
Possibly China has been brought
in as a result of the Soong talks in Mos-
cow to establish a precedent for bringing
the U.S.S.R. into the Pacific War Peace
Conference.
In the 6000-word declaration issued
from Potsdam there was no mention —
though newspapers were sure there would
be—of Russia’s entering the war against
Japan.
However, if Russia is to act in the
east Japan is not likely to be told in
advance.
Four Fingers—One Pie
Germany obviously is to have a thin
time, and those who govern it a hard one
if they are to produce a Fourth Reich
with which a peace treaty can be signed
ultimately. Each of the military occu-
pation zones will carry out its govern-
ment in its own way and according to its
own principles, but ostensibly with the
joint intention of creating a democracy
without claws, a democracy based on
agriculture and dependent for external
communications entirely on Allied trans-
port.
“Common Policies”
Germany’s war potential is to be elim-
inated completely. Production of arms,
ammunition, sea-going ships and aircraft
is prohibited. Cartels, trusts and mono-
polies are to be wiped out, and the making
of chemicals, metals and machinery is
to be rigidly controlled. Productive
machinery not needed for reparations will
be destroyed. .
With emphasis placed on agriculture
and peaceful industries, it is declared that
Germany will be treated as an economic
unit with common policies established
in all zones of occupation. Since ad-
ministrative method can vitiate or trans-
form any policy, this is going to be dif-
ficult. However, the four Governments
are committed to uniformity of treatment
of the German population, to the blotting
out of all German military organisation
and of the Nazi party and to prepare in
each zone for “the eventual reconstruc-
tion of German political life” on a demo-
cratic basis for eventual peaceful co-
operation in international life. There is
talk of occupation for 25 years. If Russia
cannot absorb East Germany in that time
by political methods it will be surpris-
ing.
In Austria, the conference has agreed,
the extension of the Provisional Govern-
ment, a Russian baby, to the British-
American zones, is to be considered.
Imposition of a hard peace on Ger-
many is warranted by German crimes.
But the test of any peace must be that the
thing will work and last. There is no
indication in the arrangements made at
Potsdam that this will be achieved. They
look more like sowing the seeds of
another war.
European Casualties.
“Ek Dum”: It was reported last week
that authentic documents seized in Berlin
gave “definitive” German war losses to
the end of November last as 4,064,438
killed, missing, captured and permanently
disabled. There were 774,000 disabled
in hospital.
The killed and dead were itemised as
Army, 1,709,739 ; Air Force, 149,787 ;
and Navy, 51,774.
German casualties on the Russian
front were estimated at 1,419,000 killed
and dead, a large proportion having been
wiped out by cold and disease, and
907,000 missing or captured.
It will be noted that the figures were
till the end of November, before the
major battles of the Western Front, dur-
ing which something like a million casual-
ties were inflicted by the Allies apart
from captures, which totted up to some-
thing over 5,000,000.
The figures prove Moscow claims —as
this paper has always held—to be sheer
nonsense. By the middle of 1943 the
Russians claimed to have killed over
3,470,000 Germans and to have captured
another 7,000,000.
If Russian figures were accurate —
which obviously they were not —the
U.S.S.R. must hold ' about 10,000,000
prisoners of the Reich, one-seventh of
the whole population of all ages and
sexes, while another 5,000,000 of the
population supposedly lie dead on eastern
battlefields.
However, the Berlin figures appear to
establish conclusively (1) that the Western
Allies inflicted more than double the
total “definitive” casualties inflicted by the
Russians; (2) that Russia could have
had little to do with the destruction of
the Luftwaffe.
The figures coincide with reasonable
probabilities.
Russian admitted losses show that at
least five Russians were killed for every
German, a fact which supports the theory
here put forward throughout the war that
Russian advances were made by vast
hordes of men who swarmed like ants
over positions, and were sacrificed end-
lessly until resistance in the Russian zone,
greatly affected by the operations of the
Anglo-American naval, air and ground
forces in North Africa, southern and
western Europe, was worn down by sheer
weight of numbers.
In brief:
The Pegu Yoma battle in the mud of the
Sattaung Corridor, Burma, was virtually at an
end last week. It was estimated that 10,000
out of 12,500 of the enemy involved had been
killed. The rest were being steadily mopped up.
In B. 1/ 8 / ’45 (“Strange Events”), through
the accidental dropping of some words, it was
made to appear that Rashin was the only winter
port open to Siberia. The text should have
read “Possiet Bay; about 30 miles from Rashm
—which is over the border of Jap-held Korea.


dfd
BOOKS FOR THE HAMDYMAK
Shortages won’t worry handymen with these books! They’re crammed
with ideas and instructions for building or repairing. Will save money!'
Enable you to make extra profit in spare time! Encircle numbers of
books you want on order form and forward to Angus & Robertson Ltd.
fd
0 POPULAR MECHANICS
WHAT-z£ MAKE/
Over 1500 projects! Over 500 illustrations, plans,
drawings. Compiled by editors "Popular Mechanics."
Shows how to make furniture,
gifts, novelties, etc.
10/6,
ora
DRAWINGS
DIAGRAMS &
ILLUSTRATIONS
6d
post
f
©SHOP NOTES
y*cUi
1500 time and labor saving
ideas for machine-shop work,
metal work, carpentry,
I plumbing, electrical work,
welding, masonry, farm work,
concrete work! Saves money
in repairs! Crammed with time-
saving ideas, short cuts, best methods, experience
of thousands of practical men. 10/6, post 6d-
MAIL
ORDERS
DISPATCHED
BV
RETURN
df
forth
HOME
O
WORKSHOP
ENTHUSIAST
tmnmf/ff you l
WANT TO MAKE A
A wealth of material
covering craft work,
games and toys, outdoor
sports, model making, wood-
working, furniture, painting and
finishing, shipshape home, metal-work,
workshop hints, photography, electricity
and radio, and home science.
Amateur Craftman’s Cyclo-
pedia, 20/- (post 1/-)
IfOT'
fh
iv\ov
( 0
' w : ~
\
BUILD OR
*El»AirtilT
YOURSELF!
Will THESE
HELPFUL BOOKS
©MOTORISTS
MANUAL
Complete up to the minute auto
manual every car owner should
have. Whole library of vital infor-
mation! Written by experts!
Everything you need to know to get
your car in tip-top shape!
authentic/
RELIABLE/
Repairing and
*maintenance of
'.ignition system, brakes,
'battery, carburettor,,
radiator, springs. Easy to follow
instructions. Over 500 illustra-
tions, diagrams, charts. Prepared by
Staff “Popular Science Monthly." 17/6, post 6d.„
m
msrm
es
HANDBOOK
Practical information
on using concrete for
home, garden, farm,
workshop. 9fi pages,
profusely illustrated.
Published 1943. S/fi,
post fid.
K
n
av
<p/k
C/
cO
% \r
X&SS
>?*s&*
\ J- \S,
'vV*
Kv'Xrs.
©PAINTING
FURNITURE FINISHING & REPAIRING
Self-help book for craftsmen, home
owners, painters, manual training,
students. Spray-painting; restoring
antiques; furniture repairing; up-
holstery; mixing colours; silk screen;
selecting brushes. Published 194}
by "Popular Mechanics." 96 pages.
Illustrated, t/6, post 6<L
li
i
d
.ANGUS & ROBERTSON ltd
89 CASICEREAGH ST. SYDNEY
SSSSSgSSrSS?
sp?®
:
■■v;
ss
:
m?
c«;
s i '
■: S
m
.
Pi
B
The men who ®f ia ®
the'Mosquitoes’
The lines of to-morrow’s cars may well be
influenced by the Mosquitoes and other
aircraft Britain’s Motor Industry is making
to-day, in collaboration with the Aircraft
industry.
Many of the wartime developments that will
f
df
d
surely advance the efficiency
of peacetime transport can-
not be announced while the
war is in progress. But this
much can be said: Britain
will build a range of vehicles
that will meet the exacting
and specialised needs of
overseas markets.
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AUTOMOBILES • TRUCKS • BUSES
expressly designed und built for over sens
SPORTING NOTIONS
The A.J.C. Warwick Farm meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday promised well for the new
season. Every race provided a great finish,
and, with favorites winning the first two, punters
could afford to pay for experience in the other
four. The biggest winning margin was one
and a half lengths; next best half a length.
The handicapper complimented the Ajax filly
Civic Pride with 9.11 in a field of smart three-
year-olds having their first run as such, asking
her to concede weight to a dozen colts apart
from three other fillies. Munro took his fine
big chestnut charge straight to the front and
she stayed there though repeatedly challenged.
When the promising Veilmond colt Young Veil-
mond came at her with a powerful run at the
finish she fought on with all the courage of her
sire to win by a short neck; a particularly good
effort as she appeared to have her tongue over
the bit at the finish. Lakshmi Vallis was third,
and, though lacking outstanding brilliance, this
attractive Golden Sovereign filly is as game as
they come and should go on to win her share.
Don Giovanni fell early. The New Zealand-
bred Balmore, son of an English Derby winner,
Coronach, disappointingly finished nearly last.
In three subsequent runs he has done nothing
to confirm the promise he showed in his straight-
off-the-boat duel with Courtship.
\
The mile Green Hills Handicap provided the
best finish of the day. With less than a fur-
long to go any one of 10 of the 13 starters,
spread right across the track, had a chance
of winning. Having his first run after a spell,
the Coronation Day colt Accession showed out
from the bunch as they neared the post, accom-
panied and hampered by the riderless Swan
River, who fell in the first furlong and set after
them again without his burden, J. Thompson.
However, a powerful run on the outside took
the lightly-weighted Murray Stream to the front,
and this Midstream colt won by half a length
with riderless Swan River next, then Accession
and Gigli. Kingsdale was once again left at
the barrier and, carrying 9.13, was unable to
make up the lost ground.
A. Mulley rode Murray Stream and made it
a double on Panchio in the Flying, winning
in the same fashion with a last-minute dash
on the outside to defeat Abbeville, with Grand
Prodige third.
Sydney bookies, never notoriously lavish with
their odds, were taking no risks on the mam
double —the Flying and the August Handicap.
Eleven starters in each and between the two
events nine horses were quoted at' 6 to 1 and
less, including the two winners. The five-
year-old Conspirator-Lady Rossendale horse
Cordale won the second leg, beating Salivant,
who made most' of the running, and the Fresco
mare Haxton.
The new crop of three-year-olds also had a
Trial open to them, which the Herarde colt
Melos won tty a neck, his second successive win
at Randwick. Even Time and Questing filled
the places. The other race on the card, a High-
weight, went to old Bragger, from the consis-
tently unlucky Puffham and the Brueghel geld-
ing Constable, who periodically picks up place-
money at Randwick.
* * * O
In winning the Australian Hurdle' (worth
£1000) at Caulfield on Saturday Duomint, an
aged gelding by Charles Fox, joined the list of
bargain horses. Bought at auction for 650
guineas with the idea of trying him as a hurdler
when his poor flat performances had outed him
under the fodder-shortage restrictions, he had
already returned the outlay, and no doubt a
bit over in betting, with a win at' Mentone.
On Saturday he was having only his fourth
run over the jumps, and at the finish he had an
eight-lengths’ advantage over Hiatus and an-
other three lengths to the steady old place-
filler Isanffrard. Bay David, with Meenan up,
was equal favorite with Gay Invader, but landed
on a hurdle. Duomint started at 25 to 1.
With both Lime Rock and Winterset absent,
the Godfrey Watson Steeple may not have been
a good guide to next Saturday’s Australian
Steeple. Still, it was a good race, ending in
that rarity of steeplechasing a dead-heat. Both
Tente and Quixotic, who shared the honor
from Priority, should go well again next Satur-
day, but the winner may be either Winterset
or Lime Rock. Against Winterset is a lack of
recent runs in races, but he schooled brilliantly
last week, and both he and Lime Rock are
reasonably weighted for such performers.
Solray’s win in the seven-furlongs’ Elstem-
wick Stakes finally stamped him the pick of
the winter three-year-olds and certainly versatile
—in his previous two runs he had won at six
furlongs and then at a mile. He beat the two
Dhoti colts Dervish and Durzee and a big
field of others with just on two lengths in hand.
There was also a big field in the six-furlongs
Moondah Plate, won by Breasley’s mount' St.
Fairy by a length and a half from Solon and
Pincess Amy. After the running of the Elstern-
wick second division, in which Hereward lifted
Dhoti’s stocks as a sire still further by de-
feating the outsider Edward John, and El Banco,
an inquiry was opened on why Breasley, on the
favorite, Vino, weighted out' at Bst. and weighed
in more than 21b. over. Breasley had the rare
experience for him of being on the last horse,
The Trapper, in the Balaclava Stakes, won by
the Enfield gelding Duntroon from Bisley and
Field Balloon. In the Mornington Welter
Breasley also failed on the hot favorite Great
Win, run by the stable in preference to Brace.
Winner, the 25-to-l chance Medicine, from
Lunar Lynx and Orthodox.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Three-year-old Maiden (colts): Montrose, 1;
New Cashmere, 2; Bobnic, 3. Fillies: Stefan-
ova, 1; Questing, 2; Volley, 3. Flying: Car-
geonel, 1; Babillard, 2; Dieppe, 3. Lord Mayor’s
Cup: Accession, 1; Night Parade, 2; Turn
Again, 3. Three-year-old Handicap: Don Gio-
vanni, 1; Melos, 2; Even Time, 3. Welter:
Great Scot, 1; Kimbell, 2; Salivant, 3.
* * * »
Three sires represented in races for the first
time “filled the places” at the head of the list
with their winning two-year-olds in the past
season. Magnificent (Breeders’ Plate, A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, Champagne Stakes, and
once third) and Civic Pride (Gimcrack Stakes,
a handicap at Rosehill and two seconds) put
the Australian sire Ajax at the top in stake-
money. Dhoti, brought out to carry the colors
of the late Duke of Kent, was next on the
list on a stake-winning basis, chiefly through
Royal Gem, winner of five races. Royal Gem,
who should get sticking quality from his dam —
the 1938 Oaks winner, French Gem —has weight-
for-age (7.6) in the Melbourne Cup, Magnifi-
cent being rated lib. better. F. W. Hughes’s
Hyperion horse Titan was best of the three
leaders in number of races won by his progeny
—lO, to Dhoti’s eight and Ajax’s five —but the
South Australian Shakuni, sire of Norwich,
headed all in races won, 12. Imported Agin-
court produced only one winner, but a pretty
good one —Courtship, who won five races, and
who, on her breeding, should certainly stay.
Like Magnificent, she has the compliment of
11b. over w.f.a. in the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
George Main, P. H. Osborne, A. G. Potter,
F. W. Duesbury and B. H. Crowley have all
been re-elected unopposed to the A.J.C. com-
mittee, of which the firstnamed has been a
member since 1921 and chairman for the past
eight years. A Scot, 66 on July 8, George
Main had an early interest in horses away from
courses: he served with the Australian Com-
monwealth Horse in the S’African War. He be-
came AJ.C. committee chairman on the death
of Colin Stephen, in whose honor the Spring
Stakes, run at Randwick on Derby Day, was
renamed the Colin Stephen Stakes. Leaning
Australian fighter-pilot Clive Caldwell married
one of George Main’s daughters. B. H. Lrowiey
is of the later crop of committeemen, starting
last year. He races that fine mare Ffigfit, wno,
incidentally, has been back in training for a
while now, and shaping nicely.
•/. • ,
Touching on the old Spring Stakes, it was one
of the races which, though he never _ won it.
helped build up the £19,871 stake earnings ot
Lough Neagh, who died at Disputed Flams,
near Casino (N.S.W.) a week or two Pack,
The sturdy old Queenslander ran two seconds
and a third in the Stakes, as weff as two thirds
in the Metropolitan, three .thirds in the Craven
Plate and three seconds in the A.J .C. Plate,
His name once figured in the books as joint
holder of the Commonwealth seven-furlongs
record, till Freckles, cutting a second ott the
time, ran it in 1.22.
, * * u *k
Sydney punters put £5,345,909 through the
tote in the past season, up over a million on the
previous season. On the other hand, there was
a reported falling off in big b . .
so the tote would appear to be gaming in
B’pSSbettoS? aTd the fait that E pays as
well as the ring (usually a shade better) on
favored horses it always pays tncompamWy
better for anything approaching an Outsider-
sometimes three and more times above the
nominal ring odds, which, in any case, have to
be searched for with the nose of a bloodhound
and the strength of a prizefighte . »
tote /tmicted l hat much f m °£
the fact that, because of
windows remained closed at Randwick and 1 else-
where, and thousands of prospective tote bettors
could not get their money on.
• * . * ...
Already given a mention here, the riding
performance of A. Breasley on Melbourne
courses in the past season was really extra-
ordinary. His 53 winners and two dead-heaters
for first represented more than twice as many
winners as the next-best. Moreover, with his
seconds and thirds, he actually rode more
placed than unplaced horses. Omitting dead-
heats, he rode 19 more winners than the lead-
ing Sydney jockey, J. Thompson. Breasley has
been leading Melbourne jockey for the past two
seasons; Thompson leader m Sydney three
times in the last five years; W. Briscoe seven
times in the last nine years in Brisbane. This
last season Briscoe landed 47 winners, eight
more than H. Bastian had in first place m Adel-
aide. G. V. Bates trained winners of 24 races
in S.A.; B. R. Payten and L. Robertson each
21 in Sydney and Melbourne respectively.
• * * *
Both in the past season and the previous one
there was practically nothing betwcen_Sydney
riders J. Thompson and W. Cook. They re-
spectively rode 45 winners and a dead-heat for


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them. Nature
may be warning you that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t work
well, poisonous waste matter stays in, the blood, causing
nagging backaches, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent and
scanty passages with smarting and burning show there
is something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used successfully by
millions for over 40 years. They give happy relief
and will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes flush out
poisonous waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day —the remedy that will
make you well and keep you well.
faun tuM doae
Britain is today the most highly mechanised farming
country in Europe. She was estimated in 1942 to
have 150,000 tractors, as against 55,000 at the start
of war, and 1,175,000 tractor implements as against
200,000 at the start of war. Britain now has more
tractors than the Germans, who had 70,000 at the
start of war.
The vast increase quoted above is paralleled by
the enlarged output of Imperial Typewriters.
The only reason you cannot yet secure one, is
that all are now supplied to the Fighting Ser-
vices. When Peace dawns, you will derive all
the advantages of this great wartime manufac-
turing experience in a new, improved Imperial
Typewriter . . . British-made and proud of it.
(BRITISH MINISTRY OF INFORMATION)
u/111 do-
-p*
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable
Models
DOBELL PTY. LTD.
29 REIBY PLACE, SYDNEY
Tel.: BW 1227
• • I
takes on a new meaning through
latest addition to ultra-modern
A.T.L equipment
FOR
JIGS . . . FIXTURES . . . MOULDS
PRESS TOOLS...DIES...GAUGES
&
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . , . BRISBANE
IF IT’S A PRECISION JOB, IT’S A JOB FOR AXL.
ATL.4-45
As specialists in super-
accuracy, A.T.L. has long
foreseen that interchange-
ability with its attendant
precision will attain even
greater significance in post-
war production than it has
reached during the war.
A.T.L. equipment and tech-
nical resources have been
developed accordingly. En-
quiries concerning the sup-
ply of production essentials
requiring the finest margins
of accuracy will be wel-
comed.
Latest addition to A.T.L. equipment for
super-accuracy in jig-boring—the Newall Jig Borer.
Accurate to .0001 of an inch, this machine is
universally regarded as a major achievement of
British engineering.
first and 44 winners and one dead-heat in the
earlier season and 34 winners and a dead-heat
and 32 winners and two dead-heats in the recent
season. The figures make a comment on war-
restricted opportunities. Cook still has ridden
more winners in one season than any other Aus-
tralian jockey—,l26, including three dead-heats,
in 1939-40. And in that same season, and on
the same tracks, E. McMenamin piloted 11 /
winners.
* * * *
The bright spot in the Australian
Services matches in England last week
was a slashing 189 runs (out of 331) by
Lindsay Hassett against Royal Navy and
Marines XI, which fell for 204. Hassett
got the runs in 225 minutes (one six and
18 fours). It recalled his 211 not out (of
449) v. S.A. in Melbourne in December,
1938, giving Clarrie Grimmett one of the
greatest pastings of his career —25 overs,
no maidens, 98 runs, no wickets. That
was Hassett’s highest innings in Aus-
tralian first-class cricket. His highest in
first-class cricket is 220 not out against
Cambridge University on May 11, 1938.
* * * *
“X.M.”: “To show gratitude for hos-
pitality” Hansen Carter has donated
£5OO to Lancashire County to assist in
rebuilding its war-damaged structures.
One of Australia’s four “iron-men”
’keepers, Blackham, Kelly and Oldfield
the others. Carter, who played in 21 Tests
(12 in Australia, 9 in England), began by
making a second-innings 61 (top score)
in Sydney in December, 1907, helping
Australia to win by two wickets. He
went to England in 1902, 1909 and 1912,
and in 35 innings scored 776, averaging
25.03. His best match effort was against
Douglas’s XI in Melbourne (February,
1921), when, besides catching three and
stumping three, he allowed only six byes
in an aggregate of 599. Yorkshire-born,
Carter was 67 on March 15.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association president
Syd Smith announced at the annual meet-
ing that, though inter-State matches will
be played next season, Sheffield Shield
cricket will not be resumed “until
all men in the services and those in Japa-
nese hands are back in their places with
their clubs.” Also he said: “I hope that
the next Tests will be played in Australia
in December next year.”
♦ * * *
A newspaper clipping sent in to this
page carries the announcement that “Jerry
Nalty has decided to retire from 'com-
petitive cycle racing,” The correct
handlebar is not Jerry but Charlie; and
it seems about time he gave the other
boys a chance. He was 64 on July 27,
and he was winning wheel races on the
Westralian goldfields and elsewhere back
in the ’nineties. Among the long list of
his wins were the Queen Victoria, A.N.A.
and Westral wheel races, and he pedalled
record time when he won the quarter-mile
Australian championship at Kalgoorlie.
For about 10 years, from 1897, the Wes-
tral, run at Coolgardie, was one of the
big goldfields sporting events, drawing
attendances up to 20,000.
m . * * *
Roughies are coming home in the
V.F.L. competition almost as frequently
as on racecourses. The latest, Hawthorn,
pounced on Richmond on Saturday,
rolled it in the mud, nearly skinned it
alive and romped home with a score of
19.7 to 15.15. And Richmond, expecting
South to beat Footscray and Fitzroy to
worry North, had ordered black-and-
yellow plush for its seat in “the four.”
South did beat Footscray, but only by a
point, 8.8 to 7.13. It was ’Scray’s
third sucessive defeat and Richmond has
all the more reason to gnash its teeth, for
had the Tigers gulped Hawthorn down
they’d have been in “the four” now.
North wasn’t worried by Fitzroy, winning
by 12.6 to 4.9 Collingwood disposed
6f Essendon, 16.8-10.15, Melbourne wal-
loped Geelong, 17.13-7.14, and Carlton
did the same by St. Kilda, 11.13-7.15. It’s
South, Wood, Scray and N rth m
order, Richmond and Carlton just in the
runn jng.
* * * *
, , .
With substitutes in two key back posi-
jjons Randwick found Drummoyne too
Saturday. Rucking and tackling
f . 4.. o o
ferociously, the Reds gave the Wicks a
sound drubbing, 16-6, The other three
leading teams had easy victories. Parra-
matta v Manly 37-8, Umversity v St
George 15-m/ and East v. West 24 -nil.
S moved fifth beat-
Gordon Randwic|[ now has a
one _ int margin over Parr amatta. with
£ast next and then Univers i t y.
* * * *
« s rts » who g 0 to Leichhardt never
seem^tQ tire of the entertainment fur-
nished , Hockey Bennell and Tommy
Colte though it is old stu ff; they have
met sevm tim£S for a Bennell score of
sjx wins and a draW- In the lates t turn
Co j teaux displayed no sign of an in-
feriority compleXj fighting aggressively in
all 12 rounds. But as he attacked he left
his chin wide open to Bennell’s speedy
punches and his own ponderous blows
landed rarely. For a wonder the verdict
for Bennell was received with approba-
tion.
* •
Marr v. Clingan, at the Sydney
Stadium, was another case of boxer beat-
in S fighter. Clingan, nearly a stone
heavier than Ambrose Palmers pupil,
used his advantage at every opportunity,
but he missed so much and clung so often
that Marr, while inflicting no great
amount of punishment, had a clear lead
at the end of the twelfth round. For 30
minutes or so the plucky youth had boxed
under a bad handicap—a broken nose.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Bright-faced and vivacious Mrs. H. K.
Prior, wife of The Bulletin’s managing
director, died suddenly last Sunday. Mrs.
Prior’s three sons are all in the A.I.F.
(they enlisted as they left school), and all
have seen service in New Guinea. Her
only daughter Joan is the wife of Peter
Vesper, also of the A.I.F. Mrs. Prior had
a gift for home-making, and 44 Bradley’s
Head-road was noted for the warmth of
its quiet hospitality. The family has many
friends throughout Australia, and there
is great sympathy for Mr. Prior and his
sons and daughter.
Australian soprano Marjorie Lawrence,
now in Europe entertaining British troops,
has been lifting her glorious voice in
Buckingham Palace. She went at the
invitation (not “command,” as her
Majesty explained to her) of the Queen.
The two princesses were there and about
150 guests. No doubt the Queen and
Marjorie felt drawn to each other, for
both have proved they have noble minds.
Marjorie sang an aria from “Carmen,”
songs by Schubert and a group of Scot-
tish songs—“ Annie Laurie” among them,
Gilbert Murray’s sonorous and sensi-
tive translation of the “Hippolytus” of
Euripides was the one presented at the
Minerva last week. For two afternoons
students of the Whitehall School of
Dramatic Art relived the tragedy for
which Euripides won the first prize at
the Drama Festival in Greece in the year
428 b.c. Poor Hippolytus and Phaedra,
victims of the goddess Aphrodite, were
hurled to their doom, as the goddess de-
clares in the prologue, because of Hippo-
lytus’s sinful neglect of herself. “Yes,”
declares Aphrodite with great frankness,
“even the family of gods have this trait :
they are pleased when people respect
them.”
About 50 of the students took part in
the presentation. A chorus in palely-
green robes kept up the usual running
commentary and exclamations. The
small side stages of the Minerva lent
effective approach and retreat to these
Trozenian women. Dorothy St. Heaps
portrayed the Queen Phaedra, Michael
Irving, her husband. King Theseus. Wil-
liam Redmond was the chaste Hippo-
lytus, Dinah Goodman the goddess
Aphrodite and Doreen Harrop, Artemis,
to whom Hippolytus paid devout tribute.
There was a good house each afternoon.
The Red Cross p.-0.-w. fund benefited.
Before the hour of opening the exhi-
bition run by the women’s auxiliary of
the R.A.S. had been viewed by enthu-
siasts. This was evident from the “sold”
sign on three canvases. The exhibi-
tion is to aid the Police Boys’ Club
at Woolloomooloo, in which the Henry
Braddon lady is keenly interested. As
she is also the president of the R.A.S.
Women’s Auxiliary, artists willingly con-
tributed paintings. The rooms in Hunter-
street, between George and Pitt streets,
are on the sixth floor of No. 26. They
are well lighted, have off-white walls and
green carpets. They were crowded out
for their first adventure.
A novel touch was the inviting of
Police Commissioner Mac Kay to open
the show. His upright, athletic figure, his
braw Scots accent and his sincerity when
he spoke of the work of the Boys’ Clubs
in the building-up of the right type of
citizen dented the consciousness of the
listeners. Among other things, he talked
of the super Police and Citizens Boys’
Club which he opened on July 19 in
Broken Hill.
Now Broken Hill is, according to
Police Commissioner Mac Kay, a city
without vice. When crime is committed
there an official alibi is handed out to
the residents, and the police concentrate
on any stranger who may have been
passing through. In building their Boys’
Club the residents are taking time by
the forelock, and providing (as much as
humanly possible) against Satan ever
finding idle hands to do his mischief.
The ground for the building was given
by the municipal council; the building
was pqt up, at the cost of thousands of
pounds, by the Zinc Corporation. Mr.
Mac Kay declares it ideal. It has a
gymnasium, boxing room, wrestling
room and so on, and, in addition, a hall
to hold 500. This is fitted with a stage,
complete MHth lighting effects and cur-
tains. The last cost over £2OO.
Blown on an Arctic wind guests of the
A.B.C. party last Wednesday had scarcely
shut the door behind them when they
began to feel they had reached the torrid
zone. , The big reception room of Vere
Matthews’s restaurant was thick with
humans, hazy with cigarette smoke and
as full, of sound as a choir in full chant.
The A.B.C. orchestra committee was the
host, Dr. Malcolm Sargent the guest of
honor. The Alexander Gordon lady,
president of the committee, made grace-
ful speech welcoming Dr. Sargent yet
once again to Sydney. A.B.C. chairman
Boyer also handed out words of praise
and goodwill, and after these prologues
Dr. Sargent spoke, saying that he was
glad to be back, and that Sydney’s orches-
tra was not worse, nor even standing still,
but better than he remembered it. He
told of the spate of music that war had
called forth in Britain, and the oppor-
tunity which English composers had had
to prove the excellent brand of home-
brew they could serve.
During the European war Dr. Sargent
went to Allied and neutral countries to
conduct. At his first concert in Sweden
the minute he walked on to the stage the
applause rocked the house. This sur-
prised him, for he had not yet raised his
baton. At the conclusion of the concert
the applause was again deafening, but
(being a modest man) he could under-
stand that. Talking to one of Sweden’s
eminents in the music world the next day
Dr. Sargent said that the concluding
applause had gratified him, but that he
was still mystified at his tumultuous recep-
tion. “Oh,” replied the Swedish friend,
“when you appeared you represented to
them Winston Churchill.”
There were sherry and coffee, lots of
talk, in voices major, minor, flat and
sharp. Mrs. Robert Dixson, Mrs. Hope
Gibson, Mrs. Rupert Scammell, Margaret
Gillespie, Pnina Salzmann and the
A.B.C.’s graceful Beryl Ross were among
the many. Pleasing ceremony of the
occasion was the presenting of a gold
medallion to the Alexander Gordon lady.
This is a fine piece of the engraver’s art.
On one side is a design of laurels half
circling her initials, and on the other
is an inscription proving the owner is
a life member. The little president, who
has held office for ten years, spoke feel-
ingly of the work done by Mrs. Fairfax
and Mrs. Swinson in founding the move-
ment.
This is Mrs. Chifley, wife of Australia’s
Prime Minister. She is a woman of quiet
tastes, but looking at her one feels she
will be a pleasant and kindly hostess —
two attributes which are the foundation
for the success of any entertainment.
The “sick bay” in the rooms of the
Totally and Permanently Disabled
Soldiers’ Association near Central
station is a sofa. If one of the mem-
bers is taken ill he is placed on it till his
friends (this means in most cases a de-
voted wife) come to take him home.
In plain English, the accommoda-
tion is quite inadequate. These quar-
ters are all that the men can
know of club life, and athletics are,
of course, denied them. These matters
were spoken of at a meeting called in the
interests of Waratah Day. The date of
this is August 17, and buttons will be
sold for the benefit of the Kindergarten
Union and the Disabled Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation.
The meeting was held in David Jones’s
art gallery, Knight Norman Nock and
his wife were responsible for pleasant
arrangements, which included a cup of
tea. This, too, was served in the gal-
lery. But the mental contrast of the sol-
dier and the little kindergartener, so
helpless, waiting for a strong arm to
guide them over life’s traffic crossings,
was too great to allow any contentment.
All present longed to be up and doing.
Chairman of the appeal Norman Nock
told of having sent out registered letters
containing £1 buttons to hundreds of
well-knowns, and up to date £6OO had
flowed in in response. Joint organiser
of the appeal Miss King, the Norman
Nock lady, Mrs. Reg Moses and Mrs.
Alan Copeland were keen workers
present. The Kindergarten Union is
hoping for a good harvest. The need for
the expansion of its splendid work is
pressing.
From Melbourne
Colonel Ralph Michaelis, U.S.A. Mili-
tary Air Attache, gave a dinner party in
the Venetian Court, Hotel Australia, to
celebrate the 38th Anniversary of the
U.S.A. Air Corps. Guests included
many officers of the R.A.A.F. Colonel
Michaelis and his wife (formerly Joyce
Field, of Sydney) received the guests,
she wearing a chunky fur coat over a
short black frock. Seated at the official
table were Air Vice-Marshal Victor
Hurley and his wife, Air Commodore
Bladen and Mrs. Bladen, Col. Baldwin
(U.S. Army) and knight Keith Murdoch.
The Murdoch lady looked demure in a
grey crepe dinner gown with a black
cap set far back on her dark hair. She
is a very busy person, on the Children’s
Hospital Committee and a keen worker
with the Parents’ Association of
Clyde Girls’ School. Captain Wang,
Chinese Naval Attache, enjoyed himself,
and another guest was Col. Renucci,
French Military Attache. Captain Ivan
Holyman came with his wife. Captain
Francis, who holds one of the first pilots’
licences granted for civil aviation, was
with Mrs. Francis, who chose a beige
outfit. Lieut.-Colonel Stewart, U.S.
Army, and Ralph Hunt, American Con-
sular Service, were told off to attend to
the wants of the press.
Plans have been completed for the
Cavalcade of Famous Lovers. The lass
pictured here, Eileen Hattam, will attire
herself in white lace and large picture
hat and appear with a soldier in khaki.
Various members of the Younger Set pre-
sided over by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell will
also take part. A preview of the gowns
showed Pat Wennman as the dainty
Queen Victoria of 1837, June Aslungul,
granddaughter of the Consul for Greece,
will appear as Carmen and will sing the
“Habanera” from the opera. Her
brother Bill will be Don Jose, Bettina
Welch, of “Blithe Spirit,” will appear as
Lady Emma Hamilton. Proceeds from
the first day of the’ Cavalcade will help
the candidature of Pam Forster in the
“Miss Australia” competition for the
A.C.F. Takings from other days will go
to the fund for'Totally Disabled Soldiers,
A meeting was held at Menzies to dis-
cuss the raising of funds for the Lady
Forster Free Kindergarten. The Clan
Mackay was well represented: Mrs. Sam
McKay, president of the L.F.F. Kinder-
garten, was in the chair, and Mrs. Colin
Mackay, as secretary, was busy taking
notes. Plans were almost completed for
a “Three-o’clock Surprise Party” to be
held on September 14 in the Myer Mural
Hall. A grand selection of prizes is to
be won, among them a leather travelling-
bag, a model hat and a permanent wave.
Edwin Styles and others have offered
their services as entertainers, Mrs, Wal-
lace Mitchell, who seems to be roped in
by all committees, was at the meeting,
accompanied by members of her Younger
Set. They, too, will help. Mrs. W. E.
McPherson handed in a cheque for £lO,
the proceeds of a bridge party at her
home.
For his first appearance in Melbourne
after a long absence Fritz Hart conducted
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra.
Most appropriate item on the programme
was his own variations on an old folk-
song, “Cold Blows the Winter Wind.”
Melbourne at the time was suffering a
young blizzard, but it didn’t keep music-
lovers away from the concert. Fritz
received a great ovation, and so did
American pianist William Kapell. This
young man leaves his large audiences
almost breathless after his whirlwind
excursions among the works of the great
masters. Yet away from the piano he is
very shy and diffident. Lady Dugan, with
Mary Lisle Johnson and Captain Murray
Fairbairn in attendance, was a member
of the audience, and Grace Angelau was
lured from her country home. The con-
cert also attracted a musical celebrity,
seldom seen in town, Mrs. Lindsay
Nicholas (Hepzibah Menuhin that was).
She toured as pianist with her famous
brother Yehudi, but now lives a quiet
life in the country. There’s a chance she
may be prevailed upon to make an ap-
pearance later in the season with the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra.
The “Miss Australia” competition for
the A.C.F. is in full swing. Each day
brings a new competitor into the arena
and committees are working night and
day for the success of their respective
candidates. Next on the list is the newest
venture of Red Cross, that of choosing
a “Victory Mother.” Each candidate for
this honor will have a committee which
will have to raise money for Red Cross
Funds. This month is known as Red
Cross Roll Call Month, the objective
being 250,000 new members. As the
Knox knight pointed out at a recent
meeting, more and more money will be
needed by Red Cross to relieve hungry
Europe. Australia must do her share in
feeding and giving medical aid.
August 1 saw a great celebration at
Ballarat, Toorak, the home of the Consul
of Switzerland and Mrs. J, A. Pietzcker.
It was the 654th anniversary of Switzer-
land’s national day and many guests were
invited, Mrs. J. A. Pietzcker assisted her
husband receive the guests, her smart
grey frock made gay by the addition of
two large roses, one red, one white, the
Swiss national colors. The
for the Netherlands was accompanied by
his wife, a decorative figure in a
black tailored coat and large black pan-
cake hat. Mrs. H. del Cott, wife of a
former Consul for Austria, contrasted her
black frock with a lavender blue and
cyclamen hat, made distinctive by an
upstanding frill of ribbon. Trade Com-
missioner for Maoriland J. A. Malcolm
joined in drinking a toast to Switzerland.
His wife, smart in black, wore what her
husband described as “a mad hat” of
purple felt with a piecrust frill of cerise
and a band of chartreuse ribbon thrown
in for good measure. Argentina was rep-
resented by Carlos Keppel, that country’s
Consul and his wife, she also wearing
black. With E. H. Peacock, Consul for
Czechoslovakia, was Mrs. Peacock, wear-
ing a blue hand-knitted frock under her
grey squirrel coat. Members of Mel-
bourne’s Swiss colony sang the national
songs of their country.
Sheila Helpman appeared in a new role
recently when she opened at George's
Gallery an exhibition of designs for ballet
by Kenneth Rowell. A smart cherry-red
suit matched by a gay Scots cap with a
perky feather was a foil for her attrac-
tive coloring. In opening the show she
said that association with her dancer
brother Robert had taught her how im-
portant were the decor and dressing of
ballet. Kenneth is a nephew of artists
John and Bill Rowell, so painting is in
his blood. In most of his designs he
shows a good sense of the theatre, and
others are most amusing. Dancer Laurel
Martyn was among those who came to
admire and to encourage the young artist.
Her lilac tweed suit and matching felt
hat, with snood encasing her auburn hair,
were well chosen. In the throng was
pianist Vera Bradford (she’s to give her
farewell concert at the Town Hall on
September 4). Reta Findlay was a poem
in turquoise blue. On the jacket of her
suit she showed large patch pockets of
baby leopard, and baby leopardskin
figured in the trimming of her matching
hat. Inez Lillies chose black accessories
with her trim tailored grey suit. Mar-
garet Scofield, the pianist, was also
warmly clad in tailor-mades.
Tasmania, which has close interest in
Field-Marshal Montgomery because he
spent some part of his boyhood in the
island when his father was bishop,
going to send him a writing desk or
similar piece of furniture made from Tas-
manian wood. The idea originated with
a Longford woman, a hospital patient
in Launceston, after she had read in Wen-
dell Willkie’s One World that Monty lost
all his personal possessions in the butt
The Royal Society of St. George is spon-
soring the move, and the presentation
will be made by Tasmania’s just-retireo
Governor when he gets home.
Lieut. Asher Joel, R.A.N.V.R., who
is organising the Jack’s Day
was awarded a decoration by the U.S.A-
Government recently. It was forwarded
with a citation for meritorious service
in the South-West Pacific and was signed
by the Secretary for the Navy, Janies
Forrestal. Commander Rienhart, on
behalf of the American Government, pre-
sented the award ; the R.A.N. was repre-
sented by Second Naval Member Com-
modore Showers. Lieut. Joel’s parent
live at Randwick, Sydney, and he has
two sons, Richard and David,


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
For Whose Benefit?
Have we really a vast nomadic and
destitute population without homes, jobs,
funds, property or prospects? One
would think so from the general trend
of present-day legislation.
I knock around a fair bit, and I have
worked with men in gravel pits and
offices, and met members of Parliament
and deadbeats. I have run up against
super salesmen and suckers, and I have
been behind the counter as well as in
front of it. In all manner of jobs I have
yet to encounter this strange animal for
whom Labor Governments are always
making laws.
He is popularly supposed to be the
workingman, but this vague definition
won’t fit. We all work. Any man on
wages worth his salt has acquired some
property and “vested interest.” Where is
this restless, improvident creature who
is clamoring for free medicine, con-
trol of banking, control of this and con-
trol of that, free handouts and soft living?
I don’t believe he exists. The welter of
strange laws passes over the ordinary
man’s head most of the time, carrying
him along more or less against his will.
—R. H. Gordon (Boddington, W.A.).
Soldier Settlement in Victoria
Dunstan’s Government has come to
light with a scheme to settle 700 soldiers
on 60,000 acres of land in the Murray
Valley, for which irrigation is planned.
The prospects are reasonable over a
decade or so, but the plan runs true to
form of all soldier-settlement schemes to
date. That is, the soldiers are to be
lumped together on a new venture which
has to be pioneered.
I know the parts proposed for settle-
ment. The land is steadily deteriorating
under dry seasons and erosion. This it
is to be hoped will give way to flourish-
ing conditions some time after the irriga-
tion gets there. There’s the point. The
irrigation channels are a long way from
being completed. The settlers are ex-
pected to make a living from dairying,
fruit-growing and fat-lamb raising on
something less than 90 acres a man.
There’s a lot of work preparing land for
irrigation and a lot of waiting for fruit-
trees to come into bearing and pastures
to get established. About five years of
occupation will be needed before these
blocks will provide anything like a decent
living.
Pioneering is good for young men fit
in health, but hardly the thing to offer
veterans of over five years’ service in the
war. There’s a deal of good land being
sold in prosperous farming districts in
lots that need little or no improvements,
and it should receive consideration for
soldier settlement. Bought at fair valua-
tion, this sort of land would give the
settler a fair chance of a decent income
from the outset without a long proba-
tionary period and the risk of not being
able to stay the distance.
It’s an easy thing for politicians and
others to revel in rosy pictures of irriga-
tion and flourishing settlements, but
they’re not the ones who have to do the
oullocking and penny-pinching to de-
velop them. —X. E. D. (Vic.).
A.I.F. Equipment
I have seen 67 months’ service in this
war, and, though a base wallah now,
fought in Libya, Greece, Crete, Syria,
Java and N.G. That’s my qualification
for talking to “J.A.L.” (B. 20/5/’45).
Maybe our uniforms are not tailor-
made, but I never yet saw an Aussie
soldier really keen on soldiering who
wasn’t turned out smartly. The Australian
service dress will stand more hard wear
and tear than that of our Allies and still
come back into good shape when leave
comes along. Our greatcoats I’ll grant
are not very stylish, but they are much
more serviceable than those issued to
American troops.
Our gaiters (anklets, web), designed
for desert use, have proved very efficient.
I found the American gaiter more tiring
on the legs.
Maybe the zip-fastened kitbag is a
good idea, but if we’re going in for small
refinements, why not a built-in powder-
compact and a container for bobby-pins?
I’ll give Uncle Sam good marks for
the jeep—he’s one upon us there ; but
our version of the Tommy-gun will do
me.
The American walkie-talkie is a highly-
efficient job, of its kind, but the Yank
never has had a set to touch the Austra-
lian equipment. Ours is bigger and
heavier, but has a longer range. It has
a variable frequency band (American is
fixed) and a longer battery life.
Generally speaking, Australian-designed
(or British-designed and Australian-built)
radio and signal equipment is better than
anything produced anywhere else.
“J.A.L.” might have admitted, among
other things, that the Americans were
always darned glad to get Aussie boots.
M. and V. is lousy. I’ll grant, but the
old bully-beef and biscuits is a scienti-
fically calculated balanced ration, and
our boys lived on it for long periods in
places like Crete, where lighting a fire
often attracted shells.
Don’t be too ready to run your own
country down, '‘J.A.L.!” Like the uni-
form you criticise, it has some traditions
worth respecting.
Australia can be justly proud of her
war effort. And even if we are not “over-
dressed, overfed or overpaid,” there is
nothing wrong with our morale or dis-
cipline. With a little care the dinkum
Digger turns out neat, smart and look-
ing what his father was and he is: “The
World’s Best Soldier.”—W. G. H. (A.1.F.).
A Word for the Militia
Speaking at Hawthorn (Vic.) Brigadier
W. Cremor said he had never had better
men under his command than the con-
scripted youngsters of the militia divi-
sions, the majority of whom had been in
action longer than the recognised A.I.F.
divisions in the South-west Pacific area.
The Brig, should know. He is a
good soldier. He returned from the
M.E. with a splendid reputation and
added to its lustre during his command
in the islands.
It was the under-trained, badly-equipped
militia that held the Japanese advance in
“What's all the questions for? Tryin' to manpower a bloke?"
New Guinea until the A.I.F. arrived. The
militia lads leap-frogged with the A.I.F.
in every major action of the N.G. cam-
paign. They are now fighting courage-
ously and effectively in Bougainville and
New Britain. They have seldom received
credit and have often been the recipients
of sneering remarks from high-ranking
officers.
Most of these boys now wear the grey
background to their color patches. Those
who do not are sticking to a principle.
When they offered themselves for the
A.I.F. during 1941-42 they were told re-
peatedly that the A.I.F. was not open to
further enlistments. They were com-
pelled to remain in the militia—-and that
is where they intend to stay.
But A.I.F. and militia both face a
common misfortune on demobilisation.
What of the priority of rehabilitation,
the first selection of jobs, precedence
for homes —those baits that were subse-
quently dangled before the men as in-
ducement to change from militia to
A.1.F.? Preference is a most uncertain
document; houses don’t exist. —G. E.
Blake (ex-2nd A.1.F., East Malvern, Vic.).
R.A.A.F. Promotions
I agree with “X.A.F.C.” (B. 11/7/’45)
that airmen returning from England have
won a reputation second to none, and
that practical recognition is the best way
to repay the debt. But I don’t agree that
those of them wishing to remain in the
R.A.A.F. necessarily should be given No.
A priority for commands and positions,
or that officers now holding those posi-
tions merely had to qualify from an ad-
ministration school after a few weeks’
course to retain them.
Those selected for the courses were
first checked and rechecked, a large per-
centage being nominated from the ranks
because of outstanding ability and .apti-
tude for the duties. The school gave only
a basic training and served more to bring
a realisation of the difficulties and magni-
tude of the tasks ahead, telling the trainees,
in effect, that they must go out and prove
themselves by keeping both aircraft and
aircrew in the air. The ground work of
these men made possible the exploits of
flying personnel.
A few found “cushy” jobs and clung
to them. You’ll find that type in any
sphere. The majority, all unfit for aircrew,
knuckled down to tedious and exacting
tasks, working round the clock when
necessary, to keep the aircraft flying.
There was no glamor, no publicity, little
excitement. The health of many broke
under the conditions in tropical areas.
So they, too, deserve recognition not
merely of splendid service but because
experience has made them highly skilled
administrators and, therefore, of material
value to the service. Promotion is almost
at a standstill despite the number of
junior officers worthy of it.
Aircrew officers are being found ad-
minstration posts, but they have yet to
prove themselves. Literally coming down
to earth, these flying men are finding that
routine ground duties demand a tempera-
ment foreign to many of them; under-
standingly so, otherwise they would not
have gained their reputations as fliers.
Civil airlines have experienced the same
difficulties with grounded pilots.
Administration officers have rightly
given unstinted praise to the flying men.
Let the same generous spirit be shown
to those who have slogged away so stout-
heartedly on the ground year after weary
year. They’ve earned it. Nimbus
(R.A.A.F.).
What Price Glory?
The spectacle of Petain, Marshal of
France, Hero of Verdun and once the
military idol of the Gallic mob, now, in
extreme old age, being hounded to what
may be a shameful death by a pack or
politicians will not be lost on old soldiers.
Charles De Gaulle, with the timely help
of the British General Spears, fled from
France in 1940; Henri Petain stood his
ground. De Gaulle, who fled to safety,
was led out of temptations which may
have misled old Petain, temptations that
have brought honor and reward to others
in the German war and in former wars
who backed the right horse.
The British Empire in the making
teemed with “collaborators,” such as Mar-
shal Smuts and various Indian princes.
Russia will find no lack of them in its
conquered or satellite territories.
Petain was unlucky, that is all; but as
some of the Polish generals who sought
to collaborate with Britain have been
unlucky. Soldiers everywhere who
imagine that by their heroism in the field
they have earned the eternal gratitude of
their countrymen may, from these terrible
examples, truly estimate the ephemeral
value of military glory.
An old soldier myself, with plenty of
experience, I would not give fourpence
for the gratitude of any politician once
I had served his turn. —J. W. R. (Tas.).
Two Sorts of Heroes
I saw a liner enter Sydney Harbor
covered with flags. Immediately other
steamers’ and ferry-boats’ sirens sounded
a welcoming “cock-a-doodle-doo.” I
was delighted to think that at last
Sydney's residents were finding their
souls, and, as in World War I,
making the first impressions of returning
servicemen something to be remembered
throughout life. However, the next day
a large liner arrived crowded with return-
ing soldiers, airmen and others, but no
flags and no sirens greeted it.
Later in the week I realised wherein
lay the difference in the reception
accorded to the two arrivals. The first
liner bore back to our shores Dr. Evatt,
lero of the San Francisco Conference ;
the other bore heroes who have fought
for and have been separated from, their
homeland for periods of up to five years,
and some of whom have been inmates
of concentration and prisoner-of-war
camps in Germany and elsewhere.
Wallo (N.S.W.).
Hospital Sweating
Why is it that in Queensland, where
there is more political uproar about fair
rates of wages than in any other State,
nurses and domestic workers in public
hospitals are so scandalously underpaid?
Trainee nurses begin at £1 ss. weekly
and rise to £2 by their fourth year, with
keep valued at 255. weekly and £6 6s.
yearly for uniforms. Qualified nurses are
paid £3 weekly for their first year and
rise to £4 by the fourth, with keep and
uniform allowance as for trainees.
Another 2s. weekly is paid for each
special certificate held and used in their
work; night sisters in charge get an extra
55., and so do sisters in charge of operat-
ing theatres. Which means that the
utmost emolument to be expected by a
fully certificated nurse after four years
of arduous training and three more years
of skilled responsible duty is equivalent
to about £5 12s. 6d. a week in all or
£4 7s. 6d. in actual money.
Had she gone in for aircraft painting
instead of caring for sick humanity that
nurse would have been getting a weekly
wage of £5 16s. several years ago, and
that without having undergone a tithe of
the hard work and responsibility ex-
perienced during her seven qualifying
years of training and duty. As a welder
on production she would get £5 75., or as
a tradesman’s assistant, £5. She would
have regular hours, no night work —or,
if any, at generous overtime rates —no
incidents of delirious, violent or quarrel-
some patients and a union to help her in
any difficulties with her employers.
Domestic workers in State Govern-
ment hospitals, housemaids, pantry-
maids, waitresses 'and general domestics
are in even worse case. Their pay is
£2 14s. 6d. a week, without board or
lodging. A senior girl in a cannery gets
£3; a shop-assistant of 21, £2/17/6, at
22, £3 ss. A domestic worker of these
grades employed in an hotel is paid £2 35.,
with board and lodging, equivalent
officially to £3 Bs. in actual working
value. Why the fine of anything from
3s. to 13s. 6d. weekly for working in a
Government-run hospital instead of a
shop or a pub?
The explanation seems to be , that
neither nurses nor domestic-workers have
vociferous unions to back them. There-
fore, they possess no practical interest for
a Labor “Government.” The solution
could be found in a more active and prac-
tical interest by Queensland’s women
associations in the interests and welfare
of the sisters employed in State hospitals.
The majority of workers in these hos-
pitals are women. Yet there is apparently
not one woman on any State Hospital
Board in Queensland, certainly none on
the board which controls the biggest of
them, the Brisbane General, and all of
the south coast hospitals. Were these
associations to use their real strength and
influence towards securing a proper wage,
better living conditions and more reason-
able recreation facilities for the sweated
nurses and domestics it would not be long
before improvement would be effected.
Best of all would be an organised move-
ment for securing an adequate proportion
of women representatives on every hos-
pital board throughout the State.—
Galenus (Q.).
Subsidies to Strikers?
When the Commonwealth social ser-
vices unemployment benefit scheme
began operation certain bacon-factory
employees in Queensland were on strike
(illegally, of course) against an Arbitra-
tion Court award which did not suit
them. The strikers brought about cess-
ation of operations in other sections of
a 'factory in my area, about 70 opera-
tives being stood down with the
approval of the National Service officers.
Those stood down through no fault
of their own were claimants for unem-
ployment benefit. There is nothing wrong
with that, byt it reveals the sort of use
that can be made of these social ser-
vices. For instance, a handful of agi-
tators in a factory employing large
numbers of people may decide they could
enjoy a holiday on strike pay and cease
work. By their action they could cause
large numbers of other workers to be
stood down, perhaps for a month or
more, or there could be collusion among
agitators to work dp a “holiday” inclina-
tion among workers.
This country is well stocked with
people who use any pretext to call a
strike. The social services open the gate
for wholesale sabotage of industrial
effort, in that workers are assured of an
income while on holidays. The taxpayer
foots the bill. — Gifts Galore (Q.).


.4*9
.jßf
■Hk
i V
t*
| ■
s ' Y
jSK
(f*
3!
s»/
»
T 4
sa
V
aa
mu
m
>t»i *
vj~
0
,>■
ear*
m
kr&
®
7
3
i
ffi
Week by week news is being released of far-reaching inventions and developments in elec-
tronics arising out of wartime research activity. New fields of research in radar, in ultra
high frequency communication, in television, and other applications of electronics to industry
and the home will have a marked effect on our lives.
If the past be an indication of the future, we need go back no further than the aftermath
of World War I. Then there followed in rapid succession the inception of broadcasting,
the development of overseas short wave broadcasting, long distance marine communication,
beam wireless and overseas telephony to mention but a few of the many epoch-making
achievements pioneered in Australia by A.W.A.
’Never has the Company been so favourably placed to enter the new era of electronics as
today. During the war its large staff of scientists, designers and engineers has been engaged
in applying its technical knowledge and experience in electronics to the development of
radio equipment for the Allied Forces. Research is regarded by A.W.A. as a guarantee
of continued progress.
The post-war Radiola will gain immeasurably by the increased technical skill of A.W.A.
scientists and engineers developed in war-time production. It will be a superb instrument
of Radio entertainment, worthy of the famous trade mark of Radiola, renowned throughout
the Commonwealth.
(§)RADIOIA
Australia’s Finest Broadcast Receiver
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/sia) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
