

fdf
The Bulletin
**The Bulletin/’' Vol. 66 —No. 3388
WedneMlay, January 17, 1945
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LUDLOW-WHERE MORTIMER’S TOWER RECALLS HISTORY.
T UDLOW is an interesting Shropshire town where there is
' —' still preserved much of antiquity. Its tremendous castle, with
Mortimer’s Tower, the alleged prison of Hugh de Mortimer, was
formerly the most important fortress in this part of England, the
Middle Marches. Here was held the Great Council of Wales, and
in the great castle hall was given the first presentation of Milton’s
masque, “Comus,” written in 1634 for the then Lord Provost,
the Earl of Bridgewater, Here also it is believed Samuel Butler
;wrote most of “Hudibras” while he was steward of Ludlow Castle,
to which post he was appointed in 1660. In Ludlow is the shire s
finest church, the collegiate Church of St. Lawrence which, with
its cruciform plan, its stately tower built in the reign of Edward
IV and its large chantry chapels, is so alike many of England’s
great cathedrals. The town of Ludlow is rich in timber-ribbed
and pargeted houses, among the finest being the half-timbered
“Feather’s Hotel” in Corve Street. In Broad Street is “Broad
Gate,” the only remaining towngate of Ludlow.


UmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
YARNS OF THE GOLDFIELDS
The way to enjoy Katharine Susannah
Prichard’s Patch and Color (Angus and
Robertson) is to accept the stories at the
author’s own unpretentious valuation: —
These stories, I think, are. like the chips
opal-miners put in a small bottle and call
“potch and color”—poor and fiery opal,
that is. They are authentic fragments of
the life of our people—yarns that have
been told to me, for the most part in the
mining districts and wheat-growing areas
of Western Australia. “Painted Finches,”
however, comes from the North-west, and
“The Bridge,” from South Gippsland.
Because the stories belong to a time that
is passing, they are folk-lore, really, and
therefore, perhaps, of interest.
The “perhaps” is unnecessary. Even
without , the assurance of the introduction
most of the yams carry their own con-
viction ; and when you feel that the story
once really happened you can’t help but
be interested in the wowser parson
who thought a grog-shop called “Mrs.
Grundy’s Mission” was in fact a mission,
and who got very drunk on alleged “hop
beer”; in Susan, the “Siren of Sandy
Gap” who, though over fifty, had three
men fighting for her affections; in
Charley the remittance-man and Jimble
the half-caste boy who followed him like
a dog; in the man who perished of
thirst just after he had struck it rich and
just before the thunderstorm came ; in a
dozen such scenes of comedy and dis-
aster, hard living in hard country.
And it adds to rather than lessens one’s
enjoyment that a good many of the stories,
in their essentials, are old-timers, varia-
tions upon classic themes. Death by thirst,
luck at the wrong time, surrender to the
lure of the shanty, outback courtship, the
antics of the remittance-man —these
themes are expected in a book of the early
gold-finds. Poorly told, they would be
stale. Well told, they are, as the author
claims, folk-lore.
Since the plots are all more or less
familiar, the setting of dust and heat
familiar and the characters traditional as
“types,” the author had to make her yarns
convincing as variations on the stock'
themes, her landscapes lit with intimate
knowledge, her people alive as indi-
viduals. Sometimes Katharine Prichard
fails in this threefold task ; and instead
of a re-creation of the period one gets
such a mechanical tabulation as: —
Men from far and near would wander
along to Ryan’s when they felt the need
of a square feed after that: men from all
parts of the world —runaway sailors, miners
from California, broken-down aristocrats,
singers, medical students, financiers from
London, Dublin, Paris or New York: Nor-
wegians, Russians, Poles, Germans and
Danes.
And as, here, the author has done no
more than tabulate the period setting, so
sometimes she is content merely to list
the constituents of the landscape—“tents
made of bags sewn together showed
white against snap-and-rattle, camel-bush
and sandalwood along the brow of the
ridge”— forgetting to bring to life the
snap-and-rattle, camel-bush and sandal-
wood by describing them.
Oddly, on the comparatively rare
occasions when a character fails to come
to life, it is usually a woman. Katharine
Prichard’s women are drawn timidly,
from a long distance; Molly Macarty in
“The Bridge” is “a nice, rosy-cheeked
lump of a girl with blue eyes” and that —
though she commits an astounding (in
fact incredible) act of self-sacrifice which
calls for the most minute psychological
examination —is really all one is told
about her. Even the most alive of the
women, Susan, who had the three lovers,
appears only as a kind of distant laugh-
ter, the sparkle of a stream a mile away.
But compare the description of Molly,
the “nice rosy-cheeked lump of a girl
with blue eyes” with the portrait of the
hard-case Jo Hegney in “The Gentleman
on the Coals”: —
A tall, scraggy figure heaved out of the
gathering dusk. An old man in earth-
stained trousers and flannel shirt, greasy and
red with dust, came up to the fire. Grey
hair, coarse as a goat’s, covered his bony
skull; one eye was closed, the other darted
like a silver fish in a small, red hole on his
withered face.
The men are certainly alive. And so,
too, are most of the landscapes. Where
Katharine Prichard allows herself an ad-
jective or two (“black tattered fragments
of shade”) she can paint a scene with
all the rich, intimate fidelity so necessary
if the reader is to forget that thirst-
stricken prospectors are old acquaint-
ances ;
Bill sat down beside him, gazing out over
the dry shingly ridges stretching away east
towads Sleeping River.
Inland for hundreds of miles they spread,
red earth under a sky dim with the heat.
In fierce white light, the slight stunted
scrub, snap-and-rattle, camel-bush, thorn-
bush and mulga threw black tattered frag-
ments of shade.
Away to the south lay plains blue-grey
with saltbush and bluebush, merging into
the frail blue of the sky. Salt Lakes out
on them, dead and dry, shone silverly.
The wheat country, too, comes to life-
redeeming, in this case, a story in which
the characters are hardly more than
puppets:
Ripened wheat flowed before the home-
stead, south, east and westward to where
the scrub country lay, black in the light
of late afternoon, with the pale blue of
hills behind.
Mrs. Gillard followed silver currents the
wild oats made through the mellow wave
of the wheat. Plover rose from the stubble
where a reaper-and-binder had been a month
ago. She watched the black wings with
their white markings wheel over the fal-
lows of red earth beside the standing crops.
Although the stories can thus be said
to succeed as folk-lore —that is, as inter-
esting history and geography—they are
generally faulty as works of art. The
unity and singleness of the ideal short
story form having rarely been attempted,
it would be useless to criticise Potch and
Color in relation to the art of De Mau-
passant or even of Henry Lawson. The
author must be allowed her rambling,
disjointed method; even when as in the
charming piece about Jimble and the re-
mittance-man there is a complete change
of direction, a switching of the spotlight
from one principal figure to anew one.
1$ is a book of yarns.
But one wants to know who is telling
the yarns, and why. If it is a bushman
or an old prospector talking, let us see
him; if it is Katharine Prichard talking,
let there be fewer of the harsh, colorless
colloquialisms. And whoever is the nar-
rator, let him be somebody who can
analyse character and motive and let him
be free from half-hearted attempts to
smooth his yarns into magazine fiction,
so that Molly’s self-sacrifice in “The
Bridge” and Bill’s lack of jealousy in the
closing scene of “Painted Finches” will
be explained and made credible.
One feels that what Katharine Prichard
really wanted to write was not “folk-lore”
but a set of minor epics. She had a lot
of magnificent material, and didn’t know
quite what to do with it. She might have
made a success of a straightforward
“documentary” book about the old pros-
pectors ; or, if she was resolved to present
the-work as fiction and to use the yarning
method, she needed to invent somebody
like Conrad Marlow to tell the stories
for her with dignity, subtlety and an
unembarrassed appreciation of their
worth. Judging by the two opening
stories, she seems to have intended to do
this and then changed her mind.
Crime and Hillbillies.
Dr. Watson; What, my dear Holmes,
is a hillbilly?
Holmes; Hie eminent comedian and
banjo-player Mr. Bob Dyer, I believe.
Watson: You are joking, Holmes.
( Anxiously ) Are you not?
Holmes : He claims to be one, I under-
stand. However, Watson, if you wish for
the original and correct meaning of the
term, a hillbilly is an American gentle-
man from the backwoods. He has hair
three feet long, a beard down to his
ankles, believes literally in the story of
Noah’s Ark, smokes a corn-cob pipe and
is married to a little child with long,
golden tresses.
Watson: Pray be serious. Holmes.
Holmes; I am serious, Watson. That
is precisely the description of a hillbilly.
But I perceive, of course, that you have
been reading the “Daily Telegraph,” of
Sydney.
Watson: Wonderful, Holmes!
Holmes: Elementary, my dear Wat-
son. The “D.T.” is the only newspaper
in Australia which has, as it were, made
the hillbilly its own. One does not hear
the word mentioned elsewhere. 1 think
we might say that the “D.T.” is trying
to introduce hillbillies into this country,
as an earlier but equally misguided
generation introduced the rabbit.
Watson: And what, then. Holmes,
does the “D.T.” mean when it talks of
hillbillies?
Holmes : The entire population of
South Australia.
Watson: You are jesting, Holmes.
Holmes: No, I assure you. On one
memorable occasion South Australia was
indeed described by the “D.T.” as the
“hillbilly State.”
Watson ( chuckling ): It may surprise
you, Holmes, to know that my present
reference to hillbillies is not directly con-
nected with the “D.T.,” and that it is
not an Australian but a New Zealander
to whom the term is applied.
Holmes: My dear Watson, you have,
of course, been reading the account of
the Ruawaro murder in Dr. Watson’s
Case Book, by Dr. Watson, Jnr., pub-
lished by Consolidated Press, Ltd. as “A
Condor Crime Book.”
Watson : Astounding, Holmes!
Holmes: Elementary, my dear Wat-
son. Your tie is disordered, you have a
wild look in your eye, there is a spot of
ink on your left cheek ; and, besides, you
have the book in your hand.
Watson: Superb, Holmes! The man
who committed the double murder at
Ruawaro a few years ago is, in fact,
described by my young namesake as a
“hillbilly.” I think, Holmes, we might
deduce from the general use of the term
by the “D.T.” and its writers that they
mean by it an ignorant person. And, in
that case, I wonder how the “D.T.” would
describe a writer wjho does not know
that the Ruawaro murderer had been well
educated at a very good school; and who
does not even know, moreover, that
Ruawaro is not spelt “Ruawora”?
Holmes: I am afraid, Watson, that
the term as used by the paper does not
mean an ignorant person so much as any-
body who fails to reside within three
miles of Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Watson ( muttering ): Mark my words,
there are hillbillies even in Castlereagh-
street. Do you know, Holmes, that this
writer cannot even report correctly the
name of the witness he—quite mislead-
ingly—selects as the principal? The wit-
ness’s Christian name was Joseph, so
Dr. Watson, Jnr. calls him Bill. Dr.
Watson, Jnr. entitles his account “The
Clue of the Shiny Boots,” and fails to
record that on the same day as
the police discovered that clue they
found the much more important item of
an unposted letter by one of the victims
expressing a fear of murder and naming
the .murderer.
Holmes: Calmly, Watson, calmly.
Watson ( feverishly ): The murderer,
you may recall, killed a husband and
wife, and —burning and concealing the
remains of the man’s body—tried to
create the impression that the man had
killed his wife and fled. To help build
up this impression, the murderer removed
from his victim’s house a good suit and
a pair of brown boots ; the boots, how-
ever, happened to belong to a neighbor.
What Dr. Watson, Jnr., forgets in making
these boots the chief clue is (a) that the
missing husband could have taken them,
( b ) that the neighbor who owned them
hadn’t seen them for three weeks, so that
their disappearance needn’t have been
connected with the case at all, (c) that a
much more important item, also belong-
ing to the neighbor and also missing, was
a pea-rifle and ( d) that there were the
letter and a hundred other clues all point-
ing directly to the murderer.
Holmes: Gently, Watson, gently.
Watson: Dr. Watson, Jnr., says that
the police (whom he elegantly calls
“flatties”) were “pleasantly eager” to
accept the theory that the husband was
the murderer. According to the Auck-
land journalist who reported the trial and
afterwards wrote a book about it, the
real murderer—after the discovery of the
letter on the first evening of the investi-
gation—was “a definite suspect from this
moment.” Dr. Watson, Jnr., complains
that, some weeks after the murder, the
“flatties” maintained “an open-mouthed
watch on railway stations and ports in
both islands” for the missing and mur-
dered husband. The Auckland journalist
points out that, though overwhelming
evidence was accumulating against the
real murderer, the charred fragments of
the husband’s body had yet to be found,
and “purely as a matter of routine” the
police followed the ordinary procedure
for occasions when a man is “missing.”
“Nothing,” says the journalist, “had oc-
curred to shake the original police theory
of double murder.” But when people all
over the country were sending in reports
that they had seen the husband alive and
well the investigations had to be made.
Holmes, Dr. Watson, Jnr., deals with a
lot of other cases in his little book, which
is subtitled “Studies in Australian Crime,”
but I confess that after this sample I
found myself discouraged from reading
further.
Holmes: I have always rather en-
joyed Dr. Watson, Jnr., in the “literary”
portion of his newspaper. Consequently
I read his little book right through.
Watson: Amazing, Holmes! Incred-
ible ! Candidly, what did you think of it?
Holmes: Elementary, my dear Wat-
son Junior.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Dhas”: Somebody at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery seems to have declared
war on Australian water-color painting.
Three times within the last twelve months
I’ve toiled across the Domain specifically
to see the water-color section, and each
time it has been closed. I think the cus-
tom is to make use of that court for
travelling exhibitions. But why turn out
Australian water-colors for these visi-
tations? It should be just as convenient,
as it would certainly be kinder, to Aus-
tralian art and visitors interested in it
to display travelling shows in the repro-
ductions court, where the color prints of
contemporary European paintings are
hung. By transferring a few water-colors
to the “Recent Acquisitions” section, the
Gallery has made partial amends ; but it
still has most of its water-colors out of
sight, and presumably some of its “recent
acquisitions” have been displaced.
“MacHoots”: It is a fine morning, and
a reading of the “Sydney Morning
Herald” gives me a strange happiness.
It affects me like the warbling of birds ;
not exactly intelligible, but full of melody
and goodwill. “Granny” is reporting, the
death of Matisse and commenting on his
art: —
Neither the planes nor the passages are
sought for within the realm of reason, thus
giving sway to that intuitive power which
proclaims its absolute rightness without the
rule of logic, beyond logic, but supremely
within reason.
I think, this says that the art of Matisse
is not within reason but within reason,
just as a cat may be within my bedroom
and, at the same time, three miles away
singing of love on a rooftop. I should
like to continue this paragraph to com-
ment on the prose style and the appro-
priateness of “Majestic in its simplicity,
the fecundation of such an art is paradox
in the extreme,” but I may be without
my office as well as supremely within it,
and in that case 1 probably have no type-
writer.
At the talkies: —
“The Song of Bernadette” (Sydney Century),
based on Franz Werfel’s book, is a film of
much charm, which is enhanced by Ernest New-
man’s music. The previously "unknown Jennifer
Jones does exceptionally well as the simple
young peasant girl who, despite all threats and
blandishments from the Dean of Lourdes (played
with fine strength by Charles Bickford), as well
as from the venal mayor, the cynical Imperial
Prosecutor and the brutal police chief, clings
to her story of her vision. Gladys Cooper, as
a nun embittered because her years of sufferings
have not been rewarded by a like vision, is a
neatly etched piece of characterisation.
As the shallow, selfish, vain Stanley Timber-
lake in the Ellen Glasgow story “In This Our
Life” (Tatler) Bette Davis plays much the same
sort of Female Villain as she did in “The Little
Fixes” and “The Letter.” She always plays
the role very well; and she is helped here hy
Olivia de Havilland’s sensitive portrayal of the
sister she so consistently wrongs, and by the
performance of Charles Coburn as a fatuously
indulgent uncle who sees in the waywardness of
his wanton niece a similarity to his own earlier
wildness.
“C.B.”: Freud having become a respectable
old gentleman now he is dead, Hollywood is
going all psychological. Some of the psy-
chology is good and some is bad, but the
development is refreshing. An example is
“King’s Row” (Savoy, Melbourne). It is the
story of the sort of American town where
nothing ever happens. In this one, however,
there is a doctor engaged in psychological re-
search whose wife develops dementia praecox.
When the doctor sees similar symtoms develop-
ing in his daughter who is about to marry his
most promising pupil he kills her and commits
suicide. The young man goes off to Vienna
and becomes distinguished in his profession, but
in his hometown another situation has de-
veloped. Another doctor, a sadist, uses his
operations as a means of punishing people he
regards as wicked and he unnecessarily ampu-
tates the legs of the young psychiatrist’s best
friend. And the sadistic doctor’s daughter is
in danger of being certified insane because she
wants to tell the world of the dreadful nature
of her father. The knowledge that he has
been made a cripple by an unnecessary opera-
tion may be too much for the psychiatrist’s
friend, who has begun to Compensate success-
fully for his misfortune, and the psychiatrist is
faced with the necessity to make a decision in
a situation that is improbable in real life but
is dramatically effective. There is some re-
markably good acting by Ann Sheridan, Robert
Cummings, Betty Field and Ronald Reagan, and
the fact that such a theme can hold an audi-
ence’s attention is a feather in the cap of the
producers.
Purple Patches in Music, by Max Erik-
hardt (Leader Co., Northcote, Vic.), sum-
marises the careers of Bach, Handel and
the great orchestral composers whose
works are heard today. Mr. Erikhardt’s
enthusiasm is evident, and he has a good
repertoire of anecdotes (not all well sub-
stantiated ; for instance, he repeats the
legend that- Schubert was at Beethoven’s
deathbed) and a good sense of propor-
tion. In any subsequent edition, how-
ever, certain errors of spelling (Belini,
Sriabine, Rubenstein, Montverdi) should
be corrected, and it should be noted that
Arthur Sullivan’s reputation as a hymn-
writer rests on “Onward, Christian Sol-
diers,” not on “Lead, Kindly Light.” The
Rev. J. B. Dykes’s setting of Newman’s
verses still holds the field.


'THE SENIOR STORE'
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
a
<■ *'
0
; m
m
m/m
t'*f t #• * s
.-•-•■
■s.^ S •
as
4)
I
QSf
3
H
.
II
/rSBK.
1
it
IS*'
ii
*
i*! • *i
H
&
&
as
VO.
m
<k
£2
S3
H
POSTAGE EXTRA
ON ALL
CHEMISTRY GOODS
>r*
Jba
5*1
vV*.
7 V
37
"MOSOM" MOSQUITO COIL. The most effective, reliable
feconomical method of dealing with mosquitoes ™d other
insects. Perfectly harmless to humans. Price .... 10 2 d. box
"SEEETA" MOSQUITO CREAM AND INSECT REPELLANT.
Price
"CELEBRITY" MOSQUITO CREAM REPELLANT. This cream
contemns a high percentage of medications compounded into
a smooth paste. Price
"PALACE" FLY SPRAY effectively repels mosquitoes and aU
types of insects. 20-oz. hot, 2/6; 1-gal. tin, 13/6: 2*-gals„ 30/-
POTTER & MOORE’S MOSQUITO REPELLANT. Concentrated
L° elder Apply thinly and ensure complete comfort ... 1/2
"NIVEA" SUNNING OIL with special
Anti-Burn Filter. A delicately perfumed
oil containing an ingredient which
screens off the burning rays, but does not
impede the rays that give health. Two
sizes. Prices •• • 1/3 2 * 2/6 bottle
"JONCOLIA" CREAM. Protective dress-
ing for sunburn. Also efficient for
ordinary burns and abrasions. It relieves
pain. Price US tube
• Chemistry Department. —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
•/
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


m
■
If
m
m
m
m
* j
mm
m
■
. 4
mm
i
I
li
HI
*
{Sri
ii
ft
m
m
m
The Bridges of To-morrow
can be PLANNED To-day
s a municipal engineer or a member of a Local Authority you have a double
responsibility. Not only will you want to make your plans to provide employment
for service men and war workers, but these plans must fit a post-war world, the
pattern o£ which is not yet clear.
You can find a practical answer to your post-war bridge problems on both these
counts by specifying ARMCO Multi-Plate Pipe and Arches. They give yon a
strong, durable, basic structure that can be easily installed by even unskilled
a our. At the same time you assure a flexibility in design and appearance that
will enable you to conform to post-war standards.
Ease of transportation, quick assembly on the job site, and freedom from main-
tenance costs are additional features of ARMCO construction.
03NBV
7
V
A
R M
C
o
(A U
T
R
A
L
A)
P R OP R I
E
A
Y
L
M
T
E D


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3388
Wednesday, January 17, 1945
ADVANCE A—A !
“Where are these D-rs from whom I am to take the salute?”
“Sh-sh-they marched past two months ago.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P* H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
, G.P.0.), Wellington.
LONDON ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
A.I.F. BECOMES NEWS.
Since Mr. Spender let it out in an inter-
view with the New York '‘Herald,
Tribune that “Australian troops are now
engaged in important operations to the
north of Australia” newspapers have been
flooded with reports, articles and com-
ments on the Diggers. Four days after
the Spender statement reached Australia
there was published an official commu-
nique : ,
Australian forces have relieved United
states Army elements along the Solomons
axis, in New Britain and British New
Guinea. Continuous actions of attrition at
all points of contact have been in progress.
So far 352 Japanese have been killed, 20
captured and 10 friendly nationals re-
covered.
As usual, the composition of the forces
and the names of commanding officers
were not disclosed. There was, however,
a report of a landing in which there were
three casualties. The impression pro-
duced was not of the size and import-
ance of the operations entered upon and
belatedly announced, but of their com-
parative insignificance for such troops—
of something being considerably over-
done to make gmends for the past under-
doing.
Spender disclosure and official com-
munique brought a clear statement, for
once, from Mr. Forde. “Australian fight-
ing forces,” the Acting P.M. said, “will
play a very substantial part, side by side
with their American comrades, in wrest-
ing the Philippines from the Japanese.”
Left unanswered was the question of who
was responsible for allotting the so-called
“moppmg-up” role in the Mandated Ter-
ritory. Was it a MacArthur or an Aus-
tralian Government decision? This will
come out some day ; but there is certainly
no security reason why it should not come
out now.
It cannot be doubted that the expulsion
of the Japs from Australian territory, in
which they have had the persons and
property of wards of the Commonwealth
at their mercy for three years—far too
Jong—-is primarily an Australian responsi-
bility. This should have been stressed from
time to time, even if reasons for the delay
in tackling the task, whatever they may
have amounted to, had to be withheld.
But the practice with this Government
appears to have been to keep the war-
effort emphasis as far as possible on the
home front. Miners, factory-w’orkers and
suchlike have been hailed as the real war-
winners. The Diggers have figured as
little better than a small fraction of the
nation away somewhere on a voluntary
undei taking and led by men who —for
some reason known only to the Govern-
ment and the Department of Information,
and doubtless wondered at by the British
Department of Information, which has,
very wisely, helped to build up Mont-
gomery as a national hero —rare seldom
mentioned except in official publications
which comparatively few read. The only
times the emphasis has been noticeably
altered have been when a lagging loan
needed filling.
The next loan campaign opens on
March 13, and there have been the cus-
tomary preliminary alarums and excur-
sions and reports of advance subscriptions.
Mr. Spender would seem to have done
the Government the disservice of antici-
pating what, on past performances, it
would have been thought right and proper
to mix up with the loan. The result of
this sort of timing in the past has been
that the few good things said about .the
Diggers have been regarded as propa-
ganda.
The version served up by Australian
representatives in America has been that
General MacArthur made the. decision
adumbrated in the communique. After
one particularly nasty attack, implying
that Australia had decided that the
war in the Pacific was now entirely
America’s business, the Australian Infor-
mation Bureau Director in New York,
Mr. Bailey, repeating General Blarney,
stated that “Australian troops are still
under General MacArthur’s command
and will go where he wants them when
he wants them.”
One of the tasks he has assigned to them
is that of driving put of the islands by-
passed by the Allied advance to the Philip-
pines an estimated 250,000 Japanese. When
MacArthur gives the word other Austra-
lians, who have been fighting for five years,
will be in the spearhead of the drive north
to Japan.
General MacArthur is a very fine man,
and nothing could be more inspiriting
than the picture of him going into Luzon
with his troops; but it may be inferred
from the Bailey account that he possesses
a degree of authority over the Australian
Government far greater than General
Eisenhower possesses in his relations with
the British Government. And although
he will always be part of Australian his-
tory, in the last resort he is not respon-
sible to the Australian nation. The
Curtin-Forde Government is.
Mr. Spender made his disclosure in
reply to published American criticism.
Some of this needs to be read to be be-
lieved. It has been based on the assump-
tions that not only were, Australian forces
taking no part in the war in the Pacific
any longer, but that this was so arranged
by,the Curtin-Forde Government. “Aus-
tralia,” one criticism declared, “has not
sent ifs forces with General MacArthuf’s
to the Philippines.” Australia has sent
forces “with General MacArthur’s,” and
after the landing on Luzon, as well as
after the landing on Leyte, the general
made this crystal-clear except to those
who are so blind that they won’t see.
Though, on what has come out since
Mr. Spender took it upon himself to
reveal in America what the Government
should have revealed in Australia, it
is now known that the Diggers have been
for more than two months engaged with
the enemy in the Aitape-Wewak country,
on New Britain and on Bougainville, the
total silence about them led to this sort of
sneering comment in America:
The declaration [made by Mr. Eggleston,
Australian Minister in Washington] that
Australia is to employ its forces to some
purpose in the Pacific in future is welcome,
though if apparently means that Australia is
to work on the periphery while American
soldiers, sailors and marines carry the
major offensive to the Japanese. We know
now just how much we can expect.
As well as the urgent need for a state-
ment by Mr. Forde on the responsibility
for allotting the Diggers their present
role, some strong emphasis could be put
on two other aspects with advantage—
the comparatively big fighting part the
Diggers have already played in this war,
and the fact that the expulsion of the
enemy from north-eastern New Guinea,
New Britain and Bougainville can be one
of the toughest tasks even the Diggers
have ever undertaken.
So far the present-war Diggers have
fought in 30 different territories, from
North Africa, Greece and thereabouts
to the areas of their present operations.
When the last official totals were given
out ten months ago those Diggers had
then suffered 84,000 casualties. A total
of 963,000 has been stated as serving or
having served with the Australian forces
in this war. Also, it is reckoned that
eight out of every ten Australian men
between the ages of 18 and 35 have en-
listed. The number of them assigned to
service in and about Newt Guinea has
been put as the equivalent of 10 divisions.
Add that their fighting, from Alamein
to Shaggy Ridge, has been everywhere as
good as that of the First A.I.F.—-there
could be no higher praise—and that, until
last year’s break for some of them, many
had had practically continuous action on
one front and another since 1940, and
the record surely deserves something
better than sneers. Something better, too,
than the apparent established policy of
the Australian Government to give it no
official mention except during loan cam-
paigns, or when, as now, forced to do so
by a statement made in America by a
member of the Advisory War Council,
in answer to injurious assertions there.
Even more in need of correction is the
idea that the so-called “mopping-up” job
is going to be a soft snap. The impres-
sion is fostered by the common use of
that belittling word for it. Actually, get-
ting to and fighting the Japs in the allotted
areas will call for the finest of Digger
qualities. It is all tough country, in which
the Japs have had years to prepare de-
fences. It has been givqn out that they
have been well fed on the produce of
the country and the neighboring seas,
and that Japan has been getting materials
to them in submersibles and probably
small freighters. Their influence on the
natives in some quarters is not regarded
hopefully by those opposing them.
Before it is all over there are certain
to be big additions from this job alone
to the already considerable Australian
casualties, both through the hard nature
of this sort of fighting and through the
diseases inseparable from long campaign-
ing in those parts. And it will be long
campaigning—-a slow, grim, difficult busi-
ness all the way. It will be to the eternal
shame of slackers on the home front if
the Diggers and their mates in the sister
services are not fully supported.
Report on Paradise.
For years Russia has been to many
minds, including some eminent ones of
the Church, the place that Heaven used
to be in the old Sunday-school teaching.
It has been held up as an ideal, a vision ;
an inspiration and an aspiration for all
those not lucky enough to be living there.
Hence a heavily debunking report on it
°y a recent American visitor, William L.
White, editor of the Emporia “Gazette,”
will be read by all with astonishment,
and no doubt by many with incredulity.
Mr. White, a member of the touring
party which included U.S. Chamber of
Commerce president Eric Johnston, has
put out his report as a book and the
Reader’s Digest” has considered it so
important as to warrant an unprece-
dented running of a condensation of it
in two instalments, December and Janu-
ary. It and its author have been savagely
attacked by “Pravda,” but no American
correspondent in Russia has seen fit to
refute its statements, nor has Mr.
Johnston.
After a week of Moscow’s “wide,
incredibly empty streets, and sidewalks
lull of hurrying, shabby people, walking
past the dingy shops in dilapidated build-
ings,” Mr. White concluded that what
was mainly missing was competition. All
the stores being run by trusts, “it is a
matter of indifference to the Government
whether the public chooses to buy its
socks or sausages at one drab Govern-
ment bureau or at a similar one down
the street.” Competition with the State
being “inefficiency is pro-
tected,” the people accepting it because
they know nothing better. With com-
petition gone, “over everything rests the
dull, unimaginative, hand of a bureau-
cracy which produces only dreary medi-
ocrity.”
Mr. White goes to a concert in the
Tschaikowsky Hall :
Each performance on the stage is intro-
duced by an attractive brunette in a
simply cut dress of gleaming white satin.
By contrast with the shabby audience she
is a dream princess. The male performers
are in evening dress; the women’s clothes
are well cut and of good materials, clean
and pressed. This drab socialist audience
stares as though at some unattainable fairy-
land of which they get just an hour’s
glimpse.
4e the seats in that particular hall
usually go to high officials or to crack
Stakhanovite workers who get high war-
time wages.” “Yes, I know there’s a war
on, ’ Mr. White adds. “The British also
•are shabby, but you can tell that at one
time their well-worn clothes were good ;
these never were.” It’s much the same in
the Red Army, though the officers stand
out;
In the armed forces of the Western coun-
tries there is little difference between the
uniforms of officers and men. In Russia
you are never confused on this point—the
officer sparkles a quarter of a mile away.
In the Western countries heroes modestly
keep their medals in their top bureau
drawers, and the award is represented by
a colored ribbon sown on the tunic. Rus-
sians do not understand such false modesty,
and Soviet officers’ chests jingle with
bronze and gold medals.
„ More surprisingly, Red Army men
“salute each other constantly and from
all distances ; there is more saluting in
this socialistic army than in any other
in the world.” Also, most of the other
old Czarist military caste lines between
officers and men have been “vigorously
revived,” And, though Mr. White did
not stress it, there has been a revival of
feeling for Suvorov, Peter the Great and
Ivan the Terrible. It will be awkward if
there sh'ould grow out of it a revival of
feeling for surviving members of the
family to which Peter belonged and into
which Ivan married.
The Soviet Government, Mr. White
reports, realises that it cannot force
foreigners from the Western countries
down to the standard of living which is
the lot of most Soviet citizens. Hence
“it accords foreigners privileges which in
the Western World are only common
decencies, but which are fantastic lux-
uries in the Soviet Union.” All the same,
most American reporters, Mr. White de-
clares, lose from 101 b. to 201 b. on the
Russian diet. “I chronicle this,” he adds,
“not to make you sorry for the press,
but for the Russians, who must live on
so much less.” All the foreign corres-
pondents are new hands.
The old crowd are gone. Perhaps they
were glad to go; after all, the Russian
friends they had made over 20 years were
either shot or exiled, many for the crime
of associating with foreigners, so that the
few who were left were afraid to see their
foreign friends except officially or at large
functions.
In Soviet factories Mr. White
found that 65 per cent, of the workers
were women. They work a regular
eight-hour day, plus three daily hours of
overtime at time-and-a-half pay. More-
over, it is a six-day week, making a total
working week of 66 hours. Visiting a
factory—one of the show places—Mr.
White found it “poorly lighted and un-
believably dirty.” Mr. Johnston com-
mented to him: “Back in the States the
best rough test I know of the efficiency
of a factory /£ its cleanliness. A dirty
shop is sure to be an inefficient one.”
But in one important matter there is a
difference between Russian and Anglo-
American (also Australian) practice;
Eric asks how they cope with the prob-
lem of absenteeism. The director is
puzzled by the word even after it is thor-
oughly explained to him. A worker who
is ill, he tells us, goes to the plant doctor
to get leave of absence. Eric persists
that he is not asking about illness but
about absenteeism. When the director
finally understands he says they have no
such cases here. Lazy or tardy workers
are rebuked by the wall newspaper or de-
nounced over the shop public-address
system; if it happens two or three times
the matter is taken up with the worker by
the union. We gather that this is a grim
proceeding. In any event, absenteeism
seems to be as rare here as it would be in
the Atlanta penitentiary—and fol many of
the same reasons.
The more Mr. White saw of it the
more he was struck by the jail-like nature
of Soviet life:
. There is one marked difference between
inmates of the Soviet Union and of the
Kansas State penitentiary at Lansing, where
1 have often visited an old friend. Food
and clothing in both places are about the
same maybe a little better in Lansing. But
should my Kansas friend decide that his
penitentiary was not well run, and express
the hope that there might be a change of
wardens, he would run no danger of being
shot if he were overheard by a stool pigeon.
Mr. White gives an explanation of
what was at the time a puzzling affair —
the story printed in “Pravda” alleging
that the British were negotiating with
German representatives in neutral terri-
tory for a separate peace. The Russians,
according to Mr. White, were deliriously
happy over the news of the Tehran Con-
ference. They saw in it evidence that at
last Soviet Russia had powerful allies it
could trust. It was no longer the outcast
pariah nation of the world. The Soviet
controllers were equally pleased over the
conference, but not with the wave of
internationalism and good feeling >. to-
wards the Western world:
Experts in the field of the management
ot public sentiment, they distrust any
emotion which they do not instigate, or
which threatens to get beyond their control.
Suppose, for instance, the Soviet Union
might presently find good reason to change
its attitude towards it's current allies. They
therefore printed in “Pravda” the little
story reputedly cabled by “Pravda’s”
special correspondent, although no such
story passed the censors at Cairo. The
story caused an indignant explosion of
denials in the Western world, some of
which the Russian Government complac-
ently printed in “Pravda,” after pressure
had been brought to bear. But the de-
sired effect on Russian public opinion had
been achieved. Inter-Allied goodwill had
been dampened down to the point wh«re
public opinion could be easily switched,
should the need arise.
No such need has thus far arisen, but
that shrewd piece of public-opinion man-
agement left the Soviet controllers with
full freedom of action ‘‘to move either
way with the complete backing of their
people.” As a result of such methods,
the “average Russian firmly believes that
his Government has until recently borne
not most of the war burden but all of it.”
Since scarcely anything of Allied fighting
is ever reported, that is not surprising,
especially with the grim evidence on hand
of Russia’s wartime suffering and the war
effort that has meant “scraping their
man-power barrel, throwing war-cripples,
semi-invalids and boys into the line.”
Their sacrifices from the standpoint of
man-power have been ghastly. Back of
the front you see no young men who aren’t
either in uniform or limping with a wound,
except the few who are in high adminis-
trative jobs. And you see absolutely no
men between 16 and 40 at the factory
benches.
As for what Russia will want after it
all, Mr. White believes that it mostly
boils down to a durable peace. That will
be needed for rebuilding the frightful
devastation, and for this Russia will need
outside help on a huge scale. And if
Russia plays the game Russia will get it.
> In one factory he visited Mr. White
stumbled over a floor broken in many
places. He noted that the floor “could
be repaired at the cost of just one of the
expensive lend-lease automatic drills of
which this factory has such a pro-
fusion ; and then the efficiency might rise
as high as 25 per cent.” Mr. White’s
account of the profusion of American
machine-tools already in such factories —
and idle through inefficient management
—may have influenced Washington’s re-
fusal of a Soviet request for a further huge
consignment on the ground that “these
items are more useful for Russia’s post-
war plans than for promoting war
designs.” (N.Y. ‘Yimes”). It is, how-
ever, more likely that the snub was a
direct consequence of Moscow’s recog-
nition of the communist committee at
Lublin as the Government of Poland
when Washington and London are com-
mitted to the Polish Government in exile.
That Government takes its stand on the
Anglo-Polish and Anglo-Russian treaties,
the Sikorski-Maisky agreement and the
Atlantic Charter, and has the active sup-
port of all the Poles in the British
the R.A.F. (the British public cannot
forget that many Polish airmen fought
in the Battle of Britain) and the Royal
Navy,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Against "Labor Principles."
Along with the customary stoppages in
_ na i m ines and the Government abattoirs
at Homebush, N. S. Wales had a new
grrilce last week —a strike of dairy-farmers
supplying Sydney and Newcastle.
It was an effect of drought —by
a n odd coincidence the drought broke in
the affected region just when the strike
was breaking out—and of that compound
0 f blarney, bounce, bureaucratism and
bunkum known as “Labor policy.” For
once there was more bounce than blar-
ney the cow-farmers not being part of
the A.C.T.U. or Labor Council outfit and
their vote being negligible, whereas the
votes of coalminers, ironworkers and
transport workers are powerful, and that
of the Fremantle wharf-laborers could
unseat the Prime Minister; but the nos-
trum, as altered, failed either to prevent
ol jt is, of course, lamentable that
cow-farmers should strike, but anything
can happen in a country where Govern-
ments are afraid to govern. This was
denied by Mr. Forde for what he was
pleased to call his “Government” in an
issue of cant:
No self-respecting Government conduct-
ing the affairs of a country in the greatest
war in history could allow itself to be
stampeded into an ill considered or illogical
decisioa because of a threatened holdup,
whether it be by milk producers or indus-
trial workers.
Mr. Forde’s “Government” has done it
dozens of times on the N.S.W. coalfields.
And it allowed a parcel of wharf-laborers
to hold up Fremantle, when that por*
should have been busier than ever before,
and when it was vitally necessary for war
purposes that ships should be turned
round in the minimum of time, for just
on a month. As a sugar-coating for poli-
tical cowardice the possibilities of cant
have been exhausted.
Jf an argument started in Eng-
land with cow-farmers sending milk
to London it is inconceivable that
Mr. Churchill would hurl himself into
it, dropping all his war duties, \el
this, with Mr. Forde the god out of the
machine, is what has happened in Aus-
tralia, with a State “Labor” Government
figuring as idle spectator, as it has been
an idle spectator of the wicked strikes
and loafing on its coalfields, though in
each case it has a costly apparatus of
Ministers, inspectors, boards, laws, regu-
lations and whatnot. To the “sports
of this State “Labor” Government coal-
production and milk-supply are “Federal
matters,” and in “Federal matters ’ it
must not intervene. It intervened fast
enough in the Sydney newspaper strike,
and that on the side of the strikers and
their supporters in its transport depart-
ments who lawlessly refused duty as com-
mon carriers ; and that was “a Federal
matter.”
"Resistance" and Ruffianism.
The arrival in European countries of
English-speaking liberators seems to have
been taken as an invitation or instruction
to apply an old prescription, altered by
events into “Turn the imperialist war
into a communist civil war.” The war
against Germany, “imperialist” from Sep-
tember 3, 1939, till June 22, 1941, and
holy since, was to be permitted to go
on, but the defeat of Germany was to
find communist Governments enthroned,
and all private property and funds at the
disposal of themselves and friends, the
dead having been buried out of the
general loot.
Retention of arms by communists in
the “resistance” movements —none of
them began “resisting” until after June 22,
1941 —was relied upon as the argument
that would eventually prevail. In Belgium,
however, it failed, the resistance-movers
being disarmed by order of General
Eisenhower, who refused to allow any
communist coup d’etat to complicate his
job of beating Hitler. The position in
France is obscure. The full subsciiption
of a big rehabilitation loan is a good sign,
reminiscent as it is of what happened
after the Franco-Prussian war, but there
had been ghastly lynchings by resistance-
movers, and many of them are perform-
ing in other dark ways. An extract from
Kenneth de Courcy’s “Review of World
Affairs,” published on October 30:
Our recognition of De Gaulle’s Govern-
ment has helped him to some extent at a
very critical time. Up to a few days ago
his authority extended to about one-third
of the country, perhaps creeping towards a
half. An observer of ours motoring in
Britanny was stopped 40 or 50 times by
“resistance” patrols. Tire condition of
affairs is medieval. Local leaders and sub-
leaders are often far more powerful than
the Government in Paris. De Gaulle must
incorporate the resistance movement in the
regular forces or face chaos.
In Greece there was a communist insur-
rection with all the trimmings, although
communist leaders had pledged themselves
to join the Papandreou Government.
They and their mob turned their
arms from the enemy, if they ever
really fought him, which is doubtful,
against the British and their own country-
men. They shot Tommies and R.A.F.
men and non-combatant Britons (Aus-
tralians, too, according to one correspon-
dent) stopped food deliveries, destroyed
dumps, fired houses, butchered Greek
civilians, added mutilation to murder,
took wounded Tommies, old men, women
and children as hostages, and in Athens
alone wrought destruction reckoned at
£50,000,000.
That thesfe communist criminals were
a minority of the nation was proved, first,
by their refusal to abide the issue of a
general election, and, second, by the atti-
tude of the people when, after having
been handled with kid gloves in deference
to roaring Left Wing protests in Britain
and America, in which even papers like
the “Times” joined, the communist
criminals were driven out of the city and
into the hills. The people thanked the
British with heartfelt gratitude, a moving
demonstration coming from the workers
in the Piraeus, port of Athens. And
Delegates representing 15 unions said the
communists had executed 114 union leaders
since the Germans left, and had terrorised
the union movement.
It would be crazy to conclude that
there is no danger of dictatorships of the
Left being established in countries remote
from Europe, countries in which commu-
nists are strong and apparently growing
stronger.
When it seemed certain that the then
victorious Japanese would invade Aus-
tralia a very curious agitation for the
formation of “a people’s army” shot up
in at least two States. A Queensland
person notorious for his opposition to
the “imperialist” wax declared that 4000
soldiers of “the people’s army could be
recruited in North Queensland alone, and
proposed that they “should be allowed to
take their rifles and grenades home.” The
Sydney agitators had the support of the
“Telegraph.” (“The Government has not
yet decided to call for a nation-wide army
of guerrillas, but the people have.”) Mr.
Forde rejected “the people’s army” with
soft words. They were not to the teste
of Mr. Curtin, who said bluntly Any
organisation outside the authority of the
Minister for the Army will be illegal, and
the Government will not allow it to be
formed.” . „
It is possible that an “organisation
was formed, and a search for arms wbuld
be in order. People long given to issuing
sinister threats or people under their
influence may have become possessed
of “rifles and and other lethal
weapons, and “taken them home. These
are strange times, and there are very
strange customers hanging round ; and
even an Australian Government can t be
too careful.
The Sporting Front.
The latest from the sporting front is
that a Queensland pug “has a new job
these days,” being a truck-driver “doing
Government contract work” ; that a New-
castle pug called off an engagement to
box in Melbourne, though not because
of a transport difficulty—there is never
any transport difficulty in these cases ,
that a Sydney League footballer, though
informed the money was good on the
South Coast, has elected to remain m
Sydney this year, and that offers from
Sydney League clubs have been turned
down by four Waratah-Mayfield players.”
All this when the Diggers are in action
again, when Britain is trying to scrape
up another 250,000 men for the army
and the U.S.A. is resorting to drastic
measures to get an additional 900,000.
In parts of Australia where crowds
and the cash are, professional “sports,
though in perfect fighting shape, seem to
be able to do what and go where they
or their patrons please.
OBJECTION OVERRULED.
"Prison sentences of 40, 45 and 50 years hare been unposed on U.S. soldiers in
shortage in the U.S.A"
"Do you object to be me as president or by any of the of officers whose naemes you have heard read over?"
"Yep-object to everything. I wanna be tried by one of them australian magistrates."


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of KiJney Tubes
►—Gel Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
wastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day and so get rid of three pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty andi difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and acids get back-washed into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffmess under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS and get the same quick relief they
have been giving millions for many years. If back-
ache is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS today.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON GO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts, or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal •
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
LOAN Weekly Fortnightly Monthly
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Though British action in Greece needed
no defence, it was justified by Lord Cran-
bourne, who leads for the Government in
the Lords, as “the only action compatible
with the responsibilities of a great
nation.”
We are not concerned whether Greece
has a king or a republic, but we are vitally
concerned that the Greeks should have a
chance to make a free choice. If, after five
years of war, dictatorships, whether of the
Left or the Right, are to be established
throughout Europe, then we may have
beaten Hitler but we shall have lost the
war.
And that is exactly the position.
Magisterial reproofs and fines being the
customary “punishment” for pillaging in
ports, claims against the insurance cos.
were up 300 p.c. in Sydney and 400 p.c,
in Melbourne in the June quarter; and
all the indications are that the foul dis-
grace to Australia has grown fouler since.
Servicemen are the worst sufferers, and
obviously the black market gets most of
the loot. One stiff sentence with a flog-
ging, or, better still, a hanging, would
snuff it out. But though" the life of the
looter caught in the act is forfeit where
military law prevails, the civilian looter,
especially where “Labor” is in office, gets
the benefit of the soft-headed superstition
that the criminal is more sinned against
than sinning.
In a round-up of roysterers a British
seaman was taken to a Sydney police
station in a patrol car. Arrived there, he
accused a constable who had sat beside
him of pinching his wallet. Then, the
record says, “the constable left the station
for a few minutes and the wallet was
found in a cupboard in the exercise yard.”
Convicted of theft, the copper asked to
be treated as a first offender! This being
a trifle too much for even a Sydney
magistrate, he was sentenced to three
months —and let out immediately on a
£2O bond! The last and worst example
of Sydney law “enforcement”—until the
next.
When a West Brunswick (Vic.) man,
charged with obtaining clothing coupons
contrary to rationing regulations, ad-
mitted having bought 1000 coupons for
£l4 and refused to give the name of the
person who sold him the coupons the
p.m. waxed indignant. A person who
trafficked in coupons, he said, struck at
the very heart of the rationing system.
If there were no receivers there would
be no forged or stolen coupons, and he
wasn’t going to treat the offender lightly.
The man was shot at dawn —beg pardon,
he was sentenced to imprisonment for
three months; sentence suspended on a
£25 bond.
The two Jews from Palestine —commu-
nists, no doubt who murdered Lord
Moyne and his Tommy driver in cold
blood were tried in Cairo last week after
court-room and precincts had been
searched for explosives. So far from
expressing penitence, the ruffians gloried
in their crime, one boasting that “our
organisation always gets rid of anyone
interfering with its plans.” Led by the
great Chaim Weizmann, good Jews
throughout the English-speaking world
are appalled at the murders, but other
Jews of the Leftist persuasion have talked
as if the unspeakable ruffians were goaded
into homicidal mania by British policy.
It is John Bull’s fate to get the blackest
ingratitude from people for whom he has
done most.
Forde caught a Tartar when he took
on A. B. Corbett in an argument on the
threatened nationalisation of airlines.
Retirement as Director-General of Civil
Aviation set Corbett free to say what he
thought of that project, and what he said
was plenty. Forde had the face to accuse
him of deliberate misrepresentation of
“the findings of the inter-departmental
committee” (Corbett was chairman) with-
out giving chapter and verse for the
charge—the report, like other reports, has
been concealed. Corbett denied that his
views were inconsistent with the views
of the committee, and went on to say,
witheringly, that “nothing can prevent
political interference and disorganisation
in any industry owned by a Government
in which untrained and inexperienced
Ministers assume the role of managing
directors and override the advice of
trained executives.”
In the case of airline operations and
management political interference must in-
evitably involve danger to the lives of pas-
sengers and great cost to the taxpayers.
And Corbett has been studying Ministers
ever since he came back from the Boer
War, in which he was an army sergeant
from Queensland.
Formation of a council to promote
culture development in Australia is the
latest notion of the Ministry of Post-war
Reconstruction. A pretentious agenda
paper includes the establishment of a
national theatre, a national orchestra.
BLINDING STRAWBERRY WITH SCIENCE .
“It is now the responsibility of the Government to supply milk to those who need it. This
can be done by taking over a number of farms and running them efficiently and scientifically.”
— King, M.L.C., .secretary of the Sydney Labor Council.
community centres for the promotion of
culture, the encouragement of art and
provision, of travelling exhibitions, Gov-
ernment to bear the financial burden.
Committees never did any good for art
and culture in the past, so there is no
evidence for supposing they will do any
good in the future. Most of the activities
contemplated by the projected organisa-
tion are already being handled by A.B.C.
—and look what A.B.C. has done for
culture!
The communist Thornton, who hoped
that “the scabs of Downing-street” would
be “defeated” and demanded a Hitler
peace, is to “represent” Australia at the
world Trade-union Congress in London.
Crofts, the old gasman, was to go with
him, but fell ill in Perth. Monks, of the
A.C.T.U., was to have taken the gasman’s
place, but Monks fell ill in Melbourne.
Crofts and Thornton were booked for
London many months ago, but, the
Second Front intervening, the congress
was called off, so they went to the U.S.A.
instead. Charging these expeditions up
to the taxpayer and blotting the name of
the country by authorising a communist
with Thornton’s record to represent it —
such things could happen only in Aus-
tralia under “Labor” government.
Touching Deakin’s “Federal Story”:
The impression that “S. M. Herald” had dis-
posed of it in a few lines (B. 10/1/’45) proved
wrong. On Jan. 13 the “Herald” published a
good review, the work of Robert Garran, and
no still-living contemporary could have written
with greater authority as a spectator; as it were,
above the battle but intimately concerned
with it.
A gentleman who edited a Sydney
flapper weekly is writing a lot of stuff for
the U.S. Office of War Information. A
recent effusion is devoted to a wandering
Minister, now returned.
Senator Keane Explores American Method
of Large-scale Production.
The Senator is described as “a large, lithe
man” with “a friendly disposition,” an
“avid desire to know the essentials,” an
“easy manner and methodical disposition
of things” (whatever that may be), “quick
appreciation,” “big vision” and so on.
He is certainly an interesting study in
large-scale production.
Among the U.S. celebrities Keane met
were Green (A.F.L.), Murray (C. 1.0.) and
Lewis (“the miners’ stormy leader”), and
from Lewis he learned a fact that “im-
pressed” him.
American coal production in 1943 jumped
considerably over that of 1942, and hit a
still higher level in 1944, despite an actual
decrease in man-power in the mines.
Presumably he didn’t distress Lewis,
Green and Murray by mentioning that
N.S.W. coal production fell consider-
ably in 1943 and hit a still lower level in
1944, despite an actual increase in man-
power in the mines. Or that N.S.W.
miners have a 40-hour week —which
means at most 36 hours from bank to
bank, less 20 per cent, on account of
“disputes” and absenteeism in months
when they chose to ignore piercing cries
from Keane’s Ministry—and U.S, coal-
miners a 54-hour week (48 hours at the
face).
In the Atlantic Charter Roosevelt and
Churchill set on record their “desire to
see no territorial changes that do not
accord with the freely-expressed wishes
of the peoples concerned” and their “re-
spect” for “the right of all peoples to
choose the form of government under
which they will live.” Events in'half a
dozen countries having made millions
wonder whether the Charter was not now
reposing on the bed of the Atlantic, the
President had a reference to the .subject
in his message to the new Congress. He
said “we” (meaning himself) “shall not
hesitate to use our influence to secure as
far as is humanly possible the fulfilment
of the principles of the Charter,” if
there is any comfort in this for Poles,
Letts, Estonians, anti-communist Yugo'
Slavs and Persians they should make the
most of it.
Papers of the sort that objected to
U.A.P. members being “Anglophiles” are
sneering at the Polish Ministers in Lon-
don as “emigres.” What else were De
Gaulle and the men he gathered about
him in Algiers, ,and what else were the
Filipinos Quezon and Osmena, and what
else are Benes and Masaryk, those pets
of the Pink Press? As in the case of the
Polish Ministers, exile was imposed on
all these worthies, and no one ever
thought of blackguarding them for it.
Canberra is to take over from the
Labor Government in Sydney part of
the administration of unemployment and
sickness benefits in N. S. Wales. This will
mean that government will cost still more,
for public servants whose occupations are
gone are never dismissed, but it will give
the McKell crowd more time for concen-
tration on the Sydney Turf Club, “that
good and useful sport dog-racing” and
local-government affairs, in which it per-
sists in meddling, though no other State
Ministry does. Nothing else seems to
interest it much, certainly not housing;
and the booze racket and the crime wave
don’t seem to interest it at all. With the
insolence of ruffianism, the criminal
classes laugh at what passes for law and
law enforcement in Sydney, and are be-
having accordingly.
The Common Wealth “party,” founded
by a young aristocrat named Acland, with
help from Tom Wintringham, of Spanish
Civil War notoriety, and the fatally fluent
R. W. G. Mackay, is breaking up.
Acland is M.P. for Waterloo, and finding
Waterloo waiting for him with grim ex-
pectancy, intimated that he was not going
there again. Mackay, who left Sydney
before the war with an overween-
ing contempt for Chamberlain and
still - unsatisfied House of Commons
ambitions, has quitted the “party”
with a farewell message and £5OO for
the funeral. Mackay ran twice as a Labor
candidate, and is obviously after another
nomination, but Labor bosses, like box-
ing promoters, have no use for beaten
men who change from one concern to
another and want to change again.
Geoffrey Dawson, twice editor of the
London “Times,” died two or three
months ago. His successor seems to be
a Conservative Leftist (self-coined de-
scription of the editor of a Great Aus-
tralian Daily); anyway, the old paper
has taken to writing about “traps”
set by Russians for Germans with
all the credulity of a communist
boy - reporter, and to banging the
Churchill Government for not giving in
to communist ruffianism in Greece. Even
while the ruffians were on the run and
the people of Athens and the Piraeus
were cheering the Tommies as liberators
the “Times” alleged that the situation had
grown worse instead of better. A great
fall for the “Thunderer.”
While the N.S.W, Railway Department
is piling up pyramidal profits and prepar-
ing grandiose post-war programmes
losses are the dreary portion of the West-
ralian Railway Department. It went
behind £452,200 in 1943-44, and it is
badly off for locos and carriages, replace-
ments being out of the question. Control
of State finance to prevent any Govern-
ment receiving an excessive share of
Commonwealth income and expenditure
should have been one of Canberra’s
duties. As it is, the rich States will come
out of the war richer and the poor States
poorer, and the Curtin Government will
be responsible.


c hM&' n 0
batter
This man is completely nuts. He’s got a
crazy notion that by increasing his idling
speed he charges his battery! And oh! how
it eats up petrol coupons.
The wise way to keep your battery in tip-top
shape is to get a fortnightly check-up and an
occasional re-charge from your nearest Exide
dealer. It will give you many extra months
of service.
£xise
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERfONAL ITEMS
parson H. C. Gurney, now showing at
the Society of Arts in Adelaide, has a
record that for a painter should be
unique. Born in N.S.W., took his B.Sc.
at Perth Uni., was at the Waite Agricul-
tural branch of Adelaide Uni. and took
the M.Sc. there ; joined the Church Mis-
sionary Society as a missionary to Iran,
and after eight years’ service there is
now on a year’s furlough, and exhibiting
his highly competent paintings of that dry
land The mountains he shows are rather
like our Flinders Ranges, but . they are
more populated, and, with ample irri-
gation, include some pleasantly green
variations.
Victorian Governor Dugan (since
1939) has had his term of office extended
by the King for a further twelve months.
Born in Oxmantown Mall (Ireland), he
served in the Boer War, and in 1914-18
commanded the 2nd Royal Irish Regi-
ment in France, was wounded, mentioned
in dispatches and got a D.S.O. and a
CM G in 1918. He was A.D.C. to the
King from 1928 to 1930, and Governor
of S.A. from 1934 to 1939.
Sydney G. Webb, one of the latest
K.C.’s, was born in Sydney at the turn
of the century, but spent his early youth
on the N.S.W. North Coast. Then it was
Sydney High, where he was the first left-
arm googly merchant to make the com-
bined G.P.S. XI, afterwards collecting
his Law degree at Sydney Uni. Still
president of the Uni. Cricket Club and
life member of, and honorary counsel
to, the Cricket Association, he must have
WEBB, K.C.
spent some of his spare time away from
cricket, because he plays a tidy game of
snooker.
Appointed director of the P.O.W. De*
partment at Red Cross National H.Q.,
Melbourne, H. A. Stokes-Hughes is re-
lated to Col. Wilfred Kent-Hughes,
M.C., the absent M.L.A. for Kew (Vic.).
Both have had acquaintance with
Malaya. Kent-Hughes was captured there
and is now a prisoner in Formosa;
Stokes-Hughes spent 23 years rubber-
planting in the Malay States. A member
of the F.M.S. Volunteer Forces when the
Japs came, Stokes-Hughes was appointed
liaison officer between the volunteers and
the A.I.F. Bth Division. He escaped in
a small boat to Sumatra after the capitu-
lation, then smuggled on to a Dutch
tramp and got to Australia. Here he
promptly joined the A.1.F., with which
he served also in the last war. He was
attached to General Gordon Bennett’s
H.Q. in Westralia and was later Area
Commandant of the Northern sector.
Sergeant W. C. Baxter, of Elsternwick
(Vic.), one of 540 Australian prisoners
of war in Stalag 383, south-east of
Nuremberg, near the Danube, has written
a book. One Year, describing the life
prisoners, and he has also compiled a
souvenir programme of Anzac Day
observances and activities for 1943 and
1944. The German authorities have
undertaken to have 5000 copies printed,
to be distributed free of cost to internees.
Arrived in Melbourne from San Fran-
cisco, M. Boris Eliacheff, Consul-General
for France in Australia, Consul in Vic-
toria and French Trade Commissioner for
Australia and M.L, Fie is a Russian who
became a naturalised Frenchman in 1911,
and served with distinction in the last
war. After the present-war debacle m
France he joined General de Gaulle’s
forces, and before his present job was
Free French representative in the U.S.A.
Wing - Commander Donald Roy
Donaldson, who is to captain the Duke
of Gloucester’s airliner here (B.
10/1/’45), is an India-born Australian.
Educated at Geelong Grammar and
Brighton Grammar, he gave up account-
ancy to join the R.A.A.F., was posted
missing over occupied France and was
subsequently located sheltering with a
friendly family of French people. One
of his brothers was killed in England m
1942 while serving with the R.A.A.F.
Another, in the R.A.N., was in the recent
Philippines fighting.
“H.W.M.”: Touching on the gift
of £105,000 to Melbourne’s University
Library in memory of W. L. Baillieu,
the founder of the family, James George
Baillieu, was a French refugee in
England when he decided to come. to
Australia. He arrived wet, the vessel
that brought him being wrecked and
James George washed ashore at Queens-
cliff (Vic.), wearing little more than his
shirt. The experience may have had
something to do with his becoming cap-
tain of the lifeboat crew and lighthouse
keeper, and, when he’d saved enough,
licensee of the Ozone Hotel, Queenscliff.
He had nine sons, all over 6ft. The
Baillieu to whose, memory the library
has been endowed crashed in the land
boom of the ’nineties, but later paid all
his private creditors 20/- in the £. Ten
or 12 years ago it was estimated that the
Baillieu family and their connections m
Britain and Australia directed over 40
companies with a capital of approxi-
mately £69,000,000.
Returning to Australia for A.8.C.,
Noel Mewton-Wood, the brilliant young
Melbourne pianist who played at a fare-
well concert in the Melbourne Town Hall
when he was 13. In London Beecham
listened to him for three hours at his first
audition and pronounced him possessor
of the finest talent in the British Empire.
Mewton-Wood made his London debut
under Beecham in Beethoven’s Third
Piano Concerto, and scored a triumph.
It is eight years since a small circle of
admirers backed him financially as a cer-
tain winner.
Appointed R.A.F. representative to the
Government of India Defence Com-
mittee, Air-Commodore E. J. Kingston-
McCloughry is a South Australian. Edu-
cated at Adelaide Uni. and School of
Mines, he collected his M.A. at Trinity
College, Cambridge. Awarded the D.F.C.
and bar, then the D. 5.0., he has been
deputy senior air staff officer of the Allied
Expeditionary Air Force. Now 48, he
served with the Army in the last war. Air
Vice-Marshal McCloughry, killed in an
air crash overseas last year, was a
brother,'
A Maoriland medico, Dr. Lindsay S.
Rogers, has been heard of among the
Yugoslavs. Hailing from Dunedin and
educated at the Medical School there, Dr.
Rogers went to England in 1929 on a
travelling scholarship. After serving at
Omdurman Hospital, he joined the British
section of the Bth Army and eventually
went to Yugoslavia.
The bishopric of Waiapu (M.L.),
vacant through G. V. Gerrard resigning
to become senior chaplain of the N.Z.
Pacific forces, has been filled by Dean
Cruickshank, St. Paul’s, Dunedin. Born
in Auckland in IsB2, the new bishop was
educated there and at Oxford, where he
gained his B.A. in 1906 and later his
M.A. Chaplain with the First N.Z.E.F.,
he was wounded in France in 1916.
Especially well-known these days
round the Bourke to Broken Hill belt,
Judge Herbert William Moffitt dropped
in on The Bulletin, recalling old times,
on a recent return to Sydney, and here is
how Scorfield drew him from memory.
JUDGE MOFFITT.
These days largely on compensation cases,
Judge Moffitt was for many years a con-
tributing black-and-white artist for this
paper, specialising in horses, abos. and
suchlike local fauna. As well as possess-
ing that sort of talent, he’s an M.A., was
a one-time teacher at Sydney High, went
from there to the Bar and on to his
Judgeship.
Associate Professor O. F. Blakey, of
W.A. University, is president-elect of the
Australian Institution of Engineers. Born
in North Queensland, he was educated at
Brisbane Grammar and Queensland Uni.,
where he graduated C.E. in 1920 and
M.E. in 1923. From a concrete construc-
tion company he was appointed engineer
for the design and construction of Wynd-
ham (W.A.) meatworks, later was engi-
neer for Commonwealth Bank construc-
tion in Victoria, practised as an archi-
tectural engineer in Victoria and was ap-
pointed to W.A. Uni. in 1927. He has
several times been Dean of the Faculty,
and in 1936-37 toured Europe and
America on a Carnegie grant.
Ronald James Michell is, at 40, the
youngest president the S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures has had. He belongs to
the third generation in the G. H. Michell
wool and tanning concern at Hindmarsh,
founded by his grandfather in 1870, and
is the present chairman of directors, a
job he’s held since he was 28, Starting
in the business early, he trained also in
England and on the Continent. Before
taking the top C. of M. post he d been
R.J. MICHELL.
vice-president for several years, and also
on the Secondary Industries Advisory
Committee. Hobby, work; though he
mixes in some tennis and golf.
Victor H. Bentley, appointed secretary
to the Westralian Police Department, is
a Victorian who went to the West in
1896, and joined the Police Department
after service with Mines and the Chief
Secretary. He succeeds ( Inspector C.
Treadgold, retired.
Percy Edgar Everett, chief architect of
Victorian Public Works, is off to Canada
and the United States to study architec-
tural developments with post-war recon-
struction in mind. Everett designed the new
police headquarters in Russell-street, to
which “modem” could be applied just
as well as to the latest overseas architec-
tural confections, though there are some
who liked the look of the old bluestone
barracks better. Born at Geelong in
1888, Everett was educated at the Gordon
Institute of Technology there, was Gee-
long Harbor Trust’s architect for three
years and then went into private practice.
He made world tours in 1913 and 1930
and became Chief Architect in 1934.
Major Bill Watson, D. 5.0., M.C. and
bar, D.C.M. and a mention in dispatches,
has gone back to America after his
second bout of service with the Austra-
lian forces. As an artilleryman in the
First A.I.F. he won his D.C.M., was
commissioned in the field, then got his
M.C. and bar and “mention.” That war
over, Watson spent some years in New
Guinea before going to America to live.
In the U.S.A. when the present dust-up
started, he promptly paid his fare to Aus-
tralia to offer his services, was given
command of a Papuan Infantry Battalion
and was in the fighting from Buna over
the Owen Stanley Range the wrong way
and then back the other way, doing a
magnificent job. The D.S.O. was added to
his list of decorations for this stunt. He
waited in Brisbane for his passage back
to the U.S.A., which the Government
had agreed to pay, but got fed up and
arranged his own trip.
With the sensitive face of the intellec-
tual, horn-rimmed glasses, the beginnings
of a literary stoop and a large moustache
probably designed to ward off critics and
disgruntled contributors, C. B. Christesen,
editor of Brisbane “Meanjin Papers”
dropped in on The Bulletin. At first
“Meanjin Papers” was chiefly concerned
with Queensland writers; then contribu-
tions began to come in from all over
Australia, and latterly it has been
reaching out for contacts with New
Zealand and America. A journalist on
Brisbane “Courier Mail,” Christesen has
worked on the “Daily Sketch” and “Sun-
day Graphic” in London. Born at
Townsville, and now 32, he has repre-
sented Queensland Uni. and the State in
athletics.
J, P. Burnside, retiring as Chief Inspec-
tor of Factories and Boilers in S.A., got
a big boost from Premier Playford at
his send-off. “The fact that the Govern-
ment went on with Leigh Creek coal is
largely due to his persistence. When
everybody else said that it could not be
burnt anywhere, any time, he always in-
sisted that it was just a matter of experi-
ence and*of the methods used. Reports
now coming in from other countries indi-
cate that steam-dried Leigh Creek coal
can be used for almost any purpose except
the production of domestic gas.”
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, Milne Gibsqn, born in Scotland,
an accountant in copper mines at Blinman
(S.A.) and Rosebery (Tas.), then a fruitgrower
specialising in dried fruit's on a big scale at
Berri and Lyrup (S.A.), and finally at Irymple
(Vic.), where his health broke down.
At 90, in Melbourne, F. Arthur Moule,
senior partner of Moule, Hamilton and Der-
ham, one of the oldest firms of solicitors in
Melbourne. The late Judge Moule was a
brother. „
In Adelaide, at 85, Bruce Rudall, father ot
the present M.L.C. and Minister for Lands.
He succeeded his father long ago as leading
lawyer and Town Clerk of Gawler, and became
head of nearly everything in sight locally.
Also he was in the S.A. Assembly from 1906
to 1915, and became Chairman of Committees.
In Hobart, aged 68, Charles Rollins, for 50
years with Tasmahian Railways, ending up as
secretary and manager. Like many other
old public servants he was brought out ot
retirement by the war and became Deputy
Director of Rationing. , ,
In Melbourne, Miss Ethel M. Webb grand-
daughter of Robert Saunders Webb, Mel-
bourne’s first Collector of Customs—the man
who read Superintendent Latrobe’s commission
to him when he took over Batman s village.
Miss Webb conducted a school of physical cul-
ture at the top of the Auditorium in Collms-
street.


fd
f
df
df
df
d
fd
V
roprietors of
A the following trade marks
• "C.O.R. Plus" Motor Spirit
• "C.0.R." Power Kerosene
• "Coralite" Kerosene
• "C.O.R. Light Diesoleum"
• "C.0.R." Diesel Oils
• "C.0.R." Fuel £r Bunker Oils
THE COmmOniUtflLTH OIL RtfIOERIES LIIRITED
BRHnc»«esir»
ALL STATES
I'
Hi
ZZm
vW
mm.
Owing to the disruption in transport, and shortages of
manpower, refrigeration is playing an increasingly
important part in the foodstuffs industry, from the
primary producer to the finished goods.
ZEROHEAT Low Pressure Refrigerators, either auto-
matic, electric or engine driven, are made for walk-in
cool rooms, food storage cabinets, milk cooling and
storage, or mobile units.
There is a ZEROHEAT Refrigerator Unit suitable
for every use.
Agents:
HENRY BERRY & CO.
(A’ASIA), LIMITED.
|
ip
ECKERSLEY & SONS PIL .LTD.
SOUTH MELBOURNE .... VICTORIA
Business,Rollery,Ete
Labor and the Banks
Last week Federal Cabinet considered
the proposed banking legislation, with the
result not entirely clear. But it seems that
the bank board is to go, the governor to
be in full charge (subject to certain
Treasury directions), and that war-
time banking regulations are to be
given legislative force, even though the
Prime Minister offered an assurance at
the time these regulations were intro-
duced that he was not thereby introduc-
ing nationalisation of banking by a back-
door method.
If all the present banking regulations
are made-over into permanent law, and if
the regulations in peace-time are enforced
by the Treasury as arbitrarily as they
are at present, then, for all intents and
purposes, except that of payment of com-
pensation by the Government, the banks
will have been nationalised. The trading
banks now are shorn of nearly all but
the most detailed matters of banking dis-
cretion. They possess no such thing as
a general banking initiative.
The existing banking controls werei
brought into force by a regulation
gazetted in Canberra on November 27,
1941, a month or so after Labor gained
Federal office. They dealt chiefly with
the Commonwealth Bank’s right to requi-
sition the trading banks’ “surplus invest-
ible funds,” the Commonwealth Bank’s
direction of advances and investments, the
restriction of bank profits to 1936-39
levels, and with the publication of bank
balance sheets, etc., in “forms prescribed
by the Treasury.” Each bank had to seek
a license from the Treasury, and it was
required to “furnish the Treasurer
(through the Commonwealth Bank) such
statements in respect of the business as
the Treasurer directs, and to the Com-
monwealth Bank such statements as the
bank directs,”
It is now proposed, in addition to mak-
ing these obligations and impositions per-
manent so far as the trading banks are
concerned, to extend the trading activi-
ties of the Commonwealth Bank. With
these powers to probe, pry, direct and
requisition, the central bank would indeed
be placed in a strong position to over-
whelm the trading banks, provided always
that it was able to render the courteous
and efficient service for which the trading
banks are well known. It is not generally
acknowledged to have done so in the
past, though its service, allowing for its
Government connections, has been better
than would be likely under the more
direct political control that has been lately
proposed.
Labor politics in all their fallacies and
prejudices are responsible for the pro-
jected interference with control of the
national credit.
It is clear that most of the proposed
banking legislation will have a nuisance
value only, and that its prompting is
largely political. Taken as a whole, it
is likely to do nothing but harm to the
economic system of Australia, and to
render even more unstable the national
credit structure that has been seriously
damaged already by political ignorance,
opportunism and envy. The trad-
ing banks have rendered excellent service
to the people before and since the last
depression, and, subject to an obligation
to co-operate with a strong central bank,
their freedom of enterprise should be re-
stored to them when the war ends.
If control of the central bank is altered
so that the Treasury has the right to
requisition “surplus investible funds,” the
trading banks will have little individual
discretion of their own, especially as it
is now proposed to give the central bank
power to decide, “when it is necessary
in the public interest, for what classes of
purposes the trading banks may make ad-
vances in times of financial crisis.”
An autonomous central bank no doubt
should possess the right to influence the
general direction of the credit policy of
the Commonwealth, and in order to do
this it should have some power to siphon-
off surplus funds during a boom and to
expand credit during a slump. But it
needs to be beyond political control,
especially where political control means
control by a body such as Caucus. The
present Labor programme is to have
the Commonwealth Bank board removed
and to replace it with a governor directly
responsible to the Treasury.
Under purely political control, the Gov-
ernment of the day would have power
(if present banking regulations were con-
verted into banking legislation) to trans-
fer to the Commonwealth Bank new de-
posits left with the trading banks, im-
pose a ban on new loans by the
trading banks and put the Common-
wealth Bank in the position of being
the sole authority empowered to make
loans on new enterprises and securities.
That is practically the position at the
present time, with the exception that the
Commonwealth Bank Board, as now
constituted, is not directly under the
thumb of Caucus, as is the case with the
Government itself. The Commonwealth
Bank board represents a barrier between
Caucus and the future of the national
credit, though as each director’s term has
run out over the past three years a
staunch Labor man has been appointed,
with more knowledge of politics to his
credit than banking.
Direct Treasury control of the central
bank and trading banks, with the present
Government in power, is likely to be no
more successful than the results of the
Government’s own credit policy during
this war. The central bank board has
been a source of strength during the war,
and the trading banks, before their
“rationalisation,” were equally valuable.
With direct Treasury control of the whole
banking system all checks to the national
finances being run on purely political
lines would disappear.
Extracts from a circular prepared by
the Bank of N. S. Wales, permission for
facilities to print which has been “un-
expectedly delayed” by Government
officials:
Though the Government may not contem-
plate straight-out nationalisation of banking,
it is reasonable to conclude from statements
made that it proposes a form of control which
would be a convenient halfway house to nation-
alisation not only of the banks but of industry
generally.
Probably the community does not realise how
serious a threat the proposals offer to the free-
dom of the individual and to continuance of a
system of private enterprise
To continue the existing banking controls
permanently would mean nothing less than
the establishment of complete bureaucratic
power over the finances of each and all of us.
It would involve control over all production
by any Government which chose to exercise it.
No person or company would be able to borrow
from a bank except for such purposes as the
Government or its agents might approve; the
effect on individual freedom and initiative
would be serious. Further, the credit normally
available for carrying on the various activities
of the community could be diverted by the
Government to financing unsound ventures,
leaving the industries and commerce of the
country starved for finance.
It is the considered opinion of this bank that
such a form of regimentation is not consistent
with the democratic way of life and with the
outlook of Australians generally, and could do
nothing to raise our standards of life.
It must be stressed that' even in pre-war
years the system in Australia gave the Com-
monwealth Bank adequate power to control the
volume of credit, i.e., the total amount of
money available to the community as a whole.
That bank in the past has been free of political
control, an absolute essential to sound finance
and continuity of policy, and a safeguard
against inflation and all its attendant evils.
The trading banks pave loyally co-operated with
the Commonwealth Bank, with the result that
the Australian trading bank system has proved
one of the soundest and most efficient in the
world.
Permission for the necessary paper was
sought on Dec. 21. Proofs of the circular
were released to the press on Jan. 12.
* * * *
The Government which succeeded,
with the aid of an ordinary Australian
drought, in producing a wheat shortage
and embarrassing the war effort, gave a
Government official (Prices Commissioner
Copland) the job of estimating a fair price
for milk in the Sydney and Newcastle
areas. When the dairymen objected to his
finding and asked for a judicial inquiry,
the Government appointed another public
official (P. W. Nette, Assistant Secretary
to the Treasury) to go into the matter.
He endorsed the other official’s figure.
Protesting that the fixed price was un-
payable, dairymen last week-end with-
held supplies from the Sydney and New-
castle areas. The average return of Is.
6|d. a gallon to dairy farmers includes
2|d. subsidy. Mr. Nette says that the
wage allowed to the dairy farmer in his
calculations, 5 p.c. on capital invested
and a “very generous allowance for de-
preciation, give to the farmer a reason-
able working profit for his labors and
capital under present circumstances.” The
abnormality of present circumstances the
Acting Prime Minister proposed to over-
come by a drought subsidy. F. J, Sedgwick,
secretary of the Milk Zone Dairymen's
Council, says the main question at issue
is whether Professor Copland reduced the
estimated loss on surplus milk from 38
p.c. (Milk Board figure) to 30 p.c., and
that the question has not been answered,
thought it could be answered in two
minutes. Independent accountants had
informed the council that the Prices Com-
missioner was not justified in forcing the
average price down from Is, Bd. to Is.
6jd. To support his cost-of-production
estimate, Professor Copland had included
suburban milk with country milk, but had
not allowed for the increased cost of
suburban milk, Mr. Sedgwick said. The
Government professes to be concerned
about the prices ceiling and inflation. It
is inflation of its own creation that is
squeezing land men out of business and
undermining the basic industries of the
nation. Labor, in its extreme "concern
for trade-unionists and city voters, appa-
rently hasn’t yet realised that we cannot
exist as a community of parasites. There
always has to be a milch cow.
* * * *
Following disapproving comment in a
circular sent out by Donald Reid, and the
withdrawal of the support of director
W. P. A. Lapthorne, the proposed merger
‘of the Guinea Airways undertaking with
Australian National Airways was rejected
by a meeting of Guinea Airways share-
holders held in Adelaide last Friday. After
the meeting chairman A. I. Hancock re-
signed, and the resignation of other direc-
tors followed.
* * * *
Subsidies payable in Britain by the
Government in order to keep the price
ceiling stable are estimated to cost £214
million sterling during the present year.
Here is a split-up of the appropriations:
Cost of Subsidy.
Bread, flour and oatmeal .. £64,000,000
Meat 23,000,000
Potatoes 27,000,000
Eggs 15,000,000
Sugar 15,000,000
Milk 17,000,000
Cheese 3,000,000
Bacon 2,000,000
£166,000,000
Other subsidies .. .. 48,000,000
£214,000,000
A large proportion of the subsidies pay-
able on cereals should become unneces-
sary when imports become free again,
wheat in particular being likely to fall in
price considerably when production in
overseas countries and shipping get back
to a peace-time basis. Britain’s subsidies
are payable mostly in respect of imports.


SAVE RUBBER!
7w£#
4 tyres run at 30 m.p.h. will give as much mile-
age as 6| tyres run at 60 m.p.h.
BO m.p.h.
l a tyres wasted.
40 m.p.h.,
f tyre wasted.
M AM
60 m.p.h.
2 2 tyres wasted.
OLYMPIC
RUBBER]
[insulated j)
I CABLES]
Speeding wastes tyres and tyres are precious.
Olympic TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
i FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
the GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.. LTD.. OF ENGLAND
. in war - as in peace
at the service of the Empire
,> < :!
I- .4s
1 1
* K
■
mm
lw &
| *mm ;i
I * < c .
if:
M
When the outbreak of war brought manifold problems of urgent and
phenomenal expansion in electrical traction equipment, the world-wide
experience of The General Electric Co., Ltd., of England, accumulated m
days of peace, prepared the Company for its imrhense task of helping to
equip British industry.
The G.E.C. —the largest British electrical manu-
facturing organisation in the Empire has
devoted its entire technical and manufacturing
resources to the war effort, which has brought
about great advances in all applications of elec-
tricity, including the important one of electronics.
When Peace returns these developments will be
of the greatest value to all concerned with recon-
struction in any part of the world.
£d>.C. —Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The of En S ,aml >
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd. _______
&&C.
ELECTRIFICA TION
SCHEMES include
all industries: Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
Locomotive and
Wagon Works;
Motor Car Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oi I Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc.
f
Someone Still Has to Work
In spite of all the political hubbub,
“isms ” self-pity, mental confusion, class
friction and fatalism evident in the Com-
monwealth today, there is little need to
Houbt that there are still health and vigor
j e ft in the desire for a greater Australia
in the years following the war.
But so much depends on the central
Government these days, a total-war
economy placing in the hands of
Authority far-reaching control over our
Jay-to-day lives, that the press gives
corresponding importance to Govern-
ment, Ministerial and bureaucratic news
and gossip.
Australian Labor-unionism being infil-
trated by communists who “make strikes
their business” and who advocate many
other doctrines which certainly are not
conducive to increased and more efficient
national production, the Australian
people have had a surfeit of discussion
about doctrines, systems and “plannings”
which not only seem to defeat themselves
when all taken together, but which
overlook the fact that any objectives
which Australians hope to achieve after
the war will be attained only by the
sweat of their brows. In other words,
work is still necessary in order to live,
and hard work and intelligent co-opera-
tion are required if we are going to live
better than before the war.
As an illustration of the importance
which work represents in the manufacture
of anything, after raw materials come
into an Australian factory the wages
paid in processing them represent 57
per cent, of all the manufacturing
costs and margins added for profit. And
in the cost of the raw materials them-
selves wages again represent a very
big proportion. Unless full service
’continues to be given by wage-earners in
return for their pay, wages will represent
a still bigger proportion of production
costs, and living expenses will grow on a
corresponding scale. The service a wage-
earner renders for the money he gets
inevitably has an effect on his own stand-
ard of living as well as that of others.
The pollers and the overpaid drag the
rest down.
Australians and citizens of many other
countries are only too liable to get
thinking in terms of what the Govern-
ment should do rather than what they
themselves should do ; this inclination to
pass the onus to the Government arises
partly out of the specialisation of occu-
pations in modern times and the interde-
pendence of industries. So much depends
upon the smooth working of financial
arrangements and upon transport and
marketing facilities all over Australia that
any one industry is tied somehow to most
of the others. Where one part of the
machine is having trouble, it usually
prefers to blame some other part for its
failure rather than submit to appropriate
economic treatment itself. It is not by
any, means easy for the human mind to
picture the whole Australian industrial
scene, and it is much more comfortable
to give “the banks” or the boss or “Pig-
iron Bob” a bad name than it is to go
through the mental agitation necessary
to get to the bottom of a complicated
subject. The same reluctance to make a
thorough investigation of causes of in-
dustrial difficulties is sometimes dis-
cernible in the case of' wage-payers as
well.
Where the living rights of so many
people are wrapped up in a complex
political economy the trust imposed in
the Government and the law of the land
is a particularly great one. Where mat-
ters of industrial arbitration, working
conditions, taxation, banking policy,
social insurance and social benefits come
up for consideration they should be
weighed with regard to the economic
structure and the make-up of human
nature as a whole.
Where an arbitration-court award or a
Government social-security scheme affects
the livelihood of millions of people it
should be considered very thoroughly by
the Judge or by Parliament. Where
one section is made an overgenerous
award it unquestionably means that
the overrewarded poll on the rest of
the population to the extent of the
overgenerosity. We inevitably come back
to the question of what services
have been rendered for value to be re-
ceived. Someone has to do the work
that is the basis of all old-age, sickness
and unemployment benefits. Wages paid
to someone for services represent the
right to buy someone else’s goods or
services. Actual productive work and
organisation constitute the source of
supply to the national production pool.
In order that each contributor may even-
tually draw out something like a fair
share, the law and the economics of the
land must be fairly and wisely attended
to. And where a person desires to have
an independent leisure in his old age he
should pay for it during his working
life, otherwise he will become a burden
on the younger generation.
Where someone saves his money and
banks it or puts it into an endowment
assurance policy or an annuity he knows
what such saving has cost him. Where
there is a national social-security scheme,
partly contributory and partly subsidised,
the realities of the situation are again kept
within the vision of the average person.
But where a Government takes upon
itself the task of providing “social
security” without direct contribution,
levying class-conscious taxation in order
to meet the bill, the position becomes so
obscure that many wrong impressions
may become popular, and they may en-
danger the whole atmosphere of indus-
trial goodwill so essential in keeping a
nation fully at work. The first misunder-
standing usually arises through a Gov-
ernment, sponsoring a non-contributory
“security” scheme, deliberately fostering
the impression that it is giving something
for nothing. There are no virtues in a
non-contributory scheme other than
shady political “virtues.” It can possess
a number of the characteristics of the
goldbrick.
Because it came within the province of
the Commonwealth Bank, and was not
entirely a Treasury matter, the use of
Treasury-bill finance in “paying” for the
war effort has now been restricted.
Another name for this method of finance
is bank credit, and there are members of
the Labor party who have long claimed
that many kinds of national works, as
well as the expenditure on war, could
be financed without cost to the people out
of national credit. Before the war there
were millions of people in the world
who believed the same thing. Since then
some of the more intelligent of these
theorists have observed that wars are paid
for only in blood, tears, toil and sweat:
that money is merely an organisation for
the distribution of rewards and burdens
and as a repository for savings, not a
productive power in itself, though, when
properly handled, a great help to pro-
duction and distribution. Since we have
to pay for war partly with our toil, and
since labor used for war purposes is a
tax on living standards, the tax of
war in respect of toil has to be in
some way related to our war-time mone-
tary taxation. Because of political reasons
principally the relationship has not been
established truthfully and openly, and as
a result there is now the danger of infla-
tion —an excess of money in relation to
the things one may buy. This is a really
grave danger to the effective working of
the whole of that interdependent economy
already described.
Australians have to pay for their share
of. the cost of the war. What living
standards and social benefits they
want after the war they will have to
work for and pay for. Any obstruction
trade-unions or others place in the way
of increased or more efficient production
hits at the very basis of living standards
and social security. Several times during
this war it has been shown that those
whose incomes are under £8 a week rep-
resent 70 p.c. of all the incomes in the
Commonwealth, so that, if the present
receivers of the other 30 p.c. of incomes
were left to starve, and their money
handed over to the 70 p.c., there would
still be no revolutionary improvement in
the incomes of the under-£B-a-weekers.
And with the loss of the services of the
higher-income-earning 30 p.c. there would
be a crippling loss of scientific, technical,
legal and organising ability.
The Australian Labor party, especially
its more militant element, has long ad-
vocated a policy that, allowed to run to
its logical conclusion, would end in
futility. Now that the party is in full
control of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, and with the “capitalist”
prepared to put up with almost anything
in order to get the war job finished, it is
plain, from results, that the party policy
was of militant value only. It is a wash-
out from the point of view of govern-
ment or production.
The amount of income tax collected by
the Commonwealth, after handing back
to the States their shares, has increased
14 times since war began —from £11.9
million in 1938-39 to an estimated £167
million for the current year. Direct
taxation of all kinds has risen from £15.2
million to an estimated £l9O million.
Indirect taxation has risen in smaller pro-
portion—from £58.7 million to £96.4
million —mostly in respect of Customs
duties and sales tax. Indirect taxation is
an unsatisfactory form of war-time taxa-
tion, adding, as it does, to the price of
those things which enter into the cost of
living. This fact was acknowledged by
the Government when it reduced the
rate of sales tax on rationed clothing
from m P-c. to 7j p.c. just before the
last Federal elections.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS "
“Wodgil”: The veil in which the
American invasion of Brisbane was en-
veloped for security reasons has been
lifted since most of the lads moved
north, and a Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
man has collected some impressive facts.
The first Americans arrived there “just
before Christmas, 1941,” and since then
“more than 200,000 troops have been
stationed in the Brisbane area for varying
periods of time.” Counting return visits,
“upwards of 1,000,000 U.S. Army per-
sonnel have passed through Brisbane,” a
number virtually equal to the indigenous
population of both sexes and all ages
and conditions. The “Courier-Mail” man
notes that some of the first arrivals are
“still stationed in the area.” Of one of
these three-year men and a new arrival
seeking directions a racy G.L Joe story
is told;
New Arrival: Thanks, Buddy. You
seem to know this burg pretty well.
Old Hand: Brother, I’ve bin here so
long I’m beginning to hate the Yanks my-
self.
I daresay it has appeared in print, though
1 haven t seen it anywhere ; anyway, it
is in the true tradition of American
humor, akin to that which at times bright-
ened the dark period of “the war between
the States.” Lincoln himself would have
chuckled at it.
* * * *
“Yacko”: It is a little astonishing to
learn that as the result of negotiations
between Agent-General McCann and
Sturt’s English relatives the S.A.
Geographical Society is “acquiring flags
and part of the boat used by Captain
Charles Sturt on his memorable trip down
the rivers Murrumbidgee and Murray in
1829-1830.” Whence came the boat?
Sturt in his Two Expeditions Into the
Interior of Southern Australia says: “I
instructed Clayton to make some plant
cases of the upper planks of the boat and
then set fire to her, for she was wholly
unserviceable, and I felt a reluctance to
leave her like a neglected log on the
water.”
*** . *
“Tuart”: Old as I am, I got a thrill
when I read the subjoined paragraph in
the “Argus,” written by its Canberra
correspondent; but it was nothing to the
thrill which the thing must have brought
to the subject of the par.:
We were pleased to receive a visit recently
irom ex-Senator Edward Findley, who is a
director of Commonwealth Oil Refineries,
and who, after a period in the Victorian
Legislative Assembly, served as a Vic-
torian Labor Senator for Victoria from 1903
to 1917 and from 1922 to 1929. Mr. Find-
ley is looking remarkably well. He told
us some interesting stories.
But not, I am sure, the one about that
period ’ in the Victorian Assembly into
which the “Argus” stormed, bringing it
to a sudden close. Findley became
M.L.A. for Melbourne in 1900, being
then also publisher of the “Tocsin.” In
June, 1901, the “Argus” denounced the
Tocsin, and him as publisher, for hav-
ing lifted from an Irish paper a very free
criticism of King Edward the Seventh.
I forget what it was about, though I think
it was something to do with Mrs. Langtry
shoving an ice-cream down H.R.H.
Albert Edward’s back ; but I recall the
headline, “Foul Libel on the King! ” This
was repeated day after day, and, growing
hotter with every article, the “Argus”
called upon the Peacock Government to
have Findley expelled the House. In vain
he pleaded that he hadn’t read the article
until the “Tocsin” was out, and that, so
tar from approving of it, he had had the
sale of copies stopped ; expulsion was put
to the vote and carried by 64 to 17. Out-
side Parliament and the “Argus” office
there was a great deal of sympathy for
Findley, and it was largely because of
this that he got in for the Senate two
years later. And now the “Argus” writes
of him as if he were one of its oldest and
dearest friends.
* * * *
“Hamer” on some queer houses :
Sydney’s haunted houses seem to have dis-
appeared ; probably the ghost's have been
crowded out. I don’t suppose any of our Allies
who stayed at a large Darlinghurst flattery,
previously a private hospital, ever heard the
ghostly voice which used to sing “Nearer My
God to Thee”; but former patients swear they
heard it. The legend is that the hymn-singing was
the constant diversion of a woman who, years
ago, had taken a long time a-dying in the hos-
pital. The most noted haunted house in Syd-
ney went out of the blood-curdling business
long before the war. An elderly woman had
been done to death in one of the back rooms;
it was alleged that eerie noises reproduced the
strangled cries for help every night. Attracted
by the easy terms offered by agents, various
people moved into the house, but they quitted
in a few days, saying they had heard the
noises. Finally the place became dust- and cobweb-
covered, with the front littered with yellowed
papers, and the offers of agents—three months’
"Damnitall, Prendergast, have I to hire a blacktracker every time I
go to sea ?”
tree occupancy with an option of a lease at a
cheap rent for anyone who stayed—were ignored
after prospective tenants had heard what neigh-
bors had to tell them. Then a rank materialist
moved in; and he laid the ghost. Making a full
investigation, he discovered a break in the roof
of the annexe in which the “haunted room”
was, situated; the draught, playing upon loose
splinters in the rafters, produced the eerie
sounds. The ghostlayer made a pot of money
out of the residential he established before he
sold it at a fancy price.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Petitions for divorce lodged
in Victoria last year were a record; they
rose from 1550 in 1943 to 1915. Two
Supreme Court Judges are to be kept
busy in the New Year making up the
leeway.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”; The secretary of the
Victorian Local Option Alliance has
asserted that three out of ten moderate
drinkers become addicts. Possibly they
do, though I would like data on the sub-
ject from an impartial source. But
what is more wrong with over-drinking
than with oyer-eating or any other form
of over-addiction, including moral indig-
nation? All these excesses do as much
harm as over-indulgence in alcohol, and
they spring from the same cause—repres-
sion. The indignant moralists of Mel-
bourne have fastened so many repressive
regulations on drinking that pubs have
become swineries, drinkers have become
pigs and publicans have ceased to be
human beings. The latest proposal is to
close “lounges,” where people can sit and
absorb their liquid refreshment in decency
and comfort. The pretext is that if these
places are closed Bung will be prevented
from charging an extra penny on a glass,
but I shrewdly suspect the real reason to
be that sight of a person enjoying, his
liquor in some degree of comfort and
decorum annoys other persons.
“Pawang”; By strapping pedometers to
the heels of the British housewife
scientists have discovered that she wastes
an incredible amount of time and energy
in the kitchen, taking 300 steps (approx.)
to make a cake, and travelling five miles
a day on the average. According to the
committee which has been conducting
these researches a planned kitchen would
cut down the steps from 300 to 48, not
to mention the energy saved in bending,
lifting and reaching. But what is the
housewife to do them? One of the
troubles with the pre-war world was bore-
dom. An incapacity to employ their
leisure was the cause of an extraordinary
amount of neurosis and other nervous
complaints amongst a large proportion
of the population. All the experts have
been unanimous in saying that the health
of the British population has improved,
rather than deteriorated, during the war,
and the cause ascribed is that fewer people
are now bored.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A.’s new Governor, General
Norrie, arrived just in time to join in “the
28th,” when Glenelg’s Old Gum-tree —
now dead, but carefully tended—sees the
original landing of Governor Hindmarsh
celebrated. As this was 108 years ago,
survivors are naturally lacking, but a man
of 98 and a woman of 94 headed a roll-
signing list of 130 active veterans.
* * * JU
“Harold Hardupp”: “Happy days on
the Red Hill” was a toast drunk at a
reunion in Sydney. The Red Hill was
in that part of Paddington now known
as Centennial Park—a scrub-covered red
gravel patch which became a shanty town
in the hard times of the ’nineties. Kero-
sene-tins flattened out covered the most
ambitious abodes ; others had walls of
sacking. Some of the places were neat
and had little gardens around them.
The settlement had two results: (1) be-
cause Red Hill settlers were in danger
from stray bullets the Rifle Range was
shifted to Rand wick ; (2) because most
of them were disinclined to go back to
the city the residential area spread out
towards the beaches, then surrounded by
miles of bushland.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”; Australia missed the
opportunity of a lifetime by not issuing
a special series of stamps to commemo-
rate the arrival of American troops in
Australia. A cool million could have
easily been raked in with a set of up to,
say, 10s., featuring the U.S. and Aus-
tralian flags, U.S. and Australian naval
vessels, and maps showing the main
battlefields in the Pacific. The American
flag series set an example. Those stamps
are today worth (used) two and three
times their face value. The Australian
Postal Department, however, seems con-
tent to function as a taxing machine,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The reported revival of
smuggling from India to Australia by a
new, skilfully - organised international
gang of opium runners makes me wonder
whether the modern methods of evading
detection will equal some of those used
for years when the bulk of the supply
came from China. For many years
passengers on a Singapore - Fremantle
steamer used to be lost in admira-
tion of the concern the Chinese crew
had for the floral decorations. A
long row of pots on the first saloon
table was always replenished at the
Eurasian port and carefully tended
on the voyage by the stewards. When
the vessel tied up at Fremantle the pots
were taken ashore, filled with fresh soil
and replanted—until a more than usually
astute Customs official discovered that
they had false bottoms. An even more
ingenious device worked for a long time
on a China steamer which called at Syd-
ney. It was the fourth mate’s job to see
that the mails were safely landed, but it
almost invariably happened that after the
mail van had departed he would discover
to his anguish, that a bag had been
omitted. Shouting wildly, he would rush
down the gangway waving the forgotten
bag just too late. Sympathetic officials
would hail a cab for him, and he would
bundle in and dash off in the direction
of the G.P.O. with a fine cargo of contra-
band. He did it once too often.
* * * *
“Sixenate” on the days when Christmas
was Christmas;
In Sydney 40 years ago no by-law prevented
shopkeepers from strewing their wares all over
the pavement; overhanging signs and displays and
the activities of touts were not abolished till 10
years later. Touting was so general that even the
femes indulged in it. On holidays the crews of
the boats stood on the Quay shouting the merits
of the resorts to which they plied, and frequently
hustling picnickers on to a ferry they had not
intended to take. At Christmas-time the city
took on the aspect of a huge fair, and the shops
stayed open as long as they had goods to sell
and there were customers to buy. Pubs were
open till late at night, and roysterers added to
the tumult of touts howling the wares of their
shops, and the weeping of lost kids. Shop-
keepers draped the wooden posts that then sup-
ported the shop awnings with bush greenery,
and displayed snow scenes in their windows,
ersatz cotton-wool snowflakes being much in
evidence. Poulterers hung festoons of poultry
outside their shops. A turkey might be had
for seven and six; a goose for five shillings.
Oh, what a difference “40 years on”!
* * * \ *
“Blue P.”: New York announces that
Anna Jarvis, foundress of “Mother’s
Day,” is in a sanatorium, broke and
almost blind, an estate left her in 1926
having gone west, I don’t know
how much the chain stores and florists
in her native country made out of her-
idea, nor how much Australian business
got out of it, but I do know that it was
grabbed up by almost everybody with
anything to sell, and turned into one of
the most profitable stunts of all time.
If the manufacturing and retail industries
had a spark of gratitude in them the poor
old dear would be living in a mansion
with a herd of shopwalkers to wait on
her.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: A dog-days diversion
in Melbourne was a couple of rounds
between Clive Turnbull, the “Herald’s”
art critic, and Charles Wheeler, head
of the National Gallery art. school.
After contemplating the annual students’
exhibition Turnbull came to the sad con-
clusion that the work of the pupils was
monotonously alike and wasn’t up to the
standard of the Great Men. Wheeler re-
torted that the work was by pupils with
from one term to four years’ training,
that similarity of subject and treatment
was unavoidable with students, and that if
Turnbull found the exhibition dull he
would probably find the first steps in art
by the Old Masters dull; if any sign of
originality were present Turnbull wouldn’t
be able to recognise it. Having delivered
this shot between wind and water,
Wheeler went on to say that Turnbull’s
complaint that students didn’t deal with
the contemporary scene was up against
the fact that one student had painted a
girl trying on a dress, another had de-
picted a girl repairing one and still
another had portrayed girls listening to
a gramophone—all everyday happenings.
In his reply the art critic ignored
Wheeler’s points. Art critics are like that.
“Arter” on the higher artistic criti-
cism :
\. In the course of a study of French post-
impressionist art, which commenced at the be-
ginning of the century (when the merits of
Cezanne were suddenly discovered) and has
lasted till the present day, I have noted that while
French commentators, particularly those who hate
hysteria and dementia in art, express them-
selves with the utmost clarity, English writers
(or writers in English) become muddled, clumsy
and obscure when they attempt to rationalise
their Gallic enthusiasms. The death of Henri
Matisse (specialist in gangrened corpses and
other unpleasantnesses) will produce a spate
of such gibberish, judging by the first obituary
of him I have read, in the “S.M.H.” This
informs me that Matisse was an “instinctive
painter” who “created in untiring repetition a
crystallisation of his sensations.” He observed
no rules —“neither the planes nor the passages
are sought for within the realm of reason.”
The “purity of his inner conception” was
such that “with a minimum of conscious aid in
unlooked-for reactions he created an arabesque
—a Persian carpet of glowing colors which in
its density and force represented the most power-
ful manifestation of pure art in our century.”
Further, “Those rich forms of odalisques,
the blue Mediterranean seen through half-veiled
windows and the saturated color harmonies
which describe precise yet subtle patterns, all
have become a part of French history.” Appa-
rently what this commentator wishes to convey
is that his idol painted meaningless patterns in
a sort of mental coma, but he doesn’t explain
why that is a good way of painting. In col-
loquial English, “rich-formed odalisques” are
“tarts.” The introduction of “tarts” into these
phantasmagorias should interest the Freudians,
and chemists and paint manufacturers should
get together to consider the phenomena of satu-
rated color harmonies and crystallised aesthetic
sensations.
THE FOUR Bs.
“To ‘Labor’ politicians the Bookie shares with
Bung, the Brewer and the Bruiser the distinction of
being the salt of the earth,’’ (B. S/l/’tS).
These four are the fellows who ever can count
On favor official in fullest amount.
To those at mere “classy” distinctions who mock
i hey re the pick of the basket, the pride of the
nock,
To be screened from annoyance and sheltered
from shock.
1 hey’re the white-headed boys whom you can’t
overlook,
The Brewer, the Bruiser, the Bung and the
Book.
Their way’s even tenor no rulers disturb
Or their lawful occasions endeavor to curb
Immune from the shafts other callings that hit,
The lords of the vats and the versatile vit.
From authority’s viewpoint are verily It,
Along with the bleachers’ belligerent gods,
The dealers in stoush and the layers of odds.
They rake in their rhino, secure from assault,
The blenders and vendors of hops and of malt;
They flourish like bay-trees, the boxers who
wield
Gloved fists in the ring for the harvest they
yield,
And the birds whose vocation is laying the field.
Twould puzzle the shrewdies the profits to
place
Of boisterous Bar-one and bluff Boniface.
What niches they fill in our life of today,
Or pedestals, rather, one safely might say!
There are some who’ll insist that the land has
no dearth
Of citizens valued for merit and worth;
But for real indispensable salt of the earth
The prize would be voted by numerous tongues
To pencillers, pugilists, brewers and Bungs.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Bo”: Already the post-war house is
taking shape. Apparently its most revo-
lutionary feature is to be the extensive
use of glass, both externally and in-
ternally. Things can be done with glass
now which before the war would have
been thought impossible ; it can be twisted
into all shapes, and is even used for belts,
ties and dresses. The kitchen will, of
course, be practically all glass: the cake
will be seen as it cooks in the oven, and
so another bugbear of the housewife-
chancing a “sinking in the middle”
through premature opening of the oven
door —will be avoided. The glass exterior
of the house, too, will be easy on father
when that cursed three-year painting
period comes round. Yet even the ultra-
modern and undoubtedly beautiful glass-
built house cannot be expected to please
everybody. My thoughts will be for the
teeth-gnashing estate agent who, in ad-
vertising the sale of one, has used the old
stock phrase “only a stone’s throw from
the station,” and is handed a brick by a
prospective buyer and asked to prove his
words.
* * * *
“M 8”: The first R.N. barracks in Syd-
ney is to be on a racecourse and will be
named H.M.S. Golden Hind. The naval
people asked for part of Rose Bay links
and were told it was “not available.” I
can well believe it. A mate and I leaned
over the O’Sullivan-road fence of Royal
Sydney and watched a foursome hitting
off. One elderly gentleman left the four,
approached us with a winning smile, and
in a tone of singular dignity and polite-
ness, asked us to refrain from leaning on
the fepce. It was done with such perfect
courtesy and aplomb that my cobber and
I felt impelled to comply. In fact, we just
beat back, a desire to prostrate ourselves
in penance.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: “B. A. Ker’s” full-throated
porter (B. 3/1 / ’45) has his prototype in
a spruiker who functions in the front
of a Melbourne pitcher theatre. It is
more than 20 years since I first stopped,
arrested by his discourse, and the other
evening, hurrying along Bourke-street, I
saw him still there, his voice unimpaired
and his flow of wit and fancy as fresh
as ever. For all those years he has kept
up his issue of patter relative to the
current programme. Whenever a passing
citizen of distinction catches his eye he
instantly incorporates him into his disser-
tations. If an artist maintained his in-
terest in painting, poetry or any other
activity of that sort with the intensity of
that Bourke-street spruiker he would be
reckoned a genius.
* * * *
“Pip” on pin-ups:
Every soldier has a couple of photographs
from home prominently displayed near his
bed. The married chaps prop up the wife and
kids against the shaving mug. The bachelor
may have an assortment of lovelies, but usually
there is some chosen lass who occupies the
foreground. To praise her is to invite an ear-
bashing that lasts until an escape can be
effected. Snapshots are more sought after than
studio portraits, though professional efforts in
natural tints appeal to some. Most of these
pictures are reckoned too artificial, however.
Photographs of the family dog, the house, the
front garden with its flowers, are popular.
So are all scenes intimately associated with
home. To reciprocate by sending pictures south
is difficult, for cameras do not take kindly to
the northern dampness, and the really interest-
ing subject's are taboo. Certain chemists,
authorised to develop films, act as censors.
Some soldiers have made themselves ingenious
cameras out of boxes, pieces of wood and
lenses sent from home. These often take ex-
cellent shots, but the scarcity of film allows
for little experiment, and the advice of the unit
authority on photography is always sought be-
fore using them. Every unit has its expert, of
course. It has an expert for everything.
“Keg”: I assure “E.E.” (B. 3/1 /’45)
that we did eat Army biscuit on Galli-
poli ; we had to in the early days. For
the first six weeks we did not see bread,
and then it was one loaf to 12 or 16
men for some time. Being Light Horse-
“Start the engine goin', Joe—that might frighten him off!”
men, my crowd were 16 days behind the
infantry’s arrival on the peninsula, so
the p.b.i. had an even longer period on
bully-biscuits-apricot-jam diet. In later
days biscuits became stock fodder for the
brazier —they made excellent fuel.
* % % %
“F.S.”: All over the world Govern-
ments are concerning themselves with
post-war reconstruction, especially in the
domain of housing, and everywhere they
are using the old methods that served so
badly in the past by appointing commit-
tees. Moreover, the members of the com-
mittees are being drawn from the same
old sources, and the results are as sure as
that the sun will rise tomorrow. It was
recently reported that a committee had
been appointed to reconstruct London
and that plans had been completed.
Wren, who rebuilt St. Paul’s and designed
50 churches, the Monument and 36 com-
pany halls, had most of his proposals
negatived by officialdom, which forced
him to amend his first version of St.
Paul’s.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Dredging through
the wool annals of Australia I came on
a plaint from Yorkshire, dated 1838, that
a bale of wool on being opened was
found to contain two sets of convict’s
fetters. The bale was from N. S. Wales,
and it was assumed by the unhumorous
woolbuyers that the irons had been
“Look, saboteurs !”
placed in the midst of the wool with the
deliberate intent of making it weigh
heavier. But those men of Bradford
could never have understood the unholy
glee with which a couple of T.O.Ls.,
graded as wool-pressers, picked up the
discarded wearing apparel and heaved it
in with the leaving-taking: “Back to
England, where you belong!”
“F.S.”: It is reported that the Venus
de Milo, which disappeared during the
German occupation of France, has turned
up in a secluded chateau, where it was
found by a British paratroop major who
was assisting the Maquis. That is very
gratifying. It would be even more grati-
fying to Melbourne folk to know what
has happened to that city’s Aphrodite,
which has long been absent from its posi-
tion in the National Gallery. As there
has been no hue and cry, it is to be pre-
sumed that it hasn’t been stolen, but it
may be suffering an even worse fate.
One leg has already been “restored.” The
lady is minus arms, and the awful thought
strikes me that some well-meaning person
may have got it into his head that more
“restoring” would improve her.
“Cism” remembers a Tommy soldier
who knew his job:
Sight of a sturdy company of Tommies
marching smartly warmed the cockles of my
heart and sent my thoughts back to the Middle
East Infantry School. There, for drill instruc-
tion, we were squadded under a Tommy ser-
geant, but before he had had us in hand three
days Auchinleck called in to review us. We put on
a shocking show. So Sergeant Norman Holden,
of the Green Howards, really got down to busi-
ness. We sloped, ordered, piled, grounded, pre-
sented, trailed, etc., until our arms ached and
stiffened at the elbows. Sar’nt ’Oldens One-
tup-three” became a torture. Then we got to
thinking “Why doesn’t the little So-and-so (he
was about sft. 4in. and wore a topee to gain
height) sling a rifle about and show us how?
As though in answer to our unspoken grouch,
Sar’nt ’Olden borrowed a rifle and assumed the
position of “attention.” “This is what I mean
by a proper slope,” he said, and gave himselt
a sotto voce “slope arms.” He executed the
neatest movement we had even seen, with fine
deliberation and snap, and we felt ashamed ot
our doubts. Slowly a naive grin spread over
his fresh-complexioned face and he remarked
“Didn’t think I could do it, did yer? After
that “Tich” Holden had to dodge the Australians
in the mess if he wanted to stay sober.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: “Strict Veg” (B.
20/12/ ’44) is astray in his charges of
cruelty to pigeons in a race for homers
across Bass Strait. It was an experiment
that involved no great hardship to the
participants. Actually, it is surprising
that even one completed the trip (pigeons
hate to cross the sea), and it’s doubtful if
many or any of the remaining 100 left
Victoria under their own steam. I’ll
wager they circled over the traps, took
one look at the blue horizon and sought
refuge in convenient lofts. It is the rule
for pigeons raced by Sydney clubs, for in-
stance, to occupy more time flying from
a point, say, 500 miles in the north than
for a like distance from the west.
Whereas homers winging east make a
beeline for home, those flying south fol-
low the undulations of the coast rather
than short-cut across the sea, thereby
covering much extra ground.
* * * *
“Friday Island,” with some naval remi-
niscences :
Tell “Nil” that the “creation «pf what was
actually (not virtually) an Australian destroyer
flotilla” occurred during World War I, when
the flotilla of six destroyers (all of the River
class) started work in the Coral Sea and
finished up based on Brindisi (Italy), working
with Italian and French destroyers “drifting
for Austrian submarines in the Adriatic. The
first “Commander D” was the irrepressible
Claude Cumberlege, of R.A.N., last heard of
pre-war cruising round French ports in his com-
fortable yacht, with daughter and grandson
aboard. The ships of that first flotilla were
each 700 tons, 10,000 h.p., good sea boats,
with a speed of 27 knots. Bertie Creer once
took Yarra from Sydney to Melbourne (Heads
to Heads) in 22 hours—a blob of smoke stick-
ing out of a mass of spray! Other celebrities
in the flotilla were the M. 0., Hugh Wall
(“Sadie”), about whom more tales, true and
apocryphal, are recounted than of any other
1914-18 navy man, and “Cabby,” the flotilla
mascot, a bulldog, whose crime sheet indicated
a fondness for licker, and who on one of his
non-abstemious days was drowned at Gibraltar.
This first destroyer flotilla was the cause of
Joe Cook making his historic bloomer in the
House that he “couldn’t see the sense of acquir-
ing River-class destroyers when Australia s coast
would have to be defended by destroyers suit-
able for deep-sea work.” Parramatta was the
flagship, and she nosed everywhere, even to
Chanak and Sevastopol.
* * *
“Rooster”: For the information of
“Strict Veg” (B. 6/12/’44) alcohol is re-
garded pharmaceutically as a potent drug,
and as such it is listed. However, alco-
holic drinks are not classed as “deadly
poisons,” except by extreme “Drys.” It
is just as cock-eyed to state baldly that
alcohol is not a powerful drug as it is to
suggest that moderate drinking is neces-
sarily harmful. The so-called “hard-
ened” drinker suffers from an addiction.
He cannot stop. Alcohol is an avid con-
sumer of energy, and excess in its con-
sumption eventually affects the
nervous system. Some diseases are defi-
nitely associated with it, particularly in
tropical areas. Alcoholic neuritis and
delirium tremens are but two of them.
Alcoholism is a predisposing agent in
amoebic hepatitis, liver abscess, pneu-
monia, heat stroke and "tropical neuras-
thenia. Moreover, it is a fact that alco-
holics react violently to anaesthetics and
therefore run serious risks in surgical
operations. As for the nine drunkards
examined by the Mayo Institute, U.S.A.,
they may have reached the interesting
stage known as “pickled,” in which the
stomach has become tolerant to the ex-
cess. Not so the heart, lungs and liver.
** % * *
“Lao-dah” on some Pacific islanders:
It would seem that nobody can refer these
days to the peoples Japan has conquered without
speaking of “the freedom-loving Javanese,
Malay and Filipino.” I had considerable
acquaintance with these races in pre-war days
without noticing in them any very burning desire
for freedom. If freedom is anything it is an
individual thing, and the Malay race has pro-
duced no unusual individual unless Rizal, the
Filipino radical, can be so regarded. Nor
has it produced an art, a literature or a fight-
ing tradition, though piracy was once exten-
sively practised. India, on the other hand, has
a long and magnificent tradition of art, litera-
ture, poetry and philosophy, and it has pro-
duced such religious leaders as Buddha. Ihe
Malay face, which numbers well over a hun-
dred millions, hasn’t done anything remark-
able along these lines, though it was the
medium for a great artistic and architectural
outburst in Java 1300 years ago. Not Malays,
but invading Hindus, produced that . hi nee
then all the Malay nation has contributed to
culture is a solitary painter, who painted very
well in the European manner.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Excessive publicity is danger-
ous for some artists. One of the leaders of
the French impressionistic movement
painted a picture of a blue sky, a storm
cloud and a red-roofed cottage and sent it
to a salon. For some reason or other it
made the hit of the season. Fifteen years
later he was still painting the same old
blue sky, storm cloud and cottage, and
when* an Australian artist asked him
whether he wasn’t getting sick of the sub-
jeet he said: C6 Sick to death of it, but if
I painted any other theme the critics
would say I was going off, and I would
lose my public.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Freelance dieticians are
wild with the,Dunstan Government for
creating a special class of professional
dieticians with university diplomas and a
closed set of regulations that will pre-
vent any unorthodox person cutting in on
their preserves. No doubt there are
quacks —I know one seer who collects his
materia medica from the roadside as he
travels to visit his patients—but at the
same time most advances in science and
knowledge have been made by individuals
who were thought to be quacks.
THE SILVER LINING.
KTiPßDite the hardships imposed by food-rationing
• Britain, investigations show that people remain
healthy and are living longer.”
You grumblers, quick to voice distress
And mutter maledictions
About considerably less
And half as hard restrictions,
you trenchermen, no more allowed
Your peace-time scope for dining,
Quit frowning at the lowering cloud
And note the silver lining.
Ugly and venomous, the toad,
Of all we loathe the model,
Yet bears a jewel somewhere stowed
(Says Shakspeare) in its noddle.
And you, at dishes far too few
Your brows who’re wont to pucker,
May well reflect the same is true
Of strictly rationed tucker.
A Spartan diet well may hit
The spot, a wholesome bitter,
Granted it leaves you just as fit,
Or maybe even fitter.
Here is an axiom hard to beat,
And never proof was stronger:
Beyond bare needs the less you eat
You’re like to live the longer.
Enforced frugality, it’s clear,
Is useful in supplanting
The need of methods more austere
For slimming and for banting.
This wretched whingeing well may cease,
Though less abundant meals are,
When ageing men grow less obese
And women more like eels are.
The uses of adversity,
Though ever so distressing,
Have still some offsets oversea
Accounted as a blessing.
Here, far more querulous, the crowd,
With much less need for whining,
Should look more closely at the cloud
And mark the silver lining.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABORIGINAITIES
“Old-timer”: The district had sub-
scribed to buy an organ for the little
church at the cross-roads, and a large
crowd assembled on the Sunday set down
for its dedication. It was a blazing
summer ; there were stock to feed and
water to cart; so it was decided to hold
the service early and let everybody get
away before the heat of the day. The
parson, an earnest young man, evidently
touched by the achievement of the organ,
delivered himself of a low and sonorous
sermon, then led a long prayer. After
that Miss Alice Hinriksen floated to
the organ seat, fiddled with the stops and
got busy with the foot-bellows. At
a signal from the pulpit, she drew
from the new purchase a loud, dee]s and
mellow note, Wherfcupon a whiskered face
shot up from behind the instrument and
stared with astonished eyes at the equally-
astonished congregation. Grabbing his
nap, the swaggie hurried out, muttering
apologetically about “not expectin’ the
flamin’ place t’ open so early.” They
watched him go, then turned back, but
the organ was silent. It wasn’t often Miss
Hinriksen got a chance to swoon, and
she wasn’t the one to miss, it when it did
arrive.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: The 15ft. tiger shark
that appeared alongside our boat one
morning near Lizard Island (N.Q.) carried
in its upper jaw a huge rusted hook with
3ft. of light chain attached. Hanging
to the end of the chain was a small suck-
ing-fish, while at least a dozen more of
the suckers (some of them 2ft. and more
in length) clung to the sea-tiger’s back
and sides. Apparently the hook and chain
interfered with the brute’s hunting: he
was ravenous, every scrap thrown over-
board being promptly snapped up.
Throughout the day he trailed us as we
travelled northwards, and towards sunset
was joined by a smaller member
of the breed. Shortly afterwards we
anchored, and for a full half-hour the
pair swam round the boat, never coming
close enough for a .303 to be used with
effect. Then suddenly, for some un-
accountable reason, the big fellow turned
on his companion and the water was
lashed to foam as they fought. Carried
by the receding tide, the pair drifted east-
wards still fighting, passing out to sea
through Providential Channel, that gap
in the Barrier Reef through which Cook
brought the Endeavour on August 17,
1770.
* * * ♦
“Herbie”: “We’re reconditionin’ 6000
extra-slimmed wethers outside Bunge-
wagaria,” said “Sheepskin” Charlie.
“Somebody that fancied a pot o’ mutton-
broth had sent our kelpies west, but we
didn’t miss ’em overmuch, because the
cook has a shrewd pup. Although it’s a
cross between a foxie and somethin’ y’
see in the horrors, it kept the sheep in
such strict marchin’ order that they ate
a firebreak 120 yards wide north and
west o’ the town. But when we shifted
them jumbucks t’ south-east o’ the pub
the dawg goes on strike, and it isn’t long
before the cabbage-growers and cow
cockies are threatenin’ the boss f’r
damages f’r trespass. The boss goes the
cook, and the cook goes his dawg, but the
pup’s principles ain’t punctured until the
bab. uses the boot. It’s the boss that
wakes up to how cunnin’ the dawg is.
Y’ see, east of the town beef rationin’ is
the law, and, of course, he knows, and
the dawg knows, that a good sheep-dog
never chews mutton!”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Old Thomson didn’t look
up from his vegetable patch as the ’plane
roared over the house and sped on its
way. Nor did his head turn when five
more appeared flying in formation, circled
gracefully and disappeared. On the road
in front a Rolls Royce glided round
the bend, to be followed after a few
minutes by a couple of heavily laden
army trucks. Next to show up was an
enormous tractor, then came a covered
transport carrying fats to the township.
Ten minutes later an unfamiliar rattle
registered on Thomson’s hearing and he
cocked a quizzical eye. His jaw dropped,
and his armful of vegetables rolled down
the path. “Ma! Hey, Ma! ”he bawled,
making for the front fence. “Come ’n
see ; quick. Call the kids.” It was a
matter of seconds only before Ma’s
elbows settled on the rails alongside the
old man’s and kids ranged themselves
haphazardly along the fence. There was
a look of reverence on the old bloke’s
dial, a dreamy smile of reminiscence on
Ma’s, while the youngsters gaped in open
wonder as the old hooded buggy and pair
rattled noisily out of sight.
# * * *
“M.U.R.”: Those Goldfiel4s Cycle Ex-
press riders and their bottles of water
planted along the dry track (B. 3/1 / ’45)
had their counterparts in western
Riverina. Our head station was on the
Murray, hence there was plenty of water ;
but some of the back paddocks were as
much as 50 miles away, through porcu-
pine ridges and dry flats. We had petrol-
tins of water cached in bushes along the
various routes, and it often saved us
trouble. But the tins had to be scoured
out and refilled fairly frequently, the
water in them turning sour. We couldn’t
leave a hole, no matter how small, in the
top for air, because the little stinking
black ants would find it and render the
water unusable. Everybody in the dis-
trict knew of the tins and the purpose
they served, and they were sacrosanct.
Which is why a stray and strange kanga-
“It's lucky for you I'm a member of the R.S.P.C.A .”
roo-shooter who idly took pot-shots at
the tins in the bushes had to be rescued by
the police when the mob caught up with
him.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; That farmer growling
because the council paid less for half-
grown dingo scalps than for adult ones
(B. 3/1 / ’45) is typical of a great many
farmers in this money-ridden country.
Whe.ther it’s crows, dingoes, noxious
weeds, rabbits or any other pest likely
to reduce his stock or crops, the cocky
expects somebody to pay him to get rid
of them. I even heard a resolution passed
in the 1934 grasshopper plague that some
form of bounty should be paid for de-
stroying the things, though when it came
to assessing the reward and whether it
should be paid for scalps, by the pound
or by the million, the resolution was
dropped. It’s just as well nobody ever
thought of offering the cockies a bonus
for inspectors, machinery salesmen and
union organisers.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”; Preferring the walk into
town, I declined my host’s sulky, but wel-
comed his suggestion to “take Paddy for
company.” The immense mong. thanked
me by standing on his hind ’uns and slap-
ping five inches of tongue across my face.
Passing the first neighbor’s gate, Paddy
bolted across the paddock rather than
face a tiny pom. At the next place he
deliberately provoked a brawl with a
cattle-dog-cwm-Alsatian as big as him-
self ! Passing a little homestead he picked
up a scent and followed it towards the
verandah, and promptly returned yelping
canine blue murder—with a big black cat
riding him tooth and claw. Paddy seemed
sort of thoughtful for some time after that.
A hundred yards past a poultry farm
loud quackings halted me^ —trotting trium-
phantly behind, the übiquitous hound was
carrying in his mouth a young duck that
sat bolt-upright and complained bitterly.
Taking the bird back and expecting to
find a list of indemnities to pay, I was
agreeably surprised to find that even the
captive was unhurt. Paddy was missing
when I resumed the journey. The little
school seemed unusually rowdy as I
passed. Then I saw it above the window-
sill —about six inches of upright blacx
tail wagging among the desks. The town-
ship was in sight when Paddy shot past
me without pausing. Outside the pub
stood the water-trough, an artistic affair
with a lion’s head worked on it. At least,
so I thought, until I drew near enough to
see the dog lying stretched out in the
water like a shaggy sea-lion. The shake
he gave himself on leaping out ruined
a lady’s dress at a range of four yards.
While I was enjoying the shade of an
ornamental tree something hard was
thrust into my hand from behind. Before
I could stop him Paddy had bolted back
into the store, presumably for another
cake of soap. He "had a scrubbing brush
in his mouth when I saw him, and I left
town hurriedly. The lorry-driver who
gave me —and Paddy—a lift home prob-
ably saved me from being charged with
a new type of Paganism. My host said
he was glad we’d got a lift back, because
Paddy was getting old and feeble. I’ll
swear the hound’s left eyelid flickered
at me!
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: There is no law in Aus-
tralia to fit the case cited by “S.G.” (B.
3/l/’45), where his neighbor’s good soil
was washed on to his poor allotment, but
there was a law or a custom that had the
force of law in China to fit the con-
tinually changing face of that country due
to erosion. If the Yellow River rose in
flood and washed part of a farmer’s land
downstream and landed it on some other
property, he could go down and cultivate
it or carry it back if he could identify the
substance. The system broke down
when the Yellow River broke its banks
and found a new outlet to the sea 1000
miles from its old mouth. It has been
estimated that 10,000,000 perished on that
occasion.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Some of our best horse-
men use the dodge of grabbing a fidgetty
prad by the near ear while mounting (B.
3/1 / ’45). I’ve used it myself on fractious
colts. But I would never tolerate the de-
vice of pulling a strap tightly around a
horse’s neck and shutting off its wind, the
idea being that as soon as the riddr hits
the saddle he leans over and loosens the
strap. I once saw a halfcaste use the
strap idea, but before he could pull the
wind-choker free the prad collapsed all
of a heap against the yard rails. Combo’s
reward for his flashness was a broken leg.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”; Tancreds, the meat
people, have bought the scouring plant
from Nappamerrie station on the
Cooper, where S.A. joins Queensland, and
removed it during the last few weeks to
the site of their abattoirs at Bourke. Ex-
perts- were sent out via Wanaaring and
Tibooburra to dismantle the machinery,
and six ten-ton trucks followed them out
to pick it up and cart it to the new seat
of operations. The empty vehicles,
especially the semi-trailer type, had lots
of trouble negotiating sand-hills along
this route, so the return journey was made
right down to Broken Hill, across to Wil-
cannia arid Cobar, then up to Bourke, a
distance well on to 750 miles; about
equal to a trip from Sydney to Mil-
parinka. The Nappamerrie scour was
reckoned one of the best in the country
and was last used in 1938. All this part
of the Centre is now devoted exclusively
to beef; the last of the sheep went from
Arrabury station three years ago.
• * * #
“Simon the Saddler”: In his plea for
copper rivets in saddlery “Sur Cingle”
(B. 13/12/’44) would spoil the whole
artistry of the trade. He will find no
rivets in racing gear ; none was used in
the beautiful carriage harness of the long
ago. Nor are they necessary. Sweat
does not reach girth buckles, for they
rest on the panel under the flap, and the
stirrup-leather buckles are alike away
from sweat contact. A good flax-thread
hand stitch is as dependable as most
things in life, and when showing signs
of rubbing can be replaced. The draw-
back to copper rivets, especially in
leather, is the verdigris they collect. All
such rivets used in the military must first
be tinned to prevent rust.
* * * *
“C.E.”; “Mum, I bin thinkin’ ’bout
how long it is since y’ had a real outin’,”
said Dad, entering the kitchen. “An’
considerin’ the extra work y’ve ’ad these
last six munce or so I decided I’ll take
y’ to the rodeo in town next week. Now
don’t say y’r too busy ; it’ll do y’ good.”
On the day of Mum’s treat they were up
early, and after a three-hour jog in the
sun arrived at the grounds. “Now you
have a real good time. Mum,” said the
old bloke, as he disappeared into the
crowd. Mum followed along vaguely.
People were standing three and four deep
round the arena and she could see
nothing, so strolled on,
doing the round trip of over
half a mile a number of
times. Everywhere folks
turned to stare. At midday
she drifted with the tide of
strangers to the luncheon
shed, and watched'men buy-
ing tickets to take their
wives to lunch. She was hot
and thirsty, and looked
wearily for Dad. Once she
caught sight of him in the
booth, but he was with a
crowd of cronies, so she
wandered on to the horse
and trap. Old Polly loomed
like a long-lost friend, and
after patting her for a while
Mum climbed into the trap
to wait. Slowly the hours
crept by, and people began
to drift off. Then Dad came
to yoke up. “Ah, there y’
are. Mum,” he called
heartily. “Great turnout,
eh? Comes out a bit ex-
pensive with what we spend,
but cripes, it’s up to a man
t’ take his wife out occa-
sion’lly,”
* ■* *
“Anthropo”: Although to
the white invader the abo-
riginals seemed to have only
single names, such as Bena-
long, Bungaree, Munday,
Migo, they actually had double names
just as distinctive as had the white
himself, the foregoing examples being
what the white would call Christian
names. For the abo. seldom mentioned
his family name, though such names were
always kept prominently before the mipds
of the tribe. The very first rule was that
a man must not marry a woman of the
same family name as himself. A man
did not take his father’s family name
but that of his mothef, so a woman of
his mother’s name would be, tribally, his
sister. In the event of a man hav-
ing several wives, his children were
divided into groups with different sur-
names. Thus the lands belonging to a
family were never held for two genera-
tions by men of the same name. When
a woman was stolen or in some other way
got from a distant tribe, this matter of
names took on a further significance, for
a man owed certain duties, such as taking
up their cause in a blood feud, not only
to his blood brothers but also to all tribe
members of his family name. The small
group bearing a name belonging really
to a distant tribe thus suffered a some-
times disadvantageous isolation. But the
girls would be much sought after in mar-
riage, as bringing fresh blood.
* * * »
“That Hector Bloke”: Not surprised
that Mat and his mate have done a bit
of bag-busting when not running the
cutter (B. 27/12/’44), but I think Mat
is misreported in the phrase “Chuck ’em
in.” It should be superfluous to inform
“Mat’s Mate” that bags are “chucked on”
or “taken off” the elevator and “chucked
on” the “leg.” Writer has contacted a
lot of talkative shin-sore stackers and
lumpers, this season, but they didn’t last
long—sometimes one day, more often a
few hours. They all headed back south,
one of them carrying a portable type-
writer and a geography book.
AUSTRALIA, 1945.
Now in this desolate summer where the drought
My country’s sweet wild heart is burning out,
Where life is ash in the hand and dust in the
mouth
And no kind wind comes raining out of the
south,
But hot from barren hills and dried-up creeks
Across black wastes the acrid fire-smoke reeks —
I think how hearts in war’s grim prisons bound
Pine for one glimpse of this parched, hallowed
ground.
N.S.W.
APRIL MCKEE WRIGHT.


“Bo”; McDade had handed Aubrey,
the new city youth, a bridle and told
him to go and get Peter, the hack
he was to ride into the township. Half
an hour later old Mac came out all
ready, but there was no sign of horse or
attendant. Puzzled, he strode down to the
horse paddock. There stood Peter, bored
and quietly swishing flies off. Aubrey,
holding a fistful of mane with his left
hand, his right juggling with the bit, had
his face within a foot of the horse’s and
was averaging around ten yawns to the
minute. “Hey I” roared the old man,
“why the devil are y’ standin’ there half
asleep, with me here wasting good time
waitin’ fer y’? Shove the bridle on an’
hurry up about it.” “But he won’t open
his mouth for me to put the bit in,” said
Aubrey. “Yawning in anyone’s face is
usually catching, but it doesn’t seem to
work with Peter. What else would you
suggest, sir?”
'** * *
“Eric L.”: In a remote N.G. village one
of the Marys had a badly infected and
swollen forearm. I watched while a sable
sister gave surgical treatment. From a
bow no more than a foot long the
“surgeon” shot at short range into the
affected arm a glass-tipped arrow about
Sin. long and tied to the bow by string.
This primitive surgery went on until the
blood was running freely; then the
patient washed it and continued with her
daily chores.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: Professional doggers in
south - west Queensland report poor
results from the usually productive prac-
tice of poisoning the carcass of a dead
beast or the remnants of one killed for
beef. In the prevailing dry and dusty
weather the dingoes have congregated
about the lignum in the channels of the
Cooper and the Wilson rivers. Bush rats
are swarming here, and the dogs have had
one of the richest Christmases in history.
A post mortem on one wild canine re-
vealed eight rats recently masticated and
bits of other partly digested.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad, hurrying to the town-
ship, was hailed by the parson as he
passed the latter’s house. “What’s the
matter, Mr. Haystack?” he asked,
anxiously. “You look rather distressed.”
“I’ve got good reason to be,” replied Dad.
“I’ve just got word that that damned
nigger has bolted with me missus. Yer’ll
excuse me langwidge, Mr, Goodly, but
Tve warned her dozens of times ’bout the
black cow. But she wouldn’t take no
notice of me, an’ as soon’s me back’s
turned this is what happens. It’s enough
t’ make any man go crook.” “It is, in-
deed, Mr. Haystack,” replied the parson
sympathetically ; “but I would never have
thought of Mrs. Haystack doing such a
thing.” “No,” snapped Dad, “she’s old
enough t’ have more sense than fool
about with a young rip like him. But I
hop® she’s satisfied now. I’m jist off t’
bring her home agen.” “No violence, Mr.
Haystack, no violence, I beg of you,”
urged the parson. “Vi’lence! ” spluttered
Dad. “Gripes! I reckon she’s had ail
the vi’lence she wants fer a while. I
hear the black devil’s smashed up, too.”
“Shocking, shocking,” cried the parson
aghast, “a human life wasted.” “Human
hfe, me foot!” cried Dad. “There ain’t
been no human life wasted, though it
muster been a near thing. All the missus
got was a few scratches when she fell
out the buggy when that black colt
bolted into the tree with her!”
* * * *
“Creel”: I’m satisfied that in the fish
World a rich and luscious diet doesn't
always have the effect on the partaker
which might be expected. Recently
sampled for the first, and last, time
Trachinotus anak, the “oyster-eater” fish,
vast hordes of which annually invade our
eastern waters in November, staying in-
shore for three or four months before
disappearing with the same suddenness
and secrecy as preceded their advent.
Despite the fact that he lives exclusively
on oysters, T. Artak’s flesh is dry and
tasteless. The 2ft. specimen we cooked
and discarded was netted in Moreton Bay
(Q.), and his stomach contained the re-
mains of what must have been several
dozen oysters. The toothless fish can
“What do you artists do while you are Waiting for an inspiration ?”
crush the stoutest oyster shell with ease
with the aid of four powerful movable
plates (two above and two below) in his
gullet, and usually stands on his head
to do the job. Only adult fish visit our
coastal waters; nothing is known of the
young fish, and where the invaders live
and breed after they have left our seas is
a mystery.
* ♦ * *
“Will C.”: The ordinary guava is one
fruit that shouldn’t have been brought
across from the Panama Isthmus. Culti-
vated at first, though a poor fruit, with a
distinct kerosene taste, it is now a strong
feature of the bush over the entire N.Q.
coast. Grubbers find guava-scrub hard to
clear and almost impossible to keep down
after clearing. Roots run in all direc-
tiong, have to be followed up with the
mattock and cut out with all branch-
ings. The fruit ripens two months ahead
of the citrus fruits, and the fruit-flies go
for it in a big way. Millions of newly
hatched flies are thus ready for the
“Very smart of you, Higgins, but you'll be pleased to know all the
crime-sheets were saved!"
ripening oranges. That the tree yields
good timber for rake handles is poor
compensation for its pestiferous qualities.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver came over as
the mailcart stopped and watched while
the bloke dropped off a parcel of stores.
“Want the string?” he asked me. “I’m
out o’ bootlaces.” For some days he
persevered with his substitute, tying the
many breaks till unlacing his boots be-
came a nightmare; then he resorted to
tiewire. This he cut in short lengths,
twitching it through the eyelets at inter*-
vals, but after being obliged to sleep the
first night with one boot on he ruefully
surveyed his torn bunk and decided the
idea wasn’t a success. Safety pins, hay-
band and bale fasteners were all tried in
turn ; then the old bloke gave up, clop-
ping round the place with gaping fronts,
his hoofs lifting two inches from his
boots at every stride. Riding home a few
evenings later we were attracted by a
rustling in a patch of undergrowth, and
Seventyfiver stopped eagerly. “By cripes,
it is,” he chortled presently, as a ’roo
appeared. “Here, Blue! Granny!
Bruiser!” and with a whistle the old
cove took off. Last I saw of him that
night was a speck on the horizon as he
coursed several years’ supply of good
bootlaces into a belt of rough scrub coun-
try. Noting a fresh hide on the verandah
next morning, I paused at the hut door
to inspect it when his voice hailed me
from within. “Hey, Sol,” he entreated
woefully, “s’pose y’ ain’t got a spare
number eight knockin’ round? I got
stacks o’ laces, but, damn it, I lorst one
o’ me flamin’ boots in that blasted scrub.’
* * * *
“Fodgie”: I am surprised that “Quot-
ing” Jimmy should apply to a bucking
horse the quotation, “Stick to him, Bill,
for another round for the pride of the
Overland” (B. 11/12/’44). That exor-
tation was delivered to Saltbush Bill when
he was fighting a losing fight with a
jackeroo “on the edge of the Wilga run,”
what time his sheep ran loose and became
boxed with the Wilga sheep on Old Man
Plain. Jimmy might have said: “If ever
you’re handling a tough one there’s sure
to be perched on the fence”- or “He
got a merry welcome when he entered
New South Wales, for The Rebel used his
blood and brains to paint the stockyard
rails,” “Propalong” should study his
country’s bards more closely.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Sam returned from his
down-country trip to find his offsider a
changed man. Never a talker, Billy was
now more silent than ever, his face w&s
gaunt and sunken, and watching him
covertly Sam noticed that he ate practi-
cally nothing. After several days with-
out improvement Sam rode into town and
consulted the chemist. “You give him
a tablespoon of this night and morning,”
advised the chemist, handing his customer
a large bottle, “and inside a week he’ll
find an appetite to shame a nag.” Know-
ing it was useless offering Billy medicine,
Sam watched his chance to add the de-
coction to his cobber’s tea. The first cup
Billy chucked out. The second he tasted,
heaved a long-suffering sigh and poured
it down. Thereafter he swallowed the
pick-me-up fairly regularly, but still the
morning loaf remained almost untouched,
and Sam’s best culinary efforts were
neglected nightly. A week passed; then the
self-appointed cook got hold of several
pounds of rump, fried it with a dozen
onions and was dishing up the appetis-
ing pile when Billy came in. Bill took a
couple of prodigious sniffs and turned
savagely. “Helluva mate you are,” he
roared, “cookin’ a feed like that when a
bloke’s hungry enough t’ eat the whole
flamin’ bullock.” Sam grinned. “Get
into it then,” he invited. “Looks like y’
c’d do with a few man-sized feeds.” Billy
turned with a groan. “Gripes, an’ you
c’n bet y’r life I’ll have ’em, too,” he said
decisively, “soon’s that blasted dentist
sends me teeth back.”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Tiring of this resurgent
admiration for the feat of Jackie Howe,
I turn to the scene at York (W.A.), the
year being 1829. Rates then were 4d. per
sheep; but stalwarts then didn’t tear in
with the idea of knocking up a big
cheque. No, sir, a handy man put
through his 30 a day, though it is recorded
that the ringers not seldom attained to
40. And no eight-hour day, either —a
good eleven hours, 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. And
the sheep, too, like Little Johnnie, went
to the barber all nicely washed and dried.
* * * *
“Maleesh”; Some other countries have
had soil erosion—Greece for one: the
Greeks became a race of emigrants and
fish-eaters, which is one solution. The
one-time granary of the civilised world,
North Africa, went with the wind, too,
and many of the inhabitants now concen-
trate their energies on selling picture post-
cards. The U.S.A. has for some years
tackled the problem with an efficient
soil-conservation service, but, even so, she
has permanently lost 100 million acres of
good farm land ; an equal acreage will
have depreciated even with expert care,
and another 100 million acres may be
saved. There is hope for Australia, as
each year half a dozen forestry cadets
are sent to Sydney University to do a
couple of years’ science—pure science,
of course, as there are no facilities for
forestry studies elsewhere in the State.
True, most of the cadets of a few years
ago are at the war, in better jobs or have
swapped over to other faculties ; but why
worry?—we still have the Pacific Ocean.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: It is just 60 years since
H. V. McKay, son of a Raywood (Vic.)
farmer, invented the first stripper har-
vester. Like most inventors, McKay met
with a lot of ridicule, but he eventually
assembled his first workable machine,
from bits and pieces taken from old
strippers and mowers, in a smithy pre-
served in the grounds of the co. he
founded. McKay died ip 1926 at 61.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: The bunk in George’s hut is
a four-poster, thick saplings with
generous forks, and let well into the
ground to support the framework where
the old chap snuggles under a pile of
Wagga rugs and wallaby skins. The
other morning I called there and found
him hard at work inside with crowbar
and shovel. “Hullo,” I said. “The old
bunk giving out?” “Gripes, no,” re-
plied George. “I’m jist shiftin’ her over
agen this other wall here. A bloke feels
more at home , changin’ the furnicher
round a bit occasionally.”
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Sorry, “0.D.” My
grandmothers went the way of all flesh
long years ago. Still, I think if you
resume collecting wood-duck for profit
you can go about it in a more effective
way than shooting them through the head
with a .22. Try setting rabbit-traps in
the water round the edges of the mud
banks in the lagoons and swamps fre-
quented by them. By the way, do I cor-
rectly interpret your account of noc-
turnal prowlings to indicate that you shot
' the wary fowl through the head by moon-
light as well as by day? As for the
objection to a duck “soaring up from the
water to a treetop” (the emphasis is
yours), I would welcome the strange sight
of water from which a duck could soar
any other way but up.
MEETING.
The trams were clattering gaily by not far from
Th Martin-place,
When through the milling crowd I saw a once-
W familiar face.
■lv friend had made a fortune, and he said
y y right merrily , , ,
That other men might sail away for a foolish
n,.t hTandl’his would reap the bunce and leave
the fools to fight: . .
tr e glanced down at my zoot suit in the
candid summer light.
But I forgot my shabbiness and my more press-
ing needs . .
ix/tien I thought of some of my foolish friends
and some of their foolish deeds.
I thought of Matahiki then with both legs shot
Who** begged his mates to leave him there one
bitter April day
With a Vickers gun on a little hill not far
from Tempe town, t .
And sang a foolish Maori song as he shot the
Germans down; ,
And a blue-eyed nurse who foolishly had
stayed behind in Greece
With shattered men in a gutted hut till a
strafing raid brought peace.
t thought of many fools I’d known of divers
1 race and creeds: u . . .
And then 1 went to the nearest pub and drank
to foolish deeds.
N.s.w.
6TH DIVVY.


m r y r
mm
♦; IW»
sss
. s v/r
«!■»
•SSI
ft
m
MS
9
BiK
Bombers for War—Airliners for Peace. For 30 years Handley Page aircraft have
been conspicuously successful in the “ heavy ” class. Latest of the line is the Halifax
night bomber—now in quantity production—shown above in its Mark 111 version
equipped with four Bristol Hercules engines
BOMBING IS A TRUCKING PBOBLEM
It would be considered an astonishing feat to deliver by
road, exactly to schedule, thousands of tons of goods to a
point hundreds of miles away.
Complicate the problem by the factors of total darkness,
unknown territory, a speed of hundreds of miles per hour
plus the effect of intense cold and the destructive endeavours
of a determined, ruthless and powerful enemy—and such a
feat becomes the more astounding.
Yet such conditions as these apply to the finest concerted
actions in engineering history—the wholesale “ trucking ”
of bombs night after night from Royal Air Force bases.
Continuously since 1915 the British Industry has built big
aircraft to handle the manifold problems of efficient trucking.
The industry produced the world’s first four-engined air-
liners—many of them in uninterrupted service for ten years.
To-day British four-engined bombers carry a destructive
load far in excess of any other aircraft in service in the
world, with proportionately a minimum of crew.
In good time the British aircraft industry will apply this
wealth of experience in design, manufacture and operation
of big aircraft to the problems of world transport in peace.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
Soon . . .
When Peace returns we shall all be anxious
to plan a prosperous future. Every loyal
Australian wants to see homes for all
work for all real comfort for many
thousands in the Fighting Forces who to-
day are “roughihg it” in jungle swamps.
Until then . . .
We must make the best of smaller supplies
of everyday necessities.
Limited quantities of Feltex floor coverings
are now available but under present con-
ditions the colour range is not so great as
in normal times.
PRODUCT OF FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR BONDS
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Ending Lend-lease.
(From the “United States News")
A drastic reduction in lend-lease aid
to the U.S.A.’s allies will occur very
soon after the German war ends. Lend-
lease, as such, may even be abandoned,
owing to the difficulty of determining any
basis for giving away U.S. industrial pro-
ducts to competing nations in a period
when those nations are reconverting to
peace.
Russia is receiving between 250,000,000
dollars and 300,000,000 dollars each
month in lend-lease aid. Unless Russia
joins in the war against Japan, that aid,
except for contracts to be fulfilled, will
end. Volume of lend-lease shipments to
Russia might drop quickly to 50,000,000
dollars a month.
Aid to Britain has been running at
about 450,000,000 dollars a month. Under
consideration are two alternatives for the
Japanese war period: To continue lend-
lease at around 200,000,000 dollars a
month, or to reduce lend-lease to a mini-
mum and make an outright grant to
Britain of between 2,500,000,000 dollars
and 3,000,000,000 dollars for the contri-
bution she will make to that war.
China, Australia, France and other
areas are receiving aid of about
250.000. dollars a month. Except for
aid to China, which might reach
100.000. dollars a month, this lend-
lease is likely to terminate with the Ger-
man war.
Who’s Not Guilty?
(Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by Sir Norman Angell .)
In my lifetime I have watched the
genesis, progress and termination of some
20 wars, big and little; attended closely
some of the peace-making, including that
of World War I; observed during two
decades the drift into World War 11. Does
any special conclusion stand out?
Yes, this one: We cannot prevent
war unless we recognise that its final
source, its ultimate cause, does not lie in
the wickedness of rulers and diplomats,
nor in the avarice of international finan-
ciers and armament makers; nor in “the
contradictions of, capitalism.” In so far
as those factors operate, they are second-
ary- The primary cause is the defective
political judgment of the ordinary man
and voter; the ease with which elector-
ates and whole peoples, without in the
least wanting or intending war, can be
led by demagogues—themselves often
oblivious of the mischief they do —to
support foreign policies which make war
inevitable. Only by the modification of
certain very popular attitudes can we
organise peace. Without that, our plans,
whatever they may be, will fail.
This generalisation is not special to
any particular country. In lesser or
greater degree it applies to all. The ten-
dency of political discussion, both Right
and Left, is to evade this fact of final
popular responsibility, or flatly deny it,
with the result of blocking those changes
of attitude and political temper necessary
for stable democracy and for
freedom.
A month or two ago a very eminent
American Leftist presented in a public
address an analysis of the failure of the
last peace and of the forces which pro-
duced the second World War. The failure
of the peace was due, we were assured,
to the determination of “the ruling
classes to crush the emerging forces of
popular revolt” and “maintain the power
of the established ruling groups”; “to
hold the people in subjection”—the im-
plication being that the people would
have established peace, and knew how to
do it, if they had not been deliberately
prevented by “the ruling class,” the capi-
talists, the bankers. The latter groups
were presumed to have some vested
interests in bringing about or encourag-
ing wars which involve particularly severe
income tax on large incomes. This
oration was of the kind I have heard
from Leftist orators some hundreds of
times in the last 20 years.
Test it by the record. The chief
“ruling powers” at the time of the last
peace-making were Wilson in the United
States and Lloyd George in Britain.
Both urged certain policies, which first
the legislatures and later the electorates
in both countries rejected. We now know
in the light of the event that if the poli-
cies which the rulers urged and which the
people rejected had been adopted we
should probably have avoided the second
World War. In any case the chances of
doing so would have been enormously
increased if popular feeling had suppor-
ted the rulers.
Take Wilson’s crusade. Does it truly
describe the history of the League
fight to say that “the ruling classes
opposed” and the people fought for
the League? As far as America
was concerned, Wilson and his friends
were “the ruling class” at that particular
moment; they were the American Gov-
ernment asking for the support of the
electorate in a new departure in foreign
policy, a support which “the ruling class”
failed to get. There was, in fact, a wild
oscillation of popular opinion concerning
the League: in 1917-18-19 popular sup-
port ran on the whole in favor. Then
it quickly veered to opposition, or —and
this is of primary importance— to indif-
ference, followed by absorption in purely
domestic issues. As Mr. Sumner Welles,
confirming other historians, sums up the
matter in his recent book; “The issue
just did not seem to be of any import-
ance.” The public had not yet learned
to put first things first.
A good criterion of public judgment
in foreign policy at that time is to be
found in one crucial aspect of the peace
settlement. That settlement came at the
close of a war in which tens of thousands
of British and American youth had per-
ished on French soil because the defence
of that soil had been seen to be indispen-
sable to the defence of Britain and the
United States. Any hope of preventing
a repetition of the war depended upon
warning Germany that in the event of
another attack upon France the English-
speaking Powers would come once more
to France’s aid.
The “ruling classes,” in the shape of
the actual heads of Governments of the
three nations, recognised this pressing
need. They were strongly in favor of a
guarantee to France, Wilson and Lloyd
George promised it, subject only to final
ratification by the home legislatures.
Well, we know what happened. Par-
liament and Congress both refused to
ratify the arrangement which the French
Government had implored us to make,
which the American President and the
British Prime Minister implored us to
make. And from the moment of that
refusal began the drift to World War 11,
a drift accelerated by self-defeating popu-
lar demands in Britain for vast repara-
tions coupled with a prohibition of any
increase in German exports, and popular
demands in America for the repayment
of British debts coupled with a demand
for tariff increases to exclude British
goods.
There is not the faintest evidence that
the guarantees asked for by Wilson and
Lloyd George, which might have been
the beginnings of a peace system, were
opposed by organised capital or finance
in France or Britain or America. As
to reparations and debts, bankers and
business leaders, because they under-
stood the process of international pay-
ments, showed themselves a good deal
wiser than Congress or Parliament, or the
public as a, whole.
The failure of ratification, like the
insistence upon an impossible and self-
defeating reparations and debt policy, was
due to a swelling movement of popular
opinion which Parliament and Congress
reflected and which was shortly to grow,
in the United States, into the conviction
that American participation in the first
World War had been the result of a vast
swindle of which the United States had
been the victim.
This is not guesswork. At one time
public opinion polls showed an over-
whelming majority in favor of the view
that America had made a grave mistake
in entering the war at all. The verdict
of the polls was surely confirmed by the
whole spirit of the Neutrality and John-
son Acts, legislation deliberately designed
to prevent the U.S.A. ever adopting


i&vmn, RELIEF
AND IMMUNISATI
FOR UP TO 2 YEARS FROM
CATARRH
INFLUENZA. HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS ASTHMA. ANTRUM. & SINUS TROUBLES
Si
These distressing complaints are all
caused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tained by defeating these germs.
Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
jected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth), and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent physician. Upon
obsorption Into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
destroying the attacking germs and neutralising the poisonsj
created by them; with the result that the patient soon feels
brighter, headaches and body pains vanish, and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to
the disease is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for
children and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer
needlessly; obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe Type)
for Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica,
Myositis, Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Spondylitis.
Vaxos No. 3 for Boils. Pimples,
Carbuncles, Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
matitis. Eczema, Impetigo, Septic
Sores and most Skin Infections
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Large size (24 c.c.’s), 6 weeks’ll/ Medium size (15 c.c.’s), 3
treatment for Chronic Cases ..Al “ treatment for Acute Cases ■■ ■“ “
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to: —
vaxosri
ORAL VACCINE
%
For Fast-Tempo Drama Keep Tuned To
PdM
“YOUR DEAL, MY LOVELY.”
9 p.m.
every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
from all Major Network Stations.
A Vim
Induthy
fa, AuvUcdia
Tkat Australia migkt Le stronger
in war and greater in peace, tke
Commonwealtk Government en-
trusted PYROX witk tke vital
task of estakliskin 8 llie manufacture
of DIESEL FUEL INJECTION
EQUIPMENT to kigkest world
standards. . . today Pyrox is proud
to announce A GREAT NEW
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY,
pioneered and kuilt to serve tke
Nation now and in tke years to come.
Jyrox oiesei
fuel Itoiecii&t
aeain the policy of participation which
it adopted in 1917 —and which it was to
adopt again in a few years’ time.
What misled the public? There sprang
UD j n those years a whole literature “ex-
posing” secret British plots concocted
with the connivance of American bankers
to drag the country once more into war.
As an explanation of the prime cause of
war it was, of course, attractive : simple,
understandable, with all the fascination
of a movie thriller —deep plots, hateful
villains, suave and wicked diplomats, the
whole bag of tricks. The vital fact is
that the public, while being thus enter-
tained, was relieved of any responsibility
whatsoever for the outcome.
If we are to prevent a third world war
we must, as nations, co-operate much
more closely than we have done hereto-
fore. But any effective co-operation in-
volves some surrender of rights, in the
interests of greater national independ-
ence, some acknowledgment that the
nation cannot ensure its own survival by
its own power; that it needs the help of
foreigners; that it must in some measure
trust them, and assume obligations to-
ward them.
All this does violence to popular emo-
tions. Only an individual sense of re-
sponsibility for sober and disciplined
judgment can bring about the necessary
change of attitude, A political philo-
sophy which insists that the ultimate re-
sponsibility does not lie with the citizen,
but with foreigners, or Jews or capi-
talists, or bankers, or the ruling class, or
the economic system militates strongly
against this necessary change, against
the development of that sound political
judgment which is the foundation of
democracy, and which is nowhere so in-
dispensable as in the shaping of foreign
policy, where nationalist emotion is so
apt to distort judgment. To suggest
that the public, “the common men,” are
infallible, in all decisions blameless, is in
fact to claim infallibility for ourselves,
to evade our responsibilty by shifting in
advance all errors on to scapegoats, to
yield to that demagogy which is so often
the worst enemy of democracy.
Lucky Uncle Sam.
(From a N.Y. “Times Magazine” article by Eric
A. Johnston, U.S. Chamber of Commerce
president.)
We in the United States will emerge
from this conflict much stronger and
much richer than any other nation. We
will have our problems, of course. But
would anyone want to exchange all of
our problems for even some of those of
any major nation in the world? *
Take Britain, for example. Like us,
she faces the task of disposing of Gov-
ernment surpluses and equipment, recon-
version and re-employment of returning
soldiers and discharged war workers. But,
in addition, she finds herself with partly
destroyed cities; her internal economy
and foreign trade out of gear. She has
a staggering national debt. From a credi-
tor nation she has become a debtor
nation. She owes billions abroad for
purchases made during the war. Always
dependent upon foreign trade, she now
finds that her very existence demands
a vastly enlarged foreign commerce after
the war. But a large part of her merchant
fleet which used to carry her trade has
been destroyed. She will have to build
her shattered economy from the ground
up.
But if you think these problems are
not serious enough, let’s add a few more.
Take the disposition of the Indian ques-
tion, involving the destiny of 400,000,000
people ; or, what to do with Hong Kong ;
or, how to maintain the leadership of her
far-flung and more independent Domi-
nions. And, for added measure, let’s
throw in the Irish question. Do you
know of anyone in America who would
like to exchange our problems for those
of Great Britain?
Or, how about the difficulties of
Russia? Her most populous and highly
developed areas have been blasted by the
Germans, Stalingrad reduced to ashes
and its population killed or scattered.
Leningrad, a town of 2,500,000 people,
reduced by death, starvation and evacua-
tion to a mere 500,000 during the 29
months of Nazi siege. Russia’s losses in
man-power have been enormous. Mar-
shal Stalin stated that more than
5,000,000 of the army had been killed up
to June 1, 1944. This does not take into
consideration the millions of the civilian
Population slaughtered, or the missing
soldiers, or the permanently disabled.
And, if these problems are not enough,
a dd the difficulties of developing Russia’s
tremendous natural resources. These re-
sources are scattered over an area as
wide as the face of the moon, with
inadequate transportation and communi-
cation facilities. Extremes of heat and
c old handicap both industrial and agri-
cultural operations. Russia will have to
spend billions of dollars abroad for the
machinery and equipment to rebuild
devastated factories and open up new
resources. And yet her reserves of skilled
man-power to accomplish these results
are more than scarce.
And, if this is not enough, add a low
standard of living with an almost com-
plete absence of consumer goods. It will
take years for Russia to get into her
industrial stride.
Does anyone want to exchange our
problems for those of Russia?
But what of America? We will emerge
from the world holocaust with our cities
unimpaired and our fields unscarred. Our
vast industrial plants are operating more
efficiently than ever before. We are the
only nation in the world that has been
able to increase our standard of living
in terms of dollar purchases and, at the
same time, organise and equip a fighting
force of 11,000,000 men, while assisting
in the arming and feeding of all of our
Allies as well.
In the “last 15 years we have raised
our man-hour output by about 40 per
cent. We have learned that this stepped-
up production can be further enlarged as
workers become aware that they have
much to gain in the general avalanche
of abundance. Under the impact of war
demands we have found additional mil-
lions of capable working hands. We have
found new materials and new uses for
old materials, new fecundity in industrial
branches thought sterile. We now know
that we are only at the foothills of pro-
duction, with mountains yet to climb.
Today, in hundreds of research labora-
tories, thousands of scientists are evolv-
ing new products and devising new pro-
cesses of manufacture which will open
the way for new industries and new
fields of employment.
Germany.
[Some condensed illustrative examples of
views being put forward on what’s to be done
about defeated Germany. The first is from an
article by the “Christian Science Monitor’s”
London correspondent.]
Such a political economic settlement
of the German problem as that of divid-
ing and changing it to an agricultural
country is reminiscent of the solution
which Germany intended to apply to
conquered France and other occupied
countries, and which was so thoroughly
condemned by the Allies.
This policy certainly wouldn’t help
establish confidence among the saner
sections of the German public as to the
genuineness of the Allies’ intentions to
restore Europe as* an integrated whole in
which hope and productive work play
their important roles.
Ignoring the argument that German
man-power and industry can make great
contributions to the post-war reconstruc-
tion of Europe, such break-up of Ger-
many would undoubtedly result in
giving the German youth of tomorrow a
goal for extreme nationalism, even the
least Nazi-minded of them.
It is doubtful whether the break-up
plans are practicable for other reasons.
Occupation of Germany by Allied troops
probably #vill go on for some years after
hostilities cease, and during those years
closer human relations between the
occupying forces and the occupied popu-
lation are likely to develop.
As time proceeds there will be the
strongest desire on the part the
soldiers to return home. It won’t be
easy to get them to remain for a policy
which they not only will see is unwork-'
able, but .which many of their political
leaders at home will condemn.
The Allies have accepted a great
responsibility in promising that after
destroying Hitler’s new order they will
build up a decent order in Europe.
This is a tremendous task. In its initial
stages German sovereignty must be ex-
tinguished and the country be governed
directly by the Allies. They will have the
responsibility for restoring order, main-
taining currency, finding work for mil-
lions faced with unemployment and star-
vation and proving to conquered Ger-
mans that war does not pay. Their suc-
cess will be conditioned by the extent of
the co-operation they receive from saner
elements among the German people.
While politicians are deliberating on
these great issues already within Ger-
many itself British and American officers
have tackled important problems of
administration. The man on the spot has,
as usual, to improvise and go contrary to
many theoretical rulings. In Korneli-
miinster, one small town occupied by
Allied troops, the first Burgomeister
appointed was a schoolmaster who was a
member of the Nazi party —an indication’
that it will be impossible to ignore such
people because of lack of other leaders.
* * * » /
(From an article by the leading U.S. commen-
tator on world affairs Walter Lippmann .)
Imagine the mildest conceivable terms
of peace and Germany will still be an
economic ruin, incapable in her existing
industrial structure of employing all her


a
■ SS
, C*“
S
o
s
Sous-marin de la France
libre en difSiculte •
It was early morning on the
22nd August, 1941.
The British Coastal Com-
mand had picked up the
radio message. The Free
French submarine " Rubis ”
was in grave difficulty off the
coast of Norway.
Away raced three Blen-
heims to the rescue. The
Rubis” was located quickly.
A constant patrol was
maintained until nightfall.
She was picked up again next
morning.
But now the submarine’s
engines had stopped. Radio-
ing back to base, the protect-
ing aircraft brought a Sunder-
land and two Catalinas to
pick up the crew, as the pres-
ence of an enemy mine-field
prevented surface vessels
reaching the "Rubis”.
The rescue, however, prov-
ed unnecessary. The "Rubis”
succeeded in starting her sur-
face engine and moved slowly
off to her base. She reached
port escorted by British Naval
units, protection from the air
being maintained by aircraft
of the British Coastal Com-
mand.
Another incident of this
war showing how radio makes
possible co-operation amongst
the services.
* * *
Australian industry has shown
the world we can produce equip-
ment jor our armed forces ~,
planes, ships, guns and radio.
As victory succeeds victory, let
us not forget the part played by
Australian Industry in helping to
win this war. And let us realise
that whilst all such equipment is
produced in Australia, we need
never fear being cut off from our
sources of supply. Amalgamated
Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
>V^.K(ae%
FIRST IN EMPIRE AIR
R
Inspired by the pioneering spirit,
which developed from an out-
back Australian aerial service of
25 years ago, the greatest British
aviation organization in the
Southern Hemisphere today,
Qantas looks ever forward to
new conquests in Tomorrow’s
air realm.
Through tireless research and
knowledge gained in unsurpassed
merchant air service wartime
achievements, this Empire-
minded “Front-line Airline” has
become incomparably well-con-
ditioned to play a major role in
Post-war aviation.
(fan/as
EMPIRE AIRWAYS 1TB.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE . BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE PERTH
people, incapable of supporting a toler-
able standard of life. Imagine no loss of
territory, no reparations, no military
occupation, no interference with the in-
ternal administration, and the full benefits
of the Atlantic Charter ; suppose that the
only demand of the Allies is that Ger-
many disarm and that she should not take
any steps to rearm for the next 15 years.
Post-war Germany would nevertheless be
an economic ruin.
Under any conditions of peace the
Germans face, the gigantic problem of
transforming their economy so that it is
capable of civilian use. If nothing were
demanded of them but that they may
not rearm they would still find themselves
with an industrial system which cannot
provide enough employment to maintain
an acceptable though low standard of
life. But, of course, even this system,
unworkable though it is, will be enor-
mously damaged by the bombing and by
the ground fighting, which will reduce to
rubble much of the transport, the electri-
cal power and many of the chief cities.
If this is a correct preview—and Ido
not think it can be questioned seriously—
then we do not need to debate how much
more it is desirable to ruin a ruin. The
economic house which the Germans in-
habit is ruined and is unfit for civilian
occupancy, and will have to be rede-
signed and rebuilt. By debating whether
we should ruin it further or let it alone
we shall mislead the Germans and our-
selves. The very fact that we debate it,
that Cabinet officers are said to be taking
sides about it, will place upon us the
onus of a catastrophe which will happen
anyway, because it is the direct conse-
quence of Germany’s having prepared for
and lost two wars of aggression.
What we have to discuss is how we
shall permit and how we shall assist the
Germans to redesign and rebuild their
economy. This is the real problem of
Allied policy. For without permission
and, almost certainly, without economic
assistance the German economy cannot
be converted to civilian use. -If it is not
successfully converted the German, popu-
lation will sink to a level of misery and
disease where it will be a fearful menace
to the peace and the social health of
mankind.
We -W 1 have » to <BJlearn what can and what cannot be
among the Allies how Germans are to be
permitted to refashion their economy and
how we will assist the Germans who
otter plans we can approve. This will be
the main method by which the Allies can
conti ol German economy development
over the longer term and can most surely
guide its development constructively.
For let us bear in mind the core of the
matter: Germany is an industrial
economy geared radically for war. For-
bidden to prepare for war and its
arsenals dismantled it must collapse and
produce enormous unemployment and
misery, and so the question before the
Allies is not how to add to the ruination
of the ruin. It will be how the Germans
are to rise from the ruins. This question
will be before us as soon as the occu-
pation begins, and it will become more
pressing month after month. We shall
be without a policy if we waste our
energy now disputing over the false pre-
mise that Germany will be a going con-
cern which, if we,want a “hard” peace,
we shall wreck, if we want a “soft” peace,
we shall tolerate. For our real problem
will be what to do about the economic
wreck which post-Hitlerian Germany
will certainly be.
* * * *
(From a report by a U.S. Newspaper Alliance
correspondent.)
The armistice convention, as finally
drafted in London, is a relatively short
document that solely aims at making
Germany utterly incapable to resist the
will of the United Nations. Joint proc-
lamations issued at various intervals will
define the obligations the German people
and Governments are expected to fulfill.
The Central Commission of Control
will be competent to prepare, make
public and carry out those proclama-
tions that, in the matter of disarmament,
reparations, political, administrative re-
organisation, etc., are bound to reflect
the great experiment continuously in
progress under its care.
A case in point is the scheme of Ger-
many’s dismemberment. All the odds
are that the United States, Great Britain
and Russia will still have their doubts
about it when they set themselves to
enforce the convention of armistice. It
is from developments in Germany, under
the rdgime of the armistice, that they will
achieved in that respect.
As they handle German affairs over
many months, and perhaps years, the
Allies will be in position to appreciate
whether the separatist movements that
are bound to break out in the midst of
disaster (when sections of the German
people are only too eager to shun respon-
sibility for the criminal deeds of the last
decade) must be taken as something
more than passing tactical moves.
* * * *
{Fiom the United States News,” which de-
scribes its article as ‘‘based on actual plans
being made by the three Governments .)
One factor certain to cut down Ger-
many s manufacturing for a time will be
the removal of machinery from German
factories. Some of this machinery, stolen
from occupied countries, will have to be
returned. Large amounts of machinery
will be claimed by Russia and other
countries as reparations. Thus, many
German factories will be empty shells.
For rebuilding, she will not have access
this time to U.S. and British credit, and
will have to provide money and most
materials herself.
It adds up to a picture of a Germany
whose economic life will be severely re-
stricted. There will be more farming,
more light manufacturing, much less
heavy industry. Living standards of the
German people are certain to be lower
than before, but perhaps not as low as
might be imagined. Under Hitler’s pro-
gramme one-third of Germany’s indus-
trial output was going into armament.
In the coming period of peace German
labor and materials can go into useful
peace-time goods instead.
The question of employment also may
not be as serious as the restricted oppor-
tunities would seem to indicate. Five mil-
lion German soldiers are estimated to
have been killed in this war, and another
1,000,000 disabled. Thousands of civi-
lians have been killed or disabled by
bombs. Another 2,000,000 Germans are
reported to be prisoners in Russia, and,
probably will be retained there as a re-
parations labor force to help rebuild the
damaged area. Still other millions of
Germans may be sent to Russia to work.
With these subtractions from German
labor, and the huge task of rebuilding
German homes, factories and utilities
there is a prospect of plenty of work for
all able Germans for several years at least
To carry out whatever rules are laid
down for Germany will require strong
central controls. In the stage of military
occupation these will be in the hands of
the U.S., British and Russian armies,
“coming as conquerors and not as op-
pressors.” Each will have a separate zone
—the U.S. in the south-west, the British
in the north-west and the Russians in the
east. France may be admitted as an
equal partner later on. Headquarters of
the three occupation forces will be in
Berlin, where the three military com-
manders will form a joint control com-
mission. “Parallel policies” are to be
followed by the separate forces, but thus
far no plans have been worked out for
a closely integrated control of the Ger-
man economy from Berlin.
This means that any plans for Ger-
many devised by the United States Gov-
ernment in actual practice may be applied
only in southern Germany, which is to be
occupied by the U.S. Army. That part
of Germany is not very important indus-
trially. Control of the big industrial
region of the Ruhr and the Rhineland will
be under the control of the British, or
perhaps, later on, the French. The in-
dustries of Silesia will fall within the
Russian zone.
The assumption made by some U.S.
planners that a prosperous Germany is
necessary to a prosperous Europe may
never get a chance to be tested. This
assumption is not accepted by British
officials, who point out that British in-
terests will be served far better if the
countries around Germany are prosper-
ous. They say Britain would much prefer
to do business with firms in France, Bel-
gium, the Netherlands, Poland and
Czechoslovakia, where industry will be
greatly expanded. The British fear that
an industrially strong Germany at some
time in the future might unleash anew
secret weapon such as the robot bomb.
Hence, the British, like the Russians, insist
on keeping Germany weak.
* * * *
{From an article by N.Y. “Times” manager
Edwin L. James.)
When the United States, Great Britain
and Russia occupy the Reich they will


#!
zmt*.
*
m
nit
am
m
fytisaber
Km
»r
, s ••. ;;• | %T'
i r»
;
SW
i
B
are
■c*'- •v&tsiS^,
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
W DO YOU KNOW?
1
3
d
J,
w
?>
w
m
a
a
Kolynos has been
awarded the gold seal
of the London Institute of Hygi-
ene for consistent
purity and
quality.
V
w
c>
m
Anne Boleyn
believed that chew-
ing the root of the
rosemary plant was a sure
protection against toothache.
Beauties of today rely on
Kolynos Dental Cream. Your
teeth are cleaner after brushing
with Kolynos, so naturally they’re
whiter, more sparkling. Kolynos
is made from the formula of a
famous dental surgeon, Dr.
N. S. Jenkins.
The Australian Ant-eater has
fifty more teeth than any other
land mammal, yet it hardly ever
eats anything but soft ants.
%
/ />
S'
W''
■s'
t
m
It would take £l2/10/- to
restore the average mouth to
dental health, according to
the U.S. Dental Association.
Twice-daily brushing with
Kolynos will help you to
cut down on your dentists’
bills. Kolynos swirls into all
those interstices where dan-
gerous food deposits collect.
In Sumatra a kind of medi-
cinal cigar is smoked to pre-
vent toothache and stop pain.
Do you know that Kolynos is also available as a Tooth Powder? Cleans
with the same thoroughness as Kolynos Dental Cream. You might like
Kolynos even better in this form —why not try it? At chemists and stores.
South Sea Islanders used to take a porpoise tooth
into battle to bring them victory over their enemies.
Are your teeth as white and shining as they should be?
If they’re not, get to work with half an inch of Kolynos
on a dry brush after every meal. Kolynos leaves your
teeth whiter —whiter, because they’re so much cleaner.
Ask your local chemist or store for Kolynos today.
/■*#*/
fflce one of the most complicated and
difficult problems ever undertaken. There
% be the disarming of Germany,
L policing of Germany and the reorgan-
ation of Germany. In what will surely
be a largely hostile atmosphere the three
nations will have the task of breaking the
Nazi spirit and the task of letting Ger-
many know beyond all doubt that this
time she has been defeated. Above all,
they will have the task of giving the Ger-
mans an opportunity to try to become a
law-abiding people instead of a nation
of international brigands, which they have
proved themselves to be for a century
and longer.
Success will call for a general plan for
all Germans. The job cannot be done
by treating one part of the country one
wa y and another part a different way.
Even if Germany is sliced up into pieces,
a very doubtful undertaking, the right
job will not be done by different treat-
ment in different parts of the Reich. The
whole Third Reich has got to learn to
mends its ways. Not this slice or that
slice, but all of it. The Nazis must be
crushed everywhere in Germany alike.
The officers’ clique must be put down
alike all over the country. The whole
country must be made to sorrow that it
followed Hitler.
Those who feel this way about the job
will get small comfort from the reports
from Washington saying that plans for a
three-nation occupation of Germany
carry also plans for three national civilian
commissioners, acting not in conjunction
and co-operation, but each responsible
directly back to his Government. It is
to be regretted that there is not to be
an over-all military command to run the
military occupation. This would seem
highly desirable, because the same general
rules should govern the whole military
occupation. The troops of Britain should
not treat the Germans in their zone by
one set of rules and the Americans in
their zone by another set of rules. The
Russians should not lay down a separate
and different regimentation of the Ger-
mans in their zone.
It would be expecting a lot to look
forward to the same practices by the Rus-
sian commander and the American, each
acting independently. Or the British and
the Russian commander.
It may well be that the Russians, as
reported, prefer the separate commands.
They may have their reasons. They have
plans respecting the German eastern
frontier —there is no secret about that.
They may well have their own plans for
dealing with war criminals. And, too,
they may insist that their civilian com-
missioner take orders only from Stalin.
But even if all that is true, there are
larger considerations which perhaps may
be brought home to the Russians. The
creation on the soil of Germany of
chances of disagreement among the vic-
torious nations could scarcely contribute
toward the world organisation on a frank
and free basis to which Moscow has
pledged itself so many times.
There is no use beating around the
bush. It is an open secret that the Ameri-
cans and British could have got together
on joint military command of occupied
Germany and joint civilian administra-
tion. The Russians do not care for it, and
the plans that are shaping up represent
the Russian objection to joint operation.
Pipeline Extraordinary.
{From N.Y. “Times.”)
The pipeline which American Army
engineers are building across 2000 miles
of jungle, river and mountain into China
is probably the most effective means yet
devised of aiding that hard-pressed
nation.
When Big Inch was rushed through to
relieve the Atlantic Coast oil shortage
we considered it a remarkable achieve-
ment. This latest link to China will not
only be several hundred miles longer than
Big Inch, but laid over territory infinitely
more forbidding, under conditions just
next to impossible. When completed it
will be the longest pipeline in the world.
Nine months ago construction was
started at Calcutta, where the great
tankers from the Persian Gulf roll in
across the Indian Ocean. Thence it
winds up the Brahmaputra Valley into
the country of the Naga Hills head-
hunters and over the steep Patkai range
into northern Burma. There it is already
discharging more oil of every variety
than our fliers in that area can use.
Eventually it will be carried into central
Yunan.
Its six- and four-inch steel piping has
cut the perilous “over the hump” air
route by almost two-thirds, relieving
’plane transport throughout the Burma
battlefield. Under full flow it will be a
lifeline transfusing into China a new
strength that should change the course
of the war on the continent of Asia.
Dragnet Digest
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
There is a strong possibility that the Euro-
pean Advisory Commission in London will de-
cide upon the creation of an Allied industrial
control commission to handle Germany’s post-
war production. One reason given for this is
the belief held in some quarters that Russia —
and perhaps France and the Netherlands —will
want to use Germany’s munitions factories as
an arms supply source for the war against
Japan.— London correspondent N.Y. “Sun.”
sp * * *
Russia has definite plans to become the
biggest, strongest, most self-sufficient one-piece
empire the world has ever known, buttressed by
a chain of “friendly” nations along her 7000-
mile border. That accomplished, she will “co-
operate,” but on her own terms. If that' is kept
in mind, there will no longer be any mystery
about anything sfie does —whether in war or
peace, politics or diplomacy.— William Philip
Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* £
Russia is more likely to join up against
Japan, when the time comes, than to give up
lend-lease at the end of the German war. Aid
stops otherwise. — “United States News.”
* sp * *
U.S. businessmen and bankers with con-
nections in France are aware of signs that Gen.
Charles de Gaulle is veering toward the idea
of widespread socialisation of key industries
and of banking in the future France. This
attitude is causing U.S. business to move
cautiously in forming its attitude toward De
Gaulle.— “ United States News.”
sji Jfc * *
After a great U.S. general was killed his will
showed an estate of less than $2500 —Lt.-Gen.
McNair, killed in France. His son also died
in action. McNair was a genius, was respon-
French Foreign Minister M.
Bidault, in an exclusive interview
with London “Sunday Times,” said
he favors neither any “artificial”
dismemberment of Germany nor
French participation in any exclu-
sive western European agreement.
“There must be a Germany,” he
said. “Not an enslaved Germany,
but one that will be made unable
to wage another war. This is in
everybody’s interest, and particu-
larly in France’s, because she is her
direct neighbor. The peace with
Germany should not be one of ven-
geance ; it must be just and human.
Germany will have to be con-
trolled for years to come, but I am
not for trying to make her harm-
less by dismembering her artifi-
cially. Germany, in her death
struggle against unconditional sur-
render, may fall bit by bit like the
walls of a house and thus find her-
self naturally and organically dis-
membered, but to force it would be
ill-advised. We do not want to in-
corporate any German territory.
We do not want any German
minority within our own borders.”
—London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
sible for organising and training ground troops
doing such a magnificent job in France. Yet
he was paid scarcely enough to live on. — Drew
Pearson’s column; N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
Terms of the armistice with Italy have not
been made public because they involved Italian
agreement to transfer of territory and to other
harsh conditions that normally would go into
a formal treaty drawn up at a peace confer-
ence. — “United States News;”
* * * *
While Russia puts her frontier situation in
order to §pit herself, and Great Britain indi-
cates a disposition to counter by shaping a
four-empire military and economic combine,
where does the United States come in? Also,
what happens to the sovereign rights of all the
other nations of the world family? What plan
will be applied to fill in the political void in
Central Europe left by a defeated Germany?
Never have statesmen faced graver questions. —
“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
Soviet Russia follows a straight policy of
encouraging “Asia for the Asiatics” and pre-
senting Russia to Asiatics as a fellow Asiatic
power. Stalin’s declared first post-war prin-
ciple is “the abolition of social and political
discriminations on the basis of race and origin.”
—Upton Close; N.Y. “Journal-American.”
sit * * *
In the first six months of last' year the British
suffered more than 40,000 battle casualties and
237,000 cases of sickness in the Burmese and
Indian jungles. In northern Burma the forces
under command of General Joseph W. Stilwell
—usually thought of as chiefly American and
Chinese —were actually largely British, British
Empire and Chinese troops. The Thirty-sixth
Division, commanded by Maj.-Gen. F. W. rest-
ing, composed of English, Scottish and Welsh
troops, spearheaded the drive down from Myit-
kyina. The Third Indian Division (Maj.-Gen.
W. D. A. Lentaigne, commanding), more
than half of it composed of United King-
dom soldiers, which includes in its ranks the
famous Wingate raiders, also operated under
General Stilwell. Others of General Stilwell’s
soldiers included Gurkhas, East Africans, West
Africans, Chindits and local Burma tribesmen,
r aised, armed and officered by the British. Hie
American ground troops formed a very small
percentage of the total and included chiefly
technicians, engineers, specialists, staff officers
and some combat ground and airborne units.
There has not be«n a single American combat
division in Burma. — Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y.
“Times.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager'for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
, CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY,. MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
•n» i v/rx i
WAR SERIES
RONALDSDNTIPPETT
War Savings Win Battles . . . Save and Win 1
hraJ| g i
izs
“ rpiROPIC - PROOFING w is a new term in the
-A- dictionary of the South-West Pacific. It describes
an important operation in treating metal parts of
essential equipment against the ravages of corrosion.
The unit pictured here is a portable Anti-Corrosion outfiit
powered with a 2J h.p. type “N.A.” air-cooled Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine, V-belt driving an air compressor complete
with containers. It is used to “proof” metals against corrosion.
Thus Ronaldson-Tippett power units play another most import-
ant role in the Pacific war.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms; 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q'land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qid.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
'wm.
M
WITH A VIEW
WHY NOT BUILT ON?
A lovely view but—the area is unsewered. If YOU own a block of land in an
unsewered area you can strrt planning your home NOW and let the HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR take care of your sewerage problems.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a completely self-contained sanitary system.
Simple in operation .. . REQUIRES NO WATER SUPPLY ... no emptying. Sewage
material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into the
soil. Unhealthy odors, flies, disease germs are all banished. Approved by the Board
of Health; any handyman can instal one. Thousands in use in hbmes, offices, military
hospitals, etc., throughout Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygcia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward rne FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
Name
Address * •.
8TN.1.44.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES —
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARES, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS ."
Dead Wool.
“Jumbuck”: It will be plentiful this
year. It has a value high enough to make
it worth gathering, and several things
should be remembered. Gloves should
always be worn, and at the end of the
day the hands should be washed in hot
water containing a disinfectant, thd
gloves also being disinfected. Dead wool
should never be taken into the shearing
shed for baling unless it is certain that a
thorough disinfection will take place after
the dead wool has been sent away.
If there is enough, sorting can be done,
the numbers of sorts depending on
length of staple, condition of the wool
and quality. If scouring facilities are
handy it will pay to have the wool
treated; invariably light in condition,
dead wool has a high yield, but as a result
of duststorms much of it will carry soil.
Some will probably have part of the
pelt adhering to it; this must be sorted
out, baled separately and branded “skin
pieces.” Where time and labor are avail-
able and the quantity of skin pieces war-
rants it, local fellmongering can he done.
If the pieces are soaked in water and
then placed in heaps and sweated by
covering with old woolpacks or bags it
is easy enough to pull the wool. I was
once offered Id. per pound for a dozen
or so bales of skin pieces, but fellmon-
gered it and scoured the wool. I made
3d. per pound over and above what the
local buyer had offered.
Milk Fever in Ewes.
“Steve”: A neighbor put some ewes,
heavy in lamb, on rank clover. A dozen
or more went down, others were soon
groggy. Knowing that there was a 50-50
chance of the sheep recovering if a vet.
could be got quickly the farmer hurried
to town. Unfortunately, the vet. was
away and did not get out to the farm
for two days from the onset of the attack.
A couple of the sheep had died and
others were in a bad way.
The vet. injected 40 c.cs. of a calcium
preparation into the jugular vein and
within five minutes one of the ewes that
had been prostrate for 48 hours got up
and bolted. Most of the others quickly
recovered. The treatment is said to be
effective in a majority of these cases and
there are many instances of immediate
recovery.
No layman should attempt this opera-
tion, but the novice can inject the dose
into the flesh of the leg fairly deeply,
using an ordinary 20 c.c. syringe. The
action is slower than when the jugular
vein is treated. Farmers should remember
that twin lamb disease (so often con-
fused with milk fever) is practically un-
known in a lush spring, and the above
treatment should always be tried when
ewes forward in lamb first show signs
of sickness on heavy feed.
Chicken Rearing.
“Myrrhee”: Chickens are best reared
in houses which can be shifted to fresh
ground at frequent intervals. The chicks
are then less liable to diseases and will
augment their diet with insect life and
fresh herbage in each new location.
Houses are tent-shaped and covered
with waterproof material. A convenient
size is 6ft. by sft. by 4ft. high. The
ridge-pole should be longer than the
house to provide a handhold for shifting
it about. This size will hold 50 chicks
ten or twelve weeks old for six to eight
weeks, when the number can be reduced
by removal of the most forward pullets
to the laying sheds. For the floor, tightly
stretch wire-netting on a frame to fit
neatly into the house. It is cleaner than
an earth or board floor, and if the chicks
pile up on one another for warmth it
allows the underneath ones to breathe.
Keep the birds confined around their
house for two or three days with hurdles
until they become accustomed to it..
Sore Throat in Horses.
“Sarina”; It’s common during winter
and very contagious. In minor cases the
throat is sore and thick saliva pours
from the mouth. The nag has difficulty
in swallowing, but not in breathing. In
bad cases the horse is ill and feverish.
The throat under the jaws is swollen and
tender, there is a hoarse cough, the eyes
protrude and are bloodshot, the nose is
poked out and cold sweats break out on
the body. The air passages are swollen
and full of mucus, breathing is labored,
swallowing is difficult and the horse may
die through starvation.
Get the sufferer to an airy shed or
loosebox. Failing that, rug him and turn
him into a dry, sheltered paddock. Rest
is necessary because excitement brings
on bouts of coughing. Try to keep
strength up. Feed and water are often
returned through the nostrils and are lost,
so it is a good plan to keep a bucketful
of thin gruel handy for the nag to suck
up at will. Bran mashes or damped green
chaff are very nourishing if the nag can
swallow. Provide plenty of cold, clean
water.
To relieve soreness rub the throat with
mustard and vinegar water or a mild
embrocation. A fairly hot linseed or bran
poultice, held in place with a six-tailed
bandage, will do a lot of good in bad
cases. Mix loz. of soda salicylate and
loz. of powdered liquorice together with
a small quantity of honey, and place a
little of the mixture on the nag’s tongue
a few times daily. The patient should
be closely watched until well on the way
to recovery. If seriously distressed get
a vet.
Dust on the Alps.
“Esk D.”; For weeks, as I write,
the Victorian Alps have been bathed
almost continuously in a thick haze of
red dust from the wheat lands; west-
ward, getting worse all the way to the
Mallee, clouds of dust roll off the plains
by day and night as the winds flay the
soil to pieces. Constant erosion over
many years has culminated in drought
turning wheat country into waste lands.
The enormity of the damage cannot be
computed in terms of mere money. Good
lands make a sturdy, virile race of people
with means of achieving prosperity and
national wellbeing; impoverished lands
the reverse. We must begin at once to
conserve and renovate the soil, using
every resource available. Even then it
will be an uphill fight to prevent inland
Australia becoming total desert, with a
meagre population existing precariously
on the fringes. There is no time to be
lost.
Fertility can be developed only by the
chemical action of plant life breaking
down the elements of the soil into plant
food and returning valuable humus to
the ground. The first vegetation in the
development of arable land is hardy and
stunted, and as the enrichment by humus
increases the more succulent and food-
producing plants will grow. This is
Nature’s way and, though it seems slow
and tedious to man, the principles can-
not be overlooked in soil renovation.
Thousands of years of Nature’s work is
being destroyed with each duststorm,
bushfire and rainstorm.
The problem can be handled effectively
only by a central administrative body
with power to deal with the situation as'
a whole. Localised efforts can do much
good, but the links are closely inter-
woven in one vast pattern. The fast-
increasing devastation of plains, rivers and
mountains must be arrested simul-
taneously and a full-scale plan of recovery
adopted,
Codlin Moth.
“Lee”: Not many N.S.W. orchardists
seem to be alive to the value of lure
traps for codlin moth control. In Vic-
toria the Department of Agriculture con-
siders the timing of moth sprays so im-
portant that their inspectors keep tab on
lure pots set out in orchards throughout
the State, and growers are advised by
postcard when to spray. Thus the peak
emergence of each of the three broods of
moth is timed to a nicety, and the
orchardist can whip his lead arsenate on
just when it will do the most good.
A dozen open-necked glass jars, quart
size or thereabouts, will serve. Hang
them conveniently in the apple "block and
keep them charged with a 1-in-10 solu-
tion of wine refuse, vinegar or molasses
and water. The catch of moths must be
counted at least twice a week. A sudden
high count marks the emergence from
the cocoon of each main brood, and an
application of arsenate of lead should
then be made without delay.
With an extra spraying thrown in for
the benefit of the all-important first
brood, this programme will give excellent
results. *
Tempering.
“C. H.”: In tempering, too low a tem-
perature and too slow a cooling will
leave the steel soft; a high temperature
and rapid cooling will make it brittle or
too hard. Get the temperature right and
cool off in moderation. If the metal


EYE LOTIONi
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose& Co.. Pty- Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
df
d
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course.. ■—vr- - -,- - -v ——. ,
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
O * ni/A CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
KAkKI I SKIN LOTION 2/9
UfllUW lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
fd
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanoeas £,t |>lower (Pat'd). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Zt£e‘rXZ:llu, Av.ir.li.. 7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
(h^
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product
of anv other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
. ... All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K. Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
N [
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL CSERS
TEW International trucks, imported by the
Government to ensure efficient toad transport,
are available in capacities up to 41 tons ...
Equipped with Two-speed rear axles; Standard, im-
ported All-steel Cabs; imported Platform, Dropsides
and Triple-purpose Stakesides bodies, also other
approved essential body types .... A “permit to
purchase” must be obtained. Application forms for
official permits, full details of prices, specifications
and all arrangements for purchase and immediate
delivery may be obtained as usual from our branch
house in the capital city of your State, and also
from any Authorized Metropolitan Distributor or
Country Local Agent for International trucks.
Ask for assistance with your application
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) .
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
M.T.-22C-12
Buy and hold War
Savings Certificates
and Stamps .
KTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
■ o ■
-P*->
M
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable^from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"USAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE
NETTING,
proves too soft it’s an easy matter to
temper again.
When tempering picks, mattocks or
cold chisels, heat to a dull red and chill
by placing an inch of the point in cold
water; move constantly. After with-
drawal the point will change from straw
color to dark blue and lastly pale blue. If
the tool doesn’t turn pale blue it will
prove too hard ; if the blue comes and
goes quickly it will be too soft. When it
comes and Stays dip the tool in water and
cool right off.
Saving Feed'.
“Will C.”: A trench silo which may
be filled by backing a loaded dray in is
the small dairymen’s best bet. Drive a
trench Bft. deep and 30ft. long into a
bank or hillside, making it 12ft. wide at
top by Bft, at bottom. Wire-netting floor,
sides and end, and concrete to a depth of
Sin. to make it last. (Bricks or even
closely-fitting boards may be used for
flooring silos where the subsoil isn’t of
a moisture-conserving nature.) Excavateci
earth should be packed on both sides of
the cut to raise the level of the ground
and prevent flooding. Provide a rudimen-
tary roof.
Sorghums, maize and all sugary plants
keep well. Slightly sugary crops need
molasses-dressing. Pack only green
material; dryish stuff will have to be
freshened up with cold water. Jam it in
tight; the more that can be impressed
into a confined space the better the
chances of the forage remaining good.
Air pockets are injurious. Pits should
be filled well beyond their capacity, for
no matter how firmly the forage is packed
in there’ll be marked “sinking.”
Kurrajongs.
“L.C.Q.”: Griffith (N.S.W.) is one
town that has made good use of the orna-
mental value of Australia’s best fodder
tree. First plantings were about 20 years
ago. Today a double row of them ex-
tends for a mile down the main street,
and between them are garden plots, lawns
and parking spaces. In the residential
areas 700 have been planted.
Griffith transplants the kurrajongs
when they’re fully grown. This saves
the expense of tree guards. All branches
are lopped back and roots severed below
the bulbous bottom. The trees are then
placed in holes 3ft. in diameter to about
the same depth and watered regularly
till growth reappears; usually three to
four weeks after moving. If the summer
is dry watering continues each week till
the heat abates. Time of transplanting
varies from October to January, accord-
ing to weather. The council has grown
trees from seed; rate of growth in this
case was three inches a year. Seeds of
Griffith kurrajongs planted some time ago
on Norfolk Island have germinated well.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: When horses on good grass
don’t fatten they are not getting the
benefit of their food. Faulty teeth may
be responsible, leading to chronic indi-
gestion and scouring. Otherwise the
trouble is worms. For worms, the latest
remedy is phenothiazine, sold by drug-
gists as Phenzeen. There is no need to
fast the horse before and during treat-
ment, but give laxative feed during the
dosing period to counteract the consti-
pating effect of the drug.
“Will C.”: Another remedy for fistula
(B. 13/12/’44) is the surgeon’s knife, used
immediately the enlargement becomes
noticeable. It should be removed be-
fore it spreads through the bones and
muscles of the shoulder. The longer the
ulcer is neglected the more painful and
deep-seated it will become ; so get the
job done at once. Fistula is caused by
injury to the wither muscles by badly-
fitting harness, poll evil, or head fistula,
by injury to the head. Nags which hit
the stable roof every time they throw up
their heads are potential victims.
“Sarina”: Look out for heat apo-
plexy in pigs this summer. Soon as
they collapse or start blowing shift ’em
to a shady place and lay ’em on damp
sacks. Avoid pouring large quantities
of cold water over them, but sprinkle
a little water along spine and neck. This
ailment occurs when pigs are driven
about on a hot day, or are denied shade
and shelter. Use thatch, boughs or sacks,
not corrugated-iron, for roofing pig
shelters.
“Farmer Bill”: For ordinary cement
for cowyards, floors or paths mix a bag
of Portland cement (124|1b. net) with
Sgals. water; add sufficient sand or
gravel to make a good consistency. For
hard floors, troughs or to ensure resist-
ance against milk acid attack, allow a
bag of cement to 6gals. of water, plus
gravel or sand. For fence posts, a bag
of cement to every 7gals. of water. If
the concrete’s too stiff after adding all
the water add less sand; if too sloppy
add more sand.
“Beefo”: Greenhide can be prepared
to keep as pliable as leather if a little
exertion is used. Peg a dry hide out in
the shade and after sweeping all the salt
off cover the whole of the hide to a depth
of a quarter of an inch with melted,
unsalted fat. Let the hide remain for a
few days and then by using a bar of
kerosene soap as a brush work the whole
of the face of the hide vigorously. After
the fat has been worked into the hide
fold it evenly and then twice again. Place
the hide out of reach of dogs and let it
remain for a week ; it will then be ready
for use.
“Myrrhee”: Twigs and leaves of the
weeping willow are an excellent emer-
gency stock food in a dry season. The
willow will stand frequent and severe
lopping, but it is best not to touch the
tree in a good season, allowing it to grow
and develop for use in a lean period.
The chemical analysis and food values
of willow leaves and pasture compare
favorably. Up to 201 b. per day can be
fed with pasture hay to each dairy cow
for a period of about eight weeks.
♦ “Portergaff”: Cauliflower seed sown
now will be ready for transplanting by
end of summer. See that soil is enriched
by a plentiful supply of compost or well-
decayed stable manure. Addition of 3oz.
of blood and bone to the square yard is
recommended. Allow three feet between
plants.
“Bennie”: Sawdust makes a better fill-
ing for a fowl’s nest than straw. In
addition to being more comfortable, it
saves many eggs from being broken
when the hen shuffles about.
“Farmer Bill”: A good sheep- and
cattle-proof fence is five rows of plain
wire and one of barb. Make the fence
3ft. IGin. high. Commencing with the
first wire at Tin. from the ground, work
upwards and allow for two spaces of 6in.
each and three of Bin., 9in. and lOin.
respectively. On top of the posts goes the
barbed wire.
“Hux”: First signs of strychnine
poisoning in a dog are loss of power in
the hindquarters and glassiness in the
eyes. Later it may take fits. Chew a
mouthful of tobacco and spit it down the
dog’s throat. A cup of kerosene mixed
with half a cup of milk will cure bad
cases if there’s time to administer it.
“P. McM.”: British farmers have gone
in for mechanisation on a large scale
since 1939. More than 100,000 tractors
have been brought into action, and are
mainly responsible for an extra 5,000,000
acres being under cultivation. Potato
fields in England today are to be found
on steep hillsides, and lonely moors are
growing crops. Apart from farm use,
the tractors have been employed to make
aerodromes and clear away thousands oi
tons of rubble arising from the ravages
of bombs and “doodlebugs.”


Just a cut!
HEAL UP
DANGER SPOTS
QUICKLY
with
Double “D”
oi^ut*PUZ4ist
Cuts and other minor everyday injuries
can cause serious trouble if permitted to
become infected.
fd
BATHE cut with warm water and
Double “D” Eucalypt US.
APPLY Double “D” Ointment and
cover with bandage.
The high antiseptic properties of Double
D Ointment will greatly assist in pre-
venting any infection and also help the
injury to heal in double quick time.
BUT a source of
infection if left
untreated . . . .
m
Double “D” Ointment is a
soothing, healing antiseptic oint-
ment for all emergencies. Keep
a jar handy. Price, 1/6.
Double I)’
SOOTHING HEALING
ANTISEPTIC
He's learnt a lot
about wireless,.,
That's why
when he comes back
his new radio will
have to be a real
engineering job*
f
(*
“His Master’s Voice”
True-to-life RADIO
After the war your local Radio dealer will once again
be fully equipped to serve you with new
Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD,
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R6/44
SMOKE-OH!
Emergency Operation.
u Scout knife, a pair of ' pliers and
kc*!*- safety pins, were used in an operation on
a Filipino guerrilla on Leyte.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
This brings poignant memories of the
time “Tiny” O’Leary went down with
appendicitis, 200 miles from the nearest
doctor, at our timber camp.
It took eight men to hold Tiny down
while we administered the anaesthetic, until
Tiny discovered it was rum, taken inter-
nally. After he had polished off our
month’s supply, plus half a gallon of
methylated spirit and some power kero-
sene, his only reaction was to offer to
remove his own appendix, so we anaesthet-
ised him with a pickaxe handle and kept
one of the hands standing by with a
second dose.
After blunting all our sheath knives on
Tiny’s hide, we placed him neatly under
the saw-bench, and made a nice incision
with the circular saw, although that saw
was never much use afterwards.
Then we took it in turns with a pick-
axe, a crowbar and an old pneumatic
drill until the foreman extracted some-
thing which he was prepared to identify
as an appendix. We sewed him up with
the aid of a six-inch nail and a sledge-
hammer.
Tiny made an excellent recovery, ex-
cept that he had to use a lotion of weed-
killer on his stomach for six months
afterwards. We used lantana to stitch him
up, and it struck nicely.
Plum.
❖ 4*
Players All.
“It seemed to Blake that, as frequently
happens when a member of a family is on the
stage, Lorna’s family were all theatrical-minded
and were eager to play something or another.”
— Woman’s paper.
Mum played a rotten game of bridge ;
Ann played the cracked planner;
While Roy played cricket for his school
In no impressive manner.
May played up to the rich young boss
She hoped, with luck, to marry,
Charlie, aged twenty, played the goat,
, And Father played old Harry.
H. M.
•2* *l* -I-
-“It was no use blaming his environment for
his criminal tendencies. He was one of those
types that are crooked by nature.”
—Crime magazine.
It was his natural bent, as it were.
4* * 4* 4*
“Girls' don’t interest me, nor does marriage
attract me, but my friends try to throw girls at
my head.” — Letter to Dorothy Dix.
He isn’t a good catch.
*2* 4 *2* 4
“A racehorse owner complained that stable
boys were forced to live like pigs in some Mel-
bourne racing stables.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
Surrounded by litter?
•J* *J*
“Lost, baby’s lemon and blue lamb’s-wool
rabbit.” — “Great Northern . v {Sydney).
Well, they can easily buy the kiddie
another lemon, at any rate.
“Rubbish moved, light removed, soft drinks
carted.”— Suburban paper.
Leaves you in the dark, eh?
4 4 4 4 1
“Wanted two girls over 45 for sandwiches.”
—Daily paper.
Probably coupon-free, but hardly
tender.
Miracle.
Ten years ago the doctors said of Andy :
“He’s old and near the end, but may
survive
A little longer if you give him brandy.”
We did, with great success — he’s still
alive.
F. M.
• 4* 4* 4»
“A Good Time Was Hftd. . . . ”
“Jap soldiers cut off in bases north of Aus-
tralia are enjoying meals of crocodiles and
lizards, drinking coconut whisky and smoking
paw-paw leaf tobacco.” —Tokyo Radio.
“As our troops gaze from the shore at the
unending line of attacking American ships they
look daggers at them and grind their teeth.”
—Jap reporter.
Writing in the “Hotcha Itsawow,” war
correspondent Iso Sakesoke says the
troops beleaguered in the Solomons
have reached the pinnacle of gastronomic
happiness, having been graciously per-
mitted by their C. 0., General Jimjo, to
partake of kunai-grass soup and fricas-
seed caoutchouc. This sumptuous and
appealing repast is taken immediately
after eyebrow-gnashing exercises, which
have become a vital part of the training
preparatory to further Allied landings.
Sakesoke goes on to say that it has be-
come a point of honor among the troops
to weigh themselves regularly; should
any man horrifically observe that he has
failed to drop some weight he immediately
abases himself by confiding to the spirits
of his ancestors his utter unworthiness ;
thereafter patriotically foregoing his
weekly smoke of dried offal. This has
been found so ecstatically enjoyable to
the taste that most soldiers say they pre-
fer it to the best Virginia leaf. In a way,
the strong appeal of this beautiful smoke
holds a slight disadvantage, for the cap-
ture of American dumps immediately
they have been set ashore has now been
robbed of a certain amount of zest.
A Japanese broadcaster, speaking to the
homeland from New Britain, said that one
of the most terror-inspiring things he had
ever witnessed was the sight of a
specially picked battalion of hero-gods
on tongue-poking manoeuvres. As a barge
load of ordinary Nipponese, representing
the enemy, leaped ashore in a practice
landing (these exercises will come in use-
ful when the Imperial High Command
decides to conquer Australia) the hero-
gods leaped up and down, poking out
their betel-nut-reddened tongues as far
as they could and shouting in angry
whispers “Fooev!”
The effect on the morale of Aus-
tralians will indeed prove devastating.
Terror-stricken and shaken at that un-
forgettably appalling vision, they will
undoubtedly fall back panic-riddled into
their assault-boats and make off with the
ultimate in velocity. Then will General
Okai Watsamata’s invincible hero-gods
celebrate the resoundingly brilliant vic-
tory with a truly royal feast of curried
mule’s hair and fried sponges.
Only the brilliant research work of
our scientists, the broadcaster went on,
has made possible the edible use of the
sponge, which the wasteful Democracies
have for so long used for washing cars
and cleaning school slates. Is not the
sponge, our scientists reasoned, a living
sea animal? Who ever heard of an animal
that couldn’t be eaten? Logic abso-bally-
lute!
Our scientists, the envy of the effete
pluto-democrats, found, too (the broad-
caster proceeded), that the sponge,
by stopping in one place under the
sea, did not develop stringy fibres
as did the bull and the sheep. Only
senseless people like the Anglo-Saxons
would continue to masticate such out-of-
date fodder. The placid life led by the
sponge allowed it to wax fat on the micro-
scopic seafoods that flowed by. The vital
nourishment it thus stored up in itself
was therefore immediately available to
the troops after its capture. To watch the
expression on the faces of hungry men
when they see a bargeload of sponges
coming ashore from the diving punt is
to see a sort of ineffable, holy joy. Some
men prefer sponges grilled ip their own
juice, but the majority consider a sponge
pudding the epicure’s delight. Only the
holes are eaten.
In a dispatch to the Mainichi “Thin-
bun” special investigator Pakasute Kase
has described the grand time being
had by bypassed Jap troops on a
small Solomons island, a veritable high
carnival that must arouse envy in the
breasts of young men at home, and act
as an incentive for them to become future
cut-off garrisons on some palm-fringed
Pacific isle. He says that for two years
they have lived solely on nutmegs, the
island’s only vegetable. Yet far from
being a hardship, it has been a never-
ending source of empyrean delight.
Not only are nutmegs delicious when cut
into steaks, basted and fried in sump oil
or made into a brawn flavored with flying
fox, but its juicy nature makes it ideal for
fermentation. Brandy, vermouth, gin and
rum are only a few of the wholesome
tipples which nutmegs yield, and in which
soldiers of Nippon daily toast the almost
startling successes daily enjoyed by the
Imperial forces everywhere.
Pakasute Kase related that while he was
on the island a sick 15ft tiger shark be-
came stranded on the beach. It was im-
mediately killed, and amid much rejoic-
ing handed to the cooks. As a reward for
the brilliant manner in which the men had
carried out their nose-thumbing and face-
pulling practice (some of the expressions
achieved are truly fearsome), the officers
let them have the skin, undoubtedly
the most nutritious and palatable part of
a shark, being content to put up with
what was left for themselves. The grate-
ful soldiery fell upon their portion with
cries of rapture that scared the gulls.
It is this spirit—the joy of unusual dishes
and the selfless spirit of the officers —that
fnakes Nippon’s armies invincible!
BO.
To a Huntress.
If American girls want to catch a man they
must go out and fight for him, says Irma Sidel
of New York.” —“Daily Telegraph.’'’
When, in a more informal day.
You stood demurely to await
The outcome of a deadly fray
That chose for you your future mate,
And watched the losing candidate
Removed and reverently hearsed,
You would have swooned to contem-
plate
The drama s leading roles reversed...
Well, when you’ve got him safely
haltered
And partly broken to the bit,
You II find the maxim slightly altered.
And heres a rather terse, condensed
instruction for amending it:
Delete the “for”; insert “against.”
P. M. Lusk.
t(T . 4* -h
city, Wednesday, gold Nurse’s duty
watcn. o. M. Herald.”
A nurse of sterling character.
tI . 4* •h •h
A great many women make the mistake of
wearing everything too tight.”—“New Idea.”
Except fheir family ties.
,, T *J* *J*
r; J n between flipping opponents about the
ring at Leichhardt Atkins makes a good fist
of draughts. — “Sun.’-'
Pushing men around and crowning
them should be good training.
*!• 4 1
Police helped stop a brawl among cyclists
and spectators at the Sports Arena.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Even the onlookers got off their bikes'.
Torture.
“V' the torture chamber in this ancient
castle, 1 felt distinctly grateful that the horrible
contrivances there were no longer in use.”
—Travel book.
No longer by thumbs in the air suspended,
Or with spiky collars around the neck.
Do wretches pray that their lives be
ended;
No longer the racks can rend and
wreck.
But why of the passing of these be prat-
ing.
When other machines cause endless
woe ?
Consider that rasping, roaring, grating .
Horrible next-door radio!
T. W. NATHAN .


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL BILL JOHNSON, Carpenter, who worked at
Urisino, N.S.W., please communicate with ■ the
Manager of Urisino.
RE THE ESTATE OF ARTHUR GORDON ROWE,
DECEASED late of Flowerdale, Mulgoa Road, Liver-
pool. Any person in a position to furnish infor-
mation in regard to a Will of the abovenamed
deceased or who holds documents on his behalf is
requested to communicate with MESSRS. WM.
WALKER, TAYLOR & EDWARDS, Solicitors, 11c
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. ’Phone, 84553.
WILL GERTRUDE MURIEL ROLFE formerly of
Moreland Road Moreland or any person knowing her
whereabouts please communicate with ALAN WAIN :
WRIGHT LL.B. Solicitor of 397 Little Collins
Street Melbourne ?
WILL IRENE REBECCA MARGARET POWELL
formerly of St. Arnaud or any person knowing her
whereabouts please communicate with ALAN WAIN-
WRIGHT LL.B. Solicitor of 397 Little Collins
Street Melbourne?
HAIMS
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, Q'ID.
Circular Charts tor all types ol
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
44.
ore time to fish”
m
m
m
m
a
■
-"O'
irf?
mmmmm
IlM:
i
■
Tfie proud owner and seasoned skipper
of a 60-foot fishing boat reveals why
he prefers “Caterpillar” Diesel Marine
Engines for fishing power. He says:
“We formerly had a 45 h.p. Diesel
Engine in our boat* It gave us 7J
knots per hour on 4 gallons of fuel
per hour. With the new ‘Caterpillar’
Diesel we use only gallon more
fuel per hour and get 11 knots from
the boat.
“This extra speed gives us more
fishing time as we can get to the
grounds and hack much quicker.
We just start the engine and that’s
all we have to do. It runs itself.”
CATERPILLAR DfESSt
U.S. PAT. OFF,
MARINE ENGINES
TRACK TYPE TRACTORS • DIESEL ENGINES AND DIESEL ELECTRIC SETS • ROAD MACHINERY
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland t
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. ’Phone LA3321. Marquis St.,
Gunnedah. ’Phone Gunnedah 326. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone,
57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. ’Phone
Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. ’Phone 2839.
102 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. ’Phone JI4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail.
’Phone Innisfail 475.
MAIL THIS
COUPON
FOR FREE
BOOKLET
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
Please send us free and without obligation your
FREE 32-page Catalogue of Caterpillar Diesel
Marine Engines.
N ame ji> -
Address
gP/
10.44
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
%
579-4-
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
8.C.J.: It would be a crime to shut you
out:
Oh, how I love the greenery
Among the mountain scenery.
So far from vile machinery.
C.W.: Technique elementary and sentiments
conventional D.J.E.: Suitable only for
grandmothers R.H.8.: Make them shorter
and simpler L.J.: Promising; too many
lines dragged in for rhyme... .W.G.: Just a
flat statement H.H.: Usual remarks on the
sunrise L. 0.8.: Make the appropriate altera-
tions and try a woman’s paper round about
Mother’s Day T.D.: “Humanity-calamity”
rhyme is calamitous E.M.G.: Tut....
H.E.R.: Description is not enough 8.R.W.:
Undistinguished... .P.O’R.; You appear to be
trying, gallantly but hopelessly, to rhyme “tan”
with “horizon” 1.G.N.: Might suit a Service
paper.. . .P. 8.: Both too long after Christmas
and too much like prose... .M.M.: No space
for interminable conversation in uncertain
verse with Clancy’s ghost N.J.E.: It’s a
catastrophe all right.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Higher Algebra, by Hall and Knight.
—3568.
To buy witch hazel, in any quantity. —3569
To buy complete or almost complete files of
The Bulletin in good condition, preferably un-
bound. —3566.
Information Sought.
State totals of enlistment in the First A.I.F. ?
Q’land, 57,705; N.S.W., 164,030; Vic.,
112,339; S.A., 34,959; W.A., 32,231; Tas.,
15,485. Total, 416,809.
* * ♦ »
Is there any official centre of N.S.W. ?
As far as is known no one has ever taken
the trouble to work out the exact centre of
the State. Certainly there is no peg indicating
the spot. Peak Hill is probably the town near-
est the centre.
* * * *
Are there any instances of men without a
public-school education rising from the ranks to
command British armies?
Sir William Robertson, Chief of the Imperial
General Staff in the last war, and General Nye,
Vice-Chief of the Imperial General Staff since
1941, both rose from the ranks of the regular
British Army. There have been other cases.
jf * ♦ •
Which is the largest organ in Australia? De-
tails of the instrument?
The organ of Sydney Town Hall. It possesses
six keyboards, 126 stops and 8756 pipes. These
pipes vary in length from a fraction of an inch
to 64ft. and in circumference from jin. to 4jft.
The cost was £17,000.
* * * *
Approximate cost of publishing a song? Who
could give further information?
Cost of editing, drawing and producing on
fairly good paper should be £2O to £25 for
1000 copies. A music-printing firm such as
Marchant and Cos., Moorgate-street, Broadway,
Sydney, could be asked for a quotation.
New price of the 1928 model Buick sedan ?
26.3 h.p., £530; 31.5 h.p., £635; 31.5 h.p.
(seven-passenger), £795.
Brief Answers.
J.N.D.; British General Electric, Box 159488,
G.P.0., Sydney, issued the brochure of British
Empire decorations E.E.W.: There is no
longer an agency in N.S.W F.H.: No statis-
tics available E.D.: Cat is probably suffering
from both worms and a gastric disorder.
Veterinary treatment is necessary. The animal
should not be allowed to drink water; barley
wafer may be substituted... .G.U.: Book now
out of print... .R.K.; Stamp of no philatelic
value H.D.: “Radio News” has ceased
publication... .H.L.D.: No Fiji bananas have
appeared on the Sydney market for some years.


INVEST IN WAR BONDS
Wmm
m
out
“In Richards, we’re turning
all kinds of munitions, from half-ounce parts to
three-ton truck bodies, practically under one roof. It’s
our job in the office to co-ordinate, what amounts to
many factories, into one smooth-working unit —to make
one family of a whole township’s population with a hundred
different jobs to do. We aim at high production now to
bring speedier victory and, when peace frees us, to
provide the work and the amenities
that will ensure a high living standard;
for all.”
RICHARDS
r. & mc. mmmmm
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
“Our co-operation
keeps 'em
rolling . . ”
says Leo Devine
Production Superintendent
Clvoic/ TWbcfi&M tueca/it'
USE
CLO BITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
BAZAAR IN TIMOR
By P. D. MANTLE
NiGHT lifted suddenly, and the
palm-trees in the valley swayed
slightly as a chill breeze seemed
to sweep a straggling patch of
darkness into the endless Timor hills.
Tony, who had been doing the last
shift of guard, took off his tin hat and
laid aside his rifle. Safe enough, he
thought. Safe enough to relax for a bit —
the Japs hadn’t come in the night, and
if they were anywhere around the natives
would have come in by now with the
news. Yes, a man could take a bit of a
spell and roll himself a smoke from the
local weed and a dried maize leaf. He lit
the smoke and then went inside to start the
boongs lighting the fires for breakfast.
He walked through the Chinese shop
that was their temporary home, stepping
over the sleeping soldiers who were
stretched out on the cobblestone floor.
Then through to the bamboo shelter at
the back where slept the black men who
acted as carriers, valets, washerwomen
and friends to the Australian com-
mandos. A strong smell of black
humanity made him pause for a moment
in the doorway, and in the light of a
small fire he saw that one native —as
always—was awake.
“Master?” said the man inquiringly.
“Natives all awaken. The chicken crows.
Make fire. Breakfast for Masters. Good?”
“Good. * The man began grabbing at
smelly toes and shaking the sleepers into
wakefulness.
It would take the boongs quite some
time to light the fires, so Tony did not
rouse the other soldiers. But Bill, the
corporal, left his sleeping-bag and joined
the guard outside.
“Anything happen during your shift,
Tony?” he asked.
“Not a thing. A couple of pigs did
come tvandering down the road at one
stage, making a row, but I chucked a bit
of rock at ’em and they went for their
lives. None of the other blokes heard
anything either so far as I know.”
“Aw, I didn’t expect they would.
Pretty quiet here. The Loot reckons
there’s no Japs nearer than Reqarka, and
they couldn’t get here in one night. No,
I think we can count on a bit of a rest-
cure as long as we stay in this place.”
“Yes, but how long’ll they let us stay?
Any time now someone’ll start soldiering-
on and send us half-way across the island
to have a go at the Nips.”
“Well, you’ve got to earn your pay—
if we ever do get paid.” The corporal
took out his makings. Then he stiffened
and reached slowly for the tommy-gun
that stood propped up against the door.
Tony took the hint and sank quietly on
to his belly, easing his rifle into place.
They both stared down the track.
“Whaty’ see?” whispered the youngster.
“Line of men coming this way. Just
saw ’em through the trees a while back
and—there they are! ” He peered intently
and then relaxed. “Boongs. Boongs all
laden up with something.”
Tony sat upright. “Oh, coming to
market. I remember Mickarua saying there
was ‘bazaar’ today. Might get some decent
tucker. Have we any money, Bill?”
“Not much. Still, everything’s pretty
cheap. Look, here they come.”
One by one the natives stepped from
the tree-covered track on to the roadway.
The first man carried two woven palm-
leaf bags and held a lead-rope of a pony
which was laden with maize. It carried
no saddle, merely a girth of plaited fibre
which held in place two interlocked sticks,
from which hung bundles of corn cobs.
Urging it from behind was a small boy
who beat mechanically at the pony’s
rump with a short length of cane. Next
came an old man with cloth slings around
his neck containing four startled chickens.
Behind him again was a mournful trio
of man-pig-man. The first man held a
rope that was tied to the pig’s right fore-
leg ; the other’s rope held the left back
leg. Both men pulled, so that the un-
happy porker was in constant danger of
being torn limb from limb. Dragged
sideways on by the action of the two
ropes, it slithered painfully along every
step of the way. And as it slithered it
squealed. It had probably been squealing
every yard of a two-day journey.
Last in the procession came women.
Hair that was lousy and never combed ;
mouths and gums reddened with betel-
nut and the top lip stuck into a per-
manent curl where a quid of chewing
tobacco was invariably stowed between
teeth and lip. Most of them wore their
cloth garments almost shoulder high,
but one girl was girded* at the waist like
a man. All were barefoot and all were
dirty.
Some of the lighter merchandise was
their load—betel-nut, lime and chewing
leaves, bamboos Sf pig fat or honey, and
native-made string bags containing
oranges.
In and out of the swaying line ran
three dogs, incredibly filthy, incredibly
thin, and of breed so mongrel that they
had almost ceased to be dogs.
The line moved into the village and
passed the shop where the two Australians
sat watching. > As they passed each
one made a greeting. Juggling their
burdens to leave one hand free, most of
them gave the native salute: men touched
their foreheads and bowed, women held
out one hand as though begging for
alms.
After their breakfast of boiled rice
Tony and the corporal took their own
two native servants and made for the
market-place, where the villagers had
assembled.
yHE open square buzzed with conver-
A sation in a dozen dialects. Yelping
dogs ran between black legs and over
merchandise with complete abandon,
knocking over a small boy who puffed
solemnly at a corn-cob pipe.
Tied to palm-trees on the outskirts,
pigs kept up the ghastly moronic squeal
and grunt of their kind, as though they
knew it was soon to be their fate to be
killed and sold. On all sides natives
wandeted slowly around, spitting in the
dust.
And there on a raised platform in the
centre stood the local moriador—police-
man. Tall by native standards, broad and
well nourished, he looked a picture of
athletic fitness. To distinguish him from
the common herd he wore a trade shirt
striped like a stage pirate’s. On his head
was a forage cap of woven palm-leaf,
and in his hand a curved cane that was
his weapon of law and order. His sword
hung from his shoulder in a scabbard
cut from horse-hide in such a way that
the tail hung curving from the end. He
was the Law.
The market was open, goods might
be bought and sold. But there were no
crying of wares, no appeals to buy and
very little haggling over price. The
seller simply sat on the ground behind
his goods and waited patiently for any
who cared to buy.
The two Australians walked between
lines of squatting natives, summing up
the total resources of the bazaar. There
were plenty of buyers—natives who
would cheerfully devote the day to
strolling around, chatting and smoking
while deliberating over the expenditure of
a few pence. No one hurried, for the day
was long and many more days would
follow.
Tony said “Well, what do you think,
Corp?”
“There’s a fair amount of stuff today.
We should do pretty well. Potatoes for
a start, then there’s peanuts, pumpkin,
bananas,, oranges, maize flour, beans.”
“Gripes, don’t buy any beans. You
know what happened last time we ate
beans over at Fatu Looli. Half the
blokes’ve got a touch of dysentry as it
is.”
“All right, no beans. But we’d better
buy what we can of the other things.
Let’s try this joker over here for a start.
Seems to have spuds that will do.”
He took from his belt a few notes
in the local currency—patakas worth
Is. Bd., some blue “rupeeas” at tenpence
a time, as well as small notes equiva-
lent to one penny and twopence. The
pair walked over to where sat a man who
picked mournfully at his hair and gazed
sorrowfully at what he found there.
Looking up as they approached, he
touched his forehead in greeting.
“Good morning, Master.”
“Good-day, Smiler. You friend of the
Australie?”
“Yes.”
“Good. Australie want to buy
potatoes. One bag how much?”
“Pataka, Master.”
“One pataka!” The soldier felt that
the., price was rather high for focal
standards. Six stone of murphies should
be cheaper than that. If he could get
them at half the price—one rupeea —he’d
consider it a bargain.
By this time a crowd of interested
spectators was elbowing around, so the
corporal mustered his knowledge of the
language and spoke to them.
“Timor man say one pataka. Timor
man funny, make Australie laugh.”
The crowd smiled thinly.
“Rupeea? Rupeea for Australie?”
The man sat blank and silent.
“Rupeea. Good, not good?”
“Not good, Master.”
The corporal edged a little closer and
gazed down sternly at the grubby black
face. “Listen good. Australie give
rupeea. How much Japanese give, eh?”
That one was too much for the potato
merchant, so Bill appealed to the crowd.
“How much Japanese give?” There was
no reply, so he supplied the answer him-
self. “Nothing. Japanese give nothing.
Japanese no good.”
“Japanese no good,” echoed the crowd
politely.
“Japanese see potato ... take away...
give no money. Timor man say ‘Ahee,
Japanese present money! ’ Japanese take
knife ” The crowd watched with in-
terest. “Japanese take knife and—
keek!” He made the sound of a throat
being slit and went through the panto-
mime of dying. “Timor man finish. No
good, eh?”
The onlookers murmured their applause
at the demonstration. Even the profiteer
was intrigued. Feeling that the mob was
with him the corporal appealed for sup-
port. “Right? Is that right? Japanese
no give money, Australie give rupeea,
Right?”
“Right, Master.”
Everyone was smiling happily now, so
the young man whipped out one of the
blue notes and waved it in front of the
black nose. The native surrendered the
bag of spuds and, surprisingly, offered
two eggs by way of a present. White
man and black then assured each other
that they were good fellows, and the
shoppers moved on.
BEHIND came an admiring crowd
hoping to see a repeat performance
of the throat-cutting act. Indeed, they
would cheerfully have spent the remainder
of the day watching the same thing many
times. But prices for the other goods
were reasonable, and the two soldiers
gradually accumulated provisions for the
week, which their servants carried back
to where they were camped.
Among their purchases was tobacco.
Supplies had been running short, and it
was always a major tragedy when the
smokes gave out. For tobacco was their
one luxury, and served a double purpose
on the track, when a strong cigarette dulls
the pangs of hunger if food ha”s been
missing for a day or two.
Three native tobacconists were avail-
able. The weed was in woven baskets
holding three pounds each, and in front
of each man were generous handfuls of
tobacco for the small buyer who could
only afford a pennyworth.
Bill and Tony brought out their bundles
of maize leaves, which took the place
of cigarette papers. Then each picked
a sample from one of the baskets, rolled
it and lit a smoke. “Experiment,” said
Tony, using the Portuguese word that
many natives understand.
He smiled pleasantly, and then spoiled
the whole effect by coughing harshly and
spitting out the cigarette. But the sales-
man didn’t seem to be offended —merely
offered a specimen from the next basket.
That one was better, as it had a distinct
flavor of burning rope that drowned the
ordinary taste of native tobacco. On the
youngster’s recommendation, Bill tried a
bit himself, pronounced it good and
bought the basket for the equivalent of
one shilling.
At this stage a small, naked child came
up and pushed four fingers into its mouth.
This was the common gesture when beg-
ging tobacco. The corporal said in Eng-
lish “Strike me lucky, kiddo, aren’t you
a bit young to smoke? What’ll Mura
say? You’ll never grow up to be a big
boy like your Uncle Bill if you start
smoking. Lay off it —that’s my advice.
Runs you into too much money.”
The child’s face remained quite blank.
But one of the bystanders smiled and
nodded, so the corporal handed over a
generous pinch of weed, which the child
deftly wrapped in maize leaf, rolled on
its thigh and then lit from the pipe of an
ancient sitting nearby.
Followed by their servants, the two
white men walked towards their home.


STOPvoupßupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaMon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
BRANDALERS
O''
nt
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
0. SEIXDADIK, * on. IM. BIEMIXOHAH. KHO
PENS
PRACTICAL BOOKS FOR TECHNICAL MEN.
The Motor Boat and Yachting Manual. A
practical handbook devoted to Yachts, Motor
Boats, also Commercial and Naval Motor Craft.
272 pages, illustrated. 12/6 (post 4d.).
Audel’s CarpeKters and Builders’ Guide.
Four volumes. 1000 pages, with 3700 illus-
trations. 42/- ((Post l/-.).
General Plastics. By R. Cherry. What plastics
are, how to work them, what tools are needed,
how to finish them and how to make dozens
of useful objects out of them. 128 pages, more
than 150 photographs, diagrams, etc. 11/6
(post 4d.).
The Standard Mechanics’ Encyclopedia. A
practical outline of Mechanical Trades. Edited
by William L. Schaaf, Ph.D. 954 pages, with
over 700 diagrams. 30/- (post 9d.)
Fortunes in Formulas. For Florae, Farm
and Workshop. 10,000 Recipes and Trade Pro-
cesses. 861 pages. ,12/6 (post 1/-).
The Handyman’s Complete Seif-instructor.
Engineering, Radio, Woodwork, Electricity,
Building, Decorating, Boot Repairing, Metal-
work, etc. 576 pages, 600 illustrations. 10/-
(post 6d.).
Elements of Radio. By A. Marcus and W.
Marcus. A streamlined Home-study Course in
Basic Radio. 699 pages, illustrated. 34/-
(post 1/-.).
Audel’s Handybook of Practical Electricity.
With Wiring Diagrams. By Frank Duncan
Graham. Ready reference for professional
electricians, students and all electrical workers.
1040 pages, with 2600 illustrations and dia-
grams. 28/- (post l/-).
Formulas for Profit. A collection of Valu-
able, Timely, Practical Commercial Formulas
and Recipes for Making Thousands of Products
in Many Fields of Industry. Compiled by H.
Bennett and a board of 63 Expert Editors.
632 pages. 12/6 (post 9d.).
Radio for the Millions. Prepared by the
editorial staff of “Popular Science” Monthly.
A remarkably complete book for everyone in-
terested in radio. 192 pages, more than 100
wiring diagrams and 450 illustrations. 12/6
(post 6d.).
Practical Mathematics for All. A simplified
but complete course of Arithmetic, Algebra,
etc. With examples and exercises. By Her-
bert McKay. 416 pages. 10/6 (post 6d.).
Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy Rope
Work. By Raoul Graumont and John Hensel.
663 pages, 332 full-page plates, 3524 examples.
35/- (post 1/4).
The Design and Construction of Flying
Model Aircraft. By D. A. Russell, M.I. Mech.E.
256 pages. 17/6 (post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
M
\ ' .5
Vmmmm
mmm
mmmm
mmrni'rn- • : : ■? t
wpsgFw#
■/// j f.
'■« » -
"%}S : - ; v •'
ssjossfi
aa?
- '
.■ .v:/.y, ■ y a3«2 -
-::f
ps»>
¥?*■> t>
X
A. Sign of the Times
TOP DOG
WORE TROUSERS
..; have a reputation throughout Australia
for hard wear and satisfactory service. In
workmanship, fabrics and careful attention
to detail, they are recognised to be “tops”
in quality. So, hasten the day when civil-
ian supplies of TOP DOG WORK TROUSERS
are again unlimited by investing to the
limit in National Savings Stamps and War
Savings Certificates.
V-
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
Then suddenly from the market-place
came yells and shouts. The street was
filled with natives on the run. Imme-
diately Bill hitched up his tommy-gun
and barked to Mickarua
Tell all masters Japanese come.”
Mickarua smiled. “Japanese no come.”
“Timor men all run away!”
“Japanese no come. Look, master,
and he pointed to the market-place where
the local moriador was belaboring two
youngsters with his cane. Two men
fight, moriador castigo. Natives all
afraid, run away.” He laughed and led
the way into the shop.
They had a fine lunch that day, finish-
ing off with paw-paw, oranges and roasted
peanuts. Meanwhile their servants had
killed the pig, which had been bought, and
were hugely enjoying its entrails roasted
on sticks in the fire.
THEN, after a spell, most of the men
wandered up towards the square to
be in time for the cock-fight which in-
variably concluded a native market day.
Most of the goods had changed hands.
Women were bundling up their purchases,
while men wandered around talking and
swapping clothing. This was quite a cus-
tom of the place, the exchange of clothes.
Frequently a man returned to his vil-
lage after market day in a completely
different rigout, as well as having ex-
changed many of his personal treasures —
rings, pieces of rag, tobacco-pouches and
bits of mirror. For when you are poor
a frequent change gives the illusion of
many possessions.
The people were running now towards
the centre of the market-place. Strol-
ling up more leisurely, the Austra-
lians picked themselves good positions
among the natives, who gave way respect-
fully at their approach. Everyone stared
at the centre of the ring, which was quite
empty. Then a stir ran through the
crowd as two young men swaggered up
carrying their game-cocks.
They were beautiful birds, well over
two feet high and of colorful plumage,
well fed so that they were in the very best
of condition. Tied to the right leg of each
was a curved blade two inches long,
protected by a sheath of woven palm-leaf.
The proud owners squatted on their heels
on opposite sides of the ring and stroked
their birds, speaking to them in some
strange jargon that was apparently un-
derstood by both parties. The crowd
was silent.
Then, at the same moment, each owner
drew off the sheath to reveal the double-
edged and pointed blade with which each
cock would try to kill its rival with vicious
backward kicks.
Immediately the crowd broke into up-
roar ; voices were raised in shouts, threats,
abuse. It had all the appearance of the
first act in a civil war. But as the native
has little knowledge of fisticuffs and is
too uncivilised to use knife, bottle or
rubber truncheon, nothing developed be-
yond verbal battle.
At first the birds seemed unaware of
each other. One, which had a black-
streaked neck, was even pecking at the
ground in search of food. Their owners
began to condition them for battle by push-
ing the birds towards each other and back
again. After this had happened three
times the black-necked cock livened up
sufficiently to glare venomously at its
opponent.
Immediately the feathers behind their
crops began to rise, necks and breasts
became puffy and claws scraped im-
patiently on the ground. Again and
again their owners provoked them, push-
ing them forward till they almost met.
The birds by this time were in a rage
and eager for combat. Suddenly a voice
yelled and the cockfight began.
Each bird rose into the air, flapping
its wings, pecking and kicking as it went.
Hate burned in their beady eyes. For a
moment they clinched while each tried
to rip at the other’s belly; then they
broke apart and seemed to retire to their
corners with an elaborate show of un-
concern, belied by the malevolent glare
from their eyes. Again they flew to the
attack, squawking and scratching and
raising dust clouds. The natives cheered
frantically.
A third time they flew together, each
bird striving to remain in the air above
its opponent while sharpened claws could
scratch out rival flesh. Feathers scattered
in the ring.
The black-necked cock seemed to
weaken. It fell to the ground and turned
tail. The bigger bird leaped for its back
at a spot convenient for the kill, but the
other knew all the tricks and stopped
suddenly, so that its enemy overshot the
mark and landed hard with its back to
danger. A second later black-neck was
astride and kicking fiercely.
Immediately its owner grabbed into the
tangled mass of feathers to claim his bird,
for the fight was not to a finish. They
Here far too poor to afford such luxury,
the game being won when there is blood
on the victor’s spur.
But the blade was still clean, so both
owners settled down to urge their cham-
pions to victory.
Again the cocks were thrown in to the
attack. And attack they did. Wings
beating the air, they clawed, kicked and
tore at each other in frantic rage. Beaks
ripped out clusters of feathers and claws
dug deep into white flesh. Faster and
faster they fought and struggled, choking
for breath and spitting invective.
Again black-neck ran away, but the
other was not to be caught twice. It
leaped shorter and dug in hard with fierce
claws and beak. Immediately the victim
rolled sideways, upsetting its tormentor,
and flew into the air. But the bigger
bird was even quicker. In one movement
it scrambled upright, flew into the air and
kicked backwards. Its spur grazed the
neck of its enemy, who reeled and fell.
Instantly the bigger bird was astride
and plunging its sharpened blade into
living flesh. A few moments more and
the black-necked bird would have been
killed, but their owners hastily grabbed
them, while the victorious one took a
smear of blood from the spur on to his
finger as proof. The battle was over.
Bets were paid. The natives began
drifting back to their villages. The Aus-
tralians walked slowly towards their
home.
“We haven’t much money, but we
do see Life, don’t we?” said the corporal.
“Yes,” said Tony. “Funny cows, these
boongs.” And, taking a square of fat
from the carcass of the pig, he began to
oil the bolt of his rifle.


mjm
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 66
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan,
C.8.E.; Sit Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
v R. T. Hildet; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
m
The MARS
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
d
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne; New Zealand: A. M.
Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch. Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
301 Kent Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.
, Divs. ■, Towards
Net Pref. Re- De-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.!
1937. • 54,894 2400 10 p.c. 21,410 1 oqk oq kok
Underwriting exes., £6799 .. S 8,5
, Added goodwill, etc., £11,954 .. .-. 40,459
Reserves new subsidiaries, £3301 .. 37,158
Unexplained addition, £1419 .. .. 35,739
1938.. 60,376 2400 10 p.c. = 47,464 10,512 25,227
Added goodwill, £1205 .. .. .. 26,432
Net additions reserves, £6616 .. .. 19,816
1939.. 94,184 5983 10 p.c. = 57,899 7„„ 321 3 5Q5
Share-issue exes., £6981 .. f ’ ’
Additions reserves, £24,068 .. .. 27,573
Added goodwill, £18,129 .. .. 9,444
Establishment accounts w/o, £2157 .. 7,287
1940. .140,153 14,400 10 p.c.= 61,058 64,695 71,982
Net reserves capitalised in subsidiaries,
£20,137 51,845
Goodwill disappears, £7670 .. .. 59,515
1941. .116,674 14,400 10 p.c.= 74,723 67,551 87,066
Share premiums, £117,984 .. ..205,050
Unexplained additions, £13,524 .. 218,574
Share-issue exes., £5899 .. .. 212,675
Goodwill added, £39,879 . . . . 172,796
Debits new subsidiaries, £10,025 ..162,771
1942. 14,400 10 p.c.=109,743 69,718 232,489
GoodwiU added £3302 . . . . 229,187
Unexplained reduction, £10,751 . . 218,436
1943. .186,208 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 53,824 272,260
Goodwill added, £903 271,357
Unexplained addition, £372 .. .. 271,729
1944 . . 208,663 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 76,279 348,008
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
! After deducting goodwill, etc., now £267,254
This big Australian industrial organisa-
tion, with Sydney headquarters, is a self-
supporting, complementary group which
turns out felt piece-goods, carpets, foot-
wear and wool tops and yarns, and
scours and combs the fibre, too. The
parent controls a score or more of associ-
ated and subsidiary concerns scattered
throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land and S. Africa.
Outstanding feature last term was con-
tinued expansion of activities, especially
in S. Africa and Maoriland. Although
defence orders tapered, aggregate turn-
over showed a “very substantial in-
crease.” Floor felts, production of which
had been virtually abandoned in favor
of war requirements, are being turned
out in “considerable volume” again. Still,
demand is a long way ahead of supply,
and likely to remain so until still-deferred
replacement and rehabilitation require-
ments are overtaken. Similar remarks
apply to carpet production, retarded by
shortage of skilled operatives. Output
of footwear expanded, though production
is on a utility rather than a fashion basis,
owing to control on materials. In the
military footwear section special pro-
vision has been made for obsolescence of
plant considered unsuitable for post-war
civilian needs. Out-turn of the wool-
scouring, carbonising and topmaking
plants fell short of maximum capacity
owing to man-power difficulties.
Most interesting development was in
S. Africa, where the new subsidiary, Felt
and Textiles (South Africa) Pty., formed
late in the previous term to manufacture
wool felt goods, etc., and to take over
Felt and Textiles’ other S. African in-
terests, got under way. At the end of
June last this offshoot had a paid capital
of £106,400, of which Felt and Textiles
had put up £60,100, and Industrial De-
velopment Corp., a Union Government
agency, most of the balance. Concern-
ing the Union Government’s indirect
association with the development and
expansion of industry, chairman Massy-
Greene says:
This corporation underwrites new issues
of which it approves, retaining for itself
a small proportion of the capital. Though
not attempting td exercise any control of
the business with which it is associated,
the corporation has a representative on the
board, and is in that way apprised of all
that is going on. This is a type of co-
operation which is infinitely preferable to
Government-owned factories, with all the
possibilities of political control and ulti-
mate loss.
The Commonwealth Government would
be well advised to followed the S. African
example. Experience in connection with
its investment in A.W.A., reviewed in
these columns December 27 last, clearly
illustrates the advantages of such a
policy.
Progress in Maoriland is partly re-
flected in the co.’s purchases of greasy
wool there. These shot up from 2205 bales
in 1940-41 to 5893 bales in 1943-44, and
are expected to reach 7000 bales or there-
abouts for the current term. To provide
for post-war expansion a ten-acre block
of land has been bought at Christchurch.
And Bradford Cotton Mills (N.Z.), Ltd.,
in which Bradford Cotton and Felt and
textiles are jointly interested, is putting
up a weaving plant at Wellington to
cater for the Dominion’s cotton canvas
requirements. -
After allowing £100,593 (up £8456) for
depreciation and setting aside £356,733
(up £86,790) to taxation, aggregate net
earnings of the group were £22,455
stronger last term at £208,663. That was
enough to pay pref. divs. and Show 16.4
p.c. on the £1,179,839 of ord. capital as
against 14.4, 16.3, 13.6, 20.6 and 15.2
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept at
10 p.c.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures:—
1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £1,183,786 £1,419,839 £1,419,839
Outside interests.. 47,217
Overdraft .. • • 970,609 1,323,704 1,332,952
Sundry creditors, etc. 343,484 498,527 453,014
Tax provision . . 146,650 300,917 366,943
Inter-co. balance.. 4,127 •
Freeholds.. .. 851,136 463,298 438,643
Plant . . . . 573,219 768,934 767,797
Shares other cos.. . 25,882 26,832 26,832
Stock .. .. 1,313,211 1,845,222 1,962,204
Debtors . . . . 534,123 743,573 799,526
bash, etc 25,445 28,059 29,962
Inter-co. balance.. 4,320 8,002
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowance for depreciation and extra pro-
vision for taxation, enabled £116,982 to
be added to the book value of stocks,
£55,953 to debtors’ balances, and
£45,513 to be clipped off the amount
coming to trade creditors. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£638,783) was £145,077.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, — —Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves.Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
12% p.c. 12% p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 .. 1,782,424
1939.. 528,892 37,500 328,125 163,267 1,945,691
1940.. 570,610 37,500 328,125 204,985 2,150,676
‘Subject to £BOO.OOO originally paid for goodwill.
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.!
t Dividends ~
Pref. Ord. To Re- Net
Profit. 124 p.c. 12% p.c. serves. Reserves.
1941.. 559,576 37',500 328,125 193,951 1,701,371
1942.. 504,428 37,500 328,125 138,803 1,840,174
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1943.. 430,097 30,000 262,500 137,597 1,977,771
Added goodwill, etc., £19,938 .. 1,957,833
Added difference par value and cost
shares subsidiaries, £204,318 . . 1,753,515
b/f net from cos. acquired, £32,359 1,785,874
1944.. 472,128 80,000 262,500 179,628 1,965,502
! Eliminating outsiders’ interests.
This big operating co., which amalga-
mated the interests of half a dozen then-
sick Melbourne breweries in 1907, paying
£BOO,OOO (in scrip) for goodwill, keeps on
widening and tightening its grip upon the
trade. For more than a decade after the
merger it was busy consolidating its posi-
tion. Then it launched out on a policy
of expansion, swallowing one after an-
other of its Victorian competitors—Gee-
long Brewery, Melbourne Co-operative,
Fitzgerald’s at Castlemaine and Cohn’s
at Bendigo—together with the hotel in-
terests concerned. The co. thus secured
a lion’s share of the trade in its home
State, and a substantial turnover has been
developed in North Queensland and the
N.S.W. Riverina as well.
Last term additional interests were
welded into the organisation, but names
and locations of businesses taken over are
not mentioned in the published sheet or
directors’ report. In the parent’s own
accounts the amount added to the book
value of shareholdings in subsidiaries (now
£696,387), was £398,507. Cash, deposits
and Government securities were drawn
upon for £354,465 net for the purpose,
reducing their combined total to £661,575.
The new additions to the family appear
to be a satisfactory lot. Although the
parent’s accounts alone show a contrac-
tion of £5144 in declared profit (£381,066)
figures of the parent and subsidiaries
combined disclose a spring of £42,031 in
net earnings of the group (£472,128). That
was after deducting outside interests, and
leaves out of the reckoning £32,359 net
brought forward in the p. and 1. accounts
of the co.’s acquired, but includes £8731
surplus on sale of fixed assets. Allowance
for depreciation was £61,825 (down
£3426), and whatever was considered
necessary was set aside for taxation and
other contingencies. Growth in goodwill,
etc. (£844,569) was £19,938, and the dif-
ference between par value and cost of
shares in subsidiaries (£207,610) increased
by £204,318, raising total intangibles to
£1,052,179.
The £472,128 of profit was 16.1 p.c.
on the £2,925,000 of capital, as against
14.7, 17.2 and 19.1 p.c. back to 1941.
The div., from which 2} points were
clipped in 1943, was kept at 10 p.c. The
£1,792,628 that remained made book
value of tangible support for capital
£1,965,502.
Chief factors affecting earnings have
been the pegging of civilian consumption
at two-thirds the thirsty Jan.-Feb,, 1942,
level. The effect of this has been largely
offset by service requirements, which fall
outside the public rationing scheme. But
sale of beer in Victorian country areas
has been affected by denudation of popu-
lations and movement of service person-
nel northward. Biggest jolt seems to have
come from the ban on inter-State freight-
ing of ale. Taxation and other costs now
swallow a much greater proportion of
takings. About the only recoverable cost-
increase has been war-time lifts in excise
—2s. lOd. per gallon since 1939, making
total excise 4s. 7d. per gallon.
Only lifts in brewers’ selling prices
have been those corresponding to lifts in
excise. On dispensing the brew to the
public, Melbourne hotelkeepers recovered
the extra excise, plus a gross profit of
a shilling a gallon on sales in 7oz. con-
tainers ; 2£d., lloz. containers; 6d., 4oz.
containers; Bd. bottled beer. The Prices
Commission, however, reduced selling
prices of beer in Melbourne as from
Jan. 1 last from 7d. to 6d. for 7oz. glass,
and from 4d. to for 4oz. glass. Also,
sales of lloz. pots are now compulsory
between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.; formerly they
were handed out between noon and 6 p.m.
Combined balance-sheet figures of
C.U.B. and subsidiaries compare as
follows:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital . . £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Outside interests* 9,993 11,087 12,142
Creditors!. . .. 901,868 892,469 925,949
Suspense account. . 11,279 —• 3,917
Freeholds,
breweries, etc. . . 2,429,160 2,470,648 2,795,505
Plant . . . . 689,461 685,638 640,827
Stocks, etc. . . 580,139 574,077 632,825
Book debts . . 1,293,306 1,102,352 1,066,716
Cash, etc. . . 740,257 1,119,862 843,387
* Includes proportion reserves, f Includes tax reserves.
The year’s addition of £324,857 to free-
holds, breweries, etc., and contraction of
£276,475 in cash, etc., reflect acquisition
of additional subsidiary interests already
referred to. The shrinkage in the more
or less liquid surplus (£1,600,420) was
only £292,315. The board is planning, a
programme of rehabilitation of plant and
buildings, including hotels, capital expen-
diture on which has been restricted dur-
ing the war. It also “hopes to resume
to the full extent its former role of assist-
ance to customers.”
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.)
Towards
Ro—
April, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £ „
Rights, development, etc. .. .. 251,233
Preliminary exes., £11,006., .. 262,239
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 .. .■ 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.c.f= 28,500 3,243 315,826
1941.. 132,092 6,, ~ 68,827 63,265 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,150 .. .. 283,711
1942.. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,331 252,380
1943.. 108,545 6,, „ 90,300 18,245 234,135
1944.. 125,791 6 „ „ 90,480 35,311 198,824
* Excluding “Reserves for depreciation, renewals,
etc.,” now £433,030. t Ord. shares only.
This is the million-and-a-half pound
paper-making venture which was launched


vV lh,& c/ lateL
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
TAE WtNTWORTH
ut
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C.-D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
INVENTORS* —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
&
3
*****
fv X
keeper for n • Ur B *®re-
f for particulars of—, /j
IAJVf r _ _ V
ynSuttil fUM£
INC A PPllANrcg
blue
flame
TH*>
£he
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7?0I.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
W\v
\^rsc
'
I
WM
quill ,w Wrf/mw
A
*
fa*
I lidohty th
CHEV. POWER
In 1943, Chevrolet produced no fewer than
23,500 aircraft engines, in addition to
26,000,000 lbs. of aluminium aircraft forgings
ranging from engine parts to 8 ft. propeller
blades. The giant production facilities which
made possible the World's No. 1 Car Value
are assisting to bring nearer the day when
Chevrolet will again give the World Economical
Transportation.
*
lit
t
in 1936 with the blessing of the big min-
ing cos. at the Barrier, Zinc Investments,
Electro. Zinc and A.I.C. Together with
Tasmanian Paper, they own about half
the capital; Gerald Musson and Tas-
manian Paper together received £250,000
f.p. shares for assets, rights, etc., and the
public put up half a million. Mills were
erected at Burnie (Tas.), production of
newsprint and fine-writing papers began
in August, 1938, and in less than two
years the business was on a dividend-pay-
ing basis, and has continued to expand
and strengthen its position since.
War, with attendant exchange and
shipping difficulties, created an acute
shortage of newsprint other papers.
The problem thus became one of pro-
duction rather than markets, and the
board has made the most of its oppor-
tunities. Although output was stepped up
from the initially-planned 15,000 tons
p.a. to around 21,000 tons p.a., it has
not been able to catch up with the order
book. The lag increased by nearly 3500
tons last term, when Government de-
mands, which are given priority over
commercial requirements, increased by
nearly 50 p.c. The position in this respect
has since eased, owing to diversion of
portion of the Government needs to lend-
lease channels. Paper thus imported is
confined generally to qualities not yet
produced at Burnie.
Selling prices of the co.’s products are
officially controlled and remain much be-
low landed cost of comparable lines from
overseas, which augurs well for the co.’s
post-war prospects. These will largely
depend upon ability to meet foreign com-
petition, which will be complicated by
questions relating to exchange, tariffs,
subsidies, costs, etc., all of which have
yet to straighten themselves out in spheres
of international trade.
Last term output shrank a little, fol-
lowing a decline in supplies of pulpwood,
owing to man-power difficulties. This and
a lift in the price of cordwood increased
unit production costs. Still, technical
efficiency improved, a tight hold was kept
upon controllable exes, and takings bene-
fited from the lift in selling prices (to
cover advancing costs) granted in the
previous term. After setting aside
£161,000 (up £81,000) for taxation, allow-
ing £107,380 (up £19,062) for deprecia-
tion, and deducting £931 added to in-
tangibles, the net result was £17,246
better at £125,791, or 8.3 p.c. on capital,
as against 7.2, 8.1, 8.7 and 2.6 p.c. back
to 1940, when the business got on to a
profitable basis. The div. was kept at
6 p.c., and the £35,311 left reduced the
amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles to £198,824. That leaves out
of the reckoning a depreciation reserve
of £433,030.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £1,200,000 £1,505,000 £1,508,750
Liabilities.. .. 341,826 79,490 61,471
Tax provision . . 1,675 93,204 254,204
Freehold land, etc.* 100,834 121,858 128,538
Buildings and plant* 971,967 1,124,676 1,173,781
Stores . . . . 61,373 315,333 288,560
Finished stocks . . 52,057 43,542 43,648
Debtors . . . . 26,679 129,517 121,750
Cash, etc 16,529 78,636 347,616
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 314,062 256,454 257,385
* At cost.
The year’s provision for taxation and de-
preciation enabled cash, etc., to be
strengthened by £268,980. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£485,899)'was £91,565.
Since the close of accounts 123,000
acres of freehold forests, known as Surry
Hills, and 140 acres of land adjoining the
mill site, have been bought from Paper
Makers Pty. for £85,000 in f.p. shares.
These were issued to Australian News-
print Mills, which owns all the capital
in the vendor co.
Post-war plans include installation of
stand-by plant, and additional equipment
for improvement of the quality of the
co.’s products. Also, a third paper-
making machine and auxiliary equipment,
which will lift output by nearly 7000 tons
p.a., is to be installed to meet local
market requirements. How much share-
holders are likely to be asked for, and
when, will be announced when war and
other developments enable reliable esti-
mates to be made.
City Electric Light (Brisbane)
This co, is offering those on the
register (prefs. and ords. alike) at Jan. 2
486,470 new £1 ords., one for four, at
par. Payment may be made either in full
or 2s. a share on application, Feb. 14,
and the balance in calls not exceeding
2s. a share at intervals of not less than
a month. When all the cash on the new
issue is in paid capital will be £2,432,349
in 20,000 6 p.c. non-cum. prefs., 125,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,287,249 ords. The
co. should have no difficulty in getting
the money, which is wanted for exten-
sion of the undertaking. Rights to the
new issue recently sold at 6s. 4d., which
is in keeping with the price of the ords.
(285.) before announcement of the issue.
The co. is the executive factor in the
big scheme for extension of electric
current throughout south-east Queens-
land. Planning is done by a commission
appointed by the Government, leaving
the co. to carry out in its own way diffi-
cult technical and other problems upon
which efficiency of the undertaking de-
pends. The commission, which does not
interfere directly in the co.’s domestic
affairs, is responsible for fixing prices for
current on a basis designed to cover costs,
plus depreciation, plus enough to enable
the co. to add a moiety to the reserve
fund and pay current rates on its debent-
ture and pref. capital and give the ords.
2 p.c. more than is to be had from Com-
monwealth loans issued for voluntary
subscription during the previous year.
Thus the ord. div. has been steady at
5} p.c. for the last three years.
Cuthbert’s Misima G.M. (Papua)
escaped direct war damage. The engine
and concrete vats are buried under sand
and gravel, which is being sluiced away
by the maintenance party now on the
spot. Apart from destruction of three
steel vats, damage to surface equipment
appears to be slight. Mine buildings and
houses are ready for occupation, the road
from beach to mine has been made traffic-
able, and the track from mine to timber
areas is Under repair. Principal job ahead
is reclamation of fallen drives, so that
enough working faces can be opened up
to keep 10 head of stamps (approx. 1500
tons a month) going. Before the remain-
ing 10 head in the other half of the bat-
tery begin to fall another engine will have
to be installed. However, ore production
and treatment cannot begin until the
Federal Government authorises resump-
tion of mining operations. This it has
not yet done, nor has it given any hint as
to when it is likely to do so.
* * * *
For the five weeks to Dec. 17 last Mt.
Morgan (Q.), mined 114,740 tons material,
of which 76,560 tons was dumped as
overburden. The balance (38,180 tons)
was sent to the sulphide mill, which
treated 36,900 tons for 4150 z. gold and
287 tons copper. Average assay value
was 3.65dwt. gold and 0.88 p.c. copper.
It was anticipated some months back
that ore treated during the current term
would average 2.65dwt. gold and 0.87
p.c. copper. Estimated net profit for
the period under discussion was £9468,
no allowance being made for deprecia-
tion. For the year to June 30 last the
co. recorded a loss of £122,580. Re-
coveries then averaged 2.33dwt. gold and
0.98 p.c. copper.
* * * *
Blue Asbestos continues to be talked
of in the West. “Recent visitors” declare
Hammersley Range deposits among the
largest in the world. Two cos., Colonial
Sugar and De Bernales Westralian Fibres,
Ltd., are reported to have spent in the
aggregate over £200,000 to date on these
deposits ; and each has equipped its prop-
erty with up-to-date plant, capable of
producing four grades of asbestos.
Colonial Sugar activities include f manu-
facture of asbestos cement boards, corru-
gated sheeting, cement pipes, etc. The
present mild boom in asbestos is due to
exceptional war-time conditions, and,
therefore, cannot be accepted as a reliable
guide to the future, when costs promise
to play a more prominent part in produc-
tion than they do today.


Victory
is in
our
Pockets
Whatever we do now is of small
account unless it hastens victory . . .
We must think of that whenever
we hold back a pound that might
go into war savings ... £1 might
lessen by a minute the duration of
the war.
... £lOO might cut off an hour. That
is what we are saving... not simply
money but lives. Put every pound
you can into war loans. That is
what the M.L.C. is doing.
• • •
••• • • •
The business of life assurance is
protection, and we know of no
better way of protecting the
hundreds of thousands who entrust
the guardianship of their future
to us than by investing in Victory.
And Victory is in our pockets.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.)
*
FOUNDED 1886.
Assets exceed .. £41,000,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed £48,000,000
The M.LC.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Landing on Luzon.
“Ek Dum”: On January 10 General
MacArthur put an end to conjectures
about a landing on Luzon by the issue
of a communique:
Our forces have been landed on Luzon
in a far-flung amphibious penetration. Our
troops have seized four beachheads in Lin-
gayen Gulf. The movement was covered
by a blistering naval and air bombardment,
using both land-based and carrier-based
’planes The enemy’s air force made re-
peated and desperate attacks against our
naval-force formations in an endeavor to
break the cohesion of our movement, but,
beyond inflicting some loss and damage,
was unsuccessful. In these encounters 79
enemy ’planes, one midget submarine, two
destroyers, one coastal cargo ship and many
smaller harbor and coastal craft were de-
stroyed.
The General declared that the enemy
obviously had not prepared for a landing
in the Lingayen area, and that the losses
of the landing forces were insignificant,
adding:
We are now in his rear. His main rein-
forcement and supply lines to the Philip-
pines are cut, and his ground fight for
Luzon will have to be made with such
resources as he now possesses.
This last paragraph must cause a little
mystification. Lingayen is the natural
approach to Manila by a large force. It
has been accepted as the decisive landing
area by every strategist for more than a
generation. The long-dead Homer Lee
was praised as a prophet early in 1942
when the Japanese realised his forecast
by making a main landing there, but
actually his book had merely repeated a
naval commonplace.
The Japanese for months have preached
the certainty of an attack on Luzon, and
since the attacks on Formosa in October
have shouted of its imminence. In Aus-
tralia date and landing area had been
talked about for some time.
It is difficult to know why and how
the enemy is cut off from the north, un-
less his sea communications with Formosa
are completely sealed. The port of
Aparri, in the north of Luzon, together
with other north and north-west coastal
ports, is in enemy hands. These places are
connected by military roads through the
mountainous interior with Manila and
with the Lingayen defence area.
It takes a lot of naval and air power
to close sea routes stretching through so
wide an area of water as the Philippines
approaches. Even British and American
naval and air might had considerable
difficulty in completely closing the short
sea gap between Sicily and Tunisia. And
dominating Axis air forces 60 miles away
found themselves for two years unable
to shut off the supplies of Malta.
Ashore at Lingayen
However, the Americans went ashore
on Lingayen beaches between San Fer-
nando and Lingayen, near the base of the
Lingayen Gulf. The landing points were
linked to Manila by rail and military
highways down the long valley which
runs for 100 miles southward from
Lingayen Gulf.
On their right hand is the Lingayen
Peninsula, an odd-shaped bit of land ; it
rather suggests a bollard which has been
attached to Luzon to enable somebody to
tie a hawser to the island. Its southern
projection is the Bataan Peninsula, which
holds two volcanoes, about 5000 ft. high.
The northern end forms the western shore
of Lingayen Gulf. In point of height
and ruggedness the peninsula does justice
throughout its course to the height and
ruggedness of its beginnings in Bataan.
It is a tantalising barrier to an invading
force —a high mountain range with a
coast unsuitable for landings and wide
enough to shut off the valley down which
attackers of Manila from the north have
to pass from flank support by naval guns.
On the eastern flank there rises up
another volcanic range, which runs the
whole length of the island, passing to the
east of Manila, where it forms a great
amphitheatre.
Main military roads and railways
wander round the hill fringes and down
the centre of the valley leading to the
capital, which is about 110 miles from
Lingayen, the southernmost landing place
of the Americans. The valley floor, which
forms a great central plain, 20 to 30 miles
wide, is well watered with rivers which
at certain points form useful water
barriers for defenders.
Admiral Fraser’s Appraisal
Admiral Fraser, C.-in-C. British Pacific
Fleet, described the landing as “a bold,
daring and very skilfully executed opera-
tion in which /every detail had been
worked out from top to bottom.” He
said everything went according to plan,
despite determined enemy air opposition,
adding that the Australian squadron did
admirable work in the face of consistent
air attacks, and was praised for its rapid
reporting of the presence of enemy aircraft.
The admiral did not confirm a Japanese
report that the Royal Navy was repre-
sented in strength, but said that he ex-
pected the British Fleet to play a major
part in Pacific operations soon.
The Japanese Navy did not come into
action to oppose General Krueger’s
Sixth Army, which was backed by
Admiral Kincaid’s Seventh Fleet, to which
were attached H.M.A.S. Australia, Shrop-
shire, Arunta and Warramunga and small
ships. Neither was any fight shown to-
wards Admiral Halsey’s Third Fleet, act-
ing as accompanying task force. The
coastal guns were almost silent, save for
a few salvoes fired near San Fernando.
For the most part the main response
to the invaders’ tornado of fire was a
flutter of Filipino white flags along the
beaches and placards reading “No Japs
here.”
More troops were said to have been
put ashore during the first 24 hours than
in the same period of the Normandy
invasion. In the first day four or five'
towns were seized. The U.S. forces
pushed down the valley for more than
30 miles with tanks and artillery without
meeting strong resistance, or indeed any
Japanese forces other than probing
patrols keeping in touch with their move-
ments and feeling out their strength.
No shore-based defences have much
chance of withstanding a major naval
bombardment with guns of the 1944-45
vintage. The enemy would naturally retire
inland as far as possible to fight from
established points of vantage, close to his
own main airfields and dumps.
The likely line of main outpost resist-
ance seems to be in the region of Tarlac
and Cabantuan, 60 miles or so from
Manila. Just south of these towns a main
road system runs right across the waist
of the island from Baler and Sabari, on
the east, via Cabantuan, St. Miguel and
Concepcion to Iba, on the west coast.
Here it links with the west coastal road,
which parallels the American advance
east of the Lingayen peninsula ranges,
and also is part of a loop highway system
which encircles the Clark Field-Camp
Stotsenburg area south of Tarlac, between
the main southern road and the valley
road and rail and the western range. It
links Subig Bay and the defences of
Bataan with the Tarlac system.
Between this area and Manila, from
the mountains above Cabantuan, through
which it passes, the Pampanga River
forms a water barrier. It enters Manila
Bay between Malolos to the n.-w. of the
capital and the base of Bataan Peninsula.
The Allies could do much to neutralise
the defence area on the Lingayen side of
the river if a landing could be effected in
Subig Bay, at the base of the Bataan
Peninsula, which gives access to the valley
above the river. Ability by the U.S.
forces to achieve such a landing would
be a pointer to their strength.
One thing is certain: for the first time
the Americans are facing a decisive action
on land in the Pacific against an enemy
who cannot be shattered by naval bom-
bardment, who has the advantage of
organised land communications, abundant
industrial labor and well-established
dumps and airfields, beside possessing
large and well sheltered areas in which to
manoeuvre. The coming battles will pro-
vide a sure test by which the capacity of
Japanese generalship can be measured.
General Lumsden Killed
No official estimate of Allied ship and
naval man-power casualties had been
issued up to January 16, but Tokyo
Radio, with its usual abandon, sank three
aircraft-carriers, a couple of battleships,
a few cruisers and 16 transports and hun-
dreds of aircraft.
Certainly, the covering fleets did not
come out scathless. The report of the
New York “Times” correspondent
showed that the first heavy ship to enter
the gulf was damaged by a bomb
attack somewhat similar to that which
damaged H.M.A.S. Australia in the Leyte
operations. In the attack Lieut.-General
Lumsden, Mr. Churchill’s personal repre-
sentative with General Mac Arthur, one
of Britain’s best leaders of armor, was
killed, and Admiral Fraser was knocked
off his feet by blast. Killed also was an
American correspondent, William Chick-
ering.
U.S. Navy at Work
Along the Luzon lines of communi-
cation and in its supply centres, even into
the heart of Japan itself, Allied aircraft
continued offensive operations during the
Luzon landing.
The U.S. Navy took a hand when
Admiral Halsey’s carrier forces made a
sweep off the Indo-China coast. They
attacked four convoys, sank a 5500-ton
cruiser of the Katori class, with 25 other
ships, and heavily damaged 13 vessels,
shooting down 39 enemy aircraft. U.S.
ships suffered no damage.
Most of the enemy vessels were sup-
posed to be bound for Luzon with sup-
plies. The convoys were scattered, but
some of them will reach their destination.
U.S. naval units shelled bases in the
Kuriles to the north-east of Japan.
Admiral Nimitz has reported the loss of
three U.S. destroyers in a recent typhoon.
At Mandalay's Gates.
The advance of the British on all fronts
in Burma continues. The position at
Akyab was consolidated in a fresh land-
ing in Hunter’s Bay, 35 miles east of
Akyab. There the 15th Indian Division
seized Myebon, the first step towards
cutting the retreat routes of the Japanese
still north-east of Akyab, between the
ranges and the coast, and particularly
along the Kaladan River, where the
enemy has been showing some liveliness.
The Central Burmese drives were
accelerated both down the main railway
and from Yeu. By January 15 the force
from the north, which met little opposi-
tion in capturing Shwebo, had swept on
to within 30 miles of Mandalay, the land
battle for which had been already
heralded by the opening of a bombing
offensive. In the first raid 480 tons of
bombs were dropped, a full third of the
crews being R.A.A.F.
The Fourteenth Army Forces from
Yeu were at the outer defences of
Monywa at the week-end, and it would
soon be seen whether the enemy could or
would defend the heart of Burma.
Rundstedt Falls Back.
“Ek Bum”: During the past week
Field-Marshal Montgomery, after pre-
liminary regrouping, carried out the task
of squeezing out the furthest-flung por-
tions of Von Rundstedt’s salient north-
west of the edges of the Ardennes
plateau.
From the north he proceeded to strike
a glancing blow mainly along the roads
towards the upper valley of the Ourthe,
which river pours down the waters of
two mountain streams that join just above
Houffalize. General Patton at the same
time appears to have abandoned his
attempt to reach Houffalize by the main
Bastogne-Liege road and nipped round to
a side road which leads to the Ourthe at
Laroche, via the little crossroads town of
Bertogne, about seven miles south-west
of Houffalize. Eventually the north and
south forces joined hands.
All round here is country very different
from that further east, beyond the
Bastogne-Liege road. It consists of foot-
hills and river valleys, wooded and with
scenic attractions which range from the
cascades at Coo, on the Ambleve, to the
caves and gorges and sylvan trout
streams, fished by the burghers of Liege,
and the walking country on either
side of the Ourthe —a rough track on
the right bank and a good road on the
left which balloons away to the south to
avoid the rough river country on the
French side. In less than 10 crowfly miles
between Laroche, “the heart of the
Ardennes,” and Houffalize (“the high
crag”) the river has many horseshoe bends.
Von Rundstedt’s Salient
It pushed out through the lush Ardennes
foothill country far beyond the Ourthe
headwaters along the balder heights
to St. Hubert. Von Rundstedt was like a
hungry wojf lying on the edge of a creek
who has poked his distended snout
through some bushes down the bank to
sniff for prey and who suddenly sees an
enemy on each side. The simile is appro-
priate, since St. Hubert is the home town
of the patron saint of hunters.
In the European military world, how-
ever, both sides being fairly equal, any
European general of standing is not likely
to be badly caught in such an area. It is
textbook terrain ; a region which German
staffs have pored over ever since there
were German staffs. And many senior
British officers in the present campaign
must know it by heart —they have been
traversing the very routes by which the
British cavalry spearheads travelled to
the occupation of Germany in December,
1918. Von Rundstedt, in particular, has
a reputation as an authority on this
countryside. He knew better than to risk
his snout in the scissors, the blades of
which were divided at the week-end only
by the Ourthe valley. Montgomery’s U.S.
First Army troops were at Samree, four
miles or so north-east of Laroche, be-
tween that town and the main Liege-Bas-
togne road ; also at Les Tallies, three miles
from Houffalize, on the main Liege road.
On the other side of the Ourthe Pat-
ton’s troops had cut the main line of Von
Rundstedt’s retreat from St. Hubert by
taking Bertogne. They were about nine
miles from Samree across country, seven
miles from Houffalize, 11 miles from
Laroche. The Allies were near Champ-
ion, seven miles from Laroche on the
south. But there was little or nothing for
them to close on except rearguards.
Rundstedt, aided by the snow and the
overcast sky which made it impossible
for the Allies to use their air-power, had
drawn back beyond the Liege-Houffalize-
Bastogne road to the bald heights of the
St. Vith-Bastogne plateau. Much of this
country is bleak and desolate, but pro-
vides more chances of flexible movement
than the broken country of the Ourthe
below. The road from Samree to St.
Vith crosses the Liege-Bastogne road at
the second-highest point in Belgium, at
Baraque de Fraiture.
The Germans, no doubt, have suffered
substantial losses as the result of their
advance to the Meuse. But if they have
been able to take advantage of the time
gained they should have been able to con-
solidate a front across the top of the
plateau in country which is more or less
all of one piece, and in which they have
the advantage of mobility. None of Von
Runstedt’s forces have been trapped. He
still has a solid salient 25 miles deep
east to west and 25 to 30 miles wide
north to south inside Belgium and Luxem-
bourg. His forces are still a threat to
the gateways into Holland and France.
With the coming of a little fine weather
Allied air forces were able to operate
at the week-end, but the Germans were
able to throw attacks northwards towards
Malmedy, at one of the points of greatest
danger to the Allies,
Net Results
The enemy has upset the Allied com-
mand and put an Allied offensive cam-
paign out of the question until reorgan-
isation can be achieved. To that extent
the honors are so far with the German
command, but the game has turned in
favor of Montgomery. What happens in
Belgium in the future largely depends
upon whether his policy of concentra-
tion is followed or whether the old system
is restored, under which it has seemed in
the past few months that no army could
be allowed the credit of an advance
unless armies in other sectors are like-
wise in the picture.
In the Strasbourg-Lauter River sector
in the Rhine Valley, the Germans at the
week-end were lodged ten miles west of
the Rhine on both sides of Strasbourg.
There was still fierce fighting to check
further enemy advances in progress. Still
further south the same sort of wrestling
was going on in the Colmar region.
The salient feature of the West Front
battle was that nowhere had the Germans
lost the power of initiative, even if they
were at a stage in which local advantages
were with the Anglo-Americans in the north.
The Mediterranean.
Fighting in Italy was brought almost to
a standstill by rain, snow and one of the
most terrible blizzards of recent times.
But Canadian tankmen on the Adriatic
front got in some good work between


PRETTY PICTURE!
frevstym
\ * \ \
iSpiSw
mm
m
y t a
/ w/wf m*U \
GOVERNMENT AIRLINES COST ?
£4,004,678 is what it cost taxpayers to end the
steady drain on their wage envelopes as a result
of the Government’s entry into shipping.
Socialisation of airways will, according to a
Canberra estimate, cost two to three million (air
experts say eight to ten million) in “taking over”
alone.
What the annual burden on taxpayers will be
time alone will tell, but the history of the Govern-
ment’s commercial undertakings makes it quite
clear that you will have to pay and pay and pay.
HOW YOU CAN HELP FIGHT FOR FREE-
DOM. Socialisation is a death blow to your free-
dom. Your freedom to choose your own job .. .
pick your own home ~ . live your own life. Talk
it over with your friends. . . start discussion
groups . . . deal with it at your political meetings
. . . remember the Government is endeavoring to
side-step the people s verdict in the last Refer-
endum.
RELEASED BY
THE AIRLINE OPERATORS' SECRETARIAT
N
m
“THANKS” SAID THE ADMIRAL
“FOR THE |”00P”
“May I express thanks for all the assistance received
from Australia. You have done all we asked, and more,
in docks, lighters, equipment, and ESPECIALLY FOOD."
In these words Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser, Com-
mander in Chief of the British Pacific Fleet, has paid a
tribute to the great wartime job Australia has already
done in food —in spite of drought, depleted manpower, and
other unavoidable difficulties.
But Admiral Fraser is also expressing his confidence,
and the confidence of the people of Britain, that Australia
will continue to maintain the essential food requirements
of this great fleet (£10,600,000 worth by June, 1945) while
still meeting its existing heavy food commitments —to
Australian and Allied forces on many fronts, to the
civilians of the United Kingdom, and to our own people
here in Australia.
To produce all this food requires all hands to the task.
The farmers, the growers and the food industry as a
whole will play their part. It remains for the rest of the
population to: —
Produce food —every home vegetable garden and
fowl run relieves the drain on the nation’s food sup-
plies as a whole. So grow your own vegetables—
raise your own fowls.
Refuse to buy on the black market. This is the
meanest form of sabotage.
Avoid food waste of any kind.
DON'T LET THE NAVY DOWN
Issued by CommonwealtU Food Control
F 57.82.15
Lake Comacchio and the coast and wiped
out a German company.
In Greece an armistice was arranged
after the terrorist methods of the com-
munist leaders had split the E.A.M.
movement. An exchange of prisoners
and British civilians was arranged, but
the barbarous E.L.A.S. chieftains refused
to give up their hostages—it has been
suggested that most of the poor wretches
have been “liquidated.”
On January 14 an Athens dispatch re-
ported that fighting had broken out
afresh in north-western Greece and the
Morea, insurgents attacking British troops.
Moscow Strikes Again.
“Ek Dum”: On January 14 Marshal
Stalin issued an Order of the Day regard-
ing a new drive in Poland west of the
Vistula, towards Cracow and Silesia:
In spite of bad weather, which did not
permit air support, our troops broke
through the enemy’s defences on a 26-mile
front west of Sandomiercz. A powerful,
well-organised artillery offensive played a
decisive part in the breakthrough. In two
days of offensive fighting the Russian troops
advanced 25 miles and widened their break-
through to more than 40 miles. They
stormed and captured Szydlow, Stpnica,
Chielmnsk, Busko, Wislica and more than
350 other places in the breakthrough area.
Other offensives had been reported—
one in Slovakia, between Kosice and
Luchenec; another inside the East Prussian
frontier, on the front on which the Rus-
sians struck with no apparent success in
October. Here the Russians announced
the capture of Eydkuhnen. This is the
third occasion on which its capture has
been reported, and two months ago the
Russians were supposed to be 10 miles
at least beyond it inside East Prussia. It
is clear that their retreat was longer than
had been admitted. Later offensives!
from Magnuszew, between Warsaw and
Sandamierzc, and from Narew River
towards the southern border of East
Prussia were announced.
Moscow’s heralding of the attack on
the Cracow front was on the same lines
as that of the breakthrough in October on
the East Prussian front. There were
the same 20 salvoes of 224 guns. The
same tribute was paid to the artillery
barrage, and the penetration was the
same and the subsequent widening of the
front the same.
In each case the Germans were ahead
with their account of the opening of the
offensives. Their version of the Cracow
drive (given at midnight, Jan. 14, Sydney
time) was that it was on a large scale
but that it did not come as a surprise ;
that it was being made against a deeply-
echeloned defence system; that it had
been preceded by heavy drumfire lasting
many hours ; and that a tank battle had
begun which was increasing in violence
from hour to hour —78 Soviet tanks were
claimed as destroyed.
The attack in Slovakia, where it was
asserted by Berlin that small penetra-
tions had been sealed off, and that in
East Prussia, where it was said that the
assaults were on a battalion and regi-
mental scale only, were described by the
Germans as “diversionary.”
Previous Attacks
It was here pointed out several times
that the Cracow area was one of the
lethal points of attack on Germany from
the east. On Jan. 16 Russians appeared
to have reached the first defence line and
crossed the Nida River, to be about 35
miles north-east of Cracow at one point
and about 70 miles from the German
frontier at the nearest approach. The
rate of their advance showed that they
could have met little resistance, and artil-
lery could not account for the breaking
of the three supposed strong defence lines
for 25 miles in the time.
Actually, at the week-end they had not
reached the main German defence lines,
which are on the hills between Kielce and
Cracow. And though 70 miles and 35 miles
seem nothing to boy-reporters. General
Eisenhower, whose forward groups have
been less than 35 miles from Cologne and
the Rhine in the Roer sector for some
time, could tell a different tale. Since the
Russians are striking at the Beuthen-
Gleiwilz area on the Silesian border, an
eastern area comparable in importance to
them to the Ruhr in Germany, the
enemy must defend it as he is defending
the Roer and the Bologna Road,
In Hungary and Thereabouts
On the Hungarian front the Germans
claimed that the forces withdrawn from
the Danube region had been incorporated
in the Lake Balaton Gap defences after
the Russians had suffered “enormous
losses” in men and artillery. It was added
that recent attacks on the Austrian-
frontier sector had mostly been made
by Titoists, whose operations had been
“futile,” and that a front now had been
established south of the Drava and a
western-facing defence in the south estab-
lished towards Italy.
Komarno, whose “imminent” fall was
to open the way to Bratislava and Vienna,
and Budapest, where two Russian armies,
after months of fighting, were engaged
with the last few thousand Germans sup-
posed to be holding out there “desper-
ately” in an ever-changing fraction of
the city, were still uncaptured at the
week-end.
The news from Budapest was hope-
lessly conflicting. 8.8. C. and A.B.C. and
Sydney papers contradicted one another
blithely. The Russians were pulverising
the garrison with gunfire ; they were not
using gunfire so as to spare the civil
population. They had stopped the enemy
force trying to relieve the defenders;
they hadn’t quite stopped it; it was 40
miles from the city, then 20 miles, 15
miles, “some” miles. At the week-end the
enemy alleged, through a certain Colonel
von Olberg, that “his assault column” had
“almost reached the Danube in the great
bend north of Budapest, encircling strong
Russian forces, except for a narrow gap.”
It is all a mystery which only events can
unravel.
However, there is great confidence
about the movements in other regions:
Observers in Moscow expect that the
Red Armies, ia a series of fast, successive
operations, will break through and wipe
out the majority of the 200 enemy divisions
massed on the Eastern Front before they
are able to regain their own territory.
“Observers” in other parts will be satis-
fied with less.
A.I.F. TAKES OYER.
“Ek Dum”; On January 9 Canberra's
curious Department of Information issued
a batch of stuff about Australian military
operations which looked like the manu-
script of a new Gibbon. No newspaper
published more than a fraction of it. The
pith was summed up in General Mac-
Arthur’s communique (page 6).
The only specific acts of “continuous
attrition” listed since the Australians
began to take over from the Americans
in occupied areas in Mandated territory
in October-November were the capture
for consolidation purposes of three ridges
in the Empress Augusta Bay area, on the
west coast of Bougainville, and patrol
fighting in the rough country behind the
Japanese Wewak-Aitape enclave, on the
north coast of New Guinea.
The movements of the Australians, it
has been explained, were a secret — i.e. , a
secret from all who happen to be deaf in
both ears—because they involved the “re-
placement of large bodies of American
troops.” Actually, the dogs were barking
about the moves early in December, just
as they were then barking the date and
place of the proposed Luzon landing.
The statement emphasised that Aus-
tralians would be pitted against strong,
well-equipped forces, in good physical
condition, who have an aggressive fight-
ing spirit and were not lacking in sup-
plies ; but fighting had not yet been
heavy.
It was announced that to pave the way
for operations to come the R.A.A.F. had
smashed enemy defences and troop con-
centrations ahead of advancing troops,
softened up enemy defences, protected
landings and dropped a record bomb
load of 750,0001 b. over hundreds of
square miles in December, 1944. In
pounds the figure sounds more impressive
than in tons—32s metric tons, about the
amount which Allied air forces in Europe
drop on a few acres in a few minutes,
sometimes without doing lethal damage.
Over several hundred square miles it
would do only pinpricking damage,
especially if the position is as it was set
ou t hy General Blarney in November;
When cut off from direct surface com-
S C fc on t J I r, l7 i fl b p Se ’- th f J A P . ga L
nson m the Gazelle Peninsula (Rabaul)
probably had stores of rations to sustain it
for many months. Further supplies, it can
be assumed, have been taken in by sub-
IJlftlhll 11 ;! 1 ! ™ ve tv? odg vi d d r -| nd n f val
patrols ranging over the wide Pacific waters.
There is reason to believe that their supplies
are stored in underground shelters so deep
as to be invulnerable to air attack. In
addition, the Japanese at Rabaul have about
3000 acres under cultivation. On New Ire-


Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the Services, please
make the most of it when you have a supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
will be sufficient to keep your hair smart and healthy. And remember.
fd
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con-
trol the flow. In a few seconds
you'll be able to measure an
economical quantity from the
even-flowing cream.
Don’t spend. Lend. Put your money into 5/- National Savings Stamps.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BACK THE BOYS—Buy War‘Savings Certificates.
How con I combine
modernity I with
durabilityf
553
1
i
1
C Wk
m
m
This Masonite kitchen provides the answer. With
Masonite you can have durable, knock-proof work-
ing surfaces, cupboards which combine symmetry
with serviceability, walls that are jiffy-quick to
clean, moisture resistant and easy to instal.
Masonite can be finished in any desired colour. So
redecoration means only a fresh coat of paint or
enamel
Hk* 5 !
is
0.
Manufactured by: MASONITE CORPORATION ( AUST.) LTD.,
SALES DIVISON, 369 Pitt Street, Sydney, and
Robh Building, 529 Collins Street, Melbourne.
* Limited supplies note available from all leading builders *
suppliers, timber merchants and hardware stores.
MAS 1-44
*PRESDWOOD
•TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QUABTRBOARD
land they also are growing foodstuffs, and
in Bougainville, despite harassing attacks
by Allied forces, they have extensive areas
under cultivation.
The C.-in-C. said early in November
that there was reason to believe that very
many of the enemy are fit and well sup-
plied with arms and ammunition in these
major centres of Japanese concentration
and potential resistance, and would be
prepared to resist to a finish.
The enemy’s numbers were at that time
estimated to be 18,000 in Dutch New
Guinea, 30,000 in the Wewak area, 40,000
in the Rabaul area, 10,000 in New Ireland
and 15,000 in Bougainville and Buka, in
the Solomons. In 1944, to August 25,
U.S. forces reported having counted 4027
Jap dead in the Admiralties, 4891 in New
Britain, 9547 on Bougainville, 8265 at
Aitape, all outside those killed in Aus-
tralian campaigns.
Earlier Statements
Parliament should find it interesting to
compare statements now issued by the
Department of Information with state-
ments which appeared earlier.
The department’s “Facts and Figures
of Australia at War” for June, 1944, said
that, on the previous April 26, Australians
had completed the unresisted occupation
of Madang and Alexishafen. Three weeks
later, the pamphlet recorded, Wakde
Island was occupied by ITS. forces, and
General MacArthur announced that “for
strategic purposes this marks the prac-
tical end of the New Guinea campaign.”
Further advances and landings of the
Australians on the Madang-Sepik coast,
and of the Americans at Aitape, seem-
ingly enabled the remainder of the tale
to be told.
On June 11 the Japanese were reported
to be massing 45,000 men of the 18th
Army to “try to smash a way out of
the trap” into which they had fallen be-
tween the Australians at the Sepik end
and the Americans at Aitape. From then
till the first week in August triumphs for
the Allies in the Driniumor River area
were reported, culminating on August 11
in the announcement that the enemy force
had been shattered and that he had lost
18,000 men.
On August 30 A.I.F. units were re-
ported in action ip the Sepik swamps,
which lie on the eastern side of the
Wewak-Aitape area which Australian
forces have now taken over completely.
September 8 brought the news that a
Jap air division in New Guinea had been
wiped out, and that Japanese defence
was “worthless.” Remnants in the Wewak
area were being “harried.” The Septem-
ber issue of “Facts and Figures” summed
up ithe position in that area:
Patrol clashes and heavier skirmishes
proceeded with increasing cost to the enemy
until it was officially announced, on August
15, that the fate of the Japanese in the
Wewak sector was sealed.
It was added that a “statistical check
of relative casualties” in New Guinea
showed that “in the fighting after the
landing at Sansapor, in eastern Dutch
New Guinea, the ratio was one Allied
soldier killed to every 187 Japanese.”
“Avenue of Retreat”
A map accompanied this statement. It
showed the only Japanese-held area in
the whole of Australian and Mandated
mainland New Guinea to be a narrow
strip of coastal land centreing in Wewak,
about 60-70 miles long, and stretching in-
land about 30 miles past Bunui, From this
enclave a long black arrow was drawn
across the island to the headwaters of the
Sepik and across 15,000 ft. high moun-
tains and the worst and wildest part of
Dutch New Guinea to the south-eastern
coast, thence across the sea to Ceram.
The distances would be about 750 miles
by land and 200 miles by sea airline.
This route was labelled “Avenue of Re-
treat.”
The statements appearing in the de-
partmental publication were confirmed by
Mr. Curtin on August 30:
The enemy’s casualties in the Wewak-
Aitape area during the last months of fighting
were estimated at over 19,000 in killed and
wounded, and the Japanese Eighth (sic)
Army has virtually ceased to exist as an
effective fighting force Allied casualties
have been extremely light.
The reality is a very different picture
from that painted by Ministers and the
Information Department a few months
ago. For example:
With the end of the June, 1944, quarter
it can be said that the offensive begun a
year ago by combined Allied forces of the
South-west and South Pacific has'reached
its final stage. During the past 12 months
this co-ordinated offensive has resulted in
the reconquest or neutralisation of the
Solomons, the Bismarcks, the Admiralty
Islands and New Guinea.
It was said that “the original strength
of the Japanese forces deployed in the
South-west and South Pacific areas” was
“estimated at 250,000 men. Of these an
estimated total of 140,000 remained,”
neutralised in isolated groups with little
hope of escape. These then were placed
at 60,000 in New Guinea, 50,000 in New
Britain, 20,000 in Bougainville and
10,000 in New Ireland.
Although still a considerable force in
number, these Japanese are reduced to im-
potency by the destruction or Allied occu-
pation of their bases and the severance of
their supply routes.
In the ensuing three months it was
declared, their numbers having alleg-
edly been reduced to 90,000, that on parts
of N.G. mainland they were being
“hunted relentlessly,” and it was repre-
sented that “lack of supplies, terrain and
disease” were helping to destroy them.
No “Mopping-up”
If the Japanese are in the numbers in
which they are estimated to be, the New
Guinea campaign will be no “mopping-
up” job. But here again the public has
developed a contempt for New Guinea
fighting through the continuous issue
by the Information Department and other
official sources of such figures as those
for the fighting after Sansapor landing—
one Allied soldier killed to every 187
Japanese. Buna is a better guide. There,
with a bit more than a Jap division en-
gaged, Allied battle casualties were
10,000, including nearly 5000 killed, and
sickness casualties were three times as
many.
The advances towards the Philippines
have been in the nature of naval opera-
tions rather than of land war —except
for Leyte, no battle has been fought by
the Americans anywhere in the South-
west Pacific which could be described as
mainly an army operation.
Most of the real military fighting has
been done by the A.1.F., with help from
the militia in the New Guinea area. And
if the Jap numbers estimated are there
large-scale mainland fighting in New
Guinea still lies ahead. Until it is con-
cluded and until the last Jap is buried,
New Guinea and the Solomons, which
are Australian and British soil, are the
proper sphere for main Australian forces.
The frequent plea that Australia should
at least have a force with General Mac-
Arthur is born of lack of knowledge.
Australia has a strong force with General
MacArthur. Large sections of the
R.A.A.F. are helping to neutralise the
Japanese bases round the outer perimeter
of the Philippines. A great part of
the air protection of General Mac-
Arthur’s flank on the East Indian
perimeter is in Australian hands. The
R.A.A.F. Construction Unit, a consider-
able body of highly skilled men, is an
integral and vital part of his expedi-
tionary forces.
The core of the Australian Naval
Squadron has been with General Mac-
Arthur’s naval support since Cape Glou-
cester. It usually forms a spearhead of
attack at landings. This Australian con-
tribution to the U.S. Expeditionary
Force fighting for the Philippines repre-
sents, in the aggregate, assistance con-
siderably greater than could be given by
a full infantry division, and is, of its
peculiar specialised nature, invaluable.
The All-too-Silent Service
The Government will need in the next
few months to build up the spirit of Aus-
tralian troops and the confidence of the
Australian people in them. This is so
more especially since the bodies which
are now beginning to operate in New
Guinea are in reality (outside a small
percentage of militia) not the Second
but the Third A.I.F. Five years of active
service leaves very little of a battalion.
Australian casualties among ground
troops, apart from sickness and ageing
of the older men, are the equivalent of
nearly seven divisions. One South Aus-
tralian battalion (the 2nd/43rd), men-
tioned in Parliament by Senator McLeay
on November 30, had then only 36 left
out of the original 800.
Some battalions are made up almost
entirely of new men, and have entirely
new officers, many of whom have had no
battle experience.
There is one sure way to develop the
confidence of an army—to build up its
confidence in its leaders. That doesn’t
mean leaders among the politicians at
Canberra; it means leaders in the field.
Hitherto such leadership has been anony-
mous. Great care has been taken to see
that no Australian commander gets
anything like the attention devoted
by official writers in Britain to Mont-
gomery, and in Maoriland to Freyberg.
It is a great advantage to a country
at war to have national heroes, but in
Australia national heroes are off the map.
Neither are there any known units or
formations which may excite the atten-
tion and hold the interest of friends and
relatives of members as the campaign;
proceeds. The Australian land forces are
a Legion of Forgotten Men. The public
does not even know the names of the
active field commanders who will lead
their men into battle in the Mandated
Territory. It is a position unique in the
world of modern war, as of ancient war.
General MacArthur’s communique
on the landing at Leyte is a complete
answer to any suggestion that he is
responsible. On the day after the beach-
head was established, with the battle yet
to come, his communique (October 21)
contained the following:
Lieut.-General Krueger was in command
of the ground forces, which consist of the
X Corps, commanded by Major-General
Franklin C, Sibert; the XXIV Corps, com-
manded by Major-General John R. Hodge;
the Third Engineers’ Brigade, Amphibious,
commanded by Brigadier-General William
Seavy, and supporting supply and other
troops; the First Battery Division, Major-
General Verne B. Hart; the Seventh Infan-
try Division, Major-General Arnold; the
24th Infantry Division, Major-General
Frederick A. Irving; and the 96th Infantry
Division, Major-General Bradley.
The names of the principal naval and
air commanders were given—as they
usually are in the case of sea and large
air operations, as at Jacquinot Bay.


\
Mto&tor'/fomto
\ w
is
CANE-ITE lined
\
FOR COMFORTv AND QUIET!
Sv
Hi
n
S3p
?sgg
r
m
SSW
1.11
M
f
Cane-ite Insulating Board is quickly
and easily fixed. Rooms lined with
Cane-ite are effectively insulated
against heat, cold, and noise, and walls
and ceilings can be attractively grooved
or panelled and finished in any colour
to suit your furnishing scheme.
A
A C. S. R. PRODUCT
BUILDS
DECORATES
INSULATES
ABSORBS SOUND
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Materials Division
MARKETING: CANE-ITE , . . SLAGWOOt
PLASTER PRODUCTS . . . ASBESTOS FIBRE
CA 65-44
i
/y. 6.9 \
SPORTING NOTIONS
A G.O.M. steps down:
“Pilot” (J. F. Dexter) has had to turn in
writing this page. Physically small, and lately
frail, fie has been part of the Turf in Australia
for quite half a century. He has watched
the early track gallops and the later racing
of generations of horses, and seen generations
of crowds, of punters and “books” and the
rest, come and go, and he has expertly known
horses and what they can do as few know such
things. At his age, he has found the physical
strain of attending meetings a little too much.
Last week he was in a hospital room high
on the Randwick hills, where he could look
down, if he felt like it, on the curving white
rails and the green and brown tracks, and have
a distant view of tfie galloping. The stands
have changed, becoming a lot' bigger, in his
time, but the main racing track and the No. 1
grass are much as he first knew them. That
adds emphasis to his firmly-held opinion that
horses have gone on improving all the time.
It is absurd, “Pilot” contends, that', as Jere-
miahs suppose, all the care and money and
thought' that have gone into breeding have simply
been wasted. He points out that, though the
tracks are much now as they were when he
started, the times continue to get better. “You
can’t get away from facts.” Another thing
you can’t get away from is speed. They have
to go faster now. “Speed is the first essential
in a racehorse.”
Having watched horses for so long—par-
ticularly at Randwick; all that time a really
good track —“Pilot” can remember the per-
formances of thousands of them. He names
only one in particular—Phar Lap. Carbine was
a great horse, but was the opposition so good
in his day? Of course, “Pilot” admits, the “old
hands” swear by Carbine. For himself, Phar
Lap remains the best horse he ever saw.
You may point out that Phar Lap, who
broke various records in his day, now retains
only one, and that over a distance no longer
raced —the old 2i miles at Randwick. “Pilot”
refers you to the weights Phar Lap carried,
the tidy amount over weight-for-age with
which he won the Melbourne Cup, the class
of company he met, and also his effortless
galloping and the way he dominated a field,
so often to win at his ease. Moreover, what
stronger support could there be for the con-
tention that they keep on improving than
that one solitary place that that great horse has
been relegated to in the record books in such
a brief time?
“Pilot” notes one remarkable difference in
training methods these days. Preparing horses
for distance racing they seldom now send
them over more than a mile and a quarter.
Leaving out the present
riders, about some of whom
he has a high opinion,
“Pilot” specially recalls Jim
Barden, one of the earliest
to ride the forward seat in
Sydney. “A great old
rider, Jim.”
“Pilot” hails from
Queensland; born at Too-
woomba in November,
1864. He started work-
ing as a compositor, first
in Dalby and later in Bris-
bane, Sydney, Melbourne
and New Zealand, his
working addresses including
the old forerunner of the
Sydney “Sun/’ the Sun-
day edition of which has his son Alan as its
racing editor. Son Frank left a like job with
Melbourne “Argus” to become a war corre-
spondent, and was lately heard of in the
Philippines. Harry is another of the sport-
writing sons, as is Cliff, who, with Ralph, is
in the A.I.F. Yet another son, Gayne—
“Bob” —is publicity director for M.-G.-M. in
London. Eldest son, Jack, now in business in
Sydney, went through the last war, in which he
won the Military Cross. Afterwards he was one
of the Australian team (W. Longworth, H.
Hardwick and J. Stedman were the others)
that defeated the Americans and the repre-
sentatives of the other Allied Nations in the
800 metres teams swimming championship at
the Inter-Allied Games in Paris.
Most of “Pilot’s” writing till he came
to The Bulletin was for the old “Referee,”
on which he had a special reputation as a
picker of winners of important events. Its
editor when he joined it was Nat Gould. An-
other “Referee” contemporary was A. G.
(“Smiler”) Hales, who turned novelist, like Nat.
“Pilot” has been using this writing name since
1895. When the “Ref.” proprietorship changed
hands “Pilot” joined the old “Guardian,” to
which office the “Ref.” presently followed him,
and he was again in his old job. From the
earlier “Ref.” “Pilot,” going away to look over
American, English and French racing, was
given a great send-off at the Australia in
“Reel in your slack , Joe , or he'll get away!"
Sydney, with the then Lord Mayor in the chair
and Colin Stephen supporting.
A good many of Australia’s best sporting
writers trained from time to time with “Pilot,”
leaving out the pointers he was able to pass
on to his sons. One of his most noted appren-
tices was H. Wolfe, now “Cardigan” of Mel-
bourne “Herald.” Boxing writers with whom
he was associated were Bill Corbett and Bill
Lawless. He saw Larry Foley, fat and scant
of breath, fight Jack Burke —as he recalls it,
the most humorous episode of the great days
of The Ring, when Sydney was the stamping-
ground for some of the best boxers in the
world.
* * * *
Two exceptionally nice performances were
witnessed at Rosehill on Saturday—the Hua
colt D-Day (T. Clarke) defeating the two
Brazen colts Brazardis and Impudence in the
Maiden Juvenile (colts and geldings), and Hall
Stand (A. B Sinclair) defeating Abbeville and
Felbeam in the Flying Handicap. Both won
with lengths to spare in fields of 18 and 19
respectively, D-Day shaping most promisingly
to atone for his narrow, and perhaps unlucky,
defeat by Nigeria at Canterbury, and Hall
Stand returning to the form he had shown at
Rosehill before going on to Randwick to be
made a hot favorite' and run a fair fourth
in the Carrington.
Hall Stand evidently likes the Rosehill sur-
roundings. He has won there at mixed dis-
tances up to nine furlongs, including an
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, Rosehill
Guineas and Ascot Kingsford Smith Flying,
and it was a fairly good field of sprinters he
beat on Saturday. Never worse than third,
he finished with great dash under his 9.3 in
on a damp track. At his previous start
there, on good going, his 1.1 li set a Rosehill
record.
In the Carrington, in which Hall Stand,
though always close up, showed no dash, Fel-
beam faltered at the crossing and was then
beaten only a head by Victory Lad. It was
Felbeam’s turn to be favorite at Rosehill, but
though she had much the best of the start, she
seemed to lose ground rather sharply near the
three-furlongs and was four lengths from the
winner at the end. The going may not have
suited her ; she may have run into a soft patch,
or may just have been having an off day.
Though Abbeville did not really look like
winning, he gave a very sound display
Hiving his first race since running last when
favorite in the Epsom in October, he improved
strongly from fifth at the turn. Lagoon (fourth),
though a smart galloper, is evidently not up to
the best company. Still, he went well with a
clear lead to the turn and should not be long
in winning.
Repshot won a number of races in Brisbane
before coming south, but none of them was
against particularly high class, so it may have
been more on the strength of other Queens-
landers’ recent performances in Sydney that he
was so heavily backed. He was drawn on the
extreme outside, on a course where that counts,
was having his first run in Sydney and his first
since his Doomben Second Division win in
September, and at 8.6 was rated 11b. better
than such a solid Sydney performer as his
fellow-Queenslander Abbeville; yet Repshot
was backed down to second favoritism, pre-
ferred to, among others, both Abbeville and
Hall Stand. With so much against him, it
might be as well to suspend judgment. He
finished thirteenth.
Another of the Queensland contingent failing
to reproduce his northern good form, Bah-
theon was also well backed, but once more dis-
appointed, though he finished fairly—as he
generally does —to be fourth to the dead-heaters
Dick Whittington and Kookaburra in the Turf
Club Handicap. Haripur was third. The run-
ning is unlikely to have much bearing on any
important distance events ahead.
Of the seven Rosehill races three were won
by Queensland riders —W. Martell, A. B. Sin-
clair and G. Bourgoure. As noted here earlier,
Sinclair is steadily winning note as a specialist
in sprint events. In about a month to last
Saturday he had ridden winners of such events
at four meetings—twice on Hall Stand at Rose-
hill and once each on Fine Art and Hedui at
Canterbury. He had won at no other dis-
tance in this time, and would seem to be a
particularly good judge of six-furlongs require-
ments. It might be worth bearing in mind for
the Challenge Stakes, though he did fail in the
Carrington on Hall Stand.
As to the Challenge Stakes, both Hall Stand
and Abbeville have been reported as unlikely
starters, but either would have a chance.
Hedui, from the Hall Stand stable, beat a good
one in Tea Rose very convincingly at Canter-


Public Notices.
I, MATTEO HE MATTIA, of Italian nationality,
bom at Stefano, province of Belluno, Italy, and
resident 17 years in Australia, now residing at Wil-
berforce Road, Windsor, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, GESUALDO VALDINO MAGGIORE, of Italian
nationality, born at Vizzini, province of Catania,
Sicily, and resident 18 years in Australia, now, re-
siding at Club House Hotel, Rankin Street, Forbes,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE HENRY SINGLE (last heard of at Can-
berra) and/or DARCY JOHN SINGLE.—Any person
blowing their present whereabouts is requested to
communicate with THE PERPETUAL EXECUTORS
AND TRUSTEES ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED of 100-104 Street Melbourne, 0.1.
Legal Notice.
THE SUPREME UOURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
T Capital territory— pbobate jurisdiction.
IN THE WILL of THOMAS ROSS McCULLOCH
**te of Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Coinpany Director deceased.—APPLICATION will be
!® a de after Fourteen days from the publication hereof
that Probajte of the Will of the abovenamed deceased
Ranted by the Supreme Court of New South Wales
1,1 its Probate Jurisdiction on the Twenty-second day
, of July One thousand nine hundred and forty-three
1° JOHN FARRAM and WILFRED JOHN FARRAM
of the members of the Arm of Oarruthers Farram
'tod Company of 67 York Street Sydney Chartered
V? c ‘ountants appointed as Executors by the said Will
?CfixANDER WILLIAM CHAPMAN the other mem-
" er thereof having renounced Probate may be sealed
.toth the Seal of this Honorable Court by virtue of
powers under and in accordance with the pro-
t ls >ons of the National Security (External Terri-
h°!? es ) Regulations and the Administration and Pro-
3te Ordinance 1937-1940 of the Territory of New
in respect of the Estate of the abovenamed
®°eased in the Territory of New Guinea and all
having any claim against the said Estate are
gjThired to forward particulars thereof to the under-
SPed within the said period and all notices may be
n??ed at the undermentioned address.—DAVlES &
. °ODS Proctors for the Applicants Northbourne
* e Pue City Canberra.
MAXSKASE
the perfect comfort mal«
support for everyraan’a
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists .
mfactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
X
I**®
(UC.' S
\Ve
The
her
GO
TiO
GGtt
p,o, ::„h **° 6 ® „ 0 . ».w =°; eatke ,
t<°"> 've I°“' c 0
u,.th« *. . ■ •"• L WUGOtI
»no
cO5^ s
coup
oft 5
to*
otV»e*
save
n eeds
shoe*- 1
\et
oUsV'
G OOO
e*
yeo* s
M 099
\WI
VCM
tV\c»e
be«" n
eflt®
pe«»
you
y
H.P. 30
<?S
<ht
-Vet.
*Jb
9ch
e 9r&
J«cf
Ac#
r'^3
y'&3
and
sen
rep-
ost
e.v
°9(JI
O'! d
Tel
v ed
9°Ki
on.
snd
CO^
egr ?PH
Oft
VpNw
' Ce
p Osr
TYiQ
E *tT
*SA
°*n
™ast
r, 9!n
cv\
f/?
Op
M/
Dfp
63
•>
3°'lo~
Is
4Af
*'<3
oef,
torf
9^
<?••)#
<54
«/■?/
v
V
*PQHa
If
ted
o
Job
ZXgt* SmiiDs PIXP
m **i»o Cn „ %
*5?OjD M?Acx
c*
pßbc
2s *ok
4?l
2t 4JVD
OBS
AVT °Ma Tt „
Ds BScnr T ° T 4L
[L *AN ppp GNt sbd a
1310 1SB °t
wa r production P ro „, ' mß onents which
She engineered to limits of super-occuracy.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS. TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY. ...MELBOURNE.... PERTH,... BRISBANE
cr
%
ATL 7-A
i i■■
bury. Trimmer ran well in the Carrington,
and Felbeam may do much better at Randwick
than Rosehill running might suggest. Panchio
won the Horsley Handicap in I.IIJ. It looks
at this time like Hedui or Panchio. For the
Adrian Knox Stakes, Tea Rose; with Doub-
loon and Skip Bomber others likely to run well
at the meeting.
* * * *
Sydney-owned Two’s Company, who had
failed in all her races since coming south for
the Melbourne Cup, won the Ascot Summer
Cup at Mentone on Saturday. Starting at 10
to 1, she moved up third entering the straight
and won decisively from Private Chat and
Cavallo. It had been intended to ship the
rnare back to Sydney, but second thoughts were
best. Prizemoney on Saturday was £7OO to the
winner, and Two’s Company now will remain
in Melbourne for the Australian Cup meeting.
Port o’ Call, owned in India by H.H. the
Maharajah of Parlekimedi, was one of the
leaders throughout the Colchester Handicap,
and, ridden right out, won from La Patrice
and Distinction. He had disappointed in his
two previous races and was allowed to go out
at 10 to 1. Port o’ Call has won three races,
all at Mentone.
When horses trick their stable connections
what hope is there for the average backer?
Tilly Black was backed from 25 to 1 down to
10 to 1 for the Sturt Handicap for two-year-
olds, but, whereas she finished only eighth,
Terracena, in the same ownership, won from
Tilston and Omonia Square. Terracena started
at 50 to 1 with bookmakers, and returned a
win tote dividend of better than 235 to 1. She
is by Law Maker from Miss Wiltshire, raced
on lease by E. Henderson.
Brace, sold several months ago at a fairly
substantial price, was racing in his new inter-
ests for the second time when he won the
Clarendon Handicap. A 15-to-l chance, he
battled on gamely to win from Bold Scout
and Byron, and impresses as certain to keep on
improving. Dominate recorded his second suc-
cessive win when he just defeated Lord Enfield
and Spanish Legend in the Dartrey Handicap.
A champion track galloper, he is now compen-
sating for many failures since his arrival from
New Zealand.
* * * «
Playing for Kensington in Adelaide
district cricket, Grimmett is getting heaps
of wickets, and age doesn’t seem to have
impaired his stamina. On a recent
Saturday afternoon he bowled 28 overs
against West Torrens, a fairly strong
batting side, finishing with 4 for 88.
According to the book, Clarrie has turned
52 —he was bom on a Christmas Day —
but old hands who remember him when
he played in Sydney long before he went
to Victoria protest that the book is
wrong.
Herbert Sutcliffe is back in Australia
on business for a British paper concern.
In Adelaide he renewed his acquaintance
with Bradman, and saw Colin Webb, of
Prince Alfred College and Sturt, make
117 out of 300 for Combined Services v.
S.A.C.A., pronouncing Webb a future
Test-match men. Coming to Melbourne,
he had a knock at the Richmond nets,
and surprised Ryder, Oldfield and Keat-
ing by sending up some curly ones with
the ball; and he delighted all Mel-
bournians by describing the M.C.G. —now
in R.A.A.F. occupation, but otherwise
ready for the resumption of games and
with a great stand that lifts its concrete
to the sky—as “the finest in the world.”
Sutcliffe is 50, but doesn’t look it. He
saw the R.A.A.F. team at Lords, with
Keith Miller, Carmody (now a prisoner
of war in Germany), Cristofani and
Sismey in form, and thinks it may turn
out as good as the 1919 A.I.F. side, to
which, as matters have turned out, there
can be no counterpart after this war.
* * * *
Robbo, a fedder, is remi-
niscent of Griffo and Pluto (and of Rollo
and Willo) in point of name, but on no
other score, A bit old for the game, as
modem pugs go, he was hard pressed by
Danny Simmons, much younger and a
bit heavier, but plugged away, and the
referee decided that he had earned a deci-
sion on points. And perhaps he had, but
about 99 per cent, of the customers dis-
sented from the verdict in the Leichhardt
way.
A stone lighter and in inferior shape,
Les Sloan needed all his boxing ability
to last 12 rounds with Em Clingan at the
Sydney Stadium. He had Clingan down
twice, and in the sixth round the heavier
man looked settled. But he regained his
feet at “five,” and, attacking savagely in
all the succeeding rounds, seemed to many
to be slightly ahead when hostilities
ended. However, Joe Wallis did the right
thing when he refused to separate them.
“Tuart”: Bill Kelso’s greatest pal
when he was young was George Dawson,
the old lightweight champion. He was
one of those who found Dawson’s pas-
sage-money when the Queensland-born
boxer, after cleaning up all the light-
weights in these parts, decided to go to
the U.S.A. Out of the proceeds of his
first fight in San Francisco Dawson repaid
every penny, being that sort of man.
After a short and brilliant career in the
American ring, during which he tried to
reform “Griffo” at his own expense, he
became boxing instructor at the Chicago
Athletic Club, a job which not only en-
abled the steadygoing fellow to save a
competence, but brought him many in-
fluential friends—one was Wrigley, the
chewing-gum man —who let him in on
the ground floor of companies which re-
turned modest investments twenty-fold.
Dawson retired to California a compara-
tively rich man. He did not forget his
Sydney friend, and he and Kelso ex-
changed visits a few years ago. Though
he never had the opportunities he was
able to give his two children —one is an
American lawyer, now a serviceman ; the
other, a girl, a university graduate—the
old fighting man contrived somehow to
master the art of handwriting. It has
been my lot to read thousands of manu-
scripts and tens of thousands of letters,
and I have never seen a more beautiful
“fist.”


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
With the forward march of the new
year the folk who make the wheels go
round in the social world are gradually
coming back into circulation. Mavis
Ripper last week was lunching at the
Australia wearing a natty calfskin coat
over her beige frock ; the Blarney lady
is back again for a short rest and has
been wearing her becoming Red Cross
uniform. Madeline Orr has been lunching
at the Australia with her friend Helene
Jacoby. Both lasses are well known in
radio circles, and Madeline, who has
chosen to live in Sydney, was back in
Melbourne for a visit to her mother. Also
on a visit to relatives is Louise Bradshaw,
who continually asks if the sun ever
shines in Melbourne, and, if so, when?
One of the trio of attractive Gepp girls,
Mardi Gething, has arrived back home
after an absence of some years. Mardi
was guest of honor at a luncheon party
given by Netherlands Minister Baron van
Aerssen, at the Netherlands Indies Club
recently. Sister Kathleen, wearing a saucy
honey-colored straw hat with cherry-
ribbon trimming, was also a guest.
Lovely Pam Forster has got her-
self engaged to Ned Holland and is
usually wearing one or more gardenias
from Ned. Most distinguished recent
visitor was Archbishop Halse, of Bris-
bane. Breaking his journey to Adelaide,
the Archbishop found time to preach at
St. Paul’s Cathedral and St. Peter’s,
Eastern Hill.
The beach at Mornington was given
over entirely to fond parents and their
offspring during the Christmas-New Year
period. Girls were in short supply, for
they are mostly in the services or in war
, jobs. Holiday householders at this charm-
ing resort have been entertaining on a
small scale. Mrs. J. Hearn, with her
small brood, was in residence, and had
with her Mrs. Forsyth, her son Peter
and small daughter Patsy. Dr. and Mrs.
Donegan, with Bryan and Barry, were
at Ballochmyle. Mrs. H. G. Connell, at
Glendalough, had as guests Audrey Leth-
bridge, Ruth Hopwood and Mrs. A.
Hicks, who, with small Helena, is over
from Sydney on a visit to her father.
Justice O’Brien was installed at Mount
Martha, and Dr. and Mrs. R. G. Williams
also favored this charming bayside re-
sort, just a few miles from Mornington.
Prof, and Mrs. Bernard Heinze, with sons
Julian and Adrian, occupied their charrn-
ing white house overlooking Port Phillip
Bay. They had as guest for the holidays
Cr. R. Connelly,
Air Force House played an important
part in holiday celebrations. Mrs.
Matthews, the busy manageress, reports
that over 400 members of the R.A.A.F.
accepted the invitation of the manage-
ment to attend Christmas dinner. Beau-
tiful flowers decorated the large lounges
and the gay murals which adorn the can-
teen added their festive note. The menu
was carefully chosen, and there was
plenty of food —cream of tomato soup,
roast turkey, ham, roast beef, Christmas
pudding, wine trifle, sweets and fruit,
black coffee.
Later in the day a concert party arrived
and the mexx, who were fx'om all parts of
the Commonwealth, had fun with com-
munity singing. The telephones at Air
Force House were busy all day with
hostesses ringing to ask if there were any
lonely men who needed entertainment,
and the Hospitality Bureau sent out some
hundreds of men who might have just
walked the streets feeling very sorry for
themselves because they pictured the
folks at home having fun they were
missing.
It was the Navy’s day on the First
of January, when quite a number of
naval men were entertained at Navy
House, which is the home for ratings at
a loose end in this city. A large com-
mittee, composed mainly of wives of
naval officers, has formed a roster, and
on various days these hard workers
arrive to take their turn in the canteen
or in the kitchen.
Many have been the concert parties
arranged to cheer troops in camps within
easy travel of the city, but the men of
Flinders Naval Base were more or less
forgotten tiff Bruce Hutton had a bright
idea and asked Miss Doris Wirth, of the
circus, if she could help, and the wheels
were set in motion with good result.
A private gala performance at Wirth’s
Olympia will take place very soon;
Commodore T. S. Drew has issued in-
vitations to officers and ratings. Several
members of the staff of Wirth’s Circus
offered to begin decorating the building
at the conclusion of the Saturday-night
performance, and many members have
offered their services for the day of the
performance. The naval and Indian
scenes from the pantomime “The Old
Woman Who Lived in a Shoe” will be
incorporated in the show, and everything
is being done to ensure a successful night.
At Flinders Naval Depot there is a
splendid stage, and on it J. and N. Tail
propose to put on a show for sailors.
Also a complete Tivoli programme has
been promised by David N. Martin on
any date that suits Navy authorities.
Gladys Moncrieff has also offered to co-
operate at any time.
Had Barrie seen the sprightly little lady
whose picture appears below he would
have acclaimed her as the ideal Peter Pan.
Tiny Dot Rankin makes a winsome
Peter, and it is hard to believe that she
has a daughter eight months old. Baby
was baptised Anna Lynne, but since both
parents have been appearing in “Peter
Pan she has been called Tinker Bell.
A Dhoti filly, half-sister to Derby winner
Precept, has been named after the
youngster. Both Dot and John Fraser,
Dot’s husband, are well known to Aus-
tralian audiences. Dot has toured the
States in musical comedy, and scored a
great success in “Sally.” John, a singer
known to radio and the stage, appears
in “Peter Pan” as a fearsome pirate, and
sings delightfully.
William Carr, of the National Theatre,
is responsible for the current production
of “Peter Pan,” and a great deal of its
success is due to his work. A letter from
the wife of the Vice-Chancellor of the
Melbourne University, Mrs. J. G. Medley,
has pride of place on the Tivoli Theatre
notice-board. Mrs. Medley, who has seen
many productions of Barrie’s play in
England, writes: “I attended this produc-
tion of ‘Peter Pan’ sighing for past
glories, but I was agreeably surprised. I
have seen many famous actresses portray
Peter, and Miss Rankin compares favor-
ably with them all.”
Parties are being given for Nan Cooper,
who will shortly meet Wing-Commander
John Phillips at the altar. Mrs. John
Madden was hostess of one of these at
her Hawthorn home, when some 20 lasses
gossiped and took tea with the prospective
bride. Mrs. Madden wore a simple
floral frock ; the guest of honor garbed
her decorative self in a becoming pink
and black outfit, topped off with a small
black-and-pink-spotted hat with a black
veil snood. Assisting the hostess were
Mrs. Bill Isaacs, bom a Hamilton, and
still with a trace of Scotch accent, and
Mrs. John Nicholson, wearing a white
crepe tunic frock.
Prospective bride’s mother, Mrs. L. K.
Cooper, wore a smartly-tailored grey suit,
and with her was daughter Barbara,
who will be bridesmaid when Nan
walks down the aisle. Barbara set
off her brunette coloring with a
frock of lavender-blue. Also pre-
sent was Section Officer Roma Lee,
school friend of Nan’s and a bride of
some six months’ standing; Roma mar-
ried Captain Jeffrey Lee. Another friend
of the bride-to-be present was Phil Cur-
tain, not radiating her usual cheer, as
naval husband Arthur is on the sick list.
Amid much laughter, Nan opened hex-
medley of presents; most of them will
grace the kitchen of her new home.
From Sydney
Lady Dugan has been showing keen
interest in this State’s A.C.F. and Red
Cross activities, and last week did a round
of the many branches. On one day she
called no no fewer than seven A.C.F.
strongholds. The Women Officers’ Club
in Elizabeth Bay-i'oad, just about ready
for its opening towards the end of the
month, was important on the list. The
jumble depot at the Haymarket, the
Anzac Buffet and the C.W.A. service-
women’s club were other ports of call.
Red Cross House in Jamieson-street was
honored last Thursday morning by Lady
Dugan, who wore her uniform of presi-
dent of the Australian Red Cross Society.
Last Tuesday morning the C.W.A.
Handicrafts’ rooms in The Bulletin
building received a visit from the wife ol
the Acting Governor-General, who was
received by the branch’s active president,
Mrs. Coghlan.
On the first Sunday in every month at
1.35 p.m. there is a broadcast that con-
cerns every Australian. It is at once a
heartbreak and a hope, for it pieces to-
gether the fragments of news that filter
through from our prisoners of war. This
army of 30,000 Australian lads behind
barbed wire in Thailand, in Formosa,
Sumatra,, Singapore, Hong Kong and
other one-time pleasant places ringed by
the Pacific, and also in Germany, call
aloud through this session to their coun-
trymen in the land they love. Mrs. Colin
Munro is the Sunday speaker, and she
tells all the news that has been gleaned
throughout the month by the Australian
P.O.W. Relatives’ Association. Every
fourth Saturday at 11 o’clock Sydney
Smith talks on the same subject over
2GZ and 2KA.
The headquarters of the association
are on the first floor of Cricket House,
254 George-street, and here the interests
of the men in prison camps are part of
the very being of the voluntary staff.
Every worker in the rooms is related to
one ox more p.o.w. Mothers, wives and
sisters, yes, and fathers, too (the secre-
tary, Sydney Smith, has a son in a war
prison in Germany) are serving day and
night in the cause. Almost every time the
lift stops at the first floor it brings fresh
inquirers to the rooms. Some are middle-
aged mothers, some are young wives,
some are sweethearts. They come to seek
information about the addressing of letters,
the sending of next-of-kin parcels. Some-
times they bring news —a letter or card,
sometimes even a photograph, and all
of these make items of engrossing news
value to “P.0.W.,” the small monthly
paper of the association.
Though imbued with sentiment, the
work of the association is extremely prac-
tical. It has fought for the right of p.o.w.
to wear their chevrons; it has gained, after
much persuasion, the right to broadcast
300 messages a week over Government
stations to p.o.w. After a recent broad-
cast no fewer than 250 reply radio
messages were received from lads
who had avidly listened to this news
from home. The association can
now send chocolate in its parcels, and
it has won the argument over sending the
same clothes as those issued in the ser-
vices to the lads unwillingly overseas. The
committee is already planning ahead so
that these soldier-prisoners on their re-
turn will find a warm welcome and suit-
able employment.
The association has been going only
three years, and already it has 24,000
members. Each member pays two
shillings a year, and every now and then
a voluntary subscription comes along.
Mrs. Colin Monro, whose photograph
appears above, tells proudly of a credit
balance after all expenses have been
paid, and, among other kindly deeds,
1000 parcels sent to p.o.w. in the name
of relatives who were not in a position
to bear the expense themselves.
Knight Ernest Fisk and his wife were
guests of the Royal Empire Society last
Wednesday. Ernest, who has been
managing director of Amalgamated Wire-
Jess (Aust.) for years, goes off to London
to take over the managing directorship
of Electrical and Musical Industries, Ltd.
Lunch was spread at the Trocadero, and
members rolled up in great numbers to
applaud his speech. Even the roses on
the tables seemed to nod approval when
he declared that there was room for
20,000,000 more British subjects in Aus-
tralia. It was pleasant, too, to listen to
one who held up the mirror to Aus-
tralians’ virtues as citizens of a great
nation. The Hugh Denison lady, whose
husband was so long president of the
society, was a notable among the many.
Maie Hoban, of the Pilgrim Theatre,
Melbourne, is in Sydney once again to
open her summer school and refresher
course in speechcraft. In her own city
Maie is directress of the Australian
Repertory Players’ Club. Her big aim
in life is to see a chair of rhetoric estab-
lished. at every university in Australia,
and civic theatres and speech clinics
founded in every State, Maie’s Sydney
address is the Australia Hotel.
Mayoress Neville Harding’s three
morning receptions to callers were
heaven-given opportunities for mid-sum-
mer corroborees by women war-workers,
social workers and women of the home
who snatched a half-hour off from queues
to come and shake hands with the new
civic hostess. Most of the guests had
not seen one another since well before
Christmas, and the talk was of children,
school holidays, vegetable-growing and
soldier-husbands and sons. Former
mayoresses were thick among the callers.
Mrs. Bartley, the Parker lady, Miss
Marks and Mrs. George Parkes were noted.
Probably these early-in-the-year at-
homes in the Town Hall drawing-rooms
are the most informal and friendly
gatherings the city sees. White hats were
the fashionable wear, and among them
none was smarter than Mrs. Keith
Morris’s. It was a sort of flat-topped
beret, with two white bows couchant upon
it. Mrs. Eva Wunderlich, Mrs. Garnet
Halloran, Dolly Hollander Moore and
Mrs. Lindsay were among the cool and
pleasant looking. The Women Writers
in the persons of their president, the
Comtesse de Vilme-Hautmont, and secre-
tary, Etta Cowan, made their bow. The
mayoress of Campbelltown, the wives of
city aldermen and members of the
Mayoress’s Relief Fund were other
callers.
Macdonnell House, in Pitt-street, has
had a complete change of fafade, and
now it gleams snowy-white, and is em-
bossed with large chromium lettering:
“British Centre.” Here servicemen from
overseas have been making themselves at
home for the last week or two in an atmo-
sphere of good cheer, British and Aus-
tralian flags, heraldic lions and other
evidences of British occupation. The
ground floor, with its enormous plate-
glass windows, is a bright and cheery spot
even on a dull day. The whole of the
left-hand side is an information bureau.
The opposite side is fitted with chairs
and tables piled with magazines. Further
back, behind the stairway, is the billiard
table on which Walter Lindrum has
already been giving exhibitions of trick
shots to the lads.
Above this ground floor is a narrow
gallery fitted with writing-tables, and
leading to it is a stairway like a com-
panionway, its rail filled with real rope.
The recreation room is on the floor
above. Here are more flags crossed
above a tittle dais, from which, last
Thursday afternoon, opening speeches
were made.
It was a spirited opening. There was
a feeling of exhilaration in the air. Hun-
dreds arrived wearing that “The Navy'S
here” smile. The band played old-time
waltzes, and, with a slightly temperance
bias, “Drink to me only with thine eyes."
The flowers were a triumph—many of
them gifts from suburban gardens. There
were roses and fragile lilies, bowls of
delphinium and masses of red and yellow
dahlias. Mayor Neville Harding de-
clared the Centre open ; president of the
Centre Appeal Committee Alderman
Bartley, made forthright speech and
an English officer with a voice of which
a Shakspearean actor might be proud
delighted the ear.
Mayoress Mrs. Harding sat with her
predecessor, Mrs, Bartley. The Butters,
Reading, Walder and Anderson ladies
were front-seaters; the last is chairman
of the hospitality committee. The Harry
Twigdens were there with the Padre Ebbs
couple from Manly. Miss Leo Wray.
Mrs. A. H. Chartres, Mrs. Sam Jones, the
A. L. Spooners and Frank Crane were a
few among the hundreds. This is the
Centre’s temporary home. It is up t°
Sydney to cheerfully hand out the thou-
sands necessary to make the real centre
in Hyde Park a place that the city can
be proud of.
The British Centre in Pitt-street will be
manned each day by the voluntary
workers of various established organic-
tions. The British Centre Club for Offi-
cers —Macquarie House, in Macquarie-
street, once a guest house but lately 3
stronghold of the A.W.A.S.—will be run
by the Victoria League. The chairman
of the Club Committee is Mrs. Harow
Nicholas.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
What’s Wrong with Sydney?
We were a small unit on our way down
from one of the islands, on leave, travel-
ling by troop train from North Queenty-
land. All the way down people had
waved to us as we went past; on several
station platforms people had distributed
cake and coffee free. In fact, the hospi-
tality shown to us and the friendly atti-
tude of the people were good enough to
make us think we were passing through
S.A. or Westralia, and not Queensland
and northern N.S.W. And then we hit
Sydney.
What a contrast! People stared at us
as we tramped along laden with our gear,
eyeing us as they would the livestock
parade at the Royal Show, but with far
less interest. The evening papers were
just out —but were the men who bought
them interested in the fact that Von Rund-
stedt’s surprise attack might be a great
debacle for us if not halted in time? No
—I watched scores of men buy papers
and all turned to the sporting pages. Was
the war mentioned by those travelling in
the tram on which I rode? No. Nothing
but sport.
After leaving the tram I had to
walk half a mile to the home of friends
with whom I was going to spend the even-
ing. Car after car passed me, but never
an offer of a lift came my way. It isn’t
that we want all the free feeds that we
can get, nor is walking half a mile any
hardship—it’s the spirit of thankfulness
and hospitality that we appreciate. And
that spirit is totally absent in Sydney.
The smiling and waving started again
when we were well on the way to Vic-
toria, and continued right through to my
own home town in S.A. —though heaven
knows most of the people have little
enough to be happy about in those
drought-stricken areas. I know that for
the rest of the unit it will carry on right
through to their homes in W.A. In and
around Sydney alone did we meet with
that chilling indifference, those wooden
expressions and that utter selfishness.
Ess Ecks (S.A.).
Soldier Preference in Queensland
“Lea” (B. 27 /12/’44) is looking for “the
nigger in the woodpile” of recent
amendments made by Queensland’s Labor
Government to that State’s Arbitration
Act whereunder absolute preference in
employment is to be given to servicemen
and servicewomen. The little black
beggar isn’t very well camouflaged. The
final result of this Act will be to intro-
duce compulsory unionism into Queens-
land by making sure that all service
people join a union. Queensland awards
have a “compulsory unionism” clause
under which every employee must be-
come a member of a union within 14
days or a month, and the penalty for
failing to do so means dismissal.
Therefore, the effect of this Act is
to use preference to strengthen the mem-
bership and funds of unions by forcing
service people into them. Some service
personnel will come out of this war with
a very poor opinion of unionism and
the part it has (or has not) played in this
war. They will not feel grateful to
the Government which, by a subterfuge,
forces unionism on them. H. F. W.
(N.S.W.).
A Cheer for Repat.
I was discharged medically unfit from
the army a few weeks ago. Let me tell
what has happened to me since I entered
hospital four months ago—a very sick
man.
In hospital I was given all the care that
medical skill and competent nursing could
devise. No trouble was too great nor
was any line of treatment which might
be of benefit neglected. I was under
treatment for three months, and was ulti-
mately boarded, classified unfit for
further service, discharged and pensioned.
From the day I entered hospital until,
as a final act, my pension was granted
everything went without a hitch. It was
an example of efficiency and perfect co-
ordination on the part of army, repat.
and rehabilitation, and it was all very
different from what I expected. I had
pictured myself tangled up in muddle,
unpleasantness and bureaucratic indiffer-
ence, and I do not think that I can be
blamed for having been in that frame of
mind. Our. clamorous press is full of
sneers and jibes at army and repat.
This is just to put on record that I,
for one, have no complaints. I dip my
new civvy hat to the authorities who
have handled my case, and say “Thanks
a lot.” — Lomond (W.A.).
Army for Australia
Two points were missed in the article
“Army for Australia” (B. 27/12/’44).
First, that, like it or not, Australia will
have to maintain a decent-sized army on
active service for at least ten years after
the “end” of the Pacific War.
It is almost certain that bodies of
Japanese will wage a guerrilla war from
the mountains of many of the islands
which they have occupied and from
which they have nominally been cleared.
It is also possible that they will recruit
(and arm from hidden dumps) not incon-
siderable forces of native troops. Be this
as it may, they will have to be cleaned up
before peace is finally established in the
islands. And if Australia wants to have
any say in the islands Australia will have
to be prepared to garrison those which
are her responsibility. The defeat of Japan
proper will not mean the end of the need
for armed forces in the Pacific,
Second point: the average recruit can
be reasonably well trained in between
three to six months if he has experienced
officers and n.c.os. to instruct him, but
the training of a competent junior officer
or n.c.o. takes anything up to two years
of continuous service. Lack of ex-
“A gunner's mate, are you? Just fancy—so am I !”
perienced officers and n.c.os. was very
evident in the early days of the Second
A.1.F., and was responsible for many
early disciplinary troubles. You can’t
learn how to handle large bodies of men
if the only opportunity you get is during
a yearly camp lasting a fortnight. A
surplus of officers and n.c.os. large
enough to enable the army strength to
be doubled immediately must be main-
tained at all times.
There is much to be said in favor of
the British peace-time organisation. That
is, in each regiment there are one per-
manent battalion and one or two terri-
torial battalions, regimental headquarters
being fully staffed and capable of
doing the administrative work needed
for the complete regiment. The terri-
torial trainees thus become part of a com-
mand and are trained beside experienced
men. There is no reason why Australia’s
army should not be organised on these
lines. And for the next ten years there
will be a good chance to introduce all the
men called up for compulsory training to
a little experience of active service.
Which is more valuable than many
months of camp training. —C. R. (A.1.F.).
Tobruk and Its “Rats”
“P.M.’s” criticism of “The Rats of
Tobruk” (B. 27/12/’44) would make it
appear that the 9th Division had the
Tobruk show to itself.
All Australians should know and be
proud of the fact that elements of the
6th and 7th were in this glorious siege.—
Mary (Q.).
Australia and Americans
Much of the talk about Americans
settling in Australia after the war appears
to be wishful thinking. The American is,
first of all, a businessman. He sees round
him businesses growing from small pro-
portions to great. He has learnt that the
keynote of success is mass production,
with lower costs. To obtain this desir-
able state of affairs the factory must be in
the midst of a large and densely-settled
population.
It did not take Americans long to dis-
cover that Australia had far less to offer
in this regard than their native land could
give them. The continual purposeless
strikes and the supine policy of the Gov-
ernment impressed Americans adversely.
In general, Americans seemed to like
Australia and Australians, and some of
the more adventurous, believing that Aus-
tralia offers them prospects, may settle
here ; but majority opinion was expressed
in a cold realistic manner by an Ameri-
can officer when discussing this question
with me: “What would we gain from
Australia? You would only be a liability
to us, either as an American State or as
an American sphere of interest.”
The American is essentially a home-
lover. America with its large-scale pro-
duction and low prices affords the oppor-
tunity for all men in steady jobs to have
all the amenities of life in the home-
central heating, refrigerators, electric
dish-washers, electric washing-machines,
etc., and a car in the shed. These aie
denied to all but the wealthier Australians.
Another factor which will preclude the
possibility of any large number of Ameri-
cans emigrating to Australia is family
affection, expressed in a round of visits
that go on throughout the years. People
with such strong, family ties are not the
type of which emigrants are made.
The average American is not likely to
make sacrifices simply to benefit Aus-
tralia. He is no philanthropist, nor does
he pretend to be. These factors defi-
nitely rule out the possibility of any large-
scale American emigration to Australia
after the war. —E. M. (R.A.A.F.).
The Gods Declare War
If some human enemy were to drop a
few hundred air-borne divisions of
engineers in the dead heart of Australia
with the declared intention of slowly but
surely extending the desert to the sea
what a fuss there would be!
Hurried recruiting of home guards, the
raising of armies of auxiliary flappers,
fiery orations by politicians, radio hot-
air enough to melt the ice at the South
Pole, and all the rest of what happens
whenever the hair goes up on the back
of the human animal spoiling for a fight.
But because it is only God or the forces
of Nature that Australians in the home-
land are up against no one cares.
Yet the worst that any human enemy
can do to any country is mild compared
with what affronted Nature may achieve.
Old Europe, for example, has been
periodically ravaged by war for a
thousand years, but in between the wars
looks much the same: or did at least
until now. But less than 100 years of war
with the forces of Nature in North
America, less than 50 years in South
Africa, and less than 25 years in Australia
have left great ugly stretches of devasta-
tion which have changed the face of the
land.
As two enraged dogs gripped in each
other’s jaws will go to their death be-
neath the wheels of an unseen car, so
homo sapiens , obsessed with internecine
strife, may meet his ultimate fate at the
hands of the insulted gods.—J. W. R.
(Tas.). .
N.S.W. Coalminers
I once worked in a coalmine. Every
condition has its cause, and the narrow-
minded selfishness and political ignor-
ance of N.S.W. miners are traceable to the
unnatural, dangerous and soul-killing
nature of their occupation. The black coal-
dust ground into their skin, eyelashes,
hair and bodies is an ever-present re-
minder to them that they are a race apart.
Add to this the constant danger under-
ground, the deadening physical exhaus-
tion at the end of the day, the fear of
eye, lung and' rheumatic diseases, and
what have you? All the makings of a
first-class envy and resentment complex
known as “trouble on the coalfields.”
The daily press is another irritant. It
continually, nags at and abuses all
coalminers.
The miners’ only friend is their union,
and their fierce loyalty to it must have
something good in it.
Anyway, abusing the miners won’t
mend matters. What is needed is a law
limiting the period in which any man can
work in a coalmine to 10 years, commenc-
ing at 18 years of age. That gives him
three years to learn his trade as a wheeler,
etc., followed by seven years at the coal
face. Men who have done ten years’ ser-
vice could be transferred to work on the
surface. This would safeguard the miner’s
health and would end the practice of sons
following the fathers into the pits and
breeding a race of bitter, narrow-minded
and “every - man’s - hand-is-against-us”
type of worker.
Much could be done with a mixture of
sympathy and firmness. You can’t make
an omelette without breaking eggs, and
the miners must be taught that the State
comes first —as their Russian friends say.
—Ex-Miner (N.S.W.).
Toy Racket
What a howl there would have been
if the Menzies Government had been
ruling the country this past Christmas-
time and had suffered toy-vendors to
profiteer as they did!
In looking the sorry thing over (from
the point of view of the parent forced
to please his child), one wonders just
where the responsibility lies. Inkum
(W.A.).
Post-war Wool Control
There is only one thing that can use-
fully be done with Australia’s wool trade
after the war. There must be a price
that will compensate the sheep-farmer
for his labor, expenditure, risk and em-
ployment of capital. By “sheep-farmer”
I mean the marginal farmer, as my
brother economists would say, i.e., the
last man to come in to fill up the re-
quirements of the world in wool.
We don’t want to encourage inefficient
farming. On the other hand, the price
must be such as the average consumer
of wool will be able to afford. 1
consider that it is a solvable problem in
economics to find out what these two
marginal types must have, on the one
hand, and must be able to afford, on the
other. Strike an average between them.
Fix an upper limit and a lower limit
above and below this price. Form a pool
that will buy all wool offered to it at
the lower price and will sell wool to
all-comers at the higher prices. They
will start, if The Bulletin’s figures
(19/7/’44) are correct, with a whole
season’s supply, but won’t be able to keep
it for long, for there will be a big post-
war demand. At the same time let them
fix upper and lower limits of stocks that
should not be exceeded save in emergency.
If stock is tending towards the upper
limit and shows signs of sticking there or
augmenting, then the price is too high for
the consumer and the farmer and it must
come down a bit. Possibly the con-
sumers’ spending power wants revision,
but probably the price is too high. Simi-
larly, if stock is dwindling to the lower
point that means that the price is too low.
This method would not interfere
unduly with the market, which would
go on normally in normal times, and,
indeed, would function nearly at normal
capacity even when prices were a bit
away from normal. But the pool would
absorb the shocks to prices and so would
stabilise them to a great extent. More
than that, it would give confidence, and
confidence is all-important.
That gives the bare bones of a scheme
I have had in mind for over 20 years. It
would not abolish the existing wool trade,
except that some of the auctioneers, their
assistants and some of the brokers would
become employees of the pool. It would
no doubt require some arrangement be-
tween the Governments of the chief pro-
ducers, Australia, M.L. and S. Africa,
and of the chief consumers. The prin-
ciple is simple and in effect practicable.
It would have to be applied to other-
staples. And it is the obvious way to
secure some measure of stability in inter-
national commerce.
I agree with Prof. Hayek that indi-
vidual initiative is all-important. At
the same time, I cannot see any way of
escape from international control on a
large scale. But let it be with as loose
a hold on the reins as may be. I think
the pool idea achieves this just mixture.
—Economist (Cairo).


WEAR THE SOMBRE COLORS OF WAR
YARRA FALLS’ production is severely limited by man-power difficulties; the greater portion
of its output is required for the Australian and Allied fighting forces, the remainder being
limited to the cloths made to the standards ordered by the Government, leaving no opportunity
to make for the public the- high-class fabrics on which Yarra Falls’ reputation has been established.
ev A
m
m
m
II
ma
mm
■ ■
m
teg|*
-cjJSj,
m
m
&
Wi
i
HI
T
D
Renowned for the excellence Horded
Manufactures, all made from Australian drain wool
ABBOTSFORD • VICTORIA* AUSTRALIA-
p-g
