

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol, 67—No. 3459
Wednesday, May 29, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
The Palace Theatre.
TN this series of London scenes during the reign of Queen
Victoria, which is presented by the House of Seppelts, none has
greater theatrical interest than this of the Palace, once the City’s
most beautiful playhouse. Mr. R. D’Oyly Carte had this theatre
designed by T. E. Collcutt, architect of the Imperial Institute.
Located in Cambridge Circus, the Palace opened as the Royal
English Opera House in 1891 with Sir Arthur Sullivans grand
opera Ivanhoe. In the same year Sarah Bernhardt gave a season
here, but opera did not immediately gain the success for which
Mr. D’Oyly Carte had hoped, and in 1892 the Opera House became
the Palace, a variety theatre known throughout the world for the
fine standard of the entertainment it provided.


ŗ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
I\ly Address
S.B. 146
AGE
The Red Page
"BEHIND BAMBOO."
Is it possible that the Australian public
will forget what the men of the Eighth
Division endured at the hands of the
Japanese? It seems inconceivable. Yet,
when the Indonesian agitation was at its
height, both the vociferous Communists
and the silent “Government” seemed to
have forgotten altogether certain equally
significant facts of the Pacific war. This
sort of thing:
A few minutes later the cave was sur-
rounded by a horde of yelling Javanese,
brandishing parangs and long, wicked-look-
ing knives and waving Japanese flags. We
were without even a club or a knife to de-
fend ourselves, were utterly worn out, and
three of us could scarcely walk Within
ten minutes my arms from wrist to shoulder
were bound with about 30 yards of rope.
Many shouts of “Nippon” and gestures of
shooting and throat-cutting indicated quite
clearly the particular picnic that lay ahead.
This is a paragraph from Rohan
Rivett’s Behind Bamboo (Angus and
Robertson), a big, dramatic and important
book by an Australian who, after enlisting
in the A.1.F., was released to become
news editor of the Malayan Broadcasting
Corporation. He is describing how he
and six other survivors from Singapore
were handed over to the Japanese by
“our Indemesian comrades.” Some of his
chapters are taken directly from a diary
he concealed throughout his imprison-
ment; and his “daily jottings” in the
Serang cinema, which the Japanese were
using as a jail, continue the story:
By a conceited rush we could take the
cinema. It isn’t the Japanese guards who
keep us prisoners, it’s the fact that every
one of these teeming millions of Sundanese
and Javanese acts today as a Japanese
agent. I’d give a month’s pay to get my
hands on the swine who seized us and
took all my photos and private letters.
However, I suppose we were lucky they
didn’t cut our heads off. Some of the
Perth and Houston boys saw other ship-
wrecked mates decapitated as soon as they
were washed up on the beach.
Another party of men from the Perth,
Rivett says, “footsore and hungry,
reached Pandeglang, where they were
seized by the natives and handed over to
the Japanese, who looted them and
allowed a clamoring mob of natives to
beat them with sticks and bamboo rods
before taking them on trucks to Serang.”
He sums up: —■
The bravery displayed by the small
Dutch Navy and Air Force at the beginning
of the Pacific War did not serve to main-
tain Dutch prestige with the Indonesian
population in view of the debacle of the
Army which took place under their eyes.
■ Herein lies a major cause for the anti-
European demonstrations.
These things—the beatings and murders
of Australians by mobs of natives —are
“forgotten” by the Communists for their
own ends. But if the public is unaware
of them, it is because the news stories in
the dailies when the Eighth came home
could not hope to cover every detail of
the men’s experiences. Rivett has much
to say about both the Indonesians and
the Japanese that has not been said be-
fore ; that is one good reason for reading
Behind Bamboo.
Another is that, although the general
story of the maltreatment of prisoners is
well known, it is so monstrous —in its
worst aspects—as to be incredible. To
realise, to assimilate the incredible takes
time ; and it is obvious that the Com-
munists and their fellow-travellers have
as yet completely failed to draw the
proper deductions from the spectacle of
native races running amuck in the Pacific.
Mr. Churchill, after Pearl Harbor,
spoke of Japan’s “mad aet,” and one of
Rivett’s most interesting chapters is an
examination of the lunacy of his captors:
I only hope that some of the copies of
“Greater Asia” and other Japanese papers
of 1943-44 can be found and preserved for
exhibition in the museums.
One reporter gave us a glowing account
of the enthusiasm with which the elephants
of Burma hailed their delivery from the
cruel British.... He had just seen a parade
of elephants “raise their trunks and let
forth a resounding trumpet of salutation in
honor of their deliverers, the heroic Im-
perial Army, whom they loved.”
In the air battles over Burma one
Japanese pilot, being out of ammunition,
shook his fist at the British ’plane. The
ŕ
"The Wonder and the Apple."
Now that Miles Franklin has revealed
that her mysterious protege “E” was
Mary Fullerton (B. 15/5/’46), an ex-
amination of all “E’s” works will be
needed for a proper assessment of her
contribution to Australian writing. In
the meantime there is the new book of
verses from Angus and Robertson.
The Wonder and the Apple confirms
rather than enhances “E’s” reputation as
established by Moles Do So Little with
Their Privacy.
If anything, the cream of Miles Franklin’s
collection having been skimmed for the
first volume, there is a slight weakening:
the poems, as a whole, are more abstract,
and there are more of those astonishing
collapses of language (“Prodded by the
process”; “My soul is wishful for the
bush”) which, sampling the pleasures of
anonymity—of not being responsible for
ř
r
Various Verse
This Freedom.
This is he who in his body bears
Callus and cicatrix and staring scars,
Relics of chains and blows of penal
staves
Imposed by tyrants and by fellow-
slaves;
And now, grown old and useless, freed
at last,
Carelessly on the common midden cast.
From bonds and strokes and threats and
curses free ;
Now, when that freedom is but mockery.
He who had thought to sing among the
stars,
To match his strength and courage in
great wars
Against the hosts of ignorance and sloth,
And wrestle with the Vandal and the
Goth,
Must be content to kill nothing but Time
By reading foolish tales of lust and crime.
The shrivelled peach sinking in yielding
earth
Hideous, but still enshrining a new
birth ?
The dusty traveller, by a monstrous sea,
Plunging ecstatic to eternity ?
The jet of water, perishing in spray.
Spent, drained of force, ebbing away ?
No answer, none : the riddle of the mind;
Of life, of death, of love, of all mankind.
M.L,
ARNOLD WALL.
Task for the Soldier.
The inevitable courage of the mass
Swallowed the cowardice of one and one,
And miracles —and miracles were done
Even yesterday. Now leisure cries alas,
The dead were valiant, telling yet again
The breeding legend of the heroic dead,
And our impartial thought is also led
To those remaining ordinary men
Who, coming home from finished battles,
come
Too close for legend. Some perhaps will
cease
From valor while the victory is new,
But some will leave the bragging to the
drum,
And through the whimpering hazards of
the peace
Maintain the leavening courage of the
few.
W.A.
ETHEL Davies.
The Creek.
You would not think, in this sun-thirsty
land,
That cannot drink enough of sunlight,
and
The rocks of which, if fondled, burn the
hand,
That there could be a creek so vision-
clear,
To look at which is coolness. Yet quite
near
To these suburban crags—as though, not
drear
Enough the contemplation of earth’s
stones,
Man gathers here a city’s pile of bones —
This creek for all earth’s wretchedness
atones.
Small children paddle here and swamp
their boats.
It is just deep enough; and, circling,
moats
An acre of blithe trees no axeman loots;
And these, in gratitude for their reprieve,
With magic spell of light and shade
connive
To bring a skulking blackfellow to life,
Foe for a favorite tribe they foster well:
And children, loving them, will never tell
Their elders of these hunting-grounds, but
dwell
For ever on this creek’s banks . . .
Long years after,
Bodies have grown adult, too stiff for
laughter;
So humorless, a war means certain
slaughter;
One may come here alone, though lately
grown
Like Gulliver, under a crazed moon
shown
The utter desolation of a town:
May peer far deeper than the meed is
good.
And feel an urge of murder in his blood:
While living in Lilliput, misunderstood,
The little creek runs mouselike down its
course.
Bedraggled as a shoelace, men would
curse.
It seems a sewer, and mad fever’s nurse.
QUEENSLAND.
F. John Blight.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW”
aam-
am
■ ttftOQcS
m
Hi
tv
waa
%
m .
&
s>
m
of?
c#=
of
«»>*
v]-#" ,IM)
SS
11 JEkTj
saaa:
W2S
W'^m*
' ■ M3#>
yfe) JdCy*.
L
w
m.
“HALIBORANCE,” by Allen & Hanburys.
The pleasant way to take Halibut Liver
Oil—with Vitamin D, and Orange Juice.
It is tissue building; convalescents will find
it beneficial. Both old and young enjoy
taking it. Price 5/6 bottle
Reliable
Winter
Remedies
m
m
“CLYCURRANT,” another Allen &
Hanburys product. A Cough Linctus,
so soothing and healing, giving relief
to the throat passages . . 6/3 bottle
EDINBURGH Cough Mixture with
added Lantigen A. An anti-cold
Vaccine, for the treatment of the
common cold or cough . . 5/- bottle
I
1
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
&
m
m
m
i#
m
m
ss
sSsJjS
*1
“OWBRIDCES” Lung Tonic, excel-
lent for coughs, colds, asthma, bron-
chitis and influenza, 1/9 and 4/6
Bronchitis Mixture, prepared by our
OWN Chemists, a reliable, depend-
able and effective tonic for the
treatment of bronchitis. Price, 2/6
• Chemistry —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
THE SENIOR STORE
’PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


VI
One a day for
your health*s sake*
a.
vtolfes
UOMATH
HRAPP3
WOLFES
<zz^cnndbjc.
SCHNAPPS
< Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
0 Wc represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art, past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
than a Work of Art.
PRICES FROM 3. GNS. TO 500 GNS,
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY -
Suite 417, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 5805.
Gallery open Daily from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Do you need a
Jhau/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POST-WAR
MODELS
NOW
AVAILABLE
3
U3n
y
a
/
m
j
%
c -m m
Cf
c
p>
a
STEEL SHEETS
F OR
INDUSTRY
PTY. LTD.
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
Head Office and Works —Port Kembla, N.S.W.
ARMCO (AUST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS:
SYDNEY: Kembla Building • BRISBANE: Victoria Chambers • MELBOURNE: Temple Court • PERTH; John
Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. • ADELAIDE: C.M.L, Building • WELLINGTON, N.Z.; John Lysaght Limited
To appreciate fully the value of a refrigerator, range, washing machine or
any similar piece of kitchen equipment, you must know what is in the hidden
places. For it is there, below the surface, that basic quality lies.
Where Comrol Sheet Steel is used there is no better assurance of high
quality. Comrol Enamelling Sheets give a perfect porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances. That is why the most reliable and trustworthy
appliances are constructed of Comrol Steel Sheets.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy volumes of Samuel Pepys’s diary.—
3754.
To buy English-Japanese dictionary giving
English phonetic spelling equivalents.—3755.
To buy Food, the Deciding Factor, by Frank
Wokes. —3756.
To hear from ex-R.A.N., A.M.F. and
R.A.A.F. full- or part-time education officers
and n.c.os., or any others previously con-
nected with the educational activities of the
three services now resident in Sydney.—3757.
Words of poem “Maloney’s Fenian Cat,”
and words and music of “My Irish Jaunting
Car.”—3758.
Information Sought.
Details of the Battle of Manila Bay in which
Commodore Dewey defeated the Spanish Fleet ?
The American squadron consisted of the
protected cruisers Olympia, Baltimore, Raleigh
and Boston, the unprotected cruiser Concord,
the gunboat Petrel, the armed cutter Hugh
M’Culloch and two supply ships Nanshan and
Zafiro. The Spanish force, commanded by
Admiral Montojo, included the Reina Chris-
tina, the Castilla, the Isla de Cuba and Isla
de Luzon (protected cruisers), the Don Juan
de Austria and Don Antonio de Ulloa (gun-
boats) and the Marques del Duero. On April
30, 1898, the Spanish force was sighted off
Cavite, and Admiral Dewey, with Olympia,
Baltimore, Raleigh, Petrel, Concord and Boston
in a column spaced at 400-yard intervals, opened
fire at 5000 yards (gradually decreased to 2000
yards) at 5.41 a.m. At 7.35 a.m. Dewey with-
drew, leaving the Christina and the Castilla in
flames, and re-engaged at 11.16 a.m. to silence
the Cavite batteries and to complete the de-
struction of the smaller ships. All the Spanish
ships were sunk or gutted, for a cost of
practically no damage to the American squad-
ron, and seven Americans slightly wounded.
The Spaniards lost 167 men killed and 214
wounded.
* * * *
Some facts about Ernest Hemingway and the
titles of some of his publications?
He was born on July 21, 1898, in Illinois,
U.S.A. After World War I served as Euro*
pean correspondent for Toronto “Star” and
later as Paris agent for Hearst’s Syndicated
News Service. He was a war correspondent in
World War II. His publications are Three
Stories and Ten Poems, In Our Time, The
Torrents of Spring, The Sun Also Rises, Men
Without Women, A Farewell to Arms, Death in
the Afternoon, Winner Take Nothing, Green
Hills of Africa, To Have and to Have Not and
For Whom the Bell Tolls.
# * * *
Dimensions and other data of the new
American transport ’plane the Constellation?
Wing span 123ft., overall length 95ft., maxi-
mum overall height wing area 1650 sq.
ft., total freight capacity 440 c. ft., weight (in-
cluding crew and passenger service equipment)
55,0001b. to 60,7501b. Number of passengers
(depending upon length of journey) varies from
44 to 60. Three-hundred and fifty m.p.h. can
be attained with a full load, but the usual
cruising speed is 300 m.p.h. A ceiling of
2500ft. is the height at which the ’plane does
its trips, in which the four 2500-h.p. Wright
Cyclone engines are utilised. The crew numbers
—again depending upon the length of the
journey—about seven.
* * * ♦
What are “The Five Freedoms” which are
the main objects of the United Nations Edu-
cational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation ?
(1) Freedom of movement and sojourn. (2)
Freedom of worship of Almighty <God. (3)
Freedom of criticism of man’s developed facul-
ties. (4) Freedom from molestation. (5) Free-
dom from denial of man’s right to work,
wherever he may be, that he may not be in
want.
#• * * *
I am 16, and have always been under weight.
I have tried various fattening foods without
success. What can be done? .
Include starchy foods in the diet and drink
milk freely. Taken between meals, malt ex-
tract is of value. Inheritance counts for much.
Faulty assimilation with lime deficiency in early
life causes slender bone formation and conse-
quent reduced weight. In such cases calcium
salts, limewater, etc., may be useful. But you
needn’t despair at 16; deposition of fatty tissue,
as the pundits call it, seldom begins earlier
in the male.
Brief Answers.
P.T.: The U.K. Government department deal-
ing with questions relating to literary and
artistic copyright is the Industrial Property
Department, Board of Trade, 25 Southampton
Buildings, London, W.C.2..,.C.J.: Bank of
England notes are issued for sums of 10s., fci
and £5. As from April 22, 1943, the Bank
of England ceased to issue bank notes of de-
nominations of £10 and upwards, and com-
menced to withdraw those already issued ; notes
of these denominations ceased to be legal tender
as from May 1, 1945 W.E.: Guy Bates
Post played the leading r61e m The Mas-
querader” at the Palace Theatre, Sydney, in
1917 Reader: Squeaking is sometimes caused
by friction and sometimes by lack ot
mellowness of the outer sole; if they are made
by the welted process, a felt filling between
the sole and insole should remedy the trouble.
.. .S.T.: Easter Sunday can fall at earliest on
March 22 pnd at latest on April 25....G.H.:
Weekly deductions on £11 are £2 12s. 6d. with
no dependants, and £2 2s. 9d. with one de-
pendant, while £12-weekly deductions in the
same order are £2 19s. 6d. and £2 9s.....
L D.W.: Cannot advise without first seeing the
article... .P.A.: The salary for a secretary of a
hospital with an adjusted daily averag£ L °, et f
occupied beds is £6 15s. in Sydney, Newcastle,
Port Kembla and Wollongong areas, and £6
12s. elsewhere in N.S.W.....A.W.: G A
Lloyd, 2 Martin-place, Sydney, is the managing
director of Nuffield (Australia) Pty-, L • •• • •
D H : F. J. Gaffy, Box 2552,. G.P.O., Mel-
bourne, is the secretary of the Victonan branch
of the Service party...-A-D-S.. Duning the
Spanish-American war, when Germany hmted
JK S
British would stand by the Ammcan. • ■ •* ‘i
Randwick racecourse has a circumference ot
approx, one mile three furlongs,


CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
per item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Xittle Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method ot
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22X), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
-uxXjjJwtr
GIOBITI
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So'
ask first for Globitel
Made by
FORD SHEHINGTON LTD.
McGILL’S Est. 1860. Subscription Department Ist Floor.
POPULAR OVERSEAS MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS
Direct from Publishers to Customers
Life, £3/2/6; Saturday Evening Post, £2/9/6; National Geographic, £l/17/6 ; Coronet, £l/1/-;
Better Homes & Gardens (three years only), £2/8/-; Popular Photography (Just released),
£l/12/-; American Photography, £l/6/-; U.S. Camera, 16/-; Popular Mechanics, £l/3/6;
Popular Science, £l/3/6 ; Popular Homecraft, £1; American Woodworker, £l/4/-; Veneers & Ply-
wood, 12/-; Model, Airplane News, 18/6; Model Railroader, £l/2/-; Model Craftsman, £l/4/-;
Mechanix Illustrated, 18/6-; Science & Mechanics, 15/-; Parents Magazine, 15/-; Wee Wisdom
(children 5-13 years), 7/6; The Instructor (Helpful Classroom Material), £l/9/-; Rudder (two
years), £2/12/-; Yachting, £l/16/-; Etude Music Magazine, £l/3/6; American Record Guide,
£1; Theatre Arts Monthly, £l/12/-j Variety Theatre Magazine, £4/4/-; Readers Digest, 12/-
one year, £1 two years. Please add exchange to country and interstate cheques.
New American and English Novels and Technical Books by Every Mail.
Large range of stationery and office requisites stocked.
I 183-185 Elizabeth St., /The G.P.O.\
iflLVilLiLt KJ ntVJL<ilV> 1 MELBOURNE. CBll3-4 V is O pp os it e /
Success of Re-establishment
Depends on National Co-operation
One o£ Australia’s most urgent
post-war tasks is to make absolutely
certain that our ex-service men and
women are speedily and success-
fully re - absorbed into civilian
life. Whatever our political per-
suasion, there can be no dispute
that the successful rehabilitation of
ex-service personnel is the respon-
sibility of each and every one of us,
and I believe that the prestige of
the nation is involved in this
question.
It is the intention of Re-estab-
lishment authorities to make a
determined drive to bring before
the notice of all employers and
employees, local Governing bodies,
organisations, clubs, ex-service as-
sociations and churches, the neces-
sity for their co-operation in the
most complete rehabilitation of the
men and women of the fighting
forces.
However good the machinery of
re-establishment, however generous
the scale on which funds are ex-
pended, however efficient the offi-
cers administering re-establishment
privileges unless welcoming
hands and sympathetic help are
extended by all sections and mem-
bers of the community, re-estab-
lishment could become a cold,
impersonal business, lacking in the
human sympathy and warmth so
necessary for its complete success.
We must remember that many
of these men and women, who
were little more than boys and girls
when they enlisted, are fueling a
little lost in a new world. We must
help them to find their place in
the community , Many have deve-
loped new skills in the services,
and wish to apply themselves to
fresh occupations. We must give
them the opportunity to do so.
Many who have served through six
years of war are finding re-adjust-
ment difficult. We must make
their problems our responsibility.
I therefore appeal to each and
every member of the community,
and to organizations which have
done so much through the war
years, to carry on the good work
by actively concerning themselves
with the re-establishment of our
ex-service men and women. There
could be no more fitting payment
of the debt we owe them than the
certainty that their future welfare
is assured.
M
lohn J. Dedman,
Minister for
Post-War Reconstruction.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the US. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MSi will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.Q.: Don’t explain jokes so tediously
J.GD.: One sentence occupied seven type-
written lines F.O’C.: Sub-title, “A Humor-
ous Sketch,” was entirely misleading... .T.N.:
That thirsty drover has been seen in these parts
before... .R.R.: Might make a par V.U.:
The familiar pattern of war stories P.T.S.:
“The Power of the Push” is more a sermon
than a story... .H.D.; Flashes of good descrip-
tion, but very uneven R.E.J.: Pretty-pretty.
. ...R.L.: Maybe someday we’ll get a yarn in
vvhich one of two lost fossickers doesn’t murder
his mate and then die a horrible death himself.
~. .A.J.M.: Your field is genealogy, not fiction
writing 8.T.: No short story can afford
to carry all those characters G.R.: Yarn
about embezzler reads more like an auditor’s
report than a story D.A.H.: The old
codger’s fireside reflections are trite and dreary.
—A.R.: Henry Lawson did it better in one
of his Mitchell yarns... .G.L.F.: Ten thousand
words is ten times too many for such a fleeting
episode F.C.: “Hanging was too good for
Bad Bill Burke.” And so is immortality in
print R.N.: Just a f.a.q. boy-meets-girl
effort L.W.: “Her eyes should be blue. Are
they?” They ought to be black C.S.: What,
you again? Trudy: Since when have autumn
leaves started falling in the Australian bush?
—H.T.: “The Piper’s Road” needs a repair
gang J.F.: “Peace” even more terrible than
war P.McM.: “Financial Wizard” whizzing
back J. 8.: Try an Adelaide paper
G.A.P.: Duller than a country paper’s report
of a local wedding H.T.: Yes V. 8.;
Ever hear of Ambrose Bierce?... .M.M.: Sent
“The Gurate” to blazes... .G.N.: Read more
Stevenson and less Cheyney Harry P.: That
detective wouldn’t convince a jury of nitwits.
—Marty: What did the story do to you that
you should murder it? T.R.E.: “You will
accept this or you will take the consequences.”
Well, the consequences can’t be worse than the
ordeal of reading the story T.P.L.: “The
Rogue Stallion” foundered C.C.F.: “Riding
Jim” lost his stirrups V.T.: Sugary
W.L.8.: One hundred lines of very blank
sociological verse entitled “Fair Go.” Fair go,
now J.R.:
Don’t let him keep too strict a guard over
your writing materials R.S.H.: She had
extraordinarily prominent eyes if they really
were “in space”... . R.O’N.: “What causes
these thoughts this writer is trying to express?”
Possibly, temporary dementia J.A.McM.:
“Is it poetry or doggerel?” Doggerel
G.McN.: No luck... .M.J.H.: Vague and
minute... .A.W.A.: Steer clear of vampires....
VJ.R.: We don’t publish books of verse;
but these four lines can have a flutter:
—J.L.T.: Try it on the girl W.W.M.:
Golf poem lost in the rough H.E.R.: Can’t
you avoid phrases such as “symphony synco-
pated”? T.P.0.: A glimmer F.R.8.:
Promising if you’re young... .S.H.H.: Light-
weight T.W.C.; The parrot who shocked
the parson should have died of old age 40
years ag0....A.N.: Slight... .R.McM.: Short
sentences should at least have a verb C.L.:
“Harry the Hobo” has renewed his travels....
F.E.: Come again... .J.T.: Too introspective,
and much too du11....J.H.H.: Concentrate on
fewer characters G.U.: Frothy... ,5.1.:
Cut J.H.S.: Try a daily M.0.N.: Too
many adjectives.... .0.R.: Characters shadowy.
—J.P.G.: Trite A.M.: Avoid rambling
sentences... .P.A.McH.: Hemingway and
water.. . .J.Q.: The droving scene is good, but
story trails off... .R.D.K.: It may be true, as
you say, but it is also dull 1.F.: Prune the
scenery, and fry a daily J.C.: Don’t drag
in sanguinary adjectives for their own sake....
P.P.: Write about what you know 0.T.:
Handwriting awful—story worse.... K.McA.:
Dialect spoils it D.J.: Cut long speeches.
G.L.: Two stories muddled in 0ne....
A.M.M.: Painfully sentimental R.A.:
Visualise your characters L.1.Y.: A little
honest indignation can ruin a promising story.
M.V.0.: Leave the “Shades of Mont-
martre” alone, and try King’s Cross W.J.:
Good, but slow-moving N.S.C.: A ghost
who smokes cigars arouses the darkest sus-
picions... .G.E.: If you must write historical
stories, make sure of your history H.O’S.:
“The Hamburger” unappetising S.R.: Burn
it 8.J.: Tedious.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A. 8.: It’s about time that' mountain goat
was pensioned 0ff....F.R.: It would make an
admirable frontispiece , for a guidebook
L. : No use submitting crayon drawings
on brown paper H.P.F.: Keep to humorous
sketches... .F.W.: Jest dates back to Vol. lof
The Bulletin N.L.S.: You got yourself info
a tangle from the first few lines U.H.: Isn’t
it a trifle cold for that lass to be prancing
around in a French bathing costume?
M. ; Suitable only- as decorations for the
walls of a nursery J.S.A.: Tattooing on
the matelot’s chest is the only well-drawn item
in the picture... .L.A.: Take your lopsided
crooner away W.V.R.: What made you
think you could click with a colored sketch of
Fujiyama?... .R.M.C.: Seen better on the
windows of butchers’ shops N.R.: Norman
Lindsay got in first ages ago and did a far better
job E.D.H.: Promising drawings; humor
lacks punch.., .EJ.T.; You can’t draw a tram-
car, doubt if you can draw a tram ticket
W.P. : The gag is infirm and old; the sketch
Bears all the hallmarks of a first attempt....
R.G.: Horrible example M.M.: Yes, we
saw the point, but it’s du11... .P.W.: Well be-
low publication standard C.H.M.: Slapdash
art and schoolboy humor... A
Sketched effort.
I’d have a valet
To tie my skis
At the mountain chalet,
To carry my coat
And fight my battles
To keep my relatives
From my goods and .chattels.
A sound transmitter is the blue gum tree
With broadcast chipper who warily
Says “Fleet-foot flitter imperilly
When blows atipper the blue gum tree.”


RAYON
for love It
mess
/lial lasls
Re £ J.
World distributors for
Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd.,
London, England.
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co.-
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., xBl Clarence Street.
New clothes are an event these
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayon. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
< he lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds rayon is still avail-
able, although the quantity is'
restricted
nP
to
iP.j, /
mm
it!
\2
m
■i .4
Every time you
■'4 , F JjF break a block of
Small’s Club Chocolate
you’ll hear it SNAP. Anyone
who knows anything at all about Chocolate
will tell you that’s the way to tell the very
best chocolate. If it’s always brittle .. •
if it’s always snappy
then you know you’ve
got the best.
Ask for
Small*s Club
Chocolate
in the famous black
and white wrapper
SMALL’S MAKE 6REAT CHOCOLATE
A
THE RESCUE
By ISABEL KNOX
IT was the kind of day—brazenly hot
with a touch of north wind—that does
to sons of the south what frost and
keener airs are supposed to do to
northern Europeans. A stimulating day,
in short.
Dilly-Dolly Danks came out of her
house with a skip. Her real name was
Dorothea. Only she had been given this
silly appellation by her Uncle. And,
despite her protestations, the silly tag had
endured and had become a humiliating
fixture, though Uncle Frank, struck by a
bullet in Borneo, himself had ceased to be.
It worried Dilly-Dolly that because of
this she could not give his memory its
proper veneration. Naturally, not all the
time, but often enough to be uncomfort-
able, she felt guilty about Uncle Frank.
The unease could worry her without
warning—when she was just going to do
an exam., at parties, or in the middle of
the night.
“You better hop it for a swim, Dill,
Mrs. Danks had said. It s getting close
on eleven.” This was generous of Mrs.
Danks, because eleven o clock on batur-
day morning is generally a time when
your mother can t spare you. Duly-Doiiy
hopped it.
She let the front gate slam behind her
baths. Outside the
building a
11 a.m.-l p.m. LADIES ONLY.
'"THE bliss of it; the nearly-empty baths,
} the vast green shining of die water, the
ti sunlight and
amphibian, the icatina
shadow on the sea, the high, intoxicating
seaweedy smells, . . Words were made-
quate to express Dilly-Dolly’s satisfac-
tion. Yet somehow, standing poised on
the end of the springboard, ready to do
a super honeypot, a tribute was paid to
the glory, and, by crikey, in the depths
was praise.
Already two “ladies” other than herself
were clients. They had paid and walked
in before her. In age they were both
near enough to twelve to be worth an
effort Dilly-Dolly reckoned ; and by their
backs sisters. She looked for them when
she emerged from the virginal privacy of
her bunk. They were crouched on the
steps at the shallow end, their skinny
arms crossed on their breasts in attitudes
of fearful anticipation, their shoulder-
blades sticking out. Dilly-Dolly sauntered
near with a ghastly assumption of non-
chalance. She “saw” them with a start,
They grinned.
“Come on up the deep end,” Dilly-
Dolly invited.
“Not allowed,” answered one. “Can’t
swim, neither of us.”
“Come from the Mallee,” piped the
other. “Never seen the big drink before,”
she added jovially,
“Whadder y’ think of it?”
“Nobbad . . .” they answered as one.
e j r voices falling together on a note of
depreciation.
stung to silence by this incredible chal-
lenge Dilly-Dolly was still for a moment
contemplating them. They had been
y esse( j suns c f home to the point of
dessication. Their freckles were like dried
f i co t Sj their hair bleached and spiky;
anc j hght, vivid eyes that bespoke a Celtic
or jg| n were already fading a little from
their first brilliance. But their smiles were
w j c j e as Sallee horizons.
“ Huh! ‘Nobbad’ you call it, eh?”
ghe said at last
“ Y> oughter see Skeleton Tank,” they
ur g!?;. Froni the to steD Dilly .
Do f y Uselessly into the shallow
water. They cried as she came up—
“Y> oughtn’t t’ dive in shallow water.”
b rmiv rvdlv
Depends who s diving, Dilly-Do y
answered She demonstrated her back-
stroke, lifting her arms m clean, measure
movement. She finished up panting a bit
and a long way out. She looked back
at them.
“Crumbs, they called. Are you any
good!” It was only her due, Dilly-Dolly
told herself, but it was decent of them,
too. But not enough,
“Come out the deep end,” she coaxed,
“I might dive awffer the spring board.
Y’ don’t have to go in the water. Nick
round the platform by the bunks. I’ll
swim out.”
nr HEY dithered. She encouraged them,
I “I might dive!”
She sounded magnanimous as though
she were offering half the Koh-i-noor.
They fell. Together they sped round,
bare feet scurrying on the boards. They
were there before her, waiting her advent,
There must have been a time when Dilly-
Dolly couldn’t swim but she had no re-
membrance of it. She thought of herself
now as Hans Andersen’s little mermaid
suddenly cast back into her native ele-
ment, with memories of earth and pain
slipping away as she fled through the
water. It was a kind of shock to get to
the farthermost steps and find her public
waiting.
“Gowwan, dive! ” they ordered.
“Give’s a chance.” Dilly-Dolly’s earthi-
ness was reasserting itself. She was short
of breath. “I’ll have a bit of a lay-out
on the board first,” she told them. She
stretched herself along the ropy surface,
“Room for another little one,” she an-
nounced familiarly.
But they were afraid to venture on so
frail a support over the cavern of the sea
and sat down on the platform.
“Funny,” said Dilly-Dolly. “All coun-
try kids’ve got white pale bodies. Y’only
get sunburnt on y’r faces.” They took it
up, and with thrust and parry began to
create the fabric of friendship. But the
native-born reminded herself she was not
wholly appeased.
“At, well,” she remarked presently,
“here goes.”
She went into her diving act. It was
more than a diving act. It was a vindi-
cation of her way of life, the unanswer-
able reply to that impudent “Nobbad!”
They were generous, and shouted their
enthusiasm. And while she accepted
their applause with poise, there flared
in Dilly-Dolly a thing unwonted and
evil, a grotesque sense of power. She
and’ the sea ... together, they could quell
and control, A running-buck drew from
them a cry of admiration she heard as
she went like an arrow towards the shelly
bottom.
“ ’Snothing,” she- said, coming up and
shaking the water from her eyes.
*‘Y’ oughter see me doing rescue work,
We learn it at school. If a big, fat woman
started to drown now I could rescue her
quite easy.” She peered up cunningly at
their distant faces.
“How couldja?” They would believe
nothing not demonstrated. They hadn t
been reared in drought country tor
n °thing. _ , ,
. “Huh, easy. Dilly-Dolly duck-dive
in eight feet of water and brought up a
huge mussel for the delectation of their
eyes.
“Rescue work’s easy,” she reiterated ;
“got no one to rescue,” she deplored,
-PHE spell wrought by Dilly-Dolly’s
1 performance, combined with the sud-
den thrust of suggestion, was all at once
too much for the little sister. With a wild
shriek of “Rescue me, then! ” and a fear-
some, wobbling rush along the board, she
flung herself off the end to land like a
frog on all fours on an unyielding sur-
face of water that mercifully stunned her.
Mercifully, for it gave Dilly-Dolly an
instant of time before two thin white
arms wreathed themselves like wire round
her neck and a pair of g.
fla * le at e f, s on ] a J ' fj ■ th
It was different from practices in th
school-yard on dry ground. T y
went through the motions and presently
you said t 0 Y ou r Partner You re
stonkered! And with that it was your
own turn to go patient. .
Now, by no recognised method, but by
an expediency that was a combination of
all desperate remedies, Dilly-Dolly shoved
and pulled; her ears roared with noise
and there were terrible pains in her chest
as she launched herself into the struggle
with this treacherous love of hers, the
sea, that had in a moment transformed
itself into seeping death...
Her shoulder hit hard against wood,
Then they were sprawling on the-steps
an octopus-heap of tangled limbs and
spasmodic heaving,
Plucked at and dragged by her sister,
the small stranger was first to move. At
length Dilly-Dolly gathered herself for
the herculean struggle of finding her
bunk and putting on her clothes. The
sisters were waiting for her when she
came out. They had bought ginger-bread,
tough and salty, and offered her some;


w
I^®
my
mm
Into the construction of those sturdy little war-
winning P.T. boats went waterproofed Plywood; and
the same qualities that made those craft so reliably
watertight are the perfect protection against all kinds
of weather whenever Plywood is used in external
construction.
Waterproofing adds another tremendous advantage to
the many already possessed by all-Australian Plywood.
So wherever a light, durable, easily worked, water-
proof material is required for any kind of constructional
or building use. Plywood will do the job better, quicker
and cheaper than anything else you can buy.
For outer walls, roofs or any constructional
expanse exposed to weather you
can safely rely on Plywood.
.
, f
The lightest , strongest , most adaptable
material for your permanent home,
THE PRODUCT OF THE AUSTRALIAN PLYWOOD BOARD
m cm dcfimd
ON A CABLE FROM
Olympic
Specify Olympic Cables
and be confident that
they will more than
adequately fulfil every
task you set them.
OltimplC WIRES and
J CABLES
Keep on buying Savings
Certificates and Stamps .
A product of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
TYRES i FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA “
OLYMPIC
but it crumbled untasted in the mouth of
Dilly-Dolly, the murderer,
li \\l E better get a rustle on.” Dilly-
VV Dolly forced her voice to steadi-
ness. “It must be nearly the men’s time.”
Soberly they went out through the turn-
stile. The bath’s lessee hurried after and
intercepted them.
“Now, then, you kids, what hap-
pened?” he challenged. “My wife seen
something going on through the upstairs
winder. Got a good mind to report y’
to y’r parents. Get off home, now, the
lot of y’. No tragedies wanted here.”
He removed himself in dudgeon.
Importance blew out the little sister’s
chest. “I musta nearly got drowned,”
she said. One or two men standing wait-
ing to go in the baths smiled, and one
said “No kidding, now. Let’s have the
story and I might put it in the paper.”
Dilly-Dolly knew him. He was the
son of the man who owned the local rag
that everybody took on Wednesdays.
Horror transfixed her, and she tried to
say to the little sister “No, no!”
But a spate of words like the Mumim-
bidgee in flood was spilling from the two
of them. And Dilly-Dolly, knowing her-
self now a cheat as well as a murderer,
stood silent while they sang the tale of
her praise.
“I dunno what my gran’ma’ll say to
me for going out the deep end,” con-
cluded the little sister, “but I think it
was worth it.” N
“You kept your head and you did a
brave thing,” said the reporter to Dilly-
Dolly, who died within herself of shame.
“And now,” taking out a pencil, “let’s
have some names, please. We’ll publish
this for the honor of the local girls.” He
laughed gaily.
Dilly-Dolly had just enough presence
of mind left to give her name as
Dorothea.
‘ ‘ A BYSSINIA! ” said the sisters as they
left her. And, gesturing her fare-
well, Dilly-Dolly gladly forgave them the
outmoded crack. .
On the way home her spirits began to
rise. After all, the little sister was intact.
It occurred to her, as she opened the
front gate, that it might be a very good
thing to have her rightful name estab-
lished by print. For who could withstand
the power of the printed word?
Watch on The Apennines
By A. PRESTON
SILENCE over the camp ; three thou-
sand prisoners turn and toss in
uneasy sleep; outside, the com-
pounds are silent except for the
crunch of nailed boots as the Carabinieri
patrol passes along the pebbled paths. It
is cool here, even on this Italian summer
night, for the camp lies due east of
Rome, high up in the Apennines. It lies
tonight under the shadow of the moun-
tain which towers above the camp, for
the moon is not yet up.
The two Carabinieri mutter softly to
each other, either-because the still beauty
of the night awes them, or because they
are two, the prisoners are many and some
are Australians and “very dangerous,”
and they are locked into the compound
far from the light and companionship of
the Commando.
'“THEY walk on between the huts, avoid-
* ing the darker shadows, and jump
when a pebble rolls from between their
feet. Watching eyes from behind dark-
ened windows glint with amusement as
the two representatives of Italian armed
might go past on their unwilling tour of
duty.
They approach the lecture hut, a door-
less, windowless building known to the
prisoners as the “Barn.” Outside the dark
entrance the patrol stops; they sit on
the step, the taller of the two switches
on his torch and throws it around the
hut’s emptiness; the watching eyes
narrow with anxiety, and breath is drawn
in and held. The torch snaps out and
the watchers relax. So do the Cara-
binieri ; they lean back against the brick
wall and light up. Five minutes pass and
silence reigns.
The bright end of a cigarette describes
an arc and falls with a little plop and a
scatter of sparks on to the path; the
elder of the two, a grey-haired sergente,
rises, stretches himself, yawns and tells
the other to wait; he has drunk too
much vino at supper, and what better
place to relieve himself than the prisoners’
recreation hut? He goes up the steps and
disappears into the black shadows; the
beam of his torch can be seen dancing
through the empty window spaces.
The watchers grow tense; will he go
to the far end and find the tunnel?
Five months of chipping through stub-
born rock, endless conferences, long
months of denying empty stomachs ill-
spared portions of food for the escape
rations have gone into the making of
that tunnel. The wordless prayer goes
up: “Oh, God, don’t let him find it!”
The tunnel is almost finished; two
days to go, and only yesterday rations
for the first flight were taken, for safety,
to the tunnel face. Chocolate and cakes
baked hard with cocoa, oatmeal and
sugar as their base. Perhaps he won’t
see it; it’s right under his nose, the last
shift swept the dust back into the cracks
around the loose paving-stones —or did
they? Little groping fingers claw the
intestines of the watchers, the torch beam
glows at the end of the hut. Hell, he
must be right on top of it.
The sound of his nailed boots on the
paved floor still continues, they stop.
Silence; the Carabinieri at the door is
slumped down almost asleep. Three
stamps of a boot, another three; the
swine has seen something, he’s testing
the floor. His excited voice calls to the
other man.
There is quick movement in the bar-
rack-room, a softfooted figure slips out
and disappears towards the other end
of the compound ; sleepy people must be
roused, maps, clothes, all must be hidden
or destroyed, nothing must lead to the
discovery of even one name as intimately
connected with the tunnel, because that
means solitary, or the punishment camp.
I NSIDE the hut the excited voices of
l the patrol can be heard. This is luck
for them.
The younger urges caution. “Let’s go
to the gate and wait for the relief,” he
says.
“No,” says the other, “the Command-
ante promised any tunnelfinders a month’s
leave and a reward. Why share it with
them?”
They argue. “You wait here while I
go down the tunnel,” says the elder.
“No, no, don’t go, let’s wait for the
relief.”
Back in the huts everybody knows the
worst has happened; it is a bitter pill to
swallow, but it’s happened before and
it will happen - again. Hell, Switzerland
is 500 miles away, and the trains are
guarded, anyway.
Silence falls again on the compound.
The Carabinieri have stopped arguing.
The elder, offering his life for Duce and
Glory, has gone down the tunnel.
Five long minutes pass; one can almost
hear the thoughts travelling through the
lonely sentry’s head.
“What shall I do if Pietro doesn’t
come back? The English and the Aus-
tralians, they will murder me.”
He becomes uneasy, his feet scuffle the
floor. He utters little whimpering sounds.
One sadistic watcher throws out a few
loud and menacing growls. The sentry
calls softly with a sob in his voice,
“Pietro?”
Pietro is silent. Again, with a voice
hoarse with anxiety, “Pietro?”
The tunnel mouth yawns darkly, as cold
and unresponsive as a grave. Then, with
a shrill scream, “Pietro!” And with
tears streaming down his; face the
descendant of the Roman Legions bursts
from the hut, his rifle forgotten, and
flees shouting ; to the compound gate, to
fall into the arms of the relief.
The watchers sighed. They knew where
Pietpo was. Pietro was at the tunnel
face, 200 feet away, making himself sick
on the chocolate, and no doubt stuffing
some of the cakes into his ammunition
pouch for his family. And so another
escape was scotched. Ah, well, it had
passed the time, and tomorrow with its
reprisals, searches and questions was not
yet here, and the Cloak and Dagger have
another scheme prepared.


£lO9O
PRIZE MONEy
FOR
RADIO
PLAYS
£2O for each play accepted plus
£5O grand award with trophy
for play adjudged best of the
series.
WANTED —52 twenty-five-minute plays for “Authors’
Playhouse” on Radio 2UE; must be original but
can be of any type suitable for radio presentation;
entries may be submitted now and until further notice;
if you wish, write to Radio 2UE, 29 Bligh Street,
Sydney, who will gladly give you guidance on how to
go about writing your play; rejected entries will be
returned with complete explanation as to why the play
was not accepted and other helpful advice, thus perhaps
making possible re-entry of the rejected play, or the
submission of a new one, with greater likelihood of
success; the Selection Committee will comprise four
members, two appointed by Radio 2UE and two by the
sponsors; £2O will be paid for each play presented and
an additional £5O with trophy awarded for the play
adjudged best of the series broadcast in—
AUTHORS’ A||r
PLAYHOUSE on Hit
{Sponsored by Beckers Pty., Ltd., makers of
Bex Powders and Tablets.)
Your WILL ...
A Will that is not correctly and explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The prudent man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against such possibilities by having
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn by
his Solicitor and appointing a qualified Executor and
Trustee,
%
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expert
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
information you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on
application.
Write for a Booklet.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23*25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WITHDRAWAL FROM EGYPT.
S e F9 r * °f the debate in the House of
that British troops would, be withdrawn from
Mr. Attlee, in his statement on the Anglo-
Egyptian negotiations, said; I think the House
would wish to be informed of an announcement
made in Cairo by the British treaty delegation,
it is the considered policy of his Majesty’s
Government to consolidate their alliance with
Egypt as one between two equal nations. The
Government have proposed the withdrawal of
ail British naval, military and air forces from
Egyptian territory, and to settle in negotiation
the arrangements to be made by the Egyptian
vGovernment to make possible mutual assist-
ance in time of war.”
Mr. Churchill: This is a very grave state-
ment, one of the most momentous I have heard
in this House—the complete evacuation of
Egypt by all naval, military and air forces —
and this is offered at the beginning of the ne-
gotiations. Sixty years of diplomacy and
administration
Mr. Piratin (Communist); That is long
enough.
Mr. Churchill: Things are built up with great
labor and cast away with great shame and
folly. Has the right hon. gentleman any state-
ment to make about the Sudan?
Mr. Attlee: This is a matter which does not
affect the Sudan. That is a condominium.
Mr. Eden: Will the right hon. gentleman bear
in mind that in the treaty freely signed by
Britain and Egypt in 1936 we and Egypt
together assumed the joint obligation for the
defence of Egypt and of the Canal? That
obligation is still our obligation and still
Egypt’s obligation.
Mr. Attlee: We are endeavoring to work out
with the Egyptian Government plans for an
alliance and for the defence of this area.
Mr. Eden, speaking on a motion for the ad-
journment of the House:
The British troops in Egypt under the Anglo-
Egyptian Treaty of 1936 were not there as an
army of occupation. The Prime Minister’s an-
nouncement at this time gave the impression
that their purpose in Egypt was something
other than it was—namely, the defence of the
Canal Zone. This was not a purely British matter.
The issue of the security of the Canal could
not be ignored or prejudiced. Suppose that
Mussolini or Hitler had succeeded in their
plans, what opportunity would there have been
for Egyptian nationalist aspirations to find
expression?
However intense the national feeling about
the presence of foreign troops on Egyptian
soil, some account must be taken of recent
history. The interest of the two countries was
one, and, while the objection of the Egyptians
to seeing British troops moving about Cairo
could be met, what his Majesty’s Government
had done was, before the negotiations had
got under way, to make a declaration of with-
drawal which, unless some new strategic dis-
covery had been made, would make the new
agreement quite 'worthless. For the effective
defence of the Canal British troops in Egypt
were called for.
The Canal was an essential means of com-
munication between different parts of the
Empire. Australia, New Zealand and South
Africa had made matchless contributions in
blood and effort for the defence of the Canal,
and India’s contribution was magnificent. Did
they agree with what had been done?
The Anglo-Egyptian Treaty had stood the
test of time and the sterner test of war. The
fundamental principles of the treaty appeared
to have been thrown over without any substi-
tute being provided.
Mr. Attlee said that the Government were
concerned with the security of the communica-
tions of the Commonwealth and Empire, with
the security of the Canal, and with maintain-
ing the best possible relations with Egypt and
her continued alliance with this country.
In 1936 Mr. Eden was successful in obtain-
ing the existing treaty. The treaty opened
with a statement that military occupation of
Egypt was at an end. It came after a good
many years during which we had been in Egypt
and had said we were going to go but had not
gone. The provision then was for the protec-
tion of the Canal Zone and the stationing of
troops there, and the evacuation of our troops
from Cairo, because the presence of foreign
troops in a capital did offend national senti-
ment. But the war came and our troops had
to be in Egypt.
Troops from this country, India and from
the Dominions rendered a great service to
Egypt in saving her from aggression. That
should be in the minds of all Egyptians, but
it did not alter the fact that the continued
presence of our troo'ps in Cairo and elsewhere
in Egypt did affect Egyptian nationalist feeling.
Although we had said we should be going we
had not been able to go. There was the sus-
picion strong in the mind of Egypt still that
we wanted to occupy that country. We were
seeking a treaty of friendship and alliance, and
the strength of such a treaty rested on feel-
ings of real friendship.
If the alliance is to continue it is essen-
Commons following Mr. Attlee’s statement
i Egypt is condensed from London “Times.”)
tial to have as a departure the complete free-
dom and independence of Egypt.
The Egyptians did not consider that that
freedom was theirs as long as foreign troops
were retained, even by a treaty, on Egyptian
soil. The Government’s proposal offered the
best means of getting agreement on the facili-
ties which we should need bn Egyptian soil
to make the alliance a reality and to enable
us in the case of emergency to go effectively to
Egypt’s assistance.
Under conditions of modern warfare we c6n
only carry out our obligations if we are put
in a position by the Egyptian Government
to bring our forces into action in the area
without loss of time in emergency. What we
are endeavoring to work out with the Egyptians
is how we can best get these facilities.
I brought this draft before the Dominion
Prime Ministers, and discussed it with them.
There were Opposition cries of “Did they
agree?”
Mr. Attlee retorted warmly; I discussed it
with the Dominion representatives very fully.
They agree that this was the best method of
approach.
Mr. Churchill: But is it the fact that they
were consulted before the decision was taken,
or was the decision taken and they were just
told of it?
Mr. Attlee: Of course they were consulted
before the decision.
There was a pause, and Mr. Attlee said very
sharply: The right hon.
gentleman shakes his
head. He was not
there. We decided on
this draft, and then
naturally we brought it
before the Dominions.
I say they were fully
consulted.
Mr. Henderson
Stewart (Liberal) said
that for the past half-
century no single
authority, military or
strategic, would not
have declared that
British military and
naval forces based on
Egypt were vital. What
had happened to alter
that confirmed view of
the experts?
Sir I. Fraser (Conser-
vative): It is a begin-
ning to the unbutton-
ing of the British Em-
pire.
Mr. Hogg (Conserva-
tive) said that the Gov-
ernment had paid too
little attention to strate-
gic considerations. The
security of the Suez
Canal was a vital inter-
est to the future peace
of the world. He did
not believe that a purely
nationalist solution
would secure that peace.
The solution was one
which must ultimately
lie under the responsi-
bility of U.N.0., but
bases and installations
provided by the British
Empire had to play an
important and indispensable part.
Brigadier Low (Conservative) said the more
we tried to knit together the Empire the more
important was the safety of our Empire com-
munications. If we did not put any troops
anywhere near the Suez Canal we should be
leaving it absolutely insecure.
Mr. Churchill said that it was a very
serious thing to begin negotiations with a state-
ment that you were proposing to give away the
main point. The Government proposed to
move the troops out of Egypt, and then to
have long negotiations on the effective defence
of the Canal zone.
Who was going to suggest that there was
any method of safeguarding the Canal except
by having troops on the spot? No military
man of responsibility would say that it could
be kept open without them. That was the
whole point; anyone could close the Canal from
100 miles away, but troops had to be there
when the danger came, and in the months be-
fore the storm burst.
Mr. H. Morrison, Lord President of the
Council, said that the Egyptian Government, in
the opening of the negotiations, sought three
things. They were, a decision that there should
be a military evacuation from Egypt; then dis-
cussions into the ways and means and timing
of the withdrawal; and the question of the
future of the alliance. The Government came
to the conclusion that without an acceptance of
the principle of withdrawal it was clear that they
would get no effective or favorable progress in
the negotiations. There would be sharp antagon-
ism on the part of the Egyptian Government
and Parliament; almost certain disturbance
and riots, possibly even revolution, and it
might have led to British forces being attacked
and having to defend themselves. That would
be on the road to the military occupation of
the country, and we should not have had the
sympathy of our friends of the civilised world.
Such an event would not have had the assent
of the people of this country.
For the motion 158
Against ' .. .. 327
Government majority .. .. 169
(London “Times” editorial comment, which has
been sharply criticised .)
The British Commonwealth largely de-
pends for its strength upon unobstructed
intercourse between its component parts;
and for this reason the security of the
Middle East has always been a major
aim of British policy.
Among the most important articles of
the Anglo-Egyptian treaty of 1936 was
the provision authorising Britain to
station forces in the vicinity of the Canal
in order to ensure its defence until such
time as the Egyptian Army was in a posi-
tion to provide complete security.
During the war, although conditions in
the Mediterranean long prevented the use
Detroit “News.”
ENOUGH BRICKS TO REBUILD ENGLAND.
of the Canal as a regular channel of east-
ward communication between Britain and
her friends, its importance as a means of
supplying Egypt with men and materials
from the side of the Red Sea was crucial.
The underlying purpose of the negoti-
ations now taking place is to consolidate
the alliance between Britain and Egypt
initiated in 1936. This alliance has proved
its value to the entire Middle East; and
its survival in effective form is an im-
portant pillar of general international
security. Those who demand that it
should remain unaltered fail to take full
account of the changes which the last
decade has brought about in Egypt or of
the lessons which the experience of the
war can teach. . '
In view of the immense importance to
Britain of the security of her communi-
cations through the Middle East, she is
bound to make effective arrangements
for their preservation. To attempt this
in defiance of the susceptibilities of Egypt
would be to court disaster. The most
meticulous arrangements might easily
break down under the stress of emerg-
ency. It is therefore obvious that British
plans must be made in close association
with Egypt.
The withdrawal of British troops from
Egypt does not imply the decline of
Britain’s position in the Middle Eastern
area. There are other bases where these
troops can be stationed. But it does
ensure that the arrangements to be made
by the Egyptian Government for mutual
assistance will be initiated with hearty
goodwill.
These arrangements must be deter-
mined without delay. The withdrawal of
British troops and the disposal of the
immense bases built up over so many
years must necessarily take time; but
even the beginning of the process will
disorganise in some degree the present
plans for common defence against aggres-
sion, and new plans must be framed in
substitution for them. This is, in fact,
the intention.
(From London “Times” military correspondent .)
There are alternative stations from
which the Suez Canal and its approaches
can be defended—though they may not
be as satisfactory as Egypt.
The offer to Egypt has Ijpen made with
the view that it is better to lose
some strategic advantages than to
continue a system of defence of the
Middle East which could only be
based on bad relations and mistrust.
If withdrawal from Egypt can be
linked to a firm treaty of alliance, with
binding arrangements for the defence of
Egypt and the Canal in time of danger,
this may prove a fairly satisfactory solu-
tion. On the other hand, this solution
would not have been reached from the
purely military point of view had there
been no political considerations in its
favor.
What are the alternative stations re-
ferred to? Palestine, Transjordan, the
Sudan, Cyprus, Cyrenaica—and it must
be owned that there is an “if” of varying
significance about the majority of these.
From the naval point of view there is
no existing substitute for Alexandria, the
nearest being Malta, and Malta’s value
depends to a great extent upon there
being no unfriendly Power in Sicily or on
the North African shore. It may well be,
however, that the Mediterranean has
ceased to be the realm of the big warship,
in which case Alexandria becomes less
indispensable.
It will not be possible for the final with-
drawal to take place for several years.
The British possess at present 150 depots
containing £12,000,000 worth of stores.
The main depot at Tel el Kebir is 28
miles in circumference. There are huge
repair shops at Alexandria, cold-storage
plants at Alexandria, Cairo, Suez and
Port Said. There were a number of Army
factories opened during the war. All
these will take time to move.
A great deal which has been put into
the country will remain behind, including
railway tracks, water pipes and the transit
camps. These will be of considerable mili-
tary value to Egypt and to the alliance,
if it be happily achieved.
An “Australian” Writes.
(Harry Bridges on history, the Empire and
other matters .)
A little delving into history books will
show that Great Britain never won a war
by herself, even against nations and
people much smaller and more poorly
armed than she was. Her victories in
wars always came about because she got
other nations into the fight on her side.
When she didn’t get such help, she took
a dumping, and usually hollered “uncle.”
From the time early in British history
when she tried to conquer the Scots and
the Welsh, down to the Boer War Britain


lost her fights when she fought alone, be-
cause she was always trying to enslave a
free people.
Bruce whaled the daylights out of the
English at Bannockburn. The Welsh just
kept on fighting and then holing up m
their caves and mountains, giving the
English what went for a Bronx cheer in
those days, by tooting at them with cow
horns, while the English hauled away
their dead.
The English finally gave up, and worked
out a deal with the Welsh, on the same
basis that is practised in present-day
politics, and that is if you can’t beat them
buy them off. This the English did by
offering them a sort of vice-presidency in
the United Kingdom, and agreeing that
the guy that was next in line to become
the King of Great Britain would be
called the Prince of Wales. It’s one
reason why the Welsh people have been
on the verge of starvation ever since.
In 1776 Britain thought she could make
short work of Washington and his ragged
army of patriots, and no trick in the book
was too dirty nor any method too cruel
for her to use in trying to crush the first
desperate struggles of a people deter-
mined to have their own freedom and
independence.
She eventually decided to take on the
Dutch farmers in South Africa, who
wanted to keep their land and farm it,
and live in peace with all the world.
Britain went to war again, and the Boers
grabbed their squirrel rifles and for two
years lambasted the bejeses out of the
British.
During the Boer War Winston Chur-
chill popped up as a great empire saver.
He made headlines in British papers by
squawking about the number of Britishers
that the Empire shipped to South Africa
to fight the Boers, only to turn around
and start fighting Britain when they found
out what a lousy deal it was all around.
Poor old Winnie nearly busted a gut, and
let me say here that my information
comes from folks that were there and
told me about it when I was a kid in
school in Australia.
Winnie was bloody well captured. He
was placed on parole as an officer and
a gentleman, and that meant that he gave
his word that he would not try to sked-
addle. But he did. He figured that the
word of an officer and gentleman would
not mean much to a bunch of ignorant
Boers, anyhow, so he just scrammed, and
went back to England, and blossomed out
as a hero, especially when he told how
he had fought off a few dozen of the
enemy singlehanded.
And Winnie’s been going strong ever
since. He is at it right now, here in thp
U.S.A., right in our own backyard. His
Empire is slipping plenty. The millions
of people in its slave colonies are on the
march. Britain alone has not the man-
power, money or arms to keep its vast
colonial empire effectively oppressed any
longer. He knows damn’ well that he
can’t get to first base by asking the
American people for money and supplies
to fight the revolting Indians or Indones-
ians, so he hollers for a war against the
Russians, because he knows damn’ well
that outside of the U.S.A. Russia is the
greatest threat to the slavery and starva-
tion that England must impose upon mil-
lions in her slave Empire to hold a lead-
ing position in world trade.
There should be no loan to Britain
until she permits freedom throughout her
empire. As for Winnie, he should go
back home, and the quicker the better.
[As leader of the Pacific Slope long-
shoremen Bridges gets a wide circulation
for anti-British stuff, of which the fore-
going—taken from a Honolulu print —is
an example. He has given up denying
being a Communist, presumably because
denials are no longer necessary.]
The Tito Mistake.
(Front & “Nineteenth Century and After”
editorial.)
It has become an open secret that Great
Britain made a terrible mistake when she
supported Tito and abandoned Draja
Mihailovich. By this mistake she set up
a tyranny that is as hostile to her as it is
to freedom, a danger to the peace of
Europe and a threat to her* own imperial
security. If Yugoslavia were today an
independent country, as she can never be
under Tito, the menace to Turkey would
be much smaller than it is and the menace
to Greece would not exist.
There was a campaign of flattery for
Tito, as ignoble as the campaign of
calumny against Mihailovich. And so,
over a period of years, there was a falsi-
fication of history, a falsification which
has cumulatively poisoned the political
atmosphere throughout the Near East
and has tarnished England’s fair name,
and has thrown doubts, that extend even
to the United States, upon the veracity
of her press and wireless.
The mistake that was made is today
admitted privately even by some who had
a large share in making it. But Marshal
Tito is established in power through the
help he received from England, a help
he needs no longer.
The Yugoslav elections, held last
November, marked the culmination of
his power. All election propaganda out-
side the National Front, which is en-
tirely dominated by the Communist
party, was prohibited, save for a few
negligible exceptions which were allowed
because they would make a favorable im-
pression on simple-minded observers in
England and the United States.
Even the most timid critics of that
Government were denounced as betrayers
of the nation. “Collaborator” was—and
still is—a technical term, signifying not
one who collaborated with the enemy, but
one who will not collaborate with Tito’s
administration—or one who has property
which is coveted either by the State or
by some influential Communist. Such a
“collaborator” may have fought in a
dozen battles against the Germans and
the Italians, and he may have many
wounds, but he remains a “collaborator,”
that is to say, a “traitor,” a “betrayer.”
On the other hand, a man may have aided
the foreign enemy, he may even have
fought against Russia, or may have taken
part in massacres of Serb peasants, but
he can still hope to be called patriot
and to serve in Tito’s administration.
Indeed, it is a smaller offence to have
collaborated, in the true sense of the
term, with the enemy than to be a true
Serbian patriot. But the greatest offence
of all is to be a friend of England —any
expression of opinion, any movement in
favor of England is ruthlessly suppressed
in Yugoslavia today.
During the electoral campaign reports
were craftily circulated that all who voted
VAGABOND.
for the opposition would be shot, or
arrested, or deprived of their rations—
hunger is by far the most formidable in-
strument of coercion at the disposal ot
the Dictatorship. After polling-day
peasants who had not voted (in a village
it is always easy to discover who has not)
were deprived of cattle, food, furniture,
and so on.
In the polling stations the ballot boxes
with the names of the Communist candi-
dates stood first in the row, so that it
was possible to observe who put his hand
into the other boxes. Those who put
their hands into these other boxes were
marked men. Soldiers voted under the
supervision of their officers. Some units
cast their votes in several polling stations.
Infinite trickery and coercion were
practised. In some villages militiamen
arrived and announced that those who
did not vote would be shot. In some,
militiamen went from house to house
and drove the peasants to the polling
stations. In some, fathers of families
were compelled to vote on behalf of all
the members of the family. In some,
several peasants —and sometimes an en-
tire family—were shot because they did
not vote. In some, peasants who had
not voted were arrested and their homes
were burnt down.
But these elections, which produced a
majority for the Government so absurdly
large that, even if the methods by which
it was obtained were not known, it could
be dismissed as entirely fraudulent, were
but an incident in the general terrorism
practised by Tito and his administration.
The arrests and the executions continue.
Entire villages are destroyed—as they
were under the Germans. The inhabi-
tants of such villages are sent to concerl-
tration camps. The Yugoslav Army is
riddled with agents, especially Com-
munists, whose chief task it is to spy on
their fellow-soldiers. The Army shows
signs of great inefficiency as a fighting
force —but its purpose is not so much to
defend Yugoslavia against external foes
(for she has none) as to defend Tito and
his supporters against the Yugoslav
people.
Niemoller on Germany.
(Pastor Niemoller, the German Protestant
leader, reported in “Manchester Guardian. )
The lowest ebb of the German situa-
tion and its most critical point have not
yet been reached, and this is true from the
political, economic and moral aspect. The
The robbery of the Poles has now
become sanctified by general accept-
ance, and nobody worries about
what happens to the Poles, the
Ukrainians, the Rufhenians, the
Galicians, the Jews —the millions of
dispossessed and displaced, the hun-
gry, the homeless, the dying. They
once put their faith in the “liberal-
ism” of Roosevelt, the “Four Free-
doms,” the “Atlantic Charter” and.
the rhetoric that flowed so lightly
and so blithely out of Washington
over the ether that all men might
listen and believe. They now know
that it was all lies. Just political lies
that fit a moment —to be betrayed
whenever that too fitted a moment.
—George E. Sokolsky ; N.Y. “Sun.”
food situation will deteriorate. Depleted
industry has yet to face its crisis when
stored-up raw materials run out, and
there are still millions of refugees to come
from the eastern regions. .
The Germans no longer reason logi-
cally ; all their thoughts and reactions are
purely emotional. They oscillate from
day to day from one view to another.
One day they are ready to become Rus-
sian and fight for them, and on the next
day the same man is ready to do the
same things for the Americans.
The German today is fertile ground
for any propaganda which offers him
better conditions of living. Such propa-
ganda is the last lifebuoy within reach,
and the German grips it with all his
might.
Middle-aged people are willing to hear
about the guilt of the German people, but
the young ones, as long as they have not
been given a goal in life., something
worthwhile to which they can devote
both their intellectual and physical
energy, remain susceptible to the poison
of Nazism infiltrated in their veins. In
the present situation the Nazi ideas be-
come the last aim to which the young
people cling, and they will hang on to it
until something new has been offered to
them in which they can put their belief.
I believe that fundamentally the Nazi
creed penetrated only skin-deep into the
youth and that very little will be needed
to destroy it completely when new ways
of thinking can be found. For the time
being one can only pave the way. There
are still forces who exploit the material
difficulties of the occupation Powers with
propaganda which tries to prove that
Western civilisation is done for and that
Nazism or some other totalitarian regime
has taken its place.
Dutch Policy in the N.E.I.
(From an article by London“Times ’corre-
spondent in Batavia .)
With agreement in principle between
the Netherlands Government and the
“republican” regime in Java there is good
prospect for the working out of an in-
teresting experiment in reconciling
Eastern nationalism with Western trustee-
ship.
Fortunately, both Dutch and Indo-
nesians have taken measures of economic
and spiritual reform. The taint of col-
laboration With the Japanese remains in
public life, and, short of a wholesale
purge which would involve not a few
Dutch as well as many hundreds of Indo-
nesians, can be removed only by the
adoption of a broadminded policy such
as was followed in Burma, Malaya and
Siam.
The republican regime has shown deter-
mination to grasp extremism. The revo-
lution still lives in the minds and deeds
of hotheads equipped with Japanese
weapons, but now running short of am-
munition.
The disciplining and disarming of these
bands by a joint Indo-Dutch effort must
be a long process. Given enlightened
and efficient administration the period of
pacification can be shortened. Another
encouraging sign is the short shrift now
shown to the so-called Communists, who
have resorted to violence and demolitions
such as the Japanese taught the extremists
to use in the event of an Allied landing.
Their leaders have been arrested, and the
description of them by Dr. Amir Sjarfud-
din, “Minister of Defence,” as a “bunch
of naughty boys” is both apt and wise.
So far they have made no great headway
in enlisting popular support.
Before the war there were nearly
250,000 Dutch and Eurasians (who rank
together as “Europeans” for all practical
purposes) in the Indies, and they took a
large part in administrative and business
affairs —much larger than Britons have
taken in British India. They yearn
for a return to the good old days when
they made big profits out of the rich re-
sources of the country. Many see no
reason why they should accept the
“natives” on terms of equality. The
“whiff of grapeshot” theory is still widely
held. What seems necessary today is a
reorientation in the outlook of many
Dutchmen in the Indies and acceptance of
Indonesians as partners in government
and commerce. This calls for no mean
feat of self-adjustment on the part of the
average Hollander, but the effort must
be made or the experiment in partner-
ship will fail.
As complicated as the psychological
problem is the economic reconstruction
of the islands. Some progress been
made in this direction in the “outer
provinces” of Borneo, Celebes, the
Moluccas and New Guinea. Here the
Dutch have been in control for soms
months, and have lost no time in laying
the foundations of trade revival. But
they are handicapped by lack of shipping,
lack of equipment and lack of economic
incentive in the native producer.
Industrial equipment, machinery and
spare parts are lacking to restore oil pro-
duction in Borneo and Sumatra, also to
manufacture consumer goods. Herculean
efforts arc being made to get the oil re-
fineries at Balikpapan and Tarakan work-
ing again. The Australians did such a
thorough “scorched earth” job in these
places that little but junk remains.
As to lack of incentive, it is a truism
that, unless the native can buy cloth and
other necessaries, he will not be bothered
tO' produce quantities of copra, rubber,
spices and oilseeds. The world shortage
of consumer goods acutely affects the
East Indies. This area has been allotted
no more than 100,000,000 yards of cot-
ton textiles for 1946. That gives little to
go round the 70,000,000 inhabitants of
Indonesia.
Staple plantation commodities like rub-
ber, sugar, tobacco, tea, coffee and cin-
chona, which were neglected during
the Japanese occupation, will not
be available in quantity until the planta-
tions are restored to order and the plants
begin to bear again Unlike mahy other
countries, the Indies, by reason of their
wonderful fertility, can support them-
selves. But the substitution of food crops
for cash crops means a lowering of the
standard of living, since the return on
rice, for instance, is much less than that
on tobacco.
A political settlement must give a big
fillip to enterprise, both native and
foreign. Businessmen from Holland,
America and Britain are returning to see
what is left of their concerns, and are
planning for the time when imports and
exports will toe moving again. The elimi-
nation of the Japanese should give oppor-
tunities in retail trade. It will be for the
Dutch to encourage and train the
(Continued on page 32.)


o
ewrymere
we same
o
<0
&
X)
S
O-^>
S>
■'>
O <3
C?
X
X
m
n
-■
; . x- s
. »iW|
, * , . «7I
«c. .xxiX -
;X
m
ya«oB#^'»S«
SSSsTfX..'.-'
H
■
I
iiiiiiiiii”'
mmm*
mm
1
«ri
.V
#
,
Cl
v<
min ■ ■
■
i&y
s
■
■»:■:■:■:■
gpx:
7
Olumbic
SPARKPLUOS^
7*
JP'ROM Haifa to Hobart —from Capetown to Canton—the call is for OLYMPIC
SPARK PLUGS. Under all climatic conditions Olympics perform with never-failing
dependability in Cars . , . Buses and Trucks . . . Tractors • . . Motor Cycles . * . Marine
and Stationary Engines.
In accordance with Australia’s vital interest in building up export trade in secondary
industries, <he Olympic organisation is shipping large quantities of the now internationally
famous Olympic Spark Plugs to South Africa, Persia, Palestine, India, Ceylon, Malaya and
Singapore, Penang, China, New Zealand and Philippines.
"FOR THE CORRECT PLUG FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS SEE THE OLYMPIC
TYRE CHART AT YOUR LOCAL GARAGE."
Specified by: AUSTRALIAN & U.S.
DEFENCE FORCES . . . POLICE
DEPARTMENTS . . . VICTORIAN
RAILWAYS . . . METROPOLITAN
FIRE BRIGADES BOARDS . . .
MELBOURNE &' METROPOLITAN
TRAMWAYS BOARD . . . H. V.
McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY.
LTD. . . . KELLY Cr LEWIS LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3459
Wednesday, May 29, 1946
THE NEW AUSTRALIAN WAYS.
"No handouts, except for spot cash.And then we have to our directors,and THEY get their orders from Moscow.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
. “Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Colima
Street, Melbourne. .
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Berm.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.). Wellington.
WHAT ABOUT JAVA?
After an unfortunate essay as turf re-
former, marked by a fortunately unac-
cepted challenge to an indignant reader,
a 14-stone bookmaker with a family of
fighting sons, to repeat his remonstrance
in person (the challenger is a lightweight),
Mr. B. Penton, editor of the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” has returned to his
self-imposed task of “giving Australia
leadership.”
During the war years Mr. B. Penton
extended this function to the British
Commonwealth and the United States,
the conduct of the wars having failed to
meet with his approval. In 1942 he gave
Mr. Churchill, President Roosevelt, Mr.
Curtin, Generals MacArthur and Blarney
and the heads of the Admiralty, the War
Office and the RAF. heaps of advice on
high strategy (“Second Front in Europe !’’),
the distribution of American supplies
(“including the diversion of some muni-
tions from countries relatively inactive,
such as Latin America, Ireland, Eng-
land”), the formation of a “People’s
Army” in Australia, as demanded by
Commuhists (“the Government should not
neglect this magnificent opportunity
for a day”) and the reform of the
Eighth Army.
To Mr. B. Penton the Eighth Army
was tragically short of “blockbusters,” was
full of Colonel Blimps and was horribly
deficient in leadership, a failing which
could be corrected only by dismissing the
Old School Tie generals and replacing
them with Russians, Not Timoshenko —he
would be needed to lead the invasion of
France ; any collection of civil-war com-
manders with names ending in “sky” and
“vitch” would do. Another recipe for
victory in North Africa, suggested rather
than stated, was the employment of a
corps of beautiful Russian girl snipers,
headed by the lady who brought down
278 Germans with 177 bullets. Taken
out of the line and sent to the U.S.A.,
this wonderful young woman was herself
brought down' by a press girl, who com-
plained audibly that she was too fat,
whereupon she flounced out of history.
General Martel, the tank man, has
written of the Eighth Army that when
Alexander shaped its strategy and Mont-
gomery was its field commander, both
being Old School Tie generals, it could
have beaten any two Eastern Front
armies, German or Russian. But Mr. B.
Penton cannot forget or withdraw the
unfavorable impressions he formed of it
from King’s Cross, Sydney, or the con-
demnation pronounced on it by Mr. Low,
the cartoonist, who, like Mr. B. Penton,
viewed its performances and all other
military operations (in 1914-18 as well as
in 1939 and subsequent years) from a
distant scene. Mr. Low’s imagination
bodied forth Colonel Blimp, and the
argument about Duntroon has brought
Mr. B. Penton back into circulation as an
authority on war and preparation for
war, with the certificate that “Colonel
Blimp is an exaggerated but faithful
character; the average product of the
academy,” alike in Britain and Australia.
Mr. B. Penton was 14 when the First
World War ended, so, naturally, he knows
all about it. “We,” he writes, “went into
our first war” (which it wasn’t) “with a
traditional advantage,” having “always
thought of the soldier as a free, thinking
civilian first and an automatic, disciplined
soldier second,” with “results” which
“astounded the professional soldiers of
other armies, but, of course, didn’t con-
vince them.”
They said our men were surprisingly
good—for amateurs. These amateurs in-
cluded Monash.
Moving among them was Brudenell
White, whom, as Bean records. Monash
described in a letter to his family in 1916
as “far and away the ablest soldier Aus-
tralia ever turned out.” Brudenell White
was a professional soldier, but this fact
conflicted with Mr. B, Fenton’s “argu-
ment,” so Mr. B. Penton did not men-
tion it. Possibly Mr. B. Penton has never
heard of Brudenell White. Of Monash
he asserted:
Our own First World War Prime Min-
ister shared with Lloyd George the belief
that he should have been G.O.C. in France,
but, in face of the tradition of the military
hierarchy, that was a hopeless dream.
So hopeless that neither Mr. Hughes
nor Monash ever indulged in it. Nobody
would question Monash’s great qualities,
but he was only a general of division—
the 3rd —when he arrived in France, and
that was in December, 1916, after the
other four divisions had had a gruelling
time. He did not take command of the
Australian Corps till May 31, 1918. It is
not on record that Lloyd George ever
met him or even heard of him till after
the armistice of November 11, 1918.
In his War Memoirs, published in
October, 1934, Mr. Lloyd George wrote
that after Passchendaele and Cambrai he
thought of dismissing Haig, and “sent
General Smuts and Sir Maurice Hankey
around the front to look and see for
themselves whether among the generals
they met there was one who might with
advantage attain and fill the first place.
They came back with a very disappoint-
ing report”
There were eminent generals in the
British Army who had shown, conspicuous
gifts in their spheres of leadership, but
none of them was fitted to lead.
In the same War Memoirs Lloyd
George referred to Monash, though not
by name:
Since the war I have been told by men
whose judgment I value that the only
soldier thrown up by the war on the
British side who possessed the necessary
equalities for the position of Commander-
in-Chief was a Dominion general. Com-
petent professional soldiers whom I have
consulted have all agreed that this man
might, and probably would, have risen to
the height of the great occasion. But I
knew nothing of this at the time. No
report ever reached me, either as War
Secretary or Prime Minister, which attri-
buted any special merit to this distin-
guished soldier.
Mr. B. Penton was 37, and in the full
vigor of his invention, when Mr. Joe
Harsch, of the “Christian Science
Monitor,” arrived in Sydney at a fateful
hour. It was after the fall of Singa-
pore, and in an article cabled to his
paper and published simultaneously in
Mr. B. Penton’s paper (February 17,
1942) Mr, Harsch complacently remarked
that he had been “requested by several
editors of leading newspapers to impress
on America the extreme importance of
inducing the Australian Government to
commit itself to the defence of the
Netherlands East Indies, and to throw
every Australian soldier and gun into
those islands.” One of these “several
editors” was Mr. B. Penton, as was shown
when Mr. B. Penton came out with a
front-page article:
FIGHT FOR AUSTRALIA IN JAVA!
Java is relatively small ‘and compact.
The troops we could concentrate there
would be infinitely more useful than the
same troops scattered thinly over this vast
continent.
We knew in our hearts a month ago that
Singapore would fall. We should have re-
inforced the Netherlands East Indies then,
without waiting for Britain or the United
States.
Mr. Harsch says that if London and
Washington “permit the Australian Govern-
ment to abandon the Indies the chances
of Australia’s survival are desperate.”
That question must not arise. On the
contrary, the Federal Government must
give the lead to Washington and London
by making the maximum effort now to
reinforce our Allies in the N.E.I To
save ourselves we must help to save the
N.E.I. That should be the basic principle
of our strategy. Australian divisions in the
N.E.I. fighting alongside the Dutch and
the Americans might stop the Japanese
That’s where our men should be; that’s
where we should be fighting the Battle of
Australia. #
On March 1, 1942, the Japanese landed
in Java —but let the Australian Rohan
Rivett, writer of a grand book, Behind
Bamboo, tell the melancholy story:
When General Wavell assumed command
of the Allied forces in Southern Asia he
made Java his headquarters, and this in-
evitably aroused the belief that the island
would be held at all costs. The rapidity
with which the Japanese tentacles reached
southward, and the fall of Singapore ten
weeks after the outbreak of war, rendered
this all so much moonshine. To defend
Java, a force of at least 500 fighters and
bombers, constantly reinforced, was neces-
sary. There existed only the remnant of
the Dutch Air Force, a few Blenheims,
Hudsons and Hurricanes, salvaged by the
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. from Singapore and
Sumatra, and a handful of Flying For-
tresses and Curtis pursuits.
According to Rohan Rivett “the
Japanese Intelligence apparently believed
that all three Australian divisions from
the Middle East, plus at least one Ameri-
can division, were being sent to Java,”
and “in this belief they landed on the
island between March 1 and March 8
approximately 10 divisions, including a
strong armored unit.”
As it chanced, the “Daily Telegraph”
strategy had not been adopted in its en-
tirety ; but “unhappily it had apparently
been felt necessary to make a political
gesture, even if an unmilitary one, by
leaving a token force”:
This force consisted of three Australian
battalions from the Middle East, composed
of seasoned troops, part of an American
artillery regiment and a British tank
company. In addition there was an Aus-
tralian M.T. unit from Singapore... .The
failure to evacuate these troops cost the
Allies seasoned fighting men who would
have been invaluable to Australia in her
hour of need. Worse still, there were left
on Java about 5000 R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
technicians and ground staff and a small
group of pilots.
The only effective resistance to the main
Japanese landing on the western extremity
was put up by the-Australian 2/2 Pioneer
Battalion; they inflicted at least 500 casu-
alties on the enemy, while their own losses
were negligible, until one company was
cut off and almost entirely killed or cap-
tured.
And “British and Australian air-force
officers,” caught at “Kalidjati, the main
British aerodrome in Northern Java,”
and left unwarned by the Dutch, were
among those who “felt they were sacri-
ficed so purposelessly on Java.” The sur-
vivors had seen “the majority of the men
on the aerodrome rounded up or am-
bushed on trucks, and a large number
killed.”
When the “Daily Telegraph” came out
with its February 17 fustian its relations
with the Government at Canberra must
have been very close n Its Mr. Theodore
had been appointed Director-General of
the Allied Works Council, and its Mr.
Packer had been taken from the Armored
Division, which was fated never to fight
as a division, to assist Mr. Theodore in his
civil job. It is an old trick of papers like
the “Daily Telegraph” to find out what
the Government is considering and come
out strong for it, improving the occasion,
if the thing comes off, by pointing out,
with appropriate modesty, that the Gov-
ernment has followed, or is following, the
Policy of the Paper.
A great many people are poignantly
interested in the campaign in Java, and
those in Amboina and Timor, which cost
many fine Australians their lives in battle
and in captivity. They have received
precious little information from the
Government, which made a successful
election boast of having altered its pre-
decessors’ alleged Brisbane Line strategy
without mentioning, much less taking
responsibility for, the hopeless adventures
in Java, Timor, Amboina and New
Guinea. It would become Mr. B. Penton
much more to reveal what he knows of
the Java business than to write rubbish
about Monash, the Imperial command to
which Monash never aspired and which
Lloyd George never thought of giving
him, and Colonel Blimp, “the average
product of the academy.”
India and the Food Problem.
The situation in India, politically and
otherwise, seems to be going from bad
to worse. This, of course, is as much
the fault of geography as of anything.
There are two Indias —British India, of
886.000 square miles, carrying a popu-
lation round 300,000,000, and Indian
native States, of 690,000 square miles,
carrying 93,000,000. Thus, on an area
half the size of Australia, with its
7.300.000 inhabitants, 400,000,000 people
are living.
To make the food problem harder, a
very large section of India is desert. If
the whole country were evenly popu-
lated it would have 250 people to the
square mile, a higher concentration than
in any part of European Russia ; but a
very large proportion of the country is
almost empty, and people swarm and
crowd together in foetid towns and innum-
erable villages along the great rivers and
the coasts. And the productive position
is the more dreadful .because a puny
physique limits the capacity of many
Indians to work except with the tongue —
a muscular organ capable of perpetual
motion from the cradle to the grave.
Caste and religion add to the troubles of
the Administration. They rule fish and
meat out of many racial diets.
Added to physical disabilities and the
political ones incident to the division of
authority between medieval native States
and progressive British-controlled ones
are some others. For example, the crowd-
ing in British zones has been added to by
the preference of the movable population
for living in British zones.
This peculiarity in preference is especi-
ally noticeable in Communists, who desire
to preach at large that British rule in
India is tyrannous and bloodthirsty, and
in that section of Congress which needs
access to a free press with world-wide
connections through which American
opinion, can be importuned. The Jinnahs
and their like fight shy of areas in which
they might come under the disfavor of
some potentate whose views are at vari-
ance with their own.
Last week it was reported that, with
the onset of summer, famine and pesti-
lence were spreading through the land.
The summer has to be seen and experi-
enced to be understood. A preliminary
course for all commentators on Indian
affairs and Indian economy should be
an enforced journey by road from the
Persian border to Travancore, in the
extreme south, in the months of May and
June.
These months produce, particularly in
the desert north-west among the Baluch
saltbush, temperatures of up to 1.30 de-
grees, roaring, dust-laden winds full of
all the germs of Asia, snakes by the mil-
lion and, presently, rain which falls with
fhe consistency and at the temperature of
a hot shower.
The plagues which "accompany this
season are worse than normal this year,
and correspondents who never before ex-
perienced such things are making the
most of them. The tale last week was of
starving wretches dying in the Calcutta
streets; of 2000 people dead in Bihar
from cholera ; of rice in Bengal ten times
the pre-war price; of soup kitchens in
Mysore, one of the richer and more fer-
tile of the native States —soup kitchens
giving out a single meagre meal a day.
And it is recorded that the arrival of
6,000,000 bushels of Australian grain
“surprised” the authorities at Australia's
capacity to deliver this immense quan-
tity, which “enables the harassed food
administrators to dole out rations on the
slimmest margin.”
It must be very slim indeed if the coun-
try is dependent upon Australian supplies.
In jspite of the impression conveyed by
newspapers that the whole country is
starving from end to end, the famine zone
actually embraces 20,000,000 people, so
that the Australian contribution repre-
sents, on the basis of famine supply alone,
merely one-third of a bushel per human.
And there are many areas in which the
position is not rated as desperate.
The British have done great things for
India in food-production, as in other
affairs. They had irrigated 31,000,000
acres of land up to 1941. One of their
Punjab projects gave water to 10,000,000
people. They have reduced the death-
rate, famines notwithstanding, from
36 per 1000 to round 20 per 1000
in less than half a century. And
they have done all this and more on an
administrative revenue which, taking both
the Central Government and the 11 pro-
vinces, had never exceeded £120,000j000
up to 1941. They have defended the
country, policed it, and at the end of
World War 11, which threatened the very
existence of India as an entity, they left
it the only British Empire country free
of external war debt and the least-taxed
country in the world.
And the British have brought India to
a point at which they are ready to hand
it over to Indians to govern when Indians
are ready. Even when World War II
broke out administration was almost
wholly Indianised, except in the very
highest ranks of the services. The police,
numbering 187,000, among whom the only
whites were 600 British officers, were
under Indian Ministers. Of the 6000
medical officers a mere 200 were British.
There were 240 British out of 16,000 in
the forest services, 230 out of 2500
Judges and 3500 out of 800,000' engineer-
ing employees. In the higher divisions of
administration, the commissioners and
the district officers, the proportion was
only six British to 55 Indians,
However, it is plain that nobody is satis-
fied with the British. Mr. Jinnah and his
Moslem League are not satisfied because
they feel that Britain should give them a
guarantee that they shall not be at the
tender mercies of a Hindu majority, which
would surely rule in a new all-India
democracy. And the Hindus are not
satisfied with any scheme which will not
leave the Moslems to their tender care.
The ruling Princes of non-British India
are apprehensive for their treasure and
their privileges if they are compelled to
live under any rule which cannot be safe-
guarded.
Added to these dissentient elements
there are native Communists, with Mos-
cow Radio behind them, deeply shocked
at the plight of the starving Indians and
with Australian Communists at their ser-
vice—Australian Communists are always
busy with incitements to a bloody and
horrible insurrection which must involve
the deaths of thousands of innocent
British women and children at the hands
of maddened Asiatics. Their “Tribune”
last week complacently observed that
“revolts, heavy bloodshed,” were “ex-
pected to follow British Imperialism’s
White' Paper rejection of Indian indepen-
dence demands” which have not been re-
spected,
Russia has vast areas of agricultural
land adjacent to India. The Persian-
Indian railhead is a day’s drive from
the Russian border. Yet nobody in
Communist circles ever suggests that
Russia, which sent or arranged to send
500,000 tons of wheat to France, the
best-fed country in Europe—-to the
depletion of shipping which might have
been used to feed the Indians from
America and other overseas countries
should use the resources of the black
lands of the U.S.S.R. and of the adjacent
Tashkent basin to help stave off the Indian
famine.
And no Australian Communist centre
is likely to recall that when Lord Louis
Mountbatten was here in March and
April he made it clear that the determina-
tion of the Communist-controlled water-
front unions to immobilise Dutch ships
intended to feed Java would, if continued,
mean that British ships for the
Indian trade must replace them and that
there would be a greater shortage of food
ships.
Moscow and Marx House, Sydney,
would run 20 miles in even time rather
than see these matters brought up. In
the name of the “Brotherhood of Man,
let the poor Indian die if his death will
breed revolt against the hated British
Commonwealth!


PLAIN ENGLISH
They Plead in Vain.
From England on May 19 there was heard
the well-known voice of Chester Wilmot,
whose fine talents and intrepid reporting
of many campaigns have gained for him
a high 8.8. C. appointment. Referring
to the latest sacrifices made by Britain
to feed its hungry enemies and friends,
Chester Wilmot said they would mean
that the British people would have less
and worse bread than in any of the six
war years. He spoke with feeling, being
an Australian who was cradled in and
has preserved the kindly old Australian
tradition“ Never turn away a man with
an empty tucker-bag.”
It was a dreadful descent to read five
days later of the first results of the meat
strikes and the waterfront strikes: cal-
culations of Australian food shipments
all “awry” ; meat exports alone down
nearly 20,000 tons, and “wheat, butter,
cheese and other commodities” similarly
affected. All this with electricity cuts
ordered in Melbourne and apparently
imminent in Sydney, and industry in
general imperilled by the latest savage
Communist threat of a general N.S.W.
coal strike.
On the same day the Indian High Com-
missioner at Canberra pleaded for “quick
shipments of Australian resources” to his
famine-stricken country, saying that, in a
country which depends so much on
bread, the daily cereal ration had
been reduced from 16oz. to 12oz. a head,
and that a great many people had to live
on a much smaller ration, the equivalent
of 980 calories a head —in effect, slow
starvation.
If the generality of Australians, always
generous and decent, had the ordering of
the matter, the representative of India
would not plead for his people in vain.
But it is a case for moral leadership, with
enthusiasm and well-directed energy
placed at its service, and not a vestige of
moral leadership comes from the Govern-
ment, which alone can act for the nation.
Thirty years of class-war preaching and
practice, with Communists as allies or
confederates, and 30 years of selfish
materialism —exhibited in its lowest forms
in N. S. Wales, where there has been a
complete surrender to the booze and bet-
ting and caste-politician interests and
to union and Communist larrikinism —
have done their deadly work. They have
left “Labor” without conscience or cour-
age, without a soul or a heart, with only
a blighted reputation and a lying label.
Before long an indignant people whom,
with every resource of law and law-
enforcement at the “Government s
command, the “Government” leaves
exposed to the outrages of Communist
larrikins, themselves serfs to the ferocious
Orientalism of their masters, will kick the
“Government” from its place.
"Against the World."
The strike began nearly three months ago
at Murrarie (Q.) bacon factory, a co-
operative concern. Four men were put
off; the Meat Industry Employees
Union demanded their re-employment;
the management resisted the demand and
“all out” was the cry.
Murrarie and other factories carried on
with volunteer labor. Successive appli-
cations by meat-export firms and the
Queensland Meat Industry Board re-
sulted in preference clauses in the union’s
award being deleted. Asked to deregister
the union, the Industrial Court did so on
May 16, but suspended operation of the
order until May 23, being told by A. I.
Neumann, the union secretary, that
negotiations to end the strike were going
on. Presently this Neumann was heard
threatening that the strike would be ex-
tended to other States. Meantime, a
“disputes committee” at Brisbane Trades
Hall took over.
The judgment of the Full Bench of the
Industrial Court, handed down by Jus-
tice Matthews, is worth recording:
In no case was any application made to
the Court by the union for the insertion in
awards of any provision about seniority
To end the dispute the Court suggested
a provision for seniority based on
seniority rights given to State employees,
and at least as favorable as that granted
by the Public Service Act and the Railways
Act. This proposal was accepted by the
employers but rejected by the union.
The union then submitted a counter-pro-
posal, which was calculated to take the
control of labor out of the hands of those
who had to pay for it, drive industry out
of the State, cause unemployment and ex-
clude the right of ex-servicemen, other than
those previously employed there, to obtain
employment at any such works until all
those holding seniority rights had first
been employed. This would be a breach of
Commonwealth and State laws providing
preference for returned servicemen.
His Honor, turning to the Trades Hall
“disputes committee,” said it comprised
individuals who were not members of the
M.1.E.U., and that its action in advising
the strikers to “flout the Court’s order for
a return to work indicates a desire to
prolong rather than terminate the strike.”
In view of the union’s attitude the Court
has no alternative but to grant the cancel-
lation of registration. We gave your
members an opportunity to bring them-
selves within the law, and your members
have seen fit, on the advice of an ex-
traneous body, to disregard the Court
Your members are continuing an illegal
strike They have the best award in Aus-
tralia for meatworks. Nevertheless they
place a gun at the head of the whole
community No body of men can have
the benefit of industrial law if they are
going to adopt industrial anarchy It is
a catastrophe to the community, not to
say the world, that the production which
was possible during the time this strike
has been on has been wasted
The “catastrophe” has already dis-
organised killing of stock and meat
exports to the hungry British, and brought
about widespread unemployment in de-
pendent industries,
Mr.. Neumann and Mr. Hanson, chair-
man of the “disputes committee,” flew to
Melbourne and “contacted” Mr. Monk,
of the A.C.T.U., and “poor old Hollo-
way.” Mr. Monk got off the astounding
revelation that the bacon-factory strike
had been engineered in Argentina. Mr.
Holloway, a prey to panic, appealed to the
Industrial Court —vainly—not to enforce
the deregistration order and appealed also
to Premier Hanlon and to Mr. Coneybeer
(employers’ advocate) to do something.
Had he had a spark of sympathy for the
hungry millions abroad, had he behind
him a Government worth two bob, he
would have sent the strike bosses packing
and announced that the law would stand.
In the U.S.A., under a law asked for
by the President and passed in the House
by 306 to 13, union leaders are held re-
sponsible for strikes against the nation
(penalties, heavy fines and imprisonment),
striking unionists lose seniority rights and
all hands may be drafted into the Army.
Adviser in Action.
A play in one act:
Scene 1: A hotel room in Paris. Dr. H. V.
Evatt, Australian Minister of External Affairs,
at breakfast, reading a newspaper.
Dr. Evatt (shocked voice): What’s this?
GAUCHO’S GOOD-BYE.
“Referring particularly to the bacon-factory affair in Queensland, Mr. Monk, of the
A.C.T.U., asserts that the meat strikes originated in Argentina.”
“Adios,Senora! I go to far Australia to attend to my meat strikes!”
What’s this? (Reads) “Dr. Evatt has been
guilty of a most impudent piece of anti-Soviet
manoeuvring in proposing that, since the
Foreign Ministers have failed to agree upon
peace terms, Britain, France and America
should conclude separate treaties with Italy
and the Balkan countries.” Oh, it’s wrong,
it’s not true. What paper is this? The
London “Daily Worker.” Not many Barton
electors see it. But oh, the calumny, the
ingratitude! It’s a wild and baseless fabri-
cation. (Exit, deeply moved.)
Scene 2: Same room, next morning. Dr.
Evatt at breakfast, reading a newspaper.
Dr. E.; (pale voice): Heavens, not again!
(Reads) “Why cannot the impatient Dr. Evatt
await the outcome of the Foreign Ministers’
Council on June 15? One would have thought
the unity of interests between Russia and Aus-
tralia, especially in the Pacific, would have
been clearly apparent to a Foreign Minister
of Evatt’s experience.” This is dreadful. It’s
beyond —Gargon ! Gargon!
Hotel porter appears: Que vqulez-vous,
m’sieur ?
Dr. E.: Yes -er - wee. Compree voo -er -
mon adviser. My adviser, compree? Grant,
Grant, send me Grant!
Senator Donald Grant enters hurriedly.
Grant: Hoots, Ber-r-r-t, wha’s wrang? I
heerd ye yellin’ doon in the bar.
Dr. E.: Wrong! Wrong! Here I’m attacked
twice by the “Daily Worker.” Twice in two
days. Wrong? What’ve I done to ’em? What
are we going to do?
Grant: Ah dinna ken.
Dr. E.: But that’s what you’re here for.
You’re my adviser, aren’t you? Can’t we do
something? Am I not the protector of small
nations? Didn’t I share the limelight with
Molotov at ’Frisco? Haven’t I always stood
for an understanding with Russia? Didn’t I
send Maloney—l mean Slater —to Moscow?
Now look at what they’re saying about me.
Do something, Donald!
Grant: But did ye make yon proposal?
Dr. E.: No, who ever heard of such a thing?
It’s a wild and baseless fabrication.
Grant: Ah weel, ’tis no a capeetalist paper,
ye ken. Ye must ha’ offended them some way.
Dr. E. (firmly): You’re here as my adviser!
I want action, not words.
Grant (brightly): Weel, ca’ for a r-r-reepof-
r-r-t. Yon laddie For-rde always does it.
“adviser.” Dr. Evatt marches slowly
back and forth, plunged in gloom. Curtain.)
Nemesis Approaches.
Sydney’s senior morning paper must have
startled “Labor” and the returned P.M.
last week by the vigor with which it
turned on the P.M.’s deputy.
Four years ago the “Herald” hailed
Mr. Curtin as “Our Leader,” and it has
been kind—though not too kind —to Mr.
Chifley. Two years ago it could write
of the McKelly “Labor” Government
when it was going to the country that the
Premier could “fairly claim” that he had
“best served the State and the nation by
going along quietly.” Obviously it no
longer holds this opinion, but it has never
handled the McKelly as roughly as it did
Mr. Forde when that gentleman “settled”
the shipping hold-up, on the Beasley plan
of “giving the workers” (nowadays that
means Communists) “everything they
asked for,” and added oily humbug to
ignominy.
Said the indignant “Herald”:
Mr. Forde surrendered outright. To
weakness he added disingenuousness. He
represented to the public that woolbuyers
wanted a speedy settlement, presumably on
any terms, whereas they had emphasised
to him the importance of utilising every
available foot of stowage space. A Minister
should not deal with the public in this
dubious fashion. If he cannot be firm, at
least he should be frank and fair.
Perhaps this appalling specimen of a
politician had the Communist vote in
mind when he hauled up the white flag of
total and craven surrender, greased as he
alone could grease it. He is supposed to
share the Maloney views, but he is no
Maloney. His stocks are low in his elec-
torate, and the candidature of two re-
turned soldiers, one representing the two
wings of the Opposition and the other
the new Service group, which is obviously
making headway in Queensland, with an
exchange of preferences assured, is an
omen of ruin to his inglorious political
career.
At the landslide election of 1943 Mr.
Forde was the only Minister, and almost
the only “Labor” member, whose figures
did not show a substantial increase on
1940-election figures.
Mr. Curtin’s majority in Fremantle
increased from 641 to 22,910, Mr.
Chifley’s in Macquarie from 8198
to 17,007, Dr. Evatt’s in Barton
from 9187 to 33,463, Mr. Beasley’s
in West Sydney from 12,466 to 19,448,
Mr. Holloway’s in Melbourne Ports
from 18,946 to 29,520, Mr. Drakeford’s
in Maribyrnong from 18,535 to 25,240,
and Mr. Lazzarini’s in Werriwa from
1988 to 25,228. In divisions with smaller
electoral populations Mr. Scully went up
from 5332 to 9072 in Gwydir, Mr. Frost
from 1856 to 5191 in Franklin, and Mr.
Ward in East Sydney from 2103 (with
5547 Communist preferences not counted)
to 20,089.
There was an apparent decrease
in Mr. Dedman’s majority in Corio,
2752 to 2721. But in 1943 Mr.
Dedman had three opponents, and had
preferences (11,844) been counted he
would have gained on the distribution.
Which is not to say that Mr. Dedman
can feel comfortable when he reviews the
voting.
Even in Mr. Forde’s own State, where
his party lost a seat to the Opposition
(the only one in Australia), Mr. Lawson’s
majority in Brisbane improved from 419
to 1105. Mr. Forde’s was reduced from
9981 to 6799. His vote slumped from
33,211 to 32,396. In each year he had
only one opponent.
Visiting Westralia early in the month
this Army Minister for whom the Army
exhibits so striking a lack of enthusiasm
dropped in on the farmers in a small
settlement called Cunderdin, and, with
characteristic gush, promised to be in
Cunderdin again inside twelve months.
If he is— which is most improbable —it
will be as plain Francis Michael Forde,
private citizen.
"Sludging" on Their Mates.
A returned serviceman’s view of it:
Before the war “bludger” belonged to a class
of doubtful words that hover midway between
slang and bad language. Webster and the
New Oxford Dictionary did not include it;
glossaries of slang gave the definition “a man
who lives on the immoral earnings of women ;
but it was gradually getting wider connotation
as a synonym for a cadger, sponger or any
kind of human parasite. In the Army in this
secondary meaning the word gained very wide
acceptance and achieved respectability.
A “bludger” was merely one who got out
of work or found a way of avoiding unpleasant
duties. “A good ‘bludge’ ” was just a new
way of saying “a soft cop.”
The Australian is an easygoing individual
and the Digger is probably even more easy-
going than the mass of his fellows, so it is not
surprising that in the Army the “bludger”
flourished. Gradually a code of ethics was
.evolved in pel at ion to the noble art of “bludg-
ing.” Based on this easygoing tolerance it
roughly boiled down to this: “It’s all right to
‘bludge’ on the Army, but y’ mustn’t ‘bludge
on y’r mates.”
Most Diggers accepted this piece of sophistry
without question. To the majority the line
of demarcation seemed quite clear. To dodge
a parade, to go A.W.L., to overstay leave or
to scrounge a few days “no duties” through a
phoney illness was “bludging” on the Army,
and legitimate. To avoid being picked for an
unpleasant job was “bludging” on the Army;
but to dodge your share of the work once the
job was started was a different matter —that
was “bludging” on your mates and was con-
demned by all.
As the war went on, those Diggers who gave
any real thought to the subject began to realise
that there was something wrong about this
easy acceptance of the “bludger.” They
noticed that, taken over a long period, it was
usually the same batch of men who did most
of the “bludging”— the ones who dodged parades
or overstayed leave and expected their mates
to cover up for them were as a rule experienced
R.A.P. merchants; they also were the ones
who had an uncanny knack of “going through”
whenever “volunteers” were about to be de-
tailed for hard or dirty work. Diggers who
thought came to realise that there is no such
thing as “bludging” - on the Army—that all
“bludging” is done at the expense of the
“bludger’s” mates.
This is true even in the case of less obvious
forms. A man who goes A.W.L. is not re-
placed ; his work has to be done by those who
remain. No unit carries any reserves; sick and
absent men mean more duties for those who
are fit and present. At the end of the war it
was estimated that the Australian Army had the
equivalent of a complete division A.W.L., not
counting the vast number undergoing sentence
—Grovely, in Queensland, was so full that the
overflow had to be’ sent to detention camps in
New Guinea. All these probably considered
they were “bludging” on the Army; without
exception they were “bludging” on their mates,
and because of them battalions in the Islands
were going into action far below strength.
Today the spirit of easygoing tolerance that
enabled the “bludger” to go his own sweet way
in the Army, riding on the backs of .better
men, is having disastrous effects on the life of
the country. Instead of the Army, the “boss,”
the capitalist or the Government is the bunny
on whom it is considered a virtue to “bludge.”
Go-slow policies, pin-pricking complaints about
conditions, stopwork meetings and strikes over
trivialities may at first glance seem to be blows
directed at the boss, at Big Business, at the
Financial Octopus or call-him-what-you-will,
but the fact is that at the present time anything
which tends to reduce production is a blow not
at any particular class but at the whole com-
munity.
In civilian life, as in the Army, the “bludger
is a parasite not merely on an impersonal sys-
tem, but on his mates. It is they who have
to pay the cost of his folly —in the case of a
meat strike in immediate deprivation; for a
coalfields flare-up, in discomfort and incon-
venience, with the probability of unemploy-
ment and hardship if the trouble is prolonged;
for go-slow in the building trade, in increased
costs of housing; for lessened production
generally, in commodity shortages and higher
cost of living. Unless the community realises
this and does something about it, it will have
to continue to carry the “bludger” in peace
as the conscientious soldier carried him through
six years of war.
But in civilian life the position is a little
more complicated. The Army “bludger”
“bludged” for the sake of “bludging.” He
had no ulterior ends to serve; his means were
his end, and if he succeeded in evading his
work and responsibilities he was satisfied.
There are civilian “bludgers” of this type too,
but they are not the ones who are responsible
for most of the troubles of the day. Those
are due to the activities of what might be called
professional “bludgers,” who preach a policy
of wholesale “bludging” as a means to then-
own ends—the bringing about of mass discon-
tent and industrial chaos. Communist agitators
and apostles of revolution are the leaders of
the “ ‘bludge’-on-the-boss” school, who, posing
as the friends and would-be liberators of the
workers, are riding on the backs of the workers
every bit as much as the “go-through” merchant
rode on the backs of the Diggers.
Up to the present “Labor” Ministers have
done nothing to counteract the false gospel of
the “bludging” gang. Not one Commonwealth
“Labor” Minister has so far, during a strike,
been game or honest enough to tell the strikers
and the workers generally the real truth—that
the man who claims he is “bludging” on the
boss is really “bludging” on his mates. Old
Diggers could tell them, if any could be found
in the ranks of Federal “Labor.”


m
i
For greater
mnahing enjogwneni
CRAVENA
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
m
%
5794
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICL POINTS
Hitherto the Truman home and foreign
policies have been appallingly weak, but
both have suddenly changed for the
better, the latter in relation to Russia, the
former .in respect of the strikes which
have convulsed the nation and seriously
affected the food-export plans. By asking
Congress for summary powers to jail
union leaders and conscript unionists
guilty of “unpatriotic acts,” the President
strangled a nation-wide railway strike in
the birth and looks like scotching the coal
strike to which there has been a 12-day
truce. The same results could be achieved
in Australia by the same resolute action ;
but Chifley “won’t crucify the ‘workers’,”
He doesn’t seem to mind their crucifying
the country.
Victoria had a dismal week when, with
stocks of N.S.W. coal dwindling, one of
the large dredges at Yallourn broke
down. Cuts in electricity supply to shops,
offices, arcades, houses and industry fol-
lowed, stadiums, dance halls, theatres,
public halls and skating rinks being ex-
empted. There was some excitement in
Governmental circles when it was reported
that a new seam of black coal had been
discovered. A specimen, however, proved
to be the brown coal of which the State
has any quantity, its dark appearance
being due to dampness.
Because Dr. Evatt and three Senators
are still abroad —the Senators on useless
missions paid for out of the public purse
—Parliament is not to meet till June 18.
The Government may then possibly
assemble a Senate majority for the refer-
endum bills, but, under the Constitution,
the questions cannot be put to the people
for two months after the passage of the
bills by “an absolute majority,” and every
Government that has tried to alter the
Constitution has required a great deal
more than two months for preparation.
The betting interest to which N.S.W.
“Labor” has surrendered would assuredly
offer odds against there being any refer-
endum this year. The House is entitled
to carry on till September 23, three years
after its first meeting since the landslide
to “Labor.” The longer “Labor” can
avoid going 'to the country, the better
“Labor” will like it.
Menzies has been over in Westralia,
and he returned confident that Perth,
Swan and Forrest would be wrested from
the present “Labor” members —in 1943
they went “Labor,” in Perth for the first
time since 1906. One thing he had to go
on was the defeat of the Labor candidate
for the Leg. Council Central Province,
which has been “Labor” for the greater
part of half a century. It sent J. M. Drew
into the first “Labor” Ministry, that of
1904-05, and Drew remained one of the
two members for nearly all the subse-
quent period. His partner for many
years was Tom Moore, also “Labor,”
who was returned unopposed in 1938. A
Liberal, Simpson, got in this month on
C.P. preferences, scoring 1639 votes to
1444 for Sewell, the “Labor” man.
There is a substantial coalmining vote
in the Bremer (Q.) Assembly electorate,
and ex-Premier Cooper, now Lieut.-
Governor, held the seat for 31 years
without a break. His last contest was in
1941, when he polled 7141 to 1411. By-
election figures, with postal and sectional
votes to come, were 5643 for Donald
(Lab.) and 3246 for Shapcott (Q.P.P.).
Forde, Hadley, Lawson and Conelan
can’t laugh that off.
The Ward-Clapp railway scheme was
advanced backwards in Sydney last week
when Ward and State Transport Mini-
sters “failed to agree.” Ward lost his
temper and fulminated against “State
Righters who have failed to put Aus-
tralia first.” Since parts outside Sydney
and Melbourne have had time to look
at the scheme and weigh the cost and con-
sider certain road- and air-traffic develop-
ments, a chilly blast |ias fallen on the
first fine careless rapture, and Ward can’t
warm it up again, no matter how wild he
becomes.
In Adelaide, where ’Varsity students
counted him out and pelted him with
pennies, Calwell, the Minister of Misinfor-
mation, threatened that “the full story
of the failure of the Menzies-Fadden Gov-
ernment to provide defence for the Com-
monwealth will be told before the next
elections.” This is typical of the Calwell
attitude to defence —a thing to be dragged
up at election time and hidden away in a
cupboard after it has served its purpose.
Let us have instead “the full story” of
“Labor’s” conduct of the war in its first
six months, giving precise and detailed
accounts of what happened in New
Guinea, Amboina, Timor and Java.
Defending his “Government’s” free
medical scheme, which will have to be
financed by whopping compulsory taxes,
Senator Fraser said he failed to see why
a medical service must become inefficient
when it was made “free,” and, with the
air of a man putting a clincher, he asked
the B.M.A. if it concluded that the vast
honorary services of medical men in
public hospitals were not of the very
highest quality. A poor example of
special pleading! Medical men who give
honorary service to hospitals are not civil
servants but individuals engaged in prac-
tising their profession. They are usually
specialists/ There will be a poor lookout
for specialists under the “free medical
scheme,” not to mention those who might
have been their patients.
It comes from the Murray Valley
Development League;
This news is of utmost importance to
the M.V.D.L. Can you use it, elaborate it,
make editorial comment? '
The “news” is that Premier McKell ap-
proves of an examination into the poten-
tialities of the Murray Valley and has
so informed the “Acting Prime Minister.”
It can safely be assumed that the Acting
P.M. will call for a report,
“Have your procession, but—mind —
no dirt!” This should have been the
Police Department’s advice to Sydney
University students, and the probabilities
are that it would have been accepted in
that spirit. Instead, they were forbidden
to march, except in the neighborhood of
their Alma Mater; and there was dirt.
It is not to be supposed that the Sydney
“Labor” Government is opposed to all
processions. It connives at every Commo
demonstration, whether staged against
assemblies of citizens in the Town Hall
or elsewhere. And in 1942, though
the Anzac Day march was called off, in
deference to Canberra, on the ground
that the crowds might be bombed, the
McKellys authorised the May Day pro-
cession delight of the Corns. and
“Labor” worthies took part.
Firing a Parthian shot at Tully, who is
retiring to a cushy job in London, leaving
£6 10s. behind to clinch his “claim” to
a life pension of £6 a week, Young
Digger Bate fell heavily on Tully’s state-
ment that 234 servicemen had been settled
on the land since 1941, in which year
there was already a considerable number
of would-be servicemen-settlers. “At this
rate,” said Bate, himself a land man, “it
will take 170 years to settle the 8000
men who already have been accepted for
settlement. by officers of Mr. Tully’s
former department”—Lands. Then the
critic, sceptical of Tully’s figures, said it
was “a sorry record: 8000 men with
qualification certificates, and provision
made for only 100”—and that “some time
in the future.”
As Brisbane “Courier-Mail” has re-
called, “the Parliamentary Standing Com-
mittee on Broadcasting,” led by Calwell,
“unanimously recommended that prefer-
ences in new licences should be given to
religious and educational causes.” So
naturally a Brisbane licence for which
there were many applicants, one dating
back to 1930 and another to 1922, has
been issued to the A.L.P. Only three
licences have been granted or have
changed hands in the “Labor” Govern-
ment’s time. “Labor” got the lot.
The mantle of optimism hitherto worn
by William James Scully seems to have
been transferred to Francis Michael
Forde. Francis Michael F., broadcasting
to the nation, estimated that Australia
would export 300,000 tons of meat to
Britain this year. Francis M. F. should
know that the 1945 figure was about
128,250 tons, that the 1946 autumn
brought a 10-day meat strike in
New South Wales, that one in
Queensland was 10 weeks old as he spoke,
that there had been a continent-wide
tie-up of ships for a fortnight, all with the
result that meat exports were £O,OOO tons
down, that railways in all States had little
or no coal to cart stock to killing works,
and that very probably they’d get even
less in the immediate future. So how
F.M.F. expects that 1945 meat exports
will be more than doubled baffles any-
body but F.M.F. Anyway, the elections
will be over before he can be proved a
1 beg pardon, an unreasoning opti-
mist.
Queensland Industrial Court has
granted a 40-hour week for shearers,
shed-hands, pressers and the rest in its
State. The application was made by the
A.W.U., which convinced the Court that
the award would mean very little, if any,
increased cost to graziers. The 40-hour
week was made the Communist excuse
for, the shearers’ strikes last year and this
year.
Chancellor-of-the-Exchequer Dalton, in
moving the second reading of the Cable
and Wireless Bill in the Commons, re-
marked that it was not only “a measure
of Socialist advance” but “a practical
measure of united Empire policy.” He
added that, if Cable and Wireless had
been left to manage its own business,
rates would have been higher, whereas his
Government would do all in its power to
bring them lower. Not proven by ex
ample. Under private control the rate
between England and Australia fell from
£2l for 10 words to a shilling a word.
There is no evidence of Government
control having lowered the price of any-
thing, except, perhaps,- hogwash.
Lack of consideration for others, as
exemplified by coal strikes and go-slow
on building operations, seems to be
spreading under the “Labor” dispensation.
When a bride ship arrived in Melbourne
2000 people stormed the single gang-
way, women screamed, babies in prams
were in danger of being pushed into the
water, hundreds of passengers tried to
get off the ship, hundreds of others tried
to get on, and scores had to be treated
for minor injuries. Even an appeal to
the hysterical crowd to allow an ambu-
lance party to get aboard to remove a
critically sick baby produced no re-
sponse. Officers and passengers said
that they had never seen anything like it.
The Victorian Cains announce that mid-
week dog-racing in the daytime will soon
be discontinued in the metropolitan area,
mid-week horse-racing having already
been discontinued. At the same time the
Government is contemplating installing
totes at country racecourses and cours-
ing grounds, it having been discovered that
ridiculously cramped odds are often laid
by McShortodds, to the detriment of
hospitals and charitable organisations,
which get a lot of their revenue from the
tote business. In all this there may be
no sign of a resolute attack by the Vic-
torian Government on the gambling spirit,
but perhaps it will lead to a measure of
decentralisation.
Taking “The Tyranny of Taxation” as
his subject, and speaking at Launceston
(Tas.), J. R. Orchard advocated decen-
tralisation of taxation offices, saying “they
should be established in every populated
centre instead of there being one huge
bureaucratic centre.” This paper heartily
agrees. Orchard added that he was
strongly in favor of giving every incen-
tive to individual effort by workman and
manager alike. The Government, he said,
had different notions, and he quoted
instances:
A man on £3OO a year, increased to £5OO
by overtime, pays £55 on the salary and
£B2 on the overtime. A man increased
from £2OOO to £4OOO loses £1671 of the
addition when he pays income tax.
Orchard rounded off an effective address
by pronouncing it “disgraceful that there
should be a sales tax of p.c. on cloth-
ing, particularly children’s clothing.”
Leslie Lefaux, a Bank of England man,
was brought to Maoriland as governor of
the Reserve Bank, which was to be free
from political control. In 1936, “Labor”
coming in, Lefaux was virtually super-
seded by Nash, the Minister of Finance,
and he has gone back to England, saying
that “the independent central bank, which
should have been and could have been
a tower of strength in the economy of
the Dominion, has been used to under-
mine the currency by means of gross
inflation.”
Leslie Lefaux addressed some advice
to the Maorilanders, which the Welling-
ton “Dominion” has summarised:
Beware of having too many people in
unproductive occupations living on the rest.
Do not think that people are rich merely
because they have money in their pockets
or in the banks. Money is useless unless
it can be employed to secure goods and
services.
Do not spend too much on the enjoy-
ment, here and now, of consumer goods.
Set aside sufficient capital for future de-
velopment. Savings and capital are synony-
mous —they are both the seed com of
future harvests.
Good advice, applicable to Australia as
to the sister-Dominion, but while “Labor”
is in it won’t be taken in either. Apart
from the ideas current in Canberra,
“Labor” in the principal Australian State
panders to the booze and betting interests.
“Poor old Holloway,” confronted by
a couple of meat-strike leaders from
Queensland, fell into the customary panic
of Federal “Labor” Ministers when their
masters call, and sent pleading messages
to everybody he could think of in Queens-
land to suspend the deregistration of the
striking union, ordered by a fed-up Indus-
trial Court. While the agitated messages
were being read, the P.M. announced that
he didn’t intend to interfere; and there
were other announcements the union
has lost its registration and Britain has
lost 20,000 tons of Queensland meat.
A debate in the Victorian Assembly
on the second reading of a bill to provide
a loan of £700,000 for housing, £72,000
of which is to be spent on remodelling
Army huts, led to an uproar in which
ex-Premier Dunstan was heard exclaim-
ing that “the unions, and tjie Communists
who have wormed their way into these
unions, are the real leaders of this State
today, while the Government has to Sit
down powerless.” Cain made the weak
rejoinder that the Housing Commission
wasn’t doing as well as he would like,
but “our approach to the problem is a
realistic one.” Asked whether he would
like industrial conscription, Dunstan re-
torted that he would prefer it to letting’
Communists, notably Don Thomson, of
the Building Trades, run the country.


THEIR MASTER’S WHIP.
“With the coal position so had that restrictions have been introduced in Victoria and wholesale blackouts and industrial breakdowns are threatened, seven Federal
and State ‘Labor’ Ministers attended a conference at Parliament House, Sydney, to which they were ‘invited’ by the Communist-controlled Miners Federation. 1 ere
followed the threat of a general coal strike unless the ‘workers’ get everything they ask for or can think of.”


SOCIETY
AND IT'S PRINTED WTU WIMBLE'S INKS
“Petermac”; I hope it isn’t going to
be catching, as it was after World War I,
but an A.I.F. veteran in my suburb has
christened his offspring Francis Tobruk
Buna in memory of his campaigns. I’m
not game to inquire whether the first
name is a tribute to the illustrious Mini-
ster for the Army. >
• * • •
“Pookie”: Night clubs are an expen-
sive hobby once deferred pay has run out,
and for some time I avoided them. When
I went into one the other night I found
things greatly changed since the boom-
ing days of war. No Yanks, fewer
people, courtesy, and the floor show
quite good. After the “funny man
had fired his battery of gags and
the band had gone to town and returned
with the very red-hot latest in something-
or-other, a girl sang the “St-r-rip Polka.
Like that, with plenty of “r’s,” and rov-
ing dark eyes and scarlet lips strained to
the ultimate contortion. And all the ges-
tures. It was very like the Middle East,
I thought. The crowd was cosmopolitan,
and some of the waiters would have been
at home anywhere between Tel Aviv and
Marseilles. The mob liked the song,
leaning well forward, clapping and stamp-
ing'; even the bullet-headed “muscle-
man,” who leant, silent and bellicose,
against the farther wall had an apprecia-
tive gleam in his bovine eyes. Yes, it was
all very like Egypt. Unpleasantly so, for
the painted girl singing the suggestive
song was only 11.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A story with an Australian
flavoring is in a new book by Lin Yutang.
It is meant to illustrate the tenacity of
his countrymen. Two of them had
bought a few stud sheep in Sydney, and
were taking them north by sea to Ran-
goon, when Pearl Harbor happened. The
captain of their ship took fright, went off
westward, and landed them at Calcutta
instead. From there the only way to get
to China seemed to be droving, across
the Himalayas. “When last heard of they
were somewhere in Tibet, and the 50
sheep were now 1000.”
* * * *
“Weff”; It would be difficult to
unearth a more prosaically named
lot of pubs than Sydney’s 533. Bung’s
taste runs to the dull and regal
—Royal, Crown, Imperial, Victoria
or Palace —or the commonplace —Com-
mercial, Exchange, Grand, Railway and
Union. Outside those two hackneyed
groups he is apt to select the name of his
pub’s locality or that of some deceased
general, admiral or titled personage.
Occasionally a Currency Lass, Cauli-
flower, Bald Faced Stag, Cutty Sark,
Fortune of War and Old Commodore
crops up, but such individuality is rare.
For the benefit of the Trade I have
founded a Society for the Propagation of
Australian Names for Licensed Premises,
and I am hoping that the U.L.V.A. will
grant me exclusive rights in N. S. Wales.
Mrs. Weff is typing a lengthy list of
suggested names, from which I have
extracted The Dancing Brolga, The Senti-
mental Bloke, The Dog on the Tucker
Box, The Flying Pieman, Captain Star-
light and the Southerly Buster.
* * * *
“Harap”: After Armistice Day in
1918 some of us did some brisk trading at
“Combien Alley,” along the canal in
Charleroi, where a tin of issue con-
densed milk or a packet of Red Hussar
fags was, for a time, good for a couple
of francs. To prepare the milk for this
market the paper label was steamed off
and the milk drained out of two holes
punched in the side of the tin, which was
then refilled with water, the holes plugged
up and the label replaced. The cigarettes
were carefully robbed of the tobacco and
the paper tubes refilled with hay, with a
dab of tobacco at each end. Trade was
brisk until those thieving Belgiques began
to get their own back by paying in dud
paper money.
* * * *
“Bondi Beachcomber”: Unarmed
Douglas transport ’planes played a great
part in our early island victories, flying
right up to the battle fronts to drop sup-
plies. Many arrived back at Moresby
badly shot-up, and some didn’t get back
“I presume this is the proud father."
at ail. The most amazing thing we ever
saw over the base area was a Douglas
with its starboard wing missing. Over
Ward’s Strip the pilot ordered his crew
of three to bale out; then, as he circled
widely for a landing, all traffic was
stopped, the strip cleared, and an ambul-
ance stood by. The crippled ’plane came
in with plenty of speed to compensate for
loss of stability, and the ambulance
raced along a dirt road beside the strip,
getting away early so as to be level with
the ship when it slowed down a bit. The
’plane touched down, drew level with !he
speeding ambulance, then slewed round
and crashed into it. The pilot wasn’t
scratched, but the two A.A.M.C. blokes
were taken to hospital with broken limbs
—in another ambulance.
* * * *
Occasionally p.-0.-w. struck
a Jap with a sense of humor. “George,”
stationed at the 26-kilo camp on the
Burma railway, was one. Strict orders
had been issued that there was to be no
conversation between prisoners and
natives. One day “George” came upon a
prisoner who was trying to get a light
from a Burmese in a yak cart. “George”
tore up, but made inquiries before bash-
ing—a most unusual procedure among
Japs. Finally he established that the
Burmese had no English, and the Aus-
tralian no Burmese. “George,” in quite
good English, dispensed justice—“ For the
honor of the Emperor, someone must be
punished”—and he kicked the yak in the
belly.
“McGlum”: Working with other
prisoners on a Jap wharf, Big Jack could
hardly believe his luck when he
found a plump chicken almost at
his feet. A grab, a muffled squawk,
a mighty twist, and the warm but
still morsel of poultry was stowed
beneath capacious shorts especially
altered to facilitate “scrounging.” The
casual search before the work party
finished revealed nothing. The line-up
in camp was the big danger. There
it was, however, when guards were
searching each man individually, that a
sympathetic Jap noticed Big Jack grimly
hugging his stomach and apprehensively
eyeing the trickle of blood running down
his leg, and immediately ordered him to
the R.A.P. The bleeding chicken found
the pot five minutes later,
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The case of the man who
hugged his fiancee to death at Brixton,
England, by accidentally pressing on a
vital spot in the neck and causing an
immediate stoppage of breath and circula-
tion reminds me of a case where a Sikh
policeman was charged with the murder
of a Chinaman in Labuan, the Bornean
island where there are still some Aus-
tralian soldiers. Faced with quelling a
minor riot, he grabbed one of the
Celestial’s sandals and gave him a sharp
tap on the back. To his astonishment, the
man dropped dead. It turned out that
the blow had struck him on a spleen en-
larged by a long acquaintance with
malaria. The policeman was acquitted
and an official warning was issued to the
force to avoid carefully in future that
portion of a Chinaman’s anatomy where
the spleen is situated.
* * * *
“L. de Rideau” : A musician might
forget even such a ponderous instrument
as a ’cello (B. 8/ 5/ ’46), but it is seldom
that a virtuoso playing Without score loses
his place, even in the most complex piece
of music. In a long career of concert-
going, I have only met with one example
—at the old Auditorium in Melbourne.
Isadore Akron was playing one of those
modern compositions which seem to have
no end, middle or beginning when he
paused and clutched his head with both
hands. After a couple of minutes he
proceeded, but as to whether he went on
where he left off or left out a great hunk
of the music nobody was the wiser. Psy-
chologists would be interested to know
that the opus in question had been written
by Isadore’s brother.
* * * *
“Ceg” on the Yarra of yesterday:
Before the construction of Spencer-street
bridge steamers came right up to Market-
street, but now that section of the river is closed
to other than launches. Let’s take a walk
down that way in the year or so before the
first world war. Poking her bowsprit cheekily
right into Queen’s Bridge is the old Edina, a
veteran even in those days. With her cutwater
bow, bowsprit and a small funnel well aft, she
had" been a trooper in the Crimean War and
was a great favorite for Bay trips. She is now
a coal hulk. It was a pity the Shiplovers
Society could not have acquired her. Next to
her is her rival, the Courier, much larger and
with two yellow funnels. When coming from
Launceston Courier’s skipper used to watch
for the Coogee out of Corio Bay, and the
two would race for the mouth of the river.
Across the stream from these lie the old Casino
and Flinders, which did the Port Fairy and
Portland runs, and the queer-looking, top-
heavy Eumeralla, which went to the Queens-
land coast trade. The gem of all these old
veterans, however, was the Rotomahana. A
graceful ship, she had the lines of a steam
yacht with a beautiful cutwater bow; I last
saw her rusting away at Port Melbourne and
wonder whether she went to Japan, as so many
of the old-timers did. Then the Little Dock
at the foot of Spencer-street—now filled in.
Ketches and suchlike small craft literally packed
in and lashed side to side—it’s a miracle hpw
they got in and out. Pretty little thmgs with
names like Melita May, they used to bung
cargoes of firewood and take assorted cargoes
heaven knows where. One, I remember, used
to load for Duck River, wherever that is.
Then the Fiji steamers with their loads of
bananas. The Aramac was one of these. The
fruit was slung out of the holds in bunches,
and small boys with billycarts were wait-
ing to pick up the loose fruit as it dropped
from the slings. It was a picturesque corner
of the city, and office workers, in their lunch
hour, used to drift down there to get a sniff of
the outside world.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: “Echelon’s” question about
who started the Hollywood trick of mak-
ing bleeding from the mouth represent
fighting injuries (B. 15/5/’46) is easily
answered. Tricks to represent certain
situations have belonged to the theatrical
business since its very beginnings. The
matter is not so much one of barrenness of
ideas as of plainly marking a situation
so that eyen the dullest can understand
it. On the stage the hero, involved in
battle, “enters from the fighting, with
bandaged head” (a stage direction in a
Marlowe play, the oldest remembered off-
hand). The bandaged head intimated
that the hero had been wounded, but was
manfully carrying on; heaven alone
knows where all the heroes who have
appeared in this guise got their bandages
in the heat of battle. Hollywood, to
dodge the visual bandaging and change
the trick, has adopted the blood-from-
the-mouth as the best means of making
the situation as plain as it should be.
*-* * *
“P.”: Attracted by smoke billowing from
a laneway in Elizabeth-street, Brisbane,
more than 100 people rushed to see
picture-theatre girls put out a fire. It
had been made for them out of a pile
of straw well sprinkled with petrol and
oil, the usherettes having been chosen to
usher in a campaign to make Brisbane
more fire-conscious. Officers had in-
structed them in the handling of fire ex-
tinguishers, and the girls, skirts flying and
hair awry, went to work on the blaze.
Staffs of other city buildings will be
trained later,
w * * *
“V. Cluse”: During the meat strike
Jephson got home rather late one night,
and was consequently hungry when he
sat down to table. Mrs. J. had already
fed the offspring, and the two had the
table to themselves. “I see you managed
to get a bit of meat,” Jephson remarked,
pleased with of beef on,his
plate. “Yes,” answered his spouse, “the
butcher said he didn’t have much but he
found me some.” Jephson’s teeth bounced
off that beef, he almost buckled his knife
in it. He felt the awful rage of a man
who looks forward to a tasty meal and
finds it tough and unpalatable. “What’s
this?” he sneered. “Must have sold you
one of his spare tyres.” Mrs. Jephson
burst into tears, which further stimulated
Jephson’s rage. “I’m sure I don’t know
what to do,” she sobbed. “Well, I do,”
Jephson roared. “I’ll go and see that
ruddy butcher myself.” He snatched up
the plate, rushed down the street, brought
the butcher down from the premises ovei
the shop, shoved the plate at him anc
roared “You sold this to my wife. You
blokes are makin’ it too hot. By cripes
I’d like to see you eat the leathery stuff
yourself!” “My oath, I’ll eat it,” re-
torted the butcher., “Haven’t had a bit of
meat meself for two days.” And before
Jephson could do anything the meat was
snatched from him and the door closer
firmly in his face.
* * * «
“Uco”: Shirley Temple’s grown up at
last. There’s clear proof of it in the
“Kiss and Tell” ads. I took no notice
of Shirley’s first (film) kiss, her (reported)
engagement and her (actual) marriage.
In an American film star’s life these things
signify nothing. But the newspaper ads.
for the latest film of the former child star
carry the sad legend “Suitable Only for
Adults.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Egypt, whose fighting-mad
soldiers had to be held back from tearing
the Afrikakorps to pieces after Rommel
had crossed the frontier, is at last, mostly
through university students’ “demonstra-
tions,” to get rid of the hated British
Army that saved it from being snuffed out
as a nation. There will be cheers from
the fly-specked descendants of the
Pharaohs, but I’m willing to bet
they won’t last. For more than
50 years, and particularly over the
last 30 years, the presence of Empire
troops around the Nile delta has
been a • major factor in Egypt’s pros-
perity. Now the Gyppos will be reduced
to trying to rob one another instead of
the Tommy and the Digger, to selling one
another naughty postcards and to conduct-
ing their fellow-countrymen on tours of
the Pyramids, mosques and the Wazir
at exorbitant prices ; the cry of “Orengis,
veree good, veree sweet —eggs-a-cook,
bread-a-fresh” will be heard on only a
minor note. And I’m further willing to
bet that within two years there’ll be an
agonised howl from the Gyppos, led by
the ’varsity students, for the British Army
to come back and save them from going
completely broke.
NOT AIR HOSTESSES.
"Advertisements for fivei stewardesses on the new
Sydney-Auekland flying boats drew applications from
700 M.L. women, although Tasman Airways, accord-
ing to its manager, deliberately called for steward-
esses, not air hostesses; there would be no glamor in
the job.*’
“The rose would smell as sweet,” our Shak-
speare noted,
“By any other name.” No doubt it would.
The aphorism’s regularly quoted
As truth profound, beyond all likelihood
Of ever being questioned or outvoted;
But still you kftow it mightn’t sound as good.
Maybe there’s more in labels anyhow
Than poets and philosophers allow.
In trades and callings it is characteristic
Of modern usage to ring in a word
That’s more euphonious and euphemistic
Than any that’s been previously heard;
Something more toney and less socialistic
You’ll find is always apt to be preferred—
A practice which, snobbish although it be,
Is after all a harmless vanity;
A bit of camouflage, but surely venial.
The job of stewardess, you’re well aware,
Carries a bint of something slightly menial,
Whereas to be a hostess in the air
Looks like an infinitely more congenial
And somewhat less laborious affair.
Though queens are hostesses by rights, confess
It’s hard to picture one a stewardess.
What’s in a name? Well, here is one suggestive
Of fairy beings glamorous and soft,
Alternately solicitous and festive,
Whose pleasant presence many a time and oft
Would hearten the perturbed and soothe the
restive
In these itineraries up aloft,
A kind of blend or composite, my masters,
Of Florence Nightingales and Lady Astors.
Yet when the call went for stewardesses,
Who erst air hostesses were designate,
Ignoring literary littlenesses
Note how they rose to the inferior bait,
Some seven hundred furnishing addresses
With readiness that seems to indicate
Strong feminine support for Shakspeare’s claim
That after all there’s nothing in a name.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Algy”: Noticed two samurai swords
in a Melbourne hock-shop the other day.
Uncle wanted two quid each. Very best
Japanese steel, he assured me. Probably
a century old. Once belonged to gen-
erals. No, the handles weren’t much, but
it was the steel that counted. He pro-
tested when I whacked one of the stickers
against an anvil at the back of his shop.
It was pure jeep-spring steel, and had
doubtless cost some Aussie much sweat
over file and sandpaper. Still, I’ll bet its
original price was far more than two
quid.
* * * *
“Clooter”: One of the things that
always impresses me is the way the citi-
zens of Australia’s biggest city accept
official advice handed out to them by their
daily press. During recent school holi-
days there was some increase in the
number of infantile paralysis cases, with
consequent headlines and various an-
nouncements and statements. The main
warning, repeated day after day, was that
parents should keep their children away
from crowds and such things as picture
theatres during the period. And day
after day, from morning matinee to last
night session, the kids crowded into the
theatres in their thousands. Apparently
the risk of the i.p. infection and being
crippled for life was a small thing com-
pared with a chance to see Bing Lamour
or Dorothy Autry capering like delirious
shadows and making queer sounds from
their epiglottises—or should it be epig-
lotii?
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; It has been claimed for
H. G. Wells that his scientific anticipa-
tions have been fantastically acute, the
literary seer having predicted the tank,
the use of atomic energy and the general
pattern of aerial warfare. I am inclined
to think, however/ that this sort of repu-
tation depends a great deal on the fact
that people remember the guesses that
come true, and don’t remember the ones
that prove duds ; Wells has made plenty
of the latter. Still, a sardonic jest he
introduced into one of his books seems
to have a chance of being translated into
reality. Japan makes undeclared war on
China and fleets of bombers flatten
Chinese cities. The Chinese reply is a
single ’plane which flies over to Japan
and drops innocent pacifist propaganda.
Ir subsequently turns out that a powder
was distributed with the leaflets which,
unknown to themselves, makes Japanese
women sterile, a fact which only becomes
apparent when its effects are seen in the
vital statistics. This follows closely the
assertion of a British atom scientist, who
claims that it is already within the bounds
of scientific possibility that radio-active
rays can secretly produce a similar effect
beyond a country’s borders, and will in-
evitably be used years before a contem-
plated war.
* * * *
“Buttsaver”: A minor irritation is the
insistence of the cigarette people on adver-
tising their wares as if they were still
available on the pre-war scale and the
sign “Sorry, No Smokes” had never
appeared in the land. My evening paper
contains an almost half-page advertise-
ment depicting three handsome couples,
happy with their weeds, boldly proclaim-
ing to the world their reasons for always
smoking “Whiff” cigarettes. Yes, I know
all the arguments ; it’s necessary to keep
their name before the public and all that,
but “Whiffs” happen to be my favorite
smoke and I haven’t been able to lay
hands on a packet for over a month.
* * ♦ « •,
“J. 8.8.”: Some years ago The Bul-
letin published a short story of mine,
allegedly humorous, about an Antarctic
expedition whose food supply was en-
tirely in tablet form. Climax came when
one of the dog-team scoffed the lot at one
sitting. According to the cables, an
Eskimo dog recently performed a similar
feat, devouring the entire vitamin supply
of a Canadian Arctic Force. He must
have been a very tough animal. He sur-
vived ; mine died. Still, the Eskimo
glutton only put away 30,000 vitamin
tablets; my mong swallowed “the equi-
valent of two whole bullocks, 20 head
of sheep, a pig and a half, a dozen
poultry, six dozen eggs, 16 buckets of
assorted soups, half a hundredweight of
fruit, veges., furbishings and fittings to
keep a family of five for a week,” so I
consider him still the undefeated cham-
pion.
“Bo”: A Sydney civil servant left his
office at the usual time and ran into a
couple of cronies he hadn’t seen for a
few years. At the pub he ingested suffi-
cient liquid courage to scorn a suggestion
that he should be off home to the “little
woman.” He insisted that the others join
him at dinner in town and they’d do a
show, and damn the consequences. Thus
it was that a few hours later the “little
woman,” with visions of a mangled corpse
“An it's just as effective for y'r crowsfeet, ladies!"
lying on a marble slab at the morgue, was
frantically ’phoning police stations and
hospitals. When these drew blanks, and
her efforts tp raise his office failed, she
decided to go in personally to the office
and see if that would give a clue to the
first trace-kicking in 20 years of married
life —there might be something after all
in these tales she’d laughed at about
middle-aged men working back at night
aided by attractive typists. The watch-
man, answering her call, assured her that
her husband wasn’t in. She insisted on
being conducted to his office. As the
■watchman switched the light on in the
sanctum he pointed to a desk on which
stood a wooden tray with a couple of
pink-taped files in it. “There!” he said
triumphantly. “I told y’ you’d find his
office hadn’t been slept in since this after-
noon ! ”
**' * *
“E.H.M.”: The privileges our poli-
ticians enjoy are legion, but until the
other day I never thought they included
a No. 1 priority at the barber’s. I was
having a haircut in a country joint when
the local member walked in. Leaning
over to my shearer, who had half finished
me, the boss whispered “I’ll finish your
job when I get through with mine. Don’t
keep him waiting,” indicating the poli-
tician.
* * * *
“Blank File”: Ours was a small
specialist detachment, about 15 strong,
under civilian control so far as duties
were concerned, and we led a happy, care-
“ No w, perhaps, you people'll believe you get it all from the one cow .”
free life until Army decided that we
should become a self-contained unit under
a commissioned officer. Captain Blunder-
buss, the C.O. appointed, knew little and
cared less about the unit’s functions, but
he was a bobbydazzler on the regimental
side. He had us heel-clicking and salut-
ing from morn to night and ran a daily
administrative parade with all its attend-
ant ceremony. He was keen that we
should develop a strong sense of esprit
de corps and earbashed us every day on
the subject. Came the time when the
colonel in charge of our particular branch
of the service called in just as Blunderbuss
had us lined up for the morning doing-
over. In the old days the colonel had
been in the habit of dropping in and
yarning to us about our work in a com-
pletely informal manner and he viewed
our C.O.’s parade with a somewhat
astonished air. As Capt. Blunderbuss dis-
missed us a few of us heard the colonel’s
comment “Good show, Capt. Blunderbuss,
good show. What a shame it is you
haven’t got a regimental band!”
* * * ♦
“Deir Suneid”; To the average officer
no job was more objectionable than the
censoring of letters (B. 15/5/’46),
although undoubtedly some of them re-
velled in it. When I left Australia in 1940
as a four-ribboned sergeant in the A.I.F.
every word of every letter I wrote was
gloated over by a pink-and-white baby
who celebrated his 21st birthday when
we were crossing the Indian Ocean. As
a kind of vicarious revenge on somebody
or something, after I was commissioned
I franked without reading letters written
by anyone I knew. I did this for years,
and the boys all knew it, but as far as I
know not one of them ever let me down.
* * * *
“2674”: It was at the Borovahsky
Ballet “Scheherazade.” The music of
Rimsky-Korsakoff, the exotic decor, the
voluptuous dancing held the audience
enthralled, and Rubinstein amazed all
with his spectacular death leap. As he fell
to the floor in its "throes the silence was
broken by the words “Gripes! Richmond
could do with him, if he could only hold
the ball!”
* * * *
“Balgowlah”: An hour’s travelling
separates my home from my office, and I
have long been envious of a cobber with
a flat less than five minutes’ walk from
his desk. The other day I congratulated
him upon not having to |pend hours
daily battling on crowded trams and
buses. “Believe me, boy, I’d swap you to-
morrow,” he replied. “Living in the
heart of a city has its snags. Whenever a
friend goes on the scoot and feels too
unsteady to make the trip home he calls
at my joint to sleep off his binge. Or,
maybe, he gets the idea that I’d like to
help him continue it, so he turns
up with a couple of quarts and a few
sozzled mates. Others who miss the last
tram home expect me to put them up for
the night. On top of it all, the missus
has hordes of girl-friends who drop in
during the day with their kids and expect
her to mind them while they go shopping
or to a matinee. No, if you have any-
thing in the suburbs to offer in exchange,
you can have my town flat any time you
want it.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I don’t think “Burglar’s
Laborer” will find many supporters for
his theory. All my thick-eared friends
agree that the king-hit is the cowardly
punch to the jaw when the victim is un-
prepared. And a big piece off one of
my front teeth prevents me from accept-
ing the view that a blow —from a fist—
on the top of the head is a sleep-inducer.
I got the souvenir when I slipped a left
and ducked the top of my head into a
pile-driving right. The punch would have
put me down and out had it landed on the
jaw or even the temple. As it was, my
jaws snapped together with a force that
made the bottom teeth bite a neat piece
out of a top one ; but my senses were
not dulled—and the opponent retired with
an injured hand.
* * * *
* “W.O. Two”: When I joined the A.I.F.
in 1940, I was sent from Sydney Show-
ground to Tamworth (N.S.W.) without
being given a uniform. The infantry
training battalion which I joined had no
uniforms in stock and I had to knock
around in a double-breasted business suit,
the only civilian-attired soldier among a
thousand Diggers. Put in the orderly-
room until the Q.M. could clothe me, I
was busy typing when the C. 0., who
had been on leave, spotted me. Without
bothering to ask who I was and why I
was there, he began a cordial conversation
and asked me across to his room for a
drink. After the third, he remarked, “I
always believe in making you ordnance
auditors at home. I hope you’ll be com-
fortable while you’re here.” When I
confessed that J was in fact his newest
private, the old boy almost passed out.
He had a uniform, scrounged from a
neighboring unit, on my back within 20
minutes and 10 minutes later I was sweat-
ing in the bullring.
sH * * *
“Laetitia”: Mention by “Old Comp”
(B. 15/5/’46) of Randolph Bedford’s
retort to The Bulletin sub-editor recalls
another effort of that prolific source of
quotable sayings. Randolph was listen-
ing to the bar-room declamation of an
aspiring politician who, unknown to him-
self, had been officially axed by the party
executive a few hours before. Bedford,
aware of the axing, remarked sadly “The
trouble with you, Blank, is that you are
still talking after your head has been
chopped off.”
* * * *
“Morehead”: Timpkins, one of our
senior clerks, had many private irons in
the fire which enabled him to dress better
and run a swankier car than the boss, and
it puzzled us how he managed to cope
with the firm’s work. His accounts were
always balanced on time, his records were
up to date, his correspondence promptly
answered and his files neatly accessible
and a model of neatness. He was, in
fact, as the boss often remarked and we
grudgingly conceded, an example to us
all. One day Timpkins and “Old
Dodger,” the nightwatchman, had a bust-
up in front of everybody in the general
office. Then it all came out. “Old
Dodger,” who had been a. fairly smart
clerk in his time, spent from dusk to
dawn attending to the accumulation of
work Timpkins left behind for him each
evening. The pair fell out when Timp-
kins declined to increase the small sum
he paid “Old Dodger” for his secret
night work. Both have now departed, and
the white-collar slave who took Timp-
kins’s place sticks to his desk all day and
carries home an attache case full of
office work every night.
* * * *
“Petermac”: As a hardened boarding-
house inmate, survivor of many a blanket-
less winter, I have much in common with
“Roofless” (B. 15/5/’46) and other house-
hunters. Rooms are hard to get and
prices asked high, so I was elated
when a reply to my advt. offered me full
board in a select suburb for 30s. I
rushed out to the place and it was ideal.
A nice front room in a modem flat with '
refrigerator and all mod. cons. The
evening meal was sumptuous and I went
to bed with my faith in human nature
immensely stronger. I had hardly settled
down in my cot when there were taps on
my window and a thunderous crashing on
the front door. I clambered out of bed
and dashed out into the hall, to find
my landlady pacing up and down.
She said calmly: “Don’t be alarmed—
it’s only my husband. He’s trying to
get me out of this flat by terrorist tactics
so he can install his fancy woman here.”
I smiled bleakly and she went on. “I
thought I’d feel much safer with a man in
the house—you don’t mind, do you?” I
don’t mind much except that I haven’t
had a wink of sleep for four nights.
EVERLASTING MEMORY.
“Come now, ladies, tell us your most personal
springtime memory.”— Woman’s paper.
Mauve bunches of wistaria trailing over
The lattice and the roof across the way.
And fields would soon be powdered with the
clover
Which thrills Sir Bee on every summer’s day.
The birds would nest while butterflies went
quivering
Along each sweetly-scented path. But that
Concerned me not a whit, for I was shivering
With fear I’d miss out on a new spring hat.
N.S.W.
Eve Merritt.


£u>
HILLMAN MINX
YEARS AHEAD IN DESIGN
Increased Fuel Economy.
Swifter Cruising Speed.
Smoother Running.
Quieter and More Restful.
Balanced Clutch Control.
Additional Safety and Roadability.
mS Higher B.H.P.
A Product of die
Rootes Group.
<=/%n
Crtrtis
See your Distributor
Now for particulars.
john McGrath itd.,
lie Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
(Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTT., LTD., 223 Exhibition St., MELBOURNE.
JOHN McGRATH, LTD. .. 334-340 Wickham St.. The Valley,
BRISBANE.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTORS CO., LTD., 900 Hay St., PERTH.
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY, LTD., Cr. York & St. Johns Sts.,
LAUNCESTON.
Rootes Group Regional Representative: 473 Bourke St., Melbourne.
//
Join me at lunch . . .
Have a Coke
1 .i! , im i
L .1 1
■Ml'li r I’M i
ass
P
I- •
✓
S'
iffcSTii£iiPicX''f«
adding refreshment to the noon hour
-the global
high-sigfi
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke’’
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.Aj
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
You see them every-
where at the lunch hour.
Happy groups of girls
enjoying wholesome
food with ice-cold Coca-
Cola. At the office, in
your home, or at your
favourite luncheon place
Coca-Cola makes good
food taste better ....
makes lunch time re-
freshment time.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
THE SERVICE MAN
A Little Air History.
“Ek D.”: At Sydney Legacy on May
23, Lieut.-General F. H. Berryman,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., gave another of his
lectures dealing with the history of
features of the A.l.F.’s war, this time on
Air Liaison.
The lieut.-general said that in the first
stages of World War II there was prac-
tically no provision for Army-Air co-
operation. Two Australian Army Co-op.
squadrons only existed by Dec., 1941,
and two Air Intelligence liaison sections
were formed, each consisting of three Air
Intelligence liaison officers and a small
staff, who were attached to squadrons.
The A.I.L. sections were attached to In-
telligence staff; their officers were staff
officers.
When First Australian Corps embarked
for service in the Middle East, it in-
cluded the 2/Ist A.I.L. Section, which
appeared on the Order of Battle as Corps
troops. It was routed to England with
the 18th Brigade. In Nov., 1940, it was
attached to No. 3 Squadron R.A.A.F.
during operations in the Western Desert.
In the scattered and improvised opera-
tions in Libya, Greece and Crete, there
had been a lamentable lack of liaison
between ground and air. This led to the
establishment of a School of Army Co-
operation by the R.A.F. at Ismailia to
train pilots and army officers. G.H.Q.
in the Middle East authorised an Air Sup-
port Control Unit. Out of this came
2/Ist Australian Air Support Control,
which was allotted to British Armored
Corps of the Eighth Army, and served
with it during the “Crusader” operations,
which resulted in the relief of Tobruk.
In the Pacific
By the time war with Japan broke out
the need for the close of air
and ground headquarters in planning had
produced something like a tight formula
of procedure.
An R.A.A.F. Army Co-operation
school was established at Canberra. Its
training extended to both arms of the
service right up to senior ranks. Thus both
Air Force and Army were thoroughly
to be infiltrated with the theories of co-
operation.. By March, 1942, the veteran
2/ Ist Australian Air Support Control and
the 2/Ist A.I.L. section were back in
Australia with units of the Sixth and
Seventh Divisions. It was then decided
to put air-control units on the Order of
Battle for each corps and to increase
A.I.L. sections.
To June, 1943, when the Americans
took over, No. 2 A.S.C. unit operated in
New Guinea till it was replaced by No. 4,
which was disbanded shortly after arriv-
ing. American air-support parties first
operated in the battle of Wau.
Meanwhile Australian co-operation
forces were expanded, and also closely
integrated with the American military
structure where necessary. By July, 1943,
there were (1) a H.Q. Australian Air
Liaison Group (lieut.-colonel, major,
captain and three other ranks), attached
to the senior Air Force Command in the
fighting area; (2) Australian Command
Air Liaison Sections (one major, two
other ranks), attached to subordinate Air
Force H.Qs. —Tactical Air Force, Wing,
etc.; (3) Australian Squadron A.L. Sec-
tions (captain and two other ranks),
attached to co-operation and support
squadrons; (4) Australian A.L, Sections
(Tac/R), each made up of a major, two
captains and seven other ranks. These
were attached to appropriate squadrons,
and were capable of operating separately
with each flight of the squadron when dis-
persal of flights was necessary.
By the end of the war the force had
grown to two A.L. Groups, seven Com-
mand A.L. Sections and two A.L. Sections
(Tac/R). Also there had been created a
General Staff (Air) Section, eventually
attached to G.S. (Field Formations).
The A.L.O.’s Hard Life
The job of co-operation between
ground and air forces is a tricky busi-
ness, and it is not easy to define the limits
of responsibility. Generally speaking, the
job is divided ihto the following sections;
(1) the management of knowledge gained
by land and air forces, so that it becomes
the property of both forces; (2) the
provision by the Air Force of photo-
graphs and information necessary for all
the purposes of ground command; (3)
the integration of operations so that they
are welded into a common whole.
The air liaison officer becomes the
authorised emissary of the formation
commander. He helps to plan joint
operations. He keeps the channels of
information open and working both ways.
He must be a sort of Admirable Crich-
ton, who knows everything that is going
on in both forces. He must speak the
language of both forces. And he—and
all his subordinates —‘must join in the life
of the air force, must go on sorties, be
capable of acting as part of an air crew
and, in fact, be a new sort of marine—
a “giddy harumphrodite, airman and
soldier, too.”
It was no easy matter to create this
strange type in the breathless hurry of a
tropical campaign, but he was born in
sufficient numbers out of the versatility
of the A.I.F. And he led a hard life,
being bumped about by young pilots and
expending his eloquence on bombers who
could not see the use of dumping heavy
cargoes of explosives on what appeared
to be lonely jungle.
There were many A.L.Os. who flew
as many as 50 to 100 sorties. All of
them were more than little heroes, especi-
ally in the early days of the war. And
life in co-operation squadrons, especially
in that of the old Fourth, which went
into Buna-Gona with an aircraft so like
a Zero that the Americans protested
against its taking the air, was certainly
dangerous, especially seeing that it was
used for such duties as eradicating the
vicious Jap dual A.-A. guns, by flying
low to draw their fire, and then acting as
artillery spotters. The first A.L.O. lost in
New Guinea was engaged in this duty in
a Wirraway over a very hot spot in
Buna.
American Appreciation
The Americans at first had no liaison
system of the calibre of the AJ.F’s. and
R.A.A.F’s., but they were not long in
adopting the British system, fathered by
the Ismailia school.
They opened a school in the United
States to train A.L.Os.—they called them
G.L.Os. The six British officers who
tutored there in the early days included
two Australian A.L.O. majors, specially
asked for. When, with the growth of
forces, Australian and American opera-
tions began to diverge in the Cape Glou-
cester era, the U.S. Fifth Air Force com-
mand asked that Australian A.L.Os. re-
main with U.S.A.F. squadrons, in spite
of the fact that their own G.L.Os. were
coming forward. Some U.S. squadron
commanders strongly resisted the sugges-
tion that the Australians should be with-
drawn.
Presently air superiority was won in the
s.-w. Pacific, and new phases began.
Many A.L.Os. became Support Airborne
Observers (S.A.Os.), who had the ticklish
job of flying over assault areas continu-
ally. A call was heard from the Royal
Navy to train R.A.F. and F.A.A, pilots
on carriers for Pacific operations. Six
Australian A.L.Os. went to Ceylon for
this purpose.
Finally came the natural consumma-
tion of the new policy, in which integra-
tion of forces was working smoothly with
an abundance of trained officers and
other ranks; a stage when air co-opera-
tion, three years before an experiment of
which the technique had yet to be framed,
was taken as a matter of course.
Preparing for Borneo
During the months before Borneo
operations the A.M.F. was represented
by A.L.Os. with all units of the First
Tactical Air Force R.A.A.F. Co-operation
at that time was not easy because of the
vast spread of training operations and
the momentary differences in roles inci-
dent to the positions of R.A.A.F. and
First Corps, A.M.F., which was to carry
out the operations. The Corps, under
Morshead, was on the mainland at
Atherton.
The First Tactical Air Force, R.A.A.F.,
was at that time on Noemfoor and Moro-
tai, a distance away at the extreme limit,
equal to that between London and Istan-
bul. The A.L.Os., who were with the Air
Force, found plenty to do, and it was a
striking fact that some of them acted in
liaison between the R.A.A.F. and the
American forces operating on Biak and
Morotai, with complete smoothness. At
the same time, they were building up a
blanket picture of the Netherlands East
Indies, for preparation for air assault and
for land assault itself when the time
should come.
In the meantime the Sixth Division had
got under way from Aitape, on the long
and arduous road to Wewak and Mapnk.
It had, for air support, a Beaufort wing
—————


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
13 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ .. .. 1U 6
3 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:—
13 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
w
★
USE THOSE
r /| 9/cutcfs/
COMMERCIAL ART
GUARANTEES Your Future
★★★ The evenings you merely fritter away can be spent
pleasurably and profitably learning to draw illustra-
tions, posters, cartoons and fashions. Commercial
Art, the most fascinating and progressive profession
of modern times, will literally guarantee your future.
BIG OPPORTUNITIES FOR TRAINED ARTISTS
r
'>
With the expansion of industry and the steady
growth of Advertising, Commercial Art comes
to the fore as a key profession in which anyone
with trained natural ability may quickly achieve
success. At the very heart of our industrial
life, it offers you higher rewards and oppor-
tunities and certain security in the years ahead.
The growing demand is under-supplied —now is
the time to begin your training!
STUDY AT HOME
IN YOUR SPARE TIME
M
t)
By devoting a few hours a week to this engrossing
study you can develop that flair for sketching into
a creative, money-making force for great personal
achievement. The A.T.I. teaches you in your spare
time at home. You learn the success-secrets of the
most highly-paid and widely-recognised Com-
mercial Artists in Australia —celebrated men and
women who have pooled their accumulated know-
ledge to produce this comprehensive Training
Course —and every step of your progress is guided
by an expert.
&
•xO'j ** d
•<«** &*>*?, n ,,.
' l ' )^° vA ,l^ eV J'C'{ i< e< \
x,o v\\ e V \
y h^ x y iq \ icwcv et 0 t
OV &<£>«*>
ky**& c>°’
V xxC V- etv s^ d d
*&&****->
°t>
u
32 pages
illustrated
in color
CLIP THE COUPON MAIL IT TODAY
DO
IT
NOW!
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me your illustrated 32-page booklet, ART
ABILITY TESTS, without cost or obligation. I enclose
4£d. postage.
NAME •••
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
ADDRESS
STATE
8u1546
ART
TRAINING
INSTITUTE
80 Swcmston Street, Melbourne
Australia's Foremost School of Commercial Art
(Australian-built as well as Australian-
manned), with a Tac/R detachment and
communication and transport flight, each
of those units having experienced A.L.Os.
attached to them. Some of these lost
their lives. One was killed with the rest
of his crew by the Japs when he went
ashore from a Walrus to obtain infer-
mation from natives on Muschu. One
C.O. of 2 A.L. Group, commanding
all A.L.Os. in the First Army area, was
shot down on a tactical reconnaissance
mi f n ',H H w ha T d Tf r t R i-a^ C „d
had beenTn/ol
" MMdle EaS ‘
Advanced L, H.Q. went to Morotai in
March 194 S By that time, it had been
arranged that, apart from the First Tac-
tical Air Force R.A.A.F., Borneo land
operations would be supported by wide-
spread formations ol the 13th Air Force.
There were 13 air-force units based at
various points—heavy bombers at Moro-
tai, medium bombers and fighters at
Sanga Sanga, medium bombers at Zam-
boanga and on Palawan, photographic
units at Leyte. With all these the Army
had A.L.Os.
Their work was co-ordinated by Ist
A.L. Group at Morotai. Each landing
force was to have A.L.Os. with R.A.A.F.
squadrons, working through the G.S.O.
(Air) of the Army formation.
,
S.A.Os. m Battle
Tarakan was historic because there sup-
port air observers were used for the first
time. These were the specially-trained
A.L.Os. who flew over the operation and
provided the force commander with a
detailed ball-to-ball commentary on pro-
“I’ve been reading in the papers about the dreadful Way they are treating
you poor boys.”
ceedings, beside acting as target observers.
This was about as exacting a job as could
be set, more especially since the machines
used could operate only from Morotai.
The men used had become expert in read-
ing ground operations by six or seven
months of flying and talking and map-
plotting over the troops of the Seventh
and Ninth Divisions on Atherton.
One officer, while engaged on this kind
of support duty in three landings in
Borneo, did 220 hours of operational
flying.
Owing to the failure of the Tarakan
strip, it was necessary to base Labuan
operations by air from Sanga Sanga until
Labuan strip had been reconditioned.
Flying in Northern Borneo was compli-
cated by high mountains, but all went
well.
Balikpapan’s Problems
The third of the combined operations
in Borneo produced air-ground co-opera-
tion at its best. Earlier troubles had
been got over. Those engaged were ex-
perienced and seasoned, and they needed
to be. S.A.Os. on this battle had to fly
an average of 15 hours in Liberators on
each mission—five hours each way and
five over the target. The Liberator is a
good target for an enemy, and A.A. fire
took heavy toll. Two missions were flown
each of the first five days, and three
machines were shot down. The first air-
craft to go was ditched and lost two
crew members. The other two craft were
shot down in flames. But the veterans
who were in that battle had the satisfac-
force co-operation and support, the
Seventh Division got ashore at Balik-
papan without the loss of a man.
At Milne, Bay, on the Kokoda Trail,
Salamaua, Lae, Finschhafen and in the
Ramu Valley campaigns, as in Borneo,
the new body had played its part.
Some did not come out. The toll
was a lieut.-colonel, two majors and 11
captains.
With Admiral Leahy in London—the
admiral is a sort of Colonel House to
President Truman as to President Roose-
velt —and Dr. Evatt hurriedly off to
Washington, discussion of the question of
defence bases in the Pacific is believed
to be in full swing. The British Com-
monwealth talks on defence are over, but
except that the British Government ap-
pears to have plainly told the Chifleys and
Evatts that this country will in future
have to pull its weight in the defence
scheme in peace-time, instead of loafing
on the job as it did between World War
I and World War 11, there has been no
release of details. It will be little com-
fort to Australians to learn from Dr.
Evatt that “Australia is pleased with the
outcome of the talks.” Australia may be
pleased when its new owner permits it to
know what the talks were about, and
again it may not be.
« * * *
The gallant General Bor, leader of the
rising in Warsaw to welcome the Russian
advance, is luckier than his co-resister,
Mihailovich, of Yugoslavia. Bor is safe
in the United States, where the emissaries
of Communist Poland and Communist
Russia are vigorously doing their best to
spoil his visit. The charge against him is
that, being a Polish patriot, he dared to
fight the Nazis without joining the Com-
munist party and surrendering to Mos-
cow. Both Bor and Mihailovich were
fighting Germans at a time when Russia
was on Hitler’s side. But one of them is
in a Russian-controlled dungeon in Bel-
grade, denied by Tito’s system of “jus-
tice” the right of calling official American
and unofficial British evidence in his own
defence, and the other would be slaugh-
tered in cold blood if he attempted to set
foot on his Russian-occupied native soil
for which he fought. Stray Australian
Diggers and R.A.A.F. men who were in
Warsaw during his resistance would give
him a warm welcome in Australia.
# # * *
Sixth Division Cavalry’s ex-members now
have an association which will hold its second
general meeting on June 5 at 7.30 p.rn. in
the R.S.L. sub-branch rooms, St. John’s House,
21 Macquarie-place, Sydney. Ex-members who
have not sent in their addresses are asked to
forward them to the secretary, 31 Margaret-
street, Manly, N.S.W.


(yilcuufc*
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
William Roy Hodgson, Australian
soldier turned diplomat, who held the
stage awhile at U.N.O. last month, got
a much better press in the U.S.A. than
in his own country—last January, when'
he acted for Australia in London
pending Makin’s arrival, the best
adjective one Sydney paper could
find for him was “stodgy.” One
New York newshound found him
the reverse of stodgy, and wrote of him
as “a chronic needier,” intent on prod- '
ding delegates into action. He was de-
scribed as “a grey little man with a fur-
rowed face and a Cockney accent.” He
must have picked up that accent from his
schoolmaster father, or from Duntroon
or Melbourne Uni. Hodgson was in the
landing at Gallipoli, where his hip was
shattered by a sniper—the bullet’s still in
his spine. After World War I he soldiered
on at Army H.Q., Melbourne, until 1934,
when he was appointed to the Depart-
ment of External Affairs, becoming its
secretary in 1935. His present job—from
which he took time off for the New York
meetings of U.N.O. —is Australian
Minister to France.
Back in October, 1939, when General
Blarney was choosing his senior staff
officers, Colin Hall Simpson was one of
the 13 selected. He was put in charge of
Corps Signals. In 4he six and a half
years since then he has taken part in
almost every major campaign in which
the A.I.F. was involved. In 1942 he be-
came Signal Officer-in-Chief Allied Land
Forces, and in November, 1944, he was
sent on a special mission to Britain, was
attached for a time to Montgomery’s
staff in France, Holland and Belgium,
and returned to Australia by way of
Canada and the United States. Simpson
finished up the war as a major-general
with a C.B.E. to add to the M.C. he col-
lected in the first German war. In pri-
vate life a pharmacist, he has joined the
board of Columbia Graphophone,
Phil Smith, dead in Sydney at 70, had
been a well-known figure on the Austra-
lian stage since “The Firm” brought him
out from England in 1913 to play the
comic cook in “The Count of Luxem-
bourg.” The Bulletin’s Melbourne
Showman saw his first performance, and
commented that he was “nimble on his
feet and funny in spots”—as the show
itself received only lukewarm reviews this
comment was more flattering than it
sounds. “The Count” was followed by
“Autumn Manoeuvres,” which was a flop,
so Smith’s Australian debut was not very
encouraging. Still, he battled on, and
when “The Maid of the Mountains” made
its first bow in Melbourne in 1921 he
played Tonio. From then on, though
he was never a top-of-the-bill comedian,
he was a genial laugh-maker in many
J.C.W. productions. He made his last
appearance a couple of years ago as Mr.
Ginkel in a revival of “White Horse
Inn.”
Charles Albert Fenner, who soon re-
tires as Director of Education in S.A.,
has more than a flair for scientific re-
search. Winner of the Syme Medal and
Prize, and the Sachse Medal, he gained
his D.Sc. and Diploma of Education at
Melbourne Uni., where he was Kemot
research scholar. He was named Director
of Technical Education in S.A. in 1916.
While lecturer in geology at Adelaide
Uni., he became official Australian repre-
sentative at the Science Congress at Cam-
bridge (Eng.) in 1931, and at Geneva in
1937, and was appointed to his present
post in 1939. Now 62, he’s the author of
South Australia: A Study in Human
Geography, 1930 and Bunyips and Billa-
bongs, 1935, also many papers on scien-
tific research.
Dead in Samarai (Papua), Geoffrey H.
iVernon, known throughout the islands as
medico, writer and good fellow. Colonel
in the 1914-18 war (his M.C. was among
the other things looted in Port Moresby
in the hectic days of early 1942), he later
held posts as Government Medical Officer
at Thursday Island and Misima, and
found time to grow rubber, kapok and
copra, but his hobbies were writing and
gardening. Fondly remembered by mem-
bers of the Seventh Division as the deaf
Angau doctor of the Kokoda Trail, his
exploits under fire were herculean.
Native medical orderlies and a detach-
ment of the Royal Papuan Constabulary
formed the guard of honor at his military
funeral on the neighboring island of
Rogeia. He was 66 at the end.
A. S. MacArthur, leaving Flinders
Naval Depot to resume his pre-war job
'as golf architect and professional in Bris-
bane, was born in Scotland, almost on
the first tee at Macrihenish, voted the
world’s most natural golf course. His
dad was “pro.” there, and golf was his
preoccupation between two big wars, in
the first of which he fought in Gallipoli,
and France with the Royal Marines, and
in the second trained recruits at Flinders
Naval Depot, a piece of shrapnel carried
round since France preventing overseas
service. He founded the Northern Rivers
Golf Association, with headquarters at
Grafton (N.S.W.).
South Australia seems to change its
Base Commandant as often as a Holly-
wood film star changes her husband.
Early this year Brigadier Weavers was
holding down the job ; then Alick Moore
Forbes dropped in and stayed long
enough for Coventry to take a sitting
shot at him; as this issue went to press
Brigadier Lewis Ernest Stephen Barker,
Coventrated hereunder, was settling down
into the post. Barker is an old Duntroon
man who won his M.C. as a captain of
12th Brigade Artillery in 1918. He
soldiered on between the wars, and was
C.O. of 2/1 Field Regiment in the first
Libyan campaign, by which time he had
earned the nickname of Holy Joe and a
reputation for being very keen on keep-
ing junior officers up to the mark. In
Palestine, in pursuance of this policy, he
insisted on early-morning physical jerks
for subalterns. One morning, while walk-
ing through the lines, he came across a
batman carrying a cup of tea, and in-
quired for whom it was intended. “It’s
for Mr. Lateup, sir,” replied the batman,
naming an officer who was fond of his
cot. “Give it to me,” said Barker grimly ;
FOUGHT THE GUNS.
“I’ll take it to him.” He did so, but it
was the last cup of tea Lateup had in bed
for a long time. At Buna, as B.R.A.
Sixth Div., Barker was a familiar figure,
and when the war ended he was C.C.R.A,
First Aust. Army, with H.Q. at Lae.
Had an 85th birthday in Adelaide, The
Bulletin’s oldest regular contributor, S.
Talbot Smith. He was till lately chair-
man of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, and is still president of Adelaide
Repertory Theatre and chairman of the
Adelaide Library Board, also a weekly
talker on the air. “S.T.S.” is one of
the very few Australians surviving
who saw the “seven runs” match in
1882 at Kennington Oval, the first Test
Australia ever won in England.
“Ex-Mister” on a bloodless naval
battle:
Captain Percival Hemming Day, late marine
superintendent of the A.U.S.N., who recently
died in Sydney, was the man whose magnificent
bluff brought about the capture of Von Luck-
ner at Fiji in 1917. After the wreck of his
raider Seeadler, Von Luckner fitted out her
heavily-armed launch for a long cruise, manned
her with a picked crew, and went in search of
some vessel which could be seized, armed and
equipped from the Seeadler, and used for
further raiding. Reaching the west coast of
Vanua Levu, in the Fijis, she was reported
to the authorities at Suva, and the Amra, Cap-
tain Day in command, was hastily requisitioned
to take out a party of armed police in an
attempt to capture her. The Amra had just
made port with a cow as part of her cargo,
and, as there was no time to unship the spar
which had supported an awning on the fore-
castle to shelter the animal, the canvas was
hastily furled round it and made fast. On
the run round, the skipper got very pernickety
over the furl and had it altered repeatedly
until it was just to his liking, much to the
annoyance of a harried bos’n who wondered
what had come over the Old Man. Reaching
the inlet, where the launch had been reported,
an armed party went off in the ship’s launch
while the Amra kept bow-on just outside. To
everyone’s astonished relief the enemy launch
surrendered without a fight', and was brought
back to the ship, where Von Luckner, with
much ceremony, yielded up his sword to Day.
His request to see the ship’s armament was
granted. When he realised that what he had
taken for a naval gun on the forecastle was
only a spar and some carefully-arranged canvas
the count wept and demanded to be put back
on his launch to fight it out. But Von Luckner
had some sportsmanship in his composition,
and one of his first calls in Sydney during his
visit before World War II was on Captain Day.
Maorilandefs penetrate into the most
remote parts. Just appointed assistant
director of the Department of Lands and
Survey in Transjordania, A. M. Quennell,
a Dunedinite, studied mining at Otago
University and graduated with honors in
geology. From 1935 to 1937 he was on
the staff of the Government Geological
Survey and later was engaged in oil ex-
ploration in M.L. for the Shell Co. He
went overseas with the N.Z.E.F. in 1940
and served with survey units in Trans-
jordania, on construction work in the
Red Sea, and with artillery in Tunis and
Italy. Returning to M.L. last year with
the rank of captain, he took a refresher
course in geology at Otago Uni., and
linked with the Geological Survey again.
A notable record during 58 years of
Queensland public-health history is that
of Dr. A. Jefferis Turner, who has re-
signed as a Government representative on
the Nurses and Masseurs’ Registration
Board. Coming to Brisbane from Eng-
land in 1888, as a young man of 27, he
was appointed as the first resident medical
officer of the Children’s Hospital. Three
years later he resigned to become a chil-
dren’s specialist arid consulting medical
officer at the Children’s and General hos-
pitals. In 1906 he was appointed perma-
nent visiting M.O. to the Diamantina
Hospital for Chronic Diseases, South
Brisbane ; took a leading part in the estab-
lishment of State-wide baby clinics in
1918, and in 1926 became State Director
of Child Welfare, resigning in 1937. He
was also a State Health Officer for 10
years. In his hobby of entomology he
has for long been a leading Australian
authority on certain types of butterflies
and moths.
“Si Anu”: In a flat in New York, at
72, Somerset Maugham is writing his last
book, though Shaw said the same thing
and promptly set to work on another.
After setting out as a doctor, Maugham
started novel-writing in 1897 and now has
21 novels, 24 plays, 90 short stories, six
volumes of essays and an autobiography
behind him. Arthur Adams, of The
Bulletin, used to say that Maugham
was the only distinguished man with a
world-wide reputation who had landed in
Sydney and left it without the newspapers
knowing. Maugham is like that. He is
interested in human beings and is a
listener, not a talker, I was in a Malayan
seaport when Maugham turned up on a
tour. He sat about in the club and
stayed with planters and proved a dis-
appointing customer from the point of
view of relieving the local boredom with
existence. He compensated later when
“The Letter” was published. For that he
has never been forgiven in these parts.
Scattered throughout New South Wales
are thousands of men and women who
have cause to be grateful to Harold
Earlam, for 35 years superintendent of
the Deaf, Dumb and Blind Institute,
Sydney. Bom at Christleton, near
Chester, England, son of a village school-
master, Earlam began his work of mercy
as a pupil teacher at Stoke-on-Trent Insti-
tute for the afflicted, and by 1911 had so
thoroughly identified himself with the
education of the deaf, dumb and blind
that the N.S.W. Institute chose him as
TAUGHT THE AFFLICTED.
superintendent from among applicants
from all over the English-speaking world.
Earlam has always kept well abreast of
scientific developments in his chosen pro-
fession, and has strongly resisted any
tendency to regard a child as a number in
a casebook; he lays stress on making
useful citizens of his charges and fitting
them as far as possible for a normal life
in the community. Sketched here by
Dubois, Earlam retires this month from
the post that has been not only his work,
but also his hobby and his pleasure.
“Old Salt” remembers:
A. E. Kane, Tommy Flere and Norman.
Wright are probably the only surviving original
members of the Ancient Mariners’ Club 1 , which
in the opening years of the century and during
World War I was one of Melbourne’s pictur-
esque societies. Founded by a bunch of re-
tired sailing-ship men, Charlie Atkins was
appointed master, Frank Davies first mate,
Chang Jones ship’s husband, A. E. Kane
bos’n, Tommy Flere second greaser and
Norman Wright “Jimmy Ducks,” and there
was a “crew” of 40. Many well-known Mel-
bourne men signed on from time to time, such
old shellbacks as John Gair, Jack Dane, Jimmy
Lawson, Richard Chugg and Frankie Ball.
Meetings were held at frequpnt intervals “to
advance the cause of the Mercantile Marine,
and keep alive old sailing-ship traditions” on
board an old Sydney ferryboat moored at
Queen’s Bridge, a restaurant by day, a ship’s
cabin by night. Later, quarters were taken in
the old C.T.A. basement, now occupied by Ball
and Welch, where a realistic poopdeck was
erected, Harry Grist, a noted scene-painter of
that day, making the surroundings so natural
that workmen fitting the deck later endeavored
to hang their hats and coats on the painted be-
laying pins. During the war years the good ship
Marco Polo often patrolled the streets on
the many button days then the vogue. War
depleted the ranks ; Atkins enlisted in an Eng-
lish regiment, and was succeeded by Frank
Davies, who died shortly after; Chang Jones
joined the Dover Patrol under Admiral Roger
Keyes and was present at the Zeebrugge affair;
Kane went to the Red Cross and others
drifted into the services. Fresh hands signed
on, some of whom were longshoremen without
the deep-sea instinct. Comic and other songs
and amusements took the place of sea chanties,
and, as one old shellback picturesquely put it,
“the introduction of a piano was the last straw
that signed the deathknell of the society.”
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 47, David John Nolan, general
manager of Sydney County Council.' An
engineer with a brilliant record, he was with
the council for 17 years, the last eight as g.m.
Before that he was associated with General
Electric (U.S.A.) and the Victorian Railways.
During the war he acted as chairman of the
Standing Committee of Allied Supply Council.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Sarah Everest, who
settled in Tasmania 94 years ago and came
to Melbourne in 1941 in her 100th year,
surprising Australia by doing the journey by
air. She had outlived her husband, who
worked on the first Speck railway, by 59 years.
In Adelaide, at 86, Rev. Charles Frisby Smith,
the oldest preaching Baptist Minister in S.A.
His first ministry was in 1883 at Port Pirie,
where he built his own church.
In Melbourne, at 77, Frank Donaghy, manag-
ing director of the well-known rope manu-
facturing firm at Geelong. In his younger days
he was a keen amateur steeplechase rider and
a member of the Adelaide Hunt Club and Adel-
aide Polo Club. For many years he was bn the
committee of Geelong Racing Club.


women's Letters
From Sydney
The Young Fry weren’t altogether with-
out their crackers on Empire night. Some
of the lads made their own, and at least
two serious accidents from these concoc-
tions have been reported. Sydney turned
on a glorious day for the celebrations,
and the Martin-place ceremony was
bathed in windless sunshine. Surrounding
Premier McKell’s speech and giving point
to it were units of the Army, the Navy,
and the Air Force. Mr. McKell spoke of
the fortitude, courage, determination and
faith of the British people. Lord Mayor
Bartley followed with another rousing
speech. In the schools youngsters not
only listened to addresses but had flags to
wave —500,000 miniature flags the
Royal Empire Society and the Junior Red
Cross between them had sent to the
schools.
The Royal Empire Society’s lunch
brought hundreds to the board spread in
the Trocadero. The chairman of the
society, Colonel Spain, almost purred with
enthusiasm during the stirring address
given by Dr. F. A. Maguire. Dr. Maguire
speaks with force and eloquence, and he
has one of those voices that Nature hands
out to actors, orators and Irishmen. His
speech was a pageant of the British
people. Habeas Corpus was in it and
Magna Carta, the Wars of the Roses, the
Tudors, Drake and Raleigh, Warren
Hastings and Captain Cook. And the
magnificence of it all he compassed in
20 minutes. Gilbert and Sullivan actress
Evelyn Gardiner was another speaker.
When the lunch ended half the women
guests prepared to stroll around to David
Jones’s, where the Victoria League cele-
brated with a great tea party. At this
the Frederick Jordan lady was the guest
of honor. There was a message, too, from
Lord Gowrie. It was printed in blue ink
on white ground and bordered with red.
The play is not the thing in the new
show at the Theatre Royal. But Madge
Elliott, Cyril Ritchard and Leslie Victor
turn the trick, and the Noel Coward three
one-act plays will live in Sydney’s
memory because of them. The three
plays are all pre-war stuff —the book in
which they appear was published in
1936—but they are new to this city. There
was a sparkle about last Saturday’s open-
ing long absent from first-nights. Women
wore long frocks, and, because it was a
winter’s night, furs. There was a fair
sprinkle of jewels over the dress circle
and front stalls. And the chatter! Be-
fore the curtain went up—and it was
late owing to congestion in the foyer,
being something like a race crush, and
broadcasts, and what all —the theatre
sounded like an aviary in full blast. There
was a rush of gaiety to the head.
People murmured to one another the
names of well-knowns as they arrived.
Edwin Styles must have heard the sub-
dued chorus of his name as he took his
place in the circle. The arrival of Madge
Elliott’s mother —92, they say, but bely-
ing about 20 years of it —caused quite a
stir. She sat in the stalls watching Cyril
and Madge as they went the graceful,
witty and well-dressed ways laid down
for them by Mr. Coward. White-frocked
and silver-fox caped was Mrs. Charles
Lloyd Jones. The H. J. Bradys, her
white frock warmed with a rose-red
bolero, just made their places before
curtain-rise. The Fraser lady from Mel-
bourne, Mrs. J. Normoyle, Carrie Moore,
the George Edwards couple, Max Afford
and his wife, the Harald Bowdens, the
Ernest Lashmars and a pretty young
thing in pale-blue net were among the
noticed,
Hartnell created Madge’s frocks, and
the cooingly lovely garments she wears
floating about the bedrooms of “Ways
and Means” and “Shadow Play.” There’s
a cherry-red house coat, negligee, or call
it what you will, that looks just the thing
for anyone who is packing her bags for
a week-end at Sydney’s equivalent, of
Brighton,
Madge, in a black velvet crinoline frock
in “Family Album,” had a sort of mag-
nolia quality that fitted into the period
piece. And to be remembered, too, are
the pretty hands of Bettina Welch in this
Victorian fantasy framed in the perfect
setting designed by Thea Proctor.
Virginia Heath and Major Michael
Hawkins, A.D.C. to the Governor-Gen-
eral the Duke of Gloucester, announced
their engagement last week. Virginia is
the daughter of Group-Captain Noel
Heath, R.A.A.F., and of Mrs. William
Crossing, of Rose Bay.
If any teacher in the world has earned
the love and gratitude of his pupils it is
Harold Earlam, superintendent of the
School for the Deaf and Dumb and the
Blind Children at Darlington. Mr.
Earlam took over in 1911 and has been
tireless in his ministrations ever since.
Old pupil David Hunter, M.L.A., declares
that his former teacher has revolutionised
the training and education of blind chil-
dren in Australia.
Last Friday night 150 old pupils
gathered in the assembly hall of the school
in City-road, Newtown, There were
’teen-olds, there were the twenties
and up to those of middle-age.
With speech and song and presentation
they said their “thank you” to the man
who has done so much for them and-who
is now retiring. David Hunter, assisted
by C. B. Clarke, presented a wallet of
notes. Old pupils, too, gave a pro-
gramme: Mrs. Julie Mills, the Wolfen-
den and Lindberg duo, clarinetist Rex
Kidney. Dorothy Falconer tossed a
novelty souffle at the piano, and Sylvia
Barnett, who is a song-writer, too, recited.
London's latest photograph of Madge
Elliott. From Nancy Sandys Walker’s
studio.
On and off the boulevards, in between
momentous events such as art shows and
Empire Society’s luncheons, the thought
of Zoe, the police dog, has throughout
the years lingered in the writer’s mind.
Zoe was the perfect example of the career
female. Forsaking the thought of
domestic life and barking little ones, she
pursued the course she had set out on.
Through unremitting devotion to duty she
rose to be a distinguished member of the
Police Force, and like all sincere police
officers she not only pursued the bad
but also succored the weak consider
her record in saving lost explorers in the
mountains.
She lived a lone life. Not hers to
gossip with others of her kind after clinic
hours of these newfangled ideas of the
vets, about bringing up children. Not
hers to stretch herself in luxurious relax-
ation on soft rugs before the glowing fire
of some suburban home. No, Zoe was
always on deck, always ready to answer
the call of duty. And now Zoe is dead.
She died as she had lived —alone. She
died in her kennel. All dog-lovers hope
that death struck swift and painless at
the heart of a great Alsatian.
The Trocadero is looking to its founda-
tions in preparation for June 4. That’s
the date of St. Joseph’s College, Hunter’s
Hill, annual ball. It is the first for six
years, owing to war conditions. Proceeds
are in aid of the college rowing club
and bursary fund. Tables will be
decorated in cerise and blue, the college
colors, and a thousand guests are ex-
pected. Debutantes will be presented
to Rev. Monsignor Murphy, Invita-
tions are extended to all other G.P.S. ex-
studehts unions. Tickets are 16s. each,
payable at the door.
The urbanity of Sydney Ure Smith was
missed from the first day of the Society
of Artists’ Exhibition of drawings. For
almost the first time in his presidency he
was not in the opening scene. The pic-
tures are hung in David Jones’s Art Gal-
lery, and last Wednesday National Gal-
lery Director Missingham rang up the
curtain on the exhibition. Sculptor Paul
Beadle, with flowing dark beard, couldn’t
be overlooked. His “Young Girl” was
among the much commented upon. The
show, perhaps because of the time of the
year, conveys an autumnal severity. Still
drawings should be as stark as bone
structure.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite is preen-
ing herself on some “charming and un-
usual” visitors she had last week. They
arrived with a parrot in a cage and a
Siamese cat on a silver chain.
From Melbourne
Flags of Empire formed a fitting deco-
ration at the St. Kilda Town Hall for
the Empire Night cabaret ball held by
the Business Girls’ War Service Bureau.
Proceeds were for Melbourne Legacy
Club, Many members of Legacy at-
tended, including vice-president Peter
Berwick and his wife. They were wel-
comed by Mrs, F. Chamberlain, gowned
in soft-blue crepe beaded in the same ton-
ings. Treasurer, Gwenda Shave, was
attractive in a pastel frock of hand-
painted taffeta. Among the many attrac-
tions were a masked dance and a floor
This was the first effort of the
Business Girls’ War Services Bureau in
their programme of post-war work to
assist Melbourne charities —a promising
beginning.
Another successful function was the
Queen Carnival held to further the Food
for Britain Appeal. Nine queens were
nominated among girls in the Myer Em-
porium, Over £ll,OOO was raised, and it
was fitting that the Queen of Food raised
the most—£2237 ; she was crowned with
full honors. Guiding spirit in the compe-
tition was Helen Macdonald, who is also
president of the Myer Women’s Club.
These women have done a fine job, and
still continue to visit the Heidelberg Mili-
tary Hospital once a week and take with
them baskets of flowers, cigarettes, fruit
and cakes. Every Christmas, too, they
choose and pack a parcel for the patients,
sisters and A.A.M.W.S.
His Majesty’s is still the mecca for
balletomanes, for whom a new interest
was created with the premiere of the
ballet “Terra Australis,” which is
the choreographic story of the tak-
ing of this country from the abori-
gines. The Arthur Harfords, she wear-
ing a mink coat over her short rose-
pink velvet frock, have been enthusiastic
applauders. Dr. Harold Harvie accom-
panied Pat Hoogveld and Hazel Raff;
Gordon 1 Challingsworth brought his wife
and her mother, Mrs. W. Thwaites. Mrs.
A. Silk was a striking figure in a white
crepe gown trimmed with gold, covered
by a •hip-length platinum fox cape.
Margaret Cochrane had yellow flowers in
her hair to contrast her black lace dinner
gown. Dr. and Mrs. Ringland Anderson
were others of the constants, her tasteful
black dinner gown covered by a long fur
coat.
Hard at work discovering new slants
on old themes is Cr. Elliott Wells, Mayor
of South Melbourne. Civic responsibili-
ties are in his blood, for his grandfather
and father both held office as mayor,
the former as far back as 1883.
With the help of fellow-councillors and
the Town Clerk, Harold Alexander, Cr.
Wells launched a Festival of Art in South
Melbourne City Hall early this week.
Esther and Betty Paterson and other well-
known artists had chosen pictures for an
exhibition which traced the history of
art in Australia from the days of Buvelot,
through the period of Tom Roberts and
John Ford Paterson, down to the present
day of Dobell, Dargie, Drysdale and
other moderns. Chief Justice John
Latham did the opening honors, and at
night the six-months-old South Melbourne
Philharmonic Society made its debut. The
A.B.C, also co-operated by giving the
services of the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra. Rita Miller, pictured here by
Athol Shmith, raised her delightful
soprano to the orchestral background.
Lindsay Biggins, well-known Mel-
bourne musician, has looked after child-
ren’s cultural interests by giving a lec-
ture recital. The Melbourne Repertory
Theatre’s presentation of Wilde’s “A
Woman of No Importance,” the National
Theatre with its “Night of . Opera” and
Elizabet Weiner and her group in a re-
cital of contemporary dancing are the
other chief highlights of the civic en-
couragement of the Arts in this industrial
area.
Busy as beavers when it comes to
arranging parties for good causes, James
and Janet Bowen Pain have relaxed suffi-
ciently to give their many friends an
opportunity of congratulating them on the
eve of their seventh wedding anniversary.
Setting for the party was among the huge
wine casks and with misty light coming
from candles set in empty bottles in the
cellar of Matthew Lang in Market-street.
Twin “anniversary” cakes, alike in all but
the names, were cut simultaneously by
the host and hostess. Janet, with her
usual flair for originality, excelled herself
in the matter of millinery, for a cluster
of snowy gardenias nestling in black lace
straw added glamor to her short black
frock and silver fox cape. Dick-
enson was eye-catching in a green suit
and an aqua-green felt bobbie hat sur-
rounded with a garland of cyclamen
tulips. Marjorie Gibson wore an outsize
midnight-blue straw hat with a matching
frock. On hand with congratulations
the Menzies brothers, Bob and Syd,
accompanied by their wives. With Sir
Rupert Clarke was his sister Elizabeth,
and the Hon. Mrs. Ronald Douglas was
accompanied by her daughter, Victoria.
Town Clerk of Melbourne Harold Woot-
ton and his wife were also receiving con-
gratulations on the arrival of their first
grandchild.
The British pianist Solomon is still at-
tracting bumper audiences to his recitals.
A feature of the concerts is the sparse-
ness of the formal evening dress —no
doubt owing to the chilliness of the
weather, which doesn’t encourage the
bare shoulder or the microscopic diaphan-
ous sleeve. Furs over short floral frocks
were popular, but where the sartorial
formalities were observed wraps were
varied and adequate. Noticed was a wool
evening coat in parma violet, in full flow-
ing back lines and finished with a
flat bustle * bow, worn by Mrs. D.
Stewart. Wife of the ’Varsity Vice-Chan-
cellor, J. D. G. Medley, accompanied by
daughter Diana, discussed music at the
interval with Dr. Edgar Bainton, former
Director of Sydney Conservatorium,
R. G. Menzies launched verbal broad-
sides at incoherence .in art and also
praised the lucidity of Phyl Waterhouse’s
paintings when he opened the exhibition
of that artist’s works in Georges Gallery.
Among those who admired the collection
was Gwen Potter, smart in a rust-red
suit and matching hat. Gwen told of her
finished portrait by Edward Heffernan
and of the roles she is to play in Prof.
Keith Macartney’s University produc-
tions : Pigeen in “Playboy of the Western
World” and Cleopatra in Shakspeare’s
drama.
For her marriage with Captain Sydney
Gordon Reid (A.1.F.), third son of Mrs.
G. Reid, of Sydney, and of the late W. H.
Reid, Elizabeth Merrie, eldest daughter
of Mrs. M. Hart, of Queens-road, Mel-
bourne, and the late Rupert A. Hart, wore
a very lovely magnolia satin gown. The
net bodice featured a leaf design outlined
in crystal beads and pearls, the skirt being
full and slightly trained. Her headdress
was of diamente leaves and orange blos-
som and was worn with a 150-year-old
honiton lace veil, which was lent by Mrs.
Victor Letcher. The bride carried a
bouquet of white orchids. Later a re-
ception was held at No. 9 Darling-street.
Cousin of the bride’s father, Brig. Harold
Cohen, with Mrs. Hart, received the 90
guests.
Lesley Hooper, only child of the H. C.
Hoopers, of Hawthorn, will marry Basil
(“Skip”) Glowery, ex-R.A.A.F., elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. H. Glowery, of
East Mafvern, on June 5, at St. Joseph’s,
Malvern. Lesley left the Con. to do a
war job in the P.M.G.’s Department. Her
fiance was a p.-0.-w. in Java. Wedding
reception, to which over 100 guests have
been invited, will be held at Grosvenor,
Toorak. Latest of the many parties to
be given in the couple’s honor was one
by Dr. and Mrs. Maurice Barrett.
Well - known Melbourne girl Betty
Chippindall, only dayghter of Secretary of
the Department of Supply, G. T. Chip-
pindall, and Mrs, Chippindall, has an-
nounced her engagement to Flight-Lieut.
James Macmillan, R.A.A.F., only son of
Mr. A. C. Macmillan, Mt. Gambier, S.A.,
and the late Mrs. Macmillan. As the
’groom, who is a test pilot, is going North
for three months, the wedding is not ex-
pected to take place before Christmas.
Metropolitan members of the C.W.A.
entertained former “Country Cousins” at
the Association’s rooms. The guests
admired the display of handicrafts, which
included samples of spinning, weaving
and dyeing of wool, and of the quilts
and knitted goods which the Association
sends regularly to England. Mrs. O. A.
Hicken, State president, addressed the
gathering on the association’s growth and
development. Among the guests were
Mrs, Norman Walsh, State vice-president,
and Mrs. G. Green, Metropolitan Group
president.


t l *ej
How to Simplify
■
Property Management
New and ever-varying forms of
taxation; changes in the values
of investments ; war-time restric-
tions and amendments in legis-
lation—
All these throw greatly added responsi-
bilities upon people having the handling
of estates.
For the well-informed man of affairs
property-management is
enough, but for those without know-
ledge or experience the problem is
frightening.
Your own observation teaches you that
relatively few women possess this
managerial experience. Their training
is naturally in other spheres—and you,
as a good provider, have relieved them
of the worry and responsibility.
But when in due course you ate no
longer there to manage—what then?
Don't let your love for those dependent
on you blind you to the realities of life.
Safeguard your dependents by drawing
on the knowledge and experience of
those trained over many years for this
very work, an 4 arrange for the Union
Trustee Company to take over your
responsibilities, '
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS!
J» C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J, Carson.
Advisor; Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
lion. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C, Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ;J,G. H, Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector ; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., D. 5.0., V-n. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M, Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenah.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—-E. N. Jobst, A.i.c.A. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J, S. Lipscomb,
list
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course, ..»+■ .. —
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
n a niTA CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
KAKKII SKIN EOTION 2/0
UiTUIW lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N
HAIMS
Circular Charts l« all rypoa of
Recording Instruments tor any class
ot Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation
JAC'OON & O’SULLIVAN
_PTV, LTD. BBIJBANL O U>,
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
, Dividends x
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. 24 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ *£ £ £
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3i p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 16,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
, H.S. Divs. \ To Re- *
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 181,160 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 66,160 1,228,546
1940.. 132,554 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 17,554 1,246,100
Taxation written back, £9OOO .. 1,255,100
1941.. 106,073 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 11,073 1,266,173
Added reserve subsidiaries, £10,976 1,277,149
1942.. 120,006 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 25,006 1,302,155
Added reserve subsidiaries, £22,572 1,324,727
1943.. 131,130 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 16,130 1,340,857
Added reserve subsidiaries, £9,806 1,350,663
1944.. 128,709 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 13,709 1,364,372
Added reserve subsidiaries, £5492 1,369,864
Written off colliery, £13,395 .. 1,356,469
From inner reserves, £49,885 .. 1,406,354
1945.. 73,830 6 p.c. 4J p.c. 105,000 1,375,184
* Deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
This big holding co.’s interests cover a
wide range of industrial activities, includ-
ing shipping, coal, steel, sugar-growing
and cement. In addition, the parent’s own
merchandising business and its earnings
as agent for subsidiaries, etc., contribute
substantially to the pool. Shareholdings
include the following:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 155,704
1 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
Caledonian Collieries 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,821
J. & A. Brown , . 1,900,007 38,400
B.H.P. .. .. 13,885,012 354,184
I 210,004 pref. 96,809 pref.
Southern Port. Cement | 63 9 )885 or d. ■ 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal. . 248,000 50,000
A. Goninan k Co. . . 179,262 35,559
The shipping offshoot, which used to con-
tribute handsomely to the pool, hasn’t
paid a div. for the last five years. Cale-
donian has shown its ords, an empty
basket since 1929, and the prefs, got only
half a meal (3 p.c.) for four years to end
1942, nothing for the next two terms and
only 3 p.c, again last year. Invincible’s
last distribution was 1 i p.c. for 1942.
J. and A. Brown paid 5 p.c. for each of
the last four years, B.H.P. 5 p.c.
for each of the last five years. The
cement co., which has handed a regular
8 p.c. on its prefs., dropped its ord. div.
from 3.5 p.c. to 1.5 p.c. last term. The
sugar co. is known to be a regular and
satisfactory dividend-payer, but its figures
aren’t broadcast, nor are those of the last
two cos. on the list. The holding in the
metal co. has been entirely written out
of Howard Smith’s books.
The sharp drop of £54,879 in last year’s
declared profit (£73,830) was due to the
decline in receipts from commissions,
stevedoring, etc., following termination of
the war. That was after setting aside an
extra £5281 for the taxgatherer and allow-
ing an additional £14,718 for depreciation
(£100,612). In addition £49,885 net was
received in Government subsidy pay-
ments on account of previous years, £5492
was dropped from somewhere into re-
serves, and £13,395 was struck off against
the cost of reconditioning the fire-da im-
aged Invincible colliery. The aggregate
net result from all sources was thus
£115,812 (down £22,703), or sufficient to
pay the pref. div. and show 5 p.c. on the
£2,000,000 of ord. capital, compared with
6.1, 6.9, 5.7, 4.5, 5.8 and 8.3 p.c. back
to 1939. Half a point was chipped off
the div., reducing it to 4\ p.c., and making
the average over the last decade 4.6 p.c.
Government control of shipping and
coal supply and distribution continues.
As for shipping, charter rates are insuffi-
cient to meet the increased cost of main-
tenance and repairs (which have more
than doubled since 1939), plus deprecia-
tion. The heavy expenditure incurred in
keeping the ships, especially the older
ones, up to ordinary trade standards,
and the need for increased provision for
depreciation, owing to the steep rise in re-
placement costs, have made it impossible
to earn anything at all in the way of divi-
dends on the large amount of capital in-
vested in this section of the busi-
ness. The Federal Government pro-
poses to regulate coastal shipping freight
charges and passenger fees, etc., and
the coastal trade is to be reserved for
Australian-built ships, not to be licensed
after they are 25 years old. And there is
the looming question of a 40-hour week
and a further lift in the basic wage. It
all spells higher freight and passenger
charges to the public to cover inflated
operating exes, and the extra cost of
maintenance and depreciation on the
higher price of locally-built tonnage.
The spread of Communism among the
miners has obscured the outlook for coal.
Reduced to its elements, the crux of the
present situation in the industry is com-
plete lack of discipline, says Mr. lustice
Davidson, chairman of the recent Federal
Board of Inquiry into the industry. He
further stated that “The mine-workers,
apparently, trusted no one. They would
obey neither their own leadership nor
their employers, nor the law.” According
to the miners, solution of the problem
lies in nationalisation. Yet the tasks they
are called upon to perform are already
being squared with their own and the
people’s needs by the overriding supervi-
sion of public authority. The most equit-
able and satisfactory solution lies in aban-
donment by the miners of their reaction-
ary attitude and adoption of a spirit of
co-operation based on the consciousness
that good and efficient service ministers
not only to wages, amenities and profits
within the industry but to the benefit of
society as a whole.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures of the group:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1944. 1945.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital* .. 450,451 445,513 445,605
Deposits . . . . 42,355 13,371 11,792
Sundry creditors .. 187,366 345,911 379,157
Workers’ compensation 39,435 40,843 41,343
Tax provision .. 74,576 108,308 108,608
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . .. 468,320 436,997 437,068
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. .. 2,062,926 1,779,876 1,707,708
Shares other cos. .. 1,026,319 1,001,712 1,003,667
Stocks, etc. .. 140,672 177,733 195,666
Debtors .. . . 168,746 418,628 318,927
Public securities
and cash, etc. .. 469,496 808,392 993,730
* Including proportion of reserves.
The easier trend of activities last year is
reflected in the shrinkage in assets except
public securities, etc. (up £185,338). The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£1,971,090) was £73,058,
The market prices the pound ords.,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 335. 9d., at 275. 3d. (official high).
The return at 275. 3d. is 3.3 p.c. on a
4y p.c. div. basis, on 4.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Union Trustee Co.
' Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 | RQ 0Q( .
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO i
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 1
Staff Super, Fund, £lOOO S
1938.. 13,478 7i p.c, =10,313 \— 0 von 9 q 7 *>
Staff Super. Fund, '£looo 5 73 ’ 730 28 ‘ 3
1939.. 13,550 8 p.c. =ll,OOOl 7R 9Bn 9708
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO 1 75 ’ 280 2/8
1940.. 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO ) 77 , q 9 9q9 0
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j' 7,4J2 2 3
1941.. 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO 7 7 n r 99 o-iqo
Staff Super. Fund, £6OO } 76 ’ 522 3183
1942.. 8,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 74,969 3048
Investment fluctuation reserve
taken in, £2523 .. .. 77,492 -
1943.. 7,367 6 p.c. = 8,250 76,609
1944.. 9,832 6 „ „ 8,250 78,191
1945.. 15,441 74 „ ~ 10,312 83,320
1946.. 11,756 6 „ „ 8,250 86,826
War and the controlled economy to
which it has given rise have thrown into
bolder relief the advantages of the corpo-
rate over the private trustee, and more
business has been entrusted fo the expert
care of the trustee cos. At the same
time officialdom threw a blanket over
capital values and retarded the realisation
of estates, thus affecting corpus and other
commission earnings of the cos. In addi-
tion interest rates have been forced down
and rents kept low, which has meant
moderate returns for the cos, from in-
vestment of their own funds, which are
represented mostly by rent-producing
freeholds, Government securities and
cash.
While rigid ceilings have thus been
maintained over the factors affecting
earnings, costs, especially taxation, have
not been similarly restrained. One result
has been that the growth in exes, has
outstripped the growth in earnings, de-
spite steady expansion of the volume of
business.
For the half-dozen years to the close
of last accounts the alert and energetic
Union’s net earnings averaged £10,499,
compared with an average of £13,098 for
the six years before that. The co., which
has strong connections in pastoral circles,
set up in Melbourne 61 years ago, anci is
now second largest thing of its kind in
Australasia. It has branches at Sydney,
Brisbane, Townsville, Toowoomba and
Rockhampton, with agencies at London
and Glasgow. The Rockhampton office
was opened last term, when gross earn-
ings stepped up £4573:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1925 .. .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1940 . . .. 107,743 92,031 85.4
1941 . . .. 110,191 94,661 85.9
1942 . . . . 112,087 98,015 87.4
1943 . . . . 116,554 103,553 88.8
1944 . . . . 116,615 103,027 88.3
1945 . . . . 131,355 105,408 80.2
1946 . . . . 135,928 113,180 83.3
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
It was a very encouraging performance
considering the exceptional leap of
£14,740, due to heavy realisation of estate
assets, in the previous year’s earnings.
The growth of £7772 in exes, was due
mainly to a heavier pay-roll total, fol-
lowing rehabilitation of staff on discharge
from the services. After providing for
taxation (£10,992, up £486), the net result
was £3685 lighter at £11,756. That was
8.5 p.c. on the £137,500 of paid capital,
as against 11.2, 7.1, 5.3, 5.8, 7.6, 10 and
9.8 p.c. back to 1939. The special \\ p.c.
bonus sent out with the previous year’s
6 p.c. div. was not repeated.
Last week the co. sold 400,000 £1 shares
at 265. each (including brokerage, etc.) in
Foy and Gibson, Ltd. (Melb.), from the
estate of the late William Gibson.
The pegging of values, fixing of rents
and reduction of interest rates, etc., have
operated harshly against beneficiaries.
The ceiling on share prices is not bound
up with the general control of commodity
prices, and amounts to an official de-
valuation of private assets and imposition
of capital loss in cases of forced realisa-
tion. Similar remarks apply to the restric-
tions governing the price and sale of real
estate. Few property owners are pre-
pared to sell at the arbitrary official valu-
ation as at Feb. 10, 1942, because true
market value is now obviously so much
greater. And the Government continues
to bleed shareholders by what amounts to
double taxation. Not only are profits
earned taxed in the hands of cos. but the
same profits when distributed as dividends
again bear income-tax in the hands of
recipients. Relief from such inequit-
able discriminations is long overdue.
The market, which has a high opinion
of the co.’s scrip as a holding proposition,
prices the 50s. shares paid to 275. 6d. —of
the remaining 225. 6d., £1 is callable only
in the event of liquidation—at 435. The
return at 435. is 3.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. diy.
basis. The net tangible cover is 445. lOd.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 .. 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 96,825
1938 .. 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
Share premiums, £5OOO .. .. 109,205
1939 .. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
Permewan, Wright and Subsidiary.
1940 .. 2,734 2 p.c. = 4,000 113,208
1941 .. 22,717 8 „ „ 16,000 6717 119,925
To staff fund, £1403 .. .. 118,522
1942 .. 16,252 7 p.c. = 14,000 2252 120,774
Taxes charged to reserves, £2OOO .. 118,774
1943 .. 16,392 6J p.c. = 13,000 3392 122,166
1944 . . 17,617 7 „ „ 14,000 3617 125,783
1945 SI. 179 9 ~ „ 18.000 1 10,790 136,573
To doubtful debts, £2889 ) 9
1946 .. 32,725 11 p.c. = 22,000 ) A U o 9Q o
To doubtful debts, £4OOO f 6 ’ 72j 143, 2y»
Last term the businesses of D. G.
Officer Pty., Hay (N.S.W.), and A. J.
Gilchrist, Koo-wee-rup (Vic.), were
welded into this 62-year-old produce,
station supply, carrying and general
agency organisation, thus swelling the
trade of branches already established at
these centres. And, since the close of
accounts, a new branch has been opened
at Yarram (Vic,), and the business of
T. Mulcair Pty., Rochester (Vic.), has
been bought. The co. now has 22 country
branches in Victoria and 18 in N. S.
Wales. And, with an eye to further
spread of interests, “attention is being
given to the possibility of opening addi-
tional branches” in both States.
The sudden leap in the profit figure
for 1945, and the further improvement
last term, was due partly to expansion
of business and mainly to the prolonged
drought in Victoria and the N. S. Wales
Riverina, which exhausted sheep- and
cattle-growers’ reserves and fodder. Hand-
feeding had to be resorted to, with conse-
quent heavy demand for produce, which
the co. was able to supply. Combined


PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
» * « *
DAYIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE
GEORGES!
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
STEPPING STONES
to SUCCESS
Through the A.M.P. a father can ensure that
when his child is ready for higher education,
the money will be available.
■: V V «{o'. ‘ • 'I-:.;'’/ ■.- - . ■
The outlay that a
father has to face is
so small that there is
hardly a man in Aust-
ralia who could not
afford it, provided he
makes an early start.
A good education
is the foundation of
success . . . A.M.P.
policies are stepping
stones to it.
Ask the nearest A.M.P.
office or representative for
full particulars. The sooner
you insure the lower the
cost. Don’t delay
until the child is
too old for you
to take advantage
of A.M.P. plan.
n
6*>
vr
/c
OJC-
A.M.P. SOCIETIf
Security through Co-operation
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
H. B. G. Walker, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
Xhe staff of the Pelman Institute sets out with each pupil to get as quickly
as possible to the core and substance of his individual requirements.
H.M. Forces
Members of the Services,
still serving or discharged,
are accepted as pupils of
the Pelman Institute at a
reduced fee. The Pelman
Course is approved under
the Commonwealth R.T.S.
Application can be made
through the Unit Educa-
tion Officer or other rele-
vant authority. The Course
has been approved by the
War Office, London, since
1939.
Interest Power
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the Pelman Course
which makes it of peculiar usefulness in the doing of any task, even one which at first
appears irksome. We may clean a pair of shoes merely because they should be
cleaned or we may prolong their life by filling in and polishing every part. The
intention and the effort create interest.
Interest makes work purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the subject matter of
training and educational courses, adds to the pleasure and profit of leisure time an
makes adjustment to the constantly changing conditions of post-war life easier., Interes
discovers the real meaning, the energy and movement of what engages our minds, ana
so keeps us alert and responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of other qualities which
Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual pupil. These qualities are.
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making the individual like
anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will be himself at his best, able to make a
good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said in “The
confidential.
Efficient Mind,” sent
We have no outside
post free. Inquiries
representatives.
are
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
Note
Those who do not
wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank, has
made arrangements to meet the financial
restrictions and enable residents of
New Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me. post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind-
NAME
ADDRESS
177
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. The iMtitui
the same direction for over 36 years, and has enrolled more than bu.uuu oj
. Melbourne under
world Pelmanists.
turnover of the parent and its subsidiary
■—P.W, Pty. (paid capital £5000), formed
in 1935 to handle the wholesale side of
some of the parent’s business —for the
12 months to end January, 1945, increased
by about 50 p.c., passing the £2,000,000
mark. Last term the figure reached
£2,300,000, a new record, making the
increase in sales over the last three years
65 p.c.
The year’s spring in combined gross
earnings (£252,155) was £25,465. Includ-
ing £35,675 (up £5925) set aside for the
taxgatherer and £8947 (down £2713) for
depreciation, exes. (£219,430) took
£23,919 of the gain. That left the net
result £1546 stronger at £32,725, or 16.3
p.c. on capital, as against 15.5, 8.8, 8.2, 8.1
and 11.3 p.c. back to 1941. Including a
special victory bonus of l\ p.c., share-
holders were handed ah extra 2 p.c., mak-
ing 11 p.c. in all, and £4OOO was whisked
away to doubtful debts reserve. The
£6725 that remained lifted the lay-by to
£143,298, equal to 14s. 4d, per pound of
paid capital.
As for the current term, the drought
has broken in both States, and a good
season is well on its way. This has already
reduced the demand for fodder, with a
consequent shrinkage in the co.’s turn-
over, which is expected to be partly offset
by increased sales of merchandise. It
will be difficult to pull exes, back, owing
to the growth in the payroll total follow-
ing reabsorption of employees discharged
from the services. The market notes all
this, and prices the pound shares at 325.,
at which figure the return would be 6.8
p.c. on the basis of an 11 p.c. distribution,
or 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, which
was the average rate of distribution over
the last six years. For the six years
before that divs. averaged 6.8 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
P.W. Y P.W. and Sub.
1940. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 215,719 152,911 210,939 241,108
Taxation prov. 6,080 31,306 35,651 69,194
Property & plant 137,183 120,348 123,442 136,602
Book debts . . 230,671 159,082 246,896 284,313
Merchandise . . 141,479 195,825 200,702 213,905
Shares other cos. 11,899 4,800 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. . . 13,755 43,574 22,092 26,515
The year’s addition of £13,160 to prop-
erty, etc., reflects purchase of the busi-
nesses already referred to, while the
growth of £37,417 in book debts and
£13,203 in merchandise was on account
of increased turnover. The improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£288,425) was £24,551.
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging (paid
capital £250,000 in £1 shares), which has
three dredges in Siam, has been advised
by the Tin Inspection Committee that
No. 1 has 1 been idle since end 1941. It is
in fair condition, though some of the
pontoons are leaking, a number of items
that were removed will have to be re-
placed, and the electrical equipment has
deteriorated. With the exception of the
pontoons, similar remarks apply to No. 2,
which was worked for 13 months, digging
805,500 c.y. from some 15£ acres for
tons tin ore, and the top tumble may need
replacing. Both these machines are in
the Takuapa section, each is electrically
driven and has a capacity of 200,000 c.y.
a month. After repossession it is ex-
pected to take from two to three months
to get these dredges into working order,
subject, of course, to scheduled delivery
of replacements. No. 3 dredge, in the Ban
Pru sector, has been largely dismantled,
and the equipment is strewn on the
dredge and ashore, and some has been
transferred elsewhere. The generating
plant has been removed to an unknown
destination. The engines from the pump-
ing station and generators from the power
plant have also been removed, and so has
the transmission line. What remains of
the pipeline is useless. In November,
1941, there was 17,398,000 c.y., averaging
from 6oz. to 12.20 z. t. 0., still to be dug
in the Takuapa and Ban Pru areas. In
addition there was 35,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing Boz. t. 0., in the northern area, and
4.300,000 c.y., averaging 7oz. t. 0., in the
s.-e. extension sector, waiting to be
dredged. At Dec. 31 the co. was hold-
ing spares in Sydney valued at £1342,
and cash and readily-realisable securities
in Australia and London totalled £60,144.
There was £2515 coming to sundry credi-
tors, mostly in Malaya, The market
prices the scrip at 18s, 4d., or thereabouts.
In 1941 divs. totalled 2s. per share.
* * * *
Dundas Co. has issued “encouraging”
reports on the Empress and Trump mines
at Norseman (W.A.). At the Empress it
is said good exposures should be made
by systematic exploration. The Trump
is expected to be an Bdwt. to lOdwt. pro-
position. The battery will decide.
* * * *
Westralian odds and ends: North Kal-
gurli ore to be sent to the reconstructed
and extended treatment plant on Croesus
Prop, block will be additional to that
now crushed by the mill on the Boulder
Perseverance mine....A London expeit
is conferring with the Paringa manage-
ment regarding plant extension and other
matters. The same expert recently in-
spected the Hampton Areas Co.'s Block
59, near Coolgardie, where Western
Mining Corp. has some options, and
where optimists hope one or more long-
lived and payable mines will be opened
up A Bulletin man says the main
reasons why goldmining in Westralia is
not attracting overseas capital are: (1)
high taxation, (2) industrial turmoil and
(3) scarcity of promising new shows.
Some ventures clamoring for finance have
holdings that cannot be mentioned m the
same breath as a payable goldmine.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) has pegged additional
ground on the line of the northern exten-
sion of the main gold carriers, an adjoin-
ing block known as Mars has been pur-
chased, and a contract has been let for
3000 ft. of diamond-drilling on the co.’s
main block.


7 tffter*
:w® S : '
s : s
m
iiliiiiiii
• • ■;
ls* K J
I
iiwliw
ms
mmmmm
■lliilipi
■■l
mm
t r
m*.
ŗ
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Riot" at the Royal.
If the one stalwart member of the N. S.
Wales police allotted to control and guide
the traffic into Sydney’s Theatre Royal on
Saturday night doesn’t receive his ser-
geant’s stripes and a five-gallon from the
management he should at least be
awarded a certificate exempting him for
ever from duty as a book censor. He
did a'noble job. In a slight sweat, and
probably wondering whether or not to
nab Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard for
inciting a riot, he held his place against
the stampede, waved an endless stream
of polished limousines to the kerb, un-
packed the occupants and dispatched
their buggies with a speed and precision
matched only by that of the lass in the
local handing out schooners while it lasts.
For the spectators, lined three-deep on
the opposite side of the street, it must
have evoked thoughts of a free handout
of nylon stockings and cigarettes on the
8.30 a.m. ferry; of the wasted space in
sardine tins; of the wide-open spaces of
modern flats and telephone booths.
It was, however, easy enough to pene-
trate the foyer—merely force an arm into
a crevice in the crowd and allow the
body to be drawn in after it like a shirt
into a mangle. Then, with both feet off
the floor and head pillowed in the nearest
luxurious fox pelt, it was simply a busi-
ness of waiting until ejected at the foot
of the stairs, where there were photo-
graphers waiting to record the phizzes of
the adventurers and a microphone for
them to broadcast to their next-of-kin
that they’d safely completed the first lap.
From there a short, smart manoeuvre
led upstairs to the lounge, comparatively
safe except for the risk of being
asphyxiated by rabbit and fox pelts.
crowned by some of the hardware decor-
ating the necks and hands of the ladies
or bitten by a man-eating orchid. Yet,
despite the dangers—or possibly because
of ’em —an air of abandon prevailed.
Batteries of opera glasses picked out
favorites in the stalls; one apologised for
leaving her silver foxes in the way when
someone wiped his feet on them;
another confided to 47 people in the im-
mediate vicinity “My figure’s going, let it
go. Ring out wild bells,” and whaled
into a box of chocolates. Everything
was discussed from “The last time I saw
Madge, m’ dear,” to “What the moths
have done to my tails, old man,” and
through it all wandered the management,
so delighted that he was almost wagging
the tails off his evening jacket.
And when the barrier, pardon, the cur-
tain, went up there were the Elliott-
Ritchard team waiting to toss off a slight,
bright Coward one-acter, “Ways and
Means,” which they did very nicely when
the applause permitted, following it with
two more Coward brevities with music,
“Fajnily Album” and “Shadow Play,”
After which bouquets and boxes of
flowers and fruit were delivered on to the
stage in such profusion that Mr. Ritchard
and his partner seemed likely to go into
their dance at any moment to the strains
of “Shut the Door, They’re Cornin’
Through the Window.”
"Swan lake."
A small boy provided a new viewpoint
on “Swan Lake,” to whose fairy-tale
charm the Borovanskys turned at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne,
The boy was genuinely concerned when
the nocturnal huntsmen pointed their
crossbows at the lovely ladies who had
temporarily abandoned bird form for
human shape and was visibly relieved
when, in the nick of time, Mr. Bousloff
flung himself between them and their
target. He subsequently argued that Mr.
Borovansky could not possibly keep up
the pace for a season of six nights and
two matinees if he lost even only one
of his corps-de-ballet at each perform-
ance, let alone the lot.
Which shows how much an adult audi-
ence loses by its sophistication. It
couldn’t possibly have the same feelings
as a child who was firmly convinced of
the reality of the proceedings in Tschai-
kowsky’s ballet, so it has to get its thrill
elsewhere.
Present writer found the “Fantasy on
Grieg’s Concerto,” with its skilfully de-
vised mass movements, as thrilling as any
on the current programme, but the small
boy who thought that Mr. Boroyansky
was, at great expense, bloodily sacrificing
his highly-trained staff of assistants on
the altar of public entertainment prob-
ably got a bigger thrill than he did.
Global Warfare af the Tiv.
Melbourne Tivoli’s “Forbidden City”
has a demented sort of a kind of story
running through it, conveniently inter-
rupted when the strain threatens to be-
come overwhelming by George Nichols,
Ron Shand, Chung Doo and Bobbie le
Brim, as representatives of the various
Allied Forces.
In strict accordance with vaudeyillain
traditions, which are always patriotic, the
Australian invariably puts it all over the
U.S, representative, who stands for the
divine Fool who never knows what he
is doing.
“Forbidden City” appears to be a com-
posite piece of architecture, including a
Bal Tabarin, Chinatown, a fishermen’s
wharf, the Latin Quarter, and the red-
light district of San Francisco. The
Tivoli lovelies turn up in all these places
in the raiments of the various nations
adapted to display their charms to the
best advantage; the Kwam brothers
bounce each other about; the exotic Ma
Sui Lin sings at the piano ; Luahna, Lahni
and Layah make lugubrious moan at the
microphone ; and the Voice of the Orient,
Chung Doo, who looks like a diplomat
from the Chinese Embassy at Canberra,
sings about the simple pleasures of
family life.
The international character of the en-
tertainment is somewhat mitigated by the
strange fact that all the folklore, music
and gags seem to have been made in U.S.
Art bursts
Of an exhibition by six watercolorists
at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, the
best work was by John D. Moore, the
pick of five of his pictures being “Mount
Wilson,” a light study in which he
has caught some pleasant tree patterns
and shadows, marred somewhat by the
outlines of his timber, which are wooden
in the wrong sense. A farm scene,
“Robertson,” was also promising. Thea
Proctor’s flower pieces were pretty and
ornamental, but not alive, and Enid
Cambridge’s “Evening,” which was pur-
chased by the N.S.W. National Art Gal-
lery, was noteworthy only on that account.
Hal Missingham, the director, also had
work on exhibition. “Dorset Landscape,” a
smooth study of lawnlike fields and trim
trees, looked plausible but a shade arti-
ficial; an effect which was carried to its
logical conclusion in “Landscape, Maine
Valley,” and “Evening, Hampshire,” with
trees losing all resemblance to natural
vegetation and grass becoming mere
streaks of green. Something like the
sketches in fashionable magazines, with
a slim woman in the foreground, lean-
ing against a sleek automobile. Ronald
H. Steuart had some studies of ants, crab
holes, fungus and the like, which were
passable version of the colored plates
in medical textbooks. Of these, the best
was “Three Ants,” probably because the
ants were recognisable termites.
The Adelaide Group of 11 artists has
been holding an exhibition at Myer’s
Gallery, Melbourne. In three views of St.
Vincent Gulf, morning, noon and even-
ing, John Dowie suggests a sensitiveness
to the varying effects of Nature, and there
is weight behind Jeff Smart’s studies of
early buildings.
Adelaide National Gallery has bought
from the London Group Tunnard’s
large “Moa.” Louis McCubbin, director,
announces that “such a good example of
abstract painting was desirable” ; that the
only “recognisable” form in this is an
egg; but “it is unimportant to try to
attach any particular meaning to it.”
After which McCubbin announces his
own view that this picture carries the
abstract theory “as far as it can be taken.”
At the Talkies
“KISS AND TELL.”
Surprisingly, since it’s all about
adolescence, this comedy doesn’t bog
down from the moment it opens with
two youngsters doing a roaring business
trading kisses to troops at a bazaar, until it
is finally revealed who’s married to whom.
Shirley Temple is the lass who begins
by concealing her brother’s marriage to
the daughter of a hostile family, and
finishes by having to confess to approach-
ing motherhood and marriage to the
gangling youth next door. She manages
it with a light and entertaining sense of
comedy. —Sydney State.
* * * ♦
“THE HARD WAY.”
If this story of a woman’s attempts to
shove her younger sister from the slums
of a mill town to the peak of Broadway
musical revue creaks like all good melo-
drama, at least Ida Lupino’s portrayal
of feminine scheming is worth in-
spection. The scene when, attempting to
retain domination over her sister’s affairs,
she pours out a stream of words, at first
ordering and then slipping without pause
to reasoning and finally to pleading, is
the best stretch of film histrionics on view
at the moment. —Sydney Plaza.
* * ♦ *
“THE LOST WEEK-END.”
After devoting two hours to presenting
its theme —the tragedy of a dipsomaniac
—as grimly as possible and giving Ray
Milland most of the running time to por-
tray the incurable alcoholic, this opus
suddenly fizzles out (and deserts the
original narrative) by contradicting its
main statement and permitting Milland
to be rescued from the brink by an attack
of the horrors and the assistance of the
virtuous wench who has tended him faith-
fully in his hangovers for six years.
Milland haunts pubs, leers longingly at
glasses of whisky, delivers tragic speeches,
furtively hides his spare bottles, pleads
with bartenders for a reviver, staggers un-
shaven and wild-eyed through the city
trying to hock his typewriter, and por-
trays other degrees of chronic alcoholism
with workmanlike acting, sometimes
slightly redolent of the dramatic intensity
of the mortgage-holder twirling his long
black handlebars.
The camera, musical accompaniment
and general settings do more to catch the
mood of the story than the acting—a
night in the alcoholic ward of a general
hospital is a nightmarish drama on its
own ; and the film depiction of Milland’s
bout of the horrors is more horrifying
than his reactions to them.— Sydney
Prince Edward.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND *
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SPORTING NOTIONS
An attendance of 31,000 at Randwick on
Saturday equalled that of the corresponding
day last year, but the tote turnover of £138,400
showed a slight decline.
Riding the winners of the first two races,
Mulley drew further ahead in the jockeys’
premiership. His closest opponent, Cook, rode
a winner, but is now seven points short of
Mulley’s score of 44.
Having run one or two fairly decent races
in better company, Pitt was installed favorite
for the first division of the Two-year-old Novice,
but Mulley had to ride his hardest and best to
get Pitt home. The animal seemed willing to
give up without a struggle when Uranium chal-
lenged in the straight. Uranium hit the front,
but, coming again under punishment, Pitt just
beat Uranium. Spendthrift was third.
Uranium, who ran a spirited race, is one of
the first progeny of High Caste. A good-
looking chestnut from the Christopher Robin
mare Spring Tide, he is raced by his breeder,
L. Israel. Spendthrift, who should do better,
is by imported Merry Mathew, a Newmarket
St. Leger winner,
Mulley’s other winning mount was the Mar-
conigram gelding Skymaster, hitherto eligible
for Maiden company. He won the three-year-
old Novice from the favorite New Cashmere
and Drummer Boy. John Andrew set the
pace for eight furlongs, but faded out in the
straight. This Ajax colt should be capable
of winning over a shorter distance.
With a poor bunch engaged the second
division of the Two-year-old affair seemed
made to order for those who pick ’em with
a pin and for such lady tote-punters as evi-
dently use a toasting fork. There was support
for half a dozen at prices ranging from fours
to eights, and the placegetters came from the
latter bunch. Bay Rex (K. Jeffers) got up in
the last stride to head King Hal. Another High
Caste gelding, Purple Knight, was third. The
favorite, Prince Mern, ran so badly that
stewards held an inquiry. Explanations
accepted.
Seemingly a good thing, Gay Monarch went
out at a shade of odds-on for the Flying.
He lost the race at the barrier. He made up
so much ground that he got to the front' at the
Leger, but was unable to cope with the fast
finish of Rainglare (Weate), who won by a
couple of lengths; Miss Sovereign was third
a length behind Gay Monarch.
In the Warwick May Handicap of 11 fur-
longs, Turn Again tried as usual to lead all
the way. Orderly paced it with and interfered
with him. Waratah joined in and led into the
straight, but the race was run to suit a stout
finisher, like Shining Night, and the old ’un pre-
vailed. Waratah hung on long enough to cut
Silent out of second place. Shining Night won
the same race two years ago and looks fit
enough to keep paying his way before he is
retired at the end or this season.
Out of the winning list since November, 1944,
the Piccadilly mare Philgita was not much
fancied for the nine furlongs Carlita Handicap,
Grape Vine being favorite at threes. Cook
always had Philgita close to the leaders and
she won well. After trailing the field early,
Grape Vine did well to finish within half a
length of Philgita and three lengths ahead of
Questing, who is racing below form.
The Highweight, run over a mile, provided
a thrill for those who supported the favorite
Dance Time (G. Podmore), who downed Men-
tone by a long head, Magic Wand being a
half-head further back. Mentone appears ready
to take out a middle-distance race, well placed.
* * * *
For Moorefield (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Handicap: Blaxland, 1; Ana-
stacia, 2; Spendthrift, *3. Maiden: Ridge, 1;
New Cashmere, 2; Killiecrankie, 3. Flying:
Civic Pride, 1; Gay Monarch, 2; Vermeil, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Mentone,
1; Don Giovanni, 2; King’s Glen, 3. S.T.C.
Handicap: Philgita, 1; Turn Again, 2; Thanks
America, 3. Banksia Encourage: Skymaster,
1; Drummer Boy, 2; Cavalero, 3. Kogarah
Welter: Felberta, 1; Battle King, 2; Stead-
fast, 3.
* * * *
In Melbourne they raced at Moonee
proceeds going to various hospital charities.
The tote turnover of £106,389 ensured a satis-
factory division among them.
Back after his successful visit to Adelaide,
Breasley gave his followers a good start by
riding the winners of both divisions of the
Children’s Handicap restricted to two-year-
olds. Both, however, were at odds on. Breasley
has now ridden 50 winners this season.
In the first division the Hostile gelding Up-
heaval gave the field a lot of weight. Breasley
waited patiently for his run on the rails, but
had to take Upheaval to the outside. It made
no difference; Upheaval quickly joined the
early leader Parody and beat him by two and
a half lengths, Tarbolton being a close third.
Topweight for the second division, Joy
Stream, conceded 161 b. and upwards to the others
and won as easily as Upheaval had done,
though in slower time. The Midstream filly
clocked 1.2 i for the five furlongs; Upheaval
had registered l.li. Dharmaraja and Coma
were placed behind Joy Stream, who is now to
be sent for a spell after being successful at
three of her six starts.
Beau Spear, Tente and Just Jill all shed their
riders during the running of the Mount Royal
Steeple, which Accelerate tried to win all the
way. The favorite, Brewster’s Millions, moved
up to Accelerate at the half-mile, but weakened
and was passed by Autocles (R. Watts), who
then tackled Accelerate and won by little more
than a length. The pace set by Accelerate
resulted in Autocles running the two miles in
3.54|, a second better than the previous course
record. Autocles is prepared by Fullarton, who
is showing that he can train jumpers almost
as well as he used to ride them.
Finally consenting to reproduce publicly the
good work he does on the training track, the
Dhoti colt Nawab (Williamson) made short
work of a Maiden three-year-old field at a
mile. One of the smartest to begin, he was
well clear at the turn and had four lengths
to spare at the post. Navarro and Anstey were
next.
Confirming the observation that she was a
good thing beaten at Flemington, the N.Z. mare
Eagle Flight managed to keep out of trouble
in the Nurses’ Highweight and carried, 9st. to a
convincing success. Sir Marfield, the public
fancy, finished ahead of Sir Change. Eagle
Flight was ridden by the N.Z. lad, Hare, who
succeeded in his appeal against a 12-montlis
suspension in the First In case.
In the Hospital Handicap (13 furlongs), G.
Bougoure stole the race, taking Chatsol up
very sharply to lead at the half-mile, which
“I’m slingin' the job in, boss —it aint refined
seemed risky. However, the Solar Bear gelding
saw it out and held off Fungi m a close
finish; Contact, two lengths away, was third.
David’s Last in no wise flattered those who
sent him out a 5-to-2 favorite for the ax-fur-
longs Carlton Handicap. He was nearer last
than first. The three-year-old Manitoba geld-
ing Delano (J. Johnston) led all the way and
was being eased before the post was reached.
« * * *
Declaration of first acceptances left 31 (one
more than will be allowed to start) m the
£lO,OOO Ahern Memorial Handicap t<p be run
at Doomben on Saturday. Top weight and,
of course, favorite is Bernborough with 10.5.
Good as he is Bernborough will run against
this paper, for the distance is 93 yards .less
than seven furlongs and Doomben is a tricky
course. Flight will meet Bernborough 81b.
Better than when she just failed to down him
at Randwick, and she is fast enough to keep
out of early trouble, whereas judging from past
performances Bernborough will probably be
facing a wall of horses when he commences his
run. Of the Melbourne entries, Repeno with
7.11 is much more attractively handicapped
than Attley with his 9st. Hedm (I.!3), Puff-
ham (7.13) and Victory Lad (Bst.) are Sydney
horses with a chance. It would be most appro-
priate for a Brisbane candidate to take this
rich prize, and the best of them seem to be
Maa Leesh and High Rank. High Rank is old,
but showed himself very fit by finishing within
a neck of Abbeville in the Stradbroke He
won the Doomben Newmarket m 1941, ana
when the race was transferred to Albion Baric
finished second to Auction in 1942 and to ihe
Image in 1943.
* * * *
Old rivals Footscray and Essendon
head the V.F.L. competition, Footscray
being so far unbeaten and Essendon hav-
ing lost the opening game of the season
to Footscray by two points. When F.-E-
-day comes round again, all Melbourne is
expected to still the breath and fill the
empty lungs with sound. On Saturday
Footscray expected an easy time with
Collingwood, and bounced away to a five-
goal lead, but was almost overhauled in
a last-quarter during which the umpire
wasn’t sure whether it was football or
fight; Footscray, 10.12 to 9.15. Essen-
don, 11.17, had a happy time with North
Melbourne, 5.13 ; “Sowth” beat Fitzroy,
1012-7.21 ; Carlton overwhelmed St.
Kilda, 22.17-10.12; and Richmond gal-
loped over Geelong, 21.23-13.9. And,
yes, Hawthorn recorded its first win for
the year by kicking 16.10 to the paralysed
Melbourne’s 13.13 in a game which bored
even small boys.
* * * *
East lost its position at the head of
the Sydney Rugby Union table on Satur-
day, going down before Parramatta. A
couple of last-minute lapses by full-back
Hughes let “Parra” in for two snap tries
to make it Parramatta 16, East 11.
Though Manly scored three tries to
Drummoyne’s one, the Villagers were
held to a 20-all draw, Rankin kicking
five penalty goals and a goal from all
angles to make up the leeway for the
Reds. St, George led Randwick 14-5
at half-time by dint of tigerish tackling
and spoiling, but early in the second half
the ’Wicks scored three tries and managed
to bold off the Dragonkillers when they
came again: 35-29. Randwick is npw
on top with East and Manly (equal)
second. Other games: University 14,
North 10; West 17, Gordon 13.
In its first match at Junee (N.S.W.) the
British Rugby League team beat a coun-
try side —so-called because it was largely
composed of city men —by 36 points to
4. It will have to go easier if it wants
to “draw”—Rugby Leaguers don’t like
to see their “champions” beaten so easily.
Some of the tourists have already received
offers from Sydney clubs, and so have
the best of the Queenslanders, who failed
expansively in two matches against N. S.
Wales in Sydney. This drew from the
secretary of the Queensland League a
protest that it was “disheartening” ; and
he darkly hinted that Rugby League
would go to the bow-wows in Queensland
“if you keep taking away our strength
and give other codes the chance to take
the League’s place in Queensland.” No
small proportion of the touring side are
Welshmen who played Rugby Union in
their own country and were bought on
the hoof. League has never been estab-
lished in Wales, and purchases from
Wales, Australia, New Zealand and the
parts of England and Scotland given over
to Rugby Union are necessary to keep the
professional game alive and the money
good.
* * * *
While Norman von Nida was crash-
ing—’twas a sorry tale of missed putts —
in the “Yorkshire Evening News” 1000
guinea golf tourney in England, won by
Locke (South Africa), Jim Perrier, with a
64, had broken the course competition in
the Western Open at St. Louis (U.S.A.)
and was level with American Ben Hogan,
134 each, at the end of the second round.
* * * *
The main “fight” at Leichhardt on
Thursday was mainly remarkable for an
almost continuous exhibition of solo
dancing by one Jack Hiles. Pay-
ing guests described it as “jitter-
bugging,” but in jitterbugging you
clinch, and Hiles rarely did. The pas-
seul chap’s opponent was Ted Sprouster,
and Sprouster had only to land occasion-
ally with his left to get the decision. This
he did, and the referee had had enough
in the ninth.
•'• • • •
Better balance and greater experience
enabled “Tommy Burns” Murphy to out-
point the Enzed welterweight Clarrie
Gordon at the Sydney Stadium, but it
was no very convincing performance.
Gordon, 4|lb. the lighter man, had Burns
bleeding at the mouth before the bout
was a minute old, and his continuous
attack bothered Tommy till the eighth
round, when snappy rights to head and
body slowed Gordon down. Thanks to
his perfect condition and fighting heart,
Gordon still attacked, but he was out-
fought in the last four rounds. Gordon
has been boxing for years, off and on,
and, judging by the Patrick-Murphy fight
pictures, he would never beat the com-
patriot Murphy. But many of those who
saw him on Saturday night left with the
conviction that he will beat Burns in the
“return.”
* * * »
Joe Davis, in defeating dapper Aus-
tralian Horace Lindrum, won the world
snooker championship for the 15th time.
Joe has 200 century breaks to his
credit, compiled since Jan., 1928. Walter
Lindrum, uncle of Horace, after devoting
his unsurpassed skill at billiards to exhi-
bition games throughout Australia dur-
.ing the war, for patriotic and charitable
funds, hopes to go to England next year
and compete for the world snooker title.
He says he thinks he could hold his own
against Joe, having beaten the English-
man once —in the final of an international
tournament in London in 1938. •


&W : ”■ %W: ■
1119
wH* Bl
mm
*<:<■<<<>
WU* 11
rsk
nKMi
s«3rc(g
•Siru*
S» Off
rtwr-tt
on
VAl£
£'!!«nn
52?S^
The simply-
constructed
Masonite Storage Wall —the
space-saving, money saving
wall which is a storage com-
partment as well, has become
famous since the manufac-
turers of Masonite announ-
ced the idea in Australia.
There has been a tremendous
demand for plans and work-
ing growings, These are
now available for a nominal
charge of two shillings from
your nearest Masonite Stock-
ist, Distributor or the Cor-
poration.
• OTHER MASONITE
9 PLANS AVAILABLE
• Prefabricated Boat House
• • Four Berth Caravan •
• 13 Foot Caravan • Holi-
• day House • Suburban
• Cottage • Six-room Sub-
® urban Cottage • Five-
• room house for a narrow
• site • Five-room Cottage
® • Country Home • Five-
• room Residence • Coun-
• try Holiday Home • Flat-
-9 roofed Garage • Pitch-
• roofed Garage • Dinghy
• • Storage Wall • 12 Fool
• Sailing Boat • Kitchen.
MASONITE CORPORATION
(AUST.) LTD.
SALES AND SERVICES DIVISION
369 Pitt Street, Sydney,
387 Queen Street, Brisbane,
529 Collins Street, Melbourne,
31 Chesser Street, Adelaide.
r
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Australian Coastal Shipping
While Cockatoo Dock, in Sydney, was
under Government control, and particu-
larly when Labor was in office, it was a
sink for taxpayers’ money. There was
endless labor trouble; the unions knew
that, with a Labor Government, they
could get away with almost anything.
And under any kind of Government the
dockyard was a losing proposition. It
took George Davis, of gelatine renown,
to turn the dockyard into a flourishing
business concern —something that he
achieved before war broke out. His
company pays the Federal Government
a rental for the dockyard that varies with
the profits. For several years now the
Government has been receiving an income
from the undertaking instead of having
to foot annual losses. And the nation’s
business handled by the dock is attended
to much more expeditiously than under
Government control, in spite of the in-
dustrial irresponsibility that prevails all
along the waterfront.
In the meantime chaos has descended
upon the inter-State shipping industry.
The Government took control of
vessels early in the war, allocating some
(like the Manunda, Manoora and Kan-
imbla) to the Navy, and running others
on a charter basis, paying charter rates
and management fees to the owners.
Soon after taking office the Labor Gov-
ernment introduced the 44-hour week to
the shipping industry by National Secu-
rity Regulation, sidetracking the Arbitra-
tion Court. Soon afterwards it granted
big war-risk bonuses to seamen, even to
those trading only in Spencer Gulf ; from
that point onwards the maritime unions
began to treat the industry like a foot-
ball, kicking it round to their hearts’ con-
tent, They demanded bigger crews, ex-
cessive overtime, better food, more fans,
hot-presses for their food, refrigerators
for their beer, a special tobacco and beer
ration. When the war in the Pacific Was
at its blackest there were clamors for
food equal to that served in the saloon,
even though it was admitted by union
representatives that for breakfast on one
week day the crew were already entitled
to rolled oats, grilled steak and onions,
fried fish and chipped potatoes; for
dinner, pea soup, roast beef, corned pork,
parsnips, baked and boiled potatoes and
sweets; for tea, smoked fish, haricot
chops, cold meats, salad and pastry. No
food coupons were demanded for seamen’s
keep, though they gbt a full issue, mostly
left at home.
Costs of running ships soon soared.
The Commonwealth’s own line of ships,
built at great cost and equipped with
mechanical stokers for putting coal under
the boilers, have been burning oil fuel—
such has been the difficulty of getting coal
supplies from rebellious miners and
proper service from the stokehold. Burn-
ing oil under boilers is a most wasteful
method of using a fuel far more expensive
than coal, costing the country dollar ex-
change and crowding tanker.space. The
proper way to use oil is in specially-
designed-diesels or motorships.
In port, the loading of all vessels has
grown more costly each year ; the union
run by Communist Healy (Waterside
Workers’) has seen to that. There have
been almost continuous hold-ups of ships
by wharflaborers on the most trivial of
excuses, and there have been deliberate
efforts to work shipping in a way that
will yield the highest penalty rates of
overtime. On many occasions soldiers
have been brought to the waterfront to
“A dozen or none at all—-1 want a discount!”
do essential work in the nation’s interest
when Com.-cowed wharfies refused to do
their job even at extortionate rates of pay.
It is difficult to get at the true figures
relating to any Government trading
operation. But in 1944-45 the Common-
wealth Government showed a debit in its
Shipping Branch of the Department of
Supply amounting to £2,260,000, and for
1945-46 the Budget estimate was
£4,285,000. What the precise loss by the
Commonwealth Government on its
coastal shipping ventures amounted to is
unknown; there are miscellaneous un-
dissected credits in the public accounts
each year, and it is known that the over-
seas shipping services run by the Wheat
Board have turned in some profit. But
it is plain enough that the whole coastal
industry is in a shocking state, and the
Governmept at Canberra is powerless to
deal with the chaos. It continues its
policy of appeasement and surrender.
The “war”-risk bonus is still being paid,
and frightful palpitation is visible in
Ministerial behavior every time it is sug-
gested that the war is over even for the
seamen who used it as an opportunity to
extort everything they could out of their
country.
The debit shown by the Shipping
Branch does not include capital cost of
vessels; that has been charged up to the
Department of Munitions under the head-
ing of “standard ship construction.” In
1944-45 the debit was £2,690,000, and the
estimate for the current year is £3,000,000.
Seamen are now pressing for a 40-
hour week and a 25 p.c. rise in wages.
In addition, the Government is insisting
that only Australian-built vessels be used
in the trade, and that vessels over 25
years be delicensed. More than half the
ships on the coast are said to be overage
by this standard. During the war charter
rates allowed by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment have not been adequate to pro-
vide depreciation at customary rates on
such vessels.
Sea transport is a vital thing to any
sea-girt nation’s industry. That is per-
haps why militant unionists and Com-
munist revolutionaries are trying to bring
about a breakdown in shipping services
in the Commonwealth. The' service ren-
dered per man, on the wharves and at
sea, has fallen heavily during the war in
spite of big pay increases. There has been
a deadening slowing-down in freight car-
riage; loading and unloading efficiency
has fallen in a paralysing fashion. The
Labor Government at Canberra, when
not actually sympathising with this anti-
Australian behavior, gives no encourage-
ment to the forces opposing it. Unless
the shipbuilding industry can lower its
production costs very considerably, the
stipulation that only Australian-built ves-
sels will be licensed to serve in the coastal
trade will represent another load for the
industry to carry and another obstruction
to the recovery urgently necessary in Aus-
tralian production and living standards.
Tubemakers of Australia, Ltd., is being
formed in Adelaide to acquire shares in
Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.), Ltd., and
British Tube Mills (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. Share-
holders in these two existing cos. will be
issued with about £2,000,000 of the
authorised capital of £3,000,000. The
idea of the junction of interests is to co-
ordinate two industries previously indus-
trially complementary but rnanagerially
independent. Existing factories and staffs
will still be independent, but production
will be planned as a whole. Stewarts and
Lloyds, in which B.H.P. and the Scottish
firm of similar name are interested, set
up in Australia towards the end of the
depression to manufacture welded and
solid-drawn steel tubes. British Tube
Mills (Aust.) came later ; it has been con-
verting Stewarts and Lloyds tubes into
cycle parts and many other special-
ised articles. In 1941 several Birming-
ham firms became associated with B.T.M.
in order to make non-tubular cycle
fittings. More recently plans to establish
a factory for making cold-rolled metal
sections for the construction of buildings
and vehicles were announced, the factory
to be at Kilburn, near Adelaide.
* * *. •
Foy and Gibson, Ltd., Melbourne
drapery co., now becomes a public com-
pany ; trustees of the estate of William
Gibson are looking, through J. B. Were
and Son, for buyers of 400,000 £1 ords.
at 265. each. The whole of the shares
have been allocated to Were’s clients or
other brokers. Profits on ordinary capital
have averaged 11.3 p.c. over the past five
years, and ord. div. for the last three has
been 6 pic. Paid capital of the co. is
£1,550,000, including £350,000 of 6 p.c.
pref. money. Pref. arrears accumulated
over 9b years were paid between Aug. 1,
1940, and July 31, 1943. The co. owns
a controlling interest in Foy and Gibson
(W.A.), Ltd., and in O. Gilpin, Ltd.,
which operates 93 drapery stores through-
out Victoria, N. S. Wales, South Aus. and
Tasmania. Foy and Gibson itself has
retail stores in Melbourne, Collingwood,
Fitzroy and Adelaide, and there is a
woollen mill at Collingwood.
* * * *
During the month of April the Com-
monwealth Government accounts show a
net “war” expenditure of £27.4 million,
of which £16.1 million was met out of
revenue and £11.3 million out of loan
money. Total “war” expenditure for the
10 months is shown at £337 million, com-
pared With a “net” estimate of £360 mil-
lion for the full year. But in March
there were credits of £44 million (de-
ducted from the progressive “war” total),
representing recoveries of expenditure
made in previous years and inter-depart-
mental accumulations ; and the Disposals
Commission is now showing a turnover
running into tens of millions annually.
It is likely that April figures are shown
after substantial deductions made possible
from these and other sources. Actual
Government “war” spending, on a true
accountancy basis, is probably greater
than for the same period of last year;
civil outgo is higher on any basis of
calculation. Canberra’s method of pre-
senting accounts is anything but straight-
forward. Actual expenditure should be
shown, and in reasonable detail, before
any'“offsets” are deducted.


Tf-
vy
The sky's the limit
when you use stainless steel tubing
%
There is practically no limit to the uses for
Stainless Steel Tubing in Riany profitable fields
of post-war production—in the chemical, textile,
food - processing, brewing industries and many
more—in furniture, fittings, domestic and com-
mercial appliances—in plant and products alike.
These tubes are not only corrosion-resistant,
enduring and attractive. They have high mech-
anical strength; they can be bent, coiled, welded,
threaded and fabricated by ordinary engineering
methods to meet the needs of the job.
Available with either descaled (silvery-matt) or
polished finish inside and but, in gauges and
diameters to suit any need. Our nearest Branch
Warehouse will supply you.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS STEELS
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
Steel Manufacturers—Head Office and Works: Waratah. N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney — Melbourne —• Brisbane — Adelaide — Perth.
In pre-war days, and in the early years
of the war. The Bulletin was in the
habit of giving investment advice on an
extensive scale. After war extended to
the Pacific, and the Labor Government
rose to power, investment interest almost
ceased, partly because of the limits placed
on share dealings on ’Change, partly be-
cause of Treasury restriction of new
issues. The major interest of all investors
soon became the progress of the war and
the Canberra rakes’ progress. With the
Germans and Japanese in the process of
being beaten, but with the Canberra
Administration becoming more socialistic
every day, it became plain that the future
of investments generally in Australia de-
pended very much upon the economic
behavior and “planning” of the Federal
Government. This is still substantially
the position, but economic factors are
gradually forcing the Government’s hand,
even if it is still hagridden by political
pressure groups and Communists. All
through the six years of war this paper
placed its faith in Australian industries as
investments, and if its confidence has ever
been shaken it has been purely as a result
of wanton political interference in indus-
try and the official failure to recognise
the forces of anarchy for what they are.
A stock consistently recommended on
these pages six to ten years ago was
Yarra Falls. At the height of the early
war-time ’Change boom (January, 1940),
these shares were at 41s, Price-pegging
notwithstanding, they have managed to
rise, to the present ceiling of 525., at which
figure buyers are rarely able to get them.
The div. has come down from 10 p.c. to
9\ p.c., but the business has grown in
stature during the war. Bradford Ccftton,
often favored, was at 38s. in Jan., ’4l ;
recent quotes were at the ceiling of 495.
3d., ex rights to a new issue. The
div. has been 10 p.c. right through. H. B.
Dickie ords. have risen from 335. 6d.
to 465. 3d. in the six years ; this towel-
making concern has paid mostly 8 p.c. dur-
ing the war, compared with rates ranging
from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. before that. Berlei,
a steady 10-percenter, has risen from 365.
to 455. 9d. Holeproof Hosiery has moved
up from 245. to 28s. 9d. Turning from
the textile group, Gordon and Gotch
ords., selected during a period of doubt
early in the war, have been shoved from
455. 6d. to 61s, 9d, (buyers). The divi-
dend has risen from 13 p.c. to 17£ p.c.,
with an interim of 20 p.c. for the current
period. B.H.P. shares were at 495. 6d.
in January, 1940; there has been a par
issue meanwhile, and they now stand at
the pegged price of 465. 3d., but are at
over 50s. in New Zealand. Adelaide
Steam, in spite of what the Government
has allowed to happen to the shipping
industry, has risen from 355. to 375. 9d.
Australasian Paper ords. have moved up
from 355, 6d. to 395. 6d., Carlton Brewery
from 675. to 795. 9d., Arthur Cocks from
225. to 275., Edwards Dunlop from 475.
to 545. 9d., Mauri Bros, and Thomson
from 68s. 6d. to 80s. 6d., Meggitt from
30s. 6d. to 365. 6d., Kandos Cement
from 295. to 395. 6d, At times
during the past few years, especi-
ally in June, i 940, and after the
collapse of Singapore, sharemarket
prices have been much lower than those
quoted in January, 1940. In the case of
many of the latest prices buyers are un-
able to obtain scrip at the ceiling quota-
tions. A good deal of the price-rise
in industrial equities no more than offsets
the inflation that has occurred in values
(and costs) generally. But that was one
reason for The Bulletin’s consistent
recommendations of industrial ordinary
shares as a means of protecting capital
even during the most depressing of the
pre-war and war-time years.
» * * *
Bradford Cotton ords., ex rights, are in
demand on ’Change at 495. 3d., the old
ceiling price, with few sellers offering.
The rights are quoted at 295. 3d., buyer,
and, as the issue is one for two, the sale
of rights would represent a profit of over
14s. 6d. per old share to those lucky
enough to buy the ords., say, a month
ago. But there have been very few sales
over the past 12 months owing to the low
ceiling price, and the market seems to
think that the stationary ceiling is still too
low even ex rights. The fresh capital is
being sought to pay for plant to produce
new lines of cotton-goods, and the only
niggers in the woodpile are coal and
power strikes, difficulty of getting female
labor, and difficulty of obtaining allow-
ances for rising costs from the Prices
Commissioner. The demand for cottons
is beyond the plant capacity of Australian
manufacturers.
* * H! *
In the nine months to March 31 last
Australian textiles and clothing exported
were valued at £4,900,000, compared with
£1,823,000 in the same period of the pre-
ceding financial year and £480,000 in the
first nine months of 1938-39. Piecegoods
(including suitings) and hosiery have
figured substantially in the big increase—
probably the biggest increase to take
place in any classification of Australian
manufactured goods exported. Rabbit-
skins have jumped from £361,000 in the
1939 period to £4,097,000 in the latest. As
to piecegoods, the sales-manager of Yarra
Falls estimates that we can sell £ 1,500,000-
worth of worsteds annually to North
America.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley intimates that something is
to be done about the incidence of double
taxation between London and Australia.
If the obvious injustices of the present
situation are eliminated, or largely so,
the shares of Zinc Corporation should
become particularly good buying. At
the ceiling price of 925, 6d. the 10s. ords.
are very little higher than in January,
1940. The London open-market price is
80s. sterling, equal to 100 s. in Australian
money. The Zinc Corp. mine has the
longest prospective life at the Barrier, bar,
possibly, that of New Broken Hill Con-
solidated.
* * * *
Australian wpol is leaving the country
more rapidly this year. In nine months
1,969,836 bales have been shipped, com-
pared with 1,424,863 bales up to the same
period of last year. Britain took 694,886
bales of this season’s clip, the United
States 824,665 bales (valued at £17.3 mil-
lion), France 167,648 bales and Belgium'
114,715 bales.
A provisional programme of wool auc-
tions for the 1946-47 season has been
drawn up to the end of this year—the
first post-war auctions—and it provides
for 696,000 bales to be offered in N.S.W.
and Queensland, opening sales in Sep-
tember, and 284,000 bales in Vic., open-
ing sales in October. In S.A. 120,000
bales and in W.A. 100,000 will be offered,
sales opening in September.
* * *
Electrolytic Zinc, refining Broken Hill
il * n- a rP i„ nn
spelter at Risdon (Tas.), y
exports for its profit margins, p
fixed by the Government for sales within
Australia being much lower than world
parity, Any labor difficulties or other
impediment to production will reduce
the surplus available for export and thus
cut profit figures. The contract with
Britain expired in August, and since then
India, the United States and some of
the liberated European countries have
been taking the export surplus at what
might be termed world-parity prices,
Companies like Electro. Zinc and the
Barrier mining concerns have done a big
job during the war for a very modest
return on their money. In the war period
they got nothing like “world parity” for
their products, either in Australia or in
Britain. Shareholders were no doubt
satisfied with what they got, in the cir-
cumstances ; but sooner or later definite
encouragement will need to be given to
Australian industries, old and new, in
order to stimulate fresh industrial enter-
prises and increase output of the country
as a whole. Our first economic objective
is to restore pre-war living standards,
then improve upon them. The gaining
of these objectives will be impossible
unless initiative and incentive are restored
to industry. It is quite clear from cur-
rent events that the Federal Government
is incapable of exercising its powers of
economic and industrial “controj,” how-
ever legally formidable they may appear,
because it is afraid of dealing with mili-
tant trade-union racketeers ; and, in any
case, years of mispllaced Government
“benevolence” to the trade-union move-
ment generally, concurrent with restric-
tions over the initiative of industry, have
shown that industry goes to pieces unless
there is some form of firm discipline over
Labor, This is best provided by a freer
private enterprise acting within the arbi-
tration laws and not hamstrung to excess
by economic controls and stupefying
taxation. Incentives to plan, expand and
invest must be restored to private enter-
prise with the least possible delay.
* * * *
At the end of 1945 there were - still
406,000 men and women in the servcies.
In January 69,634 men and 4216 women
were discharged, making a record total
for any month up till that time. Since
then it would appear that the rate of dis-
charge has fallen off considerably, the
Government apparently finding the cost
of deferred pay too hot to meet in a rush.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Koolinju”: Slowly but sadly the bush
is being Americanised. The rodeo has
replaced the old-time buckjumping show,
and the ten-gallon hat has more wearers
than the slouch or the cabbage-tree. Now
I read of a mob of Territory cattle being
“stampeded.” In my time stock in those
parts might “jump,” “ring,” “run off
camp” or, occasionally, “rush.” The only
stampede I ever heard nientioned outside
a “Wild West” story was when an alco-
holic civil servant tried to recite “Lasca”
at the depot races. When even our cattle
have acquired such outlandish habits it
is easy to understand that, in a district
rich in the folklore of such heroes as
Crooked Mick, children should gather to
hear a Sydney journalist relate the exploits
of “Superman.” The last straw will be
when someone refers to the blacksoil
plans as the “prairies”; then I shall
retreat to the underworld out at the back
of Bedford and start a coyote ranch.
« * * *
“Skipper”; I have caught dozens of
unhandled colts up to five years of age
without either a rope or a crush. This is
how to do it. Put the colt in a small
yard, stand in the centre with a light pole
and let the colt canter round and round
until you can rest the tip of the pole on
its rump. After that it’s only a short
time until the colt stands while you rub
him down with the pole, gradually work-
ing up his neck until he can be rubbed
under the jaw. Then work up the pole
slowly with your hands until you can
get your hand on him. Patience will en-
able you to slip a halter on within, in
most cases, an hour and a half of enter-
ing the yard. It’s time well spent; the
colt is not knocked about or badly
frightened, and is always easy to catch
later on. It works in about 80 p.c. of
average youngsters,
* * * *
“Esk D.”; There was a party in the
woolshed to celebrate Sam’s 30 years as
offsider at the Purdy farm. Purdy, junior,
wound up a speech with “An’ seein’ that
Sam’s given such long an’ faithful service,
we’re fixin’ things so’s he c’n look for-
ward to a comfortable old age.” Sam’s
response was that of a man deeply stirred.
“Aw, well —thanks,” he said slowly. “But
just the same I hopes I won’t need it. Y’
see, I’m on’y hangin’ orf till I get a bit
more experience an’ then I reckon I’ll
branch out on me own.”
• * * *
“Wippegong”; On birds as well as
men grows the stamp of their environ--
ment; wongas and the big black cocka-
toos have something of the quiet detach-
ment found among the timber, and brol-
gas and ibis would no. more choose to
settle in crowded cities than would the
unhurried men over whose lands they
roam. Gulls, on the other hand, carry
the brand of the great ports. Their dress
is smart, conspicuous and the object of
endless attention. Their voices are shrill,
harsh and always ready for mob protests
or mutual abuse. They rarely fossick
alone, partly because it’s so hard to elude
the other fellow, partly because the other
fellow might find something first; so in
mobs they drift and poise, headed into
the winds of chance, to await what blows
down or drifts by with the tides. With
so many ruthless eyes peeled for the main
chance, the possibilities of finding, grab-
bing and removing spoil are remote; so
the chief technique developed is that of
hovering handy and pouncing on any
sucker who thinks he can hold what he
has. And in between they stmt and
squabble, preen and pose; scavengers at
heart but with heads erect and glossy in
the sun. As O. Henry remarked “ ’Twas
ever thus in a big city.”
* ♦ * *
“Dusty Gully”: Pardon my unorthodox
approach, but I wonder if there’s someone
with about 2000 acres of unwanted,
eroded hilly country, suitable for harbor-
ing ten or more rabbits to the acre, for
sale or lease. Strikes me there’s an easy
(and lawful) living to be had these days
as a squatter on rabbit-infested land.
Trappers in our Victorian district are
competing fiercely for paddocks at varied
offers, up to sixpence a pair for the haul.
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Tuva” (B. 1/5/’46) may
be right about the N.G. natives’ Use of
derris root as a fish-stupefier, but I
wouldn’t care to eat the fish. Derris
root contains up to 8 p.c. rotenone, a
colorless crystalline substance with the
property —accentuated by extreme heat
—of producing numbness in the tongue
and throat, together with abnormal swell-
ing, sometimes culminating in asphyxia-
tion. The increasing demand for this
drug for use in insecticides has led to
large-scale production in Malaya, India
and Ceylon. Derris root is indigenous to
Malaya. The fact that island sorcerers
employ it as a poison to rid themselves
of the overcurious is an indication as to
its potency.
* * * *
“Potrero”: The war has sounded the
death-knell of the colorful old ketches
“We tried a flute first, but it leaked too much!”
engaged in the Port Phillip Bay Shell-grit
trade. For upwards of a century a fleet
of old sailers —among them the Peter
Nell, Evion, Rosetta and Ripple—slipped
from Footscray wharf, off the Lower
Yarra, for beaches about Portarlington
and Corio Bay, where their crews floated
off bags of “shell” for the bottle works.
In bygone decades almost all these vessels
were veterans that were too “ripe” to
continue belting their way through storm-
lashed Bass Strait to Tasmanian or Vic-
torian outports, and mostly their crews
were old tar-and-hemp sailormen who
had retired to this trade. During the war
petrol restrictions compelled the last two
ketches, the Speedwell and Helen Moore,
to tie up. According to the vessels’
owners, the Knights, of Williamstown,
motor-lorries casting direct from the
beaches to the works have captured the
trade. The Speedwell, formerly the crack
Hobart ketch, has returned to the Der-
went, and the Helen Moore —40 years
ago one of Holyman’s ketches on the
Flinders Island run —was recently sold.
Now for the first time in the history of
Melbourne there isn’t an intra-State sailer
freighting out of the port.
* * # *
“Fang”: “Propalong” (B. 10/4/’46)
strains credulity by having one of his
shooters point to a supposed rock which
turns out to be a kangaroo that hops
away. Admittedly, it’s a bit difficult to
spot stationary ’roos in timbered or grass-
tree country, except for experienced
hunters, but that’s because they blend so
well into the landscape. Once defined
as a separate object there’s no mistake
in identifying the ’roo.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Some of the mob were
planning to play a practical joke on Paddy
Kain, a harmless poor devil not quite all
there. Mat was against it. “Y’ never
know what’ll happen,” he said. “I’m
over in South Oss one time an’ there’s a
miserable coot name o’ Hallet was always
talkin’ about suicide, ’specially when he
had a few in. His argument was that
cuttin’ y’r throat was the best an’ surest
way, so one day we grabs him an’ while
some o’ the boys hold him down I get
out a razor an’ make t’ slice his gullet.
Then I drop the razor when he can’t see
me hand an’ pick up a bit of dry bark
from a gum-tree an’ draw the edge of it
across his throat. Gripes! He give one
mighty heave an’ threw the blokes
everywhere. Then he lets out a chokin’
sort of yell an’ lies stiff as a poker.”
Mat paused. “Heart failure?” whispered
one of the wide-eyed audience, fearfully.
“No,” said Mat, gravely. “Worse. He
never took another beer after that.”
* * * *
“Greendale”: Much has been said and #
written of the swallow (B. 15/ 5/’46) anent
its nesting and migrating habits and its
skill in flight, but nobody seems to have
noticed that the bird is a beautiful song-
ster. Listen to a couple of them on a
door or a stable beam on a warm after-
noon ; you’ll hear trills and runnels of
music, melodiously running the scale as
they converse. It is soft and intimate
you won’t hear it more than 30ft. away
and there are deeps of sound and pure
liquid notes like fairy silver. I’ve lain,
entranced, for minutes listening to them.
m * » *
“Old-timer”: The approach of June 10
as a “Peace Holiday” recalls Daniel Mc-
George, who was rampaging somewhere
in the scrub between Prungle and the back
road to Wintong in the days when the
earlier war ended. Daniel, who possessed
a battered Ford truck, sundry hounds,
guns, traps and a penchant for disappear-
ing into the wilds for months at a time
until he’d accumulated sufficient rabbit,
fox and Too skins to fill the truck, faded
from the ken of Euston in the spring of
1918. Came the November Armistice and
its attendant celebrations minus Daniel,
though nobody missed him. Early in
the following July, Purches and Walker,
looking for stragglers on Little Gulthul,
discovered Mr. McGeorge camped on the
tank. They yarned and presently the
fact dawned on Daniel that the world was
at peace. He took it in for a moment,
then hurriedly began throwing his gear
into the truck. “Where are y’ off to?”
asked Purches. “Peace come, has it?”
gasped Daniel, throwing a rope over the
load. “Then I gotter get me skins inter
town before the ruddy bottom drops out
o’ the flamin’ market!” Five minutes
later the Ford was tearing through the
sandhills toward the jiver.
* * * * •
“E. 2”: After a late afternoon cup of
tea with Dan I rose to leave, suggesting
pointedly that I was keeping him from his
work at the cowyard. “Aw, no,” he re-
plied, settling back comfortably. “There’s
the missus, ma-in-law an’ the kids t’ do
the milkin’.” I said I didn’t think he’d
be in favor of women and kids doing
the yard work while he sat around.
“Gripes, no,” Dan replied. “But it ain’t
so bad when there’s a man t’ do the
heavy work. I alw’ys run the cows in
f’r ’em, mornin’ an’ night.”
* « * ♦
“Betcha”: On the high rocky bank
above the garden the milker bellowed
long and urgently. Working among the
vegetables, “Coxie” endured the noise for
several minutes ; then he bellowed back:
“Yair, 7 know it’s past milkin’ time, an’
you know y’ don’t git milked up there.
Like makin’ me climb that bank for noth-
in’, don’t y’? Well, y’ can come down here,
see, an’ I’ll milk y’.” The cow wandered
off, feeding, but at midday returned to
the edge of the bank in another vain
reminder. Evening found her again call-
ing, and going out the old fool resumed
the argument. “An’, what’s more, y’
needn’t think y’ll wear me down, neither,”
he pointed out. “I can easy go without
milk in me tea. Now, for the las’ time ;
are y’ cornin’ down ?” The cow appa-
rently wasn’t, and there followed several
days of bellow and blast. Then one
morning the cow presented herself at
the bails. “Coxie” collected the
bucket, and soon discovered the milker
was bad in one quarter. A day or two
later another quarter became affected, and
the supply fell off fast. “Darned good
milker absolutely ruined,” growled
her owner to a neighbor, “an’ all because
the brute was too flamin’ pig-headed t’
come an’ git milked.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Nor’-west”: Have sampled all
varieties of shark flesh and like only
one—gummy, commonly retailed under
such names as “sweet William” or
“white fillets.” Mostly the flesh of
the big sharks appears to the consum-
ing public as fried fish. Sliced thin,
dipped in thick batter and cooked in
dripping that has been used so often that
it is permeated with fish flayor, the shark
flesh becomes completely disguised. But
it is the skill of the cook and the camou-
flage that do it; I doubt if anyone
would tackle a plain grey nurse steak the
second time.
“Rutland”: It may often have been
wondered why such veritable tigers of
the sea should be known by such gentle-
sounding names as grey niirse and blue
nurse. Actually, the term originated
from the Dutch word “nusse,” meaning
a large fish, those ancient seafarers be-
coming familiar with both grey and blue
sharks in their explorations of the Indian
Ocean. From “nusse” to “nurse” was
the merest trifle to the British shellback.
m * * *
“Nev”: “About four years ago I’m up
on the Richmond toilin’ f’r a decent sort
of old bloke that didn’t yank me out o’
bed any earlier than he did the rest of
his family,” said “Singleton Sam.” “When
Dick, his eighteen-year-old, started dollin’
up and goin’ somewhere every night and
takin’ no notice o’ the 4.30 a.m. yell t’
get a wriggle on, the old bloke became
curious. Finally, he got Dick to admit
that he was hangin’ around old Kennedy’s
Katie, Katie wasn’t a bad sort, but
she’d been t’ boardin’ school and a
cowyard didn’t fit in with her ideas; so
one wet afternoon, while we’re doin’ a
bit o’ com-huskin’, the old feller
puts it up t’ Dick. ‘Me boy,’ he
says, ‘if y’ve got a horse that jibs
y’ sell him ; if y’ got a cow that only
squirts from two teats the butcher buys
her; but if y’ marry a woman there
isn’t any market f’r her. Once y’ve got
her, y’ve got t’ keep her. So now, me
boy, y’ just chew that over while y’
turnip’ the corn-sheller tomorrer.’ I was
back up there a couple o’ weeks ago,”
Sam goes on, “and, yair, Dick’s still
stretchin’ his legs under the old man’s
table.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Jangan Masuk”: Extravagant Oriental
potentates are reputed to employ a black
boy to wave a fan while they bash the
spine luxuriously. That sort of thing
would be considered a deplorable
example of inefficiency by members of
an A.I.F. unit in New Guinea. Noticing
a native energetically turning a wooden
crank outside the mess hut, I investigated
and found that the crank was connected
in true Heath Robinson style to an ar-
rangement of pulleys which worked a
large fan made from sago leaves, thereby
cooling 50 diners at the cost of heating
one native.
* * * *
“Macßrown”: The apus, that queer
outback-inhabiting cross between the crab
and the prawn, must be one of the world’s
fastest-growing crustaceans. We were on
our way to old Jimmy Wickham’s lease
on the Lander (N.T.), but at Ti-tree we
learned by spinifex radio that there had
been half an inch of rain west of the
track the day before. Knowing what the
country would be like we went on to
Tennant, and four days later struck west.
We came across a 300 yd. claypan already
half dried up. Disturbed, two wild dogs
made off and a cloud of birds took the
air. Although the rain had fallen only
five days before, the remaining water was
stiff with apus, on which the dogs and
birds —many of the latter insectivorous —
had been feeding. Our blackboy scooped
up handfuls and scoffed them raw, and
at his suggestion we cooked half a billy-
ful. They were good, but as the tucker-
box was well charged we did not repeat
the dose. Apus has a bright brown and
green upper shell about the size of a shil-
ling, and a whiskery tapering tail rather
more than an inch long. We learned
later there had been no water in the clay-
pan for 20 months. In thd brief span
following the rain, the apus had reached
maturity, completed their reproductive
cycle and left the dry clay impregnated
with fertilised ova which would be called
to brief life by the next rain, perhaps
two, three or even four years ahead.
OUR WEATHER PROPHETS.
It’s no soft job to be a weather sharp.
I’ve often wondered if it sours their days
To have so many voices gird and carp
At them, so few to sound a note of praise.
They find it a censorious world, I guess,
The chaps who sit in astronomic forts
And daily furnish radio and press
With meteorological reports.
They watch the wilful winds and scan the skies,
And tinker with no end of instruments
Devised to put us prematurely wise
To wet-or-dry and st'orm-or-shine events.
They’re not infallible —but then who is
In lecture-rooms or pulpits, camps or
courts?—
The blokes who earn their bread and do their
biz
In meteorological reports.
And when they’re right—more frequently than
not,
As even hardened cynics must admit —
And might expect' a little or a lot
Of gratitude, they never get a bit.
And when they’re wrong, like Delphic ordcles
At times, and leary coves who furnish sports
With racing tips, you hear shrill howls and
yells
At meteorological reports.
Be fairer with them, son. Forbear to strike
These scientists who spend laborious days
Foretelling what tomorrow will be like,
Always with brickbats, never with bouquets.
They do their best and might be given more
Pats on the back and fewer scornful snorts,
These worthy souls to whom we’re debtors for
Our meteorological reports.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ŗ
"Old,madam?But surely you realise the price antiques bring today!”
“Horseless Horseman”: In November,
steaming up the coast from Madang, we
anchored at a favored, reef-fringed vil-
lage called Tomakot, to find the place
deserted except for piccaninnies and a
few old “lapoon” men and women. There
wasn’t even a Mary left to do our wash-
ing. We learned that all the female popu-
lation capable of carrying a load—3l all
told—and ten men had gone “along
road” up the coast 120 miles to Boroi
and Marangis villages, near the mouth of
the Ramu River. They carried, besides
food, tobacco leaf and native clay sauce-
pans to barter for grass skirts, for which
the Lower Ramu is renowned. The lulu-
lai assured us that “Mary likem walk-
about, they go look-look, they talk along
plenty other fella Mary —sometime boy
—along road.” He told us also that this
was the first trade trek since the coming
of the Japs, and under an agreement it
would be a six-monthly affair —Boroi and
Marangis villages would alternately carry
to Tomakot and back. On our return
voyage we saw the Marys arrive from
their long carry of 250 miles in 18 days,
and they seemed refreshed. Those dusky
Tomakot belles swanked home in new
dresses, of gaily-colored grass skirts,
* * * »
“Sou’-west”: Wandering the jarrah-
clad hills, I have many times seen great
masses of granite or ironstone thrust
apart and lifted by the growth of a tree
that began life as a seed dropped into a
crack lightly filled with earth. One
does not look for similar feats of strength
on the part of the soft, squashy mush-
room, Yet on the W.A. goldfields, where
much of the surface soil, a heavy , clay,
is baked to the texture of a brick, I have
seen mushrooms in lines often of six feet
thrusting through “soil” which would be
no easy digging with a piok. But the daddy
came into being in my own backyard in a
Perth suburb. In the effort to subdue the
eternal sand I had some years previously
laid an asphalt path quite thick.
Last year, after the autumn rains, a point
in this asphalt commenced to bulge ; 24
hours later a couple of big toadstools
were through, the fragments of path lying
in shattered ruin around them.
* # ' # s}e
“Lub”: “No, Liz ain’t wot she useter
be,” said Tom as he sprawled on the
verandah and watched his missus tear-
ing into a gnarled log. “ ’Tain’t that she
don’t like work, mind y’, but she’s sort
of slippin’ lately. Gripes, y’ should’ve
seen her when we cleared this place—
ringin’ trees an’ grubbin’ blackberries, be-
tween times rearin’ eight kids. Mind y’,
wimmin ain’t built that way nowadays,
which ig| all the more credit t’ Liz. But
now we’ve got ahead a bit we make
things easier f’r her.” Then, noting Liz’s
flagging action, he bellowed inside to the
hefty youth sprawled! on the sofa with a
magazine. “Hey, Joe, it’s your turn t’
wait on y’r ma t’day,” he said. “Hop
down with the barrer an’ , bring up that
bit of wood she’s cut, an’ give her axe
a touch up with the file.”
* * ♦ *
“Lower Tops’!”: Came on the unusual
sight of 17 dead albatrosses last week
while traversing the lonely sweep of beach
from Mallacoota to Gabo (Vic.). Why
such a number of these dark-grey, white-
capped sea-gliders should wash up on this
shore —never a good shore for flotsam—
is a mystery. One would hardly think that
so many of the big birds (they are plen-
tiful in Bass Strait and breed there in the
Hunter Group) would die from disease,
though usually they land on strange shores
only when sick. I never see a dead alba-
tross without recalling the action of the
survivors of a French barque, wrecked
last century between South Africa and
Australia, on the Crozet Islands. They
caught one of these large sea fowls, and
around its neck placed a band made from
a tin and on which was pricked a mes-
sage “Help, for the love of God; 17
castaways on the Crozets” ; then they
let the bird go. Nine days later, after
a flight of 3200 miles, the albatross was
picked up by boys in the surf at Cottesloe,
near Perth (W.A.), and the message inter-
preted. Those unfortunate French shell-
backs, who so ingeniously and thought-
fully fitted that tin band so that the bird
couldn’t swallow fish and consequently
in a state of weakness would make for
land, deserved a better fate than to perish
while the Governments of Westralia,
Cape Colony and Madagascar argued for
months as to whose duty it was to send
a rescue ship.
*** ' *
“Gill Guy”: We were making for the
Onnabootra waterhole in the Bulloo River
(s.-w. Q.) for a spot of fishing. That
"Dump a couple more passengers to make room for me luggage, Ben.”
wide, trackless land may seem a queer
place for a car collision, but it happened
to us. Just as I spotted a dingo
slinking along, the car in front of us
pulled up. Thinking the driver intended
taking a shot at it I pulled up
close behind. Instead, he immedi-
ately backed to avoid a very rough
bit of ground and bashed into me. Re-
placement of damaged parts cost £6 10s.
(we do our own running repairs in these
parts), and I made a claim on the insur-
ance company. We exchanged letters for
over three months, and at last came a
double-sheet questionnaire to fill in. A
requested rough map of the “vicinity of
the accident” was easy—l just ran out
a ground plan of the corners of three
States: N.S.W., Queensland and S.A.
Then came the vital question: “How far
were you from the kerb when the acci-
dent occurred?” That pUzzled us-for a
bit. It was “Blue” who remembered that
some of the streets in Bourke were
kerbed. We scaled off the distance to the
south-east, and truthfully answered that
the nearest kerb was 280 miles away. The
cheque came along in the next fortnightly
mail.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Can someone ex-
plain, without introducing the cloven
hoof, the average Australian’s abhorrence
to horseflesh on the menu? Theoretically
there’s little to choose between it and
beef, and a horse’s food and manner
of living are far more commendable than
a pig’s or a duck’s. In appearance the
similarity of horseflesh to beef is
pronounced; it’s a trifle darker, but
not disagreeably so, and in taste
—no, I can’t recall the taste, but I
do recall the relish with which some half-
dozen of us once ate some steaks, and
the revulsion with which we received the
information from our cook that they had
been cut from the carcass of a shrapnel-
killed mule which had lain in the snow,
frozen, for some days. My purveyor of
catsmeat swears that some of his cus-
tomers like it, and prefer certain cuts.
“Now, take that piece,” he exclaimed.
“That piece” was juicy and appetising.
Had it been beef, or, rather, had I not
known it was horseflesh, I’d have waited
impatiently for it to be cooked.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Arriving at a far corner of
the run, we came on a freshly-dead
sheep. The pup, chasing off a couple of
magpies that had already dug into the
flesh, took possession and guarded his find
all day. Returning next morning he in-
dignantly scooted a couple of crows feast-
ing on the carcass. The following day it
was two wedgetails. Deciding that his
enemies had already eaten too much, he
made a valiant rush, stopped to assure
himself they were about to take off, then
finished the charge, yapping defiantly.
The next day, as we were approaching
once more with the dog in the lead and
looking around suspiciously, we put up
an emu. Halted in his tracks, the tyke
was too overwhelmed to do more than
stare. But nothing can surprise him any
more, and judging by the resentment
broadcast when a fire-reconnaissance
’plane came over later he was stoutly
convinced the stranger’s sole objective
was his ripe and gruesome hoard.
* * * *
“Chuck”: “Spud” pullecf off the road
and solemnly took in Marshall’s droving
outfit on its way to collect a mob for
the down-country trip. The jinker was
piled to capacity with camp gear, supplies,
two blokes and five dogs, while a couple
more nags followed obediently. They
pulled up, and “Spud” had been yarning
several minutes when he spotted the tail-
ender limping painfully in the rear.
“What’s the little mqng done to y’?” he
asked wonderingly. Marshall glanced
back at the sore-footed little bag of bones
on the roadway. “Must’ve bin dropped
by Bailey’s crowd,” he replied. “Picked
up with us a couple o’ days ago. The
other dogs won’t stand him on the jinker.”
“Spud” ran an eye over the sheep-workers.
“Good team?” he queried. “Gripes, no ;
they’re a pretty rotten lot,” growled their
owner; “but they’ve a big mob to
shift, so I got to save ’em. Hard to get
a decent mong.” He glanced again at
the stray. “That bloke’s about all in,
but we don’t want it.” Suddenly
“Spud” leaned forward. “Gripes, that’s
Bailey’s champ.,” he explained. “Best
dog this side border. Work any-
where an’ everywhere, that bloke, an’ I
bet there ain’t a bunch o’ woollies on
earth he couldn’t take clean through t’
Hades on his own. Eh, Tige?” The stray
thumped applause at the recognition.
“Gripes, I tell y’ . . .” But Marshall was
already clouting five big dogs of a “pretty
rotten lot” off the jinker,
* * * *
“Narrin”: “Got marooned at the Cut-
off in the ’thirty-nine flood,” said old Cat-
fish. “AH the locks are out, an’ the Mur-
ray’s just boomin’ down. All I had fras
a 201 b. cod that was in the flattie before
it got snagged, camp gear an’ the
pleasant company of two old ewes an’ a
flamin’ sow that was washed up on the
same island. Well, I looked things over,
see, an’ I worked me nut. Soon’s the
fish started t’ get a bit high I fed it to
the pig. Then I butchered one o’ the
ewes. ’Course, before I got through it
the rest was on the nose, an’ that went
to the pig. Knocked over the other
merino an’ whacked it up with the sow,
an’ before we’d got through it she comes
to light with a litter. Yair, a dozen
suckers. ’Course they kept me goin’ till
the water went down enough for me to
wade across to the Bend. Just goes to
show y’ these refrigerators ain’t so neces-
sary as they make ’em out to be.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
m
mf-
mmr
Don't ollow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CYanogaS
TTse the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
ř
r
ŕ
ŗ
The“ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
ř
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “MARS” Lathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MARS”
Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd.,
Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches
throughout the Dominion.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY I'M SENDIN GRAZCOS."
The Wool Future.
“R. Ney”: The effects of the 1944-45
drought on sheep population and wool
production are shown pretty clearly in
Winchcombe Carson’s 57th annual
review, which reckons the loss in revenue
from wool at about £4,700,000 for the
1945-46 season. It is further remarked
that instability of production rather than
price is responsible for variations in the
national wool income over the past four
years. Average price was unchanged at
15.453 d. per pound over the period,
whereas production varied from an esti-
mated 2,891,754 bales in 1945-46 to
3,606,547 in 1943-44. With money from
sheepskins, tops, noils, etc., total direct
and indirect disbursements from 1939 to
1946 “run into well over £500,000,000.”
The bulk of that money has passed
through woolgrowers’ hands, but only a
very limited proportion has remained in
their possession. Advanced costs and taxa-
tion have severely curtailed net results.
... .The Opportunity is now necessary for
pastoralists to build up funds to put fenc-
ing and other equipment in good order
and to undertake improvements designed
to develop productive capacity. Reduced
taxation would be welcome in that regard.
. The firm points out that Australia has
lost 20,493,830 sheep since 1942, over
10,000,000 in N.S.W., and remarks that
the country cannot hope to meet future
inescapable expenditure on low produc-
tion, export income being the basic source
of revenue. There are prospects of some
recovery in sheep numbers this year.
Last August the appraisements began
under difficulties. Shearing strikes held
the clip up and city strikes stopped
Sydney appraisals in October and
November and the Newcastle ones in
January. As the review was being pub-
lished, wharfies tied up ships on the
double-dumping dispute.
Looking to the immediate, future,
Winchcombes note that Australian mills
used 2,800,000 bales of wool in the seven
years from 1939. War needs, of course,
were responsible and there was simplified
production. *This rate of production is
unlikely tq be maintained, but the people
are short of clothing and there are pos-
sible markets for Australian woollen
goods in “adjacent” countries. Per-
manent expansion of Australian mill in-
dustry depends on population; even a
total ban on imports wouldn’t keep the
mills overloaded. But if Australia trebled
her population, she would need about a
third of the annual clip, and competition
from local mills would be felt on wool
values.
Abroad the position seems to h% that
British manufacturers are flat out to get
back their lost trade and expand beyond
pre-war figures ; the U.S.A. is using more
wool and growing less ; France lost no
time in trying to restore her woollen in-
dustry and is checked now more by a
coal shortage than anything else ; Bel-
gium is gradually recovering; there is
solid hope for Italian recovery ; the Ger-
man position is obscure ; but it is signi-
ficant, in view of the farewell remarks of
the former Canadian High Commissioner
that Canada needs Australian products,
that Canada almost doubled her wool
consumption in the war years.
The world’s woollen needs are unprece-
dented. Supplies of clothing, blankets,
furnishing materials, carpets, rugs, etc.,
have never been so scanty. People, shops
and warehouses have for years carried on
in hand-to-mouth fashion, and a long
period will elapse before their wants are
satisfied... .The great bulk of the Aus-
tralian merino clip should find eager buyers.
The position of coarse to medium cross-
“They say some of these places in Europe are a terrible sight. Everythin
flat as a pancake as far as the eye can see.”
• breds is not as favorable, as South America
carries heavy stocks of them.
The firm isn’t worried about synthetics,
pointing out that immediately the wars
ended all countries showed strong desire
to get hold of wool. In the U.S.A.,
where synthetics are produced in the
greatest quantities, they are using 50 p.c.
more wool than before the wars. Woollen
manufacturers are “stepping out,” pro-
ducing gossamer-fine woollen fabrics for
feminine wear and pushing ahead with all
sorts of developments. There is a mighty
future for our staple industry if we’ve
the sense to grab the opportunity.
Dairy Hygiene.
“Rooster”: It needs enforcing more
rigidly. Present practice of “inspecting”
dairies about once a year has brought
about a dangerous negligence. Many
farmers have antiquated ideas of drain-
age. Manure heaps and urine traps need
cleaning and disinfecting every day. Ac-
cumulation means swarms of flies. Many
carefully wash the udders and neglect
personal hygiene; some don’t even
bother washing the udders.
Dairies should be of standard size and
specifications, but only a minority are
built that way. Washing separator and
milking machine parts in hot water cer-
tainly doesn’t sterilise them. Steam is
required. Feeding calves in buckets used
for milking may save time, but it’s
putrid hygiene. Running tepid water
through a separator after evening milking
so that it will be ready for the next
morning would soon render the cream
ropey.
These and other practices are a
menace to the consumer. There’s room
for hundreds of dairy inspectors where
there is now only one. Inspections
should be at least once a month. Here’s
a chance for more employment in a
sphere that really needs manning, and it
would be ideal work for ex-servicemen
with years of experience in army hygiene
sections.
Organic Farming.
H. F. White: That contributor “W.D.”
(B. 10/4/’46) seems to be all at sea on
the subject. Can he tell us of any publi-
cations of the Department of Aericulture
in N.S.W. or the C.S.I.R. (with the excep-
tion of C.S.I.R. Bulletin 120) which stress
the necessity of looking after the organic
content of the soil, especially where they
advocate so strenuously the application
of artificial fertilisers? The most they do
is to treat it as another one of the man-
ures and not as a part of the soil; as the
Americans say “there is no true soil with-
out organic matter.” >
He speaks of “a handsome dividend,”
but does not warn that that dividend will
diminish till it finally ceases ; the farmer
basking in the glamor of the original spec-
tacle fails to realise it till too late ; that
is the story coming from all over the
world, as also Australia. It then becomes
a case of building up the ravished soil
by slow, tedious toil.
His statement about “elimination of
concentrated fertilisers, etc.,” is all wrong.
It treats organic matter as a manure.
whereas it is food for the animalculae and
microbes in the soil, which draw nitrogen
from the air, release carbon-dioxide into
the air for plants to draw on, process
acids to dissolve further supplies of the
original minerals from the rocks and rock
particles in the soil, besides very many
other products that are vital to plant
growth and health, their dead bodies
finally going to help make up the humus
so necessary for soil tilth, as well as a
reserve of nutrients to be slowly released.
The trace elements are depleted by appli-
cation of fertilisers, whereas organic
matter conserves them. It has yet to be
shown that there are not ample supplies
of phosphates in our soils generally, it
correct methods of organic farming are
adopted.
As regards the challenge to demon-
strate increases in crops, this has been
done by the Chinese for 4000 years, the
Hunzas for unknown hundreds of years,
British farmers for upwards of 600 years.
Read Elliot’s Clifton Park System of
Farming, Sykes’s Farming 750 Acres
Without Artificial Fertilisers these are
all practical results over long periods.
As regards health, read the work of Sir
Robert McCarrison, the debates in the
House of Lords, giving practical examples
from all over the world; Sir Albert
Howard’s Farming and Gardening for
Health or Disease. .
In my own case I have ample practical
results to support my advocacy of organic
farming ; proof that, if organic farming is
properly carried out, artificials are, or will
become, superfluous.
Soldier Settlement.
“J.R.D.”; The present system may be
better in some details than the 1918-30
one, but the thing is wrongly based. I
know most of the big properties in
N.S.W. that are being resumed for sub-
division, or lie under threat of it, and,
though a lucky few will be starting on
picked country, subdivision of the
properties is a retrograde step concern-
ing the wool industry. They are good
properties mainly because of long-term
good management and improvement, and
they carry big flocks of well-bred, well-
classed sheep whose wool is sold abroad
under well-known brands that add to the
prestige of Australia.
The country would be far better off
if, instead of resuming well-run propertibs
and breaking-up old-established flocks,
the Government took over badly-run
properties that are responsible for mon-
grel stock, poor wool, erosion and pests.
Every district has its bad farmers—not
bad farms, but good land being wasted;
by bad farming—overrun with rabbits
and weeds, good pasture decreasing be-
fore the steady encroachment of suckers,
briars, lantana, etc., over-stocked and
under-worked, soil-eroded and fencing
dilapidated—all largely due to shiftless,
unintelligent handling.
These people are a menace. They don’t
earn enough to pay their share of income
tax and are a perpetual source of trouble
to P.P. Boards, stock and rabbit inspec-
tors and local tradesmen. Their farms
should be taken over at a fair valuation
and the new owners given a chance to
make good, not on “ready-made” farms
but on land that would respond to hard
work and intelligence.
Recently I visited two beautiful farms
on the Hawkesbury. Each was sub-
divided into about 30 small paddocks,
and each paddock contained one soli-
tary animal —a racehorse. An expert


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE MATHESON COOK.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARY ELLEN COOK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1883 of 1946 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd of July
1946 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MR. E. P. MILVERTON Solicitor 11c
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
r
CATERPILLAR
ft
Keeps ’em rolling !
Fair weather methods won’t build profits in the timber-
getting industry. Bringing the logs out of the “big
timber” is a constant battle against the toughest
conditions. But “Caterpillar” diesel power can lick
’em! and with its great fuel economy cut costs to
the bone. The “ Caterpillar ” Diesel D 6 Tractor,
pictured above, is equipped with a Hyster winch. It averages 800 feet of hardwood
1 }gs a load, hauling through slash-littered swamp country. It is the ability of
“ Caterpillar ” track-type Tractors to cope with conditions like these, that makes them
the first choice of timber-getters, big or small, for stepping up production and profits.
CATERPILLAR O/esec
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and 'CATERPILLAR EARTH -MOVING EQUIPMEMT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters. Sydney. 'Phone—LA3 321. Marquis St.. Gunnedah.'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R -J* eedl f- Po /f Macquarie.
’Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. Phone—2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone —Inmsfail 475.
examined them closely and opined that
out of the 50-odd animals not more than
three were physically and constitutionally
sound enough to carry a man more than
five miles.
Borers in the Furniture.
“K.L.T.”; You can kill them by using
paradichlorbenzene or orthodichlorben-
zene at the rate of loz. in a pint of kero-
sene for the former or 1 in 20 with kero-
sene for the latter, or creosote in kerosene
(I in 9). Use creosote for things like
kitchen tables, where you don’t want to
varnish or paint the surface; use the
others elsewhere because they won’t affect
the finish. If you have only a few borers
in one article kerosene and turps (50-50)
will do the job if thoroughly applied.
For a polished sufface inject the solu-
tion into the borer-holes with a hypo-
dermic or a metal bicycle pump fitted
with a nozzle which just fits over the
hole. Such a syringe will give pressure
to force in the liquid. If the surface isn’t
polished paint the solution on or spray
it. Don’t forget that the borer grubs are
working right through that piece of wood
and you have to get your poisonous mix-
ture to soak well in to them. Nothing
will soak far into wood without a lot of
persuasion, so give at least three treat-
ments to make sure.
Fill up the holes with beeswax and
resin, putty or what you will, to keep the
fumes inside, and, incidentally, to give
you a chance to spot new holes if you
haven’t killed all the grubs. Borer mix-
tures are available ready-made, and any-
thing in a kerosene or light-oil solvent
should be satisfactory if applied as sug-
gested.
Money from Foxes.
“Atlanta”; This year there will be a
demand for well-furred winter skins.
Professional stiffeners use their own
methods in preparing baits, but here is.
a tried one: Obtain a sheep’s caul fat
fresh from the killing pen and spread it
while hot on a piece of'' brown paper.
Sprinkle liberally with finely-ground
strychnine and roll, fat and paper as a
roly-poly pudding. Hang in a bag with
the sheep’s offal for a few days until the
whole has sufficiently matured, then drag
the offal on a piece of wire along the
trail.
Baits are laid by snipping off portions
to the required size with a pair of shears,
removing paper from each piece per the
same medium. Use of the paper elimi-
nates contact with the hands —an im-
portant point where fox or dingo is con-
cerned. Each bait should be lightly
covered with earth and the spot marked
so that those untouched may be collected
and destroyed to avoid risk to dogs. Using
this method a poisoner near St. George
(s.-w. Q.) dropped 47 in a single night,
but 10 to 15 is a good average where foxes
are thick. Best site for operations is
around a tank, along a bore-drain or on
a sandhill where rabbit burrows are plen-
tiful.
A sheepdog trained to tackle the fox
is a profitable asset. Since the introduc-
tion of a ss. bonus on scalps in this part
of s.-w. Queensland my black-and-tan has
killed 14, and on one occasion returned
me 295. for two caught while mustering
sheep.
When skinning, slip the knife in a
straight line down the inside of legs and
slit again down mid-belly line from butt
of tail to point of lower jaw. Work pelt
off body and legs, and then skin head.
For the tail, obtain two sticks and place
one on each side of tail under the loos-
ened skin. Squeeze tightly with both
hands and pull; the brush will slip off
cleanly. Remember that pelts minus tails
are still marketable, although value will
be reduced by half a crown or more.
When pegging skins be sure tail is split to
point on underside, as unsplit tails lose
their fur in tanning and are valueless.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”; To utilise their feed to
the best advantage pigs must be warm
and comfortable, particularly in cold
weather. Under general conditions it
takes weeks longer to produce a baconer
during winter than at any other time. If
pigs were well-housed during winter this
difference would be insignificant. Biggest
item in the cost of pigraising is the food
bill. If pigs are housed in cold, draughty
sheds, their body temperature must be
far below normal, consequently a big pro-
portion of the food they consume goes
towards generating body heat instead of
being turned into increased body weight.
“Billjim”: Copper deficiency in the
soil causes coast disease in sheep, rickets
in lambs and falling disease in cattle. Its
-earliest sign is*“steely” wool. Wool from
an affected sheep is straight and stringy,
of glassy appearance and lacks character
and bulk. “Steeliness” is often seen in
clips from the south-east of S.A. Sheep
grazed on scrub country rarely show it
because of the wider distribution of plants
and herbage. Merinos are the worst
sufferers and the condition is more
common in a lush season. Cop-
per deficiency also has a markedly
deleterious effect on cereal and pasture
crops, all grains being susceptibids except
rye. Effective correction is an application
of 71b. copper per acre or applied to
stock by means of a drench or lick.
“Bennie”: Make your own dog bis-
cuits from two cups of pollard, one cup
of bran, three cups of self-raising flour,
one cup of grated carrot, half-cup of ox
liver, one cup of sugar and melted drip-
ping, to which a tablespoon of salt has
been added. Mince the liver and mix it
up with the dry ingredients. Then add
sufficient dripping to make the mixture
into a stiff paste. Roll out about iin.
thick, cul into small lengths and bake in
,a slow oven.
“Bill C.”: Poultry experts regard damp
as the commonest cause of “white eye”
in young ducks (B. 8/5/’46). The trouble
starts when they are allowed to huddle
together for warmth after a spell in heavy
rain, and it’s usually fatal. Birds that
recover are delayed in-growth, and may
remain weak and unthrifty all their lives.
Don’t allow ducklings to splash water
over themselves just before going to bed.
“W.E.”: When harvesting grain sorg-
hums with a wheat header, reduce the
drum speed to avoid cracking the grain,
turn the top riddle upside down and give
it all the air blast possible.
“W.R.”: When planting mango seeds
wrap the seeds in the skin after you have
eaten the fruit and plant the lot.
“W. Court”: Mackay (N.Q.) Harbor
authorities received some cuttings of the
Athel or evergreen tamarisk (B. 24/4/’46)
from the south recently and they’re very
enthusiastic regarding the possibilities of
the tree for checking erosion of sand
country. It’s planted in sea-sand at Mac-
kay and is doing well in spite of the salt.
Mackay’s annual rainfall comes between
50in. and 70in., so obviously the tamarisk
doesn’t resent a change from low rainfall,
semi-desert country.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Eradicating couch
(B. 17/4/’46) isn’t such a lengthy job in
my part of W.A., where we have a hot,
practically rainless summer of five or six
months. Plough deep in the spring, allow
the sod to stand for a few days in the
sun, then cultivate, loosening the couch
and bringing much of it to the surface,
where a harrow will drag it into heaps.
After a few days more in the sun those
heaps/will burn, at least partially, and
another cultivation will bring more to
the surface. Thereafter cultivate weekly.
By the end of summer the couch is well
on the way out.
“Chook”: The poultry-keeper should
never omit veterinary aconite from his
medicine-chest. White diarrhoea is a
scourge that will run rapidly through a
flock, with sharp decline in egg-laying
and many fatalities. Two drops of aconite
to each bird daily is the remedy. May be
administered individually in water, using
a dropper, or in the drinking water. With
the latter method supply only a com-
paratively small amount of water.-
With reference to the par. by “Sun-
downer” (B. 1/5/’46) dealing with spray
dips, Buzacott-Wolseley, Ltd,, Sydney,
writing as agents for a Rotating Power
Spray Dip, declare that “Sundowner” is
misleading when he says that the “only
serious disadvantage is the present high
cost of plant and installation, which to-
gether amount to almost £1 ' a sheep.”
They reply that this is obviously absurd
—an owner with 10,000 sheep would
install a 60-sheep size dip, the price of
which (their type) is *£Bs and cost of
installation about £35, or £l2O in all. That
is less than 3d. a sheep if the dip lasted
only one season ; actually its average life
is at least 20 years. Apart from the cen-
trifugal pump and engine in the spray
dip, there is only one moving part. Since
1939 not a single replacement has been
made to over 1200 Rotating Power Spray
Dips throughout Australia, As for not
being fool-proof, Buzacott-Wolseley con-
tend that a couple of children and a dog
could work their product.


SIMPLE TO FIT—OPERATES QUICKLY & ECONOMICALLY
r
PETROL MIST INJECTOR
mm
PETCOL)
'////JJAIL
-Q
9
PLUNGES
INDUCTION
WAN I FOLD
For all types of:-
• TRACTORS, TRUCKS,
9 CARS, RUSES, N
• MARINE & STATIONARY ENGINES (Petrol and Diesel)
Australian Agents:
(AUST.) PTY LIMITED
Sydney: Bowden Street, Alexandria Phone MX 1191
Melbourne: Cnr. Capel and Queensberry Sts., Nth. Melb. . . . Phone F 3416
Newcastle: M.L.C. Building, Hunter Street, Newcastle .... Phone B 1810
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage,
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOOTHE
ITCHING
HAEMORRHOIDS
There is no need to suffer the torment-
ing irritation of itching piles when you
can get quick relief by beginning at once
to use DOAN’S OINTMENT. It quiets
the itching and protects and lubricates
the tender tissues with its soothing
antiseptic ingredients. Don’t continue
to let the itching and misery of
piles torment and worry you, get
DOAN’S OINTMENT
today and see what long lasting happy
relief it gives—used successfully for over
40 years.
ALL
I^PIOVtBS
Production efficiency depends
largely upon employers securing
the workers who have the right
qualifications, experience, shill,
etc., for the job to be done..
Employers are invited to take advantage of the modern facilities provided by
the District Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service to find the
workers they want —workers with the qualifications they specify. This is a
specialist task and the Commonwealth Employment Service will provide a free
specialist service , complete with vocational guidance and other modern
employment service aids.
Whatever may be your labour require-
ments, the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service will endeavour to satisfy
them — your vacancies will be made
known throughout the Commonwealth
Employment Service organisation
within a matter of hours of receipt of
your request for labour, so reaching
the widest possible field of available
labour: and the Commonwealth Em-
ployment Service will refer -to you
for your choice the men, women, or
juveniles, who possess the qualifica-
tions needed to do your job!
( The Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice will cater for all types of vacancies;
for example, there is a Higher
Appointments Office in each capital
city, concerned only with vacancies for
professional and executive personnel;
also, to mention several instances only,
there are special facilities for the
placement of juveniles and nurses.
Save your time and money by allowing
the Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice to find the labour you require—
remembering that FINAL CHOICE
OF THE LABOUR YOU RE-
QUIRE RESTS WITH YOU.
The whole of the resources of tne
Commonwealth Employment Service
are at your disposal. Notify your
vacancies to your own District Employ-
ment Office.
There are COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT
CENTRES throughout AUSTRALIA .
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
look (or the COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SEBVICE SIGN
CESG3-93
and appoint them to respons-
ible posts "in the public services, thus
ensuring the partnership principle in the
most practical way.
Dragnet Digest.
Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
When U.S. correspondent's were allowed into
Manchuria they found that the Russians had
helped themselves to a rich slice of Manchurian >
industry. In Mukden they saw mile after mile
of gutted, roofless factories from which every
movable machine had been hauled away. The
Russians seemed to be keeping their promise
to get out but they were not leaving much
behind. The Chinese that 70 p.c. of
Manchuria’s machine-tool plants had been
ruined, 50 p.c. of the steel and textile plants,
25 p.c. of all food-processing plants, 16 p.c.
of the coalmines. In stripping Manchuria the
Russians went far beyond their usual practice
of taking things which could be useful in re-
building the Soviet Union. What they could
not carry away was destroyed. Factory after
factory from which all the machinery had been
removed was then burned. The stripping pro-
cess started last September, immediately after
the Red Army swept down from Siberia. For the
Russians, Manchuria was second only to Eastern
Germany as an industrial prize of war.—' "Life.”
* * * *
Rightly or wrongly, the majority of the men
and women in the Polish forces in Scotland
are convinced that their country is “under the
thumb” of the U.S.S.R., that if is being
“Easternised and Sovietised.” They will be
willing to return when they have proof that a
freely elected democratic Government is repre-
senting the people of Poland and shaping its
policy; that all Russian troops have left the
country; and —on this they were specially em-
phatic—that the Russian political police have
departed for good. “At the moment,” one
veteran n.c.o. told me, “Poland is an appendage
of the U.S.S.R. The country for which we
fought does not exist. Why, then, should I
return?” — “Manchester Guardian” correspon-
dent.
* * * *
Stalinist Russia is following the age-old
foreign policy of Tsarist Russia. Russia’s
leaders are dreaming old dreams and material*
ising those dreams skilfully and effectively
Everything they do and say fits into this
pattern. They have taken more Baltic coast-
line than they had before the war. They are
wrangling with the British in Iran, the ultimate
Russian objective plainly being the Persian
Gulf. They are putting the squeeze on Turkey
for a Russian share in control of the Dar-
danelles. And they are crooning to us an
old Tsarist song when they tell us they can’t
feel comfortable with a strong naval Power on
their Far East flank, and hint that therefore
the U.S. should share with Russia the control
of the Pacific bases taken from Japan.—
“Collier’s.”
* * * *
The U.S. can add up the bill for post-war
strikes and get some measure of the cost to
strikers and workers, to industry and to the
consuming public generally. The accounting
for the first six months of peace shows: pro-
duction lost 63,000,000 man-days of labor;
workers in struck industries lost $560,000,000
in direct wages. The General Motors
strike proved the most costly to the individual
worker and his family. Before the strike the
company offered an increase of 13.5 cents an
hour. The union agreed to accept 19.5 cents
an hour. Thus, the strike actually involved
six cents an hour. The first 13 weeks of the
strike cost each worker about $650. At six
cents an hour more pay, the amount sought
by the strike, it will take five years and three
months to make up the money lost in wages.—
“United States News.”
* * * *
The military effort of the U.S. in the war
against Japan is not generally understood or
appreciated in Asia. Soviet propaganda in
China has stressed the role of the Soviet Union
in winning the war against Japan; the Chinese
in reconquered areas are stressing the part that
China played. Soviet propaganda organs in
Shanghai and Tientsin are using American
news to give the impression that the U.S. is
torn by internal strife and fears of new wars,
and that only the Soviet Union is sincerely
seeking peace.—“ Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
The whole structure of traditional Japanese
ideas has crumbled about the heads of the
Japanese. Their invincible army is non-existent,
their painfully-built-up industry destroyed, and
their inviolable country invaded. What can
they hope, except that a way out of their
problems will be shown by the conquerors?
This shattered, starving country of 80 million
people is our problem, and we can follow any
policy we see fit. There are plenty of intelli-
gent, Westernised Japanese officials willing to
run Japan for us and flatter us very pleas-
antly while they are doing it. Whether their
management would survive the famine that
seems imminent is doubtful. It is also un-
certain what they would do when the troops
are withdrawn. The alternative is the emer-
gence of a Japan run by the Japanese majority
that has never tasted the advantages of West-
ernisation. The people who live in the miles of
slums around Tokyo have now been given
a glimpse of a quite different standard of
living and way of life. They themselves must
undertake the phenomenally difficult tasks ot
housecleaning and reconstruction. When they
are running Japan they will be more interested
in a better water supply and a lower tuber-
culosis rate than in the conquest of Asia.—
Henry F. May, Jr., in “Harper’s Magazine.”
He * * *
No agreement between Britain and France is
likely to produce significant results unless, by
providing for concrete economic measures of
mutual self-help, it aids France to set her war-
shattered economy on its feet. One asset which
Great Britain enjoyed in the past is now unfor-
tunately lacking. France, though she has re-
stored her own output of coal by drastic
measures of every kind, including the employ-
ment of prisoners-of-war and of Polish miners
(some of whom have been brought over from
Great Britain for the purpose), desperately
needs imported coal, as she has always needed
it in the past, to revive and maintain her in-
dustrial production. This need Britain is no
longer able to supply; and the deficiency
gravely weakens the British position in France
as in other countries of western Europe.—
London “Times.”


'What luck!
It’s.
White Horse
“Not luck, good management.” “On your part?” “Gracious
no! The luck is ours in getting it,. The good management
was the distillers’. In the good old years of plenty they had
the forethought to lay down ample stocks so that it should
ripen and mature. That’s why the White Horse you gel
to-day—when you’re lucky—is still as fine as a fine liqueur.”
“/ agree . , . here’s to the day when we can get more of it.”
ŗ
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
" Equal to a fine
Liqueur”
o°
G°
f*
5^
'Good Mornings * begin
with Gillette
Behold Mr. Chips,
Shining light of the College
Who chooses his blades with
Profound shaving knowledge!
S/I2S
Blue Gillettes 5 for t/r, 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents:
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd.. 181 Clarence St.. Sydney
SMOKR-OH!
To the Best! With the Best!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“It’s difficult at times to clean household
articles with narrow necks.” — Woman’s paper.
A broad bit of napery is much more
effective.
*l* *l* *l*
“Do not throw away a discarded man’s
sock.” — Radio advt.
He may demand restitution.
“The kid is getting the .best of Britain’s New
Deal.” — “Sun.”
But father is still the goat.
■i* 4 1 4* 4*
“Lost, Clovelly tram Sun., alarm clock.”
It went off.
4• 4* 4* 4*
“The bride wore a white satin rock.”
—Sydney “SunJ"
Dressed thus, there seems no hesitation
In estimating wedlock’s worth.
She’s certainly made preparation
For getting quickly down to earth.
Yair.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The very first strikers were sailors who kept
their ships idle by striking sail.” — “New Idea."
Probably another rigged-up affair.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My suit has been cleaned and pressed so
often it is thinner than a Russian excuse.”
—“Sunday Sun."
He should be run in for wearing
diaphanous clobber.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Pointers from racetracks.” — Sydney “Sun. ’
But more often disappointers.
ŕ
“Mark my words , Daisy — you'll be doing this rail-sitting stunt once
too often !”
Unnatural History.
“Oysters change their sex from male to
female when 12 months old, according to a
Sydney fisheries expert.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
A luscious beauty on the shell
Who spurns one suitor for another
May leave the first resigned to dwell
A bachelor or (who can tell ?)
He may become a wife and mother.
And though a fellow’s self-esteem
Might suffer if his sex, unbidden,
Changed to the opposite extreme,
Upon this interesting theme
The oyster’s private views are hidden.
For when the bivalves rearrange
Their genders for a new vocation,
Although observers find it strange.
It seems no corresponding change
Impels them to articulation.
P. M. Lusk.
Regrets.
Let Murder, Misery and Death
Ride wildly through the world tonight!
Let Horror breathe its fetid breath
Into the nostrils of delight!
For I have learnt that dark-eyed Fay —
The girl I passed along to Sid,
Who married her the other day —
Has just been left eight thousand quid !
T. W. Nathan.
The Impostor.
/ marked him at the Public Library,
The first inside, and at a desk was he;
Marked, too, what seemed like rapture in
his stare.
As he surveyed the rows of volumes there.
But when, at length, no volume he had
pawed
I realised the fellow was a fraud.
That books, to him, were substitutes for
sheep —
He counted them to send himself to sleep.
Brian Bureau.
Slightly Mixed.
“In the world’s snooker championship Joe
Louis was leading Joe Davis by 14 frames to
12.” — Sydney “Sun:"
“Yes,” the Cable Editor was saying,
“it was a grand match. The Brown
Bomber led off with a Straight left to
break up the triangle. Davis countered
with a sizzling right to the top o’ the
table, and the ref. had to separate ’em.
Davis, potting two blacks, was playing
wonderful tennis. Then Louis, remem-
bering the Manassa Mauler’s mistake in
his match , with Tunney, dosed in for
some short-range hitting, but a perfect
cross-court backhand from Davis lifted
the chalk and left the black standing flat-
footed.
“That got the Bomber’s fighting blood
up. You could see his wicked look as he
watched for an opening. At last Davis
recklessly dropped his guard, as he reached
for the chalk. In a flash Louis connected
with a corker —and did it go sailing! It
was still going up even after he'd shot
past second base, and he got the home
run easily as the ref. began counting.”
“Was Mr, Davis knocked out?” piped
the pop-eyed copy-boy.
The Cable Editor reached for his
beer. “No!” he said dramatically.
“Second slip saved him by putting it on
the grass. But it was a dose thing. The
snooker champ, was sweating under the
eyes as he came out of the clinch. He
tried a back slam, but he was handi-
capped by that long cue he favors.
“Then came a real sensation! Louis,
using a powerful Australian crawl stroke,
had just slammed a terrific wood shot
which carried him • right to the edge of
the green. The fans were on their feet
in the bleachers yelling ‘Shoot, laddie,
shoot! ’ Davis tried to intercept, but
as he went for the low pass his skates
got caught in the Bomber’s hockey stick,
and he had the Hill gasping as his foot
nearly went out of the circle while the
hammer flew for what seemed a record
throw. Louis calmly lined up his shot,
and with a perfect heel-and-toe action let
go with a rip-snorting, uppercut.”
“Was Mr. Davis knocked out?” asked
the copy-boy.
The Cable Editor withered his inter-
jector with a scorching look as he hoisted
another schooner. “It would take more
than a forward pass to knock Joe, especi-
ally with a record break in sight and the
balls in a good position. No! As he
potted the black and the ball came from
the base of the scrum like a bullet he
ducked just as the Bomber brilliantly
buried an overhead smash from a popped-
up return, Davis cleared the next hurdle
like a bird, and then Joe, weaving his
way downfield in a bewildering series of
side-steps and swerves, checkmated Davis
by shrewdly moving his bishop.
“But it was only temporary. Davis,
head well down over his Major Taylors
and hugging the rails, picked a rising
ball beautifully off his chin to slam it
down to the fine leg pickets. There was
only one thing the Bomber could do then,
and without hesitation he let go his
spinnaker and ballooner, cleverly worked
the blind side and went flat out for the
chukka. Davis was compelled to use the
jigger, but he was having trouble with his
skates and the next one grazed his off
peg.
“Then the Bomber saw the chance he
had been waiting for. He knew from
the ones that had been played that Joe
held the double-six, and if he could get
him offside it would be a simple matter,
by sticking to a steady 28 strokes to the
minute, to lure his opponent into expect-
ing a ‘floater’ and thus allow Louis,
provided he could get on to a good shoot
well out near the buoys, to go in off
the red and win the slalom.
“Davis, at last becoming overconfident,
discarded his spiked shoes for a pair of
shin-pads. It was a fatal mistake! Just
as he was addressing the ball the Bomber,
notching an easy rink with a beautifully-
judged run to within an inch of kitty,
took a high mark and, using the reverse
American service to effect, made it even
frames.
“Davis tried frantically to rectify his
mistake by tacking and luffing, but Joe’s
superior weight and reach were wearing
him down, especially when only the pink
and black were left on the table. In a
final desperate effort Davis* alternating
delicate cannons with full-blooded drives,
was coming full belt into the straight with
his mouth wide open, and Louis after
him. At the furlong Davis scored, with
a lovely two-and-a-half turn which barely
raised a splash, but he didn’t put quite
enough topspin on it and the Brown
Bomber, closing in, let go with half-arm
jolts with each hand and snookered him.”
“Was Mr. Davis knocked out?”
squeaked the copy boy, jumping up and
down in his excitement.
The Cable Editor wept into his beer.
“No,” he sobbed bitterly. “Joe tripped
over Joe’s lacrosse racquet just as Joe
flashed past the finishing post, and broke
a fetlock. He had to be destroyed!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Story of a Strike
First of all the Waterside Workers’
Federation issued an ultimatum to
the Stevedoring Industry Commission;
double-dumped bales of wool would not
be handled after March 1. On that day
the men were ordered to cease loading
double-dumped wool; but shortly after-
wards the Federation ordered them back
at the request of the Commission, which
immediately summoned a conference.
Between meetings of this conference
Mr. Morrison, chairman of the Commis-
sion, visited ships loading wool in Syd-
ney, went down the hatches and asked the
men what they thought of double-dumps.
They told him they were not opposed to
handling “doubles” as long as they were
not called upon to lift them—it has
always been general practice to roll, not
lift, these “doubles,” He therefore pro-
posed to order members of the Federa-
tion to handle “doubles,” with the pro-
viso that they should not be lifted or
handled in confined spaces such as alley-
ways, lockers and tunnel-ways. If men
were called upon to roll “doubles” more
than ten “longers,” two extra men would
be provided each side, in addition to the
six each side already employed on
“doubles.”
This S.I.C. attitude was regarded as in-
subordinate by the Federation. That a
mere Government-appointed authority
should question W.W.F. demands and
then refuse them was intolerable. So a
second ultimatum was issued: no hand-
ling of “doubles” on and after May 6
unless some other date approved of by
the Federation should be “agreed upon.”
It was this ultimatum which paralysed
Australian ports for a fortnight.
Most of the Sydney wharflaborers had
no wish to go on strike. Not only Mr.
Morrison found that they did not object
to “doubles.” Mr. Bennett, Sydney dele-
gate to the Federation’s biennial confer-
ence, said he had asked about 200 men
their views, and the general opinion was
that “doubles” were “all right,” Many
were, inclined to disobey the stopwork
order, but recoiled from the savage
punishment that refusal would have
brought on them. However, 291 signed
a petition favoring continuance of
double-dumps and asking for permission
to express their views before the Federal
Conference in Sydney. General Secre-
tary Healy refused, and referred them
to the Sydney branch, knowing full well
that no decision by the Sydney branch
could affect decisions of the conference.
So, as all Australians can now see, a
band of troublemakers controlling the
Federation can inflict enormous losses
without cause and against the wishes of
the men they are supposed to represent.
The strike was part of an organised
scheme to create chaos in industry and
to increase the power of our budding
commissars. And though our Labor
“Government” claims to have “settled”,
it the “settlement” was followed by a
demand for reduction of working hours,
and others will follow.
And what of the men who had the
courage to sign a petition expressing views
contrary to those held by the commissars?
At the W.W.F. conference in Sydney
two delegates from Queensland moved
“That this conference directs Federal
Council to inquire into the statements
made by a section of members in Sydney
that they were opposed to the decision
of conference re double-dumps, Federal
Council to deal with any individual found
guilty of making statements contrary to
conference decisions and damaging to
the Federation.” This resolution was
carried.
The real commissar technique ! Any-
one who differs from Our Views will be
dealt with”! And Mr. Chifley would
never interfere to prevent these workers
being “crucified.”— Deltamu (N.S.W.).
“Eager to Come”
The experience of “R.A.S2’ (B. 8/5/’46)
with Current Affairs discussions at a naval
school in Scotland was not mine.
In the past four years I talked to hun-
dreds of British rankers—men and women
of Army and R.A.F.—in Delhi about
Australia. The reactions I got were com-
monsense without exception. I found
eager inquiry about politics, trade, indus-
try, trade-unionism, Australia’s interest in
overseas affairs, the economics of indus-
try and farming. I know, too, that this
is the experience of the Australian High
Commissioner’s office in India and of the
Trade Commissioner’s office in Calcutta.
I published in 1944 a small book on
Australia written specially for an Indian
audience. It sold three editions and
brought many inquiries about Australia
which ignored the kangaroo-too-big-for-
seven - million - people complex, which
“R.A.S.” does not seem to have been able
to break down. Amongst the hundreds of
fine types of young English, Irish, Scots
and Welsh men and women who listened
to me I found many eager to come to
Australia to settle, either on the land or
as tradesmen. I did what I could to help
them further their inquiries, and so did
the H.C.’s office.
But I don’t know that we are doing
anything about attracting this type of
people to this country, I understand that
there is a policy, but what is being done
to apply it? — C. E. Sayers (Vic.).
The Jap and the Future
Apropos “Nogat’s” warning (B.
24/4/’46), I can’t imagine anyone who
has read Japanese history, or who has
had the opportunity to observe and assess
the Jap in peace and war, failing to recog-
nise his qualities.
The Japanese have made mistakes and
will learn from them. They’ve been
knocked down, but they will rise again—
not necessarily as a militarised nation.
The discipline noted by “Nogat” is the
requisite of achievement and victorious
living. Using the word “subservience,” I
think “Nogat” was emphasising the
respect and discipline of the Japanese
soldier. In Japan I have everywhere ob-
served a fine courtesy, but not craven
subservience.
Honest appreciation of Japanese char-
acter is essential for harmonious relations
in the future. We will trade with Japan
again. Commerce must be a two-way
traffic.
Experience gained in the Occupation
Force by the right men could be of great
benefit to our country, and should help
to promote better relations in the Pacific ;
but it depends a great deal on the class
of man accepted. Japan is no place for
the irresponsible.
The educational experience for young
men of the right type and training to
profit by it should not be overlooked.
Service in Japan should be of great value
to young employees of companies with
Eastern contacts or plans for develop-
ment in the East. — Alpha (8.C.0.F.,
Japan).
“In First-class Condition”
“Colbun’s” statement (B. 8/5/’46)
that the Queensland Transport Commis-
sion will not grant a licence for the
carriage of goods and passengers on the
Gladstone-Biloela highway is correct, but
his other statement, “before long the road
will be unfit for traffic,” is not.
The road has always been kept in a
good state of repair—members of this
association use it frequently—and at the
present time is in first-class condition.
And, to our knowledge, not one pri-
vate car has been stopped and its
driver questioned about the carriage of
supplies of fish and groceries.—M. J.
Anderson, secretary Biloela and District
Progress Association (Q.).
The Dutch
“Ask any returned prisoner of war”
(about the Dutch), says “Gunner X” (B.
1 151 ’46). Well, lam one ; for three years
and a half I was imprisoned by the Jap
in Indonesia. I had known a little about
that country before I went; I learned a lot
while I was there ; and I have not stopped
studying its problems since I got back.
I certainly do not feel unfriendly towards
the Dutch.
“Gunner X” should do two things—
speak only for himself and study the
relevant facts before speaking. He will
find that the Dutch sacrificed their entire
fleet in the battle ol* the Java Sea ; that
their air force fought to the last ’plane,
and that, instead of clearing out, the
Dutch population, in general, was ordered
by its Government to remain. Of the
total of 250,000 only 1500 people, includ-
ing pupils of the military flying school,
were evacuated to Australia on Govern-
ment orders—an exodus considered neces-
sary to carry on the fight from Australia.
The reason why more British troops
than Dutch were killed in Java after the
Japanese capitulation is simply that
S;E.A.C. would not permit Dutch troops
to land. As for British troops being
“sacrificed to so little purpose.” “Gunner
X evidently does not appreciate military
| The tiny garrisons so “sacri-
ficed ’ diverted many thousands of crack
Japanese troops otherwise destined for
Australia.— Lieut. VX (Vic.).
“Jobs For All”
A friend of mine, employed by a shire
council for about 15 years, has been put
off, the reason given being that prefer-
ence to servicemen had to operate. Thus,
because my friend was not protected by
seniority, a young returned Digger was
put in his place. The soldier is actually
a newcomer to the district, while the man
dismissed is supporting a wife and four
children. Four similar cases have come
under my notice in Queensland.
If this kind of thing continues, very
soon all returned servicemen will have
jobs at the expense of the men who toiled
to keep up supplies to them in the front
lines. Every soldier wants a job—he
fought for one —but the slogan should be
“jobs for all,” not jobs for the soldiers
at the expense of other employees.—
Bennie (Q.).
What Does YOUR Brother Do?
Something which particularly gets my
goat in social columns is this sort of
thing; “The bridesmaid, who is studying
medicine at the University,” or “The
bride, whose brother is a dental student,”
and so forth. The interest seems to centre
in what one’s relations are learning, pro-
vided it’s something which can be learned
at a university.
This may be of interest to some, but,
if so, why not extend the idea to include
“The bride, whose brother is learning
how to run a grocery store”? Where’s
the difference? Work is work, whether
it’s a profession, trade or business life,
and one honest man honestly attending
his work is as good as another. — Eve
(N.S.W.).
Army Command
“Three Wars” (B. 24/4/’46) gives the
impression that the Military Board is a
committee of civil servants. In actual
fact it is a military Cabinet with a Gov-
ernment representative.
The Chief of General Staff, while re-
sponsible for co-ordinating the work of
all arms and services, is most directly
concerned with strategy, operational plan-
ning and training policy. The Adjutant-
General is responsible for administration,
including the career of the individual
soldier, from the day he enlists until the
day he is buried or discharged. The
Quartermaster-General is responsible for
such matters as the maintenance and
movements of formations ; the Master-
General of the Ordnance for the produc-
tion and distribution of all ordnance
stores.
No matter how brilliant a C.-in-C. may
be —and I’m one of thousands of his offi-
cers who acclaim General Blarney’s work
and who resent the disgraceful attacks
“You might fix a guttering and downpipe on it”
on him —the fact remains that one man
cannot and should not have at his finger-
tips the aggregate of specialised know-
ledge possessed by a well-constituted Mili-
tary Board. Surely a major lesson from
the war was that the C.-in-C, system im-
posed too great a strain on General
Blarney. His frequent visits to for-
ward areas meant that many administra-
tive matters had to be pigeon-holed until
he returned to his main H.Q. in Mel-
bourne.
But no internal organisation —whether
it be under a C.-in-C. or a Military Board
—can be satisfactory while there is poli-
tical control by men who know almost
nothing about the way in which an army
works and fights. Ministerial disregard
for or ignorance of the fundamentals of
grand strategy resulted in the violation
of the principle of economy of force —
by having one army to fight and another
army to. bolster up the statistical records
of the war effort; the violation of the
principle of offensive action —by laying
down zones in which militia formations
could fight; the violation of the principle
of concentration —by introducing the dis-
traction of a priority-release plan just
when the Seventh and Ninth Divisions
were concentrating on the Borneo cam-
paigns.
There is good reason to suspect that
General Blarney was bitterly opposed to
the Governmental policy on these and
kindred matters, but he became the scape-
goat, inside and outside the Army, for
the inevitable consequences of the policy:
inequality of sacrifice, the cannibalisa-
tion of many militia and armored forma-
tions, and the fact that so many soldiers
never fired a shot in anger.
The appointment of a C.-in-C. in the
crisis of 1942 was justified by the need
for swift decisions. Our need today is
for well-considered planning by the chiefs
of staff and services, working in close
harmony amongst themselves and with
the Government, . We have military leaders
of proven ability and wide experience.
We must now find a Minister for the
Army who understands that his job is
to assist the military leaders to produce
a force which fights, trains and functions
in accordance with proven military doc-
trine and tradition, not in terms of Trades
Hall policy and ideas, — Peter Mike
(W.A.).
Rice
Australians, whose yearly pre-war con-
sumption of rice was worth £400,000,
have had none for five years, and N.S.W.
production is down 50 p.c. Yet the sub-
tropical coast of Queensland, with its
heavy monsoonal rains, could be pro-
ducing hundreds of thousands of tons.
Make seed rice available or let growers
import it and we’ll have that production
in less time than it took in N. S. Wales.
Why retard the State most suitable for
ricegrowing?—H. S. (Q.).
The Sikhs
“Puyyaka” (B. 15/5/’46) overstates his
case. I’ve known the Sikh pretty well on
his own ground and in several parts of
South-east Asia. His war record was
good ; he’s a bonny fighter when well led
—like Johnny Gurkha. But after the
Malayan business Sikhs joined “the India
National Army,’ 1 and there were cases of
Sikh collaboration with the Japs in Shang-
hai.
In any case, there are only a few mil-
lion Sikhs, and they would not have a
hope of holding northern India against
an aggressor unless they were led by
British officers and all the brain work
was done for them by someone else. They
have never in all their history produced
a great thinker, a great leader, a great
poet or a great administrator. Their little
claim for Sikhistan was not treated seri-
ously by anyone in India.
Laughing, jolly-enough fellows and good
bullocking fighters, excellent carpenters
and shrewd businessmen, the Sikhs will
never be a major community in India.
Most of them live in Central Punjab.
Sitting on top of them are the Punjabi
Mussulman and the North-west Frontier
Pathan, either of whom could lick the
beard off a Sikh in any walk of life.—
Shere Khan (Vic.).


The Australian Officer
“Peter Mike” (B. 8/5/’46) started a
real argument:
The show in which I saw action was a
rather sticky business. Nearly all the officers
did their duty. But under the mental stress of
knowing that the position was hopeless and death
was probable, there was a need for inspira-
tion, and it was not forthcoming. Instead, there
was indecision, appearance of fear; worst of
all, a regard for personal safety.
Subsequent years in a Jap prison camp con-
firmed an opinion long before formed that
men and officers were too far apart. Nobody
objected to officers’ privileges under Jap
authority, but there were displays of selfishness,
superiority and lowering of dignity for gain.
And soldiers guilty of disciplinary offences
were handed over to Japs for punishment in
their fashion, presumably because our officers
lacked the ability to suggest an Australian form
of punishment.
Yet during imprisonment officers had oppor-
tunities to prove themselves and gain the de-
votion of their men. They were paid, they
did no work, they suffered little sickness, and
they had trunks of clothing to trade for food,
medicine and tobacco. They slept' on beds and
had batmen. Of the men, one in three perished.
Every officer that I know of came home. No
wonder men who survived their own hell of
disease, slavery, starvation and brutality will not
speak up for officers. —Sox. Damocles (Vic.).
Probably “Peter Mike” (B. 8/5/’46) is re-
ferring to front-line officers when he writes of
the dozens who did “their job with steady
efficiency.” Had he been in bases he may have
had other views.
Even overlooking cases of inefficiency and in-
sobriety, officers’ sins of omission were such
that many soldiers will have little sympathy
with them in a world where ability rather than
power counts. As one example of officers’ lack
of interest in their men’s welfare I instance
the “Current Affairs Bulletin.” I was 18 months
in the Middle East but never heard of use
being made of this “Bulletin.” In New Guinea
there was a commotion among unit commanders
when a Routine Order demanded to know how
many “C.A.8.” discussions had been held. Of
those that did not ignore the order 31 units
claimed regular and 14 claimed irregular dis-
cussions, while 32 admitted that there had been
none.
In the M.E. unit of 500 men the only
interest our officers took in our welfare was to
ensure that beer supplies were unlimited for
malcontents. They even confiscated tent lamps
so that the wet canteen was the only lighted
place during the evenings.
My sympathies are with those conscientious
and intelligent officers who were forced to
associate with the mediocre. They’ll find a
useful place in civilian life. — Xenexer (N.S.W.).
Did nine out of every ten Australian officers
(B. 8/5/’46) rise from the ranks? Not in the
Air Force. A good percentage were granted
commissions on graduation from flying school,
and most of those who did rise from the ranks
started from sergeant.
Whether or not an officer rose from the
ranks has little to do with the fact that the
King’s Commission is of no value in “Civvy-
street.”
In the fighting services ability to handle a
gun, fly an aircraft and endure physical hard-
ships were the criterions of greatness. I have
seen decorated airmen fail when a promotion
forced them to a desk. No doubt “Peter
Mike” saw the same thing in the Army.
Officers were trained for war. In peace they
must stand on their pre-war experience. Mili-
tary life may have broadened the outlook Of
some; it unsettled others —but that applies
to all ranks. In my judgment military training
has very little value in civil life. —T. P. V.
(N.S.W.).
“Peter Mike” evades the most important
point. The mere fact that a man was in uni-
form does not prove that he was ever actually
engaged on active service. Every ex-soldier
knows that there were two distinct types of ser-
vice. In the second type, though the life might
be boring, there was no danger, and conditions
were no worse than those of thousands Of
civilians. Beyond all question, the second class
were in the majority.
It was not a question of rank. Brigadiers
went over the Owen Stanleys with their men
and took their chance with them from Ben-
ghazi to Balikpapan. One could search the
records of others of equal rank without finding
that they ever left the comfort of an easy-chair.
Nor was it a question of arm of the service.
Infantry were on duty continuously as guards
in base areas. Provosts were in the rearguard
of letreats. Overseas service meant little —a few
troops who went to the Middle East in 1941 had
a “Cook’s Tour,” scarcely leaving their ships.
Men in north-west Australia, though never sub-
jected to enemy action, suffered hardships
through poor supply arrangements.
Ribbons are no proof of active service in the
true sense of the term. I was in N.G. with a
field unit in the Moresby-Owen Stanley area
throughout 1942, and again with H.Q. First
Army in the Lae area for eight months in 1944-
45. Both periods count equally as* far as rib-
bons are concerned, but anyone who was at
each place at the relevant times will admit that
any comparison was a joke. The farther back
you got the higher the percentage of officers
became. There were (1) genuine fighting
soldiers, with honorable records, whose health
would no longer stand up to arduous campaign-
ing ; (2) professional men who were really
civilians in uniform doing a job closely akin to
their peace-time job; (3) chaps who “knew
somebody that knew someone,” and who
apparently had nothing to do but indulge in
log-rolling, buck-passing and crawling to an
extent which would make a politician blush.
By all means let us have ex-servicemen as
leaders in both private enterprise and political
life, but let us be sure that they were “real”
servicemen who made genuine sacrifices by being
in uniform, and not those who spent their period
of service in cushy jobs, either in or out of
Australia. — Five By Two (Q.).
“Australia’s Mineral Resources”'
Alex. Strachan (B. 1/5/’46), on Aus-
tralia’s mineral resources, places Mount
Madden and Mount Buchanan at the
head of the Palmer River (Q.), with lodes
100 ft. wide. Actually, Mounts Madden
and Buchanan are 40 miles from the
Palmer head, in very rough country. The
lodes are not more than 25ft; wide, and
Madden and Buchanan were tested many
years ago by eminent mining men.
If “the large lode at Mount Perry (Q.)”
does assay from three to seven ’weights
it’s a wonder mining companies have not
investigated. Mount Morgan is working
on three ’weights’ dirt and dividend-paying
mines are on four to five ’weights. —
D. Gavin (Q.).
In Ward’s Principality
Before the war New Guinea natives
were always ready to obey orders given
by white employers, there being a
fundamental code of discipline, as there
is among employers and employees the
world over. This has changed now—an
answer of “Yee, no like” is the native’s
inevitable counter to an order he does
not intend to carry out. War-time restric-
tions still exist, and the employer’s hands
are tied, so reasonable punishment cannot
be meted out to offenders.
Large companies are comparatively for-
tunate. Their pre-war prestige has stood
them in good stead, and they have assem-
bled the best type of native offering.
Main sufferers are smaller companies and
individual settlers who are battling to
re-establish themselves. They are being
hit hard by this labor situation.
An old New Guinea resident, recently
returried to the Bulolo goldfields area,
attributes the trouble —as do many other
experienced islanders —to Mr. Ward’s
visit to New Guinea in 1944. Mr. Ward
made many handsome promises to natives
of raising their employment standards as
soon as the war finished. Many of his
acts earned the strong disapproval of men
who had spent their lives among New
Guinea natives and developed a relation-
ship that gave the utmost efficiency and
maintained the standard of village life.
One glaring example of Mr. Ward’s
lack of understanding of the native was
when he refused to be carried from a
boat to shore and, before an audience of
grinning blacks, waded ashore.
Old islanders insist that another reason
for the demeanor of the native is the
loose treatment by Allied servicemen and
some touring entertainers who were in
New Guinea during the war. Native-
wise “Taubadas” shuddered when actress
Carole Landis flaunted herself, semi-
clothed, before the natives and posed
lighting cigarettes for them. The native
always knew the value of money in a
way that was deemed good for him by
experts at handling natives. Trading with
the Americans has taught him the way
of making profit that is not good for his
advancement or village life.
These things may seem trivial, but to
those who have any knowledge of colon-
ising, and the meaning of prestige, they
add up to a serious threat to successful
development of a country where native
labor is vital—C. G. (N.S.W.).
The Barrier Reef
There has been a close season on the
Barrier Reef for the past six years, so
the accumulation of trochus shell and
beche-de-mer must be considerable. One
man brought into Mackay five tons of
shell for a month’s fishing; another
brought three tons for five days’ fishing.
Britain and U.S.A. will be the main
markets until Europe gets on its manu-
facturing feet again. There should be
an opening here for returned R.A.N. men.
In fact, it would not be a bad idea to
restrict the issue of fishing licences to
them for, say, three or four years. —
Shellback (Q.).
The R.S.L.
Amid all the talk of unity among ex-
servicemen’s organisations, why not stop
to consider whether this unity is necessary
and what would be the benefits of its
achievement, and the price?
The “unity” which could be attained
only by making R.S.L. membership open
to all or by creating an entirely new
organisation would be short-lived. Either
course would mean common member-
ship for all who at present wear badges
—among them enemy aliens who served
grudgingly and compulsorily in labor units
—and returned men would quickly form
a new association limited to themselves.
The Government might, of course, legis-
late for compulsory membership in the
new show, but this seems scarcely feasible,
even in Australia.
All clubs, associations and societies
must be founded on common interest.
There can be no possible community of
feeling stronger than that of having faced
death together.
The League has been attacked fre-
quently for not widening its ranks, poli-
ticians and others ineligible for any ex-
servicemen’s association being especially
ready with advice. It will continue to be
a target for such attacks while it remains
what it is, Australian through and
through—the greatest enemy of anti-Aus-
tralianism. The R.S.L. began as a fellow-
ship of men who had served their coun-
try overseas in war, so surely it can be
conceded the right to frame its own con-
stitution and to decide who shall be quali-
fied for admission to it.
Others claim that the League should
take all volunteers. By so doing unity
would not be achieved, as the great body
of called-up personnel who did not serve
outside Australia would still remain. In
any event, the proposal has no more
appeal than that of completely unre-
stricted membership, because there were
“volunteers” who were most unwilling to
serve overseas, even in safe ground jobs.
Such men have lesser claims on member-
ship than those lads who were called up
and faced quite cheerfully the prospect
of going to the hardships and perils of
jungle infantry warfare.
There is no valid objection to the exist-
ence of two major organisations, one for
those who served overseas and the other
“Your wife keeps asking how YOU are!"
for those who served in Australia. The
latter have a community of interest and
their organisation is all-embracing, since
any returned man who so desires may
join it. A telling pointer to the senti-
ments of the average returned man is the
fact that the great majority have become
members of the League.
There are allegedly “rival” organisa-
tions such as the Air Force Association
and the Rats of Tobruk, but most of their
members are also members of the League.
Generally, their voice can be heard on
public questions through the League or
the Legion of Ex-Servicemen. These two
major bodies can be relied upon to speak
unitedly where a solid ex-servicemen’s
voice is required.
Remember, too, that though the League
may not admit a man to membership it
will still fight for his interests as an ex-
serviceman.—Ex-Nav(B) (Tas.).
Bilkers
Over a long-sought glass of beer I
heard two fellows discussing ways and
means of income-tax cheating.
One, a billiard-saloon keeper and s.-p.
bookie, boasted that he made £25 a week
and omitted £2O of it from his income-tax
return. The other, who specialised in
inventing bad debts as deductions, agreed
with him that a man was a mug to make
out an honest income-tax return.
The more I heard of the conversation,
the flatter my beer tasted. The two of
them will probably pay less than the £l7B
which I, a smalltown boot repairer, must
fork out this year.
I expect to open my newspaper one of
these days and read that someone has
been battered with a beer bottle while
boasting of how he had rooked the Taxa-
tion Department, which, of course, means
his fellow-citizens. — Blue (Q.).
“Bride Ships”
Britain is at least using her shipping to
the full. Australia has held up Dutch
ships for eight months.
I have read that brides of certain
R.A.A.F. personnel should have priority
because their husbands fought to
save Britain in 1940. But what
of the B.P.F. and its personnel for de-
mob.? Do they howl to high heaven
about the absence of Australian ships
to take them and their Australian
brides home to the U.K.? They came
just as far to fight for us.
And who hasn’t heard of the unstinted
praise given “Hotel Implacable,” only one
of several carriers which brought home
thousands of our men in luxury. English
W.R.N.S. recently travelled home in one
of their own ships, slinging hammocks
in the swimming bath so that Australian
girls “who had not done a hand’s turn in
the war” could use the passenger accom-
modation. —R. H. (N.S.W.).
One-class Trains
“Hist” (B. 17/4/’46), in his otherwise
admirable suggestions for the improve-
ment of railway services, overlooked the
point that one-class travel would raise the
cost to those least able to stand an in-
crease.
That has been the experience in Tas-
mania. All Tasmanian trains are one-
class, but everyone is now obliged to pay
a first-class fare. The division of trains
into first- and second-class sections (in
Britain and Europe, third-class, also) was
due to financial consideration for the less
affluent —the very people who already get
most of the kicks in money-conscious
Australia.— Milgia (Tas,),
Troop Trains
Bound for Britain and air-force service,
I did the trip across the U.S.A.
in the American version of a troop
train. We were taken to the train
by bus, loaded on and assigned to
our berths quickly and without fuss, and
were heading off on the fpur- or five-day
journey within quarter of an hour of
arrival at the station. Very different was
the last leg of our trip home in Australia,
when we spent about an hour listening to
the officer in charge of the train bleating
that if we didn’t do what he told us he
would cancel it.
The American troop train was made up
of luxurious Pullman sleeping coaches,
with an attendant to each car and one
van fitted out as a kitchen. At night the
attendant made up the beds, which were
about the size of an ordinary three-
quarter bed, and equipped with sheets,
blankets, pillows and reading lamps.
By day the bunks made down
into double seats facing each other and
with a small table between. First-class
meals, running to turkey, roast pork and
ice-cream, were prepared in the kitchen
van, served there in discardable paper
plates and cups and taken back and eaten
at your private table. A medico presided
in a room fitted up as a surgery, and the
only complaint anyone could raise during
the whole trip was that the heating system
made the carriages a little too warm —
though it was mid-winter with deep snow
outside.
At every stop in America a women’s
organisation was on hand with trayloads
of smokes, sweets, fruit and general eats,
available for the asking. Also every
station had an unattended bookstall bear-
ing two notices —one asking civilians to
leave light reading matter, and the other
telling troops to help themselves.
Australian troop trains? Well, one
took two days and nights to get me from
Sydney to Brisbane. I found them a little
more civilised on my return. They had
improvised sleepers—old coaches, stripped
completely inside and the walls lined
three-deep with the crudest of iron bunks,
straw palliasses and four men to three
bunks. — Peter (R.A.A.F.).


mrnmtmsßsm
Si:
t*
AND
BUILT ♦FIDO’
“Fido” (“Fog Investigation Dispersal Operations”) was born
of war but will be a great peacetime boon.
In 1942, so many R.A.F. planes were crashing in fog that
Mr. Churchill ordered that a remedy be found “with all expedition.”
A team of 500 research workers was summoned. They examined
all imaginable solutions and finally chose one. That one consisted
of a “box” of pipelines and burners surrounding a runway, burning
vaporised petrol under pressure, which “dried” the air above the
aerodrome and gave clear visibility even when fog was thick on all
sides.
The Shell Group was entrusted with the work of installation, and
eventually 16 aerodromes were equipped with “Fido.” “Fido”
saved innumerable lives and aeroplanes, and freed the bombing
offensive from interruption by fog.
Shell gave great help because Shell “knew how.” Shell’s
‘‘know-how” will bring the motorist, too, new benefits in fuel and
lubrication —soon I
SHELL
Use SHELL Motor Oil
You can be
sure of
ŕ
G464M
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc. In Gt. Britain)
