

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3461
Wednesday, June 12, 1946
. Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney* N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
INTERIOR OF FROGMORE MAUSOLEUM.
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
TyiTHIN the Home Park #f Windsor Castle, on the left-hand
’ * side of the Long Walk, is the magnificent mausoleum built by
the Queen as memorial to the Prince Consort. This Romanesque
cruciform building cost £200,000, which was provided by her
Majesty herself, and was consecrated in 1862. a year after the
Prince’s death. In the ornate octagonal chamber, thirty feet in
diameter and sixty-five feet high, stood a double sarcophagus of
dark-grey granite, resting on polished black marble. It bore a
recumbent statue of Prince Albert, executed in white marble by
M arochetti, and at each corner knelt the bronze figure of an angel,
TT . ’ , • . chp chnnld
Her Majesty s intention was that, m the Mine s of time she sho^d
be buried here beside the remains of her great and good hu
In 1901 the Queen was here laid to rest.


ĝ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Builetin. ,,
Uy Name ..
it i Address
S.B. 146 ..
AGE
The Red Page
THE CRAFT OF THE NOVEL.
[For many years, in correspondence and in
conversation, Norman Lindsay has been dis-
cussing with Australian writers the problems
of their art. “The Craft of the Novel” is the
second of two essays on the subject he was in-
vited to write for the Red Page. The first (B.
22 /5 / ’46) pointed out that there has been an
indifference to constructive principles in the
average Australian novel. The second is in-
tended to demonstrate practical methods
whereby constructive unity and effective charac-
terisation may be attained.]
It is a dangerous thing to lay down
arbitrary rulings for the practice of any
art. At best, we can only suggest certain
things that it is advisable not to do if
unity in concept and construction is to be
attained. Traced to their source, we find
that most principles in art are already de-
fined by the functioning of the human
ego and the normal procedure of life
itself.
Life creates the material for art and
the human ego translates it into form,
therefore form must be dictated by the
senses which absorb the material of art.
Thus in plastic art, it is the eye which de-
fines the constructive principle: the eye
focuses on a central point, and is aware
of other objects only within its radius
of vision. A picture, consequently, should
have a focal point to which the attention
is attracted, both by the emphasis of this
central object and by the subordination
and design of all secondary objects in the
canvas. On the same principle, we focus
our attention on the procedure and crisis
of the dramas of life —on the fact of
a murder, for example, and on the events
which led up to it.
A picture is seen in its entirety at a
single glance, whereas poems, novels or
music have movement in time and are
conveyed to the mind by a‘ constant suc-
cession of fresh images, so that their con-
structive unity is a much more difficult
thing to define. But the same principle
must apply: each must have its domi-
nant focussing point, towards which all
secondary material must move in
unity.
Inspiration may suggest the theme of
a novel, but only sound technical crafts-
manship can build it into a constructive
unity. And I find, by the contemplation
of many novels, published and unpub-
lished, that the prime difficulty of the
novel' lies in its least significant aspect,
and that is in the “bridge parts” which
lead from chapter to chapter, and episode
to episode, and which bind the narrative
into a continuity of movement. Those
“bridge parts” in a novel are what edges
are in painting. In both cases, unless the
salient subject-matter is bound into a unity
by the subtle merging of edges, there will
be abruptness and dislocation in surface
and sequence. It is bad construction in
the novel to jump from one episode to
another where there is no relation be-
tween the two, or to leave one set of
characters and shift to another without
logical sequence.
A great deal of that sort of thing can
be avoided if the writer starts his novel
by first drawing a ground plan of its
locality, and marking the dwellings of
each character, and the streets or paths
or roads by which one may be brought
naturally into contact with another. And
at the same time the writer may consider
any communal interests, mutual acquaint-
ances or events which will bring the char-
acters into relation with one another.
Writers enjoy the episodic meat of a novel
but shy off the job of articulating the
bones first. “Bridge parts” are not inspir-
ing to write, and they frequently force
one to a good deal of irritated medi-
tation.
But, again, a great deal of that may
be avoided if the end of one chapter con-
tains a lead into the next. However slight
the reference, it will be sufficient if it
creates the illusion in the reader’s mind
that he is reading a continuous narrative.
For a chapter gets him into a certain
frame of mind. To switch him off in the
next chapter on to a new series of events
or personalities forces him to build up a
new frame of mind, and the annoyance
of having to do so very often causes him
to drop the novel. The mechanism should
sustain interest, and “bridge parts” are
that mechanism.
Moreover, “bridge parts” may be used
effectively to emphasise drama. As an
instance of that, take the ingenuity by
which Dickens overcomes the difficulty
of getting Mr. Guppy, the crude little
Cockney law clerk of Bleak House, into
the remote Lady Dedlock’s private apart-
ment for an interview.
Mr. Guppy suspects that there is some
family relation between Esther Summer-
son and Lady Dedlock, because of Esther’s
likeness to a portrait of Lady Dedlock
which he has seen. As he is dismally in
love with Esther, and hopes to gain her
goodwill by tracing her relationship with
the xich Dedlock family, he starts ferret-
ing into her past.
Esther’s father, Captain Hawdon, had
died in miserable circumstances as an
anonymous law-writer, and Mr, Snagsby,
the law stationer, has been called in to
give what information he may about him,
and Joe, the crossing-sweeper, is also
dragged in at the inquest to tell what he
knows of the dead man. Mr. Snagsby, a
kind man, is sorry for Joe and gives him
half-crowns. These two are sufficiently
remote contacts with Lady Dedlock, yet
they lead to her.
Mrs. Snagsby belongs to a religious
sect presided over by the oily Chadband.
Chadband has married Mrs. Rachel, who
was once maid to the austere aunt who
brought Esther up. The Chadbands are
dining with the Snagsbys when a police-
man brings Joe, arrested as a vagabond,
to Mr. Snagsby, as Joe has insisted that
Mr. Snagsby will vouch for him. Mr.
Guppy, professionally in contact with
Mr. Snagsby, calls at the shop while Joe
is being questioned, and hears his garbled
story of a mysterious veiled lady who
made him point out the filthy grave where
the law-writer was buried. Making him-
self socially agreeable, Mr. Guppy is in-
vited by Mrs. Snagsby into tea, and there
meets Mrs. Chadband, and learns from
her that Esther’s aunt once confided to
her that Esther’s name was not Summer-
son but Hawdon.
With other matters emerging to his fer-
reting, Mr. Guppy has now enough evi-
dence to warrant his writing to Lady
Dedlock requesting an interview, and
thereby becomes the mechanism which
allows Lady Dedlock to discover that her
illegitimate daughter did not die in in-
fancy but is alive in the person of Esther
Summerson.
Dickens could have avoided this extra-
ordinary series of “bridges” if he had
resorted to abrupt transition from scene
to scene, but the slow building up of con-
tacts from unexpected but logical sources
and Mr. Guppy’s pertinacity in following
up their leads convey the sense of a
ruthless closing-in on Lady Dedlock and
the exposure of her secret, which is vitally
important to the novel’s dramatic inten-
sity: inevitability must be the principle
by which any drama carries conviction,
but unless the writer shows the mechan-
ism by which destiny brings it to crisis
there will be no conviction of inevit-
ability.
But the writer is advised to take care
that the mechanism is not made too obvi-
ous. Nothing is so fatal to a suspense
motive as to make the suspense too appa-
rent. Or to forecast it. In that excellent
novel A House Is Built a little boy and
girl are playing in a garden, and the
writers let slip the information that the
little girl is destined one day to destroy
the boy. That, for me, robbed the final
drama of intensity. Whenever those two
characters were mentioned the foreknow-
ledge of their end nagged at the mind,
making intermediate events tedious. The
urge was to skip and find out how it hap-
pened.
Again, if a writer lets his preconcep-
tion of inevitability color his preseiitation
of a character or an event, he will defeat
interest in its gradual development.
Richard Aldington is a novelist who slips
badly in this respect. Having tried as a
stunt in The Death of a Hero announcing
the conclusion of his novel before it had
well begun, he repeated the device in
all his other novels. One could detect
their inevitable finality after reading half
a dozen pages. In one of them —I forget
which —the preconception of a character
was so apparent that after a couple of
pages of him I said to myself “I bet this
chap commits suicide in the end.” I
looked up the end, found that to be so,
and dropped the novel unread. And this
was not because I had learned the plot,
but because after those first few pages
there was nothing to reveal in a character
already revealed.
The interest in the revelation of char-
acter is, of course, in his or her unknown
quantity. And that is based on the under-
standing that most human masks reverse
the personality they cover. One constantly
hears the phrase “Well, he is the last sort
of person I suspected of doing a thing
like that.” The mask has slipped—the
basic motivity of the personality has ex-
posed itself. It is a commonplace that
meek and sheeplike men secrete great
malice, and that noisy fellows seek to
cover up a meek and sheeplike ego.
In the terms of psychoanalysis, “the
philanthropist is the sadist who over-
compensates his craving.” But there is
no proposal here that the novelist should
indulge in text-book psychology of that
sort.- He is advised to have nothing to
do with Freud and the psychoanalysts,
who have done a lot of damage to the
novel by giving writers the illusion that
they can learn about human motives from
a book instead of observing their action
in life. All psychoanalytical terminologies
should be taboo —to use them in a novel
is to impart an intolerably priggish air
to the writer.
Psychology in the novel is based on a
visual projection of a character in ap-
pearance, speech and action, with the
ability to draw out at a given moment
the hidden motive of his being. Dickens
makes a cockshy of Sir Leicester Dedlock
all through Bleak House as the fatuously
complacent, arrogant and class-conscious
aristocrat and then, in finality, turns him
into a truly noble and dignified
figure when, stricken down by paralysis,
his one thought is for Lady Dedlock.
Since visualisation —in Conrad’s words
“to make see” —is the prime function of
the novelist, I am convinced that, where
a novel goes flat and a character has
failed to come alive, it is because the
writer himself has failed to get a clear
pictorial image in his mind of the event,
scene, or personality he is writing about.
I have had so much to do in my time
with illustrating stories and novels that
this problem of visualisation has been
expressly forced on me.
A properly visualised story springs to
the mind automatically in pictorial form.
Slovenly tricks which pass undetected as
reading-matter are glaringly exposed to
the artist who has to illustrate the book. A
writer may introduce a group of people,
label them, give a rough classification of
each, and get away with it, but an artist
can’t escape by drawing a bald head or a
double chin and leaving the rest of the
face blank. I suggest that a writer should
constantly ask himself how he would
draw a scene or a face if he were an
artist, and he will be astonished to find
out how much material he needs to medi-
tate over and select from, in order to
make a reality of it. I suggest that he
should go carefully through the ms. of
his novel and mark on the margin the
word “Picture” wherever he detects flat
passages of narrative which tell the
reader about matters but .do not present
them to him pictorially, so that he may
rewrite them in visualised form.
A danger to be guarded against in
drawing character from life is the illusion
that, because the writer sees the real
character clearly in his own mind, the
reader will see it also, and therefore he
need not present it pictorially. I once
illustrated a novel by a lady novelist
which had for its central character a
boozy loafer’ in an up-country town.
Having a conscience on such matters, I
searched the ms. carefully for a descrip-
tion of this character, but could not find
a hint of his external appearance, so I
drew him as a fat fellow with a beer-
eater’s moustache. The lady novelist
charged into my studio in a fury to
demand why I dared have the insolence
to tamper with her sacrosanct ms. by
putting a moustache on a character who
was cleanshaved. The man she had
drawn the character from, it appeared,
was cleanshaved. Apparently she suffered
from the delusion that by an inspired
exercise of clairvoyance I could transport
my vision to an obscure up-country town
and study her character in the flesh.
A writer can save himself a lot of
trouble if he first makes a synopsis o|
a character, writing down every detail of
his appearance, his manner, his vocabu-
lary, his way of speaking, his background,
any personal idiosyncrasy and particu-
larly his salient mental characteristic, such
as “suspicious,” “tolerant,” “sardonic,”
“stupid,” and so forth. I am always fall-
ing back on Dickens for examples of
mastery in the technique of the novel, but
instances from his works simply jump
into the mind unasked lor. Take these
lightning-flash portraits for perfect ex-
amples of personality and appearance
conveyed in one impact:
... .Podsnap, prosperously feeding, two
little light-colored wiry wings, one on
either side of his bald head, looking as much
like his hairbrushes as his hair; dissolv-
ing view of red beads on his forehead,
large allowance of shirt collar up behind.
....Twemlow; grey, dry, polite, sus-
ceptible to east wind; cheeks drawn in as
if he had made a great effort to retire into
himself years ago and got no further.
Charming old Lady Tippins, with an
immense, obtuse, drab, ob'ldng face, like
a face in a teaspoon.
And so on, round a large dinner-table,
every face drawn with that precision
which selects the exact word which will
convey it to the reader as a pictorial
image.
If a character has marked characteristics,
those should be referred to on his re-
appearance in the novel, so that the reader
will recall who he is and his place in the
narrative. Very few readers remember
a character by name till he has been well
impressed on the memory by repetition.
Reality in the novel is not based on
factualism, but on the validity of
character-draydng. A writer is constantly
bothered by the mental question, “Can I
make the character do this or that? What
authority can reality give me for such
a situation?” The authority of reality
can be dispensed with if the reality of
the character is established in the reader’s
mind. A writer should remind himself
that in relation to his novel he is a god,
and can make his creations do anything
he pleases, so be that he has the art to
convince the reader that they really did it.
1 have already used, in a previous article,
the death of old Krook by spontaneous
combustion as an instance of this truth.
A technical problem which every
novelist must face is the “time-shift.” It
is bad construction to leave a present-
moment narrative and go back into the
past to account for distant events that are
essential to the story. The past should
be brought forward into the present.
In this problem, the technique of the
detective novel can be used with effect.
A crime has been done and the investiga-
tion into it starts at the present moment,
drawing the characters into its procedure
and, through them, delving into past
actions and emotions and the conflict of
personality till the motive of the crime
and its criminal are revealed. In this
way, the past is constantly woven into
present-moment action, and the same
device may be used in the novel proper.
Conrad, indeed, used it as the method all
through Lord Jim. Talk between char-
acters is the most effective way of bring-
ing in the past, but any object surviving
from the past may be used, or a present
event that had its genesis in some past
action.
A rule that should never be violated
is that the writer must not take sides for
or against a character or an action. That
is for the reader to do. 1 have used
Dickens so often for instances of mastery
over the novel that it is only just that
I should give instances of where he vio-
lates his own high canon and falls into
the excessively bad taste of attack-
ing an alleged “villain” or over-
enthusing about a “heroine.” In neither
case is he ever convincing. He tells us
that Esther Summerson is a dear, sweet,
unselfish young thing, and convinces us
only that she is a smug little prig. He
shouts abuse at Carker in Dombey and
Son as a base scoundrel and presents
him as an admirable fellow in every
respect. You have to ignore what
Dickens says about him and pay atten-
tion simply to what Carker does and
says.
Finally, a Word on that most bedevilled
of all problems, an overprizing of charm
in the heroine. There seems to be a fixed
illusion in the world of the novel that,
unless a writer can convince his reader
that his heroine is physically lovely and
mentally charming, the reader will not
think she is desirable. And that sort of
thing has precisely the same effect as the
efforts of the newly-captured lover to
convince the world at large that his be-
loved is a houri from paradise while
everybody is wondering what he can see
in the wench. For in fiction to present a
woman always as lovely and charming
is to present a lifeless dummy.
Personality is much more important
both in life and the novel than conven-
tional good looks. A Rosa Dartle is genu-
inely alluring while a Dora is the sort of
silly creature a man would dodge spending
half an hour with. If the Australian
novel can beat the heroine convention
and still create desirable women in litera-
ture, this country will have contributed
something very important to the metier
of the novel.
NORMAN LINDSAY.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW'
f
t
k
'Ji
'i
They Will Act Like Magic
on Coughs and Colds
OWBRIDGE'S LUNG TONIC — the
well known English preparation for
Colds, Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis, In-
fluenza and all similar affections of the
chest, throat and lungs. Prices, 1/9, 4/6
CLAVIS RHEUMA — for Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Lumbago, Gout. As
a simple healthy aperient, its regular
use brings relief. Price 4/-
J&inbur$h
COUGH
Mixmm
tl
W
*>r.
COL0
mm
X
coy«MS
coux
t si
r x v
MYELADOL —The Tonic Food.
Palatable and nutritious. Con-
sists of Cod Liver Oil, Extract
Malt, Red Bone Marrow, Liver, Iron, etc.,
Has no fishy taste. May also be used
orange juice. 1/6, 3/11, 5/11, 10/11
FOR
COUGHS .C010S
V*
m
? XilUv %*»»*•• 'W
m
C
%
/
r
-f
v-
Vv^
%
%
5»«
of
etc
♦'‘'ll ***
with
iVtSiMv *
a*
<?
-<7.
cx
'fe
<2*
<W
4>
/
Now
Chemistry —
Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE INFLUENZA
MIXTURE —contains no deleterious pre-
parations, and can be taken by old and
young. A few doses give relief. Price, 2/-
Dr. WEBSTER'S ASTHMA
AND BRONCHITIS CURE
— Contains no harmful
drugs, gives relief and
comfort with the first dose.
Price 12/6
V.
it
n
w:
m.
STRYCHNINE
FOR THE DESTRUCTION OF
RABBITS AND DINGOES ONLY
available, 13/- per oz., in 25-oz. tins only.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
THE SENIOR STORE
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 27I2C, G.P.O., Sydney
EDINBURGH COUGH MIX-
TURE—containing the Anti-
cold Vaccine Lantigen "A" for
the treatment of the common
cold and cough. Price, 5/-


g
AUTOMOTIVE
ELECTRICAL SERVICE
Fully equipped testing and service stations throughout Australia
have served the trade for a quarter of a century. Repair and
maintenance facilities and spare parts are available for leading
makes of British, American and Continental Automotive
Equipment.
Authorised Agents for:
★ AMERICAN BOSCH FUEL INJECTION
AND AUTO ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
“PytOX PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
IN SYDNEY .. . PYROX PTY., LTD.
MOTORISTS!
don't get stranded
1
L
LOOK FOR
THE TRADE
MARK
Tarzans
CRIP
Never be without a lube of Tarzan's
Grip. Instantly fixes leaking radia-
tors, pipes, tanks, cracked distributors,
side curtains, torn hoods, etc. Resists
moisture, acids, alkalies and extreme
heat. Slicks almost anything to any-
thing the most powerful adhesive
known. Set a tube NOW and keep
it in your car something may break
at any time.
DUNLOP
LEADERSHIP
RAYON TYRES
DUNLOP in 1919 was granted its FIRST
Patent covering Rayon in Tyres.
DUNLOP in 1939 made the FIRST Rayon
Cord Tyres in Australia, and during the
war made the FIRST Rayon Cord tyres for
the Armed Forces in Australia.
DUNLOP is now FIRST in volume prod-
uction of commercial Rayon Tyres in Aus-
tralia.
DUNLOP, in Australia, as throughout the
British Empire is still FIRST choice in
Tyres for
AEROPLANES . . . TRACTORS . . .
TRUCKS . . . MOTOR CARS . . . MOTOR
CYCLES , . . CYCLES . . . INDUSTRIAL
AND HORSE DRAWN VEHICLES.
Stay with the FIRST in the
Rubber Industry.
DUNLOP
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
D2Bl
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy MacGillivray’s Voyage of the Rattle-
snake, T. H. Huxley’s Diary of the Voyage of
the Rattlesnake and Thomas Mitchell’s Tropical
Australia. —3765.
To buy Voice Production and Exercises for
Baritone, by Benche and Pearse.—3766.
Worcls of the poem “Cruise of the Night-
mare.” —3767.
Information Sought.
(1) Some information about the “tin-can
mail”? (2) Address 'of the publishers of the
“Southerly” ?
1 Owing to heavy seas around the island of
Niuafoou, Tonga Islands Group, it was im-
possible for mailboats to put in there. A
trader on the island, Ramsay, together with two
natives, started to get mail from the ship by
having it sealed in a 401b. biscuit tin, swimming
out to the ship and floating the tin back to the
island. Outgoing mail was parcelled up and
floated out to the ship on two poles of fau
wood. These parcels were placed in buckets
lowered from the deck and hauled on board.
In 1931 a native was taken by a shark while
delivering the mail, so canoes were used on all
future occasions. All letters that were thus
delivered were postmarked “Tin-can Mail,”
and were considered valuable to philatelists.
As far as is known the service was discontinued
during the war. (2) Subscriptions should be
sent to 55 William-street, Roseville, N.S.W.
* * * *
(1) Would it be advisable to caponise
drakes ? (2) Will ordinary bottled wine improve
with keeping ?
(1) There is nothing to gain by caponising
drakes, as they are usually at their prime in 12
to 16 weeks, and their heavy food consumption
would not make keeping them for several
months longer an economical proposition. (2)
Improvement depends upon qualify of the wine,
as some wines age better than others. Wine
softens in the bottle and throws either soft or
crust deposit, which necessitates gentle hand-
ling when opening so that this crust is not
disturbed. The period of improvement again
depends upon the wine; some wines show im-
provement over many years, while others reach
their peak in a few years and then decline. The
variety of grape, district where wine is made
and the climatic conditions that existed during
• the year that the wine was made, are all con-
tributory causes.
* * * •
(1) To fill holes in pise walls? (2) To pro-
tect pise walls from fretting and to prepare
them for painting?
(1) Fill the cracks and holes with a mortar
made from one part cement and four parts
sand, with just enough water to make a stiff
mix. (2) Apply a mortar consisting of one
part cement, one part hydrated lime and six
parts (by volume) of sand. Nails partly
embedded in the pis6 should provide better
bond for the mortar (the painting of which
should be done with a cement base paint). Oil
and cold-water paints have been used success-
fully for direct application to interior pis6 walls,
bqt plaster and cement coatings may also be
used.
$ * * *
What records does the Swedish athlete G.
Haegg hold, and what are the times?
One mile, 4min. 1.4sec. (this awaits ratifi-
catioh by the International Amateur Athletic
Federation); two miles, 8min. 42.8sec.; three
miles, Drain. 32.4sec.; 1500 metres, 2000
metres, 3000 metres and 5000 metres in 3min.
43sec., 5min. ll.Ssec., 8min. 1.2sec. and 13min.
58.2sec. respectively.
* * * *
What was Zola’s “J’Accuse?’ ?
The title of a famous open letter written to
the President of France and published in
“L’Aurore,” a Paris journal. In it Zola fiercely
exposed attempts to conceal facts in the Drey-,
fus affair. The letter was published on Jan.
13, 1898, just after the acquittal of Esterhazy,
for whose crime Dreyfus suffered. Zola was
sentenced to a year’s imprisonment.
* * * *
When did Norman Lindsay’s “Woman I
was” drawing appear in The Bulletin and
what were the lines it illustrated?
July 19, 1906. Entitled “A Trio,” the lines
illustrated were: —
We walk along the gaslit street in a dreadful row,
we three;
The woman I was and the woman I am, and the
woman I’ll one day be.
Brief Answers.
E.A.R.: Taylor’s roof and structural paint
is the trade preparation H.McD.: Make
application to the Deputy Director, Depart-
ment of Repatriation, Brisbane, giving full
name and' regimental particulars. When apply-
ing state whether you desire to claim for dis-
ability as due to war service or for a service
pension. The latter claim is subject to a means
test F.A.D.: To remove the paint from the
wardrobe, apply Taylpr’s paint and varnish re-
mover until all the paint is erased, then wash
down thoroughly with turps. Before applying
another polish or varnish, rub down the sur-
face with a fine garnet paper, then stain the
wood... .H.F.B.: There is no strict rule, but
in private letters it might be advisable to use
the private letterhead... .C.J.S.: Mr. J. J.
Maloney was born at Goulburn, N. S. Wales,
Mr. E. Thornton was born in England and
came out to Australia as a Dreadnought boy
at the age of 16 W.L.D.: Send a specimen
of the vegetable to the Department of Agricul-
ture, Farrer-place, Sydney, in order that officers
of that department may examine it
S.A.McT.: (1) You do not use too much salt.
The amount of tannin left in the liquor is
negligible. (2) The reddening of mimosa-
tanned leather cannot be prevented. (3) No
satisfactory use has been found for leather
dust. It is occasionally recommended as a
fertiliser but its usefulness in this respect is
doubtful T.R. : The most common mastic is
Colgraft, which can be procured in lib. con-
tainers. The following wax should not be
made so hard that it will crack after being
applied. Dissolve over a slow fire 41b. resin,
21b. beeswax and lib. mutton tallow and apply
with a snjall brush. An alternative formula is
lib. beeswax, 41b. resin and i pint boiled lin-
seed oil A.E.W.: The Battle of Mons began
on August 23, 1914, and the retreat started
next day. The Allies retreated to the Marne,
where they defeated the enemy in the first
Battle of the Marne.


CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
per item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he la list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/fi
SKIN liOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
u
BOLD
THTJ-
&
A
$
V
Si> v
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die dr become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —Janies Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.E.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
i:'
COH
'' "
w ***•-
'
«»>«***
&<ry<;4<£
:v:-';-/:: ; :^V';xvV- : --
! ' ; ~< A
&K : s*Si
-XCvv'«
&&S
UtMM
mm
m
'- '■
n&*.
mm
- . ■ -
Pa-i
' > ; '
r.
b"'" :V
t,
«"£V
SSb&sSa
'am
mm
iiiias
SO FAR SO GOOD..
The rise in the cost of living since 1939 has
been smaller in Australia than in almost any
country in the world. This healthy con-
dition has been due largely to an efficient
price control system combined with a general
willingness of the people to curb unneces-
sary spending while goods have been in short
supply.
The transition from war to normal peace
conditions is not the work of a moment.
Production cannot be re-organised, factories
cannot be re-equipped, service men and war
workers cannot be trained for and started
in new jobs all at once.
It is agreed by all who have examined the
position that, until this process is complete,
until the supply of wanted goods catches
up with the waiting demand, prices and the
cost of living must continue to be kept in
check if widespread hardship and disloca-
tion are to be avoided. In a word, we must
continue to co-operate with Price Control,
to avoid the black market, to save, not
spend, until goods are plentiful again.
Side by side with the necessity to save, Is
that of wisely investing the savings made.
There is no wiser investment than Common-
wealth Bonds and Savings Certificates. They
pay better than bank interest, pile up more
money for us to spend on the things we
will want when they become available and
when they are at reasonable prices.
Savings Certificates may be purchased at any
Bank or Money Order Post Office and advance
subscriptions to the next Commonwealth Cash
Loan may be made through any Bank or Stock-
broker.
WHAT TO DO TO INSURE YOUR FUTURE SECURITY
* * only what you really need. Save all
you can. Hold all your Bonds and Savings
Certificates.
O Share and share alike the goods avail*
able . . . don't foster the black market
by paying more than maximum prices.
Check all prices with the lists available.
Q Keep your own prices down. Don't
take advantage of shortages to ask
more for your goods or services.
Pay your way —settle your debts
make no new ones.
C Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commonwealth Bonds
and Savings Certificates. When goods are
plentiful again you can make good use of
the money you save now—for then you
will get more for your money in everything
you buy.
Bea Saver Not a Spender-Help Keep Prices
ĝ
NS 65.113.46
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; vmd no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
Pilcolco: The adventures of Lieutenant
Kyisuki returning; write about things you
know from experience J.McM.: Make a
comic strip out of your lady guerrilla M. 8.:
Frothy....J.W.: Wordy.,. .K.H.S.: Characters
wooden... ,T.G.: Try a woman’s paper....
A. : Humor forced... .P-McP.: Come again.
B. : Sentimental N.R.: You did well
to kill off half the characters; your only fault
was moderation M.M.: Flash-back tech-
nique difficult to handle; where unavoidable,
link it up with something visual 0.C.:
“Janet,” he said, “I have waited for you for
weary years. In the long dark watches of the
night I have thought of your silver laughter
and your purple eyes ” You have been read-
ing too many purple patches... .1.E.: Sentences
long and meandering, and often meaningless.
J.Q.: “Paul the Pirate” well and truly
scuttled D.V.H.: That bullocky again!....
C. : Visualisation, as Conrad observed, is
important; but try to split up your descriptions
of persons and scenery throughout the story,
with some conversation and action between
H. : Depressing... .B. A.: Thin..., G.O’C.:
Cut ruthlessly A.E.E.: Splashing words like
Sauerkraut, Frau, gentil and fou all over a
story doesn’t necessarily make it a “vivid,
realistic sketch of Europe today,” as you
modestly imagine W.M.: “How Dad Bought
the Car” is unlikely to interest anyone but
the Prices Commissioner N.S.: Du 11....
T.McC:. “The Sailor’s Lament” is lamentable.
W.W.: Sugary E.M.G.: Apart from the
fact that the local lad makes good, there is
nothing much to it R.E.S.: Too many
characters... .1.F.: Starts well, but falters....
J.8.H.: Let your characters speak as much
slang as you like, but don’t use it yourself,
unless it is particularly vivid; when it is
obscure, avoid it altogether F.V.J.: Terrible.
K.D.: Anaemic P.U.: Plot plausible,
but characters weak.,. .M.I.McD.: Might make
a par W.G.J.: Handwriting awful.... -
R.K.T.: “The Jovial Drunk” was maudlin
A.M.: Avoid that staccato sentence style
J. : King’s Cross is hardly the place for a
puritanical setting E.8.Y.: The office boy
considers it the best Deadwood Dick yarn
he’s ever read L.H.: Your characters are
as realistic as marionettes C.S.: “Charlie
was a bushwhacker with a faraway look in his
eyes.” The story was just as far away
I. : Come again when you’ve done about
10 years’ solid reading D.A.F.: The social
editress was fascinated by the three pages of
baby talk F.F.: Trite and magazmish
K. : As far as we know pirates gave up
making people walk the plank a few years ago.
F.T.: •• “With a dynamic movement he
whipped out his pistol and snarled ‘Come on
mugs—dis is a stick-up.’ ” Send if to a crime
magazine L.L.: We’re still not too sure
whether it’s serious or satire J. 8.: Intrq-
spective yarns have to be handle,d by craftsmen
to make the grade K.V.: “My friends con-
sider this a ‘moral’ for The Bulletin.” Your
friends are not our friends 0.R.V.: D. H.
Lawrence wrote a poem on a similar subject;
story promising, but needs some approach to
poetic form L.H.E.: Harmless A.J.O’S.:
Try the Victory Day poem on a daily....
J. “I thought you might not like manu-
scripts on Monday.” It didn’t read any better
on Tuesday J.E.: Style antiquated
J.M. : Prosy J.W.H.: It would be a waste
of time sending the poem about the Y.M.C.A.
... .L.C.': Come again with something more
cheerful... .H.J.R.:
But is it liberty to lose
Your better self in constant booze?
The Religious Editor want's to know where he
can get it Bowyangs: It’s awful A.M.:
Too glum, too thin, too derivative, too self-
consciously aboriginal: and yet they’re promis-
ing G.C.: Not enough life in the old gent.
under the apricot-tree J.E.: Prosaic thought
awkwardly expressed K.J.T.: Satire would
be comprehended by such a very small audi-
ence... .W.J.M.: The usual remarks on night-
fall. .. .E.A.L. :
What will you do with motifs that emerge
In the delimited mind to grapple coiling infinity?
We’ll send ’em to grapple with Ern Malley
A.P.: Forget Hopkins and simplify Bill G.:
“Wandering Swagman” still homeless
Mack: “For Nylon and Mink”: for crying in
the sink!... .N.L.: “But now my mind was
calloused.” Try a good corn cure Moora
Lass:
Well, it’s a new way to describe a trough of
molasses N.H.T.: It jammed halfway....
D.D.: “Bomber’s Moon” waxed and waned
V.T.: Cut and come again... .G.H.G.: Not
impressed by Mallee girl who got her chance
“singing Gilda at the local Opera House”
R.R.: After being here five years you want rto
write about Australia. What’s stopping you?
C.D.: Blokes have made special trips from
Brewarrina with that yarn—it first appeared
in 1895 S.W.: “Letter for Miss Brown” in-
fringes Postal Act W.R.: “Town Ban”
blew itself out Albert P.; Prune off those
“fine flowers of description” and “The Tree”
might grow a plum 8.T.: “Ravaged Earth”
sent to Soil Conservation Department. • *
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.C.: We shelled out 4d. for deficient
postage to gaze at that horror W.G.:
Still in the dark as to what it’s all about
A.J.K.: Give up copying another artist’s style
and strike out on your own R.S.A.; The
jest arrived her t e with the First Fleet D.P.:
Promising for a first attempt, but you have
a long way to travel K.M.: The basket
claimed the whole five... .P.R.M.: Your in-
tention to send along “a couple every week”
noted with dismay G.R.: Charcoal sketches
arrived badly smudged. Spray next batch with
a fixative... .W.A.G.: Why has the lady broom-
sticks for legs and meat-hooks for hands?
L.E.: _ “Homeward Bound” is homeward
bound... .K.L.: Look us up again when your
work improves J.S.: If it’s a study of a
tangled .cp.il of barbed-wire, congratulations.
The rams looked down,
golden eyed,
where the plangent dark was.
Ah, sweet, how sweet
the dark viscosity of desire.


The sun forgets to shine, and
H shadows cling
m Where children play, and
r people live
In cramped and crowded
tenements.
Fine, patient people, who
implore
A place where gardens grow . • o
Who’ve earned the right to
cheery homes
Where they can breathe and
stretch their arms
And see the sky.
/
111
Six and seven families sharing houses where five people
is a crowds—families whose incomes permit them to live
more befittingly—can find no other place ... a glaring
indictment of the near-sighted administration that created
the housing shortage.
By training adequate manpower, by making home building
first priority, by encouraging building and free enterprise,
the Liberal Party will provide a practical foundation for
ample homes and better housing.
Logical planning could have prevented this
shortage— liberal planning will end it.
ROAP BACH TO FREEDOM /S TBROi/OM
ÜBERAL PARTY
OF AUSTRALIA
Authorised by The Federal Secretariat *of THE LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA
- . ■ ■ ■


HOFFY
No. 2 of "The Cookabundy Chronicles"
By Biuan james
THE Grey Box, five or six miles to
the north of Summerlea, still
dreamt of gold; for “they didn’t
find it all in the old days, not on
your life, they didn’t.”
And on to the stage—those boards of
fertile countryside, whose footlights are
the giitterings of sunlight on the Cooka-
bundy River, whose backdrop is the blue
wall of the Cookabundy Ranges, whose
actors keep shops or grow pumpkins or
lucerne or grapes —on to the stage steps
Hoffy. His name was x'eally Opperman,
or something like that.
Hoffy was a striking figure, tall,
lean, unbent for all his seventy years;
with a really fine full beard and mous-
tache, trimmed and combed and brushed,
and with a rich amber glow where years
of tobacco-smoke had found its way
through. Grey hair swept back from
high forehead; and hazel eyes gleamed
brightly beneath very bushy brows,
Hoffy came to find the reef —the reef
that had shed the gold into Grey Box.
Hoffy would find the reef —everyone
knew he would. They had only to look
at Hoffy, and they had only to talk to
him for ten minutes or so to realise that.
And so there was much excitement in
all the homes of Grey Box. Children
brought the news from school, where
the schoolmaster’s wife had actually seen
and spoken to the man. For near the
schoolhouse were Mrs. Gillet’s two-acre
block and Mrs. Gillet’s picturesque man-
sion of slabs and bark and .corrugated-
iron—the bequest of the late lamented
Gillet, a miner of no little skill, who sank
a shaft of inordinate depth in search of
a “second bottom” ; and fell down the
shaft. Mrs. Gillet said Hoffy (she called
him “ ’Offy”) could stay “temporary” on
her “farm” though it “didn’t signify.”
This last was to forestall any wicked con-
clusions the district might form about
such absurd things as‘tender feelings.
So Hoffy pitched a tent under Mrs.
Gillet’s thickly-suckered quince-trees, and
Bob James (“Dat plutty Pop Yames” as
Hoffy called him) brought out Hoffy’s
“effects” in a wagonette.
This gear (a wonderful collection,
really, that spread itself nondescriptly
over about three generations and five con-
tinents) could not go into a tent, and
arrangements were made to store it in
one of Mrs. Gillet’s spare rooms —where
no doubt it “didn’t signify” and was
without prejudice.
Into Mrs. Gillet’s abode went ropes
and buckets and dollies and tools and
boxes. And boxes and boxes. And a
sea-chest —something like Noah’s Ark
with the ends cut off, and nearly as big.
And a crate with a working model of a
goldfield—a work of mechanical genius,
with its multiplicity of levers and pul-
leys ; men and horses and drays ; cradles ;
puddling machines and long-toms ; hills
and trees and mullock heaps; and a real
stream of clear water running in and
yellow water running out. The Stras-
bourg Clock was mere simplicity beside
it. “She does not work, but” Hoffy
would explain; some part was missing,
and he intended to “vix it somedays.”
In another crate was “der vumigator,”
an invention for exterminating rabbits ;
in a leather case were “der bapers,”
plans and descriptions of other inventions,
correspondence thereon —scores of things
to be “vixed” and settled “some days.”
Hoffy paid “dat plutty Pop Yames”
before he had stowed the collection in
the spare room. Then James drove off
—that was like him all over—and Hoffy
shook his bony fist in the direction of
the retreating wagonette, and then pro-
ceeded to carry in the lighter articles.
Mrs. Gillet was obstetrically absent at
the moment (for she was midwife to the
district), so Hoffy had the place to him-
self. At last there remained only the
Noah’s Ark —or the middle portion of it.
He was just about to attempt the dragging
of this along the bumpy flagged verandah
when the schoolmaster appeared—sent
along by his wife, who seemed to have
a prescience of the weight and awkward-
ness of the sea-chest. Hoffy and the'
schoolmaster sat on the chest instead of
dragging it in, and smoked and yarned.
Words like schist, hungry quartz, pyrites
(“iron birates”) manganese, umber,
kaolin, dip, drift, fault, etc., tripped (or
rather stumbled) in and out of the dis-
course. The schoolmaster was impressed
by Hoffy’s knowledge of geology and
took him home to tea.
AT tea and after, that night, Hoffy
gave a brief sketch of his mining
career. It was a long one and singularly
devoid of the discovery of gold in any
quantity,
Hoffy seemed to consider this a very
happy omen. He had a lifetime’s experi-
ence to guide him.
The “career,” in one way, sounded
like a stringing together of great names
—“Pallarat, Pendigo, Ofens, Giandra,
Kympie.” Then “der Kulkong”—where
he knew well and quarrelled violently
with Mr. Commissioner Browne (“Dat
plutty Prowne! Roppery Unter Arms —
yah!” Hoffy dismissed the writer and
his bushrangers as altogether a lament-
able lot).
Hoffy had worked on the Grey Box
soon after the first rush started and he
and his mates had the best claim on it.
“But it was ‘yomped’ ” —Hoffy puffed
a little faster on his pipe to savor again
this great grievance, which had by no
means soured him.
Then he had examined the hills and
the whole. geological layout “refealed”
itself to him —the reef was in Ryan’s
Hill. There wasn’t time, however, to
unearth it just then —Forbes, Temora,
Wyalong intervened and had to be at-
tended. Then he appeared to forget his
reef, got married (“He vos no goot”—he
meant his wife. Hoffy always interposed
the genders of the personal pronouns), and
selected a block down on Lavinia Creek.
Here he and his wife settled down to be
completely unhappy. They had a vine-
yard and orchard, and a very “loofly
leetle” home to be unhappy in. Then
a lanky prospector came down from the
hills and the wife “gleared out mit her,”
And being a thoughtful and provident
man, so it seemed, that lanky prospector
took all the “3pare gash” as well as the
wife. Hoffy looked upon this thought-
fulness as the last thing in meanness,
something unforgettable and unforgiv-
able. As to the wife, Hoffy shrugged his
shoulders in a cheerful sort of way:
“Ach, as far as dat vos goncerned—l vos
bity the poor plutty vool.”
The farm didn’t last long after that,
either —“Dat plutty Pop Yames” got it;
there was a legal tangle of some sort
about it and the original survey and
certain»clauses of the Act, all of which
Hoffy never understood too clearly; but
he did understand the legal decision that
he “vos in the wrong spot.” This James
was a carrier, dealer, and farmer, though
these activities were carried on by sons
and employees, and James directed affairs,
as Hoffy put it, like a “ploated spider.”
The “spare gash” and the little farm
were among Hoffy’s greatest grievances—
though there were others, too.
All this account took hours, and in a
very few days, was known, of course, to
the entire population of the Cookabundy.
Hoffy’s profound erudition in geology
and Hoffy’s superb grievances made it
seem not only certain that he would find
his reef in Ryan’s Hill but right a,nd just
that he should. He deserved well of Fate.
BUT in one place the excitement was
less fervent and intense. At the
top end of the Grey Box, and in
Noonan’s Gully and Baker’s Gully, there
was left still a remnant of the old days
—a thin rearguard of that big army of
Hope long since vanished and scattered.
A dozen or so of these relics, crocks or
hatters lived in huts, or structures not
quite so pretentious.
They were all more or less gone in
years, decrepit some of them, mostly
adorned with beards and whiskers ; and
bachelors all —at least if any of them had
ever been married they had long since
forgotten the circumstances. It passed
human imagination to view any one of
them as a family man.
Their lives were their entire own, and
they lived as far apart as it was possible.
At times, certainly, two would go “mates”
and put down the inevitable duffer on a
spot fancied by one or the other. Then
the partnefShip broke up in mutual hate
and recrimination.
Outstanding among the “hatters”
was Paddy Griffin, who had, so the
current talk went, seen better days. There
is a gloomy satisfaction in the surveying
of ruins, and very much so was this the
case of Paddy Griffin —a noble edifice in
those “better days.”
He lived in a kind of dugout on a steep
lower slope of Baker’s Hill. The back
portion was really a tunnel, the front
roofed with odd scraps of sheet iron and
bark. Near by, in a somewhat better
dugout, Paddy kept a pig—a black pig
with a very short snout.
Why Paddy kept Daniel at all must be
reckoned a mystery —it was certainly not
for profit or gain, and, if there had
initially been an intention of eating
Daniel, Paddy was never able to bring
himself to do it. So Daniel lived on
from year to year, and got bigger and
stouter, and his snout got shorter and
shorter in proportion, and he grew uglier
and uglier, and his dugout got dirtier and
dirtier until it was nearly as bad as
Paddy’s own. And Paddy grew prouder
of Daniel, and grew turnips and pump-
kins for him, and carried on eternal nego-
tiations with a neighbor over skim-milk.
And then Daniel disappeared. Just van-
ished. No one else ever heard what be-
came of Daniel —though, of course, Paddy
knew, but.he didn’t tell.
The loss of his pig gave Paddy an in-
ward grief. Never a word from him
about Daniel, and no one dared to ask.
His misanthropy became more active and
bitter, and his wit sharper and more,
venomous. Also he gave up horticulture
and set fire to the log and brush fence
around his garden.
In his saddened misanthropic state
Paddy went to see Hoffy just about
settled in under the suckery quince-trees.
He passed by the Gillet mansion, and
Mrs. Gillet was at home again—family
affairs at-John Henry’s having been set
in order for another twelve months. Mrs.
Gillet peered short-sightedly at the tall
(and decidedly dirty) figure, and Paddy
returned the stare with hostility. At
length Mrs. Gillet decided it was Paddy
after all, and said “Oh, good morning,
Mr. Griffin.”
“I have not,” said Paddy, “seen fit to
remark upon the state of the morning.
I have my own views as to its goodness
or otherwise. Nor do I invite your ob-
servation upon the matter nor your super-
fluous association of that observation with
myself. But, to be brief, you can go to hell.”
Mrs, Gillet was defective in hearing as
in sight. She peered harder than ever,
and asked shrilly “What did you say?”
“What did I say, you half-witted crone,
you lineal descendant of Sairey Gamp
and a disgrace to your ancestor at that —
I did but exhort you, at this favorable
opportunity, to hasten to Hades, or, in
other words, to go to hell! ”
Mrs. Gillet’s face lightened up with
intelligence received. “Well! I’m glad
to hear you say you’re well, Mr. Griffin.
I wish I could say as much for myself—
my sciatica doesn’t seem to improve at all.”
Paddy left her at that; it was waste
of time trying to hurt people who couldn’t
or wouldn’t hear.
Hoffy was seated on a block of wood
near the quince-trees and reading a
month-old Sydney paper.
“You’re Opperman, or some such out-
landish appellation, I take it?”
“Yah,” said Hoffy. “I vos Yerman.”
“You ‘vos’ ought to be ashamed of it,”
retorted Paddy.
“Nuh,” said Hoffy. “I vos not.”
Paddy raised his voice. “I said you
ought to be.”
Hoffy lowered his voice—“Nuh, not.”
And the louder Paddy became the
softer were Hoffy’s answers. It was some-
thing outside Paddy’s experience ; he was
not having a successful morning at all. So
at last he switched to gold reefs. “They tell
me you know all about a reef on Ryan’s.”
“No, no,” said Hoffy, “I not find him
yet.”
“But you are sure ‘he’s’ there and that
you will find ‘him.’ ”
“I find him if he’s there all right.”
“Ah! So it’s ‘if,’ is it? The knowall
climbs down, the humbug becomes
humble.”
“I find him —he’s dere all right.”
“Bah!” said Paddy. “How do you
know what’s under the ground?”
“I t’ink you vos vUn big—an Irish big.”
Hoffy stated this as a scientifically
demonstrable fact. Then he added as a
necessary afterthought “A fery dirty big.”
Apart from the personalities implied.
Paddy was sensitive about pigs, bereft as
he was so lately of Daniel, for whom he
was inwardly grieving. Tears—real tears
—came into and no doubt rage
as well as grief composed them.
Paddy was not a fighter—except with
his tongue. In high dudgeon he shuffled
over Mrs. Gillet’s “farm,” muttering
withering denunciations of Germans and
midwives, the general conclusion being
that all our social ills were traceable to
these sources, and the country was what
it was on account of them.
Hoffy went on perusing his month-old
paper. ,
L_J OFFY was in no hurry, it seemed, to
* * track down the reef on Ryan’s.
There was no violent fever in him that
tear the gold from the unwilling
earth. So he looked over Ryan’s Hill in
leisurely, almost holiday, fashion.
But there was a professional air about
him, too: he carried a small rock-hammer
and was wearing his steel-rimmed spec-
tacles. In his pocket was a high-powered
magnifying-glass. And through these use-
ful instruments he regarded all signs of
past activity on Ryan’s Hill with a cer-
tain degree of contempt. The pot-holes
were not deep enough for real testing, the
shafts were in the wrong place, and the
tunnel sheer waste of time.
On Ryan’s Hill, with the map of the
countryside below him, Hoffy napped off
with his hammer pieces of quartz from
different outcrops, milky white, cream or
stained with red. Thebe he put into small
bags, methodically labelled each after
close scrutiny with the magnifying glass,
and then stowed all into a larger canvas
bag that strapped over one shoulder. It
was a good morning’s work, and he
turned towards his tent.
There he put the quartz on the top of
a box and examined each piece again.
Then to the slower task of dollying (“You
grush it and you roast it, and den you grush
it again. And den you ban it garefully”).
But Hoffy was nothing if not patient.
He went through the lot in the endless
process of crushing and roasting and
panning—with never a trace to reward
the work. In this he was not disap-
pointed really. He expected as much.
For days and weeks he went through the
process, sometimes putting down a pot-
hole on some outcrop to get the sort of
stone he wanted, sometimes scratching
deeper in an old-time prospect hole —
but the quartz was consistently hungry.
Hoffy said that the higher quartz had
shed all its gold. The real reef was lower
down the slope, and then one would
have to sink for it.
And so he prepared to move to the
top end of Noonan’s Gully, much to
the relief of Mrs. Gillet, who had a
most uncomfortable feeling of late that
people might think Hoffy’s presence on
her “farm” “signified” a great deal.
“Not that I’m ’ome very much,” she ex-
plained, “for I’ll be going to Moore’s any
day now [Moore’s was a steady and regu-
lar annual job, too] and after that to
Mrs. Sid Day’s.” Still, she made it clear
that she considered “ ’Offy” a gentleman
—“as far as the term might be trusted.”
Arrangements were made with a neigh-
bor to shift the Noah’s Ark and other
heavy gear to the new site in a spring
dray, while Mr. Foster and the bigger
boys from his school set to and trans-
ported the tent and other things of im-
mediate need. Mrs. Foster prepared
Hoffy a special tea and sent it up to
Noonan’s, so that the old gentleman
would not have to worry about cooking
that night. She was delighted with the
move, as it promised a very definite be-
ginning on the reef. There were folk
round about—as there always are every-
where —who said that Hoffy was a mighty
long t*me in getting on to that reef. As
if a really worth-while goldmine can be
opened up over night.
THE site of the new home was on a
gentle northern slope, fairly free of
the eternal mullock heaps. In a tiny
rocky gorge near by was a small hole full
of c|ear water —a tiny spring trickled
into it, and a fringe of dark-green fern
was reflected in its depths.
One of Mr. Foster’s schoolboys an-
nounced that there were bullfrogs in the
pool, and surmised that the water
wouldn’t be much good.
“Pullvrogs!” said Hoffy, “pullvrogs! I
will take gare I swallow no pullvrogs.
Dat’s why I vear der peard and der
vhiskers —dat I do not swallow der pull-
vrog.” And Hoffy chuckled at his own
humor.
“It won’t be long now,” said Mrs,
Foster, and others said the same thing.
But a number of events and circumstances
prevented that shaft at the top of Noo-
nan’s from going down straightway.
First, Hoffy must erect his permanent
dwelling and get his garden going. At
these things he worked like a young man,
and expended most of his scanty “gash”
o Continued on page 32.)


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear, to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
ZL 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Gordons
Gin
TA NQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £47,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
FACTS OF SOVIET EXPANSION.
(The record of Soviet expansion drawn up by William Henry Chamberlin for the
"American Mercury.")
‘We don’t want a single foot of foreign
territory.”— Stalin’s report to Congress of Com-
munist party, June 27, 1930.
“Their countries seek no aggrandisement,
territorial or other.”— From the Atlantic
Charter, signed by the Soviet Government.
These quotations make strange reading
in view of the realities of Soviet terri-
torial expansion.
Except for the far-flung activities of the
Communist International, the Soviet
Union up to the Second World War lived
within a defensive isolationist shell. Since
then it has changed its policy. Consider,
first, the array of lands formally annexed
since September, 1939:
Area in
Sq. Miles. Population.
Eastern Poland .. .. 68,290 10,150,000
Finnish Karelia .. .. 16,173 470,000
Lithuania 24,058 3,029,000
Latvia 20|,056’ 1,950,000
Estonia 18,353 1,120,000
Bessarabia and Bukovina 19,360 3,748,000
Moldavia 13,124 2,200,000
Petsamo 4,087 4,000
Konigsberg area of East
Prussia .. .. .. 3,500 400,000
Carpatho-Ukraine ~ 4,922 800,000
South Sakhalin .. .. 14,075 415,000
Kurile Islands .. L 3,949 4,500
Tannu Tuva .. .’. 64,000 65,000
Total 273,947 24,355,000
This means that the population of the
Soviet Union (about 170,000,000 by the
census of 1939) has increased by almost
25.000. —more than half the population
of Great Britain or of France.
This record of outright annexations is
impressive enough. But physical absorp-
tion is by no means indispensable to
acquire control of a nation’s territory,
manpower and resources. It is in the
domain of indirect annexation —enforced
by a variety of methods, from military
occupation to installation of Communists
in key posts, overwhelming economic and
political pressures, exclusive trade agree-
ments, etc. —that Stalin’s greatest gains
have been achieved.
No fewer than 12 nations and areas,
with an aggregate population of some
165.000. have been forced into the
orbit of predominant Soviet influence.
Here is the amazing list;
Millions of
Inhabitants.
Poland .. .. .. .. 20 to 25
Czechoslovakia .. .. .. 12 to 15
Hungary .. .. .. .. 9 to 10
Austria .. 3.5
Yugoslavia .. .. .. 14 to 16
Bulgaria .. .. .. .. 6 to 7
Rumania .. .. .. .. 13
Eastern Germany .. .. .. 25
Finland .. .. .. .. 4
Manchuria .. .. .. .. 40
North Korea .. .. .. 10
Outer Mongolia .. .. .. 1
The first of the Soviet annexations, that
of Eastern Poland, began on September
17, 1939, 16 days after Hitler’s attack
on that country and by prearrangement
with the invaders. This was the prelude to
a partition of the country between Nazi
Germany and Russia, in which the latter
obtained a little over half of Polajid’s
territory and about one-third of its popu-
lation. After the Nazis attacked the
Soviet Union, Stalin repudiated his par-
tition of Poland, only to claim the terri-
tory once more when the tide of war
began to turn in his favor.
The three independent Baltic republics,
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, were first
forced by Moscow threats to sign “mutual
assistance pacts,” giving Russia the right
to take over bases and station military
forces on their territory. Then in June,
1940, Moscow sent ultimatums to the
three republics demanding free passage
of troops and the establishment of Soviet-
dictated Governments. Military occupa-
tion was followed by the familiar totali-
tarian type “elections.” Mr. Sumner
Welles, then U.S. Under-Secretary of State
denounced “the devious processes where-
under the political independence and ter-
ritorial integrity of the three small Baltic
republics” were “deliberately annihilated
by one of their more powerful
neighbors.”
Finland chose to resist. When its Gov-
ernment refused to revise the Soviet-Fin-
nish frontier in Russia’s favor Russia
launched an attack on November 30,
1939. The Kremlin set up and instantly
recognised a puppet regime. The media-
tion of the League of Nations was re-
jected by Moscow, and the Soviet Union
was expelled from that organisation as
an aggressor.
Peace was concluded on March 12,
1940. The U.S.S.R. obtained the city of
Viipuri, the naval base of Hango, and a
stretch of territory on the Isthmus of
Karelia. Subjected to further Soviet
pressure, Finland entered the war on the
side of Germany in June, 1941, and was
defeated in 1944. It was obliged to cede
to Russia the Arctic port of Petsamo and
a piece of land on the peninsula of Pork-
kala which commands the capital, Hel-
sinki, in addition to the territories sur-
rendered in 1940.
Pressure on Rumania began while Mos-
cow was still operating under the Stalin-
Hitler Pact, Following a Soviet ulti-
matum, Rumania evacuated Bessarabia
and northern Bukovina on June 28, 1940,
and Red troops moved in.
Soon after the end of hostilities with
Germany the Soviet Union also took over
Carpatho-Ukraine, a hilly, socially
primitive extension of Czechoslovakia.
The Czechoslovak Government, by
that time firmly within the Soviet sphere,
offered no opposition.
The Kuriles, a chain of volcanic islands
guarding the Sea of Okhotsk. north of
Japan, were annexed as booty when
Japan fell. This action had been agreed
to in advance by Roosevelt and Churchill.
The annexation of Tannu Tuva was
merely an administrative adjustment. A
primitive little community wedged be-
tween Siberia and Outer Mongolia,*it had
long been a Soviet protectorate. So
quietly that the exact date is hard to fix
Tannu Tuva was absorbed into the
U.S.S.R. as an “autonomous area.”
The annexation of the Konigsberg
region of East Prussia was purely strategic
in character, rounding out the new Soviet
possessions in the Baltic.
Some of these expansions were made
at the expense of Axis countries, others
at the expense of Russia’s allies. In either
case they were violations of the Atlantic
Charter provision against “territorial
changes that do not accord with the
freely r expressed wishes of the people con-
cerned.”
The Soviet Government, by its nature
and historical experience, is especially
well qualified to dominate foreign
countries through what has become
known as the “quisling” method. In
any country that the Soviet Union takes
over by the puppet technique, there are
sure to be fanatical Communists whose
first allegiance is to Moscow rather than
to their own fatherlands. Recently a
Brazilian Communist leader and elected
Senator, Luis Carlos Prestes, told the
press; “If Brazil should fight Russia I
would form guerillas and, together with
my followers, I would fight for Russia.”
Equally revealing was the remark of
Canada’s Prime Minister, Mr, King, in
•
connection with the arrest of Canadian
citizens spying for Russia: —
Some of the witnesses made the state-
ment under oath that they had a loyalty
rA 1 "* ° Wed
Methods of Soviet indirect annexation
varv from rmmtrv to cnnntrv In
vary irom country to country. in
Europe there are three mam patterns: (1)
military occupation, plus a Communist-
dominated Government; (2) Soviet mili-
tary control without a Communist-
dominated Government; and (3) coalition
Governments in which Communists hold
strategic posts without military occupa-
tion. Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria and
Yugoslavia conform to the firsf pattern ;
Hungary and the Soviet-occupied parts
of Austria and Germany to the second ;
Czechoslovakia, Albania and Finland to
the third.
The most powerful figures in the pre-
sent Polish Government, men like Bierut,
Radkiewicz, Gomolka, Berman, are all
Moscow-trained Communists. Substan-
tial Red forces are in occupation,
In Bulgaria the former head of the
Communist International, Georgi Dimi-
trov, and Communist stalwarts like
Anton Yugov and Tsola Dragoicheva are
the real masters, though a number of
former Fascist leaders now “converted”
to Stalinism hold the top offices. The
Communist bosses in Rumania are
Lucretiu Patrascanu and Anna Pauker.
Russian occupation forces are a heavy
burden on Rumania and Bulgaria. There
are also Russian troops in Yugoslavia.
The Tito regime is becoming more and
more an all-out Communist dictatorship,
In all four of these countries—Poland,
Yugoslavia, Rumania and Bulgaria—
large-scale confiscation and socialisation
are under way. Complete Sovietisation
and ultimate absorption within the
framework of the Soviet Union are not
improbable in the next decade or two.
Meanwhile, the Kremlin’s control re-
mains indirect but inflexible.
Free elections were held in Hungary
and Austria and resulted in severe de-
feats for the Communists. However,
Soviet military and economic control is
still ruthlessly exercised. In Eastern Ger-
many the trend is toward a more positive
Soviet policy.
Soviet troops have been withdrawn
from Czechoslovakia, but local Com-
munists hold the strategic Ministries of
Education and Interior, and an exclusive
alliance with the Soviet Union has ccn
concluded.
There has been as yet no direct annex-
aflon m the ar as . . t l4
the Soviet-Chmese treaty of August 14,
945 • ■ th Soviet Union joint con-
Av. w t v,~ r :oht
trol of the Mamchi y , §
to maintain ”*val bases m Port^Arthur
and preferential righ^
Russia a commanding influence. The
Soviet-has gone
te / m L arr . ied olltB machinery
Manchurian industrial machinery.
When all Soviet troops are finally with-
drawn > China will get P V ,
Local Communists have he g Y
encouraged and militarily A pp
Russian occupation authorities both in
Manchuria and Noithern Korea,
Outer Mongolia voted for affiliation
with the Soviet in what must have been
the model totalitarian plebiscite of all
history. Between six and seven hundred
thousand Mongols cast their ballots for
the Soviet Union—not even one voted
for China.
The facts of Soviet expansion are
obvious and indisputable. In many cases
Stalin is picking up the unfinished
business of Tsarist diplomacy. The
difference is that the Tsars could
not count on fanatic support in
foreign countries. There was never a
party in France, for instance, exercising
a major influence on French policies and
taking its orders from Russia, as is the
case today. There were never large num-
bers of Americans, Canadians, Britons,
Chinese whose primary allegiance was to
Russia, as is the case today. It is this uni-
versal element in Communist doctrine,
with a world federation of Soviet Re-
publics as the shining if distant goal,
which makes it impossible to assign any
“natural” or reasonable limits to Soviet
expansionist urges. Recently Stalin re-
affirmed the traditional Communist
dogma that the “Socialist Fatherland” is
unsafe as long as there is a “capitalist
encirclement.” If we accept this literally,
then security for the Soviet Union can
come only with the complete Sovietisa-
tion of the world. The rank-and-file
zealots of Communism everywhere do
mean this literally.
TOTALITARIAN VOTING.
(Condensed from a London "Nineteenth Century and After” article by editor F.A. Voigt.)
If we examine it where it is already
established—in Yugoslavia, for example
—we, shall find that the political system
which threatens the world today is, with
variations from country to country, “to-
talitarian.” It is not democratic or eman-
cipatory. It is not representative. It is
intensely unpopular and cannot establish
and maintain itself except by the use of
overwhelming force. It is not progressive,
but static ; that is to say, when com-
pletely established, there can be no further
changes of a fundamental kind. It is,
therefore, not only unprogressive but a
denial of progress, It is, in effect, the
restoration of serfdom in a new form
to the peasantry, the extension of serf-
dom to industrial labor, and the estab-
lishment and perpetuation of a bureau-
cratic oligarchy governing not by law, but
by decree enforced through an executive
which has at its disposal irresistible co-
ercive powers, and a judiciary which does
not interpret the law (for there is none to
interpret), but only decrees—and even in
the interpretation of decrees it is not in-
dependent but must always defer to the
executive
It is commonlv believed that eleetinns
1 i ° m o y believed that elections
have been, and will continue to be, held
under that system. Where the system
is complete—as it has long been in Russia,
a $ it was in Germany under Hitler, as it
is now in are
not Actions at all.
What > then > are they? They are musters
~ elections in Yugoslavia conclu-
sive Y They reveal all the differ-
f. nce p in 1 wor |, d between free v otmg and
castm S Y ot ® s ‘ e ec '
tOl ate t ] iat 18 sa Y> a * adldt . m ® n and
women ’ for , mo^ ern bureaucratic despot-
ism uot only allows but exacts a maxi-
rnum extension of the franchise as it
were, on P arade wueu Po dm S da Y comes,
a P arade l b at has both the character of a
compulsory muster and an inspection
com P^ amts are tolerated),
When the names in the registers have
° een checked—that is to say, when each
y ot Y r as sai , <3 . Here, sir. ’as it were
( an £ woe . to w b° 1S not on parade)
the voting follows, or what is called
suc h, for it is not voting at all, but an
ac )LP* submission.
candidates are not representatives
°* dle People, but of the ruling bureau-
cracy—and are nominated, not by the
P eo P le > or b Y constituents, but by the
b ureaucrac y itself. The people have
y *


OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
We represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art, past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
than a Work of Art.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 500 GNS.
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 5803.
Gallery open Daily from 9.50 a.m. to 5.50 p.m.
Saturday, 9.50 a.m, to 1 p.m.
REMEMBER . . .
when making your WILL
The position of Executor and Trustee of your Estate,
as. nominated in your Will, entails«knowledge of legali-
ties, experience in handling any complications which
might arise, and an understanding of investment
problems.
If you have already made your Will, appointing your
wife or a friend, add a codicil, making them co-trustees
and executors with the Permanent Trustee Company.
This will transfer the onerous duties of trusteeship
from their shoulders, assure permanence, stability and
faithful guardianship|Of all your affairs, and the wise
management of your Estate, whether large or small.
Write for a Booklet.
ğ
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
many wills and, in a democracy, the can-
didates who are returned represent dif-
ferent wills, and must, if they do their
democratic—and patriotic—duty, subor-
dinate their representation to the interests
of the nation as a whole and exercise con-
trol on behalf of the people. Under
bureaucratic absolutism, candidates are not
elected by the people, but are presented
to the people, who are compelled, by
terrorism and propaganda—and, most im-
portant of all, by the exclusion of any
alternative—to accept them by an act of
collective and submissive acclamation.
This act is a public act, for, given a
sufficiently well-established system of
espionage and terrorism —in Belgrade, for
example, there is an official spy for every
block of flats, who is responsible for the
political opinions of every tenant —there
is no real secrecy. If the authorities have
reason to suppose that attendance at the
“parade” was unsatisfactory, or that
rather more than was expected have
voted for such opposition which may, for
the sake of impressing observers from
England or the United States, have been
provisionally tolerated, it is easy to vic-
timise individuals, or whole villages, or
factories*by arresting persons suspected of
dissent. And it matters little if the sus-
picions are false —the arrests and the
executions and other penalties that follow
wifi have the effect of terrorising all.
The candidates, when elected, do not
make up a Parliament, properly so
called, or a representative assembly. Their
duty, too, is acclamation. When they
assemble, it is to accept—and applaud—
the decrees promulgated by the Govern-
ment, which is but the central executive
of the bureaucracy. It is their function
to represent the bureaucracy vis d vis the
people (and not the reverse) and to study
the reports of spies, watch trends of
opinion, spread official propaganda, ter-
rorise and so on, thus controlling the
people for the Government and not the
Government for the people. Bureaucratic
absolutism is government of the people
by the Government for the Government.
Armies for What?
(From the “United States News.”)
The U.S. expects to maintain a mili-
tary establishment of around 2,000,000
men —six times as many as before the
war. This is to consist of 558,000 in the
Navy, 108,000 in the Marine Corps,
400,000 in the Army Air Forces and per-
haps 900,000 in the Army Ground and
Service forces. The U.S. post-war Navy of
1082 combat ships, including vessels to be
kept in a reserve status, is to be larger than
all the other navies of the world com-
bined. In addition the U.S. is employing
and apparently expects to go on employ-
ing 100,000 men to make and store atomic
bombs, at a cost of $500,000,000 a year.
Russia likewise is keeping a military
establishment substantially larger than
before the war. No figures have been
announced, but the estimate is that a total
of 5,000,000 men under arms will be a
minimum. That would be nearly twice
as many as in 1938. Russia is said to
have 2,000,000 men on occupation duty.
Another 2,500,000 are believed to be in
uniform under the programme of univer-
sal military training.
Britain expects to keep a military estab-
lishment of not fewer than 750,000 men,
which would include an army of 375,000,
an Air Force of 250,000 and a Navy of
125,000. Both in size and in cost, this
establishment will nearly double the pre-
war figures.
France will have smaller armed forces
than before the war, but she expects to
have 450,000 in her Army, 45,000 in her
Navy and 70,000 in her Air Force,
Germany, Italy and Japan have
been destroyed as military Powers for
many years to come. For the U.S. and
Britain, Russia is the only Power in sight
that could challenge them, and the U.S.
and Britain are die only Powers that
•could challenge Russia. Yet these three
nations form the nucleus of the United
Nations Security Council that has the job
of preserving world peace.
The issue is whether the big Powers
really believe in the United Nations
Organisation as a means for the peaceful
settlement of disputes, or whether they
intend to rely mainly on their own mili-
tary strength, as in the past.
Jap Film Effects in Asia.
(Condensed from an article in “Asia and the
Americas,” by Harry Emerson Wildes, member
of the U.S. “special investigation committee
for social and economic situations in Japan.")
Steadily, through artful propaganda,
Japan poisoned Asiatic minds against
Americans. She identified the United
States with all those qualities which
Asiatics most detest. To millions of
Orientals, in Malaya and Indonesia, and
even in much of China, Uncle Sam is a
dreaded creature, to be shunned as an
incarnation of evil.
The movies turned the trick. By heavy
subsidy and close supervision the
Japanese Government, through Count
Philadelphia “Inquirer.”
WHAT WILL THE HARVEST BE?
Tomohide Iwakura, president of the
Motion Picture Educational Association,
converted the studios into a gigantic
propaganda agency.
Iwakura knew too much to fall victim
to ordinary propaganda booby traps. He
did not say that the United Nations were
weak and ineffective as fighters—that
might easily be disproved, as it was. He
said, instead, that the Americans and the
British were decaying people, that they
had no spirit and no true culture, that
they lacked politeness and were gross
materialists. True, they owned large re-
sources, but they had no poetic depth nor
any sensibility; they were little better
than the beasts.
Today much of Asia, and of Oceania,
is convinced that the Allies prevailed be-
cause they had overwhelming stores of
war materials. Japan, they think, was
Crushed beneath a weight of guns and
’planes and ships and bombs, though her
fighting spirit was, they are convinced,
superior to that of the Allies.
Japan kept the contents of its propa-
ganda pictures simple and believable.
Adroit use of elementary themes built a
tremendous amount of goodwill for
Japan even among oppressed peoples.
The occupation policies did not echo the
friendliness professed by the pictures, but
Asiatics thrilled to the messages flashed
upon the screen. Indonesians, for ex-
ample, much approved the all-Indonesian
picture “Prosperity,” shown in 1944.
Always the screen showed Japan pro-
tecting Eastern customs. Eastern religion
and Eastern languages. Although Japan,
as big brother, was shown as leader of
the Asiatics, that leadership sought to
guide rather than to compel co-operation.
There were also straight war propa-
ganda films, such as “Three Human
Bullets,” praising those soldiers who bore
explosives on their backs to blow up
Shanghai’s defences. The magnificent
“Chocolate Soldier” has nothing but the
title in common with the pla’’ by Bernard
Shaw, but its impact is so powerful and
its effect so stirring that it won the praise
of Frank Capra, who said “We can’t beat
this sort of thing. Perhaps once in a
decade we produce a film as good as that;
We simply do not have the actors,”
The usual Hollywood pattern cannot
counteract the influence already won by
Iwakura. Japan’s propagandists have
already ruined the effectiveness of the
American stereotype by
linking its faults to the
presumed weakness of
American character.
Japanese pictures con-
trasted Nippon’s neo-Puri-
tanism with Hollywood’s
lavish display. Japanese
heroes are always strong
and sturdy, full of the
homely virtues; they pas-
sionately crush their per-
sonal desires beneath the
needs of duty. Villains are
of baser breed. In the
modern Japanese movie
the villain wears American
clothing, holds a highball
glass and dances to juke-
box music. Thus, by sug-
gestion, all Asiatics who
copy Occidental practices
are decadent and insincere.
Hollywood glamor and
lavishness will confirm
throughout Asia the im-
pression which Japan has
already ipade. The super-
de luxe technicolor musi-
cales, the gangster pictures
and the cheap farces will
continue to play directly
into the hands of Japan’s
propagandists.
If we are to coun-
teract the poisonous pro-
paganda it will be neces-
sary to send out films geared to the
Oriental mind.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The Compagnie Messageries Maritimes of
France has had a ticklish time with a merchant
ship it has launched. Built during the occu-
pation, the ship was first named the Marechal
Petain. After the liberation it was rechristened
the General Charles de Gaulle. When De
Gaulle resigned, the company directors cast a
wary eye over the political scene, went into
conference, and came up with a third choice:
La Marseillaise. —“The Nation.”
* * * *
U.S. diplomacy as applied to Spain and
Argentina provides a sample of the diplomatic
schizophrenia which is diminishing U.S. pres-
tige and influence all over the world. ' Most
of us agree that if General Franco and Colonel
Peron were eliminated the results would
be beneficial to Spain and Argentina. We
might be equally interested in seeing new and
better regimes in Russia, Yugoslavia and Ru-
mania. But up to now we have not permitted
our diplomatic representatives in those countries
to make partisan speeches against the existing
order, nor subjected their commerce to restric-
tions, nor bludgeoned other Powers into taking
joint, if reluctant, action against them. What
people want to know is whether the U.S. State
Department is carrying out a policy or merely
sounding off to please U.S. fellow-travellers.
Hot as we are on the issue of Franco, we
have nothing to offer on what is a far hotter
issue in Europe—namely, Who is to succeed
Franco? The British, while going along on
the joint demand that Franco dry up and blow
away, are naturally more concerned with the
possibility that Franco’s, successor will ( be
a Soviet puppet. —‘‘Saturday Evening Post.
* * * *
The division of Germany into four zones
under the control of four different Govern-
ments may have been expedient from the mili-
tary point of view. It was and remains fan-
tastic from any other. The Soviet in its zone
has thrown its support openly and ruthlessly to
the Communist party. Social Democrats who
oppose the merger with the Communist party
are subject to arrest and detention. The
British and French are unofficially supporting
the Social Democrats, and the Socialist organi-
sations of Western Europe are lending a hand
in formulating policies. Only the United States
Latest fashion craze with Australian
women draws its inspiration not from
New York, Paris or London but from
Australia’s frontier country —the North-
ern Territory —where men are men and
women are few and far between. Slim-
hipped, casual trousers of hardwearing
cotton topped by easy, open-necked,
often checked shirts with long sleeves
rolled above the elbow —the popular garb
of the outback stockrider —have been
introduced to the city and are making
fast friends. Belts with pouches of
solid, lasting leather trimmed with silver
and reminiscent of well-polished saddles
are becoming popular, while plaited kan-
garoo skin, soft and supple, makes belts
to accentuate the positive waistline of
wide, cowgirl skirts, flared and then
pleated. Handbags afe being modelled
on the flapover saddlebag, while shoes
seek the elegance of soft, shining brown
riding boots. Colors are based on brown
with clear desert yellow and. the grey-
green of the saltbush topping the popu-
liarity list. —From the official Australian
Government news-sheet issued by the
Australian News and Information
Bureau, New York, for American con-
sumption.
is remaining entirely neutral. And there’s the
rub. For this neutrality too often represents
simply the lack of a positive democratic policy.
The Russian persecution of Social Democrats
should be protested at by the other occupying
Powers, but the only effective protest would
be a drive, especially an American drive, for
a genuine democratic solution, both economic
and political, as dynamic as the Russian drive
for its monolithic brand of social change. —
“The Nation.”
* * * *
“Land-reform” [in the totalitarian-controlled
parts of Europe], which appears to be a demo-
cratic measure at first sight, is not so upon
careful examination, not even in countries like
Hungary, where land-reform has long been
overdue. The available evidence shows that
the procedure is the same everywhere as it Is
in eastern Germany under the Russian occupa-
tion. The larger estates are broken up into
holdings that are too small to give an eco-
nomic return. Peasants, who were formerly
landless and dependent on the landowners,
have land now and are dependent on the State.
But whereas the former dependence was quali-
fied by rights, the landowner himself being
under the law, their present dependence is abso-
lute, for the State is above the law, above
custom, and above every human relationship.
—London “Nineteenth Century and After” edi-
torial.
* * * *
The placing of the mandated territories of
the Cameroons, Togoland and Tanganyika
under the Trusteeship Council of U.N.O.
does not imply any intention that they
should, in the near future or at any time,
cease to be administered as part of the British
Empire. Mr. Bevin was careful, in referring to
the ultimate goal, to use the words “self-gov-
ernment or independence,” and there is nothing
either in his statement or in the history of the
negotiations about the Trusteeship Council to
warrant the assumption made in a leader in
the “Times” that “the goal for both colonial
territories incorporated before 1914 and terri-
tories acquired under mandate after the First
World War is gradual political and economic
progress towards the status of self-government
and eventual independence.” The serious mis-
take lies in the use of the last three words,
which, unless the word “independence” is given
a meaning other than that which all parties
attached to it during the discussions about the
Trusteeship Council, can only be interpreted as
indicating that the ultimate goal is the liquida-
tion of the British Colonial Empire. We may
rest assured that such is not, in fact, the goal
of the present British Government, nor likely
to be that of any Government that may suc-
ceed it in the near future. — Sir Bernard H.
Bourdillon; London “Fortnightly.”


Pelman Note to Members and Ex-Members of the Services
No. 3: Influence and Self-Reliance
It is what we are that counts in the long run :
not what we hjiow or whom we \now, but
what we are.
In seeking work of any kind influence rarely
does more than give a man a start. What hap-
pens afterwards rests with himself. Friendship,
family and school associations, previous
acquaintance in work or in the Services, prefer-
ence in any form, all have value, but sooner or
later, and generally sooner, men and women in
gainful occupations travel on their own steam.
They keep or do not keep their work, they stay
as they are or am given better work to do, not
because of their friends but because of what
they are in themselves.
THE HAMMER AND THE HAND
Knowledge, special aptitude, skill are good,
but what counts is the ability to apply these
valuable possessions to a given end‘ and to con-
tinue to apply them until the end is achieved.
The ability to continue in one stay is the most
significant element in character. Its exercise
adds to and confirms knowledge, increases skill
and develops aptitude.
Actually in most cases, metaphorically in
others, all work is done by raising the hand and
lowering it, raising and lowering it, again and
again. It is the action of the hammer and the
hand; one tap after another until the nail is
clinched. In all work the principle operates. In
tightening a nut and in drawing up an agree-
ment, in pruning fruit trees and in balancing a
set of figures, in digging a hole in the road and
in selling goods, in countless other operations by
which men live, it is the finishing of the job,
the continuing of the appropriate effort, the
driving of the nail home, which justifies the
recommendation of a man’s friends and makes
knowledge and skill, influence or preference
really useful to him.
It makes him a better man, too.
ACCEPTANCE OF RESPONSIBILITY
Out of continuity of effort comes enlarged
capacity. With it comes a willingness to accept
responsibility, a growing desire to employ
capacity in a better class of work.
It is then that judgment is needed. Conti-
nuity of effort may be, and frequently is, an
exercise of individual will-power. With many
people, perhaps with most people, it depends on
only one thing outside themselves, continuance
of employment in which the effort may be
made.* The loss of employment, or its suspen-
sion because temporary suspension is considered
to be in the interests of the occupation as a
whole, does not invalidate this statement. The
man resumes continuity of effort when he
resumes work. An established habit of will
again takes charge.
The acceptance'of responsibility requires not
only will, it calls also for judgment. When a
man takes work he fills a place which is vacant.
When he accepts responsibility he does some-
thing, or offers to do something that somebody
else is already doing. The people who have
already accepted responsibility have always
authority, big or little. Whatever it may be in
degree, authority gives them a position above
some others. The responsibility is a satisfaction
to their demand for importance, and their re-,
action to any suggestion to divide or transfer
responsibility depends on the category in which
they, as individuals, can be placed.
For the purpose of this note the categories
are:— {a) the man (or woman) who is jealous
of his position and is determined to resist any
encroachment on his province; ( b) the man
who is prepared to accept help provided he de-
termines the nature of the help and has some
say in the choice of the person who will give it;
(c) the man who looks with a kind eye on the
aspirations of those under him and at the same
timp knows that his particular department of
effort is only one of many and that if it does
well the progress of the whole will be helped;
(d) the man who is seeking freedom of mind
and more time so that he can prepare for and
Watch out for opportunities to accept greater
responsibilities.
Once the man has proved his capacity and
quality as a worker he must exercise judgment
in making manifest his willingness to accept
greater responsibility. He must seek but not
demand, he may be eager but he must not chal-
lenge. The very people who might help him
may put obstacles in his way if there is any
appearance of a desire to take something from
. them. Rebuff or delay must be accepted cheer-
fully as part of a natural process; his continued
and wholehearted application to work should
be as before. In short, if he feels that his dignity
is hurt, he must control his impulse to express
his feelings. Grouching in civil life hinders
advancement.
PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS
Personal characteristics count. Leisure time
spent in reviewing one’s acquaintances in . the
Services and making a list of the likeable ones
will be time well spent. It is certain that in the
list will be many fellows quiet and dependable,
easy to get on with, men who smiled often and
laughed rarely, but not loudly when they did
laugh, who spent some time in thinking and
spoke reasonably. They liked discussion, but
avoided argument. Men who were prepared to
listen and learn and who respected superiority
whether in rank, attainments or natural apti-
tude. Such men are good models for those
seeking to advance themselves in civil life.
Training in responsibility can be got outside
one’s work, at home, in social and domestic
matters and in sport. If the show-off motive is
eliminated, so much the better. Whatever is
undertaken should be done for its own sake,
done well and done at the time. In'accepting
such obligations the correct manner of offering
help is acquired, the ability to judge the point at
which encroachment on another’s preserves
begins is developed, and a sense of proportion
comes in the realisation that the help given is
only a part of what is done, and often only a
small part. Once praise or commendation is
neither given nor expected responsibility has
been fully accepted and is recognised.
In employment of every kind all the cate-
gories mentioned in a previous paragraph are
watching the work and the manner of those
under them, and sooner or later they say to one
or another "You can do,this.” Responsibility is
then offered. If accepted fully and carried out
thoroughly a bigger responsibility follows. The
responsibility must be accepted cheerfully and
happily. However much below one’s capacity
the particular work may be it must be looked
on as a step forward, a recognition of worth and
a means to enlargement of experience.
THE FORMULA
The formula is: constant and continuous
application to work; willingness to accept
responsibility; preparation for progressively
greater responsibility by cheerful acceptance of
smaller ones; appreciation of the characteristics
of those who nominate the work; an exact sense
of proportion so that grievances will not be
indulged; and self-reliance.
Without what is implied in this formula
influence will not carry any man far; with what
is implied influence will make the way easier.
But with or without influence advancement
takes time and ultimately rests on the man
himself.
E. H. WELFORD.
Director Pelman Institute (O/seas).
This announcement is one of a number, each intended to help members of the Services, men and women, to a comfortable adjustment
to civil life. Civilian readers will, we believe, find in these announcements indications of means by which they can assist in this adjust-
ment, and of methods by which they themselves may be helped. W*e are grateful to “The Bulletin” for making the space available to us
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, MELBOURNE.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is approved by the War Office, London, and under
the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme. The Pelman Institute has enrolled nearly Eleven Thousand members
of the Services since 1939. Particulars of the Pelman Course are sent on request to the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane (Corner Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute, with the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to meet the financial restric-
tions and enable residents of New Zealand to enrol for
the Pelman Course of Training without delay. Write in
the first instance to the Pelman Institute, Melbourne.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Cl.
Please post me a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME ADDRESS. 179


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3461
Wednesday, June 12, 1946
THE LARRIKIN STEPS ON THE STAGE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
A "POTENTIAL" MENACE.
Representing, in name at least, those
well-ordered, effectually governed and
internally exemplary countries Australia,
Poland, China, France and Brazil, the five
members of the Security Council sub-
committee set up to consider Franco’s
Spain as a present menace to world peace
evidently found that Russian fabrication
too much for such sense of the ridiculous
as they may be presumed to possess.
Still, they had to make some sort of a
show, and a legalistic formula with the
Evatt brand stamped clearly on it looked
a passable way out. With the Brazilian
gentleman hesitant, but eventually joining
in—probably with the thought that what-
ever such a body decided wouldn’t matter
a tinker’s cuss, anyhow—the minor five
decided that Franco’s Spain was a “poten-
tial menace to world security” and “sug-
gested” a “general diplomatic break un-
less the Franco regime is withdrawn.”
The committee’s finding, plus sugges-
tion, can without question be left to find
its way into whatever pigeonhole it is
eventually destined to fit. There is no
more likelihood of its adoption by either
America or Britain than there is of Dr.
Evatt’s now returning and correcting the
industrial, housing and other glaring
forms of correctable chaos in his own
country. Unable at home to control even
his own department, Australia’s rambling
Minister is abroad a strident, if ineffec-
tual, corrector of the ills of other coun-
tries. His cleverness in that, however,
would appear to be wearing a little thin.
Commenting on the committee’s finding,
the New York “Times” pointed out that
“the method of pressure by breaking off
diplomatic relations has been tried re-
peatedly and found wanting.” The
paper saw “no reason to assume it would
produce better results in Spain than it
did in Argentina.”
Argentina is a sore point with the U.S.
State Department, whose intervention in
that country’s political affairs not only
failed in its purpose of bringing about the
downfall of Franco’s counterpart there,
Peron, but made Peron’s position secure
and stronger than ever —a result that
similar intervention would produce in
Australia or any other country, whatever
the nature of the Government. In fact,
even those who intensely dislike the
Franco regime—not restricted to Russia by
any means —are well aware that the forms
of pressure already tried from outside
have had no other effect than to redouble
its strength.
In Spain there is far stronger reason
for that than there was in Argentina,
where national pride alone was enough.
There is as strong a national pride in Spain
as in any country on earth, but there
are other even more potent factors, about
which little is told in Australia by those
supposed organs of enlightenment the
radio and the daily press.
For one thing, though Mr. Bevin is on
record as declaring that his Government
“detests the Franco regime,” and though
similar sentiments have been expressed on
behalf of America by various Administra-
tion members from Mr. Hull onwards, all
the urging for direct-action intervention
to remove Franco has come from Russia
. —not, as the dullest must realise, in dis-
interested opposition to Franco’s brand of
regime (Stalin got along well enough with
Hitler), but with the intention, by setting
up a Communist regime there, of extend-
ing the Soviet power right across the rest
of Europe, with a position to control the
Mediterranean.
The importance of that to Soviet
Russia has been transparently evident in
all the moves to bring about in Spain
those same chaotic conditions which
exist over most of the rest of Europe,
and in which Communism thrives. The
one concrete charge brought against Spain
to give some semblance of support to the
contention that it constitutes a present
menace to world peace—that German
•dentists, with the connivance of the
Franco dictatorship, were conducting re-
search into atomic energy—was made on
behalf of the Soviet puppet State of
Poland, as usual in U.N.O. matters an
undisguised Soviet mouthpiece. It had to
be rejected as a sheer fabrication; and,
there being no other concrete item in the
indictment, the whole present-menace case
had to be dropped ; though replaced by
the next-best thing that could be cooked
up.
The importance that Soviet Russia
attaches to getting a similar foothold in
Spain as it has in Yugoslavia was
shown again when the Security Council
met to consider the sub-committee’s re-
port. “After an absence of many weeks,
M. Gromyko attended this session.” So,
of course, did Dr. Evatt, to demand from
the Security Council “a just and fearless
decision” ; a demand which should have
provoked roars of laughter, coming from
the representative of a “Goverilment” to
which the very phrase applies as a public
mockery. The decision taken—on the
motion of Britain and America —was to
postpone the discussion, the British and
American delegates being aware of the
hollowness of the Evatt discovery that
“today there is a resurgence of democracy
in Europe,” and that an attempt to impose
that “democracy”—as seen flourishing in
Yugoslavia, Poland and other Soviet
puppet States —on Spain is Soviet Russia’s
single chance of securing control of the
Mediterranean gateway.
That, obviously, is something to which
neither Mr. Bevin nor any other British
Foreign Minister would ever agree, and
neither would any counterpart of Mr.
Bevin in America. Even more to the
point, the Russia-despising and -hating
Spaniards would have to be beaten in an-
other war in their own country before it
could be imposed on them. And another
war is the horror of Spaniards generally.
Theii last war cost them in three years
one million dead —more than three times
as many dead as the British forces suf-
fered in five years of the recent World
War. ’tyfith a repetition as the alterna-
tive—and it would be the alternative if
Britain and America so took leave of their
senses as to fall for the clumsy Soviet
manoeuvring for direct-action interven-
tion —the Spaniards, for that reason alone,
will keep Franco where he is while ever
innocuous sub-committees go on turn-
ing out fatuous “suggestions.”
National pride, fear and hatred of
Russia and fear of a repetition of the
1936-39 Civil War horrors and slaughter
are not the only factors consolidating
Franco’s position against outside inter-
vention. Going by the only information
on Spain allowed to them by radio and
press, Australians can hardly help think-
ing of that country as a wretched place
for anyone to have to live in. What may
not be generally grasped is that reporting
on Spain is never objectively factual,
setting down the internal state of the
country and how the people as a whole
are faring, but is invariably political.
That reporting is wholly inexcusable
now, because newspaper and radio repre-
sentatives from Australia have quite free
access to Spain. England is getting some-
what better reporting on that country:
“Unlike Russia,” a writer in the “Nine-
teenth Century and After” has pointed
out, “Spain now invites the foreign press
tp come and see.” What is to be seen
there this writer found quite astonishing:
“The Englishman who arrives in Madrid
these days opens his eyes with astonish-
ment at the sight of an apparently pre-
war city. The grocers’ shops, tailors and
ironmongers draw him as a magnet, for
'here are all the commodities he had
almost forgotten: rows of bottles of every
conceivable drink, rolls of cloth stacked
to the ceiling, hardware galore. Silk
shirts, long socks, leather goods, wireless
sets compete for his attention. The
shining array of motor-cars Staggers him ;
the unending menu at the hotel almost
rebuts.”
No such information as that gets
through the political sieve that sorts out
what is suitable foreign news for Aus-
tralian consumption. “Should he [the
visitor] have known the Madrid of the
Civil War,” the “Nineteenth Century and
After” writer added, “his astonishment at
the change will be coupled with a meed
of real admiration for the people capable
of such a recovery and the leaders who
engineered it.”
The writer of that, it should be said, is
far from being pro-Franco. He believes
the Spanish people would welcome a
change, perhaps to a restoration of the
monarchy, if one could be brought about
without risk of bloodshed. But with the
overriding fear of that, the detestation of
Russia, and the generally satisfactory
living conditions of the people, the re-
moving of Franco by outside pressure is
evidently ‘hopeless. Perhaps Dr. Evatt,
instead of serving the Soviet interest on
the Spanish issue, could be serving that
of his own country’s internal state by
having a first-hand look into Spain’s re-
covery before he returns.
The Sergeant of the Eighth.
It is on record in the Official History of
Australia in the War of 1914-18 that,
on the day after the battle of Hamel
(July 4, 1918), in which American soldiers
fought alongside Australians for the
first time, “it was quickly evident to
many Australians in the outpost line that
the German front was unusually dis-
organised.” There were daring spirits
who availed themselves of the opportuni-
ties thus provided, and to one Charles
Bean devoted nearly three pages of his
monumental work, giving one of the
thumbnail biographies which are especi-
ally valued by Old Diggers.
Sgt. W. E. Brown, V.C., D.C.M. (No.
1689 20th Btn. and NX35492 2nd/15th
Field Regt. A.I.F. 1940). Grocer, of Hobart,
Tas., and Petersham, N.S.W. B. New Nor-
folk, Tas., July 2, 1885.
Brown was awarded a Victoria Cross.
He had been previously decorated after
Passchendaele, .and was indeed the type of
man certain to distinguish himself in this
way, if he survived. When the war broke
out he enlisted in the infantry, but, in order
to get to the front more quickly, he seized
a chance to transfer to the Light Horse,
and then, on arrival in Egypt, entered the
Came! Corps. When serving with this corps
in Egypt, being determined to jeach the
infantry in France, he managed to be sent
to Cairo on a plea of having lost his false
teeth. At Cairo he succeeded in obtaining
a transfer to the 20th Battalion reinforce-
ments, and after serving in the 55th Bat-
talion at piers, and for a short while in a
field butchery, he was transferred in
August, 1917, to the 20th Battalion.
After Hamel, Sergeant Brown, having
been told by a sergeant of the 21st that
men of the 21st were being troubled by
snipers “in some position over there,”
said he would “have a pot at them” him-
self, To do so he had to move “seventy
yards across the open,” being fired at
twice on the way. He discarded his
rifle for “two Mills bombs,” and
after flinging a bomb which fell short and
dropping down in some broken ground,
he jumped into a German trench and
ran to reach “the entrance of a
dugout, gaping towards him at the
far end,” There was “a machine-gun
standing on the parados in the middle, its
belt trailing from the breech.” As he
reached the dugout entrance, “a German
began to step from it.”
Brown swung a blow at his jaw, and the
German, crying “Kamarad” as it struck
him, was knocked down the stair. Brown
backed to the machine-gun, holding his
only bomb ready to throw. He turned
and received a surprise: at the other end
of the trench, where he had jumped in, was
another dugout entrance and Germans just
emerging from it. He could not throw his
bomb, for when it had burst he would have
been at the mercy of the survivors. He
therefore held it threateningly, and they at
once put up their hands. He ordered them
to pass over the parapet, which they did,
scowling, while he perforce kept turning
his head, so as to watch first one entrance
and then the other. Thirteen Germans
[an officer and 12 men of the 108th Divi-
sion] in all emerged and trotted across
to the Australian line, some German post
opening with a machine-gun as they went,
and Brown following the prisoners, bomb
in hand. Presently German shells began to
burst around.
Then came some characteristic Old
Digger touches:
Brown, unaware even that there was an
officer among his captives, picked up his
rifle, went back “pozzy” and dis-
missed the incident Trom his mind —so far
as he was allowed to do so by some of
the men in the trench, who growled that
he had “drawn the crabs” (shellfire) on
them.
Nevertheless word of the incident spread
like wildfire. An officer of the 21st came
along the trench and asked Brown if he
was the man who had gone out. When
his own battalion, the 20th, came in, his
company commander, Lieut. Cameron
[afterwards a brigadier], asked him “What
the devil have you been doing up there?”
The affair was quickly known in every
part of the Australian Corps. The First
Division at Hazebrouck (Belgium) heard it.
General Monash made it the basis of a
direction to all his divisions.
Only death can quench the spirit of the
fighting men of 1918, and Sergeant
Brown enlisted in the Second A.I.F. at
55. He must have put up a wonderful
bluff to get past the “quacks,” but Old
Diggers had a way with them, and some
of the “quacks” must have been kind. With
the 2nd/15th Field Regiment, Sergeant
Brown set out for Malaya on June 28,
1941, and when the Japs came down he
was in the thick of the regimental fight-
ing. In the last act of the tragedy on
Singapore Island he was seen to walk to-
wards the enemy lines with a bag full of
hand grenades, and heard to say “No
surrender for me! ” He never came back,
and when all the survivors of the Eighth
and of their British and Indian comrades
entered upon a new martyrdom as
prisoners-of-war he was not among them.
This grand soldier left two children, a
daughter and a son. The son died on
June 5, 1943, of meningitis. Over three
years elapsed before hope for the father
was abandoned. It was not until May 24,
1946, that Mrs. Brown, now living in
a Sydney suburb with her daughter, was
officially informed that her husband must
be presumed to have become one with
the immortal band of British Empire
heroes who “fell with their faces to the foe.”
From 1930 till 1940, when he enlisted
again, Sergeant Brown was employed on
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas as
'channel attendant. His home was at
Leeton, and there, according to the local
paper, he was “held in high esteem,” be-
ing “likeable and unassuming” ; as modest
as after Hamel, when he was honored by
his general and his King, and known
by name and deeds to all his old com-
panions. At Leeton it must have been
assumed that his noble sacrifice and some
details of his career would be of at least
passing interest to the Australian daily
press, and the Melbourne “Age,” which
maintains the fine Australian standards set
by David Syme, published the substance
of a press telegram from Sergeant
Brown’s home town on Saturday, June 1.
But not a line appeared in the racing-mad
Sydney daily and Sunday papers, which
have space galore for Romano (or Azzalin)
of income-tax notoriety (“Rom.” nowa-
days to the Sydney “Morning Herald”),
and for Dashing Bookmakers and Plucky
Punters, among them country publicans
who bet in thousands, none of whom is
known to have any record of service
against any enemy.
As the widow of a soldier dead on
active service, Mrs. Brown is entitled to
a pension of £2 10s. a week, which
doesn’t rise with the cost of living. That
of her daughter, who isi 12, is 17s. 6d. a
week, plus the cost of schoolbooks. At
13 the child will qualify for another 6s.
a week from the Repatriation Depart-
ment, raised to 9s. 6d. a week from 14
to 16, at which age her pension will
cease unless she elects to stay at school,
in which case she may apply for a main-
tenance allowance of 275. a week. If she
decides to go on to the University fees
and free books will be provided, plus a
living allowance of 355. a week.
In the “Labor” view all this- is gener-
ous, It is paltry compared with the provi-
sion made by N.S.W. State “Labor” poli-
ticians for themselves in the Legislative
Assembly Members’ Pensions Act, which
the Opposition resisted, and which the
Liberals are pledged to repeal as soon
as they get the opportunity.
Under the Legislative Assembly Mem-
bers’ Pensions Act Mr. C. Evatt, who
married an heiress and who was first
elected in March, 1939, could, having
“served” in three “Parliaments,” retire to-
morrow to his fine house in a fashion-
able suburb on a life pension of £5 a
week, with £3 a week for his widow if he
died first, subject to the Liberal repeal
pledge. His leader, Mr. McKell, having
“served” upwards of 15 years, could re-
tire on £6 a week, with the reversionary
£3 a week, to his expensive station
property in the Goulburn district. So
could Mr. Tully, also a Goulburn squire,
if he decided that the attractions of Goul-
bum excelled those of the London office,
or if events prevented his taking up that
comfortable post. For the N.S.W. State
“Labor” politician sets a higher value
on his “work” as a home-fronter than
on the work of any serviceman in either
of the great wars, dead or alive.
But Sergeant Brown’s widow and child
will have a place in the hearts of their
countrymen deeper than that of any
number of N.S.W. State “Labor” poli-
ticians who remained in Sydney through-
out the wars. Legacy, which long ago
nobly undertook to care for the children
of servicemen who died in Australia’s
cause, will never desert them. Neither
will the R.S.L. And, whatever vicissi-
tudes may be in store for this woman and
this child, nothing can ever take away the
pride that is theirs in having had such a
husband and such a father. Some day it
may fall to their lot, with a veteran of
the 2nd/15th Field Regiment, and per-
haps, also, of the 20th Battalion, for
guide, to trace Sergeant Brown’s move-
ments in the solemn and dreadful hour
when he gave all he had to his country,
bequeathing to it a memory that can never
be allowed to perish, though his grave
may never be found.
Of a Digger’s child, orphaned in 1918,
E. G. Murphy, the Westralian poet,
wrote with a golden pen:
But you will look back through the vista of
time,
With a patriot’s pride in your glance,
To the day of a sacrifice great and sublime,
• When your father fell fighting in France.
Poets are at a discount in these days.
The genius of the age has taken a mech-
anical direction. Though there are verse-
writers in plenty “the sounds, are forced ;
the notes are few.” The harsh lines of
“modernists” and the blatancies of radio
blatherskites are now in fashion; Aus-
tralians are exhorted to surrender to
vulgar standards and worship false gods.
But some day poetry will again move
their hearts and uplift their minds, as it
did those of their fathers. Assuredly a
poet will arise who will immortalise in
lines as worthy as those dedicated to the
Private of the Buffs the valor of the man
who went out alone from a defeated army
to sell his life dearly, highly resolved
that not through him should Australia
come to shame.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Lamkinism and White Livers.
The Hague, Tuesday (A.A.P.): The Aus-
tralian cruiser Shropshire, holed and leaking
after a collision in the Atlantic, was refused
entry into any Dutch port for repairs. She
was declared “black” by Dutch shipwrights,
who are opposed to the Australian wharflaborers’
championship of Indonesian savages whose
latest outrage is wholesale murder of unarmed
Chinese. Debarred repair facilities at Amster-
dam, Flushing and Sfavoren, the cruiser may
have to battle against storms across the North
Sea to an English port. Her seaworthiness
is badly affected by her damage.
The Netherlands Minister for the Navy
announces that the Australian cruiser was
denied haven in Dutch ports because shipyards
there were full of pressing orders.
That hasn’t happened, nor is it likely to
happen, for the honorable and merciful
traditions of the sea are as deeply im-
planted in the Dutch as in the British.
But if it did happen Australians would
have to take it. There mould be no pro-
test to Holland, no “demand” from Dr.
Evatt, that lion abroad and lamb at
home, for “a just and fearless decision.”
Even waterfront “demonstrations” would
take on the aspect of baffled larrikinism.
For the “Government,” which has
a yellow streak as broad as a
whale’s back, has allowed Commu-
nists to put upon Australia the crown-
ing shame. For week after week a
wounded Dutch destroyer, Piet Hein,
leaking after a collision with a tanker,
struggled around our coasts seeking haven
and repair. At port after port, at Com-
munist dictation, she was refused both.
At the week-end, bewildered and bitter,'
the crew rested in their hurt ship in
Sydney Harbor wondering, doubtless,
what barbaric country they had reached.
It was nothing to “Labor” and the Com-
munist-led mobs to which it habitually
surrenders that the Piet Hein is a sister-
ship to the destroyer that brought off
the survivors of the Australians assigned
to a hopeless campaign on Timor.
There is in Canberra a gentleman
named Makin. Mr. Makin never sailed
a ship or fired a naval gun, but he is
Minister for the Navy and is to be Mini-
ster at Washington, booked for promotion
to “full ambassadorial status.” When
Mr. Makin heard about the Dutch
destroyer he came out with the bleat that
he “understood” Australian dockyards
were too busy to repair the friend in
distress. Tartly informed by the man-
ager of Amalgamated Dry Docks, Mel-
bourne, that this was untrue (“We
arranged to dock thd Piet Hein, and
would have been pleased to have the
work, but the Ship Painters and Dockers
placed a ban on the vessel”) he “sent a
telegram apologising.”
As Navy Minister this Mr. Makin could
have ordered that all Australian naval re-
pair facilities be placed at the Dutchman’s
service and thus have repaid, in some
measure, Australia’s debt to the Dutch
Navy for its work in the dark days of the
Japanese war. He didn’t, of course, being
at one with, his colleagues in being dead
scared of Communists.
There are no words to describe this
latest surrender by the “Labor” Govern-
ment to the Communists, nor are there
words to describe the shame and rage of
decent Australians at the treatment given
a friend and ally. There is a camaraderie
of the sea that stands above politics.
There is a camaraderie in Canberra,
founded in a quaking fear of Commu-
nists, that makes decent people want to
vomit.
Socialism in Britain.
Apart from Mr. Bevin, the Attlee Gov-
ernment is making a poor fist of solving
Britain’s many problems.
Mr. Aneurin Bevan, though profuse
of promises and attacks on private
builders, has egregiously failed to deliver
houses in quantity. S’Ben Smith, a feeble
and confused imitation of Lord Wool-
ton as Food Controller, anticipated
dismissal, in surrender to nation-wide
roars of dissatisfaction, by resigning,
and Mr. Herbert Morrison has made
a bad situation worse by agreeing
to transfer 200,000 tons of wheat to the
Continent without getting any specific
pledge of corresponding American de-
liveries. In the result, bread rationing is
now being “planned” by S’Ben’s suc-
cessor, Mr. Strachey, who is a whale on
socialist theory but has had no practical
experience of anything in particular, and
the grim prospect of milk rationing has
been “mentioned” by Mr. Williams (Agri-
culture).
“Nationalisation of coalmines” under
the cocksure and abusive Mr. Shinwell
is another headache. Nationalisation of
Cable and Wireless, which did an
excellent job between and during the
wars, looks silly. The excuse given
is that it is a “concession to Dominion
opinion,” which presumably means that
it was asked for by a few politicians at
Canberra and Wellington whose Gov-
ernments may be only memories in a few
months. As silly or sillier is piecemeal
“nationalisation” of the iron and steel in-
dustries. Mr. Dalton, the Chancellor of
the Exchequer, admits that these indus-
tries are making a great return to full
production, but that hasn’t stopped his
Government from placing them under a
suspended expropriation edict, which
must leave the depressing conviction that
it is no use modernising plant or going
after new business.
Apart from the coalmines, whose pro-
duction records and prospects are dismal,
the Government is “nationalising” only
successful and efficient industries, from
which no small part of the tax-fund has
hitherto been drawn. It is leaving cotton
to the millowners, the cotton trade being
in a bad way.
On paper nothing could be more
beautiful than socialism. But unbroken
experience in the English-speaking world
is that doctrinaires and tyros have the
ordering of it, and that it spawns
myriads of bureaucrats and deposits vast
power in the hands of trade-union bosses,
of whom the Communists are the worst.
Wherever it has been tried it has failed
expansively, among other things necessi-
tating a chronic diversion of tax-money
to meet losses. It is highly improbable
that British essays in compulsory collec-
tivism will be, any less lamentable than
those on record in this country, and it is
saddening to think that the Attlees, so
far from profiting by the follies of Aus-
tralian Governments, are actually taking
them as examples.
"Pretty Tough."
Wallowing in its deadly materialism,
the Chifley “Government” shows an
almost complete indifference to the plight
of the British people and of the hungry
millions in Europe and Asia. Yet it
could, had it chosen, have seconded what
IN THE SOCIALIST SIXTH.
“The Bishop of Carpentaria states that he has in vain for the return of the Anglican
Church at Darwin, consecrated 44 years ago, when the N.T. was part of South Australia.”
”Well, I suppose it will gratify the anti-God element .”
Nature has done and what men are
willing to do in the way of providing
enormous quantities of foodstuffs, and
not only have put Australia’s name on
the tongues of millions of grateful people,
but placed something on the credit side of
its account with the nation, now all debits.
As soon as the wars were over
and Australians became aware of what
Britain faced in the matter of food, the
generous Australian spirit manifested
itself in a great wave of sympathy. Ap-
peals for food for Britain burst almost
spontaneously into being throughout the
Commonwealth. Did the Chifley “Gov-
ernment” assume the lead, call for a vast
food-production drive, do any of the
things any Australian Government worthy
of the name ought to have done? It
did not. It actually put up an official
and a Minister to broadcast opposition
to the .appeals. That is six months ago,
and, except for an occasional blither from
one of the Ministers on the subject of
food for the starving and a piffling appeal
—which sounded more like a squeal—
from the oleaginous Mr. Forde to “the
workers” (in the middle of meat and
shipping strikes) “to co-operate in dis-
patching food,” it hasn’t lifted a finger.
The Chifley “Government’s” record in
this matter is seen in all its blackness
when compared with that of the Maori-
land Government —also Labor, with the
difference that the term is not all sham.
About the time the Chifley crowd was
opposing the Australian Food-for-Britain
appeals, the N.Z. Prime Minister was
speaking at the formation of a National
Committee for “the voluntary saving of
food for Britain and other overseas coun-
tries.” And since then N.Z. hasn’t let
up for a minute.
By the middle of May, the fifth week
of the campaign, the 1,600,000 New Zea-
landers had surrendered 1,085,537 meat
and butter coupons, over 1,000,000 of
them for meat —a week’s extra ration for
250.000 people. The coupons are still
flowing in. Not satisfied, deputations
from farmers, ex-servicemen, churches
and others have been at the P.M. to
better the record. He promised to put
his Government behind any scheme worth
while; he asked farmers and agricultural
experts to plan more and more produc-
tion ; there is a national drive to save
fat so that Britain can have more tallow,
and a committee of representatives of
farmers, unionists and Government nomi-
nees is aiming at impressive increases in
all essential foodstuffs.
In meat exports alone N.Z. makes Aus-
tralia look feeble. Our Mr. Forde blith-
ered cheerily a few days ago that he ex-
pected Australia to ship 300,000 tons of
meat to Britain this year. Australia has
about 13,000,000 cattle and 122,000,000
sheep, N.Z. 4,500,000 cattle and
32.300.000 sheep. Since January N.Z. has
shipped nearly 500,000 tons of meat. And
still the Government, people and press of
N.Z. press for more.
Australians have imagination enough
to divine what Britain is going through.
Most of them know what Britain did for
them and the rest of the free world in
1940 and subsequent years. They would,
given half a chance, throw themselves into
a food-for-Britain drive with almost reck-
less abandon. But what chance have they
when their Prime Minister, having been
to Britain and been fully informed of
the bad situation in that country and the
worse situation in Europe, could step
from a ’plane on his return and content
himself with the laconic comment that
“things are pretty tough”? Tough! Have
politics and the Canberra air and Com-
munist union bosses conspired to deprive
his crowd of human feeling?
Strip-Journalism.
M, Turlutu says he is for it:
The steadily-increasing volume of “strips”
in my otherwise serious daily paper is making
me wonder whether Australian journalism is
not on the verge of a profound change.
Inquiry from numerous fellow-readers has
shown that the “strip” section is the only
part of the paper which is read by all, irre-
spective of age, sex, politics, occupation, mental
level or personal interests. Admission of the
fact has often been somewhat shamefaced, but
flat denials have been very rare. Some of these,
even, have been broken down by subsequent
careless allusions to Mandrake, Sandra, Pop
or Ben Bowyang. Questioned as to reasons
for being attracted by such obvious nonsense,
the prevailing answer has been that it is so
easy to get their meaning without having to
strain one’s eyes wading through a lot of print.
It would seem inevitable that this same simple
and universally attractive method of presenta-
tion will extend to other parts of the paper.
Instead, for example, of a half-column
leader denouncing Mr. Chifley as the spineless
slave of Commo-led unions, half a dozen bright
sketches, with appropriate remarks in the usual
balloon shape, would present the case in a
form understandable by all. It would lighten
immensely the task of Mr. B. Penton in
“giving Australia leadership,” and would enable
him to appeal to a vastly greater public. Also,
it would help the cause of Australian art tre-
mendously.
Imagine Granny “Herald” attacking Mr.
Calwell in a series of colored Dobells in the best
Archibald Prize style. They would be pinned
up in thousands of houses and offices to serve
as lasting educational influences on art and
politics alike. Scores of deserving artists would
be rescued from the pangs of unsatisfied thirst
and blessed by the admiration of millions of
readers able to understand the leader at last.
In the sacred names of Bluey and Curley and
Blondie and Pepny, let us get busy at bringing
the glorious New Journalism to early fruition!
A Socialist Seventh.
The citizens of Preston, a flat, feature-
less suburb to the north of Melbourne,
woke up the other morning to discover
that, as the result of an inconspicuous
advertisement in a local paper, they were
to figure in a Socialist Seventh of Aus-
tralia, the Northern Territory having be-
come the Socialist Sixth. For one of
those Housing Commissions and one of
those “ ‘Labor’ Governments” had seized
2000 acres, part of it a closely populated
area containing several factories, includ-
ing one covering 10 acres.
Many of the houses in the area are of
modern construction. Some have been
acquired by ex-servicemen, and many
allotments have been purchased for build-
ing purposes by discharged men from
the forces. The mixture of totalitarian-
ism and half-baked socialism which dis-
tinguishes “ ‘Labor’ Governments” and
Housing Commissions aroused fears that
there would be a general clearance, evic-
tions and confiscation. These fears were
somewhat allayed by the official an-
nouncement that the publication of the
advertisement had been premature, that
existing factories and dwellings would be
left undisturbed and that the Commis-
sion had a vast plan for providing social
amenities of all sorts and linking up the
suburb with one of its neighboring pro-
jects. Camberwell and other suburbs are
shortly to suffer a similar visitation.
A lingering impression exists, how-
ever, that the new “model” city will be
a depository of the synthetic steel houses
which recently received the Commission’s
benediction, shortages of nails, fibro-
cement, timber, paint and steel itself per-
mitting, not to mention the blackmarket
and an abundant supply of Communist
strikes and go-slow. Another question
that Season Tickets are asking is why it
has taken the “ ‘Labor’ Government” and
its Housing Commission nine months to
brood on the acquisition of Mr. Wren’s
Ascot racecourse. They haven’t “final-
ised” that , Possibly it is because Mr.
Wren and co., who are asking £50,000
more than the official valuation, can
afford to take the “Government” or Com-
mission to court, a privilege forbidden to
ex-servicemen, whose blocks are “ac-
quired” overnight at a fraction of what
they cost them.
Gilgandra Wants Trees.
It comes from a Forestry Conference
convened by the Gilgandra (N.S.W.) Pro-
gress Association:
After an enthusiastic discussion the fol-
lowing resolution was carried unanimously:
That this conference urges the Minister for
Conservation and Forests, through the Par-
liamentary representatives, to implement a
progressive policy of reafforestation in this
region, embracing Mendooran, Gilgandra,
Warren, Coonamble and Gulargambone
district.
If anyone cared to make a collection
of resolutions like this, passed “unani-
mously” and “enthusiastically” through-
out Australia in the past 20 years, he’d
need a thousand-acre paddock to accom-
modate them, though he could get their
results in a matchbox.
For the besetting sin of Australians is
their readiness to agree on things which
should be done and to believe that some-
thing has been done when a conference
has “unanimously” carried a resolution
and sent it to a politician. This applies
to pretty well everything from the need
for a bridge' over the Yarriambiack
Creek to national defence. Month after
month, and year after year, conferences
are called and resolutions passed, the
former always “enthusiastic” and the
latter always “unanimous.” They never
come to anything.
The Gilgandra conference was on
forestry. Those who attended it were
told of the necessity for timber, the great
market awaiting timber products, the
wealth and employment forests create.
The same things have been said—and
there is no question of their truth —in
other parts about mines, irrigation
schemes, soybeans, cotton, meat, textiles,
fish. The motion put and carried “unani-
mously,” the secretary is instructed to send
it to the Minister, usually through the
local member. And always the Minister
replies that he is “impressed” or “has
the matter in hand” or something and
will bring it before the Government at
the first opportunity. Presently the “en-
thusiasm” wanes, the stir subsides and
the district or town or suburb reverts
to stagnation.
It won’t do. Australia can’t develop
by conferences and resolutions, nor can
any district hope to see its resources ex-
ploited by those means. If Gilgandra or
any other place believes it'has a source of
untapped wealth awaiting development
its best chance is to form a company or
a co-operative, sell shares, buy the land
and whatever else is necessary, advertise,
attract outside capital and technical skill
and gSi to work. On the day when a group
of enterprising people in some such dis-
trict as Gilgandra decides to do its own
work Australia will jump forward 50
years.


N
m
HSi
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjogmeni
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
M /
%
5794
POLITICAL POINTS
' J
Before the Victory procession in Lon-
don “entertainment allowance” for
privates and corporals in the Australian
contingent was 3s. a day—as one dis-
gusted correspondent put it, “just
enough for a pint of beer and a snack.”
It seemed a good opportunity for Beasley,
of the vast private commissariat, to im-
provise a version of a Kipling jingle and
beef it out to the dissatisfied Diggers:
Three bob a day!
■Bloomin’ good pay.
London is calling—'and three bob a day !
Travelling expenses of Commonwealth
Ministers within Australia, not reckon-
ing in gold passes and the cost of running
and maintaining the fleet of fluid-drive
Chrysler cars, are round £7OOO p.a.
One of the oddest odysseys in Austra-
lian maritime history is that of the Dutch
destroyer Piet Hein, a sister-ship to the
Dutch naval vessel which rescued Aus-
tralian survivors from Timor. Damaged
in a collision, she has been begging her
way around Australia asking to be re-
paired. Twice in Melbourne and once
in Fremantle, and now in Sydney, she
has made efforts to get the repair work
done, but the necessary labor was not
forthcoming. Although Williamstown is
a naval-repair depot where the Piet Hein
could get attention if there was a war on,
Australian naval authorities could do no-
thing, civilian artisans being under direc-
tions of Communists, The Flying Dutch-
man in Wagner’s opera was under a curse
never to rest until he could get some pure
girl to love him. He found one eventu-
ally, but if it had happened in Australia
she would have been labelled a “scab” by
the waterfront unions.
Along with the boycott of the wounded
Dutch destroyer by the Ship Painters and
Dockers there went in Melbourne a
Waterside Workers and Seamen’s Union
boycott of the mercy ship Tasman, load-
ing up in Melbourne with supplies (medi-
cal requisites among them) for Indonesia.
On board was a Dutch doctor whom a
returned p.-0.-w. recognised as “having
treated many Australian airmen and
soldiers, including himself, in the Jap
prison hospital in Java.” The ship was
loaded by refugee Dutch schoolboys and
taken out of port by a determined pilot
after a tug had been refused. The school-
boys, it was recorded, perhaps as an
example of Communist chivalry, “were not
interfered with by the wharflaborers.”
Corns could have given orders that they
should be bashed with boots, bottles and
knuckledusters.
A returned soldier pushing a barrow-
load of garden soil along a Sydney
suburban street left the barrow and ran
when an official-looking man approached.
The soldier’s alarm was unjustified—the
man was not a Housing Commission
official about to seize his land.
In the case of W. C. Taylor, vice-presi-
dent of the N, S. Wales A.L.P., and now
vice-chairman of Canberra’s Airlines
Commission, a Sydney magistrate ruled
that preference to servicemen, as pro-
vided for in “Labor’s” Re-establish-
ment and Re-employment Act, does
not apply to such concerns. Last
week a Melbourne magistrate dismissed
the case of an ex-serviceman who ap-
plied for reinstatement as an employee in
the Commonwealth munitions works at
Footscray on the ground that his services
had been terminated without reasonable
cause, holding that the Commonwealth
is protected as an employer, since “the
King can do no wrong.” The Digger’s
counsel, Ashkanasy, K.C., commented
that “thousands of ex-servicemen have
been misled by the passing of an Act
which,” as construed, “exempts Govern-
ment departments.” “Poor old Hollo-
way” pleads that all that has happened
is that “the ca*se was brought in the wrong
Court,” but only his colleagues seem to
believe him.
Though the Christian Democrats, who
were for the maintenance of the House
of Savoy, will be much the largest single
party in the new Italian Chamber, Um-
berto was voted out of his kingdom by
12,000,000 to 10,000,000 —much too close
to be comfortable for any republic—and
is about to leave the country, as did his
father, who had abdicated in his favor.
It seems a perilous thing for a sovereign,
real or titular, to put his sovereignty to
the vote. However, Napoleon the Great
got away with it, and so did Napoleon
the Little, though only while each was
successful at home and abroad. Um-
berto had to present himself as one of
the principals in a lost war.
An obituary note on Kalinin says “he
always had a soft spot for farmers, and
long queues were always besieging his
Moscow office with complaints.” Obvi-
ously the assertion of a “counter-revolu-
tionary,” a “Fascist” or a “neo-Fascist” ;
Soviet farming is so wonderful that there
couldn’t possibly have been “long queues”
of farmers with “complaints.” Kalinin
was “chairman of the Presidium of the
Supreme Soviet for 27 years,” and the
most remarkable thing about him is that
he died in his bed.
If Communists choose to see the “anti-
God” touch in the socialisation of the
Northern Territory, the Anglican and
Catholic bishops, each of whom has re-
ceived “notice of acquisition of church
property,” will not gainsay them. The
Bishop of Carpentaria has placed it on
record that he twice asked Johnson, the
Minister of the Interior, for “the return
of the area on which the Darwin Angli-
can Church and Rectory stand,” and re-
ceived the definitive negative from “an-
other department.” Characterising this
as “not only bad manners but a failure
of government,” Bishop Davies reminded
Johnson and all others concerned that
“the church was consecrated 44 years ago
for a house of God and for worship
according to the rites of the Church of
England.”
It may not therefore be used for any
other purpose. Unfortunately our Gov-
ernment does not recognise spiritual values.
True as to “spiritual,” but examination
of the N.S.W. “Labor” Licensing Reform
Act would convince the bishop that
“Labor” has a tender regard for “values”
concerned in the production and sale of
spirituous and fermented.
H. J. Prater, secretary of the Westralian
Primary Producers, has worked it out
that the inclusion of 1945-46 wheat in
“stabilisation” will cost the growers
£15,000,000, “25 per cent, of total
value,” He takes it that there
will be 123,000,000 bushels for dis-
posal, of which 34,000,000 bushels
are earmarked for flour and 28,000,000
bushels for stock feed, breakfast food,
etc. (the etc. including dogbiscuits), the
whole 62,000,000 being for sale at 4s. 1 Id.
The other 61,000,000 bushels should realise
9s. 9d., of which the grower will get
7s. 4d,; the 2s. sd. should go into the
stabilisation fund, but, according to
Prater, “it doesn’t —it simply vanishes,
irrevocably lost to the growers.” The
Prater statement of the case is fearfully
embarrassing to Lemmon, the Govern-
ment’s champion of and trumpet-blower
for “stabilisation” in the West, whose
seat, Forrest, would have been unsafe in
any event.
It shouldn’t be hard to shift Lemmon,
and it should be easy to scrape Mount) oy
from the Swan seat. Before the elec-
torate was altered and renamed Harry
Gregory won it four times and Swan
he won eight times, being thrice un-
opposed. His last majority, gained
in 1940, was 6976 votes in an
effective poll of 46,734. Dying that
year, Gregory was succeeded by another
C.P. man, Marwick, whose by-election
majority was 2383 in an effective poll of
44,691. The 1943 figures were 25,690 for
Mountjoy and 25,615 for three C.P. can-
didates ; absolute majority 75, which
would have increased little had prefer-
ences been distributed. Mountjoy is the
Friend of the Soviet who identified him-
self with a blackguardly Communist
attack on a woman at the point of her
reputation, and on a man of unblemished
record whose only son, a Sixth Division
captain, after splendid service in the
Middle East, died fighting in New Guinea
with dead Japs all about him. Mountjoy
can count on the support of Communist
Slav market gardeners (Tito boys) in an
outer-suburban part of the long, strag-
gling electorate, but it can’t amount to
much.
Lud Mayor Connelly, of Melbourne,
has come to the conclusion that Mel-
bourne doesn’t want a brighter city. He
asked for a spirit of jollity on Victory
Night, and critics, wrote to the papers
deploring the orgy anticipated. The Lud
Mayor retorted that there would be no
orgy, and, anyhow, there would be a large
police force to keep order. Then it was
announced that six blondes, six brunettes
and six redheads would lead the proces-
sion mounted on white brewery horses,
and an unkind commentator suggested
that the damsels should be replaced by
18 housewives pushing empty prams and
waving ration books. The comment of
the First Citizen on this proposal, if any,
was not published.
Although much of the evidence at the
Nuremberg trials has been conflicting,
there is one point on which Keitel and
Jodi were consistent —that the Germans
in September, 1939, were ill-prepared
for a war on the Western Front.
Keitel declared that Hitler had only
23 divisions there, and Jodi that
the Westwall was a joke. It follows
that Hitler and his gang would have
been unable to stand up to a war
on two fronts, and that peace could have
been preserved by the Moscow marvels if
they had signed up with Britain and
France, instead of double-crossing. They
persuaded themselves that they could
stand aloof and see the Germans and the
Anglo-French knock each other rotten,
after which the Red Army would march
over the mins to the mastery of Europe.
In the result Russia had to take a fero-
cious war, throughout which the pressure
on “capitalistic” Britain was relieved;
and the clumsy Moscow crowd has been
savage ever since.
Nowadays Goulbum (N.S.W.) is much
more of an industrial electorate than it
was when Father Tully was first elected
in 1925. When Son Tully’s by-election
majority was 409, 12,477 votes having
been counted, the public was assured by
the kind of paper which is anti-“ Labor”
in the editorial columns and “Labor” in
other parts that “Labor” could bank on
a majority of a thousand, since there
were heaps of votes to come from “rail-
way workers who support ‘Labor.’ ”
Actually 1371 of these votes came in, and
Tully’s share was only 729, his majority
at the end being 496. Along with the fall
in the “Labor” vote in the Oakleigh and
Carnegie subdivisions of Federal Henty
(Vic.) and the industrial parts of Bremer
(Q.), this has given “Labor” the dreadful
impression that, as well as servicemen,
wage-earners and their womenfolk have
gone cold on it.
In opening the steel house in the Fitz-
roy Gardens, Melbourne, Lazzarini let
forth a spate of oratory in the course
of which he talked as if his Government
only had to say the word and thousands
of steel houses would spring up like mush-
rooms. He cited this as an example of
what his Government had done for the
common man. There is nothing so dread-
fully common as a who lets
people think that a miracle has happened
and doesn’t tell them that without coal, of
which there is a diminishing prospect,
there will be no glass, no screws, no
fibrous plaster for linings, no electric fit-
tings, no timber, and (worst of all) no
steel for the prefabricated dwellings.
The embalmed body of Senator Keane
had a State funeral in Melbourne, as was
only right. The cost of State funerals
goe§ on the record, and in the last Budget
papers these two items appeared;
Late General Sir Harry Chauvel—State
Funeral, £lOO.
Late Rt. Hon. John Curtin—State
Funeral, £2500.
Manly simplicity was the keynote of
Chauvel’s character in death as in life.
Dunn, taking charge of N.S.W. soldier-
settlement from Tully, otherwise provided
for and most comfortable, admitted that
it would be “years” before the 17,000
applicants for land aid could be accom-
modated. He recalled that “after the first
war soldier-settlement was carried on for
nine years, 1917 to 1926.” His
•ment” came in five years before the end
of the last war, and “S. M. Herald,”
which was on intimate terms with it for
most of those years, has challenged it to
prove that “a single returned soldier has
been placed on a property he may one
day call his own.” No answer from
Dunn, and none, of course, from Tully.
The U.S.A. has made a generous lend-
lease settlement with this country. Per-
haps a little of the credit should go to
Stalin or Molotov or Malenkov or who-
ever is now top-dog in the country be-
hind “the iron curtain.” The latest about
Stalin—published on the day when it was
described how King George presented
himself, calm and serene, to the greatest
crowd ever assembled in London- —is that
“he seldom, if ever, leaves the Kremlin,
except to drive to one of his fortified
country houses in an armored car, with
window glass nearly an inch and a half
thick, and with a strong escort of gum
men.”
A merino ram from Bum
demar topped Sydney stud-sheep sales at
700gns. Averages were low. Perhaps the
merino men should go in for breeding
racehorses —a city man paid 4300gns. for
a yearling at Sydney Easter sales, and
plenty more were sold at four figures; /
the average was above 600gns. Nine-
tenths of the animals are far more likely
to become meat for racing greyhounds
than to win races, but buyers (not
pastoralists) were obviously undis-
turbed at the prospect. “Labor”
“governs” the biggest wool State;
and “Labor” runs lotteries, set up a
racing club in war-time and was an-
noyed, not with the racing club but with
Lord Nuffield, when a Nuffield factory
was frozen out of a racecourse. And the
effect of shearing, wharf, meat and coal
strikes, sky-high taxation, drought and
lack of labor and material on N.S.W.’s
greatest industry never worries “Labor”
in the slightest degree.
It appeared in one of those Post-war
Reconstruction advertisements which issue
from Dedman’s department in a burbling
stream: —•
The Government places employment in
the forefront of its re-establishment plan.
Servicemen have special rights to reinstate-
ment in employment, to preference.
Read at any gathering of Diggers it is
guaranteed to start a gale of laughter
that will rock the rafters.


MISTER,
HERBS YOUR
HAT! <
% yt* s
1941
SOLDIER, HERE’S THE BOOT!
4 ‘Magisterial decisions and departmental rulings against servicemen in, seeking 01 dismissed from Government employment have made ‘Labor s
preference pledge a heartless sham.”


society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES IMKS"
“X.S.”: Even Judges and Jay Pays
have been bitten by the psychology bug
these days. A child of nine was charged
in Adelaide in that he stole a book of
lottery tickets, the prize for which was a
pair of parrots, sold them for threepence
each and used the proceeds to travel to
Port Adelaide to “see the ships.” He
was remanded for psychological examina-
tion! When I went to see the ships at
Fort Adelaide I travelled on an out-of-
date second-class ticket, pinched from my
sister’s handbag. Freud not having been
heard of in those days, it didn’t occur to
my father to send me to a psychoanalyst
for treatment. In fact, the old man was
so delighted that he told his friends that
he had a potential Captain Cook in his
family.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: An amusing situation has
arisen in London, where the official cen-
sors, who were just about to exercise their
pencils on “Pick-up Girl,” a play about
delinquent children, were stupefied to
learn that Queen Mary, whose rigorous
standards in personal behavior exclude
many prominent people from her court
circle, had seen the play and had given it
her approval. After that, what is
a poor censor to do but put his
head in a gas oven? Recalls the
occasion when sundry social reformers
demanded the removal of an Ameri-
can play from the boards of Mel-
bourne King’s. The police were ordered
to investigate it, and a sergeant sat in
the circle looking sternly at the proceed-
ings while a copper put down the blue
lines dictated to him. The John Hop
laughed so much that he nearly rolled
off his seat. There was another member
of the force who was enjoying the piece
in another part of the theatre —Blarney.
Presumably he had concluded he had
better see the play in case he had to ban
it the next morning. The play wasn’t
censored, and had one of the longest runs
in the theatre’s history.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Lost musical instruments, is
it? Pianist Edward Goll had the experi-
ence of losing a piano. On tour in Vic-
toria, he used four, shuffling them about
between the various centres so that he
would be sure not to have to perform a
programme without one. On one occa-
sion he arrived at a town to find that no
piano had turned up. Six weeks later the
railways rang up to say that his instru-
ment had been found —under a heap of
coal in a truck on a country siding.
* * * •
“Arpeos”: One firm I know seems to
have endless trouble with constantly
changing executives. There is one, how-
ever, who has kept his job for years,
which is surprising, for he is for ever dis-
agreeing with the chief’s policy, frequently
to the point of quarrelling. I said to
him one day “Old So-and-so seems a hard
man to please. How do you manage to
stay with him?” My friend lit his pipe
thoughtfully. “The Old Man got to the
top the hard way. Because of that he
loathes yes-men. He sees in me the inde-
pendent spirit he secretly admires in a
man.” He grinned at me through the
haze of smoke and said “For a thousand
a year I’ll go on quarrelling with him
for ever.”
“Simon Scrawler”: Jap reaction to
“God Save the King” (B. 15/5/ ’46)? In
a Java p.-0.-w. camp the commandant,
reputed to be an Oxford graduate, at-
tended a performance of_“Twelfth Night.”
At the conclusion he stood rigidly to
attention during the singing of the
anthem, and then left without comment.
Next day “G.od Save” was banned.
“Passun”: Gullible Japs? We were
loading petrol into a small Jap cargo
vessel. The work was fairly the
drums being rolled off trucks on to the
wharf, where they were hook-grabbed by
a crane and swung into the hold. The
10 Aussies in the hold were doing a
splendid job with a spanner, and every
drum-cock was dripping petrol. Just
before the job was finished a Nip decided
to see how things were going down below.
He discovered an overpowering reek of
fumes and wanted to know why the cocks
were loose. It was do or die, but a quick-
witted sergeant explained that petrol was
a dangerous liquid ; if the cocks were
tight no air could get into the drums;
the fumes, unable to escape, would expand
and then “big noisy bang.” With a
shamefaced grin for his ignorance the
Jap removed his presence without further
examination and it was a safe bet that
he’d tell no one of his shame. Those 10
Aussies personally fastened the tarp ropes
five minutes before the ship sailed with a
foot of liquid danger swirling under the
hatch. But we heard no more of her.
* * * *
“Time Gents”: Opening a cell in a
city lockup early one morning one of the
station coppers was astonished to find
that the trio of drunks he had locked up
the previous evening were in a much
worse state than when the P.D. car had
brought them in. The reason soon be-
came apparent. Scattered round the cell
were a cnnnle of dozen empties. There
“Hold him , Pepplewick, while I manoeuvre for position .”
had been a police raid on a sly-grog shop,
and the sergeant in charge of the raid had
stowed the confiscated liquor in the cell
and had forgotten to inform the desk
sergeant,
* * * *
“Double Blank”: “Don’t talk to me
about card players being out for all they
can get,” remarked Old Bill over his
third beer. “The blokes that play
dominoes are worse. They’d take
the food out of your month. I
was having Saturday at home, and
the wife sends me out with a quid
to buy the Sunday meat and vegetables.
After I got the tucker I dropped into a
pub for a couple of quickies, and before
I knew where I was I’m mixed up in a
game of dominoes with three old-timers.
We’re playing for drinks, and pretty soon
I’ve lost all the wife’s sugar. Being
broke I start to pull out, but one old
geezer suggests that I trade-in the tucker
for chips and maybe my luck’ll turn.
Well, to cut a long story short, I done
in the Sunday dinner, and when I left
the flaming boozer the three old gaffers
were arguing how they’d divide the eats.”
* * * *
“W T eff”: After several years’ neglect
by the newspaper fraternity, workers
whose jobs bring them into close contact
with the public are being courted by
pressmen and their journalistic sisters with
a column to fill. Barmaids, waiters,
barbers and taxi-drivers are lured into
coffee shops and there implored to give
the dinkum oil on this and that. There
are doubtless other occupations on the
list, and readers of Great Dailies can
expect to be regaled with heart-to-heart
chats between inkslingers and tramguards,
liftmen, railway porters, barrowmen,
usherettes and milk-bar attendants. As
yet none of those interviewed has been
asked what other work he would like
to do if he were not employed in his
present position; but I recall Percy
Hunter’s retort when confronted with that
one by a “Daily Guardian” (Sydney) re-
porter. “Young man,” said Percy, “if I
had my chance again I’d enter the newer
journalism and ask people damn-fool
questions like yours.”
* ♦ * *
“Clooter”: A question that I’ve often
felt like asking is why elderly men persist
in wearing hats both in the house and
when abroad. Does the human cranium
cool off with the march of anno domini,
is it merely a sign of advancing decrepi-
tude in the reluctance to take the thing
off and put it on again, or is it a survival
from ancient times when the elders of the
tribe always wore some formal kind of
head-dress to mark them as beings apart
from the younger and less wise males?
I’d like to know, for mine own hair is
frosting rapidly and I catch myself hatted
too frequently in the presence of younger
contemporaries.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: An ex-soldier friend burst
in on Jephson the other day, elated at
having at last found a house into which
he could move his family from the distant
refuge they’ve been compelled to inhabit.
“That’s great!” said Jephson. “And now
I’ll give you some wrinkles. Get a place
for your missus in the meat queue,
get sweet with the grocer so you can
get an egg occasionally, and find out who
runs the blackmarket in bacon, beer
and smokes. Then you’d better study
the tram and ’bus service to find out if
there’s any way the wife can get in and
out of town without standing all the way ;
you’ll have to ‘word’ the milkman to
make sure you won’t be cut next time
the Board rations milk —that always hap-
pens after three days’ fine weather or one
day’s rain—and then there’s fuel. You’d
better see the wood-and-coal man at once
to see if he can fix you up next winter.
Your wife will need at least a week to
get the hang of searching for kiddies’
clothes in the shops and” But at this
stage the ex-soldier collapsed and it took
two shots of Jephson’s precious hoard
of rum to bring him round.
* * * *
“W.J.E.”: Melbourne “Argus” has
come out with a centenary number, in
which it had a neat bit of forgery of
John Pascoe Fawkner’s handwriting—in
this, Fawkner, who became food for
worms in 1867, praised the publication,
and commended it to the present-day
public. I have no objection to forgery
as a means of pepping up centenary num-
bers, and as a reader of the “Argus” for
half a century I was interested in its
history of a hundred years and its photo-
graphs of departed worthies. Among
these I was glad to see the counterfeit
presentment of Donald Macdonald, who,
I suppose, contributed in his time to
every part of the paper except the adver-
tisements. He wrote the football reports,
the nature notes, political comments (he
stood unsuccessfully for Corio in 1903),
and in between was a war correspondent
of credit and renown. He was in Lady-
smith during the siege, and his lectures
on the Boer War are among my pleasant
memories. But I wish the compilers of
the number had included a photograph
and a memoir of Johnnie Sandes. Johnnie
conducted the “Oriel” column for 15
years, and a brighter jingler and para-
graphist the old journal has never had.
One of his rhymed skits, the subject
being a social character named Pat
McCaughan, of Falstaffian propor-
tions, who went to a fancy-dress ball
as one of Shakspeare’s young lovers
and was hailed by Sandes as a
mountain of moving brawn, involved
the “Argus” in its merriest libel action,
which it won, after the proceedings had
r ocked Melbourne with laughter. Sandes
did fine work in a serious vein—lines
from his “Rooibatje Singing on the
Road” have stuck in my memory all these
years. The “Rooibatje,” I think, is as
good as Kipling’s “Boots,” which, in a
capital musical setting, Peter Dawsbn
sings so spiritedly.
“Melbn”: In Melbourne on June 18,
St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill, will celebrate its f
100th birthday as the oldest church in
the place. The letters patent from
Queen Victoria by which Melbourne be-
came a city, were read from its pulpit.
St. Peter’s, one of the finest old buildings
in Melbourne, is the headquarters of the
Anglo-Catholic movement in Victoria. It
was the place of worship of Governor
Latrobe, his wife and his two good-
looking daughters, and every Sunday the
redcoats provided the ministering pastor
with a full congregation by marching to
church from the barracks, A former
'vicar was Canon Ernest Selwyn Hughes,
a muscular Christian who played football,
cricket and loved a good horse. Anti-
Ritualists once broke in and stoned him at
the altar. The canon doffed his vestments,
came down the aisle and threw out the
invaders. The present incumbent, Canon
Farnham Maynard, B.Sc., lives in the
ancient clergy house adjacent. In the old
Sunday School Maie Hoban holds a
school of dramatic art, and the parish
hall is occupied by Gertrude Johnson’s
National Theatre. The Victorian Govern-
ment pays the church rent for part of the
original estate —it is occupied by Parlia-
ment House.
* ♦ • »
“K.G.C.”: Mary Hannay Foott (B.
22/5/’46) in hen second publication,
Morna Lee and Other Poems, set book-
collectofs a problem. All known copies,
published in 1890, bear the impression
“second edition.” As no first edition is
known, it is presumed that she meant it
as a second edition to her Where the Peli-
can Builds, published in 1885.
* * * *
“Pluto”: The Digger who was so fond
of scribbling his name and number on
cafe menu cards (B. 1/5/’46) would have
found his hobby an ex-
pensive one had he been
with our show. The Field
Security sergeant attached
to the brigade made a
round of all the cafes near
the camp and collected a
pile of dingy menu cards,
thickly encrusted with
sauce and gravy stains and
heavily decorated with sig-
• natures and regimental
numbers. As a result,
many a hitherto blameless
soldier found himself a
military “criminal” with a
£2 fine in his paybook to
help make him security-
minded. The enthusiasm
of the F.S. sarj. for this
particular phase of his
work waned when he made
his next haul and discov-
ered a dozen or so menus
bearing his own name and number with
divers uncomplimentary comments on
their owner.
* * * *
“Zake”: The absent-minded professor
who lowers his watch into the pot of
boiling water and then intently studies
the egg he holds to see when the three
minutes are up, is an affectionate figure,
but absent-mindedness seems to be for-
saking its traditional academic haunts.
It bobbed up the other day in a totally
unexpected medium to startle a Sydney
citizen. As the taxi he was in rasped to
a stop at his destination and he alighted,
the driver gazed at the meter, dived his
hand into his kick, forked over a fistful
of silver for the exact amount, pushed it
into the hand of his astonished fare and
with a snarled “That’s what the meter
says, an’ it’s bloody robbery at that, see?”
he slammed it into first and roared off.
* * * *
“Galenus”: A curious and disturbing
aftermath of the war-years is a marked
increase in diseases of the heart and
arteries among persons between 45 and 55
years of age. It had long been noted
that this group of diseases only began to
make itself really evident from 55 on-
ward, and that its effects, as shown in
disablement and deaths from such condi-
tions as cerebral haemorrhage, coronary
embolism (plugging of the artery supply-
ing the heart muscle by a clot) and other-
wise, were relatively rare below that age.
Recent observations suggest that, during
the last two years, their age-incidence has
slipped back ten years, with a correspond-
ing increase in numbers. A similar altera-
tion- is also noticeable with venous
neuroses, but this is obviously traceable to
the strain, anxiety and long hours of work
imposed by war conditions.
ON THE AIR.
"The broadcasting of Parliamentary debates will
begin at Canberra this month.”
Note what a feast of reason is in store,
And what a flow of soul, untapped before,
With spoken words delivered at your door.
Soon you may hark —who knows? —to rhetoric
rich,
Logic to lure and humor to bewitch,
Obtainable by fiddling with a switch.
Soon you may listen to, and doubtless heed
With keener zest, it seems to be agreed,
Much that aforetime you could only read,
Too often pruned at that and bowdlerised,
Sub-edited, as you may have surmised,
With all expressions that might jar excised.
To see our members as they are expound
Their views it’s clear not many can be found,
Now anyone can hear them —as they sound.
But will the hostile howl or hoot or hiss
Come through as well? One doubts the artifice
Of even microphones to manage this.
Will every telling interjection made
With savage emphasis grow faint and fade
Away, d’you think, before it gets relayed?
Who knows? And those good souls to whom
we owe
So much for what they do and undergo,
Will this new business prove a boost or blow
To their prestige? Well, time alone can show.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


”I'm just taking it to the clinic to have it Weighed .”
“Morehead”: When Manpower was
rounding up the “non-essentials,”
Pigment, an oldish artist, was nabbed,
, and despite his plea that he wanted to
enlist in a camouflage unit he was shoved
into a road-making outfit. Useless as a
manual worker, he ended up boiling the
billies and minding the toolchest. At
week-ends he would dash off a landscape
or two and raffle them among the mob.
Tiring of the local scenery he painted a
nude, and he was bargaining with the
camp carpenter to make a frame when the
ganger walkeii in and caught sight of Pig-
ment’s idea of a damsel sans clothes. Put-
ting a number-nine hobnail boot through
the canvas, the ganger said “Hey, you—
this is a decent camp, and all the blokes
in it are decent married men. I won’t
have you leadin’ ’em astray with that
stuff.” Pigment returned to the depic-
tion of claypans, gidgee-trees and anthills
with an implacable hatred of all censors,
official and otherwise.
* * * *
“G.A.P.”; Tell “Ceg” (B. 29/5/’46)
the old Rotomahana was towed out into
Bass Strait and sunk some years ago.
.And that the Duck River is in n.-w. Tas-
mania, almost the nearest point of the
Speck to the Victorian coast.
“Lower Tops’!”; “Ceg’s” Yarra par
barely touches on the once-colorful south-
side, where tied up the picturesque Tassie-
trading barquentines, brigantines and
schooners that were too big for the Little
Dock. Around 1920 you saw there the
rakish 300-ton barquentine Southern
Cross, loading general cargo for Hobart,
her glistening teak deckhouses a telltale
of the days when she had been a mission
vessel in the South Seas ; saw the brigan-
tines Alpha, Wollomai, Rachael Cohen
»
and the leaking old bluff-bowed wooden
barque Wild Wave, all unloading timber
from unheard-of Tassie outports. There,
also, unloaded the fine topsail schooners
Amelia J. and Valmarie, belonging to
Henry Jones, of Hobart jam-making
fame; the pretty iron schooner Dart,
which, as a naval vessel, was surveying
in New Guinea waters away back in
1882 ; the Roonganah, Lemael, Rahra,
Annie Taylor, Sara Hunter, Joseph Sims
and a host of others. All these vessels
met tragic ends, notably the Southern
Cross and Amelia J., which, while racing
each other to Hobart in 1921, were both
lost with all hands. The only survivors
of this fleet of sailers today are the three-
masters Waimana, Alma Doepal and
Coringle, all of which saw war service in
New Guinea waters.
* * * *
Army censorship:
“Nairb'”: Officer censorship of rankers’
mail may be due to a “monstrous system,”
but “Bondi Beachcomber” (B. should
realise that some rankers —I was one myself
long before I became a temporary gent. —are
less discreet than his cobber “Snow.” Just
prior to an operation in the S.W.P.A. one
bright spark informed his relatives of the
approximate size of the convoy then mustering
and the date of the projected landing, and not
only announced the fact that a division was
to take part but named it. The fact that the
informative gent, happened to be dead right
in his statements was not the reason he had
to front the C.O. In war-time even bad guesses
can give the enemy a valuable lead.
“Benbow”: Censorship of mail by one’s own
officers could not be avoided aboard small
ships during hostilities and was not always
carried out offensively. Appointed to censor-
ing duties because I was married, mature and
not a watchkeeper, while most other officers
were very young, I did the job for two years.
Over a hundred men aboard seemed to spend
most of their spare time writing letters. I
soon learned which writers were reliable and
which needed watching, and was able to frank
most of the letters unread. I suppose I did
actually wade through about ten letters each
mail out of a couple of hundred. Bad language
and improper suggestions I did not excise, nor
criticism and abuse of officers, even myself.
After all that was only a safety valve.
“Ex Imp.”: The procedure of a newly com-
missioned officer in not reading the letters of
his friends is entirely wrong. It is quite possible
he was let down, but will never know of it.
The order for censoring letters is from G.H.Q.
and as such should be strictly obeyed. It is
quite obvious that this officer in not obeying
the order was not worthy of his commission.
His open admission is certainly nothing to
boast about, and it would have been better to
remain silent.
“Findy”; Few soldiers objected to the prin-
ciple of censorship; the almost universal re-
sentment was against censorship within the
unit. A sensible plan would be to have a
separate censoring branch analogous to the
Army Postal service; there would be little
hold-up and all troops would feel that the
supervision was entirely impersonal. In forward
areas where this was not practicable adjoining
units could swop mail for the purposes of
censorship.
* * * * ,
“Bo”; Searchfully twirling the knob, I
lighted on a commercial station in time to
hear the announcer holding forth on a
record he was about to put on. There
being little that he could go to town on, in
the biographical sense, regarding the Tin-
Pan Alley tripe that usually infests the
air from that particular wave-length, he
was making the most of his opportunity
about “Vurdi” and the operatic excerpt
we were about to hear. My pundit of
the mike informed us then that “ ‘La
Traviata’ ” had “always proved as popu-
lar in Australia as # it has ever been in its
native Italy.” Verdi’s sparkling opera,
replete with lovely, lilting melodies, is
deservedly one of the most popular of his
lighter works. Yet its premiere in Venice
in 1853 was a fiasco. The text by Piave
is based on Dumas’ Lady of the Camel-
lias, its heroine the courtesan Violetta,
whose remorseful lover Alfredo returns in
the third act to find the lady dying of con-
sumption. In those days no soprano who
didn’t have to go through a door side-
ways was considered fit for opera, so that
Venetian audiences the Italian has a
first-rate sense of humor— brought the
house down with side-splitting laughs
when the 16st. Mme. Donatelli began de-
claiming in feeble accents that she was
expiring of the dread wasting disease,
thus completely wrecking what should
have been the opera’s most touching
scene. It caused the revision of the
opera, 18th century costumes and settings
being substituted for the “modem” ones
used,
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An unexpected consequence
of the electricity shortage in Melbourne is
that Wonthaggi is experiencing boom con-
ditions. It isn’t a rush of miners to in-
crease the coal supply, however. Won-
thaggi is independent of Yallourn in the
matter of electric current and, unable to
race their dogs in the city because of the
restrictions, owners of coursing hounds
have bolted to Wonthaggi, closely fol-
lowed by McShortodds. Ten races were
billed for one meeting and the prize-
money runs into three figures.
* * * «
“Curtain Raiser”: We are to have a
negro baritone for the concert season,
Last time this was attempted a strange
thing happened. There was in production
an American musical comedy in Mel-
bourne which included a negro chantey
with a deep rolling refrain, requiring a
voice that sounded as if it came from the
depths of a barrel. A well-known negro
baritone was billed to appear; but when
the curtain went up on the first night an
Australian sang the part assisted by burnt
cork. The negro singer had left San
Francisco a baritone but, for some
mysterious reason, when he arrived at
Honolulu he turned out to have a tenor
voice. The local substitute didn’t fall
short, and has since become a leading
singer.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: A sight visible at vari-
ous points on my progress through the city
has restored my flagging faith in human
nature—newspapers and coins on kerb-
stones or against walls, and no custodian,
Apparently the missing newsvendor’s
faith that his clients will help themselves
and take their own change pays dividends,
otherwise the experiment would not be
repeated after one costly experience. It
seems to indicate also that even among
sneakthieves who pillage milk money
there is a code which protects news-
vendors.
* * * *
“Gilli-gilli”: “Laetitia’s” (B. 22/5/’46)
aircraft recognition was on the blink on
August 28, ’42. The Nip ’planes that
made for Gurney Field at Milne Bay on
that day certainly came in with their
undercarts down, but that was because
they were fixed that way, said aircraft
being an obsolescent type of dive-bomber,
to which the code name “Val” was ap-
plied. The Vais, covered by Zeros, which
did not have their wheels down, came in
almost vertically, dropping bombs on the
way: no kite comes in to land that way.
Incidentally, the operation order of the
“Ever see this trick done with a table-cloth?
Nips, which was later captured, con-
tained one clause which sticks in my giz-
zard “Seek out and destroy without re-
morse every white soldier.”
.....
“Betoel”: Nips were in the main model
prisoners and hard workers. After their
surrender at Balikp'apan the watch was
perfunctory card-playing and spine-
bashing were, naturally, much more satis-
fying pursuits. One warrior, perhaps, car-
ried this sort of thing too far. One morn-
ing he fronted a Q. bloke with “Do you
know where my Nips are?” Q. bloke
shook his head. “Well, I haven’t seen ’em
for a couple of days, and I think they
might be bludging on me.” There was
no cause for panic. A check revealed the
Nips sawing up logs on the waterfront
and probably wondering how such casual
blokes as Australians could ever defeat
the Sons of Heaven,
* * * *
“Bethune”: Why is it these impostor
heroes invariably overdo their mas-
querade? A young man was feted
j n a N.S.W. country town on the
strength of his claim to a V.C. and
bar. He might have got away with
the V.C. for quite a while, but
winners of the double award are so rare
that he was quickly bowled out. Latest
exhibitionist of the type dazzled the citi-
zens of Brisbane for a few days with a
glorious array of ribbons: 1939-45 Star,
jAfrica Star, Pacific Star with Burma
clasp, Italy Star, France and Germany
Star, D.C.M., M.M., Defence Medal,
Long Service Medal. To complete his
rigout he added a couple of wound
stripes, five service chevrons and a para-
trooper’s badge. He could probably have
got away indefinitely Had he been content
with two or three ribbons, but with that
galaxy he hadn’t a hope: he was a sitting
target for the first inquisitive ci
came his way. Apart from being on
over the five in the matter of campaign
ribbons, his lon B-\ e / v
a dead putaway. It betokened 20 years
service, and the wearer was 24,
* % * * *
“Jasby”: I’m used to finding things
sold by the pound in one city and by the
dozen in another, to being told that what
is a sandwich in Sydney is two (or is it
four?) in Brisbane; but, on behalf of
those whose mouths water at the sight
of mushrooms, allow me to protest against
the iniquitous trap that greengrocers
nowadays set for the mushroom-lover,
Time and again I have seen the notice
“Fresh Mushrooms, 35.,” only to find on
closer inspection that the price is per half-
pound. If the vendors are ashamed to
ask six bob a pound for the mushies, why
not bring the price down instead of re-
sorting to this low subterfuge? I’m boy-
cotting all mushroom-sellers until they
begin to quote their price by the pound,
Then I’ll probably buy half a pfmnd.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: On the route of the pro-
jected Chile-Australia air service there
are three islands whose fame rests largely
0 n the work of artists. Few people would
have heard of Juan Fernandez if the only
remarkable thing about it was that a
Scotch sailor had been marooned there
for five years. Hundreds of sailors were
marooned on islands in the good old
swashbuckling days, and no doubt dozens
of Scotchmen. Defoe wrote Robinson
Crusoe, based on Alexander Selkirk s
story, and the spot of land became world-
famous. There are thousands of dots of
terra firma like Easter Island in the
Pacific, but for some reason or other
some mysterious race got it into its head
to express itself in sculpture, and in a
frenzy of carving covered the island with
enormous torsos, which Professor Mac-
millan Brown, of M.L., considered to be
portrait statues of an extinct master race,
Tahiti, on the last stage of the hop, was
the home of Gauguin when he pamted the
strange, rightly-colored landscapes which
started the “modern” movement. Inci-
dentally, the flight was pioneered by Cap-
tain P. G. Taylor in 1942 when he flew
from the Bahamas to M.L. on a secret
survey to find a direct alternative air
track from Britain to Australia m case
of Japanese interruption to North Pacmc
connections.
NO ACCOUNTING FOR TASTES.
“Cricket is the dullest game ever invented. I
prefer baseball.” —Lord Inverchapel, British Am-
bassador to U.B.A.
Lord, from the land of haggis, cakes and curl-
ing, . . .
Bagpipes and morning dew, illustrious Scot,
Such words around the Empire to be hurling
Is just a trifle tactless, is it not?
Think what a bombshell’s this that you’re pro-
jecting
Into your nation’s far-flung cricket ranks,
Although you’ve every reason for expecting
’Twill gratify the Yanks.
Think of the protests raised in wild profusion,
The storm that broke from playing-fields and
schools,
When Kipling ventured on a mild allusion,^
A passing reference to “flannelled fools.”
With what embittered taunts he had to grapple
From angry votaries of ball and bat.
A canny soul like you, Lord Inverchapel,
Should have remembered that.
Whether you’re Smith, MacTavish or Mac-
Ginty,
You have a right your favored game to tell,
Patrician polo to plebeian shinty.
From royal tennis down to knur-and-spell. _
Still, when fierce light beats on your possie
brightly,
Beware of careless words. It’s always best
To voice some preferences less downrightly,
Or leave them unexpressed.
Cricket a dull and tedious diversion!
How many in your view thereof will see
A monstrous calumny and foul aspersion,
A sentiment akin to blasphemy.
From lordly Lord’s to greens that get no
grooming,
Wherever stumps are pitched and bats are
swung,
How many tongues you’ve left morosely fuming,
How many withers wrung!
Cricket the dullest pastime e’er invented!
That’s unadulterated tosh, you know.
Albeit I’ll admit, if you’d commented
It was in danger of becoming so
With ever mounting scores, and matches slowly
Dragging like wounded snakes their lengths
along,
I’d be. the last to say that you were wholly
And absolutely wrong.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World FcllllOllS Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
SYDNEY-LONDON
EMPIRE SERVICES
SpeComfort!
Kz
C L,
QEfc
Slipwing the Flag
—on British Wings!
The “Kangaroo” Service now
operated by Q.E.A. and 8.0.A.C.,
between Sydney and London, com-
bines unparalleled speed and comfort.
You can reach London in 63 hours
by Lancastrian —or in five and a
half days by the more leisurely Flying
Boat Service.
Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline
SmJu/Lt
in association with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
THE SERVICE MAN
Clouds Over Europe.
“Ek Dum”: Australia goes about the
business of racing and football with a
zeal worthy of greater causes while
Europe sits literally on the very rim of
another war.
Moscow may be, and probably is, bluff-
ing, as a diversion from a bad internal
situation, but any bluffer who talks
venomously can get himself into a fight
if he bluffs too insultingly and too long.
Anyway, Moscow has the air of
working for a pretext for fighting;
and there is no baulking the facts.
All through the last two weeks, as
in previous weeks, Moscow Radio
and the Moscow press have fulmi-
nated against Britain and, in a lesser
degree, against the United States as
against hated enemies. A very short sum-
mary of the speeches of Messrs. Attlee
and Churchill was given to the Russians
only after the ground had been prepared
to produce an atmosphere of hostility.
Within the past few days Britain has
been accused from Moscow of throwing
Moslems and Jews at each other’s throats
in order to develop an excuse for keeping
large and “aggressive” military forces in
the Middle East; of incitement in Turkey
and elsewhere and of terrorism in India.
Some of the accusations were originally
launched in “Izvestia,” the Soviet Govern-
ment’s official newspaper, which made an
especial attack on the British Cabinet
mission to India as aiming to develop
“new possibilities for weakening India’s
national liberation movement.”
The official commentator, Viktorov,
accused the British and American con-
trollers of western Germany of failing “to
fight against Nazi elements or taking
measures to root out Fascism.” He said
that with American approval the British
are deliberately holding up de-Nazifica-
tion in the British zone because they
want a strong Germany;
It is commonly known that the British
are still keeping German Army units
officered by Germans and wearing their in-
signia. Things like these are in crying
violation of the decisions reached at Pots-
dam. The authors of the Western bloc
plan hope that Germany will prove an ally.
Such assertions can be character-
ised not only as sinister but as deliber-
ately dishonest in the face of the fact
that, only a few days before, the Soviet
delegate on the Allied Control Council
had refused to agree to the appointment
of a four-Power commissiton to inquire
into the state of disarmament in the Wes-
tern zone. The commission would have
cut the ground from under the feet of
Moscow propagandists.
Coupled with these events are the
sudden and final closing-down of the
Peasant party in Poland ; the clear an-
nouncement from Moscow’s agent in
Warsaw, Comrade Beirut, that Poland
will be denied the power to arm herself
but must take her arms from Moscow;
the cynical failure of Rumania to take
any steps (even the passing of an Elec-
toral Act) to implement the agreement
with the Allies to hold free elections, and
the Continued massing of troops along
Turkey’s frontier in the Balkans, at which
Ankara is becoming very much alarmed.
Lastly there was a blast of insult from
“Marshal” Tito, who declared that after
Britain’s “behavior” the Yugoslav people
“would never forgive an acceptance of
the British invitation to join in the Vic-
tory parade at London.” A similar chur-
lish refusal had come from Moscow and
another from Warsaw. Previously the
U.S. military transport services had been
kicked out of Yugoslavia, and U.S. and
British offers to provide evidence for the
defence of Mihailovich had been rebuffed.
It was made clear that Mihailovich would
not be allowed to defend himself. It is
obviously intended not to execute the man
after a fair trial, but to murder him cere-
monially as a piece of propaganda.
On June 3 a letter appeared in the
London “Times” remarking that, “the
system which refuses to consider a man
guilty until he is tried being one of the
most precious of human rights, we venture
to press most earnestly that General
Mihailovich be given a fair trial, and that
the depositions made by British officers
who served with him and forwarded by
H.M. Government will receive full con-
sideration.” The signatories are Bernard
Griffin (Cardinal Archbishop of West-
minster), the Anglican Bishop of Chiches-
ter, the Moderator of the Church of Scot-
land, the Secretary of the Baptist Union,
Lord Caldecote (former Lord Chief Jus-
tice), Lord Lindsay, Air Chief Marshal
Arthur Longmore (an Australian), Gil-
bert Murray, O.M. (also an Australian),
the A.l.F.’s old commander Field-Mar-
shal Lord Birdwood, and Field-Mar-
shal Lord Milne, who commanded in the
Yugoslav area in the last war.
Mr. Churchill must sadly regret his
support of Titcj. So must the con-
ductors of the American and British news-
papers and magazines who boomed this
merciless Communist ruffian, in the pro-
cess publishing thousands of photographs
of him in the uniform of a soldier, but
never one of the “soldier” in action.
Two facts show how seriously the
British and U.S. Governments take the
position behind their conciliatory atti-
tude.
One is the announcement that no more
factories in their zone would be dis-
mantled for Russian reparations until
Germany was treated as a whole, as an
economic unit, in accordance with the
Potsdam agreement.
The other is the British call-up for the
forces. All British tradition is against
conscription, but it is to be retained by
the Labor Government. Young men
called up for 1947 are to serve two years,
and, “if no unforeseen circumstances
arise,” the call-up for 1948 will be pro-
gressively reduced. The plan involves all
young fellows reaching the age of 18 and
an extension of conscription for from
three to five years longer than was
expected.
Evidently, no chances are being taken.
And in the present state of affairs only a
madman could feel any absolute assur-
ance of peace ahead.
Duntrpon's * Side.
“Ek Dum”: The Duntroon controversy
still runs its course. But while the opposi-
tion to the college was fully reported with
blaring headlines defenders of Duntroon
received scant courtesy from the daily
press and its writing boys, whose idea of
military defence seems to be a “People’s
Army,” preferably commanded by one
of their own breed.
The two commanders who have dealt
with the question—the C.1.G.5., General
Sturdee, who spoke at the Constitutional
Club, in Melbourne, and Lieut.-General
Berryman, who mentioned the matter at
a Legacy Club luncheon in Sydney—put
up a good case.
General Sturdee said that when World
War II began no Duntroon graduate held
a rank higher than lieut.-colonel, yet of
the 21 officers who held divisional com-
mands or higher in operations against the
enemy 12 had been Staff Corps officers,
and nine of these were from Duntroon.
And the college had provided a large
number of brilliant regimental and staff
officers from among the younger men. A
thoroughly efficient Staff Corps was
essential to any post-war Australian
Army; the modernisation of Duntroon
formed part of the basic plan, and pre- -
liminary action had been in hand for
months past.
General Berryman said that, arising
from the depression, a renaissance by
Duntroon officers, then young, from 1933
onwards had occurred in our tactical
training and teaching, and great interest
had been aroused in tactical defence
problems. Many militia officers attended
courses to study these problems under
Staff Corps officers, and from these
studies arose the wonderful team of
brigadiers we had during the war. These
men, in the words of General Blarney,
were faced with “greater tactical prob-
lems than our divisional commanders in
World War I,” since they were often
isolated and had to work out their own
salvation.
When World War II broke out the
Duntrooner had an initial handicap ; the
Prime Minister stated that, in forming
the Sixth Division, the mother formation
of the new AIR, it was Government
policy to give commands primarily to
militia officers.
Yet subsequent events proved the value
of the college and staff training.
While warmly praising the record of
citizen-force officers. General Berry-
man emphasised the value of permanent
instruction and of the existence of a staff
college by the facts regarding commands
in the Pacific War.
Duntrooners held divisional commands
in the defence of New Guinea and
Milne Bay, the passage of the Owen
Stanleys, the Buna-Sanananda victories,
the capture of Salamaua, the Lae and
Markham Valley, Ramu Valley and Huon
Peninsula (Finschhafen) operations, the
Southern Bougainville advance and


BREAK OF PEACE
S£'£r
I * >
~ * -
•■• " r
v_r
THIS OUT
Peace in England today is a grim business.
Restrictions remain, frustrations persist, and
the return to normality seems distant. But
there is hope and there are no, flying bombs. Take
shdes, for instance. We make over a million
pairs a year but cannot satisfy even the rationed home
demand. It’s difficult to see how we can export
more than a mere trickle. Soon we hope the trickle
will be a stream and then a river so that people all over
the world can have the type of shoes for which we have been
famous for 150 years and more.
5 SHOES
Made by C. & J. Clark, Ltd. (Wholesale only),
Street, Somerset, England.
LONDON OFFICE:
Mitre House, 177, Regent Street, London, W.l.
ill
Mi 11
LIMITED, ENGLAND
ğ
g
g
RAYON
in pas
clothes arc an event these
uays and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayon. If you prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds rayon is still avail-
able, although the quantity is
restricted
World distributors for
Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd..
London, England.
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY; Samuel Courtauld Co
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 181 Clarence Street
R<r s rf.
operations againsl Tarakan, Labuan and
Balikpapan.
Of, the generals who served in the
South-west Pacific area, the division was:
Trained in Permanent Forces: Generals
Blarney (left army), Rowell (passed Staff
College), Sturdee (p.s.c.), Berryman (p.s.c.),
Bridgford (p.s.c.), Vasey (p.s.c.), Boase
(p.s.c.), Robertson (p.s.c.), Milford (p.s.c.),
Wootten (p.s.c.), Clowes, Morris.
Militia officers: Mackay, Herring, Mors-
head, Savige, Allen, Ramsay, Stevens,
Eather.
Nearly all the latter had had intensive
experience in World War I.
Of 20 generals, therefore, 12 were per-
manent men, of whom 10 had passed the
Staff College and nine were Duntrooners.
In addition to these, the Adjutant-
General (Major-General Lloyd), the
M.G.O. (Major-General Beavis), the
Deputy-Chief of the General Staff
(Major - General Chapman) and the
Major-General Royal Artillery (Major-
General Whitelaw) all hailed from Dun-
troon.
Of three generals killed in air accidents
during the war all were or had been in
the permanent forces —Brudenell White,
Vasey and Downes. Of four brigadiers lost,
Sutherland, Sewell, Goodwin and God-
«frey, the first three were Duntrooners.
Criticism, General Berryman said, was
welcome so far as the College and the
Staff Corps were concerned, particularly
“Have you ever had these symptoms before P”
since most of it was constructive—no in-
stitution could remain static. But it was
untrue to say that a high percentage of
Duntroon graduates had failed as com-
mand and staff officers. As was shown
by the lists, the Duntroon graduates had
a very large hand in the planning and
control of Australia’s part in the Pacific
war, and there had been no failures from
the opening of the New Guinea campaign
onwards.
It was a striking fact that every opera-
tion had succeeded from the stopping of
the Japs at Milne Bay onwards to the
Borneo operations.
Young Army at Work.
An old Greta recruit goes back:
It was six years since I had seen the place,
but I found it much the same. The village, un-
impressive enough, with the military camp on
the far side of the railway, stretching from
Molly Morgan —a scarred dome of a hill with
the marks of the Bren carriers plain On her—
to the flashing roofs of Silver City, on the dis-
tant left. The camp had grown, but it was
much the same; even the winds, cold and pierc-
ing, were familiar. Only that other famous
Greta identity the “Witch Doctor,” who sold
explosive drink to the reckless soldiery of 1940,
had vanished. And that, perhaps, was just as
well, for the army in camp here now, the In-
terim Army, is very young: the average age of
a recruit is 19, and I’m sure the “Witch
Doctor’s” brews would not be good for them.
Coming closer the camp fills out, and the
growth becomes more obvious. Right down,
from Molly Morgan on the right-hand side of
the road, there are neat layers of huts, hugging
the left side, and splitting up into training bat-
talions. Over on the other side of a slight
rise, near the loop in the railway line, where,
in the old days, the “Drunks’ Train” used to
slow down thoughtfully, Silver City makes the
acute angle of a triangle. And in between are
playing fields, the training ground, with miniature
ranges at the top, and, at the bottom, extend-
ing from the big Y.M.C.A. building to the
break in the ground, the unit parade ground.
There, on the morrow, Lieut.-General Berry-
man will take the salute from five training bat-
talions, composed of recruits, some with five
weeks’ training behind them, some with three,
and a number who have been in camp only a
few days.
We used to have machine-gun drill on Molly
Morgan —substituting long sticks for guns—and
at “Fire” we banged kerosene-tins lustily to
give the show a touch of reality. But things
have changed since then, and almost the first
thing I saw was a squad of recruits doing
grouping practice with Brens, each recruit
coached by an n.c.o. And there seems to be no
dearth of ammunition.
Youth and keenness are the outstanding im-
pressions one has of Greta now. There are a
few older hands, who have re-enlisted, but most
of the recruits are young. And keen.
The Emphasis on Sport
In half a day I saw most phases of the train-
ing covered in a six weeks’ course, which, of
course, was only elementary. Squad drill, rifle,
Bren, Owen, P.T. Also some visual education.
In the afternoon the weekly sports were held,
and here some explanation of the keenness
shown in the routine work was given, /here
were team games, Rugby, Soccer, baseball, etc.,
also “tabloid sports,” to accommodate the over-
flow. In all of them, particularly the football,
the keenness, teamwork and spirit of sports-
manship were remarkable.
The emphasis on sport seems deliberate, aimed
at building up physique and team spirit. In
both cases, I should say, the results have been
spectacularly successful.
The camp has a good library of educational
films, two of which were screened the first
night. Education, I was told, and aptdude
tests, under the tegis of a psychology officer,
play a large part in fitting and selecting the
recruit for his future role in the army.
The next morning was the big show—the
march past the general, each training battalion
competing for the honor of a “Cock o’ the
Walk” pennant. It is a weekly event, but this
day was given an extra fillip, as it were, by
the presence of the G.O.C. Eastern Command.
Taken all round, it was amazing. Some ot
these boys had only been in camp for days,
others for weeks, none of them for more than
five weeks; and if they didn’t exactly march
like veterans at least they only made the mis-
takes trained troops, on occasion, make on
ceremonial parades. A slight bend in the ranks,
a little unevenness in the slope of the rifles,
but, apart from that, excellent. Moving in
step, with a snap and a swing.
Few Complaints
Among the rank and file one hears very
few complaints. Most of them liked the work.
The exceptions were two or three older men
who had re-enlisted and found the elementary
work boring.
In general, it was impossible not to be im-
pressed at Greta. The food, like other things,
h as changed. Now, it would seem, cooks are
selected and trained intelligently. In the men’s
messes I asked the usual questions, and received
& yanety of repljes _ A 1 that the food
was g oodj but a f ew sa j d jt wa s “light on.’
j n my opinion it was good and adequate,
but not lavish. Hunger is the soldier’s standard
disease.
Six Weeks of Trainihg
ma j or jty Q f these young troops will prob-
ably go to Japan. According to their grouping
they will move to other camps for further train-
ing, but infantrymen may go straight to their
units. It is to be hoped not. Six weeks is too
short a time to train a soldier. Intensive and
spectacular as the course is, it is only elemen-
tary. It was pointed out, however, that even so
S so S ui £ ld W i° r u “ ° n ' y be * sprinkli ” B am ° ng
A splendid job is being done at Greta by a
remarka bly enthusiastic staff, and it seems
foolish to terminate it before it has really
started. In the event of sqrious trouble untrained
troops are, of necessity, so many weak links.
j n t fie normal course a battalion takes the train-
■ G f reinforcements more or less for granted,
Again, if recruits are sent to staging camps
a j ter on j y s j x we eks’ training, they may slip
flack. Staging camps are queer places in any
army, and the Australian Army is in a severe
state 0 f transition, with key men going out
j n t 0 Civvy-street, and the Government by no
means cer t a in whether there is to be an army at
a u Qr, if there is to be an army, it has
given no clear lead regarding its strength.
conclusion after see ing Greta
i s that real universal training by Greta methods
would be a fine thing for the individual and
tne nation. . ,
In any case the Interim Army must be the
kernel of any defence scheme, and more suit-
able incentives should be given to aspiring
officers and n.c.os. to remain in it. This, most
emphatically, has not been the case in the
past. As one officer says, The army in Aus-
tralia was something like the s.p. game
everyone knew it went on but didn t know
why.” It has, however, this marked differ-
ence from the bookie’s end of starting-price
betting: it is much less remunerative,
In the matter of inducements to officers and
n.c.os. of quality to remain in the forces Greta
is again a case in point. Remote from the dis-
tractions of the city, it is, in many ways, ideal
for training. But for the camp staff, handling
successive and overlapping waves of recruits,
these advantages become rather marked per-
sonal disadvantages. They work long hours,
and, of necessity, leave is sparse. To travel
to Sydney is a long and irritating business, as,
I know from personal experience,
Hence the only effective answer, if Greta is
become a permanent camp, is either to
arrange suitable transport or, better still, to
institute something on the British models of
permanent camps at Colchester and elsewhere,
with mar ried quarters.
xhis phase is one which has had no attention
from Government's so far, but it will need to
if there is to be any sizable camp-training
scheme.


(Wai^
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
First winner of the Gowrie Scholarship
founded by Lord and Lady Gowrie to
perpetuate the memory of their son,
Captain Patrick Hore-Ruthven, is Flight-
Lieutenant Robert A. Scutt, son of the
Professor of Classics in the University of
Melbourne. The brilliant young man
topped the classics school at graduation
before enlisting in the R.A.A.F. In Air
Force Intelligence in New Guinea he
attacked the Japanese language and de-
feated it so completely that he was shortly
translating captured Nip military orders
and interpreting the dialect of prisoners.
He will go to research work in Chinese
and Japanese in the Oriental School of
the University of London.
Captain Alexander Moore, who has re-
turned to Brisbane as Deputy Director of
Navigation and Lighthouse Services, has
not lacked for variety of interest and
adventure since he left Moreton Bay 36
years ago as a youngster in sail. His
earlier sea-experiences included several
round-world voyages in square-riggers,
getting mixed up in a Mexican revolu-
tion, a period of quite unintentional
active service in an Italian naval yacht
against the Turks in 1912, and a variety
of exciting sea-experiences in World War
I, During it Moore qualified as Master,
foreign-going, part of his earlier sea-time
being served as ship’s carpenter. Decid-
ing* at last to swallow the anchor, he be-
came Nautical Surveyor at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), and subsequently Deputy Direc-
tor of Navigation for Westralia.
His journey across from Fremantle to
Brisbane to take up the new job would
indicate that he has not lost the old
adventurous spirit. He did it by car, time
12 days.
Contesting his Monash seat in Vic-
toria’s Leg. Council elections, Frank
Beaurepaire is resenting the term “capi-
talist” being applied to him opprobriously.
“I have been successful in business be-
cause I worked hard for it with the men
around me ; I started from the bottom,”
says the former Lord Mayor. His organ-
isation, named “Olympic” as a sentimen-
tal reminder of Frank’s swimming suc-
cesses, has' in less than 20 years become
one of the largest and most important
concerns in Victoria and, industrially, one
of the happiest.
Adelaide loses a link with early days
by the retirement of H. H. Austin, who
has been secretary to the Wyatt Benevo-
lent Fund for 53 years. Long ago Dr.
Wyatt bought Town Acres for a few
pounds. Four of these areas, which he
bequeathed to found a charity for dis-
tressed “gentlefolk,” now bring in £9OOO
a year for it. Austin’s tenure of office
arose from his being a junior in the
office of the first secretary, Evan (brother
of the better-known Mostyn Evan), who
died young ; and old Henry Ayers, chair-
man of the fund and a good judge of
men, put Austin into.the secretary’s chair
at the age of 20.
Dead in Perth as a result of illness in-
curred while he was organising the Aus-
tralian Army Psychology Service, Hugh
Lionel Fowler was called to that job
from the Department of Psychology of
the University of W.A. He was one of
the best-known authorities in Australia
on that much-abused science, and had
studied under Professor Spearman at
University College, London, where he
took his Ph.D. degree in 1926. Dr.
Fowler went away with the First A.I.F.
in 1915, and rose to the rank of captain
in the 44th Battalion. In Hitler’s war he
rejoined the colors and was a major in
a militia battalion when appointed to run
the psycho, service. He was 55 at the
end.
After the last war it was necessary for
every virtuoso from overseas to have been
imprisoned, first by the Tsar and then
by the Bolsheviks, and to have even-
tually reached civilisation by tunnel-
ling under the Baltic or swimming the
Volga. Fashions have changed, and since
the late war Malayan and Javanese
p.-0.-w. camps seem to be the passport
to the Australian concert platform.
Daniel Koletz, the intense young Rus-
sian who accompanies violinist Szymon
Goldberg, has had plenty of both tradi-
tions. Born in Siberia, he was pitched
about by the Russian revolution, escaped
to Japan in time for the 1923 earthquake,
lived through the civil war of 1925 in
China and reached Java for a tour just
in time to be interned by the Japs at
Bandoeng. There he met his present col-
league, and they started the series of reci-
tals which have culminated at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall. In another camp
Koletz formed an orchestra of 16, com-
posing and copying the music for them.
After the surrender he toured camps as
entertainer. Early this year he was soloist
with the Singapore Symphony Orchestra.
Victoria’s Assistant Commissioner of
Repat., just appointed, Brigadier Heath-
cote Howard Hammer, C.8.E., was a
Light Horse major when Hitler erupted,
and commanded the 16th 1.T.8. in the
M.E. in 1940. Into the Greek campaign at
Verrois and Peneios in the next year, he
re-embarked for Egypt, helped to build
the Quatana defences in Syria, and in
1942 was leading the 2/48th Battalion
at El Alamein. His battalion made the
initial push, capturing the El Alamein
salient in a night attack and taking 1000
prisoners. It was at a conference of com-
manders, before the battle of October 23,
that Monty said the battalion had the
most important position of the whole of
the Eighth Army. Wounded in the face by
a machine-gun. Hammer was shortly after-
wards lecturing in Persia and Irak to the
10th British Army on his first-hand ex-
perience of the battle. Coming to the
Pacific he led the 15th Brigade in the
Salamaua campaign and in operations in
the Nadzab and Ramu Valleys, eventu-
ally crossing the Finisterre Ranges to cap-
ture Bogadjim and Madang. His brigade
took an active part in the Bougainville
operations, and was in contact with the
Japs at the cessation. The brig,
came to his present job from the position
of Controller of Victorian Demobilisa-
tion. Anybody can guess his A.I.F. nick-
name —“Tackhammer.”
Lieut.-General Horace Clement Hugh
Robertson, C.8.E.,D.5.0. (“Red Robbie”),
who succeeds Lieut.-General Northcott
in command of British Commonwealth
Forces in Japan, has been soldiering ever
since he went to Duntroon at 17, He
was a 22-year-old major of the 10th Light
Horse when he led the charge at Mag-
daba and took his first surrender, cut-
ting across a column of 300 Turks.
NEW G.O.C.
The Turkish commander, finding him-
self surrounded by dusty, unshaven Aus-
tralians, said he would give up his
sword only to the officer in command.
“That’s me,” said Robbie, who looked
as disreputable as his men. Twenty-nine
years later, when he accepted Adachi’s
sword on the air-strip at Cape Worn,
there was nothing untidy about him or
his men, though he carried facial evi-
dence of a ’plane crash he had been in-
volved in’ not long before. At the sur-
render qeremony, after Robertson had
made a brief address to the troops,
Adachi stepped towards the microphone,
but Robbie made it clear to the Jap
general that from that time onward his
function Was to listen. McBeath has
sketched “Red Robbie” in his beret; he
commanded the Armored Divvy after his
return from the Middle East, where he
led the 19th Brigade in the first Libyan
campaign.
Son of a solicitor and with three
brothers in the legal game, Henry Hargan
Davis, whose side elevation is roughly
indicated here by Coventry, doubted
whether there Were enough briefs, wigs,
writs and affidavits J.0 keep another mem-
ber of the family in the profession, so
NEW PROFESSOR.
he decided to follow a mechanical bent
inherited from his grandfather who had
been an engineering blacksmith in Syd-
ney, The decision has taken him at last
to Adelaide, where he becomes first Pro-
fessor of the new richly-endowed Chair
of Mechanical Engineering. Davis got
his science and engineering degrees at
Sydney Uni. and his Doctorate of Philo-
sophy at Cambridge. When a student he
helped build the first glider for the Syd-
ney University Gliding Club, of which
he held office as secretary and president.
The new prof.’s wife is also a B.Sc., a
product of Perth; the two met while
doing war work at National Standards
Laboratory in Sydney.
To a Brisbane man, D. W. Tate, goes
the distinction of being the first Aus-
tralian to be admitted to the British
Typographers’ Admission is
gained through an entrance examination
which consists of designing and setting
out in precise typographical detail a text
prescribed by the Guild. Although
membership is open to compositors
throughout the Empire, only 39 have quali-
fied in the 18 years of the Guild’s exist-
ence. Himself chief typographer for Jack-
son and O’Sullivan, of Brisbane, Tate
was born into the trade, his father,
who was chief compositor of Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” until his recent retire-
ment, having been in the game for 55
years. The Tate recipe for typographical
success is that design and subject must be
in complete sympathy, and that “the type
must talk.”
When Robert Hedditch took charge of
the little post office at Lower Cape Bridge-
water, on the south-west coast of Vic-
toria, on June 1 he represented the fifth
generation of his family to wear the keys
of the office. The quantity of mail
handled by this remote branch of the
P.M.G.’s Department is not great, and
the book used for recording the receipt
of registered letters must be the oldest still
in active service—it’s been in use since
1863.
“Nakhoda” remembers a gipsy:
I see that Miss Edith Hume Henderson, 40-
year-old daughter of an Indian Army brigadier,
has married her father’s gardener, a 47-year-old
gipsy, Arthur Smith, who now moves info the
brigadier’s ancestral halls, after a real Romany
honeymoon —on the wedding cake there was a
miniature caravan. This is more or less in
line with a tradition which Augustus John fol-
lowed when he went to live with gipsies, as
George Borrow had done. There is an Irish
professor who periodically leaves the academic
cloisters to wander over Europe with gipsy
bands earning his keep with his fiddle. The new
bridegroom is reported to be of pure gipsy
strain, and is a nephew of the Gipsy Smith
who visited Australia. Gipsy, a dark, power-
ful, dynamic fellow, succeeded in getting pre-
lates, including an archbishop, on the .platform
with him at a revival meeting at Wirth s
Olympia. While they sat in a self-conscious
row, he blessed handkerchiefs, caused the lame
to walk, cripples, at least temporarily, to
abandon their crutches, and the deaf to hear,
while showers of notes and silver descended
on him and his audience seethed and shouted.
Then he turned on his ecclesiastical sup-
porters and chided them for not adopting his
methods —about the last thing they had ex-
pected.
A good sample of the modern Javanese
intellectual is Muchtar Luthfi, who, with
his wife and five children, is due shortly
to leave Melbourne to take up the job as
Adviser on Moslem Affairs to the Dutch
Resident at Macassar. Starting as a revo-
lutionary who spent 11 years in a New
Guinea concentration camp for incen-
diary oratory in Sumatra, he is now a
N.E.I. civil servant, a post he inad-
vertently prepared himself for when,
after doing the pilgrimage to Mecca, he
studied for six years at the huge El
Azhar University at'Cairo. At that in-
stitution he met the Crown Prince of
Saudi Arabia, and later became political
adviser to King Ibn Saud. He was re-
leased from the concentration camp by
Australians and brought to Melbourne.
He goes back with the conviction that
Indonesia can turn itself into a republic
only under the mantle of the Dutchman.
Tom Rothfield, author of the first Aus-
tralian ballet to be put on by the Boro-
vansky Australian Ballet at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, to which Esther Rofe wrote
the music, was bom in Scotland but has
spent most of his life here except for a
period of war service. One of his first
plays, “Jam Tomorrow,” discussed a
pressing Australian problem—immigra-
tion. It was staged in London just before
the war. While in the Army he wrote
documentary films, and a musical comedy
of his was produced in Melbourne in
1941.
Following W. Macmahon Ball and Gen-
eral Northcott, still another Australian steps
into a high post in Nippon. He is Briga-
dier J. W. A. O’Brien, of Brighton (Vic.),
who will be British representative on the
Economic and Scientific Division of
General MacArthur’s headquarters. Born
in 1908, he saw active service in the war,
and was Deputy Master-General of Ord-
nance until he went to Japan as leader of
the Australian Scientific Mission.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 73, Harry Sinclair Campbell
Budge, official secretary to every N.S.W.
Governor from 1902 to 1936. Born at Parra-
matta and educated at Tire King’s School
there, I& was an expert on all things guberna-
torial. For 20 years he was also secretary to
the Executive Council.
In Melbourne, at 86, Daniel* James Luxton,
native of Kangaroo Flat, one-time officer of
the London Bank and later well known on
Bendigo and Melbourne Stock Exchanges.
In Adelaide, Abdul Kaus, an Indian who
claimed to be 111 years old and was fluent in
several languages. Years ago he adopted the
faith of a family that was kind to him, but
at the end he asked to be buried in the white
turban.
In Adelaide, at 66, by accident, Norman
Harold Mcßride, pastoralist. In his young days
he was on the staff of the Elder, Smith con-
cern, but later followed his father in pastoral
pursuits at Burra and in the north-eastern areas
of S.A.
At Canberra, at 78, Dr. Cyrus Retallack,
of Melbourne and Sydney. A leading oarsman
in his young days, he rowed for Melbourne
Uni. and stroked Cambridge. .He served over-
seas with the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 war.
In Brisbane, at 74, W. R. Hartnell, former
general manager of Millaquin Sugar and manag-
ing director of Bundaberg Distillery. Born at
Taunton, in Somerset, he served his time in
sail, and later spent some years in 8.1. and
A.U.S.N. steamers before entering the sugar
industry.
In Sydney, at 50, following on an accident,
Harold Whitridge Davies, Professor of Physi-
ology at Sydney Uni. since 1930. Graduated
in Medicine at Adelaide Uni., he was for a time
a lecturer at Edinburgh and did research work
at Oxford (with J. B. S. Haldane) and at the
Rockefeller Institute in New York. In World
War I Professor Davies served in France with
the A.A.M.C., and in the last war was medical
colonel at Liverpool Camp.


Missing Beneficiary.
JACK MARTIN or PAUL SCHWARTZ—Anyone
having knowledge of the whereabouts of the above-
mentioned adopted son of ALICE MARTIN, late of
Cronulla, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned, quoting the estate of Alice Martin.—
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The sun struck warm on the slopes of
Market-street and about the side street
steps of the Town Hall. If either was
your possy for the Victory March you
felt cosy; you had a fine open expanse
of blue sky above and a perfectly glori-
ous and uninterrupted view of the soar-
ing, circling, glinting 'planes. Hundreds
and thousands of onlookers viewed the
procession or else got fleeting visions of
the heads of the marchers from a foot-
hold on a fruitcase. Truckloads of these
were being sold along York-street. Small
children buzzed about waving flags,
proudly displaying Victory medals. Some-
times they and various small dogs turned
their backs completely on the march and
the cheering thousands lining the ways.
The amplified music wheezed along,
somewhat asthmatic. Men and women
bustled about from corner to corner seek-
ing a. “better chance,” but the early birds
had their reward—they were the front-
liners. However, just to be out in the
surf of excitement stirred the blood, and
the laughter of happiness was warm on
the lips.
In the still, warm sunlight of the June
morning 20,000 men and women of
World War II stepped out in procession
through the city streets on Monday. On
their mufti was a continuous bright flash
of decorations and service ribbons. Briga-
dier B. W. Pulver led the march, and
Lieut.-General Gordon Bennett was in
command. There were contingents of our
Dutch, American and French Allies
marching proudly, too. Without them
the procession would have been as in-
complete as lamb without mint sauce.
Through beflagged streets, past the cheer-
ing citizens, the whole company stepped
out. And who could doubt that this was
indeed a Victory march for Australia —
a moral as well as a martial one. Floats
representing , war-time industries and a
convoy of tanks and guns typified the
at-home and the over-there activities.
Mounted police prancing at the head
gave the right touch of pageantry.
By night there were constellations of
fireworks over Fort Denison. Mrs. Mac-
quarie’s Chair and Farm Cove were a
flood-lit tapestry of humans —father,
mother and the children, not to speak of
lads and lasses. In fact, all the harbor
front was thick with onlookers. Every
house and flat with a view of the carnival
of dancing lights, of star-rushing rockets,
of cascades and showers of multi-colored
lights, of golden darting dragonflies of
yachts, of slowly moving, light tasselled
ferry, held a Victory cracker party.
Fire floats, the Pluvius, the Hydra and the
Cecil Rhodes, spouted columns of illumi-
nated water into the night. And all the
city was caught in a glittering silver
ribbon of searchlights.
To Brisbane fell the honor of entertain-
ing the Duke of Gloucester on Victory
Day. He’s on a tour of Queensland;
his Duchess will join him at Mackay.
There is always a sober touch in the
dressing of Randwick at the winter meet-
ing. The fur cape, the felt hat, the cloth
suit, no matter how smartly cut, have a
repressed look. Last Saturday was no
more exuberant than other June meet-
ings ; but Mrs. Russell Catts’s tiny hat
of deep lilac ribbon with a dangle of
mauve, blue and pink flowers was bright
as a valentine. Mrs. Bruce Minnell and
Mrs. Henry Seamonds wore hats to be
remembered. Reds and greens seem to
have caught woman’s fancy for winter
tailorings. The tote punter wasn’t brag-
ging much, excepting her whose favorite
swami had visioned the flight of Royal
Spirit.
Long frocks, tails and white ties were
the order of the evening when Barbara
Crago wed Ted Gowing, at Burwood
Congregational Church. As the Rev. A.
P. Campbell, who officiated both at the
church and Amory afterwards, said;
“Keep a thing for seven years and you’re
bound to find a use for it. There is a
revolutionary atmosphere here tonight—
an atmosphere of roses and mothballs.”
Barbara, before the war a golfer of fame,
shed her A.A.M.W.S. uniform for
French lace and white satin, and now —
Rev. Campbell again—is “Gone to Gow-
ings.” Ted was in the R.A.A.F. Amory,
flower-bedecked, was crowded to capa-
city ; the Cecil Hoskinses were down from
Exeter, and A.A.M.W.S. from near and
far —“far” including Melbourne —arrived
for the occasion. Margaret Butters
’maided.
Lucille Bruntnell, clever exponent of
the works of A. A. Milne, has a hobby
—the making of dolls. They are creatures
of beauty and grace. Lucille has a gift
for moulding the heads and faces. The
last are of chiffon, delicately painted. At
the instigation of artist Joshua Smith and
friend Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, Lucille
brought 30 of her beauties to town last
week and paraded them in the Pickwick
Club to an assemblage of admirers.
Result: almost every doll sold on sight.
Lots of people have a garden party or
a cocktail party but very few have a
fire-screen party. Mrs. Helen Fitz Patrick,
of Mosman, held one of these last Sunday
to introduce a group of friends likely
every now and then to be gathered around
it, to probably one of the handsomest
fire-screens in this city. It is of wrought
iron, and it is moulded in a delicate pat-
tern of leaves and a grille of so fine a
mesh that it is almost lacelike. Crafts-
man who did the lovely job is C. L. West-
brook, of Collaroy.
For lovers of Sydney the book of the
month is a small, beautifully printed
affair of 23 pages. Its title is Looking
Backward, and it is the story of Robert
Towns and Company Pty., Ltd., whose
offices are, as the home of so much his-
tory in enterprise should be, in the also
somewhat historic Reiby-place. The man
who founded this firm, and afterwards
gave his name to Townsville, first arrived
in Sydney in 1827 in command of his
own clipper. The Brothers, filled with
English migrants and cattle.
Tiring of the emigrant trade in which
his Royal Saxon, as well as The Brothers,
was kept busy, Captain Towns settled in
Australia, became a giant of enterprise
and industry, and lived and died in Cran-
brook, Rose Bay. The old firm seemed
to have links with everybody of note,
even author Robert Louis Stevenson. He
appointed the firm his Australian agents,
and at one time they held several of his
manuscripts in safe keeping. Most of his
correspondence with the firm has been
handed to the Mitchell Library ; some of
it was sold in earlier days to American
treasure-hunters. Governing director of
the old firm is Frederick White, a lover
of archives of books and of dogs, and
one of the most popular members of the
Yacht Club at Kirribilli.
“Murder Without Crime” will be
demonstrated at the Sydney Conserva-
torium for a season of three nights and a
matinee, commencing on Friday night.
It’s a thriller that keeps the teeth tightly
clenched, the eyes rolling, the palms of
the hands clenched. The whole set-up is
sinister, dashed with charm. The charm
emanates from Madge Ryan, pictured
here by Noel Ruble. Madge is estab-
lished as a stage and radio actress, so
whatever she has to do she’ll do well.
The Kindergarten Union and Legacy
benefit from “Murder Without Crime.”
Ross Buchanan, Thelma Grigg, Allan
Cuthbertson are the others in the con-
spiracy.
There was a matey atmosphere, though
not a full house, for the farewell concert
to Dr. Bainton, retiring director of the
Cohservatorium. There was a new work
by the director himself: “English Idyll.”
This provoked such cracking applause
that it might have been a forerunner to
the following night’s deafening thunder
storm. There were words to “English
Idyll,” which were sung by Harold Wil-
liams. The words afe described by the
writer of them, Neville Cardus, as “some-
times potential rather than actual poetry.”
Well, Socrates might understand that bit
of hair-splitting.
Speeches and presents for the doctor
after the concert. There was a clock
from the students, a painting by Erik
Langker of the view from the director’s
window and a wallet of notes from the
teaching staff.
From Melbourne
On Monday Melbourne went Victory-
happy by day and by night. Crowds
streamed into the city from an early hour,
and when at 11 o’clock a salute of 21
guns signalled the start of the march all
vantage points were packed. All branches
of the services were represented in the
march, and there were Dutch and other
Allied men there, too ; and the men who
made the guns and ’planes, kept essential
services going, and the women who helped
in all manner of ways on the home front.
Among the crowds who cheered and waved
flags were thousands of school children
proudly wearing their much-criticised Vic-
tory Medals and caring little whether
the design was artistic or not. At night
the concerted ringing of all Melbourne’s
church bells heralded a novelty proces-
sion : bands dispensed dance music
around the streets, and open-air variety
shows went into their act. And, of course,
the inevitable fireworks that set old-timers
recalling the days when fireworks really
were fireworks brightened the sky from
the King’s Domain.
Vivacious lass pictured here is Betty
Stewart, who through the war years did a
fine job as secretary of the Business Girls’
Club. By means of hard work these girls
in. their spare time raised almost £9OOO
for various war charities. At a recent
meeting they decided to carry on the good
work, and they have a busy post-war
programme planned. They have just
raised money for the Legacy Club, and
next on the list is a dance at The Palms,
the objective being to raise money for
comforts for the men in the ward the
club supports at Heidelberg. Betty says
“People are no longer war-conscious, and
money and help for this branch of our
work is not forthcoming; something
must be done about.it. We can’t let the
men down now.” In addition to this
work Betty has her own job as publicity
officer at the Comedy Theatre, and is
also busy with plans for a dance to be
held by the St. Michael’s Old Girls
Association later in the year.
Latest Melbourne lass to busy herself
with wedding plans is Gwen Johnson,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W, H.
Johnson, of Bentleigh, who has an-
nounced her engagement to John, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Shepherd, of
Brighton. They plan to marry at St.
Andrews, Brighton, on November 2. En-
gagement was not a surprise, for Gwen
and John have been friends since school-
days. John has just been demobbed from
the A.I.F. He rose to the rank of captain
and served in the Philippines as Liaison
officer with the 13th U.S. Army Air
Corps. Gwen is on the staff of the U.S.A.
Information Library. Gwen and John are
having many parties given in their honor.
Latest was the party given by Mr. and
Mrs. Johnson, to which over 70 friends
of the newly-engaged pair were invited.
Melbourne’s Concerto Festival, in-
augurated by Prof. Bernard Heinz, is now
in its seventh year, and has become recog-
nised as the city’s outstanding competitive
musical event. This year three young
people will be chosen from the most bril-
liant competitors in the various States for
scholarships awarded by the Royal Col-
lege of Music, London, and the Juilliard
School of Music, New York. The Mel-
bourne candidates for these overseas
scholarships are Mary MacLeod and
Manfred Clynes. During the war, pro-
ceeds of the Concerto Festival were given
to the Red Cross and Comforts Fund.
The recent performance donated pro-
ceeds to the Lord, Mayor’s Food for
Britain Appeal. Manfred Clynes, who
played the Beethoven Concerto No. 1 in
C Major, is a young man who holds an
honors degree in Engineering—but music
is his best love. Mary MacLeod is well
known to Melbourne audiences. Her
offering was “Variations on a Nursery
Tune,” by Dohnanyi. The three artists
making their debut were very charming,
with well-groomed hair and a decided
flair for dressing. Estelle Coady, who
played a Liszt Concerto, expressed her
personality in a wide-skirted deep-cream
taffeta gown, the bodice slightly draped
and with short sleeves. Violinist Ann
Molan favored tulle, star-spangled and
with the new long bodice and wide bouf-
fant skirt. June Lang, who is really June
Aslungul, grand-daughter of the Consul
for Greece, wore a dull-white crepe, short
sleeved and with neckline high to the
throat and long sweeping skirt. June,
whose perfect interpretation of Verdi’s
“Willow Song” was well received, was
born in France and educated in Switzer-
land. With her mother and brother, she
escaped from Paris 24 hours before the
Germans entered the city. With them' on
the flight from Paris was Eve Curie.
Among the audience were Mr. and Mrs.
Lindsey Biggins; the latter sponsoring
one of the new suits. Hers was in rasp-
berry-red corduroy velvet and was cut on
redingote lines ; the skirt slim and tailored.
Mrs. Robert Hamilton, wife of the
member for Toorak, is busy with plans
for the forthcoming production of
“Admirals All.” Students of Melbourne
Grammar will make up the cast, taking
also the feminine leads, and play will be
presented in the School Hall on June 24.
Proceeds will help the Victoria League, of
which Lady Dugan is president, in their
work of sending books and magazines to
the Outback. During the war the League
sent 15,000 books and magazines to the
Forces ; they also cared for Navy House
and Blarney House and installed a Hospi-
tality Bureau at Air Force House. This
bureau was staffed by voluntary helpers
and many thousands of men, passing
through or resident in a strange city,
were given a taste of family life. Free
entertainment at dances and picture
houses was also arranged. With the
closing of Air Force House the League
is now concentrating on the Bush Library
Fund.
. Setting for the marriage of Noel Burs-
ton, youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. S. Burston, Clowes-street, Sbuth Yarra,
to Dr. Horace Tucker, elder son of the
late Dr. Cecil Tucker and Mrs. Tucker,
of Brighton, was Christ Church, South
Yarra. Rev. P. St. John Wilson was the
officiating clergyman and the bride was
given away by her father. Noel chose a
most unusual gown of pale-blue satin,
which had been worn by her sister, Mrs.
Graham Davey, on her wedding day, as
had the matching tulle veil, which fell
from a Juliet cap, finished at each side
with a cluster of orange blossom. A
note of contrast was the bouquet of
cyclamen in pale-pink tonings. Bride was
attended by Elizabeth White, also in blue
satin, with a matching tulle overskirt.
Bridegroom’s brother, Capt. John Tucker,
A.A.M.C., was best man. Mr. and Mrs.
Burston received guests at their home for
the reception.
During the war the Town and Gown
Guild suspended their work of furnishing
the University Union House for more im-
portant things, but now the war clouds
have vanished, they have taken on this
work again. They recently held a bridge
party at Union House; 40 tables at one
pound each were booked. In addition,
there was a “bits and pieces stall” con-
vened by Mrs. L. J. McConnan, which
raised £3O during the afternoon. Mrs.
H, G. Connell took £ll at her sweets
stall, so altogether £BO will go towards
new furnishings. Helping Mrs. Connell
were first-year science student Margaret
Cooper and her sister Mary, Margaret
has just been released from the
A.W.A.S. after four years’ service.
When 15 years ago the American
women of this city formed their auxiliary
it was decided to adopt the Children’s
Hospital, and that institution has in the
intervening period benefited greatly from
their generosity. At their recent 15th
birthday party, celebrated at the Hotel
Australia, guests, who were received by
auxiliary president Mrs. R. B. Bradley,
were told of the forthcoming cabaret
ball to be held on the fourth of July at
the St. Kilda Town Hall, and setting for
which will be “In Old Virginia.” Mrs.
Norman Picot is hon. organiser and chair-
man of the committee. Mrs. Sophie
Graves will conduct a stall at which will
be sold dolls dressed in costumes of the
Old South. Mrs. Harold Rabling’s short
afternoon outfit of deep amethyst wool
crepe had a matching top sewn with
multi-colored tinsel and topped with a
shprt dyed squirrel jacket, Mrs. “Toddy”
Hotchkiss’s hat of deep cream lace straw
trimmed with velvet roses in the same
tones supplied gay contrast to her sober
black frock.


Racing Men Request
v^X>;OC*WW;X<K
SWE (kPRESS
333
TVie secret’s in the 333’s
blend. Take a tip from
discerning smokers and
make the same request—
Ask please for 333’5,”
because . , ,
}J
St 40-5.49
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and you
family, and for what little half-yearly cost / . .
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director; P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Oupfnsland ■ AC A Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane. .
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace Perth
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
the WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
( Dividends To Nominal
Pref. Re— Re-
Feb., Profit.* 11.6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 97,941 87,188 f 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
5.8 p.c.
1937.. 109.416 43,598 4$ „„ 56,250 9,573 75,057
1938. 43,593 5 „ „ 62,500 6,933 81,990
1939. .107,695 43,593 5 „ „ 62,500 1,602 93,592
1940. .110,950 43,694 5 ~,,62,500 4,856 88,418
1941. .111,732 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942. .110,353 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. .109,257 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 3,163 101,508
1944. 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,291 106,799
Reserves.§
Surplus after revaluing plant, £316,153 1
Goodwill (£273,153) written off ..1 100,799
To depreciation reserve, £43,000 . . J
1945. 43,594 5 p.c. = 62,500 8,667 115,466
5.9 p.c.
1946. .119,735 44,297 5} „ „ 68,750 6,688 122,154
* After deducting debenture int’erest. t Two years.
1 Subject to goodwill, etc., £273,153 in 1944.
§ Excluding depreciation reserve ( £97,878).
The service this big more-than-century-
old emporium offers is second to none ;
and that means much, because service
promises to be one of the chief factors
in competition in the years ahead. Earn-
ings; however, are subject to wider range
of influences than most other traders
have to contend with. That is because
of the universal nature of the undertak-
ing and the wide area it covers —country
trade figures largely in turnover, and
stocks include many slow- as well as
quick-moving lines.
Earnings were kept on a fairly even
keel during the war, when scarcities,
subsidies and increased spending power
created a seller’s market, which helped
to offset the effects of rationing and other*
restrictions and the rise in costs. With end
of war the prior demands on defence
account eased, and more goods became
available for civilian' consumption. Still,
civilian demand continued to run ahead
of supply. On demobilisation service per-
sonnel are given special issues of cloth-
ing and other coupons, and, for the most
part, they had a tidy sum of savings in
the form of deferred pay with which to
settle for their purchases. And to some
extent civilians, too, regard part of their
war-time savings as amortisation reserves
against personal capital—houses, furnish-
ings, clothing, etc. —which was largely
consumed and not renewed during the
war years.
It is not surprising, therefore, that
there should be a sharp rise in
retail turnovers. The following table,
which gives percentage changes in aggre-
gate sales of 22 Sydney stores compared
with the corresponding period of the pre-
vious years, shows what has happened:
Average Three Months Ended
A
f \
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
194+42.. +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 -2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 -19.3 -18.8 -6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4 +4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8
Not since war began has the buying
wave for coupon goods been more pro-
nounced and sustained.
The spring in the co.’s net earnings
was £4974. That was after allowing for
depreciation (£55,729, up £495) and
adding £63,744 net to the tax reserve.
The £119,735 of profit reported was
approximately 6 p.c. on the £2,000,000
of share capital, of which £750,000
carries a cumulative 6 p.c. p.a., subject
to the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act. The ords. got an extra half of 1 p.c.,
making 5? p.c. for the year, the final
being at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. Hence
the pref. div. advanced from 5.8 p.c.
to 5.9 p.c.
Though the present exceptional buy-
ing pressure will lose its strength as
immediate needs are satisfied, the out-
look favors maintenance of a high level
of turnover. The National Security Act
and its spate of regulations run out at
end of 1946. As the transition period
merges into the post-war era much will
depend upon what happens in connec-
tion with production, wages and costs
generally. The key to price stability and
higher real wages certainly lies in higher
output. It is idle to talk about our pro-
ductive capacity being sufficient to keep
the nation on a rising standard of living
while that capacity is being interrupted
by strikes and other stoppages. The
effects of rising costs during the war has
been partly obscured by Government sub-
sidies, which, like higher selling prices,
come out of the people’s pockets, and
therefore provide no real remedy for the
disparity between cost of production and
selling prices.
There is nothing to worry about in the
financial position, which goes on steadily
improving:
1937. 1945. 1946.
Ord. capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures .. 600,000 ■ —
Mortgage .. .. 140,000
Creditors, etc. .. 84,633 179,314 230,745
Tax reserves .. 43,582 215,814 279,558
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 1,281,236 1,114,883 1,119,715
Plant, etc. .. 256,951 338,847 338,847
Stocks .. . . 757,221 831,095 855,733
Book debts .. 224,469 129,918 158,867
Cash, etc 63,289 331,899 323,172
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for depreciation and taxation,
and an extra £51,431 from sundry
creditors, enabled the balance of the
mortgage debt to be wiped out and stock
and debtors’ balances to be strengthened
by £24,638 and £28,949 respectively.
The more or less liquid surplus (£827,469)
was £69,685 stronger than at the pre-
vious balance.
The market prices the prefs. at 265. 9d.
and the ords at 235, 3d., at which figures
the return is 4.5 p.c. and 5 p.c. respec-
tively on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is visibly 365. 7d. prefs. and
21s. lid. ords,
Australasian Catholic Assurance -
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 t 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 .. 647,059
1936.. 252,031 ' 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,7651 946.439
Loss property, £1574 944,865
1938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 191,1881 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 .. 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51,115 107,750 209,923 f 1,347,160
Unexplained addition, £1852.. ~ 1,349,012
1940.. 399,134 116,314 117,299 164,533 f 1,513,545
Loss property, £124 .. .. .. 1,513,421
1941.. 429,941 105,993 123,892 200,056 1,713,477
Unexplained addition, £525.. .. 1,714,002
1942.. 437,430 186,011 114,336 135,9781 1,849,980
Unexplained reduction, £942 .. 1,849,038
1943.. 445,567 250,201 107,901 87,465 f 1,986,503
Unexplained reduction, £ll .. 1,936,492
1944.. 459,563 271,863 105,387 81,362 f 2,017,854
Added property reserve, £lB.. .. 2,017,872
Profit on sale property, £3533 .. 2,021,405
1945.. 472,183 221,854 111,712 137,629 f 2,159,034
*Net funds apart from capital,
tAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
t After paying 14 p.c. on prefs. and 3J p.c. on ords.
Of all the Australian life offices which
set up after World War I the 24-year-
old A.C.A. has given easily the best ac-
count of itself. Indeed, it stands out
as an example of what can be done by
a young life office when the management
goes the right way about things. The
business, which consists mainly of indus-
trial contracts with a small amount of fire
and accident risks, is spread throughout
all the Australian States except Tasmania.
Policyholders, whose interests were placed
in the foreground from the start,, are
entitled to not less than 90 p.c. of the
profits earned in the life department. That
is to say, the co. has to earn £9 for policy-
holders before shareholders, become en-
titled to a pound. Another pleasing
feature is that the management is now
giving more attention to ordinary busi-
ness, which is reported to have increased
fourfold over the last five years.
Bonuses to policyholders have con-
tinued to flow at satisfactory rates since
the end of the first decade. They were
derived largely from interest on a well-
selected lot of first mortgages in the first
place. Later a lot of money was put into
freehold premises in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and rents figured more promi-
nently in earnings. Then, under war con-
ditions, surplus earnings were channelled
mostly into low-interest-bearing Govern-
ment securities, rents were pegged, the
taxgatherer called for more of the rela-
tively lighter earnings, and costs gener-
ally rose. It all cut into the surplus avail-
able for distribution, with a consequent
reduction in the rate of bonuses to policy-
holders —a common experience of recent
years. Still, the management made only
one bite at the cherry. That was in 1940,
since when bonus rates have continued
on an even keel.
The amount of new business written
isn’t broadcast, but expansion of revenue
figures suggests steady progress. Last
year’s income of £472,183 (up £12,620)
was made up of £369,110 (up £10,022)
life premiums, £2909 (up £9) fire and
other premiums, and £100,164 (up £2589)
of interest, rents, etc. Death claims were
only £22,201 (down £1339), reflecting care-
ful selection of risks and light war strain.
Surrenders amounted to £9379 (up £380),
suggesting prosperous conditions among
the lower-income groups. Maturities
(£190,275) were £48,946 lighter. After
paying all legitimate claims and exes.,
£141,163 (up £59,801) was added to the
life fund, raising it to £2,131,060, which
had the support and assistance of £27,974
of other reserves, as well as £14,610 ot
share capital.
Leaving taxation (£12,158, up £1440)
out of the reckoning, exes, took 26.7 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, compared with
33.8 p.c. in 1940. The gross interest
return on mean assurance and other
funds, including capital, was £4 15s. 3d.
p.c. The net return (after deducting taxa-
tion) was £4 3s. 9d. p.c. The co. values
its policy liabilities on a p.c. net pre-
mium basis. Bonuses to policyholders
were on the same scale as for the previ-
ous term, and shareholder# again received
a moderate 7 p.c. (£988).
The year’s surplus earnings, and more
besides, went into Government securities
(up £213,851):
1941. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. 38,612 36,777 27,068 33,461
Mortgages.. .. 886,987 930,766 825,848 765,724
Freeholds .. 619,912 681,125 705,835 710,990
Govt, securities .. 95,302 115,506 372,039 585,890
Cash etc 6,965 10,626 22,462 15,437
Debtors .. .. 4,378 4,843 7,150 4,932
Loans on policies 126,076 131,321 99,638 90,986
Equipment .. 15,431 15,498 10,713 10,575
Shares in other cos. 11,647 11,672 15,846 22,572
* Other than under policies.
As home and other building gets under
way more attention is likely to be given
to mortgages (down £60,124 last term).
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 22,403 5 p.c.= 12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 „ „ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 „ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,155
1939.. 7,610 2i „ „ 7,499 Nil 111 88,266
1940.. 20,648 4 „ „ 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
1941.. 17,334 3 „ „ 9,000 3289 5045 99,102
1942.. 12,761 2i „ „ 7,500 5251 104,353
1943.. 12,710 2|„ ~ 7,500 5210 109,563
1944.. 17,290 4 ~ ~12,000 5290 114,853
1945.. 12,183 3 „ „ 9,000 3183 118,036
1946.. 9,091 3 „ „ 9,000 91 118,12?
This co.’s connections are mainly in the
west and sou’-west of N. S. Wales and
over the border in Victoria. It also holds
a substantial interest in, and is managing
agent for, Nenco (New England, North
and North West Producers Co.), the
pioneer Newcastle woolbrokers.
'The continued shrinkage in last term’s
net earnings (down £3092) was due
mainly to a lighter clip, following the
previous year’s drought, which caused
heavy stock losses. On the average fleeces
were of slightly better weight and quality.
The co. received 13,285 fewer bales, but
the quantity disposed of was down 18,303
bales, owing to heavier sales of carryover
wool in the previous year:
( Wool, Bales \
Year Dis- Carry-
Mar., Receipts, posals. forward. Sheep. Cattle.
1939 .. 113,658 125,089 8,378 608,566 20,272
1940 . . 141,996 135,311 15,063 519,345 26,859
1941 . . 130,581 139,954 5,690 559,141 18,659
1942 .. 132,026 131,901 5,815 536,126 14,372
1943 .. 111,864 111,962 5,717 522,324 16,697
1944 .. 122,025 120,246 7,946 471,5§0 15,224
1945 .. 100,599 106,301 1,794 459,670 13,611
1946 .. 87,314 87,998 1,110 316,447 13,114
Sheep and cattle sales dropped 143,223
head and 497 head respectively; there
was a shortage of “fats,” and keen
demand strengthened prices. The slip in
gross earnings (£154,172) was £7382.
Exes. (£145,081) were pulled back £4290.
The net result was thus £3092 lighter at
a wink over 3 p.c. on capital as against
4, 5.7, 4.2 and 4.2 p.c. back to 1942. The


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt,
« • * •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks,—-Any*.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS* COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch;
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
W. WALTON, Manager.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
g
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, -agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO BIA
empiovebs
Production efficiency depends
largely upon employers securing
the workers who have the right
qualifications, experience, skill,
etc., for the job to be dene.
Employers are invited to take advantage of the modern facilities provided by
the District Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service to find the
workers they want——workers with the qualifications they specify. This is a
specialist task and the Commonwealth Employment Service will provide a free
specialist service , complete with vocational guidance and other modern
employment service aids .
Whatever may be your labour require-
ments, the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service will endeavour to satisfy
them — your vacancies will be made
known throughout the Commonwealth
Employment Service organisation
within a matter of hours of receipt of
your request for labour, so reaching
the widest possible field of available
labour: and the Commonwealth Em-
ployment Service will refer to you
for your choice the men, women, or
juveniles, who possess the qualifica-
tions needed to do your job!
The Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice will cater for all types of vacancies;
for example, there is a Higher
Appointments Office in each capital
city, concerned only with vacancies for
professional and executive personnel:
also, to mention several instances only,
there are special facilities for the
placement of juveniles and nurses.
Save your time and money by allowing
the Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice to find the labour you require—
remembering that FINAL CHOICE
OF THE LABOUR YOU RE-
QUIRE RESTS WITH YOU.
The whole of the resources of the
Commonwealth Employment Service
are at your disposal. Notify your
vacancies to your own District Employ-
ment Office.
There are COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT
CENTRES throughout AUSTRALIA.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
for the COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SIGN
CESGB-98-M
div. was kept at 3 p.c,, making the aver-
age over the last six years 3 p.c., com-
pared with an average of 4.4 p.c. for the
preceding six years. Until the outside
debt is substantially reduced only mod-
erate returns need be looked for.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. £299,980 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Sndy. creditors* 179,290 143,914 187,173 251,963
Overdraft, etc. 310,441 234,182 183,741 201,673
Provident fund 54,627 53,595
Freehold, etc... 479,023 498,846 491,893 492,184
Stocks .. 31,341 48,572 25,042 18,108
Book debts .. 432,725 237,554 215,127 304,070
Cash, etc. .. 7.306 6,905 7,221 7 022
Shares subsid. 31,669 32,921 33,155
Advance subsid. 20,000 25,748 26,..25
* Includes provision for taxation.
To an extra £88,943 of book debts
the board added £17,932 to the overdraft,
etc.—the etcetera is an unspecified amount
of mortgages —and £64,790 to the amount
coming' to sundry creditors, which in-
cludes provision for taxation. When the
books closed there was 21s. 7d. of out-
side money at risk in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders.
Liabilities exceeded more or less liquids
by £65,054.
As for the outlook, a good season is
in prospect, and Britain will continue to
take the exportable meat surplus on the
basis of present prices (subject to adjust-
ment to meet marked movements in costs)
until end Sept., 1948. The British wool
contract, under which the clip fetched
an average of 15.4 d. per pound regardless
of condition, runs out at the end of this
month. After that auctions will be re-
sumed for the first time since 1939. Prices
bid at auction will be influenced by the
condition and quality of wool shorn from
year to year and the prices which tops,
yarns and fabrics fetch in the world’s
markets. Under the new stabilisation
scheme, if offers fail to reach the reserve
figure decided upon, the wool will be
taken over by Joint Organisation at the
official reserve figure. Owners have the
right to place their own reserve on their
wool, and to withdraw any lots from sale
if prices offered are considered inade-
quate. Subject to exchange and shipping
difficulties, demand promises to be strong.
Apart from the never-ending struggle with
Nature, the big problem for growers will
be to keep production costs, which are
mostly outside their control, below the
level of average selling prices.
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by 265. lOd. in net tangibles, at
17s. 6d. At that price the return is 3.4 p.c.
on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
Paringa Mining and Exploration
For year to end August last London-
controlled Paringa Mining and Ex-
ploration Co., operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), milled 77,024 tons
(up 10,969 tons) of 5.75dwt. ore for
19,5000 z. gold, a recovery of 87.9 p.c.
The metal, less realisation charges, plus
£764 of sundry revenue, brought in
£158,235 (up £31,154). Including provi-
sion for taxation (£10,756) and deprecia-
tion (£5823), exes, totalled £145,088, leav-
ing a profit of £13,147 (up £3088). A
12£ p.c. div. (less tax) called for £13,281,
equal to 6.8 p.c. on capital. When the
books closed there was £81,704 in cash,
debtors’ balances and broken ore to meet
liabilities, including the div,, totalling
£20,484. Ore reserves were 230,680 tons,
averaging 5.31dwt., of which 106,471 tons,
averaging 4.9dwt., were broken.
The board proposes to increase plant
capacity (now 95,000 tons p.a.), open up
the deeper levels (800 ft. to 1200 ft.) of
the Paringa mine, explore and develop
the adjacent North ’Kalgurli Central,
Crcesus South, Block 45 and Brownhill
Extended properties, and further test the
Maritana areas, consisting of about
100 acres adjacent to Mt. Charlotte
at the northern end of the field.
Estimated cost of the work is over
£200,000. To help meet the out-
lay 1,545,370 new Is. shares were recently
offered to those on the register, two for
five, at 2s. 6d. each. When fully paid,
the issue will bring in £193,171, of which
£115,903 will be share premiums and
£77,268 capital (making paid capital
£270,439).
Paringa has a substantial interest in
the Mt. Charlotte Co. (paid capital
£100,921), over whose property Wiluna
holds a working option. If the option is
exercised, the consideration is to be
£A220,000. At Mt. Charlotte 25 bore-
holes have indicated some 1,122,000 tons
of 5.36dwt. ore to a depth of 750 ft. in
the northern section, and 538,000-odd tons
of 4.l9dwt. ore in the southern section.
Wiluna is due to commence further
development of this property any day
now. In the adjoining Maritana areas
preliminary boring has indicated “a
large tonnage of large-
scope for profitaWe treatment Qre
scale production. development is
are to be put down before development
undertaken here. _
Chamber of Mines’ latest
Westrali , . 1945
annual report disclosethat during
1,736,592 long tons of gold-bearing ore
mined in that State were treated tor a
worth £A5,023,295. In 1944
J . ~~~ 190 tons and
the figures WCIC 1,777,128 tOHS ana
£A4,966,451 respectively. Dividends paid
. q £458,479, aS against
£814,715 in 1944, loss of manpower and
gmaller yields accounting for the shnnk-
’ paid for gold in 1945, I CSS
c | mmonweal th gold tax, were: January
May 26, £9 165.; May 27 to June 9,
J6s 9d j une jq tQ £) ecem ber 31,
y / d ’ principal contributors in
ounces were Lake View and Star,
Gt Boulder, 71,560; Wiluna,
35’Qjg! North Kalgurli, 31,064 ; Gold
Mi ’ nes ’ of Kalgoorlie, 25,357 ; Central
Norseman 24,669 ; Boulder Perseverance,
23,666; Sons of Gwalia, 20,792;
Paringa, 20,550; and South Kaigibh,
18,528. The report also states that the
Westralian goldfields mining branch of
the Australian Workers’ Union is apply-
ing for a new general mining award. In
the interests of full employment and a
high standard of living, it is high time
the Government abandoned the special
war-time gold tax, which has taken 50 p.c.
of the increase in the price of the yellow
metal above £9 a fine ounce since Sept.
15, 1939. The gain to the Treasury from
this source during 1944-45 was no more
than £343,000-odd.
* * * *
From a man on the spot:
Doubts about the lodes at Hampton Plains
Areas, six miles south of Coolgardie (W.A.),
not living down may be correct, but it is too
early yet to condemn revival of this field.
Since location of the new find on Surprise
leases some six years ago just over 9000 tons,
averaging 18dwt. gold, have been crushed at
the Coolgardie State battery. Crushings would
probably have been doubled had the war not
cut down production. Ore was broken from
three separate lodes, varying m width from
6ft. to 30ft., the deepest shaft being down
200 ft., with the lode and values strong under
foot. Everything broken has been crushed,
and the property has only been scratched as
yet. Although a well-known co. abandoned
its option on this mine, and also on the
Barbara a few blocks away, general opinion is
that lack of capital was the stumbling block.
Recently the Western Mining Corp. acquired
an option on the Surprise leases, and has
begun testing the lodes at depth.
% * ♦
“Bogong” (Vic.); Prospectors reopen-
ing old mines or opening new ones will
find it still necessary under National Secu-
rity Regulations to obtain police permits to
buy explosives. Any number of deton-
ators may be had if the police are satis-
fied about the identity and purpose of the
applicant, but gelignite is limited to five
pounds unless a magazine permit is pro-
duced. These restrictions are a pain in
the neck to reef prospectors, and look
like continuing so until they run out at
the end of 1946. Practical mining men
hope they will not be renewed under
State authority.


I
9
** *
n
When you are weary from the day’s effort and nerves
are getting frayed, have a whisky or two and see
how briskly you respond to its healthy stimulation.
Be one of the many men who drink whisky wisely, in
moderation, and benefit from its purity.
Whisky is admirably suited to the man in his prime.
Medically speaking, its composition is particularly pure,
aiding the digestion instead of taxing it.
The quantity needed for healthful stimulation is small.
Use whisky wholesomely. The secret, as in so many
things, is moderation, plus insistence on sound quality.
The best Australian brands are excellent in flavour and
purity, and have been brought to a high level of
excellence by ageing for the exceptional period of
over 5 years.
Inserted on Behalf of the Brands of
The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., The Distillers Corporation Pty. Ltd., and' Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd,
WB/24
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Fall of the Hammer.
Apart from the obvious externals,
auctions of livestock and pictures
are much alike, and both have
peculiar terrors for the uninitiated. At
Lawson’s, Sydney, I stood rigidly uncom-
fortable between a chest-of-drawers and
a card-table, with a fearful suspicion that
works of great value were being knocked
down to me.
To escape was impossible, for the
upper room was packed tight with
furniture and people, and any unwary
movement might, conceivably, be inter-
preted as signal of purchase. The
auctioneer seemed to be staring straight
at me, and realising the danger of a pro-
longed interchange of glances (who
knows, a blink might become a wink) I
turned my my head and inspected Nor-
man Lindsay’s “Sultan’s Train,” a blaze
of color on the wall to my left. A magni-
ficent water-color, and within the blaze
were all kinds of sumptuous colors and
patterns, subordinate to the brightness,
yet enriching it. Women of dazzling
whiteness and women of swarthy volup-
tuousness, Nubians, Bedouins, merchants,
a swarm of humanity, with the good meat
of character and incident in them; yet
all the sumptuousness and pageantry and
incident moving to the focal point, which
could be comprehended at a glance. I
watched it, fascinated, and then the dread-
ful thought struck me that such absorp-
tion, too, might be misinterpreted, and 1
hastily averted my eyes.
In the meantime, the auctioneer was
busily cracking his hammer —not aj
hammer, really, but some blunt instru-
ment with a sharp, imperative crack —
and he was a person well worth listening
to. Whether a Shorthorn heifer or a
painting is being sold, personality is the
thing. Crack went the instrument, a
gentle, encouraging kind of a crack. “And
what’s this?” the auctioneer said, with
no more than a fleeting glance at the
picture, held high above the head of an
offsider, that all might see. “An early
So-and-So, by the look of it. Should be
worth twenty guineas, more by rights—
eight guineas?” The auctioneer registers
orthodox ' horror: “Nine —to think I
rushed here for this! —ten, that’s more
like it; only ten guineas for this beauti-
ful So-and-So” (here he tersely describes
the picture’s points) “eleven guineas—
look at that sky, gentlemen!—l missed
dinner, too” {crack, warningly), “and I’m
only bid —twelve, twelve” {crack) —“going
at twelve” . . . Then the final, irrevoc-
able crack and, miraculously, someone
has anticipated it and bought the painting
for 13 guineas, and another canvas is
being put through its paces.
But with all due credit given to auc-
tioneering ability, it is the demand that
makes the sales; and there was a ready
demand for Norman Lindsay’s water-
colors, the “Sultan’s Train” (23 x 22|
inches) topping the list with 200
guineas. “Don Juan” (19 x 24 inches)
brought 150 guineas, “Disdain” (18
x 21£ inches) 120 guineas, “The
Ballet of the Bull” (14 x 15| inches)
110 guineas, “Adonis” (23 x 21 inches)
140 guineas, “Sea Idyll” (13i x 19 inches)
80 guineas, “Moonlight Tryst” 60 guineas.
Blamire Young’s “Dawn” (13| x 13|
inches) was sold for 75 guineas, Hilder’s
“The Lone Hand” for 32 guineas and
“English Landscape,” a minute Streeton
water-color, went for 28 guineas. Of-the
oils, Norman Lindsay’s “Jealousy” (29 x
39 inches) was 180 guineas, and his
“Siesta” 50 guineas, with Streeton’s
“Amiens, 1918,” selling at 105 guineas.
By the time I had absorbed these details
I felt considerably relieved that the auc-
tioneer’s glittering eye had not, in fact,
been fixed on me, but on the man directly
in front of me, who signified his inten-
tions by slight movements of his right
hand.
J.F.
Viewpoints on the Ballet.
Watching the Borovansky Ballet at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, from various view-
points is an instructive process. Stared
at from a distance of a few feet from
the footlights, expressions are tortured,
gestures look angular—like a piece of
prose analysed into its verbs, adjectives
and adverbs.
Surveyed from the back of the circle,
it begins to resolve itself into something
coherent and lovely; but the best place
to view it from is the gods, where you
don’t have to bother about the story, but
can admire the patterns of the dancers.
As the story is usually at the mental level
of 11 this is a distinct advantage.
To complete the picture it is necessary
to go backstage where the prima ballerina
is limbering up her quadraceps against
the proscenium arch between her appear-
ances and the principal man is leaping at
imaginary flies before flinging his athletic
body into the proceedings, while Mr,
Borovansky, with an anxious face, is
directing an exiting dancer who is totter-
ing off on her toes straight for the electri-
cal switchboard.
Backstage you can’t hear the music,
and the gestures, gyrations and genuflec-
tions look more incomprehensible than
ever. But, viewed as a whole, the ballet
is a graceful and artistic business, and
the present commentator agrees with a
friend he saw lolling in a chair and gaz-
ing lapped in contentment at the “Fantasy
on Grieg’s Concerto.” He liked it better
than opera, he said, because you could
just look at the girls, and you didn’t have
somebody always squawking at you.
Amongst recent additions to the reper-
toire were “Giselle,” with its cobwebby
story, and “L’Amour Ridicule,” of which
Dorothy Stevenson’s castanet dance is
the superb highlight. “Le Spectre de la
Rose” isn’t one of the co.’s best efforts.
The elimination of the bed which was a
feature of previous performances of the
De Basils may have been a concession to
the censors, but it depleted the ballet of
all meaning. Vassilie Trunoff seemed to
find the piece emdtionally awkward.
Ar t bursts
A curious anomaly about Marjorie
McChesney Matthews’s show at Koz-
minsky’s Gallery, Melbourne, is that,
while she is more or less impressionistic in
her painting, in her sculpture she is all
convention. This discrepancy can hardly
be accounted for on the score that the
artist lacks observation, because she
shows a good deal of that in such sen-
sitive landscapes as “The Strand, Wil-
liamstown.” But her carvings, “Dancer
Resting,” “Prisoner of War” and her
wooden “Gregory M. Mathews” (original
in the Ornithological Library, Canberra),
are, entifely lacking in it. #
* * * %
“C.Q.”: The Meldrum school is
attracting attention in U.S. art circles.
An exhibition in Philadelphia by Phyl M.
Ffreqch, a former student of the Mel-
bourne painter, was the first one-man
show by an Australian to be held in
America since Pearl Harbor. It was de-
scribed as “bringing acclaim from both
critic and layman”—nothing to be sur-
prised at, since Meldrum’s insistence on
values and craftsmanship would put the
pictures in a class far above the average
of “modernist” artists, who slap paint
about with the carefree abandon of
children, in the States just as much as in
Australia.
* * * *
The biggest show of contemporary art
ever assembled at the Vic. National
Gallery is on exhibition in the textile
gallery. It comprises Felton Bequest
purchases of English art for the National
Gallery, as well as pictures for the gal-
leries of Geelong, Castlemaine and
Ballarat. Some of the pictures belong to
the academic order, a few look reasonably
worth while and a lot are merely freakish.
The Madonna of Bernard Meninsky is as
broad as she is long, and there is little
quality in the painting. A still life of
apples and pears by Leslie Hunter has
some body in it, and a “Bathing Beach,”
by Robert Greenham, puts Geelong in
possession of a good bit of observation.
At the Talkies
“Henry V” ran for seven weeks at Syd-
ney Embassy, giving way to another Eng-
lish film, “Dead of Night”—five super-
natural short stories connected by the
flimsiest of plots. Two of the yarns—
one dealing with a racing driver’s pre-
monition of disaster, and the other with
an adolescent girl’s flashback to an 80-
year-old scene —have been recorded often
enough to be familiar, but are presented
and played with a measure of artistry.
A third is a stretch of supernatural tom-
foolery, with Basil Radford and Naun-
ton Wayne adding golf to their list of
sporting obsessions.
Of the remaining episodes—macabre
tales which might have come straight
from Edgar Allen Poe; actually they’re
by John Baines —one concerns a mirror
which reflects a 1.00-year-old room instead
of its present-day setting until the owner
is almost driven to re-enact the 100-year-
old tragedy which occurred in the room.
The other deals with a ventriloquist,
schizophrenic to such a degree that he
transplants his spare personality as well
as his voice into his dummy and turns it
into a semi-human monster which eventu-
ally destroys him. Michael Redgrave is
excellent as the ventriloquist.
Sydney Mayfair’s current offering is
light comedy of a wench who runs the
good-housekeeping section of a popular
magazine, filling it with recipes for epi-
cures, stories of her husband and child
and the atmosphere of a Connecticut
farm. Since she actually lives in a smail
city flat, has neither husband nor child
and doesn’t know which end of the cow
gives milk, she is put to much lightly
amusing pother when called upon to pro-
duce the whole works. Barbara Stan-
wyck handles the piece in her usual cap-
able manner, with Sydney Greenstreet
and S. Z. Sakall providing most of the
comedy.
Other current releases are melodrama
unrestrained. In “Tangier,” at the
Lyceum, a diamond of hen’s egg dimen-
sions, intended to pay for the escape of
a Nazi from the North African port, is
the excuse for two hours’ clerring-do. At
the Regent, in “Spanish Main,” there’s
swordplay, pieces-of-eight, fire, romance
and murder and all the other traditional
ingredients of high piracy in technicolor.
Paul Henreid is the honest settler driven
to remarkably efficient piracy. Maureen
O’Hara is part of his loot, and Walter
Slezak the archvillain. Another techni-
color outbreak at the Plaza, “Belle of the
Yukon,” has musical revue, thievery,
blackmail and knockabout comedy, all
tangled and untangled as only films can
tangle ’em, and populated by Randolph
Scott, a fully-clothed Gypsy Rose Lee
and crooner Dinah Shore.


JJTou cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out of
Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The fiver should give out two pounds of liquid
bile daily or your food doesn’t digest. You
suffer from wind. You get constipated. _ Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel irritable,
tired and weary and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You must get
at the cause. It takes those good old Carter’s
Little Liver Pills to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and up.” Harm*
less, gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills byname.
Stubbornly refuse anything else. 3/- & 1/3.
LEAR
AT HOME
FOR.
2'6
WEEKLY
It’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLV GUITAR
• BANJO MANDOLIN
• PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
• SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN
• ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
CnAA have succeeded
OUI/U why not you ? Takes
3 Lessons to play first piece—
-10 Lessons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—doesn’t
matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
Illustrated catalogue and descriptive
booklet FREE —Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 3, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
FREE
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
g
Sores caused by
chafing nankins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder.
(uticura
V OINTMENT*
SPORTING NOTIONS
Nominated for the last Doncaster and Syd-
ney Cup, Bernborough was taken out shortly
before weights were allotted, and it may have
been a shrewd move. It prevented the A.J.C.
handicapper from expressing his opinion of the
horse, and that might have been rather higher
than the opinion expressed by the Queensland
official in allotting the weights for the Doom-
ben double; as it turned out, an underestimate
of not less than half a stone. It may have been
different if the A.J.C. man had got in first.
Having given the ruling champion 10.5 in the
Ahern Memorial sprint and a drop of 41b. on
that in the second leg, the approximately 11-
furlongs Cup, the Queensland handicapper, with
a 101 b. penalty provided for, could raise Bern-
borough only an actual 61b. in the latter event
—a race with a third of the starters that Bern-
borough had beaten comfortably in the Ahern
and at a distance that suited his powerful
finishing run a lot better. On went the full
101 b., but the handicapper must have realised
by then that it would have taken more than
that to bring the big horse back to the field.
What the weighting of Bernborough in the
Ahern actually amounted to was to give him,
taking the different scales of weights into con-
sideration, a drop of lib. for winning the New-
market in Melbourne! It may be very much
doubted if that would have happened in Syd-
ney. Now it will be interesting to see what
other handicappers will give him in any southern
handicap for which he may be entered. He
would seem to call for so much weight that it
could be he has won his last handicap (except
special races, like the King’s Cup, with a top-
weight limit), and will now have to add to his
winnings in w.f.a. events, which, after all, are
there for the special benefit of champions.
The Doomben Cup was as easy for Bern-
borough as the 7-to-4-on betting anticipated.
Fox Breeze, pacy enough to lead such a fast
front-runner as Puftham three or four lengths,
made most of the running, from Putfham and
Wellesley, with Bernborough next, much closer
than usual, and then Craigie, ridden in the
hope of being able to follow Bernborough
through and run him down. Near the straight
Fox Breeze had shot his bolt and Puffham took
the lead, to surrender it in a few strides to Rep-
shot. Then, improving all the time, Bern-
borough came with his great run and won well,
■with Tea Cake coming up for second money,
Craigie third and Repshot fourth.
The Cup made it 10 wins in a row for Bern-
borough. Giving 391 b. to Tea Cake, 221 b. to
Craigie and 351 b. to Repshot, he made them
look cheap. His 10.11 was the greatest weight
with which he has won, and the greatest ever
successfully carried in the Cup, and he is the
only horse ever to have won the Doomben
double. It should give a strong boost to sire
Emborough, and, on the less spectacular" but
useful enough performances of his other pro-
geny, that imported son of Gainsborough de-
serves it.
As on the opening day, the rest of the Doom-
ben programme was of little account; the best
of it the Flying Handicap, a consolation event
for Ahern runners, won by the Melbourne mare
Delina from Maa Leesh and Warlock, Delina
cut the six furlongs out in I.ll^.
* * * *
Good enough in his day to win a Villiers, Sir
Neith hasn’t done much of late, but for the
Flying Handicap on the opening day of the
A.J.C.’s four-days’ Winter Carnival meeting he
was backed to such purpose that his price
shrank from tens to 9 to 2. ,He made up ground
from a long way back, but otherwise failed to
reproduce whatever he had shown in private.
Taking charge at the Leger, the lightly weighted
Miss Sovereign (Doon) just headed Oriental,
while Civic Pride, after setting the pace, faded
back to third place.
Either the handicapper has caught up with
Civic Pride or she is yet another in the long list
of fillies unbeatably brilliant as two-year-olds
but never the same later. With scarcely an ex-
ception, that has been going on year after year
for a very long time in Sydney.
Murray Stream, in the ten-furlongs Home-
stead Handicap, was the medium of another
unsuccessful plunge. An opening quote of 16
to 1 was generous, inspired to some extent by
the fact that the Metrop. winner was to be
ridden by an apprentice, R. Willoughby, who
had only once previously ridden in a race. The
price was quickly snapped up, and Murray
Stream started at sixes. After missing the jump
badly his rider became anxious and drove him
along to take the lead nearly seven furlongs
from home, despite the presence of several
proven front-runners, including Turn Again.
Prince went to the front at the turn, Lady
Marie joined him at the Leger, and the pair
made a good race of it to the post, where the
mare prevailed; a good effort, as she was con-
ceding Prince a stone. Titanic was third, just
ahead of Courier.
Though only seven faced the starter, the
George’s River Handicap of a mile was the
most open race of the day, as was reflected by
the betting, with the favorite Strathdarr at fours,
9 to 2 Columnist and 6 to 1 any of the others.
King’s Glen was first to show out, and lasted till
they turned for home, whereafter Columnist
took over and won comfortably. Without
threatening the winner, Silent finished fast to
beat King’s Glen for second money.
A Two-year-old Encourage provided an ex-
citing finish, Royal Spirit (H. Hanley) downing
the strongly fancied Bay Rex and Grand City,
the winner being a write-your-own-ticket
proposition. Finishing close up after running
an excellent race, the Ajax colt, My Hero, ap-
peared even more unlucky than Bay Rex. After
an inquiry stewards suspended Hanley for caus-
ing interference from which My Hero was the
worst suflerer.
The failure of Bay Rex probably saved
doubles bookmakers a payout, as his stable-
mate. Johnny Zero, won the No vide, downing
Miss f Corrogin and Double Gift. Quadrant was
a hot favorite, and had the benefit of Thomp-
son in the saddle, but just' plugged along, find-
ing 9.5 far more than he cared to carry. Rouge
D’Or, convincing winner of the Three-year-
old Encourage, is a chestnut son of the Metro-
politan winner Oro and Star Gem. He was in
front all the way, and scooted off in the straight
to win by several lengths from Crusader and
Edinburgh. When a favorite did finally do the
right thing on that first day of the meeting—
the Manitoba gelding, Alderman, defeating
Smart Alick and Battle King in the Highweight
—punters, who’d had a torrid time of it, still
had to swallow a last bitter drop of irony,
Alderman being owned by a bookmaker.
♦ * * *
For once in a long time on Melbourne tracks
the Steeple-Handicap double at Moonee Valley
last Saturday went to the
favorites, respectively the Lo
Zingaro six-year-old gelding
Garotil and the four-year-old
Valiant Chief horse Valcurl.
A Moonee Valley Cup winner,
Valcurl was taken to the front
early, and, in contempt of his
9st. topweight, made all the
running, kicked away at the
turn and won as he liked,
with Buzharine and New War-
rior in the places.
- • •) s
Garofil had almost as easy
a win in the Steeple. The fast
but weak Accelerate was out
10 lengths when half the two
miles had been covered, with
Night Life next and Garofil
handy. Drawing level after
the half-mile, Night Life was
disposing of Accelerate when
Garofil also ranged up and
took over, going on to win
by four lengths from Night
Life, with Lucifer next. Luci-
fer improved remarkably over
that last half-mile, and is one
to note down. He’s a five-
year-old Gay Lothario gelding.
What a chancy business buy-
ing yearlings is was shown by
the big fields in both divisions
of the Talbot Plate, a five-
furlongs scamper to give
maiden two-year-olds—at this
time in the season! —a
chance to be called winners. And, at that,
the fields were only about a quarter of what
had been entered! The winners were Allied
Power, a bay colt by The Buzzard, and
aptly-named Parody, a black colt by John
James from Vulgar Verse.
The mile Kilmore Handicap for three-year
olds went to the lightly-weighted Solar Bear
filly Bannerette, from Nawab and Dual Gift.
William Tell downed Regeen and Princess Amy
(a good run by Regeen) in the nine-furlongs
Wallan Handicap; and the four-year-old grey
Camouflage accounted for Hawarden and
Regency in the mile Highweight, in which a
big plunge on Solstar went astray.
* * * *
Victory Day programmes in various States
on Monday had their appropriately-named
events, the V.R.C. at Flemington possibly
having a quiet shot at being appropriate in
two ways at once with a Blarney Highweight.
The Brisbane programme (at Eagle Farm) in-
cluded a w.f.a. event, but with both fiern-
borough and Craigie out of it the field was
small. It looked good for Flight, but Tea
Cake downed her in a dingdong finish. The
Celebrations Cup there (11 furlongs) went to
Falcon Knight from Three Wheeler and Four
Square. Victory Lad defeated Gayborough
and Earl Pentheus in the six-furlongs Crete
Handicap.
Another good bit of naming in Melbourne
was the Kokoda Hurdle, in which Securities,
sticking a bit better than usual, lasted it out in
front to beat Gyrone a couple of lengths, witn
Isambard (topweight) coming from a long
way back to take third money. The Victory
Handicap (H miles) had Melbourne Cup winner
Rainbird at the top of the weights, but other-
wise attracted a familiar winter handicaps held,
Valcurl putting up another splendid perform-
ance to lead all the way (with 9.2), with Earl
Mond and Punctilia in the places. Best thing
beaten on the day was High Play.
* * *
At Randwick, where the AJ.C. continued its
Winter meeting, Vermeil won the Celebra-
tions Handicap (about seven furlongs), halt a
head to Bragger, with Rough Caste third.
A. Mulley, who, oddly enough, comes in tor
a spate of criticism pretty well every time
Bernborough wins, showed out as the top-
notch rider he really is by landing Crusader
(on whom J. Thompson failed on Saturday)
the narrowest of winners over Titanic, with
Rouge D’Or third, in the, All-Services Handi-
cap. Wirralie, good winner of the Allies
Juvenile, is a full brother to Swan River (Mid-
stream-Blackbird). Peter won the Victory Cup
nicely from Shining Night and Turn Again.
* * * *
A bit before this time last year two then
just returned R.A.A.F. men dropped in to talk
about that year’s impending English Derby,
and both their tips for the event have had
sequels. Sgt. Arthur Hill, of Abercorn (Q.),
plumped for High Peak, and the sequel in his
case is that High Peak —a splendid type of
English thoroughbred, though unsuccessful in
the Derby—was subsequently luckily bought for
Australian breeding, and is now in S.A.
The other R.AA.F. man, Flying-Officer Tom
Bradley, D.F.C., of Coonabarabran (N.S.W.),
fancied Chamoissaire, by Precipitation, trained
by Perryman and to be ridden by T. Lowrey.
In the sequel, Bradley was just a year ahead
of himself. This year’s Derby, run last week,
was won by Airborne, a grey colt by Precipi-
tation, trained by Perryman and ridden by
Lowrey.
* * * *
In a fast, open game, N.S.W. I beat
N.S.W. II 27-15 in the Rugby Union
“And keep ’em above the belt!”
trials at North Sydney. Rankin’s steadi-
ness and accurate, kicking earned him the
full-back position in and captaincy of the
N.S.W, team to meet Queensland. Con-
sidering the material available, the selec-
tors have picked a reasonably good side.
The two centres, Allan and Johnson,
pierce and defend well; Cremin, at five-
eighth, is not so fast off the mark as
some of his rivals, but his superb posi-
tional play and cover defence on Satur-
day got him the pivot position, together
with Bannon, a New England player, who
showed out in an earlier game. Though
Morcombe ran hard on the wing, he is
better at centre ; a burly type, his crash-
ing runs would play havoc with any weak-
ness in opposition defence. Burke, a
nippy back from Newcastle, and Cawsey
(Randwick) are the halves. The for-
wards are a solid lot and should give a
good account of themselves.
* * * *
There is a great deal of betting on
Rugby League footbrawl —the Sunday
papers thoughtfully cater for it —and the
surest way of losing is to follow form.
Brought to Sydney to play in a curtain-
raiser to the return North of England-
N. S. Wales match, the South Coast team
that had beaten North of England (aided
by Welsh converts from Rugby Union)
was never in it with Sydney seconds, who
scored 22-8. Then North of England,
with a side which had to be so reshuffled
that the full back played behind the
scrum, put it all over N. S. Wales (21-7),
except in fighting, man-kicking and illegal
tackling; here “honors” were perhaps
even. So far “gates” have been below
expectations, and they will fall still further
unless “Australia” can press the visitors
in the alleged Test matches. The inclusion
of a couple of tough Queenslanders in
the forwards may make a difference.
* * * »
The V.F.L. contented itself with three
matches last Saturday, the other three
saved for Victory Day. On Saturday
North, 9.2, beat Melbourne, 3.9 ; Fitz-
roy, 14.14, beat Hawthorn, 9.10, and
Essendon, 15.17, beat Richmond, 10.10.
7 I
* * * *
The British ex-Davis Cup rep. D. W.
Butler inflicted on the Australian Jack
Harper his first defeat in England, beat-
ing him 6-3, 6-4 at Surbiton. On the
badly-damaged courts —it was the tourna-
ment from which Pails withdrew—
Harper’s best chance appeared to lie in
taking the net. However, he played the
baseline game, and Butler proved more
adept at handling the erratically bounc-
ing ball. It was only a temporary lapse ;
Harper then went on to add the Northern
lawn tennis championship to his list, beat-
ing another Davis Cup player, Derek
Barton, 6-4, 6-1, in the final at Man-
chester.
After seeing Brown at practice one
English critic paid the Australian lad a
fair compliment, describing the pace of
his two-handed wallops as “fantastic”
and “harder even than Vines at his peak.”
All right if Brown also retains consis-
tency, which is the weak point of many
“bash-artists.” Vines used fairly regularly
to strike patches when his terrific drives
were as likely to find the back fence as
the back line.
*** * *
A 14-stoner, Henry Bowers had every
physical advantage over Alf Gallagher
when they shaped up at Sydney Stadium.
But Gallagher was much the better
boxer, and Bowers was so badly beaten
in the ninth round that referee Wallis
pointed to Gallagher. In a supporting
12-rounder Frankie Flannery and Jackie
Wilson, promising boys both, fought an
exciting draw. Flannery is a feather-
weight and Wilson a lightweight, and
Flannery’s advisers should not let him
sign up for such matches, even if short-
sighted promoters insist.
* * * *
Against Jack Samuels, a welterweight
with no overpowering record, at Leich-
hardt, Dick Harris did not land a punch
until late in the third round, and then a
left swing knocked him across the ring
into the ropes. Harris was helpless in
the fourth, and when Samuels soon
floored him with another left the referee
stopped the infliction. Harris later com-
plained that after the third-round punch
his neck crashed into the top strand, the
impact so dazing him that he could re-
member nothing more. So Samuels won
by a neck-out, as it were.
There were a couple of week-end title
bouts. At Brisbane the Newcastle middle-
weight Dave Sands, confirming the
superiority he had shown in Sydney,
knocked out Jack Kirkham, of Mel-
•bourne, in five rounds, and at Melbourne
Doug Brown surprised by going 15
rounds with Jack Johnson, who aspires
to meet Lesnevich for the light-heavy-
weight championship of the world,
though Johnson got the decision.


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the Directors’ Report presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
held Wednesday, 29th May, 1946, at 2.15 p.m.
at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
AIL DEPARTMENTS
New Policies issued during the year .. .. .. .. ~ 66 543
Assuring (excluding Accident and Sickness Benefits) £18,573,974
Total Income for 1945 .. .. .. ~ .. .. .. . _ 7,202 764
Interest Income .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . _ 1'578’324
Total Payments to Policyholders during 1945 2^775i021
Total Surpluses 1,238,852
Special Reserves for Contingencies .. .. .. .. .. 2,193^948
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1945 .. .. .. .. 40,141,119
CONTINUED ECONOMY. The percentage of Renewal Premium Income
of the Ordinary Department absorbed in Expenses (excluding Taxation
and Self-charged Rent) was only 7.234 p.c.
The Society is wholly mutual, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the policyholders only,
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION £45,159,692
Interest earned on mean Assurance Funds of the three Departments £4.6 p.c.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional service to the assuring public.
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS
PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE .
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL OFFICERS:
The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.0.M.G., Chairman; General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, C.B.E. FCIS
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.; GEORGE D. HEALY; Actuary: D. DRYBROUGH, M.A. F.F.A.
Major-General FRANK P. DERHAM, C. 8., D. 5.0., V.D.; Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDBn’ WHITE MD
r. y. s. McPherson. f.r.a.c.p. ’
LOCAL BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS, Assoc. Inst. C.E.; Hon. Sir GRAHAM
WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.O.
Medical Director: A. HOLMES a COURT, M.D., F.R.C.P.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON, F.A.1.1.
QUEENSLAND; 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Director: JOHN E. TRUDE.
Medical Director; S. F. McDONALD, M.D., F.R.C.P..
F.R.A.C.P.
Manager: W. TRAVERS, F.C.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Director: Brigadier-General G. H. DEAN, C.8.E., V.D.
Medical Director: Sir TRENT CHAMPION-de CRESPIGNY,
D. 5.0., F.R.C.P.
Manager: A. J. CROSS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 63 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors; H. B. JACKSON, K.C., Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND.
Medical Director; D. M. McWHAE, M.D., F.R.C.P.
Manager: J. A. EDWARDS.
TASMANIA: 18-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Director: Hon. Sir JOHN McPHEE, K.C.M.G., M.H.A.
Manager; A. de JONGH.
Business. Rollery, etc.
The End of Lend-lease
It appears that, in order to wind up
lend-lease, Australia will pay the U.S.A.
£8,380,000. This notwithstanding many
contentions that Australia’s reciprocal
aid to America, on any basis of compar-
able prices, was greater than U.S. lend-
lease aid to us. The values, as Washing-
ton recorded them, were: To Australia,
$l4OO million ; from Australia, $9OO mil-
lion. But if our butter, meat, services,
clothing, etc., had been taken into ac-
count at U.S. prices it is contended by
many competent to express an opinion
that the United States would have been
in debt to us, not our creditor. Lend-
lease did not contemplate a strictly ac-
countancy ending. Each country receiv-
ing aid was entitled to use and consume
all aid rendered to it during the war
without charge. It was only use, de-
liberate retention and consumption after
the war that had to be paid for.
On this basis, accepting the letter of
the undertaking, Australia has been
decently treated by the United States,
which no doubt has to be careful about
the matter of creating precedents.
From a final bargaining point of view
it was unfortunate for Australia that it
supplied aid that was, generally, either
eaten or used up by American troops
almost immediately. It supplied com-
paratively little in the way of machinery
or lasting assets retention of which by
the United States after the war would
represent a basis of post-war bargaining.
Australia is to pay £2,031,000 for U.S.
surpluses left in Australian territory. For
tools we pay £2,656,000, and
£1,506,000 for non-combat aircraft and
other capital equipment. There is also
£2,187,000, to be put up by Australia, to
be spent by the United States in the
Commonwealth for scholarships, build-
ings and “other enterprises to further lire
cultural relationships of the two coufl-
tries.” This final amount covers all out-
standing claims.
In general, it will be seen that only
oon-military items, residual assets and
supplies and post-war items represent the
cash-payment part of the lend-lease settle-
ment. Only the newspapers ever sug-
gested that Australia would have to pay
the 500-million-dollar debit shown by
Washington as representing the difference
between aid received by us and aid ren-
dered. In its wash-up of lend-lease Britain
had to pay only for post-war supplies
and U.S. assets which it desired to retain
in peace-time.
Australia will have the dollars neces-
sary to clean its slate with the United
States. But henceforth our dollar sup-
plies will depend on the outcome of the
U.S. loan and upon our exports.
External Trade Funds
Over the four months January-April
inclusive the Australian balance of mer-
chandise trade with other countries was
£7.6 million in this country’s favor. That
reduced the unfavorable balance for the
10 months July-April to £17.5 million,
bullion and specie movements included.
The figures cover movements into and
out of Australia in respect of goods
shipped on behalf of Australian and
Allied fighting forces. Some of the im-
ports we shall have to pay for; some we
shall not. Some such exports will be
paid for, while some won’t. The actual
balance of trade, on a cash basis, for the
four months may not be much different
from that already indicated. But the cash
balance for the 10 months should be
favorable instead of adverse.
Up to the end of fighting in the
Pacific two-way lend-lease introduced
great confusion to Australia’s external
trading position. Although our recipro-
cal aid approximately equalled United
States lend-lease assistance to us during
the war, a good deal of our reciprocal
aid was rendered to America within the
Commonwealth and did not enter into
export figures. Thus, in the first 10
months of last financial year we showed
an adverse trade and specie balance of
£7l million, although, on an actual cash
basis, we were building up our external
funds, helped partly by payment for
assistance rendered to British forces
stationed in Australia.
Our net overseas funds and gold hold-
ing grew from £55.7 million at the end
of June, 1939, to £208.3 million in June,
1945. These figures were released by the
Commonwealth Bank last week. Going
on central-bank figures alone, which is
not an entirely reliable method of judging
the position, it would appear that the
figure of £208.3 million has not lessened
over the past year, notwithstanding the
repayment of £43.5 million of London
loans in the meantime.
The growth in our overseas funds, and
the fact that* since 1941, we have paid
off a total of £9l million of overseas debt,
has led many people to hope for a re-
duction in the exchange rate on London ;
others fear the same possibility. In con-
nection with our present large balances
the Commonwealth Bank says:
Present balances are due largely to special
war-time items in the balance of payments,
such as .payment for services rendered for
other Governments and remittances ..to
Australia on account of Allied forces in
Australia; and also to the rigorous appli-
cation of exchange and import controls.
Existing commitments and the large accu-
mulated demand for imports represent
a very substantial future charge against
these balances. Moreover, Australia’s ex-
port markets may be less certain in the
future than they were during the war, when
Australia’s surplus of many commodities,
including wool, butter, meat, sugar and
dried fruits, was bought by Britain at
guaranteed prices.
This view of the situation is very simi-
lar to that taken here in articles pub-
lished during the past two or three
months. It has been pointed out that,
although prices for our exports are still
extremely high notwithstanding that the
war is over, prices for imports are just
as high or higher, and that land products
have a habit of reaching adequate supply
much sooner than is the case with manu-
factured goods, of which Australia’s im-
ports are largely made up. The cost of
motor-cars now being marketed in the
Commonwealth illustrates the leap in cost
of manufactures ; it has been suggested
by an American authority that never in
our lifetime will motor-cars be as easily
purchased as they were before the war.
The value of wool exported during the
10 months to April 30 was over £lO mil-
lion higher than in the same period be-
fore the war, though 20 p.c, lower in
quantity. But exports of butter, chilled
and frozen meats, dried fruits, wheat and
sugar were lower in value. Tinned-meat
values were much higher, as were rabbit-
skins and manufactured textiles. There
were also increases in cheese, pork and
iron-and-steel exports.
_____
The £l6 million (sterling) Australian
loan to be converted in London on July
1 will carry 2\ p.c. interest and will have
a currency of 21-25 years. It is the lowest
rate to be offered on any Commonwealth
long-term security in London. Our in-
terest bill in London is being steadily
reduced, partly because of the good work
done by Mr. Bruce in past years in the
matter of conversions and partly by re-
payments totalling £9l million Australian
between July 1, 1941, and March 31 last.
In 1934 the cost of servicing our London
debt was £24.5 million Australian a year.
On Dec. 31 last the cost had been re-
duced to £17.5 million. There has been
a slight reduction in the interest cost on
our American indebtedness in the same
time, ignoring exchange fluctuations.
Further cuts in the London interest
bill may be expected this year, since loans
in excess of £lOO million Australian will
be optionally redeemable or convertible
during the remainder of 1946.
* * * ♦
During the war General Motors-
Holden’s did work to the total value of
£37.5 million for the Commonwealth
Government. The co. reports now that
■‘satisfactory progress is being made in
the design and engineering of the Austra-
lian car.” Knight Edward Holden, at
the cb.’s annual meeting, said: “In the
present unsettled condition of world
affairs Australia has an opportunity of
capitalising on her war-time industrial
expansion, but this can only be achieved
if all are prepared to make their maxi-
mum contribution to the nation’s well-
being.”
* * * m
Gordon and Gotch, distributor of
periodicals and printing requisites, adver-
tising agent, etc,, has declared an interim
dividend at the rate of 17i p.c. p.a.,
against a previous half-yearly distribu-
tion of 20 p.c. p.a., including bonus.
Overall earnings of the undertaking have
been at a slightly lower rate during the
six months to March 31, but the periodi-
cals business, especially on the importing
side, should be looking up now. This
concern has been a surprise to many
Stock Exchange observers during the
war ; they anticipated a falling-off in turn-
over because of the shutting-out of
American magazines except on a sub-
scription basis and the difficulty of get-
ting British periodicals because of the
general effect of the European war. G.
and G. has, in fact, had a very profitable
experience in spite of importing difficul-
ties, the ord. div. rising from 14 p.c. in
1939 to 16f p.c. in 1944 (after dropping
to 12 p.c. in 1941) and p.c. in 1945.
The ords. were consistently recommended
on these pages in 1940, when they were
selling at prices down to 345. They are
now at a ceiling price of 61s. 9d., with
buyers eager but no sellers in sight. The
dividend record of this concern during
the war has been unusual. Company dis-
tributions have, on the whole, been down-
ward.
♦ * * *
Holeproof, Ltd., hosiery manufacturer,
is the latest textile concern to offer share-
holders new scrip, following a number
in the weaving rather than the knitting
trade. Holeproof’s issue will be 43,730
new ords., of which 10,000 will be offered,
at par, to employees, and 32,276, at a •
premium of 6s. each, to shareholders in
the proportion of one for four. Two
senior executives will be given the right
to apply for 1454 shares at the 6s. pre-
mium. Holeproof’s present capital is
£205,955 in 128,270 ords., 27,865 8 p.c.
first prefs., and 50,000 6 p.c. second prefs.
New properties have recently been bought
in N. S. Wales and Victoria, and the co.
proposes to decentralise its activities
further in order to obtain a steady supply
of female laFor. It already owns fac-
tories at Brunswick and Camberwell in
Victoria, and another (the Berkley mill)
in Sydney. Others are to be erected at
Box Hill and Ringwood (Melbourne) as
soon as building restrictions permit. The
co. has cleared all its “Dedman” type of
stockings, and has heaved an audible sigh
of relief. Raw-material supplies are the
chief concern at the moment; the plant
is being prepared to handle nylon thread
when it becomes readily available. The
ord. shares, cum rights, are at the ceiling
price of 28s. 9d. It is likely that they
will maintain this price ex rights. The
ord. div. has been steady at 8 p.c. since
1941, when it was reduced from 10 p.c.
Disclosed profits in the last couple of
years have barely covered div. require-
ments, but depreciation and other provi-
sions appear to have been ample.


OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE —
lass UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY me
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
Telephone: 87131
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office; Sydney. Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH;
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
(Three Lines). O. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
JUST RIGHT fpn Fin HU-
t
t
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first fot an Airwayl
m.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD
i m
m sw
iff
mu
\
y »t .1
wms v>
\ V
A SIGN..TO
REMEMBER
B •(.
\ »
M
f %
4
mllU
51
I m 4 k
\V vV
m
v
aw*
u
uli
&
m
m
%■■■■ '"■ “■■' ■&■
B=^ : '
il?
s.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of: “C.O.R Plus” Motor Spirit • “C.O.R” Power Kerosene • “CCRALITE” Lamp
Kerosene • “C.O.R Light Diesoleum” • “C.O.R” Diesel Oils • “C.O.R” Fuel and Bunker Oils
One of the most interesting among the
unlisted stocks is undoubtedly Burling-
ton Mills, which is to weave rayon pro-
ducts at Rutherford (N.S.W.), on an ex-
tensive scale, a number of looms being
already in operation. R. J. Webster, of
Bradford Cotton, is chairman of
directors, and H. Van de Velde, of Felt
and Textiles, is also on the board. Half
the capital is owned by Burlington Mills
Corporation, of Greensborough, N.
Carolina, U.S.A, The issue has stood at
£350,000 for some time; this is now
being doubled by the offer of another
350.000 £1 ords. at par. The old shares
are quoted at about 425. in Stock Ex-
change vestibules, with the rights at 225.
The American company is now selling
a parcel of the old shares at 415., cum
rights to the new issue, in a private trans-
action in Melbourne. It has been stated
that the seller intends to exercise its
new-issue rights on the remaining 116,500
old shares held by it. It would appear
that the American concern will now own
a third-interest in the organisation, in-
stead of a half-interest as hitherto. Politi-
cal considerations may possibly be re-
sponsible for the sale. With a paid capi-
tal of £700,000 gobd profits will be re-
quired to justify the present market for
the shares. Investors are taking their
cue from the success achieved by the
American sponsor of the co. and the
record of the local directors, especially
on the Bradford Cotton side. Prospects
certainly look attractive in the present
state of the textile market.
♦
Bruck Mills (Australia), Ltd., has issued
its prospectus. Arrangements a:.e already
completed to acquire the aluminium fac-
tory at Wangaratta (Vic.) for conversion
into a mill for weaving, dyeing, printing
and finishing rayon and nylon materials.
Treasury consent has been given to issue
720.000 £1 shares, including 70,000 ords.
to Bruck Silk Mills, Ltd., Canada, which
will pay cash for another 100,000;
300.000 ords. and 250,000 5 p.c. cum. pref.
shares are offered the public. In view of
the moderate rate of dividend offered on
the prefs. it is apparently expected that
the ord. issue will be pushed to a
premium.
* * * ♦
It is interesting to note that Bitumen
and Oil Refineries ords., 55.-paid, are
quoted at Bs. 6d., buyers, among the
unlisted shares on Sydney ’Change.
The issue was quickly oversubscribed
earlier this year, after a long delay in
publishing the prospectus. The company
appears to have limited profit-earning
possibilities. The refinery is to be erected
near Sydney.
ss*
One great problem facing Australians
is that of getting back to work at full
capacity. Another is that of reducing
taxation of the earnings of the popula-
tion to a point where it will not remain
a dead weight on all incentive. Let it be
realised once and for all that the neces-
sity for increased post-war taxation is
only partly the result of the interest cost
of war-time borrowing. A couple of
shillings in the £ on present taxable in-
comes would more than pay for the in-
creased interest bill. Interest costs have
not risen £4O million a year during the
war, but Commonwealth income-tax and
company-tax collections have leapt by
more than £l7O million a year in the
same time, and the growth in other taxes
has been enormous. The biggest increase
in Commonwealth Government peace-
time commitments has been in respect of
“social security” measures, price subsi-
dies, etc. The fact cannot be evaded
that the Government has committed itself
prodigally to post-war expenditure of a
political»nature and is opposed to relin-
quishing controls over its huge present
spending power.
* * * *
In the Commonwealth there was a re-
vival of company registrations during
1945, partly the result of a relaxation in
controls over capital issues up to limited
amounts in the second half of the year.
There seems already to have been a much
greater impetus to new company forma-
tion in 1946. Business prospects are still
uncertain, both by reason of overseas
conditions and affairs in Australia —par-
ticularly, as regards the latter, in connec-
tion with industrial.conditions. Taxation
policy in the Commonwealth is also dis-
couraging, especially so far as the forma-
tion of new companies is concerned.
These start off at a disadvantage by com-
parison with older concerns that have
been able to establish large reserves in
those pre-war days when taxation was a
minor item in business outgo. One of the
s essential requisites to the financial
stability of a new enterprise is the build-
ing-up of reserves. It is possible that the
taxation burden will be offset to some ex-
tent by the ready market now available
for many new lines and greater quantities
of old lines, and that there will be more
gross profits awaiting new companies than
was the case before the war. But manage-
ments that aim at the foundation of per-
manent businesses will need to give more
regard to reserves than to dividends,
since, out of whatever profits are left by
the taxgatherer, there will be greater deed
to provide, in the exceptional period of
post-war goods shortage, for the inevit-
able reaction that must come some years
afterwards, when demand and supply
draw closer together.
* * * . T ' . * .
From a circularmf the National City
Bank of New York, put out some time
a go: .. t
Confusion as to whether the country
should fear inflation or deflation most is
evident in many quarters. In our opinion
the evidence is convincing that the recon-
version depression will be relatively short,
and that accumulated resources and arrange-
ments for relief and support already made
can carr y country through it without
widespread distress or crisis. If this is cor-
reel, then the sound public policy is to
avoid more intervention than is already
planned, to trust in the recuperative power
G f industrial organisation, and give it
time to turn around and get on its feet,
Moves in the contrary direction, involving
either large Government expenditure or
measures that would increase industrial
costs, would add to the inflation danger,
They would be self-defeating, so far as en-
couraging a sound recovery is concerned,
by reason of the interference with normal
adjustments.
added that the responsibility for
wor kj n g out SO und trading relations and
a soun( j p r j ce structure belongs to every-
one. cann ot be done successfully by
arbitrary authority. The Government, m
its price and wage controls, has the great-
es‘ responsibility ; it must strike a balance
m the twin objectives of price
control and encouragement of produc-
“on. Business must set price levels that
will achieve maximum output and distn-
kutjon D f goods, seeking profits in volume
* exorbitant mardns Waee-
rather lhamin exorbitant margins wage
n nav for oeace
W the product.
nplaved effect of the Communist-
promoted “Christmas” strike is still being
felt bv those wanting to buy clothing and
minvother manufactures Men’s felt hats
r e LceS™ pc/'in Sydney, and
knitted wear especially socks, is hard to
KZMSZ. set the building
trades back severely and there was already
rdesperateTl ta’this class of activity,
The nrodnction position in Australia
present o and makes non-
sense of a clainfthat the national income
has increased over 50 p.c. since war began,
The arowth in the statisticians figure is
laraelv the result of the devaluation of
our money through inflation that sprang
from war-time budgeting and from the
deterioration of Labor’s efforts in proper-
tion to the increase in its pay. The
London “Economist” has said, referring
to conditions in Britain: “The day when
the Minister for Labor, or, best of all,
the Labor Prime Minister, first chooses
to make the simple point that income of
the workers depends on the output of the
workers will be ,a red letter tett.
national economy. It added. remaps
the most powerful <eo*««r o£ all U.
the universal reluctance to do a tiara
day"s work.” TTtis.jonrnal is particularly
peitarbed tower per-gp«fl
production in view of the necessity
boost exports. It feels that the <JOvein
ment which is spending so much time on
plans involving nationalisation of finan:
cial functions and industries is not paying
sufficient attention to the vitally important
question of national output.


ABORIGINALITIES
“X.E.D.”: Morgan, a mild and peace-
able man, had paid a visit to the Faheys,
and his arrival at breakfast next morning
with an outsize shanty over one eye
created deep speculation. “Tryin’ t’ do
a line with his new missus, Dad?” asked
young Harry. “No,” growled Morgan.
“I was tellin’ Fahey he should’ve had
more sense than buy that broken-winded
nag of old Barkley’s, an’ his missus
chipped in an’ went him scone hot. They
wrangled over it f’r an hour, an’ then
she did her block an’ started pitchin’
things at him, an’ they had a ding-dong
brawl. I separated ’em, an’ she clouted
me with the teapot.” “It’s y’r own fault,
Dad,” Mum said. “Why didn’t y’ come
home when they started arguin’?” Dad
bent on her a look of indignation. “list
like a woman,” he said. “Strike me, a
man can’t be unsociable when he’s out
creatin’ a bit of goodwill among his neigh-
bors!” /
*** . *
“Lub”: Yarn I’ve just read excites my
pity for the leading character, who, pinned
to the ground by a tree, is attacked by a
whole 21 dingoes. Too little emphasis,
I fear, has been given to a dog-stiffener
working in the vicinity and the presence
of a mob of big wethers. But I’m
interested to knpw whether there
is any authentic case of a help-
less man ever having been attacked
by dingoes. Plenty of bushmen I’ve
yarned with admit they’d be scared
of the possibility, though in all cases there
were no grounds beyond distrust of the
animals.
“Betcha”: What is the biggest known
tally of sheep killed by one lone dingo?
The tally kept on a warrigal killing in
the Vic. Alps country a year or so back
shows over 400 jumbucks to his discredit.
Four neighbors shared the losses, for the
dingo had several killing grounds, any one
of which he visited at irregular intervals.
The killing was always carried out in the
same manner, a feature that fixed the
guilt on one dog, and as month after
month he evaded capture the local war
against him developed into an interesting
battle of wits. The absence of tracks was
puzzling ; the adjoining bush was well
shod with traps, and poison distributed
generously. Twenty-three of the killer’s
innocent brethren were accounted for, but
the slaughter continued. Only once was
he sighted. For a blurred two seconds
an outpost rifleman glimpsed the ginger
bide as an old-timer endeavored to call
him into range with dingo howls. To the
same old bloke fell final success. Per-
plexed at the dearth of sign, he took his
traps from the near bush, and inspected
the boundaries on the far side of the
properties. Mile after** mile of fence was
examined ; then, pausing to marvel at an
uprooted giant whose bent trunk bridged
the fence in an enormous arc, the old chap
noted a tell-tale scratch. Getting to work
he mapped out the warrigal’s route.
From tree to boulder, down a seam of
rock to a patch of shale, on to a granite
ledge that let him under another fence
where the creek entered, and so to grass
country. A trap at the arched tree ended
the killing.
* Js. * *
“Potrero”: Mention of penguin
cookeries on Gabo Island (B. 15/5/’46)
recalls seeing on those scrubby sandhills
there recently a quaint ill-kept cemetery.
Its fencing-posts of spars and its wiring
of ship’s rigging, however, enclose only
eight headstones, all of which have fallen
down. The two oldest stones, one to an
infant girl, the other to a woman, are
dated 1861, though elsewhere on the
island is a well-preserved obelisk of a
greater age. It is to the memory of the
33 souls lost on the Monumental City —
the first screw steamer in Australia, which
was wrecked on her first voyage from
Melbourne to Sydney in 1853 on Tulla-
burga Island, four miles away. It is only
a monument though ; those dead, who
were buried, lie without trace somewhere
on the few windswept acres of Tulla-
burga.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: A strange long-
discovered but little-known gem is the
“Killiecrankie diamond,” found on the
lonely north coast of Flinders Island,
Bass Strait, beneath a bald, grey-granite-
“ That’s the last of the beer , Dan—you can take him home now."
faced mountain crag of that Highland
name. This glass-like “diamond,” which
displays all the fiery brilliance and hard-
ness of a true stone, is unearthed in the
alluvial wash of the wallaby-infested
gullies thereabouts, and is in reality a
white topaz of small commercial value.
An uncut faultless the size of a
pea today brings around £1 for manufac-
turing into crystals for wireless-sets.
Nearly a century and a half ago in the
strait these stones were used extensively
by the sealers in ear-rings.
* . * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Recently I had
reason to think that those wild Gulf-
country Herefords which charge motors
on sight had their counterpart on the
Omeo High Plains (Vic.). There, we were
driving along a bush track when we came
on some Herefords and, to shift them off
the road, we had to do some prolonged
tooting. As we passed, the mob gazed
as if they hadn’t seen a car before, and
then en masse they chased us. Mile after
mile as we dodged potholes and logs,
more cattle came galloping out of the
timber to follow us, and, with the thunder-
ing, bellowing herd close astern, we were
a bit worried, until a good stretch enabled
us to outdistance the bovine harriers.
Later in the day a grinning stockman en-
lightened us: “Up here we feed salt to
cattle. Those beasts just thought you
were the salt-truck, that’s all! ”
* * * •
“Simon”: Like “X.E.D.” (B. 22/5/’46)
I used to think that the leisurely hop-
step-and-jump gait adopted by hares until
Actually challenged by the dogs was
peculiar to the sheep country, where they
were chased only by comparatively slow
sheepdogs that could be “dropped” by a
sudden spurt at will; but they do the
same thing on the coursing grounds and
soon lose the 70 yards or so start they
are given against the fleet greyhounds.
Not till the dogs are on them do they
spread out in earnest, and with extra-
ordinary speed and resource about 92 p.c.
saVe their skins by getting through the
baffle fence. Were the percentage not so
high coursing would be a fit subject for
the R.S.P.C.A., as there is nothing so
pathetic as the cry of the fleetest little
animal for his inches when being torn
by a pair of hounds.
* * * *
“Zake”: What is it impels the fresh-
water catfish (the eel-tailed sort) to go in
for pebble-clearing in the particular bit of
creek it infests? These “catfish rings,”
as inland river dwellers know them, are
cleared to a diameter of sometimes up to
Bft. Toss a handful of stones into the
centre of one and the finny denizen will
suddenly remember an urgent appoint-
ment. But the next time you look the
gibbers will have vanished. Another
peculiar thing is that for another catfish
to swim across one of the rings is the
piscatorial equivalent to swiping a man’s
beer, and calls for the same drastic re-
prisals. Which is why smaller catties will
always prudently swim around a large
pebble-cleared circle.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Many Arctic writers
spinning yarns about the South Seas con-
fuse the terms “trepang” and “beche-de-
mer,” believing them to be the same
thing, trepang merely the English name
for the French beche-de-mer. Both are
sea slugs. The trepang, or “chalk fish,”
is big, lOin. or 12Jin. long, flat on the
underside and with a rounded corrugated
back from 2in. to 3in. wide. It loves the
mud, or a silty bottom, over which it
slowly crawls, acting like a living syphon,
absorbing silt, extracting nourishment
from it, and exuding it again. It is im-
possible for the naked eye to tell one
end from the other. Beche-de-mer, on
the other hand, is a rock-dinger, and may
be exposed at low tide. It is flattish,
about 4in. in diameter, and has hundreds
of tiny tentacles which are really mouths
that take in microscopic particles washed
along by the tide. Both, when cleaned,
dried and Smoked, form Chinese deli-
cacies, epicures of the Flowery Land be-
lieving that soup made from either has
the property of imparting vigor to elderly
men.
* * - * *
“Nakh”: The oar-fish is generally
considered from early antiquity to be
responsible for most reports of sea ser-
pents, Pliny being one of the first to
record it. It is rare, but found in all seas ;
one which wandered up the Mordialloc
Creek in Port Phillip recently, to be easily
lassoed by a fisherman, restarted the old
legend. The third of its kind, and the
largest, to be caught in Victorian waters?
it was 13 feet 3 inches long—2l feet is
the largest recorded —and, like' most of
the species, so phosphorescent that the
finder at first thought it was a resident
who had taken to the water to escape the
lighting restrictions. Its chief peculiarity
is that the dorsal fin extends the whole
length of the anatomy and, owing to its
habit of standing on end, gives the crea-
ture the appearance of being surprised at
something. According to museum
records, this is only the fourth time the
fish has been seen swimming.
% * * *
“Blime”: “Science,” moaned “Spike.”
“Gripes, the flamin’ doctors know so much
nowadays that a man can neyer be sure
where ’e is. Take me now. Went to a
quack some time back, an’ after a lot o’
messin’ round he tells me the way o’
things, an’ gives me about six munce.
Well, y’ know how things were, with
me ’n’ the old man always workin’ an’
never breakin’ loose or nuthin’, an’ how
when he went he leaves me the place an’
about ten thousand chucked in ; so when
I know it’s all bp I decide I might’s well
get somethin’ out of it. Yair, sold the
place an’ went t’ town. Went the limit,
too, me ’n’ a few blokes I picked up with.
Sampled about everythin’, frum booze t’
racin’, an’ I can’t say I ain’t enjoyed life.
Travelled round quite a bit, too. Bought
ourselves a car an’ treated the sheilas t’
everythin’ they c’d think of. Man gets
sort o’ used t’ easy livin’, but I wakes
up I’m runnin’ close to the edge o’ things,
so I grabs me last few quid an’ strikes out
for one o’ them city specialists. Remem-
ber when I come back? It ain’t long
ago. Saved out me fare an’ give that doc.
what I had left. Decent ol’ coot; an’ it
weren’t ’is fault.” There were murmurs
of sympathy from the mob. “Tough luck,
‘Spike.’ An’ how long—that is, what’d ’e
say?” “Spike’s” mouth twisted sideways
and one eyebrow lifted. “Say?” he
drawled. “The cow cured me.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Four of us sat huddled
over a sulky fire under the bridge at
Wellington (N.S.W.). It was cold and
wet and we were hungry, Wellington
having assayed very poorly in the matter
of hand-outs. To cheer themselves up
our two companions began rhapsodising
about good jobs they’d had, good places
they’d been in, good girls they’d known
and so forth; 1 threw in a memory or
two of my own. Mat sat silent, eyeing
tlje unwilling fire, and slowly a deep
light came into his eyes, and his rugged
dial took on a softness it
only knew when he was
asleep. As he listened the
glow deepened, and pre-
sently a small, sweet smite
moved his lips. “What are
y’ thinkin’ of, mate?” I
murmured. “The loveliest
sight a man could see,” he
answered'from the depths
of his dream. “What is
it?” For a moment he
didn’t reply. Then it
came: “Eight large saus-
ages spiffin’ at me from a
pan full o’ fat.”
* * *
“Hanko”: The" arrival
of his long-awaited re-
peater and ammo, set
“Snowflake” dithery with
excitement. Hardly wait-
ing to clear the weapon of
its protecting grease, the
abo. filled the magazine
and eagerly sought a tar-
get. Crack! The /ain-
gauge got it through its
innards. The dusky marks-
man was just about to
open fire on Wun Sin’s
assortment of watering-
cans when came a harsh
shout from the prowling
overseer: “Hey! ” The
shock of that menacing voice made
“Snowflake” twitch to a spasmodic ten-
sion. Crack! With the report of that
random shot came a fearsome yowl, and
the homestead’s pampered and queenly
Persian, spitting like an alley tabby,
scampered indoors to display her tattered
ear. Thereat, “Snowflake” abandoned
hope, his repeater and his livelihood. It
was just another occasion upon which
Jackie went “walkabout” at a Stawell
Gift gait.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: My experience of biting
sharks is that they do turn over when
snapping at a human: not right on to the
back but with a sort of half-twist. One
has only to study the manner in which
the majority of human victims have been
bitten to realise? that only a sideways bite
could snap out the part attacked, usually
the fleshy thigh, though at times it is the
calf. More, I’ve seen a shark bite. The
bank being shallow, just north from Ex-
mouth Gulf (W.A.), a couple of abo. boys
among the crew suggested a spot of skin-
diving, the place being one of the famous
old pearling grounds. - All went well for
a couple of hours; then as Paddy came
shooting up from the depth we, over the
taffrail of the lugger, noticed a dark
shadow sweeping up after him. He was
unaware and, therefore, just a shade leis-
urely as he swam to and grasped the gun-
wale of the dinghy fastened astern. Too
late to do anything, we saw the tiger
half turn and make the snap just as the
boy was hoisting himself out of the
water, his legs at the moment being
straight down. He lost a lump just above
the left knee. The sea tiger, of course,
had caught the flash of almost-white sole
of the abo.’s foot.
IF THEY COULD CHOOSE
A HEAVEN.
If they could choose a heaven
That heaven would not lie
Within the lonesome archway
Of stars that span the sky,
Where never blows a sea wind
And no tall ships sail by.
They’d languish in a heaven
Among the chilly stars,
Who walked a clipper’s anchor
Up with their capstan bars,
Before they spread the canvas
Upon her painted spars.
They could not rest contented
Along the Milky Way
Who sailed for gold to Ophir
And watched the falling spray
And heard the sea birds calling
And saw the dolphins play.
Oh, who in Hiram’s galleys,
O’er bright Levantine miles,
Beheld a magic morning,
Bewitching Grecian isles.
Where sirens bold awaited
With wine cups, wreaths and smiles.
Among the holy angels
Wearily would remain
Those wild Conquistadores
Who made the Western Main
A highway to adventure,
A doorway unto gain.
To sons o£ salty travail,
Bold rovers of the blue,
The company of cherubs
And saints and seraphs, too,
Would be eternal boredom, ,
With no fit thing to do.
The genii they placated,
The gods who held the seas,
Perchance have set a heaven
Apart for such as these,
Where sailormen may carry
Their fond sea-memories.
In lively inns to gather,
On rolling decks to fare
From port to port for ever,
All bound on ventures rare,
They’ll sail in dreams unending
With naught to fear or care.
VICTORIA.
E.J. Brady.


“Esk D.”: There hadn’t been a tenant
on the top farm of Willeego Creek for
years, and we got a surprise to see the
wiry little cove move in. The black-
berries, a wild and tangled mass, began
slowly but steadily to disappear. This was
odd, considering that the newcomer
seemed to do no more than slouch about
the paddocks with a shotgun on his
shoulder. One day Herman bailed him
up. “Y’ve got us beat,” he explained.
“Most of us’ve had a go at that place,
an’ the berries there are the toughest we
ever struck. There were some who rushed
at ’em an’ bashed a through, on’y t’
find ’em close up behind as they passed ;
others who tried sneakin’ on them were
nearly strangled by thorny trailers creep-
in’ up when they wasn’t lookin’. They
wouldn’t burn, even with a flamethrower,
an’ y’ll find a couple of broken slashers
t’ the acre. How’re y’ gettin’ rid of ’em? ’
A shrewd and knowing grin spread over
the little cove’s dial. “Ssh,” he said, a
hand over his mouth. “Y’ve got t’ unner-
stand this kind of ’berry. They’re tem-
per’mental. Cripes, I’ve got ’em half-
cleaned up in the last few weeks just by
ignorin' them.”
Hi sfc ♦ *
“M.U.R.”: That par. on the use of a
light pole to tame a colt (B. 29/5/’46)
ought to interest Harry McKnight, who
tried it on a youngster at Cobran Veil
(N.S.W.). Carefully Harry walked the
youngster round the yard, allowing the
pole to rest lightly on its haunches, occa-
sionally stroking it with the tip and so
on. This went on for a week. Then came
the day when Harry, after a few minutes
with the pole, got a halter on the
youngster. It gave him a shocked look,
shook its head in horror at such a be-
trayal and, with Harry too astounded to
let go his end of the rope, jumped clean
over the sft. high yard rail and took to
the scrub, leaving Harry draped across
“In future, come round to the tradesmen s
entrance!”
the rail with a broken leg. It was a filly,
if that makes any difference.
“Koolinju”: How many of “Skipper’s”
colts (B. 29/5/’46) injure themselves try-
ing to get out of his catching-yard before
he has them steadied down to the touch
of the pole? The average bush colt
doesn’t see a yard a dozen times between
branding and breaking, and the first time
it finds itself on its own inside posts and
rails it panics. The higher its spirit the
greater chance of injury. Give me a
catching-gate for the initial handling. The
youngster can’t do itself much harm in
that. Failing the gate, a small yard, round
for preference, but with a mate for it;
some wise,-quiet old gelding to bear the
youngster company until it has got over
its inevitable claustrophobia.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: The underground water
found over much of the East Coolgardie
goldfields (W.A.) is many times more
saline than the sea. Over much of the
light-rainfall wheat country farmers com-
plain of a continuous intrusion of salt.
In places where the forests have been
drastically cut many rivers once fresh are
now salt. Yet in the whole of the big
western State not a single deposit of rock
salt has been uncovered, though vast
areas, hundreds of miles square, have
been pockmarked with shafts. So where
does the salt come from? Sconce tries
to explain that it derives from the sea,
that on a coastline of thousands of miles,
mostly of sandy beaches and tide-washed
reefs, bathed eight months of the year in
brilliant sunshine, the salt from evapo-
rated spray, infinitely fine, is caught up
as dust and carried inland, where as dust
it falls. Given a million years of exposure
to this process, and W.A. should be cov-
ered with inches of salt. But under
primeval conditions Nature dissolved this
salt by rain and carried it back to the sea.
Somehow man, even with his puny
methods, has broken this continuity, so
have a plague of salt in a land with-
out a single saltmine.
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”: Everybody knows how
the station dogs, chained to their kennels
on a moonlit and frosty night, will sud-
denly set up a chorus of barking and
howling for no apparent reason just when
every human on the place is snuggling
down for a good night’s sleep. In the
middle of a big drafting muster at Prill
Park everything went wrong. Sheep were
stubborn, got out of the right and into
the wrong places, baulked, boxed and
jibbed. Two dogs went lame, men fell
off horses, yard rails fell down, the cook
spoilt a batch of bread, “Pocketknife”
sprained his wrist, dogs and men argued
and fought, the night horse got out and
travelled 17 miles to Tapalin. This went
on for four days, during which the boss
achieved new heights of profanity, sacked*
and reinstated everybody at least three
times, threatened to shoot every horse on
the place and buy a barber’s shop in
Euston. “What for?” queried “Little Curl”
injudiciously. “You blokes would come
in for shaves an’ I’d accidentally cut your
ruddy throats,” snarled
the boss. On the fourth
night, when the worn and
fretful hands were in
their bunks, a clear white
moon was overhead and
a white frost cracked the
woolshed roof, the dogs
opened up. Yells and
threats surged from the
hut; the dogs encored
them. Then two over-
coated figures, with
whips, emerged into the
moon-drenched savagery
of the frost apd made
for the kennels. There,
idly watching the howl-
ing hounds, stood the
boss. “What’s wrong?”
asked Big Fleming,
puzzled. “Well, I was
just thinkin’ about every-
thin’,” returned the boss
thoughtfully, “an’ I reckon
I know how them dogs
feel.” Then he threw his
head back and let out a
canine howling, a blend
of exasperation, rage and
wistful wondering. The
astonished dogs sneaked
into their kennels, the
puzzled men back to
their hut. JFor a moment
or so old Harry stood
alone in the front, then
he wrapped his cloak
around him and faded
into the homestead
shadows.
* *
“Rusticus”: After a
busy day drumming up
business in a wild Maori-
land backblocks district
the furniture salesman
had just concluded a deal in the
kitchen of an isolated farmhouse when
a storm broke over the countryside.
The question of going back to town over
wretched roads in teeming rain in an old
tourer wasn’t alluring, so that it didn’t
take much persuasion to decide that
“stopping the night” was a good idea:
even if his client looked a pretty hard-
“Wonderful what a few years in the Army'll do!”
looking citizen, and especially as the sales-
man had a fair amount of deposit money
with him. But the bed was comfortable,
and he fell into a deep sleep. He woke
in the dark, scarcely realising it was early
dawn, to hear whispering voices outside
the door. He heard a harsh voice
whisper “I’ll have it off in a minute and
he’ll never know anything about it —the
knife’s as sharp as a razor.” Another
whisper, “No, he’s sure to wake up,” but
the first voice assured that “He’ll never
know anything about it.” Putting up a
good front despite his cold sweat, the
salesman said in what he hoped was a
bold voice “Hello! Anybody want me?”
After a brief silence his host replied
“Oh! Are you awake? Sorry to disturb
y’, but we want to get the bacon for
breakfast and it’s bangin’ up behind yer
door.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; The average Australia!!
is too close to the horse as worker, col-
league, pet and friend to face eating its
flesh with equanimity (B. 29/5/’46),
apart from the fact that the same Aus-
tralian has been too long plentifully sup-
plied with beef and mutton to descend to
horseflesh —and it is a descent, since,
whereas most beef and mutton is killed
young, the horse doesn’t usually get to
the butcher until he’s too old for any-
thing else. For me, and doubtless to
thousands of my fellows, the very notion
of eating the flesh of an animal which
I’ve ridden, driven, fed, trained, lived and
conversed with and more than once de-
pended upon to get me out of trouble is
horrible. Australian small boys today
hobnob with the baker’s horse almost
every morning or afternoon in city and
town, while in smaller places they’re even
closer in their relationship. And Aus-
tralians, though many might attend a
race-meeting once in a blue moon, all
love the thoroughbred ; they see horses
at their shows and trotting meetings, and
their argot is stiff with idioms from the
stable, the team and the racecourse. I’m
astonished that “Gravelsnatcher” should
be in any doubt about the reason why
Australians don’t like horseflesh, and still
more astonished that he should infer-
entially advocate its inclusion in the
national menu simply because, under
extraordinary conditions, he once chewed
an army mule.
« * * *
“Solitude”: Kidded myself as a bush-
man, till I struck a patch in the top
country lately that slewed me completely.
Gully after gully that ran north, south,
east or west, or twisted into a combina-
tion, jostled one another in endless con-
fusion. In one, a small stream would
trickle decorously southward, while in an-
other would be one that dashed caprici-
ously north. The whole country seemed
a trifle mad, and as hour after hour I
combed sunless gorges east and west, I
was hard put to it to keep working in a
general northerly direction. Most of the
slopes were unscalable, and I picked a
precarious track over boulders or fought
a passage' for the nag through dark
belts of scrub. About mid afternoon I
called it a day, and turned for home.
The moke objected. Puzzled, I forced
her for an hour or more, then grew sus-
picious. The ridge I climbed proved
useless, so I shinned a gnarled and vin-
dictive gum, and surveyed oceans of
timber-packed ranges without any dis-
tinguishing feature. The sun had gone
behind a peak somewhere, and the air was
brqezeless. “Awright, Bess,” I told the
bay, “it’s up to you.” She turned and
made off eagerly where we’d come, from,
and in a couple of hours I recognised
landmarks. Seventyfiver met us in the
yards. “Gripes, y’re late, Sol,” he re-
marked. “Bring any cattle?” “None
out there,” I grunted. “No? Took y’
a long time t’ sift that scrub patch, then,’’
he remarked suspiciously. “Ain’t like y’
was out this other way, where the
country’s a bit rough.” His only re-
sponse was a low snicker from old Bess
as she waited for the double ration I was
scooping into her feedbox.
* % * *
“Herbie”; We were down at the back
corner post discussing things in general
with the neighbors when old Job, who
had been reading the paper, looks up. “I
see, here,” he says, “that some city feller
reckons it’s fear of isolation and drudgery
wot stops blokes and donahs from givin’
the bush a go, and he says the cure for
it is community centres. I reckon he’s
off the track. Take this bit o’ Upthe-
creek here, for instance. In under half a
mile each way we’ve got two fair-dinkum
community centres. Just t’ show y’—
Joe Skinner here has got his pigrun right
alongside me dairyfarm, and behind Joe
Sandy Ferguson here is fattenin’ turkeys,
and down back o’ me Peter Gilligan here
runs cows. And right in the middle of
our dividin’ fences is this big corner post
we’re chinwaggih’ over. Isn’t it our
community centre? Haven’t we just been
dissolvin’ the Shire Council, tearin’ the
cloak of respectability from the local
member and talkin’ seriously o’ takin’ a
dozen leg-ropes t’ the city and lookin’’
f’r a few o’ them strike bosses? And
ain’t Tom Morrissey, Ted Russell, Joe
Johnson and old Fred Ekert doin’ the
same over their big corner post just over
the rise? ’Course they are. Community-
centres —why, even the kids have them at
school; and what the kids don’t know
you and me don’t know.”
* * * *
“S.H.C.”: “We introduced a sort
o’ daylight-savin’ rule on a station I was
on a few years ago,” said Steve. “As
soon as the weather got hot we started
gettin’ up at daybreak, workin’ till about
11 o’clock, then knockin’ off till about
four and startin’ again an’ goin’ on till
about eight.” “What’d y’ do in them five
hours?” I asked. “Slept mostly,” Steve
said. “After that I went down f Mildura
fruit-pickin’, but I couldn’t stay awake
in the middle of the day, an’ got the sack
from five jobs before I woke up.”
“B. A. Ker”: Except that he used more
explosive expressions than “begobs” or
“begorrah,” Kelly was a typical Irishman
—as fiction paints him. Sober, he was
“agin” all authority; drunk, he was
“agin” everything. But his market garden
was a source of pleasure to beautylovers,
profit to Kelly and mystery to the local
Water Board inspector, who could never
fathom out why Kelly’s garden could be
so prolific while his meter showed so
small a quantity of water used. Yet sur-
prise visits failed to disclose any of the
orthodox tricks such as the reversal of
the meter so that it would wind the hand
back, or the cunning insertion of a piece
of wire to stop the register. Then, one
day when Kelly was celebrating a good
crop of beans, a stranger drinking
moodily growled something about
“oughter ’ang the lot of the cows,” Asked
for details the morbid one exploded:
“The ’eads! Specially them Water Board
bloodsuckers.” With such a sane-visioned
drinking companion Kelly forgot to
finish his day by clearing the bar. In-
stead, the pair reeled out at six o’clock
like a pair of old pals. Along the road the
stranger let Kelly into his confidence:
“Every night I put a hydrant and hose
into the road-plug and fill me dam; in
the mornin’ I pump the water on to me
garden.” Kelly, politely scornful, lead
the way to his roadside paddock, looked
carefully around for eavesdroppers, then
explained: “There’s the meter, but only
the house water goes through it. Oi’ve
connicted the garden poipes to the other
side and that water don’t go through the
meter at all, at ail.” Next day the local
inspector “discovered” the. ruse. Kelly
was fined an extra tenner for assaulting
a Water Board official—the one that sat
in the car and directed the local man
where to dig.
TO NORMA L. DAVIS.
That paper can contain so rich a prize!
My glance fell on the books upon the stall
And passed a dozen times the slender tome:
But yet it sought me out and whispered clear
“These lines were penned twelve quiet miles
from here;
Great riches may be yours for a small fee.”
I turned the pages—as you’d shift a stone
Idly while walking in some leafy glade,
Expecting ants in hurrying concern,
Or beetles darting from their upturned house,
Or slugs, shrinking from daylight to retreat
Deeper into the rich, warm soil —and found
An emerald glittering strangely in the mould!
Sunlight had wrought its golden filigree;
And in its lustrous depths the bushland green
Shone like a fire. Oh, we may live to see
Songs of a deeper, not a sweeter, worth,
While this girl’s lyrics sing Tasmania’s earth!
TASMANIA.
T.E. FITZPATRICK.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
u
mmmiziz
% U / 40.'
iff Of,
%X 1
7-' m
: ' Ct,
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented “MAXIMUM” spray irrigation
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and built to fit
your particular needs. Cost per acre is very
attractive, and some purchasers have reported
recovering their full outlay in one season.
"MAXIMUM 11 COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor. The patented
“MAXIMUM” Coupling Is the only one on the market possessing its
all-round flexibility and ease of connection. It can be coupled by
a simple movement to any inclination up to 15 degrees in any
direction and remain watertight. .
Agents : SMITH & GLUYAS Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane. J 1456.
PASCOE & CO., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. MV 127.
WELLING & CEOSSLEY Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4889.
TURERsf MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO., “/b.'iST SST
ġ
i
W, (V
'j'f y
■■'mw
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CvanogaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home —
the warren; destroy them* there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
• 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ml
111
Him
ifi si
i
zSfl*
m
s '»*(
i'
mm
... %» j
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Dungaree”; Lack of manpower, the
adverse season and the short notice given
may have affected merino entries, though
other breeders overcame the difficulties.
The usual shearing regulations were not
observed, but will, be in future. In most
sections quality was high and \he tops
would have held their own anywhere.
Some entries were switched into other
classes before judging, and in one case
in the unexpected award of
a championship ribbon to a breeder whose
ewe, thus transferred, became the sole
entry in that section.
Winbri was the only entrant in the
superfine merino section. This stud later
met competition in the fine wool classes
—strangely enough from Riverina and
western N.S.W. studs, which are not
usually associated with those characteris-
tics—but won all championships.
Medium wools brought out several
classes strong in numbers and quality;
that for rams, two-three years, was par-
ticularly good and produced sectional
champion and reserve and grand cham-
pion of the show. This was a Wahwoon
ram —big, heavily developed, but with a
beautiful even fleece of well-defined crimp
well packed on. The Egelabra runner-
up was plainer bodied but excellently
covered and with a splendid head. Ran-
gari showed the ewe champions.
Strong wool competition was chiefly
between Mumble bone, Bundemar and
Wahwoon. Mumblebone won top
honors, with Wahwoon in reserve. The
Mumblebone ram carried only 10 months’
wool, but it was very bright, even and
well-defined.
Popularity of the extra-strong section
was evidenced by competition in the two-
three year class and by a beautiful ewe
which, although unopposed in its class,
caused a mild sensation later. The Wah-
woon ram was eventually reserve grand
champ, and the ewe from Bullaway was
grand champion ewe. Reserve grand
champion ewe was the Winbri fine wool
section winner.
Corriedale winners were Gundowringa,
Redbank, Beulah, Brenede, Nigretta East
(Vic.), and Eurella. The Prell ram which
gained top honors is a splendid specimen
with plenty of size, a good sire’s head and
hard to fault anywhere. The ewe cham-
pion was a very nice ewe from Brenede.
Polwarths were back, though only one
breeder exhibited. Romney Marsh
breeders combined to make an interest-
ing section, but the Gamboola sheep were
too good, winning pretty well everything.
There was a diversity of types not alto-
gether due to seasonal conditions, f
Border Leicesters outnumbered all
others and competition was keen and
close. Starritt Borders (Vic.) took a lot
of beating but had to cede the tricolor to
a Wongajong ram which, for conforma-
tion and covering, is an outstanding
example of the breed. The ewe
was from The Valley, Canowindra.
Southdowns drew only two competi-
tors, and the Brunskill sheep Were unbeat-
able. Dorset Horns provided a strong
section; the Dawkins sheep from S.A.
won most of the awards. Ryelands had
only two studs showing—a pity since these
are useful sheep.
It’s to be hoped there’ll be more space
next year. The section for shorn fleeces
could come back and a shearing compe-
tition, sheep-dog trials and short lectur-
ettes by competent speakers to educate
people in the various breeds and their re-
spective uses would attract attention.
Cold Country Sheqp.
“Pat O’Day”: Around Gundagai
(N.S.W.), with its moderately-cold wiqter
climate, an average altitude of 738 ft. and
"We should've yarded ’em, Ma. Racin' 'em about in this heat ain't doin'
'em no good."
an average annual rainfall of 25in., sub.
clover is being utilised to a large extent
to build up the prospective lambing ewe,
as most crossbred ewe flocks do not begin
to lamb till end of May.
Most of the merino men mated their
sheep in late December, and there is
every indication that this season will pro-
duce a higher lamb percentage, besides
providing the market with a much hardier
type of wool lamb than in the two previ-
ous drought years.
Inoculation of lambs should be done
at four to six months. It is not advisable
to bring ewes and young lambs out of
the shelter of the hill paddocks to put
them into cold, exposed lucerne or sub.-
clover paddocks. These grazing paddocks
are best utilised if the ewes are placed
in them a few weeks before lambing, then
travelled slowly to the sheltered hills for
the great event.
Show Horses.
“Haute Ecole”: A lot of belly-aching
among exhibitors of horseflesh would be
alleviated if only they would stop to
consider the true meaning of the classi-
fication of the various events. Far too
many enter their horses in every event on
the programme, despite the suitability or
otherwise of their entry. When the apple
of their eye is passed over in one class
and noticed in another they accuse the
judge of going against his own judgment.
A saddle horse can be good to ride and
not be a show hack. He must be quiet
and docile, with easy paces; a horse to
take anywhere ; the rider able to open
and shut gates without getting off, capable
of being left standing without the risk of
the rider having to walk home, etc. There
are classes for this type.
A lady’s hack, open class, must show
most of these qualities and be a good
looker to hoot, with manners faultless,
action on the dainty side, an easy mouth
—in short, a horse to be trusted with a
woman. But it is mostly the gentleman’s
hack which makes championship grade.
More latitude is allowed by the judge,
and whilst a display of antics is not
tolerated* the horse is expected to live up
to the title “show horse,” and show
himself and rider to the best advantage
—be well on the bit, whilst a little cur-
vetting and posturing is usually per-
mitted.
The main thing is to realise your horse’s
type and enter him only in the events
catering for his capabilities. The horse
.which is a combination of all three classes
mentioned is rare, indeed. Aspiring com-
petitors should keep this well in mind.
Feeding Brood Sows.
“Myrrhee”: Adequate vitamin intake
before farrowing reduces the number of
services per sow, means fewer dead pigs
at farrowing, higher weaning percentages,
higher weaning weights and better growth
after weaning, according to the Division
of Animal Industry in the N.S.W. “Agri-
cultural Gazette.” Feeds such as grains,
mill offals, meat and oil meals are all
relatively low in the B group vitamins,
and, except for yellow maize, contain
practically no vitamin A.
Sufficient vitamin A can be obtained by
giving the sow 21b. of good, leafy green
feed per day, or a tablespoon of vitamin
A-rich fish-liver oil, or of oil freshly
mixed with each 1001 b. of mixed grain,
or 101 b. of good, green lucerne meal per
1001 b. of crushed grain. Enough of the
B vitamins are obtainable from 21b. of
good leafy green feed per sow each day,
or 101 b, of lucerne-meal, or good, green,
leafy lucerne-chaff per 1001 b. of crushed
grain, or Igal. of skim milk or butter-
milk each day, or 81b. skim milk or
buttermilk powder or liver meal per
1001 b. and crushed grain. Leafy green
feed, however, is the cheapest form in
which to supply these vitamins.
Bush Houses.
“Pat O’Day”: Bush houses will ensure
the growing of more and lovelier flowers,
shrubs, medium-height trees, palms, etc.,
than is usually the lot of the country
gardener.
Practically every type of flower that
requires extra protection from frosts (and
some from sun) may be grown inland
if a properly-constructed bush house is
used in a country garden layout.
Kurrajong seedlings, silky oak and the
exotic jacaranda may be grown under the
bush house shelter, these trees being
otherwise very susceptible to frost. Each
kurrajong in a paddock is worth £25 to
the owner and is so assessed in land
values.
A good sunny position is necessary for
the bush house, and the upright posts are
more ornamental if left with the bark
on. Suitability of height depends on
whether tree ferns, palms, etc., are to be
planted out. A suitable height would be
Bft. at wall plates and 10ft. or more at
the ridge. Cover the house with
ti-tree brush on north and east
sides. Brush can be removable to
regulate desired amount of shade.
Board the south and west sides or
any side subject to heavy winds.
The roof should consist of 4in. wire
netting laced with ti-tree. Inside
the bush house, well prepare the
soil and ensure that good drain-
age is provided. Begonias, etc., may
be grown in hanging baskets, but
plants should be mostly grown on
the ground. A cool, moist, atmo-
sphere will be kept around plants
if intense sunlight is subdued.
The Soybean.
"‘Mac”: Maize country will grow
soybeans. Failures in the past have
been due to failure to inoculate
with nitrogen-producing bacteria. A
little soil from an area which has
carried a good stand of soybeans
should be broadcast over the new
seedbea ; it carries the bacteria that
h ye or * the roots of the beans; without
them the crop is a failure. If there are
no soybean stands around, soil from any
other legume (clover, cowpea, lespedeza,
etc -)> will do.
Soy can be sown with maize. Though
the bean can make its own nitrates from
the air, a topdressing of artificial nitrates
is a help on run-down land. Here are a
few figures from plots I’ve checked my-
self ; without fertiliser or soybeans, maize
yield was nine bushels an acre ; with soy-
beans the maize yield rose to 33 bushels;
when fertiliser was added, 50 bushels of
maize resulted, plus the soybean,
Soybean is a great soil builder if it is
ploughed in. But the soil is depleted if
the beans are fed off or used as silage
without fertiliser being added. Best way
to make a profit is to feed it off green
(or mow it for silage) before it comes


09
4
Caterpillar
Q
Given the toughest of pipe-lining
jobs where roads are non-ex-
istent, where the way lies over rocky
hills and through boggy creeks,
"Caterpillar” will push the line
through. Where hard-hitting, fast-
moving stamina is needed, "Cater-
pillar” will give it, and take it, domi-
nating the job from the first clearing
of the right-of-way to the final back-
filling of the trenches.
It takes a "Caterpillar” Diesel to lift
and carry big pipes well away from
the track’s edge and so reduce cave-in
to a minimum. A side boom-equipped
DB, as shown above, for example,
means over 21 tons of balanced
weight—with 131 H.P. at the opera-
tor’s b.eck and call. Such machines
are destined to play a leading role in
the vast projects planned for Aus-
tralia’s post-war development.
CATERPILLAR Dtesei
REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St, Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, SI Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougalt, 96 Kincaid St„ Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St, InnisfaU. 'Phone —Innisfail 475.
2.45.33
LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
■■■ ■••• ■: >,
■m
WM.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY
"t YSA G H T'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
to flower. Then, when it comes away
again, the beans can be allowed to ripen
and harvested. The oil is used in paint
and plastics, the world is clamoring for
soy products' and the residue is the best
cattle cake J know.
Peas in the North.
“Bennie”: For best results in Queens-
land, a light friable loamy soil is neces-
sary. Peas need slightly alkaline ground,
and lime should be added if the soil is
deficient in it. Calcareous soil contains
about 25 p.c. of lime, which makes it
suitable for all types of leguminous plants.
Dig deep and break the soil up well.
If iqanure is to be added, do it at least
four weeks before sowing. Fertiliser
must be used with discretion. Too much
or too fresh and the plants will run wild,
stems will need continual cutting back.
If thp ground is not deeply worked the
roots won’t get into the subsoil or stand
up to dry weather.
Sow in drills or shallow trenches, the
seed about 3in. apart. Dwarf species such
as Greenfeast, Withan Wonder and
Richard Seddon need Sin. between the
rows, while taller varieties like Greatcrop,
Daisy and Hero will require at least 30in.
Taller varieties again need much more
space.
All varieties should be staked*or sup-
ported in some -fray, because peas are
liable to mildew if allowed to grow along
the ground in Queensland. Water regu-
larly in dry weather. Should the flowers
drop off and no pods set, it is a sure indi-
cation that the soil is too rich and plants
need to be cut back. Pick the pods as
they fill out. This will conserve the
strength of the plant and lengthen the
bearing period.
Hints for the Farm.
“E.2”: Thousands of heifer calves die
annually through lack of proper facilities
for rearing ’em. Fix a shed as a warm,
dry and sanitary camp for the early spring
crop of calves, and a small, adjoining
paddock should have sufficient drainage
to prevent it becoming boggy. Warm
housing and careful feeding are half the
battle, and strong poddies are able to
resist many ailments.
“F.L.”: Greenfeast peas are hard to
beat for the winter and early spring
crops, but they should be grown on
stakes or netting, in rows north and south.
Hilling them with soil protects against
effects of severe frost. In new ground
I’ve had ’em 3ft. high and loaded with
extra big pods.
“Lub”: To get a good crop of carrots
and parsnips, choose a patch of friable
soil which has recently grown a crop of
gross-feeding plants such as any of the
cabbage family. Trench or furrow to a
foot or more, according to whether stump-
rooted or long varieties, and work a
liberal dressing of super, or rich com-
post into the soil at the bottom. Fill in
the trench a couple of weeks before sow-
ing, but do not firm the soil; it will
settle down of its own account. When
the seed is sown, water lightly and often
till the roots begin to form, then regular
soaking should be the practice.
“E.2”; A wooden flume for carrying
water or skim-milk may be made in sec-
tions of two boards each, by nailing at
right-angles with the edge of one fitted
solidly on the flat of the other. The V-
shaped flume is joined by lapping the
sections, and it will give good service on
a reasonable slope. Two coats of tar to
finish the job.
“Lub”: Galvanised roofs are greatly
improved by painting. Use good roofing
paint and apply two coats; it’s a life-
time job when properly done. Secret of
a good paint job is in keeping the paint
properly mixed and brushing . out
smoothly.
“Sundowner”: The red-legged mite
lives in weeds, and surest method , of
eradication is to clear the soil before
planting. Ground should be ploughed
and well worked for six to eight weeks
before seeding to ensure a mite-free crop.
Spraying with one of the carbolics is
another means of controlling it. Lime
spray c»r a mixture of lysol and water is
an effective garden spray.
“Billjim”: If it is intended to harvest
clover for seed it is beneficial to halve
the fertiliser application in autumn and
topdress again in spring. As summer is
the peak period for lucerne, it should be
topdressed in late winter (July or
August) at the same time as it is culti-
A ’
“Bennie”- If the brooder-house is
square round out the corners by nailing
a strip’ of sheet metal or a board across
each corner This stops chicks crowding
and suffocating in corners.
“R. Ney”: N.S.W. Graziers’ Associa-
tion lias begun the issue of a monthly
journal, “Muster,” which should be use-
ful. The cover bears the symbols of
trade: hand-piece, tongs, branding-irons,
stockwhip and spur, and there are
articles on wool profits, export markets,
artificial fibres and so forth, mostly m-
teresting to sheepmen and well written
A modest beginning, it may build up into
a handy monthly summary of grazing
affairs.


V-
-1.
il
:
e
Patrician"
The Patrician Tea Service designed by the historic
house of Josiah Wedgwood, features an old Roman
flower design (Acanthas) exquisitely embossed on an
ivory ground. Includes 6 bread and butter plates; 6
each cups and saucers; cream jug; sugar bowl and
cake plate. 21 pieces ’77/6
g
A GREAT NAME IN CHINA
•Phone: 8W2721 (3 lines)
CNR. KING AND PITT STREETS. SYDNEY
PJS
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22Y), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
(1 FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for Instance, hasever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noisei and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
c
Thone BV/ 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Our
IVavy, Army and Air Force
send a message to
the people of Australia...
ĝ
fin the course of. the war
the Royal Australian Navy
expanded to a maximum of
39,680, a wartime increase
of 600% to 700%.
It is the duty of the Navy
and the Nation to see that all
these men and women, for
there were 2,647 W.R.A.N.S.
among them, many of whom
gave up good jobs and posi-
tions, and many young people
who have postponed their
start in life should, in the
end, lose nothing by their
selfless patriotism.
In the year some 40%
of the Navy personnel for
demobilisation have taken
rehabilitation courses. They
are willing to help themselves.
Their future in the country,
however, depends also on
the active help of the Nation
to fit them back in civilian
life. May they rely on this
help.
ah/
AM*'
Sir Louis H, K. Hamilton,
K.C.8., D.S.O.
Admiral ,
Chief of the Naval Staff.
40STB^ili--
During the war over 730,000
men and women served in
the Australian Military Forces,
We now have the task of
fitting back into civil life
these men and women. Some
are still very young and
others are now old, but all
must be fitted back and
given employment. This is
but their right.
Most servicemen and women
have been away from their
civilian occupations for a
long period, but the lessons
they have learnt in the ser-
vices will stand them in good
stead on their re-absorption
into civil life. Those quali-
ties which go to make a
victorious army contribute
to a disciplined and well-
ordered community. These
men and women will bring
to the task of peace the
same spirit of service as has
actuated them during the war
years. I appeal to every
individual to do everything
possible to discharge his or
her debt to the servicemen,
and women of Australia by
ensuring to them reasonable
and lasting security.
V. A. H. Sturdee. C.S.. C.8.E., D.S.O.
Lieutenant-General
Chief of the General Staff.
ğ
At the outbreak of war,
the peace-time R.A.A.F. was
but a bare nucleus. When
the call came 180,000 young
men and women voluntarily
gave up their peace-time
schooling and training and
entered the Air Force, in
most cases with great sacri-
fice to themselves and their
careers*
I am. confident that the
men who flew as air-crew,
together with the men and
women who serviced the
aeroplanes, maintained the
stores and assisted in the
clerical administration of the
Air Force, will give the ut-
most satisfaction in any
sphere of civil employment,
and in providing them with
jobs, employers will not only
be giving a well-earned
reward to these men and
women, but will also be en-
suring the efficiency and
progress of Australian indus-
try, the development of which ;
is so vital in Peace.
Ci J/^7
G. Jones, C. 8., C.8.E., D.S.O,
Air Vice-Marshal
Chief of the Air Staff.
Issued By The CENTRAL RE-ESTABLISHMENT AND RE-EMPLOYMENT COMMITTEE
CRR4.93.56
on wire and nails and flower and vege-
table seeds. It took time. The hut looked
raw at first, and only a little larger than
the clay-and-sapling chimney. But in a
very short time dolicus and convolvulus
covered it in green and colored drapings.
From the hut*to the front gate a
sapling pergola was raised for climbing
roses, and from each side ran a trellis for
grapes. The rest of the ground was laid
out in beds for roses (sent up from a big
Sydney nursery),, various flowers and a
section for vegetables. Around it all a
good quarter of an acre in all —was a
fence of stakes, thousands of them, and
so closely arranged as to defeat the most
cunning of rabbits. Grape cuttings for
stalk or trellis were secured from the
vineyards, a few fruit-trees, peaches and
nectarines, came up with the roses, and a
golden fig for the bottom end of the gar-
den where the soil was deep and moist.
Much of all this was in prospect, of course,
but the preliminaries were all done now.
At last it was all finished, except for
the growing, and that went apace, for
everything that Hoffy put into the ground
—seed, bulb, cutting, sucker or rooted
bush —grew and flourished. If there is
anything ht all in the theory of “green
fingers,” then Hoffy possessed them.
All very fine, no doubt, and the result
as unlike a hatter’s hut as it was possible
to be. While it annoyed the ancient relics
on the Grey Box proper and in Baker’s
Gully that the hut should be so neat and
attractive and so unlike their own, it
pleased them, too, to see no progress
made on the reef —even though they
knew that Hoffy couldn’t find a reef. Yes,
they knew that.
In a little depression near his hut
Hoffy started operations after carefully
marking out his “claim.” In places the
rock lay bare, a heavy dark rock with
threads of quartz running through it,
veins of it here and there as thick almost
as a little finger. After a foot or two
of the thin soil Hoffy came to the rock
floor. Hereabouts, too, in the early days
of Noonan’s the gold had been found in
the roots of the grass. Good heavy gold,
and plenty of it. In fact, the very first
discovery of Noonan’s and the first rush
had been to this spot.
The days went by, and a very jagged
hole grew deeper; and Hoffy’s garden
was something of beauty and fragrance.
He tirelessly dollied fragments from the
little veins of quartz that he uncovered
or followed down. Hoffy reckoned these
veins were “bromising”—but they had no
gold in them. Sometimes John Henry
gave him a hand for a day or two, or
Ratty Jack Wise, or even Sid Baker.
AND then Hoffy struck water —a clear
spring that welled up after the
shattering of a blast. The shaft slowly
filled to within a few feet of the top, and
there the level of the water remained.
Hoffy drew a bucket of water and
tasted it thoughtfully. Then he drank a
mugfyl of it and declared it good. He
sat and “made a pipe”—his expression
for filling up —and smoked that pipe
thoughtfully, glancing down the shaft
from time to time. Then he went down
to his garden, and from the top end cocked
an eye, getting right down on the ground
to do so, in the direction of the shaft.
Sid Baker happened along, “Good
Lord, Hoffy, she’s full of water.”
“Yah —she’s vull.”
“Stiff luck that, Hoffy!”
“Sit, haf you der sheets of the gal-
fanised iron?”
“Yes, but you can’t empty it with that.”
, Hoffy was mysterious ; and not at all
put out about the water. “We’ll see. Sit,
we’ll see. Ryan’s Reef can wait a pit
longer.”
Three days later Hoffy had a contriv-
ance of sapling supports and an aqueduct
of sheet-iron from the shaft to his gar-
den, and a very complete irrigation sys-
tem installed. Hoffy looked very pleased
with himself, and spoke of getting a
beetle bump.” At the moment he had
to dip the water with a bucket and tip
it into the end of his guttering. He
seemed to have forgotten about Ryan’s
Reef.
Which made some people declare that
Hoffy was an old humbug—and always
had been. But visitors to Hoffy’s were
sure of a bunch of flowers that couldn’t
have been bettered anywhere in the
district.
Then Hoffy quite perfunctorily dug a
lot of very inexpert pot-holes on outcrops
that already had innumerable inexpert
pot-holes in them and washed and dollied
and examined bits, of stone with his little
magnifying glass. Most of the faith in
him as a finder of reefs vanished. And if
the days were dry he spent much time
pouring water into his irrigation ditches
or smoking thoughtfully while he
schemed over an invention for raising
water to the required level. Perhaps
Hoffy was finding real gold at last.


HILLMAN
&
THE WORLD'S MOST
SUCCESSFUL LIGHT
CAR, with new
comfort, added
power, Increased
Fuel Economy
plus amazing
performance!
Your distributor will give youfull details!
JOHN McGBATH, LTD.
lie CASTLEBEAGH ST., SYDNEY. (Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTOBS PTY., LTD., 222 Exhibition St., MELBOCBNB.
JOHN McGBATH, LTD. .. 324-340 Wickham St., The Valley,
BBISBANE.
SKIPPEB BAIEEY MOTOB CO., LTD., 900 Hay St., PEBTH.
D E. HOLLIS MOTOBS PTY., LTD., Cr. York & St. Johns Sts.,
* LAUNCESTON.
Rootes Group
Regional
Representative:
472 Bourke St.,
Melbourne
z. ■
A PRODUCT OF THE ROOTE S CROUP
Valet Blades
now more easlli|
obtainable
You, perhaps, were one of those unfortunates
who had to give up "Valet” shaving when
Valet Blades became scarce.
Valet Blades are now bade again in reason-
able quantities.
Get out the old Valet ... put in a brand
new blade and lather up for the best shave
you’ve had in years.
Valet
AUTOSTROP RAZOR BLADES
V6/i*(
SMOĶE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“I don’t know what the usual reactions are
of a man who goes to propose marriage.”
— “S.M.H.” (serial).
If accepted, effervescent; if rejected,
acid.
4* *i* *J*
“At one of those mad London art balls a
woman wore an onion behind her ear. When
asked why, she said it was more comfortable
than a carrot.” — “Sun.”
Moreover, no egregious ass would be
likely to nibble it.
'3r* *l* ’I"
“He turned suddenly toward her, his yes
, shining.”— Woman’s paper.
Only to find her busy taking the shine
off her nose. >
“Modlin reported that he knew of a barber
who occasionally slept while shaving cus-
tomers.” —“Sunday Sun”
Still, he probably talked in his sleep.
** * *
“In one corner of the cabaret a man and
girl, both obviously under the influence, were
cuddling.” —Magazine story.
A tight squeeze?
* * * *
It’s no use chasing after a strawberry
blonde if she’s intent on giving you the
raspberry. x
4* 4 1 4*
“There has been much indignation about the
amount of froth on the top of glasses of beer.”
— "D.T.”
Apparently not everyone likes these
white-collar jobs.
“Mrs. Wise alleged that her husband would
haggle over a halfpenny, and that he rn
her account for every penny of her paury
housekeeping allowance.” —Divorce repott.
“All-steel home in production soon.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.
A very handy home, indeed. Prepar-
ing for the daily feed would, in that
home, a pleasure be. You’d grab the
carving-knife up, see, and use the wall,
if you thought fit, to very quickly sharpen
it. “But,” moans the poor house-hunting
waif, “ Twould be like living in a safe!”
Looby.
• 4*
“Doctors opposing the Government’s National
Health Bill' are said to be developing a
wonderful ‘ringside manner.’ ” “Sun.
They should be able to go a few rounds.
•J# *l*
“Nor can men stand girls who appear frigid.
S.M.H.
They turn them down cold.
•I*
When a woman’s voice is filled with
emotion there’s often a catch in it.
•I* 4* - 4* *i* , .
“Housewives spend much too long over their
stoves and sinks.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Hence many get hot and bothered, and
all washed up. ‘ • '
“Why do so many women threaten their
children with ‘Wait till yeur father comes
home,’ and so forth. This gives the child an
altogether wrong impression of father.”
—“New Idea.
Even a weedy father appears strapping.
•J* •f*
“Cook-general, over 45, near country hotel,
no guests.”— “S. M. Herald.”
£Jo connection apparently.
The Last Straw.
“A Boston woman got a divorce from her
husband because he beat her—in time to the
radio.”— “Time.”
Now, when the rude hillbilly’s bow
Insults the hapless violin,
And as the saxophones begin
With sounds of tortured wind to blow,
It’s balm in Gilead to know
That someone has found virtue in
The tuneless, cacophonic din
That issues from the radio.
For when the thing’s exclusive function
Of moaning sentimental unction
Had tried the sufferer too far,
You’ll note at last, without compunction,
He carried out the crooned injunction
To “Beat Me, Daddy, Eight to the
Bar.”
P. M. LUSK.
“Man revels in color.” —“New Idea.”
A man admires the saffron glow
Of sunset or a sapphire sea.
And loves with manly pride to*show
His garden’s wealth of rose and pea .
He has no time for aught that’s duller
Than blue or green in women’s eyes,
And yet he quickly baulks at color
When womenfolk select his ties.
D.H.E.
Wise has a canny money sense,
He’s ultra-careful of the pence;
Such thorough thrift makes one surmise
If he were nicknamed “Penny” Wise.
F.M.
The Penalty.
We have been slaying fairies all the night,
And eating them on toast.
My neighbor Oswald slew them left and
right,
But I consumed the most.
’Tis strange that fairies, beautiful as
flowers,
More soft than tongue can tell,
Can play such havoc with digestive
powers,
For now, I grieve to tell,
Both Os and I feel terribly unwell.
T.W. NATHAN.
The Scab.
My tooth has ached from dawn till
midnight chime;
So, roused at last to bitterest dislike.
I’ve just refused to pay it overtime —
And still the flaming thing won’t go on
strike.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Time, Gent. Ones!
“Indulging in litigation i? a sickening ex-
perience.”—“D.T.” correspondent.
And even the legal men suffer from a
form of wasting disease. The waste is
eaten up something like this:
Mr. Blatter, K.C.: We shall endeavor
to show that the contract entered into by
my client has, through a total absence of
consideration, become a nudum pactum.
Mr. Jabber, K.C.: We shall disprove
that utterly at the appropriate hour. In
the meantime I put to Yerronor that
we have my learned friend’s admission
that his client did agree to supply a speci-
fied quantity of nozzles for bellows by a
fixed date, his failure to do so causing my
client considerable pecuniary loss..
Mr. B.: Great importance hinges on the
interpretation of the word “nozzle. A
nozzle has been defined as “a projecting
vent.” That could also be an accurate
description of a man’s nose.
Mr. J.: Does my learned friend imply
that the bulbous protuberance which
is so marked a feature of his own facial
contour could be used for screwing on to
a bellows or pair of bellows?
Mr. B.: A nose can also be said to be
“I think your father's given me good grounds for a
divorce for desertion.”
a “mark of distinction.” That also could
cover the term “crown,” which, if I know
my Webster, means, inter alia, a “badge
of dignity or power.” Shakspeare has it
Hidst thou that forehead with a golden crown ?
Mr. J.: It was ruled in Tort v. The
Dean and Chapter of St. Swithins that
the Crown had obligations which could
not be vitiated by any combinatory action
involving embroilment under circum-
stances deemed inimical to everyday
observances. We submit that the term
“crown” may have a most important bear-
ing on the case. I quote Milton on it:
• What seemed his head
The likeness of a kingly crown had on.
Mr. B.: With respect, Yerronor, we
suggest my learned friend is having you
on —ha! ha!
’Sonah (mildly): Having me on? I
don’t think I am conversant with the ex-
pression. Pray, what does it mean?
Mr. B.: Well, kidding, Yerronor.
’Sonah: I am afraid I am still in the
dark. Kindly elucidate further, Mr.
Blatter.
Mr. B.: Well—er—it’s a kind of collo-
quialism [hurriedly]. Have I leave to pro-
ceed, Yerronor?
’Sonah; You have, and please confine
further argument to relevant matters, Mr.
Blatter.
Mr. B.: Certainly, Yerronor. Yet we
submit with respect that a nozzle can
have a distinct link with a crown. A
dentist’s drill may correctly be described
as a miniature nozzle. Even my learned
friend will concede that a drill may be,
and often is, used to prepare a tooth for
treatment. Have we not all heard of a
crown being fitted to a tooth? We put it
to him that the connection is established.
Mr. J.: But then a
crown may also mean a
shape “crown-
shaped,” as bearing a
representation of a
crown, as being a sum-
mit. Does not Dryden
refer to
The steepy crown of the-
baic mountains?
’Sonah (in a faraway
voice)Home to our
mountains!
Mr. J.: Exactly, Yer-
ronor! Yet who would
be so bold as to assert
that Verdi, when he was
writing the famous duet
for his II Trovatore,
had in mind a nozzle?
Mr, B.: It is quite
possible that the Italian
composer could have
been prophetic. After
all, in modern American
mining practice nozzles
are used to direct
powerful jets of water
for washing away
mountains and obtain-
ing rich ores.
Mr. J.: The Mad
Hatter, in reply to
Alice’s admission that her watch didn’t
tell what year it was, remarked “Which
is just the case with mine!” Does my
learned friend suggest that Lewis Car-
roll intended him to say “a mine,” which
would establish the connection between a
nozzle and an auriferous mountain?
[Adjournment for lunch, and on resumption
the Gent. Ones will proceed to make lengthy
references to nozzles as applied to Little Bo
Peep, the high price of fish, numismatics, con-
certina playing and conchology.]
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2id. pfer line.
Mineowners
The miners are saying such dreadful
things about us that I feel that, an open
confession of my crimes is overdue.
I became .a “mineowner” at a com-
paratively early age when I inherited
shares in several coalmines at the then
current prices as determined for probate
purposes. When the opportunity offered
1 bought some more, and, later, got my-
self further into the mire. Here’s a state-
ment of my crimes:
One hundred and fifty shares in Vale
of Clwydd, acquired in 1927 at 21s. 6d.,
and a further 150, bought in 1928 at 13s.
4d., have returned me a total of £35 ; their
present value is nil. Two hundred shares
in Hetton-Bellbird, acquired in 1927 at
245. Id., have returned £3O ; present value
7s. 6d. Fifteen shares in Newcastle-Walls-
end,' acquired in 1927 at £l6, have re-
turned £124 ; present value £6 10s.
My capital investment was £742. In
19 years I’ve received a total of £lB9, and
my capital today is £172 10s.— Sadie (Q-).
Landlords, Tenants and Boarders
My personal experience as a landlord
is that most tenants require little informa-
tion on tenancy regulations (B. 22/5/’46)
and exploit the law to the extent of de-
priving the owner of management of his
own property.
Housing shortages can be traced to the
stifling of private enterprise, exorbitant
rates and taxes, and legislation which has
been loaded against the investor. During
depression years owners were charged
largely with the responsibility of providing
free or at a nominal rent housing for the
large mass of unemployed. Yet taxes on
property during the Scullin regime in-
creased, and water and land rates re-
mained at a high level.
The pegging of rents at the 1939 level
was not followed by any effort to peg
the cost of repairs, or rates'and taxes.
To add to the burden of landlords it is
an impossible task to eject a tenant on
most grounds, and in some cases, a house
must be found for the outgoing tenant.
Tenants also exploit the shortage of
accommodation by loading their premises
with lodgers. The landlord has little
redress in spite of the extra wear and tear
on his property. — Loser (N.S.W.).
“Sol Brass” (B. 22/5/’46) omits one of
the most important of N. S. Wales ten-
ancy regulations—the provision that a
landlord shall not refuse to let a dwelling
because the applicant has children. If
he does, the onus is on the landlord to
establish that the refusal was not on that
ground. It is also provided that a land-
lord shall not even inquire whether a
prospective tenant has children. The
penalty for breach of this regulation is
£lOO fine or kix months’ hard labor or
both.
It does not seem widely known that
rates of board are pegged, both for hotels
and boarding-houses—there are constant
complaints in the press of excessive
charges for board for schoolteachers and
others. Weekly rates are pegged at the
rate charged at a specified date in 1942,
or 355. per week, whichever is the greater.
Yet I know hotelkeepers who are charg-
ing four guineas a week now, against the
£2 10s. they asked in 1943. A few com-
plaints to the right quarter (Prices Branch)
might do a lot of good.—M. R. (N.S.W.).
Back in Rabaul
Planters returning to Rabaul see a
small city as their ship comes up Simpson
Harbor, but it is not the Rabaul they
knew.
Hotels, clubs, business premises and
homes are gone, and in their place is a
town of tents and iron-roofed sheds.
Wanton destruction by the Japs during
their occupation and Allied bombs have
left little of the old Rabaul. Where once
was a fine stately avenue of shade trees
in Malaguna-road, there now remain a
few broken and twisted trunks. Concrete
foundations and steps and an occasional
broken wall are all that remain of the
buildings that once lined the foreshore.
Even more heartbreaking than the deso-
lation of Rabaul is the condition of the
plantations. Here is further evidence of
Jap ravages. No sign remains of homes
and plantation buildings ; even concrete
floors have been rerhoved—why, only the
Japs could tell. Thousands of coconut
palms, which would now be in full bearing,
have been felled to line tunnels and caves.
Many more palms have been ruined by
the cutting of fronds for the roofing of
houses. Others have had the heart cut
out to make sake, which the Japs brewed
from the juice found in the top of the
palm. Jap airstrips have been cut through
some plantations; others have been com-
pletely ruined by Allied bombing.
All this can be counted as war damage,
for which the planter gets compensation.
But the hardest blow of all is the damage
that occurred after occupation by Aus-
tralian , troops. When the Japs were
rounded up, seven out of 12 com-
pounds were sited in plantations.
Palms were felled to make way
for houses, roads were cut through
the rows of palms, and fronds used for
roofing. The planters are justly bitter.
There is an abundance of open ground
in the Gazelle Peninsula where the Japs
could have been concentrated.
It was common in Rabaul to see Japa-
nese p.-0.-w. labor being used to pull
weeds around Australian camps, washing
clothes for Australian soldiers and doing
many other unproductive jobs. Yet out
of 100,000 Japanese originally in the area
fewer than 1000 were used to clean up
plantations., and then only for a few
weeks. *
Now that the Japs have gone, and with
native labor scarce, planters are faced
“Mum, in future I Want Nelson 's blood with me burgoo!”
with difficult times. It will be many years
before New Britain recovers from the
ravages of war, and even then it will
never be the same again.—T. T. (N.G.).
New Guinea’s Capital
It’s impossible to get an authoritative
statement on the abandonment of Rabaul
in favor of Kokopo as a capital (B.
15/5/’46), but it seems that such a course
is contemplated. The coast road from
Rabaul to Kokopo is being kept in first-
class condition by Army engineers. A
R.A.A.F. Aerodrome Construction Squad-
ron has been working for some months
on Rapopo drome —a few miles from
Kokopo—and local R.A.A.F. men aver
that the present Lakunai strip, near Rabaul,
will be abandoned as soon as Rapopo is
completed. Most of the equipment sal-
vaged from the Japs in Gazelle Peninsula
(lighting plants, pumping plants, lathes
and other machinery) is being concen-
trated near Kokopo.
But I’ve heard no mention of Kokopo
being capital of the combined territories.
Popular opinion among Territorians is
that Port Moresby will be capital if the
territories are combined, with Kokopo
as New Guinea capital in place of Rabaul.
The climate of Lae and Finschhafen
mitigates against them. It seems Lae was
considered only because, next to Rabaul, it
was the largest settlement in New Guinea,
being the doorway to the Wau and Edie
Creek goldfields. Kokopo has an even
climate* and has the benefit of sea breezes
durini both the north-west and south-
east seasons. Rapopo, when completed,
will be a fine airstrip, and, being near the
coast, is less troubled by mists than in-
land strips. There is ample room at
Kokopo for administrative, commercial
and residential centres. The one draw-
back may be an insufficient depth of
water for large ships and a comparatively
unsheltered coastline. Madang and
Finschhafen certainly have good harbors,
but Lae will never be a suitable anchorage
—the sweeping floodwaters of the Mark-
ham have destroyed three wharves at
Milford Haven since 1943.
The mainland is chiefly important for
its goldfields. Far more copra and cocoa
were produced from New Britain and
New Ireland than from the mainland in
pre-War years. The Gazelle Peninsula
is the richest plantation area in the Terri-
tory. Of a total of 517 plantations in the
Mandated Territory 330 are in the Bis-
marck Archipelago and Bougainville. In
1937 these produced 41,437 tons of copra
out of a total of 71,583 tons; and 144
tons of cocoa out of a total of 210 tons.
The old arguments and prejudices
between New Guinea and Papua still
exist. In fact, they are exaggerated today
because Papuan planters suffered little
war damage compared with that done to
New Guinea plantations. New Guinea is
by far the wealthier and more important
of the two territories. No matter what site
is finally selected for the capital, there*
will be critics. Kokopo, centrally situ-
ated in the richest plantation area of New
Guinea, has most of the requirements, and
is as good a choice as could be made.
Nogat (N.G.).
Rail Speeds
“G.B ” (B. 22/5/’46) is astray in stat-
ing that the fastest express on the Sydney-
Newcastle run does not average 40 m.p.h.
The fastest of the inter-city trains aver-
ages 42 m.p.h. overall, doing the 1041
miles in 2hr. 29min. This will be reduced
slightly when 'the new Hawkesbury bridge
is opened for traffic.
Admittedly our trains do not attain the
speed of trains in other parts of the world,
but it’s not for want of good engines.
The -cause is the lack of foresight of our
engineer forefathers, who made the many
curves of such narrow radius that speed
cannot be attained on them.
The Melbourne Limited, by the way,
does the 400-mile run to Albury at an
average of 36 m.p.h., while the Brisbane
Limited averages only 33 m.p.h.'from
Sydney to Brisbane. The fastest train in
N. S. Wales is the Silver City Comet,
which does the 422-mile Parkes-Broken
Hill run at an average of 45 m.p.h.— Mao
Ropus (N.S.W.).
Try It on the Dog
“Cuchulain” (B. 22/-5/’46) has raised
that question of wheat for dog biscuits
again. At the time Mr. Scully said that
“if wheat hadn’t been made available for
dog biscuits farmers and graziers would
have had to kill more sheep to feed their
dogs.” I saw a bag containing dog
biscuits in my produce merchant’s store ;
I hate to admit my ignorance, but I
didn’t know them when I saw them.
I put one in my pocket and showed it
to the first three farmers I met, and was
relieved When they, too, didn’t know a
dog biscuit when they saw one.
Then I showed it to my old sheep dog,
for whose intelligence I have the utmost
respect. The old fellow just wagged his
tail and gave me a silly grin.—W. E. N.
(N.S.W.).
You Can’t Beat It
Certain exhibitors in Westralia,
faced with rising overheads, decided to
increase admission charges on certain
nights from lOd. to Is. Prices Branch,
approached for approval, had no objec-
tion to an increase, but stipulated that
the new charge must be Is. Id. —of which
threepence would be collected as amuse-
ments tax.
As the previous price of lOd. was
tax-free, the alteration would mean more
work for the theatres in filling in re-
turns, but not one penny extra in net
income.
You can’t beat the bureaucracy! Prices
Branch is surprised that the increase is
not being made.— Beecham (W.A.).
Child Labor in Russia
Having read everything concerning the
U.S.S.R. which I could find, irrespective
of authorship or political outlook, I
wasn’t surprised by most of Mr.
Maloney’s revelations.
But I was surprised by his statements
on child labor. It is so long since chil-
dren were employed on a large scale in
Western countries that -we have almost
forgotten the evils connected with child
slavery unless we happen to be readers of
Dickens. And large-scale child labor is
slavery, b<£ause the children are never
free agents and their earnings are vir-
tually never their own property. Stand-
ards of living are invariably low where it
exists, and the much-vaunted “higher
education of the masses” must be for-
gotten if children are to have only four
years at school.
The Australian way of government is
far from perfect, but on Mr. Maloney’s
showing we have nothing to learn from
the U.S.S.R. and much to avoid.--
K. B. C. (Q.).
Immigrants
In his valedictory broadcast Mr. Justice
Davis, Canada’s High Commissioner to.
Australia, gave a few words of warning
on our attitude to immigrants. In his own
province of Saskatchewan he had seen
the population increase from a handful to
something like a million inhabitants
mainly migrants from southern and south-
eastern Europe.
We would dismiss them as Dagoes
and Skies. Yet Canada’s migrants
are good Canadians. Many of the first
generation of Canadian-born fought for
Canada in the 1914-18 war. Their parents
had been welcomed in the land of their
adoption, accepted as part of the com-
munity and initiated into Canadian ways
of life.
We complain that immigrants congre-
gate into self-contained groups. That
may be true, but it is largely our own
fault. We are chary of “foreigners” and
only too ready to let them form their own
communities instead of welcoming them
and showing them the “ropes.”
The U.S.A., I believe, has a training
centre for immigrants, where the main
stress is laid on U.S. history and ways of
life. And as a prerequisite English is
taught to those not already conversant
with that language. As in Canada, they
are made to feel that they have a stake
in the country— Obelist (Tas.).
Unionism
It has always been a mystery to me
why unions are necessary to a Labor-
elected Government. Unions were
originally intended to defend the workers
where the Government was unsympa-
thetic and employers nefarious.
Every wage-earner should know that
fair pay and good working conditions are
his right. He should not have to pay to
get them —his vote at election-time should
be enough.
But in practice it is different —since
Labor took over in M.L. unionism has
advanced and annual dues have increased
threefold. The power has passed from
genuine tradesmen and workers to a
“capitalistic” type of boss who drives
about in a big car to make sure his dues
are paid and to stir up trouble.
Workers, exactly what does your two
or three quid gain you that is not yours
by right as a free man? — Kiwi Digger
(MX.).
The principle of a union is the same
as that of a democracy, in that the
worker is the mainstay of the union and
votes the representatives into executive
positions.
Here you meet the same problem as in
the political sphere. The man whose
qualifications most fit him for an execu-
tive position refuses to stand for election,
his conventional plea of “overwork” or
“no time” being merely a blind for lack
of interest.
Unions, as Governments, require mem-
bers best qualified and suited for appoint-
ments. Red-raggers and agitators are not
wanted. Where they have already infil-
trated into unions, it is up to the unionists
themselves'to see that their appointments
are terminated and capable, clear-think-
ing members elected in their stead.
By this manner only can unions hope
to retain their positions and regain the
respect they have forfeited by foolish and
misguided actions.—R. E. (S.A.).


In Defence of Officers
Having been both ranker and officer
in a fighting A.I.F. unit, 1 can’t see eye
to eye with “Red and Green” (B.
22/5/’46), and I don’t know what he
means by “the result [of an investiga-
tion] should be the creation of a new
conception of the fighting man.” My
conception (shared by many more able to
judge) is that the A.I.F. soldier is the
best of his type in the world, and I see
no reason for acquiring any new con-
ception.
Nor do I understand “Officers will exist
only by virtue of their qualities of leader-
ship and not by a collection of pips and
crowns on their shoulders.” Presumably
“R. and G.” means that personnel
selected as officers should be the mqst
outstanding leaders available. That’s in-
disputable, but if it’s not carried out it is
not a fault of the Army system but a
fault in its application.
“R. and G.’s” main kick is that he con-
siders privileges accorded to an officer
are excessive. Look at it the other way.
On being commissioned the officer enters
a new life, where he is on tap day and
night. His responsibilities increase be-
yond measure, and he works, though not
physically, infinitely harder than as an
o.r. Isn’t it reasonable that he receive
privileges to offset his extra worries?
True, the disparity between ranks in
some cases is too great, but the entire
Army system of discipline is based on
that disparity, and rightly so. Who
hasn’t seen the new reinforcement officer
making himself a big fellow by calling
o.rs. by their Christian names, begging
them not to salute him or call him “sir” ;
and then (it never fails) the resultant con-
tempt in which he is held ?
A soldier does rifle drill, bayonet drill,
gun drill ad nauseam, so that when the
pressure is on he does them automati-
cally. Similarly, he obeys an officer on
the parade ground, and, when the pres-
sure is on, unquestioningly in the field.
I can’t agree that “in tough spots all
distinctions melt away.” The superficial
distinctions such as addressing an officer
as “sir” and saluting do, but the real dis-
tinction of the officer being not one of
the o.rs. but (by circumstances only) a
race apart remains. Even the best of
n.c.os. found it impossible to achieve the
same standard of discipline, of instant
and unquestioning obedience, when the
leader is living, eating and sleeping with
his men.
Touching on the other privileges classi-
fied by “R. and G.”: The uniform allow-
ance of £25 and £5 a year buys approxi-
mately one-third of necessary clothing.
Mr. Ward’s famous words on batmen have
a mention. If, in action, an officer is to
care for his men, perform adequately his
duties of organisation of defences, con-
ferences, etc. (while the men are resting),
and if he is to eat, have dry, clean clothes
and remain healthy he must have a bat-
man. Also, the batman is usually the
officer’s runner. The other privileges
mentioned are definitely privileges, and
are, I think, to a certain extent reason-
able.—l94o Sucker (N.S.W.).
Though never commissioned myself,
I can see solid reason behind most of the
officers’ privileges listed by “Red and
Green” (B. 22/5/’46). The efficient
officer used his comfortable quarters and
spare time either in studying his com-
plicated and onerous duties or in caring
for the welfare of his men.
Most growls against officers’ privileges
seem to me to derive from the false
ideal of dead-level equality that makes
socialism so sterile a doctrine. In action
the officer’s chief privilege is special
attention from the enemy. At Milne Bay
our casualties were seven or eight o.rs.
wounded and two officers killed.
Numbers engaged were about a dozen
officers and 200 o.rs. —X. Q. X. (Q.).
In an officers' 1 mess there is more
restraint and less freedom than in n.c.os’.
and men’s messes, except, perhaps, in
base areas, where free-and-easy facilities
are open to all ranks. And I’ve seen
many more female visitors in n.c.os.’
messes than ever in an officers’ mess.
Officers, like troops, go through
L.T.Ds. They travel on troop trains
under exactly the same conditions as men,
except that, where men may relax on
journey, an officer is usually engaged in
making out and checking rolls. Oppor-
tunities to purchase “unlimited” supplies
of liquor apply only in base area —all
ranks are on a “soft cop” here.
Officers needn’t be martinets or salute-
seeking snobs, but for discipline’s sake
there must be some distinction. Or does
“R. and G.” recommend the early-war
Russian method where an n.c.o. could
tell an officer to polish his boots? The
Russians- soon discovered how far they
were getting with that system. The best
fighting man in the world is the English-
man, and it’s no coincidence that he s
also the most rigidly disciplined.
During war every man has his chance
of becoming an officer or n.c.o. He
doesn’t have to be in the social register
or a friend of the C.O.’s sister. An Army
regulation states that a man considering
himself to have officer potentialities may
submit his name and be interviewed by
the Officer Preselection Board.
And would it surprise “R. and G.” to
know that casualty percentage amongst
“effete” officers was higher than that of
all o.rs.? —C. S. (N.S.W.).
Army Command
“Peter Mike” (B. 29/5/’46) doesn’t
know much about the Military Board
and how it functions. To begin with, he
omits three of its members, all civilians.
They are (1) the Finance Member, who
controls the Army purse-strings —all-im-
portant in peace when finance is the
major factor; (2) the Business Adviser ;
and (3) the Secretary, Department of the
Army.
The last-named certainly has no vote
in the deliberations of the board, but he
doesn’t want one —in fact, to have a vote
would be an embarrassment to him. The
pbint is this. As Secretary of the Army,
he is the permanent head of the depart-
ment. As such he is, according to the
Commonwealth Public Service Act, re-
sponsible to the Minister for the working
of the department and for all advice. He
thus has the last word with the Minister
on all matters referred to the latter by
the board for approval. And in practice
this means everything of the slightest im-
portance. The Minister rarely attends
meetings of the Military Board.
The Defence Act makes it very clear
that the Military Board is designed and
intended to control and administer the
military forces. This has been consis-
tently ignored in favor of the Public Ser-
vice Act. The result is that the Army
has been always run by a species of
civilian public servant commander-in-
chief. It is very commori knowledge that
General Blarney, although he had more
powers than the Military Board, was
much irked by the existence of this
civilian rival.
It’s only fair to point out that the pre-
sent Army Minister didn’t originate this
extraordinary state of affairs. He merely
accepted a set-up that has been in exist-
ence almost since the Military Board was
brought into being. Getting rid of Mr.
Forde won’t rectify the position, unless
his successor is prepared to see that the
clearly-expressed intention of the Defence
Act is observed and the Army is run by
soldiers, subject, naturally, to Govern-
ment policy.
It is probably unnecessary to add that
the Australian way of doing things has
no counterpart in the civilised world. —
Peter Gremlin (Vic.).
“Peter Mike’s” comment on my pro-
posal for a C.-in-C. in preference to a
Military Board strongly supports my con-
tention (B. 24/4/’46). He says General
Blarney’s appointment as C.-in-C. in 1942
was “justified by the need for swift de-
cisions.”
If a C.-in-C. in war-time can command
half a million men more expeditiously
than a board, peace-time control of
50,000 men is child’s play. “P.M.” rightly
says General Blarney was impeded by
political interference (largely dictated by
the Red element, and persuaded by civil
servants with mostly home-front war ex-
perience).
As C.-in-C. Blarney had a C.G.S.,
A.G., Q.M.G. and M.G.O. (Northcott,
Lloyd, Cannan and Beavis), all capable
of giving decisions during his absence.
This is the British system of command
that worked admirably under the Bird-
wood-White and Monash-Blamey com-
binations in 1917-18. The Germans give
full powers to senior staffs during the
absence of their chief.
“P.M.” suggests a board can plan
better than a C.-in-C. Why? The
C.-in-C. still has his staff.
Anyhow, we have been planning since
1934. What we need is quick and sound
decision and action, not a political or
bureaucratic substitute. General Mac-
Arthur can run Japan without a board. —
Three Wars (N.S.W.).
Decentralise Breweries
Whatever the merits of nationalising
breweries, the consumer would benefit
by their decentralisation. Beer in the
wood is heavy enough to transport, but
when it’s bottled the packing weighs more
than the liquid.
A 26-ounce bottle of ale, bought in a
wheat-belt town, might be brewed from
grain that was grown near by and carried
300 miles to the city to make the grog,
which was then carried back to the start-
ing point. Finally, the empties have to
be returned to the city. In addition to
giving overburdened railways more to
carry, this multiple transportation costs
money. And who pays? Look in a
mirror for the answer.
Old hands recall the days when country
centres had both breweries and flour-
mills to handle local grain—and they de-
clare that the beer and bread were better
then than now. — Quill (N.S.W.).
The Stocks
Barbarous and unenlightened it may
have been, but the ancient practice of
clapping a criminal in the stocks or
pillory did have its advantages.
The social malefactor of today, par-
ticularly the black-marketeer, generally
pays a handsome fine (and is often actu-
ally admired for paying up in fivers be-
fore he leaves the court), while a jail
sentence, though an ignominy, consigns
him and his offence to oblivion.
Our forefathers argued, soundly
enough, that the greatest deterrent to a
criminal was a sense of shame. Instead
of wrapping proceedings in the digni-
fied atmosphere of the .courts, or dis-
missing the whole thing from the public
mind by jailing him, they simply put the
offender in the stocks, gave him bread
and water and exposed him to public
gaze.
Most men would suffer any fine or
jail sentence rather than undergo 24
hours in the stocks, particularly in their
own suburb. A civilised version of the
stocks for present-day use would be to
have a record of the crime and punish-
ment prominently displayed at the crimi-
nal’s home and business address as a
gentle reminder to him and his neighbors.
—Wigwag (S.A.).
Two Strikes
At time of writing Perth is experiencing
af second acute shortage of electric light
and power. The previous shortage was
caused by a miners’ strike; this time it’s
a mechanical breakdown at the power-
house. From a consumer’s point of view
the result in both cases is the same, but
the general atmosphere and the public
attitude towards the necessary cuts are
vastly different.
The strike-caused shortage produced a
period of distrust and bewilderment. Em-
ployers, forced to suspend operations be-
cause of shortage of power, automatically
became in league with the mineowners.
Employees, however tried and trusted,
were potential strikers or strike-supporters,
suffering loss of work solely through the
“Call THIS cold! Ever been in Melbourne in June ?”
action of labor.' The most vicious in-
terpretations were placed on the most
innocent actions, and terms like “capi-
talist octopus” were bandied about as
though they had some meaning.
This time, together with a total absence
of confusion and recrimination, there is
admirable co-operation by consumers to
restrict unnecessary use of power. Men
are again being suspended at most fac-
tories, but it is being done in a spirit of
harmony between employer and em-
ployee.
There’s a moral. We can overcome
hardships and catastrophes if we can
exclude industrial disunity. The pettiest
strike, by virtue of that “solidarity” which
should be labor’s greatest strength, can
become Communism’s opportunity for the
destruction of labor and capital. —
W.J.W. (W.A.).
Delayed Justice
The test of democratic government is
in its attitude towards the liberties of its
people, and among these is the right of
immunity from wrongful detention, and
the speedy trial of an accused person.
Two outstanding examples of the pre-
sent Government’s failure in this respect
are the treatment of the “Australia First”
Movement and the case of Major
Cousens.
In the one, it took years of agitation to
secure for the persons detained an oppor-
tunity to prove their innocence. In the
other, after keeping a man under open
arrest for months the Commonwealth
passed the buck to a State for it.
But these are not the only cases where
the liberty of the citizen is in danger.
There are frequent protests and comments
by Judges and magistrates against delays
in bringing accused persons to trial. A
reasonable and speedy opportunity of
defending himself against the charge be-
fore a proper tribunal should be the right
of every accused person. — Lex (N.S.W.).
“The Psychological Touch”
The reluctance of the audience to fork
out at the Communist meeting (B.
22 1 5 / ’46) convinces me that the comrades
are slipping.
Some time ago at a meeting of Joe’s
disciples in a Melbourne theatre, I had to
admire the Commissars’ psychological
approach to the problem of making the
rank and file cough up. Announcing that
a collection would be made, the trump
bawled “1 will now take fivers!” Im-
mediately a comrade near me jumped up,
pulled a bluish piece of paper from his
pocket, and, half to himself and half to
those around him, remarked “It’s me
week’s wages, but the cause needs it.”
Looking over the theatre I found that
a similar performance was taking place at
about 20 strategic points, and presently
a little procession of urgers was on its
way to the footlights to hand up the
“fivers.”
The trump then announced his willing-
ness to accept pound notes, and quite a,
few of the donors looked genuine. He
then asked for ten-bobs, and finally for
silver, and I’m sure that had I come pre-
pared to contribute a humble zack the
sight of those generous souls handing up
their fivers would have shamed me into
doubling it.— Harap (Vic.).
Positions Vacant
Shortage of tradesmen is not peculiar
to Moruya (B. 15/5/’46). Ours is only
a small country district, but a man fairly
proficient in two trades —say carpenter-
windmill expert or blacksmith-mechanic
—should make a good living.
Many of the farmers would be glad to
employ one or more men or lads if they
could get them, and there is generally a
labor shortage at harvesting and hay-
making. An energetic man can, usually
find a fencing contract or something
similar in a slack season. But the un-
employed still stick to the big cities.
Governments are partly to blame for
drawing civilian labor to the cities during
the war, for discharging all servicemen
there, and for the tender care shown for
the largest aggregations of voters, but the
trouble goes deeper than that. Men
know there are jobs outside, that housing
shortages aren’t so acute, that cost of
living is lower and so forth, but they just
won’t move, and nobody has yet found a
way to move them. — Heresone (Q.).


r
,-Vr-y ‘ t ~ ; -
'SfwO't-
S <
A H>
i , v . <
34^21^
>-L^=.
!• =
( K
SS^?U
/ (1°
■4i
air
\ \A\\
P| W '
v. I V
1
J? I
il
fwr
■=us
\ *
\ r
• f*
/ *
Ba
Bn
m
The “MARS”
RADIAL DRILL
Produced in response to the demand for a
high efficiency Radial Drill for Australian
conditions at a price within the reach of
the average Engineering Shop. The “Mars”
Radial Drill has 8 speeds forward and 8
speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm. Weight,
approximately 3 tons.
The “MARS”
High Speed Planer
Designed for the precision
workshop, the “Mars”
Planer is of a proved de-
sign and capable of obtain-
ing maximum output from sy li 0
high-speed cutting tools. '
§
m
A-
■ -, —-
, —.
R
■
y;-;:
mm.
j&i
i ■
-
J
.
r y
r r
rV
7 •>>»
=- n
IN^-
mu
&i i/U
icf r<
n
M
; srsg
I- T
n!
£7:,
V'
s'
/)':(
r /
All “Mars” Machine Tools possess these outstanding
featuresr—ACCUßACY—Built to recognized and
certified standards of * Accuracy. BALANCE —AH
necessary revolving parts are Dynamically Balanced.
FINISH All Surfaces are Machine Ground.
MATERIALS—Finest Matured High Test Alloy
Castings throughout. SMOOTH RUNNING—AII Gear
Teeth are Generated. VERSATILITY All Lathes
have generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
ETA
Licensed Manufacturers
in Queensland of
<‘MEE HALITE” Metals
Details of all machine tools from the manufacturers or from
these Distributing Agents : —
N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Boring Co., Ltd., 450 Ann Street, Brisbane,
N.Z.—Motor Specialities Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland.
Branches throughout the Dominion.
Calcutta—Ross Neil & Sons, 26 Chowringhee Road.
m
f
p
I
CO. PTY LTD
m
k.
m •
'BE 1. ; , ■
I
m m
S M
; •: <x v - .yiS: ''•■■'<■
...
■. ■ •
The “MARS” 10in. Lathe
The “Mars” 10-inch High Speed Engine Lathe is a
masterly example of fine lathe building. Available in
two models, Gap or Straight Bed, the “Mars” 10-in.
Lathe is built specially for accurate and efficient ser-
vice and may be used for all Sliding, Surfacing, and
Screw Cutting operations.
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS
IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (EXCEPT CANADA & GREAT BRITAIN)
