

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 67 —No, 3462
Wednesday, June 19, 1946
Prke M*
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Cassiobury House.
r'ASSIOBURY HOUSE, a seat of the Earls of Essex, lies just
y outside London, a mile away from Watford, in Hertfordshire.
An old mansion, Cas'siobury has been much altered from time to
time. Cassivelaunus lived in the manor of Cassiobury, and the
Abbott of St. Albans once numbered Cassiobury among his many
religious houses. Some invaluable art treasures were preserved
here, among them being paintings by Vandyke, Rubens, Reynolds,
Lely, Romney and Turner. In the time of Queen Victoria the Earl
of Essex threw open to the public his delightful park, which
extended over some six hundred acres. The trees were particularly
fine; some of them were planted in 1683 by Le Notre, the famous
gardener to Louis XIV. Cassiobury House is an excellent example
of “the stately homes of England.”


Ttoru Writing
U *l Vt of HOT*TF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, M
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Same
My Address
S.B. 246 A 08...
The Red Page
SOME LOUIS ESSON
Unless one is an expert on the Eureka
Stockade affair —which the present com-
mentator is not —it is impossible to dis-
cuss the historical accuracy of the por-
traits Louis Esson drew in “The Southern
Cross,” the title piece of a memorial
volume of his plays published by Robert-
son and Mullens.
However, from the literary and
dramatic point of view, a character must
be convincing as a human being within
the framework of the play, and most of
the people in “The Southern Cross” are
too sketchily drawn and seem imperfectly
understood. Peter Lalor, for instance, is
portrayed in the opening scenes as a
moderate and retiring man, very reluct-
ant to undertake the leadership of the
miners. But then, after leading the riot,
escaping, and coming in secret to visit his
fiancee, he is confronted with the accusa-
tion: “You promised, Peter, that you
wouldn’t take an active part in politics.”
Which suggests, of course, that the
character —whether or not it is the his-
torical Lalor—had always been something
of a hothead.
The theme is immediately dropped, so
that the character remains elusive and in-
consistent, satisfactory neither as a quiet
man dragged into political activity by
intolerable injustice, nor as a passionate
man to whom the active violence of
revolution might come as the fulfillment
of a dream.
Carboni Raffaello is likewise too
sketchily treated. One has, indeed, the
impression of high explosive, but the play-
wright has used this character, on the
whole, merely for a little elementary
comedy, instead of delving deep for the
underlying fire.
Esson was happiest, one feels, with
the character of Sir Charles Hotham, the
Governor of Victoria, for here, at least,
the duality of the man is understood,
the impression of inner conflict —and
inner life—is conveyed: a man who
wanted peace and justice, yet was com-
pelled by his position—or thought he was
—to maintain the Queen’s authority.
Humanly speaking, this is the play’s
most interesting situation: and had Louis
Esson confined himself to this one fascin-
ating personal dilemma all the manifest
faults of his play would have dis-
appeared : for they are errors of diffuse-
ness, of sketchiness and of unconvincing
characterisation —all, it seems probable,
the results of an unwillingness to look
too closely at human nature. Even in
“The Bride of Gospel Place” and “Mother
and Son”—the other two plays in the
volume—far better in construction than
the titlepiece though they ere, and better
representative of the playwright’s own
outlook on life, the characters are veiled,
as it were, in unreality; in a faintly dis-
torting sympathy.
“The Bride of Gospel Place,” to which
Saroyan’s “The Time of Your Life” bears
a curious resemblance, is concerned with
Melbourne low-life —thieves and light
ladies. There is a period charm about
the piece, but somehow, in spite of its
frankness and honesty, it is too gentle,
almost too gentlemanly, to ring quite true.
Precise examples of sentimentality would
not be easy to find; it is a matter of
mood ; but one might instance the washer-
woman who appears near the end, in a
scene of pathos in a hospital. The pecu-
liar old lady who says everybody has been
“so kind” to her is pure fantasy. Esson
did not quite see people as people, but
as victims of circumstances. He was too
sorry for them —perhaps a virtue in life,
but a weakness in art.
In “Mother and Son” there seems to
be a drama not fully realised—not recog-
nised—by the author. There is a toil-
worn husband dying at inordinate length ;
a toil-worn, complaining, nagging
woman ; and a wild son. When the son
is killed in an accident at the end—his
light o’ love having been driven from the
house—the playwright is stating, by im-
plication, that the mother has murdered
him. But this is certainly not stated with
sufficient clarity, and it was probably not
consciously intended by the playwright.
“Mother and Son” is the best play in the
volume, but one does not feel that Louis
Esson was ever happy with it, that he
ever felt free to write and say what he
liked except in one charming scene where
he brings in a couple of excited bush
kids: —
Ted: I found the bee-free.
Peggy: Well,, if you did, I found the
queen.
Ted: I chopped out the hollow of the
tree.
Peggy : You wouldn’t have got her only
for me.
Ted : Yes,-1 would.
Peggy: You wouldn’t. The queen’s
hard to find, I can tell you. I put my
finger in the comb, and there she was
trying to hide in the hollow of the free.
She was the very last of the whole swarm;
brut 1 spotted her, the beauty. See here,
she’s in the little wire cage.
x There’s a lilt, a lyricism, a freedom
about this little scene that’s not to be
found anywhere else in The Southern
Cross; it reminds one of the poetry of
Shaw Neilson. There is more genuine
passion in the excited outcries of the
children than in anything the larrikins
and their women say in “The Bride of
Gospel Place” or anything said by either
side in the Eureka Stockade play.
Various tributes to Louis Esson in-
cluded in the volume suggest that his
talent failed to mature because of the
lack of an Australian theatre where it
could develop; and, probably, that is
partly the case ; out it also seems likely
that, influenced by fashions, he wrote too
often about subjects he thought it was
his duty to deal with—politics, the suffer-
ings of the poor, the toils of bush women
—and too seldom about the subjects in
which he took a genuine personal
delight; children, and the beauty of the
bush.
Australian Water-colors.
The N.S.W. National Art Gallery’s
exhibition of water-colors is of consider-
able historical interest, for it covers 110
years of Australian art, ranging from a
Conrad Martens, painted in 1836, to the
more recent works of living artists. An
introduction to the catalogue by Bernard
Smith, explaining the pictures, is also of
some interest, and deserves to be quoted
at length:
The earliest phase—that of colonial topog-
raphy in the eighteenth century manner —is not
represented. Some of its best' examples are to
be found in the William Dixson Gallery of the
Public Library of N.S.W.
This exhibition opens with two paintings by
Conrad Martens; the first, painted shortly after
he arrived in Sydney in 1835; the second,
painted two years before his death. Forty years
of productive life separate the two paintings.
The earlier—in its untiring search for detail
and an objective presentation—is related to
eighteenth-century topography, but the mood of
a romantic temperament is already apparent.
In his later painting the attention to detail is
still present, but it is subordinate to the mood:
the pictorial elements have become the servants
of a personal interpretation of nature. E. B.
Boulton’s painting, purchased by the trustees
in 1889, reveals that the influence of Conrad
Martens was still active four years after his
death.
Sir Osward Brierly’s “South Sea Whaling,”
painted in 1867, belongs to quite another phase
of nineteenth-century romanticism. In the ’six-
ties a world-wide vogue for the portrayal of
natural wonders and heroic exploits was felt in
Australia. In America the same style appears
in the works of Rierstadt and Church; indeed,
paintings of this kind may be seen as com-
mentaries of pioneer countries upon the grand
gestures of Turner’s brush and Ruskin’s pen.
Julian Ashton’s “A Solitary Ramble” must
be seen against the background of the four
preceding paintings in order that his marked
departure from the earlier academic methods
of painting may be assessed. In this painting
the treatment has become much freer; detail
is suppressed, the painter is searching, above
all, for a vision of sunlight, youth and vitality.
It is difficult today to appreciate what a revolu-
tion in vision, and consequently in painting
technique, such a painting as this one accom-
plished when first exhibited in the late ’eighties
and early ’nineties. In this regard Robert Atkin-
son’s landscape furnishes an interesting com-
parison with that of B. E. Minns. The sub-
jects are similar; but Atkinson, an English
painter who lived in Sydney from 1885 to 1889
—four of the most important years in the his-
tory of Australian art—painted broadly, with
large washes of pure color; Minns preferred
a palette that was much lower in key, and a
more traditional method of attack. Minns is
better known for his studies of aborigines.
The next group of paintings reveals the
steady transition from academic to impres-
sionist water-color methods. A. H. Fullwood’s
“Jervis Bay, Shoalhaven River,” may be con-
trasted with his “Chalk Quarry” painted many
years later. These paintings belong to the ’nine-
ties, and it was during this decade that a local
vision of landscape, a “genre” school of country
life and pioneering activity, was made manifest
in the works of a whole generation of artists.
In this exhibition the new landscape vision is
to be observed in the paintings of Julian Ash-
ton and Arthur Sfreeton. The painters of
country genre-allied in spirit to the writers
Joseph Furphy and Henry Lawson—are repre-
sented by Mahony’s “The Bullock Team”
The nature of water-color, as distinct from oil
painting, occupies the attention of artist’s during
this period; the portrayal of shadows changes
from, brown, through neutral greys to purples
and blues, often (as in Streeton’s “A Surveyor’s
Camp”) of a remarkable brilliancy. The flat
wash of color, undisturbed by the imposition
of detail, is gradually emerging. Even in'Lister’s
full-dress study of a Northern Tablelands scene,
the tonal key is everywhere higher than in the
days before the Impressionists.
In water-color landscape the new century
brought with it a gradual softening of contours
which culminated in the slender lyricism of
Hilder. Artists sought for the poetic in land-
scape, seeking for those intangible qualities
peculiar to a place or a time of the day. Com-
pare the soft rhythms of Heysen’s “Summer”
with the hard precision and clarity of Streeton s
paintings. The movement from objective state-
ment to atmospheric and personal phantasy is
apparent in Hilder’s own work, as a comparison
of the landscape of 1907 and that of 1916 will
indicate. At this time there was also a parallel
development in genre painting. The aesthetic
movement in England had brought a cosmo-
politan flavor into art, and this was reflected
subsequently in Australian painting. The phase
is to be seen most completely in the decorative
sumptuousness of the paintings of Blamire
Young and Norman Lindsay. Blamire Young’s
remarkable tour de force “Dry Weather” re-
veals his profound knowledge of water-cplor
technique. Granulated washes, skilfully con-
trolled color flotation, and his knowledge of
the physical properties of pigments are all
brought to the process of presenting a unique
vision of tableland countryside under the con-
ditions of drought.
The Impressionist tradition, devoid of phan-
tasy is reasserted in the paintings of Harold
Herbert. It is the impressionism of a later
generation. The firm contour, which had been
lost to most water-color painters of the first
decade of the century, returns during the
’twenties; as is to be seen here in the work of
Sir Lionel Lindsay, Hans Heysen and Maud
Sherwood. Color becomes more positive,
objective, at times even flamboyant. The deli-
cate nuances of a Hilder are still in favor, but
the practising water-colorists of the day are
concerning themselves with other problems.
A tendency to simplify and formulate becomes
apparent ...The tendencies apparent in the
water-colors of the ’twenties become matters of
first importance to the artists of the ’thirties.
Simplified statements in which design and a
feeling for the limitations of water-color as a
medium «occupy pride of place in the artist’s
approach. Paintings are replete with clear
washes and rhythmical contours, particularly
in the paintings of Rah Fizelle and Kenneth
Mac Queen. The topographical water-color re-
turns in a new guise, reminding us of the be-
ginnings of water-color in Australia. Here
we view it in distinct expressions—for topog-
raphy can be a highly personal art—in the work
of James Cook, Sidney Ure Smith and Sir
Lionel Lindsay. .... . . .. .
It is difficult and, indeed, undesirable to
generalise about the water-colors of the past
10 years. The topographical water-color con-
tinues to be painted, as does the simplified
d F orative statement. 1 here is the interest in
abstract and semi-abstract form, well repre-
sented here by “The Two Stones,” by John
D. Moore, and there is, perhaps, to be seen
IH 0 paintin B s of Enid Cambridge and Frank
McNamara still another change of attitude that
has a certain affinity of mood, but in a modern
idiom, with water-colors being painted at the
beginning of the century.
Obviously the introduction makes some
gentle approach to a critical attitude. And
in this age of comic-strips some literate
criticism on art is badly needed. That
it may, in many respects, be wrong is
not important. At least it is clearly
written, documented, and gives some ex-
planation of tendencies in comprehen-
sible language
The main fault is a kind of deliberate
playing down of great work, a supposi-
tion, half-expressed, that water-colors are,
men, , thdr TtZ
dfmate That as it Tere evolv ng
To read Tolstoy’s^ ’ War and Peace and
X isl melat\oTrip°erie J nc m e e fof at
o , g .. 15 a melancholy experience tor an
artistic evolutionist, for they were both,
>“ s^™ r -“ rr f s PO“ den t s ■ Th®
difference lay m the fact that one was an
artist, the other-a war-corresponden .
And the analogy may be shitted to art.
Interesting as the differences of technique
may be, and however striking their
apparent influence, glancing quickly from
Martens to Streeton (they appear to be
painting m two different countries), the
fact remains that it is the artist himseif
that makes, or mars, the picture. That
we have great periods, and poor ones,
without any appreciable chronological
climb. As is obvious when one inspects
The Two Stones, a very sorry effort at
or other, painted m 1944.
The evolutionary argument receives
some support, superficially, from Brierly s
South Sea Whaling. Here, mdubit-
ably, is seen the heroic aspect of roman-
ticism, carried somewhat to excess. Yet
the work and others like it have a fresh-
ness and a vigor which appeal to the
imagination. A little of that spirit in the
work of contemporary “war” artists would
redeem their work from flat mediocrity
and its corollary, depressing sensation-
alism.
The vital link between literature and
painting is referred to in the comparison
of Mahony to Lawson and Furphy. This
comparison, less than just to the writers.
is superficially apt. Yet an analysis of
Lawson’s work would serve to refute the
theory. He wrote about the bush, senti-
mentally often, and sometimes badly. The
field from which he drew his characters
was narrow, and in his city characters he
imitated Dickens, with deliberate intent
to induce tears. Yet, despite these faults,
he had something, a spark of humor, a
gift of characterisation, a touch of genius
which made him independent of school
and place.
The reference to the “decorative sump-
tuousness” of the paintings of Blamire
Young and Norman Lindsay is interest-
ing as an illustration of this tendency.
“Sumptuous?”— true enough, but “deco-
rative ’ carries the hint of a sneer in it.
Yet nothing can be more false than to
apply certain superficial aspects of an
artist’s work—a mastery of a certain tech-
nique, for instance—and regard that as
the sum total of his work, damning the
rest with faint praise and ignoring those
other, final values, beauty, symmetry,
vision, which make the ultimate differ-
ence between an artist and an accom-
plished practitioner.
In this regard Blamire Young’s “Dry
Weather” is important, for he has suc-
ceeded in showing Australian country in
drought, precisely the effect sought by a
“modern,” Russell Drysdale, in oils. In
“Dry Weather” the hills are bald —bare
—with a thin stubble of timber running
along the wrinkled valleys. The sky is
a pale mist, the color a summer sky
turns when cloud is lightly spread across
it in a single tenuous wash. Through this
a single patch of sky peeps, a bright blaz-
ing blue. The hills are Australian hills,
burnt dry by summer, the patch of bright
blue is startling in its emphasis—natural,
yet a masterstroke of restraint. And,
apart from the picture’s fidelity, it is
beautiful.
Norman Lindsay is represented by
“Merchant of Robes” (signed and dated
1922), “Argument in Micomicon” (1923),
“The Paddler” (1916) and “Porto Bello”
(1907). They all have beauty, and they
all vary. In the “Merchant of . Robes”
it is the beauty of form, accentuated by
the filmy texture of the robes ; “Argu-
ment in Micomicon” has this, too, but
more variety in character, suggesting the
artist’s debt to literature rather than to
any specific school of art; and “The
Paddler” is charming and gay, a study
of a girl paddling in a stream. Any one
of the paintings could be taken as an illus-
tration of the artist’s characteristics, but
the earliest, “Porto Bello,” will serve as
well as any.
Here there is less color, less “sumptu-
ousness,” but the whole is an essay in
composition. In the shadows of a court-
yard stand the pirates, amongst them a
dim tangle of struggling figures. Within
the rim of light are women, kneeling or
squatting. Natural positions, but not
usually dignified ones. In the picture,
however, they are at once natural, beau-
tiful and dramatic. The light-and-shade,
that of hard sunshine and cool shadows,
is repeated in the women, the negress and
the Spaniard. And the beauty of the white
woman is translated into a dramatic ten-
sity of expression. Black eyes wide with
fear and expectancy, and, yes, interest
and curiosity. It would be necessary to
go to poetry, the poetry of Browning, to
find such a pithiness of drama and
emotion.
Here again we might return to the
introduction: “It is difficult and, indeed,
undesirable to generalise about the water-
colors of the last ten years....” Yet
that must be done, if any comparison is
to be made, any standards set. Streeton
and Hey sen are dismissed in a line (“Com-
pare the soft rhythms of Heysen’s
‘Summer’ with the hard precision and
clarity of Streeton’s paintings”); but the
important thing is that Heysen and
Streeton belong to the grand school of
Australian painting. Heysen’s trees are
as nearly inimitable as any work of art
can be, and his “Red Gums of the Far
North” (1931) is one of the first attempts
to portray the bright beauty of the Centre.
He paved the way, and dozens fol-
lowed, but, apart from Namatjira, all they
succeeded in doing was piling up masses
of exotic color.
And so with Streeton, “hard precision
and clarity” would seem inadequate. As
much might be said of Howard Ashton’s
work, whose precision is that of a rigid
technique, his clarity the pinpointing of
a limited vision. But Streeton has the
sweep, the clarity, the total effect of Aus-
tralian sunlight, native tree and hill and
sky.
In the "conclusion of the official sum-
mary it would seem that some of the
moderns have been too kindly treated.
Sidney Ure Smith’s “The Bridge from
Pott’s Point” is an uninspiring piece of
draughtsmanship that gives the impres-
sion that the marks of the rule and the
calipers are still on it.
The exhibition, like Bernard Smith’s in-
troduction, is limited. Neither John
Eldershaw nor Margaret Coen, for in-
stance, is either represented or mentioned,
though the Gallery holds samples of their
work. Indeed, current Gallery policy is
increasingly making it necessary for any-
body who wishes to survey the full
achievement of Australian water-color to
visit Armidale (N.S.W.), where Mr.
Howard Hinton’s magnificent collection
is displayed. Mr. Hinton, incidentally,
presented to the N. S. Wales Gallery the
most important of the water-colors it is
exhibiting—the Norman Lindsays and
the Hilders.
J. F.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW'
7/
jQjC
gsa
,n
a-**'
a
ioc*
*AS«* ?
* MPM
ft X-
1 '''
\0 yflOM
fiMrtZjrn
H
kj 1
WfiHun
ei
il */* /C
I'/:
*uv^*ar
Uk
MR ANDRf
C
IP
e
VASHT a wau’
'1
A G
U
y^
AI
c$0& *
C ?M« 7
*il:.
BiiiiM k % a.
Will HOP SOlVt YOUR IVIRYDAY KOMI PROBLtMS/
Consult our Handyman, Mr. Andrew Waugh, about any of your
home difficulties. He will be found on our Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street, next to the Paints Department, and is available during
Business Hours. We offer you his valuable assistance as a free
&
\
l\
service.
LISTED TO STATION 2GB EACH
SUNDAY MORNING AT 10.15 A.M.
Many of those odd jobs around the home
will become simple if you listen to Mr.
Waugh's weekly chats over Station 2GB
— remember each Sunday at 10.15 a.m.
%>
\:
J
-4
»\V0A
sm.
OJOlI;
nrri
mil
rmt
I MM
ill
mm
/
THE SENIOR STORE
THLIEPHONE: M240i ©AY AND NIGHT;
BOX 2712C, G.P.O., SYDNEY


No. 2 of a senes
+ ST. ETIENNE
French <JMousquetoon
highly ornamented example of
Ylth Century Craftsmanship
</>
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OP AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
US 1011
Delicately inlaid with precious metals, mother-of-pearl
and ivory, this highly ornamented double wheel-lock
Mousquetoon typifies the peak of artistry reached by
17th Century Parisian gunmakers.
<( However, the modern sporting gun designs emphasize performanm
rather than ornate beauty, and to the experienced sportsman of today,
LCL sporting ammunition is as familiar as the weapon be uses.
VffflHlHe
‘
lH H***
RANGE
HISTORY
soon!
THIS IS THE NEW FORD V 8 SEDAN . . .
DIGGER, ROOMIER, WITH A VELVET-SMOOTH RIDE
It is entirely different from the car you knew
pre-war ... it is bigger, roomier, and longer.
Its new, s’mooth flowing lines and luxurious
interiors . . ► its mechanical improvements
and a ride that
is as smooth as
velvet more
than justify
our promise
to give you a bigger, better and more
luxurious Ford.
This new V 8 Sedan is 2 inches longer in
wheelbase, 6 inches wider in the front seat,
and 4 V<i inches wider in the rear; it has
2 inches more headroom and the total area
of safety glass has been increased by 23%.
The war-proved V 8 engine is cooler, cleaner,
more accessible and more economical.
IHIM’S &
eOH®
:J h***
'V'
MERCURY
PREFECT 10 H.P.
ANGLIA 8 H.P.
8 H.P., 10 H.P., FORD VB,
MERCURY UTILITIES
TRUCKS 1-5 TONS, TRUCK-TYPE
UTILITIES 12-14 CWT., 15-18 CWT.
PLACE YOUR ORDER NOW
WITH YOUR LOCAL DISTRIBUTOR OR DEALER
Ford Motor Compony of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc, in Vic.). Reg. Office’ Vic FV.3-27
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Offers for set of Phil May Annuals
supplementary “Fifty Unpublished Sketches
(17 volumes), also catalogues of both Bulls m
sales; and “The Parson and the Painter.
—3768. „ ..
To buy Tamburlaine, by Marlowe, p y8™ al *°"}
by Shaw. The Circle, by Maugham,
the Native, by Hardy, and Lord Jim. by Con
rad.—3769.
Information Sought.
Is it correct for the chairman of a
to accept an unlimited number of ame nd ™ e ”j*
to a given motion before proceeding to obtain
a vote from the meeting ? ... , nmn p
The amendment may be moved by ,
speaking on the motion and must be seconoe
before the chairman can permit furfhcr
cussion. Then discussion on the point raisea
by the amendment proceeds (it must not
a direct negative), but no fresh matter can be
introduced. The chairman then reads out me
original motion, and puts the amendment
the vote. If this amendment is defeated, me
chairman asks for further amendments ana
goes through the same procedure. H
amendment is carried it becomes the mobo
and is put. After that no further amendments
can be put before the meeting. .
* * * * .
Biographical details of Erich Marta Re-
m Bum Westphalia in 1897, served with the
German Army in 1914-18, lived in Switzerland
from 1929 to 1939, when he went to U.S.A.
and became a naturalised American citizen.
His publications include All Quiet on the
Western Front (1929), The Road Back i 1931),
Three Comrades (1937) and Flotsam (1941).
» ♦ ♦ *
Information about the R.A*A.F . rank of
commissioned warrant officer ?
These officers were commissioned from me
ranks for such duties as may be detailed, and
have the same privileges as other commissioned
ranks. Warrant officer is the highest non-
commissioned rank in the service.
• ♦ * *
A method of removing underlying bone
structure from tortoise shell ? Also a method
of polishing the shell ?
Immerse the shell in boiling water. Ihe
bones will then come away and the shell will
soften. When removed the shell will harden,
and it may then be polished with linseed oil.
Very little oil is needed, and it is applied with
a soft brush, thus ensuring that the oil gets
into the crevices. Rub the shell with the palm
of the hand until all the oil has disappeared
and the shell feels warm and looks shiny.
* * ♦ ♦ •
A method of killing weeds in onions?
As onion seed usually germinates slowly
the first spraying should be carried out before
the onion seedlings emerge from below ground
level, while the second spraying should take
place after the onion seedlings have become
well established. The first spray i consists of
13 gallons of commercial sulphuric acid mixed
with 87 galls, water. It is also necessary to
use a wetting agent of the sulphonated oil type
at the rate of a half pint to each 100 galls,
spray mixture. For the second spraying, the
strength will depend upon the nature of the
weeds present, and it may be varied between
6j galls, of sulphuric acid to 100 galls, spray
and 10 galls, of acid to 100 galls, spray.
Spraying, which is carried out on a warm,
sunny day and should not be attempted when
the plants are covered with rain or dew, should
be done with spray equipment in which the
working parts are either made from acid-resist-
ing materials or have a protective coating such
as lead. As the acid will rot clothing and
leather, it is advisable for the operator to
wear rubber boots, coat and gloves, smear the
face with vaseline, and if it is windy to use
goggles. To mix half the water required
should be placed in a wooden barrel and then
the full amount of sulphuric acid should be
poured in a thin stream into the water. The
wetting agent can then be added and the whole
made up to the total volume by the addition
of more water. Under no Circumstances should
the water be poured into the acid. Approxi-
mately 100 gallons of spray mixture will be
required per acre.
* * * *
How to silverplate metal surfaces without
electrical current?
Mix silver chloride seven parts, cream of
tartar 14 parts, sodium chloride (table salt) 21
parts, water sufficient to form a paste. Protect
the mixture from light to prevent the reduction
of the silver salt. For use, spread the paste
upon the surface of the metal and allow to
dry. After a few hours rinse with acidulated
water, then immerse in a solution of potassium
cyanide (very poisonous) and wash again. If
a heavier plating is required, repeat the process.
Brief Answers.
A.S.H.: The formula is one commonly used
in connection with the striking of cuttings, and
has not been tried for the stimulation of seed-
lings (which should develop if protected). As
your seedlings are two feet high they are ready
to be budded D.B.: Know of no permanent
address of the circus Ontario: You come
within the definition of a “resident in Aus-
tralia,” and are therefore assessable on all in-
come earned either inside or outside thjs
country. Your salary as a civilian employee
of the U.S. Army is not exempt under the Act,
and, unless such income is liable to income tax
in the country from which it was derived and
you are able to satisfy the Commissioner that
such tax has been or will be paid, you are liable
to Federal Income Tax....F.F.: Britain had
700 Spitfires and Hurricanes after Dunkirk
WJE.: Contact Cinesound Productions Pty.,
Ltd Spreyton: Contact the Controller of
Customs F.W.B.: Accumulator bank for
110 volts is necessary for a good job. Make
of engine and other data are needed before
more information can be given.... R.S.: The
Tasmanian blue gum is found at sea level in
Tasmania, and has been cultivated in coastal,
tableland and western slope N.S.W. districts.
Good soil with rainfall of 40in. or over is re-
quired for its development. The timber is re-
garded as only moderately useful and makes
good firewood... .G.W.T.: Can trace no such
society HJ.C.; Sir James Jeans’s Physics
and Philosophy has a chapter on the subject.


CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
per item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Tic.
STOPvoupRupture
Worries/
Mark ® Location
at VQUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
bright horizons, happy days
Serving the Allied Cause throughout the War, the
K.P.M. and other principal Netherlands Shipping Lines
lost 164 vessels as a result of enemy action. This was
almost half of their combined fleets.
Happily, that is all in the past. The day should not
be far distant when “Great White
Yachts” of the K.P.M. Line will be
'thronged again with happy travellers
bound for the glamorous islands of
the Netherlands Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated In
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD SYDNEY
co mom ok your oar
FOR RFTFFR'WIHFFRiRFRFORMARBF
s •
i
/
/
/
/ /,
/
/
y
■m
-
•I
Win ter pro of with
Mohiloil
u
m
O
-*3R
a
&
i
m
IF
■m
VACUUM
ULPJLO.M 0 n COMPANY PTY. L.ID;
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the SIS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, - MS, should be addressed to
the Editor. f
K.8.C.: Keep ’em coming, but please double-
space your typing R.T.: Good idea; but
you’ve hardly made a poem of it J.H.S.:
Promising if you’re young; but beware of
crediting trees with human emotions....
G.M.F.: “I have never composed poetry but
one day, while sitting musing, an idea came
into my head so I wrote it down. I had no
idea what I was writing about nntil I had
finished it.” In the circumstances you didn’t
do badly... .F.C.: “Why is a kiss like a taste
of wine?” Because it excites strange behavior
and stranger poetry M.L.T.: The feeling’s
there; but so are the cliches, such as “bush
reigned supreme” and “heralded” L.P.F.:
You left out the roses round the door, and
it is customary for the girl at the gate to have
golden hair... .D.8.0’C.: Pleasantly wicked,
but it’s an old story R.A.McC.: Thin
A.A.: Too much up in the clouds this time.
D.B.H.: Your metre limps and the atmo-
sphere isn’t Australian 1.N.: Both conven-
tional W.L.: Whitman and water N.G.:
N.b.g A.E.C.; Boil it down to eight lines
for “Smoke-oh” and borrow a typewriter
R.V.: Write simply and naturally and stop
talking about “gilt gee-gaws”... .W.G.H.:
Come in and guide the young;
... .L.A.8.: O. Henry was there before you.
I.McD.: Are you serious? J.F.:
Humor pointless; story formless A.K.M.:
Length of story doesn’t matter; it’s the charac-
terisation that counts H.D.: “Algernon was
a cissy, a cissy cissy at that.” Send him out
info the backblocks for a few years D.A.F.:
“Dixon had long frizzy hair, buck teeth
and artistic appreciation hanging all over his
face.” Man or beast? J. 8.: Wordy and
clumsy Bill M.: We like beer, too, but
don’t consider it worth a 10,000-words appreci-
ative essay C.S.: “Saltbush Sam was a
queer character.’? So was every other character
in that opus... .B.L.M. (N.Z.): Have you ever
heard people talk like that? P.M.: “Punter’s
Pie” had nothing in it A.L.0.: Visualise
your characters, make them walk, talk, feel;
don’t dismiss them with a few words of shadowy
description T.F.: And the same goes for
you A.N.: Frothy B.O.: Try a daily.
E.M.D.: Sentimental and archaic
P.McM.: “This is, in my opinion, the best story
I’ve ever written.” It’s the worst we’ve ever
read L.R.H.: Saroyan and water D.S.:
Aha, the chauffeur who turns out'to be an earl.
....W.K.L.; Hack stuff J.C.: Come again.
V.B.: Wicked sirens and sleek gigolos are
locked in the office dungeon K.O’C.: Your
sea stories have a Circular Quay rather than
a Seven Seas flavor U.W.: Beg, borrow or
steal a typewriter L.P.: No K.R.; What,
another prospector who murders his mate?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.H.S.: A visit to the Zoo should re-
fresh your memory M.F.; B. E. Minns first
put that gag into circulation R.R.: Find a
billabong and drown your dismal swagman
F.W.: The Bulletin’s oldest inhabitant heard
the jest when a boy M.T.: Yes, perhaps it
is a bandicoot, but don’t agree that the other
object is a man G.H.J.: An old Stiffy and
Mo Tivoli wheeze R.C.: Still waiting to
hear what Jacky has to say about the rainbow.
A.B.: Surely that drunk is not still gazing
at a hairbrush and declaring that he needs a
shave G.M.: Remember having run across
that barber in a butcher’s apron before
R. : Same applies to your drunk doing a
tight-rope act on a telephone wire A.C.D.:
Stick to noughts and crosses R.F.: The
catacombs at 252 George-street are choked with
fat men who can’t catch a train on time
W.H.: Religious Editor spent an informative
half hour with cursing parrot.,. .J.D.: Yes
yes, you can draw a mushroom 8.8. V Jokes
about mental defectives are not funny
S. It wasn’t worth all the midnight oil
you spent on it....R.M.: You might as well
turn the game m....P.W.; Not in the market
for that atrocity....L.J.B.: Muddy drawing,
mouldy gag.
What I’d say to cricketers I’d say to youthful
lovers—
Watch carefully the bowling in the first few chancy
overs.
A googlie softly comes along, you hit out, and you’re
caught.
Simply because you didn’t start the innings as you
ought;
The flight and swerve and twistiness of that most
tempting lob
Have left you handicapped in life because you’ve
got a blob.
You wouldn’t “court a farm” unless you thought
good soil was there,
So first of all be sure the lass is true as she is
fair;
And then again it’s only right to take a little
pains
To ascertain that what you’ve got has also got
some brains;
Maybe there is a peanut where a head should surely
be ;
And like a fool you’ve caught a fool and done it
foolishly.
Remember that as years go by she’ll grow more
like her mother—
A glance at that old lady may perhaps save lots
of bother.
And furthermore I’d whisper low, without at all
being funny.
It’s just as well to play about amongst a little
money.
And now I strike the final note that I’ll conclude
this rhyme at.
It’s only sensible to see she’s got a pleasant climate;
You don’t want Tropic Storms, nor yet too much
of Frozen North;
You don’t want sunny smiles displaced by fits of
sullen wrath ;
And yet a proper temper oft prevents life being
tame —
The most delightful climate is not one that stays
the same.
You don’t want constant sweetness when it’s growing
fat and lazy,
When sugary placidity would drive a parson crazy;
When sunniness comes after,frost the sweetest flowers
spring.
And after lovers’ quarrels lovers love like anything.
Lastly, when you have made your choice, stand by
her, thick and thin.
For if you feel you can’t do that you’d better not
begin ;
She may grow weary, old and worn, but Nature,
ever kind.
As folk who love lose loveliness, makes them a
little blind.


mm m i m mm
r m
m
i sci
ill
IP
sa
VUV
. 35
1. 1
■ wi
4m: W.!''/ fa
r
tr~
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
TOO CU
COMFOR
The owners of a building containing two lilts recently signed a Waygood-
Otis Maintenance Contract. Our maintenance engineers then made a
thorough inspection of the lifts and were amazed to find that the two dowel
pins which hold the worm to the worm shaft of one machine had sheared
off. One pin was lying on the bottom of the gear case and the holding
power of the other pin—although still in place—was declining rapidly.
The machine was shut down immediately and repairs were effected , . .
thanks to the introduction of Waygood-Otis Maintenance, a highly
dange'rous condition was corrected in the nick of time.
WAYCOOD-OTIS MAINTENANCE OFFERS
S*" [T] One single responsibility OURS for peak lift and escalator
performance.
QjJ Regular routine inspection—DAY AND NIGHT SERVlCE—throughout
the year.
1W [jf] Replacement of all wearing parts with genuine Waygood-Otis
components.
SAT jjfj A flat monthly, all-inclusive service charge for consistent budgeting.
Telephone your nearest Waygood-Otis office or write for details.
No obligation, of course.
jYJ The elimination or considerable reduction of inconvenient shut-down
periods.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. INCORPORAT ED IN
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE .. ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART .
VICTORIA
NEWCASTLE
VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION
J 5"
THE WORLD'S MOST
SUCCESSFUL LIGHT
CAR, with new
comfort, added
power, increased
Fuel Economy
plus amazing
performance!
Your distributor will give you full details!
JOHN McGKATH, LTD.
lie CASTLEREAGH BT., SYDNEY. (Temporary Address.)
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD., 222 Exhibition St., MELBOURNE.
JOHN McGKATH, LTD. .. 324-340 Wickham
i', SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., 900 Hay St., PERTH.
! I). L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY., LTD., Cr. York & St. 'Jok? 8 Sts> »
M
A PRODUCT OF SHE ROUTES CROUP
•r • ' ’ - ••. . . -v' •» w
Bootes Group
Regional
Representative:
472 Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
■
» ' /'
ass
srss
igs*
A - , S^>-sS£f§sallisls
*SSB
Ks
1 I-
■ijl% m,
; i
sSB
I
\ \
\
mmm
% “Our knowledge is tbe amassed thought and experience oi
innumerable minds. <—Emerson.
A salient definition of knowledge in
principle, and especially true of the
particular knowledge resulting from
our seventy-five years experience in
the design and development of steam
generating equipment.
The history of Babcock & Wilcox
is largely the story of the successive
generations of engineers, metal-
lurgists, chemists and research
workers in Babcock factories and
laboratories throughout the world
whose co-ordinated efforts have pro-
duced the modern high temperature
and pressure boiler and established
the leadership of Babcock & Wilcox
in the field of thermal engineering.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in ail States.
Steam users in Australia may reap
the benefit of the synthesised know-
ledge of these ' innumerable minds
by seeking the freely-rendered advice
of Babcock engineers in every State
on all matters relating W steam in
industry.
Looking to to-morrow, we al Bnhrnrl, &
Wilcox are planning lo pul lo use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
lo ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
lo expand our Australian activities . . .
work lo common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
sd


The Chain
By John Fountain
TOM shivered, and thought with a
passionate vividness of food, hot
steaming dishes and crackling fires.
Gloved, and with a balaclava hiding
most of his face, and a scarf wound
round that, he was still cold. He stamped,
and, his greatcoat vast and bulky in the
misty light, he looked like a miserable bear,
wearily practising a disillusioned dance.
The section slept together, with the tar-
paulin they had taken from the aban-
doned truck wrapped tightly around them.
Tom envied them their warmth, and the
security of sleep. But their defenceless-
ness and his responsibility were intolerable
burdens.
He growled suddenly, deep down in his
throat, an ursine, primitive sound. In the
still night it was loud, like an exclamation.
It was one of the odd sounds that issue,
unbidden, from the human frame hard
pressed by fatigue and tautened by fear.
Then he heard it, the merest whisper of
a rustle.
Slowly, almost painfully, he advanced
upon it. Every movement was a matter
for intense deliberation and strained
execution. I must use the bayonet, he
kept thinking, the bayonet... A shot
might be fatal to him and the uncon-
scious lives in the still cocoon of the
section, isolated as they were in the deep
hills of Greece,
He moved forward with infinite care,
keyed to the highest pitch, poised and
strung to kill, yet restrained by a cold
patience. He gripped the rifle harder
and bared his teeth in a nervous snarl.
Coldly and blandly the moon cleared
the clouds and the whole gorge was white.
And there, at his feet almost, was the
author of the noise. A small dead twig,
gently fluttering.
For a moment he was dizzy, his face
wet and his hands trembling. The forked
mountain soared above him, revealing
now its gleaming acres of snow.
He pulled himself up sharply. A little
more of that and he would be like the
wretched Greek at Larissa. He and Alec
were leaning against a truck, idly watch-
ing the flowing crowds, Greeks and
Tommies and Kiwis and Australians,
with the red armbands of divisional pro-
vosts everywhere, when the Greek shot
through the mass on the sidewalk like a
small torpedo. Ragged and filthy from
months in the hills, hairy head down and
arms madly flailing, he landed in the
roadway with a bound and ran across the
crossing screaming, dodging past the
M.P. on point duty, weaving in and out
among the ponderous convoys, head
thrown back now with fatigue and voice
thin. He disappeared behind a Bren-
carrier, moving rapidly, with short,
scuttling steps. Maddened, it seemed, by
the distant thunder of guns.
They stared after him, shocked.
“Poor bastard!” Alec had said.
When he came to think about it, that
was the only really sympathetic remark
he had heard from Alec, since they left
Australia.
Australia, he thought, how far
away it was! What a swashbuckling
young lout he had been six months be-
fore, clattering down the streets on final
leave in brand-new shining red boots ;
drinking with everyone in the township,
modestly accepting the fact that he was
the hero everyone imagined him to be.
If he had had any sense he would be
there now. He should have known him-
self better, for he had been afraid before.
The night he fought Arthur, for instance.
It had all started when Joe Gordon
made some remark about his red hair.
They fought, six times in two days, and
after that at least once a week. It was
taken for granted he would take up box-
ing, and he did, and year by year, as the
giants of the past kept dropping out, like
links in a chain each victory brought new
responsibility. Till at last there were only
himself and Arthur and he had to enter
the tournament or everyone in the school
would have known of his fear.
The last round was vivid in his mind.
More real than the frosty-topped trees
that sparkled dimly around him. Arthur
was hitting him, lefts and rights in furious
sequence, rocking his head so that all he
could see was a single blurred glove with
flashes of Arthur’s intent face behind it.
Then, unexpectedly, everything was
clear, as though he were viewing the scene
from some tranquil eminence.
He absorbed every detail, the anxious
face of the referee, the solemn face of
the Head, the silent ring of boys and the
maids, sitting apart, silly and fluttering.
He remembered feeling a faint annoyance
sWth them for being there at all, but the
centre of the picture was Arthur, lank
hair streaming over his forehead, dark
eyes glinting in concentration and limber
shoulders writhing and glistening with
sweat. With an absolute psychic cer-
tainty he knew where each of Arthur’s
blows would land, but he made no effort
to hinder them. His whole being was
absorbed in the fascinating, the thrilling
effort of discovering where this had all
happened before, and what significance it
held. He supposed he must have con-
tinued fighting. But mentally he seemed
to stop, to wrestle with his private prob-
lem. It was all clear in his mind, except
for one thing, one link, and the fight it-
self was unimportant, the rain of blows
nothing—the merest rain. Then, without
any effort at all, he felled Arthur with a
single blow, and the crowd cheered.
Arthur had won the fight, but by a
narrow margin. They had laughed about
it together later under the showers. And
Arthur had never loomed so large again.
But the phantasy had continued to irf-
trigue him. There was a psychological
reason, perhaps: or was there? His faith
in clearcut definitions had lessened of
late. Perhaps it was a vision of truth.
Why had he joined the Army at all?
Wasn’t it the same kind of silly bend-
ing to the desires of others that had
made him enter boxing tournaments? Or
rather the shaping of his actions to the
pattern of a picture others had of him.
Tom, with his long strong limbs, and his
broad strong back, and his red hair, who
was keen on sport, would be sure to en-
list. A false picture.
Tom was afraid now with a horrible,
craven loose-lipped fear that turned his
innards to water. Even now, in the shak-
ing depths of his degradation, he had
time to analyse his other fear, that of
minutes before, and feel a fleeting per-
verted kind of contempt for it. It had
been only a weak thing beside the terror
which now consumed him, for it had
been physical and this —this was a sick-
ness of the spirit. And his courage, which
had risen to meet it, was no courage, only
the daring of a cornered rat.
He prayed without moving his lips and
with open eyes. With childlike, naive
logic he decided not to pray that he would
be spared on the coming day. That, he
thought, would be a vain prayer, for
many men would desire it. Instead, he
prayed that he should be given strength,
bargaining, I will do this, I will not do
that ... Only give me strength, courage,
don’t let me run like the Greek at
Larissa.
He walked over and shook Alec by the
shoulder.
T N the morning the world was fair and
1 glittering, white valley stretching to
white peaks and small trees shaking fra-,
gile icicles at the sun. And over all the
blue curve of a glowing cloudless sky.
“There’s a patrol out,” Barney said.
“A strong one. Coming this way,”
Red hair tousled by sleep, Tom stared at
the soldier. “God!” he thought. “He’s been
out on a reconnaissance. On his own.”
“From the village?” asked Alec.
“Yair.”
Alec stared into the distance, where the
village was hidden by interlocking hills.
“We’ll have a crack at the village. It’s
the only way through to the coast. There
can’t be many Jerries left there now.”
Tom hoped nobody noticed his trem-
bling lips.
The village was on the far side of a
small brown stream, a double row of low
houses with outbuildings shambling away
towards a screen of trees. So small a
place, Tom was thinking, and so
important,..
“We’d better cross further down,” Alec
said. “Get the shelter of those trees.”
Tom nodded dumbly. He moved with
a kind of weary grace, like a tired beast
of prey. Altogether, there was something
formidable and startling about him in
the bright daylight, soiled webbing white
against the dark khaki of his long limp
greatcoat, trousers ragged and mud-
stained, rifle slung: his hair hung below
his tinhat in shaggy flakes, a rich red,
gay and aggressive, with gold lights, and
darker than the stubble that bristled above
his wide mouth and exaggerated the
thrust of his jaw; with his greyish-
green eyes sunken and bloodshot, and
narrowed beneath the red angle of a
scowl, he looked as accidental to the
peaceful valley as any beast of prey. A
lean bedraggled wolf come down from
the icy hills.
But everything was so peaceful it was
unreal. Soft-grey smoke was lifting in
the clear air from the edge of the village,
straight as any arrow and then dark at
its drifting tip. Tom walked slowly,
sauntering almost, as though he were
walking past the kennels at home: sharp
wopd gables, triangles with rusting corru-
gated iron nailed over them and cut-
down half-circles of tanks, and the dogs,
red, black-and-tan and black sheep dogs,
and spindly yellow and brindle kangaroo
dogs, and one stumpy terrier, all jang-
ling and tugging at their chains and bark-
ing at him, wistfully, clamoring, as he
pushed back the bent gate and walked
into the shearing-shed paddock, the reins
of a bridle dangling in the dewy grass
and the old blue cattle dog pacing soberly
behind him. And the chestnut mare, as
likely as not, foxing behind a clump of
tall thistles.
This was the village, no possible doubt
about it. But it didn’t seem plausible,
somehow, on a bright blue day. Blue, and
green, and soft greyish-blue smoke, and
a ring of high white mountains, like
sleeping giants. There was a unique kind
of horror about the tranquillity of the
valley and its unreality. The sky was too
blue, the mountains a dazzling, unnatural
white. Somewhere amongst them was a
patrol of the enemy. And in the village,
too —so close now —there would be Ger-
mans ; not, perhaps, too many.
The smooth valley and the straight
pillar of smoke from, a kitchen fire; the
hidden enemy... Tom was in a kind of
daze, throat constricted and eyes smart-
ing. The blank grey face of a barn was
growing plainer, great coarse-grained
planks, slabs and crude joins
He heard a rapid roll of firing,
machine-guns, quite close, and fell so
quickly the impact hurt. He was still
alive. He buried one side of his face in
the mud, cohering a moment against its
wetness. Then he peered up, cautiously.
A neighboring loft sheltered machine-
guns, and over to his left, behind a barri-
cade on the roadway, were more, a real
nest of them. From some spot unidenti-
fied there came the deeper, splintering
cough of the mortars. Here we are, he
thought desperately, pinned down. The
vicious cross-fire that sent the mud
plopping and twirling,
Ten yards away was good cover, a
broken wall. Alec had seen it, went past
him at a stumbling run. Tom followed,
shooting forward like a sprinter out of
the holes, arms criss-crossing rapidly to
keep his balance. The rifle, so heavy on
the other side of the stream, was light as
a dry stick now.
The column of smoke was still rising,
He blinked at it, amazed at its in-
difference. Something was rubbing
against his knee, and he twisted his head
to look at it. It was his knee that was
moving, making si;,e-saw twitching
motions in time to the burets of firing,
While he watched they ceased,
Then he saw the chain, a few links,
like fragments of a trace chain, old and
red with rust,
He reached out his hand and fingered it,
half-unconsciously, like a child fascinated
by the clink of metal and the marvel of
fluid-connected links. He felt something
stirring in the dark, seldom-used coils of
his mind. A trace-chain... The rich
dark soil neatly upturning, and the team
moving smoothly and easily, feathered
fetlocks clogged with earth, hides dark
and metal glinting in the sun,
Machine-gun rounds were chipping a
fine powder away from the worn grey
stones in the broken wall. Through a gap
Tom caught a fleeting glimpse of a figure
against the doorway, green-and-brown
camouflaged jacket, helmet, streaks of
black and green and brown. He pulled
the trigger and—with a joy that surprised
him—saw the figure lurch and fall. His
brain was ice-clear now, the whole scene
was fitting into a pattern. A diversion
to the left and then a dash for the barn,
Covering fire. A few yards away Barney
was dead, mouth gaping and ugly. A
pity, but they would manage. He
crawled away a little, past the chain. A
strange, familiar thing to find in a battle.
UNCLE TED’S HEART-THROBS
BY RODERICK FINLAYSON
THEY sit by the table after supper,
The cups and plates are pushed
aside. Uncle Ted is enjoying his last
smoke before turning in. Jake has
been looking idly through the illustrated
weekly paper, but now seems mostly lost
in thought.
The warm yellow light of the oil lamp
makes the room cosier than it is in day-
time. The light lies in a nice pool over
the table and leaves warm shadows to
cover the bareness and untidiness of the
rest of the place. The lamp flame scarcely
flutters in a fitful night breeze, and the
shadows waver companionably on the
walls. The night is* calm and quiet, but
not silent,
Outside, crickets are chirping; occasion-
ally, far away, there is the lonely cry of
a mopoke. Inside, the kettle is singing
cheerily on the hob. On nights like this
Jake like to lie awhile awake after turn-
ing in, snuggled in his blanket, peeping at
the red embers of the fire, listening to all
the quiet sounds of the autumn night.
This evening it looks as though Uncle
Ted doesn’t mean to talk before bedtime,
and now Jake has given over all pretence
of turning the pages of the paper. He
looks at Uncle Ted a while, and then
says in a quiet, thoughtful way “Why
didn’t you get married, Uncle Ted?”
Uncle Ted turns to look at the boy,
surprised out of his own thoughts.
“Why should I have got married?” is
all he can think to say.
“Well, most men do, don’t they?”
“The bigger fools they,” says Uncle
Ted, recovering himself and shirking
archly as if he’s keeping some choice
“Didn’t you ever want to?” Jake per-
sists. “Didn’t you ever meet anyone you
sort of felt?”-
• d i V j ad th® P* ck 9
gir -\ V nc e , Ted says ’ Stl Wlth 1S Se
satisfied smile. ,
“In fact ”he says they were always
P®f*® ru *S ™ e , f did have a J°h* „
» dldnt TT yo l l !i k ® ,1
“Ah” says Uncle Ted. They were all
what you would call real peaches, I tell
you.
“Well?” Jake prompts him. .
Having got over his at
the boy’s questions Uncle Ted, now thor-
oughly enjoying himself, settles down
with his pipe.
u HT HERE was one girl called Gertie,”
1 he begins reminiscently. “She
had sort of yellow hair and big
blue eyes and a nice quiet voice,
well mannered you’d call her, a real
nice girl you’d think. I met her at
a charity dance. I never danced, never
had no time for jigging around getting
sOre feet after a hard day’s work. My
people used to say I had no ear for music,
That’s all they knew!
“Well, Gertie says to me that night at
the Oddfellows’ Hall, ‘Don’t you dance?’
and I said ‘No, F don’t see any fun in
Paying the fool.’ And she said ‘Well,
really, I never cared overmuch for danc-
mg myself. What about a stroll in the
fresh air?’
“She sort of cottoned on to me straight
away, y’see. Of course, I used to dress
real stylish in those days, and there wasn t
another man in the hall near as tall and
classy-looking as me. All the others
looked flustered and hot and foolish with
jigging about, while I was nice and cool
enjoying a plate of wine-trifle. But 1
tumbled to Gertie right away. She had
her eyes on my money, y’see. As I said,
it was a chanty affair, and I forked out
pretty hberal-hke Must have spent all
of two or even three bob that night, so
naturally she’d guess I had a bit and
wasn t tight with it. Oh, I tumbled to
,_P m 9 n £ a^ a y'• . ~ , , ,
But the job I had getting rid of her .
Youd never believe it. That Gertie
pestered me for months. Id see
her down by the Post Office Saturday
afternoons. Hullo, shed say, trying to
make up like. Hows his lordship to-
day?’ Lordship, y’ see, hinting at my
money all the time, thinking I didnt
kjiow a thing or two. ‘Oh very well,
thank you Id say. Some girls are lucky
splashing their old man s hoot on a new
frock every summer,’ I’d say, looking her
up and down. She was real pretty, mind
you; face sort of like a big doll and a
figure what would turn some fellows’
heads,
<i\X/ELL, I reckon she started that
W rumor that I was stingy,” Uncle
Ted continues. “It got back to my ears
all right. I passes her right outside the
Post % ffice j£ e a perfect stranger after
that. Seems that women’s given beautiful
bodies just to trap a hard-working man,
Jakg „ J
„ * seems f t 0 me som ehow,”
savs Jake
“Nothing funny about it,” Uncle Ted
says. “Thfy’re aff the same. They only
w * nt what ± can t Y ou mark my
Jake y rve J en plent y of their
tricks. There was another girl mighty
sweet on me. Got to know her at choir
practice. •
Goon, says Jake. g
y°u J? a ch ° ir ’ U „99 le Te yj nrlp w : th
“Oh, canty T^
a squeery look at Jake. There s music and
(Continued on page 32.)


INTERESTING BOOKS
THE ENJOYMENT OF ART IN AMERICA.
A survey of the permanent collections of
painting, sculpture, ceramics and decorative
arts In American and Canadian Museums,
being an introduction to the masterpieces
of art from prehistoric to modern times,
by Regina Shoolman and Charles E. Slat-
kin. 740 illustrations. Size, 9f inches by
1 2i inches. £4/10/- (post. 2/9).
THE ARTS AND MAN, by Raymond S. Stites.
A magnificent work, with full-page plates
in color and numerous illustrations in
black and white. 52/6 (post. 1/2).
FUN WITH A PENCIL: HOW EVERYBODY
CAN EASILY LEARN TO DRAW, by Andrew
Loomis. 21/- (post. 6d.).
A CULTURAL TABLE OF ORCHIDACEOUS
PLANTS. The most ambitious work on
Orchid culture ever published in Australia,
by J. Murray Cox, with nearly 80 illustra-
tions, 13 of which are in full color. £4/4/-
(post. 10d.).
FACE AND FIGURE FASCINATION. A
complete guide to personal beauty and
charm, by Edyth Thornton McLeod. 7/6
(post. 4d.).
THE VICTOR BOOK OF THE OPERA.
Stories of the operas, with illustrations.
15/- (post. 10d.).
ANNUAL FLOWERS FROM SEED PACKET
TO BOUQUET, by Dorothy H. Jenkins. Illus-
trated. 21/- (post. 4d.). ,
A HIVING FROM BEES. A complete guide
to successful bee culture, by Frank C.
Pellett. Illustrated. 18/- (post 7d.).
ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY FOR THE
YOUNG HOUSEWIFE, by Dora Seton. 12/-
(post. 4d.).
NAUGHT TO 33, by Randolph Bedford. 10/6
(post. 4d.). More enthralling than fiction —
lover of Australia, mining company pro-
moter, significant novelist, the author here
tells the indiscreet history of the first thirty
years of his life.
THE DISTANT VIEW. A delightful auto-
biography, by W. Arundel Orchard,
formerly Director of the New South Wales
State Conservatorium of Music. Numerous
illustrations. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
OUT OF THE PAST. 45 stories of Early
Australia from 1566-1900, by J. H. M.
Abbott. 5/-, offered at 1/- (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
NT4S/35 «Definitely undernourished. aI
tjaauN *o
m
D
9
N
ill
31
For 50 years a GOOD polish
Nffl
Tfie finest Leather
>v Preservative /
daily dose of
4 NUGGET ' will
make you fit
and well 99 .
HSITOd 30HS
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
JODL TALKS OF HITLER.
(From a London “Times” report of the Nuremberg trials.)
Alfred Jodi, the master planner of
Hitler’s O.K.W. (High Command), is one
of the few men in the dock to emerge
from months of mutual recrimination
with the avowed respect of his fellow-
prisoners, both for his skill as a strategist
and the energy of his opposition to Hitler
on operational matters.
Jodi’s place on the Nuremberg canvas
is, perhaps, more indefinable than any.
He became known to the world at large
only as chief German emissary at the
Rheims surrender in May last year, but as
chief of operations branch of the High
Command, in daily contact with the
Fiihrer at his headquarters, he is, per-
haps, more clearly identified with the
inner war councils of the Third Reich
than even Goring or Keitel —a position
that brings him to trial as a member of
the conspiracy for aggression. He is a
far more forthright figure in the box than
a retiring and generally unimpressive ap-
pearance has had us suppose, and in
speaking as a member of a Bavarian
family of officers, who has done no more
than his duty as a soldier, he has pro-
vided as revealing a glimpse of life at
Hitler’s headquarters as the court has
yet heard.
It was, he said, a cross between a
cloister and a concentration camp, a holy
of holies surrounded by numerous out-
posts and barbed-wire fences into which
little news from the outside would pene-
trate —apart, it seems, from the British
and American illustrated papers, which
were carefully studied for the important
information they contained about new
weapons.
Life there for the soldiers was a martyr-
dom ; for it was not a military head-
quarters, and the soldiers were no more
than guests. “It is not easy to be a guest
anywhere for five and a half years,” Jodi
added ; but he was one of the few officers
who dared to face Hitler openly in a tone
that made listeners hold their breath ; and
he had taken part in more than 5000
talks with the Fiihrer, having had the
task of providing him with at least two
situation reports aJ day.
Jodi’s evidence gains added interest
from the recent acquittal by a British
military court of an S.S. general charged
with responsibility for the murder of
Allied parachute troops under the Hitler
commando order. No one, asserts Jodi,
could contradict the Fiihrer, though he,
Jodi, had unsuccessfully used delaying
tactics against both the commando order
and the declared intention to leave low-
level fliers to be lynched. He had always
given the Fiihrer a full account of atroci-
ties committed by the Wehrmacht, or
S.S., when they came to his knowledge,
and sometimes Hitler had taken repres-
sive action.
It was not for the soldiers, Jodi said,
to move against the lawful head of the
State. “The German Wehrmacht and the
German officer are not trained for revo-
lution,” he exclaimed, in pouring scorn
on evidence given by Gisevius about the
plots to overthrow Hitler. Even on July
20, 1944, when all hope of victory had
passed, the members of the attempted
Putsch were alone. Not one soldier, not
one weapon, not one worker rose. “How
could one hope to wage a war and at the
same time gain anything positive for the
German people by revolution?” asked
Jodi, who in another context protested
that patriotism was not the monopoly of
their enemies.
He himself had not met Hitler until he
was presented in the corfimand train when
the Fiihrer was on his way to the Polish
front at the outbreak of the war. Hitler’s
confidence in him had grown very slowly,
and at one time of crisis, when never in
his life had he experienced such an out-
burst of anger from any human being,
Paulus was designated as his, Jodi’s, suc-
cessor “after he had taken Stalingrad.”
The Fiihrer, it seems, had a deep distrust
of general staff officers, especially of the
army. He was wont to say: “I have a
reactionary army, a Christian and some-
times imperial navy and a National
Socialist air force.” Jodi is at one with
Keitel in his dislike and condemnation of
the S.S.
WHY FRANCE SEETHES WITH HATREDS.
(Many credit Communists with playing a leading and heroic part in the French
resistance movement. Here, condensed from an “American Mercury” article, is a firs't-
hand account of what the French Communists did after the liberation and the resultant
bitterness and hatreds in France today. The writer, Donald B. Robinson, landed in
Southern France on D-Day and served as an American liaison officer.)
In no other nation of north-western
Europe are there such distrust and loath-
ing between classes and groups as in
France today. I personally witnessed
the Communist terror which reigned in
Southern France after the defeat of the
Nazi armies; and I can state that the
seeds of today’s explosive hates were
sowed in that terror and fed by the blood
of its victims. Officers of the Securite
Militaire have told me that they estimate
the number of these victims at 50,000.
During those months of 1944 revolu-
tion almost engulfed the south of France,
and the Communists were doing every-
thing in their power to foment it. That
they did not succeed was largely due to
the restraining presence of the American
Army. But the bitterness engendered by
their excesses, the schisms created by their
manoeuvres, are at the bottom of today’s
disunity.
When the U.S. Seventh Army dis-
embarked along the beaches of the
Riviera, the Maquis and the French
underground, which had resisted the
Nazis so magnificently during the occu-
pation, rose and attacked the occupying
Nazi troops all over Southern France.
But this gratifying picture soon changed.
Almost immediately, bitter factionalism
broke out among the native population,
and the watchword “unity,” which had
been on all lips at the hour of liberation,
was forgotten. Within 10 days a reign
of terror was in full swing all the way
from Toulouse in the south-west to Nice
and the Italian border. The streets of
every city and town were thronged with
tough-looking civilians carrying every
variety of arms, froml stilettos to rifles,
hand grenades and tommy-guns. They
raced wildly down the boulevards in auto-
mobiles whose doors had been removed
to permit the occupants to shoot easily
on the move. They scoured all sections,
looking not only for the hated Vichy mili-
tiamen but for anyone else who in-
curred their political enmity.
These gunmen called themselves mem-
bers of the Fbrces Frangaises de I’lnte-
rieure (F.F.1.); but they were not, in the
majority, real veterans of the resistance
movement. Most of the veteran F.F.I.
men, who had spent years in the moun-
tains of the Haute Savoie or in the Mar-
seilles underground, left the organisation
as soon as liberation was complete. They
felt that their job was finished, and either
returned to their families or joined the
French Army for front-line service
against the Nazis. AH the hoodlums and
grudge-payers flocked to the F.F.I. after
the fighting was over.
Here, among these young thugs and
gangsters, was the making of an excellent
army for the French Communists, and
they quickly recognised it. From among
these forces they organised street patrols
to ferret out alleged collaborationists.
These gangs, many of whom were trigger-
happy youths of no more than 14 years,
were quick to shoot at anyone who dis-
regarded their order to “halt and identify
yourself.” Every night was made hide-
ous by the staccato fusillades of their
machine-gun fire.
There is no doubt that many of their
victims were traitors who deserved to
die. But their execution without even a
pretence of trial served only to make mar-
tyrs of them and shake the faith of other
Frenchmen in the possible rebirth of a
free, decent France. Moreover, a great
many of the victims were innocent.
At the famous resort town of Antibes,
where scores were unceremoniously shot
and hundreds imprisoned, the Commu-
nists perpetrated an outrage which might
have been envied by the Gestapo. In
retaliation for the killing of a young
Communist during a raid on the house
of a suspected Vichyite, the F.F.I. went
to the Antibes jail and selected at random
10 prisoners whose cases had not even
been heard. They took them outside,
lined them up and ordered the first one
to step forward. They shot him in front
of the others. Then they shot the rest,
one after another. Among the 10 were
a husband and wife. The woman was
forced to witness the slaying of her hus-
band before she herself stepped up to
face the firing squad.
Acts such as these, it can be stated cate-
gorically, were typical of the Communist-
led terror in every big city and most rural
communities. In Marseilles, according to
official U.S. Army reports, between 200
and 300 persons were executed without
trial. In Toulouse, where the Communist
element was very strong, the situation was
so tense that residents urged American
occupation of the city for a few weeks
until “the armed Communist element
could be brought under control.” Nice
was liberated on August 29. Within 48
hours Communist-dominated F.F.I. forces
had executed 100 persons and imprisoned
1000.
American officers and men began to
draw F.F.I. fire. These “accidents” coin-
cided with a change in the French Com-
munist party line towards the United
States. For the first few weeks after the
liberation, all Frenchmen were unanimous
in fervent gratitude to the Americans.
Then the Communists, evidently fearing
that France would turn against Russia,
began sniping at U.S. forces.
The disorders in Marseilles continued
for months. French officials in “off the
record” conversations made no secret of
.their fear that the Communists were pre-
paring for an insurrection. General de
Gaulle was, of course, keenly aware of
the revolutionary implications of the
Communist manoeuvres. The situation
was critical in view of the large stores of
arms which the various Communist organ-
isations were known to have secreted.
General de Gaulle made two major
moves. A division of French troops “hap-
pened” to move through the city, parad-
ing through its main streets; and shortly
thereafter a regiment of Zouaves was
brought in to aid the metropolitan police.
Later General de Gaulle directed that all
resistance groups be disarmed and their
quasi-police activities stopped.
This decree was a bombshell to the
extremists. All pretence of “national
unity” vanished from their press as it
vehemently denounced the De Gaulle Ad-
ministration and accused it of capitu-
lation to the fifth column. General de
Gaulle stood firm in his demand for dis-
armament, but the order was never fully
complied with. The French had learned
too well during the Nazi occupation to
conceal weapons from prying eyes.
While the coastal cities were being torn
by Communist violence, the situation was
as bad inland. In the mining regions of
Card some 5000 armed Communists were
terrorising the whole countryside. Promi-
nent citizens were reluctant even to talk
to an American officer for fear of im-
prisonment and even execution.
The possession of arms by French civi-
lians was a source of worry not only to
General de Gaulle but to General Eisen-
hower and his staff at Supreme Head-
quarters in Versailles. There was the con-
stant threat that armed insurrection in
France might cripple the Allied war effort.
During the critical winter months, it can
now be revealed, the situation became so
explosive that General Eisenhower issued
top secret orders alerting every Allied
Army in France, as well as Headquarters
Communication Zone, to the imminent
possibility of a French uprising. All com-
manders were ordered to be ready to use
their troops to quell disorder. In the
opinion of many observers, only realisa-
tion that the Allied Armies were prepared
to maintain order restrained the French
Communists from making an armed bid
for power during that period.
Thus checkmated, they concentrated
their energies on a determined campaign
to undermine the De Gaulle Government
and to arouse dissatisfaction among the
people. In this they had as their allies
cold, hunger, the tragic consequences of
growing inflation, the general breakdown
of the national economy and the wrang-
ling among the other political parties.
Such is the fuel under the bubbling
cauldron of hate that is France today.
If it boils over into further bloodshed
and death, the world should at least know
who is responsible.
BRITAIN'S SECURITY.
(Condensed from a London “Nineteenth Century and After” editorial by F. A. Voigt.)
In 1914 Britain went to war in defence
of her security and for no other reason.
She and Germany professed different,
and even antagonistic, political doctrines ;
but Britain’s primary aim, throughout the
war and in the peace, was security.
In 1919 Britain intervened in the
Russian Civil War. Her intervention was,
and is still, represented as “ideological”
—as an attempt on the part of Capitalist
Imperialism to overthrow Communism.
This, however, was not its purpose. There
was, after the First World War, a danger
that Germany and Russia would combine
against the Western Powers —Ludendorff
favored the combination, German officers
of high rank were for establishing a front
on the Oder against the Western Powers,
German troops were in Russia still, and
as far east as the Caucasus, Russia was
promoting Communist revolution in Ger-
many, and the German Communist Party
was for rejecting the Treaty of Versailles.
It was to avert the danger of a German-
Russian combination that Britain inter-
vened in the Russian Civil War. When
the danger was over, her intervention
ceased. When the Germans were allowed


to reoccupy the Rhineland, the security of
Britain was menaced again, and the
Second World War became inevitable.
There are two ways of achieving
security and neither way is infallible, but
there are no other ways. These two ways
are: the Balance of Power, which is, or
was, the British way, and the Over-
balance of Power, which was once the
French way, twice the German way, and
is now the. Russian way.
If security is diffused, it ceases to exist.
Security universalised by a formula is
universal insecurity. The determinants of
Britain’s insular and imperial security are
specific, indeed unique, and to abandon
them and accept in their place the prin-
ciples of ,a universal system of collective
security, enforceable by collective action,
must make war certain, unless there is a
timely breakdown of the system and as
timely a reversion to the principles of a
specific and practical security.
In September, 1939, Britain again went
to war, not because her political order
differed from Germany’s, not for reasons
of doctrine or of “ideology,” but, as
against Napoleon and against the Empire
of the Hohenzollerns, in defence of her
security. Every assertion that the Second
World War was “a war of ideas,” an
“ideological war,” a “war against
Fascism” is a falsification of history.
Not that ideas and “ideologies” are un-
important. But the purpose of British
foreign policy is, or ought to be, the pre-
servation and consolidation of security,
the security of the British islands and of
the Empire. A foreign policy that does
not place security first, and always first,
is to be condemned in advance, as a men-
ace to security itself —a menace, therefore,
to the continued existence of Great Britain
as an independent Power, to the Empire
as a community, to the happiness of the
millions who inhabit the British islands
and the Empire; a menace, indeed, to
mankind, for today it is certain that, if
the British islands and the Empire have
not security, the world will have none.
Problem for Spain.
(Condensed from a “Nineteenth Century and
After” article by E. G. De Caux.)
Spain has been the first to go through
all the phases of destruction, death, star-
vation and disease that have been the lot
of so many countries on our war-con-
vulsed planet.
Seven years ago Spain was in much the
same plight as are many regions of
Europe today. The Treasury of the State
was empty, rolling-stock in a parlous
condition, public administration disorgan-
ised, famine rife. Only the people, their
own hands and brains, stood between
Spain and utter misery and ruin. They
have made a colossal effort. Despite the
fact that the world war hampered develop-
ment of trade and prevented normal
economic relations; despite the necessity
to pay off the debts incurred to Germany
and Italy for help during the Civil War ;
despite the incubus of prisons full of
Republicans, Spain began slowly to revive
almost from the moment the strife ended
and soon was going from strength to
strength. #
Undoubtedly Spain faces a crisis in her
destiny, but she does so in common with
almost every nation in the world, seek-
ing, as they do, to fit herself both poli-
tically and materially into the new scheme
of things.
For Spain that is by no means so easy
as in 1919. Then there were no political,
or, rather, ideological, complications.
King Alfonso had the goodwill of all the
belligerents owing to his efforts on behalf
of prisoners-of-war during the great con-
flict. Now General Franco is beset by
the avowed enmity, of one of the three
Great Powers who have most say in the
reorganisation of the world, and is only
tolerated by the other two. His unpopu-
larity in England, America and France
is a serious handicap for Spanish develop-
ment on the one hand, though on tire
other it tends to strengthen the position
of the general at home.
General Franco’s past still hangs like
a millstone round his neck, but in the
long run his present and future would
seem to depend less on ill-will or disfavor
than on the economics which in the par-
lous state of Europe command.
Despite the years he has held the lime-
light General Franco remains a strange
and, to some extent, enigmatical figure.
His strength has resided, in considerable
part, in his secretiveness, upheld by the
loyalty he vllidoubtedly inspires in his
entourage. In the political sphere he has
manoeuvred as cautiously and cleverly
during the past six years as militarily dur-
ing the previous ’.hree. He unquestion-
ably dominates the scene and is appar-
ently ready to deal as resolutely with the
problems presented to Spain by peace as
by war.
What is important, not only for Spain
but for Europe, is that Spain should
prosper, that order should continue to
prevail so that reconstruction work may
proceed unchecked, and that whatever
changes may come in the political struc-
ture will take place without the chaotic
disturbance which another revolution
w’ould bring.
General Franco’s regime is on the move
toward that restoration of a monarchy
for which King Alfonso so wisely left
wide open the door when he left the
country voluntarily, so that it could never
be said that Spanish blood was spilt on
his account. On several occasions Gen-
eral Franco has clearly stated that when
the time comes he will be no obstacle for
a restoration. Only a monarchy offers
the completes! instrument to procure re-
conciliation among Spaniards, the most
crying need of the nation today, a yearn-
ing that has remained unsatisfied now for
seven long years; and restoration of a
monarchy seems to offer the most pro-
mising line of approach towards a peace-
ful transition from the present regime to
one which could claim its place fully in
the new comity of nations.
The Spanish people themselves, how-
ever, must eventually be called upon to
pronounce. If merely a transfer from
General Franco to a king were engineered
there would be small likelihood of per-
manent peace. Old rivalries would soon
reappear.
The problem of ensuring an equal op-
portunity for all Spaniards to vote freely.
—N.Y. “Journal-American.”
HERE COMES ANOTHER!
both the exiles absent from Spain and
the hidden opposition within, is no easy
one to solve. At the present stage one
cannot see how a fair vote could be
secured without outside supervision or
intervention of some sort, which General
Franco might very well reject, alleging
that Spain is not Greece. Nor would a
referendum or plebiscite on a restoration
meet the case. The Republic, legally
recognised by all the Powers when Gen-
eral Franco revolted, can present a claim
to candidatureship if a national consul-
tation be called. Indeed, it is necessary
that the Republic should appear, because
until a vote be taken neither the national
nor the international atmosphere about
Spain can be cleared. Competent ob-
servers in Spain today consider that a
vote would entail little risk of defeat for
either Franco or the monarchy, and
would be the surest way to nail up the
coffin of the Republic, a regime which
has twice failed in Spain.
Uncle Sam’s Outsize Navy.
(Attacking the policy of a huge navy jor the
US., the writer of the “American Mercury”
article from which this item is taken, Harvard
Professor W. Barton Leach, contrasts Uncle
Sant’s naval set-up with that of the rest of the
world.)
Outside of the navies of the United
States and Great Britain there is only
one aircraft-carrier —a lease-lend job
from Britain now operated by the French.
This statement includes escort carriers.
This means that there is no non-Eng-
lish-speaking nation which possesses
any of the air-striking power by which
navies alone can operate, by which they
operated during the recent war.
Hasn’t Russia a blue-water navy? No.
She has an ancient collection of light,
short-range vessels for the Black Sea, the
Baltic and the close approaches to Vladi-
vostok. She has four battleships, built
between 1897 and 1915, “modernised”
before 1940. No carriers of any kind.
not one. Ten cruisers, shallow draft and
small range, 6600 to 7200 tons, some built
as early as 1903, three-inch side armor,
substantially no deck armor for protec-
tion against air attack. • Some 50 de-
stroyers and 47 destroyer escorts. Around
200 submarines, mostly small and short
range, about a third obsolete.
Argentina has two battleships built in
1908, refitted in 1925. No carriers, of
course. Three cruisers. Fifteen de-
stroyers. Three subs. About the same
collection as Brazil.
Anybody else? No. From Argentina
one looks down through a list of naval
trifles belonging to some 15 countries,
ending up with an admiral’s barge for
Iran. So what is an American Navy of
1079 ships with 667,000 men and five
billion dollars a year going to fight? Is
it the British? There isn’t anyone else
around.
Before World War I England adopted
the most extreme naval policy of modern
history—the “two-Power standard.” This
required that England have a fleet equal
to the combined fleets of the two next-
largest naval Powers. Those were the
days of the race in naval construction,
of Hohenzollern, toasts to Der Tag, the
German Grand Fleet and High Seas
Fleet, of the Triple Alliance and the
Triple Entente. Also it was before the
days of the airplane, before it had been
demonstrated that nothing on the surface
of the sea can remain afloat except by
sufferance of air power.
Great Britain’s two-Power policy made
sense —at that time. But at the present
time she sees no aggregation of poten-
tially hostile naval power and no reason
to burden her reconstruction and recon-
version programme with a Navy in excess
of 175,000 men now and 100,000 later.
This makes sense at this time.
By way of contrast, the 1079-ship,
667,000 -man, five - billion - dollar pro-
gramme now offered by U.S. admirals for
the U.S. is not a two-Power standard but
a 52 - Power standard with plenty toj
spare.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The United States, in particular, wants to lessen
its military commitments, and Britain, from every
consideration of economic recovery and security,
wants European rehabilitation and a continent
friendly or at least not hostile to Britain. But
it is increasingly clear that the Soviet Union
prefers a fluid condition of affairs a con-
dition which is neither peace nor war, the
“troubled waters,” in which Soviet fishing is
most likely to yield a catch. Russia is hostile
to Europe, historically and revolutionarily.—
Dorothy Thompson, in the Leftist N.Y. “Post.”
* * * *
Iceland sits squarely astride the hemisphere
dividing line in the North Atlantic; a perfect
way station on the great circle air route from
the U.S. to central Europe; looking into north
Russia; protecting the vital weather observation
stations in Greenland. “This war,” said Hans
Weigert in a recent “Foreign Affairs Quarterly,”
“has taught the British and U.S. that Iceland
must remain for ever an integral part of the
mutual defence system of both countries.” —
N.Y. “Post.”
if * * *
The case against the Soviet Union which Iran
submitted to the United Nations absorbed so
much attention that almost no one has been
aware that China has had as much to complain
about. The reason it has made no effort to
call the attention of the United Nations to the
situation in Manchuria, where Russian high-
handedness has been apparent, is that the
Chinese consider this an American responsi-
bility. After China had fought for eight years
to recover mastery in its own house, the
United States secretly made the deal with the
Soviet Union at Yalta under which the Red
Army took over from the Japanese in Man-
churia. Without consulting China, Messrs.
Roosevelt and Churchill conceded to Soviet
Russia certain rights in Manchuria highly
prejudicial to China’s sovereignty there. For
the Soviet Union’s use or abuse of these
rights, Messrs. Roosevelt and Churchill made
the United States and Great Etritain morally
responsible. No Chinese negotiated the treaty
that Mr. Wang Shih-chieh signed for China in
Moscow last August. To all intents and pur-
poses, it is a Russo-Anglo-American treaty.
What the United States does about breaches
of it by Soviet Russia, or about a.fcmses of the
position which was conceded to Russia, de-
termines what use the United Slates is to China
as an ally, what worth its highly-advertised
friendship is to China. Chungking is not em-
barrassing Washington by forcing its hand.
But the United States and its prestige in the
Orient are on trial, just the same.— “ Christian
Science Monitor” staff correspondent.
* * * ♦
The fwo Great Wars cost the world at least
20,000,000 dead, military and civilian. The
crippled, the starved, the permanently stunted,
will never be accurately counted. They must
greatly outnumber the army of the dead. The
money cost was in excess of a trillion dollars,
or the equivalent of at least $5OO for every
human being on earth. But deaths, disabilities
and dollars only begin to measure the expense.
The Second World War shook civilisation to its
foundations. It shattered the invisible as well
as the visible structures of society. In this
chaotic scene the struggle between rival politi-
cal and economic philosophies is intensified and
embittered. The memory of violence is in the
air. It is hard to be patient. Millions are
hungry. They and other millions have lost the
old sense of security. It is easy to turn them
toward desperate remedies. Peace has not been
finally won, either technically or in men’s
minds.— N. Y. “Times.”
» * * •
The United States and the British Common-
wealth are being driven into precisely the sort
of fraternal association envisaged try Winston
Churchill in his speech in Missouri. Russia is
notoriously hostile to the formation of any
such bloc. Yet, by her own actions, she is
making it inevitable. Not only is she steadily
building up a Soviet bloc reaching across
Europe and Asia, but every utterance of Soviet
leaders indicates (1) the Kremlin has little or
no faith in the United Nations, and (2) it intends
to make the Russian bloc into the most power-
ful military force the world has ever seen. So,
despite themselves, the United States and
Britain may be forced into a bloc of their
own in sheer self-defence. The only alterna-
tive is an effective United Nations. — William
Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
If it makes your nerves less jittery in these
piping days of so-called peace, it is a fact
that America’s atom-bomb experts are telling
Washington’s most important ears: (1) That
there is not bne chance in a million that any
nation on the face of the earth (except the
United States of America) will be able to do
any atomic bombing within the next five years;
(2) that the odds that any nation will be able
seriously to threaten the United States within
10 years are only 50 to 1. — N.Y. “Daily News:”
* * * ♦
Switzerland’s refusal to betray a trust and
hand over German assets which were deposited
in that country in good faith is consistent
and is entirely in harmony with that country’s
position as a traditional neutral and a trustworthy
international banker. At the height of Hitler’s
power the Swiss refused to hand over French
assets in their country to the Nazis. In the
light of this record they see no reason why an
arbitrary decision of the “Big Three” at Pots-
dam, calling for the confiscation of Germany’s
external assets, taken without Swiss participa-
tion, should possess any legal or moral validity
for them. It is true that Switzerland, com-
pletely surrounded by the Axis Powers after
the fall of France, carried on commercial and
financial transactions with Germany. It was
entirely within its rights as a neutral in doing
this and, as it is conspicuously not a self-
sufficient country, it could scarcely have pre-
served its economic national existence on any
other basis. It is also true that, so far as
geographical conditions permitted, Switzerland
maintained economic relations with Great
Britain and other Allied countries on a basis
of strict impartiality. There is nothing illegal
or immoral in maintaining a status of neu-
trality.—William Henry Chamberlin; “Wall-
street Journal.'”
* * * *
We whipped one dictator, and the booty
from that war was the adoption of much of
Hiller’s philosophy and many of his methods.
We can perhaps whip another dictator, but
the terrible cost to us and all the world will
he that there will have perished the society
that rested on the assertion that men are en-
dowed with the natural right to “life, liberty
and pursuit of happiness," that a man, be-
cause he is a man, is entitled to the utmost
freedom in his spiritual and intellectual de-
velopment and to the widest possible eco-
nomic opportunity without which the spiritual
growth is stunted. That will perish and be
replaced by the philosophy that man is a
functional being, the cog in a machine, the
beast in the field—and just as expendable.—
"Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Those members of the Truman Administra-
tion who have been arguing consistently for a
pro-Russian policy in Washington blamed
Soviet fear of a German and Japanese revival
for most of the unilateral actions that the
Soviet Union has taken in Eastern Europe,
the Middle East and in Asia. Consequently,
President Truman and Secretary Byrnes were
persuaded that the way to halt these unilateral
actions was to remove Moscow’s fear by
offering what U.S. had never offered before—
a long-term alliance to make war on Germany
and Japan under certain conditions. The
Soviet response to this has greatly strengthened
that wing of the Truman Administration that
has been arguing all along that the unilateral
actions of the Soviet Union were directed not
against a revival of German and Japanese
power but against the capitalist world in
general. The Administration officials who feel
this way have also been arguing that the
United States must now face the fact that the
world has been divided into two spheres and
that it is no longer in the interest of the
United States to use its political and eco-
nomic power to aid Moscow and the countries
in its sphere. — Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”


//
w
t
dsf
of AUSTRALIAN built machine tools
A
I
■ T
m
I
m
m
i»S il
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
K.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Lid., 139
Clarence Street. Sydney.
VICTORIA—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), 343a
Sydney Road. Brunswick. Melbourne.
The “MARS”
Plain Miller (at right)
A sturdy machine of great
accuracy for a maximum output
of High Quality work. For the
rapid milling of Small Engine
Parts. Straight Fluted Reamers.
Taps. Dies and similar work.
The “MARS” Heavy
Duty Radial Prill
(at left)
Produced in response to the
demand for a High-Efficiency
Radial Drill for Australian condi-
tions at g price within the reach
of the overage Engineering shop.
\V
.
m
The 66 Hercules’*
5J in. Lathe
(at right)
"The little GIANT of
the Lathe World." All
the facilities of a larger
lathe plus GUARAN-
TEED and certified
accuracy to finest com-
mercial limits. Supreme
in Value, Accuracy
and Utility.
Outstanding "Mars" features are: ACCURACY—BuiIt to recog-
nized and certified standards of accuracy. BALANCE—aII
necessary revolving parts are Dynamically Balanced. FINISH
—all surfaces are Machine Ground. MATERIALS—Finest
Matured High Test Alloy castings throughout. SMOOTH RUN-
NING—aII Gear Teeth are Generated. VERSATILITY—-all
lathes have generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
■*
The “MARS” Horizontal Boring Mill
(at left)
The “MARS” 6 in. Lathe (at right above)
Enables you to carry out a host of small jobs and so save your bigger lathe for
the bigger work. The "Mars" 6-inch lathe is capable of fine work at high speed.
The “VENUS” 7 in. Ldthe (at left)
A sturdy, accurate, quick-action lathe suitable, not cnly for very fine work, but
also for medium and roughing out work within the lathe's capacity.
The “MARS” lO in. High-
Speed Engine Lathe (at left)
A masterly example of fine lathe building.
Built especially for accurate and efficient ser-
vice. May be used for all Sliding. Surfacing
and Screw-cutting operations.
The “ATLAS” 8 in. Lathe
(at right)
(Two Models —Long and Short Bed). An ideal
High-Speed General-Purpose workshop lathe
of most pleasing design and delightful to
handle. Ideal for the Garage and Automotive
Workshop.
The “MARS” Shaper
(at right)
Runs very smoothly at high
speed and has been designed
for long, continuous service with-
nut rrdiustment.
ds
The “MARS” High-
Speed Planer (above)
Of proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
For the precision workshop.
a
: :
m
i:
" ’v
' A , S*\ -J
ETA
Licensed
Manufacturers in
Queensland of
"MEEHANITE"
Metals
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS;
QUEENSLAND —Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.. 450
Ann Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND —Motor Specialities Ltd., Anzoc
Avenue, Auckland.
CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
MAKING THE
WIDEST RANGE OF
MACHINE TOOLS
MWRS
W
%
IN THE BRITISH
EMPIRE Cxcepi CANADA
& GREAT BRITAIN
J. & O’S. Advt.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3462
Wednesday, June 19, 1946
THE GENERAL-ELECTION JUMP.
“Tail up, Horsie-your’ve three months to get over it!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THIS WAS THE CHARTER.
Noted for a sardonic humor, Diggers will
certainly have a need for it if they hap-
pen to turn back the pages of the records
to the date, a year and three months ago,
when Mr. Dedman, as Minister for Post-
war Reconstruction, arose in the House
at Canberra and proceeded to orate upon
what he called the Serviceman’s Charter
of Re-establishment. With all the em-
phasis on the second word, they could
today join in singing:
This was the charter.
The charter of our land
Today a joke, the as repre-
sented by Mr. Dedman looked a com-
mendable piece of legislation calculated
to ensure the honoring of pledges made
by Mr, Dedman’s leader and others of
his “Government” to the fighting forces ;
to give them as fair a reward as possible
for having, beyond any comparison, done
their country the greatest of all service
in the war for its survival; and ap-
parently designed also to even up the
post-war balance of opportunity as be-
tween those who had been engaged on
that perilous mission and those who
held the home front, in comfort, in
luxury and in safety.
Thus Mr. Dedman described it. The
Bill, he said, was “primarily designed to
give legislative expression to Australia’s
sense of obligation to its fighting forces
and to their auxiliaries for the part they
have played in the war.” It embodied
“the Government’s programme of aids to
their civil re-establishment.” The war
was not then over; the atom bomb had
not been disclosed; Russia was still a
partner of Australia’s mortal enemy,
Japan, in a Pact of Friendship. But
things were going well, and, said Mr.
Dedman, speaking for his “Government,”
“We must be prepared.”
Hence the introduction at that date of
the Bill called the Serviceman’s Charter
of Re-establishment. With other legisla-
tion already enacted, there was provision
for reinstatement and preference in em-
ployment ; for payment of gratuities; for
erection or providing of houses; for land
settlement; for loans, and for much else
besides. Today a mere reading of the list
must make thousands of Diggers furious.
By election day towards the end of this
year there will be many thousands more
of them eager to express an opinion on
what they think of such a mockery.
The feature of the Bill most lengthily
orated upon by Mr. Dedman was the em-
ployment-reinstatement and preference
section. That was not because it was the
feature of which the “Government” was
most proud, but because it was that of
which it was most ashamed, with good
reason, as Mr. Dedman should have been
also. In February, 1943, Mr. Curtin, as
Prime Minister, stated in Parliament that,
“as a particular principle, the Govern-
ment believes that preference to returned
soldiers should be integral to the general
administration.” “Whatever Government
is in power,” Mr. Curtin at that time also
said, “I pray that it will see that the men
and women who have fought are given a
place that their services merit.”
As now, an election was looming up
for later that year, and in his subsequent
speech Mr. Curtin declared that “the
Government” had “hoped to pass through
the last Parliament a measure which
would have dealt fairly, justly and effec-
tively with the question of preference to
members of the forces.” The Govern-
ment had been blocked, complained Mr.
Curtin, by the Senate Opposition, but
would make “such an act one of its first
measures for submission to the new
Parliament.” .
Before such a Bill—Mr. Dedman’s
“Charter of Re-establishment” —could be
brought in the union bosses had to be
consulted ; and the outcome of that was
a miserable compromise, in which prefer-
ence was not only restricted to seven
years but was extended in application to
bring in a very vaguely designated
category of civilians. Further, the seven
years dated, not from the ending of the
war —still protracted by the “Govern-
ment” for its own purposes—but specifi-
cally from “the ending of hostilities,”
which, of course, means that those many
thousands still in uniform and in hos-
pitals have already been done out of
some of their preference time, and look
like being done out of a good deal more
of it.
With such wretched departures from
Mr. Curtin’s all-out election promises to
put over, Mr. Dedman had reason to be
uncomfortable, aisd reason for describ-
ing the preference section as likely to
“excite more controversy than perhaps
any other part” of the “Charter.” Craven
compromises accepted, however, the Bill
appeared to provide a positive measure
not only of reinstatement rights and
preference but also security after those
rights had been acted on and complied
with. As well as for private employers
that appeared to go also for the Crown:
All employers (including the Crown) in
right of the Commonwealth or of the
State are required in engaging an employee
to engage a person defined by the pro-
vision as entitled to preference unless
reasonable and substantial cause exists for
not doing so.
And it was further provided:
An employer cannot terminate the em-
ployment of a person entitled to preference
without reasonable cause for doing so.
In a testing in Melbourne of what
appeared to.be covered in these provi-
sions a magistrate ruled that the Com-
monwealth was not bound by the Act.
The position in law, he considered, was
that, as the Commonwealth was the em-
ployer in the dismissals case before him,
and “the King can do no wrong,” there
was no case against the Commonwealth,
even though it was shown that, while ex-
servicemen had been dismissed, a non-
serviceman had been retained ; and even
though the ordinary practice of “last
come, first to go” prevailing at the works
—a practice which, of course, must oper-
ate most of all against Diggers, and
which no decent Government would
tolerate for half an hour —had been de-
parted from in the case of one of the ex-
servicemen. The facts of the case were:
A former member of the Second A.I.F.
was employed by a Commonwealth muni-
tions factory in March, 1942. He enlisted
in September, 1943, and after discharge
was reinstated on January 10, 1946. He
was dismissed on May 10, 1946.
A non-soldier began work at the factory
in March, 1939, and has remained in em-
ployment.
A returned 1914-18 soldier began work
at the factory in February, 1939, one
month before the non-soldier, and was
subsequently dismissed.
Since then a case of another sort, but
with the Digger again getting it in the
neck and all regard for “Australia’s sense
of obligation to its fighting forces”
ignored, has cropped up in Queensland.
By the Constitution, “When a law of a
State is inconsistent with a law of the
Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail,
and the former shall, to the extent of the
inconsistency, be invalid.” But, as was
found in Brisbane, the Dedman Act pro-
vided for giving preference “unless rea-
sonable and substantial cause exists for
not doing so.” Hence, in the Brisbane
case, the State Public Service Appeal
Board was able to hold that “seniority of
classification in the public service may
amount to reasonable and just cause why
provisions of the Servicemen’s Preference
Act may be passed over.” The appli-
cants for the post were a man (favored by
tlje Appeal Board) who had taken the
oath of allegiance when called up, but
had not served in the forces, and a man
(passed over) with three and a half years’
R.A.A.F. service.
At least, with these happenings, along
with the nothing that is happening in
regard to the housing and land settle-
ment Mr. Dedman also spoke about,
Diggers can see plainly where they stand
with a “Government” which the Federal
president of the Service party of Aus-
tralia, Dr. Watson Brown, has labelled
with “pursuing an anti-ex-serviceman
policy.” “The public,” General Savige
said in Melbourne, “does not realise how
close we were to rehabilitation plans
being carried out by the Japanese.” It is
realised, though, that that danger is past,
and so the alternative of rehabilitation
plans not being carried out can be reck-
oned good enough treatment for those
who denied the Japs that opportunity.
The Communist Conspiracy.
It is an ironic fact that the only recent
successes which Moscow and its agents
and serfs can claim, successes which are
Pyrrhic victories for the world-wide Com-
munist conspiracy, have been brought off
in Argentina and Australia.
In one European election after another
the native Communist party, though
assured of a 10 p.c. vote by its appeal to
the deeply ingrained sentiments of envy,
hate and greed, has failed of a majority.
This has been the case even in Czecho-
slovakia, though that country of tribal
Slavs, in which the hatred of Slav tribes
for one another is still evident, may have
or already possesses a Communist Gov-
ernment. In Belgium, the Netherlands,
France and Italy, the Communist parties
have syffered resounding defeats; in
France, at the referendum on the Con-
stitution of which Communists were the
principal architects, though they found
themselves obliged to make extraordinary
concessions—such as guaranteeing every
French worker the right to join the trade-
union of his choice, or to become or
remain a non-unionist —as well as at the
general election,
"Between these polls, the Com-
munists nominated the deserter Thorez
as their Prime Minister and boasted
that a Government headed by Thorez
was a certainty. There will be no
Thorez Government, the Communists
—and the Socialists also —having lost
ground in Paris, as well as the pro-
vinces. On the other hand, the Catholic
party has advanced from second to first
position with a gain of 25 seats —from
141 in 1945 to 166. The Catholics and
the parties of the Right have now 300
Deputies ; Communists and Socialists 275.
To the extent that what is going on in
Europe is a struggle between Moscow
and Rome, Rome is prevailing. In the
English-speaking world the contest with
the Communist conspiracy—so stigma-
tised by Mr. Herbert Morrison at the
British Labor conference with the addi-
tion of scathing remarks on Communist
white-anting of “Labor organisations,”
war-time espionage and finatice—is, of
course, being fought on other issues.
In Argentina, Moscow, after reviling
the Perdn Government in the language it
applied for years to the Nazis and Fas-
cists before the Great Doublecross of
August, 1939, has entered into diplomatic
relations with the Peron Government.
Only a year ago Molotov and party op-
posed the admission of Perdn’s Argentina
to the United Nations, but in their rela-
tions with “capitalist” countries they are
guided by no principle, only by expedi-
ency. *
If expediency counselled an arrange-
ment with Franco, and if Franco
were willing, Moscow would sign
up with that worthy as cynically
as it signed up with Hitler and
Peron, in utter contempt of the feel-
ings of the Spanish Reds, and of inno-
cents abroad like Dr, Evatt. In Argen-
tina, it took advantage of the idiotic
policy of the U.S. State Department,
which secured Peron’s triumph by issuing
a Blue Book denouncing him and his
party on the eve of the Argentina elec-
tions, and “it is now feared at Washington
that Russia is prepared to step into the
role of Germany and arm and train the
Argentine army,” as it is arming and train-
ing the forces of its puppet States, Poland,
Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia, mean-
while furiously attacking Britain and the
United States and keeping the idea of war
alive in a world which is sick of the very
name.
In Australia, the Moscow party, pal-
pably acting under orders, has secured a
criminal boycott of the repair of the
damaged destroyer Piet Hein, simultane-
ously with the renewal of atrocities in
Java, where “our Indernesian com-
rades” have added the wholesale
slaughter of unarmed Chinese to
the murder of three Australian
officers engaged in securing evidence
against Japanese war criminals. Just as
the murder of the Australian officers drew
no recorded protest from.their “Govern-
ment,” much less a demand for the appre-
hension and execution of their murderers,
so the criminal boycott of the leaking
Dutch destroyer, which in its melancholy
progress from port to port might have
foundered with all hands, left the “Gov-
ernment” unmoved until the objections of
Mr. Menzies, Mr. Fadden, the Nether-
lands Minister to Australia and the press
throughout Australia (Communist and
“Labor” rags excepted) prompted Mr.
Chifley to steal Mr. Forde’s imitation
thunder and “call for a report.”
It is an innovation in diplomatic his-
tory for a Minister from a friendly
nation to make a public protest against
the excesses of unwhipped mobs and
against the Government’s connivance in
them. Although the justly indignant
Minister to the Netherlands employed
grave words, saying that what had hap-
pened would be “detrimental to future
relations,” the “Government” had no
reply. In the pestilent practice of Com-
munist larrikinism, Healy, the Communist
boss qf the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, undertook that task himself. “I do
not agree,” this Communist tough said,
“that Dutchmen all over the world will
regard the action of Australian water-
front unions as an insult”:
I believe the majority of Dutchmen
support the Australian unions’ attitude.
As a matter of fact, we are at present con-
sidering how we can assist the Dutch sea-
men who have applied to us for help in
their fight against the Dutch shipowners.
We will support the Dutch seamen as en-
thusiastically as we have supported the In-
donesians.
As the Dutch elections proved, only a
very small minority of Dutchmen are
Communists, and it is hard to believe that
even Dutch Communists who do not be-
long to the criminal classes would “sup-
port” the Communist-larrikin action which
has placed the Dutch crew of the maimed
destroyer in deadly peril. But in his
arrogance this Communist import has
shown his hand and his lack of human
feeling. The Opposition leaders will no
doubt store up his words for action under
the measure, still unrepealed, which ad-
mits of immigrant Communist strike-
promoters being imprisoned for 12
months and then deported to their coun-
try of origin.
That country in Healy’s case is Britain.
Twelve months ago it was pro-Russian
as never before in its history. Except
for the rabble of Communists and fellow-
travellers (some of them were elected as
Labor members), whose overtures for
affiliation with the Labor party have
been rejected, not for a twelvemonth, as
formerly, but for all time, the nation has
been baited into uncompromising hostility
to Russian greed, duplicity, seditious con-
spiracy and sabotage of the peace for
which Europe and Asia long. Thus forti-
fied, Mr. Bevin has gone to the latest con-
ference of Foreign Ministers, which will
assuredly be the last, determined to force
Moscow to choose between a settlement
and a breach. So apparently has Mr.
Byrnes, though unfortunately Congress,
with elections in sight and industrial tur-
moil prevalent, has not given him a lead.
A great journal, the New York
“Times,” is a trustworthy guide to Ameri-
can opinion, and one of its editors has
come out with the statement that “the con-
fusion in which the world finds itself
has been deliberately manufactured by
the Soviet Union, which, to spread Com-
munism and expand the power of Soviet
foreign policy, is seeking the destruction
of existing political order, faith and
morals.” He ended by declaring that
“the Russian refusal to make peace is
the greatest crime in all history”; and
who but Communist liars will gainsay it?
Is THIS Australia?
I have been in the Northern Territory for
nine years and am a bit out of touch
with things in the rest of Australia. Up
in the Northern Territory we had plenty
of problems, industrial, economic and the
like, but we never let anyone go short of
a feed.
I have just been in Brisbane. There is
a strike of meatworkers there. It has
been going on for some weeks. It hasn’t
affected Brisbane. Everybody gets meat.
It has affected our export and the
shipping of meat to starving people all
over the world.
Some of the farmers’ sons went to
work in the bacon factories when loading
was stopped. These were ex-servicemen,
and some of them had been prisoners-of-
war. But meatworkers on strike attacked
them, not with fists, but with lumps of
wood and bars of iron. Were these Aus-
tralians? Is this Australia?
There is another sight in Brisbane. Tied
to the wharves are three Dutch steamers.
Good lumps of boats, about seven or
eight thousand tons, they could lift a
lot of food' and could carry a lot of
starving people. But these ships have
been lying in the Brisbane River for
many months. The wharfies have de-
clared them “black,” and will not even
give them enough coal to take them out
of this country. These. wharfies, not the
Government, have laid down a foreign
policy, a policy of hostility towards an
ally; and apparently the Government
accepts this and does nothing.
Surely the Government knows that
there are still many Dutch men, women
and children in camps in Java and
Sumatra who were there all through the
Japanese occupation. Surely the Gov-
ernment knows that food is very short.
A few, very few, of these Dutch people
have got out, and some have come to
Australia. One young married Dutch
woman came to our house in Darwin.
She was very thin, very pale and very,
very quiet. Her baby had died from lack
of nourishing food, which could easily
have come from Australia if the wharfies
did not control foreign policy. All the
time this girl was in Darwin her eyes
were asking why! why ! —and we could
not answer.
Why have we done this,to the Dutch?
What harm have they .ever done us? I
saw a good deal of them in Darwin. Be-
fore the war they were friendly and
courteous. In the critical stages of 1941
their commanders came through to dis-
cuss military matters with our generals
in Australia. Bluff General ter Poorten,
who remained at his post when the Japs
overran the Netherlands East Indies, told
me it was agreed that they would fight it
out to a finish, and that Australia would
help with every ounce. I wonder what
ter Poorten thinks now.
The Dutch got out whatever ’planes
they could, and later on their Mitchells
operated from Batchelor, near Darwin,
and went out with our airmen. Many of
them, including their C. 0., did not re-
turn. Neither did some of our lads. They
and the Dutch died together as allies. I
wonder what the men of the services
think when they read that the wharfies
won’t let the Dutch have their ships.
In 1937 the Australian airman Jimmy
Broadbent, flying solo from Britain, went
down near Flores, in the Netherlands
East Iridies. There was no word of him.
But the Dutch turned out their ships and
their ’planes and found him.
In 1942, when the Japs conquered
Malaya, and then Java and Sumatra, our


ships and British and American and
Dutch ships put up a desperate fight
against overwhelming Japanese naval
strength, in the Battle of the Java Sea.
They all fought together, and they all
went down together. Hector Waller, one
of the best naval officers Australia has
ever produced, went down in H.M.A.S.
Perth. He had delighted Admiral Cun-
ningham with his destroyers in the Medi-
terranean. With him went handsome
Captain Albert H. Rooks, of the U.S.S.
Houston, who was awarded the Congres-
sional Medal of Honor for his work in
saving an Australian convoy from de-
struction in the Timor Sea on February
18, 1942.
What would Hector Waller and Albert
Rooks think if they could know that the
battered Dutch destroyer Piet Hein,
desperately injured in a collision, was
staggering down the Australian coast try-
ing to make New Zealand for repairs
because she has been declared “black” in
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and Fre-
mantle?
This can’t be the Australia we have
known all our lives.
I saw some.time ago where the former
Commander-in-Chief of the* Australian
Military Forces was referred to by the
present head of the Australian Govern-
ment as a “stooge.” Our civilian generals,
Morshead and others, saved Australia
and went out of the Army without recog-
nition or thanks. Yet Senator Donald
Grant goes to Paris to “advise” the Aus-
tralian Minister for External Affairs and
returns without having been called upon
for his “advice.” Another Common-
wealth Minister unceasingly attacks the
High Court and the Arbitration Court
Judges without any check or reproof
from the Prime Minister.
A few months ago one of the present
Commonwealth Ministers visited the
Northern Territory. He could quote
Henry Lawson by the hour. Yet he en-
tirely misses the doctrine of mateship
which Lawson preached so incessantly.
Joe Wilson, Mitchell, Steelman—they are
all lost upon him.
This is not the Australia about which
Australians have written and sung.
Surely that Australia has not gone for
ever. There must be some who will bring
it back.
C. L. A. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH
An Impending Change.
Uncollected Commonwealth taxes,
assessed and not assessed (there are
people who haven’t been asked to pay
tax for the 1940-41 year), have been
reckoned at £60,000,000. Even without
this huge amount, the “Government”
seems to have plenty of money for
wanton extravagance, such as the sending
of parties of minor politicians and union
bosses on useless trips abroad (three of
these worthies are back in Australia and
more are understood to be on the way),
and the appointment of an army of trade
commissioners and makeshift diplomats
to countries with which Australia has no
trade or political connections. Neverthe-
less, Mr. Chifley, while himself abroad,
made a feeble, though expensive, attempt
to stifle the swelling cry from all sec-
tions of the community for some relief
from the insupportable burdens his
crowd has imposed on them.
A rash of advertisements, adorned
with photographs of Mr. Chifley, com-
plete with pipe, appeared in the daily
papers. One was published on Anzac
Day, of all occasions, and it began with
the words “Neither I nor my Govern-
ment will attempt to sway the verdict of
the people with extravagant election
promises.”
We will not bid against the Liberal
party’s reckless pledges. The Government
[a splurge of self-praise omitted] has no
need to resort to vote-catching promises.
On the other hand, Labor’s opponents must
barter for votes with unfulfillable promises
of sweeping tax reductions, fantastic hous-
ing schemes and an earthly paradise.
The Opposition leaders are only too
well aware of the vast clearing-up job
that five years of muddle and prodigality
will necessitate. Any of them who, con-
templating merely the housing, soldier-
settlement and industrial parts of the
chaos, offered “an earthly paradise”
would be a case for a mental specialist.
The only promise Mr. Menzies is
recorded to have made is that, if chosen
to lead another Government, he would
reduce taxation by 15 per cent. Pre-
sently Mr. Ward came in with one of his
favorite prescriptions: no more loans,
‘ all natiorlal works” to be “financed from
the Commonwealth Bank” —his troubles
about the purchasing power of the Aus-
tralian pound—and so to a general in-
stallation of Latin-American finance.
We can then be moving towards the
stage where income-tax reduction can be
made.
Surprising as it may seem, this pro-
gramme failed to impress the A.C.T.U.
or the Federal A.L.P. executive. In
a review of “industrial unrest” that
body placed high on its list of
“factors causing discontent continued
pegging of wages, high taxation and
the lowered standard of living arising
from such taxation.” Ml Cosgrove,
the Labor Premier of Tasmania, was even
more embarrassing. He bluntly declared
that immediate tax-reduction was neces-
sary, and broadly hinted that if Federal
“Labor” refused it Federal “Labor”
would lose the elections.
Rebuking Mr. Cosgrove, Mr. Cain, the
Victorian “Labor” leader, expressed the
“belief” that “the Federal Government is
just as anxious as Mr. Cosgrove or any
other State Premier to lighten taxation as
soon as it is practicable.” The ex-
pectation at Canberra is that Mr. Chifley
will find it “practicable” as soon as he
has reviewed the results of the Federal
by-elections in Wimmera and Henty, the
Assembly by-elections in Greenough
(W.A.), Bremer (Q.) and Goulburn
(N.S.W.) and the Legislative Council
elections in Westralia and Tasmania.
He will have to do some hard swallowing
first, but what’s hard swallowing to a poli-
tician who remembers how the outraged
electors turned on Federal “Labor” in
December, 1931, and on N.S.W. State
“Labor” in May, 1932, when most of
the “Labor” Ministers and members,
himself and Mr. Curtin among them, were
retired to private life?
Law the Cure.
During most of last week the Russian
party in Australia, as Mr. Spender calls
it, rivalled all its previous efforts in the
arrogance line. )
From its “scientists” came a renewed
“demand” on the British Government for
the release of the ten-years’-sentenced
WHO TAKES THE RESPONSIBILITY?
“The case of Major Cousens, who has been under open arrest for ten months, was ‘referred’
to the N.S.W. ‘Labor’ Government by Federal Acting Attorney-General Drakeford, and
has been ‘referred’ back by State Attorney-General Martin Asked by the Bishop of
Carpentaria for the return of the Anglican Church and Rectory at Darwin, the Minister
for the Interior ‘referred’ the Bishop to the Minister for. the Navy.”
educated ruffian Dr. Nunn May;
from its waterside agents more boisterous
championship of “our Indernesian com-
rades,” murderers of unarmed Aus-
tralians, Dutch and Chinese (“they will
be a powerful ally to Australia,” one
union boss shouted), and threats of
further outrages on Dutch shipping in
Australian waters; from Communist
H.Q. indulgent approval of the Chifley-
McKell coal plan, dutifully submitted to
Communist H.Q. by the coalminers’
boss, Wells, and an offer to “Labor” of
an election alliance, couched in patron-
ising terms.
But from the far north-west and the
not-so-far north-east came winds of the
bleakest description.
There was, first, British Labor’s repudi-
ation of the Communist conspiracy for
all time, coupled with some biting remarks
from Mr. Herbert Morrison as to the
source of Communist funds. There was,
second, and perhaps worse in the long
run, the conviction of “Fred Rose,” the
one Communist in the Canadian House
of Commons, on a charge of “conspiracy
to communicate war-time secrets to
Russia through a Moscow-directed espion-
age network.”
This particular traitor is not Canadian
by birth nor is his name Rose. It is
Rosenberg, and he is a Polish Jew. He
arrived in Canada at 10 and a few years
later became identified with a Communist
youth organisation, counterpart of the
so-called Eureka League. Remanded for
sentence, he is liable to seven years’ im-
prisonment, and there are four other
charges against him, “each of which
carries a maximum sentence of seven
years.”
News of the conviction of Rosenberg
reached Sydney on Sunday night, and it
rounded off appropriately the brief history
of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. conference.
By 300 yotes to 40 delegates accepted an
executive recommendation denouncing
the Russian party and all its works, and
instructed it to dissociate “Labor” from
Eureka Youth, the Friends of the Soviet,
the Society for Cultural Relations with
the U.S.S.R. and other Communist sub-
sidiaries.
Unfortunately the gentleman who con-
ducted the commination service or
whatever it was admitted having been a
Communist himself. Belated conversions
and death-bed repentances are never con-
vincing. Australia will have to look to the
Liberals and Agrarians to deliver it from
the Russian party, its foul practices and
fouler projects, and that by the re-estab-
lishment of the reign of law. Where law
is a real thing, Communist larrikins of
all descriptions hate and fear it. Let
law reach them at every point of their
conspiracy; let it be made plain as well
as comprehensive, and let its operation be
swift and severe ; and the whole gang will
disappear as did the larrikin pushes of
the ’nineties.
Food for Boycotted Sheds.
Forced to confess at last that strikes
have held up food shipments, the crowd
at Canberra has made the woeful admis-
sion that only 63,400 tons of meat >ve:e
shipped to Britain in the first four months
of the year, and has had the face to plead
that the last three months of the year
are the heaviest exporting months. There
is no evidence to support that, and if there
were it would not absolve the Chifley
mob from blame. As for Mr. Forde’s
soapy claim that a target of 300,000
tons for the year would be achieved, the
four-month figure, the Queensland meat
strike and the “sympathetic” strikes on
the programme make it look almost as
tragically foolish as Mr. Forde’s promise
of a “torrent” of reinforcements to the
doomed army of Singapore.
Neither Mr. Forde nor anyone else can
get over the plain fact that Australia, be-
cause of its “Government’s” ineptitude,
cravenness and indifference to human
needs, is failing in its simple duty. Little
New Zealand, with about a third of Aus-
tralia’s cattle and about a fourth of her
sheep, has achieved this:
Meat in store at mid-January, 70,000
tons; shipped from mid-January to mid-
April, 91,000 tons; in store at mid-April,
151.000 tons; expected into store from
mid-April to end of current season,
85.000 tons; scheduled for shipment in May
and June, 80,000 to 100,000 tons.
If Mr. Forde could have claimed those
figures there’d have been an outbreak of
advertisements and a storm of radio blah.
Yet New Zealand is far from satisfied.
It is determined to do better with other
foods, and farmers, unionists, business
interests and the Government are united
on it.
"Dumped."
Were any further proof needed that food-
control, as Federal “Labor” practises it, is
part tomfoolery and part tragedy, it is
provided every -day in the Brisbane fish-
markets. With the richest harvest of the
sea for years, and more fish coming in
than can be dealt with, the war-time ukase
that ceiling prices must be paid by re-
tailers is maintained.
In the vanished days of freedom the
public would have benefited by being able
to get cheaper fish and the whole supply
would have gone into consumption. As
matters are, shop prices—up to 2s. 4d.
a pound for snapper, and Is. Id. for
cleaned mullet —are beyond the reach of
those for whom “Labor’s” heart bleeds at
election-time. Fishermen would be glad
to take sixpence a pound for uncleaned
mullet, but Canberra forbids anything
less than tenpence. The result is that
hundreds of cases have to be dumped-
The fishermen get nothing for them, and
the public is deprived of a valuable food.
And this with the meat-strike bosses
boasting that the coalminers are in with
them and that they have arranged for a
general strike on the railways and the
waterfront!
The higher ( the prices obtained by
Wholesalers and retailers, the greater the
amount .of Federal taxation payable by
them. Unlike bookies and such favored
classes, their profits are easily traceable.
Consumers matter nothing—except at
election-time, and then they are fed lav-
ishly—with promises.
A Weather Problem.
On a man who has something:
S. H. Ebery, the retired grazier who issues
seasonal forecasts to subscribers from his
private meteorological station at Black Rock
(Vic.), is up against a problem. His ability
to supply forecasts depends on subscriptions to
his private service*. They come from farmers
and graziers throughout Victoria, the southern
half of N. S. Wales and eastern parts of South
Australia and Tasmania. But if the forecasts
are divulged to non-subscribers there is a
danger of the economic collapse of his service.
The Victorian Government had an oppor-
tunity of making the service national, all that
was required being a small annual' subsidy
which would enable Ebery to keep going.
That opportunity has now been lost. Pro-
crastination being in order, as always, the Vic-
torian Government boggled at handing out the
money. Mr. Dedraan, as Minister of Re-
construction, was sufficiently impressed with
Ebery’s qualifications to instruct his meteoro-
logical officials and the Air Force to help him
with their data and to work in co-operation
with him. This, however, didn’t solve the
man’s financial problem. He gave up grazing
in order to further his weather researches.
Before and during the three years of drought
hundreds of land men testified to the accuracy
and value of Ebery’s predictions, which have
been proved correct in 80 p.c. of cases. When
orthodox authorities were predicting the break-
ing of the drought after the first year, Ebery
stoutly maintained that there was no evidence
for it, and if his advice had been followed a
lot of the subsequent disaster due to over-
stocking could have been averted. Official in-
terest in him faded when the drought broke,
human beings being notoriously optimistic, but,
in spite of a recent severe illness, Ebery con-
tinued his observations. He foretold the drought
that is now agitating Queensland, though he
admits that State to be out of his scope at
present. He would apply his theory there also
were sufficient suitable data available.
All Ebery needs to enable him to test his
theory out on an Australia-wide basis is for
20 stations, selected by himself, to obtain the
data he requires. Considering that in Victoria
alone there are over 200 observing stations re-
porting daily to the Central Weather Bureau,
the request seems modest.
It isn’t to be supposed that Ebery doesn’t
want to make his forecasts available to the
community. He is a scientist, not a quack,
but in present circumstances the only way in
which he can continue his researches is to keep
the service private. If the national Govern-
ment were national in any proper sense of
the word it would make Ebery financially inde-
pendent for five or six years, or until he had
given a convincing demonstration of the value
of his system one way or another. The cost to
the nation would be a bagatelle.
The Support That WasiTt.
From a Sydney “Morning Herald” corre-
spondent in London, March 25;
Supporters of the Communist party’s
application for. affiliation with the Labor
party in Britain have grown to vast num-
bers. When the Communists sought
affiliation three years ago they were
defeated by 1,900,000 to 700,000. Now at
least five powerful unions are preparing
to throw in votes totalling nearly 1,000,000
in support of affiliation Distributive
and Allied Workers, 200,000; Electrical
Trades, 17,000; Amalgamated Engineering,
136,000; Miners, 416,000; Railwaymen,
227,000 A speech by Mr. Herbert
Morrison that Labor would have nothing
to do with Communists is claimed by
political observers to be unduly optimistic.
Labor leaders in the Government are
known to be extremely worried at the
prospect of a possible Communist majority.
From “S.M.H.” via A.A.P., London,
May 20:
Members of the British Cabinet during
the week-end attended a conference to
discuss means to stem the westward march
of Communism, says a special correspon-
dent of the “Daily Mail” The executive
committee of the National Union of Mine-
workers .(Lancashire area) has decided to
support the Communist party’s applica-
tion for affiliation.
From “S.M.H.” staff correspondent in
London, May 21:
Three of Britain’s biggest coalfields —
South Wales, Yorkshire and Durham —
representing nearly 60 p.c. of the total
mining vote, have rejected the proposal that
the Communist party should be allowed to
affiliate with the Labor party. The decision
came as a complete surprise
From “S.M.H.” via A.A.P., June 13:
At the Labor-party conference, after the
Communist application for affiliation had
been rejected by a card vote of 2,768,000
to 468,000, a further vote (2,413,000 to
667,000) closed the door to any future
application.
So that there was no basis for the
March assertions about “vast numbers,”
or Labor leaders being “extremely
worried,” or “five powerful unions pre-
paring to throw in nearly 1,000,000
votes.” The “complete surprise” is under-
standable. Newspaper tipsters are always
“surprised” when their tips don’t come
off, whether in politics or sport.
Propaganda is so mixed up with news
these days that anybody with a respect
for fair and accurate reporting must needs
keep a very sharp eye open.


«■
i
m
i
I
I*KAV tSN A
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Qua!i
Obtainable lit 10*$ & 20V
POLITICAL POINTS
J. T. Lang, musing in his “Century”
on the Goulburn by-election:
A shock to many Ministers, it showed
unmistakably that “the swing,” so dreaded
by parties, had set in. Once a swing is
properly under way it can never be halted,
never reversed, until it has spent itself in a
general election.
And Jack “knows about it all —he
knows ; he knows.”
The King’s Birthday week-end is a
time of Australian anniversaries. Friday
was the 63rd anniversary of the connect-
ing of the Victorian and N.S.W. railways ;
Monday was the 79th anniversary of
Henry Lawson’s birth and the 55th
anniversary of the election of the original
batch of N.S.W. Labor members. Satur-
day was a British anniversary, the 731st
of the signing of Magna Charta. At the
rate we’re going it won’t be long before
we’re celebrating anniversaries of the last
ton of N.S.W. coal to be hewed, the last
overseas ship to berth, the last Sydney
daily paper to be printed in the English
language and the last time a politician
accepted responsibility for anything. All
the same, this year will likely be cele-
brated henceforth as the last of the Chifley
“Government.”
Menzies is a devoted son, and when his
mother fell ill (his father died not long
ago) he called off a tour of Tasmania.
The visit was planned for a week when
Hobart was suffering a sugar shortage,
was threatened with gas rationing, was
tragically short of building material —all
because of shipping hold-ups—and was
mordantly discussing “Labor’s” delay in
acting on the Kirby findings of corrup-
tion in the Forestry Department.
Opposition-leader always gets a good
hearing in the State with a growing
grudge against Canberra. Tasmanians
know that when he does com? he will
have many pertinent things to say about
their accumulation of worries and about
the appointment of D’Alton from the
Forestry Department to the High Com-
missioner’s office in Maoriland during the
year in which he “accepted” a gift of
£94 14s. 3d. worth of timber “as a bribe
for services and favors improperly
rendered and to be rendered” (Judge
Kirby).
A radiator- and iron-less winter faces
Melbourne, the State Electricity Com-
mission having announced that rationing
of its juice is to continue. Much abused
for allowing the breakdown of a dredge
at Yallourn, the S.E.C. asserts that
auxiliary plant has kept the supply of
electricity up to full output, the shortage
being due to Commonwealth Coal Con-
trol’s having taken a huge slice out of
S.E.C.’s heap of brown coal briquettes
to compensate for the inadequacy of coal
supplies from N.S.W. Meantime, a ship
which brought 4500 tons of N.S.W. coal
to Melbourne has been prevented from
returning for more —if the miners will
give it to them —by a strike; of stewards.
Homeless ex-servicemen and -women
read with disgust and despair, though
without astonishment, that Yarrien, a
boom-time palace in Toorak, Melbourne,
has been seized by Calwell for the accom-
modation of the young gentlemen of his
Department of er—lnformation. R. B.
Hamilton, a leading architect and M.L.A.
for the district, declares that houses and
flats could be built in the grounds and
the palace remodelled to house 25
families. Calwell’s reply is that use of
the gorgeous outfit by his department will
save the nation an annual £4OOO. Inas-
much as he has vastly increased the ex-
penditure on an organisation which no-
body wants, Calwell’s cheek must be
bursting.
Said Bevin at the British Labor Con-
ference, which was a personal triumph
for him; —-
The agitation in the United States, par-
ticularly in New York, for 100,000 Jews
to be admitted to Palestine is because they
do not want too many of them in New
York.
Never before has a British Foreign Secre-
tary addressed such language to U.S.
politicians on one of their most vulnerable
points, but they were “asking” for it.
There are over 3,000,000 Jews in New
York State. The American politician is
almost always most fervent in champion-
ing the Jewish cause, without committing
himself to anything but empty words, a
feW months before Congressional elec-
tions.
Bevin had not only the American poli-
tician in mind when he uttered the jibe
which has embarrassed that worthy and
infuriated American Zionists. He aimed
also at Professor Facing-both-ways Laski
and the Left Wing back-benchers who
have been railing at the Bevin foreign
policy. Many of them are Jews and
many more are newspapermen of a type
familiar in Australia —blatant, unreason-
ing Mpscowphiles, incapable of admitting
that they can ever be wrong.
A Swedish motorship with accommo-
dation for 12 passengers has cast up in
Sydney with Senator Finlay* (S.A.), who
attended two conferences on some-
thing or other in the U.S.A!, as did
McHenry, vice-president of the Com-
munist - controlled Ironworkers, and
Richards, of the A.C.T.U. —all as “repre-
sentatives of Australia,” and with all ex-
penses charged up to the taxpayers.
Because of a cabin-sharing rumpus, Mc-
Henry remained behind. How the Gov-
ernment can square these expensive jaunts
with its plea that taxation can’t possibly
be reduced (the possibility will be forced
on it for election purposes) will assuredly
be the subject of Opposition questions.
One will relate to Senator Donald Grant,
consigned to the Peace Conference as Dr.
Evatt’s “adviser.” There was no Peace
Conference, but the author of Through
Six Gaols is back immensely refreshed,
and ready with his vote on the referendum
bills.
Reported that Canberra has asked
Beasley to arrange for the migration from
Britain of 1000 building Workers as soon
as possible. A start, but the plan doesn’t
go far enough. What about a few thou-
sand coalminers who really hew coal, a
like number of wharfies who don’t
hold up ships, and some meatworkers who
get on with the job? And while Beasley’s
about it, what about a couple of states-
men?
. The so-called “Association of Scientific
Workers,” rallying from the rebuke ad-
ministered to it by Professor Alec Ross
and three other Westralian university
professors, in repudiation of its claim “to
speak for science generally in Australia,”
has again “demanded” the release of
Dr. Nunn May, sentenced to 10 years’
at the Old Bailey for venal betrayal of
British secrets to a Russian. There were
dissentients at the encore meeting, a
doctor remarking drily that it was “the
most unscientific I have ever attended”;
but the Russia-Is-Always-Righters had
come provided with numbers. Impudence
is the badge of all their tribe, but for a
band of unknowns in Sydney to issue
orders for the perversion of British justice
is a special sample. And now perhaps
the gang will “demand” the jail delivery
of “Rose” (Rosenberg), the “Canadian”
Sdish Jew) M.P., and the dropping of
four remaining charges against the
convicted scoundrel.
“Norther’s” review:
A lot of Queensland people began the week-
end uncertain whether they’d have a job to
come back to. It’s all over the Murrarie bacon
factory strike which started on March 6 when
four men got the sack and the Meat Industry
Employees’ Union demanded their reinstatement’
on the last-to-come-first-to-go principle. All
meat workers came out, the union lost its pre-
ference clause from the award, there were
threats and violent assault's by pickets on
voluntary workers. Then the Full Bench of the
Industrial Court, its order for a return to work
being ignored, deregistered the M.I.E.U. There
were more threats, a hurried flight to Can-
berra by strike leaders and an agonised appeal
by “poor old Holloway” to Premier Hanlon
and the Court, both of whom were unmoved.
Meantime, many of the bacon-works strikers re-
turned to work, and a member of the Storemen
and Packers’ Union applied to the Industrial
Registrar for a declaration that a levy imposed
on his union to aid the strikers was illegal. Rail
men who refused to handle “black” goods at
the Trades Hall behest were fined and have
threatened to strike unless the fines are re-
funded. The position at the week-end was
that wharfies, coalies and railies were either on
strike or about to strike in sympathy with the
abattoir men who struck in support of the
bacon men who are back at work. Industrial
law in Queensland requires that a ballot be
held before a strike, but a ballot hasn’t even
been mentioned. As for the Trades Hall bosses
Justice Matthews, when the M.I.E.U. was de-
registered, described them as non-members of
the M.I.E.U. whose advice to unionists to
“flout the Court’s order for a return to work
indicated a desire to prolong rather than ter-
minate the strike.” It’s about the first real
test Premier Hanlon has run into since he
followed Cooper into the job, and he has a
private grief—Mrs. Hanlon, a gracious lady
noted for good works, is dead.
The N.S.W. McKellys announce that
their absurd liquor referendum won’t be
held until next year, “probably just be-
for the State elections” in May or June.
The State Labor Governments in Queens-
land, Tasmania and the West have
decided bar-closing hours on their own
responsibility; but that isn’t the Mc-
Kellys’ way. They are daisies at passing
the buck.
Undamped in spirit by chill winds and
dull skies, Melbourne celebrated Victory
Day, described by one daily as the victory
of the common people, with joyous aban-
don, the only complainants being 900
casualties treated at the Melbourne Hos-
pital and a contortionist. The contortion-
ist drew for his sideshow five shillings in
pennies and attributed the poor return to
the fact that indiscriminate kissing was
the rival attraction. Kennelly, State
Minister for Electrical Undertakings, took
the opportunity to announce that eight
inspectors had been added to the Elec-
tricity Commission’s staff of detectives to
investigate illegal use of radiators and
other gadgets, and Dedman said he was
prepared to follow up any racketeering
or blackmarketing reported to him.
There were no rackets, blackmarkets and
scarcity of essentials before the bureau-
cratic era. Some day there may be an-
other Victory Day to celebrate the defeat
of the bureaucrat by the common people.
It must have been a facer for Dr. Evatt
to learn in New York that Moscow had
resumed diplomatic relations with
Peron’s Argentina, which it tried to keep
out of U.N.O. There is a fellow-feeling
between dictators, and whoever is now in
control at Moscow is perfectly capable
of signing up with Franco, as Stalin did
with Hitler, and as he or his successor
has done with Perdn. If it came about
before the Commonwealth election, Dr.
Evatt’s world would tumble about his
ears.
Startling headline in an esteemed con-
temporary: —
NOBLE WORK BY EZRA.
At first glance this was taken to mean that
“Labor” was devoured with admiration
for the present “policy” of the Ezra
Norton papers, “Terewth” and the “Daily
Mirror,” a “policy” of abject Laborism.
It transpired that the Ezra in question
is a Jewish organisation which does
humanitarian work in Palestine.
British Labor is following Australian
“Labor” very closely. ,A fortnight ago it
raised the Parliamentary salary from
£6OO to £lOOO p.a.; and, that done, it an-
nounced a new lot of “nationalisation
measures. Shinwell, the Fuel Min-
ister, gave the Labor Conference his
assurance that none of the industries
placed or to be placed under Govern-
ment ownership would require to be fed
from the taxes. Australians, who over
many years have had to pay taxes to
meet the losses on Government railways,
tramways, steamers, cattle stations,
trawlers, fishshops, coal and metal mines,
meatworks, agricultural-implement works,
irrigation works, treatment works, saw-
mills and even pubs here and there, will
react with loud and mirthless laughter.
A Melbourne solicitor received a visit
from a client who asked whether there
was an authority which could walk into
his house, already accommodating eight
persons, and inspect it for vacant rooms.
The solicitor said he didn’t think so,
though as regulations changed overnight
he would make inquiries ; but what was
the occasion? “Well,” said the client,
“when I gdt home the other evening I
found my wife agitated because three men
and a woman who described themselves
as officers of the Rehabilitation Commit-
tee had inspected the house. They gave
a Collins-street number.” The solicitor
rang up the relevant department, which
disclaimed any knowledge of the invasion,
adding that has a Queen-street
number. The solicitor went to the Collins-
street building and found on a door
“Rehabilitation Committee —Communist
Party.” •
At 77, Victorian Senator Gibson has
decided to call it a day. He had 14 years
in the House as member for Coranga-
mite, was elected to the Senate in 1934/
and can carry on till June 30, 1947. Gib-
son was one of the early Agrarians and
they were mostly stickers. Gregory, who
came over from the Westralian Liberals
in 1917, had 14 years as M.L.A. and 27
years as M.H.R. Baxter, first of the
litter of C.P. members, has been a Wes-
tralian M.L.C. since 1914 and was
recently elected unopposed for another six
years.
As it appeared in the London “Times”:
OBITUARY.
Sir R. Graham-Campbell and Mr.
M. I. Kalinin.
We announce with regret the deaths of
Sir Rollo Graham-Campbell, Chief Magis-
trate of the Police Courts of the Metropolis
from 1933 to 1940; Mr-. M. I. Kalinin,
until last March President of the Supreme
Council of the U.S.S.R.; Mr. J. M. Parikh,
K.C., who was called to the Bar in 1895,
and recently took silk; Mr. R. H. D.
Mayall, Fellow of Sidney Sussex College,
Cambridge; and Mr. C. L. Sibley, formerly
editor of the Montreal “Herald” (reported
by Reuter).
The old Thunderer has been accused of
going Leftist; but obviously it retains its
traditional conception of the relative im-
portance of events.
N.S.W. “Labor’s” “fight” against Com-
munism :
It was resumed after five murky years, in
a situation where something had to be done, at
the annual conference of the N. S. Wales A.L.P.
A weakness is that it was led by a Mr. Fer-
guson, delegate from the Rail way men’s Union,
which first introduced Communism into indus-
trial unionism in a large way when it im-
ported Comrade Chapman straight from Mos-
cow in 1924 and made'him general secretary.
Mr. Ferguson had to state in reply to an in-
terjector that he had himself been inside
the Trojan horse but had been converted.
After Mr. Ferguson had spoken his piece, the
president of the Labor Council, a Mr. Kenny,
said that “Australian” Communists “owe
allegiance only to a foreign Power, which sup-
plies them with unlimited funds to carry on
their policy of espionage and disruption
in some of our industrial disputes close to
treason.” After that the conference put
Eureka Youth, the Friends of the Soviet and
some other Commo bodies under a ban. It
remains only to expel a heap of Communist-
controlled unions, Watersiders, Seamen, Coal-
miners, Sheet Metal Workers, Clerks and the
rest, and a few thousand red-ants in the
Education Department and other branches of
the public service, and the N.S.W. “Labor”
party will be cleansed of the Communist in- ,
fluence.


ANOTHER HOUSING PROBLEM.


Society
"ANS IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Uco”: During interminable man-
oeuvres up and down the Atherton Table-
land any opportunity to supplement Army
tucker with meat bought at shops in towns
we happened to pass would be eagerly
seized. Each time as we sank our teeth
into sausages with skins as tough as
ersatz rubber and filled with coarse saw-
dust, slightly flavored with meat, we
vowed they’d be the last we’d buy, but
when the next town came in sight we
would be lining up at the butcher’s
counter again. On one occasion the steak
broke all records for toughness. The
beast it was hewn from must have led
the slaughterer a year’s-long chase from
Cunnamulla to the Kimberleys and back
again, I tried hard to chew my slab,
but gave it up as a bad job. Then I
turned to Snooper, who had put his hunk
between two slices of bread and was
trying valiantly to get through it. “How
are you going?” 1 asked. “No good,”
said Snooper, “I’ve used up three sand-
wiches already and I haven’t dented it.”
* , * V *
“Pedant”: At least one Government
department in South Australia does its
best to see that its minions throughout the
State conform to the fitness of things.
The “Return of Marriages” form to be
filed periodically by local registrars
carries an instruction enjoining them to
forward the return within 14 days of the
end of each quarter ending March, June,
September and December respectfully.
>!■ * * *
“Lonsdale”: Reference by “Weff” (B.
8/5/’46) to pavement poets reminds
me of James Purtell, a Melbourne
balladist of the first quarter of this cen-
tury. Purtell’s finest efforts were “Fare-
well, Poor Tommy Corrigan,” a steeple-
chase rider of the period, and “The Boot-
box Tragedy.” Purtell was said to have
a standardised jingle for turf fatalities,
which he used with a bit of twisting every
time some young jockey was killed, but
his elegy on Tommy Corrigan was written
for the occasion. Of “The Boot-box
Tragedy” I recall two lines:
Just think of that man, and his awful position;
Just think of that girl, in a certain condition.
Although Purtell turned out reams of
doggerel, the Mitchell Library, Sydney,
which has far more ephemeral stuff on its
shelves, contains none of his works, nor
is he listed in Morris Miller’s monumental
bibliography.
* * * *
“Morehead”: Long before beards be-
came the rage among R.A.N. personnel
and A.I.F. guerrillas, my friend Stagwood,
an artist, sported a magnificent growth of
hair upon his chin and cheeks. For years
he withstood the ridicule of his friends,
the uncomplimentary remarks of small
boys and snubs; from various female
friends. I ran into him the other day,
and was surprised to see him without his
customary chestwarmer. In answer to my
inquiry he said mournfully. “I had to
change my diggings last week, and my
new landlady objected to the beard. Said
blokes with beards gave her the creeps.
Wouldn’t let me keep on the room unless
I got rid of my whiskers.” The accom-
modation shortage must be serious when
a chap like Stagwood is prepared to shear
himself to get a roof over his head.
4s * *
“Eureka”: A team of quiz kids failed
to give the name of the artist who painted
“Across the Blacksoil Plains.” I doubt
if there is a better-known painting in
Australia than George Lambert’s master-
piece. The same youngsters gave cor-
rectly the names of the foreign artists
who painted other well-known pictures.
I’ve come to the conclusion that if you
want to stump an Australian child (quiz
kid or ordinary school kid) ask him some-
thing about his own country.
■ * * * *’
“Pitt St.”: With about half a million
of my fellow citizens I was on a vantage
point on Sydney’s Farm Cove by 5.30 p.m.
on “Victory Day” in order to witness the
much-boomed pyrotechnics and marine
display. For a solid hour the tightly-
packed multitude stood in darkness,
assaulted by the blare of loud-speakers,
gazing patiently at the harbor and a
solitary destroyer outlined in electric
bulbs. About 7 p.m. a few flares arose
from Pinchgut, four or five searchlights
opened up and on the dark waters the
vague outlines of some craft were seen.
Then came a period of darkness, with
more blaring from the amplifiers, fol-
“ Don't you know it's unlucky to see your bride before the ceremony?"
lowed by some more flares, some rockets
and then a brilliant fireworks display on
Pinchgut that stirred everybody for 10
minutes or so. After that, while an odd
rocket or so soared aloft and a few more
flares leapt spasmodically, the half-million
began to drift away. Presently, when the
thing ended, amplifiers and police warned
the Crowd that only one gate was open
and a near panic followed as parents and
children struggled to get through it. Next
morning all were told by their news-
papers about the marvellous show they’d
been treated to, and snorts of disgust
could be heard from Cronulla to Palm
Beach and all points west to Penrith.
And it came out that the one brilliant
spot in the evening was the accidental
explosion of a couple of cases of rockets.
♦ * * *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson had come home
late or forgotten something or overlooked
the morning kiss —neither he nor his
missus was quite sure what it started over
—and the domestic atmosphere simmered
threateningly. Both of them managed to
hold the lid down firmly until the off-
spring got off to bed and then the offended
lady put on her act. At last Jephson
managed to obtain a somewhat compli-
cated explanation of his shortcomings
and did his best to smooth matters over.
Naturally, thus seeing him as a suppli-
cator, ftis missus became distant. “You
can’t tell me,” she sniffed. “You men
are all the same. I’ve had a pretty J&ir
experience of men.” “An unfair experi-
ence, if you ask me,” answered Jephson.
Then the lid really blew off.
* * * •
“Bo”: A Pete Smith short and a Disney
cartoon were on the programme at the
newsreel theatrette, so I was prepared
for some good honest humor —but not
for the gales of laughter which swept the
theatrette. Pete’s droll commentary on a
bus pest was funny, as were the antics
of Pluto, yet the best laugh of the day
came from quite an ordinary news shot.
It showed long lines of comrades shuffling
along to put voting papers into ballot-
boxes in the Workers’ Paradise. There
were a lot of other men lounging about,
and it mightn’t be a wild guess that they
were the secret police. Then came the
titbit that rocked the building: “Voters
in these elections were allowed to exer-
cise their franchise freely, though, of
course, they were limited in their choice
to one man.” Then, as another shot
showed Uncle Joe coming on to a dais
to acknowledge the “victory,” the com-
mentator went on: “Voting showed that
99.7 were for the present regime.” It
was then the risible Niagara was let loose,
* * * *
“Rottney Bob”: The visitor to our
Adelaide pub awoke about 7 a.m. to a
knock upon his bedroom door, got out,
cloaked himself and unlocked the barrier.
Without, regarding him with a mixture of
speculation and fear, was a young woman
with a cup of morning tea. Somewhat
astonished, he took the offering, thanked
her and then, struck by her demeanor,
said, “You look a bit worried?” “Well,”
she answered, now a trifle indignant,
“your door was locked.” She said it as
though she regarded such a thing as sus-
picious and sinister. The visitor eyed
her, then a slow understanding came upon
him.. “Oh, I see,” he said. Then he
smiled and added, in embarrassment,
“You see, I come from Sydney.”
* * * *
“Old Bill”: In the circle in which I
moved before the war, Mac was The
Mysterious Member. 'He had no known
calling, but was always well stacked
with cash. As far as we could work it
out, Mac made a living as a “fixer” or
“go-between” for various shady groups
and persons. For a consideration—not
necessarily cash; a bottle of whisky or a
box of cigars was as welcome —Mac
could do anything. If you were in
trouble with a Government department
Mac could generally set things right. If
you wanted seats for a prizefight that had
been booked out, Mac could get them for
you. A copy of a banned book, member-
ship of a dubious nightclub or a couple
of suit lengths of smuggled cloth?—JMac
was the man to look after you. Meeting
him recently after six years, I remarked
that he must have done well during the
war in view of his many connections and
the demand for rationed goods and
sundry restricted services. “Not on your
life!” commented Mac sourly. “Too
many blanky crooks crashed into the
game. All those blackmarketeers and
other racketeers took the cream of the
takings.”
*.* * *
“Seaforth”: I joined a hundred-yards’-
long queue lined up outside a tobacco
kiosk. After waiting for half an hour for
the tobacconist to o'Pen up we shuffled
slowly to the window and each was re-
warded with a packet of ten gaspers. As
I ripped the cellophane off the packet I
congratulated the chap who was behind
me on our good luck. “Good luck be
damned,” he answered. “I smoked nearly
a packet in the queue waiting for this
lousy issue.”
“Pint Pot”: “Weff” (B. 29/5/’46)
started something when he grumbled at
hotel nomenclature ; but did he ever have
an experience .like the lad from out-
back who overheard a commercial
traveller telling a friend that the Royal
was the best pub in Sydney to stop at?
He hunted through the ’phone book and
found there were 11 Royals in Sydney
and suburbs. Had he searched further
he’d have counted seven Royal Oaks, six
Stars, six White Horses, five Railways,
Town Halls and Commercials, four
Imperials, Exchanges, Australias, Vic-
torias, Cricketers’ Arms, Oxfords and
Palaces ; while a host of others are dupli-
cated. But to a thirsty citizen the name
doesn’t matter much ; it’s the “Beer On ’
sign he looks for.
» * * *
“Weff” prophesies another war:
Whenever there’s a proposal to erect a public
building, such as a baby clinic, kindergarten
or free library, in our suburb the Battle of
the Site rages fiercely for two or three months.
The East Grandview Progress Association,
which draws its members from the area around
the main shopping centre, comes to grips
with the West Grandview Progress Association,
composed of residents living along the river.
The Eastsiders pride themselves on being prac-
tical-minded, while the Westerners pose as
aesthetes to whom Culture is everything. Re-
tail Traders, Parents and Citizens, Rotary, Libs,
Labs, Corns, friendly societies and religious
groups all join in the Donnybrook. Even the
Kennel Club, the Aquarium Society, the
Pigeon Fanciers and the Gee-Vee Melody
Makers become involved. There is a welter of
public meetings, petitions and counter-petitions,
and letter-boxes are crammed with “dodgers”
and illegible circulars. Plebiscites are held, and
there are charges of ballot-faking and roll-
stuffing. The East puts on a Sunday football
match and the West comes back with a Vene-
tian Water Carnival. Sharp words are spoken
at a meeting of the Ministers’ Fraternal, the
Sewing Guild is divided into six hostile factions
and there is a scene at the golf club, it all ends
when a bored Government department an-
nounces that it has not considered erecting such
a building in Grandview. Then the member
comes out of hiding at Canberra and the
M.L.A. returns from a retreat in the country.
The citizens subside into,their customary decor-
ous lethargy. It’s a couple of years since
we had a first-class rumpus but I can see an-
other looming. An expert on town-planning
is going to address a public meeting on com-
munity centres. , That will be sufficient to start
’em off again.
* * * *
“Viz”; Yet another advocate of
phonetic spelling has arisen in the person
of Mont Follick, a British M.P., whose
contribution to the subject is a system
under which “alteration” becomes “olter-
eishun,” all vowels being pronounced in
“continental fashion.” The point most
of these people overlook is that, if words
are to be spelt as they are pronounced, we
will have to decide whose accent or dia-
lect is to be imposed on everyone else.
Or would we allow a Scotsman to write
about his hoose, an Australian to 'discuss
prospects at the rices, and an American
to describe his mother’s sister as his ant?
The written language is now substanti-
ally the same in Brooklyn as in Bourke;
phonetic spelling might transform it into
a babel of ambiguity instead of allowing
it to become a world language, into
which, if left alone, it will probably
develop in course of time.
* * # *
“Jimri”: “Ides of March” (B. 5/6/’46)
could have cited another “old order” of
the Robertsonites. Whoever was respon-
sible for laying out the township in the
’sixties hung on to a good ten acres of
natural forest, right in the town to be,
as a park for future cits. This is the
only Ma State example of its kind I’ve
seen and it is certainly a great lesson for
youngsters of what granddad was up
against when he hacked the family farm-
stead out of the bush. In the park are
forest giants that towered above their
kind when Cook sailed up the coast, as
well as smaller and less tenacious types
of flora long since wiped out elsewhere
by the march of settlement.
» * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Sheer laziness of
mind must be responsible for the failure
of some people to apply or understand
words they must see often in print and
hear every day. On a short steamer trip
I asked the man next to me to pass the
menu. He looked puzzled but eager to
oblige, and gave me the mustard; realis-
ing that was wrong, he handed up the
pepper. “No,” I said ; “the bill of fare.”
He passed me the sugar; in fact, within
the next minute or so he had passed me
practically everything in reach except
fahat I wanted. “No— that," was my final
direction, accompanied by a point. “Oh,
you mean the list!” he exclaimed, and
gave me what I wanted.
* * * *
“Bondi Beachcomber”: Inherited night-
mares I’ll leave to “Hamer” (B. 5/6/’46).
But I have found that anxious moments
in one’s life can so imprint themselves
on the consciousness as to cause recur-
ring dreams over a period of years. Years
ago closing time of a suburban shop I
managed was 5.45, which gave me eight
minutes to catch a bus to connect with
my train ; missing the bus meant a wait
of 50 minutes at the station. Frequently
when I closed the doors there were still
a dozen or more customers to be served,
and I often missed the bus. Since those
days I’ve had other jobs, tried my luck in
other lands and been through a war—
yet my most constantly-recurring dream is
of closing my old shop doors, with a lot
of customers still to be served and only
eight minutes to bus time.
THIS CENSORSHIP.
“The censorship of books at present exercised in
Australia is unprincipled, irresponsible, erratic and
absurd.” —Professor Murdoch.
Who issues an occasional mandamus .
This book or that’s unfitted to be read?
Some erudite professor, justly famous,
With loads of literature in his head?
Not much, my son. Some blatant ignoramus
(For all we know) may claim the right in-
stead,
And start the agitated hue-and-cry
’Gainst anything in print that shocks his eye.
Who is it operates as censor morum
To screen unseemly stories from our view?
Some self-appointed court where one’s a quorum
As like as not, or at the utmost two,
Whose word on what are breaches Of decorum
Or, more colloquially, a bit too blue,
May very well arouse an author’s pique
Or land a bookseller before the Beak. •
Who are the chaps that seek to bar our reading
Words that might stick in some dour
wowser’s craw?
Men of unquestionable light and leading
In what should count, from Shakspeare
down to Shaw?
No. Those who’re specialising (and succeeding
Often enough) in laying down the law
Are arbiters concealed from public view,
Stray quidnuncs in a crowd of God knows who.
Some Minister who seeks to put a stopper
On all that Grundyism might offend;
Some Customs cove suspicious of improper
Meanings in aught he can’t quite compre-
hend ;
Or even some too conscientious copper
Whose education plainly didn’t extend
To Rabelais or Aristophanes
Or any other classics like to these.
If someone up above must aye be waiting
To make what books we read his special
care,
Authority should lose no time in stating
Exactly who he is and why he’s there,
And what were the credentials indicating
His fitness for conducting the affair.
Till then, the sorry business appears
Merely provocative of gibes and jeers.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wongajong”: An average Australian,
I am a duffer when it comes to telling
from his speech the exact place where a
United Kingdom visitor comes from. Cer-
tainly I can pick out a Scotsman, a Taffy
or a chap from the Emerald Isle, and can
generally manage to sort out a Cockney,
a Geordie or a lad from Lancashire. But
when it comes to determining whether
a fellow is from Somerset, Devon or
Cornwall I am not in the race. I used
to envy my friend Gabbler, who claimed
to be familiar with every dialect between
Land’s End and John o’ Groats, and could
even pin-point an Irishman’s native
county. He fell from his pedestal last
week. We were knocking a few over in
a pub full of Royal Navy ratings. Gab-
bler approached the nearest matelot and
politely asked “Shropshire?” “No, mate,”-
answered the sailor. “That’s an Aus-
tralian ship ; I’m Royal Navy.” “No,
no,” persisted Gabbler. “I mean, do you
come from Shropshire. If I’m not mis-
taken you’re a Ludlow man.” “Sorry,
mate,” responded the Jack Tar. “I’m a
dinkum Aussie. I was in the Old Dart
when the war started and joined the
Pommy Navy.” “Your parents, per-
haps?” murmured Gabbler, desper-
ately attempting to save face. “Not on
your life,” came back the rating. “Like
me they were born and bred in good old
Cootamundra.”
* * * *
“Ikey”: Victory medals have started
their rounds as cash. Sandwiched care-
fully between two bobs they are passed on
bookmakers, tote clerks and business
people in back streets. Similar tricks were
fashionable a few years ago when New
Zealand money was frowned on in Aus-
tralia. But while the overseas money
had its value in the proper place, the
Victory souvenirs are not worth their
poundage as dross.
m * * *
“E.G.”: A letter to Launceston “Ex-
aminer” was addressed “The Daily
Newspaper, Launceston, Tasmania, near
Australia.” Sent by a British Columbia
girl, it aroused in Tasmanians the
usual reaction of hurt amazement, but
ex-R.A.A.F. men are more inclined to
smile. They attribute the address to
remarks by mainland aircrew trainees
passing through Canada, who used to
refer to the Speck, in the presence of
fuming Taswegians, as “a place near
Australia.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: An excited murmur passed
through the crowd that assembled to meet
the Empire Clarendon *when she berthed
in Melbourne. Mr. Churchill, complete
with dark clothes, black hat, cigar in
mouth and alert bulldog appearance,
stood leaning on the rail looking at the
assemblage. A few minutes later Mr.
Churchill, complete with dark clothes,
etc,, appeared leaning against the super-
structure. This confirmed the crowd’s
suspicions—the organiser of victory was
travelling, incognito as possible, with the
traditional double to avoid assassination.
The two Winstons were Mr. Edward
Heydt, a passenger, and Captain G. Parry,
temporary master of the ship, and both
have been mistaken for their august exem-
plar on innumerable occasions.
4 * * *
“Spasebo”: The dressing-up of the
N.S.W. coalfields for the visit of the Duke
of Gloucester (B. 5/6/’46) recalls an even
more spectacular royal bluffing. Catherine
the Great, of Russia, expressed a desire
to visit her loyal subjects in the Crimea.
Said loyal subjects had just been sub-
jected to famine, pestilence and brutal
repression by a military governor, who
had been farming the population.
Catherine’s guardsman lover of the time
arranged the trip and accompanied her
on the royal progress. She was met by
smiling villagers at the doors of neat cot-
tages complete with gardens and orchards,
and along the route avenues of trees
flourished. With that indifference to
money which distinguishes oriental Gov-
ernments, trees, orchards and smiling
families had all been planted a fortnight
previous to Catherine’s visit, the money
coming out of the royal pocket unknown
to the Empress. Window-dressing by
Soviet officials for the benefit of roving
foreign correspondents and other mugs
is all in keeping with Russian tradition.
* * * *
“Ebor”: Prefabrication isn’t such a
modern idea as some people think. They
knew all about it nearly 900 years ago,
for Creasy’s Fifteen Decisive Battles of
the World says of William the Con-
queror’s invasion of Britain: “They had
brought with them in the fleet three
wooden castles from Normandy, in pieces,
all ready for framing together, and they
took the materials of these out of one of
the ships, all shaped and pieced to receive
the pins which they had brought cut and
ready in large barrels; and before even-
ing had set in they had finished a good
fort on the English ground.”
* * * *
“South Steyne”: One Saturday, in the
days when beer flowed freely, I was dash-
ing down to the Quay to catch the one 1
o’clock Manly ferry when I sighted a two-
bob bit. So did a stranger approach-
ing from the opposite direction.
We both dived for it * and the
other chap won by a finger. Being a
sport, he suggested splashing the florin
on a couple of beers, so into the nearest
pub we adjourned. After the windfall
had been spent I felt obliged to shout,
and, of course, my friend must recipro-
cate. Around about seven o’clock, as he
helped me to the wharf, he remarked
sorrowfully; “Take my advice ; next time
you see a coin in the gutter, leave it
there. That two bob has cost me the
best part of a quid and there’ll be hell
to pay with the missus when I get home.”
* * * *
“Uramao”; That Melbourne duel men-
tioned by “Nakh” (B. 24/4/’46) reminds
me of a Maoriland affair of honor of
years gone by. A quarrel developed
between a Nelson doctor and a German,
the bone of contention, as usual, having a
hank of hair. Fritz challenged Sawbones
to meet him at dawn —pistols, white dress
shirts, 15ft. distance between the duellists.
The duel was arranged. At the word
“Fire! ” two shots rang out. The German
with smoking pistol was unharmed, but
the medico, seeing his shirt front spattered
with blood, fainted. The publican who
made all the arrangements revived the
doc., explaining that the bullets had been
removed from both cartridges, but he
had replaced the German’s with pigs’
blood and liver. Anyway, honor was
satisfied and all stayed to have a few
“on the house.”
* * * . *
“Clooter”: There’s many an Australian
par-chaser will sympathise with Mr.
Weaver, of Wichita Falls (Texas). Mr.
Weaver, too late to play on his local
course, took his driver for some prac-
tice swings, wound himself up, let go a
mighty swipe and collapsed. He’d broken
his left leg above the ankle and above
the knee, his right leg twice between ankle
and knee. It isn’t stated what caused the
calamity, but we rabbits know —my
heavens, we know! The man had obvi-
ously been studying diagrams in golf
books and watching pros, in slow motion
on the screen. It’s a wooden tee to a
rebuilt blackmarket ball that he’ll be at it
again as soon as he can stand, golf being
one of the incurable diseases of civilised
man.
* » * »
“Hamer”: Sydney has had some
curious clubs. One was the “5000 Club”
composed of a group (Barney Allen, the
bookmaking patron of Jack Johnson, was
one) whose members had all enjoyed
over £5OOO p.a., but thudded ; they cheer-
fully took their beer and fish and chips in
one another’s rooms and talked over old
times. Another was the Anarchists'
Club that used to meet in the old Java
Cafe. The intellectuals who composed it
believed that a world
without set law but de-
pendent on the majority
of good impulses of its
inhabitants was the ulti-
mate to aim at. Yet
the club had a law of
its own; no one could
join without passing an
examination in econo-
mic and social litera-
ture. Queerer than that
was the Thought Circle
that adopted the con-
templative ideas of the
Buddhists. After 10
minutes’ heavy thought
a topic would be sug-
gested and accepted by
vote; the propounder
having had his say the
group would settle
down to hard thought,
the principle being that
nobody should say any-
thing until he had men-
tally exhausted every
possibility and reached the ultimate
succinct pronouncement. On some
nights, so they told me, nothing at all
would be said, but the hard thinking
would be carried forward- to the next
meeting night. The members claimed “an
intellectual exhilaration” ; and said that
the prolonged spasms of thought gave
them great benefit. The idea might be
recommended to some of our women’s
clubs. I
# * *
“Seaforth”: While his wife was away,
Toppler decided to take a drinking partner
home. Armed with a supply of
firewater and prawns, they arrived at
Toppler’s bungalow still unsteady on their
feet. Toppler discovered that he had mis-
laid the key. First he tried to cut the
putty from around a window pane, but
the blade of his knife snapped. “Never
mind,” he said cheerfully. “I’ll attend to
thish.” Toppler got on to the roof and
his friend could hear tiles being recklessly
tossed on to the front lawn. Then Top-
pler shouted that he was letting himself
down through the hole in the roof. Next
minute there was an almighty crash and
Toppler came hurtling through the fibro
ceiling on to the front verandah. In
the end Toppler wrapped a fist in his felt
hat and punched in a window, climbed
through and went to the back door to let
his friend in. It opened at his touch ;
it had been unlocked all the time.
* * * #
“Zake”: Understandable that the
premiere.of Verdi’s “La Traviata” should
have been a flop with such a contretemps
“Sorry, madam, but these birds can't pronounce the letter B properly."
to contend with (B. 12/6/’46). But it is
strange to recall that Gounod’s “Faust”
was also received indifferently at its first
performance at the Theatre Lyrique, in
Paris, in March, 1859, and all but failed
in the Milan production. The opera didn’t
achieve success until it was produced with
Titiens, Ginglini and Santley at Covent
Garden four years later, and when the
following year Patti sang Marguerite for
the first time its popularity was estab-
lished. How overwhelming that popu-
larity has become since is evidenced by
the fact that today “Faust” is sung more
than any other five operas combined —at
the Paris Opera alone it has been per-
formed more than 2000 times. Why it
didn’t take at its premiere is still a mys-
tery. It has everything, including the best
ballet music in any opera (it is never in-
corporated in Australian productions
owing to the extra time and expense in-
volved) and the loveliest of all opera
settings—the Garden Scene, the com-
poser’s finest inspiration. Yet “Faust”
has had no major alterations since it made
its bow 87 years ago.
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Short-story absurdi-
ties (B. 8/5/’46)? My vote goes to a
yarn in which a lady amateur detective
solved the insoluble. The body, a
bullet through the brain, was found in a
room with the door, the only means of
exit, bolted on the inside. There was no
weapon from which the spent cartridge
case found on the floor could have been
ejected, so the inspector, in the absence
of any proof, arrested the nephew.
Climax was reached when the jady, hold-
ing a cartridge with a pair of pliers,
places the cap to a candle flame and
sends the bullet through the ceiling. In
his haste to apologise and accept this
evidence of suicide, the inspector over-
looked the fact that a round exploded out-
side the chamber of a firearm simply
bursts and that the bullet would be pro-
pelled a shorter distance, possibly, than
the fragments of case, and not in any
predictable direction. A would-be suicide
employing such a method would be kept
too fully occupied extracting pieces of
brass from his anatomy to repeat the
attempt.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Melbourne’s
pubs are just as prosaically named as
those of Sydney (B. 29/5 / ’46). A notable
exception is along the former cable-tram
line from Port Melbourne to Queen’s
Bridge, where names are indicative of
when the route was the gateway to the
city for overseas arrivals. Leaving the
waterfront you start off; with the Pier
and the Royal Mail; then come the
Flower, Prince Alfred, Chequers Inn,
Fountain Inn (still with a fountain and
tie-rails), Meaghers, the Flood Gate, and,
half-way, the Wayside Inn; next the
Southern Cross, Silver Gate, Mainpoint
(now delicensed), Castlemaine, and you
reach the city’s . door by the Queen’s
Bridge Hotel. Ninety years ago, when
goldseekers were compelled to walk the
route, these 15 hostelries should have
satisfied even the thirstiest.
* « * *
“Sextant”: The naval depot was a hive
of industry. Recruiting was in full swing,
and newchums were arriving at all
hours, I was marching some rookies
to the kitting-up room, when I
noticed two young fellows in civvies lean-
ing against a wall, smoking. Having just
told my squad what they could not do in
the Navy, I called out “Come here, you
two.” They came over. “What do you
mean by loafing around like that? Fall
in with the rest,” I said. They obeyed.
Arriving at the clcfthing store I sent the
main bunch in for their uniforms, and
kept the two stragglers outside. After
telling them what I thought of their
appearance and bearing, I decided to hear
their side of it. Out it came. “We’re
not in y’r old Navy! We’re plumbers
working over there. We were just having
our smoke-oh when you picked on us.”
TAGGING AFTER LABOR.
“The Victorian State Committee of the Com-
munist party has directed members to give their
preference votes to Federal Labor candidates. I’’ 1 ’’
You’ve never a good word for them, you reckon
them to blame,
You Laborites, for wanton strikes that serve
to spoil your game
And queer your pitch—and still they stick be-
hind you all the same.
You set a fellow thinking of Bill Sikes when
he assailed
With oaths and stones the faithful hound that
in his footsteps trailed,
And how he sought to stop it tagging after him
—and failed.
Bill may have entertained a real affection for
his tyke
In normal times, but this was when he fairly
got the spike
And viewed its mere proximity with vehement
dislike.
And Corns have points in common with those
dogs, one may suppose,
Who stick with quite unshakable fidelity to
those
They like, and won’t be scared away by either
oaths or blows.
They wish you well, they miss no chance to
give your cause a shove;
They love you, even if it’s not with an unselfish
love,
Better than anybody else —it’s clear from the
above.
Spurn them as you are wont to do, condemn
them as you may,
There’s many a sturdy Socialist, it’s pretty safe
to say,
Fully prepared to profit by those votes on
polling-day.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


W 0
9
n*
FROM
SYDNEY
LBT.
*
2S*
T O
MELBOURNE
AND
ADELAIDE
/I ■ *
The super-c'oaches of the blue-and-silver Pioneer fleet are now
operating on regular round tour schedules between Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide . . . bringing you all the joys of luxury
highway holidays along the finest routes. Courteous and
capable driver-guides attend to your every needs, and aboard
every blue-and-silver Pioneer roadcruiser are sumptuously up- *
bolstered reclining chairs and wide windows, which afford
excellent visibility for every passenger; while radio, with the
driver as commentator, adds interest to the journey. Pioneer
service covers all meals and first-class accommodation.
The Pioneer Network connecting
Melbourne with Adelaide, Sydney and
Brisbane is now at your service . . . ask
us for details.
BOOK NOW FOR
freer lours
MELBOURNE: 360 Collins St., MU6014
BRISBANE: 24 Wharf St., 80330
ADELAIDE: 91 King William St., C 2514
SYDNEY: Macdonald Hamilton & Co.,
Ltd., 4 Martin Place. 8U5511
A WIDE CHOICE OF PIONEER TOURS IS AVAILABLE; ASK FOR DETAILS
Over Fifty Years of Leadership in
FINE ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH, TO-DAY,
architects and builders are preparing for the designing and construction
of monumental buildings; structures that will grace the. sky-line, and
enchance the architectural beauty of our cities.
THE PLANNERS look to Wunderlich Limited (as leaders
in the fabrication of fine metal-work, for over 50 years) to provide the
decorative'features, in metal, which embellish and impart individuality
in all types of building construction.
f “• Your enquiries are invited .
Wan c/er/ieA ited,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. 'Phone; MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE. N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE.
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms at the above addresses.
THE SERVICE MAN
"Porter's Mob."
“Ek Dum”: It began by being “Plant’s
Mob.” Then it owed allegiance in turn
to A. H. L. Godfrey, who was mortally
wounded in the last stages of Alamein,
then to Bernard Evans, who gave up (for
the time) a distinguished career as an
architect, which had won him moPuments
in Melbourne, Perth and London, to be-
come the temporary architect of its for-
tunes.
Then (though still and always officially
known as the 24th Brigade, 2/A.I.F.) it
transferred its allegiance to S. H. W. C.
Porter, who brought himself to it after
being twice a brigadier navigator of the
Owen Stanleys.
The history of “Porter’s Mob” was
long and varied. Its signature—a red
platypus over a boomerang—was known
as well in the Libyan Desert as in Borneo,
and its personalities from Tom Starce-
vich, V.C., of Grass Patch (W.A.) to
Nugget McDallon, who would have de-
lighted Cervantes, and whose classic de-
fence upon a belated return from leave is
one of the legends of the brigade, were as
well known as its sign.
Birth of a Brigade
The brigade became actual as such
during the early days of the Siege
of Tobruk in 1941. It was, in fact, “born
under fire.” But its battalions were
pupped ip strange and various places. Its
originals were the 2/28th and 2/43rd —
South Australians and Westralians. The
original third Battalion were Queens-
landers —2/25th. The 2/32nd, which suc-
ceeded it, was formed in England in the
anxious days after Dunkirk, a composite
force from all States.
The 2 / 28th was born at Melville
(W.A.) and the 2/43rd at Woodford
(S.A.) in July, 1940. But brigade H.Q.
was in Brigadier Plant’s home town of
Brisbane, at Enoggera, only a mile or so
from his boyhood home, and the 2/25th
Battalion was 2000-odd miles away at
Darwin. The Westralians were com-
manded by Lieut.-Colonel J, E. (“One
Bottle”) Lloyd, who came to the bat-
talion from being C.O. of the 16th Militia
Battalion of Cameron Highlanders. Lloyd
won a D.S.O. in Tobruk and left to be-
come a brigadier. Lieut.-Colonel W. W.
Crellin had the 2/43rd Battalion.
the end only five officers—three
majors and two captains—and 133 men
remained of the original 2/43rd, which
trained at Oakbank, near Melbourne, and
sailed down Port Phillip under a cloud-
less sky, farewelled by an armada of
yachts and boats, on December 29, 1940.
The 28th had an impressive exit on the
Aquitania, which sailed from Fremantle
in company with the Queen Mary,
Dominion Monarch and Awatea. But at
Colombo 2/43rd went over to the
Nevassa and 2/28th to the Nieuw Zee-
land. Nobody in those days had de-
clared Dutch ships “black.”
They landed at Port Tewfik six
weeks after leaving Australia. They
watched German aircraft dropping mines
into the Bitter Lakes, blocking their pro-
gress. The 2/43rd went on to Palestine
by rail, meeting Tommies and Indians for
the first time at Genefa, where it staged.
It admired the spoils of war of the Sixth
Division, which had dowered Palestine
with large, well-lit prison camps full of
dazzling but slightly dazed Italians,
The Nieuw Zeeland steamed to Kan-
tara and put its Westralians ashore
there (“Neither battalion is likely to for-
get its rail journey to Khassa. No wonder
the ancient Israelites chose to walk from
Egypt to the Promised Land”). .The tree-
less plains, the wily Oriental gentlemen —
“Wogs” ; —the sheep being tended by shep-
herds, the Pan-pipes had all stepped
directly out of the New Testament.
Soon the battalions were sweating on
route marches, interspersed with seemingly
interminable drills, and with all-too-
fleeting glimpses of Jerusalem and Tel
Aviv on leave.
But in seven weeks, having survived
“Wogs” and hookworm, the battalions
left Khassa, to join the half-trained
Ninth Division, to which they belonged,
in relief of the desert-weary Sixth Divi-
sion.
On to Tobruk
Minus the 2/25th, which had not come
out with it, and with the whole land-
scape apparently serene and peaceful, the
brigade set out for Tobruk —the 2/28th
on March 19 and 20, 1941 ; the 2/43rd a
day later. Crossing the fertile Nile delta,
it reached Matruh on March 21 and 23.
Then the 2/28th spent a night at Fort
Capuzzo, in the border country, and the
2/43rd bivouacked six miles east of the
little port of Solium.
All the debris of Wavell’s pursuit be-
came more lavish and varied as the Via
Vittorio opened in front. The desert
was a vast junkshop in which it was
possible to scrounge anything from a
wheelbarrow to stray, but still useful,
artillery. The flourlike dust of the desert
filled eyes and ears.
On March 25 British troops round
Tobruk were made aware of the presence
of the brigade’s vanguard (the 2/28th) by
a sudden shrinkage in the size of a large
ration dump on the Derna-road. A day
later the 2/43rd was to be seen cleaning
the desert dust off itself near the ad-
ministrative centre of what had been the
Italian airport near the junction of the
Bardia and El Adem Roads. It had
further heartening evidence of good things
to come in the constant babel of
another 17,000 Eyties caged near by. B
and C Companies were delighted to be
detailed as guards. The spectacle was
soon common of lordly Croweater pri-
vates sporting neat Latin batmen who
cleaned their boots, shaved them and
made the verminous concrete tunnels
(which the late owners had obligingly
built endlessly) a little more bearable.
Italian musicians and cooks were
especially popular.
What seemed like a very good war was
spoilt on April 3, with the news of the
onrush of Rommel and his Afrikakorps.
On April 8 the 20th and 26th Brigades
began digging for dear life outside Tobruk
to the edification of the battalions of the
18th and 24th, which were manning the
31-mile perimeter. That day Lord Wavell
turned up from Cairo, cool and person-
able as usual, and ordered Major-General
Lavarack to hold Tobruk while the
British Army in the Middle East was
reinforced.
Defences were hastily completed.
Major-General Lavarack and Major-
General Morshead (who later carried the
load of the defence) prepared to make
their stand. There were anxious days,
inexplicable mercies—the failure of the
enemy to wreck the water supply ; the
failure of the mountainous swarm of
Rommel’s tanks to attack at the appro-
priate time and place.
Farewell to Libya
In the meantime the advance parties
of the 2/32nd Battalion began to arrive
on April 29 and, after roving round the
brigades, finally settled down with the
24th. Its C. 0., Lieut.-Colonel R. K.
Anderson, was severely wounded when
his car ran over a mine. His death in
Egypt, a sad loss, followed, and the dogged
Lieut.-Colonel T. M. Conroy, from the
2/43rd, took over.
The siege of Tobruk ended for the
brigade in October. The 2 / 28th sailed
for Alexandria on the nights of Sept.
22/23 in H.M.S. Latona, Griffin. Jervis
and Kimberley; the 2/32nd in H.M.S.
Kingston, Hotspur and Abdiel. The
2/43rd left on the nights of October
17-18 in H.M.S. Latona and Nizam. It
had put up records —it had been 124 days
in the front line, a period probably not
bettered by any infantry unit in Tobruk.
After staging at Amariya, the brigade
settled down in Palestine at Kilo 89,
where it was inspected by General
Blarney. m
Through the siege Brigadier A. H. L.
Godfrey, D.S.O. and Bar, had held com-
mand. He surveyed his men at Alexan-
dria :
The troops arrived at Alexandria look-
ing thin, lacking muscle and with a tired
look about the eyes—but they also had the
look of ' men who had done things. It
was obvious their morale had not suffered.
It was at the same high peak throughout
the siege. They went in untrained and in-
experienced and came out a brigade with
a reputation to live up to. They can
and do hold their heads high.
“Respite” in Syria
Palestine seemed like paradise for a
time. There was even beer, but best of
all there was the freedom to move about,
with leave in Tel Aviv and Haifa, Cairo,
the Sea of Galilee and Jordan. In
December, Lieut.-Colonel W. J. Wain,
1T.5.0., took over the 2/43rd, ahd early
in January, 1942, the 24th went off to
Syria to relieve the 21st Brigade and set


The
Finest Achievements of
British Engineering..
Offered to Australian Industry by
McPHERSON’S LTD.
as Agents for
DRUMMOND BROS. LTD.
Manufacturers of Production Lathes, Broaching
Machines and other Machine Tools for efficient
engineering and manufacturing.
f
At the left is shown the
ELECTRAULIC Vertical Hydraulic
BROACHING MACHINE:
1 5 tons capacity. Constant speed
under all conditions, automatic
cycle of operations, and precision
control for smooth, effortless
broaching. Maximum length of
broach, 50 inches.
Above: The superb Drummond “MAXICUT” No. 0
Multi-Tool LATHE. Brings the maximum number of
single point and forming tools into operation simul-
taneously, giving increased output. New feed control and
hydraulic system; simplified hydro-mechanical operation,
which is semi-automatic. Maximupi distance between
centres, 12 inches; maximum diameter of work, 6 inches.
Let us give you further details of these and other
Drummond machines.
C
limited
Selling Agents for
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA FTY., LTD.
546-566 Collins Street, Melbourne 116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide
260 Kent Street and 532 Murray Street, Perth
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
to work completing the defences of Jebel
Tourbol area. The 2/32nd lost Lieut.-
Colonel Conroy and was entrusted to the
very tender care of “Torpy” Whitehead-
later of the 26th Brigade, and dear in
memory to every man of the battalion.
Lieut.-Colonel J. Loughrey succeeded
Lieut.-Colonel Lloyd of the 2 / 28th.
Life was not now as easy as it might
have been in the unpleasant bit of desert
(beside which darkest Africa seemed
fertile) east of Homs. „ Under a blazing
sun for more than a fortnight the brigade
was engaged as lorried infantry in box
manoeuvres and other hellish tasks, pon-
dering its fate as it heard of the adven-
tures of the homeward-bound Sixth and
Seventh Divisions, gone from the Middle
East to fight the Japs.
Local news seemed at its gloomiest —
Russians falling back, Japs spreading
over the Pacific and finally Rommel
sweeping on in full tide.
Ei Alamein and Glory
Then one day the Ninth Division em-
bussed, feinted north to Homs, then swung
south through Baalbek and Haifa. Troops
had been put into steel helmets and the
original routing had been designed to leave
the impression that they were off to the
Turkish border. They themselves did not
know where they were bound for —per-
haps home, it seemed ; perhaps not. But
soon they found themselves dug-in out-
side Alexandria, watching weary and
badly mauled units moving in towards a
panic-stricken city, which was not long
in recognising them arid their brown
boots, with a consequent elevation of
spirits.
On July 7-8 Captain M. R. Jeanes and
his D Company of the 2/43rd drew
first blood in the campaign in a raid in
which the gallant commander won a
Military Cross. July was a bitter month
in losses, a grand month in honors, as the
lists showed ; but history has heard little
of it. All this led to the sad glories of
El Alamein —Lieut.-Colonel Loughrey
out through illness ; his successor cap-
tured a few days later in the ill-fated
2/43rd attack on Ruin Ridge ; Lieut.-
Colonel Balfe, M.C., at the head of the
2/32nd in place of Lieut.-Colonel White-
head, promoted, wounded twice in Octo-
ber and in November in the El Alamein
operations; Brigadier Godfrey dead and
replaced by Brigadier Evans from the
2/23rd, to hold command till the later
stages of the New Guinea campaign.
But the spirit of victory was on the
battalions. Their display on Guy Fawkes
Day, 1942 (with German flares), as they
prepared to part from the remainder of
the Eighth Army, will be long remem-
bered by the local Arab.
Then came the “victory” ride through
an Egypt half-mad with relief, inspection
by General Alexander, a hectic Christ-
mas at Kassa, a great parade for fallen
comrades at Gaza. Then officers and
men found themselves in trucks bound
for Port Tewfik and Australia, reminded
by the considerate German Air Force in
leaflets bearing the brigade insignia that
they would find the Americans there.
Home on the Mary
They were on the Queen Mary at
Massawa, part of a great complement
of 9995 fighting men with their old
friends Aquitania and Nieuw Zeeland
(Dutch ships had still not been declared
“black” by waterfront Communists) on the
beam. It was a voyage perfect in weather
—Addu atoll, new to history, with the
solid outline of old friends, the giant
Warspite and the sprightly Nizam, lying
there ; Rottnest, rearing up on the port
bow after breakfast on Feb. 18, 1943 ;
home —then Sydney ; marches in capital
cities; all the strange atmosphere of
war-time Australia. Even at that it seemed
like paradise. But early in May the Ninth
Division concentrated at Atherton amid
the luxurious foliage of the north. It
trained with the Americans at Cairns in
amphibious warfare. And in August the
brigade was on its way to Milne Bay,
now under the divisional command of
Major-General G. F, Wootten, who pre-
sided over its fate till the end.
Jungle Warfare
There it was initiated into the mysteries
of jungle warfare, at which it did not re-
joice. There were more changes of
command. There was a little while at
Buna, reached in, Yankee L.S.Ts. There
was the swift advance on Lae, like the
stroke of a sword ; there were Scarlet
Beach, the defence of Finschhafen and
the clearing of the enemy north of the
Sang River. Not for nothing did the
new brigadier S. H. W. C. Porter tell
the battalions of the Sang that he was
proud to command them. They had
paid dearly in blood. There were many
new, fresh faces in the ranks among the
lean, tired veterans of North Africa.
Finally, in February, 1944, came leave
in Australia as a further preliminary to
further training at Ravenshoe (N.Q.),
where the units were visited by the Duke
of Gloucester, the C.-in-C. and Lieut-
General Morshead, now a corps com-
mander.
So long was the stay at Ravenshoe
(with brief excursions to the coast for
amphibious exercises) that it seemed as
if the brigade and division had taken
root there. One of the sea exercises was
with the Royal Navy. Christmas saw
parties on leave in the south, and with
the coming of 1945 prophets rose up in
legions suggesting transfers to anywhere
from Macquarie Island to the Russian
front.
Morotai and Borneo
It was not till April 9 that the S.
Australians sailed out of Townsville, the
balance.of the battalions a fortnight later,
all on U.S. naval transports. The sea was
at its best. The quarters were comfort-
able. They passed by Finschhafen but
could not see the summit of Satelberg
for the cloud.
On the day Tarakan was attacked they
were luxuriating in their forward base
at Morotai. But the surrender of Ger-
many seemed a long way away, some-
thing out of the past. It was cele-
brated quietly, despite the special beer
issue and the new signposts reading
“Churchill - avenue” and “Victory -
avenue.”
Patrols amused themselves hunting the
elusive Jap, who was keeping himself
even darker than the U.S. negroes who
manned the base perimeter. The only
enemies to fight were snakes, spiders,
ants and scorpions. An avalanche of
aerial maps and photographs and
descriptive geographic matter dealing with
Borneo was flung at the heads of the
sorely-tried soldiery. And then came
Borneo itself —“New Guinea with frills
on” —after preparation which included
salutary lectures by the brigadier on the
holiness of line communications and the
value of digging. (It was a joke against
him that he once mistook a two-up ring
for a weapon pit till corrected by the
padre.)
.The final odyssey began in the rain,
after a damp night in a coconut planta-
tion, some companies moving in veteran
Australian ships, those designed for
assault waves in L.S.Ts., which seemed
perennially full of water.
The landing was the first assault under-
taken by the brigade. It was made on
Labuan as the sun came up in a ball of
fire on June 10, 1945,
Then it was all over, but not before
the drive to Beaufort.
On August 15 the Japanese surren-
dered. The brigade had added Starce-
vich’s V.C. to its long record of decora-
tions. On September 10, Lieut.-General
Baba, of the Japanese 37th Army, handed
his gilt-hilted sword to General Wootten,
and the sound of the 101-gun victory
salute rolled along the divisional front.
Seven days later Brigadier Porter
accepted the surrender of the general
commanding the Tenom-Keningau force
at Beaufort. And then, having fought
“through the burning days and freezing
nights of the desert, the ooze and sweat
of tropical jungles”; having defeated Ger-
mans, Italians, Japanese and half the
world’s climates; “Porter’s Mob” went
quietly home to write a book about its
adventures which bears on its cover the
name of Red Platypus and the words)
“Palestine, Libya, Syria, Egypt, New
Guinea, Australia, Borneo.”
United Kingdom Losses.
“Ek Dum”: A White Paper on the
strength and losses of the British forces
in the war shows how great was Britain's
effort.
On August 31, 1939, the total strength
of armed forces was 681,000. Between
that date and June 30, 1945, a further
5.215.000 were taken in. Of 5,986,000
who served, 3,788,000 were in the Army,
1.185.000 in the R.A.F. and 923,000 in
the R.N.
At the peak, in June, 1945, .the fighting
forces numbered 4,683,000.
Women’s auxiliary services had 21,000
members in August, 1939, growing to just
on 640,000—85,000 W.R.N.S., 307,000
A.T.S., 219,000 W.A.A.F. and 28,000 in
the nursing services.
The United Kingdom lost 357,000
killed —264,000 in the armed forces, 624
in the women’s auxiliary forces, 1206 in
the Home Guard, 30,248 in the Merchant
Navy and fishing fleet and 60,595
civilians. Total casualties were 950,794 —
Navy, 73,642 ; Army, 569,501 ; and R.A.F.
112,296.
Casualties were divided between the
European and Pacific wars as follows:
European war: Army, 494,930; R.N.,
67,205; R.A.F., 102,972. Total, 665,107.
Pacific war: Army, 74,571; R.N., 6437;
R.A.F., 9324.
To these have to be added the figures
for the rest of the British Commonwealth
and Empire, which, together with the
U.K., had almost 10,000,000 men in the
field.
It is striking that the United Kingdom
had an enlistment a third greater than
the United States in proportion to popu-
lation. Even more striking that Britain’s
losses in the Pacific war were consider-
ably greater than those of this country on
all fronts.


ds
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
Exide Batteries contribute to the conveniences
of modern living, from a telephone call to air
travel. In your choice of a car battery you
can safely be guided by the world’s largest
telephone exchanges, who depend on Exide.
•nrp s
WHEN IT'!
m
START
1.45
PERSONAL ITEMS
When knighthood was' in flower the
King’s Birthday Honors List was usually
with a fine crop of Australian
sirs. lii Britain, under a Labor regime,
this year’s list includes baronies and
knighthoods of all colors —the Air Force
blue of Cyril Newall, the navy of Vice-
Admirals Crutchley and Rawlings, both
familiar figures in Australian ports during
the closing stages of war in the Pacific,
the true-blue of Liberal William Beve-
ridge, the faded pink of Walter Citrine
and varying shades of dusty-grey and
off-white of representatives of the motor
industry and trade-union officials. In
Australia, with Governments at Canberra
and in five States opposed to the principle
of awards other than cash, the only two
citizens to make the list were Judges:
John Patrick Dwyer, Chief Justice of
Westralia, and Frederick William
Richards, of the Supreme Court of South
Australia.
So many naval actions have been
fought on every sea in the six and a half
years since the cruisers Ajax, Achilles and
Exeter in a running fight off the River
Plate sent the German pocket-battleship
Graf Spec scurrying for shelter in Monte-
video harbor, later to be ignominiously
scuttled on orders from Hitler, that
probably few people today could name
offhand the men who directed the fight.
Vice-Admiral Harwood (then Commodore
of the South American Division) was on
Exeter, and Ajax, which first sighted the
enemy, was under the command of
Captain C. H. L. Woodhouse, who last
week, as Rear-Admiral Commanding
British Pacific Fleet Aircraft-carriers,
hoisted his flag in the carrier Glory in
Sydney. After the Battle of the River
Plate, Woodhouse went to the Admiralty
as director of Local Defence, and in 1942
took command of the newly-commis-
sioned Howe, in which he had a part in
the invasion of Sicily. Back at the
Admiralty again as director of Naval
Ordnance, he held that job down till a
couple of months ago, when he left Eng-
land to take over his present command.
Launceston Grammar celebrated its
centenary early this month, and there
was no prouder man at the celebrations
than Hugh Fraser, a master at the school
for nearly 50 years. Fraser came to
Grammar from Grenville College, Bal-
larat, in the school’s jubilee year, and still
teaches the senior lads maths. Ten years
ago he was appointed Master Emeritus.
In his younger days he was an oarsman
of note and was rowing coach of Gram-
mar from 1897 to 1917, and the present
headmaster, H. Vernon Jones, was cox
of winning crews trained by him in 1911,
1912 and 1913. Needless to say, Hugh
Fraser is “Mr. Chips” to all Launceston.
Arthur Patterson, farewelled the other
day by Carlton and United Breweries,
was in the beer trade for 58 years. He
was probably better known to Mel-
bourne’s suburban beer drinkers than any
other man in the pub business, because
his expense account allowed him to shout
for all in the bars he visited. The boozers
got to know the days on which Arthur
would visit their district and followed
him from pub to pqb, getting a free drink
at each. Patterson naturally wanted his
guests to drink the product of his own
brewery, when he turned it on for them,
but he allowed his face to show only a
faint trace of disapproval when some of
them ordered whisky.
Donald Clifford Bennett, whom Too-
woomba (Q.) claims as a son, has a habit
of hitting the headlines every now
and then. In 1938 he made a
record crossing of the Atlantic in
the pick-a-back ’plane Mercury, for which
feat he was awarded the Oswald Watt
Gold Medal. In 1940 he established a
distance record for seaplanes and made
the first non-stop flights from Britain to
Canada and Britain to South Africa, He
founded the Atlantic Ferry Service and
when, in 1944, he was promoted Air
Vice-Marshal, he was the youngest ever to
have achieved that rank. Then he had a
short period as Liberal M.P., losing his
seat at the landslide election. Bennett’s
latest exploit is more prosaic than the
foregoing list, but, after all, he’s an old
man of 35 now; hiring a Lancaster
bomber from the R.A.F., he is flying some
of France’s record crop of peaches to
catch the Covent Garden markets. As a
result that luscious fruit is being brought
within the reach of the average pocket
for the first time for many years.
The early migration of R.A.A.F.
Eastern Area H.Q. from Point Piper
(Sydney) to Bradfield Park probably ac-
counts for the slightly wistful expression
NEW QUARTERS FOR A.O.C.
of Air Commodore Alan Moorhouse
Charlesworth, A.F.C., Air Officer Com-
manding Eastern Area, as caught by
Dubois. Charlesworth, who transferred
to the R.A.A.F. in 1925 after a year in
the Army, trained at Point Cook before
joining No, 1 Squadron. With an R.A.F.
party he assisted in a photographic survey
of Somaliland, bumped around in Ansons
for a few years and in 1939 became
Senior Air Staff Officer of Central, later
Eastern, Area, A year later he took over
the operational base at Pearce —then occu-
pied by No. 14 Squadron’s Hudsons, later
changed to Beauforts, and No. 25 (“City
of Perth”) Squadron, which evolved from
Wirraways through Vengeances to Libera-
tors. Admin, jobs at Port Pirie and Bris-
bane preceded his present command. Born
at Lottah (Tas.) in 1903, Charlesworth first
aspired to the Navy College with school-
fellow Harold Gatty. The Navy rejected
him because of a “bent back,” an afflic-
tion which so handicapped him at Dun-
troon that he was only able to be cham-
pion athlete for three years running and
to win the Sword of Honor for the out-
standing student of his year. These days
he plays golf.
When Andrew Forrester (“Jock”)
Donaldson died suddenly at North
Sydney last week at 58 The Bulletin
lost one of its most popular and colorful
personalities. For 27 years “Jock” tapped
a linotype keyboard in the composing-
room and was a wizard at deciphering
illegible “copy.” Bora at Dundee, “Jock”
served his time on a Scottish daily and
came to Australia as a young man. In
1916 he left with the Ist Aust, Wireless
Pack Troop, which joined the British
forces in Mesopotamia, and served with
the unit until the end of World War I.
On discharge from the Army he spent a
short period with Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.) newspapers before he joined
The Bulletin. Father of The Bulletin
Chapel foi many years, he held that office
at his death. “Jock” never lost his rich
Dundee accent nor his admiration for
Robert Burns, most of whose poems he
could quote from memory. His love of
Burns was coupled with an equal devo-
tion to Australian storytellers and poets.
Generous to a fault, “Jock’s” unfail-
ing good humor and readiness to join in
a laugh at his own expense endeared him
to his workmates in all The Bulletin
departments.
Principal Kick, elected president of the
Congregational Union of Australia and
M.L., succeeding Df. C. V. Crockett, is
head of thd Parkin College in Adelaide —
it trains students for the ministry. Lon-
don-born, an Oxford Honors History man
with a degree in Divinity from Univer-
sity of London, he pastored Congre-
gational flocks in the Potteries town of
Newcastle-under-Lyme and Halifax in
Yorkshire before coming to Adelaide in
1920. His reputation as a scholar in
theology was high before he left “Eng-
land, and he has added to it since. He
has examined for the College of Divinity
in Melbourne, lectured for the Army Edu-
cation Service, and has written a
string of books, ranging from An Apostle
in Australia to The Christian Ethic of
Sex. His wife is Winifred Kiek, the
first woman in Australia to be appointed
to the Congregational ministry.
Off to England on June 28 with a type-
writer and a ton of courage, short-story
writer Jon Cleary, who intends freelanc-
ing there. A commercial artist before
the war, he enlisted in the A.I.F. early in
the piece and served as a gunner with
2/ Ist Survey Regt. in the Middle East.
He transferred over to the Military His-
tory section, gained a commission and
served in New Guinea and New Britain,
writing for Army publications, but also
finding time to turn out some excellent
short stories, two of which were pub-
lished in Coast to Coast. Cleary was co-
winner with Alex Turner in an A.B.C.
play competition, a collection of his short
stories was recently published, and he has
a novel on the way. Unlike most Aus-
tralian writers, he hasn’t neglected the
American market, and in England he
hopes to try his hand at film scenarios.
Dr. L. C., Snook, who has been ap-
pointed Animal Nutrition Officer in
W.A.’s Agricultural Department, first be-
came interested in his subject while a
student at Narrogin School of Agricul-
ture. After graduating at Perth Uni. he
went to Britain on a Hackett studentship,
carried out research work and gained a
D.Sc. degree at the University of Aber-
deen. When war broke out he was study-
ing under Dr. Hammond at Cambridge.
He returned to Australia and joined the
A.1.F., serving with 2/13th Battalion in
the Libyan campaigns, and subsequently
with 2/Ist A.G.H. in Palestine, New
Guinea and Bougainville.
Solomon, A.B.C.’s latest importation,
was born in London, and started caress-
ing the keys of the piano three years
later. Caress is the right word for this
British musician who never thumps the
NEW HONOR TO OLD NAME.
keys, and in his softer moments seems
to draw the notes out without any per-
ceptible contact between keys and fingers.
There was more jam than music in his
earliest efforts, .but his family recognised
in him a potential virtuoso, and five years
later he was making his debut at Queen’s
Hall. Between 14 and 18 he was with-
drawn for what he describes as very
necessary studies in London and Paris,
after which he launched out on a world
scale. He was a pioneer of the modern
school of virtuosi produced by this air
age. His air miles run into scores of
thousands. During the late war and
thereafter he entertained the forces in
every theatre; for example early .this
year he went through India and
further Asia, travelling 40,000 miles in
eight weeks and giving 36 concerts.
Recognition of his war-time work came
in the Birthday Honors list with the
award of an 0.8. E. After touring Aus-
tralia and M.L. he flies to S’Africa to
tour that land on his way back to Britain.
Lindo Ferguson, of Dunedin, who has
been made patron of the newly estab-
lished Ophthalmological Society of M.L.,
is the only living foundation member of
the parent society in Great Britain. Now
88, he was born in London, educated in
Dublin, and had a distinguished career at
medical institutions there. For health
reasons he came to M.L. in 1882, and
was the first surgeon to take up practice
as a specialist in M.L., being appointed
ophthalmic surgeon at Dunedin Hospital
in 1882, which job he held for 40 years.
“Lord Luvus” records a meeting:
Two veteran Australian composers, both of
them well past the three score years and ten
and both well loved, recently met in their
native Melbourne. They were white-maned and
white-bearded Louis Lavater and Alfred Hill,
whose careers have been verj different except
as regards their devotion to their muse. Hill
started forming his talent at Leipzig Conserva-
torium at 16, and had published his Scotch
Sonata there before he left it. Then he con-
ducted the Wellington Orchestral Society for
four years, settled in Sydney as conductor of
the Sydney Liedertafel and the Great Syna-
gogue Choir and later became one of “J.C.W.’s
conductors and conducted his own Maori opera
“Tapu.” Meanwhile his compositions with a
Maori inspiration were reaching English ears
per medium of the voices of singers like Ken-
nerley Rumford, Ada Crossley and Rosina
Buckman. He several times conducted his own
works in America and England. Louis Lavater
spent all that time in Melbourne composing
orchestral, chamber and choral music, songs
and piano pieces, running a verse magazine and
adjudicating at eisteddfods all over the Com-
monwealth. He is a writer of delicate poems
and gives them his own musical settings. He
has shunned the hurly-burly of public per-
formances, unlike his fellow-veteran, wh6
seems to like them.
As quietly as he had lived, J. H. W.
Mules died at his Brighton (S.A.) home,
after leaving his name fixed firmly on the
Australian sheep industry. Originator of
the “Mules operation” for rendering
merinos almost immune to fly-strike by
removing breech, wrinkles, he put several
new terms into back country idiom, for
sheep are now “mulesed” or may already
be “mulesies” or are due for “the mules.”
Mules himself was Adelaide-born, took
on station work, became manager and
owner in S.A., N.S.W. and Queensland.
His operation was regarded with sus-
picion at first, but Mules travelled the
country demonstrating it, got the back-
ing of men like Kater and McMaster,
finally convinced the C.S.I.R. of its value,
saw it established as an accepted practice
and retired in 1937 on an annuity of £3OO
a year from a grateful sheep industry.
He was 70 at the end.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 90, Frederick Wilhelm Lud-
wig Kleinsohmidt, for more than 50 years
skipper of the old stern-wheeler Maid of Sker
on the Brisbane-Moreton Bay-Southport run,
until his retirement some 20 years ago.
“Skipper Fred” had a fund of stories about
strange individuals who had sought refuge
from a disturbing world on small islands and
lonely headlands which would have provided
material for a most diverting book.
At 88, in Melbourne, Edwin Henry Chester-
man, for many years an engineer, afloat and
ashore. He was the first apprentice in the
Tasmanian Main Line Railway Company, later
joined Mort’s Dock in Sydney and was second
engineer of the Esk, of the old Tasmanian
S.N. Co., when she was wrecked on the
Hebe Reef in 1886. He swallowed the
anchor in 1890, and held an important posi-
tion on the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board
of Works for 25 years.
In Sydney, at 89, Charles John Prescott, for
over .30 years headmaster of Newington Col-
lege. Born in Bridport, England, he took his
M.A. degree at Oxford, came to Australia in
1882 ind entered the Methodist ministry.
From then till 1900 he was associated with
various schools, and then commenced his long
reign as Newington’s head. Since his retire-
ment in 1931 he had. been honorary chaplain
of the college.
In Melbourne, at 75, Ronald A. Rankin,
a member of the Tariff Board. A public
accountant for 50 years at Bendigo, he played
a leading part in the development, of mining.
In Sydney, at 69, Edward J. Mooney, founder
of the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co.,
the most successful life-assurance Concern
formed since the 1914-18 war. Early in life he
was a N.S.W. mounted policeman.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Joan, daughter of Premier John Cain,
had to deputise for her mother, who was
a ’flu victim, at the reception given by
the Government at the Town Hall on
Victory Night. Fler bouffant frock of
ice-blue net and satin, topped with a
short ermine cape, suited her prettily.
With Lieut.-Governor Edmund Herring
was his wife, whose long, graceful
black crepe dinner frock had a hip-
length matching jacket, both handsomely
embroidered in a gold-leaf pattern.
Guard of honor, as the official party
moved through the ballroom to the dais,
was formed by members of the St. John
Ambulance Brigade. Most of the women,
guests forsook black for gowns in pastel
shades or white. The Hon. Mrs. Ronald
Douglas, sister of Admiral Sir Louis
Hamilton, chose a white moire silk jacket
over her long black evening skirt. Mrs.
G. Jones, who was with her Air Vice-
Marshal husband, had as the only orna-
ment to her japonica-pink frock a small
flight of tiny gold aeroplanes set on one
side. Wife of Cr. Coleman, M.L.C., wore
a gown of ice-blue crepe embroidered in
crystal beads. The lovely national cos-
tume worn by Madame Wang, wife of
the Consul for China, was of pale pink
satin, heavily embroidered with cycla-
men flowers.
Mrs. A. Dunstan, wife of the former
Premier of Victoria, looked most at-
tractive in a long green velvet coat
worn over a white self-patterned frock.
She spoke of daughter and son-in-law,
now in residence at Oxford. Both
are doing post-graduate courses; the
former Miss Dunstan is doing his-
tory. Lord Mayor Connelly, who is
doing his best to brighten this city, was
with the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, whose black crepe romaine frock
showed the return of the flounced skirt.
Hers had three flounces of boldly-pat-
terned floral crepe. Also in the party
were Prof. Bernard Heinze and Betty
Marron, her auburn curls set off with
an ice-blue diamente trimmed gown.
Todd Duncan, negro baritone, has
captivated large audiences not only with
his voice, but with the delightful sense of
whimsy he brings to many of his songs.
But whether the singer is captivated by his
audiences is another matter. Latecomers
at his first concert looked for their seats
noisily and with much chatter and almost
ruined a Handel group. The last arrival
came in at nine-thirty—almost in time to
hear “God Save.” At the second concert
a press photographer disconcerted the
audience (but not the singer) as he
crouched beneath the stage and took flash
pictures as Todd sang “Old Man River”
specially for Oscar Hammerstein, who
with his wife and party was in the audi-
ence. Mrs. Hammerstein was a point of
interest for women ; they admired her
lovely auburn hair andP glorious mink
coat. Other members of the audience
have included John and Frank Tait; the
latter accompanied by his wife, Viola,
who is to make another stage appearance
in “Dancing Years last appearances,
before her marriage, were with Gilsullivan
companies. Noticed also were Group-
Captain Bob Gove and his wife; the
'Arthur Harfords, she also sporting a
mink coat over a shprt black frock ; Inez
Lillies, and John Heath and his wife
Eileen,
A white-and-gold breakfast (served at
one o’clock) and preceded by sherry, was
the pipe-opener for the launching of the
Y.W.C.A. appeal for £15,000. This was
arranged by Mrs. Gerald Bacon, who is
hon. organiser of the All-Nations Fair,
which will be held in the Town Hall
today. Mrs. Bacon brought the idea from
America, where a musical club, of which
she was a member, held functions at the
Hotel Astor ; the decorative scheme was
white and gold and guests wore the same
colors. Golden poppies and silver can-
delabra holding golden candles decorated
the tables in the ballroom of the Gros-
venor. Mrs. Bacon was all in white, her
tiny hat trimmed with white ermine.
Guests of honor were the Consul-General
for the U.S.A., Richard Boyce, and his
wife; both gave short addresses. Mrs.
Dan Reddan pinned white azaleas m her
gold wool frock. Helen Ellison, one of
the hon. secs, for the Button committee
(she saw service in the Middle East),
pinned her white and gold Returned
Soldier Badge in her black frock. With
Mrs. Lionel Newton was her sister, Mrs.
Frank Rago, newly arrived from San
Francisco. Mrs. Tim Jones, who has
been hibernating at her country home,
came down for the occasion. At the con-
clusion of the “breakfast” Mrs. Essington
Lewis explained that the object of the
appeal is to extend hostel and recreation
services for young women in Victoria and
Tasmania,
Busiest lass in Melbourne for the next
few weeks will be Claire Nickson. With
coupon book clutched in one hand and
purse in the other, she is shopping before
leaving for England in the Rangitata.
Claire served for almost five years with
the Army. Medical Corps; first at
Katherine (NT.) and later in Borneo. In
London she will gain further training in
the profession she chose on leaving school
—physiotherapy—and there will meet her
brother Noel, who has resumed his studies
at the Royal College of Music, As Clarke
Scholar, Noel had been a student at the
college for 18 months when war broke
out, and he came back to Australia to
serve with the Army, returning to Eng-
land at the end of last year. Claire is the
only daughter of Mr. A. E. Nickson
(organist at Melbourne’s oldest church,
St. Peters) and Mrs. Nickson) Wattle
Tree-road, Malvern.
A large party of A.A.M.W.S. officers
and ex-officers had a merry time over
cocktails and dinner at the Oriental
Hotel when they met to say good-bye to
Controller of their Service Lt.-Col. May
Douglas, who has returned to civil life
in South Australia. Asst. Controller
A.A.M.W.S. Southern Command, Major
Appleford, proposed the health of the
guest of honor and brought to the party
a large sheaf of telegrams of congratu-
lation and good wishes for Lt.-CoL
Douglas from A.A.M.W.S. and former
A.A.M.W.S. all over Australia. Lt.-Col.
Douglas was a V.A.D. in South Aus-
tralia before joining the A.W.A.S., be-
came the first commandant for that ser-
vice in S.A., and later was posted to
A.W.A.S. Officers’ Training School,
Grong Grong (Vic.), becoming chief in-
structor. Fropi there Lt.-Col. Douglas
went to Queensland as assistant con-
troller, going to A.A.M.W.S. as controller
when Lt.-Col. Molly Walker left that
post.
Pictured here on her wedding day is
Mary King, widow of Wing-Commander
C. F. King, R.A.F., and only daughter
of the Harold Luxtons. For her mar-
riage to Robert, eldest son of the late
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Whiting, Mary chose
an ink-blue crepe romaine frock cut on
tailored lines, and with it a matching blue
hat, trimmed with veiling and ribbon
clustered at each side. Wedding, which
was very quiet (only relatives attended),
was held in the Angel Chapel of St.
John’s, Toorak, with the Bishop of Gee-
long, Rt. Rev. David McKie, officiating.
The ’groom’s brother, Ernest, was best
man. An informal reception was later
held at the horfie of the bride’s parents.
The honeymoon is being spent in Sydney.
First ball of the Women’s Land Army,
held in the lower Town Hall, served also
as a happy reunion for many. Some
members of the Land Army are still
carrying on their jobs in a civilian
capacity, and they came from country
districts to attend the ball, remaining in
the city to take part in the Victory March.
The 300 guests were received by Kitty
McEwen, president of the A.W.L.A.
Association and former State superin-
tendent of this war-time service, whose
black dinner frock was relieved with
touches of blue. President of the ball
committee, Desley George, chose a
sequin-embroidered powder-blue crepe
frock and pinned a spray of tuber roses
on her shoulder. Proceeds of the ball,
which is the forerunner of other func-
tions, went to the Lord Mayor’s Food for
Britain Fund.
From Sydney
Judging by the glee with which friends
in England write back thanking the sender
for an ordinary plum cake, the guests at
the wedding of Lady Elizabeth Montagu
Douglas Scott and the Duke of Northum-
berland will have had something to say
“yum-yum” about. A 50lb. wedding cake
was sent by Australian friends to the
bride, who saw service here as a Wren.
The cake arrived at Portsmouth on the
very day of the wedding, and then made
a hurried journey by car to Whitehall,
where the reception was held. The bride
is a niece of the Duchess of Gloucester.
Mrs. E. Marriott and Mrs. D. Middle-
ton gathered the members of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s women’s
navy auxiliary on a recent afternoon. The
party was tinged with sadness because it
was a get-together to discuss a fitting
memorial to the late Mrs. M. Meyer, who
throughout the war had served as secre-
tary to the auxiliary, and who had tire-
lessly helped the work of this ardent
band till after victory had been won. It
was decided to perpetuate the memory of
this well-loved member by an Australian
painting to be hung in the Associates’
drawing room.
This is a photograph from the West of
Judith Carter, who recently commenced
an Arts course at the Western Australian
University. Formerly a pupil of
Kobeelya, Church of England Girls’
School, Katanning, she is a keen player
of tennis and hockey, and she rides,
swims and She recently won
the University women’s fresher singles
tennis championship, and also plays in
the ’Varsity’s women’s A grade hockey
team. Judith is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. J. Carter, of Three Springs
(W.A.). Her grandfather, Ernest H.
Hickey, lives at Woollahra.
In 1850 Sydney University was founded.
It stood on the site now occupied by
Sydney Grammar. Thirty-five years later
the Medical Society was launched, and the
60 years of its splendid achievement is to
be celebrated in a Diamond Jubilee ball
on July 2. The vestibule of the Trocadero
is to bloom with trees —palms of fantasy
—tinted like red and white coral. Red
and silver being the Medical colors, the
enormous cake being baked by Mrs;.
C. G. Berge will be white frosted, topped
by one red candle. The murals will depict
the progress of medicine from surgery in
prehistoric days to the days of atomic
energy anatomic carving. Designs of
bones will playfully emblazon the menus,
and the night will be one mad whirl of
antiseptic fun. The ball is the first
Medical Society revel in six years, so
there is a lot of excitement among the
women on the committee over brewing
the fun. The committee women are
mostly the wives of honoraries of the
great public hospitals.
If you have been going that way your
eye has probably been held by a show of
toys in Nicholson’s window. They serve
as background for the gaily-decorated
book of children’s songs by Nina Fawsitt.
The title of the collection is “Songs for
Little Folk.” Words and music of the gay
little tunes were written by Mrs. Fawsitt,
who is the wife of Professor Fawsitt.
The opening speech of the R.A.A.F.
Paintings at the National Gallery was
made to few listeners. But this may be
owing to the epidemic of colds that seems
to have its grip on the community. The
work of only three artists is shown: Eric
Thake, Max Newton and Harold Freed-
man, and only one of them, Harold
Freedman, was there to hear the compli-
ments paid by Lord Mayor Bartley in his
speech. The sale of catalogues will aid
widows and orphans of R.A.A.F. airmen
who lost their lives during the war, so
wouldn’t it be a gracious act for the
hundreds of invited who did not turn up
to the opening to send along the price
of at least one catalogue?
During the years of his musical con-
ducting in Sydney, Will Quintrell has on
unnumbered occasions helped the success
of matinees for good causes. His eyes
would have sparkled to see the packed
Royal for his own testimonial last week.
Will is a sick man these days, and his
friends of the profession gathered their
talents and their forces to let him know
what a jolly good fellow they had always
thought him. The Royal was gay with
flags for the occasion. There were cheer-
ful bustle and chaffering in the stalls and
dress circle foyers, where flowers and
programmes were being sold, and tickets
for competitions, one prize being a grand
piano (and doesn’t this writer hope she
wins it?) were being snapped up.
The show was the star happening of
last Thursday, Everybody on the bill
was a theatrical draw. Edwin Styles
compered. Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott did their brilliant dance from
“Shadow Play,” Madge swirling in
a blue-green billow of chiffons. Will
Mahoney, Evie Hayes, Evelyn Hall and
a glittering list of singers and dancers
were led by conductor Andrew MacCunn.
Shirley Ann Richards, Australia’s
young screen actress, has returned to her
home in Neutral Bay for a few weeks’
holiday. Ann Richards, as she is now
billed in Hollywood productions, caihe
back bearing those hallmarks of success
a mink coat and nylon stockings, and
orchids given to her by her producer, Hal
Wallis. She was greeted by a cargo of
red roses from Ken Hall, of Cinesound.
On Sunday Ann and her mother attended
a memorial service in St. Augustine’s,
Neutral Bay, for brother and son Roderick,
who, at 23, died in a prison camp in
Borneo. During her few weeks in Aus-
tralia the pretty young screen star will go
on a shopping expedition for cricketing
gear for the Hollywood Cricket Club.
While the refrigerator-like atmosphere
of the Con. was turning the listener’s legs
to stone, Ross Buchanan and his company
were congealing the spine with a very
curious murder play, indeed. It is called
“Murder Without Crime” and it is a
kind of witches’ brew of horror that
every now and then goes flat and
then boils over in sheer wickedness. No-
body should miss this for fear of missing
Ross Buchanan. Sydney should see him
as Macbeth.
There are some lines in the dialogue
that made a few present glad th&t some
misguided enthusiast had not decided to
give the tiny tots a treat and bring a
few rows of Kindergarteners. Last Fri-
day night opened the season and the tak-
ings were for the Kindergarten Union.
There were some wide empty spaces in the
back stalls. *
Happy landing for Waltzing Matilda,
the converted Halifax bomber which
brought a company of 22 safely to Syd-
ney. Everybody knows the story of how
Captain Geoffrey Wikner bought the
bomber from the R.A.F., and how, in
addition to his crew, he carried 16 pas-
sengers to Australia, Captain Wikner’s
wife and two children made the flight.
So did two and a half years old Anne
Scott, daughter of navigator Charles
Scott. Graceful and intrepid Audrey
Morgan, just in the beginning twenties,
was co-pilot.
Last week was a week for music-lovers.
There were the stirring Symphony
orchestra concerts led by Eugene Goos-
sens, and then, on Saturday night,
Singers of Australia almost lifted the
solid old Town Hall on their wings of
song —Mozart’s “Figaro,” Gounod’s
“Faust,” and the final movement of
Alfred Hill’s symphony “Life.” The
Hurlstone Park Choir added the richness
of its notes to this work. Henri Krip’s
was the conductor.
If you like your art gay then you will
enjoy the Guy Huze show in David
Jones’s Gallery. If you have read your
O’Brien {Magic Isles of the South Seas )
you will recapture some of the lively
charm of the Tahitian scene that gripped
you in those pages. The show was opened
by president of the French Alliance Du
Platre, and members of the French com-
munity listened to and understood both
the French and English of the opening
speech.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says she
is going to publish a new magazine. It
will offer good English, original ideas,
and no holidays for anybody.
The American Society is planning its
first party since the beginning of the
Pacific war to celebrate the “Glorious
Fourth” of July. Already committees are
at work under the chairmanship of James
Coleman to plan the ball at the Troca-
dero, which will take the form of an old-
fashioned July 4 picnic.


Are You a Business
or Professional
Man?
If so, your days are possibly so fully occu-
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 68th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to'
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb..
F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; John Cadwalladcr;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshcad
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
%
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY me
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000.000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
, „ „„ 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY Mw .
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines).
The WIDCAL COUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Year ' Replacement,
ended Etc.,
ejUarch, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves,
6} p.c.
£ £ £ £
1838 .. 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 .. 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
74 p.c.
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 .. 1,005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
84 p.c.
1940 .. 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1941 .. 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219 4,351,538
1942 .. 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,640
1943 .. 1,041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 . . 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,448,655
8 p.c.
1945 .. 881,188 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
1946 . . 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,835
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
In Australia the co. is engaged mainly
in refining and selling all but a small
fraction (handled by Millaquin) of the
entire sugar output under Government
contract, in milling on its own account--
it owns seven of the country’s 36 mills —
and in the production of building
materials, a new and rapidly expanding
section of the business. In Fiji it is both
grower and miller, and has a pineapple
factory, too. There is a refinery in Maori;
land. And trade earnings are supple-
mented by returns from a fine wad of
investments outside the business.
The next table, which shows Australian
production, consumption and export of
raws, helps to explain fluctuations in the
co.’s net earnings since 1939:
Pro- Home
duction, Consumption, Export,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1939 . . 927,351 382,658 544,670
1940 .. 805,984 399,484 • 406,499
1941 . . 745,249 440,928 304,321
1942 ... 649,559 442,225 207,333
1948 .. . 528,550 434,128 89,660
1944 ... 669,898 454,237 215,661
1945 ... 660,500*
* Estimated.
The rises in factory and other costs, in-
eluding wages, materials and taxation, as
well as shortage of manpower and indus-
trial hold-ups, have taken their toll, too.
And so have developments in Fiji, where
the co. owns the only five mills operating.
Here only about half the cane grown was
harvested in 1944, when the outturn of
raws fell to 63,000 tons. That was because
more remunerative war work was avail-
able to Indian labor, usually entirely de-
pendent upon the sugar industry. Last
season the output was 65,000 tons raws,
but the 1946 crushing is expected to yield
115,000 tons. In addition, the co. did a
lot of war work in connection with pro-
duction of munitions, etc., at little or no
profit, and in some cases at a substantial
loss.
Over the last three years profits have
fallen short of div. requirements by
£224,097. The improvement of £6162 in
last term’s net earnings was due mainly
to the high level of Australian consump-
tion (the result of special demands on
account of Allied services), the small im-
provement in Fiji output, high price for
surplus sugar exported and elimination
of some unprofitable war-time activities.
The £887,298 of profit was 7.5 p.c. on
capital compared with 7.5, 7.4, 8.9, 7.9, 9
and 9.4 p.c. back to 1940. It was written
after allowing £426,824 for depreciation
of refinerieS and mill plants, and making
“all other charges.” The div. represents
about 4 p.c. on the cost of assets em-
ployed in the business, the board says.
It was 4.6 p.c. on capital and visible re-
serves combined, including provision for
depreciation, etc., which suggests that
assets are worth more than book value.
In the building materials section pro-
duction of Cane-ite was interrupted by
industrial disturbance, the plaster mill
increased its output, the new Gyprock
wallboard factory is about to start up,
and plant to manufacture hardboard is
expected to put its product on the market
before the end of 1946. The asbestos mill
at Zeehan (Tas.) has been shut down.
Estimated loss on this undertaking is
about £19,000, which “must be looked
upon as one of the co.’s war-time efforts.”
Interest now centres largely in what the
future holds for Australia’s sugar in-
dustry. Without any increase in acreage
planted, it is expected that the peak pro-
duction of 1939 will be exceeded within
a few years ; this because of the success
in cane-breeding, -growing and fertilis-
ing technique and milling efficiency.
Local consumption is likely to drop to
around pre-war level, plus a small in-
crease on account of population growth.
C.S.R. estimates total markets for Aus-
tralian sugar in, say, 1950 at not more
than 800,000 tons, of which only about
415.000 tons would be consumed locally.
Under the International Sugar agree-
ment of 1937 our export quota was
400.000 tons, and the markets were
Britain and Canada, where imperial pref-
erence adds approximately £A4 per ton
to open market price. When Cuba, India,
Java and the Philippines get into full pro-
duction again a drop in the export price
can be expected—last season’s exports
averaged about £AI9 per ton as against
£AB 4s. 3d. for 1938-39.
It all looks like a reduction in the
average price to the grower and miller,
approximately £l9 10s. last season a£
against £l5 3s. lid. for 1938-39. Expert
opinion is that, provided there is no
further rise in wages and- other costs, it
will require an export price of around
£AIS per ton and an average price for
the whole crop of about £l9 per ton to
ensure moderate prosperity for the in-
dustry as a whole —a less prosperous con-
dition than pre-war because of the rise in
costs (around 30 p.c.) that has occurred
meanwhile. Much will depend upon the
extent to which costs increase in other
countries, and upon the extent to which
rises in local costs of refining, etc., are
offset by the co.’s contract with the Gov-
ernment.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the solid
financial structure as the published
accounts show it:
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 4,322,761 3,527,737
Suspense accounts 2,437,456 3,010,128 2,976,845
Employees’ funds 55,817 42,698 56,804
Refineries, mills, ,
etc 10,478,655 11,993,709 12,470,719
Steamers, etc.. . 271,877 268,310 271,608
Distilleries . . 322,678 500,178 514,440
Premises .. 228,202 233,342 230,022
Stocks .. 4,176,249 6,915,022 6,761,917
Book debts, etc. 415,295 1,198,868 945,405
Investments , . 3,252,177 4,799,630 4,366,540
Cash and
deposits . . 3,022,574 922,273 744,912
Last term there was a net increase of
£477,010 in the book value- of refineries,
mills and building materials factories,
etc. The shrinkage in the more or less
liquid surplus (£6,257,388) was only
£245,516.
Mindful of the co.’s history, which
may not prove a reliable guide to the
future, the market prices the f.-p. £2O
shares at the ceiling figure of £59 55.,
giving a return of 2.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, or 4 p.c. should the* distribu-
tion rise to 12 p.c., which would call for
£1,404,000.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1936.. 26,969 8 p.c. = 20,000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938-. 36,054 10 „ „ 37,500 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £ 1337.. 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 1 „ n 7 Q . a
1939.. 27,662 74 p.c. = 30,000 J “ du ' ,y4B
Share premiums, £20,000 .. .. 327,948
Share-issue underwriting, £1750 .. 326,198
1940.. 43.236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
1941.. 37,736 64 „ ~37,708 28 332,129
1942.. 23,062 44 „ ~28,125 327,066
1943.. 30,117 44 „ ~28,125 1 „„ „ 08
Written off goodwill, £lB5O J LiA
1944.. 29,496 44 p.c. =28,125 1 , 71 „ 0
Written off goodwill, £1,200 J
1945.. 28,183 44 p.c. = 28,125 58 327,437
1946.. 28,452 44 „ ~ 28,125 ) 97 q 97
Written off goodwill, £3OO ) ' ’
Surprising feature of the latest accounts
is the slight improvement (£269) in net
earnings. The co. is in the wool-broking,
pastoral-finance and stock-ahd-station
agency business in Victoria and over the
border in southern N. S. Wales. These
areas suffered most in the severe drought
which broke a year or so ago. The con-
sequent heavy stock losses and poor
lambing we're largely responsible for a
shrinkage of over quarter of a million
bales and of £4,766,000-odd in the value
of last season’s Australian wool clip.
Variations in the national wool cheque
since war began have been due to fluc-
tuations in seasonal conditions ; Britain
bought the clips at a flat, contract rate
of 13.4 d. per pound until mid-1942, when
the figure was lifted to 15.4 d., and has
' remained steady since.
The co. sold 32,927 fewer bales last
term. There was a sharp decrease in fat
sheep and lamb supplies, too, though
increased prices took some of the sting
out of the blow. Still, whatever the co.
missed on the swings it largely picked
up on the roundabouts, mostly in ad-
vances to clients. The shrinkage in gross
earnings from all sources was only
£2007:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1940.. 84,711 190,561 147,325 77.3 p.c.
1941. .111,281 199,778 162,042 81.1 >. .
1942. .103,913 196,407 173,345 88.2 „
1943.. 96,212 212,665 182,547 85.8 „
1944. .101,658 218,778 186,782 85.4 > „
1945. .100,066 219,894 189,211 86.2 „
1946.. 67,139 217,887 186,935 85.8 „
Including £14,000 (up £250) for taxa-
tion, there was a saving of £2276 in exes.
After sending the usual £2500 to the
staff fund, £28,452 remained for share-
holders. The div. was kept at 4\ p.c.,
which took all but £27 of the profit,
making the average distribution 4.8 p.c.
oyer the last six years, compared with
an average of 8.3 p.c. for the preceding
quinquennium.
As for the outlook, a good season is in
prospect, but the British wool contract
runs out at the end of this month. For
the first time since 1939 auctions will be
resumed about September next. Bids
will be influenced by the condition and
quality of wool offered and the prices
which tops, yarns and fabrics are fetch-
ing in the world’s markets. And unless
shipping is available to lift purchases
promptly as they are made competition
will lose some of its force and the quan-
tity of wool that can be offered week by
week must be limited. Subject to this, and
to satisfactory exchange arrangements, the
demand for good-quality wools promises
to be strong, though Germany
and Japan will be out of the market, and
French, Belgian and Italian mills are not
yet in full swing. Under the new stabili-
sation scheme, if offers fail to reach
the reserve figure decided upon, the wool
will be taken by Joint Organisation at
the official reserve. The aim is to pre-
vent wide fluctuations in prices, and
therefore in money incomes of growers.
Apart from the never-ending struggle
with Nature, the big problem for growers
will be to keep production costs, includ-
ing taxation, below the level of average
selling prices.
Last term the co. borrowed to help
clients:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital £500,000 £625,000 £625,000 £625,,000
Liabilities. . 693,451 138,010 145,079 492,710
Tax reserve 14,295 22,000 13,750 14,000
Premises and
plant . . 212,855 249,324 252,968 260,552
Merchandise 6,555 10,436 10,291 16,492
Book debts,
etc. .. 1,331,433 826,805 685,919 7 . on n oss
Invests., etc. 9,005 34,535 180,218 )
To meet a net growth ,of £334,123 in
book debts, cash, etc. £347,631 was
added to outside liabilities. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£717,594) was £7557.
The market prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 28s. 3d., at which figure the re-
turn is 3,2 p.c, on a 4\ p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 30s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- ivc—
Feb., Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
• 6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 .. .. 150,873
Written off Target Mills, £16,734.. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ „ 32,422 13.209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201.323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229' 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£151,262 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 2,897 173,762
1944- 74,228 16,374 10 „ ~ 54,037 3,817 177,579
1945- 76,931 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 5,520 183,099
1946- 87,809 16,374 121 „ ~ 67,546 8,889 186,988
* Includes £40,367 arrears paid in ord. scrip.
More goods for civilian consumption
came into the market following the easing
of war demands; but style and quality
remained restricted because manufac-
turers haven’t yet had time to complete
the switch from standardised service pro-
ducts to the miscellaneous requirements
of a free market. The volume of output
was limited, too, owing to difficulties
associated with labor and materials. On
the other hand sales bounded along. The
demand for replenishment of wardrobes,
etc., swelled as demobilisation of the
forces proceeded, and deferred pay and
special issues of coupons facilitated
spending. Civilians also regarded portion
of their savings as amortisation reserves
against personal capital—clothing, etc.
which war-time restrictions depleted. In


Personal and Missing Friends.
Will ROBERT MARNANE, formerly of Atherton,
Queensland, or any person who knows his where-
abouts kindly communicate with the undersigned ?
MacDONNELL, HARRIS & BELL, Solicitors and
Notaries, Abbott Street, Cairns, Q.
PETER BROWN.—By an Order of the Chancery
Division, England,' dated 24th March, 1943, in Re
Henry Hope Brown, dec. (who died 11th Nov.,
1940), 1942 8.2020 an Enquiry was directed as
to his next of kin. Claims to be sent to E. G.
B. Wade, Esq., of 6 Portman Street, London, W.l,
to reach him by Ist October, 1946.
NOTE. —A brother, Peter Brown, born 15th May,
1863, at Perth, Scotland, went to Australia many
years ago. He or his children may be interested.
Also the children of Isabella Brown (known as
Tibby Brown), who married Alexander Maxwell
Grant Bth Sept., 1881, and who died at Hartford,
Kent, England, 24th Jan., 1902. Both were children
of Peter Skeen Brown and Euphemia (born Peebles).-
DATED the 11th day of April, 1946. —L. C.
HOLLOWAY, Master.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
• * «
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
THE
A.M.P. SOCIETY
£24,000 a day paid
to members and their
families in 1945
Chairman announces record year
In the course of his speech at the Annual Meeting,
the Deputy Chairman of the A.M.P. Society (Mr.
C. H. Hoskins) informed members as to the great
stability and progress of their Society:
• The year 1945 was a
record year in the
Society's History. It ar-
ranged for £38,701,622
of new Life Assurance
for old and new mem-
bers.
• Through their A.M.P.
Policies members are
now protected to the ex-
tent of £470,000,000.
® Last year the Society
paid out in claims to
members and their fam-
ilies £8,828,276, which
is equal to £24,000 a
day.
• The Reversionary Bonuses
for 1945 to be allotted
at the end of this month
total £5,485,000.
• Members' assets at 31 st
December last were con-
servatively valued at
£164.770,825.
• The Society grows from
strength to strength. It
is truly co-operative and
mutual. It belongs to
the policyholders abso-
\ lutely.
If you are not a member, become one. Don't delay. Seize
on membership while you are in good health. Ask the nearest
A.M.P. Office or Representative to advise you how best you
can use the Society to strengthen your financial position.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Sydney Osmond, General Manager,
M. C. Buttfield, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
H. B. G. Walker, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
HEAD OFFICES 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
The staff of the Pelman Institute sets out with each pupil to get as quickly
as possible to the core and substance of his individual requirements.
H.M. Forces
Members of the Services,
still serving or discharged,
are accepted as pupils of
the Pelman Institute at a
reduced fee. The Pelman
Course is approved under
the Commonwealth R.T.S.
Application can be made
through the Unit Educa-
tion Officer or other rele-
vant authority. The Course
has been approved by the
War Office, London, since
1939.
Interest Power
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the Pelman Course
which makes it of peculiar usefulness in the doing of any task, even one which at first
appears irksome. We may clean a pair of shoes merely because they should be
cleaned or we may prolong their life by filling in and polishing every part. The
intention and the effort create interest.
Interest makes work purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the subject matter of
training and educational courses, adds to the pleasure and profit of leisure time and
makes adjustment to the constantly changing conditions of post-war life easier. Interest
discovers the real meaning, the energy and movement of what engages our minds, and
so keeps us alert and responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of other qualities which
Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making the individual like
anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will be himself at his best, able to make a
good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said in ‘“The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
Note:
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
“The Pelman Institute,
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank, has
made arrangements to meet the financial
restrictions' and enable residents of
New Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind »
NAME
ADDRESS
177
— ■ ,
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. The Institute been
the same direction for over 86 years, and has enrolled more than 6U,uuu oj
established in Melbourne under
the 750,000 world Pelmanists,
these circumstances practically all goods
were good goods.
The extent of the rise in retail turnovers
is seen in the next table, which shows
percentage changes in aggregate sales or
22 Sydney stores compared with corre-
sponding periods of the previous years:
Average Three Mouths Ended
Sept Dec. Mar. June. Vear.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.3 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +^2.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 -2.4 +B.O
1942- -6.0 -19.3 -18.8 -6.0 -12.6
1043-44.. —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B 5.1
1944- +6.6 +7.4 +4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8 _ “
Though current demand will lose much
of its force on completion of demobilisa-
tion, the outlook favors maintenance of
a high level of turnover. Much will de-
pend upon what happens in connection
with production, wages, taxation and
costs generally. The key to price stability
and higher real wages certainly lies in
higher output. So far as Toy’s is con-
cerned, all that can be said definitely is
that the co. is better equipped than it has
been for many years to earn whatever
profits are to be had from the trade.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts the spring in gross earnings
(£577,816) was £29,804. That was after
allowing £30,075 (up £139) for deprecia-
tion! Including unspecified provision for
taxation, exes. (£490,007) took £17,926 of
the gain. The net result was thus £11,878
stronger at £87,809, or sufficient to pay
the prefs. their 6 p.c. and show 13.2 p.c.
on the £540,367 of ord. capital, compared
with 11, 10.7, 8.5, 9.9, 9.6, 8 and 8.4 p.c.
back to 1939. A 2 i p.c. “special” bonus
was added to the 10 p.c*. div., making
12i p.c. for the year. As for the bonus,
there is no assurance, or even implica-
tion, of permanence, the chairman says.
Last year’s was easily the best showing
since reconstruction of the main premises
in the late 1920’5. This work was financed
largely on bank overdraft, which pressed
heavily upon attenuated earnings during
the difficult slump years that followed,
and the ords. went without for five years
to the close of accounts in 1935.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1940.
Paid capital. . £813, 269 £813,269 £813,269 £818,269
Liabilities* .. 432,740 515,617 396,049 479,709
Property .. 728,044 723,970 714,292 775,811
Plant, etc. . . 118,125 91,673 22,763 5,748
Stocks .. 456,462 600,287 571,841 462,358
Book debts .. 105,223 91,941 41,697 61,173
Cash, etc. .. 13,876 21,680 224,090
* Includes tax provision. 1
Outstanding feature last term w|is reduc-
tion of £109,483 in stocks and* addition
of £147,062 to cash, etc. The co. is
obviously in a strong position to take
advantage of any buying opportunities
that offer. The year’s improvemen: in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£294,517) was £26,425.
On the market the ords. are jammed
at the ridiculously undervalued official
ceiling price of 275. At this figure the
return would be 9.2 p.c. on a 12i p.c.
distribution, or 7.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. To the investor who looks for
5 p.c. on his money the scrip would be
worth 40s. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. For
the prefs. buyers offer 255. without
attracting sellers. The return at 255.
would be 4.8 p.c. The net tangible cover
is £3 13s. 3d. prefs. and 26a. lid. ords.
Gold
According to provisional estimates
compiled by Union Corp. and published
by Samuel Montague, the well-known
London bullion firm, the steep decline in
world gold production that occurred dur-
ing the war years was substantially halted
during 1945. The year’s total was put at
26,500,0000 z., which is only 500,0000 z.
below the 1944 figure. This contrasts
with an average annual drop of 3,500,000
ounces between 1940 and 1944. One half
of last year’s decline was accounted for
by the fall in Canadian production. The
review deals with prospects in one terse,
but pointed, sentence. “The possibility,”
it says, “of the price of gold being written
up both in terms of dollars and sterling,
if and when the Bretton Woods proposals
are brought into force, must be reckoned,
Vith.” „
Although there is a strong black
market for the yellow metal in Europe,
the Middle East and India, at prices well
above official quotes, the U.S. Treasury
recently opposed a suggestion that the
dollar price of gold should be lifted. A
rise in the dollar price at the moment
would certainly aggravate present infla-
tionary troubles in U.S.A. For Britain
to act independently and raise the
price above the dollar exchange parity
figure would fhean devaluing sterling in
terms of the dollar, a most unlikely move.
The dollar price has been fixed by legis-
lation at 35 dollars per fine ounce since
1934. The London price, now £SB 12s.
3d. per fine ounce, is Is. sd. below ex-
change parity at the current sterling-
dollar rate, the difference representing
shipping, handling and other costs. The
Australian price of £AIO 15s. 3id. per
fine ounce is only |d. below the London
figure on an exchange parity basis. This
small difference does not cover insurance,
shipping and other charges.
Westralian Mines Department has some
problems to solve in connection with
London cos. with goldmining interests in
that State. One is what to do with You-
anmi, Ltd., which, “owing to disappoint-
ing results at depth,” suspended opera-
tions in 1942, and has had exemption
from labor conditions since. Although
there is a pile of residues awaiting treat-
ment and a six-figure tonnage of de-
veloped and partially developed ore re-
serve, the co. seems disinclined to have
another go. Another is the inactivity of
Edjudina Consolidated, which, after ex-
hausting its capital in purchase of expen-
sive plant and doing some underground
work here and th<?re, gave up and has so
far failed to raise'more money. Tindals,
which shut down owing to an empty till,
has made application to the British
Treasury for permission to raise further
capital, which is said to be assured.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Recently formed Evanston
Gold, N.L., operating on the North Yil-
garn field (W.A.), is overhauling and
adding to plant with a view to treating
2000 tons ore a month by August. Since
this is a flat-reefed, more or less refractory
mine, many consider that development
and more development should be the first
consideration.


*1
INTRODUCE ME QUICKLY TO
THE MAN WITH THE INGRAM'S FACE
There’s a c-o-o-lness, a s-m-o-o-th-
ness, a glowing good health to an
Ingram’s face that practically
makes a bobby-soxer out of the
most Distant Woman you know.
There are 120 man-sized shaves in
the Ingram’s jar. 120 hair-raising,
skin-happy lathers that give you
a facial finish that would beget
comment at a Baby show.
INGRAM’S
> '
V 3
d
K Q
Ingrata*'*
WVINC o&i
2
Wr M COM A UJ*-**
SHAVING CREAM obtainable at all Chemists.
INC.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Paintings by Orban.
Twenty-three oils and three pastels by
Desiderius Orban, on view at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, are, on the
whole, disappointing. There is a curi-
ously uneven quality about all except
one of the individual pictures.
This unevenness and lack of complete-
ness are partly due to the artist’s deliber-
ate striving after symmetry. In attempt-
ing to reduce Nature and architecture to
formulae he often produces mere blocky
patches of color, denoting landscape, and
sharp angles of gables and walls for
houses, the whole spread over the canvas
with a kind of higgledy-piggledy delibera-
tion, like an upset chessboard.
“Park, North Sydney,” is a fair sample
of the artist’s peculiarities, though it is
fortunately free from houses. It is a
harbor view, and the water is a white
haze, with sheds dotted on the shore and
boats riding at anchor, similar in shape
to the match-box vessels children sail
down gutters in rainy weather. The faults
of the painting are obvious: its virtues lie
in the white sea and the. soft white and
grey sky, both fleeting moods of the har-
bor at daybreak. Yet, for all that, a kind
of heavy subtlety spoils the work.
The fleeting moods of Nature are sub-
jects Orban. deals with often, and in one,
the pastel “Landscape, Austria,” he very
nearly captures the spirit of a dark,
lovely Austrian valley. The darkness is
that of approaching dusk, or rain, and
the treatment is almost right. But a few
peculiarities—mannerisms—rob it of its
total effect. Which raises the interesting
possibility that the painter is still striving
for a perfected technique and is to some
extent led astray by mannerisms. And
that he is happier with European than
with Australian light.
Despite this possible difficulty he
makes two good attempts at interpreting
Australian scenery in “Stacked Timber,”
a pastel, and “Near Ingleburn,” an oil.
“Stacked Timber” has soft hills and sky
and a dappled foreground, but the timber,
repeating the symmetry which is Orban’s
strength and weakness, resembles neatly-
stacked sandwiches. Again, in “Near
Ingleburn,” a mannerism robs the pic-
tube of its total statement —in this case a
minor detail, immense palings which stick
out like artificial dentures on a Mona
Lisa.
The exception to these criticisms,
“Flowerpiece,” a fine oil, is vivid and
glowing, like jewels seen through a dark
glass.
Some Melbourne Artbursts
A show of “contemporary” drawings at
the Myer Gallery, Melbourne, demon-
strates that the drawings of the con-
temporaries are, generally speaking, better
than their paintings, possibly because they
don’t think their drawings are as import-
ant as a painting, so do not feel obliged
to be pretentious. Hence there is an
absence of distortion, malformation and
obscurantism in the work of R. Malcolm
Warner, Eric Thake, Len Annois, Bernard
Lawson, James D. Watson, Max Newton,
V. G. O’Connor and others, and Nutter
Buzzacott has an “Inland City” which is
pleasing. A show of more consistent
merit is that of Peter Glass, at George’s.
Time was when a disciple of Meldrum
thought himself extraordinarily successful
if he sold a single painting. Mr. Glass
has performed the remarkable feat of
nearly selling out.
“F.S.”: A speaker remarked at the
opening of the show of war paintings of
the R.A.A.F. at the National Gallery in
Melbourne that this was the most docu-
mented war of all wars, cameras, pens and
brushes having been loosed on it in un-
believable quantities. The only official
war artist I know of whose work has
survived is Velasquez—but his “Surrender
of Breda” is a great picture irrespective
of its subject-matter. The only war cor-
respondent I can remember who has
maintained any importance is Tolstoy,
who, as an artillery officer, wrote Sevas-
topol from direct observation, and did
it so feelingly that the Tsar wrote to his
superior officers instructing them to keep
the reckless young man out of danger as
his death would be a loss to Russia. Of
the three exhibitors at the National Gal-
lery Harold Freedman appears to be the
only one who has sufficient control oyer
his medium to give an adequate descrip-
tion of the dramatic experiences of an
air war. Eric Thake and Max Newton
give cold factual representations which
the camera could do better.
* * * *
“F.S.”: If artists use the tdrm
“modern” as opposed to “old-fashioned”
they should be asked to point to an old-
fashioned picture. Is a portrait by Rem-
brandt old-fashioned? If it is a true
statement about someone it is no more
old-fashioned than the statement that two
and two is four. I have been moved to
this reflection by a picture labelled
“Modern Madonna” exhibited by Oscar
Helms at the Velasquez Galleries, Mel-
bourne. Parts of the anatomy look as if
they had been sculpted by Westralian
willy-willy, so I don’t know whether the
artist means me to infer that the picture is
modern because it is inefficiently painted
or because it depicts such a fashionable
subject as a nursing mother in a willy-
willy.
Musical Marathon.
A musical marathon which threatens
completely to outdistance the celebrated
1939 example has broken out in Mel-
bourne.
The outbreak was started by the Polish
violinist Goldberg and the pianist Koletz,
who handed the torch on to Solomon, the
British wizard of the piano, who passed
it back to Goldberg, from whom it was
snatched by Todd Duncan, the negro
baritone, the gaps between being filled
in by the Melbourne Symphony Orch-
estra under the batons of Walter Suss-
kind, Joseph Post, Heinze and others.
There was also the seventh annual
Concerto Festival, sponsored by the
A.B.C. under Professor Heinze’s direc-
tion. This musical. Melbourne Cup is
run off in its preliminary stages at the
University Conservatorium, where, out of
hundreds of eager contestants, seven
soloists are selected for the final flurry.
The audience consists of defeated com-
petitors, their friends and relations, friends
and relations of the successful, students
of all ages and both sexes and their
teachers. The field comprised pianists
Estelle Coady, Manfred Clynes aqd Mary
McLeod, violinist Ann Molan, singers
June Lang and Alton Edmonds and
flautist Douglas Whittaker. All were of
a high standard, though Alton Edmonds’s
voice wasn’t equal to the dramatic needs
of Massenet’s “Vision Fugitive.” Ann
Molan fiddled with unusual feeling.
Todd Duncan, who is singing for the
Firm at the Town Hall, belongs to the
new school of colored artists. Born in
old Kentucky, he is a bachelor of arts
of Butler College, Indianopolis, is a
master of arts of Columbia University
and has a scholastic record probably more
exalted than most Caucasian virtuosi.
He is also a highly accomplished singer
who can sing Brahms and Handel in the
true tradition and deliver the “Largo Al
Factotum” of Rossini with all the vigor
of an Italian opera singer.
Also, he has an ease and vitality that
recall Paul Robeson, and can lose him-
self in what he is singing, whether it
is “Where’er You Walk” or “Go Down
Moses” —a quality which isn’t always seen
in European singers. A mobile face in
which every feature can be expressive is
another item of his equipment; and he
looks sensitive to every change of feeling
in the line of a composer.
As he has expressed a mild regret that
he is always referred to as the “negro”
baritone an apology seems to be called
for, but it is difficult to see how mention
of his race could be avoided, since there
are so many of the admirable and par-
ticular characteristics of it in him. This
in spite of the fact that Tibbett sang the
negro spirituals as well as he does.
Duncan made a graceful gesture at his
second concert. Having recognised that
Tsar of the Theatre, Oscar Hammerstein
11, in the audience, he changed an encore
and rolled out “Old Man River,” as a
tribute to its composer. Mr. Hammer-
stein rose and bowed his acknowledg-
ments. It was almost too much glory for
one night.
Minerva Lightweight.
It may not be altogether reasonable to
demand that Australian actors should de-
pict Englishmen as well as an Englishman
would. English actors might find it pretty
difficult to play Australian characters at
all convincingly.
But still, if Sydney Minerva is going
to run English light comedies —such as
“Youth at the' Helm” is, though the
original was German—the actors will
have to run truer to type. It is quite
impossible to believe tfiat either Ron
Randall or Edward Finn, who take the
leading roles, has ever attended an Eng-
lish public school. The glitter, the polish
are missing; Mr. Finn’s performance is
far too colorless and jittery, Mr. Ran-
dall’s amiably but meaninglessly robust.
And in “Youth at the Helm,” a very
light and trivial and rather magazinish
satire on big business, the glitter is the
whole thing. The play is nothing: the
intellectual content would not seriously
overtax the brain of a turtle ; but in the
hands, say, of Edwin Styles it would
amuse.
The general impression of amateurish-
ness may partly be due to the fact that
the sets —surely a glimpse of London
could have been shown through the
window at the rear —lack all “atmos-
phere,” either of England or a bank.
Mild Murder.
J. Lee Thompson’s “Murder Without
Crime,” played at Sydney Conservatorium
by the Ross Buchanan Players, was pro-
duced in aid of the N.S.W. Kindergarten
Union, by grace of J. C. Williamson’s.
In the circumstances it is charitable to
mention that the play has an unusual
twist, and some tension, and that the
affected villain, Matthew, was played with
a dreary fidelity by Ross Buchanan.
Also, Joanna Wills, who took the part
of Grena, the hero’s mistress, was very
good. But the faults of the play were
many and manifest. The machinery by
which tension was produced groaned,
almost audibly, in the beginning of the
play ; there were “standard” situations, de-
signed to provoke the customary laughs,
accented, as it were, by a little deliberate
“naughtiness” of the slick, pseudo-
sophisticated kind. And the lament-
able spotlighting of attention on Ross
Buchanan’s aphorisms, strung out too
long and resembling pale imitations of
Wilde, left one wondering what exactly
his peculiar accent denoted. As the play
was set in England, it was probably in-
tended to be cultured English.
At the Talkies
The least credible features "of “The
Virginian,” at Sydney Capitol, are Bar-
bara Britton’s schoolteacher and the
blazing colors of the technicolor scenery,
but since both items are purely decorative
they don’t disrupt the »main proceedings
—cattlemen enforcing their home-made
laws against rustlers of the ’eighties.
Directing, and the acting of Joel McCrea,
Brian Donlevy and Sonny Tufts strike a
rare balance between over- and under-
statement that gives the whole piece an
almost documentary character; men,
cattle, horses, pubs and dust are mixed
into a natural background, and the final
gun duel is realistically sudden and brief.
“Old Acquaintance,” at Sydney Tatler,
varies slightly from the usual run of
Bette Davis films, but not sufficiently to
prove anything new or interesting about
Miss Davis. She figures as the writer of
unremunerative literature, with Miriam
Hopkins as the writer of highly remunera-
tive trash, the latter also being the un-
appreciative possessor of home, husband
and daughter. Since both husband and
daughter—and the daughter’s boy friend
—appreciate Miss Davis, the lady is hard
put to do the right thing by Miss Hopkins.
She does it,' however, with her usual
brand of histrionics and to the evident
enjoyment of Bette Davis addicts, includ-
ing Bette Davis.
Similar enjoyment of his allotted role
is evidenced by James Cagney in “Blood
on the Sun” at Sydney Empire. As a
reporter in Tokyo before the Pacific War
he beats and bashes and is beaten and
bashed by half the Japanese secret police
before he to dispatch to the
outer world the document setting forth the
dastardly intentions of Nippon. The
Japs are all very Gilsullivan, but that
doesn’t retard the enthusiasm with which
Mr. Cagney sails into ’em, or suppress
the howls of youthful audiences cheering
him on.


H
yUllflHH®
SttM tM
ms 0 you
CAPSTAN i THE EMPIRES FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
lIOD-MI
a
CAPSTAN
SORTING NOTIONS
With the English horse High Peak in South
Australia, and some good ones now racing
in S.A. ownership, breeding there should be
getting a nice lift along in another year
or so, and a strong contribution could* be
made by Beau Cheval, last Saturday’s Birth-
day Cup winner at Victoria Park. New Zea-
land bred, by Beau Pere (now in America)
from Cuddle (a good mare in her day), Beau
Cheval, carrying 8.7, gave the outstanding S.A.
filly Norwich 91b. and had about two lengths
to spare from her at the end of the 13 fur-
longs. A heavy track did not deter backing
of St. Fairy, despite his crushing burden of
10.4. He plodded along in mid-field, Beau
Cheval coming from a long way back to take
charge about a furlong from home, and win
like a sound stayer.
The S.A. Birthday Cup field was led along
for most of the journey by Lashio, who could
be capable of keeping them moving over the
National jumps at Caulfield next month. For
the National Hurdle (July 6) the York Hurdle
at Flemington on Saturday was probably more
of a warning than a guide. In a field of 20,
none of them with any jumping form to get
excited about, Camouflage was a 5-to-2 favor-
ite—mainly because L. Meenan, back from
Adelaide, had the mount —and Melbourne’s
hardy followers of the leapers also took threes
The Feline and 9 to 2 Illumination. None of
the three repaid the flattery by filling a place,
“ Unorthodox, perhaps, but most effective!”
John Masefield (his dam, Versifier) getting
there in a good finish from Mercury Bay and
Circuit; respective prices, 25 to 1, 50 to 1,
33 to 1. Mercury Bay looked one likely to
do better.
The Hopetoun Steeple had more of the
Nationals’ touch about it, the National Steeple
favorite, Tenfe, landing the money, with Garo-
fil and Accelerate in the places. With half the
shade over two miles covered the winner was
giving Hearsay and Accelerate about ten
lengths. He bridged the gap over the next
couple of furlongs, and, forging ahead after
the last jump, comfortably held Garofil, to
whom he was conceding nearly a stone and a
half. Tente has struck his best form and has
only to hold it for a few weeks to take a
great deal of downing in the big Steeple, for
which the field this year may not be as strong
as usual.
An above-average winter performer, Adrian
(Hellespont-Woodhen) won his second succes-
sive race in the seven-furlongs Rothsay Handi-
cap for two-year-olds, with Cider Glow and
Stormy Sea in the places. Carrying top weight,
Adrian did extra well to win, being a fair way
back early and in trouble on the rails, and
then having to come round his field.
Tasmanian Newmarket winner Thor, a six-
year-old Liberal gelding, was just too good for
Princess Amy in the Royal Handicap, a tiptop
race, as these six-furlongs events at Fleming-
ton generally are. With a furlong to go any
one of a number looked like getting there,
with Wonder Bird the most likely, but he’s
not much of a sticker, and was narrowly cut
out of third money by the ex-Sydney mare
Enthuse, runner-up in Abbeville’s Doncaster.
The 12-furlongs Sandringham Handicap con-
tinued the demonstrating that winners of these
winter distance events certainly lack nothing
in variety, the winner this time being Ellipsis,
with Drama and New Warrior next.
* * * *
Any jockeys who may have a sense of
humor must get a good laugh out of some of
the receptions accorded them. Certainly A.
Mulley had good cause to grin at the cheers
which greeted him after getting Murray Stream
home ahead of Silent and Lady Marie in the
10-furlongs Ellesmere Handicap at Randwick on
Saturday. He must have recalled the last
time he returned to scale after winning on
Murray Stream. That occasioned one of the
angriest demonstrations seen at Randwick.
The only difference iii the circumstances was,
of course, the betting.
Mulley is riding in great form, Murray
Stream being one of three winners h 6 landed
on Saturday. Earlier he scored on the
Hua filly Lady Charming, warmly favored for
a three-year-old fillies’ race, well-named the
Flight Handicap. Hitting the front with a
furlong to go, Lady Charming ran out an
easy winner from Gay Talk and Franjean.
Lakshmi Vallis ran a fair race and finished’
fourth, but needed the run, and was conceding
a lot of weight—lllb. to the winner, and much
more to the others.
On another favorite, Laudus, Mulley had
an equally comfortable win in the seven-fur-
longs Exeter Welter. Laudus won running
away from the consistent Cisco and Golden
Warrah.
Those three winners brought Mulley’s total
for the season to 48 —well ahead of any other
Sydney rider. Cook is closest with 38, but
has been experiencing a very bad trot and
hasn’t much time to make up the leeway. In
Melbourne Breasley is on top with over 50
winners (despite lately doing much of his
riding—successfully—in Adelaide), but the lead-
ing Brisbane jockey, W. Briscoe, numerically
leaves them all behind, having ridden well over
70 winners this season. None of them offers
any encouragement to systems based on fol-
lowing a jockey. Against his 48 firsts, Mulley
has ridden 36 into minor placings and 113 un-
placed.
Any two-year-old produced in the winter
and scoring a few easy wins against feeble
company can be assured of acclaim as a Derby
hope, the latest in this category being Wirralie.
Winning Saturday’s June Nursery (one much
he beat Ozonian even more easily than h$ haa
a week previously, and on 71b. worse terms.
A son of Midstream and the Magpie mare
Blackbird, Wirralie is a full brother to the
12-furlongs winner Swan River, and is bred
to stay, but it remains to be seen how he will
go against* his own stablemate Flying Duke,
Euryalus and others who won in better com-
pany earlier in the season. Nevertheless, at
his only two outings Wirralie has won like a
good colt. The unknown quantity for the
Derby is the Ajax colt Havoc, who at his
only start won the
Breeders’ Plate in a
canter. Thereafter he
developed int ern a 1
trouble and has only
recently returned to
Payten’s stable to
commence a prepara-
tion.
Back from the Bris-
bane meetings, G.
Moore made his
presence known by
riding two winners,
both at reasonable
odds. In the Trial
Stakes (three- and
four - year - olds at
wi.a.) Moore guided
the J. R. Smith geld-
ing Debenture, who
just lasted out the
mile, Lucky Attunga
being a distinctly un-
lucky second and
Cavalero third.
Moore’s other win-
ning mount was on
Bragger, who added
the six-furlongs June
Stakes to his credit-
able record. Bragger
is rising 11, but in a
close finish he’s as
game as any horse racing. Oriental fought out
the last half-furlong with him, but the-old fellow
refused to be beaten and won it by a head,
with Gay Monarch third. Bragger, who had
not previously won at less than seven furlongs,
cut out the six furlongs and 19 yards in 1.1 IT
One of the best performances at Rand wick
on Monday was topweight Quadrant’s win in
the 12-furiong Novice. Quadrant, who may
help to strengthen the somewhat weak distance
fields, carried his 9st. to a very easy win from
War Loan and Flagfall. The winner is a five-
year-old Double Remove gelding. Jockey
Mulley carried on his good work by landing
Strauss the winner from Young Veilmond and
Yankee Lad in the first race, a six-furlongs
event for three-year-olds.
♦ * * *
The best testing so far for the first leg of the
big jumping double was the Marlborough
Hurdle (2} miles) at Flemington on Monday.
With the exception of Hiatus ,and Lashio, most
of the probables were in it, and National
Hurdle favorite First Aid was in front at the
last fence. In the last furlong First Aid
weakened and Jocularity got there in a hard-
ridden finish, with Krallis finishing well third.
* * * *
After an easy match against Western
Districts at Orange (32-2) the English
Rugby Leaguers had a rough, tough
tussle at Newcastle. One of their men,
Ryan, was led off, and will probably be
unable to play again in Australia;
another, Phillips, was sent off, with con-
stables to guard him ; the Novocastrians,
undamaged, won 18-13. There followed
the first match with Australia at Sydney
C.G., which was so crowded that it was
impossible for thousands of honest fel-
lows to get a beer or place a bet. Play-
ing a man short —he was given marching
orders —most of the time, and handi-
capped by rotten kicking for goal, the
tourists led early till well into the second
half, but must have been satisfied with
the draw, 8-8.
* # ♦ •
Pacy in both backs and forwards, the
N.S.W. Rugby Union side ran Too-
woomba off its feet (49-3), and much the
same thing happened in the match against
Queensland. The Queensland forwards
dominated the lineouts, but the N.S.W,
backs made good use of possession from
the scrums. In the two games Rankin,
the captain, notched 34 points with his
boot and showed that he has retained his
pre-war prowess as full-back.
In Sydney club matches Randwick
scored eight tries to Manly’s one, ending
with 41 points to 11. Other games: East
28, North 11 ; University 29, West 9;
Parramatta 25, Gordon 8 ; Drummoyne
13, St. George 8, Randwick is leading
in the competition, four points ahead of
East and Uni. (equal), with Manly three
points behind the second pair.
**, * *
V.F.L. patrons were again served up
the choice of only half the customary
six dishes in Melbourne on Saturday, the
other three being kept to regale them on
the Monday holiday. More than half the
65,000 total guests chose the Essendon-
Collingwood spread on the Dons’ home
ground, and those of them who didn’t
come from abroad savored the joys of
well - roasted Magpies, 16.22-11.10.
thousand frenzied onlookers saw
a much-improved Fitzroy wrest an early
lead from Footscray, then, in a grand
game, lose it again and the match with
it, 16.10-15.9. Melbourne barged into St.
Kilda at Richmond, booting up an easy
14.12 to 8.9.
* * * *
A champion takes the count:
The chequered career of Jack Johnson ended
last week in a car accident in Raleigh, North
Carolina —the old black was the driver, and a
passenger of his own race survived the smash.
Between his loss of rhe heavyweight champion-
ship to Willard 31 years ago—after a very
curious scrap which was periodically stigma-
tised as a fake —and his final exit, the giant
negro had many vicissitudes, but he was never
actually on the breadline.
Johnson was in Australia for a couple of
months in the summer of 1907, intent on a
bout with Bill Squires. John Wren, who had
constituted himself the architect of Bill’s for-
tunes, had other views for the Australian —
they cost Wren a packet when Squires was
knocked out by Tommy Burns inside a round
at San Francisco on July 4 that year—and
Johnson had to be content with boxing Peter
Felix in Sydney and Bill Lang in Melbourne.
His colored opponent, who' was helpless with
fright, sank to the floor in half a round. Lang
was allowed to go nine rounds, but Johnson
could have whipped the pair in the same ring
in at most four rounds.
Johnson was back again in the spring of
1908 with an over-jewelled white wife, a
manager-trainer (the old Australian pug Sam
Fitzpatrick, who had trained Peter Jackson)
and a contract guaranteeing him £lOOO for a
title bout with Burns, who had demanded and
got £6OOO from H. D. Mclntosh. On his
previous visit Johnson had divided £4OO with
his manager, his share being reduced by £5
and costs for smiting the manager on the
nose. He quarrelled with Fitzpatrick also,
after that worthy had made no secret of his
opinion that Johnson was as good as Jackson
—higher praise he said he could give to no
heavyweight in any period.
Johnson trained at Botany, and then at
Manly, and every pug in Sydney voted him a
certainty to beat Burns. Feat Burns he did in
14 rounds, prolonged for the sake of the fight
pictures; he had Tommy down and dazed in
the first round. During the massacre he
combined flashness with an odd sort of chivalry,
and when Harry Rickards, who had a chain
of music-hafls extending from Sydney to Perth,
took the new champion on tour at £350 a
week customers stayed away in vast numbers.
Johnson showed his real mettle in his fight
with Jeffries at Reno 18 months later.
Esteemed the most powerful heavyweight that
ever entered a ring, Jeffries was as helpless
as a schoolboy in the clinches and had been
jolted, jabbed and uppercut into insignificance
long before the inevitable end —again delayed
for the sake of the pictures. Johnson was a
great fighter that day. Could the mist of years
have been rolled away to admit of Joe Louis
stepping into the ring with him at about the
same age, Louis wouldn’t have had a hope.
That is the general verdict of those who saw
both negroes m the flesh, or who could draw
comparisons from a study of the films Johnson
v. Burns and Jeffries, Louis v. Baer and
Schmeling. Unlike Louis, who had no guard
for Schmeling’s ponderous right in their first
mill, Johnson had a wonderful defence and a
marvellous battery of punches, combined with
perfect balance and judgment of distance.
When Johnson was a comparative novice he
had much the worse of an engagement with
Joe Choyinski, who had been twice knocked
out in Australia by Joe Goddard, and it took
him all his time to outpoint the much lighter
Sam Langford. It has often been asserted
that he was afraid to meet Langford again,
but Langford never said it when in Australia.
He knew then, and made no bones about ad-
mitting to friends when the question was put
to him, that Johnson had become his master.
• * * «
Just on 31, and apparently a back
number long before the Japanese war,
Joe Hall has made a remarkable return
to the business. On Saturday he beat
the Victorian Alby McCarthy at Sydney
Stadium, having the youngster down three
times in the fourth round. Hall said
after the contest that his right thumb was
jarred by these punches, but the injury
did not prevent him from outpointing
McCarthy right up to the final bell.
In what, according to one of the com-
batants, was their third fight (his arith-
metic is awful), Ritchie Sands and A 1
Walker were adjudged to have broken
even at Leichhardt. Sands’ rights nearly
settled Walker in the ninth and twelfth
rounds, and the eldest of the Newcastle
family of pugs had landed often previ-
ously without suffering any particular
damage himself. When the verdict was
given the customers laughed and hooted
loud and long.


YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
The
kindest thing that
you can do for your
family
%
]\ /[ANY a man has failed his
family because he gave
insufficient thought to the
management of his Estate after
his death. The wise choice of
your Executor and Trustee is
therefore the kindest thing you
can do for the members of your
family. It is your means to
protect them perhaps against
themselves.
If you follow the practice
followed by many shrewd and
successful men who have
appointed Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited) as their
Executor and Trustee you will
protect and benefit your family.
Call or write for a copy of the
booklet “Your Executor and
Trustee.” It describes the ser-
vice the Company renders and
what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H». NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000.000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING DESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Western District Representative; H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Connack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
• FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W5361 Branches in All States, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials becoir
available, inpreased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globitel
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
fg
Gain good results at the least expense-,
Making each choice in a careful test,
Whatever they buy, they buy the best.
Plain, sane people in sensible ways
Avoid the risks of unwise delays
For treatment of colds they all rely
On Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure laid by.
Woods’ Croat Pep per mint Cure, for Children’s Hacking Cough.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sydney Underwriters, Ltd.
Formed by a majority of members of
the Sydney Stock Exchange, Sydney
Underwriters, Ltd., has for its objective
the underwriting of share, debenture and
semi-Governmental issues. It is a com-
pany limited by guarantee. To begin
with, membership of the company will be
limited to 50, with power to increase.
Only one member of a Stock Exchange
firm is eligible for membership. Any
member of the Sydney or other recognised
Stock Exchange may, with the consent of
the chairman, attend any general meeting
and address it, but, unless he is a member
of the company, will not be allowed to
vote.
The council of management of S.U,
may make calls on its members in respect
of operating expenses and indemnities.
Unless the council decides otherwise, no
entrance fee or subscription will be re-
quired from members. First members
of the council are C. A. Begenhardt,
Ralph W. King, J. A. North, Philip Pring,
C. H. Smith, Frank E. Tilley and O. F.
J. Wolff.
A member of S.U., if approached with
an underwriting proposal involving over
£50,000 (except mining shares), must sub-
mit it to S.U. The council may let him
handle it himself; if not, it will allow the
member to take half the issue if he so
desires. The issue or the balance of it will
then be dealt with as follows:
(a) Each member will be allotted £2500
of it, or such lesser amount as the issue
or balance will permit;
( h ) Any surplus will be allocated to
members who have agreed to take extra
units —on a pro rata basis if the surplus
is not equal to the demand;
(c) Any surplus above applications for
extra units will be offered to members who
have asked for an allotment in excess of
their quota in the particular issue, and any
ultimate surplus will be dealt with at the
discretion of the council.
A member, by paying double calls to
S.U., may acquire a double original
quota. The original quota of £2500 is
based on the face value of the shares
handled, or face value plus premium (if
any). No member will be bound to sub-
scribe more than £2500 in any month,
and, if he has contracted to take more
than £2500, he may forego or reduce the
excess by giving the council two months'
notice. A member may resign, but he
may be held responsible for his quota for
two months afterwards. And for six
months afterwards he will have to submit
to the council any underwriting contract
in excess of £50,000 offered to him. If
S.U. agrees to underwrite it, the retired
member will have all member’s privileges
in the particular issue.
If a member of S.U. has offered to
him an issue of £50,000 or less he may
offer it to S.U., and if it is accepted by
the council the member may retain such
proportion of the issue as he desires.
Where a concern issuing over £50,000 of
capital insists that the underwriting
agreement be made between it and a
stockbroker who is a member of S.U., and
if the council of S.U. accepts the proposal,
tfie individual member wilf be indemni-
fied by S.U. in relation to the agreement
accepted by himself and S.U. All mem-
bers of a Stock Exchange firm one mem-
ber of which is a member of S.U. are
jointly and severally liable to S.U.
The formation of Sydney Underwriters,
Ltd. —it was registered on August 7, 1945
—represents a departure from the usual
underwriting practice hitherto seen in
Australia. In Melbourne, where most
Australian underwriting has been handled
in the past, individual Stock Exchange
firms, sometimes jointly, enter into con-
tracts with the bodies desiring fresh capi-
tal or loan money. J. B. Were and Son
and lan Potter and Co. are two examples
that come readily to mind. The Sydney
corporate venture will depend greatly
for its success upon the co-operation of
members and the service rendered to the
business and industrial community by the
council of management. Formation of
S.U. comes at an appropriate time ; it
is likely that before very long there will
be a rush of new issues following the
end of war-time restrictions that cramped
established businesses, and, in any case,
there are bound to be new industries the
possibilities of which were revealed by
war-time invention and experience.
Profits and Living Standards
Opposing the Marxist doctrine of
“From each according to his ability, to
each according to his need,” the Insti-
tute of Public Affairs (Victoria) says
“From the ethical standpoint it is entirely
sound that a man should be rewarded by
society in proportion to the contribution
he makes to society Is it not right
and just that the hardworking, thrifty and
enterprising should reap a greater return
than the lazy, self-indulgent and cautious?
Why should hard work be compelled to
subsidise sloth? Why should slackness
be rated as highly as diligence, incom-
petence as competence?”
“The economic justification of in-
equality of income,” continues the LP.A.
in Profit, Income and Living Standards,
“is that without it the higher standard of
life, to which most of us aspire, cannot be
realised. More than this, the elimina-
tion of incentive, which would necessarily
follow a policy of levelling-up rewards,
would rapidly lead to a greatly-reduced
all-round standard of living.”
Contending that Australia is badly in
need of a resurgence of individuality and
enterprise, the I.P.A. goes on:
The tremendous formative period of
“American industrialism,” the era of rugged
individualism, was marked by boundless oppor-
tunities for those who had the vision and
courage to seize them. True, there was a great
deal of unscrupulous exploitation and economic
brigandage, but the fact remains that in those
days were laid the foundations of the richest
material civilisation the world has known.
Time has made many desirable modifications
to the lusty American economy of the nine-
teenth century. But one lesson America has
never forgotten: that men will respond, as
they will to nothing else, to the stimulus of
opportunity, of great rewards for great enter-
prises. This is a lesson we in Australia will
have to relearn if we are to solve the legacy
of problems bequeathed by the war. How are
homes to be built quickly and at low cost?
How are our industries to be modernised, ex-
panded and made more efficient? How is a
better standard of life for all to be achieved?
How are we to develop the resources of this
young country? How are we to absorb suc-
cessfully tens of thousands of new immigrants?
Can any of these things be accomplished un-
less there is prospect and hope, and unless
incentives are offered to encourage the maxi-
mum of enterprise and work? ki Australia
we need a great resurgence of enterprise, of
the spirit of adventure —things we have tem-
porarily lost. They can be regained if high
prizes are there to be won by those who merit
them, and if opportunities are broadened so
that all will have an equal chance to start in
the race.
The I.P.A. quotes the late Lord Keynes
as saying that dangerous human instincts,
the desire for personal power and aggran-
disement, can be directed into compara-
tively harmless channels by the existence
of opportunities for money-making and
private wealth. If these opportunities do
not exist, then the baser tendencies in the
human character may find their outlet in
cruelty and the reckless pursuit of dic-
tatorial power. Keynes is quoted: “It is
better that a man should tyrannise over
his bank balance than over his fellow-
citizens ; and, whilst the former is some-
times denounced as being but a means to
the latter, sometimes at least it is an alter-
native.” Keynes might have added that
in the fullness of time a rich man’s wealth
usually becomes, either directly or in-
directly, an asset of the State. Many
ah undertaking that has been profitable
in its lusty youth becomes, in its maturity,
a virtual public utility run efficiently and
for little profit by private enterprise. Very
often a man holds his wealth merely as a
custodian for posterity. Very rarely does
he eat or drink it all.
The LP.A, supports the profit motive
in its broadest sense —it points out that
“business profits must not be confused
with the ‘profit motive.’ The former is
but a limited aspect of the latter
which operates practically throughout the
whole range of economic affairs. The
wage-earner in his ambition for higher
wages, the professional man in his ambi-
tion to earn a greater income, are as much
actuated by the ‘profit motive’ as the
businessman or investor who aims to in-
crease the profits of his business.”
It is calculated that if all company
profits were divided among those wage-
earners now receiving £3OO a year or less
individual incomes would be increased by
no more than 6s. 6d. a week. Such a
confiscation of profits would mean that
there would be no incentive to invest
in business, and no “ploughing-back” of
business earnings so as to provide for
greater production and employment.
Clearly, there is no hope of any large ad-
vances in standards of living through the
sharing-up of the profit surplus. Equally
clearly, any attempt to do this would have to
be* accompanied by a complete reorganisation
of our economic life, which would be costly,
confusing and, in the end, disastrous. The
conclusion is plain. To improve our material
standards we must turn to the great problem
of increasing production and of improving the
efficiency of our productive methods. The
benefits of this increased production should
be shared fairly, in one form or another, be-
tween all those who contribute to making it
possible.
The I.P.A. does not contend that the
wage-earner today enjoys a fully satis-
factory standard of life.
Nor is it suggested that the present standard
cannot be greatly raised. On the contrary,
there are both pressing need and ample scope
for further improvement. But this improve-
ment will not be brought about by a policy
based primarily on the redistribution of some
imaginary surplus of income and wealth —a
surplus that does not, in fact, exist. A higher
standard of life for all can be won only by
a higher standard of production and enterprise
by all. To be successful, economic policy must
be founded on truth, not on fantasy or pre-
judice. The falsity of the oft-repeated asser-
tion that the position of the wage-earner has
not measurably improved since 1900 therefore
needs to be exposed. It does not stand up to
the facts.
The I.P.A. (Victoria) has now published
a series of three important booklets on
the economic future of Australia, and
each has been ably handled. While
completely down to earth, they take full
note of modem economic and political
developments, and deserve wide reading.
Brown and Bureau, Ltd., the well-known
merchandising house, is becoming a pub-
lic concern, offering 60,000 5 p.c. prefs.
to the public at par. Present paid capital
is £102,178, all in ord. shares. Profits
over the past years have averaged
£16,643 a year. The business embraces
imports ranging from yarns, fabrics, tex-
tiles, rubber, kapok, jute, chemicals and
other raw materials to clocks, canned
foods, tractors and other machinery. Ex-
ports of Australian land products and
manufactures also figure in the activities.
The new capital is required to finance
business expansion. Brown and Bureau
own£ half the capital of Aviation Manu-
facturing Co. Pty. (making aviation spark
plugs), Aviation Service Co. Pty., G.
Johnson, Ltd. (Perth packers of groceries,
etc.), and it also holds a fifth interest in
Westclox (Aust.), Ltd., makers of clocks,
watches and precision instruments.
* * * »
The Federal Budget presented last year
forecast borrowings of £152 million. To
May 31 they were £182.6 million —up
over £3O million on estimates. Income
tax, estimated at £2ll million for the year,
had brought in only £l7O million to May
31. But June is usually a month of
heavy tax collections, and it will be sur-
prising if Budget estimates are far short
of realisations when the year closes. On
May 31 the Treasury-bill debt for war
purposes stood at £360 million.


Ik,
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England)
Tflore than too years
of experience in handling
every kind of hanking business
has created a service
which has real value
to all who avail of it.
of
*5
Established 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
THE CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH
The 67th Annual General Meeting of The City Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
was held at the Head Office, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney, on Wednesday, the 29th May,
1946, and in moving the adoption of the Annual Report and Balance-sheet the Chairman
of the Board t»f Directors, Dr. R. J. Taylor, said:
I recall with pleasure that the last Annual
Meeting was held on “YET Day, when the
hope was expressed that at a not distant
date the remaining aggressor would be
vanquished and- a state of peace prevail.
We are thankful that this hope has now
been realised and I am pleased to welcome
here this afternoon so many ex-service
personnel, whose efforts contributed to
Australia’s salvation.
Before proceeding with my address on
the results of last year’s operations, I
would like to mention that at the duly
convened and widely advertised Extraordin-
ary General Meeting held earlier this after-
noon, the assembled members unanimously
passed a special Resolution, that the pro-
visions of the Society’s Memorandum of
Association, dealing with the objects for
w-hich the Society was established, be
altered, so that they may be modernised
and brought into line with those of other
leading Life Offices in Australia which have
recently adopted a similar course.
As explained to you at the Extraordinary
General Meeting, the Society’s Memorandum
of Association has not been altered since
its incorporation in November, 1878, and
with the advent of modern commercial
usages and practices, it is'hardly necessary
for me to refer to the need for the desired
alterations.
During the long period that has inter-
vened since the original Memorandum was
framed and adopted, many important
changes have taken place in financial and
economic conditions, Life Assurance prac-
tices, and in the law governing the business
of Life Assurance in the Commonwealth
of Australia.
The necessary legal machinery will now
be put into motion so that the Society may
have the benefit of more modern corporate
scope.
The Annual Report, Revenue Account
and Balance-sheet, which are before you
to-day, reflect continued progress in all
phases of your Society’s operations.
During the year under review the volume
of selected New Business was £3,302,452,
which constituted an all-time record in
your Society’s history. It is pleasing to
mention that In addition to an expansion
of Staff Superapnuation Schemes—in re-
spect of which both employers and em-
ployees alike have shown their appreciation
of the expert advice and assistance ren-
dered by the Society’s Officers —a large
proportion of the new business secured w-as
received from existing Policyholders, who
effected further assurances on their own
lives and also on the lives of the members
of their families.
During the year under review Funds
increased by £624,306 to £13,311,869, after
allocating to Reserves and making other
provisions of approximately £BO,OOO. The
total Income of £1,786,134 showed a satis-
factory increase over 1944.
Of the increase referred to there was a
healthy addition to Premium Income of
approximately £lOO,OOO, indicating the
continued popularity of our policies.
The only item to show a decrease when
compared with the previous year is that
of Interest, Dividends and Rents. This
decrease was inevitable in view of existing
economic conditions restricting new invest-
ments to low Interest bearing securities.
The average rate of interest earned on
the mean funds was £4/6/6 per cent. After
deduction of taxes, the net rate earned was
£3/13/9 per cent.
INCREASED BONUSES
The Actuarial valuation of the Society’s
Assurance Policies as at the 31st December,
1945, was again made on a net premium
basis assuming future interest at per
cent. —the most stringent basis in use in
the Commonwealth—and disclosed a sur-
plus of Funds over Liabilities of £296,706,
inclusive of £36,252 carried forward from
1944. After providing for the appropria-
tions referred to, there remained £218,502.
On the recommendation of your Actuary,
the Board has decided to allot Reversion-
ary Bonuses which will show an over-all
increased rate when compared with pre-
vious years at a cost of £209,780, and to
carry forward £8,722 to the year 1946.
The Bonus Certificates for 1945 are in
course of preparation and it is proposed
to continue the past practice of forwarding
them with the Premium Notices.
CONTRIBUTION TO
COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT LOANS
Your Society’s holdings in Common-
wealth Loans at 31st December, 1945, tot-
alled £8,180,799, thereby showing an in-
crease of £5,747,684 over the amount held
as at 31st December, 1939. The Society’s
contribution to the recent Security Loan
to enable the Government to meet commit-
ments arising out of the war, particularly
the rehabilitation of Australian Service
Men and Women, amounted to £1,000,000,
and thus the war finance of the Common-
wealth Government has been assisted since
the outbreak of war in 1939 to the .extent
of almost six and three-quarter million
pouilds. Holdings in Commonwealth Loans
now represent 57 per cent, of the total
Assets of the Society.
CLAIMS
Claims by Death and Accident, and
Endowment Assurances maturing during
the year, totalled £706,576, after deduction of
amounts reassured, and showed an Increase
of £82,623 over the previous year. Of this
figure, Death Claims increased by £68,323,
due principally to the incidence of war.
ADVANCES FOR HOMES
PURCHASE
The Directors are anxious to render
every possible assistance to Policyholders
desirous of acquiring their own homes and
in this connection have adopted a liberal
policy.
TRIBUTE TO STAFF
Your Directors record their appreciation
of the loyal and efflcieift service rendered
during 1945 by the Indoor and Field Staffs
of Head Office and the Branches through-
out Australia.
CONCLUSION
The Annual Report and Balance-sheet
were unanimously adopted; the retiring
Directors and Auditors were re-elected un-
opposed and the Meeting closed with the
usual Vote of Thanks.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Time We Governed Ourselves
Australia, in character a kindly if some-
what casual land, has been found a
fertile field for the imported creator of
class-hatred. If the social friction gene-
rated never really develops to the point of
actual hatred it is no fault of the agita-
tors ; many of them have tried to bring
to this country all the class distrust and
political animosity that exist in parts of
the Old World, including Asia. When
there has not existed a strong Common-
wealth Government the Australian people
has become almost a leaderless legion, the
prey of undemocratic coercion through
pressure groups with revolutionary objec-
tives, of which militant trade-unionism is
only one section. Communists and
fellow-travellers are to be found among
nearly all the large pressure groups ; like
white-ants, they are on the job all the
time. Trouble-making comes easy to
them; some will openly admit that
trouble-making and industrial sabotage
are their business.
The Labor party has paved the way in
Australia for the operations of these para-
sites and wreckers. Australian Labor
has been half-Marxist itself on occasions,
and at all times over the past 20 years
it has been opposed to the idea of a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay.
Having won most of the battles that
Labor is entitled to, except those'relat-
ing to Labor’s own minorities, it has
adopted a policy of fallacy and para-
sitism, Labor has encouraged an attitude
of non-co-operation with the management
side of industry, and thus has stood in
the way of increased national production,
mostly to the detriment of itself. In its
failures it has become resentful and self-
pitying, and Communists and similar
racketeers have found it an easy mark.
Large sections of Labor are now dancing
to the Communist tune, the tune being
often a foreign and treacherous one,
A house divided against itself cannot
stand; and a nation industrially divided
for no reasonable purpose cannot pro-
duce the essentials of modern life in a
satisfactory quantity. An industrial
cleavage in Australia has been worked for
by Communists and others for the very
purpose of reducing production to a point
where our whole national activity stalls
and revolution occurs. There can be no
national good arising from Communist
and militant-unionist policy in Australia ;
it is all destructive, even to the extent that
it aims to destroy the commonsense and
individuality of a people growing daily
more confused.
The Federal Labor party continues to
bow to the wishes of the Com.-ridden
unions. It gives in to the militant coal-
miners, the militant wharfies, the militant
seamen. It gets nothing worth while in
return except (he contempt of those to
whom it surrenders. The policy of the
Federal Government is entirely one of
appeasement, a policy which, if con-
tinued, will never allow this country to
emerge from the production depression
and housing shortage that now grip it.
Australia, as never before, needs politi-
cal leadership and industrial discipline.
It needs salutary enforcement of the laws
of the land. Many of our industrial prob-.
lems of the moment are wantonly created,
and for this wantonness there should be
no half-measures. Beggars set on horse-
back, in fluid-drive Chrysler cars and in
the jockey-seats of trade-unionism have
been riding with a variety of devils for
several years. There is a large, preponder-
ant section of the Australian people wait-
ing for leadership of a type that will offer
to deal with this overlordship of larrikin-
ism and subversion. But, given leader-
ship, this land of normally friendly and
co-operative people will have to win back
for itself the right to work out its own
destiny free of alien forms of; obstruc-
tionism.
Broken Hill Prop, will hold 858,179
shares in Tubemakers of Australia,
Ltd., formed to merge the control of
Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
and British Tube Mills Australia Pty.,
Ltd. Stewarts and Lloyds, Ltd., of
Britain, will hold 893,205 shares in the
new co., and Tube Investments, Ltd.,
286,116. Directors of Tubemakers will
be H. G. Darling and Essington Lewis
(of the 8.H.P.), P. W. Woods and R. A.
Beaufoy.
* * * *
Colonial Sugar, as a shipowner, reports
that:
In common with most other ship-owners,
we have experienced many serious cases of
pillaging, totalling a large sum, but it. is
often difficult to obtain sufficient evidence
of the actual culprits to enable court con-
victions to be secured. In some instances
when the evidence has been sufficient in-
adequate fines have not proved a great
deterrent when compared with the value of
the goods stolen.
During the war, the loading and dis-
charging rate in Australia for sugar per
man has declined by more than half per
paid hour. Wages for this work have in-
creased by approximately 30 per cent. This
is in line with the working rates for other
cargo and has had a most serious effect
on the shipping position.
The fall in the loading rate is in keeping
with estimates published here over the
past 18 months.
* * * *
Taxpayers who have received their
assessments for the year 1945-46, based
on income for the year 1944-45, are in
many cases puzzled by the terms “pro-
visional contribution” and “provisional
tax” in the case of property income. This
represents a splitting-up of provisional
tax on property income into two sections,
one being classed by the Taxation Com-
missioner as “provisional contribution”
under the Social Services Contribution
Assessment Act of 1945, which operates
from January 1. By that Act a propor-
tion of tax is allocated to the National
Welfare Fund ; the maximum rate is Is.
6d. in the £, or whatever lower rate the
taxpayer is subject to. In the present
assessments the maximum rate is 9d. in
the £ (representing six months), these
assessments, from the ' “contribution”
viewpoint, being applicable to the final
six months of 1945-46, just the same as
the 12| p.c. tax cut applies only to the
final six months of the year, and thus
figures in property-income assessments at
6} p.c. The taxpayer is required to pay
the sum shown in the explanation sheet
as “Balance, being total of provisional
tax and provisional contribution (93|
p.c.).” The two extensions shown below
that sum are merely a splitting-up of it.
The whole calculation, let it be repeated,
is based on income received during the
year 1944-45, and may be entirely out of
proportion to the actual income received
during 1945-46, upon which final assess-
ment is made. Whether the final assess-
ment is higher or lower, an adjustment
will be made by the taxing authorities.
In cases where it can be shown that pro-
perty income in the present year has
fallen almost to nothing it may even be
possible to have payment of the pro-
visional tax deferred until the real assess-
able income is ascertained.
* » ♦ ifc
Between October 1, 1945, and March
31 this year 345,614 men and women
were discharged from the fighting ser-
vices, leaving a total of 232,803 remain-
ing—18,844 were women. Of the total,
24,385 were in the Navy, 151,814 in the
Army and 56,604 were in the Air Force.
Between December 29 and February 2
(five weeks) 77,482 persons were dis-
charged. ‘ In the next eight weeks dis-
charges fell to 36,455.
* * * *
Castlemaine Woollen, a small Vic-
torian concern that has hitherto knocked
along on a paid capital of £60,000, has
received the approval of shareholders to
increase nominal capital to £250,000. The
dividend has been 10 p.c. lately; in the
years just before the war there was little
in it for shareholders, though the record
over a longer stretch has been a good one.
The Australian woollen industry has had
’a period of activity during the war limited
only by the availability of labor and the
initiative allowed by Authority. Castle-
maine Woollen, over the years, has man-
aged to build reserves up to a higher
figure than its modest capital, which
means that the present 10 p.c. div. is less
than 5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. The
£1 ords. are jammed at the ceiling price
of 245. 6d.
* * * . *
At the end of 1945 Canada’s U.S.
dollar reserves had risen to $l5OB million
(about £420 million Australian). Canada
did not accept lend-lease aid during the
war, though at one stage its reserves of
gold and dollars were almost exhausted.
A decision with the U.S.A. for each coun-
try to concentrate on war production for
which it was best suited saved the drain
on Canada’s U.S. funds, which now have
recovered to record size.
* * * *
There are some strange people in the
Commonwealth, and among these are thfe
kind who admit the hopelessness of the
present Government’s administrative
capacity, but who, on the other hand, ex-
press timid fears about what might
“happen” if a stronger type of Govern-
ment attempted, to deal with the rank in-
dustrial lawlessness now so plainly visible
in so many parts of the Commonwealth.
The answer to these vacillators is that if
there must be a fight to beat the forces
of lawlessness in the land, then the
stronger and harder-hitting the Govern-
ment dealing with those forces the better.
Usage tends to make law, and it also
tends to make lawlessness. Australia has
been condoning far too much lawlessness
for far too long. In setting things right
again there must be no shirking of nasty
jobs.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; The long drought had broken
at last. The clouds rolled up in the after-
noon as they had done so many after-
noons before, and the cocky had given a
glance and dismissed it as another “dry”
storm which would blow over as usual.
But the preliminary big drops had given
place to lashing rain, and the black bat-
talions kept coming on to the ceaseless
thunder. Now, three days after, it was
still coming down heavens hard ; the dams
were full, tanks cascaded from the top,
the cowyard was a quagmire that pulled
the boots off a man if they weren’t tight-
laced, the rain was cutting deep runnels
down the eroded hillsides and the creek
down at the back had burst its banks and
the lucerne patch was three feet under
water. Up to the kitchen door squelched
the cocky, and as he entered and threw
off the sopping cornsack that covered his
head and shoulders he looked around,
frowning. “Who filled the kettle last fer
y’, Sarah?” he demanded. “Young
Wally,” replied his wife. The cocky
turned to the offender. “A man ought t’
give y’ a clip in the ear!” he said. “How
many more times must 1 tell y’ not to
leave the tap drippin’? Now git out there
right away an’ turn it off properly! ”
* * * *
“Wigwag”; Any Digger who has
served in the Islands has a fair idea of
what a direct hit from a coconut can do.
Coconut casualties were fairly frequent;
but it was noted that they rarely drop
during a high wind. Dead branches,
sometimes green branches, do, but the
nuts themselves cling tight during hurri-
canes, seeming to prefer a dead calm be-
fore detaching themselves.
**■ * *
“Jindivick”: How times change! A
dozen years ago the most that could be
said in favor of rabbits was that if you
wanted to annoy your neighbor you could
cut a few holes in your netting and let
’em in. The inspector was always on
your collar because the brutes preferred
to live in your paddocks, and you cursed
because they chose the most inaccessible
places to roost —like the huge patches of
blackberry that grew along the creek or
up the hollow logs. You put in nights
laying traps after the regular trappers
had done the place over, and in hot
weather, when the inspector was a bit too
pressing, you put down a jar or so of
poison. But today! There’s more in
those furry perishers than in cows and
sheep. Seven quid for a night’s work —
and not just one night, but rows of ’em,
one after the other. The old black-
berry patch has become a goldmine—the
spuds and cows can go grow themselves,
they aren’t worth the trouble. Down
around my old haunts the cockies are
keeping an eye open at nights now for
rabbit rustlers, and one bloke I took for
a pal turned a shotgun on me and
threatened to run me in for poaching.
Poaching! But that’s what things have
come to down our way in this year of
disgrace.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Let “Abi Tonus”
sleep soundly in his dream-part of con-
crete-mixer (B, 22 /5 / ’46) nor shudder at
my approach. My pen-name is a relic of
the days when much of Westralia’s road
construction was let to private contract,
# and road gangs flourished. Horses and
drays were more numerous than trucks,
and the gravel of which the roads were
made was taken from pits ploughed out
of the nearest available strip of third-
class country. These gravel patches occur
at more or less regular intervals through-
out the wheatbelt, and a special clause
in all land-purchasing contracts provides
that they must be made available to the
Crown if required. The road-contractor
selected the nearest spot for his pit,
ploughed it, removed the topsoil with
scoops and put his drays in. Depending
on the length of “lead” from pit to road
and the number of drays working, a
number of men would “work” the pit,
filling the drays and picking down the
gravel. These men were gravelsnatchers,
as distinct from the more aristocratic
dray drivers, who, by comparison, had
an easy time. The name still conjures up
for me memories of backaches, tired
muscles and blisters big as florins,
mingled with the thrill a young man feels
in the knowledge of his strength ; but
concrete-mixers? —no, nothing quite as
easy as that.
* * * *
“Zake”; The box branch of the euca-
lypt family is justly famed for the burning
qualities of its members. One, the white-
box, is the champ., and the best results
for slow burning are obtained with its
bark, especially that taken from the'
southern aspect of the tree, there being
more sap in it owing to the absence of
“I bred him with legs like that specially for this paddick !”
stin. Once saw a demonstration with it;
a slab of it was placed in a hollow and
covered for'' "about a foot with red-hot
coals. Four days later when the dead
coals were scraped away the white-box
bark was still burning with a steady glow.
sk # jfc He
“Old-timer”; A black wind out of
Antarctica was howling across the plains
when “Blue” and “Dutch” struck the
old Homebush pub on the back road to
Hay, dropped their swags in the parlor
and crowded up to the fire. “Cold?” said
the stray boundary-rider. “Cold,” they
answered. “Makin’ in?” he inquired.
“Makin’ in,” they replied. Silence, except
for the crackle of the fire and the howling
night outside. “Blue” and “Dutch” gazed
dreamily at the fire in the happy state of
men enjoying warmth and shelter on such
a night, each momentarily expecting the
publican to appear. Presently “Dutch”
lifted his head. “Good night for rum,”
he suggested. “Yair,” answered the
boundary-rider, indifferently. “Blue”
stood up and turned his back to the blaze.
“Publican about?” he inquired, “Gone
to Balranald,” said the rider. “His
missus?” “Gone to Balranald.” “Can’t
we get a drink?” The rider looked glum.
“No, they locked the bar an’ took the
key. Nobody ’ere but me.” He gave
them a wild look and laughed immode-
rately. The eyes of “Dutch” and “Blue”
met. Outside the wind roared lustily and
parts of the building creaked. Instinctively
they moved close together, watchful and
alert. The boundary-rider stared at the
fire. “Ain’t there nobody else?” asked
“Dutch.” “Aw, there’s a old bloke does
odd jobs.” “Where’s he?” “Gone to Bal-
ranald.” He laughed again, but without
mirth, then arose and wrapped himself
in a yellow oilskin and went forth into the
black wilderness without a word. “Blue”
jumped and shut the door and they
waited, thoughts of axe-armed maniacs in
their minds. Came fitfully on the bleak
storm the sound of hooves. As it died
away, “Dutch” said, anxiously, “Now
where’s he off to?” “Gone to Balranald,”
said “Blue,” happily. “Now let’s get into
that ruddy bar.”
* * * *
“Billy See”; That fellow who wanted
his deceased wife enshrined in a stained-
glass window (B. 15/5/’46) reminds me
of a job I once had a hand in. It was
in the earlier days of the radio, and the
lady, a widow, wanted a loud-speaker in-
stalled high up on the sitting-room wall
behind the upper part of a large oil
painting of her husband. This was
done, the trickiest part being the cutting
of an invisible slit along the portrait’s
mouth. All completed, the widow gave
the apparatus a try-out before payment.
“You see,” she explained smilingly, “my
husband was much older, and we quar-
relled, and the last ten years he never
spoke to me. Now he’ll have to stand up
there and read me the news and give me
talks whenever 1 feel inclined.”
* * * *
“Leon”: An, old fishewnan I know
claims that he can keep his bait alive
when transporting it over distances which
normally would kill them by inserting a
rubber tube and periodically blowing into
the water. He says the oxygen thus in-
troduced gives them the necessary boost.
Is he having me on? I have an idea that
carbon dioxide, which would be exhaled,
contains only 36 per cent, oxygen.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Most sea foods give off
an appetising aroma when being cooked
(B. 24/4/ ’46), but the daddy of them
all is the alderman’s choice, turtle soup,
though turtle steak in the pan takes a lot
of beating. It’s an odd contradiction
that whereas with the ox, and even the
kangaroo, the hindquarters produce the
best steak, it is the forequarters of the
turtle that alone provide the dainty cuts.
The afterparts and the flippers go for
soup ; though perhaps this is a character-
istic generally of egg-layers, as witness
the chicken—it is the cuts off its breast
that are the real delicacy.
* * * *
“M. Geety”: Jack and Dan, brothers,
leased refreshment rooms on a Queens-
land country line. Their receipts fell
off, but a detective couldn’t find the
leakage. Then one day Jack, wanting a
jug in a hurry, dashed behind the counter
and grabbed an enamel jug containing tea
slops. A waitress tried to take it from
him but he shook her off with “Damn it
all, I’m in a hurry.” He hurled the
slops out, and a second later the ground
was strewn with silver coins. That wait-
ress had kept the jug under the counter
beside the basin holding her takings and
cnange; the tea-leaves made an effective
sound-deadener. Further down the line
Dan sleuthed unsuccessfully until one day
he noticed that a barman wiped his mouth
rather too frequently with his handker-
chief. Very quietly Dan stole up and
slogged him on the cheek. A shower of
sixpences hit the counter.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”; Macquarie Island was
discovered not by the brig Campbell Mac-
quarie (B. 20/3/’46) but by Nasselberg,
the sealer, in the Perseverance in 1810.
Two years later he was to rescue sur-
vivors of the wrecked Campbell Mac-
quarie, owned by Campbell and Co., of
Sydney. Incidentally, Dr. Cunningham,
surgeon, R.N., mentions in his Two Years
in N.S.W. (published 1827) that after-
wards other Sydney firms competing for
the rich sea-elephant trade, landed sealing
gangs on that storm-lashed, mountain-top
island in the southern ocean. These men
lived in Eskimo-like stone and grass-
thatched hovels, and wearing beards and
greasy sealskins they looked like demons
—and they were. Their earnings were
paid on what oil they produced, and, for
the domination of sealing beaches, battles
took place between rival gangs armed
with clubs.
* ♦ * *
“Dilpo”: I have been amusedly fol-
lowing these various fancy ways to
choose a pup. The simple one pro-
pounded to me long years ago by an
old shepherd I have always found satis-
factory : choose a dog pup that re-
sembles the bitch or a female pup that
favors the sire in looks. This method is
particularly effective where one of the
parents is smooth-coated and the other
rough.
* $ * ♦
“Naturala”: The oddest place I ever
found swallows nesting was on the slab
timbers of an old mine shaft at Parker’s
Range, W.A, The pit was so deep that
the bottom was shrouded in darkness.
Nothing so strange, perhaps, in the adult
birds being there, but I have always been
puzzled as to how they got their nestlings
out for a first flight without casualties,
for a little feebleness of the wings meant
a fall •from which there could be no re-
covery.
• * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The first job we landed
in Gippsland that year was shovelling
road metal from railway trucks into drays
and motor-lorries that carted it to the
road-making gang. We’d been dodging
along for about a week when a new man
arrived. He was as big as Mat, and the
boss, with some idea of equalising the
work, put the two of them together,
whereupon there developed that unspoken
rivalry between young men of the same
strength which crops up in shearing
sheds, timbergetting, wheatlumping and
most forms of hard yacka. There was no
verbal challenge, but Mat and his work-
mate were each determined to prove him-
self the better man by shovelling more
metal, and the way they went at it would
have given a modem union boss the
horrors. After a week. Mat’s shovel-
rival departed to another job and I went
back into his truck. A couple of
later the boss asked Mat if he was dis-
satisfied. “I don’t mind payin’ a bit
more to a good man,” he said. Mat
didn’t understand. “Well, you’re not
working as hard as you were when
‘Scotty’ was here,” the boss said. “That’s
because ‘Scotty’ ain’t here,” Mat said,
astonished. “When he was here I had t’
go harder t’ be the best man. Now he’s
gone, I can slow down and still be the
best. What you ought t’ t done, Mister,
was to have offered ‘Scotty’ more money
t’ stay. Some o’ you blokes never wake
up.” And he bent to the banjo again,
leaving the boss to work it out.
* * * *
“Potrero”: Old Ted, the boundary-
rider from the Twenty-five Mile, in for
stores, handed the homestead mechanic an
alarm clock which he wanted repaired
right away. “But what do you want to
know the time for out there other than
sun-up and sundown?” questioned the
mechanic. “Oh, it’s not that,” replied
Old Ted : “I want the blighter to tick
and keep me company,”
“Old Sweat”: Tell “B. Rock” (B.
15/5/’46) that whale beef used to be a
common article of diet in northern
Europe. Aussie p.-0.-w. during the
Kaiser’s war were fed barrels of it, some
of it pretty rancid. After the Red Cross
parcels commenced to arrive the ration
was passed on to the Russians, usually on
the consideration of the Russki perform-
ing batman duties. Supplies came from
Norway, the whales probably being part
of the annual Arctic catch. When Hitler
annexed that country he committed a seri-
ous mistake from the food point, since,
with the Norse fleet unable to put to sea,
hundreds of tons of whalemeat failed
to reach the German markets. Which,
again, may explain in some degree the
starvation in Belsen and other camps.
* * » *
“Hobo”: Wog’s drawing of the herd-
testing diviner (B. 8/5/’46) suggests a new
application of the mystic art, but it is
apparent that the dowser depicted, while
appearing to be of about the right level of
intelligence, doesn’t know his job. The
forked twig should be held with the palms
uppermost, the branches of the fork pass-
ing across the palms and gripped by the
bent fingers with the ends pressed for-
ward and outward by the thumbs. It
should be pliant and smooth and about
two feet long, of hazel preferably. I
have heard it claimed that it should be
cut at midnight on a moonless night—
and, of course, it must be practised only
on clients who are under the zodiacal in-
fluence of Capricorn.
OLD MOAMA.
Where Old Moama’s ruins stand.
Or lie or idly lean.
The banks are high and slow and grand,
Old Murray rolls between;
You still can see the tracks run down
To where the punt has been.
Cobb’s coaches from Echuca Town
Bound for Deniliquin—
They changed the teams just up the road
Where the old smithy stood.
Their five big headlamps often glowed
Across the river’s flood.
Here’s where Dan Morgan rode, men say.
To Peachelba and doom —
His hoofbeats drummed the miles away
In the still midnight gloom.
Near Maiden’s Inn the cattle strayed
(Big mobs for Bendigo),
While drovers danced and fiddles played
Until the morning glow;
And in high floods the paddle boats
Would tie up at the bar,
While thirsty river-men their throats
Refreshed with good Three-star.
The railway lies a mile away,
So does the highway now;
Few see where Old Moama lay
With garlands on her brow;
But still among the ruins red
The wild nasturtium-blooms
Grow on the inn, long closed and dead,
To garland roofless rooms;
And the old cottages that stand,
Unsteadily, it seems,
Still hold out kindly, clasping hands,
Like an old man who dreams.
■*.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


“Wonk”: Shearing was nicely started
when the big dreamy bloke offered him-
self at the door and was promptly invited
to grab the end stand and start in. His
tally for the first two days pushed the
200 mark; then the boss noticed him
standing around, or dragging at his
fleece like a go-slow striker. Think-
ing he might be feeling off color,
the boss said nothing, and next
day, sweat glistening on his naked
torso, the dopey shearer was once more
tearing into the job. A fortnight later he
was still there, and the boss, spotting him
propped on the catching-pen grinning
pityingly at the other shearers, grabbed
his tally book. One-ninety, one-eighty-
five, sixty ;he read. One-eighty-nine,
one-eighty-two, fifty. “Look here, Her-
cules,” he called. “What’s the idea? Y’
don’t see the other blokes loafing.” A
knowing grin spread over the big dial.
“Mob o’ dopes,” he sniffed, “They ain’t
woke up, that’s all. But it ain’t no reason
why I sh’d bust meself f’r nuthin’. It’s
that accountant feller put me wise,”
he said with a wink. “Who? The chap
in town that makes up income-tax?”
asked the boss. “Tha’s ’im. Fixes mine,
too.” The loafer leaned forward confi-
dentially. “Told me,” he whispered,
“that at this job I work two days f’r me-
self, an’ every third one f’r the blasted
Govermint. See?”
* * * *
“Blime”: “Y’ know, Dad,” Steve began,
as the pair flopped down for dinner, “with
most o’ the crops in, an’ the cows dryin’
orf now, the place’ll hardly need the two
of us f’r the next coupla months. So I
bin thinkin’ p’raps I oughter take a job
in the city f’r a bit. It’ll be a change, an’
the dough’ll help pay the rates ’n’ things,
eh? Whatcha reckon?” Dad agreed, and
a week later Steve was interviewing the
works manager at a city factory. “Yes,
I can put you on,” bustled the manager,
with an eye on Steve’s muscles. “Packing
and loading do? We’re working full
time. Three shifts. Hours are eight to
four, four to twelve, and twelve to eight.
What about it?” Slowly and thoughtfully
Steve rubbed his forehead. “Yair, that’ll
be awright,” he agreed presently. “The
meal times seems a bit diff’rent from
what I bin used t’, but the hours is the
same, only that up home we used t’
knock orf frum eleven till one f’r a
coupla hours’ sleep,”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Can’t quite follow “At-
lanta’s” idea of a whip working on an
endless chain (B. 15 /5 / ’46). The whip
of my experience consisted of a stout
pole, with a grooved wheel at the top,
erected on a slant so that the wheel came
right over the centre of the well. Thus
the horse, hauling up, went ahead to the
end of his walk, and conversely backed
to lower. Knew one old neddy that had
been trained to the operation so well that
he worked all day without supervision.
The haulage was a rectangular tank,
running on skids, which filled automatic-
ally at the bottom and discharged by con
tact with a trip and lever at the top. With
the tank at the bottom, Sailor, close to
the whip-pole, knew by the tightening of
his trace when it had filled. Bending to
the load he then would walk steadily to
the end of his beat. The clack of the
trip and lever told him that the load was
at surface, as well as the gush of the
water as the valve opened. The easing of
the weight and cessation of the gurgling
told him that all was now empty, so
steadily he would “back” until the tank
was at the bottom again. At times he
would stand for a few minutes at the
end of his beat as though contemplating
the tedium of life, but the thought of
“I boughta heem from da Aussie Deeger.”
the thousands of sheep that came con-
tinually clamoring for a drink obviously
held him to his duty. He died in harness.
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: Interesting, at lambing
season, to watch different chaps’ schemes
to make ewes mother their twin lambs.
There is always a percentage of ewes that
can’t count, or are satisfied with one
youngster, leaving the second one to get
lost and starve. The common practice
of shutting the family into one of the
small yards built for the purpose is good
only for a day or two ; then off goes the
ewe once more, tailed by the stronger
twin. One owner hobbles the ewe by
tying up one front leg. This, he claims,
not only allows both lambs to keep up,
but prevents the mother kicking the
second one off at feed time. Maybe it
works sometimes, but dealing with obstin-
ate cases, provided the area is reasonably
free from snags, I prefer leaving the ewe
free and coupling the lambs together
with a length of rope, or swivelled chain
and straps. The little blighters soon get
used to the idea, and the rope needs to be
just long enough to allow them both
drinking length when the ewe is ap-
proached from the rear.
* * ♦ *
“D.R.H.”: Today I met a cross-eyed
worm, it was in one of the jars of what
the missus calls “dirty water” on the
dining-room window sill, and cold
tucker was a small price to pay for the
privilege of meeting a representative of
the very first animal group on the evolu-
tionary ladder to possess a definite head •
—there are thousands of species that
don’t. This worm, a free-living flatworm,
is less than half an inch long, dark brown
and with a triangular head. His mouth,
however, is in the middle of his belly.
This little structural oversight doesn’t
worry the first animal to have a head, a
central nervous system and such other
mod. cons. In fact, my pet worm, cross-
eyed though he is, can claim that he and
his relations were the first to invent defi-
nite systems of internal organs.
* * * *
“Propalong”: “Fang” (B. 29/5/’46)
will need to strain more thati his
credulity to define “as a separate object”
an old buck euro—l wasn’t talking about
kangaroos, anyway —on a hot day. The
local breed are a dark, neutral grey with
just the right admixture of rust for per-
feet camouflage. On a hot day they’re
always in the shade of a bush or a rock
and almost always flat out. The glare of
the sun on fields of broken rock makes
any chance patch of shade almost im-
penetrable, and the old blokes match the
shade. Aiso, they’re generally among
broken stone, and, as they don’t sit up
to present the characteristic outline, they
are for all practical purposes invisible.
A good way to get a shot at the beggars
on a hot afternoon is to sit down with
the rifle in a place where you can com-
mand the scattered patches of shade on
a slope. It’s no use straining your eyes,
but after you’ve smoked a couple of pipes
one of the shadows may happen to
scratch itself. •
“B 4”: Quite believe “Propalong’s”
assertion (B. 10/4/’46) that a ’roo-shooter
can be misled into wasting powder by
hasty judgment. Towards dusk one windy
day I spotted what I took to be a whip-
tail doe facing me among a variety of
stumps and bushes in a gully below.
Quickly squatting, I fired the .303 at 200
yards three times, but still the “quarry”
sat erect and the ears wagged. For it was
a grey stump bulged by gall nodules. Be-
hind it grew a young gum with two
upright leaves positioned just behind the
narrow top of the stump, and so providing
the ears. I headed for camp in disgust.
# * * *
“Tuva”: Black magic is a paramount
thought among the Papuans, but most
of the effects are brought about by sug-
gestion. The abo. points his bone;
the Papuan has much subtler methods.
The gall-bladder of the toad-fish may be
spread over a betelnut. A “friend” pre-
sents the nut to the condemned one, and
the recipient dies. It is becoming the
custom now, since the Digger has blown
the gaff on sorcery to many natives, for
the donor to be requested to lick the nut
“Bit nippy again, Colonel ?”
first, all in the interests of good faith.
Thinning by suggestion is another practice.
To give a native his ticket to the under-
world arrangement is made with a third
party to place a mangrove fruit above the
intended victim’s fireplace; for as the
fire dies out so does the fruit, and the
victim simultaneously becomes dehydrated
and more tenuous. An antidote for this
is to get hold of the fruit before it is too
late and place it in a coconut bowl of
water; as the fruit swells so the
“magicked” person comes back to normal.
♦ * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: An old recluse of a
fisherman I knew in Bass Strait had a
novel method of discouraging visitors.
When anyone went up to him while he
was painting a boat or repairing a line he
would say “Don’t come near me when
I’m workin’. If anything disappears I'll
think either you’ve pinched it or I’ve lost
it. If I’m on me own I knows I’ve lost
it and who to call a blasted so-and-so.”
* * * *
“Alpine Willie”: Big, “educated” trout
get that way from being initiated into the
mysteries of angling by unlucky or mug
fishermen, the prick of a hook having
convinced once or more often that a
tasty snack may not be all it appears.
Hence any unnatural movement or ap-
pearance of the bait will cause it to be
ignored, and the sight of a fine gut line
in clear water is enough to send the big
ones cruising to their pet hideout. The
catch is that gut fine enough to deceive
the seasoned veterans isn't sufficiently
strong to hold them in a wild dash for
the bottom, and trout are almost certain
to make for the nearest entanglement.
Seeking to introduce a more scientific
approach, I offered at a meeting of the
angling club to provide a handsome
trophy for the biggest trout taken with a
plug of gelignite. The shocked silence
that followed was heard a mile away.
* * * *
“Dicky Beach”: When the beer came
on this afternoon it brought with it an
argument as to what is the correct mon-
niker of the drunks’ best beloved pet,
lobster or crayfish? Official descriptions
hedge on the subject by calling it “Spiny
Lobster (Crayfish).” My Pocket Oxford
defines crayfish as “Freshwater lobster-
like crustacean (fishmonger is name for);
the spiny lobster,” which certainly doesn’t
fit our Australian article. Lobster, ac-
cording to it, means “Longtailed clawed
shellfish, turning scarlet when boiled,”
which is a newie to me so far as being a
shellfish is concerned. The sea lobster of
English waters has hefty nippers on its
front legs. Our boozers’ friend has none,
but neither has the big sea-cray which
used to figure so delightfully under the
name of langouste in pre-war French
restaurants. Zoologists support the cray
title by affirming that there are no true
lobsters in the Southern Hemisphere and
that the Tasmanian sea-crayfish (.Jasus
lalandii, as they nickname the poor crea-
ture), is the most abundant marine cray-
fish in the world. The soakers’ pal in
Victoria, Noo South and Maoriland is
Jasus verrauxi, less flavorsome than its
Flyspeck relative. Another Australian
species, whose gorgeous coloring would
attract his last penny from any true
booze artist, is the Painted Marine Cray-
fish, but it frequents tropical coral reefs
only, and is rarely seen in markets.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Starting work for old man
Peters, Clem and Hockie were directed
to their quarters, which turned out to be
the remains of an ancient house, backed
by a big walnut-tree. The tree carried a
heavy crop of nuts, and the pair had
been in bunk about half an hour the first
night when there came a scrape, scrape
from the skillion roof; then bang went
something, followed immediately by a
tinny rattle down the corrugated roofing.
A few seconds and the scrape, scrape re-
commenced. “Rats,” volunteered Clem
into the darkness. “Pinching the wal-
nuts.” “Yair.” Two hours later the
pair grew tired of banging things at the
roof, and with heads wrapped in their
blankets alternately gasped and cursed
till daylight. The next night found no let-
up from the night shift on the roof.
“They cart them nuts across the skillion,”
explained Hockie, “then pass ’em up
about eighteen inches through a hole
under the iron,” “Yair? Well, if only
they wouldn’t drop the blasted things,”
Clem snorted, as another bang was fol-
lowed by a rattling roll and a scamper
of feet as the rat coursed his prize to the
spouting. “Bet I’ll fix the cows
t’morrer.” Evening of the next day
found him busy, and at nine o’clock he
climbed into bunk with a seraphic grin.
“Won’t worry y’ t’night, Hock,” he
murmured. “Get some traps, did y’?”
inquired his offsider. “No. Skinflint
reckoned ’e couldn’t spare none.” “What,
then? Snares?” “No.” “Poison?”
Clem’s drawl came halfway from dream-
land. “No. Built ’em a beaut set o’
steps an’ made that flamin’ hole bigger.”
THE FISHERMAN.
The fisherman and his lady
Go by with rod and reel;
They’ve four brown legs, and a luncheon box
And a fine, strong creel.
The fisherman and his lady,
They know a thing or two —
They’re both hell-bent on a holiday,
With nothing at all to do,
So they rise at dawn to do it
And do it all day long
With the gusto and the fervor
Of a magpie making a song.
They work in a curious circle,
That runs from dawn to late —
If they’re not getting bait to fish with
They’re off to fish with the bait.
Crouched in the coral crevice
The scrabbling blue crab folds
Himself in his mottled armor —
But the spear-point drives, and holds!
(For the Cove has fished here, man and boy,
Since he could tote a rod —
“If you’re after drummer or hine,” he says,
“Or a juicy, big rock-cod,
“You offer them crab, my lad,” he says,
“And, Boy, you will never nod!”)
They spade the sand for yabbies,
Knee-deep in the tidal creek—
And the going’s hard and heavy
When it’s yabbies that you seek.
(But the Cove from the farm, he reckons,
The flathead are biting a treat;
“Just give them a fly on the yabbies,
And, Son, the fishing is sweet!”)
They scoop the creek where weeds lie black
As a witch’s tousled broom,
And the netted shrimps like chips of ice
Leap from the weedy gloom.
For the Cove has lived here, man and boy,
Since he could bend a pin,
And you must have shrimps for whiting,
Or you’ll never raise a fin!
Green weed for the wary blackfish,
And sanded worms in a tin —
Oh, the fisherman and his lady,
They give them all a spin,
As they move in the curious circle
From sun-up until late,
Garnering bait to fish with
Or fishing away with the bait.
n.s.w.
C. MCEWEN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK. AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS. HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE. 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE.
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
r
(al-
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. it contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
- ■ AII particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
Q.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Berth.
v-
m
W Vv
$w
*'/
'j ■:
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CYanogaS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem. . .the rabbits are buried.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
OAN?
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost. ........ ITTn , T «, M
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS LOAN:
• LOAN • Weekly • Fortnightly • Four-weekly
SnM instalment instalment
instalment
ai UJI lUdiia *
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: It was evident from the
start that there would be no fancy prices.
As the sale developed into a buyers’
market a lot of breeders gloomily
wondered if the game was worth the work
and expense. It was evident that pockets
were buttoned tightly, probably from un-
certainty as to the immediate future.
There is no better barometer of rural
affairs than a ram sale. Not even the
best studs looked like reaching four
figures, and top price for the sales was
700gns. for a Bundemar ram ; all sheep
from this stud sold comparatively well.
Wahwoon and Burrabogie offered big,
highly developed top sires, and a ram
from each sold at 650gns., second-best
prices. Several Haddon Rig rams
changed hands at from 400 to 550gns.,
and its averages were comparatively
good. A Uardry ram brought 500gns.;
so did an Austin Wanganella. These were
the top prices,
Sbme lesser-known studs and others
new to Sydney sales had a bad time; so
did some older studs. Several did not
sell a sheep at auction. The poor prices
suggest that some uncertainty regarding
the future of the industry exists, and the
adverse season in N.S.W. and Queensland
scared buyers. Heavy sheep losses during
the last drought and high prices of breed-
ing ewes have caused some districts to be
understocked yet unable to take agist-
ment stock from dry areas because of
rail-truck shortage.
Prices slumped heavily for medium-
class and flock rams. Certain owners got
better prices for flock rams than others
got for special studs, while some breeders
could have got better prices for their
flock rams in the paddock—some of
them realised not much more than good
wethers are bringing at Homebush.
Five S.A. breeders sent the big, up-
standing, broad-woolled rams in which
they specialise. One draft made history—
it came by air. There was a lack of
evenness among the extra-strong wools
that ran to decided coarseness at times.
Bungaree rams met the best demand,
selling to 500gns. Buyers showed con-
siderable discrimination, and less popular
studs did not fare too well.
Merryville and Winbri alone catered
for fine wools, and prices were moderate.
The return to wool auctions may encour-
age fine-wool growers, since U.S.A. has
had an opportunity to sample a wider
range of our wools, and will probably de-
mand our specialty types. That should
give a fillip to studs that cater for those
lines.
There was a better market for Corrie-
dales, and clearances were comparatively
good. General quality was shown by the
enthusiasm of breeders and the keen de-
mand. Wellwood topped the sales again
with 550gns. for a wonderful specimen.
There was good competition for Bui-
gandra rams, two selling at 310 and
200gns. In the Corriedales, as in the
merinoes, the demand was for sires from
fashionable families. 1 Newer and less
popular flocks did not do well, and there
was reluctance on the part of some stud-
masters to meet the market.
British breed sales were erratic. Dorset
Horns sold disappointingly, many being
passed in. One solitary Southdown was
sold, and no Romneys or Ryelands were
offered. Border Leicesters came mostly
from Victoria. There were some good-
quality rams, but many studs appeared
to have sold their best sheep in the pad-
“If she never ate them pumpkins, why won't she look me in the eye ?”
dock and sent the remainder to Sydney.
B.L. ewes met a good market. Some stud-
masters had overdone the feeding, and
fleeces were sodden with condition. With
a few exceptions, the offerings comprised
young sheep with no permanent teeth up.
Starritt (Vic.) rams topped the market —
at 150gns. and lOOgns. Some rams were
bought for California (U.S.A.), the buyer
selecting robust animals, fairly strong and
dense in the wool. The shipment may
open a new market.
Model Dairy Farms.
“E. 2”: After close association with
Victorian dairying and mixed farming, I
had to go to Maoriland for some concep-
tion of how the dairy farm should look
with efficient planning and layout. M.L.
farms I saw were in pretty good rainfall
areas, carried good, even pastures of soft
grasses, and there was a fine regard for
keeping the land clean and productive
on every square yard. Victorian crops
of clovers or mixed pastures would rival
anything I saw, but things generally are
on a much more rugged scale here.
In M.L. houses, sheds and outbuildings
were neat and in orderly array, spaced
conveniently, and it was uncommon to
find a nuilding unpainted. The paddocks
had an appearance of careful arrange-
ment, and were usually treeless except
along the fences; tall hedges marked the
line of fencing on many properties.
Nine out of ten Victorian farms have
a jumbled array of buildings, milking-
sheds and even pigyards sometimes ob-
scuring the front view of dwellings. In
N. S. Wales and Queensland farm-plan-
ning is given little thought generally.
Paint is used very sparingly. This is
true of all kinds of farms, but the aver-
age dairy farm, with its ill-assorted cow-
yards, outbuildings and pigpens, is the
worst.
It isn’t much trouble to lay out the
farm in an orderly fashion and arrange
the paddocks to a plan. Wider use of
trees —and many native eucalypts may be
recommended—would have its advantages
as breakwinds and checks against erosion
for shade and shelter belts and in clumps
at the watering-places and farmyards.
Farm-planning is a neglected art here.
There may be some excuse for poor
farmers; there is none for the well-
settled. A good appearance not only
increases the value of a place; it im-
measurably increases the pride of the
owner and his family and makes the place
worth living on.
The Dry Cow.
“Myrrhee”: A recent issue of the
“Journal of Agricultural Science” (Eng.)
gives details of feeding experiments car-
ried out on three groups of dry cows for
the six weeks prior to calving. Group
1 was fed a normal ration, group 2 a nor-
mal ration plus a quantity of roughage,
group 3 a normal ration with 1561 b, of
concentrates spread over the six weeks,
commencing with 21b. for the first two
weeks, increasing to 61b. for the last fort-
night.
Group 2 on roughage and group 3 on
concentrates put on more condition
than group 1 on the normal ration.
At calving time the group fed on
concentrates was in markedly better con-
dition than the other two. Average daily
production during the fifth week after
calving was: Normally-fed group, 331 b.
milk ; normal - plus - roughage group,
34j1b.; normal-pte-concentrate group,
381 b. The higher production of group 3
was maintained throughout the full lacta-
tion period, returning a good profit after
paying for the concentrates.
Tomatoes in Queensland.
“Plane Creek”: In the coastal country
around Mackay (C.Q.), as at Bowen,
further north, the best tomato crop is
grown between July and December.
Summer plantings suffer from wilt, be-
cause the monsoonal rains prevent the
effective use of preventive sprays. Wilt
gives no trouble during the dry, cool
months, and the troublesome mite that
attacks the tomato plant gives in to sul-
phur dusts. I’ve grown tomatoes between
rows of young plant cane with extremely
good results, but I would not suggest
that this practice be generally adopted,
since one crop might hamper the other.
Tomatoes are a good sideline for any
C.Q. coast mixed farmer with fertile land
at his disposal. It is surprising the yield
of saleable fruit that can be harvested
from a small tomato patch. As a crop,
the tomato draws heavily on soil nitro-
gen, and will not bear well unless the land
is well supplied with potash. As fertilisers
are scarce, hoe suitable fertilisers into
the soil around the plants as they appear
to need ’em, thus eliminating waste.
Bordeaux Mixture.
“Yabbie”: Though it is the most com-
mon spray used for the control of fungus
diseases in orchards and vineyards
astonishingly few know how to prepare it.
Research has shown that the old method
of mixing the ingredients before immers-
ing them in the water which carries
them is wrong, and results in only a
partial control of the pest. Modem pro-
cedure is to half-fill the spray vat with
water, then place on to the
strainer the ground bluestone, which is
quickly dissolved by pouring water over
it through the strainer into the vat. Then,
using two buckets, place the hydrated
lime in one, add water and stir to a thick
paste, then add more water and pour the
mixture from one bucket to another
several times until a nice smooth
“whitewash” has been obtained. Next,
and this is important, start the spray’s
engine in order to set the agitator going
before adding the lime to the vat. Lastly
add i p.c, white oil as a spreader, but
before adding to the vat mix in a bucket
with water, adding the water to the oil,
not the oil to the water. Addition of
the oil spreader should turn the blue-
stone and lime to a foamy mixture if the
agitator is working properly.
Clean vessels, proper mixing, good
spray nozzles and continuous agitation of
the spray are essentials to a satisfactory
job, otherwise the pest is not properly con-
trolled and the grower’s money has been
sprayed on the air. Freshness is import-
ant —never mix a vat overnight to get an
early start —always use Bordeaux spray
immediately after mixing, don’t be lousy
with it, and keep the agitator going from
the moment of mixing until the vat is
empty. Use of white oil as a spreader
has the additional advantage of reacting
on the bluestone in a manner which
makes it more potent as a fungicide.
Growing Guayule.
“C.S.”: Cultivation of guayule in S.A.
is discussed in C.S.I.R. Bulletin 192.
Guayule is a rubber-producing shrub
from Mexico, and investigations into its
local cultivation were begun in 1942 as
an emergency war project. Difficulties


MANSEASE
the perfect couifort male
support for everyman’t
everyday wear.
All mevLS-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne,
few
ds
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a courst
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant snatch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAHKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
n
&
X
1
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED —the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INI ERST ATE AGENCIES—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS
8N.6.44
Tenders.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
TENDERS, closing with the Deputy Director-
General, Department of Works and Housumj, 293
Queen Street, Brisbane, at 2 p.m. on THURSDAY,
11th JULY, 1946, are invited for: —
ERECTION OF ONE LARGE THREE-
STOREYED CONCRETE FRAME AND
BRICK WOOL STORE BUILDING,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Plans, specifications, Bills of Quantities and tender
forms are available at the office of the Deputy
Director-General, Department of Works and Housing,
293 Queen Street, Brisbane; the Works Director,
225 Bourke Street, Melbourne; the Deputy Director-
General, Bryant House, Pitt Street, Sydney; the
District Officer, National Bank Building, Rock-
hampton ; and the Superintending Architect, Customs
House, Townsville.
A fee of £1 is charged on each Bill of Quantities,
which sum will be refunded to bona fide tenderers
after the closing date of tenders.
Tenders are to be enclosed in envelopes endorsed
with the name of the work.
H. P. LAZZARINI,
Minister for Works and Housing.
Public Notices.
TO JAMES KENNEDY, son of JAMES KENNEDY,
who died at Gisborne, in New Zealand, on the 29th
November, 1940, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him by derivative title or other-
wise howsoever. —PURSUANT to an Order made by
the Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before 15th
October, 1946, your claims to share in the estate
of JAMES KENNEDY, deceased, failing which such
estate will be distributed disregarding your claims.
—THE SOLICITOR, Public Trust Office, Wellington,
New Zealand.
IN THE ESTATE of ROBERT EDGAR LOFT late
of No. 73 O’Shannassy Street North Melbourne in
the State of Victoria deceased intestate. —PURSUANT
to further directions of the Chief Clerk of the
Supreme Court of Victoria the dates fixed for proving
claims and for adjudication thereon in respect of
the Estate of the abovenamed deceased have been
respectively extended until Monday the 30th day of
September, 1946, and Monday the 7th day of October,
1946. Dated this 21st day of May, 1946. —ERIC
S. VANCE, Chief Clerk.
BLAKE & RIGGALL, Solicitors, 120 William
Street, Melbourne.
Tii/vr .
a
£
w
<Di E
BELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and, unln*
a terrupled attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Execulor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —Janies Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W, Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. B. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE:' BU 5901. Bo* 543 G.P.0., Sydnsy.
bp 4 u.
■IQ
HE
A COUNTRY
HOME
IN MftSOHITE
m
□
(ntonomrraicnv.
vja /
SJSO
MASONITE now offers you a
complete plan sheet of one of
the smallest and most inexpen-
sive “small” homes ever de-
signed—yet one of the most
attractive and practical. For
the small country family, or
for the suburbs or seaside, this
home is ideal. The construc-
tion materials are Masonite and
timber.
MASONITE*
CORPORATION (Aust.) LTD
SALES AND SERVICE DIVISION
369 Pitt Street, Sydney,
337 Queen Street, Brisbane,
539 Collins Street, Melbourne,
31 Chesser Street, Adelaide.
MA 29-16
You can gel your copy of
this plan, post free, if you
send a postal note or stamps
to the value of two shillings to
your nearest Masonite Stockist,
Distributor or the Corporation.
Other detailed plan sheets are
available (at the same price).
See the list belovr.
OTHER MASONITE
PLANS AVAILABLE
Boat House • Four
berth Caravan • 13-foot Caravan
• Holiday House • Suburban
Cottage • Six-room Suburban
Cottage • Five-room house for
a narrow site • Five-room Cot-
tage • Country Home • Five-
room Residence ® Country Holi-
day Home • Flat-roofed Garage
• Pitch-roofed Garage • Dinghy
• Storage Wall • 12-foot Sail-
inp Boat • Kitchen.
were encountered at first with seed ger-
mination and seedling establishment, but
they were overcome. Guayule is re-
sistant to drought, but needs warm
temperatures and adequate moisture in
the surface soil throughout the early
spring months. For successful transplant-
ing it is important that the seedlings be
cut right back to the top of the root.
Seedlings, were eventually raised at the
comparatively low cost of ss. per 1000,
and were planted with a machine. Sub-
sequent costs depend on the need for
inter-row cultivation, with some weeding
by hand, and the time required for the
stands to yield enough rubber to justify
harvesting and processing. Production of
rubber begins when the plants are about
two years old, when the maximum
amount accumulated, based on 7000
plants to the acre, was about 1751 b. per
acre.
. .
Money m Pigs.
“Mac”: Anything that even looks like
a pig is money today (B. 1/ 5 / ’46). But
do a little thinking about quality. After
good conformation the next thing is a
carcass well fleshed and firm, which can t
be unless the body, fat is solid and not
oily. It’s all in the feeding when finish-
ing off ; grain with a high carbohydrate
content gives a good hard fat; maize is
good, so are barley and peas; beans,
specially very oily ones, such as soybeans,
are responsible for soft fat; any “finish-
ing concentrate” that is too oily will have
the same effect. A soft fat means that
the carcass bruises easily and its quality
suffers because of the handling in ship-
ping. If you’ve had any trouble cut out
the oily (bean) rations and finish off on
maize or peas.
Tick Control.
“Outback”: The tick-control specific
mentioned by “Gip” (B. 1/5/ 46) is not
a D.D.T. preparation; in fact, the pro-
ducer, P. A. Elliot, has long contended
that his fellow beef producers might be
relying too much on D.D.T. to cure all
their pests. Elliot’s specific is added to
the usual arsenic and soda dip, and it is
believed to have an oily base. Only a
legal technicality is holding up registra-
tion of “E.T.C.” (Elliot’s Tick Control)
under the Stock Remedies Registration
Act. Results to date, however, have
been such that Queensland Department
of Agriculture, in conjunction with the
C.5.1.R., is arranging for a test as soon
as cattle infested with ticks in all stages
of growth are available.
Elliot’s own cattle are not suitable, as
they have been effectively cleaned up, so
much so, in fact, that doubt is expressed
whether there will be sufficient ticks on
the property to give young stock im-
munity from tick fever. After using
“E.T.C.” for some months a C.Q. cattle-
man has guaranteed to cleanse any cattle
of ticks with the use of the specific, and
Elliot states that there is no longer any
tick problem in Queensland.
Hints for the Farm.
“Milton”: Having tried most cures for
mange in dogs, I plump for kerosene
(lighting) with a little salad oil added.
Pour over dog, using scrubbing brush to
rub into all parts, wash off after 24 hours
and lather with dog soap, allowing this to
remain on. With working dogs the relief
was immediate, skin suffered no ill effects,
'hair thickened up on bare patches and
all scratching stopped.
“S.H.K,”: Some eagerly await the
approach of the new moon and watch
very carefully the position of its points,
which are supposed to indicate whether it
will be a wet or dry moon, and whether
it will be good for planting or otherwise.
Science has proved beyond doubt that the
moon has nothing whatever to do with
weather conditions, and the only influence
it has on the earth is the working of
the tides,
“Lub”: Clovers are soil-enriching to a
great extent, and their use in building up
soils played-out from growing cereals is
worth considering. Liberal use of super,
will speed up the, crop, and if rainfall is
adequate the grazing should be profitable.
A couple of years under clover should
renew the soil for cereal cropping. When
clover pastures begin to flag, a crop or
two of oats or other cereals will greatly
benefit the soil for resowing.
“E. 2”; Winter is the time to set out a
new orchard or recondition an old one.
No farmstead is complete without its
patch of well-kept fruit-trees, and it’s an
advantage to space the trees well and
grow ’em big and shady. Care should be
taken to get varieties suited to the dis-
trict for early and late crops, and it pays
to use nursery-raised plants. Seedlings,
which can’t be relied on to come true to
type, aren’t worth the bother.
“Nedher”: Roup causes more deaths in
the fowlyard than all other ailments. It
is highly contagious and mostly occurs
during cold weather. A bird with eyes
and nostrils running has roup. Isolate
affected birds straight away and
thoroughly disinfect all roosts, laying
nests and spots where the fowls sun them-
selves. Renew the drinking water, adding
a dozen drops of spirits of camphor to
the water and mix into the food masses
a good dash of pepper, also chopped
chillies or capsiums. Roup resembles the
common cold which attacks humans. If
a bird has the roup rattle in its throat,
use the axe and bury the fowl, using
plenty of lime.
“Bill C.”: A patch of silver beet is
Very useful for green feed on any farm
where the number of poultry varies from
a dozen to a hundred (B. 15/5/’46). It
will thrive almost light through the year
if provided with a little water continu-
ously. The leaves shouldn’t be cut off,
but hand-pulled. Cutting the leaves dis-
courages ratooning. A few swede turnips
will also provide a profusion of green
feed for months until seeding takes place.
“Sarina”: Crude naphtha is worth try-
ing as a substitute for carbon bisulphide
for pouring into meat ants’ nests. About
one pint for every eight entrance holes
is recommended by the C.5.1.R., which
has experimented with it with some suc-
cess. Naphtha is less expensive than
carbon bisulphide, and safer to handle.


»
- caa
Build
them
with
m
/
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbpne
Adelaide • Perth
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd
LI 3la-4452
Dependable
low-cost
Troughs and
Troughs, tanks and silos go up
FASTER, last longer and' cost
less when you build them with
Lysaght's BLUE ORB Corru-
gated Iron. Available in all
gauges up to 26g. and lengths
5 ft. to 12 ft. Or if flat sheets
are required specify Lysaghts
QUEENS HEAD plain gal-
vanized iron sheets.
OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
0 We represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art, past
and present.
*A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
than a Work of Art.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 300 GNS,
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: MA 5805.
Gallery open Daily from 9.30 a.m. to 5.50 p.m.
Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them.
Nature may be warning you that your kidneys need
attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. They
help most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
It the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don\
work well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood.
These poisons may start nagging backaches, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. Frequent or poor kidney action some-
times shows there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
HAIMS
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN STREEt PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. 010.
Circular Charts for all types of
Recording Instruments tor any class
ot Machinery or Equipment
i METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation.
Farrn--with
dm %&*** a&t JL L m ~~w' m m* wA h
t
m
GL.TBO
□
ana
iui
T
B HERE is an increasing demand for modern
farm equipment. During the war years, you made
your old equipment do. Now is the time for new
and better tools. Implements and machines . . .
Place your order well ahead with your nearest
International Harvester agent for that new
McCormick-Deering tractor. Ask him, too, about
the wide range of latest types of McCormick-
Deering power farming equipment—which include
complete systems for potato and vegetable
production, fruit culture, pasture improvement and
fodder conservation, as well as for dairy and
mixed farming. Keep in touch with your
International Harvfestcr agent. Month by month
he’ll be in a more favourable position to satisfy
the heavy demands for McCormick-Deering
tractors, and for the improved equipment now
being built for postwar farming needs . . .
..LJ'*-*-- ■ V.V-.vt
When If comes to your postwar truck, remember
that It’s only INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
that outfits the farmer for both production and
transportation. For nearly 40 years of its 115-year
history. International Harvester has built
International trucks. For several long years new
Internationals went ofl to war by the fens of
thousands. To-day, Internationals are AGAIN
being built for commercial needs—light, medium-
duty, and heavy-duty sizes. All these types will
soon be available.
I
pNTtRNAT}ONAj.j
See Your Nearest International Harvester Agent
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
McCORMICK-
DEERING
A size and type of
tractor for every
farm . . and a com-
plete system of
power equipment
for every farming
need
Haul with
INTERNATIONALS
m
Agents everywhere to serve the farmer
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
music. Choir music ain’t hop music. And
besides, being tall enough to give the choir
dignity, I had a real important part. We
only had a squeaky old harmonium that
wouldn’t give out the deep rumbly sort
of notes, so I stood at the back of the
choir and put in the rumbly parts when
required. It’s a gift. Never could read
them hymnbooks and I used to get mixed
up between ‘Onward Christian Soldiers’
and ‘Pull for the Shore, Sailor,’ but I
always did know just when they needed
a nice loud rumbly piece, aah-ha-ha-haaa,
like that way down in the dhest.”
up UT what about the girl?” says
O j a k e>
yes,” says Uncle Ted, “I was
telling you about Dora, as she was called.
After choir practice we’d sit around
and have a cup of tea and a
bit of a chat like. The ladies
would pass the cups around and onp or
two of us menfolk would ask permission
to smoke. Well, this Dora got to
coming up behind my chair to take my
empty cup and she’d give the top of my
head a scratch. Just a gentle little scratch.
Said she couldn’t resist the dear little
thin spot. It made the other ladies raise
their eyebrows, I tell you.
“I thought, hullo, she’s a bit of
a fast one. She knows a thrifty
sort like me will have a nice little
nest-egg put by. Like all the rest
of the girls—l just needed to cock my
little finger to have ’em all running after
me. Well, I did have a job with Dora.”
“And you got rid of her, too?” asks
Jake.
“She flung herself at a poor simple sort
of a chap named Bob at last,” says Uncle
Ted. “He married her. Well, before
that I thought it was just a saying, driving
a man to drink. But she drove poor Bob
to drink all right. I’ve seen him go home
rolling drunk, and her pleading with the
baker or the butcher to give her stuff on
tick just for another week. Eyes on the
money all the time! It was a horrible
lesson to me.”
“Oh, you’re just talking,” Jake inter-
rupts. “Anyway, they’re not all like
that.”
“How do you know?” says Uncle Ted.
“I was only thinking that if you had
married you would have had someone to
look after you,” Jake says.
“1 can do the looking after me,” says
Uncle Ted. “Why do you think I came
to Tidal Creek but to get away from all
those girls pestering me?”
“I thought it was because your old
man left you this bit of land that your
brothers didn’t want,” Jake says inno-
cently.
“Now,” says Uncle Ted, disregarding
Jake’s remark. “Don’t let any girl fool
you, Jake. They only want all they can
get.”
“But it says in the Bible that it’s right
for a man to marry and have a family.”
“All I remembers hearing from the
preacher was Bible warnings to young
men about just the kind of women I’ve
been telling you of,” says Uncle Ted.
“And then there’s the in-laws,” he says,
warming to his subject. “Fancy marrying
into some families! Look at my poor
sister Kate marrying your mother’s
brother, I warned her.”
“Well, what about my mother’s
brother?” Jake wants to know. “Seems
you want to blame the man now and
make out that your sister’s got the worst
of it. And you’ve just been telling me
it’s the girls that are the devil.”
<</''\H,” says Uncle Ted sneerily, “it’s
very different marrying into a crowd
like your people. Huh, it must be the
Irish in them. Talk, talk, talk! Always
boasting and bragging and scrapping and
slinging off and wailing.”
“So that’s what you think of them,”
says Jake, flushing. “Just because your
people are all dour old hard-headed
Scotch. You could say a few things
about them if you wanted to.”
“Gh, and what?” says Uncle Ted, red-
faced but terribly dignified.
Jake fidgets uncomfortably. “Guess
we’d better leave families alone,” he
says after a while. “Anyway, I don’t
believe you ever had a chance with any
of those girls. You’re just talking.”
Uncle Ted gets up quickly and rattles
a matchbox in his agitation. “I could
take my pick today,” he says, glaring at
Jake. “Who’s saying I couldn’t please
myself in another ten or twenty years?”
“Oh, I didn’t mean to say anything like
that, Uncle Ted,” says Jake screwing up
the weekly paper. “Just reckon somehow
it’s best when you’re young,” he mumbles,
turning down the blankets on his bunk
ready to get in.
Uncle Ted stumps out, sniffing and
snorting.


REGAIN GOOD HEALTH
Vigour, Happiness . . . N wBT S
Regain the Vigour and Sparkle of Youth : A New Scientific
Diet Treatment that lets you
ENJOY EVERY MEAL!
The cause of ill-health :
Most diseases and ill-health are caused in
the first place by lack of vitamins and an
impure bloodstream that comes from eating
the wrong foods. When we mix good and
poor foods alike, destroy vitamins in cooking
and other processing, and over-eatt our health
suffers, and vitality is lost, sometimes never
to be restored!
How Correct Diet Restores Health :
To restore and to maintain good health, and
the feeling of well-being that goes with it,
it is essential to combine the various foods
correctly, and this can only be done by
scientific diet. The Campbell Health Service
will give you full advice on this important
aspect, together with an easy-to-fallow food
chart, with recommended menus, and the
correct food combinations.
Enjoy ALL your meals !
Correct diet does NOT mean that you are
restricted to colorless, flavorless meals!
Study the menus supplied with the Campbell
Health Service —see how carefully they are
planned in the best possible proportion to give
you enjoyment AND health!
CAN YOU ANSWER
THESE QUESTIONS?
What kind of breakfast foods should
1 eat?
What is the correct way to cook
vegetables ?
What are the best energy' producing
foods?
How can essential vitamins be preserved
in cooking?
When should I drink tea . . . milk . . .
other fluids?
. . . And this is VITAL: What is the
correct combination of foods?
Answers to these questions, and many
others, are given by the Campbell
Health Service.
WRITE TO-DAY !
The Campbell Health Service includes advice
and guidance on all matters affecting health
and will show you how to regain the good
health that is everyone’s birthright. Send
a stamped addressed envelope to-day for
information regarding the Course to:—
The Campbell Health Service
Suite 6 (n 2), sth Floor, Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney,
or Phone BW 7462 for Free Consultation.
‘Good Mornings 9 begin
with Gillette
Duty’s a pleasure.
You feel like promotion.
Once you’ve caught hold of
This grand shaving notion.
3/126
Blue Gillettes 5 for 1/7; xo for 3/3. Managing Agents:
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“How many growing children these days
actually get sufficient sleep to keep them in
good health and physical condition?”
—“New Idea. ’
Not the wideawake ones, at all events.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He believed that he would go onward into
eternity with every trouser button complete. ’
—“Sunday Sun.”
And braced to meet the shock of the
transition.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I like reading cowboy stories in bed, but
my husband always used to object.”
—“Daily Telegraph” letter.
Has he gone west since?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In New York a slick magazine named
‘Fascination’ devoted a full page to an
article entitled ‘How to Meet a Dog Socially.’ ”
—“Sunday Sun.”
“Strike a resounding note with your lipstick.”
— Woman’s paper.
If you wish to be loudmouthed.
4* ' 4* 4* *l*
“Examinations are the tragedy of school life.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
They leave their marks on children.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted woman for morning work. Good
condition.” — Suburban paper.
Medical certificate to accompany appli-
cations?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why do women persist in riding in the
smoking compartments of trams?”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
“WLen a couple get married they are sup-
posed to be helpmates and not boss and slave.
—“New Idea.
Many a poor fellow has been misled
by this notion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jeanette, contact me. Prawn leaving next
week, Melbourne. Love. Bob.”
—“S. M. Herald” agony ad.
She’ll surely rise to this bait!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I was told I could get plenty of whisky at
£3 a bottle in Woolloomooloo.”
—Court evidence.
“I wish y'd stop whistlin' that dam' ‘Swing Hig h, Swing Low' thing!"
Stomach Punch.
“He had a most irritating habit of ashing
his cigarettes on the dinner plates; but s v e
soon cured him of this by serving them up in
his meals.” — Woman’s paper.
His ear was very often bashed
Because on dinner plates he ashed
His cigarettes —but how she smashed
His habit when the butts were hashed!
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When Mr. Chifley asked for asparagus at
the Savoy he was told it was plentiful and
cheap,”— “Sun.”
Cheaper than waiters’ tips, at all
events.
Adventures.
While being boiled at dead of night.
With cabbages, by savages.
Ah, me! The agonies that blight
As heat the tissues ravages!
But, later on, what rapture rare.
If you escape to tell of it.
To gather ladies round your chair
And hold them with the spell of it!
’Tis better still to tell, with much
Appearance of reality,
These things without enduring such
In horrid actuality.
T. W. NATHAN.
If you should wander through the street
Poor, down-at-heel or alcoholic,
Each mongrel-tyke that you will meet
Around your shabby legs will frolic.
But if you meet a pom or peke
There’s bound to be an awful ruction
If you presume to stop and speak
Without a formal introduction.
D. H. E.
When women swarm the male retreat,
We safely may assume
’Tis not that they can’t find a seat —
They like to see m#n fume.
BERT.
The Loo, as many of us know,
Presents strange contrasts: for, although
Its denizens seem worn with care,
There’s plenty of high spirits there.
F. M.
From Very Natural Causes.
“According to the Montreal ‘Star,’ four
days after the return to Moscow of Colonel
Zabotin, who was regarded as the ‘master mjwd
behind the Soviet spy ring in Canada, he died
suddenly.’ ”
A few explanations of the gallant
colonel’s untimely demise:
Moscow Radio: A most peculiar acci-
dent which brought on a condition un-
exampled in Russian medical history was
responsible for the grievous loss suffered
by the U.S.S.R. Colonel Zabotin
was on his way to explain to the Presi-
dium details of the dastardly plot cooked
up by the anti-Soviet Canadian Govern-
ment to besmirch the fair reputation of
Communist Russia in the eyes of the
wor l(i_ a plot that in timely manner was
exposed in all its Fascist, hideous war-
mongering nakedness. Unfortunately the
gallant officer slipped on the sandpaper
mat as he was about to enter the room
and fell, treading severely on the lobe of
his left ear. Five seconds later he was
found to be dead. Dr. Naztiyich, the
famous Moscow heart specialist, declared
that death was probably caused by a long-
standing “tennis elbow” which became
fatally affected by the injury to the ear.
“Depravda”: No more striking case
of sheer ill-fortune could probably be
found than that of Col. Zabotin, who was
the chief victim of the greatest outburst
of vicious anti-Soviet propaganda ever to
be hatched in the New World. He was,
truly, a martyr to the black hatred of
capitalist tyrants who so flagrantly insult
the guests whom they invite and whose
innocent activities they spy on and distort
in a manner totally foreign to our own
freedom-loving land. The greatest figures
in the Soviet Union had gathered to give
Col. Zabotin a warm —a very warm
welcome. Ever a modest man, the brave
colonel was at first reluctant to appear
and had to be persuaded. As he was
stepping forward to meet M. Stalin, who
was obviously moved very deeply at sight
of this gallant officer, a girl admirer near
by threw him a bouquet of pansies; one
of them, becoming detached, struck him
on the temple, killing him instantly. Exit
a true soldier of the Workers’ Fatherland.
“Depreztia”: Deepest affection is the
only phrase which could adequately
describe the regard which our be-
loved Fiihrer of the Kremlin held for the
late Col. Zabotin. The circumstances of
his death are indeed tragic. After he
had given M. Stalin a full account of the
outrageous perjury committed by the paid
hirelings of Mackenzie King to conjure
up a fictitious Soviet ring for spying out
atomic secrets (how ridiculous when all
the world now knows that a team of
brilliant Soviet scientists has evolved an
atom bomb the size of a pea which could
reduce the whole of New York to
rubble!) the Leader, as a mark of his
high esteem, gave the colonel a glass of
a special vodka kept for such occasions.
A few seconds later M. Stalin was horri-
fied to see his favorite clutch at his throat,
utter 3 strangled gasp and fall dead. A
million-to-one chance, it has since been
established, caused the colonel’s death
the vodka apparently washed his uvula
suddenly against one of his tonsils, caus-
ing a fatal air-lock.
Gass Agency: It is now known that the
liar Mackenzie King had become aware
that the late Col. Zabotin observed during
his peaceful mission that the Fascist Gov-
ernment was urging the U.S.A. to form
an encircling anti-Soviet Western capi-
talist bloc. Hence capitalist Canada’s
surly suspicion, in marked contrast to the
frank, trusting, go-and-see-what-you-like
attitude of Russia towards its visitors, and
Mackenzie King and his thugs sought to
forestall the revelation by inventing a
false spying charge. The allegation that
the colonel went on a Russian-bound ship
only when N.K.V.D, pistols were held at
his back is a typical Fascist lie. Actually,
Col. Zabotin was very keen to return.
When he did Molotov gave him complete
freedom to move wherever he wished
inside the four high walls. Unfortunately
it was when he happened to be standing
near one of them that he was seen
to collapse, and he never regained
consciousness. An examination disclosed
that he was full of holes, and it is sur-
mised that they were caused by borers
with which the victim became infected
while traversing the Californian redwood
belt. Apparently they ate a vital organ
as he was standing near the wall. Soviet
Russia hails and farewells a beloved son!
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor jflaced first is oaid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
“Sticking to TSieir Mates”
If you asked the average Australian
his opinion of striking as a means to
an end he would probably say “Putrid”
or words to that effect.
Why, then, are strikes so common?
Mainly because of the bad Australian
habit of sticking to mates without some
inquiry into the rights and • wrongs of
the question. In the abstract, sticking to
one’s mates through thick and thin is a
fine thing ; but, like so many other ideals,
it has become a refuge for the waster.
In the Army every “no-hoper” who
talked himself into a bar quarrel appealed
to his cobbers, and because they also
were in uniform they helped him out.
In Civvy-street some larrikin with no
responsibilities and no great love of hard
work is caught trying to “put one over”
and sacked. He squeals victimisation, the
old yarn of sticking to your mates is
dragged out and a strike follows.
The average age of strikers is a good
deal less than that of voters at elections.
Nearly all unions admit members at 18,
and that means a high percentage of
those to whom a week or so off work is
a joke or a holiday. The junior, if he
is a member, is entitled to a vote, but
surely it would be fairer to give extra
weight to the vote of men with depen-
dants.
When it comes to a vote, of course,
“show of hands” should be made illegal.
It leads to threats of anything from
violence to social ostracism on the
ground that those against the motion
are “bosses’ men.” And if you think
that either is certain to remain only a
threat remember the mob bashings of
(always outnumbered) free labor. —K. C.
(Q.).
Timber Trouble
Sawmills in the Dorrigo and North
Coast (N.S.W.) districts are cutting thou-
sands of railway sleepers, mostly from
logs particularly suitable for flooring and
weatherboards. In pre-war days all rail-
way-track timber was hand-hewn, coming
from seasoned and mature old trees of
little use to the mills. It was considered
more durable than sawn timber and cost
less.
I understand that the reason for the
changed policy is the failure of axemen
to supply sufficient timber to maintain
tracks in safe condition.
At almost every railway yard and
wharf along the coast stacks of hewn
railway sleepers, totalling hundreds of
thousands, await shipment to Maoriland
and China. A talk with cutters revealed
that many who previously supplied to the
Railways Department now cut for export.
They believe the department has treated
them unfairly in offering only 6s. to Bs.
per sleeper, according to species, as
against approximately 95., irrespective of
species, paid to the mills. Export trade
offers approximately the same price as
the railways for a smaller sleeper.
In these same districts many houses
under construction are delayed pending
deliveries of flooring and weatherboards.
Timber cut for housing is piled up at
mills because of the shortage of railway
trucks. Mills are being urged to increase
their output of truck-building timbers,
but many logs which could be used for
this purpose are being cut to sleepers.
A conference of all interested parties
should have no trouble in smoothing out
present difficulties and removing anom-
alies which are seriously affecting the
railways and Rousing projects. —Stanus
(N.S.W.).
Commissioned Aircrew
“T.P.V.’s” statement (B. 29/5/’46) that
Australian aircrew trainees were commis-
sioned on graduation from flying schools
implies that they did not come from the
ranks. If there was anything lower than
an A.C.2, the rank on enlistment, I have
still to learn of it. During their nine or
ten months’ training as A.C.2s and
L.A.Cs., trainees were bashed down far
more than any Army private. A corporal
had almost unlimited power over them.
The result was shown in the popularity
of aircrew officers among lower ranks—
the ground-staff ranker could almost
always rely on sympathetic consideration,
courtesy and helpfulness from an officer
with wings. .
There may have been occasions when
jealousy of promotions enjoyed by air-
crew caused friction in the R.A.A.F., but
from what I saw of it the average ground-
staff man took the very sensible view that
it was aircrew who were doing the fight-
ing and dying, and what breaks they got
were not begrudged.
Analysis by qualified men of our whole
system of commissioning would he wel-
comed, but why must any discussion on
these lines immediately degenerate into
general condemnation of officers? It
probably stems from our national habit
of trying to pull down the man on top.
It satisfies the ego of a lazy and shiftless
man to criticise those* above him until
his audience begins to believe that there
is virtue in refusal to undertake respon-
sibility and leadership.
There may well be too much pander-
ing to and privilege for commissioned
officers, but while we encourage the tough
and the larrikin to sneer at and deride
better men it is necessary to accentuate
rank differences artificially. Ex-
Nav(B) (Tas.).
Transport “Service”
The Victorian Transport Board has
caused ill-feeling to run high among all
classes of people, from butter-factory
owners to the ordinary man who has to
queue up for a railway ticket and then
stand for an hour or more in a packed
train. It seems unfair that licences should
be restored for inter-State tourist coach
services (“relax in luxurious reclining air-
craft-type chairs”), yet denied to opera-
tors just because they would be running
against “Government”-owned railways.
Geelong is the second city of Victoria,
yet on Sundays there is no transport ser-
vice to Melbourne —only 45 miles away.
Sunday trains stopped running to the
country in Victoria early in the war.
Bus proprietors, among them ex-
Diggers, have applied for licences to run
passenger services, but have been knocked
back. The last train to Geelong on
Saturdays takes two hours to cover the
45 miles. People without a car who want
to make the trip between then and Mon-
day must either walk or hitch-hike. The
Cain “Labor” Government provides a
worse service between the largest two
cities in the State than operated 80
years ago.— Jam (Vic.),
Immigration
Writing to the Immigration Department
on behalf of a friend in France, I re-
ceived, after a lapse of seven months, a
reply which stated:
It is likely to be a year or longer be-
fore the way will be clear to grant permits
to applicants who have no guarantors in
Australia, because of the necessity of re-
habilitating our own ex-servicemen and
-women, shortage of housing accommo-
dation and shipping.
The letter proceeds to inform me that' 1
if I am prepared to guarantee the main-
tenance of this Frenchman for five years
after his arrival in Australia, the question
of his admission “will receive due con-
sideration.” All of which is vague and
unsatisfying.
During the war we heard a great deal
about a Department of Post-War Recon-
struction. Had it functioned efficiently
the way would now be clear for immi-
grants. As things stand it looks as if
that department and the Immigration
Department are both falling down on the
job.
It is certain that the protracted delay is
causing the loss of many prospective im-
migrants, and creating a most unfavor-
able impression abroad. — Blue (Q.).
“Record Attendance”
Among recent press reports of the
England v. N.S.W. football match at the
Sydney Cricket Ground was the state-
ment that the record crowd for a club
match was in the vicinity of 63,000 at the
North Sydney v. Newtown match in 1943.
I naturally assumed that the date was a
misprint and that it was 1934. On mak-
ing further inquiries I discovered that the
date was quite correct.
Reason for my assumption was that
1943 was one of the years I was out of
circulation as a p.-0.-w. The mail that
did get through to us contained details
of the scarcity of young and active men
in social life and statements to the effect
that sport was practically extinct.
Some days ago my shoes came back
from the repairer’s wrapped in the sport-
ing page of a 1943 newspaper. On
glancing at the list of jockeys for Rand-
wick then and comparing it in a recent
list I can find no great difference. A
1914-18 Digger who was a manpower
officer during the last war told me that
he managed to get the star player of one
of the suburban club football teams
called up. In no time this “star” had
three or four Cabinet Ministers “fight-
ing” for him, and was soon back al
football again.
Next war I’m not going to be a mug
infanteer to be caught in a spot like Singa-
pore. I’ll play Rugby League, or take
a steam-bath and try riding a few winners
at Randwick.— Tidak Makan (N.S.W.).
The Sikhs
Like “Shere Khan” (B. 29/5/’46), I
have known the Sikh in his own country
and through south-eastern Asia. But,
unlike “5.K.,” I have studied him and his
history from the viewpoint of an in-
terested fellow-man.
It is true that the Sikh people number
only about six millions. In 1705, after
more than a century of savage persecu-
tion by the ruling Mohammedans, they
numbered barely half of that. Yet, under
their priest-leader, Bandoo Singh, they
rose against their oppressors, smashed
ten times their number of Moslem troops
and carried fire and sword into the Grand
Mogul’s empire as far south as Delhi.
More than a century later Runjeet Singh
created a Sikh army of 80,000 men and
300 guns, trained in the methods of
European warfare by French instruc-
tors to a degree of efficiency which
gained the hearty respect of the East
India Company and the British-Indian
Army. These are only two samples of the
great Sikh leaders of whom “S.K.” does
not appear to have heard.
Had “S.K.” ever listened to the sonor-
ous voices of Sikh priests chanting the
glorious rhythm of the sacred Book of
the Granth in the Golden Temple of
Amritsar he would, unless totally tone-
deaf, have been silent on the subject of
Sikh poetry. The Golden Temple itself
is a poem in stone. Had “S.K.” read, or
been told, of the Guru Govind Singh,
who in the 17th century first organised a
small peaceful religious sect cruelly per-
secuted by Moslem and Hindu alike into
the material for a formidable nation of
warriors, he would not deny them even
a great administrator.
For a people with a total history of
barely four centuries, theirs is a remark-
able record. “S.K.’s” notion that they
could be easily beaten by Pathans or
Punjabis reveals sheer ignorance of the
history of all three peoples. They have
often clashed in the past, and the Sikh
has always been the victor.
A notable tribute to Sikh character is
the fact that for generations he has been
the ideal policeman in British-India and
“ You’ll like this, mada m—an omnibus record of all Bing's songs.”
Priflcb in the Fast “S K.’s”
British possessions in me tasi.
accusation concerning cases ot biKh cot-
laboration with the Japs in Shanghai may
be sound enough, but even pukka sahibs
fell from grace in those dire days.
As for “their little claim for Sikhistan”
not being “treated seriously by anyone
in India, it is at this very time receiving
the earnest attention of the Hindu and
Moslem national parties alike, with a
view to devising some arrangement cap-
able of overcoming Sikh refusal to be
dominated, and of bringing in on their
side the most notable fighting race in all
India And, unless Sikh pride and
ilium. i v , ,
shrewdness have disappeared in the last
generation, it will be no cheap or easy
bargain. —PUYYAKA (Q-).
-
FoHvJhn.ir Wet»k
forty nour WeeK
The granting by the Queensland Indus-
trial Court of a 40-hour week to shearers
shed-hands and pressers must have
raised a grin along the Warrego.
When shearers decide to work a 10-
hour day to hasten the cut-out and get
away to town for a long week-end it
would be hard to hold them back, awards
notwithstanding. \As for shed-hands, it
is more often the rule than the exception
to find them dawdling round the shed be-
yond the award hours, probably clearing
up the board. Probably in no other in-
dustry is there such a casual regard for
award conditions.
Perhaps the fact that station-owners as
a class are pretty decent chaps might
account for the easygoing atmosphere
prevailing in the sheds. — Blue (Q-).
Czechs and Sudeten Germans
It is over-long, so small type is an un-
fortunate necessity:
The editorial comment in Plain English on
“Czechs and Their Masters” (B. 5/6/ 46)
prompts me to. say that such criticism seem
to be rather inaccurate and exaggerated it not
hostile to the country which I have the honor
to represent here in Australia.
It is, of course, interesting to note that most
of the criticism comes from countries that were
not occupied by German invaders, and it was
only to be expected that the decision to trans-
fer Germans from Czechoslovakia, approved
by Allied Control Council on November 20,
1945, would be met there with misleading
comments about the poor, unfortunate and
desolate Germans who during six years in-
flicted on our population, on prwate
alone, damage amounting to £l,sUU,uuu,wu.
Everybody who enjoyed during that time Nazi
culture and system cannot understand why
sympathy should be wasted on Germans who
have taken other peoples’ homes and property
and are now returning to where they came
from. Yet we are told that, in deporting them
to the Reich, we are perpetrating injustices
against them.
There is no doubt that every transfer or
exchange of population is connected with a
great deal of hardship, but as Mr. J. H.
Flcxman stated in the London “Times” or
October, 1945, we should not pverlook the
fact that these Germans are being deported
to Germany. The millions of victims of the
Nazis were deported to foreign countries to
serve as slave laborers under terrible con-
ditions and hardships or else forced into con-
centration camps.
I cannot deny that there have been now and
then some mistakes on our part, but you must’
understand and forgive the people who have
for so long been slaughtered by the Germans
en masse. Seven years of Hun overlordship
could not fail to leave its marks.
As to the remark about public executions,
may I stress that my Government, as is usual
in other European countries, allows very few
people —newspapermen, lawyers and physicians
—to assist in such executions. In the case of
execution of the Butcher of Lidice, few rela-
tives of murdered citizens of the unhappy vil-
lage were exceptionally allowed to watch the
man who was responsible for the massacre of
the entire male population of the village.
Reading the survey about elections I wish
to add a few words to its political analysis.
All Europe, under the influence of the last
war, is politically and economically changingt
There is simply on the Continent of Europe
a transition.from pure liberalism to a system in
which socialist elements have considerable
wejght or eyen predorn i nan ce. This can be seen
a j so j n Czechoslovakia.
Perhaps in our case there is a difference, be-
cause we are one of those States whose citizens
are sufficiently farsighted and do not need to .
t to avcad a jj this by a wise and progressive
po iicy, socially courageous but democratically
honest, open and clear. We are now neighbors
Sentence
us
E wed k nown that ideas cannot be hin-
dered by any frontiers, but at the same time
we are and shall be a Parliamentary democracy
nd sba ii bave our own regime and full mde-
dence T be Soviet Union does not inter-
£ere w j tb our affairs. That, of cOTrse, does
not mean that we can or want to isolate our-
selves from the Soviet Union. We are taking
bom the Soviet all - we use ’ aS We t f ke ,
from Br j ta j n) America or France. It is a policy
we have always had in the past. Our peoples are
dm)yS^R&n^SSi
as j mportan t a part in European and
(y 0 j:i d economic life as she played .before the
wa r. —Dr. Josef Nemecek, Consul-General
(N.S.W.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
7^^-alleix/n,,
The limitations on Subscriptions to Int
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage/
are: —
13
6
months
£1 4
13
7
3 H •* • •
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. •• •• 15 0
6 « •
3 «» •• i* •• 40
By airmail' to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. .. £1 9 0
Jap Discipline
Low standards of hygiene applied to
most of the Japs, not only to Adachi’s
18th Army (B. 22/5/’46). In the Gazelle
Peninsula hygiene was little better than
at Wewak, and reports of operations in
all S.W.P.A. zones indicate the same.
However, that is a racial trait rather than
a lack of discipline. Judged by our stand-
ards, the Japs did live like pigs.
Lack of hygiene probably played some
part in the disintegration of the 18th
Army, but its men had been in action
almost constantly for three years without
adequate supplies of ammunition, rations
or medical facilities. Malaria and beriberi
caused most non-battle casualties in the
18th Army. There were no drugs to com-
bat these diseases.
The remnants of the 18th had lived for
nearly two years on native foods ; many
had no footwear ; their clothing was prac-
tically rotted away. Yet every position,
every foot of jungle was bitterly con-
tested. Reduced to 30 rounds of ammu-
nition per man, and with no reserves, the
Japs were ordered to hold their fire till
Australian troops were only 30 yards
from their positions. Sixth Division
casualty lists testify how they obeyed the
order. That was discipline.
Documents and orders captured in
action from 18th Army troops revealed
that Jap commanders realised the hope-
lessness of the struggle. Yet they in-
structed all ranks to determine when the
time had come to die for the Emperor,
and then to die like heroes after inflicting
as many casualties as they could. No
matter how much we despise the Jap we
must admit he carried out those orders.
Other documents captured told of pun-
ishment of Japanese soldiers for inter-
ference with native women. Although
the troops of the 18th Army had lived
for years with the natives, interference
with native women was forbidden. I did
not see one half-caste in the Sepik area.
In the Gazelle Peninsula, where over
100,000 Japs lived unmolested —save for
air raids —for three years, only two half-
castes have been reported.
“K.G.P.” has picked on a racial trait
as a failing in discipline. Had Jap dis-
cipline not been good Allied casualty lists
would have been far smaller, and the
Pacific war would have ended sooner. —
Nogat (N.G.).
“Employment Service”
Almost every day men who claim to
have been referred to our firm by the
Commonwealth Employment Service
arrive for an interview, although we
have never asked the Service to send
them to us. Most of the applicants have
no qualifications for the rather specialised
jobs they are after, and in any case,
having taken back everyone with a claim
to reinstatement, we have no vacancies.
Having just returned to civvies myself,
I spend a little time with the likelier
applicants, offering some advice, recom-
mending a few books in the Public
Library, and giving names of trade
journals which will run a free “Positions
Wanted” advertisement for ex-servicemen.
One or two have been back to thank
me for helping them to jobs in this way.
No thanks are needed, but somewhere in
Sydney there’s a Government official
drawing a salary for a job I’m doing in
my spare time. —I. G. (N.S.W.).
The Army
In 1939 we had all the machinery ready
for an Australian Army as advocated by
“X.Q.X.” (B. 17/4/’46) and “Philm” (B.
22/ 5 /’46), but we virtually scrapped that
plan the day war broke out and brought
into being a new organisation—the
Second A.I.F. We are already poorer for
that mistake.
I can never understand why we should
not have used the name Australian
Army for the whole show and territorial
names for basic units —some of these
territorial names for units were in exist-
ence before 1914-18, and the others were
added afterwards. The City of Perth
Regiment, for instance, could have had
its service battalion, its depot or training
battalion and, if necessary, its garrison
battalion.
Regiments would have had little diffi-
culty in overcoming the “Home Defence”
clause in our Defence Act. On the mobi-
lisation parade the C.O. could have an-
nounced that all who did not wish to
enlist for service anywhere should report
to the adjutant at the termination of the
parade. These few would then have been
drafted into training or garrison bat-
talions according to circumstances. All
vacancies would have been filled by those
outside the regiment who were willing to
enlist. If necessary, there could have been
more than one service battalion to‘any
regiment.
These are but the first steps in mobilis-
ing the military machine. It would take
a long and detailed paper to deal with
steps necessary to meet changes and addi-
tions caused by modern methods of war-
fare, but these had to be taken, anyway.
Now, instead of a united body of ex-
servicemen proud of their regimental
drill hall and the territorially named unit
that used it, there is no tie-up between
2/A.I.F. units and local drill halls and
territorial names. If there is to be such
a tie-up, with whom shall it be—2/11
Battalion, A.1.F., or 11 Battalion (A.TF.).
Be careful to use the brackets! — Zabut
(Vic.).
P.BI.
I hope “Peter Mike” doesn’t believe
that every infanteer goes through the
vast curriculum of training he outlines
(B. 5/6/’46).
Many men were sent overseas so
quickly after enlistment that full coaching
in all of “Peter Mike’s” 28 subjects would
have been impossible. It would have
been hard indeed to find, in the Pacific
battles, fighting men who were proficient
in the use of seven weapons as well as
grenades and mines. The syllabus may
have covered such things as map-reading,
but in reality it takes months of study
and practice to reach proficiency in that
art reliable map-readers were rare
enough among officers let alone the rank
and file.
If the completely-trained man existed
at all he would have been found mostly
in those units which were left languish-
ing on the mainland for the entire war
period. They were exceptionally well
trained —it was one way to pass the time.
“Peter Mike’s” line about a poorly-
trained rifleman being a menace is true
enough, but this didn’t prevent the send-
ing of half-trained men into battle
zones. When I boarded a troopship for
Milne Bay in August, ’42, I had never
fired a shot, although, after nine months
in the Army, I was very good at sloping
arms and saluting. My “training period”
had been taken up by parade drill and
repeatedly greasing trucks which were
never used. My initial experiehce of rifle-
shooting was against strafing Zeros, and
I never saw a machine-gun until we were
given some hurried Bren instruction while
crossing the Coral Sea.
Personally, I was not an infantryman,
but several of my infanteer friends went
into battle Without a quarter of the train-
ing which, according to “Peter Mike,”
goes to make a fighting man. Bondi
Beachcomber (N.S.W.).
Election-campaign Suggestions
I notice the Labor party is advertising
for campaign funds, but, having just re-
ceived a heavy tax bill, I am unable to
contribute in cash. I submit, however, a
few suggestions which should produce all
the readv cash needed:
(1) Give the Auditor-General a holiday and
let. “Labor” put £50,000 into its election fund—
“ Labor” got away with it during the referen-
dum campaign.
(2) Persuade the Sydney “Daily Telegraph
to write up Calwell again so that he sues
them for another £25,000.
(3) Give picture shows demonstrating how
power-alcohol factories manufacture fuel out
of no wheat and no coal. Evicted tenants
would be thrilled to see the timber used in the
construction of the factories.
(4) Print picture-postcards of fluid-dnve
Chrysler cars touring the country, complete
with Ministers and families.
(5) Get Dedman to publish a book on ‘ How
I Conduct a Farm,” with a preface by Scully
on how to lose a million pounds on not
growing wheat.
(6) Print a small handbook on how a
political stooge became ill and woke up
governor of an island. The R.S.L. would buy
up the whole issue.
—M.D.N. (Vic.).
One Law for All
I was not particularly moved by sob
stories about the R.A.A.F. man who
went A.W.L. from a Sydney unit for
five months until picked up by S.Ps. at
Orange (N.S.W.). Apparently the young
fellow applied for leave, and, on being
refused, shot through instead of seeking
redress of grievance through the normal
channels.
What does concern me is that he was
held in custody for 111 days without
trial. As I remember it, Section 45 of
the Air Force Act stipulates that;
Every person subject to Air Force LaW
may be taken into Air Force custody pro-
vided that, in every case where an officer
or airman remains in such custody for a
longer period than eight days without a
court-martial for his trial being ordered to
assemble, a special report of the necessity
for further delay shall be made by his
commanding officer in the manner pre-
scribed; and a similar report shall be for-
warded every eight days until a court-
martial is assembled or the officer or air-
man released.
Still relying on memory, I recall that
Rule of Procedure I provides that the
Air Officer Commanding the area in which
the airman is serving must, upon receiv-
ing the weekly report, satisfy himself that
the continued retention of the officer or
airman is justified.
Finally, Section 21 of the Air Force
Act states that:
Every person subject to Air Force Law
who.. . .unnecessarily detains a person in
arrest or confinement without bringing him
to trial or fails to bring his case before
the proper authority for investigation....
shall on conviction by court-martial be
liable, if an officer, to be cashiered, or to
suffer such less punishment as is in this
Act mentioned and, if an airman, to suffer
imprisonment or such less punishment as is
in this Act mentioned.
The implications are obvious. During
the 111 days for which the airman was
held in custody there should have been
13 reports (and a summary of evidence,
incidentally) submitted, stating the
reasons for his continued detention with-
out trial. To clear the Air Force authori-
ties of any stigma these reasons should
have been made public—lack of officers
“All right , smartie—what have I done Wrong?”
in Sydney for a district court-martial
doesn’t hold water.
If there is no reasonable explanation
forthcoming for the young man’s deten-
tion without trial, someone should be on
the mat. His continued detention without
trial constitutes as serious a breach of the
Air Force Act as his original act of going
through. It’s no use expecting other
ranks in the R.A.A.F. to have much
respect for the service if senior officers
can get away with non-observance of its
laws and regulations. Oliver Filter
(N.S.W.).
Brisbane Water Shortage
When Brisbane starts its drive to fill
housing requirements it can kill two birds
with one stone by tackling the water-
shortage problem at the same time. Every
summer Brisbane has its water rationed
in dry periods, just when gardens need it
most.
A point never sufficiently stressed is the
quantity of water wasted because com-
paratively few houses are fitted with wash-
basins. Probably 80 per cent, of Bris-
bane’s morning face-washing is done
under a running tap. Every new home
should, by City Council ordinance, be
fitted with a decent-sized washbasin in
its bathroom. — Essie (Q.).
Britain, Canada and Australia
The Canadian Citizenship Bill provides
that Canadian passports must in future
carry the words “Canadian Citizen,” and
it requires that British citizens must be
resident five years in Canada before be-
coming entitled to naturalisation as
Canadians.
I agree with “Ek Dum” (B. 15/5/’46)
that Britain’s relations with Australia have
loosened palpably since October, 1941,
but our Government does not yet treat
Britons as foreigners. —M. C. S. (N.S.W.).
Beyond the Cities
Crowds of temporary Government em-
ployees are to be retrenched. Most of
them are clerks with no particular trade,
training or education, and few have any
hope of finding a job.
Many small towns require help of all
sorts, but away from the towns are even
more and better opportunities. There
are many places where farmlands and
cleared areas are lying idle waiting for
men and women with grit and determina-
tion to start and make a home. Along
the eastern coast and on the tablelands
much good land is deserted and many
farms are empty. They stand silent for
many reasons, all of them familiar too
far from markets, too far from schools,
the land worked out, too quiet and lonely,
or just too far from pubs, racecourses,
picture shows, fancy shops and general
facilities for gossip and loafing.
But many things can be produced which
do not require a city market. The larger
seed firms can advise on growing vege-
tables and flowers for seed. There will
never be too many pedigree pigs reared
in Australia. Children don t really need
a school —in fact, judged by some pro-
ducts of city schools, they are safer at
home. Land worked out means a farm
cheap to buy. It can be built up witi:
green manure crops.
As for quietness and loneliness, a bush
home has little of either. Domestic
duties are the same in all homes. There
are no union hours, no strikes or short
pay, or fares to work. The husband or
father has midday dinner at home every
day. Food is so much cheaper that it L
ludicrous to compare city prices.
Experience is not so important as com-
monsense. A newcomer to the bush rmn.
have some ability to reason or contrive
things. A woman must be able to cook
and to live through a week without see-
ing a neighbor. Thousands do it as
easily as their parents did.
Ex-servicemen I have met lately include
a typewriter mechanic gone dairying, a
watchmaker who has 200 hives of bees
and two trucks, a piano-tuner growing
green beans and other vegetables, a wharf-
laborer with a mate running a bakery in
a- small town, and a dentist who rears
pigs.—G.S. (N.S.W.).
Australian Writers
It would be of great assistance to the
Australian scribe if all papers paid for
material on acceptance and not on pub-
lication. The time elapsing between
receipt and publication can be anything
from one to six months —no encouraging
prospect if one already has the wolf camp-
ing on the doorstep.
Readers and office staffs might assist
if they would refrain from stamping dates
and scrawling indecipherable jottings over
manuscripts—because one journal rejects
an article it does not mean that it is not
suitable for another.
Now that newspaper staffs are again
at pre-war capacity, much help could be
given along the criticism line. It would
soften the blow if, instead of “The Editor
regrets,” the rejection slip gave some in-
dication as to why the contribution was
not acceptable.—R. E. (S.A.).
Bureaucracy in Action
A man on an invalid pension had
epileptic fits. His medical adviser cured
him by occupational therapy—weaving
mats. He sold the mats privately from
door to door and then, in a rush of
conscience, sent in an income-tax return.
Tire taxation panjandrums promptly
compelled him to pay £lOO tax and to
return the £2OO he had earned above his
pension.
The doctor, alarmed at the effect that
this would produce on his patient, wrote
to the department pointing out that if
he were prevented from selling the mats
he would have no incentive to make them.
If he stopped making them he would get
his fits back and the Commonwealth
would have to pay him an invalid pension
for the rest of his life.
The department ignored his letter and
it happened as the doctor had predicted
—his patient got his fits back.—X. S.
(Vic.).


Vh - i v * ..vX-:-.-.
ill
m
■ :
ft
: : • "
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
m
a
■
•■ : '
sgi
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
iililip
; tip:
| JiL w
m»m y
if,-/*- /-....<
mmmm
m . ; m
/ii/:
■ !
I
WM/iMm
mimmmm
ilw
IKI
■ 8
*
iIIPII
p^ssar
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
liiiiliiiiilii^piliiip
■
yiiii
ill
9gß
; Wx£ \
' . m
’ ;■' •:■’• ':••••■■ . 'V • ' ' ' • • : • .. . •-: :' ■■. ;
: • . • • ’ ’ ; •••••■ : - :•
Renowned for
v>X ; !;K;
s . , / , . + | ' A % C '•» ' ££s )/ \ w • , '/-• . \ |% -
■ A; ; : ■;. ■ ;iA Li/? : : £OU
A®®/* '■' , v. A > ‘ i| “ ’ ' m ' - v
■i
...
1
||BSs
:
tm ■
:;
H
a
_
