

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3456
Wednesday, May 8, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
CAMDEN HOUSE, CHISLEHURST.
placed on the west side of what, in the
Queen’s day, was Chislehurst Common is famous Camden House.
It was built by William Camden, chief of British antiquaries, who
died in it in 1623 ; but this finely situated house is better known
as having been occupied by Napoleon 111 after his downfall in
1870. The ex-Emperor died in 1873 in a room overlooking the
right wing of the house, and six years later, after the Prince
Imperial had also been buried from Camden House, the ex-
Empress Eugenie removed to Farnborough. Early in the last
century the master and mistress of the house were murdered by a
servant, and the crime was a nine-days’ wonder. Lord Chief
Justice Pratt, of whom the Marquis of Camden was a descendant,
took his title from Camden House.


v
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin, 3 ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Red Page
FROM OVID TO WEST.
Sydney dailies, their interest in the
censorship of books having been aroused
by the prosecution on an “obscenity”
charge of the publishers of Lawson Glas-
sop’s We Were the Rats, have been com-
plaining that no list of banned books
can be obtained from the Customs De-
partment. Books published in Australia
are dealt with by prosecution; books
imported from overseas are banned by
the Customs, and, said “S. M. Herald,”
“complete secrecy surrounds this arbitrary
process”:—
No reasons need be given for the ban,
and even the booksellers are not permitted
to know that a work has been prohibited
unless they seek to receive it through the
Customs.
According to a list supplied unofficially
in circumstances which leave the present
commentator in no doubt whatsoever as
to its authenticity, these are the books
the Australian public has been forbidden
to read:
Abandoned —Henri Lamonte
Adam and Two Eves —Anonymous
Adventures of Hsi Men Ching, The
—Translated from the Chinese
Alexanderpi at z- —Alfred Doblin
All Men Are Enemies —Richard Aldington
Allurement —Henri Lamonte
American Girl, An —Tiffany Thayer
Among the Nudists —Frances and Mason Merrill
Andrews’ Harvest —John Evans
Aphrodite— Pierre Louys
Apples Be Ripe —Llewelyn Powys
Appointment in Samarra —John O’Hara
Arabian Passion —Paul Reville
Art of Making Oneself Loved, The —Dr. Jaf
Artists’ Wives —Ll. Dupres
Ashes of Desire— Paul Reville
At Dawn —Paul Renin
Atonement —Paul Renin
Au Poiss’ d’Or —Alex Scouffi
Babe Gordon {The Constant Sinner) —Mae West
Bagatelle —Published in Paris
Ballyhoo —Published in U.S.A.
Barbaric Fetes —Don Brennus Alera
Bedtime Stories —Published in U.S.A.
Bessie Cotter —Wallace Smith
Betrayal —Geoffrey Brame
Beyond Convention —Paul Renin
Bible Unmasked, The —Joseph Lewis
Birth Control —G. R. Scott
Bishop’s Jaegers, The —Thorne Smith
Black-Girl White-Lady —Alan Hyder
Born Unwanted— Ross Edwin
Boy —James Hanley
Brave New World —Aldous Huxley
Broadway Nights —Published in U.S.A.
'Bunk —Published in U.S.A.
Burten’s Follies —Published in U.S.A.
By Repute —Paul Renin
Calgary Eye Opener —Published in U.S.A.
Callipyges, The
Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang —Published in U.S.A.
Casanova’s Memoirs —Joseph Mouet
Castle of the Whip, The —Don Brennus Alera
Cautious Amorist, The —Norman Lindsay
Cherry —Alvin Winston
Class 1902 —Ernest Glaeser
Classics of Love, Art and Humor —Pub. U.S.A.
Closing Doors —Geoffrey Brame
College Life —Published in U.S.A.
Colonel’s Daughter, The —Richard Aldington
Commonsense about Sex —Leonora Eyles
Contes et Nouvelles en vers de Jean de la
Fontaine (Vol. 1 and 2) —Published in France
Coquetry for Men —Horace Coon
Crossways of Sex —Published in London
Crucible, The— Published in U.S.A.
Dangerous Acquaintances— Choderlos de Laclos
Dangerous Moments —Paul Renin
Daring Diana —Paul Renin
Dark Star —Lorna Moon
Dawn of Desire —Henri Lamonte
Death of a Harlot —Bernard Newman
Death and a Lover —Hermann Hesse
Dialogues of Pietro Aretino —Published in Paris
Diary of a Masseuse, The —La Vrille
Die Dime Elisa —Edmond de Goncourt
Disillusioned —Gerald de Beaumont
Diversion —Piers Devereux
Divorce —Paul Renin
Dottrinetta Razionalista {Rationalist Doctrine)
—G. M. Serrati
Down and Out in Paris and London —G. Orwell
Down There {La Bas) —Joris Karl Huysmans
Eagle and The Serpent, The —Pub. in U.S.A.
Eastern Love —E. Powys’ Mathers
Edrnonde Seduite —P. de la Batut
En Morgue du Bonheur—Leilah Mahi
Enslaved —Paul Reville
Enticed —Paul Renin
Eros —Published in Paris
Fabian —Erich Kastner
Facts You Should Know About the Art of Love
—William J. Fielding
Fallen —Henri Lamonte
Fantasia —Published in Paris
Farewell to Arms —Ernest Hemingway
Fascination —Henri Lamonte
Film Cun—Published in U.S.A.
Finnley Wren- —Philip Wylie
First Woman —Adelaide Wilson
Flaming Passion —Ronald Vane,
Follies —Published in U.S.A.
For Men Only —Beth Brown
Fortnight’s Folly, A —Paul Renin
For Women Only —J. J. Markey
Frantic Young Man, The —Charles Samuels
French Follies— Published in U.S.A.
French Love— Herbert Moore Pim
Frolics Published in U.S.A.
Frou Frou et Bonne Humeur —Pub. in France
Galerie des Belles Amours —Joseph Hemard
Gay Book —Gay Book Co., N.Y.
Gay Broadway —Published in U.S'A.
Gay Parisienhe —Published in U.S.A.
Gentle Libertine, The —Colette
Ginger Stories —Published in U.S.A.
Girl’s Life, A —Raoul Cammert
Girls Men Desire —Henri Lamonte
Girl Who Surrendered, The— Ronald Vane
Glorious Pool, The— Thorne Smith
God Have Mercy on Me —Marjorie E. Smith
God’s Little Acre —Erskine Caldwell
Golden Asse of Lucius Apuleius, The
—Translated by William Aldington
Go Marry —Brendan Williams
Goodbye, Hell! —Eve Ellin
Good Time Girls —Paul Renin
Heavenly Discourse— Chas. Erskine Scott Wood
Here Is My Body —Jack Woodford
Her Profession —Paul Reville
High Pressure —Rudolph Messel
Highly Spiced Tales —Pierre de Bourdeille
Hindu Art of Love, The (or Ananga Ranga )
—Published in Paris
Hindu Art of Love, The —Edward Windsor.
Hollywood Nights —Published in U.S.A.
Hooey (Monthly)—Published in U.S.A.
Hot-Cha —Published in U.S.A.
Hotel Wife —Ruth Lyons
Illicit Love —Alfred Dubois
11 Mese Allegro (The Joyful Monthly ) —(Italy)
Impatient Virgin, The—D. H. Clarke
Indiscreet Confessions of a Nice Girl, The
—Anonymous (London)
Infidelity —Henri Lamonte
I Wasn’t Born Yesterday
—A. Rivkin and L. Spigelgass
Jarnegan —Jim Tully
Jungle Love —Piers Devereux
Just Love —Paul Reville
Justine (or The Misfortunes of Virtue )
—Marquis de Sade
Kama Sutra of Vatsyayana, The
—Published' by the Librarie “Astra,” Paris
Kiss of Shame —Paul Renin
Lady Chatterley’s Lover —D. H. Lawrence
La Femme Cousue —Louis Charles Royer
La Femme et le Pantin —Pierre Louys
La Libertine —Nonce Casanova
La Maitresse Legitimg —Georges Anquetil
L’Amant Legitime —Georges Anquetil
VAmour en Visites —Alfred Jarry
Languorous Love —Henri Lamonte
L’Annee Joviale 1928
—Curnowsky and J. W. Bienstock
La Paree Stories —Published in U.S.A.
La Revue du Moulin Rouge —Pub. in Paris
L’Art d’Aimer —Georges Anquetil
La Secte des Anandrynes —Pubished in Paris
La Veritable Encyclopedic de I’Amour Phy-
sique sans Danger— Georges Anquetil
La Vie Parisienne —Published in Paris
Le Canape Couleur de Feu—Published in Paris
Le Dernier Satyre —Theo Varlet
Le Jardin Parfurne —Translated from the Arabic
of the Shaykh Nafzawi
Le Manage Charnel —Nicolas Segur
L’Ersatz d’Amour —Willy et Menalkas
Les Confessions de Dan Yack —Blaise Cendrars
Les Confessions de J. J. Bouchard
—Anonymous—Published in Paris
Les Fails et Gestes du Vicomte Nantel
—Crebillon
Les Plus Belles Nuits d’Amour de Casanova
—Fernand Kolney
Le Semeur d’Amour —Felicien Champsaur
Le Sourire —Published in Paris
Les Surprises des Sens —Gaston Picard
Le Troisieme Sexe —Published in Paris
L’Homme Qui Assassina —Claude Farrere
Life —Paul Renin
LTmpostura Religiosa —S. Faure
Liquid Shadows— G. U. Ellis
Little Trottin, A (an alternative title is Yvette’s
Passion) —Georges de Chanrosay
Lives of Fair and Gallant Ladies
—Seigneur de Branfome
Loose Life —Marcelle Le Jeune
Loose Love —H. Dupres
L’Orgie Latine —Felicien Champsaur
Louis Beretti —D. H. Clarke
Love Books of Ovid, The
—Translated by J. Lewis May
Love Diary of a Boy, The— Shaw Desmond
Love Is For Women —Jas. Noble Gifford
Loveliest of Friends —G. Sheila Donisthorpe
Lovely Lissette —Sadie Blackeyes
Lulu —Felicien Champsaur
Lured —Paul Reville
Lurid Love— Henri Lamonte
Luxuries —Maurice Deko.bra
Luxury Ladies— Helen Zenna Smith
Magnificent, The —Terence Greenidge
Maid and a Million Men, A —James G. Dunton
Man Mad —Paul Renin
Manage en Pyjama —Pierre Zenda
Maria Monk
Marie Galante —Jacques Deval
Marquis de Sade —The Man and His Age
—Dr. Ivan Bloch
Melting Pot, The —Published in U.S.A.
Memoirs of a Russian Princess
—Katoumbah Pasha
Men Women Love —Paul Renin
Merry Songs and Ballads
—Edited by John S. Farmer
Messaline —Nonce Casanova
Middle Parts of Fortune, The —Pub. in London
Midnight —Paul Renin
Millie —D. H. Clarke
Mimes of the Courtesans, The —Lucian
Miss (In French) —Sadie Blackeyes
Moll Flanders —Daniel Defoe
Monsieur de Bougrelon —Jean Lorrain
Monsieur Nicolas —Restif de la Bretonne
Translation by R. Cowdry Mathers
Monsieur Venus —Rachilde
More Tropical Tales —Kimbo
Most Delectable Nights of Sharparola of Cara-
raggis, The
My Bones Will Keep —Maurice Richardson
My Candle Burns —Frederick Stephani
My Life— Frank Harris
My Life and Loves —Frank Harris
Near Hell in the'Far East —G. L. Morrill
New Immorality, The —Isaac Goldberg
New York Life —Published in U.S.A.
New York Madness —Maxwell Bodenheim
Nifty Stories —Published in U.S.A.
Night in Kurdistan, A —Jean Richard Bloch
Night Light, The —Published in Paris
Night of Eve —Jean du Crois
Night Out, A —Paul Renin
Night Side of Paris, The —A. B. D’Avergne
Nineteen Nineteen —Jbhn Dos Passes
No Bed of Her Own —Val Lewton
No Bed of Roses —The Diary of a Lost Soul
—Marjorie E. Smith
Nude Life —Published in U.S.A.
Nudism in Modern Life —Maurice Parmelee
Nudist, The —Published in U.S.A.
One Being Living —Ross Edwin
One Night —Paul Renin
On the River Amour —Joseph Deltiel
Painted Mischief —Frank Shay
Painted Veils —James Huneker
Pampered Passion —Paul Renin
Parade of Virgins —Eliot Crawshay-Williams
Paris Frolics —Published in U.S.A.
Parisiana —Published in Paris
Partners, The —John Lovegood
Passion in Algiers —Alma Johanna Roenig
Passion Lighting the World— Maurice Dekobra
Passional Psychology —Dr. Jacobus X.
Passionate Surrender —Henri Lamonte
. Passionate Virgin, The —Paul Reville
Pathway of Passion, The —Jean du Crois
Patoi —Published in Greece
Pavement Lady —Marguerite Brener
Pep Stories —Published in U.S.A.
Perfect Passion, The —Paul Renin
Perfume —Marcelle Lc Jeune
Perfumed Garden, The —Translated from the
Arabic of the Shaykh Nafzawi
Petronius —The Complete IForLr-—Translation
by Jack Lindsay. Ulus, by Norman Lindsay
Petronius—The Satyricon
—Translation attributed to Oscar Wilde
Petronius —The Satyricon —Translation by W. C.
Firebaugh. Illustrated by Norman Lindsay
Pit of Enchantment —Paul Reville
Plaything of Passion —Henri Lamonte
Possession —Paul Reville
Poupee Japonaise —Felicien Champsaur
Pour Lire au Lit —Anonymous
Presented in Leather (A Cheered End to a
Tearful Diary) —Claire Willows
Principles of Contraception —-Joan Malleson
Private Anthropological Cabinet, A
—Robert Meadows
Proud Passion —Henri Lamonte
Rabelais, Works of (Cheap paper covered edi-
tions only)
Razzberries —Published in U.S.A.
Real French Capers —Published in U.S.A.
Real Stolen Sweets —Published in U.S.A.
Real Tempting Tales —Published in U.S.A.
Reckless Hollywood —Haynes Lubou
Redheap —Norman Lindsay
Rehearsal of Love —Arthur Shumway
Reigen, The Affairs of Anatol and Other Plays
—Arthur Schnitzler
Replenishing Jessica —Maxwell Bodenheim
Return of the Old Man to the Condition of the
Strength of Youthtide, The —Pub. in Paris
Rosario—The Female Monk —M. G. Lewis
Rowena Goes Too Far —H. C. Asterley
Sacrifice —Paul Renin
Sane Sex Life and Sane Sex Living
—H. W. Long, M.D.
Sans Gene —Published in Paris
Satan Conduit le Bal —Georges Anquetil
Satyre Sotadique De Luisa Sigea sur les Arcanes
de VAmour et de Venus (Sotadic Satire of
Louisa Sigea on the Mysteries of Love and
Venus) —Nicolas Chorier —Introduction and
Notes by B. DeVilleneuve
Scene Is Changed, The —James Ray
Scented Garden, The —Anthology of the Sex
Life in The Levant —Bernard Stern, M.D.
Science and History for Girls and Boys
William Montgomery Brown
Screen Art —Published in U.S.A.
Seduction —Published in Paris
Secret Traffic —Basil Tozer
Sensual Nervousness —Dr. Alibert
Seventh Commandment, The
—Anonymous—Published in U.S.A.
Seventh Night, The —Paul Renin
Severe Education —Rene Michel Desergy
Sex (monthly publication)—Published in U.S.A.
Sex —Paul Renin
Sex Histories —W. F. Robie, M.D.
Sex Knowledge —Published in U.S.A.
Sex Problems in India —Prof. N. Phadke, M.A.
Sex Science —Published in U.S.A.
Sexual Aberrations —Dr. Wilhelm Stekel
Sexual Education —Dr. Alibert
Shadow of Shame —Henri Lamonte
Shared Woman— Harold S. Kahm
She Done Him Wrong (Diamond Lil)
—Mae West
Silken Divan —Ronald Vane
Silken Sarah —Margery Lawrence
Silk Stockings— Yvan Kermor
Sin of Betrayal, The —Henri Lamonte
Sin Street —Paul Reville
Sisterhood of Shame —Ronald Vane
Slapstick —Published in U.S.A.
Sleepwalkers, The —Hermann Broch
Smokehouse Monthly —Published in U.S.A.
Snappy Detective Mysteries —Pub. in U.S.A.
Sold —William G. Hosie
Soldiers and Women —O. D. Wendler
Sous la Jupe —Anonymous—Published in Paris
Spanking Diary of Rose Evans, The
—Anonymous—Published in U.S.A.
Spicy Adventure Stories —Published in U.S.A.
Spicy Detective Stories —Published in U.S.A.
Squccwkies, The —Published in U.S.A.
Stag at Eve, The —Published in London
Stained Radiance —Leslie Mitchell
Stay of Execution —Eliot Crawshay-Williams
Story of a Light Lady, The —Shaw Desmond
Story of a Terrible Life, The —Basil Tozer
Story of Venus and Tannhauser, The
—Aubrey Beardsley
Strange Brother —Blair Niles
Strange Loves —La Forest Potter, M.D.
Strangers May Kiss —Ursula Parrott
Street of Shame, The —Paul Reville
Submission —Henri Lamonte
Sullied —Victor Duroy
Surrender —Raoul Cammert
Sweet Surrender —Ronald Vane
Tarnished —Marcelle Le Jeune
Tattle Tales —Published in U.S.A.
Temptation —Paul Renin
Themidor —Godard d’Aucourt
They Winter Abroad —James Aston
Thirteen Men —Tiffany Thayer
Thirteen Women —Tiffany Thayer
This Bright Summer —Clare Meredith
This Flesh —Wythe Williams
This Gutter Life —Julian Franklyn
Those Without Shame —Paul Renin
Thousand Nights and One Night (8 vol.), Mard-
rus Version —E Powys Mathers
Transatlantic Wife —Peggy Hopkins Joyce
Tropical Tales —Kimbo
Turnabout —Thorne Smith
Tu Seras Courtisane —Maurice Dckobra
Twisted Clay —Frank Walford
Ulysses —James Joyce
Un Mois Chez les Filles —Maryse Choisy
Unwarned —Paul Renin
Upsurge —J. M. Harcourt
Vamped —Paul Renin
Venus dans le Cloitre —Published in 'Paris
Vertige —Georges Anquetil
Virgin’s Progress, The —Eve Ellin
Vive le Soldi —Published in Paris
Vultures —H. Dupres
Wanton Ways —Norah C. James
Week-end Cruise —Marcia Bellowes
Week-end Wives —Paul Renin
Well of Loneliness —Radcliffe Hall
Western Men with Eastern Morals —W. N. Willis
Whirlwind of Desire —Henri Lamonte
White Woman —Paul Renin
Why Men Betray —Jean du Crois
Wives and Men —Beth Brown
Woman —A Satire —Published in U.S.A.
Woman and Puppet —Pierre Louys
Woman’s Doctor, The —Anonymous
Women and Monks —Josef Kallinikov
World Against Mary, The —J. M. Frank
Yama: The Pit (Translation from the Russian
of Alexandre Kuprin)—Bernard G. Guerney
Young and Healthy —Donald Henderson Clarke
Zippy —Published in U.S.A.
For reasons of space the list has been
reduced here by about 150 titles, com-
prising chiefly German periodicals and
sex literature and obviously trashy pulp
magazines from the U.S., and including
no work of any literary importance. The
list, moreover, though it records the
banning of Ulysses (by a Mr. Harrison,
who said it “made his hair stand on end”)
may not be quite up-to-date; The Bul-
letin has had it for some time. New
titles have probably been added to it,
and a few removed.
It is said, for instance, that the ban on
Defoe’s Moll Flanders has been lifted,
as mysteriously as it was imposed. The
story is that a Customs official took fright
at one edition of this work that was
decorated with woodcuts which, though
charming, contained a few nude figures ;
subsequently it dawned on the Depart-
ment that there are scores of editions of
Moll Flanders and most of them are
altogether free from such alarming repre-
sentations of the female form as may be
carved in woodcuts.
Sydney “Sunday Sun,” which appears
to have learned some of the Department’s
secrets, says (authority not stated) that
books removed from the banned list in-
clude: The Arabian Nights, Thousand
Nights and One, Balzac’s Droll Stories,
Boccaccio’s Decameron, Defoe’s Roxana,
Brave New World, Farewell to Arms,
Well of Loneliness, The Golden Asse,
Daphnis and Chloe, Death of a Hero,
War and the Second International, Foun-
dations of Leninism, and Tobacco Road.
However, even if these revisions have
been made, the list gi ves a pretty fair
picture of the working of the censorship".
Obviously, as far as nine-tenths
of the titles are concerned, the literary'
world, except on general principles, would
have very little interest in their fate.
What the list shows is how haphazard,
undiscriminating, uninformed and how
wholly unfair the banning of books has
been. If Australians are now (and
rightly) permitted to read Balzac’s Droll
Stories, how can the Department possibly
justify its continuing the ban on Red-
heap ? How can you admit Rabelais and
shut out that charming trifle of Llewelyn
Powys’s Apples Be Ripe ?
Some official of the Customs Depart-
ment chances to come across a work that
wounds him; he bans it. Some obscure
and possibly illiterate person chances to
read a book that shocks him; he com-
plains to the authorities, and it is banned.
And a thousand works—the world’s
classics, indeed —that would be just as
shocking to these delicate souls are left
untouched. He is an unlucky man who
happens to be banned in this country.
“O. de V,”: “It is safe to say that not
one out of every ten thousand Australians
has ever been inside a theatre.” Referring
not to the Australia of Macquarie and
King Billy, but to Australia today, the
statement is quoted by the “Illustrated
London News” in its review of Pioneer-
ing Ballet in Australia (13/10/’45) from
the Introduction written by a well-known
Sydney critic (imp.). Apparently it sur-
prised the English reviewer, who com-
mented “This will be news to many.” It
will also be news to many in Australia,
particularly to those who have queued
and battled for theatre tickets, often to
find that everything has been sold out,
including the gallery steps and standing-
room. According to the statement there
can be only about 750 people in Australia
who have been inside a theatre; last
time I attended the ballet it seemed to me
that seven and a half million Australians
were trying to get in to the same per-
formance. I almost forgot to mention
that the Introduction was written by a
Mr. Neville Cardus.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW”
Anthony Horderns’
122 YEARS OF SERVICE
* .-MW •'
'ftB .. >„,««»,
j ’tit Fine
it:* Sporting
■ Guns
., JWSM< Hf" dft:«01 ~
ii
“’-I'l V 'wmtM. i Hf//.,.,*,
m i r
mi Jr
|f - ••••• <r
nsy %
.303 Cal. Short Service Repeating
Rifle. Bolt action. A good kangaroo
rifle. Price £6
.22 Cal. Rifle. Single shot, bolt
action, made by the world famous
Lithgow Small Arms Factory. Barrel
is 24 ins. long and chambered to take
.22 short, long, long rifle cartridges,
high velocity or standard loading.
Price ... 79/6. Awaiting deliveries. |
j
.303 Cal. A popular sporting model
Repeating bolt action Rifle. £8/10/-
.303 CaL Mark VII. Cartridges.
Price 25/- per 100
.310 Cal. Rifle Cartridges. These
cartridges will suit all .32 cal. centre
fire rifles. In some repeating rifles
a very slight filing of the point of
the bullet is necessary, so that it will
feed.- Price 22/- per 100 |
.303 Solid Leather Rifle Buckets for J
horseback 5/61
.303 Canvas Rifle Cover ... 9/6
.22 Canvas Rifle Covers .... 12/6
TCW0H9 89K
IMPORTANT—A Police Permit is still re-
quired when ordering Rifles and Ammunition.
• Sports —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. • Freight paid on Rifles only in N.S.W. The difference between N.S.W. and Interstate rates will be charged.
, Freight extra on Cartridges and Rifle Accessories.
STRYCHNINE ... for the DESTRUCTION OF RABBITS. 13/- per oz., postage extra. In 25 oz. tins only. Forward Permit when ordering.
Anthony Horderns’
famous low prices
’PHONE: M2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712C, C.P.O., SYDNEY


v
DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service in
Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established service
facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid development
of Diesel power in this country.
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leadirig makes of British, American and Continental Fuel
Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX, Injection parts
not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be manufac-
tured by PYROX according to specification.
*PtftOX DIESEL INJECTION SERVICE
Australian Enterprise Australian Skill Australian Achievement
IN SYDNEY PYROX PTY., LTD.
-*i. v
tk
oze
an.
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for Instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
c S‘
T n 7
Thone BV/ 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
mum
DODGE
TRUCKS
DODGE
De Soto
FARM TRUCKS
New Honours for
a Distinguished Family
The great Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth, De Soto line
of motor vehicles is in every sense a family—a family
distinguished for a host of brilliant contributions to
smarter, safer, more economical motoring.
As a family, Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth and De
Soto Cars and Dodge and Fargo Trucks have welded
themselves into the economic and social life of
Australia.
As a family, they are blueprinting post-war de-
velopments for Australia that will ttanscend the
great achievements of the past.
Australian-owned and controlled, Chrysler Dodge
Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd. are planning now
to resume and maintain the progressive policy that
made the Australian reputation of this great line of
motor vehicles.
Chrysler 'bodge
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
MEMBER COMPANIES
® SYDNEY: Harden & Johnston Ltd,, York Motors Pty, Ltd., Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE; Canada Cycle H Motor Co, (Vic.) Pty. Ltd,, Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd.
O BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Ltd., Stradbroke Motors Pty. Ltd. £ ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd.
• PERTH: W interbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Wentworth Motors Ltd. £ HOBART: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Co-operative Motors Ltd,, H. C. Heathorn S' Co. Ltd.
v
v
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy swords, bayonets and other articles
of interest to a collector of arms. —3737.
To buy Ernestine Hill’s The Great Australian
Loneliness. —3738.
To buy Wisden’s Cricketers’ Almanack for
the years 1934?39.—3739.
To buy Crusade and Blind Raftery and His
Wife Hilaria by Bonn Byrne.—374o.
To buy The Warden, Doctor Thorne and
The Last Chronicle by Anthony Trollope.
—3741.
To buy The Captain Hates the Sea and The
Helmet Is Mine. —3742.
To buy Democracy Versus Socialism by Max
Hirch.—3743.
To hear from persons interested in the works
of William Baylebridge.—3744.
Information Sought.
Origin of the nqmes “Bartle Frere” and
“Bellenden-Ker” given to Queensland’s highest
mountains? When were they conferred?
(1) Bartle Frere, the highest peak in Queens-
land and in the Bellenden-Ker Range (5287 feet),
was named by C. E. Dalrymple in 1873 after
Sir Bartle Frere, president of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, London. (2) Bellenden-Ker
Range (5181 feet) was named by Capt. P. P.
King, R.N., of the Mermaid after John
Bellenden-Ker, a friend of the botanist Alan
Cunningham.
r * ♦ *
Were the land-mas'ses of the North and South
Heads of Sydney Harbor islands at any time?
Both North and South Heads were formerly
islands. At that time the sea level stood about
15ft. higher than it does today, and Sydney
Harbor communicated with the ocean across
Manly on the north and from Rose Bay to
Bondi on the south.
.•* * ♦ *
(1) In the Mutiny of the Bounty how many
stuck to Bligh and how many joined Christian ?
(2) How large was the open boat allotted to
Bligh and his followers ? (3) What food and
drink were they given ? (4) How long were
they afloat in the open boat, and how far did
they travel ?
(1) Eighteen stood by Bligh, and 24 followed
Christian. (2) Twenty feet long, 6ft. 9in. beam,
2ft. 9in. deep. (3) 321 b. pork, 1501 b. biscuits,
a 28-gallon cask of water, six quarts of rum
and six bottles of wine. (4) They were 41 days
afloat and travelled 3600 miles.
\ * * * *
Was Mick Dooley ever recognised as heavy-
weight champion of Australia? Did he ever
fight Bob Fitzsimmons?
Dooley defeated Peter Felix for the Australian
heavyweight championship in 1895, and held
the title until Bill Doherty beat him in 1899.
Dooley never fought Fitzsimmons.
* * * *
What is the difference between lorilets, para-
keets and lorikeets ?
Parakeet's are parrot-like birds which are
mostly seed eating, while lorikeets have a brush-
like tongue and live on the honey and nectar
of flowers. The beak is longer than that of
the parakeet and has no notch or groove on
the upper half of the beak, while the tail is
much shorter than that of the parrot'. Lori-
lets are smaller than the lorikeets and have a
tail that tapers to a point. They eat fruit and
are often called fig-birds.
* * * ♦
What do butcher birds feed on and how do
they derive their name?
They feed on large insects, lizards, mice and
young birds, and derive their name from their
habit of hanging up the bodies of any victims
which cannot be swallowed immediately by
sticking them on spiny twigs in some convenient
tree.
* * * *
How to make paste that will keep ?
Dissolve a teaspoonful of alum in a quart
of water. When cold stir in as much flour as
will make a thick cream, and be careful to
break up the lumps. Stir in as much powdered
resin as will lie on a sixpence, and add a
little oil of cloves to give a pleasant odor.
Have on the fire a saucepan with half a pint
of boiling water; stir the flour mixture into
this. In a few minutes it will be about the
consistency of thick gruel. Pour it into an
earthern or glass vessel, lay a cover over it,
and put in a cool place. When needed for use
take out a portion and soften with warm water.
Paste made this way can be kept 12 months.
* * * *
What are the ingredients of liquid paint-
and varnish-remover, and how are they made?
There are many recipes, some of them con-
taining very strong acids or alkalis. For a
home-made paint-remover mix one part tur-
pentine and two parts ammonia. Shake well
together until the mixture looks like milk.
Apply to the paint surface with a piece of rag
on a stick and leave for a few minutes, when
the old paint can' be wiped off.
Brief Answers.
H.S.G.: (1) The virus would not be killed
if the cattle were sprayed with 4 p.c. D.D.T.
immediately before or after inoculation with
P.P.C. virus. (2) D.D.T. mixed with pleuro-
pneumonia virus would render the virus use-
less. . . .D.M.: (1) A wife’s brothers and sisters
are the husband’s brothers- and sisters-in-law.
(2) Your nephews and nieces are your brother’s
or sister’s children J.W.W.: A fettler is
actually a maintenance man, or a person who
keeps things in working order (road fettler,
tool fettler, railway fettler, etc.) R.M.C.:
Both sulphate of ammonia and nitrate of soda
can be combined with farmyard manure for
use *on citrus trees, but it is not advisable to
apply either of these fertilisers when the fruit
is approaching maturity. The yearly dressing
should be divided into four parts and applied
in July, October, December and February,
while for early maturing varieties a combination
of the December and February dressings applied
late in December is the best J.M.0.: The
quotation is from Obermann by Matthew
Arnold T.W.: Lawson Glassop’s We Were
the Rats was reviewed in The Bulletin in
Nov. 18, 1944 A.8.W.: The Methuen
Treaty was a treaty of commerce between
Great Britain and Portugal, concluded by Paul
Methuen, the British Ambassador at Lisbon,
in 1703. It provided for the importation of
port wine at reduced rates, and led to the
popularising of the beverage in England
0.F.: Notice required is not less than seven
days together with an additional seven days
for each completed period of six months of
occupation.


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort malo
support for everyman’*
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
FIGHT ECZEMA
THREE WAYS
DOAN’S OINTMENT goes to work in
3 ways by relieving pain and itching,
protecting inflamed skin, and preventing
and combating infection. For these
reasons DOAN’S OINTMENT is an
excellent remedy for relieving pain and
fighting infection in minor burns, cuts,
sores, scalds, sunburn and chapping. If
you suffer from Eczema or other itching
skin complaints, scratching only makes
th« condition worse. It increases the
swelling, makes the itching return
more severely and can cause serious
skin disorders. Play safe, keep
DOAN’S OINTMENT
in your medicine chest at all times —used
successfully for over 40 years.
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So
ask first for Globitet
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
\ »
m
§
r
L
is wisdom’s way —
Control of a cold without delay.
Malignant croup needs a "first-aid” nigh.
An instant dose saves many-a-sigh.
The bottle on hand must be "the best’
The treatment we trust by time and
For children’s colds there’s "check” at command
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Core on hand.
ICSI '
TOMORROW'S OIL - TODAY!
/
<l7
m
m
jw IJi *
DETERGENTS/
To the finest Motor Oil ever introduced into Australia CALTEX now
adds . . .“DETERGENTS” . , . supplementing the unrivalled
protective quality of “TOMORROW’S OIL TODAY” with a new
characteristic that frees moving parts of carbon and varnish:
CLEANS YOUR ENGINE AS IT LUBRICATES
The “Detergents” now in CALTEX
“R.P.M.” Motor Oil soften, loosen and
reduce to minute particles the unwanted
impurities left in your engine by ordinary
oils. As you use your car or truck
GALTEX “R.P.M.” holds these particles
in fine suspension until the time comes
to drain your crankcase, then . . . OUT
THEY GO! Carbon deposits, varnish,
gums and other impurities that used to
slow up moving parts and made your
engine sluggish. Your engine is cleaner,
more virile, more responsive.
SEE THE PROOF YOURSELF-
Put CALTEX “R.P.M.” in your crank-'
case today. Run your car or truck a
thousand miles . . . then drain the oil.
CALTEX “R.P.M.” will drain discoloured
and dark, proving beyond doubt that it
is doing its job.
Here is the finest oil available. It pro-
tects ... it cleanses ... it makes your
engine more responsive and it . costs no
more than ordinary oils!
USE IT! You’ll be really pleased with the results.
CALTEX
m
o
08/336
®0t
v
Answers to Correspondents.
flame and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
EJ.C.: “Murray Moon” waxed and waned.
T.M.: There’s a gleam in if... .M.D.S.:
“He scarified her heart,” and then, we pre-
sume, harrowed it G.T.C.; Refuse to hire
boundary-riders who “made a pan of biscuits
while the coffee pot bubbled beside them”
T.R.: N.B.G G.T.U.: So “a member of
The Bulletin staff advised you to send it in.”
The office detective is now hunting him down.
George V.:
That’ll teach ’em to conserve fodder
E.D.G.: Brush it up N.H.T.: We don’t care
what the story is about so long as it is a story.
Miss M.: Verse must march. Yours marks
time M.K.0.: “At the end of thd circle
stood Enderby.” That would have interested
Euclid... .W.V.C.: “The Arch” needs rebuild-
ing A.V.S.: “The Diver” irretrievably lost
in deep seas of sentimentality P.A.: No
fare for “Confessions of a Taxi Driver”....
K.J.A.D.: Feeble.,. .A.C.: Pretty-pretty....
J.T.: Percy comes home R.D.R.: The idiom
of your Outback Australians has a strong
American flavor —“Meet my ’usband, preacher.”
H.M.B.: Introspective kangaroo dog too
intellectual for average tastes Annoyed:
Probably it was too awful to comment 0n....
8.0’C.: Soon tired of that child with the
angel’s voice... .F.A.M.: Yank-happy blonde
might suit a woman’s paper P.F.: Contrary
to your expectations, the story neither bored,
annoyed, nor enraged us, but you’ve wasted
good background on a tenth-rate yarn....
N.K.T.: Flimsy J.H.: Repentant criminal
should be hanged for repenting.... G.A.S.:
“He endeavored to describe the thrill.” So
did you C. 8.: If you’d care to sell that
old bark hut, ring Mr. Blair at The Bulle-
tin office P.M.J.: “Planes” doesn’t rhyme
with “names”... .E.H.: Indeed a brave little
bird of the spring P.S.T.: We don’t send
covering letters, and a rejection slip would
only point out the obvious....J.J.A.: Housing
sonnet jerry-built... .G.T.: The track from this
office to the G.P.O. is littered with bones,
skulls, dead sheep and the carcasses of
drought poems J.A.C.: Control your Muse.
G.C.G.: Too derivative... .H.A.: The
only thing to do with “My Hat’’ is to
eat it H. 8.: There is a certain innocent
charm both in the poem and in the letter in
which you address the editor of this paper as
“Dear Sir or Madam”... .M.J.: Scrappy....
8.R.: Pleasant in an indefinite sort of way....
Willy Wagtail: Willy Wagtail won’t C.L.:
Romping breezes and saucy sunbeams —oh,
cripes!... .M.C.8.: “Has the enclosed any
merit - ?” None in particular H.J.: Cheer up.
....Dan the Drummer: News that you’ve laid
down your pen is hardly hopeful when you’ve
picked up your typewriter to say so....Bel-
lerive: Ah, those were the days:—
A.C.: “There is nothing new under the
sun.” Yes, there is; your notion of what
makes a story M.C.: “They can’t express
themselves with fluentcy.” Quite... .L.I.M.:
Good; try again J.U.: Be careful of mush-
room literary agencies Tom B.: “The
Bomb” was a dud Murdoch McGlowne: —
Oh, what is it that calls to me
In the pipe’s wild skirling among the heather?
Could be the haggis howling for its breakfast
porridge.. . .N.M.: Stories are paid for on
acceptance. I. .B.G.: “She knew a keen anguish
as she watched the smoke of his cigarette spiral
upwards.” Teach her to get' into the queue
for her issue S.K.: “Seek rubber strips,
tickets, 23/6, five years preparing particularly
thin ” Such profundity is equalled only in
“Hansard” Gwillian: So the story brought
tears to your boyfriend’s eyes. Well, it says
much for his feeling for the English language.
R.T.O.: Don’t believe it; every successful
short-story writer has far more rejections than
acceptances.... Henry G.: “The Little ’Plane
crashed... .F.D.N.: t4 Dan.cing Heels wavered
to a sad end Big Joe: We refuse to believe
that anybody could harvest a 90-bushel
crop “south of Coonabarabran, in the light of
an August moon,” even if it was 3000 acres
of “Algerian, standing so austerian” V.G.:,
“Curfew” shall not ring tonight Kia-ora:
But where did you hear “the kiwi singing”.?.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.P.: Next time you feel impelled to draw,
mow the lawn or go fishing B.S.M.; Three
lifeless sketches and three moth-eaten jokes.
L.T.: The drunk who couldn’t find the key-
hole is a very old friend R.C.: Feeble even
for a first attempt T.H.M.: Not wanting
He-She gags attached to fashion-plate draw-
ings C.S.: Sorry example of misdirected
energy W.A.: The pattern . of the wall-
paper has some slight artistic interest R.G.;
If it was funny when it left you the humor
must have leaked out in transit L.H.W.:
Mildly comic idea badly mishandled A.H.:
All they did was to start an epidemic of yawn-
ing in the office N.F.: Sent the queer-
looking figure to the Australian Museum for
identification W.M.: Surely you can do
better than that H.D.: The . last time we
"heard that jest it was about a commercial
traveller and the time before about a swagman.
... .P.K.: Indian ink, pen, paper and ability to
draw are required. You’ve got only the first
three S.G.: A clumsy theft from a Sydney
paper, which pinched it from the “New
Yorker” M.R.: Of the seven sent none got
within a mile of publication....P.A.: Did you
draw that with a floormop?,
I cannot stand amidst this grief
And keep a silent mouth.
Their youth was sweet but all too brief.
Now stiffened by the drouth.
In years of the past
In big Bourke-street
Old Poverty Point
Was the actor’s retreat.
Villians and heroes of
The speaking stage
When stirring dramas
Were the topic and rage
And vaudeville stars
Of popular renown
Would meet at the Point
In Melbourne town.


g
0
ffi
I
r <- ■ r;.'
i
C.
B
M
mm
vs
w**kii
&
=**•
©ps
ss®
m
m
1
• we want Bricks and Mortar
Our house of dreams —huh ! It has
become a nightmare of waiting
an agony of muddling and make-
believe. If talk and controls built
houses, we’d all be living in mansions.
But bricks build houses —bricks and
timber and tiles.
We want a Government that will
be strong enough to stimulate action,
far-sighted enough to plan ahead.
enlightened enough to encourage
free enterprise.
The Liberal Party has a common-
sense approach to housing. It will
clear away red tape ; it will abolish
Sales Tax on materials ; make finance
and labor available; and concentrate
national effort on the immediate
alleviation of the housing shortage.
The Liberal Party means homes.'..
not promises.
The Road Back to Freedom is through
EB H 2
pm
mm
■ M
.■B.
R h
M
'SS^
bt
Authorised by The Federal Secretariat of THE LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA


Tony's Coach
By BRIAN JAMES
<t I ’LL take you,” said Tony. “Of
I course I’ll take you. And get you
I there, too, which is more than you’d
have the right to expect any of
them motors to do. That’s true, isn’t it?”
Tony Treloar, terribly cross-eyed and
fearfully whiskered, seemed to be scan-
ning the distant line of blue hills that
rose above the settlements on the river
flat and the low, dark, timbered ridges
beyond. But in reality he was giving us
and our doubtful mound of gear a close
scrutiny. Evidently Tony liked the look
of the gear—tent, dishes, picks, shovels,
rolls of blankets, sugarbags shapeless with
tucker and cooking utensils and all
manner of odds and ends. The dishes
were new —at least the top one had still
a sales-tag gummed on to its centre, and
' the tent and fly were shop-wrapped. If
Tony disapproved of such signs of raw-
ness he didn’t mention it.
Now he faced us and our gear, which
meant he was reflecting upon those blue
hills. “And you are not sure where you
want to go? Isn’t that it?”
One of us —Henny, I think—said we
had such of a kind of a notion
that we might try our luck, as
it were, in a manner of speaking,
out Tooyal way, and did Tony
know the place at all? Tony knew the
place all right. He grinned, and a big
gap full of yellow teeth opened alarm-
ingly in the whiskers. Yes, Tony knew
the place all right.
“And, what is more,” said Tony, “I
wouldn’t go to Tooyal—not if I was you,
I wouldn’t. I’m telling you straight.”
“Where would you—then—what would
you—you see we don’t know this part—
and no doubt you?”
“Oh, I could take you to Tooyal if
your minds are so set on it and you’re
stubborn about it. But she’s no good.
I’ll tell you that—all deep sinking and
worked out; and she never was much
good, anyhow. I know Tooyal. Not a
dozen claims on it ever was worth while.
Tooyal! And a rotten road to it!
Tooyal! ”
Tony inserted some dirty fingers into
a vest pocket and fished out a packet of
cigarettes and poked a smoke into the
whiskers. He seemed to know where the
opening was in all that scrub. How and
why he smoked cigarettes with such
obvious disabilities was a mystery.
He gave a long effortless indraw, and
then sent out two long straight streams
of smoke through his nostrils, just as
dragons are credited with doing. “Now,
look here—there’s Squander and Cap-
tain’s and Grace Darling; and Sailor’s
Gully and Widya and Kelly’s Flat; and
the Two-Mile and the Ten-Mile and
Gunyah ; and Sawpit and Clonmel and
Pall Mall and Wild Dog”
He fished out the cigarettes again.
Any one of them. But Clonmel would
be my pick.”
He seemed inclined to continue the
litany of gold that used to be, but he
didn’t. “Any one of them, especially
Clonmel,” he repeated. “Plenty of shal-
low ground”—which was a reference, no
doubt, to our picks and shovels. “Plenty
of water everywhere. Clonmel would be
my fancy. Twenty-two miles and a nice
bit of road mostly. That is to the Cross-
ing—with Brogan’s store and pub -not
above two miles beyond that. What do
you think?”
We thought—-perhaps— and that Tony
knew —and we didn’t know... And
deep down in us was no solid conviction
of making a fortune after a 11... And
it was just the homesickness, to be swirl-
ing a dish of dirt in a clear stream. And
a tent under the gum-trees. And the
smell of wood-smoke and of meat cook-
ing on the fire. And the sound, maybe,
of a soft wind, sifting through the she-
oaks at night... And Clonmel had a
nice name, anyway—you had to half-
close the eyes reflectively when you said
it and let the tongue linger over it in a
kind of caress. Clonmel! And there was
a Crossing there, too! It’s not much of
a place that hasn’t a Crossing. Yes, all
things considered, Clonmel was the sort
of place
“Right you are,” said Toijy, “I’ll be
round”—he fished out an enormous
watch from another waistcoat pocket (a
lower one which sagged down with the
weight of that watch), held it in front of
him and looked the other way—“l’ll be
round here with me Coach in—in an
hour.” He said Coach in capital letters.
T'HERE were four of us—Henny and
1 George, the Doctor and myself.
Henny had planned the expedition, saying
with monotony “We should go to one
of the western creeks ; there never was
much on the wrong side of the range.
There never was much gold on the coast.
Now the Fish River, or the Duckmaloi,
the Turon or the Grey Box”
And we always said “Yes.” It didn’t
matter very much. We knew that, and so
did Henny. And then George or the
Doctor would say “They did get gold all
round Saywell in the old days,” And I
would say “Look at Braidwood and Ara-
luen and Nelligen and Nerrigundah
and” And Henny supposed that was
right, too. Anyway, here we were out-
side Say well station, and waiting for Tony
Treloar and his Coach.
In two hours, or a trifle more, Tony
appeared with the coach. He could be
heard from a great distance —at least the
coach could. Then it came into sight
round the corner: driving straight out of
the past. In full career (six miles per
hour at least) Tony was a vision of the
dashing, reckless, coaching days. Tony
might have been seventy or so ; but he
wasn’t that on the driver’s seat. There
was a suggestion of gold escorts and
bushrangers and the rough but genuine
chivalry of the ’sixties dbout Tony &s he
swung into the station —whip and rib-
bands in hand, right foot on the brake
and his greying beard sweeping back to
his shoulders. There was a wonderful
illusion of speed when his beard swept
back like that. He drew into the gutter
and pulled up.
He said “That’s the old woman all
over! ”
At the implied domestic differences it
was only decent to make no comment.
“I’ve always and always said, if you
keep fowls they should be in a proper
yard.”
So that was the reason for the delay.
There were the marks and signs of recent
washing on the coach. But no washing,
nor the not-so-distant painting it had re-
ceived, could wipe out old age. Perhaps
the paint only accentuated what it sought
to hide—like overdone rouge on a
withered cheek. That coach looked older
than Tony; but it looked like Tony,
too, in its creaking strength and vigor,
its contempt for “these days” and its
defiance of the inevitable future.
Tony got down full of pride and bitter-
ness. “Ask any of them and they’ll tell
you! ”
Hie “them,” it subsequently transpire.d,
were mostly dead, but Tony referred
fo “them” as really living. “Nearly
fifty years I drove the coach from here
to Braidwood. And Braidwood to
Araluen. And from here to Brady’s Mis-
take. And Cooma, too Look at
that! ”
A huge blue service-car was gathering
speed along the Coast road —packed with
passengers below and luggage on top.
Tony regarded the whole outfit as an in-
sult. “Well,” he said as the big car dis-
appeared round the bend, and addressing
us as the small remnant of humanity still
worth while, “well, I say they can have
them! ”
Tony’s coach was a two-horse affair,
and like a red box —with the sides
knocked out —on wheels. On the top
was a thin iron railing, six inches in
height, to hold luggage. Canvas blinds,
rolled up and held in broad straps, were
there against wet weather. There were
yellow wheels, light and spidery-looking
wheels, and these had the spokes lined,
not very expertly, with red. Evidently
the color scheme and the painting were
Tony’s own. The high back wheels had
a distinct tendency to widen apart at the
top, and the smaller front wheels a
similar tendency to come together. That
Was all a matter of tte axles.
At the pole were two well-cqred-for
horses—obviously not over young—a
brown mare with a nuggety stern and a
taller bay gelding much leaner in his
lines. They were good horses, with a
suggestion of disillusioned efficiency
about them. Perhaps they were brooding
a little over motor-cars, too. On the
side, also not over-well executed, was the
admission that the vehicle belonged to A.
Treloar, Saywell, and that he was licensed
to carry a number of passengers. The
figure was either a three or an eight—
probably an eight.
The gear was stacked and roped on
top. Tony insisted that it go there,
though it would have gone inside well
enough ; but Tony had a fine regard for
passengers’ legs. He took two of us —
Henny and me —on the “box” seat and
put George and the Doctor inside. With
the shaking and groaning of the coach
over all these arrangements the horses
gave up their gloomy reflections and came
back to a slight interest in current affairs.
Tony surveyed all for the “All set!”—
it was a terrible lesson in angles of
vision. Then a very sharp-faced
youngster of seven, bare-legged and ac-
companied by a lively fox-terrier,
appeared on the run. He took in the
coach and us and the whole show in a
quick amused glance with some little
contempt. At least he heaved in one
nostril with a screwy sort of effort.
“Gran says when are you coming back?”
Tony explained with dignity “Now,
that’s the old woman all over.” He didn’t
address the youngster. “I told her I was
Ijaking passengers to Clonmel. Now,
didn’t I? I told her that I was stopping
with Brogan tonight. Now, didn’t I?
And that I would be bade some time to-
morrow —in the afternoon to be precise.
Now, didn’t I?”
A little girl in a very short dress" and
with knobby knees also appeared on the
run. She had a black garment under one
arm. “Gran says don’t y’ want yer
coat?”
Tony reached far down and secured
’the coat. “You are a good girl, Lily.”
Lily’s little hard face lit up in a freckly
smile.
“Will y’ be able to get any cherries
out Clonmel way, Grandfather?”-
“I’ll see, Lily. I might if they’re not
all gone,”
Tony sat on the coat —in any case, he
had on his waistcoat. Tony didn’t look
as if he ever wore anything over that.
The boy, absentmindedly pinching the
ear of the foxie, and the girl, shading her
eyes with her hand and scratching one
bare foot with the big toe of the other,
watched the coach turn for the main road
and the turnoff to Clonmel. Some
awakening conscience caused the boy to
call out “Hooroo, Grandfather!” And
Tony acknowledged this by waving his
whip; “A smart shaver, that,” he told
us. “Too smart.”
AFTER the turnoff the road was a
long level stretch through a ti-tree
scrub, a low gloomy cutting it looked,
with the thin dark stems of the ti-tree
as close,together as they could possibly
be, except for a break here and there, and
then it was stiff reedy grass—forlorn,
waste country.
But at last the ground rose and the ti-
trees were over. There was a grassy
clearing with a few big ironbarks at the
top end of it, and an old grey two-rail
fence by the road. The posts all leaned
a bit downhill, out of alignment, and
they looked like the old buffers’ races they
used to have at picnics years ago. Then
came spotted-gums—neat, clean trees,
happy with the sunlight on their mottled
trunks. Tony lit another cigarette from
the last and visibly threw oft' the years,
and his ugliness grew less ; or else we
were getting used to it. We felt that we
had always known Tony and that he had
been a big part of our lives.
But the great grievance and the grand
complaint were still with him. There
was no escaping thdm, even on this quiet
road. Above, somewhere, and through
the trees, came a blatant honk of a car,
and a moment later a big dark-red sedan
rounded the bend and tore past, spurting
the gravel from its wheels and leaving a
line of dust that rose and broadened
slowly.
Tony spat over the wheel. “That’s
McKechnie!” He said it in severe con-
demnation.
“Who?”
“McKechnie. Owns a big place, he
does, on this side of Clonmel,”
The owning of the big place was, it
seemed, an extenuating circumstance.
“Very old family—the McKechnies. I
knew this one’s grandfather. Could he
ride a horse! There was nqver a Mc-
Kechnie that couldn’t do that. And there
were other things the McKechnies could
do pretty well —and often.” A vague
movement went through all Tony’s
whiskers that indicated, no doubt, aTemi-
niscent smile, a memory maybe of such
parts of his own youth as had been
profitably misspent.
The mood passed. “But the Mc-
Kechnies are like the rest of them—cars,
motor-cars! And I put it to you, what
good have them cars ever done?”
Henny agreed that all the benefit from
cars was surely negligible. Henny always
liked to be decent and obliging.
“They are just ruining this country,”
said Tony.
We didn’t see fit to mention that we
had failed to get a car to, take us any-
where, and that was why we were with
Tony.
“I drove these roads for years and
years, and never a ear on them —for there
weren’t any. Not thought, of at all then.
Horses were good enough—and they still
are,”
At the top of the long slope Tony
stopped. There was a broad level bench
and the road swung to the left, and then
went up more steeply. Away to *he
right was the high horizon of the ocean
which seemed to be leaning against the
land. In oetween was anoihei ocean —the
tree tops, steely grey and brown, and
green, too, occasionally—-with all its
waves fixed and silent like the waves in
a picture. Saywell was a grey blur, and
its broad river showed in just one narrow
gleam through the trees. Tony sniffed
and said “The sea”—as though he
could actually smell it through all that
distance.
A jinker, with a noble ironbark log,
tons and tons in that one log, thundered
down the hill. It swung round the bend,
and Dick and Nellie, heaving still from
the long slope, hardly pricked their ears.
There were two scrawny and leathery
young fellows in the cab. They greeted
Tony with easy familiarity as they
careered past. “Hullo, Tony, you old
bastard! ”
Tony saluted. “Old Tom Williams,”
he said to us. “Used to have a great
team of bullocks. That’s his youngest
boy in that jinker now. The bullocks
used to bring in the logs. Slow if you
like, but sure.”
THERE were about five miles of climb-
ing after that, fairly steep, and tall
trees most of the way, and at one spot
where the road dipped into a little hol-
low there was a tiny clear stream across
the road. The horses drank, not over-
much, and communicated something to
each other, as horses do, by blowing deli-
cately into each other’s nostrils.
There were tree ferns upstream, tall
and wondrously graceful in their fronds.
We got down to stretch our legs and look
round.
“A lovely spot! ” said the Doctor.
Tony nodded. Perhaps the praise was
superfluous. Henny peered into the
stream closely, and Tony said, “Not here.
All this country has been tried, of course,
hundreds of times.”
The top came quite suddenly, after a
steep pinch. Dick and Nellie seemed to
Have had enough; they were heaving
and sweating in good earnest now. We
helped Tony take them out, and give
them a rubdown.
There was a. wooden trough nearly
filled by the water that came in one end
through a rusty pipe and slopped out the
other. The horses considered it good
water and drank deeply. Then they
rolled on a pajch of sand and sampled
their nosebags.
We made tea and smokeisj and listened
to Tony. The top was good soil —
volcanic —and would grow anything you
{Continued on page 33.)
The Devil and the Angel (6)
The man was called Methuselah. I
remember ,
I kepi a memo folded in my garment;
Having a slight forgetfulness to combat
I arm myself against it.
Thus prepared
I journeyed to his dwelling; now through
Heaven,
Cleaving the clouds with mission and
importance,
And now on foot, joyful by turns or
dreaming;
And dreiiming thus I chanced upon the
Devil.
"Friend,” I said (we observe these small
refinements'),
"Being met upon a singleness of purpose
We might perhaps continue on together.”
"Agreed,” he said; "but look, the time
is early,
The sun not far advanced beyond the
valley;
I have two coins upon me and the path
here
Is smooth enough — we’ll toss a coin
together.”
I argued back and forth and then remem-
bered
As well to offer, to accept is courteous.
We tossed a round. The Devil won. Far
off, Methuselah,
Somewhat surprised, beyond his span of
living.
Begat a son called Lamech. We tossed
again,
I won. The chance was even. Mean-
while Methuselah
Turned two, three, then four hundred.
Many sons
Rejoiced his age. "Time goes,” I cried.
The Devil
In silence tossed again. Methuselah
Begat near twenty daughters. "Time,”
I said to the Devil;
“Time, please,” I said. He pocketed the
pennies.
Methuselah turned to greet us from his
deathbed.
And round him half a hundred sons and
daughters
Mourned and lamented his departing
spirit.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


UNBLED ADDITIONS
WHY BRITAIN MUST FEED GERMANS.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article.)
The British public was shocked to learn
that the net estimated cost of the British
control of north-western Germany in the
next 12 months is £80,000,000. Actual
expenditure will be closer to £130,000,000,
but German exports are expected to bring
in £50,000,000. During the Budget de-
bate Mr. Eden described the figure as
“staggering,” and on present prospects
there need be little hope of a speedy dis-
appearance of this strange liability of the
victor for the vanquished.
It will cost at least £100,000,000 —
much of it ip precious dollars—to feed
the British zone of Germany for a year,
and these millions will not be recouped,
any more than the military costs of occu-
pation, until there is a considerable Ger-
man national income and export capacity
to draw upon.
Food must be imported for the
21,500,000 Germans under British con-
trol because they will starve without it,
and because it can never be British policy
to allow starvation and sickness to spread
unchecked in any territory for which
responsibility has been accepted. If the
moral obligation were not clear enough,
calculation would point the same way.
It is a British interest that every available
worker among these 21,500,000 Germans
should be assisted, encpuraged, and even
compelled to make the largest possible
contribution to output and trade.
The products of the mines and steel-
works in the Ruhr and other industrial
areas under British control are indispens-
able not only to German reconstruction
but to the revival of Western Europe.
Without them it is impossible either to
achieve the reorganisation, equipment
and maintenance of the light industries
which in future will have to earn the bulk
of Germany’s foreign currency, or to
provide the machinery and transport
which the production and distribution of
more gram, meat and vegetables will
demand.
To regard such a policy as permitting
the German people to evade their just
punishment is to be blind to plain facts.
Even if the Allied plan for German in-
dustry were fulfilled to the letter and re-
covery went faster than it did after 1918,
the German standard of living and
national income in 1949 would at the
most be equal to that of 1932, the year of
depression in which Hitler gained
13,000,000 votes in the Presidential
plebiscite.
Before the war industry and trade ac-
counted for more than three-quarters of
Germany’s national income; under pre-
sent plans the most valuable part of her
industrial capacity, already damaged by
war, is to be reduced by half. It is im-
possible to regard as over-generous plans
which at best will commit the German
people to a normal condition of economic
depression.
Nor is it reasonable to take it for
granted that even these plans will be ful-
filled. Pending full agreement among the
Allies, no one can yet assume, as the plans
do, that Germany will become an eco-
nomic unit with free movement between
zones and common use of ports ; that her
population will not exceed some
66,000,000; and that world markets will
be open to her reorganised export trade.
In the face of these facts it would be
recklessly optimistic to count on the Ger-
mans paying their way three years hence,
which is only the minimum requirement
of a realistic policy.
As the Germans themselves found
throughout Europe, there are strict limits
to the work and co-operation which can
be exacted from a sullen and hopeless
—London "Daily Mirror.”
"Said MY washing was dirty!”
population, and the experience o‘f hunger
and unemployment now would certainly
not assure a democratic or peaceable
Germany 20 years hence. Moreover, it is
not the intention —certainly not of British
policy —to devote permanently to direct
control in administration and industry the
energy now being expended by Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s soldiers and
civilians.
“INCOMPATIBLE WITH DEMOCRACY.”
(One of the most striking things about the surge of criticism of Russia in America
is the strong expression given to it in Leftish newspapers. Instance the following
item from a N.Y. “Post " article by the leading U.S. woman writer on foreign affairs,
Dorothy Thompson.)
Just why the Soviets should have been
bribed by prodigious gains of territory
and power to enter a war [against Japan]
in which the Allies “sought no territorial
aggrandisements,” and when it was
already almost over, remains an open
question. The Soviet Union alone has
collected territory and an extended sphere
of influence as a result of every interna-
tional agreement she has made since 1939.
In return for her pact of benevolent
neutrality with Hitler Russia received
part of the Baltic States and took all of
them, part of Finland and part of
Poland. When attacked by Germany she
insisted that the Atlantic Charter prohibit-
ing territorial gains dated from 1941 in-
stead of 1939, and thus her gains under
the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, were con-
firmed by the Allies. As “compensation”
Poland was then handed, this time with-
out the agreement of either the U.S.A.
or Britain, approximately one-fourth of
Germany—an act which amounted to the
first partition of Europe, and will prove
fateful.
Under whatever device of annexation
or of “friendly Governments” Russia has
thus picked up most of Hitler’s conquests
in eastern Europe, and perhaps eventually
will inherit the bulk of Japan’s conquests
on the Asiatic mainland. In the mean-
time, while successfully maintaining that
in these areas other Allies may not inter-
fere, in every other part of the world —
western Europe, the Mediterranean, the
Middle East and the South Pacific Island
countries —Russia demands to be heard.
Another angle, however, must engage
Americans. Russian expansionism, direct
or indirect, involves new definitions of
democracy and effects radical changes in
{fi e systems under which people live, or
fi o p e( j to five. Hundreds of thousands of
a„ d tens of thousands
o£ Ll 2°davs fear to return home or are
esca P m 8 from their countries. In Eastern
Speaking at Liverpool, Mr.
Charles W. Ferguson, Cultural
Relations Officer to the American
Embassy in London, said: “The
Anglo-American loan is referred to
in official parlance as ‘line of credit.’
What you could get, however, if you
let the world know the facts about
yourselves would be a credit for
what you are and what you are
doing, and it would make a line of
credit worth millions in the long
run.” The time had come, he said,
when Britain should tell its story
to the world. Reticence and reserve
were to be respected, yet there was
a form of unfairness in covering up
the truth, or even a substantial
measure of thh truth. —London
“Times” report.
Europe millions, native to towns and vil-
lages for centuries, are forcibly uprooted.
All this is incompatible with Western
concepts of democracy, and defence of
these policies forces our own people to re-
define what they mean by “democracy.”
Probably Lincoln’s Gettysburg formula-
tion—“government of, by, and for the
people”—has hitherto been the simplest
and truest description. But the “new”
and, apparently, to some of our liberals,
superior democracies” are, at best, Gov-
ernments “for” the people—neither “of”
nor “by.”
Now, a nation cannot for ever divorce
foreign and domestic policies or define
democracy one way abroad and another
at home. If over half the globe we accept
as democracy despotic leadership, pro-
vided it rests upon indoctrinated masses,
brutal purging of all dissident minorities
and reducing the concept of electiohs con-
taining the element of free choice to
plebiscites which are nothing but the duty
to confirm, we shall soon be put to it to
explain why what we support for others
is not good for ourselves.
Ex-G.Is. FOR AUSTRALIA.
{Robert C. Ruark, in N.Y. “World-Telegram.”)
Australia seems due to swell its popu-
lation soon —with ex-G.ls. And Aus-
tralia, while making no loud public bids
for American immigration, is still very
pleased at the prospect, and is quietly
assisting.
An Australian official in the U.S. says
#
that 20,000 American ex-soldiers have
applied for entry into Australia. This
figure is not provable with the Australian
Bureau of Information, which can show
only 60 or so passport applications
monthly.
But the figure, while probably too high,
is not necessarily wrong, because recently,
in order to smooth the path of the emi-
grating American, Australia has em-
powered all British consulates to accept
visa applications. And the Information
Bureau admits being flooded with letters
and calls seeking the particulars of per-
manent residence in Australia.
Australia has * announced that the
American who wishes to return will be
given an equal break with the returned
Digger in regards' to education, job
priorities and the other general privileges
granted under the U.S. G.I. Bill of
Rights.
And the business of arranging entry,
once snarled hopelessly in red tape, now
has been pared to bare essentials. An
American ex-serviceman need only show
an honorable discharge, a test to reason-
able soundness of mind and body, be of
European ancestry and prove that he will
not become a public charge on arrival.
This is done simply by showing $6OO in
cash or by having a reputable Australian
vouch for him.
The Aussies have their own housing
shortages and lack of space in educa-
tional institutions for returned service-
men ; rationing still exists, and will exist
for a year or more ; the country has been
hamstrung by strikes, and taxes are much
higher than in America. But it still rep-
resents! a land of ease and plenty, cheap
living and serenity to many a G.I, who
is browned off by the turmoil and the sky-
rocketing living scale of his own country.
The Yank abroad loved Australia and
New Zealand. They were the only two
places he felt at home. Our men got off
the transport expecting to find a wilder-
ness, inhabited only by sheep, kangaroos
and the people who chased them, and
discovered to their surprise a charming
land full of climate, steaks, milkshakes,
scenery, modern cities and handsome,
eager-to-be-friendly people—with accent
on the distaff side. Our guys loved it. In
a very short time each man was almost
literally adopted into an Australian
family.
By the time he began to say “bloke”
instead of “guy” and “tram” replaced
“streetcar” in his vocabulary he had de-
cided that his dollars, transmuted into the
debased Australian pound, went a long
way, even under war-time inflation. His
quick Yankee eye spotted business oppor-
tunities long neglected, and he speedily
fell in love with the tranquil life around
him.
Australia became the leave mecca of
the "Pacific, and many a man swore he
would ask for discharge there. Mass dis-
charges were prevented by the fact that
when war ended the majority of Yanks
had passed on to other terrains.
Today most men who served there get
a strange, dreamy look in their eyes when
the continent’s name is mentioned —a cir-
cumstance which sits poorly with some
wives and sweethearts now that Willie is
back from the wars. As transportation
becomes more and more simplified that
dreamy look in many gases is going to
resolve itself into a boat trip.
This is okay by Australia, whose census
people are shooting at a future white
population of 20 million as bulwark.
RELUCTANT TO PARADISE.
(From Washington "Post")
The forcible return of 6000 Russian
prisoners-of-war from the United States
to Russia gave the Provost Marshal Gen-
eral, Brig.-Gen. Blackshear M. Bryan,
“the toughest job in a long Army career.”
Scores attempted suicide before leaving
the United States. Many succeeded. In
one shipment of 150 men, three died by
their own hand at the New York port
of embarkation.
Nineteen ropes looped into hangmen’s
nooses were found in one barracks.
The men were Russians captured by
American troops while serving in the Ger-
man Army. Some were White Russians,
others were Red Army deserters and
some were prisoners taken by the Ger-
mans. Many were from “fringe” States
of the U.S.S.R. Nearly all were anti-
communists.
They were returned to Russia under
an agreement reached at Yalta. It also
provided for repatriation of Americans
captured or liberated by Russian troops.
Several American officers were wounded
in the task of shipping the Russians home.
Tear gas was often used. In one instance
at New York the Russians barricaded
themselves in their compound and fought
with knives from mess kits and clubs im-
provised from furniture.
The last of the Russians were shipped
out at Fort Meade, Md., where they had
been “farmed out” as workers in farms
To maintain health and strength a
human being requires 20 pounds of fat
per year. In the United States we con-
sume 44 pounds—more than twice what
we need, while in Western Europe our
Allies and friends Have eight to ten
pounds—less than half the minimum
requirement. If we reduced our fat con-
sumption to 20 pounds per year per
person, or just the amount of our need,
we would have left for export enough
to make good the deficit now existing
in the fat ration of 300,000,000 people.
When I see food swimming in fat and
see it deep in the pans and skillets of
American homes, I remember seeing this
life-protecting food doled out at three
drops per child —one pound divided
among 500 or 600 children. —Howard E.
Kershner, vice-chairman of the Save the
Children Federation, in N.Y. "Times”
supplement.
and paper mills ; they were reported by
Lieut.-Col. John P. Byrnes, executive
officer, “exceptionally willing and able
workers.”


The Corns, in Canada.
(From a report by a N.Y. “Daily Mirror staff
writer in Ottawa.)
Communism has been shown up in
Canady with its gloves off. Leaders do
not like what they see.
A Government official on whom Prime
Minister King leaned heavily during the
war —and still does —said: % “Perhaps we
were wrong in assuming that international
honor had been restored when Hitler and
Hirohito were beaten. We’ve been caught
napping. But, believe me, we’re not
asleep now. Your own country haa
better learn a lesson from our experience
and get busy. We’ll do our best to clean
up here. But from what we know your
situation is far worse.”
A member of a foreign embassy who
was in the van advocating all possible aid
to Russia during the war years has
stated: “These Canadians have been
stung hard. And so have I. They’re
afraid to admit the extent of Red infiltra-
tion even to themselves. They’re fighting
mad because they feel Russia took them
for third-rate suckers.”
The Canadian Government found it-
self brought up sharply by the open con-
fessions of eminent educators that they
gave vital war secrets to Russia because
they had “a higher loyalty than that to
Canada,” to use Mackenzie King’s words.
A member of the Opposition, com-
menting on this development after Prime
Minister King’s speech, said: “This is
intellectual treason. .It is far more
dangerous than a man joining the Com-
munists because he has a grievance just
or unjust—against an employer. These
men have betrayed their nationalism, not
stopping to think that Russia is the most
intensely nationalistic nation in the world.
There are thousands of people like this.
They’ll betray us for a dreamy ideal far
more quickly than would a man who is
hungry.”
When U.S. Would Fight.
(From an article by the N.Y. “Times” military
commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
It must be made amply clear to Russia
and to the world that the basic strategic
reason for which the United States fought
the last war was to prevent the domina-
tion of all of Western Europe by any one
Power (Germany) and to prevent the
domination of all of Eastern Asia by any
one Power (Japan).
Unless the United States were willing
to assume a very greatly reduced role
in the world —economically, politically,
psychologically and morally, and prob-
ably not even then—the domination of
all of the sea coasts of Eastern Asia and
Western Europe by any one Power or oy
two allied Powers would surely set the
stage for a hemispheric war.
Prevention of such domination is to the
vital interest of the United States. Such
a policy is within its military capacity, for
its sea-air-amphibious power, backed by
large and mobile land forces, could exert
a dominant influence well inland from the
Peiping-Tientsin area southward in China
and from Narvik to Gibraltar, and even
into the Mediterranean.
The United States must make it plain
that it would view with the sharpest con-
cern the Communisation of Germany or
France, or the extension by force of Rus-
sian influence into North China or
Western Europe.
But a realistic foreign military policy
implies more than this. It means stopping
the issuance of threats unless prepared
to follow them up.
Iran’s Oil Story,
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by
Peter Edson .)
The story of international rivalry for
Iranian oil goes back to 1901, when
William K. D’Arcy, an gold-
miner, got the first concession from the
Shah of Persia. The first gusher was
brought in in 1907, and in that year
Tsarist Russia and Great Britain signed
a treaty which divided Persia in two
spheres of influence. The Tsar’s Cos-
sacks took over in the north and the
British in the south.
In 1916 A. M. Khostaria, a Russian, got
an oil concession in Persia’s five northern
provinces. But when the Bolshevik revo-
lution broke he sold out to the Anglo
Persian Oil Co. Today this company*is
known as Anglo-Iranian. It is owned
56 per cent, by the British Government,
26 per cent, by the Burma Oil Co., a sub-
sidiary of Royal Dutch Shell, and the
rest by individuals.
In 1921 Persia and Soviet Russia made
a new treaty in which oil rights became
a bit involved. Russia renounced all the
Khostaria rights, but a string was tied on
in the form of a provision that Persia
could not grant these rights to any other
foreign interest without consent of the
Soviet,
The Persians didn’t read it that way,
however, and they offered a 55-year con-
cession to develop oil in the five northern
provinces to Standard Oil of New Jersey.
Standard took an option, but after look-
ing over the field and seeing how im-
possible it was to get the oil down to the
Persian Gulf let the option drop.
In 1932 the Iranian Government tried
to force Anglo-Iranian to give up its con-
cession, but this was largely a threat to
get a better deal. The original D’Arcy
concession cost only $40,000 plus 16 per
cent, of the net profits as royalties.
In the lease renegotiated in 1934 Anglo-
Iranian’s concession was whittled down
to a strip 150 miles wide along the
Persian Gulf and Iran’s south-western
frontier with Irak. This 64,000,000 acres
is one of the world’s richest fields.
Royalties to the Iranian Government dur-
ing the war were over $16,000,000 a year.
With Anglo-Iranian territory cut down,
Iran made several attempts between 1936
and 1944 to give northern concessions but
they all fell through.
Now all of northern and north-eastern
Iran is freed of concessions. Any threat
which such concessions may have offered
to Soviet domination of the area has been
removed. Whatever oil there may be in
the northern provinces is of no good to
anyone except the Soviet, which could
transport it to southern Russian markets
over the Caspian Sea.
British Socialism.
(As seen by Edgar Ansel Mowrer, in N.Y.
a “Post”)
The British experiment in Socialism
may well be making decisive history. This
is not appreciated in the United States.
In the United States there is a silly habit
—London “Daily Mail.”
“I only want a loan !”
(English comment on some of the American reactions in the course of
putting through the loan to Britain.)
ofunderestimating the taportanee of any-
bSs
“ "
j n Britain itse lf y° u come to rea l ise
that controls are being deliberately main-
tained as part of a sensational experiment
in controlled economy. Even if Britain
were ro lling in wealth, the present Gcv-
ernment would not relax complete con-
troi 0 f foreign trade, prices, allocation of
raw materials, limitation of profits, elimi-
nation of inefficient farmers, etc. Through
these SocialisMaws, the grip on Britain’s
economic life is so complete that minor
nationalisation of coal, mills, transporta-
tion and the Bank of England is a trifle,
The pre-war Netherlands had national-
ised heavily, yet remained a flourishing
capitalist, almost oligarchic, country. The
British Socialists hope to demonstrate that
you can manage economy and eliminate
what they call economic exploitation, yet
leave a broad field to private initiative.
All this and more has been ti icd—with
results variously appraised in tne Soviet
Union, but at the price of the sacrifice or
the fundamental values whereon Western
civilisation is founded, namely, civil liber-
ties and respect for the individual.
The British Socialist experiment wi
in the opinion of its presem planners
be kept strictly within the limits o ci
liberties. Business and Tory groups pr -
test loudly that freedom ot tra e
fundamental. Certainly freedom o
doesn’t exist, in Bntam and won
long time to come. The Socialists mean
something else. ,
This writer, in the course
gation, was able to discover only one in-
fringement of basic liberties. This is the
prolongation of the war-time Essential
Works Order, whereby a miner or mem-
ber of the building trades is forbidden to
leave his present occupation for a new
job. The reason is Britain desperately
needs coal and houses. Volunteers for
coalmines are rare at any wage, and
not enough builders are available. There-
fore, the war measure was prolonged.
But at least two members of the British
Cabinet hastened to explain to me that
this is a temporary measure, that British
Socialism will keep civil liberties.
British leaders admit candidly that to
remain in power they must accomplish
certain things within the next four or five
years. First, they must provide abund-
ance and a higher living standard;
second, they must restore Britain’s econo-
mic solvency in the world ; third, they
must eliminate imperialism yet preserve
Britain’s power and prestige. That is
why Foreign Secretary Bevin seems so
ferocious in resisting Soviet encroach-
ment. These are mighty tasks.
Seen from most non-Soviet countries
of Europe and Asia, the British experi-
ment is the most exciting adventure now
occurring. A hankering for planned
economy now prevails everywhere. No
European and few Asiatic countries will
escape the attempt.
Coupling the innovation with the
terrorism that accompanies the Russian
experiment, some peoples still hesitate.
But should a combination of social secu-
rity and personal freedom succeed in
England without the horrors of secret
police and brutalisation, then Britain,
rather than the United States or Russia,
will again become the world leader.
U.S. Lagged Aloft.
(From an article in the “American” by U.S.
Senator Thomas, chairman of the Senate
Military Affairs Committee. It should be noted
that he is comparing only American and Ger-
man ’planes and not British .)
For years our [U.S.] Air Forces have
given the American public a false sense
of security by untruthful boasting. Be-
fore the war we were told that American
air power was best. It wasn’t. During
the war we were told that it was both
best and biggest. It wasn’t best; it was
just biggest; it was muscle, not mind. In
the next war —God forbid! —boasting
won’t count, and there will be no time to
build mere muscle into victory, as we
did this time.
After VE Day Allied civilian scien-
tists and engineers visited Germany and
inspected the laboratories, experimental
stations and factories which served the
Luftwaffe. Their findings show not only
the superiority of new German weapons
but the details of Germany’s long-range
research and development, a programme
marked by vision and eagerness to try
new ideas. By contrast, the findings re-
veal our [U.S.] Air Forces’ appalling lack
of vision and stubborn allergy to new
ideas, which were concealed from the
public.
The Germans were first in combat with
pressurised cabins, essential to high-
altitude flight; with pilot-ejection, a
mechanical bail-out vital to high speeds
and altitudes ; with special high-altitude
parachutes; with unified engine control,
needed by fighter pilots ; with ’plane-to-
’plane rockets ; with a true aircraft gun,
a cannon ten times as destructive as our
comparable cannon. We produced just
one important “first” in conventional de-
velopments—the G-suit, which prevents
pilots from blacking out in dives and
other manoeuvres of high-speed combat.
The real shock comes when we view
the Germans’ unconventional develop-
ments, their really new ideas and
weapons. They had most of them in
combat. We had a few in partial develop-
ment, none in combat. While we were
being told what our new weapons were
going to do, the new German weapons
were doing it,
U.S. Air Forces even before the war
rejected the very idea which gave the
Germans the fastest aircraft. This was
the Messerschmitt 262 jet-propelled
fighter, which first appeared in combat in
the summer of 1944. Making- 525 miles
per hour, it was much faster than our
Mustangs, Thunderbolts and Lightnings.
At sea-level it was more than 150 m.p.h.
faster. Except at very high altitudes, it
slashed through our bomber formations
at speeds 50 to 100 m.p.h. faster than
our defending fighters. ‘ They couldn’t
catch it or escape it in straightaway flight
at any altitude.
Another German jet ’plane, the Hein-
kel 162 Volksjaeger (People’s Fighter),
had about the same performance. Still
another, in development, was the Trieb-
flugel Flugzeug (powerwing aircraft),
which had three wings radiating from
the fuselage like the fins on a bomb.
Each wing-tip carried a jet engine.
Launched vertically and shot to high alti-
tude by rockets, its three jets would make
it extremely fast in combat.
The Germans had jet bombers, too.
The Arado 234 was made in two models,
with speeds of 470 and 546 m.p.h. The
Junkers 287, in flight test when the war
ended, had more than twice the power
of our B-29 Superfortress, could carry as
many bombs to London as a B-17 could
carry to Berlin, and made 537 m.p.h.
There was to be a Junkers flying wing,
with four jet engines and a speed of 620
m.p.h.
Even their jet bombers were faster
than our fighters, making ipterception
difficult and pursdit impossible. Our tac-
tical commanders never understood why
German jets, fighters and bombers, didn’t
raid southern England. They had the
range, and would have found hundreds
of airfields crammed with our ’planes.
With their great speed they would have
suffered little from anti-aircraft fire. Our
fighters couldn’t have coped with them.
Such raids would have been utterly deva-
stating.
German rocket fighters, in combat
during the last six months of the war,
were even faster than the jets. One
model of the Messerschmitt 163 made
550, another 590 m.p.h.
The Bachem Natter (Viper), in develop-
ment, was launched vertically to get up-
stairs fast and attack bombers with
rockets, and by ramming after its pilot
was ejected. Though test-flown, its
maximum speed was still estimated* but
at more than 600 m.p.h.
Rate of climb, important in intercepting
enemy bombers, is the rocket-’plane’s
forte. The Me 163 reached 30,000 feet
in about 2\ minutes. Another rocket
fighter, the Junkers 263, reached 49,000
feet in three minutes. It took longer for
our best fighters to reach 1000 feet. The
Natter’s advantage might have proved
The military alliance between the
United States and Great Britain exists.
It has been an established fact since
Dewey witnessed its potency in Manila
Bay. We [t/.S.] joined World War I
after curious gerrymandering because of
it. In World War II we convoyed ships
while we were neutral; we occupied Ice-
land before we went to war; we jointly
issued the Atlantic Charter; we lend-
leased and exchanged bases for ships; we
organised the combined Chiefs of Staff
and SHAEF —all because of a military
alliance between the United States and
Great Britain which exists in petto if
not in law. Of course, there is no treaty
of alliance just as there are no treaties
concerning the doings at Tehran and
Yalta. The alliance between the United
States and Great Britain, although un-
spoken, unplanned and unaccepted, con-
tinues because in every crisis and emer-
gency it asserts itself so naturally that
even some Irish-Americans who hate
England per se speak the language of the
alliance without realising what they are
saying. It is a curiosity in human his-
tory. —George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”
still greater; its initial rate of climb was
estimated at 37,000 feet per minute.
The V-l, or “buzz bomb,” was really
a pilotless jet ’plane carrying a ton of
high explosive in its nose. It had a very
simple jet engine. Everyone but the Ger-
mans knew that a jet engine wouldn’t
work on a ’plane, and could have told
them why. But they put one on a bomber
and boosted its speed from 250 to
{Continued on page 32.)


Pelman Note to Members and Ex-Members of the Services
No. 2 : Here and There
W E cannot be in two places at once.
If we are in a wet bivouac in the
uplands listening to the sough of the wind
through' tire trees we cannot lie snug abed in
the lowlands listening to the patter of the rain
upon the roof. Nor can we be thirsty in the
desert or sweat in the jungle and simultaneously
enjoy iced bottled beer in Bondi or St. Kilda.
Bombers are not flown in the shops in which
they are made, and neither man nor woman
can wear a uniform, be it navy or air-force
blue, khaki, green, nurses’ grey or the “proud
rags” of the prisoner-of-war, and at the same
time get about in a sports suit of his or her
own choosing.
And experience varies with place and cir-
cumstances. That applies to those who stay as
well as to those who go. Each, individually,
enlarges his experience according to the nature
of what he is doing. We may, in all honesty,
speak of the vacant chair and the reserved
position, but nature abhors a vacuum, and
growth sooner or later fills up open spaces. In
one direction or another change goes on as
long as life lasts.
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION
QN his return the serviceman feels the impact
of three significant changes; one in himself,
one in the activities and interests of his rela-
tives and friends and one in the conditions of
work. He cannot alter much the second and
the third. After the first excitement of his
return his friends resume the way of life which
has become habitual to them, whilst the condi-
tions of work are rarely subject to his control.
Thus the discharged man’s eyes, his ears, his
perceptive faculties in their entirety, his whole
mind should be turned outwards so that he can
discover the changes in others and in condi-
tions generally, find their implications and
adjust himself to them. The time and effort
required vary according to the experience and
length of service of the individual and to his
power of adaptibility. Every man, to a greater
or less degree, suffers bewilderment. He has
no longer the distinction and privilege of a
uniform, he has to make choices and decisions
which have long been the responsibility of
others, at every turn he meets modes, manners,
practices and procedures with which he has
become unfamiliar, he misses the discipline, the
gossip and the relatively care-free life of the
camp and the field, and at times he is consumed
with a great restlessness. He wants to be with
the boys again and the boys are not there.
They are no longer a company in one place.
They are scattered in solitary units like himself.
We, who did riot go, will be prompted to a
greater and kindlier service to those who did
go if we keep these conditions constantly in
mind.
FOR THE MEN
T HE
difficulties have to be faced, and -no
good purpose is served by minimising them.
They cannot be laughed off. They may, how-
ever, be mitigated and the period of confusion
The Pelman Institute, with the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to meet the financial
restrictions and enable residents of New Zealand to enrol
for the Pelman Course of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman Institute, Melbourne.
shortened by following certain practices. Our
experience is that discharged men and women,
' including those suffering serious disability, are
helped by observing the first and all-compre-
hending rule for the happy management of
life. Briefly stated it is: Occupy the mind
usefully and internal conflict will be reduced.
Those recently discharged will find all the
following suggestions useful. The degree of
practical interest to others will be determined
by the manner in which they have already
settled down to civil life or by their bodily
condition.
REST; The man should get plenty of rest.
After the resumption by his friends of their
accustomed life following the excitement of his
return rest is a matter of personal determina-
tion.
CLOTHES; He should give his mind to
the clothes he will need. Dressing is one of
the personal responsibilities he must resume.
Purchases should be delayed until, by obser-
vation and reflection, he has accumulated and
sorted impressions which will restore his taste
and give him the material of judgment.
MONEY; It is wise to lock up his money
and carry with him only a little, so that the
tendency to buy on impulse will be checked.
A consideration of coupon ratings will be a
further check.
FOOD; Family circumstances and tastes
determine to some extent the food put before
a man, and he may be able to eat anything. It
is to be hoped that he is. But even then he has
likes and dislikes. His tastes may have
changed, and special dishes prompted by
recollections of the boy of eighteen may be
unappetising to the man of twenty-five. The
man will add to his social competence by
learning how to indicate preferences without
hurting nice people anxious to please him. A
tour of eating-places will, now that so many
people have to eat out, show him one of the
minor difficulties of the civilian,
EXERCISE: His body will soon clamor
for hard work. Let the man look round and
he will see something useful or pleasurable
to do.
FRIENDS; The facets of social life are so
many that their study may become a whole-
time occupation. In considering one aspect
others come to mind.
Consideration of making friends outside
the family circle is best done first in the
abstract. The question should be asked: In the
years that lie ahead what kind of people do I
wish to associate with? The factors in friend-
ship are common general interests, which
include cultural, intellectual and religious
experience and aspirations and common special
interests including work, sport and political
leanings. A decision in the abstract should
first be made and then as many people of all
kinds met. This forms a standard and widens
the choice. The other sex should be included
in this process. With either man or woman we
may klick at first sight (I think that is the term,
but the spelling may be wrong). We must not
be too wary, but should keep in mind that it is
not pleasant to break an established friendship,
and it is still difficult to change a wife or a
husband.
CLUBS AND SOCIETIES: Thought should
be given to the clubs, societies and associations
the man will join. He should be sure there is
a strong and abiding interest. He may be
tempted for one reason or another, often lone-
liness or boredom, to join a group. As long as
he is outside he is a free agent, can think for
himself and express what he thinks. Once he
is a member he accepts the thought. of the
society not only on matters for which it was
formed but also on many matters outside its
ambit. • To break away puts a wall of reserve
between him and the others, some of whom
might be close friends. He should think hard
and watch out for pressure, particularly from
political protagonists, before he puts a label on
himself.
WORK; He should study the labor market
in the abstract and as it concerns him. If he
has no work waiting for him or if he thinks he
might change his work he will study the
of the daily papers and classify what
is offering, sort the various kinds of work offer-
ing into groups and give thought to the group
he might be happy in. He should visit the
Government Departments concerned, listen,
learn and reflect.
EDUCATION: Much the same should be
done with the educational services available
to him.
AMELIORATIONS: All the ameliorations
and advantages, public or private, which
accord with one’s dignity and self-respect can
be properly sought and accepted.
YOUR PLACE NOW.
A BOVE all, fight any suggestion from within
or without that the years of active service
are lost years. They are your years, their
experience is your proud possession. The value
of that experience may not be immediately
apparent, but as you begin to think outside
yourself, to observe, reflect and bring your
intelligence to bear upon unfamiliar things,
confusion and bewilderment will diminish, rest-
lessness will become energy turned into pro-
ductive channels, and there is more than an
even chance that one morning you will wake
eager for the day’s work, a civilian with body
toughened and spirit enriched by past sacrifice
and service. You are here, in another place,
your own place.
E. H. WELFORD,
Director, Pelman Institute (O/seas).
This announcement is one of a number each intended to help members of the Services, men and women, to a comfortable adjustment
to civil life. Civilian readers will, we believe, find in these announcements indications of means by which they can assist in this adjust-
ment. We are grateful to u The Bulletin” for making the space available to us. —THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, MELBOURNE.
• *• • t
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is approved by the War Office, London,
and under the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme. The Pelman Institute has enrolled nearly Eleven
Thousand members of the Services since 1939. Particulars of the Pelman Course are sent on request to the Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Corner Market Street), Melbourne.
f
1
1
1
1
'I
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Cl.
Please post me a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
I " ■■
NAME.... Address.. 178 j


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3456
Wednesday, May 8, 1946
THE DOCTOR WHO TOLD.
“For betraying secrets to a Russian, Dr. Nunn May, tried at the Old Bailey, has been sentenced to 10 years’ penal servitude. ’
“Hey, you can’t do that to HIM! He’s a friend of mine and Joe’s.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Q"eensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buddings C opp■
G.P.0.), Wellington.
HERE'S TO MALONEY!
“That Jemmy Twitcher should peach on
me I own surprised me,” said Captain
Macheath in “A Beggar’s Opera” ; and,
although the illustration is far from being
perfect, the reactions of Marshal Stalin
to Mr. Maloney’s exposure of social con-
ditions in Marshal Stalin’s military em-
pire must be much the same.
When Mr. Maloney was named Aus-
tralian Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to Moscow, Marshal
Stalin and the members of his hierarchy
had good warrant to regard Mr. Maloney
as a soulmate. For Mr. Maloney had
been taken from the presidency of the
Sydney Labor Cobncil, where he had
for years been much exposed to Com-
munists, and was credited by Dr. Evatt
with being a Friend of Russia as well as
with understanding the workings of the
Communist mind. He was also a trade-
union secretary and an M.L.C., elected in
1941 and re-elected for 12 years in 1943.
Like Mr. Slater, Dr. Evatt’s first choice as
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary to Moscow, who returned
very suddenly, Mr. Maloney decided to
retain his seat in Parliament, and in each
case this prudence was justified in the
event —Mr. Slater is now a member of
the Victorian “Labor” Ministry.
All the same, there was no blither
spirit in Sydney than Mr. Maloney
when he set out for the old capital of the
Tsars, transformed by Marshal Stalin and
friends into the headquarters of the
Workers’ Paradise, Mr. Maloney was all
enthusiasm when expressing his plans and
hopes at the top of his voice from a plat-
form in the Sydney Domain.
His stay in Moscow was brief, though
not as brief as that of Mr. Slater or the
professor who accompanied Mr. Slater.
In a twelvemonth or so he was back in
Sydney “on leave.” Although no explana-
tion of his return or statement of his
intentions was published, it was rather
expected that Moscow would see him no
more. However, he made the long return
journey, but not before he had opened
his heart to select gatherings of political
and trade-union friends in rooms with
locked doors. Naturally some of the
guests blabbed, and it appeared in print
that Mr. Maloney had confessed himself
disillusioned, having found the alleged
happy band of brothers in the Workers’
Paradise “worse off than the workers in
India.”
Another twelvemonth or so found Mr.
Maloney in Sydney again, this time to
stay. Realising what was in store for
them, Moscow and its most favored
crawlers in this country began attacking
him almost as soon as he set foot on 4iis
native heath, saying everything they
could think of in the way of damaging
him as a witness before he chose to give
the evidence he had accumulated. The
campaign against him and his silence
under it were commented on in Parlia-
ment. Mr. Maloney elected to make an
A.B.C. station his, medium of com-
municating with the nation and getting
even with the Communists, and then
some. Long before he had finished he
had become a marked man, a “Fascist”
among “Fascists” ; and, come the Revo-
lution, the Maloney head will be the
first to roll.
For, having been allowed behind “the
dark curtain,” Mr. Maloney has'done
a complete debunking job. For fair-
minded people who have compared
Soviet pretensions and performances in
other domains, he has shattered the one
illusion that Soviet propaganda kept
alive —that Stalinist Russia is a Workers’
Paradise. Giving detailed results of his
investigations, with a mass of figures
where quotation of figures was necessary
—and those relating to the prices of food
and clothing are appalling—Mr. Maloney
has shown that Stalin’s Russia is actually
a dingy, inefficient Oriental despotism,
top-heavy with a privileged aristocracy,
“the higher strata of Soviet society,” who
get the best of everything. This privileged
aristocracy differs only from that which
the Bolshevist revolution destroyed in
having other designations, such as “the
high party officials” (Mr. Maloney).
The lot of the toiling masses, “the com-
mon people,” is on the other hand ghastly.
They are ill-housed, ill-fed, ill-clad and
in most respects serfs, being chained to
the job by ordinances which give a cruel
Oriental twist to the prescription “He
who does not work neither shall he eat.”
A family of “the common people” has
“only one very small room for the whole
of its requirements,” and the “one very
small room” may be in factory barracks,
in which “large numbers of Soviet citi-
zens” are herded. Nor is there even
security of tenure: “continued tenancy
depends on continued employment at the
particular undertaking,” where housing is
“controlled.” For the rest there is “no
workers’ compensation as we know it” ;
there is child endowment of a sort, but
payments cease when a baby turns five;
the “rest homes” are only for “a small
percentage” ; and, since piecework is the
rule, “equal pay for equal work” is a
heartless sham. The nominal concession,
added to a typical Oriental view of
women, who in democratic countries have
long been freed from backbreaking and
goul-destroying tasks, means in practice
that Soviet women “fell trees, cut and cart
wood, mine, swing eight- and 12-pound
hammers on railway and tramway lines
and operate all kinds of heavy
machinery” ; “there does not appear to be
any work too laborious for women.”
And all this from a trade-union leader,
who has nothing to learn about the in-
dustrial or social conditions of the
workers in the most populous Australian
State, apropos of a country with natural
resources at least equal to, if not much
greater than, those of the United States
and Canada combined.
Yet there are still many Australians
who refuse to believe that there can be
anything wrong in or with Russia. On
that subject they combine the bigotry of
the Puritan with the credulity of the
savage. Their faith in Russia is so blind
that it has survived the “Report” of the
American Walter White and the first-hand
evidence of hundreds of observers of Red
Army outrages in occupied Europe and
Asia (many of them pro-Russian in the
beginning), together with the many
examples of Soviet greed and perfidy
which have baited the American and
British Governments into resistance ; and
it will no doubt survive the Maloney ex-
posure. Vanity is at the root of it in
many cases. An astonishingly large pro-
portion of those whose Moscow-
mania is proof against all evidence are
so-called “educated” men ; schoolteachers,
self-styled “scientific workers,” some
doctors and lawyers, university professors
and lecturers, and, of course, jour-
nalists—more journalists than the public
realises. And apparently it is not in the
nature of any of these “educated” people
to admit that they have been or could
be wrong.
So the revelations from Canada as to
the Soviet conspiracy against that gener-
ous country, though the prosecutions
were recommended by two Justices of the
Supreme Court and the gist of them was,
published with conspicuous fairness by
the old Prime Minister, and though the
one person whose case had been dealt
with to the end of April had been sen-
tenced to a long term of imprisonment
for betraying Canadian secrets to a Rus-
sian major (two others have since joined
her as convicted and sentenced criminals),
seem to have had not the slightest influ-
ence in this “educated” quarter.
There exists in Sydney and other cities
an alleged “Association of Scientific
Workers.” This concern has professors
on its list of speakers, is held in high
esteem by .the Communist press, and has
hurled itself into a world-wide movement
to get the atomic-bomb secrets for Russia
by bringing pressure on the American
Government, giving the appearance of
local public opinion to a Moscow-inspired
agitation. Though the agitators haven’t
got a Chinaman’s chance, and even they
should know it, this did not prevent the
“Association of Scientific Workers” from
demanding “the elimination of all atomic
weapons from national armaments” at a
Sunday meeting in Sydney for which the
university authorities let it have their
Union Hall, and a couple of professors,
one a Com. from Brisbane, did their stuff.
Another resolution was even more out-
rageous. The show was called a “Public
Conference on Atomic Power and Inter-
national Co-operation of Scientists,” and
it was resolved, “almost unanimously,”
that the conference viewed “with grave
concern” the arrests of Dr. Nunn May in
London and Dr. Raymond Boyer in
Canada, which arrests “constituted a
threat to the freedom of scientific
research.”
This was too much for a group of pro-
fessors at the University of Westralia,
headed by the veteran of the Chair of
Physics, the able and amiable A. D. Ross.
In a letter to the newspapers these gentle-
men repudiated “the Association of
Scientific Workers” and its impertinences,
saying that it “has no authority whatever
to speak for science generally in Austra-
lia” and that, on the issue of the “Cana-
dian and British scientists charged with
divulging military secrets to a foreign
Power, it could speak only for its own
members, who are certainly not unani-
mous.” Declaring that “the maximum of
scientific progress can be achieved only
under conditions of the utmost freedom
to publish and exchange information,”
the professors admitted, in effect, that
these conditions do not exist.
Unhappily, exigencies of war compel a
certain secrecy with respect to military pre-
parations ; and, however much we may de-
plore the need for secrecy, we maintain that
a person who engages in such work accepts
a position of trust and cannot break its
conditions. The slogan of scientific free-
dom cannot give countenance to a breach
of trust.
Admirably expressed, and every word
was borne out at the trial of Dr. Nunn
May.
Charged at the Old Bailey with having
communicated information contrary to
the Official Secrets Act, this “educated”
ruffian pleaded guilty. It came out that
the information concerned “the latest
developments in atomic research,” and had
been communicated to a Russian, who
gave the wretched creature “some dollars
and a bottle of whisky.” The Labor
Attorney-General, Sir Hartley Shawcross,
who distinguished himself at the Nurem-
burg trials, conducted the case for the
prosecution. Nunn May’s counsel ad-
vanced the “argument” that his client
was “in the category of those scientists
who, like doctors, consider they are under
an obligation to see that discoveries are
used for mankind, and not kept for any
one country or people,” Addressing the
criminal, and shattering the sophistry,
Justice Oliver said “I cannot understand
how a man in your position could have
the crass conceit to do what you did with
one of your country’s most precious
secrets. You acted not as an honorable
man, but as a dishonorable man.” His
Honor closed by imposing a sentence of
10 years’ penal servitude.
Of the other hero to the “Association
of Scientific Workers,” who swore an
oath of secrecy in 1940, the Canadian
Royal Commission reported:
We have heard Dr. Boyer, and he has
told.us that, commencing early in 1943
and continuing into 1944, he gave, for trans-
mission to the Soviet Union, full informa-
tion with regard to his work, which he
himself admits was secret. He said that
with this information competent persons
would be in a position to design a plant
to produce the material in quantity.
Dr. Boyer was Assistant Professor of
Chemistry at McGill University. He is to
be tried this month, as is—among others
—Rose, the Polish-Jew Communist M.P.
The Royal Commission proceeded:
Some witnesses holding strategic positions
have made the significant statement, under
oath, that they had a loyalty which took
priority over the loyalty owed by them to
their own country, and for that reason they
acted as they did, and would have con-
tinued so to act if not detected.
Not only Canada but the U.S.A. is now
busy expelling Communists from “stra-
tegic positions.” Perhaps there will be a
wholesale rush of these rascals to Aus-
tralia, where, under “Labor” rule, “stra-
tegic positions” are available to all their
tribe and the field of choice has no recog-
nisable limits or checks, except such as
are imposed by the electors when Com-
munists seek their suffrages.
Defence—and Confidence.
The presence of Mr. Chifley in the Aus-
tralian delegation to London has not
vitiated the Evatt technique, as Applied at
international conferences and the like.
The Evatt method is to select some sub-
ject on which agreement has been arrived
at, so long ago that the public has for-
gotten it or so confidential that the public
knows nothing of it. This is then put
forward as the Australian delegation’s
sole idea and copyright.
The Ministers or delegates con-
cerned are cryptic and non-committal. It
is all done by “stooges”—which makes
Mr. Chifley’s use of the word “stooge” in
relation to General Blarney all the fun-
nier. Through these persons, to whom
ideas are fed by “spokesmen” (never
heard of before the “Labor” days) or
“high officials” or just “Canberra,” the
notion is fostered that there is formid-
able overseas opposition to the well-
matured scheme in hand, but that Mr.
Chifley—or Dr. Evatt or whoever it may
be —is going forth as a crusading White
Knight, determined to have his own way
and that of “Australia” at any cost, come
Byrneses, Bevins or Blamefys.
The views of the first crusaders are re-
ported in such sentences as “Mr. Chifley
refused to go much farther than to say
that Mr. Attlee had asked the Australian
and N.Z. Prime Ministers to visit Britain
to discuss matters appertaining to the
Pacifip” and “Dr. Evatt, who was a little
more outspoken on the subject of Manus
and of Pacific problems in general, said
Australia hoped to evolye a plan for the
Pacific -bringing in America as well as
Britain with Australia and New Zealand.”
Not a plan to be thrashed out by the
united military genius of Britain, the
United States and the Dominions, but an
all-Chifley-Evatt plan into which other-
peoples are to be “brought.”
Quite unobtrusive is the subsequent em-
ergence of the fact that “we must look at
these questions as we look at the overall
picture of Pacific defence, in which the
United States must play a predominant
part.” The impression conveyed to the
“dear public” of the great Canberra
tragedians is that all opposition - caves in
before the terrific onslaught of the
crusaders from Australia. “Complete
agreement” is reached in accordance with
their views.
The only trouble about this process
when applied to almost-achieved agree-
ments is that the climax is so sudden,
the Chifley-Evatt victory so devastatingly
complete, that it has an air of anticlimax,
like a world championship in which the
belt-holder lies down before he is hit and
kisses his opponent’s ankle.
The London “victory” was “won”
almost without debate, and was an-
nounced in impressive sentences:
The acceptance by the United Kingdom of
the Anzac Pact of 1944 was the most strik-
ing feature of a day of general agreement
at the second session of the Empire
Premiers’ Conference.
British policy regarding the future of
bases in the Pacific considered strategic
by Australia and New Zealand is now clear.
An overall regional defence arrangement,
with all interested nations participating, is
envisaged.
It is recorded as “particularly pleasing”
(“S. M. Herald”) that “all belligerent
nations are to be given an opportunity of
reviewing the peace treaties”; and that “the
Australian and N.Z. policy regarding the
future of strategic phases in the south and
south-west Pacific —such as Manus —re-
ceived unreserved endorsement,” Further,
“it is now clear that there will not
be any piecemeal base-by-base settle-
ment, but instead an overall regional de-
fence arrangement among all the nations
interested in the area, which will fit in
the framework of the United Nations
Organisation.”
And all this was “achieved between the
United Kingdom and the Pacific
Dominions without a struggle.” Mr.
Chifley and Dr. Evatt “came prepared
with documents and arguments to press
Australia’s case, but found Mr. Attlee
and Mr, Bevin in full agreement.”
Why there should be any surprise about
this is difficult to understand. As early
as February 10, 1944, Dr. Evatt told Par-
liament that the Anzac Pact “has had a
warm and encouraging welcome on all
sides, especially in the United Kingdom”—
as well it might, the spectacle of a Labor
Government in Australia willing to take
an interest in defence being as unusual
as the Aurora Australis in Norway, The
British Government has been trying for
decades to induce Australia to become
self-supporting in this field.
The fact of the matter is that general
agreement was reached long ago, if not
in exactly formal terms at least on a
broad general basis, regarding future co-
operative defence in the south and other
parts of the Pacific, The process has
gone so far that an intensively organised
liaison staff, representative of British,
Australian and Indian interests, is estab-
lished in Melbourne.
The Army Board created earlier in
the year has been formed on the exact
model of the British Army Council, with
opposite numbers for everybody in Lon-
don and in Australia. But there are
many details which have to be settled
within the already agreed framework:
(1) Who shall control what bases, air
and sea, and how?
(2) Who shall provide what armament?
(3) How shall commands be allotted?
(4) Who shall furnish what materials
of defence —ships, artillery, supplies? •
These things are the core of the matter.
Thus far they have not been approached
in detail, except so far as bases are con-
cerned. Here there is secrecy, but the
haste with which Mr. Chifley rose to the
bait when General Blarney’s views were
stated tells its own story. No doubt
Mr. Chifley’s edginess is attributable in
part to the knowledge that Dr. Evatt’s
views on the granting of bases seem to
have suffered a change since he was ex-
pressing his willingness in the United
States a few months ago to hand them
over to anybody prepared to defend the
South Pacific area.
It is clear that everything which has
been agreed upon in London is dependent
upon how details are filled in and on
how the agreements are carried out. All
that has so far been accepted is a. com-
mon aspiration.' If Australia, for in-
stance, is to bargain to the best advan-
tage, it must be prepared to throw its
resources into the common pool on the
same basis as other participants.
Britain, the U.S., Canada and N.Z. are
prepared in case of emergency to use all
their resources for war and to send con-
scripted forces anywhere. They are pre-
pared to frame national policies which
operate irrespective of party politics.
They are prepared to co-operate with
their allies to the full, which, as Mr. Attlee
said last week, means that “obstinate
realities” have to be faced and that the
co-operators individually “cannot always
get their own ways.” The Evatt way is
to show that “Evatt always wins.”
A first essential of the effective defence
of Australia as part of the Pacific scheme
is a Government which our allies will
trust, and which can make its own deci-
sions.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Vacant Senate Seat.
As recent by-elections have indicated.
Federal “Labor” is grossly over-repre-
sented in Parliament, with 49 seats out
of 74 in the House (excluding the vote-
less member) and 22 out of 36 in the
Senate. Feeling is running so sharply
against it that if 1946 were a double-
dissolution year, as was 1914, its majori-
ties would assuredly vanish. More espe-
cially as it is trying to thrust an unwanted
powers referendum on the electors regard-
less of the verdict they gave in 1944.
Yet as soon as Senator Keane’s seat
became vacant a cry went up from
“Labor” that custom required the succes-
sion to go to some other “Labor” man ;
and the cry was taken up by newspapers
which disclaim “Labor” sympathies, and
which ought to have known better.
Since the Senate was never intended to
be a party Chamber, there is no consti-
tutional compulsion on State Parliaments,
which have to fill casual vacancies, to
restrict their choice to members of parties
to which Senators dead or retired be-
longed. Rather there is a duty on them
to exercise perfect freedom of choice,
particularly as executives of party organ-
isations unknown to the Constitution pre-
sume to dictate to State Parliaments
whom they should appoint.
Actually it is State “Labor” prac-
tice when a non-Labor Senate seat be-
comes vacant always to nominate a
“ ‘good’ Labor” man and to elect him, if
it has the numbers. This was done twice
in the nineteen-twenties by Queensland
“Labor,” then, as now, in control of the
single Chamber, when two Nationalist
Senators died. On each occasion it sent
J. V. MacDonald to the Senate—on July
11, 1922, in John Adamson’s place, and
on August 1, 1928, in place of Thomas
Givens. At each of the subsequent gen-
eral elections MacDonald was defeated.
On December 23, 1931, when “Labor”
had a majority in the N.S.W. Parliament
it made a nominee Senator of one of
its own supporters, P. F. Mooney, a
Nationalist Senator, W. L. Duncan, hav-
ing resigned. In the same year the S.A.
Parliament, in which there was a “Labor”
majority, appointed H. Kneebone (Labor)
to a seat left vacant by the death of a
Country-party Senator, J. H. Chapman.
Mr. Kneebone was ejected at the ensuing
general election.
The accident of circumstances has
enabled “Labor” to reach office in Vic-
toria with a minority in each House, and
it can claim no majority of votes or any-
thing approaching one in the Assembly
electorates. For the State Opposition to
accept the fiat of the A.L.P. executive and
give a guilty and incapable Government
another tame supporter in the Senate,
with a decisive vote on the unwanted
referendum bills, when there are much
better men available from the ranks of
those who detest it and all its works and
projects, would be a piece of folly for
which its own people would pay.
No Peace in Palestine.
Just when the Anglo-American Commit-
tee on Palestine was completing its re-
port Jewish terrorists caught seven
members of the Sixth British Airborne
Division in a raid on a position near Tel
Aviv and foully murdered them. De-
nouncing the outrage, and saying that the
circumstances pointed to widespread
complicity among Jews in Tel Aviv, the
commander of the division, Major-
General Cassells, imposed a curfew on
the city and placed it out of bounds to
British troops.
In this atmosphere of tension the com-
mittee presented its report. It described
Palestine, truly enough but with uncon-
scious irony of a deadly description, as
“an armed camp,” where there would be
“immediate and prolonged bloodshed if
the British forces were withdrawn.” It
said also that any attempt to convert
Palestine into “an independent State or
States” would “result m civil strife
threatening world peace.*
Palestine is not, and never *an be, a
purely Jewish land. It lies at the crossroads
of the Arab world, and its Arab people
rightly look on Palestine as their homeland.
The Jews shall not dominate the Arabs, nor
the Arabs the Jews.
This reads like a belated endorsement
of the Balfour Declaration, with a differ-
ence.' The difference is that the immedi-
ate admission of 100,000 Jewish refugees
is recommended, priority to be given
to “Jews in assembly camps in Germany
and Austria” ; and when the 100,000 cer-
tificates are exhausted “the mandatory
authority shall continue to facilitate im-
migration.”
It was President Truman who asked for
the immediate admission of 100,000 Jews,
and he said he was “most happy” about
it. The British can’t possibly be happy, and
the Arab world threatens resistance, to-
gether with invocation of Moscow sup-
port if the British accept the recommen-
dation. Acceptance, the committee
asserts, will mean that “all forms of ter-
rorism will be resolutely suppressed
by whom it does not- mention; and
American politicians, with their eye on
the Congressional elections, which are
only six months off, are willing to let
the British Government bear the whole
responsibility and the British bluejacket,
soldier and airman make all the blood
sacrifices, which would Te heavy. For
Britain, the committee urges, should re-
main “the mandatory authority pending
a U.N.O. agreement on trusteeship” ; and
so far there has been no U.N.O. agree-
ment on anything.
Meanwhile Dr. Isaac’ N. Steinberg,
general secretary of the Freeland League
for Jewish Territorial Colonisation, is
wandering about the U.S.A. beating up
sympathy and funds for a Jewish colony
in Westraha. In a statement published
by the New York “Post,” owned by a
Jewish lady, Dr. Steinberg declared that
“Palestine cannot absorb all the Jews who
need a new home” ; in fact, “a Jewish
State in the midst of an Arab sea would
have a precarious existence.” But North
Westraha was another matter, and sight
of the “Kimberley section” had moved
him to prose poetry:
It is fascinating to survey the endless
empty spaces around us, stretching far be-
yond the horizon... .No great imagination
is needed to envisage villages, fields, irriga-
tion canals, workshops, schools, synagogues
and even cities springing up in the very
midst of this green wilderness.
And there was Tasmania, also green
though not exactly a wilderness. In Aus-
NOT QUITE IN THE LINCOLN TRADITION.
“Invited to dine with the King and Queen at Windsor Castle, Mr. Chifley was 45 minutes late.”
“Too late for dinner, sir, but not too late for the washing-up. Austerity, you
know, sir”
tralia Dr. Steinberg, “the first Soviet Com-
missar of Justice,” talked to “thousands
of people, ranging from Cabinet Min-
isters to farmers and workers,” and had
finally won approval for the Plan from
two State Governments, in Westraha and
Tasmania. He had all along had “the
support of the Australian trade-union
movement,” which he found particularly
encouraging.” But there was a fly in the
Steinberg ointment;
He has yet to gain the support of the
Federal Government.
A remarkable admission considering Mr.
Cal well’s interest in Jewish refugees from
Europe. Mr. Calwell is Minister of Im-
migration, and hasn’t Mr. Calwell given
2000 Jewish refugees from Europe prefer-
ence over “these English people,” with-
out making any known provision against
the inclusion of the type of Jew whose
ferocious hatred of these English
people” is no longer concealed. And
hasn’t the vanguard of the 2000 arrived to
receive the Calwell blessing?
"Two Years to Catch Up."
It is just on two years since Dr.
Coombs, M.A., Ph.D. (Econ.), Director-
General of Post-war Reconstruction,
blithering at the Con. Hall, Sydney,
addressed these words to “the go-ahead
Australian Association of Scientific
Workers” (Communist description) and
the “Arts and Science Committee of the
Australian Communist party,” which was
present by invitation:
No industry is as antiquated as the build-
ing industry. Here We have a chance to
bring about a Revolution. It will take Us
two years to catch up on. the housing
shortage, despite the fact that We are
planning a building programme twice as
big as in the best pre-war years.
Last week the number of homeless
families in Victoria was reckoned at
80,000. And “S. M- Herald,” stressing
“shortage of materials and shortage of
skilled labor,” gave actual results in N. S.
Wales: “only 3000 houses completed in
eight months.”
As Burke didn’t say, “the age of free
enterprise is gone; that of sophisters,
economists and calculators has suc-
ceeded it.”
The Real "Brisbane Line."
May 2 was the third anniversary of the
launching of the “Brisbane Line” lie. It
was set in motion by Mr. Ward at the
Unity Theatre, Perth (W.A.):
Until the Curtin Government came into
office the defence plan provided for all of
Australia north of a line north of Brisbane,
and following a diagonal course to a point
north of Adelaide, to be abandoned to the
enemy. Labor’s predecessors were defeatist
in outlook. I hope you will not allow the
people who wanted to abandon most" of
Australia to go back with a majority.
During the previous 15 months the Ward
crowd had “abandoned” Australian forces
far north of Brisbane and north of Aus-
tralia itself —in New Guinea, Amboina,
Timor and Java, as well as Singapore, to
the devoted defenders of which Mr.
Forde promised immediate aid that would
swell to “an overwhelming torrent.”
Mr. Ward did not mention any of these
nasty facts. Neither did Mr. Curtin
when, after some hesitation, he elected to
support Mr. Ward, even to borrowing his
lieutenant’s use and application of the
shameful term “defeatist.” Before he
got down to that level, Mr. Curtin said;
On Japan coming into the war the
C.-in-C. Home Forces appointed by the
Menzies Government [General Iven
Mackay, fresh from his victories in
the Middle East] submitted to the
Minister of the Army proposals
the essence of which was concentra-
tion on the defence of the vital parts of
Australia. This involved holding what is
known as the Brisbane Line.. The Govern-
ment rejected the submission and took
steps to defend the whole continent.
Very little of the history of the period
has been set on record. On New Guinea,
Amboina, Java and Timor “Labor” still
chooses to be silent. But facts have come
out which reveal that the Government
which claims to have Stopped the Rot
and Saved the Country really took an
ignominious course which damaged Aus-
tralia’s prestige with its allies.
Within a month of the outbreak of the
Pacific war all primary Australian naval
ships were released to Australian waters.
The British sent an aircraft-carrier (Vic-
torious) and the U.S. some support, there
being thus assembled a considerable
squadron whose great task was to protect
Australian-N.Z. approaches. The British
prepared to send four more battleships
and large land forces to the Indian- and
Westralian-apprbaches zone.
About the time that Rabaul fell (1700
ill-armed and half-trained men were sac-
rificed there to the “Government’s”
stupidity and ignorance) General Wavell
was appointed commander of that South-
west Pacific area (No. 4) which embraced
the North Australian littoral. The
southern boundary of his command was
a line from Onslow (W.A.) to the south-
east corner of the Carpentaria Gulf. To
the defence of this zone Australia could
have contributed at once (outside 5000-
odd men from Moresby) about 15,000
men. Only about a couple of battalions
of these were A.I.F. —all specialists ; the
remaining 13,000-odd were militia.
The area included Darwin as well as
Timor and other parts of the N.E.I. It
was obvious that the primary object of
the defence would be to prevent the
enemy landing on Australian soil, and
that this might involve the using of
the main strength of the Allied forces
outside Australia proper. Mr. Curtin at
once called the attention of General
Wavell to the fact that virtually the whole
force contributed by the Commonwealth
to help prevent invasion could not be
taken # one inch beyond Australian terri-
tory because it was composed of militia.
If British, American or Dutch troops
had been in dire danger in an operation
to prevent the Japanese establishing an
invasion base in, say, the Tenimbars,
200-odd miles off the Australian coast,
and if Australian soldiers could have
saved the situation, “Labor” policy would
have required them to remain onlookers,
save for the A.I.F. technical units.
The Pacific War Council in Washing-
ton had taken steps to ensure that no
enemy would land on Australian soil.
Britain’s fresh contribution agreed on at
that time included four capital ships. The
U.S. was prepared to send 60,000 men at
once. This Canberra knew well. Never-
theless, Mr. Ward invented the abomin-
able lie about the “Brisbane Line,” and
“Labor” used it as an election issue and
got away with it.
Welcome Home, Soldier!
The ex-serviceman passing into a civilian
job is hit by many things and hardest of
all by taxes. He discovers that not
only are his wages seriously reduced by
taxation before he gets them, but that
everything he buys carries one or more
imposts. To civilians on fixed incomes
it is, of course, nothing new —they’ve had
it round their necks for years.
As a beginning, the ex-serviceman on
a wage between £6 and £lO a week finds
his weekly income cut to pieces. The
figures here given are the deductions
from wages for a single man, a married
man with one child and a married man
with two children in that order, the first
figure being the weekly wage:
£6: 195., 12s. 9d., ss. 6d. £6 10s.:
£1 2s. 9d., 10s. 6d., Bs. £7: £1 ss. 6d.,
12s. 6d„ 10s. £7 10s.: £1 Bs. 9d., 155.,
12s. 3d. £8: £1 12s. 3d., 17s. 9d., 15s.
£8 10s.: £1 15s. 9d., £1 Os. 6d., 17s. 9d.
£9: £1 18s. 9d., £1 35., £l. £9 10s.:
£2 25., £1 6s. 3d., £1 3s. 3d. £10:
£2 ss. 6d., £1 Bs. 9d., £1 ss. 9d.
The man with two children (or more)
gets 7s. 6d. a week in child endowment
for every child other than the first, pro-
vided the first is under 16, but if anyone
tried to feed a hungry child on 7s. 6d.
a week he would be a case for the
R.S.P.C.A. The only way the father can
have his tax reduced is to have thumping
medical and dental bills or pay life-as-
surance premiums.
Having absorbed that, the man can
then go to work while his wife sets out
to stand in queues, traipse wearily from
shop to shop and lug home heavy parcels
of food. On everything she buys he
will pay still heavier taxes. Nobody
knows just how much tax some commodi-
ties pay before they reach the public
since taxes are added all along the line;
If, for instance, a trader delivers goods
he must pay Hid. a gallon on the
petrol he uses and pay-roll tax on the
money he pays the carter. That’s in addi-
tion to sales tax on the goods and excise
duty on many of them. A packet of a
dozen boxes of matches, retailing at 18d.,
carries in taxes. Taxes on 20 cigar-
ettes selling at Is. Bd, amount to about
Is., on a 2oz. packet of tobacco about
Is. 9d. • If the family goes to the foot-
ball or the pictures, taxes must be paid ;
they’re paid again on school books and
clothing, on postage stamps and toys.
Where does all this money go? Any
Government “spokesman” will wave his
hands airily and reply “Oh, there’s re-
habilitation of ex-servicemen and
-women ; Government housing schemes ;
land for soldiers and —and—er, well,
social service and post-war reconstruc-
tion and all that. And you ought to
know that the war has to be paid for.”
Well, any ex-serviceman who can prove
that he or a mate is settled in a Govern-
ment house or on a Government farm
would be a welcome sight. As for social
service and the rest of it, there is an
Australian word for it, but it' can’t be
used here.
But if any ex-serviceman wants to
know why the nation isn’t producing the
goods it and other nations need and
thereby providing all hands with good
jobs, homes, clothing, food, entertain-
ment and so forth, the answer is that it
is bogged down in excessive taxation,
union larrikinism, planners’ bubble-
dreams and bureaucratic stupidity and is
run by “Labor” politicians without
vision, ability or courage.


•’V&v* 'M
CRAVENA
fftofte alwMjs,,
stmlk * ftodr!
Obtainable in 10’s & 20’s
iMm
w.
m
$
Q.
w
5767
POLITICAL Points
Ernest Henry (Ernie) Farrar, who was
“a Labor supporter in his early political
days,” then vice-president of the N.S.W.
Nationalist party, then a Minister in the
Fuller and Bavin Governments, voted for
the Legislative Assembly Pensions Bill.
Last week he was “unanimously elected
president of the Legislative Council.” The
Liberals have undertaken to repeal the
pensions ramp as soon as they get the
opportunity. Their opinion of the Farrar
vote and the sequel has not been set
down in white and black, but it is no
particular mystery,
A Sydney columnist, reviewing Chifley’s
exhibition of manners since he set out
ror London, but without mentioning the
Mountbatten dinner he refused at Singa-
pore because he was'“too tired,” finds it
“rude and ungracious,” especially his
being 45 minutes late at the King’s
dinner. A just reproof ; and the astonish-
ing thing is that it appeared in a Sunday
paper—the “Sun.”
When this went to the printer the Queens-
land meat strike was still on, but the one
in N. S. Wales was allegedly over—over
for the strikers, who go back on terms
they could have had for the asking, but
not for the housewife, who has been
warned she can’t expect any meat for a
week. It had one good result, the revival
of public meetings, a condemnation of
union larrikinism being pronounced in
Sydney Town Hall, though a mob of
Communists of both sexes tried to disrupt
it. The crowd, packed in and overflow-
ing, made no bones about its feelings, and
where police didn’t throw them out the
crowd did it for them. In other days not
one but a dozen public meetings would
long since have expressed public opinion
of strikers and of the “Governments’’
which allow them to hold the country
to ransom and make it look mean and
cheap in the eyes of a hungry world.
Still, even one public meeting is an augury
of better things.
At very short notice the Cain Gov-
ernment gave A. J. Fraser his walking
ticket as chairman of the Victorian
Transport Regulation Board, appointing
F. P. Mount joy, who was secretary under
Fraser till “transferred on loan in August,
1941,” to become Commonwealth
Director of Road Transport. He was a
Gallipoli Digger, and, after studying the
results of recent by-elections, Labor has
suddenly warmed to returned servicemen.
But the skittling of Fraser had an im-
mediate and piquant sequel. Resenting
it, the Country party, which made the
original appointment, proposed him to
the Liberals as a candidate for the vacancy
in the Senate ; and, the Liberals being
willing, he will be nominated and shoilld
win. It will be a pretty tit-for-tat with
Cain.
Brisbane’s Lud Mayor Chandler, who
retired from the leadership of the Q.P.P.
to give more time to business and city
affairs, led his C.M.O, party to its third
victory in the Brisbane city elections. On
an 80 p.c. vote the C.M.O. held every
seat, and goes back 13 strong against the
Labor 7, with the Marree election to
come. Two Communists stood. One
lost his deposit and the other got 1544
votes from 15,608 electors.
Declining an invitation to stand for
Ballarat (“Ballaarat” on the list of elec-
torates), Casey allowed it to be suggested
that he supported Air Vice-Marshal
(“King”) Cole for the Liberal nomination.
Cole and three others were passed over
for a Young Digger, Fraser-Caddy. Like
Turnbull, the member for Wimmera,
Fraser-Caddy served in the Eighth Divi-
sion, and was a prisoner-of-war in
Malaya, and in Japan also. He will be a
very formidable opponent to Pollard.
The N.S.W. Industrial Registrar reports
that the N.S.W. branch of the Iron-
workers, Thornton’s Red Racket, lost
£21,269 in 1944 (receipts were £57,567
and expenditure £78,836); and that was
nothing to what it must have lost since.
In no wise abashed, Thornton cast lip in
Brisbane and hired the City Hall in
which to tell of his trip to Russia, After
the usual blah he got this off;
I checked up on their methods of settling
[industrial] disputes and found that in every
case they had been settled in favor of the
unions. If we had such methods in Aus-
tralia not even the ironworkers or the
meatworkers would go on strike.
While “Balance-Sheet’s” hearers were
still chewing it over the Maloney broad-
cast burst upon the circumambient
autumn air. The Maloney report on “in-
dustrial discipline” is that it is enforced
by penalties which “range up to shooting ”
Fraser, the too-zealous young man
from Eden-Monaro, has been at it again,
this time in contradiction of Forde. That
old hand, remembering that the Labor-
controlled Queensland Assembly twice
appointed J. V. MacDonald to Senate
seats vacated by the deaths of Nationalist
Senators Adamson and Givens, philo-
sophically allowed that the election of a
sucessor to his colleague Keane was
“entirely a matter for the members of
both Houses of the Victorian Parliament
—they have the right to exercise their
votes in any way they consider fit.”
Fraser asserted that “if the non-Labor
parties chose a non-Labor Senator” they
would smash “the honorable precedent
that the State Parliament should choose
a candidate of the same political party
as his predecessor.” He repeated the
words “honorable precedent,” with some
fustian about “giving effect to the will
of the people.” The last nominee Senator
in Fraser’s State was Peter Mooney,
whom 99.99 per cent, of “the people”
had never heard of. Peter was a Lang
man, appointed by a Parliament under
Lang Labor control to a seat which a
Nationalist Senator had held for over
five years. If Fraser can get any comfort
from this precedent, “honorable” or
otherwise, he is welcome to it.
Queenslanders out of a job through the
meat strike got little sympathy from
their union, and little more from the
controllers of the Commonwealth unem-
ployed-relief scheme. They were put off
at Brisbane abattoir a day or so before
the strike —it had become known that
there was to be a strike and cattle ceased
to arrive. The union told the men that
as they were sacked before the strike
they couldn’t claim strike pay. They then
applied for unemployed relief and were
told that the matter would be studied, and
if they were “deemed to be not on strike”
they could expect benefits. Anyone want
to buy a union ticket?
South Australia must be worrying the
Chifleys. Four, and possibly more,
“Labor” Ministers are to invade Play-
ford’s State in the next week or two,
Forde to look over Boothby, Wakefield
and Adelaide, Lazzarini to inspect Murray
River works, Calwell and Ward for un-
specified reasons. But from the Mount
to Marree and from Pinnaroo to Penong,
S.A. has “had” Federal “Labor,” and 40
Ministerial visits couldn’t overcome that.
In a comparison of coal outputs for the
first quarters of 1945 and 1946 the miracle
of a 9 per cent, increase is reported. From
any N.S.W. field run by the Communists
and fellow-travellers who are issuing
policy orders to both “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ments”? No ; from Collie (W.A.). The
Collie miners and union heads are dif-
ferent.
An unusual excuse was given for the
latest grab at Melbourne’s dwindling
breathing spaces when Education Director
Seitz, hinting that the site of the proposed
technicological institute requiring 40
acres might be a parkland, said that the
city’s parks were, mainly reserved for
flannelled fools, park pests and courting
couples. If this is an example of educa-
tionists’ logic, Heaven help the rising
generation! The National Gallery is not
free of pests or of courting couples ; but
nobody suggests that that institution
should be turned over for a technico-
logical museum. Melbourne has fewer
open spaces than congested London.
Professor Eric (“Little by Little”)
Ashby was part of the Maloney outfit at
Moscow. Before setting out the pro-
fessor regaled A.B.C. listeners with a
marvellous example of Lenin’s sagacity,
uttered when Lenin and party were de-
pending on British and American
philanthropists to feed the “enfranchised”
masses —“famine is the time to prepare
for future famines.” It did not occur
to Eric to mention that “capitalist”
wheat-growing countries like the U.S.A.,
Canada, Australia and even Argentina
never have famines. Lenin’s admirer re-
turned to Sydney about the same time as
Maloney (Ministers and professors never
stay long in Russia), and in another
A.B.C. hionologue he lavished praise on
his principal, “my friend, Jim Maloney—
we were lucky to have him at Moscow
for the last two years.” But when
Maloney, daring all the resources of
Communist larrikinism, came out with a
blistering account of Soviet conditions
the very self-satisfied professor neither
supported nor contradicted him. Come
on, Eric, say something! Don’t be
yellow!
Peron, of Argentina, “Fascist” Argen-
tina, says his country has sent 130,000
tons of wheat and 70,000 tons of maize
to stricken Europe,\and will have 500,000
tons of both there by the end of May.
Australia? Well, Chifley has promised to
see what he can do about increasing exports
of meat and butter when he returns.
An effigy of Casey “dangling in
chains,” carried by a parcel of Indian
Corns., was part of the May Day circus in
Sydney, and Senator Donald Grant was
one of the Domain spouters. He fol-
lowed Sharkey, and referred with fervor
to his association with that Communist
blatherskite. What a creature to go from
Australia, by choice and favor of the
“ ‘Labor’ Government,” as adviser at the
Peace Conference!
In contempt of the Commonwealth
wage-pegging regulations and of its own
alleged policy or arbitration, the N.S.W.
“Labor” Government is adding “about”
£1,000,000 a year to the salaries of “more
than” 11,000 teachers “as from” April L
Individual rises range from £52 for
women and from £65 to £l4l for men.
Nobody objects in principle to more pay
for teachers other than Communists {they
should not be employed), but there is a
right way of doing the thing—reference
to the State Industrial Commission,
which is required by National Security
Regulations—and the “Labor” Govern-
ment has chosen the wrong way. Its
“Standard” scolds the Teachers’ Federa-
tion Council for thanking “the Crown”
and not “the ‘Labor’ Government.” This
sharpens the impression that the “ ‘Labor’
Government” is issuing a general invi-
tation to bodies of Government employees
to come in and get their cut, and no
damned nonsense about arbitration, be-
fore the two sets of general elections.
When a bunch of merchant seamen
were charged in Townsville (Q.) with
wholesale theft and fined a total of £l5O,
a cheeky fellow who described himself as
a “delegate from the ship” began to
address the magistrate. He was ordered
to be quiet on pain of being dealt with
for contempt. In parts further south a
“delegate” has only to wink an eye to
send tremors running through high
places.
The latest Victorian move to circum-
vent the perennial hold-ups of industry
by N.S.W. coalminers is an ambitious
proposal to bring gas by pipeline from
brown coal at Yallourn to supply Mel-
bourne and big country towns, it being
claimed that there is enough coal in the
immense deposits to supply nearly all
requirements. The plan is expected to
be in operation within six months and
to be completed in five years. Mean-
while a Victorian brown-coal mission
(three engineers and two scientists) is
about to leave London for Germany,
where brown coal is used for fuelling
locomotives and many other purposes.
Adelaide “Advertiser,” which never
surrendered to Soviet spoofing, pulled
no punches when it got a message con-
cerning the stripping of Manchuria, where
the Russians were at war —if there was
really any fighting—for two (2) days. It
put up the headlines “Soviet Stand on
Booty: Will Keep Loot from Man-
churia.” Newspapers don’t do that there
here in Sydney.
At a meeting of “the vigilance com-
mittee” of Melbourne’s Building Trades
Federation a sub-committee was appointed
to arrange details for an encore of go-
slow. On the same day the “Herald”
held a solemn symposium of yiews of
“leaders” as to why houses weren’t
going up more quickly. One Don
Thomson had the face to say that
what were needed were more con-
trols, more techniques, fewer rackets
and blackmarkets and less waste
of labor and materials under present em-
ployment methods. He added that black-
marketeers attempt to divert public atten-
tion by allegations of go-slow methods on
the part of unionists. Thomson, a Com-
munist who was excluded from military
service, is the secretary of the Building
Trades Federation.
Bureaucrats change, but bureaucracy
is immortal. Just as Amurath succeeded
Amurath, so the Commonwealth Em-
ployment Bureau has succeeded Man-
power. In Melbourne, as Donald
Cameron walked out of the door of
Manpower, his late first assistant walked
into the new department.
America had a dreadful record ot
strikes in the first quarter of 1946, when
a total of 1,660,000 workers struck, for
a loss of 55,000,000 man-days—l 3 times
the annual average loss between 1935 and
1939. But nowhere was it suggested that
the remedy was nationalisation of indus-
tries, as demanded by Commo-led unions
in this country and paltered with by
scared politicians. American unions are
as set on free enterprise as the “capi-
talists,” only they demand more of the
fruits.
From Molongloside:
Among the points Chifley will have to de-
cide when he returns is whelher he’ll want
the vacant portfolio filled before the elections
or wait until after and have a general re-
shuffle, .should his party get back. It’s a fair
bet that, whatever the P.M. may think, the
party will plump for an immediate ballot to
fill Keane’s place; Cabinet rank for somebody,
even if only for a couple of months, is too
sweet a plum to pass by. If there is a ballot
it’s a hundred-to-one that Chifley will plump
for the slim, grey-haired young Senator from
Tasmania, N. E. McKenna, who’s become one
of the P.M.’s closest friends and most trusted
advisers outside the Cabinet. McKenna does
the kind of middle-road thinking which appeals
to Chifley’s own cautious and unexcitable
approach to public affairs. But it’s doubtful
whether the P.M. has enough votes to swing
the issue the way he would like it; Amour
(N.S.W.) will have powerful trade-union and
N.S.W. party backing. Among the P.M.’s prob-
lems is the reconstruction of Cabinet along
peace-time lines. Defence doesn’t now need
three or four Ministers, and Ministerial priori-
ties ought to go to housing, reconstruction,
migration and other peaceful (?) jobs, which
urgently need first-class thinking. •


CHANGE OF GUARD AT THE WAILING WALL.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”; Fat and middle-aged, she came
into the seedsman’s shop and asked in
a heavy foreign voice for “t’reepennort
of parsley seed an’ t’reepennort of millet
seed.” The seedsman replied that the
smallest quantity he sold of each was
a sixpenny packet. After deep thought
and with great reluctance, she sparred up
the bob; then, tapping the packets, she
said “Blenty salad I now ’ave. You pay
shilling, one an’ free for lettuce, it last
one day. I ’ave enough salad ’ere for
last twelve munce.” Inquiry then by the
astonished and amused seedsman elicited
the fact that the lady grew the stuff, which
she chopped up and put in her husband’s
lunch sandwiches. “And does he like it?”
asked the seedsman. “’E didn’t at first,”
the reffo, dame replied. “When we come
out ’ere seven, eight year ago, ’e not like
it at all —but ’e getting used to it now! ”
* * * *
“Cuchulain”: “It’s wonderful what’ll
stop a suicide,” yarned the old chap.
“Generally they only want distraction.
I had a girl helping on the dairy who
took on with a no-good hand next door.
The day she got word he’d gone off with
another girl she was in an awful state,
and finally raced off to throw herself in
the I couldn’t catch her, so I bel-
lowed me hardest ‘Don’t you go and
spoil that well, Annie, it’s the only decent
drinking water for miles.’ And sure
enough it pulled her up till we could
pacify her in other ways.”
“Morehead”: The current outcry about
book censorship reminds me of the days
when James Joyce’s Ulysses was first
banned in Australia. Bookshops were
raided by Customs officials and copies
confiscated, several book-reviewers had
their copies impounded, and the few
citizens who owned a copy read the work
only in the safety of their homes. One
departmental bloodhound, however, met
his match in the person of Bill Ifould,
then head of the N.S.W. Public Library.
The snooper got his hand on the library’s
sole copy of Ulysses and announced his
intention of taking it away when Ifould
arrived on the scene. “Yoilng man,”
thundered the principal librarian, “I
would remind you that the State of New
South Wales is a Sovereign State and that
the book you hold is the property of the
State. Your action is an infringement of
State rights and contrary to the Com-
monwealth Constitution. The book shall
not leave the library.” Awed by Ifould’s
authoritative tone and with only the
vaguest ideas of Commonwealth and
State rights, the Customs man slinked
into Macquarie-street.
* * # *
“Ellery”: When it came to feeding the
troops, Sydney’s voluntary workers did
a magnificent job during the war.
A free feed could be had at the Anzac
Buffet, the All Services Canteen and
elsewhere. If you preferred to pay for
your tucker an excellent three-course meal
could be had for about a bob at a dozen
different canteens. Upon my discharge
from the army I begrudged paying the
exorbitant prices asked by the average
city cafe and remembered a hashhouse
which I patronised before the war. In
the old days its customers had been
sailors, old-age pensioners, drunks and
down-and-outs, but the place was clean,
if sometimes rowdy, the meals well-
cooked, and the tariff remarkably cheap.
Hastening to the place, I found it still
under the same management, but the
prices had skyrocketed to three times the
old rates and the diners were mainly
well-dressed businessmen. Sadly, I drifted
off and bought two meat pies.
• * * ♦
“Spokeshave”: Lapse of memory on a
large scale? A Melbourne orchestra had
settled down to its final rehearsal of a
symphonic concert when it was seen that
the ’cellist was in confusion. He had left
his music at home. He went off and
came back with the music ; then he dis-
appeared again. He had forgotten his
’cello.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A cryptic remark that has
stuck in the mind of Lord Louis Mount-
batten since his visit to Dunedin, M.L.,
26 years ago with the Prince of Wales
“Cake of soap , tin of talcum , bottle of bathsalts—an' all for two
and a zack, lady!"
remains unsolved. His mention of it
during his March visit led to a spate of
correspondence in the newspapers, and he
sought enlightenment at a gathering of
ex-servicemen, without result. Shouted at
him in 1920 was: “Bring up those straw-
berry-colored guns, Louis. What about
those raspberry guns?” One suggestion
was that it was the utterance of a Dunedin
remittance man ; when half-sozzled, he
called for another round of drinks with
those words. Against this Boer veterans
maintain that the phrase had its origm
during the campaign against Oom Paul’s
burghers, attributing it to a cry at Colenso
or Spion Kop for the bringing-up of the
artillery. Has any Australian Boer
veteran any knowledge of the obscure
phrase?
* * * ♦
“Deir Suneid”: Tell -“S.T.S.” (B.
17/4/’46) that I always used to reckon
a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce
in a glass of beer was the best cure for a
hangover. Once after a prolonged epi-
demic the sauce bottle ran dry and I
put un my beer a teaspoon of mixed
mustard. Since then I have used no other
remedy.
# * H* *
“Burglar’s Laborer”: The “king-hit”
cropped up in a Sydney Court when a
tram conductor, asked’ by the Beak to
describe what happened, replied “I was
unconscious. Have you ever been king-
hit?” But it appeared that he had copped
one fair on the “point”—quite a good
stunner, but not a king-hit. As should
be evident, the “k.-h.” means a “crown-
ing” ; a blow on the top of the head
which, when the victim was hatted, had
fjie additional advantage of driving the
hat over the ears and eyes even if the
blow did not stun. A heavy fist crashed
down on tjie top of the nut with all the
weight that can be put behind it is quite
an effective sleep inducer, but weaklings
used a weapon to add to its potency.
Nowadays any sort of a blow that gives
a knock-out may be a “king-hit ; but as
one who wants to preserve the purity ot
the King’s slanguage my protest is here
given. ' * *
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Several of Australia’s
more notable anniversaries fall in May*
On May 2, 1841, New Zealand was offi-
cially separated from New South Wales,
of which it had been proclaimed part on
May 21, 1840. The district of Moreton
Bay (Q.) was proclaimed on May 4,
1842, and the Constitution of Victoria
came into operation on May 5, 1853.
Port Jackson was discovered by Cook on
May 6 and Moreton Bay on May 17,
1770. Bathurst (N.S.W.) was founded on
May 7, 1815, and the Bathurst gold rush
began on May 9, 1851. The Sydney Mint
was established on May 14, 1855. Oxley s
second expedition started on May 20,
1818. The first Queensland Parliament
was opened on May 23, 1860. Sydney
was first lighted with gas on May 26,
1844, and the first free immigrant ship
arrived there on May 31, 1831. And
Lang’s last Administration was dismissed
on May 13, 1932, by Governor Game.
* * 1= *
“Changi Charlie”: When Eighth Divvy
lads moved into Changi in May, 1944,
they were greeted with a number of mes-
sages written on the walls by women and
children who had been moved on to
Syme-road internment camp. In Cell
33, Block A, I found the follow-
ing in block letters behind the door:
“This cell was occupied by Lady Thomas,
wife of the Governor of the Straits
Settlements, from April 17, 1942, to
May, 1944. Good luck, Australians. A
short stay here.” In cell 22 on the same
floor I found these words written in a
flowing hand: “Dr. Jeanette Keith Robin-
son (from Bradley’s Head, Sydney, when
not of Singapore) spent two years and two
months in this cell in a bugless condition.
Good luck, cobbers.” And in the same
cell the following: “Doris Keat, interned
in Changi Jail 8/ 3 / ’42. Released ?
Wife of C. H. Keat, S.S.V.F. Best of
luck, boys, and may your stay be short
and cheerful,” Even now these messages
warm my heart, I hope those who wrote
them got through.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: Experience gained in
the ball-for-ball Test-match descriptions
is going to help in the chess match shortly
to be played between France and Aus-
tralia. Australian players will have to be
at their boards from 7 p.m. to 1 a.m.,
which coincides with between 9 a.m. and
3 p.m. in Paris, and halfway through this
period there is a fairly consistent fade in
the radio reception. Then the cable takes
over to keep the air messages moving.
The resulting lag in some of the messages
has results which have to be watched ;
in one of the Tests Bradman manfully
hit a couple of fours after he had been
reported out. If Lagos Steiner went on
capturing his opponent’s pieces after a
checkmate had been announced chessites
would be startled, to say the least.
» * * *
“Sextant”: We were racing out of Sol-
ium on a pitch-dark night, A terrific
crash came as we collided with a British
trawler. She sank almost immediately,
but luckily we had hit her in the coal
bunker, and there were no casualties.
After picking up her crew we carried on
eastward to drydock. Next day our sister-
ship Vendetta, unaware of our accident,
was on the lookout for subs. Suddenly
her asdic operator reported a contact.
Vendetta swung round and went in to
the attack. As the explosions of her
depth charges subsided, she turned and
came back looking for evidence to sup-
port a claim for a kill. On the surface
was a large board with brass letters which
read “H.M.S. Bandelero.” Vendetta had
attacked the wreck of the ship we had
sunk the night before. This nameplate
was still aboard Vendetta when she was
running up and down this coast last year.
* * * *
Lord Mayor Connelly has an
unusual link with early Melbourne. Every
month he signs a cheque for rent in favor
of Peter Davis, Mayor of the city in 1856,
or, rather, Peter’s heirs and assigns. As
managing director of Latrobe Motors, in
Exhibition-street, he is a tenant of his pre-
decessor’s estate. Peter’s business was
horsedrawn transport, and an old iron
tethering-ring still hangs in the building.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Ancient monasteries used to
chain up their sacred books so that
readers couldn’t become borrowers,
and I found The Bulletin file
chained up in Australia House. But
Melbourne National Gallery’s habit
of chaining up its pictures goes further
than that. Australian artists can’t go into
that institution, set up their easels and
copy Old Masters or other famous pic-
tures as they can almost anywhere in
Europe, the excuse of the trustees being
that the pictures might be damaged. All
the great galleries in Europe have a 'day
set apart when artists and students can
copy paintings—in fact, one of the con*
ditions of the Melbourne National Gal-
lery’s travelling scholarship is that the
winner should send back a copy of some
Old Master, which he couldn’t do if the
European attitude was similar to Mel-
bourne’s. Titian, Rubens, Rembrandt, Vel-
asquez, Bellini and other great artists
assiduously copied one another’s pictures
as the only way of discovering how their
predecessors got their effects. Australia
has some very fine artists, but if they
copied, say, the Rembrandt self-portrait
or the Van Eyck they would soon find
how far short of the Old Masters was
their technique. As for modernists, it
should be made compulsory for them to
copy at least one picture, preferably by
an artist they have a contempt for, just
to show them how badly they would
do it.
* * M *
“Seaforth”: It is so long since I have
been handed a spurious two-bob that I
suspect that all Sydney’s counterfeiters
are in the stone-jug or the black-
market. There was a time during the
depression when I collected two or three
duds a week until I got into the habit
of changing my notes at a bank. It was
so bad in the early ’thirties that we hung
a yard-square board to the wall of a
printery I was connected with and nailed
on it the crook florins harvested by the
staff. The brummies ended up in
the metal pots in the stereotyping de-
partment and later formed part of the
plates for the rotary presses. Most
people, however, caught with a dud hast-
ened to pass it on to some other victim,
mostly an unfortunate trammie, news-
paper boy, barmaid or picture-show
cashier.
* * * *
“T. McN. ’: That par. about 8.8. C.
allegedly inspecting haunted houses with
a view to getting some fruity old English
ghost to broadcast (B. 1/5/’46) reminds
me of the damning question I once heard
put by an intelligent flapper after listen-
ing to a spiritualist declare that she had
heard spirit voices from the other side.
“But,” asked the girl, “however do they
manage to take their larynxes with
them?” The answer was a silence as
deep and shocked as that which emanated
from Mrs. Jessie Street after the Maloney
broadcast on Russia.
¥ * * *
“Gamp”: “Zake’s” coincidence (B.
3/4/’46) was remarkable, but what about
this? At our bank absentminded
customers sometimes forget their um-
brellas, which are placed by the care-
taker in a back room and known as the
reserve fund,” to be drawn upon by clerks
on rainy days. One night a few weeks
back, caught by a heavy storm, I found
only one left in the “fund.” It was ot
superior make and material, but with a
fragile frame. Battling against the storm
to my home it turned inside-out several
times, and finally collapsed. Bending it
across my knee, I pitched it over a
neighbor’s fence.' Next day while walk-
ing to our tram with him he remarked
“There is a champion mean man some-
where in this neighborhood he borrowed
my umbrella some weeks ago and re-
turned it to me last night smashed beyond
repair.” I had to tell him.
ACHILLES HEEL.
“Acting Prime Minister Porde lias been reminding
Labor supporters that strikes are the Achilles heel
of the present Government.’*'
I rather like a classical allusion.
And Francis Forde, whose business before
He took to politics was the diffusion
Of various kinds of academic lore,
Finds time for an occasional inclusion
Of some such items in his repertoire,
As when he sends the workers an appeal
Drawn from the story bf Achilles’ heel.
A simile like this is far more telling,
1 think, for being quite outside the range
Of ordinary dialectic shelling
Which Parliamentary orators exchange.
Yet, for the simple purpose of dispelling . ,
The doubt's of such as find the reference
strange,
Let’s see what cyclopaedias reveal
Upon the subject of Achilles’ heel.
His mother Thetis plunged, so runs the fable,
The future hero into Styx’s flow,
A dodge to render him invulnemh/e
For ever after against any blow,
Most of him, anyhow. She wasn’t able,
You see, to let the kid entirely go,
Or he’d have drowned; which clearly left a deal
Of risk attaching to Achilles’ heel.
’Twas this that queered his pitchf. All he effected
On Trojan plains, the victories he scored,
The scalps (including Hector’s) he collected,
The tally of antagonists he floored,
Came to an end, because his mum neglected
To dip him fastened to a bit of cord;
Finished when Paris loosed, well-tipped with
steel,
A shaft to hit and hole Achilles’ heel.
Take heed, you demagogues who plan intensive
Labor upheavals upon any excuse,
It’s surely bad enough the inoffensive
Public must face the hardships they induce.
But what makes Forde a deal more apprehensive
Is that you’ll cook the Ministerial goose
If you persist. He and his colleagues feel
Industrial strikes are their Achilles heel.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bondi Beachcomber”: Most Sydney
papers feature professional humorists, but
for my laughs I’ll take seriously-
intended short stories in the evening
sheets. One tale was about a Jap who
spoke pidgin English, fired two “rat-tat-
tat bursts” from a rifle and took cover
from answering fire behind a coconut-
tree. Later in the story a wounded Nip
crawls into the “dense jungle” and “buries
his face in the grass.” Another daily
published a short story in which a re-
turned soldier marches out of the dis-
charge depot carrying his full pack,
Owen-gun and discharge papers. Falling
on hard times he sells his Owen-gun,
later happening into a bank where the
bloke who bought it is holding up the
joint. It transpired that, besides steal-
ing Army property, he had sold the
gun fraudulently, because he’d “fixed it
so that it wouldn’t shoot.” The hold-up
falls through and the robber is captured
—but don’t laugh yet. The final ab-
surdity is when the grateful bank-manager
offers the double-dealing hero a job as
permanent hold-up stopper.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Jephson, being on almost
speaking terms with the dramatic critic
of a newspaper, gave the fellow a cigarette
at one of their rare meetings and was
rewarded with a couple of complimentary
tickets to a “little theatre” performance.
Mrs. Jephson went very highbrow and
made great preparations for the evening.
Half the street was on hand to witness
the dabbler in the arts hand his lady
into the taxi, and the pair proceeded to
the town hall of a distant suburb feeling
that at last they were sharing the plea-
"I've brought my return ticket THIS time!”
sures of the superior intelligentsia. There
was a fair crowd outside the hall and
Jephson, conscious of his dinner suit and
the occasion, gave his wife an arm and
led her up the steps. The door opened,
a hand grabbed J, and whirled him in-
side from his spouse and a stern voice
cried, “No ladies admitted.” Then Jeph-
son discovered that (a) he had anticipated
the date by a week and (b) he was amidst
the gathering of a closed society which
the late Adolf Hitler hated as he did the
Israelites. Which is why the audience
at a nearby picture theatre was somewhat
startled to perceive a couple in evening
dress being ushered to the only bob seats
available.
“Hey, beautiful —care for a ride ?”
“Clooter”: Touching those welcome
ex-servicemen conductors on Sydney trams
(B. 1 1 5 / ’46). I was travelling up George-
street when a long, cheerful cuss with a
returned badge on his coat swung along
the footboard after fares. He was
polite and smiling, careful of passengers’
comfort, and, when a lady came along at
a stop and proffered him tuppence, he
thanked her. As the tram moved on he
tore the necessary ticket from his book
and gaily tossed it to the breeze, where-
upon a middle-aged citizen of the great
city said, with that Chesterfieldian charm
which distinguishes his type, “Garn, y’
mug. Why didn’t y’ pocket the ruddy
coppers? Whatcha wanta pull a ticket
for?” The conductor eyed him coldly
and remarked, “I’m no rogue.” “Y’re a
mug,” was the answer. “Y’ won’t get far
bein’ honest in this country.” The con-
ductor prepared to swing away. “Well,”
he said, “I don’t reckon you’ve got much
farther than the dirt you started' in.” He
disappeared, looking as though angered
by having been stirred into forgetting his
politeness.
* * * *
“Morehead”: Nearly 60 years have
elapsed since Phil May, after a three
years’ sojourn on The Bulletin staff,
returned to England, yet interest in the
man and his art remains unabated. Sydney
secondhand booksellers report constant
inquiries for Phil May in Australia, a
collection of the artist’s Bulletin work
edited by A. G. Stephens, and art dealers
have no difficulty in selling his original
black-and-white sketches. Two Phil May
items which are very rare these days are
the two “catalogues of original drawings
by the late Phil May contributed
to The Bulletin.” One relates to a
sale of drawings by Bradleys, Sydney,
ia September, 1903, the second to a
sale the following month by Gemmell,
Tucketts, Melbourne. At the Sydney
sale 476 originals were offered and
brought in £1222 7s, 6d.; 143 were
sold for £393 12s. 6cT. at the Melbourne
auction. Like Leech, Keene and other
illustrators. May sometimes forgot to
attach his signature to a drawing, and
to purchasers who desired it the vendors
gave a written guarantee that every
drawing submitted was a genuine Phil
May. The catalogues, which are copi-
ously annotated and illustrated by Phil
May sketches, were sold at 6d.; a few in
white buckram, with a title in gold and
numbered, at 2s. 6d. Anyone know to-
day’s prices for them?
“Pitt St.”: I’m unmoved by “J.H.M.’s”
defence of amplified music at public
gatherings (B. 1/5/’46), not only because
he admits to being an announcer and
therefore has a strong interest in the
defence, but because his arguments are
poor. Who told him that “there is no-
thing more bored than a big crowd” wait-
ing for an event to begin? That’s when
the crowd is probably happiest, discussing
the event itself, spotting friends in the
crowd, anticipating and analysing and
comparing, talking and laughing with
animation. It’s only when a blast of
agonised sound comes from the loud-
speakers that the waiting crowd looks
worried. I suspect that the “R.A.S.
experts who sounded out public taste”
roost in B-class radio stations and go by
those silly house-to-house canvases of
harried housewives on behalf of some-
body’s painkiller. I’d like to have
“J.H.M.” with me in the next R.A.S.
crowd, jammed immovably on the ring-
fence right underneath one of his instru-
ments of torture and unable to get clear
of it.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser” on a famous old
theatre:
Melbourne King’s has been sold. Bilander-
son opened the old playhouse in 1908 and
Bailey and Grant carried on the tradition
of bellowdrama there for 16 years. It was at
the King’s in 1912 that “On Our Selection”
made its first bow. It proved a goldmine. So,
strange to say, did post-Restoration comedy for
Allan Wilkie many years later. Much to the
surprise of that tragedian, who had been
reduced to his shirt by a long and honorable
affection for Shakspeare, “The School for
Scandal,” revived as a forlorn hope, drew all
Melbourne, and the producer made a small
fortune, promptly lost again on Shakspeare.
Emilie Polini scored a hit at the King’s, and
so did Guy Bates Post, whose slow-motion
acting in “The Masquerader” made a deep im-
pression on the theatre-going public, and on
one occasion was communicated even to the
asbestos safety curtain, which refused to go up
for 40 minutes. It was at the King’s that
Rene Kelly gave her 2000th performance of
“Daddy Longlegs,” Oscar Asche made his final
bow to Australia in “The Skin Game,” Harry
Lauder crocked his last joke and “White Cargo”
was seduced by Tondeleyo. One of my pleasant-
est recollections is of Irene Vanbrugh staging a
comeback in dear old lady parts so beautifully
done that they took the attention off the young
juvenile and his inamorata—he was a shy
young actor named Brian Aherne. The last
important event was Dame Sybil Thorndike’s
opening in Shaw’s “St. Joan,” with Lewis
Casson. After that the talkies hit all Mel-
bourne theatres like an atomic bomb. The
King’s struggled on. Phillip Hargraves, the
Adelaide infant prodigy of the piano, played
there, and sundry old barnstormers lost other
people’s, money trying to revive melodrama
done better by the movies. During the last of
its declining years the playhouse with its
fading fittings was a talkie theatre.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; There are others who
have no liking for the boss who is “Bill”
to his employees. A tradesman who sur-
prised me by saying that he had left the
job where his work had been highly appre-
ciated during the war explained that his
former workshop was “a loosebox of a
place where even the messenger boy calls
the boss Tom. ‘I wonder I stood it as
long as I did.’ ” My suggestion was
that if the job was a good one it should
not worry him to have to call the man-
ager by his Christian name. “It’s not
having to call him by his Christian name
that worried me,” said my friend ; “but
he thought himself entitled to call me
by mine.”
“Weff”: Had I the ability to compose
patriotic doggerel I reckon I could earn
more in a year as a rhymster than any of
our well-known contemporary poets. On
numerous occasions recently I have been
stopped in the street or bailed up in pubs
by voluble magsmen who have insisted
that I buy a sheet or book-
let of their verse. A few
of them have sported returned
servicemen’s badges. The
rhymes are invariably as
crude as they are patriotic
and are cheaply printed.
Since I am usually stung for
at least a bob and I have seen
many others forking out, I
conclude that there must be
handsome profits in this pub-
lic peddling of one’s literary
labor. I haven’t discussed the
economics of the business
with any of the pave-
ment poets I have lately
encountered, but I once knew
a chap who made more than
a comfortable living hawking
a book of his own verse
around the suburbs. I am
thinking of asking “Bellerive”
to turn out a few poems for
me and entering the game my-
self.
* * * *
“Zake”: One Sydney sub-
urban iceman turned the meat
strike to his advantage. At this
time of the year the only food call-
ing for the use of ice is fresh meat.
With that cut out, it looked like being a
vocational blackout for him, until he
hit on the idea of buying up rabbits in
a big way. He knew he’d have no trouble
in selling one each to his .customers, but
that wouldn’t get rid of his ice. So he
put on some successful high-pressure sales
talk. By taking the second bunny the
housewife found that a bfqck of ice to
keep it on was essential. He says it was
like spearing fish in a barrel.
* * * • *
“V 3”: Anyone acquainted with a large
public hospital will have seen the paging
indicators situated in various places
throughout the building. By combina-
tions of figures flashed continuously any-
one wanted (doctor, matron or suchlike)
may be contacted. One of these affairs
was placed in front of a door leading into
a ward in such a position that it flashed
on and off straight into the ward. A
patient, in a bed directly in front of it,
stood the annoyance for a while, until
one night the hospital resounded to a
crash and tinkling of glass. A magnifi-
cent 40ft. shot with a lemonade bottle
had smashed the thing to smithereens!
“Hamer”: If E. W. Cole bought those
monkeys (B. 17/4/’46) he didn’t pay too
much for them; probably they were a
few-bob bargain, and Cole couldn’t resist
a bargain. Hugh Maclean, who later did
some work for The Bulletin, and is still
on deck, worked for Cole in his early
youth. He lived in the Cole menage, did
what drawing work Cole wanted, helped
in the shop and fed the monkeys ; and
for all this (with one afternoon and night
off) he received a noble ten bob a week,
with his keep. Cole was well satisfied
with Hughie’s work, and one day he told
him so. “I’m going to give you a
pleasant surprise,” he said genially, “I’m
going to give you another shilling a
week. But don’t tell Mrs, Cole,” he added
in a whisper as if he feared that the lady
who was boss might overhear him.
* * * *
“Jimri”: Cardinal Moran’s History of
the Catholic Church in Australasia men-
tions a possible Spanish settlement on
our eastern coast at Port Curtis long be-
fore Cook passed that way. Exponents
of the same theory were Lawrence Har-
graves and E. J. Brady in King’s
Caravan. Years ago I looked in at Port
Curtis and took a peek at a carving on
the cliff face. Neither the workmanship
nor the depth of the incising could pos-
sibly have been done With abo. tools.
There remained what had possibly been
a well, and the oldest inhabitants remem-
bered a cannon found in the sand on the
beach and inscribed “Santa Barbara.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”; Legally, the dentist who
broke the unpaid-for teeth of a patient
(B. 24/4/’46) ran a risk, as an oculist
discovered a few years ago. Annoyed at
the failure of a client to pay for his
glasses, he grabbed them from the nose
of the recalcitrant one and broke them.
The avalanche of trouble that fell upon
him included an order that he should
pay the full value the glasses to the
man who had not paid for them; the
oculist’s solicitor was told sharply that
he ought to know that the debt due on
the lenses was another matter altogether,
and would have to be sought by the
ordinary debt-recovery process.
A DEFINITION.
“The Communist party, Mr. Attlee told a Labor
conference in England, gave lip-service to democ-
racy, but sought to gain power by disregarding the
standards of conduct which alone made life possible
in a civilised society.”
The old-time party label, you’ll allow,
Scant clue to modern differences gives.
Times change, we with them, and they’re
Liberals now
Who once would have been termed Conserva-
tives.
And what is Communism, do you ask,
The creed such frequent voices bid you shun?
Well, summarising that’s an easy task,
It’s simply Socialism —with a gun.
Our forefathers were Whigs or Tories, just
As fate ordained in pre-Victorian days.
Into the discard now one term is thrust,
The other only used in sour dispraise.
What was the genuine dividing line
Twixt them is clear to-day to few or none;
But Communism you may well define
As merely Socialism —with a gun.
In one republic, viz., the U.S.A.,
A stronghold of democracy at that,
Fierce party war is waged from day to day
Between Republican and Democrat.
Distinctions such as these confuse and vex,
For sheer inanity they take the bun;
But Communism’s role need none perplex,
It’s only Socialism —with a gun.
Brother, beware of aught that may befall
Before these years of stress and strain are
done.
Beware of Communism most of all,
It is but Socialism —plus a gun.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


? S e x» urn
B U\lO\N6 SHttT
%
bib« '3'« c *' 0 „d «">»** Red
**
Ambers.^ aUab \ Q in a
&M
GM.VA* 4 ' 1 * 0
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydn*y •,M«lbpurn« • Bri«bon«
. ’ Adtlaid* ♦ P«rth
The
Serviceman
Will Suffer
It is indeed tragic that ex-servicemen,
who have given the years of their youth
fighting for Australia, should face un-
employment because of the deliberate
strangling of. our export trade by a
small and noisy group of v agitators.
The hold-up of Dutch ships *has
resulted in an immediate loss of
£6,000,000 worth of orders. On
this trade alone, the direct loss to
workers in wages on manufactured
goods would not be far short of
£2,000,000. Future trade endan-
gered cannot be computed but its
loss would mean a decline in living
standards throughout Australia.
The Federal Government, the Dutch
authorities and the Trades and Labour
Council all agree the ships should sail,
but no one appears to be able to control
the small minority responsible for the
trouble.
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of
Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
CE6
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
HOME LIGHTING
PLANT
Compact pot rot-driven generator for 110 to’**
or 240 volts. Output up to 45 x6O w
lamps. Easy to operate.
Apply to RODNEY,
109 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
THE SERVICE MAN
Nauru's War.
“Ek Dum”: The Court which tried
him at Rabaul has decided justly that
Nahumi Suzuki, the Japanese com-
mander on Ocean Island, shall be hanged
for his crimes.
Major R. G. Sampson brought Suzuki
over in the River Burdekin, whose cap-
tain (Walter Fish) had cause to remem-
ber the equatorial waters into which he
steamed —his ship, the Komata, was sunk,
and he was kept prisoner by the Hun for
several weeks before being thrown off
on to Emirau. The River Burdekin
paused over the spot where the Komata
went down to hold a service for the
latter’s second mate, who was lost in the
sinking.
Both phosphate isles, Nauru and Ocean
Island, had a bad time. On Nauru it
was difficult to discover what really hap-
pened, though Lieut.-Colonel Kelly, the
O.C. of the 31/51 Battalion, had the
island dug over in search of evidence.
But it seems to have been established
that the five Australians, including Dr.
Quinn, who disappeared there were
murdered early one morning in 1943 in a
senseless reprisal for the first air raid on
the island. The Japanese story was that
the Australians had been killed in a raid
while being moved to a place of safety.
The executions were carried out by order
of Lieut.-Commander Nakayama and the
bodies, according to the testimony of a
native, Harry, were driven away in a
truck by A.B. Harada Takekaru.
The Japanese apparently treated the
natives fairly well, save occasionally for
using one for target practice ; but John
Chinaman gave his evidence on Japanese
humanity when 1000 Japs were taken off
the island. His valedictory was a shower
of stones. The 500 Nipponese left be-
hind to do coolie work among the phos-
phate are unlikely to be enjoying life..
Enter the Nip
The history of Nauru’s Second Pacific
War (it had its first in 1940 when the
Germans came) began with a raid by
nine Jap aircraft on August 23, 1942.
This was followed by a night bombard-
ment by two cruisers, which did a deal
of damage to Government property.
On August 26 a Jap force landed at
1.15 a.m., but after smashing the wireless
station and hoisting the Jap flag the
enemy left for a- time. Three cruisers
turned up at 9 a.m. and a party came
ashore, inspected properties and chose
headquarters.
On August 28 208 Jap Marines came
in, followed by 72 worthies from the
South Sea Development Co, (N.T.K.).
By September they were working
phosphate, partly with Chinese labor.
Operations were parallel to a search of
the Chinese quarters for radio sets, a
demand on the Chinese for bicycles and
the execution of two Chinese who
wandered too near Japanese unit lines at
night. A capitation tax was fixed and
collected on September 10 —£1 on Chinese
and 15s. on natives.
About 300 more Jap Marines arrived
on October 3, and work at once began
on the laying down of an airfield. By
fhe third week in November natives had
been cleared out of the area and 700 Japs
and 200 Nauruans were put to work on
the job. Later another 75 natives were
added to the gang. In January, 1943,
800 more Jap coolies began to push the
’drome to completion with a feverish
energy. The Nauruans had had a good
first Christmas Day under slave rule,
since some unknown submarine had that
day tried to torpedo a Jap freighter dis-
charging cargo.
On January 25, 1943, the airfield was
completed, and next day the first Jap
bomber arrived. It was followed at once
by 12 more bombers. The Americans
were not far behind. The first siren went
off on January 29, and from then on-
wards the Nippon authorities had an
anxious time until they received a
squadron of fighters on February 12
and 13.
Raids and Executions
After that life became even more
anxious. On February 21 the Yankees
turned up in some force at night, blew
eight bombers and seven fighters to
smithereens and destroyed two look-out
stations and a magazine.
At 2.30 a.m. next morning all the
Europeans on the island were executed.
March 7 saw a Marine High Com-
mand established, and another 800
Marines arrived, the signal for redoubled
efforts by the Americans, who sent 21
machines on March 21 and 24 on
April 21.
On May 17 there was a rigorous search
of Chinese quarters, which took five
hours. Food, clocks, watches, torches,
machinery, blankets and clothing were
looted. This was a preliminary to a
change of administration. The staffs of
Phosphate Development left for home on
June 11, and, henceforward, the phos-
phate was worked by the locals, entirely
under Marine Corps supervision.
On June 18, 23 U.S. aircraft wrecked
three Jap bombers and a fighter. There
followed an attack in which nine aircraft
did slight damage to the European settle-
ment, the day after another 500 Marines
had put in an appearance. About the
same time 30 sick Chinese and about 600
Nauruans, mostly related to lepers, were
transferred to Ponape, in the Carolines,
and 50 Ocean Islanders arrived, the van-
guard of 900 who came in before
August 8.
Six hundred Nauruans were sent off
to Truk, along with the Catholic Fathers
Kayser and Claverat. Then another
1200 Marines turned up. The Japs very
evidently knew what was happening in
the north-east; and they wanted phos-
phate badly.
Life was brightened during September
by the spectacle of the sinking of a 6000-
ton Jap freighter full of petrol one morn-
ing by a U.S. submarine. A Chinese
chronicle reports:
A huge explosion follows with a burst
of red flame shooting into the air from
amidships, accompanied by an upheaval of
spray and smoke, and showers of bright
sparks. It looks as though someone takes
a running kick at a bonfire.
The ship broke in half. Of 250 soldiers,
100 passengers and a crew of 100 only
21 survived, and three of those died in
hospital the same niglft.
The Air Era Ends
A Japanese admiral inspected the island
on October 6, and next day the,Jast 12
bombers on the island took off for Wake.
They were all lost. The Jap air era in
Nauru was ended, but not the American.
There were 150 U.S ’planes over the
island on November 20 during four raids.
Great damage was done, and the unfor-
tunate Chinese quarter was badly bat-
tered in an assault by 31 bombers on
November 29. This was followed by a
combined naval (nine ships) and air (90
machines) onslaught on December 9.
when the occupiers of the island were
able —actually—to report the destruction
of an attacking aircraft. Two cruisers
rushed ammunition from Truk through
a cordon of beleaguering aircraft about
a month later.
Japanese fortifications were completed
at the end of February, and natives were
relieved of work on them, but life be-
came little easier for that. Food was
desperately short, the island in a state
of blockade and the U.S. forces developed
a sense of humor —one day they dropped
30 tins of salmon instead of bombs.
These were little use to 2867 Jap Marines,
1311 Jap laborers, 1463 natives and 179
Chinese,
Another U.S. ’plane was shot down on
June 30 by a direct shell hit. The Ameri-
cans had their own back the following
week, when they destroyed a store with
a month’s supply of provisions for the
garrison.
There was only one day in ' August,
1944, during which the island was not
raided, and a stocktaking of ammunition
on August 6 showed only 2376 shells, or
400 per gun of the six on the island re-
maining in stock. This was not very
heartening. The raiders were coming
in in pairs from two to six times a day.
In September raiding machines became
bigger and better, and added cannon fire
to the amenities with which they pro-
vided the island.
In the middle of the month the first
cargo submarine turned up with 75 tons
of rice, 50 tons of ammunition and some
other supplies. Chinese were now dying
of starvation or suiciding almost every
week. In November all their bicycles
were confiscated. Executions for stealing
began to be reported, and the conquerors
certainly did not become easier to live
with. In February, 1945, they opened


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERTHA HAMILTON.—TAKE NOTICE that
LOUIS ANDREW JOHN HAMILTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1708 of 1946 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 17th June 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MR. E. F. MILVERTON Solicitor 11c Castlereagh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOSEPH LUCAS BURNS—TAKE
NOTICE that RUTH JUNE BURNS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1240 of 1946 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you .wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 31st May 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MR. E. P. MILVERTON Solicitor 11c Castlereagh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CYRIL GEORGE KENT late of Finley near
Forbes in the State of New South Wales.—Take
NOTICE that KITTY BLANCHE KENT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 714 of 1946 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the sth day of July
1946 and obtain a copy of the petition without
oharge from JOHN H. YELDHAM Solicitor for the
Petitioner 137 Pacific Highway North Sydney or
his Town Agent EDMUND ALLAN UTHER of
ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD Solicitors of 350
George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID O’CONNELL late of Wollongong in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
BERYL MAY O’CONNELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1059 of 1946 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Couft King Street Sydney by the 12th day of
July 1946 and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from John H. Yeldham Solicitor for
the Petitioner 137 Pacific Highway North Sydney
or his Town Agent EDMUND ALLAN UTHER of
ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD Solicitors of 350
George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA—
In Divorce,
TO MERYYN GEORGE DUDMAN whose last known
address was Number 74 Clare' Street New Town
Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the Petition
of MURIEL ALMA JOSEPHINE DUDMAN of
Taroona in Tasmania Married Woman praying for a
dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. — (1.5.)
R. G. BINGHAM, Principal Registrar.
N. 8.: Will any friend of the abovenamed Mervyn
George Dudman who may see this advertisement
bring it under his notice? —Johnson, Mitchell &
Laughton, 38 Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
IN the Estate of ROBERT EDGAR LOFT late of
No. 73 O’Shannassy Street North Melbourne in the
State of Victoria deceased intestate. —PURSUANT
to an Order of the Supreme Court of Victoria made
in the Action 1945 No. 674 in which THE UNION
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
is Plaintiff and WILLIAM GEORGE HORACE LOFT
and HERBERT lEVERS GRAHAM are Defendants
the persons claiming to be next of kin (or the
personal representatives of such) of the abovenamed
Robert Edgar Loft who died on or, about the 9th
day of October 1943 (and who was the son of
George Loft believed to have been born about 1828
in Suffolk England the son of George Loft and Ann
Anderton married in 1827 and of Belinda
Trescowthick born about 1838 in Illogan Cornwall
England the daughter of John Trescowthick and
Susannah Gribble married in 1824) are personally
or by their Solicitors on or before the 31st day
of July 1946 to come in and prove their claims
at the Office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts
Melbourne or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
Order Thursday the Bth day of August 1946 at
11 o’clock in the forenoon at the said Office is
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims. Dated
the 28th day of February, 1946.—ER1C S. VANCE,
Chief Clerk.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IDA MARY DENISON, formerly IDA MARY
RICKETTS, or anyone knowing her whereabouts,
please communicate with Permanent Trustee Com-
pany of New South Wales, Limited, 25 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, concerning Ellen Ricketts’s Settle-
ment, which may now become available for
distribution.
TELSEN GILBERT SQUIRES (sometimes known as
Thomas Squires), son of the late Henry and
Elizabeth Squires, of Tyenna, in Tasmania, but
last heard of at Yass (N.S.W.), will hear something
to his advantage by communicating with CLERK,
WALKER & STOPS, Solicitors, 116 Collins Street,
Hobart.
If JOHN WATSON, sometimes known as John Lavan,
who resided at 1130 Hay Street, West Perth, West-
ern Australia, in 1938, will communicate with
P. R. Jackson, Box A 35 G.P.0., Perth, he will
hear something to his advantage.
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ms
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand,
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT,
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). O. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
-S3?
5
a
%
[s3ruarant &*U
jt'.-rssS'*?
nr»*
• •»ii»"< w *
*■
The HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMICAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH
HAS BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS,
AND THE ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES SEVEN YEARS AGAINST
CORROSION.
■WARNING !
Before making a purchase of any other chemical closet the Public
is advised to investigate the integrity of the Hygeia Sanitary Co.
Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee compared with any other guarantee.
Be wise—do not be misled by specious statements. Buy oply that which has
an unsullied reputation.
PRICE: £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating 10/9 extra)
Slightly more in other States.
WRITE FOB ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY.
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney;
Est. 1927
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworths Buildings, Adelaide
St., Brisbane.
S. Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: B. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
•
Xv*
,
HiS
an officers’ club, at which all the besf-
looking native girls were sent to work.
Nauru now seemed a forgotten island.
Nobody bothered about it any more, and
when, on July 17, ten U.S. aircraft turned
up they were the first seen for months.
On August 20 the peace was officially
announced to the public, and next day,
after letters had been dropped by Ameri-
can aircraft, white flags were shown
everywhere. Amid general rejoicing, the
defeated enemy began to prepare for
ignominious surrender.
Nauru had come through its ordeal
more fortunately than Ocean Island, on
which no living humans were left save
Japanese. But its installations received
such a battering that it will be some time
before it is producing. Ocean Island,
however, is fit to produce at once.
“Yes, missus , it's good ter git back ter work again an forget about
the war."
Spring In Paris.
“Ek Bum”: The Italian question and
the Mediterranean questions linked with
it seem to be the point at which the test
will be applied to Allied patience with
Russia, Britain, the United States and
the U.S.S.R. are apparently all clear on
one point—that the Mediterranean is the
strategical centre of the world, the throat
at which the British Commonwealth
might be strangled.
Russia is obviously aiming at gaining
control of the Mediterranean (and thus
of Europe) by (a) surrounding Turkey,
through the acquirement of Kars and
Ardahan and a base in the Dodecanese,
which would place Asia Minor in a
wedge ; (b) by driving the British out of
Palestine and Egypt through the indis-
criminate use of Jewish and Moslem anti-
British propaganda ; (c) by securing con-
trol over Tripolitania, for which Mos-
cow has impudently asked, despite the
fact that during the most crucial period
of the African war Soviet Russia was
brazenly on the side of Germany; ( d )
by the creation of a Communist Italy
opposite to Tripolitania, making the
Central Mediterranean a Russiah-con-
trolled basin ; (e) through the overthrow
of Franco and the establishment of a de-
religionised and Communist Spain which
would at once isolate France and dis-
cover that Gibraltar was a blot on the
Spanish landscape; (/) by control of
Spanish Morocco and Tangier, in which
Russia already has demanded and re-
ceived a share of the management.
For the moment Turkey and Italy are
the issues—the latter more especially so.
The Turkish issue must be near the brink.
Large Russian forces are reported to be
exercising on the north-eastern borders
of Ataturk’s national creation. If they
are intended for action June is the most
favorable month. But the Persian posi-
tion should tell some story in the next
week or so. Viewed in their military
shape, the whole of the Russian pro-
ceedings to date look like a cadre re-
hearsal for the occupation of Persia and
its strategic communication bases lead-
ing from the sea to the area in which a
Russo-Turkish campaign would be
fought. The showing of the U.S. flag
in the Golden Horn by one of the newest
and most powerful American battleships,
Missouri, the rebuff to Russian ambitions
to own the Dodecanese and generally to
become a Mediterranean Power, and the
presence of 100,000 British troops re-
ported in Palestine are all indications of
the way the wind is blowing.
Italy the Key
But Italy is the key. The extent of
the pressure which Russia is endeavoring
to bring in that matter is to be observed
far afield, since control of Italy involves
not only that country but (in the eyes of
Moscow, it seems) control of the Papacy,
also.
All bans have been removed from
the Russian church. The taxes on
church property (higher than on any
other kind) were lifted on the
verge of the Paris conference. In in-
dustrial centres in Australia onlookers
have been puzzled lately to see “good”
Communists, badges up, solemnly attend-
ing mass! '.
It is all very clumsy. And it will not
work. In the United States there are
certain votes which count and certain
sections of outside foreign opinion to
which there is instant reaction in foreign
policy. The Italian vote counts—the more
because it commands hearty leadership
like that of Fiorello La Guardia.
Thus it became necessary for Mr.
Byrnes to take a stand when the future
of Italy came into question.
Only a day or two after Generalissimo
Stalin’s May Day speech with its warning
against “international warmongers” the
Foreign Ministers held an informal talk
in Paris, their more formal colloquys
having ended only in confusion. After
this talk, the United States delegation
issued a version, all the more striking
since it was prefaced by Mr. Byrnes’s ex-
pressions of anxiety about the size of
Red Army forces in Central Europe.
It was made clear that Mr. Byrnes had
begun and pushed to the limit a bitter
argument with M. Molotov about the
revised armistice terms to Axis satellites.
He made it plain that Uncle Sam was
not willing to go on paying money to
Italy to provide reparations (or booty)
for Russia. Italy has had £300,000,000
from the U.S. in credit and U.N.R.R.A.
payments.
The Foreign Secretary suggested that
the armistice terms for Italy and the
Balkan States be revised, a matter on
which Moscow had been adamant. He
offered (and Molotov refused) a portion
of the Italian fleet in satisfaction of
Russian claims to reparations against Italy.
And it was stated that Mr. Byrnes
asked the Russians firmly what the objects
of their policy were —whether they were
expansionist, and, if defensive, against
whose aggression they were designed.
Concealed Objectives
The whole debate centred in con-
cealed Russian objectives, which were
covered by a proposal from the United
States Government that a body should be
set up in Italy to assure the handing over
of war criminals.
Behind Molotov’s hostility to this were
two issues. He openly objected that such
a move would be used as a pretext to
retain Allied troops in Italy. Behind this
it would be easy to deduce that the
Yugoslav claims to Trieste (due for im-
mediate consideration by the Foreign
Ministers) could be more easily settled
with Allied forces out of the way, apart
from certain internal objectives. Even
more deeply imbedded in the complicated
question is a Russian reluctance to see war
criminals dealt with in Italy.
Strange as it may seem, there are
creditable authorities —they give names,
chapter and verse —who profess them-
selves prepared to prove that many of
the worst Fascist war criminals are now
leaders of the Italian Communist move-
ment.
It becomes less strange when it is re-
membered that, while Moscow, during the
Spanish War, was rating the Italian Gov-
ernment as a gang of bloodstained
ruffians, the Italian naval yards were de-
signing and partly building the new
Russian Navy!
It is scarcely clear to Australians that
the question of Russian intentions is a
matter of paramount interest in the
United States. U.S. papers devote almost
as much space to it as Sydney papers do
to horse- and dog-racing and League
football. And if the U.S. Foreign Secre-
tary's threat to go home and make
separate peace treaties were carried out,
the measure would have general support
except from the kind of Red correspon-
dent who gets such an innings in Aus-
tralian newspapers.
The first Jap war criminal to be
honored by being shot by an Aus-
tralian firing squad was Sub - Lieu-
tenant Shigeo Uemura, executed on
May 4 at Rabaul. He was disposed
of, tied to a canvas chair, by 10 A.I.F.
men for the murder of Squadron-Leader
J. L. Scott and Flight-Sergeants R. M.
King, B. E. Wallace and K. C. Wright in
August, 1944. The previous five Japanese
executed at Rabaul were hanged.


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
R-TrS
iMSN ITS
WSTART
4.45
From telephoning tp transportation, from light-
ing systems to mining, Exide Batteries serve
you daily in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend i|pon Exide,
They still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
m
i
'Jk
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia will lose another famous
scientist when Brigadier Neil Hamilton
Fairley, Director of Medicine for the
A.M.F., goes to the U.K. on a special
Australian Army mission and later takes
over the dual jobs of Professor of Tropi-
cal Medicine at the University of London
and Director of the Wellcombe Labora-
tory of Tropical Medicine. It was this
Melbourne physician who, after passing
through Singapore just ahead of the Japa-
nese forces, scared the Allied High Com-
mand by telling them they would have
to face a worse enemy than the Nips in
Malaya. What was even more alarming
was that if the Japanese succeeded. in
occupying the islands they would have
all the ammunition for combating the
second foe in their hands. As a result
of his warning, the military laboratory
at Cairns (Q.) became the war-time world
centre of malaria research, and it was
Brigadier Fairley who led the regiment
of scientists whose job was to find a sub-
stitute for quinine and methods of‘com-
bating a disease which was endemic in
every region where Australian troops were
to do their fighting. The results were
spectacular. New Guinea would not have
been won if malaria had not been first con-
quered. Early in the war Fairley’s work
in the Middle East kept down the dysen-
tery rate in the A.1.F., and after he had
got malaria well under control in
S.W.P.A. he carried on the good work
with British forces in Burma.
There is no lack of appreciation of
Brigadier Fairley’s work in the U.S.A.
It was recently made the subject of an
editorial in the New York “Sun.” He
is the first practising physician to
be appointed a Fellow of the Royal
Society. He was born at Inglewood (Vic.)
and educated at Scotch College and the
University of Melbourne.
At the Contemporary Art Society’s ex-
hibition in Sydney, the centre of attrac-
tion was not a painting, but a person —
Senor Hubner, the Chilean Minister, who
opened the show. And Senor Hubner
is a diplomat, indeed. In the course of a
fair-sized speech he praised Roberts, the
Lindsays, Gruner, Heysen, Drysdale and
Dobell. He even included the A.I.F. and
Dr. Evatt, although with no undue em-
phasis on their artistic attainments. It
was an interesting speech, and Senor
Hubner himself is a fascinating person to
listen to. Such words as art, culture and
surrealism sound much better with the roll
of the formidable Spanish “r” behind
them, while his portrayal of successive
waves of culture with incisive gestures of
the right hand was irresistible and inimit-
able.
Invited by the Prime Minister to revisit
his native land this year, Adelaide-born
Professor Marcus Laurence Oliphant is
one &f the world’s leading physicists, and
has occupied the Poynting Chair of
Physics at Birmingham University since
1937. From Adelaide ’Varsity he went to
Cambridge on an 1851 Exhibition, and be-
came a Research Fellow of the Royal
Society in 1931. Three years later he
became a Fellow and Lecturer of St.
John’s College, and was Assistant Direc-
tor of Research at Cavendish Laboratory,
Cambridge, before going to Birmingham.
In a lecture last month Professor Oli-
phant forecast that the first general use
of atomic energy would be through arti-
ficial radio-active substances, which
could be used in medicine, chemistry and
metallurgy.
Can any organisation equal the record
established by the A.N.A. at an old-timers*
night in Melbourne? Among those pre-
sent were Isaac Isaacs (90), J. M. F.
Callaghan (93) and G. H. Wise, who, at
93, still attends to his legal business in
Sale. Add veteran elocutionist W. Hew-
lett Ross, a mere baby of 89. Wise has
been an A.N.A, director since 1887, and
became chief president in 1891. He was
M.H.R. for two terms and held the jobs
of Assistant Minister for Defence 1918-
20 and P.M.G. 1920-21. Isaac Isaacs,
still' active in mind and brain at 90,
entered the Victorian Parliament in 1892,
two years ahead of W. M. Hughes’s Par-
liamentary debut in N.S.W., but a year
behind Jocook, and became a Minister
(Solicitor-General) a year afterwards.
Callaghan and Wise were classmates at
Scotch College, Melbourne, in 1863, and
have been friends for 83 years.
“Becks” on a top-ranking juggler:
If Goring held the stage at the Nuremburg
War Trials while he was in the box Hjalmar
Horace Greeley Schacht got his full share of the
limelight when his turn came to testify. Schacht’s
names reflect his origins; he was born in 1877
in Tingleff on the German-Danish border and
was the son of a Dane who had become a
naturalised American, but had returned to
Europe. Young Schacht, after specialising in
economics at school, joined a Berlin paper and
in 1903 became press representative of the
Dresdner Bank; five years later he was a deputy
director. During the Kaiser’s war he was finan-
cial adviser to the German military Government
in Belgium, and by 1917 was working with
Stinnes, Thyssen and other industrialists in
working out conditions .to be imposed on con-
quered Europe after a ‘ German victory.
During the post-Armistice period he switched
from the Nationalist groups to the new
Socialist party. He refused Stresemann’s offer
of the job of Finance Minister, but at the time
of the Great Inflation, when it took a truck-
load of notes to buy a medium-sized plate of
sauerkraut, he became Currency Commissioner
and President of the Reichsbank. The next
few years made his name. He borrowed in
London and Wall-street and brought some sta-
bility to the German currency. In 1929 he
signed the Dawes Plan, but later repudiated it
and resigned. A year later he was in Hitler’s
camp, and when the Nazis came to power he
was soon back at the Reichsbank. From then
on he was the architect of the crazy edifice
of blocked credits, large-scale dumping and so-
called barter which made possible Germany’s
rearmament and pressure politics. In 1939 he
slipped into the background, but when things
began to look black he was again sent for. At-
tire finish he seems to have been making pre-
parations fo stand from under and was almost
certainly involved in the plot against Hitler.
Goring once described Schacht as “unwanted,
unpopular, indispensable”; about the same time
Schacht was writing of Hermann as “a criminal
whose knowledge in every field is zero.” At
Nuremburg, disclosure of this led Goring to
the undignified gesture of thumbing his nose
at Hjalmar, but' that didn’t worry the man who
through his unique genius as a financial juggler
had been more or less able to write his own
ticket under Socialists and Nazis alike. “A slip-
pery eel” was a rival Nazi economist’s sum-
ming-up of Schacht; if he escapes the Nurem-
burg net the description will have been an apt
one.
Retirement of R. R. Stuckey, for the
past 23 years S.A. Under-Treasurer,
Registrar of Stock and Chairman of S.A.
Public Debt Commission, . means that
Fred Drew, sketched here by Coventry,
succeeds to those titles and to the respon-
sibilities thereto attached. The prospect
shouldn't worry Fred, as he has been in
the Public Service for 34 years and since
REVENUE AND DEBTS.
1938 has been holding down the job of
Assistant Under-Treasurer to Stuckey.
Small in stature, but a giant at figures, he
is an unassuming chap, but anyone who
has attended Loan Council meetings or
Premiers’ Conferences during the last
years will recognise the face behind the
homrims as that of the man who has
been Treasury adviser to Premier Play-
ford at most of those gatherings during
the war years.
J. Stewart, of Pascoe Vale, Vic., had
an Anzac Day celebration all on his own.
He welcomed home from this war a son,
a son-in-law, 11 grandsons and nine
nephews. He had two sons, two sons-
in-law, two brothers-in-law and 16
nephews in the First World War and
they all returned, Stewart is 86 and
has nine living sons and
daughters.
“D.A.”; This should be a
journalistic record. Alfred
W. Lockwood, proprietor of
the “West Wimmera Mail,”
Natimuk (Vic.), recently re-
ported his 550th meeting of
the local Arapiles Shire Coun-
cil, extending over a term of
45 years. Three of his sons
are well known Rupert,
journalist, Lionel, doctor,
now Commander R.A.N.,
and Douglas, war correspon-
dent ; ' another son, Frank,
helps “A.W.” in producing
his paper.
Oscar Hammerstein, whose
son is coming to Australia
shortly to stage a couple of
Broadway shows, made most
of his immense fortune, like
the Taits, in fields other than
the theatre real estate and
the invention of a cigar-
manufacturing machine. Born
in Berlin and manager and
writer of plays for the German theatre,
he gave opera a new lease of life
in New York by competing with the
Metropolitan, running his own opera co.
in his own theatre, the Manhattan. He
died at 98. The son has written innumer-
able musicomedy contraptions, of which
the best known are “The Desert Song”
and “Rose Marie.” Hammerstein II mar-
ried Dorothy Blanchard, daughter of Cap-
tain Blanchard, a one-time Port Phillip
pilot. Max Meldrum once gave her third
place in a daily-paper beauty contest.
“Feng-Shui’s” memory:
I was in San Remo, Italy, when Lloyd
George, Nitti and the rest were there trying to
sew patches on the already disordered peace
fabric. Walking into a bookshop, I saw an
English book with an ungainly title, Eco-
nomic Consequences of the Peace, by J. May-
nard Keynes. It was in every bookshop I
went into. Keynes’s father was an eminent
philosopher and logician, and the son was tread-
ing in his father’s footsteps when the British
Treasury got him. His book foretold everything
that happened later, and even foretold Hitler
before Hitler was even heard of. But it put
Keynes out of official circles for nearly a gene-
ration. When he came back it was with. an
enormously enhanced prestige—Lloyd George,
whom he had ruthlessly satirised, consulted him
even when in retirement. One of those versa-
tile Englishmen who seem to arrive in every
decade, Keynes was economist, writer, first-class
Parliamentary dialectician, insurance-company
director, art connoisseur and devotee of music
and the drama. He married a premiere dan-
seuse of the Russian ballet. He did more than
any man in modern times to build up Cam-
bridge, and the way he did it was as unortho-
dox as everything else about him. Cambridge
was an old conservative place, and when Keynes
began investing university funds in unusual
ways the dons were as shocked as if he had
started the undergrads, playing two-up. They
didn’t like to say anything about it because he
was making so much money for them. His un-
conventional investment's left Cambridge one of
the wealthiest' seats of learning in Europe.
This week The Bulletin said farewell
to four old hands, E, W. Harris (com-
positors), H. J. Robinson (machine-room)
and W. H. Hundt and C, Flowers (pub-
lishing department). “Matt” Harris had
been with the firm since 1899, in later
years as a foreman compositor, and, when
ill-health overtook him, as proofreader. A
genial, generous personality, he was a
prolific contributor to The Bulletin on
sporting matters and to “The Woman’s
Mirror” on gardening topics. He knew
his Wisden from cover to cover, and
was never stumped for an answer on any
question relating to cricket. Robinson,
who was christened Hercules James, was
known to his mates as Jim,'and joined the
paper 56 years ago, when it was published
at 24 Pitt-street. Jim could remember
the time when water from the old Tank
Stream used to flood the basement during
heavy storms, and W. H. Traill used to
descend from the editorial floor to help
divert the water and keep the machines
running. Bill Hundt joined the staff three
months after Jim in May, 1890; he must
have trimmed several hundred million
Bulletins as a cutter and wrapped as
many when he ceased work on the guillo-
tine and. became a packer. Charlie
Flowers, who came seven years after Bill,
was a brother of Fred Flowers, one-time
N.S.W. M.L.C.
Born in Prague, Walter Susskind, at
present conducting symphony concerts
for A.8.C., was brought up in a musical
BATON AND KEYBOARD.
atmosphere, and at 33 he can be said to
be so saturated with music that no one
would really be surprised if melody
streamed out of his finger-tips as he waved
his conductor’s baton. As a pianist he
has given solo performances, played with
chamber ensembles and appeared as ac-
companist to well-known singers and in-
strumentalists ; he has conducted sym-
phony orchestras, opera and ballet; has
been a lecturer on contemporary music
and has had his own compositions played
at international music festivals. Before
the war he was associated with Georg
Szell, who toured Australia a few years
ago, as conductor at the Prague Opera
House. When the Nazis invaded Czecho-
slovakia Susskind was in Amsterdam
giving a series of piano recitals. He went
to London and shortly afterwards became
conductor of the Carl Rosa Opera Com-
pany. Since then he has given concerts
all over Britain and has conducted all
the principal orchestras there, as well as
appearing as guest conductor with
8.8. C. Towards the end of last year he
toured the British zone of Germany as
music director of the Sadler’s Wells
Opera Company. Dubois sketched him
while rehearsing the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra for the first concert of his
season.
Into the silence:
, At Victor Harbor (S.A.) at 88, C. R. Hodge,
who was registrar of Adelaide Uni. from 1892
to 1924'. A Victorian by birth, he spent nearly
all his life in S.A., his father being a Con-
gregational minister there. He gave to writing
any spare time he had, with a novel or two, and
finally a book on the Encounter Bay district.
At the Caulfield Repatriation Hospital, Mel-
bourne, L. T. Williams, president of the T.B.
Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen’s Association for
16 years. He fought for unaccepted t'.b.
soldiers and paid out over £9OOO in their inter-
ests. A pioneer of broadcasting, he appeared in
the first play put over by 3AR.
At Nottingham, England, William Fulton
Neil, surgical specialist. A native of Dunedin
(M.L.), where he was educated at Otago B.H.S.
and Uni., he went to England in 1910, and
was appointed to the Nottingham General Hos-
pital in 1912. He was outstanding in gastric
surgery, and for two years was president of
the Surgical Union of Great Britain. He
served with the R.A.M.C. in World War I.
In Townsville (N.Q.) , at 64, Edward P. Molloy,
formerly chief accountant of Townsville City
Council. After retiring from that service, he
was subsequently manager of the 1.0. A. at
Cairns and secretary of the Townsville General
Hospital. A fine rider in his earlier days, he
took part in many events at shows and amateur
race meetings in the North.
At Toorak (Vic.), at 87, Captain George
Ramsay, formerly one of Australia’s best-known
shipmasters, and later a director of Bay
Steamers, Ltd. A Scotch College boy, he served
his time under Babot in the wool clipper Lady
Jocelyn; he joined the P. and 0., and after-
wards, while holding commands for 23 years
in the China Mail line, was a familiar figure in
Darwin and on Thursday Island.


Women's Letters
From/Melbourne
With all the ancient tradition of the
Church of England and its imposing
liturgy, John David McKie, former Vicar
of Christ Church, South Yarra, was con-
secrated Bishop of Geelong and Co-
adjutor Bishop of Melbourne in St.
Paul’s Cathedral. There was a large
congregation, and representatives of all
churches were present; among them the
Greek Archimandrite, in robes of gold
and gleaming satin. Bishop McKie was
attended by Bishops of the Province and
other Bishops and the Metropolitan.
Archbishop Booth was later Celebrant at
the Holy Communion. Students from the
University Theological Colleges were in
the procession. John McKie is the
youngest bishop in Victoria, being only in
his early thirties. He had a distinguished
academic career and holds an Oxford
University degree. A brother, W. McKie,
was city organist in Melbourne and now
is organist at Westminster Abbey.
Archbishop Mannix was in happy
mood when, on behalf of the Catholic
Women’s Organisation, he presented to
the Lord Mayor, Cr. R. Connelly, a
cheque for £llOO and 10,000 tins of food
to help the Food for Britain appeal.
Money and food were collected by
children at Catholic schools in the arch-
diocese. Mrs. J. J. Daly, president of
the C.W.0., was specially thanked by the
Archbishop for her untiring work in many
fields. In accepting the gift, the Lord
Mayor said that since he launched the
appeal more than £BO,OOO had been col-
lected. Determined to make the most of
the Archbishop’s visit to the C.W.O. hut,
which has been a refuge for many service-
men, he presented a leather suitcase to
Father Stewart on behalf of the president
and committee of the C.W.O. Father
Stewart has been a tower of strength to
the C.W.O.
Dorothy O’Keeffe as Queen Victoria
and Collins Hilton as Disraeli presented
a scene from the Lawrence Housman play
“The Queen, God Bless Her.” Dorothy,
who is pictured here, has had wide ex-
perience both on the amateur and profes-
sional stages. She has just completed a
tour in Adelaide with a company from
the Little Theatre.
Guest of honor at a happy little party
given at the Business and Professional
Women’s Club by Mrs. Herbert Brookes
and the committee of the International
Club of Victoria was Mrs. M. R. Mc-
Millan, who is leaving Melbourne for
Westralia. With Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Mrs. McMillan assisted in the formation,
14 years ago, of the International Club,
Members representing 30 nationalities
were there, and a substantial cheque was
presented to the guest of honor during
afternoon tea. In addition to the splendid
work done by Mrs. McMillan to further
the interests of the club, she organised the
Centenary, Coronation and International
Pageants ; the last function was held on
the night of the Japanese surrender.
Many guests were present at the cock-
tail party given by Angela Sturt at the
home of her parents, Captain and Mrs.
Sidney Sturt, Melbourne Mansions, to
welcome home her cousins from England,
Sir Rupert Clarke and his sister Eliza-
beth. Angela received her guests wearing
a long black crepe dinner gown, the tight-
fitting bodice- buttoning down the front
and the short, full sleeves being trimmed
with sequins. Among the guests were
Lieut.-Commander Alan Collyer, R.N.,
who was on unexpected leave and who
sets out very soon for England, Com-
mander and Mrs. William Seymour and
Captain and Mrs. Frank Plaistowe.
Mrs. Ruby Boye wears the uni-
form of Honorary Third Officer of
the W.R.A.N.S., and is a holder of the
British Empire Medal, which she was
awarded for war work. With her husband,
who was manager of a timber company
on Vanikoro, in the Santa Cruz Group,
Mrs. Boye refused to leave with other
Europeans when the Japs invaded. They
were completely isolated from the outside
world, and the work done by this woman
was of great value. Knowing radio, Mrs.
Boye sent out weather reports each day
and worked in close co-operation with
the coast-watching network. To give
Mrs, Boye protection from the Japs in
case she should be taken prisoner, the
Navy Office appointed her an honorary
officer in the W.R.A.N.S. Mr. Boye
is visiting Melbourne with her husband.
Not only has Janet Bowen Pain proved
herself a born organiser; she can make
a fine speech, as she proved at the theatre
night held at the Grosvenor Theatre for
the Food for Britain Fund. Janet’s
Younger Set of National Bank girls sold
sweets, programmes and raffle tickets, and
the night generally was a great success.
Once more Margaret Saker is organising
—this time a Fairytale Ball, which will
take place in the Melbourne Town Hall
on May 28. The ball will have all the
fun of pre-war days, and good costume
prizes are to be given. Proceeds will gq
to the formation of a Youth Welfare Club
at North Melbourne.
It is doubtful whether any other author
in history has had the extraordinary ex-
perience of seeing the mortal remains of
the characters of his book disinterred
from widely-separated burial places and
reburied on the scene of their original
exploits, but this has happened to Mrs.
AEneas Gunn, the characters of whose We
of the Never Never were just as much
creations as those of any work of fiction.
Eighteen months ago volunteers of the
War Graves Maintenance unit at the
Adelaide River, under Lieutenant Gordon
Greaves, gave up their leave to track
down the graves of all the people in the
Australian classic who had passed on
and remove them to the sanctuary at
Elsey Station, where the author’s hus-
band, “The Maluka,” is buried. They
are five in number; Constable Kingston
(“The Wag”), who died in 1908 ; H. V.
Peckham (“The Fizzer”), the mailman,
drowned on the Victoria Downs-
Katherine run in 1911; “Happy Dick”
Gager, who died at Katherine in 1930 ;
John MacLennan (“The Sanguine Scot”);
and Jack Grant (“Horse Teams”), who
was killed by one of bis quadrupeds at
Katherine in 1932. Still left to be re-
interred is David Suttie (“Dan, The Head
Stockman”), who died in his camp on the
road in 1912. Thousands of miles had
to be covered to bring all these worthies
together, the next-of-kin consenting. Jack
McLeod, “The Quiet Stockman,” “Mine
Host” Thomas Pierce and “The Little
Missus” herself are still in the land of
the living. Mrs. Gunn won’t see the in-
terment. The wonderful and still-active
woman lives at Hawthorn, Victoria, with
83 summers, a large number of them the
fierce ones of the Never Never, behind
her.
From Sydney
If you hadn’t at least one Hereford, or
Shorthorn, Devon, or Aberdeen Angus
about the flat you felt very out of it
when you met the army of occupation
that practically took over the city. Here
were breeders and owners of whole herds
of the creatures, and they had come to
the city for the Stud Beef Cattle Show at
Pyrmont. H.R.H. the Duke of Glou-
cester called on the lords of the pasture
and tied up with ribbons the senior
champion Booroomooka Nikola, the Gor-
don Munros’ pride. Booroomooka
Nikola is an Aberdeen Angus gentleman
whom you had better avoid if you are
wearing red, or even carrying red litera-
ture. The Sandersons of Wallah, knight
Frederick McMaster and J. T. Scrym-
geour were notables. So was President
Colin Sinclair. The Eric Killens of Pine
Park, Wellington, were prizewinners. The
Rupert Wilsons were down from Oberon.
She, with Mrs. Taplin and Mrs. Donkin,
was in a ringside seat, but he was busy
about his stewardship. Again in the ring
leading their cattle were Mrs. Wilfred
Wade and daughter Lorna Castle-Roche.
Another who added human interest to
the parade was Maorilander Barbara
Smith, who is doing veterinary science at
Sydney University. The Fenwicks of
Myall Creek (Herefords are their interest)
gave a dinner and theatre party after the
show on Saturday. But the senior cham-
pion dinner party of the week was that
of the Aberdeen Angus clan. Topical
and sparkling menu and speeches as
bubbly as the glasses.
These nylons! Even when handsome
Aberdeen Angus were majestically pacing
the ring at the cattle show at the Com-
monwealth Wool and Produce Co.’s stores,
a woman’s voice was heard murmur-
ing to two rapt friends about her
stock of nylons. She added a rider that
they are cold—need careful handling in
the wash. And that’s what other wearers
have said. Oh, well, those of us who
haven’t the glamorous things have to con-
sole ourselves with that, and look for-
ward to the not-far-distant day when the
Wool Board supplies our legs with the
promised woollen as fine as nylon.
A shawl for Gandhi came off the
sheep's back. The wool to weave it —
281 b, of Australia’s best—was sent to
India at Mr. Casey’s request. The Wool
Board’s Mr. Abbott told this to hundreds
of members of the Country Women’s
Association on the second day of confer-
ence in the Assembly Hall. The speaker
stressed the great markets of the East,
China and India, waiting for our wool.
The idea is to start the people off with
hand-looms, weaving the cloth them-
selves, and so cutting out the high cost
of the woollen manufactured article.
From the hand-loom to the big mills is
just a matter of time. The cottage in-
dustries of England in the brave days of
old provide the general idea of the
scheme.
There was applause when Mr. Abbott
spoke of the board’s supplying a loom to
any school desirous of teaching weaving.
For the reiterated theme of the confer-
ence has been wool, its marketing, its
modern manufacture, its branding, re-
search into its many uses. Nor did these
energetic, kindly and very capable women
forget the humanities; such matters as
bloodbanks, the subnormal child, the wel-
fare of servicemen were urged.
Over 600 delegates came to this con-
ference, the first since the war. There
were over 1000 members at the Town
Hall for the opening speeches. These
women came from large country centres
and from -small ones, but each knew her
bit of the land and its needs. Mrs. Mac
Smith, once again State president, -and
Mrs. H. G. Marfell, who is president of
C;W.A. of Australia, made good and
vigorous speeches.
After 25 years of untiring service as
State secretary of C.W.A. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax has resigned. She is one of the
association’s most popular members. She
has been made a life member, given the
freedom of C.W.A. and the reserve fund
begun during the war for post-war needs
has been named the Ruth B. Fairfax
Reserve Fund. Mrs. George Mack is the
newly-appointed State secretary, and Mrs.
C. W. D’Arcy is once again State
treasurer.
Mrs, Patrick Hearn, who before her
marriage was Marjorie Wilkinson, of
Kirribilli, is off to Sutton, Surrey, in
August or September. As that will be
England’s autumn, she is plucking a coat
from the sheep’s back to take with her.
Marjorie’s father is the secretary of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron. Her hus-
band, who served in the Merchant Navy,
left in the Fort Edmonton for Singapore
last week. Photo by Monte Luke.
C.W.A. delegates had their big night
when Mrs. Hubert Fairfax was the guest
of honor at a dinner party in the Pick-
wick Club, and later at a theatre party
in the Minerva. The dinner was a buffet
affair, and did her C.W.A. sisters go into
action at the double when they burst into
“For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow”!
Although all the cast in Henry VIII
were unnamed on the programme, it
wasn’t long before those who had
heard barrister John Gould in action
recognised him as the Wolsey of the
piece. His “Farewell! A long farewell
to all my greatness!” had philosophy as
well as poignancy in it. ‘An ecclesiastical
fashion note that seems in place is that
the style of Cardinals’ caps has changed
considerably since Tudor days. Wolsey’s
scarlet covered the whole head, being flat
across the forehead.
The Great Hall of the University had
scarcely an empty chair, but, beyond a
certain medieval suggestion that lends
atmosphere to presentation of the classics,
the Great Hall has little to recom-
mend it for theatrical productions. The
two angels above the doorway of the
King’s audience chamber (the one stage
set) must have wept as Katharine made
her impassioned and vain appeal for jus-
tice from a husband whose eye and fancy
had wandered from her. The “Orpheus
With His Lute” and incidental music had
been written by Desmond O’Brien,
Sydney is now not so much music-
starved as meat-starved. Concert-goers
have been able to wallow in swelling
sound since the concert season opened.
Latest master of the concert grand to
arrive is Solomon, the musician who
wanders through life without the assist-
ance of a fore-name. He is not afraid of
tone. Flis is big and lush, and there are
no threadbare patches in the pattern of
sound. Crowds streamed up the steps to
the Town Hall for his concerts last week.
But among the thousands no listener was
prouder than organist Alice Bryant, of
Manly. In her handbag she carried the
programme of a concert given by the
pianist in the Queen’s Hall, London, he
then being of the ripe old age of nine
or ten. There’s a picture of him on the
cover complete in black velvet suit. The
tailorings may have been youthful, but
the programme was mansize—two con-
certos with orchestra! v
Classics Professor A. D. Trendall was
netted by the R.A.S. to make opening
speech at the Society’s show in David
Jones’s gallery. The professor, who
knows Greece and Crete and the art of
the Aegean, made pertinent remarks about
the present-day creative effort that imi-
tates the primitive in the name o'f modern.
Tjiis was a matey opening. The painters
and their admirers were there in numbers,
and, if you like, your Australian scene as
it is, burning blue sky, shimmering water
and tall meditative trees, you will enjoy
this selection, probably lingering before
“Tranquil Afternoon,” “The Romantic
Coast,” “Sunny Landscape” and “The
Road to Gundagai.” City enthusiasts
will like “Young Street Corner,” and
Maorilanders the Mt. Cook glimpse.
There was a committee tea party in the
Green Room, off the gallery, after the
opening. One of the guests was Mr.
Oise, a French painter who has lived for
some years in Tahiti, and now goes back
to Paris by way of Mexico.
Barrister Nerida Cohen became Mrs,
Bernard Goodman one fine afternoon last
week. Besides her law (she was the
second N.S.W. woman to be admitted to
the Bar) this clever Lismore lass is in-
terested in many women’s movements
and social welfare generally. Her hus-
band is Bernard Goodman, of Auckland,
Maoriland. The bride wore blue in frock
and hat. Her sister, Mrs. L. Henry, was
her attendant.
Sydney, last week, was a city of art
shows abounding. The Betty Solomons
exhibition opened to congratulations from
admirers of this painter’s work in every
city. It is the first time in the years Miss
Solomons has been known here that she
has given a one-woman show. The
Grosvenor Galleries, very shining and
bright, was the right setting for these pic-
tures, which are happy with life and
color. The Paris scenes evoked a spate
of nostalgic murmurs beginning “The
Last Time I Saw Paris.” Mrs. Bertie
Kelly opened the show to an overflow
audience. Her frock was a truly after-
the-war-afternoon design. It was of deep-
blue moire with a wide silver stripe. Her
wide-brimmed hat was also deep-blue in
tone. Betty, in cerulean blues, was tall
and graceful. Appreciation didn’t end with
the confetti of compliments. There wa{
quite a cargo of her pictures bought.
Dame Mary Gilmore goes to a wed
ding: the bride was Anne Macinanti,
granddaughter on her mother’s side of
poet John Farrell. Anne herself has
already had many lyrics published in
Sydney papers. Flowers and tulle veil
and white frock were worn by the young
poetess, whose bridegroom was Rowe
Cuddy, of Randwick, and the Nuptial
Mass was said in St. Michael’s Church,
Hurstville. The church was decorated
with flowers, and the birds sang outside
in the trees throughout the ceremony.
A guest at the wedding breakfast in the
bride’s home was Father Dunlea, founder
of Boys’ Town.
Mavis Lorenz and Dr. Errol King will
be married on June 18. No other arrange-
ments have been settled except that the
honeymoon is to be spent at Hayman
Island, on the Barrier Reef —a nice spot
for romance.


v
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 67
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet .
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,437
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan
Newton, M.S., Melbourne, F.R.C.S., England.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hllder; John Cadwallader,
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
1.44
%
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dvesbury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87301. /tranches in All States. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
r- Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Ndv., Profit. 7J p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935. . 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sales shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,366
Patents disclosed, £57,651.. .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
29 p.c.
1939.. 353,504 290,624 Nil 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 .. 585,399
5.8 p.c.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 824,292 909,691
7i p.c.
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves £91,675 1,361,904
1945.. 159,095 75,000 84,695 1,446,599
Australia’s economic future will tqrn
largely upon the production effort of to-
day. Now is the time to win new markets
and restore old ones, and thus eliminate
the danger of excess plant capacity be-
coming a cause of economic instability.
With greater productivity the national
income and income per head of popula-
tion will rise. This will lighten the burden
of the public debt and make possible full
employment and the benefits aimed at in
social security measures. The Govern-
ment, iq, its economic policy, places the
emphasis on “full” employment, whereas
trade is the indispensable handmaiden of
material prosperity, “full” employmemt
and human welfare. While measures de-
signed to create employment will help to
promote trade, measures to promote trade
will promote fuller employment. Trade,
therefore, lies at the very root of the eco-
nomic philosophy of today. And to pro-
mote trade we must be in a position to
deliver the goods.
Hence, the time is ripe for a great pro-
duction campaign. It should begin with
explanation of the facts to those who
must know them. Lack of candor in
official circles as to the Government’s
precise intentions has contributed largely
to a lack of that relationship and under-
standing between the Government and
employers and the unions that is neces-
sary to achieve our aims. These rest
upon maximum output, which cannot be
gained without continuous production.
The economic futility of strikes, which
interrupt production, reduce the national
income, impair social benefits and set up
stresses and strains in various parts of the
national economic structure must be
apparent to all who care to think about
the matter. Furthermore, properly con-
stituted machinery exists for equitable
and peaceful settlement of industrial dis-
putes. Talk of our productive capacity
being sufficient to keep the nation on a
rising standard of living while that
capacity is rendered idle for long periods
by strikes lacks clear perspective. It is
this lack that has inhibited union acquies-
cence in a free flow of labor between
jobs, which is essential in a period of
manpower shortage. What is needed is
a national outlook which recognises pro-
duction as a community effort from which
all will benefit and to which all must
make an appropriate contribution.
For these, if for no other reasons, the last
two lines in the table make sorry read-
ing. Output of steel in 1944 was severely
restricted by curtailment of coal supplies
owing to the anti-social strike technique
of the miners. Another result was a sharp
drop of £162,977 in the co.’s profit for
that year. During the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts a strike at the
Kembla works brought about complete
stoppage of iron- and steel-making and
colliery operations from September 22
last until January 7 of this year.
There was a further drop of £27,673
in profit, reducing the figure to
£159,695; enough to pay the pfefs.
their 7 \ p.c. and show a' mere 1.5
p.c. on the £7,000,007 of ord. capital,
compared with 2.4 p.c. and 5.8 p.c, for
the two preceding terms. The profit was
written after setting aside whatever was
considered necessary for the taxgatherer
and allowing £768,189 (down £34,676),
equal 13.1 p.c. of the book value of
fixed assets at end November, 1944, for
depreciation. The allowance includes
special provision for amortisation of
plant and equipment acquired for war
purposes but which will become re-
dundant for ordinary trade requirements,
which is as it should be. No ord. div.
was paid. An interim 5 p.c. was recently
declared for the current term ; the first
since the co. took over Hoskins’s Lith-
gow works and transferred the plants to
Port Kembla about 18 years ago.
Ever since B.H.P. bought the ords., and
with them control, in 1935 the story has
been one of increased productivity, effi-
ciency and cheapness. The heavy con-
struction programme and other difficul-
ties and the fact that the co. supplied the
Government with munitions, steel, etc., at
cost price, or thereabouts, curbed
financial results. Since hostilities ceased
an alert management has exported large
quantities of stdel to the U.K. and other
parts of the Empire. Pre-war the B.H.P.
organisation had developed a substantial
export trade with Malaya, East Indies,
India and Maoriland. Opportunity to re-
gain and expand that trade is knocking
at our door. The co. has the equipment
and materials, backed by able and effi-
cient management; it is up to labor to
play its part in making a worthwhile
contribution to the national welfare.
Development of the co.’s big iron-ore
deposit on Cockatoo Island, Yampi
Sound; is well under way. Expenditure
involved is about £1,000,000, and produc-
tion and transport of the ore to the
furnaces at Kembla and Newcastle, where
it is to be blended with ore from Iron
Knob (S.A.), are expected to begin about
the end of this year. Four 12,500-ton
vessels are being built in B.H.P.’s Whyalla
yards for the purpose.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co.’s
sound financial structure;
1985. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors.. 649,937* 2,163,853 1,965,713
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 5,839,172 5,800,597
Shares in other cos. 391,809 886,498 386,498
Stocks .. . . 269,009 1,201,172 1,255,828
Book debts .. 317,722 665,412 163,455
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 1,151,011 1,558,440
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but notfpaid.
The year’s reduction of £511,957 in book
debts and addition of £402,429 to invest-
ments, cash, etc., reflect the interruption
of production already referred to and
tapering of defence orders. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,383,508) was £143,268.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.)
5 £ £ £
1934.. 21,462 6ip.c.= 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 7) „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 80,877 8 „ „ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 8i„ „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 9) „ „ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615 8) „ „ 23,800 7,815 72,981
1941.. 24,932 8| „ „ 23,800 1,132 74,113
1942.. 20,132 8i„ „ 23,800 2,332 76,445
1943.. 82,320 8J „ „ 23,800 8,520 84,965
From inner reserves, £8,043 93,008
1944.. 25,8f0 82p.c.= 23,800 2,010 95,018
1945.. 29,521 8$ „ „ 23,800 5,721 100,739
t Not including depreciation reserve—£2so,966 at
31/12/M5.
Today the retail price of sugar in Aus-
tralia is lower than anywhere else in the
world. Ever since 1933 the wholesale
selling price has remained fixed at £33
4s. a ton for fines by successive five-yearly
agreements between the industry and the
Federal and Queensland Governments.
The retail selling price has continued un-
altered at 4d. a pound. Meanwhile there
has been a heavy increase in the cost of
production and variations in output. That
the industry has been able to keep its
head above the rising economic tide of
costs, etc., has been due mainly to two
factors; (1) pre-war improvements in
cultivation, including varieties of cane, and
in milling practice, which greatly increased
the tonnage of cane and yield of sugar
per acre, and (2) a steady advance in the
price for exported surplus sugar from
around £A7 per ton pre-war to an antici-
pated £A 19-odd per ton for the 1946
season has helped to offset partly the
effects of the rise in costs and fall in pro-
duction since war began.
Consider the following table, showing
Queensland’s aggregate acreage and pro-
duction figures over the last decade;
( Per Acre ,
Acres Tons Tons
Harvested. Cane. Sugar.
1936-39).. .. 251,736 21.52 3.16
1940 .. ’ .. 265,738 19.50 2.86
1941 .. .. 246,937 19.41 2.82
1942 .. .. 238,213 18.26 2.54
1943 .. .. 228,895 14.84 2.12
1944 .. .. 222,215 19.79 2.90
1945 .. .. 241,300* 18.87* 2.65*
) Average. * Approximate.
Chief causes of the fall in production over
the last half-dozen years have been short-
age of manpower and materials, especially
fertiliser, and the impressment of tractors.
Restoration of production and efficiency
in the industry depends largely upon how
soon these shortages can be overcome. If
costs continue to rise, as would happen
in the event of a 40-hour week and lift
in the basic wage, and at the same time
a substantial drop occurs in the export
price, which is possible after Java and the
Philippines get into production again,
then the retail selling price of sugar might
have to be lifted or a subsidy granted to
the industry.
This Bundaberg miller and grower has
felt the pinch less than most, thanks
largely to its excellent irrigation scheme,
which has meant much so far as crushings
and yields are concerned. Last year the
Bundaberg district consistently missed the
tropical cyclones that damaged cane crops
on the Queensland north coast. The co.’s
outturn of raws was 23,973 tons (973
tons in excess of mill peak), compared with
22,585 tons and 19,690 tons for the two
preceding seasons. After allowing £14,543
(up £308) for depreciation and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation,
the spring in net earnings was £3711. The
£29,521 of profit was 10.5 p.c. on capital,
as against 9.2, 11.5, 9.3, 8.9, 11.2 and
12.2 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at 8£ p.c. The remaining £5721 lifted free
reserves to £100,739. In addition there
is a depreciation reserve of £250,696, some
of which might be genuine profit.
The financial position further im-
proved :
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 51,453 103,560 153,854 183,820
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 484,138 512,540 545,868 654,520
Stocks.. .. 42,192 122,392 175,409 213,482
Government
securities, etc. 20,000 40,000 55,000 55,273
Sundry debtors 40,707 4,317 2,289 7,880
Cash, etc. .. 11,272 1,444 1,216 1,270
* Including provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £38,073 of stocks the
board added £29,966 to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera
is an unspecified provision for taxation.
The more or less liquid surplus (£94,085)
was £14,025 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Last reported sale of the scrip was at
31s. at end of 1945, At that price the
return is 5.5 p.c. on an 8£ p.c. div. basis.
Ceiling price is now 365., at which figure
the return would be 4.7 p.c. on the basis
of last year’s distribution. The cover is
275. 2d. in net tangibles.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Towards Re-
Jan., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 20,981 Nil —' 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,810
Profit.
1940. . 19,728* Nil lie 79 0 nn nco
To tax reserve, £l,OOO .. ) 18 > 728 20 > 082
1941.. 37,809* 5 p.c. = 14,249 1 11,060 9,022
To tax reserve £12,500 .. J
Reserves.
Tax reserve written back £15,020 .. 5,998
1942 50,766* 6 p.c. = 17,100 J 3l 972 37>970
Tax paid, £1,694 .. .. J ’ ’
1943.. 59,668* 6 p.c. = 17,100 t 0 Qft 7 n 017
Tax paid, £38,621.. .. J 3,907 41,917
1944.. 47,624* 6 p.c. = 17,100 \ _ 079(51
Tax paid, £45,080.. ..J ’
Taxes paid, etc., £28,778.. 1 2 161
1945.. 23,528 7 p.c. = 19,950 S
1946.. 30,487 8 „ ~22,800 7,687 9,848
* Before providing for taxation.
It has been hard work, but the business
is now on an even keel and is making
encouraging progress. Still, the canons
of sound finance suggest that no harm
would have been done had the div. been
kept down and more attention given to
reserves, until such time as they became
a more stabilising factor in the business.
The co., which has 16 stores in N. S.
Wales, a subsidiary in Maoriland and
another in Westralia, entered the field
against keen competition in 1933, when
it opened its first shop opposite Coles in
Pitt-street, Sydney. Until mid-1938,
when there were changes in the control,
progress was much more apparent than
real. War assisted the rehabilitation for
a while. Then rationing and the switch
of manufacturing plants to war contracts,
with consequent disappearance of some
lines and scarcity of others, reversed the
trend of turnover. At the same time
costs, especially taxation, rose sharply.
Too much notice need not be taken
of profit figures in the table for the five
years to' end January, 1944. During this
period no specific provision was made
for taxation; each assessment was
charged against the p. and 1. balance as
it was received, and some assessments
covered tax on more than the previous
year’s earnings. Total assessments for


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
Interim Dividend No. 58.
NOTICE is hereby given that a First
Interim Dividend of p.c. (6d. pep
share sterling) in respect of the year end-
ing June 30, 1946, less United Kingdom
income tax at 9/- in the £1 (2/7 per
share sterling) has been declared and will
be payable on June 14 next to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Aus-
tralian register. At the close of business
on May 4, 1946, the net amount of divi-
dend is equal to 3/3 per share sterling.
The transfer books will be closed from
May 6 to May 8, both days inclusive.
For Lake View and Star, Ltd.
R. D. MORRISON,
Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, April 27, 1946.
Do you need a i
£cm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans arc
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Ritt t ftin have now been removed.
B Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
12 months £l 12 6
3 •• •• 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months ®
I " ** * 0
O )» *
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands —3 months .. ~£l9 0
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
F R KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES. ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager.
AKUBRA
hat
hint—
No. 5
v
Never allow anyone to
pile your hat up with
other hats. With the
exception of the top one, each hat
in the pile is liable to be spoiled by
perspiration or hair oil marks due
to contact with the leather of the
hat above it, ,
In addition, each hat will probably
be crushed out of shape.
Take the hint-good hats are scarce.
1 . The correct way to put on
a hat—grasp brim at back
and front.
2. Always brush WITH the
nap—see arrow.
3. When rain-soaked, push out
dents, turn up brim and
stand hat on level surface.
4. Always rest SIDE of hat
on hat peg—this allows
hat to hang clear.
6. Turn out leather this
allows perspiration and
hair oil to dry out.
7. When laying aside a hat,
put it away in a hat box.
AKhBRA
kaii
m
wc
7 P
a
9
m
O
o
i
\d
Avi
o
fd e
yf
SO
o
W
Every day you look in the mirror you see an
older man.
How happy that man will be 10, 20, 30 years
hence depends, largely, on what you do NOW
to provide for his future money needs.
The main reason why men lack security in old
age is that they don’t adopt a sound plan early
enough.
You can arrange for an A.M.P. policy (or policies) to
provide money for these comforts :
(1) To protect your wife and children while they
need protection.
(2) And to protect you in your own old age.
Any A.M.P. office or representative will gladly give
you details.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Sydney Osmond, General Manager
M. C. Buttfieid, Secretary and Chief Inspector
H. B. G. Walker, Manager, New South Wales Branch
Head Office ; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
this period amounted to £114,000 or
thereabouts. That left the average net
result at approximately £20,700, equal to
7.2 p.c. on capital. Over the same period
divs. averaged 4.6 p.c. Since 1944 pro-
vision for taxation has been deducted
from each year’s profit in the table, thus
giving a truer indication of, earning
power.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts more goods became avail-
able, especially during the last half of
the term, and there was a substantial in-
crease in turnover. And despatch of a
buyer overseas at the end of 1944 enabled
the co. to secure a few imported lines, as
well as establish connections which ought
to prove very useful when more goods
and shipping space become available.
After allowing £46,000 (up £18,500) for
taxation and £14,715 (up £22) for depre-
ciation, the net result was £6959 better
at £30,487. That is equal to 10.6 p.c. on
capital as against 8.2 p.c. for the preced-
ing term. A point was added to the div.,
making it 8 p.c. The £7687 that re-
mained lifted reserves £9849 in excess of
intangibles (£17,447), not treated as an
asset herein. Prospects of further im-
provement in earnings for the current
term are encouraging.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances: —
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. £284,397 £285,000 £285,000 £285,000
Sundry creditors 76,355* 101,963 113,412* 114,076*
Freeholds .. 18,801 19,561 19,561 19,616
Leaseholds .. 53,118 36,223 26,850 22,480
Plant, etc... 83,736 85,178 65,041 55,134
Stock . . 87,593 216,264 x 214,170 202,194
Debtors, etc. 7,949 11,536 17,118 16,117
Cash . . 2,424 2,947 3,513 41,911
Shares subsids. 109,320 74,270 74,270 74,270
* Including provision taxation, etc.
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for depreciation, etc., and a
reduction of £11,976 in stocks pnd £lOOl
in debtors’ balances, enabled cash to be
strengthened by £38,398. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£220,416) was £24,757.
At 245. (buyer) the f.-p. pound shares
return 6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 20s, Bd. in net tangibles.
The announcement that 18 inches of
li-inch core taken from a bore on an
Orange Free State goldmine assayed
to the ton caused the market in
S. Africa and London to lose its head.
The price of shares in cos. interested in
the field rocketed, but soon lost much of
the height they had gained. The specu-
lator’s longing for “something good”
often overbalances his calm judgment; he
sees only the pleasing side of things, and
sometimes even allows the imagination
to supply what is not in evidence. It is
always well to remember that a prospect
is not a mifie until it has been proved
and developed, that good prospects are
more numerous than good mines, and
that most good lodes have more
poor or barren areas than rich
ones. There have been cases on
South African goldfields where rich
borehole results have not been confirmed
by subsequent development. The same
applies to Westralia’s Golden Mile at
Kalgoorlie. It was rich shoots like the
Oroya, from which at the old price of
gold £7,000,000 was extracted, and the
Lake View cigar-shaped bonanza, which
yielded over a ton of gold a month for
six months, and returns from the Boulder-
Horseshoe boundary lode, that sent shares
in the big Kalgoorlie mines up and up,
not diamond-drill strikes.
* * * *
In a report to the directors of Hill 50
co., geologist K. *J. Finucane says that
with systematic diamond drilling and
development the co.’s goldmine at Mt.
Magnet (W.A.) presents a number of
possibilities of increasing ore reserves and
opening up new auriferous bodies. He
estimates the total quantity of ore
likely to be available in three lenses now
being worked at 129,400 tons, averaging
6.4 dwt. The grade, he adds, will largely
depend on completion of work now in
progress at the No. 4 level. From 1936
to November, 1945, the treatment of
269,935 tons extracted from various parts
of the mine yielded 80,652 fine ounces.
Tailings averaged about half a dwt. All
the lenses worked at Hill 50 have been
found on both sides of the main fault —■
Nos. 1, 2 and 4 on the western and Nos.
3, 5 and 6 on the eastern side. Principal
gold-bearing formations are the jaspers,
the gold content being proportional to the
degree of mineralisation. Development
of No. 6 lense, a triangular block, at No.
4 level is now in progress. Indications
are that the base of the triangle should
extend for about 250 ft. along the main
fault; width from base to apex 115 ft. to
135 ft.
* * * *
Westralia’s latest gold find is near
Ravensthorpe, on the Phillips River field,
about halfway between Albany and
Esperance. As a result of extensive learn-
ing in virgin country, prospectors have
uncovered a small but rich patch. Phillips
River was at one time an important gold-
and copper-mining centre, where several
mines were operated by London-
controlled cos. Now only a few
local syndicates and prospectors carry on.
* * * -
North Kalgurli (W.A.) reports that the
high values recently encountered at the
south end of No'. 6 level, North Kalgurli
shaft, persist. Further stripping of the
west wall of the lode has averaged
150dwt. a ton. Better-than-average values
have also been obtained elsewhere on
No. 6 level of this shaft, where the ore
assays 32dwt. over 4ft. General manager
Brinsden, who flew to London a few
weeks ago to confer with the board, is
expected to return to the mine shortly.
* * * *
Option-seekers are bidding for Bur-
bank’s Birthday Gift (W.A.). When oper-
ated by an Eastern States co., this mine
was one of the best of early Cpolgardie
gold-producers. Professor Nicholas, pre-
viously at the Melbourne University, was
manager then. He was followed by
others, and, when operations ceased on
account of lower-grade ore, parties of
working miners carried on. Some m
well Finally the mine was abandoned,
and for years the bottom workings have
been waterlogged. According to ol
plans the quantity of Part«! 1 r deV n el , 0
ore remaining is substantial. Present
owner is a local syndicate.
* * * *
By selective mining, reduction of ton-
nage and increasing the grade of ore
milled from under 2dwt. to over 3dwt.,
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd. (W-A.),“
earning a profit. Last mon h 9332 tons
were treated for a yield of 1440 fine oz.
The end, however, is in sight.


Have You Chosen
Your Executor
Wisely ?
UI AYE you allowed your personal
1 1 affection and regard for a friend
or relative to influence you unduly
in appointing him to be your Ex-
ecutor? If so, are you being quite
fair to him —and to your family?
. The management of any Estate
in the days ahead will call tof wide
experience and highly specialised
knowledge. It will most certainly
demand a great deal of time —which
few people have available.
There is a convenient way in which
you can relieve your Executor of
the heavy burden of responsibility
and, at the same time, ensure for
your family the maximum benefit of
your Estate. This is to appoint Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited)
as your Executor —in conjunction
with your friend if you so desire.
The Company’s standing and effi-
ciency are shown by the Trust funds
under its administration, which ex-
ceed £64,000,000 —yet the value of
•the average Estate administered is
less than £lO,OOO.
Call or write for a copy of the
booklet “Your Executor and Trus-
tee,’’ which explains the service
the Company renders and what it
costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS ; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING EESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
MR46/II
SYMBOL of
UNCHANGING QUALITY
With its integrity unquestioned in
every part of the world, a hall-mark is
a guarantee of quality. Since 1544 the
Lion Passant has been the symbol of
the sterling mark the mark most
expressive of quality. The symbol of
sterling quality found only upon
confectionery of the highest grade is
the signature
v
v
OLD GOLD
CHOCOLATE
MAC- ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CON FECTIONERY
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Australia’s Problems
The greater number of Australia’s
7,400,000 population are today wondering
what is wrong with the country. We
are moving along in a stricken way eight
months after hostilities ceased in the
Pacific.
Australia has been involved in a costly,
disruptive war, and has been victim of
clumsy political experimentalism, trade-
union opportunism and Communist
treachery. We have played our part-
in some respects glorious, others in-
glorious—in a great war, a conflict that
came to the very edges of our continent,
and which placed military considerations
before those of all others, except, perhaps,
those of Labor politics. We had to
acquiesce to some extent to the ideas of
larger Powers in order to prevent invasion
and to get on with the war job speedily;
sometimes this acquiescence imposed
latent disabilities on us.
Economically, politically and —to a
lesser degree—socially, the country has
been turned upside-down during the war,
and this impact of war alone has been
enough to disturb the foundations of our
way of life violently. War-time is a
period in which the ordinary aspirations
of the people are displaced by the
demands of the moment, and all sorts of
short-cuts and expedients are adopted ;
economic and social considerations are
superseded by those of defence, a
straightening-out of other problems being
deferred until peace-time,
“Peace” is now with us, and so is the
accumulation of deferred war-time prob-
lems. It is being more generally realised
that problems beyond the control of Aus-
tralians—that is, those caused by the
German and Japanese wars and by our
inevitable responsibilities to the Empire
aifd to our Allies —have been greatly
added to by the nature and associations
of the Labor Government that has been
in power since October, 1941. This
realisation is coming even to many of
those who voted the Curtin Government
in—overwhelmingly—for a second term
in August, 1943.
The enemy set the pace in the late
war, and in all cases our enemies were
“totalitarian”—each had a system of
government in which the individual had
few, if any, rights in the final analysis,
the Government thus being able to
demand the utmost from the people and
to return to it a minimum in the way of
living standards, the remaining production
being used to pursue the war. In this
way totalitarian countries were able to
throw in a huge weight of equipment
against Allied forces, and without as
much —and better—equipment the onrush
of the Axis Powers might never have
been stopped. Thus it came about that
in all Allied countries the democratic
Governments were given war-time powers
almost as extensive as those possessed by
the Axis, and manpower, money and
materials were placed at the disposal of
Allied Governments by the people. It
was a grave trust, to be administered
soberly, expertly and conscientiously.
The Labor Government fell heir to the
greatest financial, material and personal
controls ever known in Australia. Nearly
half the national income was taken by
“IN case you lose your key some time , just Watch me.”
the Government to finance various kinds
of expenditure, some civil, some defence,
some shamelessly political. The effects
of these powers over the people and the
assets of the country cannot be over-
emphasised. If the Government did its
job well these wide powers would be all
to the good. If the job was done badly.
and if powers were abused as well as
used for their correct purpose, there could
not fail to be wide repercussions. A Gov-
ernment with the right to restrict indi-
vidual initiative in almost all fields must
leave its imprint for good or ill on the
whole national economy. The Federal
Labor Government has left its imprint
right enough—and largely for ill.
There was very little that was fully
sober in the approach to the grave task
which confronted the Government after
December 7, 1941. In addition to exhibit-
ing the traditional spoils-to-the-victor
attitude, the party promptly got to work
implementing its policy of socialisation.
The trade-unions largely told the Govern-
ment what to do, and both Mr. Curtin
and Mr. Chifley answered to the crack
of the Caucus whip. The vested interests
of llabor became more deeply entrenched
with each passing month, the war being
accepted in some unions as a heaven-sent
opportunity to take advantage of the
rest of the community’—to loaf, to extort,
to coerce. The Ministry was composed
of men ignorant of most things except
professional politics of a pretty low order.
.
Some trade-unions had been promoting
the class-war for years, and many Labor
adherents really believed that all they had
to do to enjoy unlimited prosperity was
to weaken the bosses’ initiative, “create”
plenty of “credit” and put the Govern-
ment in charge of “essential industries.
During the war Curtin, Chifley and
co. set up in Big Business—poll-
tical business. Trade-union racketeers
began exercising strong-arm methods
right and left. The real brains,
the real enterprise, the real thrifty
and productive virtues of the people
were treated mostly with contempt. A
tyranny of weakness descended on the
land, and demagogues like Ward were
allowed to exercise a vicious influence at
the seat of government, while Com-
munism systematically took control of
many key trade-unions. The Labor
Government kotowed to Communism all
through, even allowing it to infiltrate the
fighting forces.
Today we find that trade-unionism,
where led by militants and Communists,
is strangling production—and production
is the real key to better living standards
and profitable employment. The vested
interests of Labor are rarely checked in
their excesses by the Federal Government,
and Communists still have a free hand.
There is never a forthright Government
denunciation of the many damnable
rackets. Minister E. J. Ward seems to
be the foremost apostle of lower produc-
tion and reduced living standards. Even
if he does not openly admit to these
aspirations, wherever he has influence
this seems to be the result, possibly best
illustrated (almost in a coconut shell) in
New Guinea, where copra and rubber are
both virtually out of production. But
the fall in output extends to the very
heart of our industries; coalmining, now
“employing” an increased number of
men, produces much less coal than three
years ago. Shipping is held up regularly
at wharves and overloaded with costs
when at sea. Nearly every industry re-
ports output much lower, costs far higher.
The Government’s mismanagement of
a war-swollen national purse has been
one of the principal factors in our present
very serious inflation danger. Too much
money was “created” by the Government
to finance its multifarious spendings ; too
little was taken in taxes and loans from
the people best fitted to contribute —those
wage-earners with inflated war-time in-
comes. It may have been politically diffi-
cult to finance a war without inflation,
but this Federal Government has courted
inflation all through the war. Mr. Curtin
openly expressed his esteem for bank
credit, the mother of inflation, and
argued with the late Claude Reading,
chairman of the central-bank board,
about it.
Today we find our national production
declining, and prices, under inflationary
pressure, hard to control. Housing is
tragically scarce, and so are most other
living essentials. But in the midst of this
condition of goods-shortage there is no
prospect of stable employment. There is
a lack of confidence, of enterprise and of
energy that is largely the result of Gov-
ernment doctrinal experimentation, mis-
management of national affairs and the
ascendancy of sectional selfishness and
militant destructiveness.
The Government which has done so
much to stifle private enterprise did an
almost equal amount to further “nation-
alisation” of various industries and func-
tions. It has first of all picked those which


POSITION VACANT.
WANTED, for Financial Pages of The Bulle-
tin, young man with accountancy training (or
maths, proficiency) and writing ability. Good
prospects for right applicant. In replying state
age, training and/or experience and salary ex-
pected. Address reply to —
“ECONOMIST,”
The Bulletin,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
. Sydney.
ONI,V AGENTS
£l7/10/- 21
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction oI
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupß-
rrn> cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
STATES Plans, Music, etc.
Bmtlt wtirely Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
>r ■ ' I SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ~ "
OIL PAINTINGS
WATERCOLOURS
SCULPTURES—PRINTS
MORLEY & TORDA invite you to visit their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417, St. James Building,
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Telephone: MA 5805.
We represent the leading Australian Artists of
all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for
your home.
No gift is more acceptable and dignified than a
Work of Art.
Prices from 5 Gns. to 300 Gns.
Limited number of imported prints available
Gallery open Daily from 9.30 a.m. to
5.30 p.m. Saturday 9.30 a.m. to I p.m.
lOv
il
m
m
m
m
30
Hi
*r-
l\\o
/
P 8
S*R
SP
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
obiloil
... the
best oil
you can
buy
because
its the
World's
Quality
Oil!
M 467
are already operating efficiently—airlines,
banks, communications, etc. —and has
shied off coalmines, preferring to let
private enterprise suffer the growing finan-
cial and industrial headaches. Shipping
it is not so keen on either, though it is
determined to “control” it; this industry
has been half-socialised during the war,
and there have been chronic labor
troubles, chronic losses on coastal ser-
vices.
The position today seems to be: Is war-
time mobilisation, waste and destruction
to be replaced, for political and “expedi-
ency” reasons, by socialisation and ineffi-
cient production?
While the Pacific war was on the Fed-
eral Government took unto itself the
right to spend over half the national in-
come. (In 1943-44 the national income
was computed at £1283 million, Federal
expenditure was £686 million.) For three
war years Canberra spent annually over
eight times as much money as it spent
annually before the war. The taking and
spending of this vast sum, mostly for
“war” purposes, by itself imposed severe
restrictions on the freedom, the income
and the economic initiative of the people.
The war is now over, but high spending
still goes on—at the rate of over £6OO
million a year during the first nine months
of 1945-46. Continued central-Govern-
ment spending of such a great proportion
of the national income in actual fact re-
places war-time mobilisation by peace-
time socialisation. And this policy of
socialisation-through-finance seems to be
deliberate. It was forecast here in 1944
that if the Government failed to get the
additional constitutional powers asked for
by referendum it would seek to achieve
the same objective by financial means,
Australia must remove the scum from
the top of the political melting-pot set
bubbling by war and get down to basic
material. Changes in our political and
economic outlook compared with 1939
there must be ; but the problems of the
day should be accepted as a challenge to
our brains and energies, not as an excuse
for continued retreat from democracy,
productivity and confident enterprise. Aus-
tralia, to develop, must still offer young
men the chance of making good in pro-
portion to their skill and efforts. In that
way only can we have reasonable political
and economic health and national pro-
gress. ‘
The proposed loan of $4400 million by
the United States to Britain, its fate held
in the balance in the U.S. Senate,
is the equivalent of less than a
twelfth of U.S. Federal borrowing during
the war year 1944-45. It is equal to about
one twenty-second of the total Federal
Budget for that year. At the same time
it is rather more than the average annual
borrowing which Roosevelt found neces-
sary to “prime the pump” during the New
Deal years preceding the war. Britain
has about five years in which to take up
the loan, bit by bit, provided the loan is
approved by Congress.
* * * *
Victorian Labor Premier Cain predicts
that “there will be only slight income-tax
reductions in the future,” and that if
people want better living conditions they
cannot expect big tax reductions. The
Bulletin believes substantially the re-
verse of the last part of the assertion.
Only by greater production can we have
higher living standards. Present severe
tax rates are killing production incentive
everywhere.
* * * *
The Victorian Government’s effort to
introduce a State Insurance Office
monopoly of workers’ compensation in-
surance, at the same time amending the
conditions of workers’ comp., is being
fought by the Opposition, which approves
of many of the amendments, but dis-
agrees with the State monopoly. Messrs.
Hollway and Dunstan consider the legis-
lation to be a further step toward social-
isation of financial functions and in-
dustry. It is contended that the bill
should be divided into two parts, and
that the Opposition would then fight only
the socialisation section.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton Mills (Sydney) is to
make a new issue of shares to those on
the register on May 11. Details have yet
to be announced. In November, 1945,
nominal capital was increased by
£1,000,000, making it £2,250,006, of which
£894,993 was paid up. Shareholders were
then told that they would be given first
priority in the case of any issues, “with
one exception—that is, in a case where
shares are issued to another concern for
a union of interests, or for obtaining
‘know-how’ or new methods.” R. J.
Webster (managing director) and A. W.
Keighley, one of the founders of the
business, were at that time abroad. The
co, has undergone great expansion, but
the market ahead of it is still wide. The
co. spins cotton yarn and makes canvas,
duck, denims, dungarees, etc., and con-
trols the Sanforising (pre-shrinking)
method. Price of the ord. shares is pegged
at 495. 3d., yielding 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis,
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits in Australia on
March 31 totalled £649 million, held in
5,431,000 active accounts. The increase
in deposits during March was only £3.7
million; the growth over a year was
£lO9 million. Increase since the be-
ginning of the war has been £404
million (165 p.c.).
R. G. Menzies on a matter of protec-
tion for thrift:
The increase of over £4OO million in savings-
bank deposits in Australia is most important
and illuminating. The savings banks are not
normally the holders of the funds of the well-
to-do. Their deposits represent to a very large
extent the savings of small salary-earners and
wage-earners It is one of the clear duties of
true statesmanship to make these savings of
the thrifty worth what they appear to be worth,
and not to permit them to be dissipated by in-
flation of the currency. The greatest measure
against inflation —that is, the greatest defence
of these savings—is to be found in the restora-
tion of production of civil goods and services.
When the war ended the position was that
we had, as a nation, drastically cut down our
civil production by probably 45 p.c. in order
to make room for war services and war pro-
duction. Our first job is to restore this gap
in our production, to produce still more on
account of the arrears of production for the
last six years, and to produce stilt more again
in order to seize our opportunities for over-
seas markets.
Production is therefore our primary task. Its
enemies are high taxation, which reduces the
incentive to produce, industrial stoppages, which
not only destroy immediate production but
probably dislocate other forms of production
for months to come, and a failure on the part
of the Government to realise the importance of
production.
This last factor is most disturbing. Ever
since the war against Japan ended we have
listened in vain for any exhortation to pro-
duce from either members of the Government
or representative leaders of the trades-union
movement. If the holders of savings-bank de-
posits will ponder these matters • they will
begin to demand the carrying-out gf public
policies which will enable their savings to be a
real protection to them in the months and
years to come.
S£ * * * ♦
Forde, Acting P.M., says the £7O mil-
lion Security Loan was “oversubscribed
by at least £8 million.” He forecast that
the final total of individual subscribers
would be “at least 200,000.” He did not
say to what extent the banks, more par-
ticularly savings banks, had been called
on in order to save the loan from failure,
but some indication of the poor public
response to this loan cari be gathered
from the fact that it required 455,688
subscribers to put up £82.7 million in
November, 1942. Even then it is doubt-
ful whether the loan was filled without
the pumping-in of considerable bank
credit. A loan of £48.3 million in
February, 1942, was filled by more sub-
scribers (244,595) than the recent £7B mil-
lion collection.
The export-price index for Australian
produce in February was 82| p.c. above
the average for the year 1938-39, though
only 52 p.c. above the average for the
three years to the end of June, 1939. The
rise in the price of wheat has been re-
sponsible for a big part of the jump that
has occurred over the past three months,
and, though we are in a position to ex-
port more grain out of the current har-
vest than out of the previous one, the
export-price increase would mean more
to our external income if a greater part
of it arose from a lift in the price of
wool. There has been no increase in
the price of wool since the beginning of
the 1942-43 season, when it was lifted
15 p.c. Our wool production has been
more stable during the war than that of
any other land product, and we export a
greater proportion of it. The rise in
the cost of imports, on the whole, seems
to have been considerably more than
the effective rise in the price of our
exports.


STAMPS.
Just send all your used postage stamps to
BON MARCHE STAMPS
42 High Street, Penge, London, S.E. 20,
England.
Cash payments by return Air Mail.
NP4S/38
44 You’re always getting hurt .
Ask Mummy to
give you a daily
dose of ‘NUGGET ’
to make you sturdy
and strong like me”
OI6ISTINIO TUOI MAN>
mm
[l]
3
W ATIR PROOF
finest leather
Preservative
«=A
V.
r b
rn
for 50 years a GOOD polish
HSIIOd 10HS
*
XS99I2K
OUTSTANDING BOOKS OF TO-DAY
THE COMPLETE BOOK OF GARDEN
MAGIC, by R. W. Biles. Large handsome
volume with beautiful colored plates and
numerous other illustrations and designs. Ex-
pert gardening experience, completely indexed
to help you find exactly the information you
want right away. 25/- (post. 10d.).
BIRDS OF THE NIGHT, by Eric Hosking
and Cyril Newberry. This is a companion
volume to Birds of the Day; it tells a fas-
cinating story of those mysterious creatures
the owls, and contains nearly 80 remarkable
photographs. 19/6 (post. Bd.).
THE STREAM OF MUSIC. A new book. The
story of Music in Terms of the Great Men
who made it, by Richard Anthony Leonard.
With portraits. 21/9 (post. 9d.). This book
has been in preparation for eight years and
is the result of enormous research combined
with a true love of music. Bach, Haydn,
Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Schumann,
Chopin, Wagner, Strauss, Sibelius and others.
THE EXECUTIVE’S DESK BOOK. A com-
plete, practical guide to correct usage in
business, official and social activities, includ-
ing a dictionary of more than 100,000 words.
Gazetteer, maps, thumb index. Over 1200
pages. 52/6 (post. 2/-).
WINSTON CHURCHILL. 1874-1945. By Lewis
Broad. This is the only biography of Winston
Churchill which carries the story of his career
down to the end of the war and the election.
25/3 (post. Bd.).
THE MALE HORMONE, by Paul de Kruif.
A new gleam of hope for prolonging man’s
prime of life. 14/- (post. 6d.).
THE WONDER BOOK OF TRAVELLERS’
TALES, by H. C. Adams. Ancient and
modern travellers, strange customs, strange
men-monsters, beasts, birds, fishes, reptiles,
insects and plants. 18/6 (post. Bd.).
SOIL AND CIVILISATION, by Elyne Mitchell,
author of Australian Alps, Speak to the
Earth. A book on the menace of soil erosion,
on the effects of man’s thoughtlessness and
greed. 4/6 (post. 4d.).
THE DOG OWNER’S MANUAL, by Josephine
Z. Rine. A most complete reference book on
the care, feeding, breeding and training of
dogs. With over 100 illustrations. 21/-
(post. 10d.).
PARLIAMENT AND HOW IT WORKS, by
John E. Edwards, Clerk of the Senate of the
Commonwealth of Australia. * . Foreword by
Senator the Hon. Gordon Browm, President
of Senate. 1/6 (post. 3d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd.. 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
Confounding the critics who thought six fur-
longs a mite too short for him, and overcom-
ing the considerable disadvantage of a very wide
barrier position, Abbeville won the £4OOO Strad-
ero*® Handicap at Ascot, Brisbane. High
Rank, a ten-year-old entire by Chatham, was
second and Nestor third.
Ridden by G. Bougoure (who rode him home
in the 1945 Doncaster), Abbeville jumped away
fairly well from his No. 16 post position, but
was soon apparently hopelessly out" of it.
Coming into the straight, Bougoure sighted an
opening, beat Nestor to it, and, with High Rank
also finding his way through, the three of them
ran over the field in a wonderful finish. Abbe-
ville won by a long neck, then a short head to
Nestor, a head to Victory Lad, a head to Maa
Leesh and a half-length further back the
favorite, Repshot.
Abbeville was backed from 25 to 1 down to
a starting quote of 14 to 1, but it’s a wonder
he did not find greater support in his home
State. Possibly Queenslanders preferred to
forget' a horse which used to race there under
such a title as Little Artie. Apart from being
a good galloper, Abbeville provides a model
example of a horse whose races have been
most carefully chosen for him; he is sparingly
raced, but wins good ’uns when he does. Last
season he had only eight starts and won the
Rosehill Camellia Stakes, the Australia Day
Handicap and the Doncaster. Giving the winner
a stone and a half, he was beaten into second
place in this year’s Doncaster, but winning
the Stradbroke more than atoned for that, and
now presumably the Aherne Handicap will be
his mark.
The finish of the King’s Plate, a 10-furlongs
w.f.a. affair, was confined to Sydney horses,
Good Idea winning comfortably from Falcon
Knight and Swan River. Though reported to
have been backed for a fantastic sum in the
Doncaster, in which he failed to fill a place,
Good Idea had previously shown preference for
distances beyond a mile, and after winning the
King’s Plate he replaced Swan River as favor-
ite for the Victory Cup.
Dashing round the field as they took the
home turn the Genetout colt Guiding Light
looked the winner of the first Queensland
St. Leger run since Abspear won in 1941. A
furlong and a half from home Wild Buck chal-
lenged, whereupon Guiding Light moved out
in front of him, forcing Barnes to check his
mount. Then as the Spearfelt colt went for
the inside running Guiding Light shifted back
to the rails, knocking Wild Buck to his knees.
Guiding Light went on to pass the post four
lengths clear, but the result of the protest was
inevitable, Wild Buck being awarded this 61st
St’. Leger; Moongalba, a long way back, was
third. Maddock, who rode Guiding Light, was
given a three-months suspension for what the
stewards termed “grossly careless riding.”
There was a similar occurrence in the 1921
St. Leger, awarded to Grichka, after Tweeds-
muir was first past the post but disqualified for
interference.
The first 10 St. Legers were run over the
exact mile and three-quarters, but in 1891 the
distance was extended by 132 yards and has
remained at that since. Guiding Light might
be reckoned unlucky; he covered the distance
in which had only twice previously been
bettered in the race. In 1938 Spear Chief cut
it out in 3.6£, and 20 years ago Piastoon did a
a quarter-second better than that.
Four other races completed the card at
Ascot. Both divisions of the Trial went to
favorites, Lord John (McGrowdie) taking the
first from Colleague and Sinner, while Red
Mick (A. Thompson) downed France and Bom-
bardier. There was far more daylight than horse
in the finish of the Two-year-old Handicap,
which Lord Papyrus (G. Moore) won by five
lengths from Bon Vite, with Duraldi, third,
eight lengths behind the winner. The nine-
furlongs Hamilton Handicap was won by
Doubtful (A. Thompson), Grand Prodige being
beaten a neck, wjth Australian third.
The generous prizemoney provided by the
Q.T.C. had its reward, attracting classy inter-State
fields which in turn attracted big crowds. About
45,000, almost double the previous best attend-
ance, flocked in to see them resume racing on
the grass. But Queensland punters are either
not so well heeled or else show more commend-
able restraint than their southern brethren —
only £21,947 went through the tote on seven
races. In comparison, at Randwick on Satur-
day, with only six races and fewer than 70
runners engaged, an attendance of 35,000 put
£123,193 through the tote. Brisbane tote turn-
overs have been on the decline for several
months —possibly the first faint sign of some
easing up in the frenzied gambling which has
characterised the past few years.
A consolation for the Stradbroke, the Q.T.C.’s
New Handicap at the continuation of the meet-
ing on Monday saw more of the cash collected
by the southern invaders, Nobleman getting
there narrowly from Grand Prodige in a great
finish, with Dowborough third after leading
most of the way. The Sires’ Produce resulted
in a win for Gay Stand, who a while back ran
such fast time at Toowoomba that he was taken
to Sydney, but was well beaten there. Gay
Stand, by Mt. Standfast-Wilma Gay, ran right
away when they turned for home to beat Lord
Papyrus five lengths, with Te Tana third. The
Victory Cup was all Sydney—Good Idea 1,
Chaytor 2, Swan River 3.
* * * He
City Tattersall’s Club had a day at Randwick,
the Club Handicap at 10 furlongs and worth
£Bl4 to the winner being the main event. Rep-
resenting class in a weak field, Silver Link
started a warm favorite, but once again this un-
lucky nag was able to finish only next-best.
With an advantage of a stone in the weights,
Lady Marie won it nicely, while Blue Legend
added third money of £lOO to his Doncaster
cheque. After leading from barrier rise, Turn
Again weakened over the final furlong, just
missing a place. Evidently he’s about ready to
reproduce good form.
As often happens, the poorest field of the
day provided, as a spectacle, the best finish
and a tribute to the handicapper. In the 10-
furlongs Encourage three of the seven starters
“He won by a neck last week!”
went past the judge in line abreast’. Courier,
Spearex and Silver Spear were Nos. 1, 2 and 3
in the handicapper’s opinion, and that was how
the judge placed them, with a head and a head
separating.
Back to Flying Handicap conditions after
recent experiences of lumping huge Welter
imposts, Puffham, though still topweight with
8.7, was not troubled in disposing of John
Halifax, Vermeil and a couple of others at a
shade over six furlongs. Leading all the way
and with the false rail now back in use, Puff-
ham was clocked to do a creditable 1.13.
Though gelded recently Vermeil appears to be
as cranky as ever, but may pick up a race
before long.
A most remarkably improved galloper, Puff-
ham has won six races this season and filled
numerous minor places, a considerable feat
with only one meeting a week and so many
horses in training. His connections are now
considering the Aherne Handicap, which may
be aiming a trifle high, but Puffham could cer-
tainly run a good race.
Finishing with great dash, but too late, Con-
cise failed by only a head to overhaul Beau
Pebble, thereby flattering his evidently numerous
supporters —he was a 2 to 1 favorite for the
Youthful Stakes. However, it was noticed
that, while Mulley rode the winner with hands
and knees, Munro was giving Concise a very
good look at the whip. Stewards queried Munro
on the lateness* of his run and accepted his ex-
planation that he was pocketed. Tamasha
finished fairly into third place.
Columnist (G. Weate), Deliverance and Edin-
burgh filled the places in the Three-year-old
Handicap, while, starting as usual at long odds,
old Bragger led the Welter field nearly all the
way to win, holding on gamely ahead of Crafts-
man and Homeleigh Dick. The last-named is a
five-year-old son of Bernborough’s sire, Em-
borough.
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Two-year-old: Two Grand, 1; Tamasha, 2;
Blaxland, 3. Two-year-Old (fillies): Shining
Vision, 1; Tattling, 2; Anastasia, 3. Maiden:
Quadrant, 1; Skymaster, 2; Mardi Gras, 3.
Flying: Puffham, 1; John Halifax, 2; Civic
Pride, 3. Frank Underwood Handicap: Shin-
ing Night, 1; Questing, 2; Spearex, 3. Trial:
Rose'Glory, 1; Hemisphere, 2; Invest, 3.
* * * *
Mentone on Saturday was most remarkable
as another disastrous outing for those who pin
their faith to leading jockey A. Breasley, usually
making almost anything he’s legged up on
favorite. He’s had an unlucky run since he
visited the .Sydney autumn meeting, there to
land three winners in one day.
On Saturday it began with the downing of
Upheaval (at odds on) by the Solar Bear
filly Fly Beam, who, though a good winner
on the course at her previous start, went out at
14 to 1 in the six-furlongs Cranbrook Handi-
cap for two-year-olds. Leading Role ran a
promising third.
Next the St. Magnus colt Geronimo downed
Breasley’s mount, Lord Beaufort (also a hot
favorite), with Sigeum next, in the mile Ells-
mere Handicap (three-year-olds). After that
there was a rest for the flat riders and their
damaged followers while the favorite, Halga,
won the Seacombe Trial Hurdle from Elliot and
Wangaratta. Then again Breasley’s mount.
Cacique, came in second, to the still im-
proving Emborough colt Greensborough in the
main sprint, with Regeen third. Last Mel-
bourne Cup winner Rainbird, who has been
racing in S.A., was given a run in this short
event and was actually backed, but they went
too fast for her.
In the Ascot Thousand Breasley failed to
fill a place on Oatcake, Gala Chief going out
at 25 to 1 and taking it in a good finish, with
Nullabung second and Carey third. Despite
the lack of luck thus far they came up for more
punishment in the Falkland Handicap first divi-
sion, won by Greek Myth from Camouflage
and Medicine, with Brea*ley’s mount Henty
(favorite) among the others. His mount was
again unplaced in the Tottenham Handicap,
won by Lord Enfield from General Cunning-
ham and Lord Cavil; then to wind the day up
Breasley’s mount Lord Baden was solidly sup-
ported, but could only manage third to True
Law and First Aid in the Falkland second
division.
* * * *
Starting at eights, Assault (by Bold Venture)
won the Kentucky Derby from Spy Song (by
Balladier) and the favorite Hampden (by Helio-
polis). The crowd of 100,000 put close on a
million and a quarter dollars through the tote
on the event, and over three and a half millions
on the day.
• * * «
Well over 100,000 turned out to watch
the six V.F.L, games on Saturday, most
of ’em picking the Collingwood-North
Melbourne affair as the match of the day.
North was in front for exactly
minutes; thereafter it chased the Mag-
pies vainly to a 12.12-10,14 finish, Essen-
don, Fitzroy and Richmond, all at home,
displayed a regrettable selfishness in want-
ing to kick the ball all the time, and if
there hadn’t been an umpire at each
ground to make them give it up oc-
casionally their playmates mightn’t have
got a kick. Essendon 21.15 v. Melbourne
12.13, Fitzroy 20.19 v. Geelong 9.9,
Richmond 16.14 v. St. Kilda 6.15. It was
more like a game at St, Kilda between
’Scray and South, with nothing between
them until the last spasm, when ’Scray
wore down South to win by 14.18 to
12.13. Carlton entertained Hawthorn —
or, rather, set out to do so —and got a
bit of a shock to find the Haw-Haws
grimly hanging on to them. Somewhat
indignant at such presumption, Carlton
got to work in the last quarter, but even
then could make it only 19.17 to 15,11.
♦ * * *
Through a 20-18 win over Manly, East
remains the only undefeated Rugby
Union side. Poor service from the scrum
base robbed the Manly attack of much
of its sting, but it was anybody’s game
until the final bell. Randwick v. North
was a fast and spectacular game that had
the crowd roaring throughout. A last-
minute try by winger Patterson, which he
converted, gave the ’Wicks victory, 34-30,
and brought Patterson’s total points
scored to 22—two tries, two penalty goals
and five goals. The strong University
team, with three replaced in the first half
because of injuries and two injured after
lemons, had to be content with an eight-
all draw against Gordon. Other games:
Drummoyne-14, Parramatta 11 ; West 13,
St. George nil.
• * * *
England is hoping that Henry Cotton,
after his recent brilliant win, will hold
the American champs, in the British Open
to be played in July. Unlike most golf
pros., Cotton comes from a wealthy
home, is a public school old boy and
deliberately chose golf as a
career. Apart from his tie-ups
in England he is pro. and
course designer to the world’s
most costly golf course—at
Monte Carlo,
* *
All the fuss and pother
about sending a team to Wim-
bledon finally resulted in a
decision to allow Pails and
Brown to go, each being spon-
sored by his own association.
Now it appears that Australia
already has a perfectly cap-
able representative over there
in Jock Harper, In the North
of England hardcourt cham-
pionships Harper met much
the same bunch that he ac-
counted for in the Surrey Tour-
nament, and, again meeting the
Chinese player in the finals,
beat him 8-6, 3-6, 6-1. In the
semi-finals Harper eliminated
the New Zealander Malfroy;
Harper and Malfroy joined forces for the
doubles and in the final defeated Kho
Sin Kie and Godsell, 7-5, 6.3. Jock was
then seeded No. 1 for the British Hard-
court Championship, which he won, and,
since he is ranked No. 8 in Australia
behind Pails (No. ,2) and Brown (No, 4),
it looks as if the latter pair may have to
search very hard for the “overseas match
practice,” unless some Americans go over.
* * * *
Two promising boxers, Owen Moase, a
middleweight, and Ken Bailey, a light-
weight, were seen in action at Sydney
Stadium. Moase met Andy Hodgins, who
had a bad night. Both his eyebrows were
opened before the ninth round, and Moase
punished him unmercifully in the 10th. At
“corners” his chief second, Jack Dun-
leavy, surrendered for him. Bailey’s
opponent was Ken Howlett, who also was
very much second-best. Most of his
blows missed and he was outpointed in
practically all 12 rounds.
* * * j|c
, Giving away seven pounds and as many
years, Sid Knight outpointed Dick Harris
at Leichhardt; but, perhaps bowing to
public opinion—Harris is a local boy—
the referee declared it a draw. After the
fourth round it was rather a good fight.


m
\mmi
VJ.'iw
iiiii
mm
mmmm
m
mm<
m
iiiic
%
111 nil
gpjilliN
S=-GgP
Sunshine and Calm Seas
The Netherlands Merchant Navy, throughout the dark
and stormy years of war, wrote stirring pages into its
history, carrying munitions, supplies and comforts to
our troops in the S.W. Pacific and serving the Allied
Cause on the Seven Seas.
Now, they are discarding the drab grey;
Soon the Great White Yachts of the
K.P.M. Line will be here again, and
then regular sailings to the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore will be resumed.
Incorporated in
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
m
w
..., '-
‘Good Mornings 9 begin
with Gillette
Yes, you feel like the man
On the flying trapeze
After shaving with blades '
So good-tempered as these!
■s;'
1/128
Blue Gillettes 5 for 1/7; 10 for 3/2. Managing Agents'.
Phipson & Company (Pty) Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
m
SMOKE-OH!
To the Besl
With the Besl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“32 Women In Diet.” — Heading in “Sun.”’
But hopes of improving the figure are
slim.
“Elderly tailor, country businessman, wishes
to meet elderly tailoress, spinster, view mat.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
They should suit one another.
•h
“The number of men and women who ex-
plain that they bought things from ‘a chap in
a hotel’ is phenomenal.”—“ Sunday Sun.”
And they all pay spot cash.
•J* d*
“I don’t know about missing putts, but she
played four strokes on the first tee!”
—Husband in divorce court.
Didn’t hit it off too well, apparently.
•fr
“Sir George is a wide-awake man of
affairs.”— “Sun.”
Sir George is wide-awake, they say;
He never slumbers night or day.
If what we glean of him is quite
Correct —he is a sleepless knight.
F. M.
-I- •!• *l* 'l*
“There is no hope for romance when marriage
is turned into a reformatory.”—' “New Idea.”
Try to keep a man behind bars and
he’ll want to stay in front of them.
•I*
“Uncle Joe buys everything you have to .sell.
—Suburban paper.
Lend-lease must have finished for him,
too.
4 1
“Wanted, casual man, for dance hall door.
— “S.M.H.”
One who doesn’t care what riff-raff
gets in.
“He asked his wife to place the custard in the
refrigerator. Shouting ‘Cop this,’ Mrs.
emptied the custard over him.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.
She gave him his desserts.
“He went off suddenly, didn’t he! Passed
away in his sleep. And to think that only that
day he had managed to scrounge a carton ot
cigarettes, containing fifty packets.”
—“New Idea.”
“Flat Tenant Gets £ll4 Rent Back.”—' "Sun.”
Nothing like a good windfall when
you’re broke, eh?
•F 4* *i*
“Spotting (piecework) done by expert.”
s.m.h;
But will the employer provide the
grog? , , .
“Have your undergarments under control
before you leave the privacy of your bedroom.
—Woman s paper.
Or there’s bound to be a hitch some-
where.
Selectivity.
For morals that are more than good
Fair Joan deserves the highest praise;
She always does the thing she should,
And nobody can change her ways.
Her intellect, we all agree,
Can match her virtue. She for hours
Can talk upon philosophy
Or politics with wondrous powers,
And that is why, I somehow fancy,
I go out with her sister Nancy.
T. W. NATHAN.
The Human Dynamo.
“A Cincinnati doctor reports that the human
cough attains a muzzle velocity of 45 miles- an
hour.” — “Time/’ \
I first studied the dynamics of the
human system on my infant nephew, who
kept up a continuous yell at the level of
20 decibels. This would increase to about
500 at the sight of his bottle or when he
was struck smartly on the head with a
five-kilogram weight. He sneezed with
an explosive effect equal to 1.3820 z, of
TNT.
After some weeks of practice in the
home I ventured to pursue my researches
on the general public. My first subject
was a blonde whom I |ound looking into
a shop window. With a cough of inten-
sity about I attracted her
attention and gave her a 500-volt ogle.
Nothing happened, so I stepped up the
voltage to 1000, and let her have a wink
of 2/ssec. duration.
This connected; she rewarded me with
a flashing smile, which I rated at about
10,000 lumens, and my temperature
mounted rapidly to 193 deg. F. I had
just moved to her side and given her
hand a 101 b. squeeze when an 85-h.p.
roar disturbed me. It was the lady’s
escort, a man weighing, I should say,
2151 b., who had just emerged from a
tobacconist’s in a state of utter frus-
tration.
Noting absently that his blood pressure
was around 10,0001 b. per sq. in., I set
off at my maximum speed of 19.6 ra.p.h.
His best, however, turned out to be 22,3,
and a later examination of my jaw dis-
closed that his left fist packed approxi-
mately 500 foot-pounds.
I am looking for a second-hand comp-
tometer to count ap astronomical number
of stars.
PLUM.
If he should join blackmarketeers
Where demons do the stoking,
His friends on earth need have no fears —
He’ll soon again be smoking.
D.H.
Another Report.
To the Supt.,
Vice Squad.
Sir,—As instructed by you, I went
through the bookshelfs of Angus and
Dymocks, Accompanied by the Maniger.
He sujested I go through some books by
Ralph Boldrewood, Mark Clark and
Henry Lawson, but I told him I wasn t
intrested in English and American authors
so much as in present day Australian
ones. The maniger at this point was
taken with a sort of seazure, so I went
and selected one myself. It is called The
Cloister and the Hearth” and it is written
by a man named Charles Reade. I have
read it through cairfully, that is the parts
I could understand. The parts I couldn t
I got my son-in-law, who is a very well
educated bricklayer’s laborer, to explane
to me.
My findings is as follows:
It’s all about foreigners and starts off
in Holland. Although I didn’t see any-
thing in it about the Indonesian trouble,
my suspisions were roused by seeing bits
of foreign languidge put in here and
there. I made a note of one piece (page
270): Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis
cevum." This might be Dutch and could
be used to try to stir up trouble or it
might even be swearing, cleverly camou-
flarged. I also took note of another
piece (page 266):
“Qui haute femmes et dez
II mourra en pauvretez.”
My son-in-law thinks this is either Ger-
man or Italian, and it is quite possible
“I DO wish they Would make paintbrushes with
longer handles."
that some immorel sujestion has been
worked into it.
There is also a lot of vialent langdidge.
One character, Gerard, sometimes in a
rage says “O Fie!” and “Ods bodkins!
and on another occasion “Zounds! ” But
the worst feeture of the book is the im-
morel sujestions. For instance, on page
145 this occurs: —
The fall one (woman) wore a little
grogram cloak, a farthingale or petticoat
of bright red cloth and legs quite bare.
This ludeness is followed by even more
glairing (page 207):
Marion stuck her great arms upon her
haunches and held the whole room in play.
This passage in particular offended me.
The author has gone out of his way to
draw attention obseenly to a portion of
the female body.
There is even worse on page 196. One
character is made to talk about the
“clean inns” of a place he and a mate
are passing through. “I ask no more,”
replied the Hollander ; “to think that I
have not lain on a naked bed since I left
home!” The words “naked” and “bed”
being together like that will have a bad
influence on the reader’s mind if the book
is allowed to be sold.
There is a vishus sujestion of immorelity
in the lines (page 463) in which Richart
says to the heroine
“Why, Mistress, did ye shed your blood
for our Gerard?”
This loose talk of kept women should
certainly be cut , out.
There is far too much talk on drinking
throughout the book. One of the worst
of the passidges is on page 597 where
one character refers to
the devil “with his gins
and snares and traps.”
The heroine is called
Margaret Brandt. It
might be only a coinci-
dence but only a
month ago I arrested a
“Smacker” Brandt in a
Surry Hills lane for
peddling sly grog. It was
his fourth offence. Any-
way, this Margaret is
reading to some people a
letter from her lover
Gerard (page 406). He
is telling her of a bad
time he had when he got
mixed up with the army
of some duke or other
and he speaks of the
Bastard of Burgundy.
This swearing about
the cheap wine he had is
very bad, and if read by
the public might lead to
an increase in the illegal
sale of bombo.
Finally, there is some
awful languidge when, on
page 157 Gerard speaks
of “the b —y battle that
raged in the woods” and
again on page 165, “the
poor soul who by b —y laws is driven to
kill.” Two b—ys in eight pages!
In view of what I read I strongly recko-
mend that the book be withdrawn from
sale immediately and that Charles Reade,
the author, as well as the publishers, be
prosecuted immediately.
Patrick O’Hennessy (Sgt.),
yice Squad.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: The revival of the Stawell
Gift this year caught me in Sydney,
where I was entertained by reading the
efforts of sundry newspaper boys to play
up a couple of abo. contenders in the
footrace. Having discovered them, one
reporter promptly announced that their
“admirers” in the home town had seen
to it that the boys were well-supplied
with witchety grubs, a diet of which,
according to the reporter, was part of
their main training for the race. An-
other paper bettered this with a picture
of an abo. holding before his mouth a
grub, presumably in the act of swallow-
ing it. All tommy rot, of course, since
any abo. civilised enough to be a pro-
fessional runner would shudder with the
average white at the idea-of eating grubs.
As for the picture, the wildest nunga in
the bush would have to be starving be-
fore he swallowed a witchety that hadn’t
been neatly beheaded and disembowled
before being roasted over a slow fire. I
once had negotiations with an abo. runner
who won his share of Sheffields around
Victoria; he demanded white pfeller
tucker —and the best of it—all the time.
* * * *
“C.E.”: His acreage being too small
for his needs, it was Coxie’s custom to
take outside jobs in the off season ; sc
when his northern neighbor asked aboul
spreading some; super, he agreed. “You’re
lucky to have super.,” he said glumly
“Hanged if I can get any, and nothing’ll
grow on this place o’ mine without it
Awright, have everything ready, an’ I’ll
be over first day I get time.” For the
■next week or two he was busy sowing
clover inside his northern boundary, but
even after he’d finished days slipped by
without his appearance on his neighbor’s
job. “I’ll come soon’s I get a chance,”
he reiterated, in response to numerous
reminders. “Shouldn’t be long now.” It
was blowing a strong gale from the north
when he arrived, and at his employer’s
protest stoutly declared he wasn’t afraid
of wind, and anyhow it was the only day
he’d have available. Off he 4 went, and
sending the truck round at top speed, he
flung the super, high and wide with reck-
less abandon. It’s not the twenty-five bob
a ton for spreading that annoys the
neighbor so much now. No ; it’s the
sight of Coxie’s adjoining paddock of
flourishing clover, while his own looks
thin and yellow.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Y’ know,” said Mat,
from the top rail of the drafting pen,
sipping at his tea and running his eyes
over the immediate and distant scene,
“there’s times when a bloke is perfectly
happy with this here life an’ don’t hanker
for any other. Times when y’ wouldn’t
want t’ die an’ go t’ some heaven or
other because y’ know it couldn’t be
better than this. Now look, here’s a fine
day an’ it’s easy goin’ with the sheep, y’
feel good an’ there’s tucker an’ some
smokes an’ y’r mates is all right. Y’ see
the sun shinin’ an’ there’s grass .an’ up in
them hills there it’s a sorter smoky blue
that makes y’ want t’ keep on lookin’ at
it. Reckon a bloke don’t talk much about
bein’ happy, but by cripes what’s wrong
with this kind o’ life?” “Yair,” I said,
“it’s all right, but y’ gotter have a rough
spin or two now an’ again or y’ wouldn’t
know the difference. Anyhow, bein’ like
this is all right for a while, but y’d get
a bit sick of it if it went on all the time.”
Mat pondered, then he spat thoughtfully
and answered, “Yair, y’ might be right.
But that’s because some blokes is never
satisfied. Y’ see ’em rush off somewhere
else or they go an’ get married an’ muck
the whole thing up.” “Aw, I dunno,” I
said. “Wfyy couldn’t a bloke be married
an’ .feel the same way on a day like
this?” “Don’t be silly,” he rasped, “y’
couldn’t have a heaven on earth with
wimmen in it. They’d want t’ hang cur-
tains on it or make y’ shave or wash y’r
socks or somethin’, just because y’ hap-
pened t’ be siltin’ round doin nothin'
but enjoy y’rself. You ought t’ know
better, mate.”
* * * «
“Bush Rose”; Tell “Porongorup” (B.
20/3/’46) that here in the Riverina it’s
the mature dog fox that kills the lambs.
When food is plentiful he’ll kill every
night, but only suck the blood through
the tooth incisions in the throat. You
won’t find these punctures in the skin
unless you part the wool. It’s the best-
conditioned lambs that go, and only one
or two each night from the one flock.
The females and young foxes do the
scavenging of carcasses. A tin collar
slipped over the lamb’s head when a
few hours old and removed at marking
time has proved satisfactory with us.
“B. A. Ker”: Well, well; so “The
0.D.” wants to have a lash at me now
(B. 17/ 4/ ’46)! Surely even so cursory an
observer as he couldn’t really believe that
the rabbit shares the feline’s aversion to
water? Why, bunny loves to squat in
damp, dewy grass early in the morning!
Moreover, he can and will swim a river
or creek —for the same reason that the
“Some coot at the back yelled out ‘heave !”
chicken crossed the road. Buf if “Old
Dismal” isn’t yet convinced, let me point
out that the Adam and Eve of Australian
bunnies were released near Botany Bay
(Sydney). Their progeny covered quite
a bit of territory and crossed quite a few
watercourses in a comparatively short
time, but, though I have heard of armies
of rabbits, I’ve yet to hear of them build-
ing pontoon bridges. To return to those
rabbit tracks on the seashore, I now aver,
as a witness in moonlit nights since I
wrote my par., that the rabbit gambols
after the receding waves and skips back
from them, just as we all do —with the
possible exception of “The O.D.” —when
nobody is looking. Occasionally bunny
gets caught—just as we do ; and like us
he goes back for more.
« * * *
“Aperist”: If asked to indicate the
happiest of all Nature’s creation I would
nominate the drone bee. Tended during
grubhood by untiring, kindly elder sisters,
fed on a diet only slightly less abundant
in vitamins than that given to the young
queens, and much richer than that fed to
immature workers, he emerges finally
from his cell to be licked all over and
groomed by a troupe of nursemaids.
After which he takes his fill at the nearest
honey cell, and perhaps tops off with a
nibble of preserved pollen. Fed and full
of strength, he makes his way to the hive
entrance, guided there by the entering
streak of light. On the hive’s alighting
board he finds company—all his brothers
hatched out in his particular batch. To-
gether they start on flying exercises,
climbing first to a high point on the face
of the hive and falling off, to find them-
selves supported by wings until able
to take off from the level. Now life
begins in earnest: nothing to do but take
a flight up into the sunshine, and just as
soon as an appetite is acquired return to
the hive and gorge on honey, brought in
constantly by little slave sisters. Then off
out again, and always with the prospect
of acquiring momentary status as a hus-
band, and a glorious death. But one
morning the beekeeper will find the
ground in front of the hive strewn with
corpses—the sisters have grown weary of
supporting the loafers.
* * * «
“The 0.D.”: There isn’t that much
difference between euros and Toos, ex-
cept in size, to make any impression on
“Sur Cingle’s” skill with a .22 (B,
24/4/’46). Doesn’t he drop ’em from the
hip while at full gallop and identify ’em
afterwards? As for Nectar Brook, it’s
out between Port Germein and the head
of the Gulf, a long way from Unley,
admittedly, but even “S.C.” could have
read about it.
* * * *
“Nogat”: The Japs have left a con-
siderable impression among the .natives
of the upper Sepik, and it is almost cer-
tain there will be trouble for district
officers there for some time. 'The Japs
appointed captains and other village
officials, and made a. point of giving them
badges of rank more dazzling than any
they had ever received from the old Ad-
ministration. The Sepik natives fell for
this. Many had had little contact with
Europeans before the Japs came, so their
allegiance went easily, to the invaders.
Lieut. Tom Leager, D.C.M., of Angau,
was at the old Government station at
Burui soon after hostilities ceased. With
a few police boys he was having trouble
in getting kanakas to work on reopening
the old Marui-Maprik road, and some of
his police boys narrowly missed being
speared at Mikau. Patrols of native
soldiers from Second New Guinea In-
fantry Battalion, who were working in
the Sepik area when the war finished, had
similar experiences. Sepik members of
native units were fearless and reckless
fighters in action. Those same boys out
of action would be into any trouble that
was going; and some of their relatives
were Jap collaborators. Around Jama
and Wosera, on the Marui-Maprik road
and up river past Marui, the natives are
well armed with Jap weapons and am-
munition. Some they have taken from
Nips who died of sickness; some they
won by killing small parties of Japs.
Their attitude is “if you want these
weapons, come and get them; we’ll take
you on whether you be white or black or
any other color.”
.♦* * *
“Sou’-west”: We were dragging with
the deep net off Cape Bouvart, s.-w.
W.A., when it tangled with a spur of
rock. Such snags invariably carry dozens
of points which tangle the net so that too
often it is a case of ripping it away by
main force, with disastrous results to the
meshing. But there is an alternative.
Stripping off his few garments, Tony
slipped over the side an'd went down. For
a couple of minutes the corks dipped and
dragged in movements that might have
meant the diver untangling the cords from
the snags—or, alternatively, his struggles
to free himself from his own entangle-
ment. But in the end he appeared and
announced that the net was free. “Not
very much risk,” he deprecated, “not
when one is stripped ; but with clothes
on a button may catch —and then a man
will soon drown. And, anyway, someone
must do something or else we tear the
net, which means much work mending
it, and perhaps at the same time we lose
the fish.” But old Bob, who had spent
a lifetime alongshore, voiced a different
opinion. “I wouldn’t go down to loosen
a net, not for a hundred quid. The men
in the boat have to let it go slack so that
the diver can untangle it, and when it’s
like that the backwash is likely to wrap
it right round a man.”
“Blime”: Hefty, 6ft, 6in., 14st. and
tough as they come, was working along the
river with Ted. The cloud of grit and dust
that drifted down into the little cove’s
eyes suddenly Ceased as a low oath took
the air. “Wha’smatter?” Ted called.
“Aw, nothin’,” came Hefty’s voice, as the
dust was renewed. “Just a ruddy snake
tryin’ a bite o’ me leg.” Ted dropped
his pick and came along. “What sort o’
snake?” he asked anxiously. “Black,”
Hefty flung back. “Four-five feet. Went
inta that blackberry patch.” “Show us
y’r leg.” Ted looked concerned. “Gosh,
y’d better come up t’ the hut, an’ I’ll fix
it.” Hefty snorted, as he heaved another
shovelful. “Think I’m a blasted sissy?”
he scoffed. “G’on, it’s awright.” “It
ain’t, an’ y’re cornin’ up while I twitch
it,” persisted Ted. “I’ll let out the poison
an’ get y’ a whisky.” “Eh? Oh, awright.”
Occupied with the whisky bottle. Hefty
tolerated the little bloke’s messing around
till after a bit Ted nodded, satisfied.
“Better take the rest o’ the afternoon off,”
he advised. “I’ll slip down f’ y’r tools.”
Rounding the blackberry patch Ted sud-
denly stopped. He stared, his jaw sagged,
then turning, he gaped back at the out-
size figure on the hut step. “C-cripes!”
he gasped eloquently, as once more his
eyes sought the spot where the snake lay
in two pieces.
* * * ♦
“McYarra”: “Start something!” Thai’s
“Notaden’s” invitation (B, 1/5/’46) con-
cluding a par. alleging that “Victoria’s
Tantanoola tiger turned out to be a calf.”
All Victoria will accept the invitation.
Not only did it never have a tiger of the
Tantanoola or any other breed—it never
even had a Tantanoola. Town and tiger
belong to S.A., and those Victorians who
have been enticed across the border to
the town to see the pub on which the tiger
roosts have generally taken one look at
the place and fled precipitately east. Where
does “Notaden” do his big-game hunting?
“Chaser”: “Notaden” needn’t go back
to 1886 in his search for mythical Aus-
tralian monsters (B. 1/ 5 / ’46). About 1940
a crocodile —or some strange character
with big feet and a penchant for dazzling
credulous newspaper reporters—was
alleged to be infesting the Clarence River
country between Grafton and the sea, on
the N.S.W, North Coast, and there was
the usual hullabaloo about it. I dis-
remember whether it turned out to be
a Muscovy a web-toed fig-
ment of some cow-cocky’s imagination,
but it had hardly fad6d into the back piles
of the press before Queensland came to
light with a bunyip in Dynevor Lake and
the local shire council seriously debated
having the thing protected by the Wild
Life Preservation Act as a tourist attrac-
tion. But the bunyip proved as timid as
its predecessors, coyly wrapped a mirage
around itselfj and disappeared. Then,
from staid and sober Junee, in the River-
ina wheat country, arose rumors of a
reindeer on the rampage, and once more
the reporters went into transports and
provided the locals with laughs and their
pubs with much profit. Presently the
gentle animal retreated to its proper place
on the Christmas car4§, since when about
the only freaks that have attracted atten-
tion are the wild and wary cavorters of
the Canberra steppes. These have been
described in terms which leave no doubt
as to their general habits, shape and
habiliments.
* * * »
“Gravelsnatcher”: “G’Roper’s” men-
tion of Westralia’s tall trees rising out of
pure sand (B. 3/4/’46) suggests that man
isn’t as far ahead of nature in the field
of hydroponics, or water culture, as he
may have thought. Prior to the war
Wake Island, possibly among other
places, maintained a supply of fresh vege-
tables grown from trays containing
chemicals in solution, the growth being
quicker, stronger and more succulent than
when the same plants were produced in
soil. Now, may not much the same
thing be occuring where the jarrahs raise
their huge bulk? Westralia’s lack of
large rivers—she has hundreds of small
ones —is offset by a multitude of under-
ground streams, varying in depth, but
mostly well within reach of vigorous
trees. Some of these streams are fresh
and drinkable; others are saline;
all will rof iron vessels immersed
in them. The two or three feet
of “soil” which covers the yellow sand
provides nourishment for the young tree
while it gets established and thrusts its
roots down into the underground reser-
voir—necessarily a quick process, since
during the summer months the top-soil
dries out completely. For at least the
first year the young tree’s root-growth
must exceed its growth above ground, and
possibly this characteristic continues
throughout its life. Anyone who has
“run” just the surface roots of a big
jarrah will listen respectfully to the theory
that more than 50 per cent, of the tree
is underground.
AUTUMN.
The drought is over and the sunburnt grass
Is green again and lush,
And where we heard the cuckoo’s rising call
Is now a lonely hush.
Blackberries in the soft air darkly gleam,
And autumn sunlight weaves
Where busy white-eyes hang to peck the fruit
Between the shading leaves.
Deserted nests bereft of warming life
Hang empty, damp and cold,
And poplars and the weeping willows wear
Their autumn gowns of gold.
The rose-hips rife on green and prickly stems
Shine richly yellow-red,
And oak trees, lately green with surging life,
Their leaves now slowly shed.
Swift honeyeaters flee from bush to park
Before the cutting wind,
And in the orchards pears and apples shine,
And quinces, golden-skinned.
Now from the earth the mushrooms push their
heads,
All shining in the rain,
Children of autumn, white, mysterious, pure,
Whose hour has come again.
Tas.
A. E. STURGES.


“P.E.”: The few Afghans left around-
the Broken Hill district are mostly quiet,
inoffensive fellows. One day, however, an
ancient ex-camelier was making a nuis-
ance of himself in front of a pub when
a constable told him to move on. Greatly
offended, the ’Ghan bent and sank his
few remaining yellow fangs into the
Lor’s thumb and then did a bolt. The
victim decided that an immediate anti-
tetanus injection was more important than
chasing the ’Ghan, whom he could pick
up at any time. The constable suffered
no ill effects. But a week later the biter
turned up his toes. We like to think, any-
way, that he died simply of old age,
* * « *
“Zake”: “The bushfires y’ get around
these parts,” said “Foghorn” Fleming,
with scorn in his eye, “are pussy sorts o’
things compared with the ones we used
to fight up in the Marthaguy country.
And talk about fasti One scorchin’ day
in February there’s a 40-mile-an-hour
westerly blowin’. I’m camped on Crooked
Creek when the bushfire hit us, an’ I’m
only saved by hoppin’ into a waterhole.
Dp y’ know, in an hour that bushfire had
got to the Bullagreen, 55 miles away,
where it stopped!” “Square-up, ‘Fog-
horn,’ ” protested “The Clamper.” “You
admit there’s only a 40-mile-an-hour
wind, yet y’r bushfire got 55 miles in the
same time before it stopped. Y’ve
trapped yerself.” “That’s why the bush-
fire stopped,” went on “Foghorn”
calmly, “to allow the wind to catch up
to it again!”
* * * •
“Salmon Gums”: From where I stood
on a traffic bridge in Guildford, W.A., I
could see numbers of floating objects. It
was nearly dawn, and there was a light
autumn mist over this portion of the
Swan River, but I knew that the objects
were algae, because “Munja” has told me
so (8.. 10/4/’46). As the light increased
and the mist lifted I could see that the
pieces of algae were energetically moving
about, diving long necks beneath the
water and occasionally standing up in the
shallows to flop long winglike appendages
with a sharp clap over the water. While
I was pondering these evidences of de-
velopment in the vegetable kingdom a
gun-shot down the river stirred the algae
into action, and with a crack like a stock-
whip fifty to a hundred of the finest
specimens of river vegetation I’ve ever
seen took to the air, wheeled, formed into
a rough V and headed towards the Darl-
ing Ranges. Fast as they were, they were
overtaken by a group of smaller algae,
which swept over from the direction of
the shot. As I walked home in the early
sunlight I passed a car into which a
“sportsman” was furtively placing a
gun while his companion deposited a
well-filled sugarbag; and I smiled
to myself as I thought of those
pot-hunters plucking, cleaning, cooking
and, later, eating those pieces of algae
under the mistaken impression that they
were wild duck,
* * ♦ *
“Bo”; “Dampers,” said Merv the bab-
bler sententiously as he blew the ashes
from one he had just hauled out, “have
got to be just right. Leave ’em in a
minute longer than you should and they’ll
be spoiled, though there’s more mucked
up in the preparin’ than in the cookin'.
Too many bush cooks I’ve met have to
wait till the damper is cut to find out what
it’s goin’ to turn out like. I. don’t —
thanks to old Captain. He’s the best
sod-tester west o’ the Dividin’ Range, that
chestnut —just nods if it’s okay. He’ll
probably b© along shortly—He’ll know
I’m cookin’.” “Don’t try to kid a man
that a horse’d be silly enough to sink his
fangs into a hot damper,” put in the new
rouseabout. Merv looked up, registering
pained surprise. “Who said anything
about him sinkin’ his tombstones into
it?” he asked. “He don’t go by taste
but by the sound when he puts his hoof
on it!”
“We should have had him up for a scrape long ago.”
“X.E.D.”: When Tommy came to work
on the farm Spriggs said of him that be
was a useless, dopey, loafing sponger not
worth the tucker he ate, let alone the
30s. he collected weekly. Tommy had
an uncanny gift of sticking like flypaper
to every penny he got his hands on, and
Spriggs kept him on through the worst
run of bad seasons and low prices the
district ever knew. Now, 10 years later,
the farm prospering. Tommy gazes out on
the scenery from Spriggs’s erstwhile view
at the window of the front bedroom,
which he shares with Spriggs’s only
daughter. Spriggs is relegated to a couch
in the chaff cutter shed. “Dunno why I
have t’ keep the ol’ coot on,” moans
Tommy. “He’s jist a spongin’ loafer
about the place. On’y f’r the missus
naggin’ at me I’d hop him orf the joint
in ’arf an hour,” *
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: While we’re picking mush-
rooms (B. 17/4/’46) it’s interesting to
remember that the part you eat is merely
a reproductive branch: the real mush-
room plant, a mass of fine “feeding
threads” similar to those which make up
all fungi from the moulds upward, is
underground. The spores themselves are
“I'd have a gold plate. You can always pop it”
easy to collect: take a newly-expanded
mushroom, still in the pink stage, cut
away the stalk and place the disk, gills
down, on a piece of paper. After a day
or two there will be a perfect print of the
mushroom, made up of a mass of minute
brown grains. If you kick a ripe puffball
it will release a greenish-yellow dust con-
taining perhaps a billion spores, each of
which is a tiny particle of that wonderful
living jelly, protoplasm, of which mush-
rooms and whales, earthworms, elephants
and politicians are made.
• * * * „
“Narrin”: Those termites of B 4 s
(B. 17/4/’46) ought to have chromium-
plated mansions erected for em in-
stead of having to build their own
shanties, probably of rather insanitary
materials. After all, they’re Australia’s
No. 1 soil-builders. But perhaps, as even
a white-ant can’t digest wood, the honor
should go to the small flagellated animals
that live in the termite’s tummy. They
absorb the particles of wood into their
unicellular bodies and digest it. The
white-ant, as a reward for sheltering the
beasties and supplying them with saw-
dust, gets a whack of the resultant
assimilable food,
♦ * * *
“Bray Rock”; A recent shark fatality
at Cairns (N.Q.), in which a young man
lost his life while bathing off a beach,
happened unusually late in the danger
season for such tragedies. Of 38 recorded
Australian attacks, none occurred be-
tween the end of April and the end of
September. The danger period begins
in September for Queensland and northern
N.S.W., November for W.A. and Decem-
ber for southern N.S.W., Victoria and
South Australia. Tasmania has never
had a recorded case, although plenty of
sharks are to be found in those waters,
including provenly dangerous species. The
most risky months are January and Feb-
ruary, and three out of every four attacks
occur after 3,30 in the afternoon. The
mortality among victims is around 80
p.c., mainly from shock and bleeding. The
most dangerous spefies noted from re-
corded attacks is the whaler, Carchari-
nus brachyurus. Other recorded or sus-
pected maneaters include the tiger, white,
grey nurse, blue pointer and hammer-
head sharks. Sharks do not turn over
before taking hold, but with a large prey
do so immediately after the hold is
secured in order to wrench the mouthful
off against the cutting teeth.
* * * *
“Esk D.”; There are brumbies running
loose at Jim Crow Creek, so we spar up
a few bbb between us to send old Harry
out for a few days to-knock up a sapling
yard in the pocket between a couple of
knobby foothills straddling the creek. On
the Saturday a mob of us ride up the
long spur to the head of the creek and
fan out in a wide half-circle to make
the drive. We’re about half-way down
when a mob of horses makes a bolt from
the scrub and us after them in a blur
of galloping hooves and yelling voices.
A mile further down the timber thins out
and we see the mob of 20 brumbies
heading like an arrow for the crossing
where Harry’s yard is cleverly concealed,
and our wing riders are veiling lustily.
We follow at a gallop to the wings of
the yard—and see them vanish down the
track and out through the other end of
the yard. “Srike me, the old blankard
left both ends of the (censored) yard
open!” bawls a lanky rider, goggling
dumbfoundedly at Harry, as he saunters
over. . “Square up, Jock,” replies Harry.
“Howinell was I t’ know you blokes
wouldn’t change y’r minds an’ make the
drive from down the crick?”
* * « «
“Herbert Dawson”: But after all isn’t
“Linden Lea” a bit unreal (B. 3/4/’46)?
Isn’t “The Riding of the Rebel” just about
as “real” as a Bland Holt melodrama?
I can never think that Ogilvie, great bal-
ladist and great bushman that he un-
doubtedly was, and apparently still is,
intended the Glenidol outlaw to represent
a real horse in real surroundings. He
wrote a stirring ballad and made free
use of poetic licence in the doing of it.
Among many unrealities, consider the
fact that this horse, already responsible
for the lives of more than one good rider,
was apparently kept at the homestead,
stabled and fed, instead of being
shot as a menace to human life. Imagine,
too, any stranger arriving in the after-
noon and being given the horse to ride
straightway, instead of being “put up
for the night” and tackling him when
rested and fresh in the morning! Un-
realities swarm in the writings of all bush
balladists. Ogilvie: “The spurs will be
red on Coolgardie as someone swings into
his place,” and “Hard-won from stony
ridges and waving blue-grass plains, by
scratches from the gidyahs ; red spurs and
foamy reins.” Paterson: “His hardy
mountain pony could hardly raise
a trot He was blood from hip
to shoulder with the spurs”! And
yet the rider who could so misuse
a horse was no other than “The Mau
from Snowy River,” as great a favorite
on the mustering camps as “The Outlaw
of Glenidol.” And (here I may be tread-
ing on dangerous ground) is not the idea
of a horse, at any rate one that is not
an entire, attempting to “savage his
rider” after dropping him out in the bush
somewhat unreal also? All that I have
seen have gone like hell with the saddle.
* ♦ * *
“Blime”: “Yair, he’s a obedient mong,”
nodded Bunt, pulling the ears of his wor-
shipping retriever. “I give any away that
ain’t. Charlie took a shine to this bloke
an’ tried to make him slip up on a order
one time so I’d hand him over. It’s like
this, I’m chuckin’ sticks in that deep
hole up near the bend, see, an’ Nigger’s
fetchin’ ’em out, when along comes Chari,
an’ butts in. ‘Kid’s play,’ he ses to me.
‘Give the mong a man-size job, can’t y’?’
an’, pointin’ at one o’ them big gateposts
on top o’ the cliff, he bets me I ain’t game
to chuck that in' for the tyke. Took the
two of us to get it to the edge an’ hoist
it over. Then I call Nigger, an’ he swims
out to where she’s floatin’ in the middle.
First off he tries grabbin’ the thing an’
pullin’, then he has a shot at pushin’, but
it’s no go.” Bunt paused for another sip,
and resumed. “Well, Charlie’s lettin’ go
a horse-laugh fit t’ wake the possums,
an’ I’m wonderin’ how I’m goin’ t’ get '
out of it, when Nig stops. He takes a
squint at me, sniffs sort o’ ugly in Charlie’s
direction, then, hang me if he don’t climb
on top o’ that there post an’ paddle it
ashore!”
* * * *
“Dominic”: The Australian novelist
aspiring to write “Westerns” really does
have a hard row to hoe. Looking up a
“Wide World Magazine” of the ’9B vint-
age I came across an article by a Cap-
tain Barclay. The captain, employed by
the S.A. Survey Department, had sent
along his photo., taken aria camp in the
midst of the wilds. His costume consists
of moleskin trousers, a half-frock coat of
the type once favored by Baptist
ministers, and a hardhitter hat. And I
have it also on the word of an old-timer
that Nat Buchanan, the prince of over-
landers, habitually carried an umbrella,
even on horseback.
GENEROSITY.
“The word went round,” said Terrible Jack,
“Be the flamin’ mulga wire,
That goats were needed on Saltbush Block —
In a raging flood we had lost our flock.
All drowned or strayed in the mire,
“So the nex’ fine day,” said Terrible Jack,
“Tom Peters passed our way.
He’d come in his buggy from Wallabolong;
He’d picked up a nanny an’ brought it along —
It had a kid nex’ day,
“Ah’ after that,'” said Terrible Jade,
“Bill Adams knocked at the door;
He had a goat in the back of his truck.
Then Jonesy called —so- we. wouldn’t be stuck —
He had collected four,™
“Ah’ Abdul Khan,” said Terrible Jack,
“With his snarlin’ camel team.
The agent in his big blue car
An’ Bullocky Ned from the Swinglebar
Brought goats in a steady stream,
“Ah’ then alone," said Terrible Jack,
“I battled with the pest.
There’s goats in ev’ry gully an’ flat.
An’ ev’ry paddock’s a hairy mat;
For they bred with a terrible zest.
“They thrived on poison,” said Terrible Jack,
“I put on Dogger Jim,
He raced ’em home be half a lap;
They’d eaten ev’iy dingo trap
An’ would have eaten him.
“At last one night,” said Terrible Jack,
“I heard a curious row:
They’d started on the kitdhen wall.
I grabbed me nag from out the stall —
I’m washin’ bottles now.”
S.A.
PROPALONG.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
ione-chewing Cattle
0*
c
BONE
Sterilised
FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 768 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
SS hLW
V*
\V
'7
fflr
//////A/
ir*
swp
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS,
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVanogaS
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
Use the rabbits’ natural home —
the warren; destroy them there.
Work ean be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem.. .the rabbits are buried.
r- 5
-
*w
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
v
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd 1 ., 139 Clarence Street Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The New Wool Clip;
“Murrawong”: Officially, J.O. should
be taking it over at an early date, and
while the main feature of the change-
over will be that from appraisement to
auction other things need the attention
of woolgrowers. Foremost is preparing
the clip for market. For the past five
years the grower has been advised to class
his wool much more particularly than in
the past and to forget about star lots.
This has resulted in numerous lines, de-
manding increased cataloguing and show-
floor space, and the brokers don t like it.
They are now likely to advise growers
to go back to bulky broad lines, with as
few stars as possible.
This is all right up to a certain point,
but, although wool Will be offered at
auction, it is still subject to appraisement
so that the price can be fixed, and if the
advice be taken too literally difficulty
will be 'found in typing broad lines for
valuation. It would be impossible to
appraise correctly some so-called classed
lines of pre-war except at a figure that,
to cover doubts, would not render full
value to the owner.
Overclassing is not recommended, but
as it is much easier to make a lot of lines
out of a clip .it takes a good classer with
a thorough knowledge of types to know
what he can put together in one line and
make it stick. Every effort should be
made to get a good proportion of fleece
into the AAA line, but don’t spoil it by
including a few colored fleeces or quality
or length outsorts. If the buyer finds one
of these it will condemn the lot.
Although J.O. offers auction, there is
some doubt as to whether buyers will be
in a position to operate this year, and
in that case wool will have to be
appraised once again. The cold facts are
that Australian ports are already choked
with wool awaiting shipment, but the
shipping is not available. Overseas
buyers are unlikely to operate unless
they can ship their purchases promptly,
so there is need for several miracles to
improve the situation. Moreover, buying
power and competition will not be com-
parable with 1938. War has wrecked
two of the biggest wool-buying countries,
and neither is likely to be in the market
for years. There is every indication that
the future of burry wools will be rather
dim for some time.
Shearing costs are likely to be higher
this year. In Queensland practically all
the autumn shearing was done on the 40-
hour-week. While most shearers would
prefer to work on Saturday mornings,
particularly in far-out sheds where there
is no town to go to and nothing to do
all week-end, the 40-hour-week has been
wished on to the A.W.U. by city unions.
Extra cost of shedhands and other
weekly and found men will mount up,
particularly in a wet winter and spring.
The standard of shed labor has dropped
so low that many growers send their
skirtings to the cities for picking; this
practice will undoubtedly increase with
the shorter working week.
A lot of wool may have to be stored
in the country this year. Get as much
wool into the bales as possible, and be
prepared to use the cartshed, the hayphed
or arfy other shelter when the woolroom
can’t hold any more.
“There’s the culprit that's giving the watered milk!"
The Dingo Pest.
“Howler”: Our district has valleys
fringed with forest and mountain scrub
and verges on the great expanse of the
Victorian Alps. Dirigoes and wild dogs,
some very large specimens among them,
are an ever-present menace to sheep, and
the efforts of farmers in disposing of
them were hopelessly ineffective. Ihe
killers work in packs, destroy a score or
two of jumbucks in a night and seldom
return to the carcasses.
The remedy was the employment
an expert on wages and skin bonus.
The stiffener literally goes bush and lives
with the dingoes, following their tracks
through the roughest country and an-
swering their howls with realistic imita-
tion. His traps and poison baits account
for scores annually, and the saving to the
district must be great.
The point is that sheepmen, instead of
making individual and futile forays,
would be better served by contributing to
the permanent employment of a reliable
trapper, say on a basis of so much a
hundred sheep. Here the Crown Lands
Dept, pays the wages and the shire
council the bonus, but if these arrange-
ments are not applicable in other districts
some agreement may be effected through
the council or a meeting of sheepowners.
An expert dingo destroyer is worth it.
Dairying Chances.
“E. 2”: The milking season now closing
in n.-e. Vic. has been good. Summer
rains came at the right time, and oats,
clovers and grasses should be very good
this winter. Returns, with good cows on
rich dairying land, have averaged some-
where around £25 a cow for a lactation
period of nine months. Costs, including
fuel, seed, super., depreciation and re-
placements, are usually more than offset
by profits of pig- and cattle-raising in a
small way as sidelines.
The drought years, 1944-45, set these
farmers farther back than they’d ever
been. The lessons learned were that over-
stocking and insufficient fodder conserva-
tion mean disaster.
On fully-improved land labor Costs are
not excessive. With up-to-date machinery
two men can handle the milking of up
to 100 cows, while a third may be re-
quired for cropping and paddock work.
Admittedly, it’s long hours with no let-
up, but working to a system will lessen
the drudgery.
Dairying with a one-man herd is not
generally as satisfactory as where two or
more are available for milking. A man
alone may find his hands pretty well
tied in managing 20 cows, whereas two
men should handle a herd of 60 on
proportionately easier terms. The dairy-
farmer in a big way always seems able
to work profitably, though present taxa-
tion grabs too much of it.
The pick of dairying land is costly,
silty river-flats bringing to £5O or more
an acre. Off the flats or irrigation,
seasonal differences may show wide vari-
ance, and dairying should not be relied
on as the sole means of income. Good
types of dairy cows will set the buyer
back £l5 or more a head. Machinery
and dairy equipment are costlier than pre-
war.
In the writer’s opinion ex-servicemen
and others considering dairyfarming
shouldn’t delay making a start. Getting
in on the present boom would give the
new farmer an opportunity to become
established on the land before the margin
of profit weakens. Those who go farm-
ing on shares should consider the agree-
ment carefully before signing.
T
Caterpillars on Myall.
'Test”; Landowners out where the
myall grows are often worried by cater-
pillars, which clean up the leaves on those
useful fodder trees. The commonest
type belongs to the boree, or bag-shelter
moth, described by W. W. Froggatt in
Forest Insects of Australia. From their
early infancy, these caterpillars tie up
with silken threads the leaves and twigs
on a branchlet to form a large bag.
Dozens of them shelter in this bag during
the day, coming out at night to strip the
leaves nearby. When they have grown to
full size they migrate in a mass down
the trunk and bury themselves in the soil
round the roots to change into moths.
There might be many of these bags on
one tree and the grubs don’t leave any
leaves at all. Spraying might poison
stock; anyway, it wouldn’t take much
longer to prune the bags off and burn
them. Some do it from the back of a
utility truck, using pruning knives on the
end of light poles to reach the high ones.
A word of warning—don’t handle the
bags, or let them brush against your skin
or fall on your horse’s back. They are
full of fine hairs and stiff spines from the
caterpillars and these can cause intensl
irritation and a painful rash. Treat them
with respect and use long leather gloves
if you can’t avoid touching them.
Beating Salt in W.A.
“Milton”: Interspersed through the
W.A. wheat-belt are tracks of saltpan
country, and farms are gradually losing
their fertility through the spreading salt.
Such a farm is worked by young R. W.
Whitehead, whose father pioneered it
about 1903. It’s near Hines Hill, about
150 miles east of Perth, in the salmon-
and gimlet-gum country. The land is
about 1500 ft. above sea-level, is gently un-
dulating and rainfall of about Min.
From 1903 satisfactory progress was
made, and payable crops grown, 1400
acres having been cleared. Then gradu-
apy the light, reddish, fine soil, which
packs very firm under traffic, showed
growing patches, becoming ess
through salt. It was noticed by White-
Land Writers.
Whenever possible state annual
rainfall, climate, altitude and type
of soil. This information helps the
reader to understand the article or
par. by comparing it with his own
conditions.


Notice.
Men desirous of securing employment as cane-
cutters in the Cairns District, North Queensland,
during the 1946 harvesting season, which will begin
early in June, are hereby invited to immediately
register their names and addresses with the under-
signed.
Any relevant information required will be gladly
supplied on request.
FRANK FERGUSON, Secretary,
Cairns District Canegrowers’ Executive,
P.O. Box 842, Cairns. ’
Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
ESTATE of DANIEL HARDY deceased.
NOTICE TO CLAIMANTS.
PURSUANT to Order of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia made in a suit (P. No. 12 of 1945)
entitled “In the matter of the Estate of DANIEL
HARDY deceased Between THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Plaintiff and JANE HARDY Defendant.”
WHEREBY the following inquiry was directed
namely who upon the death of the said Daniel Hardy
intestate on the 3rd day of September 1942 became
beneficially entitled as next-of-kin to share in the
property and estajp of which he died possessed and
in what shares and proportions and if any of such
persons are since dead having a vested share in his
estate who are their legal representatives NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons claiming to
be entitled under the said inquiry as next-of-kin of
said deceased or otherwise are on or before the 23rd
day of September 1946 to send by Post Prepaid to t
the abovenamed Public Trustee of Supreme Court
Perth Western Australia their full Christian and
Surnames Addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims and in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from participating
in the distribution of the estate of the said deceased
Claimants must attend personally or by their Solicitor
before me at my < Chambers Supreme Court Perth
aforesaid on Monday the 30th day of September 1946
at 10 o’clock in the forenoon the day appointed
for hearing and adjudicating on the said claims.
Claimants not resident in Western Australia must
with their particulars of claim aforesaid send the
name and address of a person in Perth Western
Australia to whom Notices may be sent. —J. E.
SHILLINGTON, Acting Master.
LAVAN, WALSH AND LAVAN, of 29 Barrack
Street, Perth, Solicitors for the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
and DARBYSHIRE AND GILLETT, of 42 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Defendant
JANE HARDY.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman Has been away but is
now back again on active service^ to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
\\ V \ /
SWISS MADE CLOCKS
Mail order special. Genuine
Swiss made “Kevox” clock with
black and chrome dial and two-
tone plastic case in any color,
measuring 4 in. x 4i in., £2/5/-.
same clock with single base, £2.
I.united number “Kevox” Alarm |
Clocks, £2/10/-.
12 months’
UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE.
Add 1/6 for Registered Post . ..
Send money order or postal note to
jumouNcme ...
The COMMONWEALTH
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
In oil cities and suburbs, and In the larger provincial
centres, there are now District Employment Offices. They
are part of the Commonwealth Employment Service set
up under the Re-establlshment and Employment Act 1945*
What are the iunetions of the
Commonwealth Employment Service?
to assist ex-servicemen and women to find employment best suiting
their qualifications, experience, physical condition and personal
desires. •
to aid any person, man or woman, boy or girl, in the same way,
whether they may be temporarily out of employment or seeking
to improve their position, or to obtain employment more con-
veniently situated, or in which to exercise to greater advantage
their skills and abilities.
Third . to assist employers to engage the workers they need by submitting
for selection, by the employers, workers possessing all the quali-
fications, skills, etc., that are needed for the successful performance
of the jobs to be filled.
Fourth to provide a general advice and information service for ex-service
personnel and the public particularly in relation to benefits, etc.,
under the Re-establishment Act and other Commonwealth
Legislation,
First .
Second
The Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice places modern employment service
facilities at the disposal of employer and
worker. It is something new in Australia.
But employment services are hot new
elsewhere, as witness the success of the
British and United States Employment
Services on which the Commonwealth
Employment Service is modelled. The
matching of workers with jobs—in other
words, the task of finding the right
worker for the right job—is a scientific
process. It requires the aid of psycho-
logically trained vocational guidance
officers, career advisors, and so on —it
requires the services of specially trained,
experienced, courteous and efficient
employment officers. The Common-
wealth Employment Service is a modem,
scientific placement service, complete
with all these facilities.
The Commonwealth Employment Service will cater for the filling of all
types of vacancies and the placing of all types of workers—professional,
scientific, managerial, clerical, skilled and unskilled, domestic and rural.
The facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service are available
without fee or charge.
There are COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT
* CENTRES throughout AUSTRALIA.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
look for the COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SIGN
CESGI-113-46
head that where the largest runoff of rain
occurred there the salt appeared. *
Until about eight years ago the 1400
acres could not support 300 sheep, and
they and some cows had to be sold. Ron
Whitehead took over, closely examined
the problem and found that the salt was
caused through a “plough sole” or pan
being formed 3-4 in. below the cultivated
surface. This was impervious to water,
consequently surface salt did not get away
and plant roots could not penetrate the
sole into the friable soil below.
A special subsoil plough was evolved
to break the sole and the compacted,
surface soil into large clods without turn-
ing it over. It was done in dry weather
so that the soil would not consolidate and
to avoid starting a deep-seated sole under
the original one. Stock were kept off,
and the soil was left open the whole
winter to enable the salt to wash through
into the subsoil.
The idea worked, and Whitehead’s sub-
sequent operations follow these lines:
Cultivation is avoided unless weed growth
compels it. About 18 months should
elapse before the first seeding, which
should be done when the soil is wet, the
first working being as deep as possible
with narrow-pointed tynes. Then crop for
three successive years, the object being
to obtain some humus from root growth.
The first crop may be light but the subse-
quent crops will be good. Since 1938
untreated land yielded an average of nine
bushels, subsoiled land 20 bushels. Since
subsoiling, the seed sown per acre has
been reduced to 201 b., as profuse stooling
caused plants of the normal 451 b. seeding
to choke themselves out. About 501 b.
of super, is used; subsoiling lengthened
the growing period by three weeks. Little
or no official research work has been done
in reclaiming salt land in W.A., but 500
farmers attended a field day staged by
Ron Whitehead, some journeying 150
miles.
Hints for the Farm.
“Quvic”: “E.H.S ” (B. 10/4/’46) is out
with his idea of the quickest and best
way to erect a bored fence. The time
taken up boring posts on the ground
would be considerable, as each post has
to be picked up, and held in position be-
fore boring; whereas, if the post is in
the ground there is no extra handling
and it’s much easier to bore a firmly-
embedded post. Can’t see how it could
be possible to bore holes, before erect-
ing, for a fence running over hilly coun-
try, without going to tremendous trouble,
because the posts have to be bored on an
angle parallel with the ground so that
the wire will run through easily. Agree
that the “jigger” he mentioned is the best
and quickest tool for the job.
“Billjim”: Entero-toxsemia is expected
to be troublesome in Victoria and S.A.
owing to an abnormal growth of feed.
There is a shortage of vaccine, and
owners may have to rely largely on other
measures. Where sheep are on sappy
feed some dry feed like hay or straw
should be available ; either placed on the
ground daily or in improvised racks once
or twice a week. Adequate exercise is
beneficial —sheep get it where they have
to move about to obtain a full feed.
“Bennie”; Turkey pox has caused
heavy losses in Queensland. Cause is a
virus similar to fowl pox. Birds affected
become droopy, dull, eventually refuse
to eat; their droppings are greenish and
liquid. The disease runs a course similar
to fowl pox, the scabs turning blackish
in color, later falling off. In the early
stages good results will be got by app y-
ing 10 p.c. carbolic acid in glycerine, or
tincture of iodine 1-40, to affected parts.
As the mosquito plays a major role m
spreading the disease, spray areas with an
effective insecticide daily during summer
and once or twice a week during cooler
months.
“Lub”: I have broccoli in its third
year from seed, and indications are that
it may be treated satisfactorily as a peren-
nial. After coming to heads from early
October till well into December the plants
develop suckers, which, after cutting back
the old growth and manuring, thrive more
lustily than seedlings. This is a cool
Victorian climate and heavy applications
of fowl manure were given.
“Bennie”: “White eye” commonly
occurs when ducks have shallow drinking
vessels; they cannot wash their eyes
thoroughly. A- mucoid discharge, white
and cheesy, causes the eyes to stick and
become painful. Have deep drinking
vessels so that the birds can completely
immerse their heads. Vitamin A defi-
ciency can also cause “white eye,” and
affected birds respond quickly to cod-
liver oil or additional good green foods.


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO Iodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/fi
SKIN L.OTION 3/9
IODINE DOG SOAP .. -/0
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
©
BARKO
BRAN DAL
R’S
5?
6C.V
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
io do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and Ji days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
v
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
LEAR
AT
HOME
r oh.
I Hi!
WEEKLY
It’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLY GUITAR
• bANJO MANDOLIN
o PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
• SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN
• ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
CAAA have succeeded
OIM/U w hy not you ? Takes
3 Lessons to play first piece—
-10 LeSsons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—doesn’t
matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
rnpr Illustrated catalogue and descriptive
t* rvLEi booklet FREE —Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 8, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
V
Wmsm
m.
mm
m
mm
: :;: ; .<;xv%
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG Products
11
V-
-0
420 m.p.h. None of our war-time bombers
even approached the latter speed.
The V-l made 360 m.p.h. at 3000 feet
altitude or less. In terms of time and bomb-
tonnage the V-ls were much more de-
structive than Allied bomber raids on
Germany. And much cheaper. The Ger-
mans lost a few thousand inexpensive
V-l’s and the lives of no German air-
men. Allied raids on Germany cost
40,000 ’planes, each far more expensive
than a V-l, and the lives of 158,546
British and American airmen.
The V-2 was still more spectacular;
there was literally no defence against it;
and about a dozen new V-weapons were
on drawing-boards, in laboratories and
nearing production. One would carry
troops in a pressurised cabin. Another
would be launched from a submarine
300 feet below the surface. A third
would cross the Atlantic in 14 minutes,
arching to 500 miles altitude.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The Dutch promise that “in our time” the
60,000,000 people of Indonesia would have the
right of self-determination was not extracted
from a reluctant colonial Power at the muzzle
of rebel guns. Queen Wilhelmina gave the
promise voluntarily nearly four years ago. In
exile in London, she declared that a partner-
ship of the Netherlands, the Netherlands Indies,
Curacao and Surinam could “give the kingdom
and its parts the strength to carry fully their
responsibility, both internally and externally.”
She gave her word that after the war the
kingdom would be reconstructed “on the solid
foundation of complete partnership.” The new
commonwealth system, the Queen declared,
would “leave no room for discrimination
according to race or nationality. Only the
ability of the individual citizens and the needs
of the various groups of the population” would
determine Dutch policy. — William Philip Simms;
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
If the Russians really had known how to
use the powers of debate and reason, as well
as restraint, they could have made a good case
before the bar of public opinion on the sub-
ject of security of frontiers and needed eco-
nomic resources. The British Empire would
have had to yield in certain important particu-
lars in order to bring about a more equitable
distribution of the economic controls that are
exercised in the regions of the world populated
by weaker nations. But the Russians com-
pletely misunderstand democracy and resort
instead to expletives and denunciation and to
open professions of peaceful purposes while
they use physical force to get their way—
Washington correspondent N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * z
U.S. Secretary of State Byrnes, of course,
tactfully disclaims any intention of making
any alliances, but nobody can deny that Mr.
Churchill said something very pointed when he
expressed the significant hope that America
would not be found joining up with Britain a
third time after a war had broken out instead
of before. The Churchill thesis is in the main
the thesis held by many Americans —namely,
that it is better for America to express herself
on world matters in advance rather than to
lead any European State to think the United
States will be indifferent. — Washington syndi-
cate writer David Lawrence.
* * * *
“I don’t like terror and I have always fought
against if, whether it is Red or White. The
terror in those countries Russia has occupied
is worse than ever. Today there are still more
than 15,000,000 people in Russian concentra-
tion camps. I have interviewed hundreds of
refugees and learned their true stories.” — U.S.
ex-Minister to Bulgaria George H. Earle, inter-
viewed on his return from Istanbul.
* * * *
Because it would be nice to have Stalin a
pal and a democrat, “liberals” insisted that
he was both, and abused and berated those
who doubted. Because we dreaded the tragedy
of a break in the Big Three, we ruthlessly
pushed aside all evidence that the break was
already in process, and that Stalin was pushing
his advantage on every front. Too many
editors and leaders of opinion neglected their
primary duty, which is to explore the truth,
and settled for jobs as volunteer propagandists.
—“Saturday Evening Post.”
*** . *
For the medical profession to be converted
into a technical branch of government would
be disastrous both to medicine and the public.
The doctor’s primary loyalty and responsibility
should be to his patient. He should be free to
act, to speak and to write unhampered by
interference from above. The doctor should
be the patient’s doctor and not the Govern-
ment’s doctor. A whole-time salaried service
is inconsistent with free choice of doctor. It
would tend to impose a uniformity in a form
of work in which initiative and originality are
essential. It would tend to bureaucratise a
human service. It would destroy a proper
incentive, the relationship between remunera-
tion and the amount and value of work done
or responsibility accepted. It ‘might tend to
replace competition for patients by competition
to avoid them. — B.M.A. secretary Charles Hill,
writing in London “Times” on the British Gov-
ernment Health Bill.
* * * *
A recent report by L. E. Degolyer, who is
regarded as the best-informed authority in the
world on oil resources, has stirred wide interest
among oil men. Degolyer was asked to make
an independent survey of the oil wealth of Saudi
Arabia. He is said to have reported that the oil
beneath the great empty desert that is Saudi
Arabia is greater in extent than all the oil
deposits discovered thus far in both North and
South America. With the development of
atomic power for commercial uses still in the
distant future, this oil represents unlimited
wealth and power. Standard Oil of California
and the Texas Co. have the sole right to de-
velop this wealth.— -Marquis W. Childs; N.Y.
“Post.”


EDWARD LUMIEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
The oldest and latgest
Insurance Brokers in the
Southern Hemisphere*
effecting insurances at—
Your passport to Security
in any part of tlie World
Wherever you go, however you travel, what-
ever your business . • . there is a Lloyd s
policy to cover you against any and every
contingency . In Australia, for example ,
thousands of policies have been under-
written by Lloyd’s of London during the
past fifty years, through the oldest and
largest brokers in the Southern’Hemisphere
. . , Bennie S. Cohen & Son, now known
as Edward Lumley & Sons Pty. Ltd. To-
day, more than ever, you will appreciate
the sense of security that only a Lloyd’s
policy can provide.
All enquiries will be promptly and cour-
teously answered by: —
EDWARD LIMEY A SONS PTY LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: 263 George St. and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle: 33 Watt
St. Melbourne: 57 Queen St. Adelaide; T. & G. Bldg. Brisbane:
A.M.P. Bldg, berth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins
St.; also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, new
Zealand: and edward lumley inc., London, new york, Paris,
COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
LL.2.IS
Illustrating a section of
the Wunderlich pressed
steel partitions, installed
throughout the eleven
floors of the N.S.W,
Govt. Railways Adminis-
trative Building, Sydney.
Ld
i i
m
m
wa
Ml
■
:'v
i
m
wasm
fsm
______ i: *
' J v v ■><,£
PRESSED STEEL PARTITIONS
For the subdivision df offices, and large
fl 6 or areas. WUNDERLICH PRESSED STEEL PARTITIONS
are neat in appearance, hygienic, fire-resistant, and permit
of the secretion of wiring installations. They are capable
of being quickly installed. Subsequent changes to the floor
layouts involves little more than the costs of labour as the
standard units are easily dismantled and interchangeable
for re-erection in any other location.
'Phone or write for further details:
c/er/irA <Jljn ited,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALITY FOR OYER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET. REDFERN, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE. N.S.W., *and BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms at the above addresses.
liked, Tony said. But here was that typi-
cal mark of Australian agriculture —the
deserted selection. Several of them here
in fact, and only the clearings and the
remains of houses left. A number of
steers in great condition were lying or
standing under a clump of trees.
“Which reminds me,” said Tony, “of
the cherries.” He pointed to the nearest
clearing. We went with him and there
were half a dozen big old cherry-trees
loaded with fruit. They were the hardy
Kentish cherry, always tart, no matter
how ripe, but not unpleasant to the taste.
The trees had been clipped and trimmed
by the cattle to a very regular six feet
from the ground. These cherry-trees are
a regular feature of the deserted hold-
ing—or sometimes it might be apples or
pears, or more occasionally peaches. But
they were always tougher than the original
settlers and had seen them die or depart
at last with something of triumph that
they could stick it out better. No pampered
aristocrat of the orchards could ever last
half as long as they, nor bear such yearly
loads- of fruit. Tony was pleased at the
cherries —for Lily’s sake apparently —and
he said he would pick some tomorrow.
His method was to drive alongside a
tree and pick from his driver’s seat.
Yes, Tony knew the people who used
to live here. Some of them —or their
children —were in Saywell now —“at this
very minute,” as Tony would put it.
Others had gone to Sydney or some-
where. Tony didn’t know Sydney well,
and didn’t think much of it. He con-
sidered Saywell as the centre of the uni-
verse, but he wasn’t keen about living
there either. It was too crowded. Tony
referred to it as one might to New York
or London.
There had been three families in all —
the Hogans, the Crews and the Belfast
Joneses. Why the “Belfast” part of it,
Tony didn’t say. Yes, he knew them all
—the Hogans were great people, especi-
ally the old man. The old people dead,
of "course, now, though Tony didn't admit
it overmuch. So were the Crews —great
people. The Joneses were industrious, and
ran a still’somewhere out in the hills, and
did wonderfully well till they were caught.
“Funny thing, how they got away with
it so long,” Tony reflected. “But then
again, perhaps it wasn’t so funny after
all.” But they were all gone—and only
McKechnie’s steers to own the place now.
There were miles of plateau on top,
and Tony liked it all, for what it had
been, perhaps. It was a poor road,
though, all red dust just now, but a real
nightmare in wet weather ; and in some
of the dips and hollows there was cordu-
roy of logs, pretty well rotted most of
them, with sheets of recent bark in the
gaps. Tony chuckled. “Great place for
their bloody flash cars in the right sort
of weather! Chains on the wheels and
all—and even then they have to be pulled
out with horses. Can’t do without horses.
I once saw a car —other side of Tooyal --
being pulled out of a bit of a boggy road
by a team of bullocks! ”
There was something ironically comic
in the memory of it, and Tony chuckled
still more. He finished, 'however, on
the serious note —“Horses, I say, was
made before cars. And so was bullocks,
for that matter.” The inference was that
they would outlast them, too.
The road followed a timbered ridge
down from the plateau —not such a long
climb as the other side—and came at last
to the Crossing. That was Little River, and
not so little as our rivers go. There was no
bridge, just fifty yards or so of concrete
table, and nearly a foot of clear water
sliding over it. When the rains were
heavy there was no crossing at all. On
the far side, and downstream some little
way, was a small green flat, with big,
tall sheoaks about it. Tony agreed it
was ideal for a camp, and wished he
could stay with us. Would, too, only he
was so busy just now. It was surprising
to hear that time anything to Tony.
“I’ll tell Brogan,” he said, “that you are,
here. You’ll like Brogan. See you to-
morrow.”
We paid Tony, as an afterthought.
“That’s all right,” said Henny. “Don’t
worry about the change.” But that wasn t
Tony’s way at all. He got out a blacx
crinkled purse apologetically. (“The old
woman all over,” no doubt, and the holes
in the trousers’ pockets she didn’t mend.)
Tony was not the sort of man who car-
ried his money, in a purse—except under
special circumstances.
Then his ancient coach lumbered up
the hill towards Clonmel. • •
WE were well settled and established
next day when Tony passed on his
return trip; There was an enormous fat
lady in the coach, and Tony jerked a
thumb over his shoulder, and his face
went through an awful contortion, which
was meant to be a wink, all to indicate
that there was something very funny m
having a fat lady in the coach.
We told Tony that we were staying
about a month. “And I’ll be ready, sai
Tony, “when you’re ready.”
There was no thought but that Tony
would take us back to Saywell. We said
we’d let him know in good time. We
could send him- word by the mailcar.
Tony visibly winced at that. He told us
again that he wished he was staying with
us, and that we’d like Brogan. His pro-
phecy here was not strictly accurate, an
subsequently we concluded that Tony
saw a lot of things in Brogan that no one
else noticed much, and missed some things
other folk saw pretty plainly. But that
was purely accidental.
Then Tony went through his horrible
wink once more, flicked Nellie with the
whip, and Nellie bit Dick—just to show
him. The coach moved off slowly, and
splashed through the Crossing, and up
the hill on the other side, till the absurd
red box, and yellow rickety wheels, and
Tony, and his fat passenger, and the
horses, all went at snail’s pace into the
timber.
For the month we fossicked among the
old workings, put down potholes in all
manner of likely and unlikely places,
made a “banjo” and, after covering the
bottom of a vaseline jar with a “weight”
or two of fine gold, came to the con-
clusion that the old-timers had been sin-
gularly conscientious and energetic. But it
didn’t matter so very much, though a
patch or two of real gold would have
been nice.
There were a few “old hands” still left
in Clonmel, and when we discreetly
admitted we knew nothing they became
quite tolerant and full of interesting mis-
information. Brogan didn’t like us, but
as Brogan didn’t like anyone there was
nothing really alarming about that.
On our second last day we were in at
Brogan’s for mail—he kept the post
office, or his wife did. Brogan was a
thin hard man of fifty who had been
“taken down” apparently in his youth,
and it wasn’t going to happen again.
His trousers were marvellously kept in
position by a single' brace fitted to
diagonally opposite buttons. He was slic-
ing some bacon for us with a long sharp
knife. He really seemed to enjoy cutting
meat.
“Sad,” said Brogan, without any great
sign of sorrow, “that was about Tony
Treloar.”
“What was that?”
Brogan kept on slicing. “Didn’t you
hear of it at all?”
“What happened?”
“Day before yesterday’t was.” Brogan
took a rasher —nearly an inch thick in
his fingers, and put it with those already
cut. Then he went on to the next slice.
“What happened to Tony?”
“Sudden, if you like!” The slicing
continued.
“What?”
“They reckon McKechnie was to
blame—though I doubt it.” Brogan put
the bacon on the scales.
“What did McKechnie do?”
Brogan still peered at the balance.
“Skittled him —main street of Saywell.”
“How?”
• “In his car. There’s not quite two
pounds there.”
“Hurt?”
Brogan was cutting a thinner and more
careful slice to make up the weight.
Then, with a final flourish of the knife —
“Dead!”
It was a real shock. We said the usual
things. Brogan said, “Well, we all have
to go some time, you know.” That was
said warningly to us, and with no special
reference to himself. We learned after-
wards that McKechnie was turning into
the main street, not so very fast, either,
and caught Tony, who had just stepped
off the kerb. It was an unaccountable
and senseless sort of accident, and it
looked like Tony’s fault really. But there
it was: Tony knocked down —not run
over at all —and killed instantly.
We got back to Saywell—we asked the
mailman to send out a car for us, and
felt guilty about that—a day or two after
the funeral. We learned then that they
took Tony off in a motor hearse—well,
there wasn’t any other sort now, in any
case. They could hardly have used
Tony’s coach.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Australian Officer
Most officers I meet tell me that the
King’s Commission’is a handicap in public
life. I can name a high-ranking officer
with a brilliant war record who has been
flatly told that his rank would be against
him if he stood for Parliament; and it is
common knowledge that another briga-
dier’s rank cost him votes at the Fre-
mantle by-election.
It isn’t that the Australian officer didn’t
prove himself during the war. Everybody
can name at least one officer who failed,
but for every failure there were two out-
standing successes and a dozen others
who did their job with steady efficiency.
After all, the man in the ranks could not,
and did not, carry the officers all the
way from Bardia to Balikpapan. The
long record of successes and the tremen-
dously high proportion of officer casual-
ties tell their own story.
The trouble is that the man in the
ranks and the general public have been
educated by politicians and sections of
the press to believe that the officer is a
parasitical growth made necessary by
tradition and an effete army system. To
many people the officer has become
synonymous with easy living, tailored
uniforms, a mess and a batman. The
Government, which has never had any
respect for its military leaders, actually
allowed a Cabinet Minister to ask other
ranks for a confidential report on their
officers: Nobody attempted to explain to
the public why a few privileges are
granted to officers in return for their
heavy duties and responsibilities, and to
stress the all-important fact that nine out
of ten Australian officers rose from the
ranks because of qualities of leadership,
initiative and courage.
Today the country is suffering from
an inverted snobbery which belittles the
successful leader, and from an inferiority
complex which argues that luck or
favoritism, not personal ability, led to
promotion. Even the man in the ranks
now says: “My officers were all right,
but the rest of ’em were drongos.” In
consequence, most officers are deliberately
keeping in the background at servicemen’s
and political meetings. In some service-
men’s associations it is already a tradition
that officers should keep back,
I’m not suggesting that other ranks be
denied full opportunity to take the lead.
I do suggest that, at a time when leaders
are urgently required in every walk of
national life, full credit be no longer
withheld from those who have proved
their ability to lead under the exacting
conditions of service. The ex-officer is
not looking for kudos and prestige, but
he does want to take part in public life
without having his rank flung in his face.
When a senior officer can be told that
successful leadership-in five campaigns
is enough to damn him in the eyes of
electors, it’s time for those who mould
public opinion to change the pattern.
Perhaps the man in the ranks, for whose
loyalty and co-operation in battle every
successful officer is thankful, can now do
something to break down existing pre-
judices and misconceptions. Peter
Mike (W.A.).
Tokyo Force *
Any ex-serviceman who has re-enlisted
can quickly lay his finger on the causes
of the irresponsible behavior of troops
in camps in N. S. Wales. Instructional
and administrative officers and non-coms,
in charge of the training of recruits have
been sent to various centres to await
discharge. All expect to quit the Army
in a matter of months. How can they
be expected to be enthusiastic about their
work?
On top of this is an acute shortage of
staff. At Greta and Walgrove—of which
I have first-hand knowledge—there are
companies with only two n.c.os. and one
officer.
A third cause is the absence of a
planned approach to the training. You
can’t hope to convert civilians into sol-
diers by giving them squad drill and rifle
exercises. They must be told that the
intention is to make them into a disci-
plined body to carry out the strict duties
of an occupation force. All training is
to fit the soldier for battle so as to defeat
the enemy, but rookies to whom I have
spoken (every one indeed) were amazed
,jo jhear that they may be used as a strik-
ing force should the need arise—in Japan
or elsewhere.
This “assembly”—l hesitate to use the
term “force”—is merely a band of armed
civilians.— Tarakan (N.S.W.).
Whose Seven Millions ?
Mr. Dedman has announced that
£7,000,000 of profits handed over by the
now-defunct Central Wool Committee is
to be used “for research and for promot-
ing the use of wool.” This money was
accumulated by underpaying growers
9 p.c. to 11| p.c. for sheepskin wool, by
profits on the sale of skins, tops and noils
and from interest.
After 1914-18 Central Wool Committee
profits (£1,667,469) were distributed
among the producers, and the latest
C.W.C. resolved that this course should
be adopted again. Mr. Dedman made his
announcement without bothering to honor
the Prime Minister’s promise to the chair-
man of the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council that the Government’s proposal
would be submitted to growers’ represen-
tatives, though he said the proposal would
be discussed with those representatives
“soon.”
Does this money belong to the Gov-
ernment or does it belong to the growers?
I leave that for lawyers to answer, but
the growers are morally entitled to it and
need it to put their war-time-neglected
properties in order.
Science can do—and is doing—a lot
for the wool industry; but growers are
already paying a wool tax of 2s. per bale
—£300,000 a year—for research and pub-
licity. The Bulletin described the
gathering of “scientific workers” in Syd-
ney as a pro-Soviet meeting (B. 24/4/’46) ;
One gentleman bragged of being a “good”
Communist and having topped the poll for
the election of office-bearers. Is it this
crowd that the Government will choose
for the expenditure of part or whole
of the woolgrowers’ money? If so,
graziers’ profits may yet be used to
finance Commo. shearers’ strikes.—F. D.
(N.S.W.).
A Field for Federal Control
Were our Molongloside “Government”
to evince a desire to inaugurate ordered
control of the rabbit and Jox pests on a
systematic basis it would receive the
wholehearted support of graziers, timber
producers and wheatgrowers. Were it to
combine with this a practical system of
protective control of our indigenous
fauna, that support would be multiplied
many times.
The States have made an utter mess of
both. The mere fact that the rabbit in-
dustry in 1945 was “worth” £4,631,628,
with an estimated kill of over 1000-mil-
lion and no sign of any real diminution
of numbers, affords clear evidence of this.
From any such “value” there should be
deducted the losses caused by the rabbits’
share in erosion and their destruction of
crops and feed, not to speak of the reduc-
tions amongst birds and other native
fauna caused by poison-carts. The spread
of foxes into south-west W.A., with re-
sultant destruction of vast numbers of
black swans and other native birds and
animals, provides another damning in-
dictment against State control. The
matter was discussed at, a 'conference in
1937, but the Government of the day slid
out under a plea of inadequate powers.
In the U.S.A. Federal control of such
matters has been an unqualified success.
It even includes treaty arrangements with
Mexico and Canada for the protection
of inter-migrating birds. — Notaden (Q.).
“Staggering!” k .
During. a survey of city shops, I, a
woman who has to wear something, was
dismayed at the prices of handknitted
garments. Growers are certainly not be-
ing overpaid for their wool and you
could knit a shortsleeve sweater for an
outlay of 7s, 6d. In shops with hand-
knitted sweaters on display, the prices
marked were £5 and £6. On this basis
net profit is staggering. — Randwick
(N.S.W.).
The Forty-hour Week
I am not sure that I want the 40-hour
week with which Labor is so anxious to
endow me. I am not in a big industry,
where a rigid and ruthless interpretation
of awards by both sides extracts the last
ounce of privilege. In my firm there is
an atmosphere of give-and-take.
, We observe awards, of course, but
most of us get a little more than the stipu-
lated wage. If we are occasionally a few
minutes late for work, because the wife
was seedy, or because the car stalled or
a bike tyre was punctured, there is no
haste to make a dockage. We have no
bundy clock. We work a nominal 44-
hour week in five days, 7.30 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
with three-quarters of an hour for lunch
and quarter-hour crib-times morning and
afternoon. So actual time worked is 41|
hours for 44 hours’ pay.
Will a gain of \\ hours, worth, say, 35.,
be adequate recompense for the loss of
the employer’s leniency and goodwill?
For he surely is going to say “If the
unions want everything they can squeeze
out of me. I’ll see they get their legal
rights, and no more.”
Nor am I sure that the standard of
living—which means the individual well-
being and happiness of the people—will
be raised by the shorter week. Forty-four
hours of work in 178 hours never harmed
anyone, and the reduction of four hours,
spread over five days, will not prove
appreciable. A working day is a work-
ing day, and you cannot use it for your
own purpose, even if it is 48 minutes
shorter; you can only lie abed a little
longer. If the reduction would allow the
working week to be compressed into four
days, I could see the gain, because then
a man would have three clear days in
every seven to himself. That is some-
thing tangible.
Might not the health and contentment
of the workers be better served by taking
only 88 hours, instead of 200, from in-
dustry annually; but by taking them in
one lump? That is to say by giving
everyone a month’s holiday a year, in-
stead of a fortnight’s.
A fortnight’s holiday always seems
niggardly—l 4 days of freedom after 50
weeks of toil. It scarcely allows you time
to get decently suntanned, and you return
to work resentful that it is so so,on over.
But in a month you have time to get
weary of your seaside boarding house,
“I know my stars advised forbearance on Thursday — but its
Friday now.”
and keen to get home again, even keen to
get back to work. I’ll swap it for a 40-
hour week any time. — Country Unionist
IN S W) *
v ‘ ’
« <
More Transport-strangling f
While the threat of Japanese invasion
hung over Australia, a first-class highway
for military use was built over the 74-mile
stretch connecting Biloela in the Callide
Valley with Gladstone, the only first-class
natural port in Central Queensland. Till
then the only available transport route
had been over 172 miles of the State’s
notorious railways, via Mt. Morgan and
Rockhampton.
The Callide Valley (population 5000) is
an important dairying district, and Glad-
stone (population 6000). is its natural out-
let by rail and sea. With the new road
providing direct, three-hour communica-
tion, and greatly lessened costs of trans-
port, the innocent inhabitants of both
places saw prosperity and progress close
ahead.
But they reckoned without the State’s
famous Transport Strangulation Board,
That august body simply didn’t admit the
existence of any such road. It decreed
that the Callide Valley was serviced by
the railway to Rockhampton, and that
was that. Accordingly, it did nothing to
maintain or service the intrusive object,
Repeated, applications for licences for
freight, mail and passenger services over
it were consistently refused.
Business people coming to Gladstone
for supplies of fish or groceries were
warned against the consequences of such
disobedience, and even private cars were
stooped and their drivers questioned as
to what they meant by using it.
Storm waters have cut the road in
places but all applications for repair
have been ignored. Before long it will
be upflt for”traffic, many thousands of
pounds will have been thrown away, and
a work of military and developmental
importance will have been sacrificed to
railway-union voting strength.
The only ray of hope comes from a
growing uneasiness among the heads over
the probability of losing Port Curtis as a
Labor seat if the Hanlon “Government
persists in its present “policy.”— Colbun
(Q).
Australian Reference Books
Tell “Morehead” (B. 10/4/*46) that
paper restrictions, plus the desire to print
as many copies as possible, have prevented
us from enlarging the scope of J. J.
Milter’s Sporting Annual.
As the paper position eases, and when
World Sporting Federations function
again, we hope to cover the field more
thoroughly. Some improvement in this
direction will be apparent in our next
and 71st— edition.—H. R. Francis, Secre-
tary, Melbourne.
’Planes, Not Trains
Instead of entering into competition
with existing airline companies the Gov-
ernment should consider establishing a
huge air transport service throughout the
Commonwealth. The initial cost could
be met with money that is to be spent in
shifting a lot of railway lines further apart
or closer together or something.
The war left the Government with aero-
dromes, aircraft, aircraft factories and
equipment, and —most important of all—
highly-trained personnel, now being dis-
charged from the R.A.A.F. As has been
proved in the U.S.A. air transport can
compete with railways, and in Australia
it could open up places inaccessible to
trains
The greater part of heavy machinery
required for goldmining in New Guinea
was flown to the sites over country where
neither roads nor railways existed. _
A ’plane, not specially fitted, carried a
cargo of fresh meat from Brisbane to
Morotai and, to complete the experiment,
brought some of it back in excellent con-
dition after its journey of 5600 miles.
Aircraft, fitted with refrigeration, could
carry cargoes of meat from inland abat-
toirs to the coast—a fleet of 10 ’planes
would carry as much meat in one day as
a stock train would carry in a week,
Giant skyliners are already in the air,
and loads that were once thought tan-
tastic are now commonplace. We have
had flying doctors for years, and an aerial
ambulance has lately been introduced to
North Queensland. That’s only the begm-
ning.—Taffy (Q.).
Country Pubs
i n most country pubs I’ve known,
profits on beer and spirits sold during
lawful hours wouldn’t pay the barman’s
wages. Customers, mostly farmers and
workers who can’t afford time during
the day, manage generally to get
a few drinks after hours. Though
unlawful this business is conducted
quietly. Drunkenness is not permitted ;
otherwise complaints would follow and
police raids would put the illicit vendor
out of business. Or he might take the
alternative of slygrog dealing, which is
difficult to detect.
Country hotels have *6 fomdty atoo-
sphere of clubs, being about the only
places in many small towns and town-
ships where people may foregather
fraternise. An °pendoortiU 9m
10 p.m. would do no one harm. The irus
take the wowsers us make is treat-
ing these institutions as dens of vice
sin instead of throwing wives
clubhouses, where men and their
could find f C r“f“ s htog°bSge in teir
or two of refreshing beverage in
leisure—X. L. U. fvic.;.


The R.A.A.F.
I have been studying the gradual de-
terioration of the R.A.A.F. in Australia
and the islands, a process which was de-
veloping before the war ended.
Reviewing the policy of Air Board anc
Government, the first mistake seems to
have been made after the Kiriwina land-
ing in 1943.'
With the subsequent switch of R.A.A.F.
operational squadrons to mopping -up
tactics in Western New Guinea, Ceram,
the Halmaheras and the Celebes, with ap-
parently very little benefit to the Allied
cause, the men began to feel that they
were really not needed by the Americans.
The position deteriorated when squad-
rons were kept idle for months after each
period of activity, thus increasing their
belief that the only cause for their reten-
tion in these areas was the Government’s
desire to justify its claim to a total war
effort.
Men who had completed over 15
months of service without leave were
retained. The resultant bitterness in-
fected the minds of reinforcements, air-
crew and groundstaff.
War’s end brought an immediate dis-
banding of squadrons, only those on
transport duties being left to any extent
whole. Aircraft were stacked and left
to rot. Training flights were stopped,
and no attempt was made to form the
nucleus of a permanent air force from
our many aircraft and those men willing
to man them. Had the strength of the
Interim Air Force been decided upon
quickly the target of 30,000 men would
have been obtained. As it was, only
6000 applications were received.
Then there was the matter of junior
officers. Many were appointed from the
ranks after a year’s training; appointed
without operational service and without
experience of leadership.
The R.A.A.F. was never lacking in
good human material, and some of these
juniors did become good officers, but
during the latter stages of the war, and
after the war, when administrative duties
began to fall more and more upon the
young aircrew officers, defects began to
appear. Airmen left in service were, in
general, lads, and, especially when the
older men had been discharged, young
fellows were apt to become difficult to
control.
From my observations in and around
Australia I go for an Empire Air Force,
directed by a committee with representa-
tives from all parts of the British Com-
monwealth. By an exchange of men,
particularly with Britain, we would gain
much-needed knowledge of the latest
technical developments. And the arrange-
ment would ensure for Australia up-to-
date aircraft instead of our lagging 18
months to two years behind current de-
velopments, as we did during the war. —
Ex-R.A.A.F. Officer (N.S.W.).
Working Hours and Strikes
Surely it is time that unionism realised
that strikes and shorter hours do not go
with a higher standard of living. That
means more goods consumed by
the community, and these cannot be pro-
duced unless the community works
harder. Every strike and every reduction
of working hours imperil the standard of
living by reducing production and in-
creasing prices.
If the present trend of events is carried
to its logical conclusion we will reach the
stage where Australians will produce and
consume nothing. There will be nothing
to consume.— Freedom (S.A.).
Pepping-up Elections
Could he have lived till these times
Dickens would have been delighted with
Melbourne University’s Student Repre-
sentative Council (S.R.C.) elections. They
would have reminded him of Eatanswill.
For a week before the S.R.C. poll the
campus is covered with posters and
dodgers in favor of multitudinous can-
didates. Parades in support of various
nominees are a daily event. Male stu-
dents dress up as female bathers, with vot-
ing slogans inscribed in lipstick on their
anatomy. The students’ paper, “Farrago,”
devotes whole issues to candidates’ poli-
cies, all imaginary.
On voting day candidates, urgers and
the mob surge into a large lecture theatre.
Here every office-seeker is allowed three
minutes in which to state his policy with
the much-needed aid of a microphone
and amplifier. This meeting is the climax,
and for about an hour the theatre re-
sounds to moans, cheers, shrieks, songs,
count-outs and smashing of eggs. It is
rare for the audience to let the speaker
utter more than five consecutive words.
Last year one enthusiast drenched the
mob with a firehose. The meeting soon
went on again, the chairman not daring
to close it for fear of the neighboring
horsetrough.
It all suggests the need for more lively
Parliamentary elections. Billy Hughes
and Eddie Ward would probably enjoy
the change.— Student (Vic.),
Expensive Minutes
Sydney’s “Daily Mirror” informs its
readers that the N. S. Wales Government
is planning to spend a quarter of a mil-
lion pounds for track work on the rail-
way line between Sydney and Newcastle.
The “Telegraph” quotes Transport Min-
ister O’Sullivan: “By strengthening the
lines and eliminating the curves, the 100
miles’ distance between the two cities will
be covered in two hours 25 minutes” —
41.11 miles per hour.
The present daily trip by the Newcastle
Flyer is covered in 2hr. 33min. —39.11
m.p.h.
Time certainly means money when eight
minutes cost £250,000. — Rekab (N.S.W.).
“Hanged Himself”
In Perth last month a jobless ex-Digger
took his own life. A “Daily News”
report:
The victim was discharged in December,
1945. He was depressed because he could
not get a job. He started to drink. He
had been classed A 1 at a medical examina-
tion last November... .Evidence showed
that the returned man had hanged himself
with a cord from an army kitbag.
Australia has, or had, 156,000 em-
ployees on boards, many thousands of
them on rehabilitation, employment,
training, repatriation and reconstruction
boards, controls or committees. There
is no known limit to the work that needs
to be done. It is officially admitted that
the country is short 400,000 houses.
But bottlenecks, caused mainly by “con-
trols,” are depriving returned men of
employment.
I wonder if any of our multitude of
rulers, elected and non-elected, feels a
twinge of responsibility for the death
of that Westralian Digger or considers
the possibility of others taking the same
way out. — Xenophon (W.A.).
“Properganda”
At a fairly late stage in the European
half of the war I was conducting Current
Affairs discussions at a naval establish-
ment in Scotland. One of my assign-
ments was “The Dominions,” laced with
the necessary propaganda to convince my
circle that it was a righteous duty to
volunteer for service in the Pacific. But
it wasn’t long before a serious-minded
leading seaman said “Australia is the ob-
vious solution to the Arab-Jew problem.”
And a dreamy-eyed Wren asked “How
big is a kangaroo when it’s bom, ahd is
it bom into the pouch or does it hop in
afterwards?”
Isn’t it time we soft-pedalled the koala-
kangaroo-too-big-for-seven-million-people
idea and faithfully represented Australia
overseas? —R. A. S. (Vic.).
Aboriginals
Where the U.S.A. spends £23 and
Canada £ll per head on their aboriginals,
we spend a niggardly £3 on ours. Maori-
land, with less than a fourth of our popu-
lation, spends £230,000 on Maori schools
alone; our total for all purposes is
£240,000.
Expenditure aside, our policy in regard
to these people is negative. The mind
of authority can’t rise above reserva-
tions, rations and missions, and that
means the continued degradation of the
aboriginal, makes him a perpetual drag
on public finance.
There is much that can be done to im-
prove the lot of adult aboriginals, but it
is the children who are the main hope
for the race. People who have the com-
fortable —and contemptible—idea that the
aboriginal is solving his own problem by
dying out had best think again. It’s true
that full-bloods are decreasing, but mixed-
bloods are on the increase.
There is nothing against raising the
natives to equal status with whites. Num-
bers of mixed bloods have overcome all
obstacles and won for themselves a
respected place in the community. No
mean number fought their way through
Pacific jungles in defence of Australia. —
D. S. M. (N.S.W.).
It has been stated that aboriginals are
citizens of the State but not of the Com-
monwealth, and that they may vote at
State elections but not at Federal.
This is not the case. The Commonwealth
Constitution (Section 41) provides that no
person who has a right to vote “for the
more numerous House of a State* shall
be prevented by any law of the Common-
wealth from voting at Commonwealth
elections.
Australian aboriginals, therefore, can-
not be prevented from voting at Com-
monwealth elections unless they are ex-
pressly disfranchised by their State. (The
definition of “aboriginal” varies with the
State.)
The Commonwealth Pensions Act does
discriminate against aboriginals' as such,
the definition being “one having a pre-
ponderance of aboriginal blood.” This
most unreasonable restriction calls for
prompt amendment, and Westralia’s De-
partment of Native Affairs has been
pressing for action.
Meanwhile, the Aborigines’ Friends’
Association of S.A. advises that “in prac-
tice” such pensions are now being
awarded to natives living under civilised
conditions. So it looks as though Com-
monwealth officials in different States are
following different principles.
Child endowment is available to all. —
Val (Vic.).
A British Soldier’s Thanks
As one of the Tommies privileged to
have met Australian forces in islands
north-west of Australia, I should like to
express my thanks to friends I made anc
for the hospitality I found at Adv. H.Q.
Morotai; H.Q. 9 Aust. Div., Labuah
Borneo ; H.Q. 21st Aust. Inf. Bde., anc
2/27 Batt., 7th Div., Macassar, N.E.I.
and Rear Details, Balikpapan.
It has been the most noteworthy ex-
perience of what we call Far East ser-
vice, and I shall certainly be an unofficial
ambassador for Australia upon demobili-
sation. I gathered—an easy thing to do
—that the Digger wants his British cousin
to come out to Australia, grow
consolidate new industries started during
the war along with the fellows I have
been proud to meet.
Last, but not least, thanks for the Aus-
tralian Comforts Fund for the Christmas
parcel I received at Labuan. — S/Sgt.,
British Army (Java).
Stamping Stamps
I admit that heavy stamping ruins
stamps with a philatelic value (B.
3/4/’46); but what does “Black Out”
suggest?
Date stamps would have to be altered
in design to prevent heavy cancelling,
and these stamps, varying little, are in
every post office in Australia outside the
G.P.O.
Mail dispatch is a rush job, and the
vast majority of the public is not in-
terested in stamp-collecting, only in
getting mail and sending it with a mini-
mum of delay.
It is to this majority that we strive to
give satisfaction in mail matters, as well
as coping with telegraph, telephone,
radio, pre-natal coupon forms and a 1000-
and-one other forms which we handle.
Our main preoccupation while stamping
mail is to avoid not cancelling any stamp
thoroughly. If we are lax in this, and
many other apparently trifling details, we
are liable to a fine from our slender pay-
envelopes.—Postal Clerk (S.A.).
\
Under socialism the Postal Department
has almost ceased the traditional giving of
service to public and philatelists alike.
Loaded with a new crop of additional
duties (a legacy from the last war), it has
become a vast profit-making organisa-
tion with hordes of inspectors to imple-
ment its policy.
The emergence of another Earl of
Shaftesbury would be welcomed. Con-
sider a resolution of the N.S.W. Post-
masters’ Association “viewing with alarm
the high deathrate and premature
retirements among its members.” If
“B.O.” would undertake an errand of
mercy in the interests of both philatelists
and “pile-drivers” let him agitate for im-
proved postal staffing, especially in
country offices. Should he attempt this
all my prayers will accompany him. He’ll
certainly need them. — Socialist Serf
(N.S.W.).
Both Sides in Palestine
Those who were in Palestine (B.
27/3/’46) during the war will remember
the communal settlement at the Kfar
Vitkin turnoff, on Tel Road.
They will also remember along the road
to the convalescent depot the fields re-
covered from swamps.
The splendid main building of the
settlement was used for dining-hall, lec-
ture-hall and offices; the kitchen was
agleam with copper and nickel. Another
handsome building contained the chil-
dren’s dormitories and living-rooms—
lovely youngsters, clean, healthy and
happy.
Adults lived in small houses near the
main buildings; their fields grew lucerne,
oats and other crops.
Across the main road were the tumble-
down hutments of the Arabs, resembling
the former Dudley Flats, Melbourne. In
one of the huts, squatting on the dirt
floor, was an Arab woman with a filthy
child at the breast and with a free hand
grinding a form of meal with a mortal
and pestle. The fowls wandered inside
with complete freedom, leaving their
droppings as they went. In a well near
by were a dead chook and a fearsome-
looking toad. The water from the well
was no longer used by the Arabs, but
they drew their supply of pure water from
a tap, provided for their use by the Jews,
just inside the settlement gates.
Not all the Arab settlements were as
decrepit as this one, but all the Jewish
settlements (I’m not speaking of towns)
were remarkable for their fine children
and spotless interiors. —H. W. (Vic.).
Liquor and Tobacco
I have been greatly impressed with the
loyalty of purveyors of alcoholic drinks
and tobacco to their ancient crafts.
For five years no tobacconist in my
district has had anything to sell. Witness
the “No Smokes” sign displayed all the
time in their windows. No publican has
had more than the mere trickle of beer
sufficient to warrant only an hour or so
daily trading.
Yet such is their loyalty to their call-
ings that none of them have ever walked
out of their empty bars or shops to en-
gage in more lucrative callings. Some
were extremely cold to invitations to join
the armed forces, where tobacco and beer
would be provided regularly for their
enjoyment.
Surely this loyalty and self-sacrifice
should be made public and rewarded.
Would the Minister consider the issue of
a commemorative riband? Predominant
color motif, of course, should be black. —
Sol Brass (Q.).
Nursing
Ignorance of the better side of nursing
keeps many girls away from that calling.
They hear far too much from patients
and onlookers and not enough from
nurses themselves.
It’s not a hard life for a young healthy
girl, and it can be immensely interesting.
I was 18 when I began training in a big
and busy suburban hospital. I was
no amazon sft. 2in. and 7st. 71b.
We supplied our own uniforms, and,
although our salary was not high, we
found it adequate. The nurses’ home
was always plentifully supplied with such
things as toilet soaps, ammonia, iodine,
methylated spirits and the necessary in-
gredients for hand lotions and face-
cleansing creams. We were allowed any
mixtures free.
An office girl, receiving what appears
to be a handsome screw compared with
that of a nurse, has to provide all these
extras herself. She does not wear uni-
form during the whole of her working
hours ; she must maintain a neat —and
expensive—wardrobe. And as a rule she
pays board, which costs plenty these days.
We nurses had free use of laundries for
our light stuff ; our uniforms were looked
after by the laundry staff ; use of the iron
was free,- and there was always a plentiful
supply of hot water —something you don’t
get in the average suburban cottage.
We worked five and a half days a
week (certainly 12 hours some days);
but had liberal morning-tea, lunch
and afternoon-tea breaks, with maids
to attend to our wants. The meals
were substantial and good. Our lounge-
room in the nurses’ home was spaci-
ous and comfortable ; we had a good
piano and parties when we wanted them.
—Marjorie Ross (N.S.W.).
“It happens every time I pass the archery club!”


THEY LEARN BY DOING...
Steel Industry Apprentices Benefit
by New Training Development
SkILLED tradesmen are as necessary to
modern industry as lubrication is to machinery
The manufacture of iron and steel requires the
combined efforts of many men and many
trades, among whom fitters and turners com-
prise a large proportion.
It was appropriate, therefore, that appren-
tices indentured to fitting and turning should
be the first to be chosen for training in the
apprentices’ training-shop recently established
by The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., at
the Newcastle Steel Works.
The shop was designed expressly for the
practical instruction of fitting and turning trade
apprentices in the important formative stage,
i.e., the first two years of their apprenticeship-.
The experience gained in this shop- is most
varied, and includes both productive and
maintenance work on various engineering
equipment necessary to steel works operation.
The shop has 6,000 square feet of floor
space, and provides for the accommodation
of 40 apprentices. It is divided into two
sections, one for training in machine operations
and the other section for fitting and assembly.
First-class equipment includes high-speed
drills, turret lathes, shaper, miller, fitting
benches, and all tools necessary for modern
machine operation. The shop also has its own
instrument- and store-rooms.
The safety and welfare of the boys are a
prime consideration, and well-designed mess-
and shower-rooms are provided for their
exclusive use.
The apprentices have reacted most favour-
ably to these surroundings which provide
invaluable practical experience right from the
start of their apprenticeship.
On completion of the two years’ training in
the shop the apprentices are transferred to the
main machine-shop.
The selection of capable supervisors well
qualified and able to understand young people
is a great factor in the smooth and successful
operation of the shop.
These supervisors maintain a keen interest
in the progress made by their charges, who are
most painstakingly grounded in the basic
knowledge of their chosen trade. They work
in a good cause—the building of the appren-
tices’ technical skill and the development of
general character, thus providing a firm
foundation on which they may well fashion
their future as skilled tradesmen.
The excellent results obtained by the New-
castle apprentices’ training-shop have resulted
in a similar shop being established at Whyalla.
At this South Australian port the Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., Ltd., has established a blast-
furnace plant for pig-iron production and an
extensive shipyard which have created a steady
demand for skilled tradesmen.
Mr. Jack Weichart, foreman in charge of
the Newcastle Steel Works training shop
instructing a second year apprentice in
working to a drawing.
Mr. N. Anderson, instructor, explaining to
apprentices the valve gear of a winch recondi-
tioned in the Newcastle Steel Works training
shop.
Instructor inspecting tool-setting at the Whyalla
(S.A.) apprentice training shop.
Below: Modern accommodation, including hot and cold showers,
is provided for apprentices to clean-up after the day’s work.
Above: Apprentices receiving theoretical instruction
at the Broken Hill Proprietary’s Whyalla, S.A., appren-
tices’ training shop.
