

I if ill
s mMMm
PURPLE
PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3481
Wednesday, October 30, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE
SAL.
AS HED
A a^ (ne tlle r ‘ ver X er L. is tbe
of theTarhesf
tine abbey founded by Offa II in 793, the edifice wL rebuilt by
Paul de Caen in 1077, and about eight hundred years later was
constituted a cathedral by Baron Grimthorpe amidst a storm of
- P r o° duced a sensation at the time - Here Abbot
Waiimgiord, in 1480, set up England’s third printing press. The
building is notable for its high altar screen, rood screen, choir
cdling ’ SaX ° n baluSter columns and frescoes and its monuments,
rhe brasses include one to Robert Fayrfax (d. 1529), a notable
organist of the abbey. To the south, in Verulam Woods, are
remains of the British-Roman city of Verulamium, which Boadicea
destroyed in a.d. 61. Here also was the only known Roman theatre
built in England.


S»wJ» U rfrf
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’*
Sly Name ..
My Address
S.B. 146 ..
AGE
The Red Page
APPRAISAL OF DOBELL.
When Holman Hunt was painting
“The Triumph of the Innocents” he ex-
perienced many trials which, being of a
pious turn of mind, he attributed to the
devil:
Oh Christmas Eve, 1879, a dark figure
could have been observed going into a
group of studios in Manresa-road, Chelsea.
The hour was late, the fog hung thick;
but neither the hour, the fog nor the fes-
tive season could keep Holman Hunt away
from his picture. He had a new plan for
curing the twisted surface. He labored
now with a candle in his hand through
the silent dark hours; he thought sud-
denly that it looked better. Half to him-
self he exulted: —
“I think I have beaten the devil.
Then the whole building shook with a
great convulsion.
The source of this phenomenon appeared
to be behind his easel. It was as if a
great creature were shaking itself and run-
ning between him and the door.
“What is it?” called Hunt.
There was no answer and the noise
ceased.
Poor Hunt figures all the way through
William Gaunt’s The Pre-Raphaelite
Dream —where Millais is the villain and
Rossetti (moderately) the hero —in the
unenviable role of clown. He was re-
garded with more respect in his own day,
and, indeed, “The Hireling Shepherd,”
though Hunt meant it to convey a moral,
still has a wanton charm. But even the
Pre-Raphaelites, when Hunt went out to
the shores of the Red Sea and painted
the fiercely symbolical “Scapegoat,” ob-
served that this sinister animal looked
remarkably like an ordinary goat after
all.
And they couldn’t quite bring
themselves to believe that Hunt had
literally conquered the devil. Spiritual-
ism was fashionable; Rossetti had a
transcendental experience with a chaf-
finch, and for weeks after he left Wil-
liam Bell Scott’s castle in Scotland his
voice was heard in his bedroom reading
aloud to itself. But as for Hunt’s devil
—“Bell Scott suggested that the castiron
stove might have cracked and thrown out
a rivet with a loud report.”
Hunt, however, maintained that it was
the devil. Symbolically, at all events.
“The question to him was not whether
there was a devil or not but whether the
noise was opportune.”
And symbolically, one may agree,
Hunt did defeat the devil: if not the
scriptural gentleman, who is a tough cus-
tomer, at least the devil of the arts; the
fiend of difficulty, the pit of oblivion.
For he finished his picture, and he made
a name that, though somewhat dimmed,
has survived for 70 years.
At which point the noise becomes op-
portune in the appraisal of The Art of
William Dobell (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.),
for Dobell, too, like every other artist,
will have to defeat the devil if, in 70
years’ time, his name is still to be known.
And names do vanish. Who, at one of
those radio “quizzes” that have outdone
the crossword puzzle and the detective
novel as a device for killing time—and
culture could say who Robert
Martineau was? Yet Martineau painted
"The Last Day in the Old Home” —a
social or “documentary” picture far
more impressive in its profusion of de-
tail and drama than any documentary
William Dobell has yet attempted in the
cafds round King’s Cross. “A novel in
itself of life in the ’sixties,” William
Gaunt describes it. Dobell’s “Chez
Walter” —a painting to which black-and-
white reproduction does less than justice,
missing the brilliance of crimson color
which made a jewel of the humble cray-
fish —is hardly a short story beside it; a
“sketch,” in the literary sense.
Who would remember the name of
Henry Wallis? Yet, in “The Death of
Chatterton” Wallis painted a picture of
such mournful and delicate beauty that
one could hardly discuss Dobell’s “The
Dead Landlord” in the same terms. In
the original “The Dead Landlord” had
a kind of flat and dingy realism, like
the back-bedroom nudes of Sickert; in
reproduction it looks comic. In neither
case, though, has the picture The peculiar
nightmare quality of surrealism—the
corruption that stems, as Gaunt demon-
strated in The Aesthetic Adventure, from
the corpse-worship of Baudelaire, The
picture that won the Archibald Prize
was Dobell’s furthest venture towards
distortion and dislocation. And one may
say, too, in defence of “The Dead Land-
lord,” that it is not a painting one would
forget in a hurry; likewise “Chez
Walter”; and likewise many "of the 100-
odd works reproduced in the present
volume.
Some curious things have happened to
Dobell’s paintings in the process of re-
production. The color-plates seem to
lack subtlety. With such artists as
Gruner or Percy Lindsay, whose works
depend on the subtleties of light, this
sort of treatment would be fatal. In
Dobell’s case the result is the opposite;
for if the black-and-whites (unavoidably,
of course) do less than justice to the rich-
ness of his palette, the color-plates—by
toning it down —do a kindly service to
its violence.
In the Archibald Prize portrait, for
instance, a coat that was mustard-yellow
in the original has taken on a pleasant
bronzelike effect, and a patch of green
in the background has, except for a few
tiny smears, disappeared. If color can
be “bright” and “cheerful,” then no
doubt it can also be morbid ; and it was
the combination of that mustard-yellow
and green in the original—allied, of
course, to the wobbly treatment of the.
sitter —that made one feel in its presence,
if not repelled, at least a little seasick.
As far as memory can be relied on
“The Strapper” seems much as it was;
but the portrait of Professor Giblin —a
striking and powerful work —seems con-
siderably improved by the elimination of
a “tackiness” which marred the back-
ground of the original and which prob-
ably lost it last year’s Archibald Prize.
And the portrait of Mr. Brian Penton —
again, always a powerful piece of work
—seems to have become considerably
tempered around th? area of the chest
since it was first exhibited.
It may be simply that as one becomes
accustomed to Dobell’s work it loses its
power to “shock.” But then again one
recalls that the original of the “Scotty”
Allan portrait showed the airman’s fea-
tures, though admirably lively with their
quizzical expression, colored an improb-
able blue ; and black-and-white reproduc-
tion, of necessity, fails to reveal this eva-
sion of the problems of flesh-tones.
One must say, then, that the book
presents Dobell at a little better than his
best; and the more so in that, being re-
produced more or less the same size as
his larger canvases, some of his small
paintings look very, much more impres-
sive than in the originals: for instance,
“The Little Milliner,” which, unless one
had seen the original in the N. S. Wales
National Gallery or, going through the
book, had taken the proper course of
reading the size alongside the title, one
would never guess to be a minute whim-
sicality, five and a half inches by eight
inches. A point to be noted about
Dobell’s work is that he paints best
within a small area: “Saddle-My-Nag,”
for instance, a frolic in green as charm-
ing and spirited as a Norman Lindsay
watercolor, is 24 inches by 18 inches.
Black-and-white reproduction does not do
justice to this picture.
Another point—probably not very im-
portant, for every artist has his idiosyn-
crasies of style—is that Dobell’s portraits
always look most impressive when he
can make his sitters look like the devil.
And when he attempted to portray a
completely un-Mephistophelian Lord
Wakehurst he did not succeed. Dobell,
in this sense, may yet have to beat the
devil.
As to the other devil —the difficulty of
lasting achievement in the arts —The Art
of William Dobell obviously represents
a fairly strong challenge. Stated by the
publisher to include “practically his
whole output over the last 14 years —
Dobell is not prolific,” the book contains
roughly a hundred paintings, an average
of seven a year.
Among these there are ten portraits —
those of Joshua Smith, “The Strapper,”
“The Cypriot,” “The Red Lady,” Miss
Elaine Haxton, Professor Giblin, Mr.
Penton, “Billy Boy,” Captain Allan-and
James Cook; —of average dimensions;
about the size of LongstafFs portrait of
“Banjo” Paterson and half the size of
the Reynolds in the Melbourne Gallery
or Hugh Ramsay’s “The Sisters” in the
Sydney Gallery. The remainder of the
paintings vary from medium size to small
and very small.
It is, of course, dangerous to assess the
stature of a painter by the number or
acreage of his paintings. Percy Lindsay,
though comparatively prolific, usually
paints small; Vermeer painted very few
pictures, and painted small. Haydon
painted gigantic canvases and is remem-
bered chiefly for his diary. Millais —
Gaunt’s villain —turned out potboilers to
make £40,000 a year. Nevertheless, in art,
as in literature, stature is measured in
the long run by majesty of conception
and copiousness of output. It should
hardly be necessary to pit Dobell’s 100
canvases against Turner’s 20,000, for
world reputations are not called into
question; but when Mr. Penton, who
contributes an introduction to The Art of
William Dobell, opens with the state-
ment (no doubt wilfully provocative)
William Dobell, at the age of 47, is
Australia’s most distinguished painter;
an excursion into arithmetic can be a
very useful corrective. Mr. Penton, it is
true, does mention Streeton; but not
that, as a painting of men at work,
Dobell’s “Emergency Loading at Night”
(27 inches by 22 inches) is not a quarter
the size of “Fire’s On.” It has not oc-
curred to him to compare the charmingly
decorative portrait of Miss Haxton with
the still more gracious (and very much
larger) “Lady in Blue” or “Sisters” of
Hugh Ramsay; nor the Dobell self-
portrait (9i inches by 12} inches) with
the Mary Edwards or the Lambert self-
portraits in the Sydney Gallery.
Art, however, it is admitted, cannot
always safely be measured with a ruler;
nor by arithmetic, nor even by the astro-
nomical calculations that would be
needed to cope with the prodigious out-
put of Norman Lindsay.
There are other ways of assessing what
Dobell has and has not done. Mr. Pen-
ton’s article (good except for its extrava-
gances) concludes:
Perhaps Dobell is groping for a new
development of style, which will carry his
talent for acid characterisation into com-
position. To see what he could do in
murals would be interesting. A wealthy
patron who cared to risk tifty or a hundred
thousand pounds on a large-scale experi-
ment in decoration might produce in
Dobell the greatest mural painter the
British people have given to art.
Now, this is very interesting and, in a
way, generous on the part of Mr. Pen-
ton ; but the obvious truth is that the
experiment might not succeed.
Who can say?
Sometimes one cannot help wondering
whether this sort of overestimation of
Dobell —“S. M. Herald” stated in a lead-
ing article that he is “the first Australian
artist to knock with any degree of
authority on the door of European fame”
—has anything at all to do with the
painter’s artistic merits. Certainly the
Sydney newspapers take very little in-
terest in two other winners of the Travel-
ling Scholarship, Arthur Murch and
Lance Solomon, whose works are just as
eagerly sought by connoisseurs as are
Dobell’s.
There was published in Melbourne
recently a book of poems—Judith
Wright’s The Moving Image —which an
impartial estimate must find at least
quite as important a contribution to
the Australian culture as The Art of Wil-
liam Dobell: and yet the newspaper
which Mr. Penton edits, if it follows its
usual practice, will not even review the
book. And when one considers such
anomalies one is indeed forced to the
conclusion that the appeal of Dobell’s
paintings to Sydney daily journalism is,
at least, not wholly artistic.
Sydney journalism is “sensational”; so
are some of Dobell’s paintings. Sydney
journalism, particularly the “Telegraph”
variety, influenced by “Time,” is addicted
to debunking and personal satire;
Dobell’s art is satirical and debunking.
By an absurd freak of circumstances
Sydney “Herald,” just at the time when
the literary world is excitedly “discover-
ing” Tom Collins, Lawson, Paterson* and
McCrae, is futilely endeavoring to wipe
out all the Australian painters of the last
generation and is interested only in
European art, or local imitations of it:
and, of 72 Dobell paintings whose “place”
can be located, 46 depict English and
European scenes. Sydney journalism is
desperately afraid of not being thought
up to date, “modern”: Dobell—though
not more so than any painter who works
freshly and vigorously in his own style—
may be claimed as “modern.”
This, however, should not be taken
as a catalogue of faults in Dobell’s
work. “Sensations” do not last long
as such; but power does. Satire has its
place in art as in letters. Gruner,
Streeton and Lambert all painted abroad ;
and, if one misses in Dobell’s work the
characteristic proud nationalism of Aus-
tralian painting, there is some touch of
appreciation of the carnival of Sydney
life; and, in the long run, art is not
bounded by geography. Nor, of course,
could one wish Dobell’s art to be hack-
neyed and conventional. It* is the extra-
vagance of the claims which are made
for him that calls for examination if a
falsification of values is not to become
widely accepted. And it appears that,
just as piety as well as art came into con-
sideration when Holman Hunt s pictures
were assessed, so journalism as well as
art is both within and around the paint-
ings of Dobell.
The Pre-Raphaelites and all that they
stood for are far enough away from con-
temporary Australia. Yet not so far as
might be imagined. Rossetti, a freakish
humorist until drugs got him down, had
an odd affection for the wombat. Hop-
ing to make his fortune on the goldfields
the sculptor Woolner came out to Aus-
tralia, and disliked it very much. Tenny-
son said he would have accompanied him,
“but for Mrs, T.” A more direct contact
might be detected in the paintings of
Arthur Murch; in the remote, mystical
and almost ecclesiastical quality of his
nudes. And, more directly still, des-
cendants of the Pre-Raphaelites are to be
found in the surrealists who bob up
among the “Angry Penguins”; for Gaunt
declares:
Pre-Raphaelitism was derided until, in the
last 10 years, there arose the new move-
ment called Surrealism. The avowed aim
of the Surrealist leader, Salvador Dali, has
been to “paint like a Pre-Raphaelite.’
The same smooth finish and precise detail,
was employed, though the later .“Pre-
Raphaelites” have usually delighted in in-
congruous and even monstrous assortments
of subject-matter... .The influence of Pre-
Raphaelitism has cropped out again, after
a lapse of time, in a movement similarly
reacting to contemporary events, though
in a more unbeautiful guise.
The Pre-Raphaelite Dream has come
the present commentator’s way a year
or two belatedly; after instead of before
The Aesthetic Adventure, Gaunt’s
memorable study of Cezanne, Van Gogh
and co. —minor painters, in Gaunt’s view,
who nevertheless effected a great freshen-
ing of the approach to painting, as did
Hopkins in English poetry. And that,
it may be, is the value of Dobell’s paint-
ing in Australia: a stimulus.
Mr. Penton exaggerates when —
“through 30 years the painter played on the
same theme”—-he epitomises the history
of Australian art as a constant repetition
of the bush theme, after Streeton; from
which Dobell leads “a flight from the
rural scene to the sophistication of a
great modem city.” Simultaneously with
the landscape movement there were the
fantasies of Blamire Young; Norman
Lindsay painted the carnival of life. It
can hardly be suggested that Longstaff
and Meldrum were painters of gum-trees;
and, after all, there was Lambert—a
portrait-painter quite as “modern,” quite
as sophisticated as Dobell, and superior
to Dobell in scale and output, his master
in technique. It should not be forgotten
that Dobell learned his trade at the same
school as Lambert, Julian Ashton’s; a ad
you have only to study Dobell’s use of
the pencil and the disposition of the
hands in his oil portraits to see the Lam-
bert influence.
Again, it is hardly correct to speak
of “a break with the jaded tradition of
Australian landscape,” as if a tradition
were a horse that could be ridden to
death. Australian landscape painting fell
away, broadly speaking, after Streeton
and Gruner because there were no more
painters landscape painters of the
same quality. It is possible that a painter
of that high quality, with his own in-
dividual approach, has arrived in Lance
Solomon. But whatever Solomon may
do, the landscape has not ceased to be
a legitimate subject for art: English
people had been living in cities for quite
a long while when Constable and Turner
painted.
There is a general impression that
Dobell is—or could be —a -sort 01
Hogarth of Sydney, satirically recording
the carnival of cafe and street. Simple
arithmetic is necessary once more to
correct the generosity born of wisatm
thinking: for of this type of painting,
among pictures reasonably likely to be
Australian, the present commentator can
find but four: “Woman in Hamburger,
“Woman in Restaurant,” “Woman m
Cafd” and “Chez Walter”—three fat
ladies and one large gentleman. Possibly
there are others. There are not many.
Only by taking in the London scenes, as
is reasonable, can one genuinely icel
hopeful for Dobell as a painter of carni-
val. .... u
It is, of course, the wish for these
things—vital portraiture, and the carnival
of city life—that, beyond anything else,
has occasioned the overestimation oi
Dobell. The wish for a kmd of art the
exact opposite of that of the Pre-
Raphaelites, which Gaunt summarises as
“a beautiful escape” from the ugliness or
Victorian industrial life. Gaunt is too
wise a critic to condemn an escape
or to imagine that any one way m ait
is the only way. Everyone woifld like
to see Sydney painted more, and more
written'about; but, looking through to
reproductions in The' Pre-Raphcxlue
Dream—the unearthly beautiful Beam
Beatrix” of Rossetti, the exquisite
“Ophelia” of Millais—one is reminded,
appropriately, that beyond the Roman
virtues of realism and comedy there still
live, undefeated, the Greek ideals of
imagination and beauty. Rossetti, both
literally and figuratively was a poet as
well as a painter; Dobell s art looks, b\
comparison, like a , work of prose*
humorous, powerful, limited.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
msm
iV
Built for long life and hard wear, these
saddles are all that is required to give
comfort to the experienced or inex-
perienced rider. Combined with then*
sturdy good looks is the superior work-
manship which you will find in all
goods purchased from “The Senior
Store.”
• Saddlery Dept.—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
High Grade Riding Saddles. Built on Fouright
Steel Plated Tree, selected Kip Leather, best
workmanship. Type, Stock, Kemp or Poley.
Park, with Serpentine or English Knee Pads,
Polo Saddles, with False Knee Pads (illustrated).
All saddles mounted with Girth, and Surcingle,
Stirrup Leathers and Stirrup Irons. Price,
each £l6/16/-
Bridles. 1 in. Barcoo Bridles 24/6
N.P. Braddon Bits
3/6
Jfl
sapac
oa
First Grades Tennis Nets, 42 ft.
x 2ift. Double Top, steel
wire cord, heavy quality
white duck head line. Price,
each 81/6
The Ace Tennis Court Marker,
for grass or hard court. This
is perfectly reliable, making
a good white line. Price,
each 39/6
Men's Attractive Leather Golf
Bag. 6in. round leather golf
bags with two pockets, one
large jacket pocket and ball
pocket with Triflex quick
fasteners. Price 65/3
Also in Canvas. Price, 44/9
• Sports Goods—Lower Ground Floor.
Pitt Street.
Saddlery, Sporting Goods and
Fishing Tackle delivered free
within our Delivery Area.
■
m
m
D
A. —Good, Quality Wood Brass
Star Back Reels with optional
check and line guard. 3£in. '6
4in 29/-
B. —High quality Wood Center-
Pin Reels, brass star back with
optional check. 3-i in 42/6
4in., 50/- sin., 60/-
C. —All-Metal Aluminium Reels,
strongly made for heavy fishing.
Size 4in., with optional check,
40/-; without check 35/-
D. Contracted Trout Reel.
Metal, light weight, 3|in.,_ with
line guard. Price 39/_
Not illustrated.
TYPHOON GUT ONES
Made of Silk Base
No. 15 only, Breaking Strain 30Jbs.
Lengths, yards 40 60 80
Prices 9/- 13/6 18/-
Lengths, yards 100 s 120
Prices 22/6 27/-
* Fishing Tackle — Tower. Ground
Floor, Pitt Street.
® Box 2712 C . . . G.P.0., Sydney
• 'Phone M 2401, Day and Night.


w
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Bu.i, entirely in Australia by
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
NMSEASG
the perfect comfort male
«uppon for everyman’i
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Mansease Uo., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
4
/■*
iV.S'
tilE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor ot as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
MUchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—OL. S. Parker. Secretary—E, R. Overton, A.P.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. 6YDN «E Y
PHONE:' BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney,
BP 4 4i.
Rich man
Poor man
Beggar man
Not now, but 10 or 15
years hence!
m
m
Maybe you’ll never be a truly rich man, but you
may to-day begin to provide Security for your
future. Security that will ensure that you will
be far from “Poor Man” or “Beggar Man” . .
Yes! The future is largely in your hands
To-day you may buy many luxuries that you
have sought for years; but the cost is doubly
high. High in initial prices, and high in the
sense that free spending to-day may easily lead
to inflation that will push prices higher and
higher and so destroy the value of your earnings
and your savings.
Avoid the urge to play the part of a “rich
man” to-day. Invest your savings in the Second
Security Loan and so ensure true security for
yourself and your family in the future.
Check the advantages of investing, and make out
your application now —to-day!
Here's what you do when you invest in the
Second Security Loan . . .
You insure your own future security.
You invest your money at better than bank
interest.
You guard against inflation.
You personally assist rehabilitation.
You help finance public works of national
importance.
To holders ot per cent. Commonwealth Inscribed
Stock or Treasury Bonds which mature on
ISth November next:
CONVERT . , N .
your holdings (exchange them for) equal
amounts in the Second Security Loan.
By doing so you will ...
1. Continue to draw better than bank interest
on your money.
2. Make the most effective counter you can
make, as an individual, against the threat
of inflation.
PACTS ABOUT THE £90.000.000
SECOND SECURITY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used to finance
continuing war commitments, important
national public works and the continued re-
babilitation of ex-service men and women.
2. Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and
£l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock, may be pur-
chased for cash or by instalments through
any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker. Interest is payable
each six months at 31% per annum lor 12
years or 2% per annum for 3 years.
3. Repayment in full maturity is guaran-
teed by the Commonwealth. Bonds and
Inscribed Stock are readily saleable to meet
an emergency.
4. On your application form credit your
subscription to your district to help its
quota.
Save joi Security -JnVest in the
SECOND SECURITY M
Divorce Notices.
sup S^2?l™2c E . kew sou ™
g^{fe < s£SBrt2?as™K
S ‘“-.. No MW «,««
gertion without J Q defend you may enter
and upwards . - h 2 oth day of December 1946
“/En a copy of the petition without charge
and obtain a Pf « MALCOMSON, Solicitors,
Street! sJdney.-Ct-s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
7k THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
AJN WALES— In Divorce.
cwartES ARCHIBALD LANKESTER late of
Ifhurv NS W.-Se NOTICE that IVY MAR-
tnRTE LANKESTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No 3429 of 1946 on the grounds of desertion with-
out iust Suse or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter an
arCIS at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
Street Sydney by the 18th day of November
?<uf and obtain a cop.V of the petition without charge
lom l B MOFFATT & SON, Solicitors, 104 Hunter
§4°-?“*■) c - K - BODY - w “"" m
Divorce.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wanted.
To buy Beyond the City Gates, by J. Moses.
3895
To buy Dictionary of Flowering Plants and
Ferns. —3896. _ .
To buy Betsy’s Napoleon, by Jeanette baton.
—3897.
Information Sought.
Method of silverplating metal surfaces with-
out electric current?
Mix seven parts silver chloride, 14 parts
cream of tartar, 21 parts sodium chloride, and
sufficient water to form a paste. Protect t
mixtuie front light to prevent the reduction
of the silver salt. For use, spread the paste
upon the surface of the metal and allow to
dry. few hours rinse with acidulated
water, then immerse in a solution of potassium
cyanide (very poisonous) and wash again. It
a heavier plating is required, repeat the process.
* * * '
Biographical details of Noel Coward ?
Born Teddington, England, on Dec. 16, 1899.
He was educated privately and made his hrst
stage appearance in 1910 at the Gaiety Theatre,
Manchester. He served in the army for two
years, and on his return to London again
'took up stage work, but soon concentrated on
writing. “The Rat Trap,” written when he
was 18, was his first play; 111 Leave It to
You,” produced in 1920 with the author m
the lead, was a failure. , “The Young
was his next play, followed by The Vortex
(1921), which had a very supcessful run. Thir-
teen plays, all more or less successful, preceded
“Cavalcade,” which appeared in 1931.
» * * *
Some facts about the Vandals?
They were a Germanic nation or confedera-
tion, probably allied to the Goths, who, at an
early period, occupied n.-e. Germany on the
south of the Baltic In 406 they crossed the
Rhine and spread through Gaul, thence; int
Spain, in which they established themseWes.
Ihey captured Seville and Carthagen ,
gave their name to Andalusia; then unoer
Genseric, crossed to Africa, where tjey vam
quished the Roman governor , an d e stab sneQ
a kingdom. Genseric revived the mant me
glories of Carthage conquered Sicily, Sardinia
and Corsica, invaded Italy, and in 4
Rome. He concluded a long reign m 477,
the kingdom being ««* bn “ ed . UB Thrasimund
scendants, Gundamund Ihrasimu
(496), Helderius (523) Si^mSor
Belisarius, general of the Eastern Emp
Justinian, overthrew Gelimer in
* * * *
What are the residential qualifications foi
cricketers in Test cricket? ,
Here are the Imperial Cricket Conference
rules on the question;—Rule 2 . A cricket
can be qualified to play m a Test match either
bv birth or by residence, viz.. (a) vuau
fication by birth: A cricketer, unless. debarred
i-iv (hi=> ](T is always eligible to play tor me
S»X if hit birth. y (b) Qualification by 18.-
Hence • A cricketer, unless debarred by the
IC C. shall be entitled to play for the country
in which he is residing and has been residing
during the four immediately-preceding years,
provided that he has not played f°r the counjry
of his birth during that period. (c) Notwdh
standing anything hereinbefore contamed^any
niaver who has once played in a lest maren
for any country shall not afterwards be
to play in a Test match against that country
without the consent of its Board of Con r
* * * *
What was the sumptuary law?
A law made by Edward HI m 1364 which
fnrhade nersons whose income did not exceea
400 marks yearly to wear garments embroidered
all P“ s »" s bel r
Of knighthood or of less income than £2OO a
year were prohibited from, wearmg embroidered
garments ot an, sort. This tow M intol.susc
during the next reign, that of Richard it,
it was revived in certain forms by Henry Vlll.
* * * . „
What was Turner’s “Liber Studiorum ?
Turner started ,to compile a Book of engrav-
ings from his pictures which he E^shed at
a subscription price of EH/Os were
was very unsuccessful. Only 70 P lat£ s we ‘*
published. With Turner’s rise to fame the
book gradually, rose in value, so that befo
he died the price reached 30 guineas, and
1914 a single copy bought £3WU. #
Bo gerberas benefit by artificial fertilisers?
Don’t use strong, burning, artificial manures.
A little superphosphate mixed into the soi
about She base of the plants has a benertcafi
effect- but, where procurable, it is better to
use rotted cow manure. Agricultural toe i
also an excellent tonic, and keeps snails and
slugs from destroying the buds, which come
from the base of the clumps.
Brief Answers.
Perplexed: That co.’s paid capital is
£175 000 in 600,000 ordinary shares of ss. each
and 25.000 8 p.c cumulative preference
of £1 each Frefs. are entitled to 8 p.c. eacn
year whether earned or not; the bal a^ e C J
any profit belongs to the ords. Three hundred
ord. shares at 13s. 9d would, on 10 p.c. div.
basis, return buyer £7 10s. m cash, or 3.6 P- •
on purchase money. Cos. paid a 15.1 p.c. oi .
last term .L.F.K.; If the concrete wall has
not previously been painted, it would first have
to be sealed with a coat of cement-sealer, the
“good quality of prepared pamt apPUoa °vor
the sealing coat A.J.T.. t,ei-iaie is
collective noun applied to young migrating eeb,
but know of no special term foi the adu
eels which are geneially not gregarious fishes.
RMcL.: Contact Goldberg Advertising
Ptv’ Ltd., Hamilton-street, Sydney....U.b..
When racing the horse is reierred to as an
entire while stallion is the name used when
ft is senfto the stud.... A.R.F.; The Australian
typewriting record is 1.07 w.p.m., typing I
10 minutes from unfamiliar matter.... l.u.fc..
Know of no agents in Australia; direct
witn local editors is preferable.. • •CJ.H . Con
tact anv of the shipping firms that run ships
on thm line... .Interested i It is . canvas ,rf
a nude white woman... .K.U.F.. The author!y
that covers such matters is the .N.S.W. Hos
pital Nurses (State) Award, which contains
clause about fares other than the one that
specifies travelling expenses for nursing trainees
travelling from one centre to another for the
Nurses Registration Board s ex ammaUO .
Hospitals advertising for nursing stall frequent y
stipulate certain conditions about fares that are
purely private arrangements... .G.I.R. .
Cooktown (Q.) has a population of 375 (2)
There are three general stores, one hardware
SS one chemist shop, one fancy-goods. and
newsagency, but there is no municipal water
or electricity supply. (3) It 15 9 as
rent a house in good repair (4) No road has
been opened from Maieeba. (5) It may
reached P by car from Chillagoe to Laura ’ die ?u®
bv rail but it- is a difficult journey. (6)
rfimate is excellent. Average winter readings
Se from 55 deg. to 70 deg while average
summer readings vary from 75 deg. to 95 dwg.
The local sub-branch ot the K.s.i-.. nas
g own premises; W. C, H Hodges is the
nresident and T. Ryan is the secretary.. • ■
A F : The title of the Streeton is given in the
NSW. National Art Gallery Souvenir Cata
losue 1945, as “The Purple Noon s Trans-
parent Might (1896).” The patnung ,s owned
by the Victorian National Gallery.


A Good Double!
HEARTS OF OAK”: 2/6 ( post free)
BIRTH OF A NAVY”: 2,6 (*»**«)
Both illustrated and of great in-
terest to R.A.N. fellows and those
naval-minded. (Thanks are due to
those who persisted with the idea
of Australia having her own Navy.)
PATERSONS PRESS. LTD.
65 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
Personal.
GLADYS AMY MARY AGNES FARNSWORTH and
FREDERICK JOHN OLIVER.—Any person know-
ing of the present or past whereabouts of Gladys
Amy Mary Agnes Farnsworth (formerly Oliver) or
Frederick John Oliver is requested kindly to com-
municate with MESSRS. NICHOLL & HICKS, Solici-
tors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Missing Friends.
MILLER. —Would Adam Miller, last heard from at
Masterton, but previously living at Christchurch and
Banks Peninsula, N.Z., his children, or anyone
knowing his or their present address, kindly com-
municate with DAVID MILLER, Centre Street,
Casino, N.S.W. ?
TO CONSTANCE GOUGH formerly of 18 Canter-
bury Street Newmarket but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your husband JAMES ROBERT
GOUGH has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of wilful desertion for three
years and upwards Unless you enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne by the Second day of December
One thousand nine hundred and forty-six and file
an answer in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne by the Twelfth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and forty-six
the case may proceed in your absence. —SLATER &
GORDON, of 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
hues nil Siam
r
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
mvmmui
insulation with
Write for full facts and
particulars to-day. They
'(/ill be freely given.
ẃ
® / .
fnsuJxmon,
PTY.
LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins Street. Melbourne; Shell House,
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St.. Perth,
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington. Palmerston N.. Christchurch, Dunedin.
.*BOl
Sl»
i
u
so,
&
J
V
V
o
o »
r
4
&
IP&J
3s
m
u
i
\
\r
-r
ez)
Every party starts off in the right spirit when you serve cocktails
and long drinks mixed with Gilbeys. Gilbeys quality never varies—
it’s flavour never changes. You’ll find Gilbeys in all good company
—wherever good friends meet.
ẅ
c~
c
r>l
THE STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED!
GL. N3O
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
ŵ
J.F.S.: Not different enough from any
other poem about sunset R.P.T.: “No mat-
ter where I roam I always finish up home.”
So will your poem.... H.N.; Love does some
terrible things to mankind, but few as terrible
as that sonnet G.B.R.; Reduce her by
several stanzas and try her on a woman’s
paper... .L.McN.: There’s a bait laid on the
stairs for that old blue cattledog.. .-J.D.:
Dam” dry... .K.V.E.: If you really arp see-
ing Druids under the gum-trees you’d belter
see a doctor... .G.S.: The only thing that’s
clear about it is that it’s written in indelible
pencil on grimy tissue-paper H.Y.: “Thou
vast pink incoherence of the sky, What meanest
thou where fields of amaranth lie?” Well, what
meaneth it?... .B.O’G.: Tennyson and water.
....F.R.; “If that’s really what you thought
of my ode I shall call and explain in person.”
Oh, no, you won’t... .T.R.Y,: Out first ball.
B.E.: “Ungainly” is G.L.: Black-
tracker who talks like an A.B.C. announcer
now tracing his way home to his lubra by the
creek... .M.N.: Too many characters, words,
stereotyped situations and cliches B.M.:
The “Leader of the Band” was drummed out
of the office... .J.R.S.: Your bank robbers
have stepped out of the pages of an American
pulp magazine... .H.P.J.: Twelve pages all
hb'out an uneventful motor drive set us reckon-
ing how long the MS. would have been if
you had walked the distance W.O’G.: When
a doctor, lawyer, professor and naval officer
retire to the smoking-room of their club we
realise that another long and tedious yarn is
about to begin....C.M.J.: A lengthy and
rambling effort that never seems to get any-
where. .. .P.W.; It made a poor start and
moved jerkily to a lame finish... .S.D.:
“Tossed Overboard” was an apt title
P-T.F.: Halfway through we tipped that
the last line would read: “With a sigh
of despair, Murray swung his pick into the
hard ground, and there, exposed to his un-
believing eyes, he saw a nugget of gold as
large as his handsome head” W.B.H.: Only
difference between your story of a “storm in
a tea-cup” and others of its kind is that the
females in your yarn prefer lemon to milk.
....K.G.S.: All missed badly S.P.: Laugh-
mg, brown-skinned girls with garlands and
truly picturesque scenes” well and truly
stereotyped....A.N.C.: The medical improba-
bilities in “Interne’s Diary” rival the average
Hollywood outburst B.V.: Another tale of
chloroform: highlight when “Sister Shaw,
violet eyes troubled, held the glass of water
to Rupert’s mouth the air was electric
was he conscious?” If he wasn’t he would
drown J.J.: “Runaway” last seen bolting
for the post-office C.O’H.: The Wrongs of
Ireland have been better described
t Trite.. . .S.McD.: Leave “Murrumbidgee
Whaler to doze in peace... .J.H.D.: Tricks
of style, even when successful, don’t com-
pensate for lack pf story... .R.K.; Brighten
k, lighten it, lop it relentlessly, and it might
do tor a woman’s paper... .K.K.: Unable
to confirm your prophecy of “barbed wit-
ticisms” “Shop Girl” too dull even to pro-
voke ridicule P.B.: “What can I do to
become successful?” Wide and selective read-
ing might help, observation essential; but the
surest way would be stern self-control when
tempted to write worn-out yarns prickly with
cliches N.M.: Tears and treacle J.B.Z.:
Dull D.Y.: Too many characters B.M.:
‘Eileen —little Eileen—our Eileen,” faltered
“Cully.” “Is she here?” She wasn’t. And in
neither is the broken-hearted gaol-bird, his
erring and repentant wife or any of the other
stock characters G.L.U.: “Blue Carruthers,”
who usurps most of the conversation, and who
is so profane whole passages are largely dashes,
makes mysterious but difficult reading P A •
Chop the adjectives K.McK.: Not bad’for
a first attempt, but avoid outlandish subjects.
JO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
, M.D.: Sketch domino players drew a
double blank....G.C.: Did you draw it with
a wharflaborer’s hook? B.R.: No parking
space in our pages for the sozzled motorist.
....R.J.A.: The jest was in circulation about
the time of the first gold-rush M.W.C.:
Those dwarfs should never have been allowed
to stray from home... .A.H.; Head studies
illustrating four-decker gags have long gone
out of fashion....B.C.: You’ll find it a hard
job getting rid of your bearded lady.. ESP-
Charlady doing fan-dance with a feather-duster
was hustled to the basket J.P.S.: From
what ancient book of jokes was that hoary
gag resurrected? : The nag was not
even a starter A.D.: Aren’t' you a trifle
late with that Federal election sketch?
R.F.: Offer to supply humorous drawings in
the form of jig-saw puzzles was declined
D. : Similar fate befell your “Illustrated
Cup Certainties” W.L.A.; Key-under-the-
mat gag is from the “New Yorker”; the other,
we suspect, is a stray from London “Punch.”
. ...S.H.: Lessons needed; also a sense of
humor G.R.T.: Drawing is crude and the
situation is not amusing A.W.D.: Thos.
E. Spencer used the same idea in a poem,
“How M’Dougall Topped the Score” S.J.S.:
Your “Parlor Pink” and “Social Butterfly”
now exchanging confidences in the w.p.b
K.W.; Penwork better than brushwork, but
neither up to the mark C.0’8.: This week’s
worst.
ẁ


Hallowed
I
I)
J
v.
r»
$
ft
&ifsk
■■ .'-•
IN HISTORY
Many thousands, crossing the Hunter, Castlereagh
and Bligh Streets intersection, little realise how
steeped it is in historical tradition. Actually, this
was the site of Australia’s first church and school-
house, constructed in 1793, “of posts, wattle and
plaster with a thatched roof,” the cost being
£67 12s. which included 20igals. of spirits
at 10s. a gallon—rum was currency in those days.
The first service was held on Sunday, 25th August,
1793, by the Reverend Richard Johnson, who also
taught the scholars their ABC. However, the
church’s history was short lived on Ist October,
1798, it was demolished by fire in a few hours.
From these mythical ashes the towering structure
of the Metropolitan Life has arisen—embracing as
it does the spirit of the pioneers in the greatest good
for the greatest numbers .
Over its jubilee of progress the Metropolitan has
extended security through thrift and will continue
to give service and protection in the years to come .
TODAY’S
PROTECTION
All AN
A U 5
ASS URAN Cl COMPANY IT'D
HUNTER. AND BLIG-tt STREETS. SYDNEY*
(Inc. 1895
Queensland.)
TOMORROW’S
SECURITY
DIRECTORS:
W. A. H. ALL WORTH (Chairman), D. F. STEWART, COL. ALFRED SPAIN, J. A. HENDERSON.
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON.
Asst. General Manager and Actuary
W. J. COOKSEY. F.F.A.
Secretary:
GEORGE LESLIE, F.A.I.S.
Branch Offices: QUEENSLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Illustration drawn from references supplied by th4\ courtesy of Australia^
VICTORIA
Historical Society.


MR. CAPE IN THE JUNGLE
By
CECIL MANN
THE noises of the jungle came up to
Mr. Cape from the street below.
They rose up the wall of the canyon,
poured in over the windowsill and
flowed across to where he sat checking
Miss Johnson’s figures on the two open
pages of the ledger,
A flood of music to Mr. Cape, Ho
had had to shift from where he had
lived in Kirribilli because the confounded
twittering of the birds used to wake him
early in the morning. Mr. Cape pre-
ferred the jungle. He lived in one room
in a hotel looped round by a tramline, and
the grinding and roaring of the trams in
the night, flowing up the walls and into
the room, gave him security and lulled
him to sleep. Fifty-five years of famil-
iarity, Mr. Cape had found, breeds con-
tent.
Indeed by now the noise of the jungle
made an unheard music. He heard it
only when a' business trip or a game of
bowls on one of the greens far up the
North Shore line or in Mosman’s quiet
took him for the time away from it. In
his office above Bridge-street the orches-
tral roar of its taxis, newsboys, buses,
trams and the dull undertone of dragging
bootsoles on the pavement passed into
him with the air he breathed rather than
through his ears. These detected only the
occasional foreign sounds: fire-engines
screaming through the canyon ; the rum-
ti-tum of periodical processions, and the
like discords.
Checking over Miss Johnson’s meti-
culously even figures, he could hear some
sort of discord now. It rose in a persis-
tent cry which he could not exactly dis-
tinguish. Its regular repetition irritated
him. For a while he, tried not to hear
it; then he got up angrily and rushed
over to the window.
Craning his dark, round head out,
looking down, he heard the sound clearly.
It came up thickly in a bar-room bari-
tone; “Ber-narners fourteen fr sixpence.
Ber-narners ”
Mr. Cape sighted the barrowman
planted from the view of the jungle
patrollers between two of the cars parked
along the street. The barrow was an
oblong of yellow on the dark floor of
the canyon. The discordant cry, ruinous
to the jungle music, kept rising in its
unfinished stanzas: “Ber-narners fourteen
fT sixpence. Ber-narners...,”
Mr. Cape took a stone out of his mind
and threw it with the accuracy of im-
potent anger. It hit the hard skull below
and bounced off, and the cry still came
up: “Ber-narners
Mr. Cape crossed on the carpet and
sat down again. The hairy backs of his
hands spread out pressing the red maple
hard on each side of the ledger. Then,
quicker than it had risen, his rage de-
parted. A grin curled at the end of his
thick lips and puckered up his eyes. He
leaned back in his swivel chair, looking
at the ceiling and thinking of Miss John-
son. His thought was highly complimen-
tary to her, though she might have
thought no better of it than she had of
the physical approach which occasioned
it.
“I’d hardly taken my hat off,” she
said to her friend Josie. “The old
stinker’s old enough to be my grand-
father.”
“The older they are,” said Josie, out
of the wisdom of sixteen and a half
summers, “the harder they fall.”
Josie thought May a bit starchy. She
mentally noted the address in Bridge-
street, just, in case.
Mr. Cape thought
even more hardly
of Miss Johnson. But
his thought made
him chuckle. He
took a handful of
change from his
pocket and picked
out a sixpence.
Then he pressed the
white bell-button on
the red maple.
The door opened,
and there was Miss
Johnson, with her
pencil and notebook. “You rang for me,
Mr. Cape?”
“/ rang for you?” said Mr. Cape. “Of
course I didn’t ring for you. It went off
by accident.” As she turned to go, he
said, “Oh, just a minute.”
Miss Johnson, standing tall and slender
above him, kept her lips pressed tight.
“Be funny, you silly old goat,” said her
furious thought.
Quite a wrong classification. Mr. Cape
had no billygoat beard on his nuggety
chin. No curling horns sprouted from
his head. Old . . . perhaps, yes. In com-
parison with Miss Johnson, certainly old.
On the blossomy side of twenty, Miss
Johnson. A graceful blossom, too. Deli-
cate pink and white. White hands and
pink fingernails. Clear brown eyes, with
moth lashes fluttering on them. A lass
with a delicate air. She looked as if she
lived among orchids in a hothouse.
“Flamingo,” thought Mr. Cape. “Too
aristocratic for words.”
He reached over the table and put six-
pence in the rose-petal palm of her hand.
“A man down ip the street’s selling
fourteen bananas for sixpence,” said Mr.
Cape, “Go down and get me fourteen.”
Miss Johnson turned and swept to the
door. It banged slightly after her.
“And you!” said Mr. Cape.
L_J E reached a long arm and hairy hand
I * across to the end of the red maple,
rolling one of his set of bowls towards
him. He had brought it in for a measure-
ment check ; doubt had been cast on its
size in Saturday’s game. Of course,
nothing wrong with the measurement.
What would a Giraffe know about it,
anyhow? No; Giraffe too good for
grunting Hendry. Gnu was more like it.
Couldn’t play for nuts, anyway.
Carrying the weighty bowl, Mr. Cape
went back to the window. When he saw
the Flamingo step out on to the floor
of the canyon he crossed quickly to the
door, took his hat from the hook near
it, and kept on out to the lift.
As he stepped out into the walled
jungle he saw the Flamingo along at the
barrow. “Too aristocratic to be buying
a zac’s worth of bananas,” thought Mr.
Cape,* in triumph.
On his way to the game at Mosman,
he made up the footpath towards George-
street, swinging the black bowl in his
hairy right hand to make the rushing
jungle animals shy off him. He went at
a half-trot with his head bobbing and
his sloped shoulders dodging from side
to side. He had a grin, thinking of how
dancing mad the Flamingo would be
when she got back with the sixpence
worth of bananas and found he’d gone.
“They’d be rotten, too,” Mr. Cape
thought happily. It put him in gre r d
good humor. The sound of all the jungle
about him was a joy to feel.
Going on towards Wynyard station
he was delighted to catch sight of the
snooty miss who now brought morning
tea to his room. There was no mistaking
her. She was standing outside the Euston
Hotel harnessed to a brewery waggon.
Going closer to her than she had affected
to like, he said lovingly, “Hullo, Millie,
my dear; you’re looking sweeter than
ever.”
The horse made no reply. It went on
gazing moodily up the George-street can-
yon. Shifting its weight from its near to
its off legs, it leaned against the one along-
side it. Perhaps because the mirage of
green grass away along the walled canyon
beyond the G.P.O. was too overbearing,
or it may have been because there was
no mirage of green grass, the big head
drooped down in nodding jerks. A film
came over its dull eyes. As Mr. Cape
moved on, it was drowsing, as if being
called Millie by a total stranger meant
nothing in its life at all.
More pleased with the jungle than ever,
Mr. Cape crossed the canyon to the pave-
ment on the other side. There he stood
for a while looking in the window of Jim
Tyrrell’s bookshop. Books, as books,
were bricks and blocks of wood. But,
next to playing bowls, Mr. Cape liked
watching cricket; and here was a win-
dowful of it Open illustrated books; a
long framed picture of a match in Hyde
Park back in Sydney’s beginnings ; photo-
graphs of Mr. Hobbs, Mr. Jardine, Mr.
Hammond, Mr. Bradman, Mr, Ryder,
Mr. McCabe. A whole menagerie, from
weasels to wombats. Mr. Cape especi-
ally did not like Mr. Jardine. It brought
back Adelaide. Bodyline. He tried to
think of the name of those things at
Taronga that poke out their necks and
spit.
Mr. Hammond .. . lion. Mr. Ryder
.. .wallaby. Also, ferrets and frogs. *
From this zoological classifying Mr.
Cape went along the crowded pathway
of the canyon. He turned to his right
to enter the sloping Wynyard caverns,
A Commonwealth Minister, putting an
oar in for one of his colleagues in Mr.
Cape’s line of business, had all-but
scotched one of Mr. Cape’s most profit-
able transactions. There was the Min-
ister, as usual, squatted on top of the
other potatoes in the greengrocer’s shop.
In the fishshop a few steps further
down, Mr. Bing Crosby was lying on a
block of ice labelled “Fresh Murray Cod,
2/3 lb.” Mr. Sinatra, his mouth open for
singing, was lying scattered about on the
white tiles without ■ either ice or adjec-
tives: “Mullet, lOd.”
Mr. Cape continued down through the
caverns, and on up the steps to the trams.
Waiting on the seat there, he thought
back to the Flamingo, and beyond. Most
happily he thought of the grip he’d got
on the Tiger. Nothing violent. No heat.
Slow. Cold. A throttle that dried up the
flow of supplies to the Tigers—H. J.
Head and Co.’s —suburban and country
chain stores. Now Mr Cape’s suburban
and country chain stores, and the flow
again a flood. Now Mr. Cape owned a
three-storey mansion on as many acres
at Wahroonga and a £5OOO yacht he didn’t
want moored out in the bay near Vau-
cluse. And now the Tiger had none of
these things any more. Now the Tiger
was a spectacled, spavined Mule, hob-
bling along on his right level in the
jungle.
The Tiger hadn’t taken it at all well.
Abusive, he had threatened Mr. Cape
with the law. “K.Cs. are costly,” said
Mr. Cape ; “and they like it on the nail.”
The Tiger called him hard. Hard?
How else did you live in the jungle? Even
the Flamingo knew that much. He still
had expectations of Millie.
Mr. Cape saw the Stork come up to
the top of the steps leading the lively
little Koala by the
hand. Too old, he
considered, to be the
little fellow’s mother.
Maiden aunt. She
wore a long-skirted
grey costume. A
pair of rimless
glasses clung on her
long nose.
Mr. Cape judged
the Koala to be
about four. A
charming little fel-
low ; instantly in-
stalled in Mr. Cape’s sentimental affec-
tions. Dressed in a tight little brown
knitted suit that went on down his slightly
bandy legs to his shoes, like stockings,
and up over his head like a rounded
hood. Only eyes, nose and mputh show-
ing in a shining circle, and little fists on
the ends of the tight sleeves. He was
shifting from one foot to the other; gaz-
ing about at everything going on in the
cavern,
THE tram came up the track from its
pit at the far end of the cavern. The
Stork and the Koala climbed into it, and
Mr. Cape followed on their heels. A bit
too literally. The Stork felt the toe of
his boot just above her shoe. She felt
the hole made in her stocking and the
ladder running up.
She sat down in a furious temper and
gazed malevolently at Mr, Cape. He
didn’t notice, having his eyes fixed
benevolently on the Koala opposite him.
The Stork sat stiffly at attention, welling
with the bitterness of her laddered stock-
ing.
The Koala took Mr. Cape by surprise:
he winked at hirp, Mr. Cape winked
back.
“Now be a good boy and don’t be
rude,” said the Stork sharply, without
looking. Apparently she knew her Koala,
Others got into the compartment, filling
both the seats. The Koala looked studi-
ously at the round black bowl in Mr.
Cape’s lap. Mr. Cape lifted it with both
hairy hands and held it out to the Koala,
who put a little paw on it. The Stork sat
grimly at attention.
“It’s heavy, isn’t it?” coaxed Mr. Cape.
The Koala looked up at him and pulled
his paw away without answering.
“Can’t talk,” thought Mr. Cape, still
smiling and winking.
A whistle shrilled on the platform, and
the tram bounded forward, winding and
swaying in a welter of jungle noise
through the dark tunnel. It broke
through into the daylight on the Bridge,
the jungle noise changing but remaining
loud. The Koala flattened his nose on
the window and watched the bolted
framework of the Bridge racing past.
With a grind of wheels on the rails the
tram pulled up at Milson’s Point plat-
form. Then it plunged on again, twist-
ing and turning on the loops till it got
on to the solid ground of North Sydney.
As it began climbing the hill the noise
eased down, A Kangaroo in the corner
with the 29th Battalion color patch on
his hat asked the girl opposite him how
many stops to Cremorne Junction. The
girl told him she didn’t go that far, and
looked out the window. The Kangaroo
rolled his defeat up in a cigarette paper
and lit it with a pocket flamethrower.
The Koala looked back from them to
Mr. Cape. He looked alternately at the
round black bowl in Mr. Cape’s lap and
up at Mr. Cape’s face as the tram
climbed steadily up Miller-street and
along past the oval and the park. Tired
silence filled the compartment. The
Koala shattered it, electrically.
“Mummie!” (so she was his mother,
and he could talk!). He looked up at
her and back at Mr. Cape. “Mummie,”
he repeated in a high piping voice, look-
ing straight at Mr. Cape, “hasn’t that
man got a face like a shovel?”
(Continued on page 32.)
In a Suburb.
What dreams can you dream behind your
blind front windows?
Can you play any games on your geo-
metrical lawns ?
Your suburb is all spread out like a
monstrous chessboard —
No King, no Queen, but countless
obedient pawns.
If there is a Knight at all in these rigid
streets
Perhaps he’s this man in a milkman’s
drab disguise.
Who at least must sit on a cart behind
his horse
And see the adventure in the morning
skies.
Here is the tram stop, there the railway
station;
You can easily find them if you follow
your noses
Out the front door, along the concrete
path,
All of you mincing between the standard
roses.
Well, I wish you the luck of your little
liberty;
Green letterbox, door bell, tricycle on the
drive.
It’s a fine unfettered death you have, dear
people ;
How odd if you ever discover that you’re
alive.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
SI- 11 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
m
m cm i
(iji iIM " i ||[
I
The“ ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
With
Gap
Bed
w
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST.. VALLEY. BRISBANE
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy
are rigidly observed in the building of
all “MARS” Lathes. In addition, all
necessary revolving parts are DYNAMI-
CALLY BALANCED and Gear Teeth are
Generated. Hence the smooth vibra-
tionless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadserew in all “Mars” Lathes Is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distributing Agents:
N.S.W.: Thpmas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Vie.: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.J,
343 A Sydney Road, Brunswick.
Queensland: Intercolonial Boring Co.,
Ltd., 450 Ann Street, ..
W.A.: Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth.
New Zealand: Motor Specialities, Ltd.,
Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches
throng! out the Dominion.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders ,
Workers' Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NUREMBERG ON THE INDIVIDUAL ACCUSED.
Following the general judgment the
Tribunal dealt with the sentences and
findings against the individuals charged
before the Court. “Up to the last, said
the London “Times,” “it was hoped that
the full unanimity of the Tribunal, voiced
so strongly in judgment on the general
issue, would be maintained, but the last
word of the Nuremberg trial was an
announcement by the President that the
Soviet member desired to record his dis-
sent from the Tribunal’s decisions in the
cases of Schacht, Papen and Fritsche.
General Nikitchenko was of the opinion
that they should have been convicted.
He also dissented from the decisions with
respect to the Reich Cabinet and the
High Command, being of the opinion
that they should have been declared to
be criminal organisations. He further
dissented from the sentence on Hess,
which he held should have been death
and not life imprisonment. This dissent-
ing opinion will be put into writing and
annexed to the judgment.”
Sentences and findings were:
Hermann Wilhelm Goring, 52,
former chief of the Luftwaffe and suc-
cessor-designate to Hitler, guilty on all
four counts: Death.
“The evidence shows that after Hitler he was
the most prominent man in the Nazi regime,
and had tremendous influence with Hitler, at
least until 1943, when their relationship de-
teriorated. Hitler kept him informed of all
military and political problems.
“As Hitler’s political deputy he was largely
instrumental in bringing the National Socialists
to power, and was charged with consolidating
and expanding the German armed might. He
developed the Gestapo and created the first
concentration camps. In 1936 he became
plenipotentiary for the four-year plan and in
theory and in practice, was the economic dic-
tator of the Reich. In the Austrian Anschluss
he was indeed the central figure_ —the ringleader.
He commanded the Luftwaffe in the attack on
Poland and throughout the aggressive wars.
After his admission to this Tribunal, from the
positions which he held, the conferences he
attended, and the public words he uttered, there
can be no doubt that Goring was the moving
force for aggressive war, second only to Hitler.
Goring persecuted the Jews not only in Ger-
many but in the conquered territories as well.
There is nothing to be said in mitigation.
Goring was often in deed, and almost always
in words and thoughts, second only to his
leader. His guilt is unique in its enormity.”
Joachim von Ribbentrop, 53, Hitler’s
Foreign Minister, guilty on all four
counts: Death.
“Ribbentrop participated in the wretched
plans against Czechoslovakia. He played a
particularly significant role in diplomatic
activity which led up to the attack on Poland.
He took part in talks on Danzig and the
Polish Corridor with the British Ambassador.
The way in which he carried out these dis-
cussions makes it clear that he did not intend
to reach a settlement of the difficulties between
Germany and Poland. Ribbentrop was advised
of the attack on Norway and Denmark and
of the attack on the Low Countries. He pre-
pared the official Foreign Office memoranda
attempting to justify the action. He consulted
with Rosenberg on preliminary planning of the
political exploitation of Soviet territory, and
in July, 1941, after the outbreak of war, urged
Japan to attack the Soviet. Ribbentrop par-
ticipated in a meeting on June 6, 1944, in
which if was agreed to start a programme
under which Allied aviators carrying put
machine-gun attacks on the civilian population
should be lynched. In December, 1944, Rib-
bentrop was informed of a plan to murder
one of the French generals held as a prisoner-
of-war, and directed his subordinates to see
that the details were worked out in such a way
as to prevent inspection by the protecting
Powers.
“Ribbentrop is also responsible for crimes
against humanity because of his activities
with respect to occupied, countries and Axis
satellites. He played an important part in
Hitler’s final solution of the Jewish question.
Ribbentrop’s defence to these charges is that
Hitler made all the important decisions, and
that he was such a great admirer and faithful fol-
lower of Hitler that he never questioned Hitler’s
repeated assertions that he wanted peace, or the
truth of the reasons that Hitler gave in ex-
plaining aggressive action. The Tribunal does
not consider this explanation to be true. Rib-
bentrop participated in all the Nazi aggres-
sions. His diplomatic effect was so closely
connected with the war that he could never
have been unaware of the aggressive nature
of Hitler’s action. There is abundant evidence,
moreover* that Ribbentrop was in complete
sympathy with all the main tenets of the
National Socialist' creed. His collaboration
with Hitler, and his intention in the commission
of crimes against peace, war crimes and crimes
against humanity were wholehearted. It was
because Hitler’s policy and plans coincided
with his own ideas that Ribbentrop served
him so willingly to the end.”
Wilhelm Keitel, 63, former chief of
the, German High Command, guilty on
all four counts: Death.
“After Munich; Keitel initialled Hitler’s
directive for the attack on Czechoslovakia.
Keitel was present on May 23, 1939, when
Hitler announced his decision to attack Poland.
The Norway plan was proposed under Keitel’s
direct and personal guidance. Hitler had said
he would ignore the neutrality of Belgium and
the Netherlands, and Keitel signed orders for
these attacks. In August, 1942, Keitel issued
a directive that paratroopers would be turned
over to the S.A. In September, 1941, Keitel
ordered that attacks on soldiers in the East
should be met by butchering 50 to 100 Com-
munists for one German soldier. He made
the comment that human life was next to
nothing in the East. In December, 1941, a
decree was issued over Keitel’s signature de-
ciding that in occupied countries civilians who
had been accused of crimes of resistance would
be tried only if a death sentence was likely.
Otherwise they would be handed to the
Gestapo for transportation to Germany. For
defence he relies on the fact that he was a
soldier and acted under superior orders.
Superior orders given to a soldier cannot be
considered in mitigation where crimes so ex-
tensive have been committed casually, ruthlessly,
and without any military excuse or justification,”
Alfred Jodl, 56, Nazi Chief-of-Staff,
guilty on all four counts: Death.
“Jodi was the arch-planner of the war and
responsible in large measure for the conduct
of operations. He was active on the planning
against Greece and Yugoslavia and took part
in all the conferences preceding the invasion
of Russia. Jodi also sighed the order to shoot
commandos and prisoners-of-war, the first
draft of which was drawn up by his staff. There
is little evidence that Jodi was actively con-
nected with the slave-labor programme.”
Alfred Rosenberg, 53, head of the
Nazi ideology department and former
Minister for occupied eastern territories,
guilty on all four counts: Death.
“Rosenberg was head of an organisation
whose agents were active in Nazi, intrigues
in all parts of the world. He had knowledge
of the brutal treatment and terror to which
the people of eastern Europe were subjected.
Wilhelm Frick, 69, former Protector
of Bohemia-Moravia hnd Minister of the
Interior, guilty on counts two, three and
four: Death.
“Frick, an ambitious Nazi, was largely re-
sponsible for bringing the German nation under
the complete control of the National Socialist
party. He was also in large part responsible
for legislation t'o suppress the trade unions,
the press, and the Jews. Frick was not a
member of the conspiracy to wage aggressive
war, but he knew of atrocities that were com-
mitted in the camps. With knowledge of
Himmler’s methods, Frick signed decrees
authorising him to take security measures in
certain of the incorporated territories. ’
Arthur Seyss-Inquart, 54, Governor
of Austria and Commissioner for Occu-
pied Holland, guilty on counts two, three
and four; Death.
“Seyss-Inquart participated in the last stages
of the intrigue which preceded the occupation
of Austria and was made Chancellor. He
instituted a programme of conliscating Jewish
property. Under his regime Jews were forced
to emigrate, were sent to concentration camps,
and were subjected to pogroms. He co-
operated with the security police in the de-
portation of Jews to eastern Europe. While
he was Governor in Austria political opponents
were sent to concentration camps, ma’treated
and often killed. As deputy Governor-General
ot Poland Seyss-Inquart was a party to the
fierce occupation policy. He advocated per-
secution and was involved in the action which
resulted in the murder of many Polish intellec-
tuals. As Reichs-Commissioner for the Nether-
lands Seyss-Inquart was ruthless in applying
teirorism to suppress all opposition. He car-
ried out the economic administration of the
Netherlands without regard to the rules of the
Geneva Convention, which he declared obsolete.
He was a voluntary participant in crimes against
humanity.”
Ernst Kaltenbrunner, 43, Himmler’s
deputy, guilty on counts three and four;
Death.
“Kaltenbrunner as leader of the S.S. in Aus-
tria was active in the Nazi intrigue against
Austria. Kaltenbrunner was aware of con-
ditions in concentration camps. He had un-
doubtedly visited Mauthausen and witnessed
executions there. He himself ordered the
execution of prisoners in these camps.”
Hans Frank, 46, Governor-General of
Occupied Poland, guilty on counts three
and four; Death.
“There was not sufficient evidence of his
knowledge of the common plan of conspiracy
to allow the Tribunal to convict him on count
1.”
Fritz Sauckel, 48, director of man-
power, guilty on counts three and four:
Death.
“Sauckel set up a programme for the mobili-
sation of labor forces in the Reich, one of
the most important points of which was the
systematic exploitation by force of the labor
resources of the occupied territories. There
is no doubt that Sauckel was the overall
authority over the scheme of labor conscrip-
tion. He was aware of the methods employed
and vigorously supported them. It does not
appear that Sauckel advocated brutality for its
own sake or a plan like Himmler’s extermina-
tion thtough work. In his own words, he ad-
vocated that the men be treated in such a way
as to exploit them to the highest possible
extent at the lowest conceivable degree of ex-
penditure. Sauckel was in charge of a pro-
gramme which involved deportation for slave
labor of some 5,000,000 human beings, many
of them under terrible conditions of cruelty
and suffering.”
Martin Bormann, 45, Hitler’s deputy,
tried in his absence, guilty on counts three
and four: Death.
“Bormann in the beginning was a minor
Nazi, but he steadily rose to a position of
power, and particularly in the closing stages
had great inhuence over Hitler. He devoted
much of his time to the persecution of the
churches and Jews within Germany. The
evidence does not show that Bormann knew
of Hitler’s plans to initiate or wage aggressive
wars. It was not until he became head of the
Chancery in 1941, and later in 1943 secretary
to the huffier, that he began to attend Hitler’s
conferences. Boimann was interested in the
confiscation of artistic and other properties in
the East. He was extremely active in the per-
secution of Jews. He was prominent in the
slave-labor programme. He issued orders on
treatment ot pnsoners-of-war. In one of these
he prohibited decent burial for Russian
prisoners. He permitted the use of firearms
and corporal punishment for recalcitrant
prisoners, contrary to the rules of war. Bor-
mann was responsible for the lynching of Allied
airmen. If Bormann is later apprehended the
Control Council for Germany may consider
any facts in mitigation and alter or review his
sentence if deemed proper.”
Julius Streicher, 61, publisher of the
anti-Semite newspaper “Der Stunner” and
Gauleiter of Franconia, guilty on count
four; Death.
“Streicher was a staunch Nazi and supporter
of Hitler’s main policy. Streicher infected the
German mind with the virus of anti-Semitism
and incited the German people to active per-
secution. Streicfaer’s incitement t'o murder and
extermination at the time when Jews in eastern
Europe were being killed in the most horrible
conditions clearly constitutes persecution on
political and racial grounds in connection with
war crimes. It constitutes a crime against
humanity.”
Rudolf Hess, 52, Hitler’s deputy,
guilty on counts one and two: Life Im-
prisonment.
“He became Hitler’s closest friend and con-
fidant, a relationship which lasted until Hess’s
flight to the British Isles. In September, 1939,
Hess was officially announced as successor-
designate to the Fiihrer after Goring. Hess
was the first man in the Nazi party with re-
sponsibility for handling party matters, and
authority to make decisions in Hitler’s name
on all questions of party leadership. Hess was
an obvious supporter of preparations for war.
He urged the people to sacrince for armaments.
It is true that between 1933 and 1937 Hess,
in some speeches, expressed a desire for peace
and advocated international economic co-
operation. But nothing can alter the fact that,
of all the defendants, none knew better than
Hess how determined Hitler was to realise
his ambitions, what a fanatical and violent
man Hitler was, and how little likely he was
to refrain from resort to force if this was the
only way he could achieve his aims.
“Hess was a confirmed and willing party in
German aggression against Austria, Czecho-
slovakia and Poland. The specific steps which
this defendant took in support of Hitler’s
plan for aggressive war do not indicate
the full extent of his responsibility. Until
his flight to Britain, Hess was Hitler’s
closest personal confidant. Their relations were
such that Hess must have been informed of
Hitler’s aggressive plans when they came into
existence, and he took action to carry out these
plans whenever action was necessary. In
conversations carried on after his arrival in
Britain, Hess wholeheartedly supported all Ger-
many’s aggressive actions up to that time.
Hess may have had knowledge of war crimes
committed in the East even if he did not par-
ticipate. The Tribunal, however, did not find
that the evidence sufficiently connected Hess
with these crimes to sustain a finding of guilt.”
Walter Funk, 56, Reichsbank presi-
dent, guilty on counts two, three and
four; Life Imprisonment.
“Funk became one of Hitler’s personal
economic advisers. Funk was not one of the
leading figures originating the plans for aggres-
sive wars. His activity in the economic sphere
was under the supervision of Goring. Funk
did take part in the early Nazi programme of
economic discrimination against the Jews. As
Minister of Economics and President of the
Reichsbank, Funk took part In the exploitation
of occupied territories. He was also indirectly
involved in the use of concentration-camp
labor.”
Erich Raeder, 70, Commander-in-
Chief of the German Navy, guilty dn
counts one, two and three; Life Imprison-
ment.
“In the 15 years he commanded it, Raeder
built and equipped the German Navy. The
conception of the invasion of Norway first
arose in the mind of Raeder. It is clear that
Raeder participated in planning and waging
aggressive war. He urged an aggressive
Mediterranean policy. He also urged war on
England as ‘our main enemy.’ The most seri-
ous charge against Raeder is that he carried
out unrestricted naval warfare, including war-
fare on neutrals. Raeder admits that he passed
on orders to shoot Allied prisoners-of-war
and did not object.”
Baldur von Schirach, 39, Hitler
Youth leader and Governor of Austria,
guilty on count four: Twenty Years’ lm<
prisonment.
“After the Nazi party had come to power
Schirach, using physical violence and other
methods, drove out of existence all youth
groups which competed with the Hitler Youth.
He established the Hitler Youth as a source
of replacement for the Nazi party formations.
The Tribunal finds that Schirach, although he
did not originate the policy of deporting Jews
from Vienna, participated in this deportation
though he knew that the best they could hope
for was a miserable existence in the ghettos
of the East.”
Goring suicided in his cell at
10.45 p.m. on October 15.
Bormann has not yet been cap-
tured nor has his death been offi-
cially presumed.
The other 10 Nazi leaders who
were condemned to die were hanged
in Nuremberg prison. First was
Ribbentrop, at 1.14 a.m. on October
16; last was Seyss-Inquart, at
2.57 a.m.
Master-Sergeant John Woods,
U.S. Army , was the executioner.
Albert Speer, 40, Armaments Minis-
ter, guilty on counts three and four:
Twenty Years’ Imprisonment.
“Speer’s activities did not amount to con-
spiracy, as he took charge of the armament
industry well after the war had been planned.
He knew that when he made his labor demands
he would be supplied with foreign slave labor
working under compulsion. In mitigation the
Tribunal recognises that Speer did keep many
workers in their homes, and in the closing
stages of the war he was one of the few men
who had the courage to tell Hitler that the
war was lost and took steps by deliberate
The Counts Charged.
(7) Conspiracy. — Taking part in a con-
spiracy to commit crimes against peace,
war crimes and crimes against humanity.
(2) Crimes Against pea^e.—ruma-
pating in the planning and waging of
wars of aggression.
(5) War Crimes. Murder and ill-
treatment of civilians in occupied terri-
tory and on the high seas, deportations
for slave labor, murder and ill-treatment
of prisoners-of-war, killing of hostages.
Plunder, wanton destruction and devas-
tation, conscription of civilian labor and
Germanisation of occupied territories.
( 4 ) Crimes Against Humanity.—Mur-
der, extermination, enslavement, depor-
tation and other inhumane acts com-
mitted against civilian populations before
and during the war. Persecution on
political, racial and religious grounds in
connection with the common plan men-
tioned in count one.


REMEMBER ...
when making your WILL
The position of Executor and Trustee of your Estate,
as nominated in your Will, entails knowledge of legali-
ties, experience in handling any complications which
might arise, and an understanding of investment
problems.
If you have already made your Will, appointing your
wife or a friend, add a codicil, making them co-trustees
and executors with the Permanent Trustee Company.
This will transfer the onerous duties of trusteeship
from their shoulders, assure permanence, stability and
faithful guardianship of all your affairs, and the wise
management of your Estate, whether large or small.
Write for a Booklet.
ŵ
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Bucklan
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F H Way
E. V. T Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager'
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
\
Mm
'
m
» : 33S
MiflCcorftelV"
■ ike all worth-while products, is in- very short
upply to-day; but so far as Quality goes,
lothing has been lost of its original charac-
teristics ; indeed, the present unavoidable
restrictions on the release of stocks mean in-
creased maturity with unsurpassed mellowness.
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTD.
Head Office : Edinburgh.
Mark your ballot paper
3, 2, i
from the top
for 10 O’clock Closing.
sabotage and at considerable personal risk to
prevent the utter destruction ot production
facilities both in the occupied territories and
in Germany. He used concenfration-camp
labor in industries under his conti of, but later,
fearful of Himmler’s jurisdictional ambitions,
he used as few concentration-camp workers
as possible.”
Constantin von Neurath, 72, Pro-
tector ot rsohemia-Moravia, guilty on all
four counts: Fifteen Years’ Imprison-
ment.
“Neurath advised Hitler to withdraw from
the disarmament conference under the League
of Nations. He played an important part in
Hitler’s decision to reoccupy the Rhineland.
When he resigned his resignation was accepted,
yet with his knowledge of Hiller’s aggressive
plans he retained formal relationship with the
Government as Minister without Portfolio. As
Protector of Bohemia and Moravia, Neurath
played an important part in the wars of aggres-
sion in the East. War crimes and crimes against
humanity were committed under his authority.
In mitigation it must be remembered that
Neurath intervened with the security police and
secret service for the release of many of the
Czechoslovaks who had been arrested on Sep-
tember 1, 1939, and for the release of students
arrested later in the autumn. In 1941 Neurath
was summoned before Hitler, who complained
that his regime had not been harsh enough.”
Karl Donitz, 55, Commander-im
Chief U-boats and Fiihrer between the
report of Hitler’s death and Germany’s
surrender, guilty on counts two and
three: Ten Years’ Imprisonment.
“Donitz was no mere army or divisional
commander. The U-boat arm was the prin-
cipal arm of the German fleet and Donitz was
its leader. He became later Head of State
and as such ordered that the war in the East
must continue. The evidence does not show
that Donitz was privy to the conspiracy to
wage aggressive war. He was not present at
important conferences when plans for aggres-
sive war were announced, and there is no
evidence that he was informed about the de-
cisions reached. Donitz did, however, wage
aggressive war within the meaning of that word.
The evidence further showed that the pro-
visions of the protocol relating to submarine
warfare were not carried out and that Donitz
ordered that they should not be carried out.
Donitz permitted the order to shoot Comman-
dos and prisoners-of-war to remain in force
when he became commander-in-chief. A man
in Donitz’s position must have known that the
citizens of occupied countries in large num-
bers were confined in concentration camps.
Donitz’s submissions have proved that British
naval prisoners-of-war were treated in accord-
ance with the Geneva Convention and this is
regarded by the Tribunal as a mitigating
circumstance.”
FREED.
Franz von Papen, 66, former Ambas-
sador to Austria and Turkey, not guilty.
“Papen was active in 1932 and 1933 in help-
ing Hitler to form the coalition Cabinet. On
June 30, 1934, in the wave of violence which
accompanied the so-called Rohm purge, Papen
was taken into custody by the S.S., his office
force was arrested, and two of his associates
murdered. Papen was released on July 3,
1934. Notwithstanding the murder of his
associates, Papen accepted the position of
Minister to Austria the day after Dollfuss was
assassinated. As Minister, Papen was active in
trying to strengthen the position of the Nazi
party in Austria for the purpose of bringing
about the Anschluss. On July 27, 1935, Papen
reported to Hitler that the union of Austria
and Germany could not be brought about by
external pressure but only by the strength of
the Nazi movement. In 1938 Papen was re-
called, but returned to Austria and arranged
for the Conference between Schuschnigg and
Hitler. Papen advised Schuschnigg to comply
with Hitler’s demands. In March, 1938, Hitler
ordered Papen to return to Berlin. Papen was
in the Chancellery on March 11 when the
occupation of Austria was ordered. After the
annexation of Austria Papen retired into private
life and there is no evidence that he took any
part in politics. He accepted the position of
Ambassador to Turkey in April, 1939.
“The evidence leaves no doubt that Papen’s
primary purpose as Minister to Austria was to
undermine the Schuschnigg regime and to
strengthen the Austrian Nazis for the purpose of
bringing about the Anschluss. To carry through
this plan he engaged in both intrigue and bully-
ing, but the Charter does not make criminal such
offences against political morality, however bad
these may be. Papen can be held gtiilty only
if he was a party to the fostering of aggres-
sive war. There is no evidence that he was a
party to the plans under which the Austrians
were to be the victims of further aggressive
action, or even that he participated in plans
to occupy Austria by aggressive war itself. It
is not established beyond reasonable doubt that
this was the purpose of his activities, and there-
fore the Tribunal cannot find that he was a
party to the common plan under count 1 or
that he participated in the aggressive war
charged under count 2.”
Hjalmar Schacht, 69, Reichsbaixk
President and Minister of Economics, not
guilty.
“Schacht was an active supporter of the
Nazi party, and supported the appointment of
Hitler to the post of Chancellor. He played
an important role in the vigorous rearmament
programme, using the proceeds of the Reichs-
banx to the fullest extent. As Minister of
Economics and as plenipotentiary-general for
the war economy, he was active in organising
Germany’s economy for war. On May 3,
1935, he sent a memorandum to Hitler stating
that the accomplishment of the armament pro-
gramme was the great problem of German
politics, and that everything else should be
subordinated to this. Schacht by April, 1936,
began to lose his influence as the central figure
in the Geiman rearmament eifort when Goring
was appointed co-ordinator for raw materials
and foreign exchange. When the influence of
Schacht sutfeied Goring was appointed pleni-
potentiary lor the four-year plan. Schacht
had opposed the plan and it is clear that
Hitler’s action represented a decision that
Schacht’s economic policy too conservative
for the drastic rearmament policy which Hitler,
wanted to put into effect. As a result of bitter
arguments in which Hitler accused Schacht of
obstructing his plans by his financial methods,
Schacht resigned as Minister of Economics
and plenipotentiary-general for war economy.
As President of the Reichsbank Schacht was
still involved in the dispute. On January 2,
1939, Schacht urged Hitler to reduce expen-
diture for armaments. On January 19, 1939,
Hitler dismissed Schacht as President of the
Reichsbank. On July 23, 1944, Schacht was
arrested by the Gestapo and confined in a
concentration camp until the end of the war.
“It is clear that Schacht was the central figure
in Germany’s rearma-
ment programme and
that the steps which he
took, particularly in the
early days of the Nazi
regime, were responsible
for Germany’s rapid rise
as a military Power. Re-
al mament in itself is
not criminal under the
Charter, lo be a crime’
against peace it must be
shown that Schacht car-
ried out this rearmament
as part of the Nazi plan
lo wage aggressive war.
Schacnt has contended
that he participated in
the rearmament pro-
giamme only because
he was invited to build
a strong independent
Germany, but when he
discoveied that the
Nazis were rearming
for aggressive purposes
he attempted to slow
down the speed of
armaments. Schacht
participated in the plan
to get rid of Hitler,
first by deposing him
and later by assassina-
tion. Schacht, as early
as 1936, began to ad-
vocate a limitation of
the rearmament pro-
gramme. Had the policy
advocated by him been
put into erfect, Ger-
many would not have
been prepared for a
general European war.
Insistence on his policy
led to his eventual
dismissal from all
positions of economic significance in Germany.
“On the other hand, Schacht, with his intimate
knowledge of German finance, was in a
peculiarly good position to understand the true
significance of Hitler’s rearmament, and realised
that the economic policy adopted was consistent
only with war. Moreover, Schacht continued
to participate in German economic life and
in a minor way in some of the early Nazi
operations. On November 29, 1938, he made
a speech in which he pointed with pride to
his economic policy, which created a high
degree of German armament, and added that
this armament had made Germany’s foreign
policy possible. Schacht was not involved in
the planning of any of this specific war of
aggression. His participation in the occupa-
tion of Austria was on such a limited basis
that it does not amount to participation in the
common plan charged in count 1. He was
clearly not one of the inner circle around
Hitler which was most closely involved with
this common plan. The case against Schacht
therefore depends on the inference that Schacht
did, in fact, know of the Nazi aggressive plan.
The Tribunal comes to the conclusion that
this necessary inference has not been established
beyond a reasonable doubt.”
Hans Fritsche, 46, radio commen-
tator and official of the Propaganda
Ministry, not guilty.
“As head of the German press division
Fritsche delivered the directives of the propa-
ganda ministry. He was, however, subordinate
to Dietrich, the Reich press chief. While
Fritsche headed the home press division he
instructed the press on how the actions against
Bohemia and Moravia, Poland, Yugoslavia
and the Soviet should be dealt with, but he
had no control of the formulation of these
propaganda policies. His activities cannot be
said to be those which fall within the definition
of the common plan to wage aggressive war.
It appears that Fritsche sometimes made
strong statements of a propagandist nature
in his broadcasts, but one cannot hold they
were intended to incite the people to commit
atrocities on conquered peoples. His aim was
rather to arouse popular sentiment for the
German war effort.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Britain’s stake in the peace of the Middle
East and the security of the Suez Canal is
illumined by statistics issued by the Board of
Trade. About one-third of the money being
brought in from exports to pay for imports
now comes fiom goods that pass through the
Suez Canal. Considerable additional revenue
comes from goods unloaded in the Eastern
Mediterranean. The leading export market in
the second quarter of this year was India, which
took goods valued at more than £19,000,000.
Close behind came South Africa, at more than
£16,000,000. Third was Australia, at more than
£14,000,000. Also among the first dozen mar-
kets was New Zealand with £6,000,000. Egypt
bought a shade more. In July Britain reached
a new high in export's, with a total value of
£91,900,000 compared with a 1938 monthly
average of £39,200,000. In volume the July
exports were 120 per cent, of the 1938 figure.
This shows Britain just beyond the two-thirds
mark in its race toward the export target Of
ns ner ">nt of the pre-war level. —“Christian
Science Monitor
—London “Daily Herald.”
THE OTHER BIG FOUR.
It is well to recognise two things: (1) That
there is loose in the world a force which thrives
on world chaos; and (2) that so long as that
force is rampant such events as the firing on
American ’planes by the aircraft of the Yugo-
slavian dictator will be repeated from time to
time. A “war of nerves” suits the tactics of
dictatorship whether it labels itself Fascist or
whether it' denounces the label and prates about
democracy. If America is to be a world Power
in this kind of a world, the financial and busi-
ness community must immunise itself to the
shocks which call for large headlines and
activity in foreign offices. In Britain there is
that ability to evaluate the real seriousness of
such situations. But that is much the lesser
of the requirements of the present American
world position. Much the greater is that, to
prevent gestures from becoming something
more, the U.S. is compelled to keep itself in a
state of armed preparedness. This means ex-
penditures, and expenditures mean taxes. The
bleakness of this prospect is only exceeded by
the bleakness of the results of a failure to
recognise it. The record of Russian dictatorship
shows that it will avoid war if possible but
in all events it will strive to avoid wars which
it cannot win easily. On the very eve of the
German attack in 1941 Marshal Stalin was
ready to grant Germany large concessions. To
face a power equal to his own was not of
Stalin’s choosing and it is improbable that he
has changed. There are two dangers. One is
that we will allow ourselves to grow weak.
The other is that we will allow the Russian
rulers to believe we are weak and thus en-
courage them to undertake ventures, the true
cost of which they underestimate until it is
too late to draw back. —“ Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The first German war prisoners have straggled
back from Russia. They are old or ill. No
more work can -be squeezed out of them by
their captors. Behind them they have left
from six to eight million of their comrades.
These are the living. They also have left un-
counted dead —victims of overwork and star-
vation in the Russian slave encampments. Some
returned prisoners estimated the dead at 10 per
cent, of the surrendered German armies. When
Hiller forced conquered people to become slave
laborers the conscience of the world was re-
volted. Stalin is doing the same thing on a
scale still more vast. The Japanese Kwantung
army of half a million men in Manchuria has
disappeared into the depths of Russia. More
than 10 million, and possibly as many as 15
million, of Stalin’s own subjects were in the
slave camps before the war. Their number
has been augmented by the rebellious popu-
latioris of five former Red republics who were
transported from their homes to other parts
of the Soviet. Stalin, today is operating the
greatest slave traffic the world ever has known.
—Chicago “Tribune.”
*'* * *
It is said that a wrong once committed in-
creases in geometrical ratio of wrongness as
time goes on. The saying is brought to mind
by tne application for memberstiip in the
United Nations of Mongolia and Albania. The
aim of the U.N. should be universal, but on
paper certain eligibility tests have hitherto been
regarded as essential. First, the organisation
is ■based on the principle of the sovereign
equality of all its members.” Secondly, mem-
bership is open to all peace-loving States which
accept the ootigations contained in the Charter.
Ihe trouble was that this principle, insofar
as the attribute of sovereignty is concerned,
was thrown out the window at Yalta. At that
parley Mr. Roosevelt agreed to support the
admission of the Ukrainian Soviet Republic and
the White Russian Soviet Republic. Not even
a Philadelphia lawyer would endow the Ukraine
and White Russia with the attributes of
sovereignty. They are constituent States of
the Soviet Union, just as Texas and Virginia
are constituent States of the American Union.
The Yalta decision was regarded as a gift of
plural voting to Moscow. That is now water
over the dam, but it inhibits much of an
examination of the credentials of the new-
comers. Mongolia is as non-sovereign as
Ukraine and White Russia, no more and no
less. Albania, with its menacing attitude to-
ward Greece, is hardly peace-loving. But
scrutiny can be little more than perfunctory.
—Washington “Post.”
* * * *
Plans being made for a meeting early next
year in New Delhi of representatives of all
Asiatic countries to discuss the possibility of
closer relations and to ensure unity in Asia
have implications lor Europe and the Americas
far beyond any immediate consequences of such
a congress. A united Asia would be a prospect
to conjure with. The great natural barrier of
the Himalayas and the broad stretches of jungle
that have separated the world’s two most
populous countries—lndia and China—no longer
do so. The airplane has levelled the mountains
and spanned the jungle. Even more important
has been the widespread sowing by the Japanese
of the seeds of dissatisfaction with economic
and political domination by the white man.
They did not tend them well. The slogan
“Asia for the Asiatics” was made by the
Japanese to read “Asia for Us.” But the
Asiatic’s disillusionment on that score did not
kill the idea that some day he might win his
economic and political freedom. Although
internal disunity in the countries of Asia would
seem to preclude the possibility of unity on
an international level now, the possibility should
not be lightly dismissed. For centuries Asia
has been a great stagnant backwater of civili-
sation. It was not always so nor does it
follow that it must always remain in that
condition. The proposed conference could be
one of the important dates in the history of
our world.— N. Y. “Times.”
* * * *
When the U.S. attends diplomatic confer-
ences, how should the placecards read: “The
United States of America” or “America, the
United States of”? This problem has twice upset
the international balance at the Paris Con-
ference. The Russian and Ukrainian dele-
gates to France’s celebration of the liberation
of Paris walked out because they got second
row benches, whereas the United States sat
in the front row. When the Paris Conference
opened the Soviets found Byrnes sitting in the
front row under a placard “Etats Unis
d’Amerique,” whereas Moscow’s men were back
in the rear. Some lifted Soviet eyebrows and
Russian representations quickly brought forth
a new card for Mr. Byrnes’s desk— “Amerique
—Etats Unis.” The latest handbook on pro-
tocol and correct manner of listing countries
discloses that this Government lists itself as
“America, the United States of,” in diplomatic
matters. It points out in a footnote that with
three other “United States” in this hemi-
sphere, Washington cannot claim monopoly
rights to .that term. They are: the United
States of Brazil, the United States of Mexico,
the United States of Venezuela. It is the
French who put Washington delegates in the
front rows at Paris. If Mr. Byrnes had been
listed with the “E’s” for “Etats Unis” or with
the “U’s” for “United States,” he would have
unquestionably taken the seat assigned him.
At San Francisco the U.S. sat with the
“U’s” alongside the Union S.S.R. and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland. There, it seems to have waived its
rule for the sake of Big Three clubbiness. The
Paris meeting is being run by the French as
host nation. They have followed the rules
precisely and put Mr. Byrnes in a front seat.
For the Soviet to get a front seat it needs
new rules or a new na me.—“ Christian Science
Monitor


*SteeU>ilti9
the answer]
Faster handling of
tioA fadUUos • • •
goods
mm*
■
.
u;
■Mi
MM
gl-
Tm
gMiSi
:
>
■/' ' V V
Mi
. m
W
w
First of all you want facts ... and a Steelbilt survey digs them out for you.
Not until this is done are recommendations made.
A Steelbilt survey will prove
★ How a Steelbilt Storage Layout can save valuable floor area.,
’★ How a Steelbilt installation results in the faster handling of goods.
★ Why a Steelbilt installation means time-savings and greater facilities for in-
creased production.
Steelbilt experts will make a check-up on the storage and handling of goods
and materials in your factory, plant, warehouse, or store without obligation.
m
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
m
ẁ
Sieolblft Mobile.
ẃ
til
ẅ
Steo&iS Clothes Locie«—•
4 types. 2 sizes.
locker*. Shelving, cabinet*, storage Bins, Filing Cabinet* »nd Fa<rtory
w
ŵ
STEELBILT LIMITED (A Wormald Brothers Industry) Sydney and Melbourne


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3481
Wednesday, October 30, 1946
THE SLEEPING BEAUT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
OUR INTERESTS AND
WELFARE.
Perhaps himself deluded by the uneasy
truce which his Government’s Communist
friends called on the industrial front
a few weeks prior to his re-election as
Prime Minister, Mr. Chifley, after polling-
day, came forth with thanks for “a re-
newal of confidence,” and expressed grati-
tude “to the many people who, by their
active and practical support,” helped the
victory. Whether this was intended to
include the Corns wasn’t clear; but Mr.
Chifley was inspired to “renew our pro-
mise to make the interests and welfare
of the nation the first and major respon-
sibility of the Labor Government.”
Opportunity to fulfil his renewed pro-
mise came much sooner than he could
have expected; vote-counting hadn’t
ceased before the “truce” was off and
the Communists and fellow-conspirators
threw all south-eastern Australian indus-
try and transport into confusion with
strikes from Townsville round to Adel-
aide, but most seriously in Victoria.
The stunned community learned that
Government transport employees —en-
joying all the privileges of Government
employees in this paradise of the public-
servant —were striking for “improved
conditions” —a piece of impudence when
the progressive deterioration of “condi-
tions” as a result of “militant” activity
over the past five years is considered.
There were, among other things, demands
for wage rises and “loadings” and a
Communist - inspired attack on Mr.
Chifley’s own wage-pegging regulations ;
and there were, on the side, strikes in
attempts to blackmail people into joining
Communist-run unions.
If Mr. Chifley’s long silence was any
indication he remained unmoved, a stand
described by Flanagan and his boss,
Thornton, of the Ironworkers, as “stub-
born.” When the P.M. broke his silence
he mentioned that Cabinet had not yet
met to consider wage-pegging, alleged by
the militants to be the main reason for
their outrageous behavior. But the
people expect something more from Mr.
Chifley than mute stubbornness. There
is no doubt that many thousands who
voted “Labor” did so in the belief that a
“Labor” Government would be less likely
to be faced with a showdown of the
present kind than a Liberal Government.
Some people have yet to learn that- this
Communist conspiracy favors nobody
and nothing but Communists and their
Slav-Oriental ambitions. Perhaps Mr.
Chifley hasn’t learned it yet. If he needs
any evidence, not only on this score but
also as to the necessity for putting these
union bosses in their places, let him study
the Queensland Industrial Court’s find-
ings in the Murarrie case.
Early in March this year four men were
sacked from Murarrie co-operative bacon
factory. They were members of the
M-LE.U., and, assuring the union members
that the four had been wrongfully dis-
missed and victimised because of their
union activities, the union bosses called
a strike. Before it was over it had drawn
in coalminers and wharfies, and there were
threats of railway strikes ; Brisbane city
went short of fuel, lighting, power, trans-
port and food, workers lost thousands of
pounds in wages, the strike spread south,
and so did its effects. It lasted until mid-
July.
There were the usual loud threats by
union bosses, violence was committed
against non-strikers, the M.I.E.U. was
deregistered. The Queensland Industrial
Court heard a claim for reinstatement of
the four men and refused it. Extracts
from the judgment:
There is not the slightest evidence that
any man was dismissed because of union
activities. There was no seniority rule at
Murarrie. The conduct of these men since
1942, as shown by the evidence, warranted
their dismissal when the employer found
it necessary to reduce hands. Four days
after their dismissal A. J. Neumann, the
union secretary, was told by the Court
that he could put a case for the reinstate-
ment of the men. His reply was, “We
shall consider that if we cannot settle this
in any other way.”
The “other way” was to launch the
strike, the worst Queensland had ever
known. More from the judgment:
It [the strike] was senseless because suc-
cess spelt the ultimate extinction of the
business in which the men were employed,
while failure meant' immediate hardship
and suffering to a lot of hard-working
unionists It was not a strike to secure
reinstatement of the dismissed men, whose
interests soon became a matter of very
minor importance. It was not a strike
to enforce any fair and reasonable recog-
nition of seniority, which was offered and
rejected. It was a demand for the com-
plete control of the engagement and dis-
charge of labor. It was a Communist-
controlled strike, in which decent men were
forced to suffer for their loyalty to
unionism.
The Court added that the unionists
brought this on then own heads because
they allowed control of their union to
slip from their hands. That happens
wherever and whenever Communists get
control, for the Communist seeks control
for but one end —the advancement of the
Communist “cause” and ultimate dictator-
ship by the Communist party following a
period of industrial and financial chaos,
suffering and confusion.
Just what kind of men these are to
whom Mr. Chifley gives a free hand is
best illustrated by Comrade Healy, secre-
tary of Brisbane Trades and Labor
Council. Disgusted with the Queensland
strike and the Communist tactics, workers
at Murarrie formed the Bacon Factories
Employees Union, obtained registration
and thus cut themselves free from the
M.I.E.U. and its Communist bosses. It
brought Comrade Healy up frothing with
rage;— ,
We are launching an Australia-wide
union movement' to break them. We want
to smash them before they even get started.
In the case of the bacon union we first
want to stop its spread to other States, but
we are out to smash it in the long run.
And Comrade Healy’s T. and L.
Council described the new union as
“based on scabbery.” “Break,” “smash,”
“stop,” “scab” —that’s the Communist
ticket for anybody opposed to Commun-
ism. Workers lucky enough to be, for the
present, outside the range of Communist
plotting only have to fear loss of employ-
ment when Communist-led strikes tie up
materials and transport; workers in Com-
munist-run unions have to fear being
branded as “scabs,” being howled down
at meetings if not physically assaulted,
and being marked men fof the rest of
their days if they dare to stand up for
their own beliefs.
And with these things plain before him,
to say nothing of the shattering results
to the country as a whole —the country
about whose “interests and welfare” he
babbled so happily after the election —
the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth,
re-elected with a solid working majority
in an election in which only one of 15
Communist candidates saved his deposit,
is apparently determined to do no more
than his Government did in the immediate
past. And this is—nothing.
The means of ending this Communist
conspiracy are in the Commonwealth
Government’s hands. It already has, as
have the several State Labor Govern-
ments affected, the powers to do so. It
can, if it wants to, use those powers now,
and it can, for a beginning:
Enforce the industrial laws of the land.
Make the secret ballot compulsory.
Provide for heavy punishment wherever
it can be shown, as in the Murarrie case,
that men have been called out on strike
on false pretences.
Provide for prompt and automatic de-
registration of any union which disobeys an
industrial or arbitration-court order.
Provide more arbitration Judges.
Impose heavy penalties in cases of assaults
on persons defying “militant” intimidation.
Tighten-up control of trade-union funds
and require publication of detailed annual
accounts.
Order a thorough investigation into the
source of the Communist party’s funds by
competent investigators.
The Commonwealth Government is un-
likely to do any of these things, not only
because it is dead-scared of Communists
and too narrow and sectional in its out-
look to place people before party, but
because it is committed to socialisation
itself, and probably sees in some distorted
picture of its own the present troubles as
offering good excuses for the “nationalisa-
tion” of industry. Its own past is dogging
it. As for our “interests and welfare,”
. such terms plainly have no real meaning
where “Labor” rules.
Problems of trade-unionism are some-
thing to be considered conscientiously by
the whole community. But trade-unionism
must first of all get on to the right track
itself. The obvious way to better work-
ing and living conditions is for trade-
unionists and others to produce the goods
required by the population and for export
in the greatest possible quantities, allow-
ing all parties engaged a fair share in
the fruits of the effort. In this paper-
money age the value of wages, of “con-
ditions,” depends on industrial output —
increased wages without increased output
are an inflationary sham. The present
go-slow attitude throughout industry
combined with demands for a shorter
working week represent the repudiation
of commonsense.
Many unionists, no doubt browbeaten
and bewildered by Corns, seem deter-
mined on having a Marxist “class
struggle” even if it only impoverishes
themselves. A section of these represent
the spoiled children of the war; they did
not, in blood, toil or money, pay their
proper share of the price of political and
economic liberty—and war’s exigencies
gave them “full employment,” high wages.
The Curtin and Chifley Governments
never in any firmness asked them for their
share, preferring to govern only those
willing to be governed. Hence the con-
temptuous treatment of the Government
by the Com-ridden unions today.
The Talk of War.
Anyone old enough to remember per-
sonally the other war’s end must be a
hardy optimist if he can find cause for
comfort in a comparison of the apparent
world mood then and now. The pre-
vailing feeling then was at least one of
hope. It was trustingly accepted that the
world had had enough of war for all
time. It was believed, fervently, that
civilisation had actually been advanced,
instead of shaken, by the war it had sur-
vived ; that the stage had been reached
in the gradual progress of mankind where
the nations of all the world could get
together, map out a workable peace and
by amicable co-operation ensure its
lasting.
Faith in the League of Nations was
almost boundless. It alone, in view of
later happenings, looks now like a high
peak in the story of humanity. A
triumph of the idealism which has all
along produced such progress in the
advance of civilisation as has been made,
the trust was to prove vulnerable against
the hard test of the world’s actualities.
The fatal fact was that the League was
impossibly weak in itself.
Mr. Churchill has said of its failure:
“It was not a case of the League of
Nations failing the Governments of the
world, but the Governments of the world
failing the League.” In the recent book
of his speeches Dr. Evatt endorsed that
view ; but actually it is such a simplifica-
tion as to amount to nonsense. The
League failed because America stood out
of it; its succession of weaknesses re-
sulted from that original weakness. It
did not include Russia, either; in fact,
it was from the beginning merely a
League of Some Nations.
That makes the vast measure of faith
in it all the more creditable a reflection
of mankind’s then general aspiration.
The faith prevailed, and for a long time
remained strong, despite the clear evi-
dence of the organisation’s inherent defi-
ciencies. Probably what is now being
witnessed —the absolute negation of that
rise of faith—is nothing but a simple
natural reaction from the experience of
having been so badly let down. Cer-
tainly there is nothing remotely resem-
bling that faith abroad in the world today.
On the contrary, U.N.0., substituting for
the League, stands almost as a symbol
of despair. When its weakness became at
last apparent in its successive failures, the
League was fairly dubbed a chatter-house.
Its successor can as fairly be dubbed a
squabble-centre.
In its early days the League stood as
a signpost of the world’s aspiration for
peace. Its successor bears the semblance
of a different, ominous signpost. The
wrangling at its meetings, and at such
related gatherings as the abortive “Peace”
Conference in Paris and the meetings of
Foreign Ministers, is no more than an
echo of the war talk that today, little
more than a year since the ending of the
most dreadful and costly of wars, is as
common everywhere as faith in the pros-
pects of lasting peace was common im-
mediately after 1918. Perhaps* it could
be that this time there will be as com-
plete a reversal to the good as there then
was to the bad ; but it would take extreme
optimism to think so in the face of
current actualities and not-so-very-old
history.
If anything, the talk of war is even
more common today than it was when
Hitler was perfecting his practice of the
“war of nerves.” As at that time, while
everybody talks of war, everybody, too,
looks in the one direction —this time to-
wards Russia. Returned to America last
month from visiting Europe, Democrat
Congressman William R. Thom reported
to President Truman: “If it is possible
to talk the world into war, the Europeans
are doing their best 24 hours a day. ’
On looking round his own country
Mr. Thom should find that war talk is
not confined to Europeans. Every
American publication that comes to hand
contains some discussion of the possi-
bility, Reporting last month the “worst
stockmarket break of any day in fifteen
years,” N.Y. “Times” blamed it on “the
prediction by an irresponsible radio com-
mentator that ‘war with Russia’ might
come this year.” But the bad feature of
the war talk is not only that it is not
confined to a particular part of the world
but that it is not the mere gossip of irre-
sponsibles either. Nor is it the talk of
those who want war. Very largely it is
the talk of men who are earnest for
peace at almost any cost short of that
cost at which peace could have been had
even with Hitler —the cost of being ruled
and dominated on lines the opposite to
the accepted concept of civilisation. This
is a price which has been asked time and
again and always refused, and which it is
now only too evident is being asked
through its war of nerves by Communist
Russia ; the great fear —and the main-
spring of all the talk of possible war —
being that, like Hitlerised Germany, Com-
munist Russia will not stop at a war on
nerves unless the full price is paid.
That feeling was not, as some hastily
assumed, allayed by Stalin’s assertion on
September 23 that there was “no danger
of war.” After the first flush of optimism
it was remembered that that was Hitler’s
cry until he struck. The doubts have not
been lessened, either, by reiteration of
the statement that “war is not inevitable.”
That, too, was a pre-1939 parrot-cry, both
of those working fast towards the launch-
ing of war and of those hoping against
hope that war could still be averted. The
former faith in lasting peace was high-
minded but blind ; the present fears, sus-
picions, doubts may be on a common
level, but they at least represent a straight
facing of actualities. These, visible to
anybody who takes the trouble to look
past his nose, have been evident through
all the U.N.0., “Peace” Conference and
other wrangles, but they all boil down to
a single issue: Is Russia’s peace price
world-domination? Reporting back to
his own country, America’s Republican
delegate to the “Peace” Conference,
Senator Vandenberg, summed it all up:
Perpetual surrender of rights and ideals
never did and never will buy peace. Russia
needs to know that we plan no con-
spiracies or conquests against her. God
can witness there is nothing of that sort
in our souls. On the other hand, we need
to know that Russia is not pushing towards
a Communist world. If Russia is willing
to honor in victory what she signed when
in need of help r current divisions will dis-
appear overnight.
Senator Vandenberg’s “If” is the whole
world of difference between prospects of
peace and possibility of war. He also
said:
War is not inevitable, but if might re-
sult from somebody’s miscalculation as to
how far we will tolerate some policy which
either threatens our own security or world
peace or which violates our conception of
human rights and fundamental purposes.
The leader of the American delegation.
Secretary of State Byrnes, reported that
the idea that war was inevitable was
throttling Europe’s economic recovery
and causing artificial tensions between
States and within States. “Any two
States,” Mr. Byrnes said, “can quickly
reach agreement if one is willing to yield
to all demands. The United States is un-
willing to do that, and equally unwilling
to ask it of another State.”
On these statements, which have the
endorsement of President Truman, the
Russian price is not going to be paid by
America; and, by way of further en-
dorsement, more than a quarter of the
unprecedented U.S. peace-time budget of
$41,500,000,000 has been earmarked for
the War and Navy Departments ; also the
atom-bomb secrets are being more closely
guarded than ever.
It does not add up to support for any
optimistic belief that all the continuous
war talk may be no more than talk.
Himself anything but a pessimist, General
Smuts has stated, not for the first time,
the general feeling of practically all
people; “I do not see a new spirit in
the world upon which we can safely
build an assurance for world peace in
the more distant future.” How distant
the smash may be ranges in speculation
from five to 20 years. “It must be
admitted,” General Smuts commented,
“that the Security Council and the Great
Powers have made a bad start in the
peacemaking.” Meanwhile, “suspicion,
friction and bickering are already be-
ginning to work like a secret poison in
the international system,” and certainly
very few today have so much faith as to
believe that that poison will work itself
out harmlessly. It might be doubted, too,
if scattering the blame broadcast, in
General Smuts’s manner, is much to the
purpose. What really seem to be needed,
if there is to be a revival of faith in
peace, and with it a stilling of the talk
of war, are simply acts of good-faith and
moderation from a quarter Soviet
Russia —from which so far there has been
nothing but the opposite.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Evatt and the Veto.
Australia’s noisy representatives abroad
never tire of the so far fruitless
pastime of publicly differing from their
associates of the British Common-
wealth and Empire, and allying them-
selves, against the interest and influence
of their own race, with groups of “small
nations” which hitherto have been treated
only with distant politeness by civilised
Powers.
A whale for punishment, since he has
never yet persuaded an international con-
ference to do anything of the least im-
portance to the Commonwealth, let alone
the world, Dr. Evatt has rushed to mar-
shal his forces for the “battle of the
veto,” appointing, as his spearhead com-
mander, a Mr. Paul Hasluck.
Mr. Hasluck found himself quite un-
able to wait for his enemies, the Great
Powers, to array themselves before open-
ing long-distance fire through the medium
of a Leftish New York journal, the
“New Republic,” in an article in which he
remarked that “the Great Powers appear
to claim permanent seats on the Eco-
nomic and Social Council, although the
Charter says nothing on the subject....
Some of the Big Five —if not all of them
—seem to feel that they must guard the
privileges of power against the nibblings
of reason.”
“Are we to say,” asks Dr. Evatt’s
emissary, “that the possession of strength
is to be recognised as the major quali-
fication for exerting influence on
U.N.O. affairs and decisions?” Mexi-
can, Brazilian, Cuban, Belgian and
Philippine delegates have all assured
Mr. Hasluck and Australia of their sup-
port in protesting against the Big Five’s
“extravagant use of the veto.”
Granting that there is room for modi-
fication of the veto power, which Russia
regards as an instrument of imperialism,
and granting that Messrs. Attlee and
Truman have both agreed with this view-
point, it is still possible to enjoy a grim
chuckle at the humorlessness of Dr. Evatt
and his polyglot supporters.
At least four of his band of brothers
seem to have forgotten that it is less than
two years since what Germany and its
satellites considered an “extravagant use
of the veto,” carried to the point of re-
course to arms, rescued them from the
fate of becoming part of a Nazi-domi-
nated world in which the word “veto”
would not have been uttered save in
German and Japanese.
One of the loudest voices asking for
the support of the Great Powers when
danger threatened was Dr. Evatt It is
not on record that he asked or received
direct support from Cuba, Mexico or
even Persia, or that, at that time, he
had anything to say against the domi-
nance of Britain, the United States and
Russia.
A Vote Against Communism.
Berlin’s municipal elections repeated the
pattern seen elsewhere in Europe when
voting has been free. Greece and Italy
turned the Corns down by solid majorities,
and Berlin electors showed even greater
distaste for the foreign conspiracy, re-
jecting it not only in the British and
American sectors but in the Russian as
well. ■
Masquerading under the ironical title
of the “Unity party,” the Corns, despite
lavish assistance from the Kremlin in
food, cigarettes and liquor for voters—
and, of course, the usual resort to intimi-
dation—lost all six boroughs in the Rus-
sian zone. In the British and American
sectors they were well behind even the
minor parties. They would have done
worse still in the Russian sector but for
the precaution—consistent with the Com
idea of freedom of election—of banning
there the Social Democrats, who polled
heaviest in the British-American areas.
“The sweeping victory of the Social
Democrats,” the American representative
on the Allied Control Commission,
General McNarey, summed up, “is an ex-
pression of dissatisfaction by the people
with the present Communist-dominated
Government.” The vote was “against the
forced Communist merger of parties.” It
was the worst rebuff the Soviet attempt to
impose its rule across its borders has had
to date; an indication of what would
happen if completely free elections were
held elsewhere around the Soviet fringes.
Those who know the Bear best from first-
hand experience like him least.
On present signs all the clumsy Kremlin
manipulators are succeeding in doing is
getting their country more and more
isolated. In the almost incredibly brief
time since there was goodwill everywhere
for Russia they have proved themselves
the outstanding masters of the art of
losing friends and making enemies.
The Berlin vote now tells them that
their pet project of making over the whole
of Eastern Germany to their heart’s desire
isn’t working even temporarily. It is not
a mere clinging to anything like Nazi
nationalism—as Corns will represent it.
The vote mainly went to representatives
corresponding approximately in political
color with British Labor. It indicates
some possibility of the Germans eventu-
ally building a workable democracy upon
the Nazi wreckage.
The Gambling Disease.
S. Australia Betting Control Board re-
ported that, of £13,353,078 laid with
licensed bookmakers last year, punters
got back £12,950,886, the bookies' “gross
earnings” being £402,192. What the s.-p.
men earned is known only to themselves,
but the admitted betting turnover was
more than £4,000,000 higher than in the
previous year, and a record. Though the
board licensed betting shops in Pirie,
Peterborough and Quorn, it won’t license
any more for a while, holding that the
betting increase is due to “passing and
abnormal conditions”:
We remark upon the inconsistency of
attempting to control betting while per-
mitting its incitements to continue un-
checked, of treating symptoms but not
attacking causes. It has not passed un-
noticed by us that sporting writers have
held out to the people who read their
newspapers that they are able, by some
special gift or information, to predict with
something approaching to certainty the
future conduct and fortune of racehorses
engaged in races on week days in other*
States, about which races no bet made in
South Australia would be lawful.
Which is only a polite way of saying
that a mug is born every minute, and that
the press is in a position to exploit him.
THE OUTSIDER.
“Mr. Chifley’s Cabinet, which will include at least four new members, will be chosen
during Cup week.”
“Ifs no use, Jack; even if you were as good as Bernborough you'd be scratched
in this race.”
The fact that such a huge known betting
turnover, to say nothing of the unknown,
could occur in S.A. in a single year is
arresting evidence of the gambling fever
which has gripped Australia; for S.A.,
unlike four of the other five States, does
not encourage gambling by State and
private lotteries, Government turf clubs
and mid-week racing holidays.
The time isn’t far off when one or more
of the seven Legislatures will have to take
action to curb not only the sporting
writers but the editors who splash the
defeat or scratching of a favorite across
their front pages. Much the same
thing applies to radio, wherein even the
national stations, no doubt impelled to
copy the commercial ones, serve up
results and odds on Sunday mornings—
a sinister symptom of the country’s
moral ill-health.
Compulsory Voting.
Norman Corwin, American radio play-
wright and commentator, who dropped
in on Sydney round about election-time
in the course of his Wendell Willkie
“One World” mission, was reported as
impressed by our compulsory-voting sys-
tem. Had he stayed long enough to see
the votes counted, with the un-nominated
candidate Informal polling heavily in all
electorates, he might have revised his
opinion.
One of the main arguments for com-
pulsory voting was that it would stimu-
late interest in politics. If the citizen had
to vote, said the advocates of compulsion,
he would at least exert himself to find
out something about the candidates and
the merits of their policies. It hasn’t
worked out that way.
First there are the pigheaded irrecon-
cilables who resent being dragged to the
polling-booth and deliberately spoil their
ballot-papers. The second type of in-
formal voter is the well-intentioned
ditherer who, despite universal education,
is constitutionally incapable of filling-in
a ballot-paper intelligently. Under any
system he will always be with us. Patient
teaching may reduce his numbers, but,
short of euthanasia, he cannot be
eliminated.
The third and by far the largest class
consists of those whose ballot-cards go
into the deadwood simply because they
are not sufficiently interested to find out
what it’s all about. They’re at the
polling-booth because the law says they
must attend; but weeks of radio ear-
bashing, party advertisements, newspaper
articles, cartoons and reports of meet-
ings have made no impression on them,
and even the how-to-vote cards thrust
into their hands as they approach the
booth have not shaken them out Of their
indifference. Not that all the votes cast
by this last type of voter are informal.
The Commonwealth electoral law has
dragged him along and the law of proba-
bilities sees that some of his papers are
marked in a way the scrutineers will pass.
In a close contest he may even decide a
seat; all parties are agreed on the value
of first place on the ballot-paper owing
to his lazy habit of voting straight down
the card.
As a result of compulsion about 96
per cent, of all persons enrolled put in
an appearance at the polls, but on the
Senate figures for informal votes from
10 to 15 per cent, of them would have
been better employed on September 28
in mowing the lawn or darning socks.
Compulsory voting has been in force
in Federal elections for 21 years. It has
come of age and has still to justify its
existence. N.S.W. “Labor,” ever to the
fore when it comes to advancing back-
wards, has lately been considering com-
pulsory voting— not the scrapping of the
system, but its extension to local-govern-
ment elections under the scheme whereby
it hopes to bring all the municipalities of
Sydney under the control of the Trades
Hall. Professor F. A, Bland, of Syd-
ney University, speaking at a conference
of local-government clerks last week, re-
ferred to this suggestion as “an aggra-
vated form of interference with the
individual.” He remarked:
Apparently it has escaped the attention
of the planners, who are so busy organising
other people’s lives and coercing and pro-
hibiting them, that voting is a case where
coercion is by its very nature futile An
ignorant vote may easily be regimented by
astute party propaganda. If a vote is cast
merely to escape a fine it will be cast in
disregard of the merits of an argument. No
system of government can hope to survive
in such circumstances.
Bland is Professor of Public Administra-
tion at Sydney University. His criticism
was voiced in reference to municipal
elections, but it applies with greater em-
phasis to the wider field of Federal
franchise.
The Country Press.
Twenty years ago direful prophecies
were being uttered on the future of
country newspapers. It was to be only a
matter of time before city competition,
thrown right on the country editors
doorstep by plane delivery, would wipe
out the lot of them. Radio, bringing
news into pretty well every home several
times daily, would help in the massacre.
There has, in fact, been a falling-off in
the 20 years, but nothing like what was
expected. As president A. T. Shakespeare
reported to the annual conference of the
N.S.W. Country Press Association, the
State —it goes proportionately for other
States —still has at least 163 newspapers
published outside Sydney and Newcastle.
They are published in 149 towns, whereas
166 towns previously had their own
“local rags.”
Some of the casualties have been caused
by the spread to the country of monopoly
ownership, which has had no less an effect
in destroying the old individualism of city
papers. In other cases the towns and their
districts were never big enough to support
competing local sheets, though quite big
enough to keep one going on a sound
footing.
“In spite of outside competition in the
last 12 months,” Mr. Shakespeare said,
“no country newspaper has lost circula-
tion.” That is all to the good. Apart
from the local ourpose they may mainly
serve, and in which they cannot be sup-
planted by city papers, the country sheets
—well run, as very many of them now are
—have a national value. With present
revival of interest in the need for a
breaking-up of the unwieldy, city-domi-
nated States into new and governable
States, with the whole field of decentrali-
sation —in industry, population, develop-
ment of ports and the linking of' the
hinterlands with these—there are causes
enough on a national scale for all country
newspapers, and good reason for wishing
them increase.
On all grounds it would be a sorry day
if they ever went down to city competi-
tion, or—as a few have done —lost their
independence to city control. In the mass
they represent the voice of the solid
country breaking through the catchpenny
sensationalism and general moronic
appeal of contemporary city journalism.
Faith and Fact.
Just how well some of these State Gov-
ernments did out of the war, with thump-
ing Commonwealth revenue for their rail-
ways, big grants from the tax pool and
State activities cut to a minimum while
the nation concentrated on war, is revealed
in Queensland, where the Budget showed
“ample funds to meet a big programme”
of “works” and other things. Queens-
landers are considering how the Govern-
ment’s nice financial position contrasts
with the State’s actual position, which
is bad.
Estimated receipts for 1946-47 are
nearly £25,000,000, roughly £122,000 be-
low last year. Queensland will get a tax-
reimbursement grant of £6,601,000, which
is £780,000 more than last year, and,
though the railway revenue estimate of
£10,350,000 is £l£ million down, esti-
mated expenditure at £24,641,585 is less
than last year by £117,900, expected sur-
plus being £10,750. This so stirred the
Treasurer that he enthused about the
primai y and secondary industries being
“on the verge of still greater expansion,”
and the State having citizens with “the
vigor, ability and determination” to make
it the “greatest State in the Common-
wealth.” A faith laudable enough in itself
and not by any means confined to the
Treasurer; but only a fool would ignore
certain ominous elements in the situa-
tion.
Drought has cost Queensland probably
10,000,000 sheep and 25,000 cattle in the
past 18 months. Beef and mutton are so
short that not only have exports been cut:
Brisbane itself faces a meat shortage.
Butter production in September was the
lowest on record. The sugar crop is the
poorest for generations, hit by drought
and frosts, while it is nearly too late for
rain to save the 1947 harvest.
And Queensland is suffering from the
strike mania. The criminal meat-mine-
wharf strikes of the March-July period
threw production back for months and
cost workers tens of thousands of pounds
in wages, the northern ports have suffered
frequent and lengthy periods of idleness
since the wars ended, constant strikes in
the south have interfered with material
supplies and the flow of inter-State trade,
and housing is a tragedy.
It is true that Queensland has citizens
of “vigor, ability and determination,” and
probably in greater proportion than else-
.where. It is also true that faith in Queens-
land is alive and ardent and that this,
combined with its productive capacity,
will enable the State to get over its dis-
abilities very quickly. But the State
Labor Government mistakes the temper
of the people when it burbles happily
about a “sound position,” either for it-
self or the State. Queenslanders, as has
been said before, are getting dead-tired
of apathy and ineptitude in high places,
particularly when industrial welfare is
being frustrated. They showed it when
they ended Mr. Forde’s reign in Capri-
cornia, and by returning an anti-Labor
Senate team. They may show it again
when the State elections come round.
[For election and referendum matter J. E.
Webb, David Adams, Cecil Mann and Malcolm
Ellis (“Ek Dum”), all of 252 George-street,
Sydney, are responsible.]


m
.
M&
m
-r - ■
i :
: : :
. i •
i
Ik CRAVEN a faM,
// tiudmfUy timtin/iituf
6576
CARRERAS OVER ISO YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Said Chifley, called on a year ago to
act during one of the first of the planned
strikes that have become a feature of our
post-war existence: “I am not going to
crucify the workers.” His merely nega-
tive attitude, however, has not proved a
preventative; left to the leadership of
Corns and militants the “workers” are
rapidly crucifying themselves.
A second week of the Victorian trans-
port strike began on Monday in a
grimmer form, emergency bus services
being cancelled and the difficulty of get-
ting coal either by rail or from the
wharves increasing the light and fuel
problem in suburban homes. The food
question became more acute, housewives
again being among the worst sufferers
as a result of the madness. The week-end
found the city practically lifeless,
even the banks and shops closing on
Saturday morning. The November ration
of petrol coupons, which would have
been available to everyone on Monday
in the ordinary way, was reserved for
essential users only, so heavy has been
the drain on stocks as a result of emer-
gency services.
Late on Monday the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council Disputes Committee sud-
denly decided to “urge resumption” of
work by railway and tramway employees,
and when this issue went to p»ess a meet-
ing of the rank and file of the strikers had
bedh arranged for Tuesday, with the
object of restoring transport services on
Wednesday. apparent collapse of
the strike—the resolution was moved by
J. J. Brown, A.R.U. secretary, and
seconded by the tramways man—will
bring to an end another stretch of indus-
trial insanity out of which only enemies
of progressive democracy will benefit.
It remained for the admirer of Mr.
Chifley who writes the Sydney “Sunday
Telegraph’s” political roundabout to do
full justice to the firmness of his hero in
a report of the Melbourne strike negotia-
tions :
He [Mr. Chifley] justified his claim that
in negotiations he was the least obstinate
of the parties.
Fadden, an authority on finance and
taxation, had something to say about both
when the Darling Downs poll was de-
clared: —
The only hope for a real rise in wages
is a reduction of personal taxation, which
■ gives the worker more money per' week
without adding to the price of goods.
Couple this with more production and you
have a benevolent spiral of more goods,
more money to buy them, more contented
workers and yet more goods.
He added that a rise in Customs revenue
of £7,000,000 this year showed that both
direct and indirect taxation needed over-
haul, the Taxation Department was mak-
ing an effort to collect £92,000,000-odd
of unpaid tax, and there was £45,000,000
from disposals. “Any realistic Treasurer
could make use of that.” But there is no
realism in Chifley’s pipe-dreams about a
Golden Age.
The general council of the British
Trade Union Congress has announced
itself as firmly against the idea that
any one union should have the exclusive
right to employment for its members in
any particular industry. Such a notion
it describes as “alien to British trade-
union theory and practice.” Yet Aus-
tralia has seen long-drawn-out strikes
as a result of inter-union hostility, notably
the S.J.U. affair. Most Communist
notions are alien, not only to British but
to Australian traditions; the pity is that
Communist dupes—or should the word
be dopes?—can’t see it.
Attlee spoke with obvious sincerity
to the British Trade Union Congress
when he deplored the furtiveness and
general cussedness of the Kremlin crowd.
With true British nicety he chose his
words, but nobody could hold any doubt
of their meaning. Whether he was speak-
ing as P.M. of Britain or as leader of
the Labor party his words made it pretty
plain that British Labor’s patience with
Communism and all its works is rapidly
running out.
The British Prime Minister is showing
a very different front towards Communist
infiltration from that shown by Canberra
“Labor.” He said at the Trade Union
Conference in England when some servile
follower of Red policy brought forward a
resolution condemning British policy in
Spain:
This motion is filled with the kind of
misrepresentation to which we have become
accustomed from members of the Com-
munist party, their dupes and fellow-
travellers-
If Mr. Chifley were to make a remark
like that to an Australian trade-union
meeting his pipe would roll off the table
and break into a thousand pieces.
There is a sinister background to the
continued agitation led by Moscow for
the overthrow of the Franco Government
and its replacement by the exiled Com-
munist crowd. The main aim is not the
destruction of Franco but the breaking-
down of British influence in the Mediter-
ranean, which forms a vital artery
of the British Commonwealth. The first
move of a Spanish Communist Govern-
ment would be to deny Britain copper
and iron in favor of Russia. The second
would be to provide the Russians with
Atlantic bases and to attempt to neutral-
ise Gibraltar. And the first to howl at
the economic results of these two policies
would be some Left-wing Britons, who
are at present more concerned with Spain
than with problems in their own country.
Preliminary* comments from London
on the likely outcome of conferences
held by committees of the International
Trade Organisation indicate that Empire
preference will not be interfered with.
This is in keeping with Roosevelt’s idea
of the Bretton Woods Agreement and
with the letter of the agreement by which
the U.S. loan to Britain was made. Though
of little present consequence—all goods
being readily saleable in almost every
part of the world —British preference to
Australian land, products is likely to re-
gain its former importance as world pro-
ductive capacity recovers.
Reports suggest the United States seeks
a reduction of 50 p.c. in world tariffs,
and aims to implant the objective in a
world-trade charter, to be > endorsed by
member-countries in the 1.T.0, early next
year. Russia is keeping out of the dis-
cussions. Meantime the United States is
too industrially stricken and economi-
cally distraught to do much more than
make its official plans now and hope that
Congress in due course will consider
them more rationally and expeditiously
than it did the loan to Britain.
International trade-wars, as known be-
fore 1939, arose out of the demand for
foreign funds by some countries —Japan
and Germany being prominent —leading
to their dumping production overseas at
cut prices, at the same time restricting
their own imports. At present exporting
is being carried on by most countries
only by cutting into supplies available for
home markets; and this applies to U.S.
manufactures as much as anything else.
Tariffs are hardly a world worry now,
but all afflicted countries hope eventually
to overcome the industrial paralysis that
grips them and become bountiful pro-
ducers —and exporters. A free flow of
world trade and high international em-
ployment under such conditions is the
objective of the International Trade
Organisation.
Soviet slave-dealers, caught in the act
of deporting unfortunate German tech-
nicians from Berlin, asserted that the
deportees were willing travellers to the
Soviet, having signed contracts to toil
in Soviet industries. Whereupon there
a rush of survivors to both their
own leaders and to British headquarters
pleading to be protected against being
projected into the Workers’ Paradise.
The old “Thunderer,” which seems
more anti-Conservative these days than
it was Conservative in others, saw
“harm” in Churchill’s blunt question in
the Commons as to whether or not the
Government knew there were 200 Rus-
sian divisions on a war footing in
occupied eastern Europe. There was
more “harm” in the cautious answer
that the Russian forces were “very con-
siderable,” Britain, paying heavily in
cash and commodities for her share
in the occupation and aware that
U.N.R.R.A. is feeding and clothing much
of Russian-occupied Europe, is at least
entitled to full information on such
matters. The Russians could never be
accused of any high regard for truth
or strong desire for self-confession.
Moscow Radio has entered the United
States political campaign with a viperish
blast, the staple of which is that the pre-
sent U.S. Congress is “a tool of reaction-
ary interests,” that voters should plump
for “true democrats” and that a Republi-
can victory will mean “a national disaster
for the country and the end of democracy
in the U.S.” At the poll next month
the outburst should be worth a million or
so votes to the Republicans, who have
not been slow to capitalise it.
■ A bit of kite-flying is going on in
Canberra for Dedman as Deputy P.M.
in place of that chap who held the job—
Lorde or Brorde or Forde or something
■—and Our Foreign Policy is also tipped,
as are Galwell and Ward. Chif. is said
to be favoring Deddy, but it must be
rather difficult to choose between the
man who banned Santa Claus, the man
who unbanned the Communists, the man
who couldn’t find the Brisbane Line and
the man who selects immigrants by the
conformation of their nasal organs.
Queensland “Courier-Mail’s” Canberra
man expects the Federal Budget to be
introduced about mid-November, and
also rather hopefully announces that
“some taxation concessions are ex-
pected.” The way things were going
when his paper printed his piessage,
nobody will be earning enough to tax
by then.
Item from a Washington (U.S.A.) mes-
sage dealing with U.S. exports of coal
and listing the countries which make up
a demand of 2,000,000 tons a month:
Here is how American coal was scheduled
to be unloaded all over the world in
September: New Zealand, 51,000 tons.
Sydney to Auckland is about 1200 miles,
San Francisco to Auckland about 6000,
But little things like that are no handicap
to a N.S.W. coalminer out to beat the boss.
In the Commons' debate on foreign
affairs Attlee said that Britain was deeply
separated from Russia on the value of
individual liberty, freedom of speech and
conception of democracy. Yet it was
not only possible, but essential, for the
two to work together to stop another
war. This sort of optimism is admir-
able; but how can you work with any-
one who continually vilifies and abuses
you, cheats, and is not above blackmail
and lying to gain his ends?
A most unusual fellow named Zischke
has bobbed up in Queensland. A farmer,
Mr. Zischke is a good enough cricketer
to win selectiqn in the State side, but
he won’t play because he runs a farm
in partnership with his brother, and both
of them are too busy with the place to
allow him time off for cricket. Some
of the sporting writers are utterly baffled.
In Queensland, where “Labor” has been
on the State Treasury benches, with one
short break, since 1915, “Labor” won
six of the 10 Queensland seats in the
Reps during the 1943 Federal elections,
and the total non-Labor votes exceeded
those for “Labor” by 35,694. This time,
with seats evenly divided —five apiece—
the non-Labor majority was 82,559, which
was near enough to the winning margin
of the Lib.-C.P. Senate team—B4,2o9.
Queensland “Labor” faces the electors
on State rolls within the next few months.
McKell, reluctant to retire yet loath to
stay, is still putting on a prima-donna act
over his future. Eight months ago he
said he’d go. A fortnight later he said
perhaps he mightn’t. Since then he s
been letting others say this and that for
him, but he can’t keep up the coy act
much longer, as “the party” wants
nominations for pre-selection by Nov-
ember 8. Parliamentary roundsmen tend
to over-simplify the McKelly problem,
regarding it as a straightout choice be-
tween becoming a country squire or re-
maining Premier of N.S.W. Commun-
ing with nature among his cows at
Goulburn a third possibility has prob-
ably occurred to wavering William ; his
city title might be changed to Leader of
the Opposition.
Queensland State Service Union won t
pay any money to Brisbane Trades and
Labor Council, holding that it is “the
Brisbane branch of an un-Australian
political organisation and merely echoes
the views of its masters in the south.”
If only a few more unions would wake
up to these “Trades and Labor Coun-
cils” !
At the end of 1944 Queensland had a
population of 1,071,441, and 35.9 p.c.
of them lived in Brisbane, where the rate
of increase since 1939 has been 16.4 p.c.,
as against only 5.1 p.c. in the rest of the
State. Labor politicians —Queensland
has had Labor government for over 20
years—still mumble about decentralisa-
tion, but it’s pure lip-service.
There’s a mort of Australian towns will
envy Whyalla, the ship-building centre on
Spencer Gulf (S.A.). The Town Com-
mission there finished the year with £2038
in the bank, £6OOO in war loans and £532
owing for rates and services. But, then,
Whyalla is under the wing of “that
bloated capitalistic monopoly, the
8.H.P.,” and B.H.P. weighed-in with
£10,671 for the year. That lets Whyallans
off any charge for making roads, foot-
paths or kerbing, charges which hit rate-
payers in practically every other munici-
pality in Australia.
Two Sydney employers of labor have
been making a great fuss lately about
the success of their profit-sharing systems
in keeping their workers contented. It’s
a great idea, so long as there are profits,
and maybe it could be argued that under
that system profits are most likely, since
the workers have an incentive. But how
does it work in the case of the Sydney
trams and buses, which lost nearly half-
a-million last year? Profit-sharing will
be a good system when the workers
agree to loss-sharing as well.
Because he doesn’t now see people
crowding round hotels and shops on
race-days, the chairman of the Queens-
land Turf Club concludes that s.-p. bet-
ting is “not nearly so 'common as it
was.” The Home Affairs Minister, a
Mr. Foley, agrees, as “officers in my
department tell me that it is on the
decrease.” What a charming thing to
discover so much naivety in this sophis-
ticated world!
It should cheer motorists to know that
more than a third of the a gallon
they pay in petrol tax goes for. 1929-32
depression “relief,” now almost for-
gotten ; more than a third goes in
defence expenditure for a successful war
which ended more than a year ago; and
the remaining 3d. is actually applied to
road upkeep.
Queensland has a new law-breaker
the owner of any mixed business who
dares to sell ice-cream, milk, soft drinks
or lollies to suburban or country picture-
show patrons during the show’s interval.
All such shops are forbidden to open
after 7.30 p.m., and anyone doing so is
liable to the utmost rigor of the law.


HARDLY IN THE RACE.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Traymon”: Window-dressers, even
with a touch of spring in their veins, seem
to be serious-minded creatures, but the
expert responsible for beautifying a play-
suited model in the window of an Eliza-
beth-street (Melb.) store was either un-
duly coupon-conscious or heard the
knock-off whistle at an inconvenient
moment. If he reads this par, may 1
suggest that dirndl-type skirts are not
usually worn in a recumbent position on
the beach without what a former genera-
tion would have modestly described as
nether garments?
* * * *
“Carnie”: If “Findy’s” Society for
Ignoring Telephones (B. 9/10/’46) gets
started there are many who’ll die of
chagrin, I’m an allowance postmistress
and, over the wire, I’m always coming
across folk who refuse to believe that a
“batching” farmer does not do his entire
day’s work within hearing of his ’phone
or that a normal farm household doesn’t
have a telephone attendant during milk-
ing hours. Even if I can tell an insistent
caller a subscriber’s whereabouts and the
regular hour of return, the information
is generally scorned as a stunt to evade
work or to secure an opening-fee for my-
self later on.
f ♦ * ♦
“Morehead”: An elderly military-
looking gent strode ahead of me along
the left-hand side of the pavement with
an air of grim determination, and I
watched him deliberately cannon into a
little fellow coming from the opposite
direction. “Keep to the left, can’t you,”
he snarled at the little cove, who, mutter-
ing to himself, scuttled to the correct side
of the footpath. Within a little more
than 60yds. I saw him bowl into three
other chaps who were approaching him
on the wrong side and heard him say
“Keep to the left, confound you, keep
to the left.” Then he decided to cross the
street. Stepping from the pavement he
cut diagonally across the tram-lines and
was promptly booked by a copper for
jay-walking.
* * * »
“Puyyaka”: That queer disease “Q”
fever has attained its 250th known case in
Queensland since the identification in
1935 of its causal micro-organism by
Professor F. M. Burnet, of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute, in Melbourne,
from specimens forwarded by Dr. E. H.
Derrick, Director of the Queensland
Health Department Laboratories. Most
cases occurred among meatworkers,
mainly in Brisbane; others affected were
workers on dairyfarms in s,-e. Q. There
have been 11 infections among labora-
tory research workers, seven in Brisbane
and four in Melbourne. Only three
deaths have been recorded, but conval-
escence is often long, particularly among
the elderly. The reservoir of the causa-
tive organism, Rickettsia burned, is the
bandicoot. Its particular tick acts as host
to the organism and spreads it to other
bandicoots, although it does not bite man-
kind. Scrub-ticks also infest bandicoots,
and their bites may convey the organism
to cattle, or, rarely, to man. The most
frequent cause of human infection is
inhalation of the dried excreta of
infected scrub-ticks infesting cattle. No
preventive vaccine has yet been evolved,
but supplies of a synthetic remedial drug
which has given good results with a
similar disease in Montana (U.S.A.) are
on their way for trial in Queensland.
« * * *
“Alec”: Our R.S.M. must have been an
exception to the ordinary run of sar’-
majors (B. .23/10/’46). When the regi-
ment returned to the mainland in 1944, it
was decided that training and procedure
required smartening up. The R.S.M-
summoned all n.c.os. to an evening
lecture. Three sergeants who had
lingered too long in the mess arrived
five minutes late. Without batting an eye
the R.S.M. addressed the assemblage,:
“As I was about to remark, punctuality is
the politeness of princes, a courtesy be-
tween equals, but” (here a stare at the
unhappy trio) “an absolute necessity from
inferiors.”
* * * *
“Suburbia”: Though Neville Cardus
may think it unjust, 1 bear him a grudge.
It is an outcome of his persuasive
annotations on music, dating from those
winter nights when he tried to woo his
listeners from a stubborn liking of
Tschaikowsky to the cold-water music of
Sibelius. Commercial stations thought
“If you're not asking questions you're pulling me hair. Can't you let
a bloke sleep?"
the idea a good one and applied it on
a different plane, so that now it is com-
mon for an announcer to extol for ly
minutes the wonders of Izzy Whatsis
on his cornet trying to drown Boxy
Mopey on his drums. Having heard this,
we wait expectantly —the record grinds,
we hear an ear-splitting din, in which
the tune cannot be discerned, although
the wrestle for supremacy on the part
of the cornetist is only too apparent.
There was a time when announcers were
apologetic over this type of music,
their attitude being “We know it isn t
the best, but the people like it.” Now
they are smug, and 1 blame Mr. Cardus
for showing them the way to make their
hideous row seemingly respectable.
* ♦ * *
“Macnell”: A little-known peace-time
job of the Navy is checking the efficiency
of merchantmen’s signal staff. Passing a
ship at sea, particularly at night, a war-
ship calls her up on a 10-inch light and
asks: “What ship, where bound?” The
time of calling up, time taken to answer,
and rate and quality of her flashing are
noted, and a quarterly return rating her
signalman’s efficiency is rendered to the
shipping co. concerned. Companies wel-
come the service ; the servitude of the sea
is exacting, and if occasion demands effi-
cient communication it allows few second
chances.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: In pre-war days some
of the new pilots in New Guinea air com-
panies had opinions of their social stand-
ing. The older ones made a point of
rubbing off corners. First assignments
were to the “outer dromes” —tiny pocket-
handkerchiefs barely able to take a two-
seater. Most of these little strips were
built by isolated miners to ensure supplies,
non-arrival of which made them very
cranky. A new pilot, posted to the outer
dromes, inquired of a veteran, “Just what
is one’s social status he-ah?” “We-ell,”
replied the old hand, “Sometime you’ll
be held up for days by bad weather.
Then you’ll land on one of those pocket-
handkerchiefs; A bewhiskered old
blighter with his shirt hanging out will
march up to you and bellow, ‘Where the
flaming hell have you been for the last
month?’ Now don’t you get annoyed.
He’s a miner, and remember you’re as
good as he is any day.”
■* * • •
“Tackline S”: Why the howls about
one-day tram stoppages? In Havana in
1934 I saw something that was really
worth a whinge. Trams toiled not, neither
did they occupy the depots. The moment
a strike began, they just stopped and spent
the next few days wherever they happened
to be at the fateful moment. Results can
be imagined, especially at intersections
where a couple of vehicles were crossing.
No one cursed the “trammies” ; it was the
power-station boys who declined to work.
But nobody worried about it, for some-
thing of greater import occupied the
public mind. There were four revolutions
in five days that week.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Red tape’s reports
are not always dry as dust. A Queens-
land Crown Lands ranger was told that
his assessment of the carrying capacity
of a sheep property was ridiculously
below that of his predecessor. The
“please explain” was signed by none
other than the now-promoted predeces-
sor, who remarked therein that since the
previous report no droughts, floods or
earthquakes had materially altered the
nature of the country. The ranger had
the courage of his convictions, which
he restated with a rider that is now
a treasured departmental archive: “If my
predecessor thinks that wiregrass is six-
acre country then I suggest that the
previous inspection was carried out
through the wavering end of an empty
beer-bottle.”
* * * *
“Nexa”; Propaganda and travel bureaus
in the United States to bring Australia
to the notice of that country? They don t
need them. The U.S. has us taped. In a
stamp catalogue which I have just re-
ceived from America the following
appears under the heading “Australia :
Australians work, in descending order of
importance, at manufacturing, shepherding,
agriculture and dairying; they export wool,
butter, frozen meats and wheat. rheir
country is famed as a trade-union paradise,
for unions have the upper hand in almost
everything. The day-laborer is king;
strikes are numerous ; the Government runs
innumerable enterprises....
I’d add “but not the country.”
* * * *
“Melbn”: According to a London
cable, Cornwall’s latest night-club has
been established in the old county
prison. Where criminals once waited
execution a cocktail-bar with huge life-
size murals of Oriental houris will func-
tion and the couples will dance over the
pit where for 150 years malefactors were
hanged. The chapel where parsons ex-
horted prisoners to repent their sins is
richly carpeted and illuminated with
fluorescent-lighting. I wonder if students
at Melbourne Tech, realise that under
their feet in some of the classrooms mur-
derers, from Deeming to Ned Kelly, once
lay buried. When the massive walls ot
the old Melbourne jail were being de-
molished to make way for extensions to
the college, a scoop got busy on the
foundation. It wasn’t long before the
workmen were staggered to see skulls
and skeletons coming up with the eartn
and rubble. A journalist got wind ot it
and went along to investigate. News-
boys were reaping a rich harvest mre i
of celebrated homicides and a bookmaker
was negotiating for what was claimed to
be the skull of Ned Kelly. The journalist
started the ball of inquiry rolling, but it
happened to be a Friday and all Minis-
ters concerned had gone off for the week-
end. It wasn’t till the following Monday
that anything could be done. What was
left of the remains of 21 men who had
paid the last penalty for their misdeeds
was reburied in unconsecrated ground
elsewhere.
* * * *
“Alec”: Was inspecting gun-sites one
morning in New Guinea. One site was
beautifully peaceful, with only the sentry
in sight. The rest of the crew were in
a tent being lectured by the gun ser-
geant on the “Current Affairs Bulletin.
All appeared interested except one bloke,
who was idly reading a magazine. 1
called the sergeant outside and con-
gratulated him on his discussion but
asked why he allowed one man to be
■so uninterested. His reply shook me.
“It’s all right, sir, he’s on ‘No duties’;
he hurt his hand yesterday.”
s(t * * *
“Bo”: The inspector swung along the
footboard, and his determined “Show all
tickets, please!” brought our tram com-
partment out of its somnolence. The
fat fellow facing me started going through
his pockets with great deliberation. And
he had some pockets. After about five
minutes he had explored four vest-
dredged the amazingly varied
contents* of his outside coat-pockets, his
two side trouser- and his hip-pockets.
When his match-, fob- and breast-pockets
yielded nothing, the inspector, who had
been drumming on the brass end-rail,
reached for his notebook. But the fat
one would have none of it. He swore
he’d bought a tieket —and he began the
dredging again. Just as the pencil was
flashing ominously someone pointed to
the stout one’s hat-band. Triumph, and
a thud for officialdom! The fellow next
to him then jerked his face out of his
newspaper and started his search. Four
minutes, 10 seconds after a fruitless
quarrying of all his pockets he suddenly
remembered and took from under a
signet-ring a rolled-up cylinder. The next
passenger methodically opened a purse
and produced an immaculate ticket —
and everyone goggled, as they do when-
ever a man pulls out a purse. The chap
next to me, after furiously going over his
person, eventually came to light with a
tattered remnant he’d been idly twisting
up for half an hour —scarcely a number
was visible on it. The inspector was
still trying to decipher it when we came
to a busy intersection and the compart-
ment was swamped. Very fortunate, for
I dimly recalled then that I had rolled
my own ticket into a pellet miles back
and had fired it at a passing car.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: There is some consolation
to an ancient theatregoer in revivals of
old-time musical comedies. To the
younger generation these pieces are
almost brand-new. If I talk to my
nephews of old-time shows like those of
Nellie Stewart, Oscar Asche or Julius
Knight I meet a stony silence. But men-
tion “Merry Widow” or “Rose Mane”
and I’m talking their language—so long
as I’m careful not to mention casts.
* * * •
“Salailua”: The implied snigger at
parsons recorded by “Camsa” (B.
2/10/’46) is uncalled for. Can the fol-
lowing be equalled? In camp on Rose-
hill racecourse in September, 1914, were
eight Protestant parsons who had
enlisted in the ranks. This is their
subsequent record. Greg MacGregor,
D.C.M.; W. Cross, D.C.M.; W.
Francis, D.C.M. and Mentioned in
Dispatches ;J. H. Sorrell, M.M.; C. Page,
M.M. (afterwards killed); Digges la
Touche, killed while a platoon commander
in a charge at Lone Pine; R. H. Pitten-
drigh, died of wounds received while
rescuing wounded men lying among burn-
ing grass and scrub (the other man on the
stretcher was Padre Gillison, who was
killed at the same time); S. E. Maxted,
later a chaplain in France, killed while
acting as a volunteer stretcher-bearer.
Now bring out your boxers, barmen,
bookies, brewers, barristers or any other
profession or trade and beat that
“The Falcon”: Sydney’s jay-walkers
are being blitzed. I’ve been watching
the action. With a faraway or
with head buried in a newspaper, a citizen
steps from the footpath and walks diagon-
ally across the street. As he reaches the
opposite side a great hand reaches out
and grabs him. He looks fearfully up
into the face of the law and sheepishly
mumbles his explanation while the cop
sets busy with notebook and pencil.
What amazes me is the honesty of the
“criminals.” Few cases of false names
are reported. Maybe it’s because lying
is humanly impossible while pleading
ignorance of the traffic laws to a scowling
questioner, or perhaps it is the curious
2 aze of passers-by to which the victim is
subjected that prevents his inventing a
fictitious name and address.
SIR ORACLE.
‘“We are supreme at two-up and don t plaj cricket
badly, but our art-teachers are far trom being
in the first flight.”— Mr. Missingham, Director of the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
We’ve no superiors at copper-spinning;
Mo land has cricketers more slick and smart
And definitely capable of winning
Matches and putting rivals in the cart.
Isn’t it time, though, we should be beginning
To pay a little more regard to Art/
And here is one who makes that same his biz
Impressively assuring us it is.
Our public buildings, splashed in the interior
With paint resembling gravy, brown and thick,
And lopped above with somethmg hardly
cheerier
Tiles in that shade of red described as brick,
Combine to render his existence drearier, .
Leave him, in fact, more than a little sick.
The shocking crudeness of the color-scheme
Gets on his nerves, like some appalling dream.
He scans our postage-stamps and finds a clamant
And sheer repulsiveness in their design,
Studies the silver that we slap in payment
Upon the bar for whisky, beer or wine
And groans in spirit. Even seaside raiment
(Who knows?) may send a shudder down his
Thoughf to be sure, it’s seldom things like these
Affront artistic sensibilities.
What though a really fascinating theme you
May find in deeds our cricket champions do,
How can it leave us less regretful, deem you,
Or soften the reflection, sad but true.
There’s nobody can draw a telling emu
Or fashion an aesthetic kangaroo, _
The native fauna custom bids us join
To mark a stamp or decorate a com?
We’ve artists, peerless ones, to whirl a copper
»Aloft and with the spoil their pockets cram,
Bowlers to give the wariest bat a stopper
And batsmen merry centuries to slam,
“But where are artists of the right and proper
Sort?” asks authoritative Missingham.
And, seeing he infers the cupboard s bare,
Echo disconsolately answers “Where?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Fitz”: The footnote to The Bul-
letin’s “Political Items” during the elec-
tion reminds me that the paper was not
always so formal in its compliance with
the Commonwealth Electoral Act. In
1913, when the law relating to the signing
of such articles first came into operation,
The Bulletin treated the business as a
joke. John Dailey signed an article in
this fashion:
[Written by John Bede Dalley, The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and by him signed
and sealed in accordance with the Act, at
the picturesque Mosman home of his friend
“Kodak,” in the presence of the Religious
Editor, a more or less Scotch terrier, and
a few million fleas (the property or trust
or monopoly of the terrier); the time being
8.15 p.m. and dinner just over.]
Beneath a poem advising the electors to
vote “No” in the referendum appeared
the following:
[Arthur H. Adams. Subscriptions re-
ceived for painting his gate at The Red
Page, The Bulletin Office, Sydney. For
the purposes of police identification, the
author’s right thumb-print’ is herewith
appended, taken in the presence of W. H.
East, who is someone of importance in the
composing department.]
Editor James Edmond finished a political
paragraph with the lines:
[Written without the faintest idea as to
what it is about, and without any evidence
whatever, by James Edmond, The Bulle-
tin Office, Sydney.]
A Norman Lindsay cartoon was endorsed
“drawn under difficulties, as he was suf-
fering from the father and grandfather
of a cold,” while “Hop” informed all
and sundry that his private address was
“Raglan-street, Mosman. Beware of the
dog; he is a beast.”
« * * *
“Jasby”: In South Africa the Govern-
ment is getting a trifle worried over the
breakfast habits of the population. A
pamphlet issued by the Union’s Depart-
ment of Agriculture expresses regret that
“it is becoming increasingly apparent that
the importance of this meal is generally
underestimated and there is a growing
tendency to have little or no breakfast.”
To counteract this movement towards
hunger-strikes the pamphlet makes the
suggestion that the housewife should
serve breakfast 10 minutes earlier and
“remember that a clean tablecloth, clean
cutlery and crockery, a gay bunch of
flowers and the neat, cheerful appearance
of the mother are all factors which play
a part in eating in a pleasant homely
atmosphere.” A moment’s reflection will
show what a big difference to an agri-
cultural economy a wide-scale avoidance
of breakfast could make. In Australia
the problem would be tackled in a differ-
ent manner. Faced with a decline in the
consumption of cereals, the Minister for
Agriculture would merely pay another
10,000 cockies not to grow wheat.
* * * *
“Lockie”; Here’s my explanation
of the improvement in taste of beer
drunk from a pewter pot (B. 9/10/’46).
Metal conducts heat more quickly than
glass. Consequently the rim of the
pewter, taking heat from the lip, gives
an added feeling of coolness to the lip
as the beer flows down the gullet—what-
ever the temperature of the beer may
be. The smoothness of the metal and
its comparative thinness also add to the
attraction of beer drunk from a tankard.
* * * *
“W.O. Two”; There was not an army
unit that did not have its share of “dills,”
“drubes,” “peanuts” and “zombies,”
and our outfit had, during the early
days, as weird an assortment as any.
Many were hopeless simpletons who
should never have been allowed to join
the Army. A few were not as boof-
headed as they appeared to be, but merely
acted silly to dodge irksome tasks.
Strictly speaking, however, they came
under the heading of “no-hopers.” One
of our prize “dills” was “Oigle,” who
could be coaxed into almost any foolish
prank. He was kidded into wearing a
jazz cap on early-morning parade, walk-
ing into the sergeants’ mess clad in a
loincloth and sporting a false beard, and
sending a note to the R.S.M. asking
whether he could have breakfast in bed.
“The Dingbat” was so stupid that he
lost himself every time he ventured more
than 50 yards from his hut. “The
Drongo,” whom even his closest cobber
agreed was “as mad as a cut snake,”
could not perform the simplest drill
“No deliveries till Monday! All right , I'll take it with me."
movements, hold a rifle without dropping
it or master the business of folding
blankets. One by one these misfits were
either discharged or passed on to other
units, A few remained to the end, how-
ever, including “Shorty,” victim of count-
less practical jokes and a “wood-and-
water joey” to everyone in the unit. For
the mere asking “Shorty” would polish
boots, wash clothes, clean rifles, run
messages or take over fatigues. The
boys gave the poor “loon”*a rough spin
one way and another, but when the unit
was about to disband made it up to
“Shorty” in an unexpected manner.
They took up a collection and bought
him an expensive wristlet watch. The
average Digger always had a soft spot
for the decent sort of simp even when
poking borak at him.
* * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: If C. J. Dennis’s
Glugs of Gosh does live, it may be as
a children’s classic. My kids, taken with
Hal Gye’s drawings, wanted to know
what it was all about, and when I read
it to them they were thrilled with every-
thing except maybe the canto “The
Swanks.” They quote snatches of it to
this day, such as
Tis a horrible thing
To be hanged by a Glug with a second-hand
string....
and
’Tis wholesome food that the Glugs have
got.
For it says so plain on the tin and pot.
The Sentimental Bloke and other
Dennis books didn’t have the same
appeal to the kids as the Glugs did.
* * * *
“Weff”: Some 20 years ago I was sent
by a Sydney weekly to cover a Chinese
play that was being produced by the Yu
Tan Hwa. I made my way to the Kuo
Min Tang headquarters and discovered
that not only was I the only Australian
there, but that the four-act drama was
to be presented entirely in Chinese. With
the assistance of a courteous young
Chinaman I was able to follow the story,
which dealt with civil war in China and
a young cadet torn between duty and
love for a maid named Yi Hsiung-fei. I
gave the production a long and friendly
notice and praised the acting of several
members of the cast. Returning to the
office after lunch a couple of days after
the review appeared I found a pile of gifts
on my desk—Chinese sweets, cakes and
cordials, peanuts, fruit (including a large
bunch of bananas and two watermelons)
and a cooked chicken. I was told the
gifts had been left by a party of five
Chinese youths. I still have an uneasy
feeling when I think what might have
been placed on my desk had I given
the show an adverse notice.
* * * *
“Blessem”: Nurses have a lot to put up
with. In a Victorian country hospital
one of the sisters was seen ruefully strok-
ing a swollen jaw. “No female’s goin’
to undress me,” an irate, elderly patient
had declared when it was his turn to be
washed. Ignoring him, the nurse moved
to turn back the bedclothes. The ancient
one’s fist shot out, connecting with the
unfortunate girl’s chin. In a moment
she had regained her composure—and
her feet, and was gently endeavoring to
pacify her indignant charge. “But didn’t
you report it?” my friend asked. “Oh,
no,” replied the nurse, smiling. “The
poor old chap meant no harm. He’s
new here —and a bit embarrassed, that’s
all.”
♦ * * ♦
“Macnell”: Completely unpublicised
during the war were the cable-cutting
operations of British cable-ships. This
vital work was carried out in mid-ocean
or close to enemy coasts, the slowly-
moving cable-ship a sitting shot for any-
thing the enemy liked to send along.
Cutting a cable is not a difficult opera-
tion, but to be effective the job had to
be done in such a way that resplicing was
virtually impossible. Great lengths of
cable running into miles were cut from
the line’s centre, and as this usually lay
in deep water in mid-ocean, the cable’s
heaviest armor had to be sliced. Ger-
many at the outbreak had only two over-
seas cables and both these were cut. Then
the cable-layer Mirror hooked on to
Mussolini’s Rome-Malaga-Barcelbna line,
and two miles were hacked from the
centre. The Italians had the same idea
and cut our Gibraltar-Malta cable in
the Sicilian Channel. Though Malta was
under constant attack and they were us-
ing a modernly-equipped ship in shallow
water, it took two months before the last
strand was severed. When Japan came
in she diverted and cross-connected
British, Danish and American cables to
such an extent that even now the tangle
is not cleared up.
* * * #
“Uco”; With air-speed records get-
ting up somewhere around the speed
of sound it is interesting to hark back
to the early days of aviation. In 1913
the Schneider Cup was won by the
Frenchman Prevost at Monaco with a
speed of 45 m.p.h. This was the first
competition for the speed trophy, but,
according to a correspondent of the
London “Times,” Schneider must have
donated an earlier cup. The writer
records that Mrs. Will Gordon has pre-
sented to the R.A.F. College, Cranwell,
“the original Schneider Cup, won at
Tours in 1910 by her brother, the late
Captain Bertram Dickson.” Dickson
was successful “against the best Con-
tinental fliers of the day, when he com-
pleted 166 miles in a week.” Whitaker’s
Almanac, 1911, which gives a fairly com-
prehensive list of notable events in
aviation during 1910, makes no mention
of this Cup or of any contest at Tours,
but records that Dickson was seriously
injured at Milan in October of that year
when his ’plane collided with another
flown by one Thomas.
* * * *
“Orthodox” recalls Australia’s ecclesi-
astical beginnings;
Rev. Richard Johnson, Australia’s first parson,
didn’t get much encouragement from either
Governor Phillip or his peculiar congregation.
Phillip left him without a church, so that John-
son was forced to build one himself —an
obelisk in Hunter-street, Sydney, marks its posi-
tion —and it did duty until some of the par-
ishioners burnt it down in the vain hope that
compulsory attendance at services on Sunday
might lapse. When Phillip returned home in
1792 Lieutenant-Governor Grose was even more
hostile. His attitude to the chaplain is shown
by a story which that suffering apostle related
to Governor Hunter. Soon after Phillip’s de-
parture Johnson was officially informed that
divine service was to be performed at 6 a.m.
on Sundays. “One Sunday morning,” he said,
“I met the soldiers at the place appointed in
the open air. Before I began I heard the drum-
major give directions to the drummers to beat
off at 10 minutes or a quarter before seven as
usual. Suspecting what was going on, I looked
at my watch, read part of the morning service,
then (without any singing) gave out my text,
and had given about half of my discourse when
the drum beat, and the soldiers instantly got
up, took their arms, fell into their ranks and
marched away I looked around and saw
about half a dozen convicts standing behind
me, but, such were my feelings upon this
occasion, I could not go on with my discourse,
and therefore returned home greatly disturbed
in my mind at such barefaced profanity and
infidelity.”
* * * *
“Wongajong”: One fellow I know is
not anxious for an improvement of the
present housing shortage. - He has been
married for 20 years and in that time has
changed his residence about 15 times.
Not because of any inability to pay his
rent or because of any disputes with
landlords, but simply because his wife is
a restless sort who gets fed up with a
place after about a year’s occupancy and
insists upon shifting to another suburb.
“We’ve been nearly three years in this
joint,” he remarked to me, “the longest
we’ve stayed anywhere.” “The missus
has been hunting for a new place for
months, but can’t get one for love or
money. As far as I am concerned I don't
care how long the shortage lasts. It suits
me down to the ground.”
* * * *
“Cine Ma”; As a tract against booze
“The Lost Week End” is a failure. In
fact, the picture glamorises it. Ray Mil-
land is a handsome young man, and no-
where do you feel his degradation. On
the contrary, you think “What a tragic
hero!” Having read in the dailies that
the anti-liquor interests were recommend-
ing it as an antidote against the drinking
habit, a serious - minded Melbourne
matron took her two children, one aged
11 and the other 13, to see the picture.
She was somewhat staggered at dinner
next day to hear her ewe lambs asking
their daddy to “pass the bottle.”
* * * *
“Morehead”; Mrs. Morehead and I
had been to the flicks, and when we got
home near midnight we found that neither
had brought a key. I smashed the kitchen
wandow and climbed through, only to
find that Mrs. M. had also locked the
door leading from the kitchen to the
rest of the house. While I was telling the
missus what I thought of her the man
next door popped his head over the fence,
asked what the trouble was and said he’d
fix things up. With a piece of wire in two
shakes he had the connecting door open.
Mrs. M. and I invited him to stay for a
bite of supper, thanked him profusely
and congratulated him on his skill. Men-
tioning the incident later to another
neighbor, I was told: “Well, he’s had
plenty of experience picking locks. He’s
done two stretches for housebreaking.”
GREAT NEWS.
Ted Windsor is hunting a job,
Some billet, he hopes, to atone
For the loss of a crown from his nob
And surrender (for love) of a throne.
But a hotter news item, you’ll own,
Is one which directly suggests
That Bradman, cur Don as he’s known,
Is a pretty sure prospect for Tests.
Ben Chifley awaits for his mob
In the scramble for spoils to be thrown,
While Menzies, familiarly Bob',
Refuses to whinge or to moan.
His time will yet come, he’ll depone;
On his oars for the present he rests.
And widely the message is flown
That Bradman’s good goods for the Tests,
Doc Evatt’s preparing to lob
Away to the Japanese zone,
But devil a thrill or a throb
I’ll get from wherever he’s blown.
Jack Lang, all aloof and alone,
A foothold at Canberra wrests.
But far better reasons are shown
For banking on Bradman in Tests.
It should boost the Security Loan
And fire all our barrackers’ breasts,
Now hope has to confidence grown
That Don will feel fit for the Tests.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE SERVICE MAN
Alamein's Anniversary.
“Ek Dum”: Tomorrow (Oct. 31),
fourth anniversary of the crucial phase
of the Battle of Alamein, which opened
on Oct. 23, 1942, and ended on Noy.
4-5,. might be reckoned also as the anni-
versary of the turning-point of the war.
Rommel, fresh from Berlin and the
hypnotism of Hitler, had been advised
strongly by Von Thoma and others to
retire gracefully and burthen the British
forces with another long, weary, fruitless
trek across Libyan sand and stone. But
Rommel was all for victory. The glare
of Alexandria only 70 miles away, the
rich prizes of Suez, the Nile and Africa
were too much for him and for his politi-
cal superiors, more especially as they
knew that victory would close the Medi-
terranean at the eastern end, would
bring them within a few days of the
Persian oilfields, from which the lifeblood
of the Royal Navy was being drawn,
and would enable them to cut Russia’s
lifeline and take the battered Red Army
in the rear. The Russians were moving
troops in the Kuban lands. The battle
of the Kokoda trail was on.
Alamein was Alexander’s battle for
planning ; Montgomery’s for inspiration
and execution. Once the Germans de-
cided to stand, their fate and that of Italy
was sealed. Too late they heard in the
last week of October that the Americans
had landed at Monrovia in Liberia and
that the presence of U.S. and British
troops was reported in Brazzaville (Free
French West Africa), with a French force
at Lake Chad.
Montgomery’s fighter ascendancy had
prevented the enemy from spying on him.
The curtain on the first act of the battle
was rung up at 10 p.m. on Oct. 23 to
the accompaniment of a rolling naval
salvo. The order went out: “Destroy
Rommel and his army.” The guns roared
as they had not done since the barrages
of the Somme. And the A.1.F., on the
coastal flank under General Morshead,
and the Scotties next door, with the loss
in France of their “name” division, the
51st, to avenge, drove forward behind
the barrage while the whole line came
alive.
The week which took the fighting to
its vital point on Oct. 31 was marked
by a series of operations which could be
compared to the task of driving wedges
into a cruelly-resisting monster. The
A.I.F. role was the crucial one at that
stage. There could be no success without
their advance. But, as the week ended,
the furious German counter-attacks eased
off. In the A.1.F.-Highland sector, Ger-
man positions had not only fallen but
jiad been consolidated.
On Friday night, Oct. 30, and Saturday,
Oct. 31, the second phase of the advance
began behind a barrage which at times
was said to be delivering 1500 shells a
minute. The A.I.F. had cut off a substan-
tial German force. At that stage, how-
ever, the battle was still in the balance,
and it was here written:
Decision cannot come until the [German]
defences are broken up on a front wide
enough to allow tanks to pour through,
manoeuvre and try conclusions with Rom-
mel’s three powerful armored divisions and
the artillery which he must have arrayed
for the inevitable battles to come.
Then came the right conditions for the
final smash in the creation of the Akakir
bulge, into which went Montgomery’s
prized “ball of fire” —the X Armored
Corps, two British armored divisions and
the armored Maoris. They went through
Rommel’s might as if through a paper
walL
In the five days which followed the
history of the world was changed. Rom-
mel began to run with a vengeance. The
relief of Malta from attacks from
African bases was on the verge of
achievement, and thus the jumping-off
place for attack on Sicily was saved and
the sea lines kept open.
Montgomery by Nov, 5 could say:
“Absolute victory is ours. The Boche in
North Africa is completely finished.”
More than 30,000 prisoners were already
in the cages, including Von Thoma,
G.O.C. of the Afrikakorps, and Generals
Sommermann, of the 90th Light Division,
and Von Prittewitz, of the 15th Armored
Division.
Within a few hours the Americans had
landed on North Africa, backed by the
British Navy. Stalin expressed confidence
that the Allied drive in Africa would
“soon relieve German pressure on the
Russian front,” a prophecy which proved
true within a week when the Italians fled
and the Rumanians and Hungarians
broke north of Stalingrad and the long
trail of fighting on the Eastern Front
which ended in Berlin began. Within a
few days the naval battle of the Solo-
mons was fought. Admiral Nimitz
described it as “one of the decisive battles
of the war.”
The A.M.F. in New Guinea before the
end of November had broken through to
the northern Papuan coast.
And the initiation of all this change
hinged on the performance of the XxX
Corps, commanded by Lieut.-General
Ritchie, who gave the lion’s share of the
credit for the performance to the Ninth
Division, A.I.F. He wrote to General
Morshead:
1 am quite certain the break-through was
only made possible by the Homeric fight
on your division’s sector.. . .When it was
no longer possible for the crumbling pro-
cess to go on in the South, the Army
Commander decided to continue with his
Homeric policy in the North. This led to
five days’ bitter fighting on your front.
During this time your division was attacked
four times and counter-attacked incessantly
by enemy infantry and tanks. The main
mass of heavy and medium artillery was
concentrated on your front and the
enemy had concentrated the whole of his
Panzer Corps against you. Your fight gave
the opportunity for the conception of the
final break-through in the centre, and this
could never have been done if your front
“See, Prendergast. You've got to SHOW 'em that two-up doesn't pay!"
had been broken If the Germans could
have broken your division the whole gun
support of the attack would have been
disorganised and its success vitally pre-
judiced.
Later General Montgomery said that
if the A.I.F. had failed all would have
failed.
Fear Over Europe.
“Ek Dum”: The discomforts of the
home front, with its repeated outbreaks
of industrial mania, are apt to distract
attention from events overseas. The
daily papers help to give a false sense of
proportion, since they prefer to follow
popular rather than vital news, and are
doing much to mitigate the impact of the
cold, hard facts of what is going on in
Europe and Asia,
Turkey and Germany
A summary of major events affecting
peace and war for the week ending on
Friday, October 25:
At the beginning of the week General
Hodges, commander of the American
Forces, announced that the agitations
which had disrupted government in the
U.S. zone in Korea had been organised
by Russian-sponsored elements in the
Russian zone, whence bodies of agitators
had been sent.
The same day Turkey rejected Russia’s
demand for the control of the defence
of the Dardanelles. Uncle Sam at once
granted the Turkish Government a loan
for rehabilitation.
The Russians during the previous few
days had disrupted all air services, in-
cluding Allied official courier services,
over south-eastern Europe, without giving
grounds. It was reported—while the
delegates were on their way to the U.N.O.
conference in the United States —that
the disruption was meant to cover great
troop movements.
Followed discreet propaganda from
Russia about that country’s demobilisa-
tion. The defence vote, it appeared, had
been reduced from 128,000,000,000 rubles
to 72,000,000,000 rubles. The informa-
tion value of the announcement cannot
be gauged on the face of it.
Contemporaneously, despite repression
and the forced amalgamation of the
Social Democratic parties with the Com-
munists in the Russian zone in Germany,
plus every measure known to Russian
democracy for securing a 99 p.c. vote in
the right direction, the amalgamafed
Socialist-Communists polled only 383,182
votes against 1,562,756 by other parties in
the Berlin municipal elections. The Rus-
sians were grim about it. The Russian-
appointed Mayor of Berlin said that the
vote meant “the funeral of the present
Berlin Council,” which contained 70 p.c.
of hand-picked Socialist Unity candi-
dates.
“Funeral” had an ominous sound.
“Trud,” the Moscow trade-union paper,
said that the Russian-sponsored party’s
defeat in the British zone was due to the
bourgeois-minded British, who allowed re-
actionary socialists to tear down Com-
munist posters. “Trud” added: “The
Soviet Union will not forget this insult.”
Moscow was even grimmer about the
fact that in Saxony, where the population
was supposedly under the whip-hand of
the U.S.S.R., more than 50 p.c. of voters
had polled against Social Unity. There
were dark hints that something might
happen to the Saxons.
Fate of the Poles
The last of the gallant Polish Army
which fought with the Australian Ninth
Division in Tobruk and with the Eighth
Army in Italy left the latter country
during the week —about 5000 were trans-
ferred to England. General Anders said
sadly that the men of the Second Corps,
who had been persuaded to go to Poland
in March, were now mostly behind the
Urals. Russia declares that it has
nothing whatever to do with the control
of its affairs save as they affect Russian
communications with Germany. But
General Anders and others believe that
the U.S.S.R. is maintaining a large con-
centration camp in Central Asia to which
the Polish soldiers have been sent as
forced labor.
Meanwhile elections are imminent in
Poland, and the country’s “free, demo-
cratic” Government, as was not surpris-
ing, discovered a terrorist plot hatching
among the Opposition—the Peasant
party. The Peasant party’s chief publicity
officer was discovered to be the head of
it with 13 members of the executive be-
hind him, plus 100 members of the party’s
electoral councillors and 697 ordinary
members. They are all spending the
election campaign in jail.
The Polish Embassy in London an-
nounced that the arrests made during the
week were “not in any way connected
with the elections.” The warrants had
been issued by a Judge, and the whole
of the prisoners had been connected with
terrorist organisations and were respon-
sible for murders and outrages. Any
Australian Communist will make his
affidavit that Poland is a free, democratic
country. v
Forced Labor
Forced labor was not a topic merely
in Poland. A few days before a Japanese
soldier of the Kwangtung armies held
by the Russians against all agreements
and the ordinary dictates of international
law and practice escaped with the story
that he and 50,000 of his comrades had
been employed by the Russians as slave-
laborers in building a huge underground
military aerodrome in Siberia in a posi-
tion within reach of Northern Japan,
and right athwart the Russia-Alaska air-
route, over which thousands of tons of
supplies for the Red Army were flown
during World War 11.
Then Marshal Tito, the Red Army
General who governs Yugoslavia, was
heard denying as “a malicious untruth”
a U.S. Embassy suggestion that Ameri-
can citizens were being detained as slave-
laborers.
Mr. Churchill, in the House of Com-
mons, contributed the remark that con-
ditions in Yugoslavia were “sinister and
melancholy.” They certainly were, and
off the coast of Albania, now a satellite
Yugoslav Communist State, two British
destroyers, Saumarez and Voiage, were
mined within 45 minutes of each other
—London “Daily Mail” says “deliber-
ately.” Of the crew 83 were killed and
wounded.
Deportations
Almost the same day it was announced
that German workers, mainly jet-aircrait
and radar and optical technicians, had
been suddenly ordered at 2.30 a.m. to
pack up. They had been removed with
their families by the Russians to unknown
destinations. The Russians said gently
that the workers involved had left “in
fulfilment of contracts to work in Rus-
sian industry.” The exodus began on
October 2'., the day the election results
were announced, and within a few days
it was reported to invoke thousands
of men. Germans thronged police and
union headquarters all day during the
week asking for protection against depor-
tation. Later it was known that noted
German optical and radar plants also
were being transferred beyond the range
of British and U.S. observations.
And British officers told Reuters that
Russian lorries had raided the British
sector in an unsuccessful attempt to cap-
ture more technicians dealing in modern
war methods.
The Russians received protests from
the German Free Trades Union League,
a body which they themselves created.
And it can be taken for granted that
those unions knew what they were talk-
ing about when they addressed their pro-
test to Russian military headquarters.
The exodus of German expert workmen
was obviously not a civilian business. The
Allied Control Council called a special
meeting to discuss the matter.
On War Footing—2oo Divisions
Meanwhile, U.N.O. opened its meet-
ing to discuss the creation of an Allied
force to defeat aggressors. The speech
before it of President Truman, far away
from the scene of Europe, was dif-
ferent in tone from the grim little debate
which took place in the House of Com-
mons.
There Mr. Attlee complained that Rus-
sian newspapers made “fantastic mis-
representations” of the world outside
Russia. He attacked the Communists:
Democracy is becoming a much-abused
word. If in any part of the world the
Communist party is in power, no matter
by what means, it is called a democracy.
If anywhere the Communists should fail
it is called Fascism. *
And the Under-Secretary for Foreign
Affairs, Mr. McNeil, found himself unabie
to give a denial to Mr. Churchill’s
straight question whether it was a fact
that there were 200 Russian divisions on
a war footing in the occupied countries
of Europe between the Baltic and the
Black Sea. All he could say was that it
was well known that there were “con-
siderable forces” in the area. He refused
to elaborate his answer. It is only a few
months since M. Vyshinsky disrupted the
proceedings of U.N.O. for days with his
protests that the presence of a couple of
brigades of British troops in Greece were
a threat to international peace.
The Russians had announced the same
day their fourth demobilisation of land
forces —“older soldiers and non-commis-
sioned officers of the land troops.” But
the statement was not accompanied by a
reminder that the intake of younger men
through universal conscription is prob-
ably greater than the retirements.
The figures quoted by Mr. Churchill in
his question are staggering. On a war
basis, with ancillary and communication
troops, 200 divisions means in the region
of 6,000,000 men at a minimum, half of
them ready for the firing-line, plus
another 6,000,000 engaged in basic
civilian work at least, on a barebone
reckoning. If the answer to Mr.
Churchill’s question is “Yes,” it means
that the Russians have 12,000,000 men
“at the ready” for war.
President Truman’s assurance that
“fears of another war are unwarranted
and unjustified” will bring little comfort
until the facts are made clear and until
the Russians fall into line with the civi-
lised world in their human relations with
others.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
forces
tt-M- - c
ssr »-sss*-
Office.
the
by
pprovcd
\\,Aon,
Tributes to the Pelman Training
HELPFULNESS AND UNDERSTANDING
2Cth January, 1946.
“My ability to concentrate on ALL subjects
has been strengthened. My sincere thanks for
your helpfulness and understanding.’’—
(R.A.A.F.).
MAKES DECISIONS
Ist February, 1946.
“The Course has helped me considerably to
make decisions clearly, and I am happy to say
that I have lost almost completely a bad habit
of long standing—procrastination.”—POST-
MAN.
DEFINITE PROGRESS
14th February, 1946.
“I have made definite progress, mostly with
powers of observation and determination.”—
SALESMAN.
RECOLLECTIVE ABILITY
14th February, 1946.
“I am very pleased with the improvement in
my recollective ability.”—(AßMY).
READJUSTING DIFFICULTIES
Ist March, 1946.
“I consider that I have benefited in every
way. I now have a better outlook on life, which
should continue to improve as I readjust the
little difficulties that arise.”—BANK TELLER.
RETURN TO CIVIL LIFE
sth March, 1946.
“The Course has been a very definite help in
my return to civil life. Also now that I have
been able to devote more regular time to the
study I find its benefits are greater.”—
ACCOUNTANT.
PROGRESS IN SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
7th March, 1946.
“I have noticed a very definite progress to-
wards my aims. My progress in social activi-
ties was undreamed of when I commenced this
Course.”—ACCOUNTANT.
CONCENTRATION, SELF-CONFIDENCE,
APPLICATION
7th March, 1946.
“My concentrating powers have increased
considerably, as has also my self-confidence
STUDENT 1 ° f application ”—UNlVEßSlTY
DOUBLED SOCIAL CONTACTS
24th June, 1946.
“My aim was social, moral and financial
Sfim. 'I have easily doubled social contacts.
Morally, I have made more progress. I have
improved my employment situation and am
n?iT nI J? g more than before starting your Course,
-the Course is very helpful in my other studies,
ev £ n . only because of more agile brain.”
—FARMER (Army).
CONCENTRATION ON ESSENTIALS
7th December, 1945.
“I am not scattering my mental efforts over
too many interests. I am concentrating on the
essentials. This has come about entirely with-
out effort and I attribute it solely to the ideas
implanted in my mind by Pelmanism.”—
(ARMY).
PLEASURE FROM START TO FINISH.
27th December, 1945.
“I am developing a better-balanced and more
systematized life The Course has been a
pleasure from start to finish, and I am very
grateful for all your good advice. Very many
thanks.”—SALES MANAGER.
SPARE TIME
6th July, 1946.
“One of the benefits I have derived from the
Course is the use of my powers of perception
to the maximum. I have also learned the im-
portance of directing my spare time to those
interests from which I will derive benefit. In
general, I have benefited both physically and
mentally by the Course.”—ClVlL SERVANT.
PROMOTION
29th July, 1946.
“Obviously I have progressed, as I have been
recommended for a position of mail super-
visor; an appointment that would help greatly
in my ultimate aim,”—TECHNICIAN.
FRIENDS
31st August, 1946.
“My circle of friends and social contacts
have increased enormously. I chose these two
aims because I believe that those things must
be settled before I can set myself confidently
forward.” —BANK OFFICER.
SIX POINTS
27th September, 1946.
“My interests have broadened in the light
of an ‘enquiring mind,’ and evidence appears
in: The added interest taken in daily work
The way a theatrical performance is enjoved
The novel way one chooses a meal. The varied
interest in sporting events. The choice of
reading material, and the handling of financial
probIems.”—ENGINEERING STUDENT.
MIND FUNCTIONS AS A UNIT
14th February, 1946.
“Tbe exercises have given me increased
perception as to what to look for, more confi-
dence in myself, due mainly to the fact that
my mind knows how to function as a unit ”
(ARMY).
CONCENTRATION
18th December, 1945.
“I now read with the whole of my mind and
am able to register my full attention. Concen-
tration, observing power, memory training and
development of interest have improved mv out-
look on life. I appreciate the helpful list of
books.”—TELEPHONIST.
The letters on each side and below this announcement are only
a few of the many received recently by the Pelman Institute. They
support our claim that Pelmanism fits in completely with the British
way of life; indeed that, as said in January, 1942, “it contains
within itself the constituents of the rare and resolute thinking
processes of the peoples of the British Empire.”
Thousands of Pelman Text Books have been carried
wherever duty took the Empire’s men and women during the past
eventful years. From Melbourne we sent Pelman material to the
Middle East, Northern Africa, the prison camps of Italy and
Germany, to New Guinea and the islands of the Pacific, Burma,
Malaya, along the China coast and now, happily, to the occupation
forces in Japan. And it was, and still is, routed quickly to its
destination. The Postal authorities, the Red Cross and other
agencies saw to that.
And in Australia and NeVv Zealand several thousand hard-
driven workers, supporters of their fellows abroad, sought and
got help from the Pelman Institute.
In the Pelman Course there are two factors working to one
end: the Course itself, which is a truly scientific method of training
the mind, memory and personality, and the individual and under-
standing service given to pupils by the instructors. The end sought
is the substitution of good and faithful habits of mind and memory
for slovenly and fearful ones. Thus the Pelman Course promotes
steadfastness, definiteness and continuity of effort.
Among the qualities and attributes Pelmanism specifically
develops are —*
Observation Self-confidence Concentration
Will Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organising Ability Social Ease
and a dependable memory for faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices and useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The total effect is to train the mind so that every faculty will, when
called upon, contribute its share to making a good performance
of anything that has to be done.
BUSINESS AND ARGUMENT 17th September, 1945.
“I find that in business matters I speak quite freely. One of my immediate
aims was control over my emotions. Owing to Pelmanism I now see two
sides to an argument and refrain from anger. Many points are learned thus.”
—TEXTILE DESIGNER.
A FURTHER AIM DEFINED 30th March, 1946.
“Progress towards my immediate aim has continued steadily over the past
couple of years. It should be attained in another twelve months. 1 have
already prepared myself for what 1 will do then.”—POSTAL CLERK.
STERLING ASSISTANCE 2nd April, 1946. .
“Progress has been very satisfactory. Generally speaking difficulties have
been overcome—in many instances with ease—due mainly to the fact that
previously my ideas were very stereotyped. The early lessons set me on the
right road in this respect. This is only one of the many ways in which 1 have
derived sterling assistance from the Course.”—SALESMAN.
BRIGHTENING UP MENTALLY 30th March, 1946.
“1 consider that I have made useful progress in brightening up mentally,
and my memory has improved.”—FAßMEß.
CONTROL OF EMOTIONS 10th January, 1946.
“I have improved my ability to harmonise feeling and thought, so
controlling my emotions. My powers of observation and memory have
improved.”—BUlLDEß AND CONTRACTOR.
CONCENTRATION AND RETENTIVE
POWERS
18th February, 1946.
“I hslve already begun a Course of Study
and find that my powers of concentration have
been improved and that my retentive powers
are better.”—BAN K CLERK.
SELF-CONFIDENCE
29th January, 1946.
“Self-confidence and self-assurance, knowing
when my own judgment is sound and should
be acted on. I have become much more men-
tally efficient and my memory has greatly im-
proved.”—TYPlSTS.
REMEMBERS LITTLE THINGS
12th June, 1946.
“My wife advises me that nowadays I appear
to be more affable, and in my work I have
noticed that at times I remember little things
which other people have not been able to re-
call.”—CLEßK.
IMPROVED IN EVERY SUBJECT
24th June, 1946.
“I definitely made advancement since be-
ginning the Course. I think I have improved
mainly in memory, although I have improved
in every subject so far touched on in the
Course.”—SALESMAN.
DECISIONS
12th June, 1946.
“I have acquired the ability to make de-
cisions and have confidence in those decisions.
I have more confidence in myself and I am
more precise in the way I do things.”—
(W.R.A.N.).
ON MEDICAL ADVICE
16th September, 1945.
“Some years ago while attending a series
of lectures conducted by the Workers’ Edu-
cational Association, the lecturer, a prominent
doctor and lecturer at the Medical School,
recommended Pelmanism to a group of
students, of whom I was one, so last year when
I suffered a breakdown in health, I asked my
doctor about Pelmanism and he told me he had
taken a course, and encouraged me to do like-
wise. as my memory had been seriously
affected. From the first Pelman exercises my
memory Improved and this brought me a new
interest in life, my health began to improve,
and my whole mental outlook changed. I share
the opinion of the two doctors who brought
Pelmanism to my notice—‘l cannot speak too
highly of Pelmanism.’ ” —TAILORESS.
ACQUIRED OWN BUSINESS
10th April, 1946.
“I started this Course with definite aims.
The most important was to acquire my own
business. This I have now.”—(R.A.A.F.).
PROBLEMS AND A CLEAR DECISION
16th April, 1946.
“My self-control has improved; also I have
more confidence in myself and can sum up
problems and give a clear decision with far
less trouble than previously.”—(MEßCHANT
NAVY).
ASKED FOR BY CUSTOMERS
27th April, 1946.
“I am already regarded as a good tradesman,
and am asked for by customers. I consider
that I am building up my reputation to a point
where my ultimate aim will be more certain
and sure of success.”—MECHANIC.
CONDUCTING A RETAIL STORE
30th April, 1946.
“My chief object in enrolling was to improve
my memory for faces, figures and other detail
necessary to successfully conduct a retail store.
I have made very definite progress in this
direction, and am finding this Improvement in
memory a very useful asset.”—STORE-
KEEPER.
MORE ALERT
22nd January, 1946.
“The Course is doing me good. My powers
of observation and concentration are improv-
ing, and I am generally more alert. I am
specially pleased about this as my duties pre-
vent as regular study as I would wish.”—
SCHOOLTEACHER.
The headquarters of the
Telman Institute are in
London.
The Institute has been
established in Melbourne
under the same direction
for 39 years.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind.” Inquiries are regarded as confidential communications; we have no
outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the finanoial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
'o the Pelnian Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy of
‘The Efficient Mind.” .
Name .
Address
ISS


w
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. John Lucian Savage, the American
expert who came out here by invitation
of the Victorian Government to pass judg-
ment on its £8,000,000 scheme for making
the Eildon Reservoir the second largest
earth dam in the world, has that soft and
benign look that sits on the countenances
of many American scientists, but there is
an incisive mind behind it. He has built
dams in the Rockies and the Himalayas
and was the directive force behind
Boulder Dam. Whenever a dam is
threatened with galloping consumption
Dr. Savage is called in for a diagnosis,
and in the early stages of the war he
advised the N.S.W. Government how to
prevent the Burrinjuck' Dam from col-
lapsing. Another war job of his was in
China, where he has ideas for a scheme
which will make all other dams look like
puddles. Son of a Wisconsin farmer, he
was a farm laborer and a book pedlar
before he got a job with the U.S. Gov-
ernment, which now values him so highly
that it had to get Congress to pass a
special Act before he could come on his
first visit to Australia. He is a non-
smoker, non-drinker and non-damner.
Inspired possibly by the success of
Falkinder in winning the Franklin seat in
the Federal House another young Tas-
manian airman is trying his hand at
politics. W. S.‘Morrison, a Liberal candi-
date for Denison at the Speck elections
next month, is 23, and served as a wireless
air-gunner with the Coastal Air Force in
North Africa and with the Desert Air
Force in support of the Eighth Army.
He also served in Britain, Greece and
Italy and ran up 80 operational flights.
Sydney-born, Morrison was educated in
Scotland, but came back to Australia in
1940 and, before joining the R.A.A.F.,
worked in his father’s Hobart pharmacy.
He’s a student of economics at the Uni-
versity of Tasmania.
When it comes to finding names for
their decorations the Chinese are not
content with mundane medals and
crosses. M. E. Davis, of Brisbane, has
just received news of an honor bestowed
on him by Chiang Kai-shek in recogni-
tion of services rendered in liaison work
between Allied Air Forces in India and
the Chinese Army—he becomes a member
of the Order of the Cloud and Banner.
Davis rode with the Eighth Light Horse
in the First World War and joined the
R.A.A.F. early in the second one. He
was with the R.A.F. in Singapore, and
after the Fall he was on Air H.Q. in
India and Burma. On several occasions
he flew over “The Hump” to co-operate
with Chinese forces, and it was his work
at that time that has now received recog-
nition.
Wilfred Dinsey Chapman, bom in
London in 1891, joined Victorian rail-
ways as a junior engineer in 1908 and
later carried out important construction
work on railways and bridges. World
War I saw him on active service with
Aust. Machine Gun Corps ; then he went
back to railway-construction work. In
’25 he gained his M.C.E. degree at Mel-
bourne ’Varsity, and was a part-time
lecturer in civil engineering in 1925-26.
E.M.F. Electric Co. had him on research
work in 1931. Research and develop-
ment for Aust. Paper Mills, crane and
construction work for Malcolm Moore,
Ltd., kept him busy during the next few
years. When the 2/2 Army Field Work-
shops was formed in 1940 Chapman be-
came C.O. His easy manner and willing-
ness to listen fairly to a man with a
grouch made him popular with all ranks
Given his colonelcy in the Middle East,
he became a brigadier and chief superin-
tendent of design to Master-General of
Ordnance, L.H.Q. In 1944 Dunstan’s
Government appointed him part-time
commissioner to State Electricity Com-
mission. Brig. Chapman provides a real
link with the pioneers of science, for his
father was assistant to Professor Judd and
his grandfather was assistant to Michael
Faraday and John Tyndall.
Governor of the Commonwealth Bank
since 1941, Hugh Traill Armitage,
C.M.G,. hails from the isle where every
prospect pleases and only man is vile. He
left Colombo very young to settle in
Sydney and be educated at St. Phillip’s
Church of England Grammar and Fort
Street, Sydney. He was a lad of 16
when he entered the portals of the Bank
of N.S.W. and was the first accountant
of the Commonwealth Bank on its foun-
dation in 1913.’ He has since moved up
through various departments to his pre-
sent position. He is fond of golf, but
puts most of his outside interest into
farming. He is 65.
When elections are held in the Speck
next month the colorful personality of
John McPhee, a former Premier, will be
missing. At 68 the old stalwart is retir-
ing for the second time for health and
business reasons. First elected to Par-
liament as member for Denison in 1919,
he became Premier, Treasurer and Chief-
Secretary in 1928, but retired in 1934.
Three years later he had an unsuccessful
stab at Federal politics and he returned
to State House in 1941 when he won
Franklin, the apple seat. He has ex-
tensive business interests in that electorate,
and owns a controlling interest in the
“Tasmanian Fruitgrower.” %
During the middle ’thirties there was
quite a colony of Australian-born authors
living in England, but deaths, return to
Australia and migration to other coun-
tries have reduced their ranks. Still go-
ing strong is Frank Fox, who was at one
time a Bulletin staff man and editor of
The Lone Hand. It is 37 years since Fox
left these parts to try his luck in London.
The two Lindsay brothers —Phil and
Jack —continue to turn out books at a
prodigious rate. In the current Who’s
Who Jack gives his recreation as (since
1941, being in the Army) “novel-writing,”
while Phil states that he employs his
leisure “studying English history and
criminal records, watching cricket, read-
ing almost anything.” Dale Collins, who,
like the Lindsays, wrote for The Bulletin
before he left for England, has at the
age of 49 written 16 books and a couple
of successful plays. Another old Bul-
letin identity is Jack McLaren, who has
never looked back since the day he landed
in Fleet-street, and many of his books
appear in French, Spanish, German and
other languages. Melbourne-born Walter
James Turner is now literary editor of
the “Spectator,” and Gilbert Murray, who
was 80 last January, lives quietly at
Oxford.
When Sydney trammies staged their
one-day strike early this month most
members of the Macquarie-street debat-
ing society seemed prepared to regard the
lack of transport as a matter entirely out-
side their province. Not so E. D. Darby,
M.L.A. for Manly, depicted here in cheer-
ful mood by Prior. Being a new member
—he was elected a little over a year ago
to fill the vacancy caused by the death of
“Alphabetical” Reid —he perhaps had not
time to get used to sitting down and
doing nothing, or maybe it was just a
ENERGETIC M.L.A.
natural urge to organise that inspired him ;
but whatever the cause he managed at
very short notice to organise emergency
transport in his district so that the tem-
porary absence of trams and buses was
scarcely noticed. Before his entry into
Parliament Darby was a schoolteacher.
He holds an economics degree from
Sydney Uni. Early in the war he founded
the British War Orphans Society, which
aimed to bring out British children for
adoption into Australian families. Ship-
ping difficulties were the main obstacle
to the success of the scheme, but the
organisation has nevertheless a fine record
of social service.
The face framing the cigarette in this
Coventry study of a pedagogue at rest
belongs to Evan Mander Jones, Director
of Education in S.A. During the war it
became well-known to all who passed
ATHLETIC M.A.
through the Army Intelligence school, as
its owner was Deputy-Director of
Military Intelligence and trained “I” men
in Australia, the Middle East and the
Islands. A rowing blue and a keen
skier, he became renowned in the Service
as a prodigious walker. On one occa-
sion, while at Dobodura in New Guinea,
he went off for a four-day hike into the
Owen Stanleys just for the sake of the
view, and when he was in charge of the
“I” school at Southport (Q.) at no time
of the night were his students safe from
being called out to take part in mock
landings or invasions. Mander Jones
graduated first at Sydney Uni., but later
added an Oxford M.A. to his local de-
grees. When war came he was a house-
master at “Shore.” He collected an
0.8. E. for work in Sumatra.
New chairman of S.A. Harbors Board,
Sidney Crawford is an Adelaide business-
man whose original interests were more
concerned with land transport than with
shipping. He founded Adelaide Motors,
Ltd., over 20 years ago and is chairman
of directors of Commercial Motors and
Commercial Finance. When the S.A.
Transport Control Board was established
he was appointed a member ; later he was
chosen to fill a vacancy on the Harbors
Board and has for some years been
deputy-chairman. A Digger of World
War I, he is a great worker for Legacy,
and during the last war was a member
of the Commonwealth War Workers
Housing Trust.
Melbourne architect C. R. Carleton,
who has been chosen as president of Mel-
bourne Legacy Club, is one of the oldest
members of the institution and one of its
most untiring workers. Much of the
development of the children’s camp at
Somers is due to Carleton’s zeal as well as
to his practical help as architect. In the
First World War, while serving with the
Sixth Field Company Engineers, he won a
Military Cross; in the second scrap he
put in some solid work at V.D.C. head-
quarters.
Walter Burke, who retired recently (at
over 80) from the editorship of “A.P.-R.”
(“Australasian Photo-Review”), held the
job for 41 years. A New Zealander,
Burke settled in Sydney in 1903 in his
late "thirties after a mixed career in the
N.Z. public-service, in journalism and —
above all —in photography. He had be-
come an F.R.P.S. in 1897. In Sydney he
set up the Walter Burke Advertising
Agency, which carried on until 1937 ; one
of the earliest accounts handled was that
of Baker and Rouse, later to become
Kodak (Australasia). Mr. Burke was an
enthusiastic breeder of Jersey cattle. He
considers one of his greatest achievemen s
in this direction the sale, many years
ago, of a shipment of stud stock to the
Emperor of Japan,
Retired as Supervisor of Talks for
M.L.’s National Broadcasting Service,
Alan Mulgan, poet, author, journalist,
historian, playwright and lecturer m
journalism. Born in M.L. 65 years a §®»
he was educated in Auckland, entered
the Inky Way and became editor first
of the Christchurch “Press” and later
the Auckland “Star,” which paper he
left in 1935 to join the broadcast service.
He found a warm admirer of his literary
ability in J. C. Squire, of London
“Mercury,” who sponsored his widely-
read volume Home: A New Zealander
Adventure, descriptive of the reaction of
a Maorilander to England’s beauty and
culture. Mulgan’s successor is J. H. Hall,
formerly of Christchurch “Press and
Wellington “Dominion.” Recently he
has been public relations officer for the
M.L. Railways Dept. Eafly in the war
he was associated with the Director of
Publicity and Censor, J. T. Paul, and
later he went overseas with the N.Z.
forces as war correspondent. Captured
in Greece, he had a long spell as a
p.-0.-w.
Roger W. Winspear, dead in Laun-
ceston at 60, was one of the Speck s
most colorful personalities, and did much
to advance his State’s agriculture. Be-
coming chief executive officer of thd
Agricultural Bureau on its formation in
1928, he was responsible for creating a
fat-lamb export industry, and he took a
prominent part in establishing the n.-w.
coast freezing-works at Burnie, After
closure of the bureau in 1935 he
launched into commercial life and be-
came organising secretary of the Retail
Traders’ Association and ran its official
organ, “The Trader.” At the time of
his death Winspear had big plans for
the tourist trade; he envisaged the de-
velopment of the east-coast resort of
Bicheno and building of a modern hotel
there. In conjunction with this project
he planned a self-supporting community
township exploiting local resources of
coal and timber and expanding the fish-
ing industry.
An all-round Australian is F. W.
Arnold, leaving the Post and Telegraph
service in S.A. after more than 50 years
of it. He learned the job as a boy in
Kalgoorlie ; became Inspector in Queens-
land, and looked after the Far North for
a few years. Then he held Maitland,
Goulbura and Albury districts in N. S.
Wales ; went back to Queensland as Chief
Inspector, then south to Victoria in the
same job and back to Perth as Deputy-
Director. Since 1940 he’s been Deputy-
Director in Adelaide, where he is being
much-dined and -farewelled after a life-
time among the stamps and telegrams.
Into the silence:
At Ashburton, Maoriland, at 79, William
Nosworthy, Minister of Agriculture in the
Massey Government after the First World War.
He owned and managed farms in many parts
of Canterbury, including Mesopotamia station,
where Samuel Butler gathered his impressions
for the writing of Erewhon.
At Ashburton, M.L., Colonel John Findlay,
C. 8., D. 5.0., who first sniffed powder in the
S’African War, where he won the Queers
Medal with five clasps. Wounded at Gallipoli
leading a charge against a Turkish machine-
gun post, subsequently for a time he com-
manded all the M.L. forces in Egypt and
Palestine. A sheepbreeder and a fine judge
of stock.
In Brisbane, at 81, Frederick William Mole,
for many years a prominent figure in the
Queensland Public Service, and public curator
at the time of his retirement in 1933.
Dead, in Adelaide, a quite unusual land-
scape gardener, a woman, Miss Elsie Cornish.
Her biggest job came in advising the Uni.,
which sat at the top of a great clay bank,
an old-time flood-bank of the Torrens. This
was turned from an eyesore into an ornament
with climbing bushes; and the river bank at
the foot of it is now a thing of beauty, and
holds half the much-extended buildings of the
University.
In Adelaide, James Kay, all his business life
with the Postmaster-General. He learned the
game in S.A., but with Federation was drafted
to Melbourne, and afterwards went with George
Reid to London. In later life, though seldom
in good health, he was sent to postal congresses
at Madrid and Stockholm.


Missing Friend
MURIELL PHYLLIS DAWE.—WOULD Muriell
Phyllis Dawe, daughter of Alfred Ernest Dawe and
Annie Dawe, born at Warracknabeal, Victoria, on
the 24th day of May, 189 G, at one time known to
reside at 468 Church Street, Richmond, Victoria
and who is a niece of John Golding, late of 50 St.
George’s Terrace, Hobart, Tasmania, or any person
able to give information which might lead to her
present whereabouts, please communicate immedi-
ately with the undersigned Solicitors ?—TATCHELL
DUNLOP, SMALLEY & BALMER, 290 Williamson
Street, Bendigo, Victoria.
Divorce Notices,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ARTHUR McCOSKER late of Vincent
Street Canterbury.—TAKE NOTICE that THERESA
M\RA McCOSKER has filed a Petition for a Divorce
No. 3656 of 1946 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 80th November 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
RICHARD T. ORAM, Solicitor, C/o ALLAN e!
CUPIT, 12g Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C K
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
It was a great week-end for the V.As.
of this State. A glorious spring after-
noon was theirs for the grand parade in
the outer grounds of Government House,
and it was a stimulating sight to watch
the light-blue uniforms and the erect
wearers as General John Northcott,
Governor of the State, reviewed the
march. Seventy-eight of the paraders
were presented by him with certificates-
signed by the Commandant-in-Chief, the
Duchess of Gloucester. Assistant-Con-
trollers of V.As. Mrs. Persia Porter and
Mrs. F. H. Goff wore the pre-war V.A.
navy blue. And if you were in the city
round about half-past ten you probably
encountered schools of these bright-faced
girls on their way to supper after the re-
union and concert at the Assembly Hall
in Margaret-street,
North Shore-liners, in particular mem-
bers of the Killara Music Club, came
down from their garden-surrounded fast-
nesses to the Town Hall on Saturday
night for the Sydney Symphony orches-
tral concert. Two reasons were, apart
from the love of the music, conductor
John Hall and Robert Pikler. The Kil-
lara Music Club claims that one of the first
concerts given by this violinist, in con-
junction with Lily Kraus, was at one of
its evenings. On Saturday night he
was soloist in Mendelssohn’s violin con-
certo in E Minor.
When Australians speak of “the Fleet”
they refer to Captain Phillip’s sailing
ships, but when Maorilanders speak of
the Fleet they refer to the almost un-
believable journey by canoe made by the
Maoris from some far-off Polynesian
group when they had determined on the
settlement, invasion—call it what you will
—of Enzed. This and the story of the
moa-hunters and other inhabitants of the
quaky lands was just the fare for the
Pacific Islands group- last week. The
drawing-room of History House was filled
with members to listen to this paper,
which had been prepared for the Science
Congress by Mr. Duff of Canterbury,
Enzed, and was read in unfaltering and
interesting Ityle by Municipal Librarian
Bell. After the reading, which was a bone
for scientists to chew, came the lollypop
of lantern-slides for us with the more or
less beachcomber minds.
Here were shown burial grounds set
about with moa eggs, and necklaces of
carved and pierced sharks’ teeth. There
were pictures of Maori villages and of
their inhabitants in national garb. After
all this there was supper, and members
of the Anthropological Society and the
Historical Society—all Pacific Islanders, it
seemed, under other names —amiably
passed sandwich and sausage-roll. Mrs.
Mary Irvine was the night’s hostess. The
Guy Blaxlands and A. Stephen, Florence
Birch, Mrs, Alan Innes (just about to do
a radio talk on novelist Beatrice Grim-
shaw), Mrs. Elroy Cohen were there—
and Major Swinbourne, who has a tale to
tell of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands (he
was Administrator there before the war)
that makes them sound a chipped-off
fragment of Eden.
Stephanie Edye, who went to London
in the Stirling Castle, together with many
other students of dancing, singing and
the arts generally, has settled in and is
already busy with her ballet studies. Her
first sight of St. Paul’s standing erect and
noble among the ruins surrounding it
stirred her deeply. The cathedral is
scarred, with lots of shell and ack-ack
marks, and it got a bomb in one end
of it. Stephanie writes; “I cannot put
into words what I feel when I look at
all this. One can see all over England
ruins of 1000, 800 and 500 years, but
these are the ruins of our own times —
and the ruins are a Victory!”
The Smilin’ Thru Club, founded nine
years ago by its president, Myra Demp-
sey, on Monday the 21st of this month,
became an auxiliary of the Totally and
Permanently Disabled Soldiers’ Associa-
tion of N.S.W., keeping its own entity
and reserving the right to continue its
work for the boys at the 113th A.G.H.
On Thursday 31st inst. the club will be
holding a late-afternoon cocktail “do” with
special guests-of-honor Lois Green and
Don Nicol, stars of “Follow the Girls,”
who, incidentally, have been made life-
members of the club. (Inquiries re
location, etc., for the “do,” 85298 or
FA2786.)
Here is an extract from the second
post-war letter from a friend in Monte,
that one-time Riviera Paradise:
In the two months I was in England
I had only four days’ fine weather, and it
appears to have rained ever since. Getting
back here was like getting to a haven of
peace; especially one remarked there was
no queueing-up here. I do not know how
the women in England put up with the
queueing. Queue for a train or bus to
take them to work, queue for their lunch,
for shopping, tea, for a bus or train to
go home, and if they feel like a theatre
or a cinema, queue again. 1 never saw a
Lyons or a snack place without its queue,
and, of course, always in the rain. No
wonder the women look so tired, and now
there is less food they really don’t get
enough to eat. The men, too, are very
thin. For us here in Monte tea or coffee
simply doesn’t exist. Sugar is 17s. 6d. per lb.
if you can find it. ■ There is no meat less
than 12s. 6d. per lb. Milk or butter I never
see, and it is four years since we have had
any bacon. But we have masses of delicious
fruit. In England there was no fruit —it
all goes to the jam factories. Here it is
the other way round —we cannot make jam
because of the difficulty of getting sugar.
They say that in other lands it is sold at £1
per lb. I came back to a Riviera in full
swing and on the surface nearly pre-war.
There were a few galas, when hundreds of
requests had to be turned down there were
so many people—not many English, prices
being too high.
The S.U.D.S. have had notice to quit
their clubroom, and there is just not an
inch of space in Sydney for them to go to,
so they are “going down in a dying
splendor” with a big public performance
of Maxwell Anderson’s verseplay about
the Hapsburgs “The Masque of Kings.”
The producer, Barbara Manton, is an
Arts graduate, the wife of Greek lecturer
at Sydney University Guy Manton, and
the mother of two children. She also
designed and made most of the costumes
—difficult things, bustles and uniforms
and gold-braid everywhere. The sets are
designed by architect Guy Lovell, son of
Professor H. Tasman Lovell —all white
and gold, then black and gold, with great
Hapsburg crests everywhere. Artist
Bill Constable painted the portrait of the
Empress which hangs over the mantel-
piece. The story is the Mayerling inci-
dent. This photograph of Barbara
Manton, who plays the part of the
Empress Elizabeth, comes from John Lee.
Well-known writer and former jour-
nalist Mrs. Mary Irvine is the new presi-
dent of the Society of Women Writers.
She succeeds the Countess de Vilme-
Hautmont, who held office for the two
years the constitution allows. Mary is on
the committees of both the P.E.N. Club
and the Pacific Islands Society, Last
Thursday was a great day for the women
writers. The society had its twenty-first
birthday and there was a great cake glit-
tering with ice and giddy with candles
to prove it. The new president cut the
first slice, the former president the second
slice, and all declared it was a very good
cake.
The room was massed with flowers
from the gardens of Mrs. Alan Innes.
Isabel Gullett’s entrance (she has been
away through illness from many meet-
ings) brought a burst of applause. Sec-
retary Etta Cowan and treasurer Agnes
Mowle were applauded for their reports.
There has been quite a crop of books
published by members; Mrs. L. Lister’s
Little Round Stairway, another of her
popular children’s books, has just been
published by the New Century. Anita
Campbell’s Dawn Is the Signal, fresh
from the press, was passed along;
Dorothy Catts was congratulated on a
new book, and Ivy Moore’s book on
old Sydney has been both welcomed and
bought heavily in Washington. Verse
by Nora McAuliffe has been included
in two recent anthologies; Dr. Mack-
aness’s Poets of A ustralia and Paul
Grano’s Witness to the Stars.
Sherry and savories yesterday at 5.15
for Torch Bearers at Legacy head-
quarters, 169-171 Elizabeth-streeL Presi-
dent of the Torch Bearers’ headquarters
group, Mrs. Fielding Jones, was the
hostess.
On Friday and Saturday nights next
the pupils of Mina Shelley’s theatre
school will present Amy and Phillip
Stuart’s three-act comedy “Nine till Six.”
St. James’s Hall, in Phillip-street, is the
place ; eight o’clock the hour.
From Melbourne
A biting wind at Moonee Valley sent
women back again into their warm suits
and fur coats. The Governor, Sir Win-
ston Dugan, and Lady Dugan lunched
with the chairman of the M.V.R.C.,
Alister Clark. Lady Dugan’s English
tweed suit was in black and white checks
broken by a fine tomato-red line, the
same color being used as lining to the
three-quarter length dolman cape, with
deep slits for armholes, worn over the
suit. Her small felt hat was also in
tomato tones. Penelope Nettlefold, who
came from England with Lady Dugan,
wore a deep-blue and red overcheck
tweed coat with a red frock and a small
blue cap with a jaunty red feather. Wife
of Moonee Valley’s secretary W. S. Cox
chose a stone-grey coat over a silk frock
printed in blue and grey, her small black
hat finished with a veil tied over the face.
Mrs. A. L. Walters snuggled into a black
fur-trimmed coat; her small hat, perched
high on her head, was trimmed with two
perky bows in soft-blue ribbon.
A stunning English tweed coat in a
turquoise-matrix pattern was worn by
Shirley Watts ; with it a small off-the-face
brown felt hat and accessories. Her
mother, Mrs. Frank Watts, chose a frock
and matching coat in pastel blue with a
small hat trimmed with blue and pink
flowers. Mrs. Leith Crow covered her
ice-blue wool suit with an ermine coat.
With Minister for Air Drakeford were
his wife and daughter Muriel, both smart
dressers. Felt hats carried the day in
popularity, although flower hats had their
devotees. It was certainly a day for
warm colors. Mrs, J. Bowen Pain’s red
frock was worn under a three-quarter-
length grey squirrel coat. Mrs. Rupert
Downes’s, raspberry-red frock and coat
were offset by a shallow-crowned aqua-
blue hat ruched with raspberry-toned veil-
ing.
Even heavy rain could not dampen the
enthusiasm of the big crowd of well-
wishers who lined the approach to St.
John’s, Toorak, to see Valerie Purves
come to exchange vows with James Elliott
Murray, of Eden Valley, S.A. Valerie,
who is the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
James G. Purves, of Shenton, Toorak,
was a delightful figure as she entered on
her father’s arm. Her filmy afternoon
frock was fashioned of mist-blue lace
mounted on chiffon. The hem of her
short frock was appliqued with the pat-
tern of the lace to give a scalloped effect,
and a cascade of lace fell from the
shoulders of her short-sleeved bodice in
soft folds on each side of the square
neckline. Long suede gloves and shoes
were in the same soft shade. Hahdmade
spring flowers in pastel shades, with a
veiling of mist-blue tulle, decorated her
small Edwardian hat, and she carried a
bouquet of pink roses, forget-me-nots and
lily-of-the-valley set in tulle frilling.
’Groom’s gift was a pair of beautiful
diamond earrings ; a three-diamond ring
was her mother’s gift.
Paddy Wilkinson, the bride’s only
attendant, wore a frock of delicate pink
chiffon with a short full skirt and a
swathed square-cut neckline. Her lilac-
trimmed large crownless straw hat
matched the bouquet of pale mauve and
pink lilac which she carried. The bride-
groom was attended by his cousin, J.
Stanley Murray. The reception held at
Greenknowe, Toorak, home of Sir
Robert and Lady Knox, was attended by
300 guests. Mrs. Purves wore a frock
and matching coat of Patou-pink crepe
with an upturned picture-hat of brown
straw finished with soft-blue flowers ; her
bouquet was of deep-red roses. Lady
Knox’s pastel-blue crepe frock matched
the ostrich feathers she wore in her small
navy-blue velvet hat; her braided coat
was of navy romaine. Mary Lisle John-
son, formerly companion to Lady Dugan,
came from Adelaide for the wedding.
The Melbourne premiere of that grand
Australian film “The Overlanders” at the
Majestic was a gay affair despite the
strike. A band played in the street out-
side, then comedian Tommy Trinder
broadcasted in the foyer. The many dis-
tinguished guests were received by
manager R. M. Richards and his wife,
the latter in a white georgette evening-
suit under her fur coat Lieut-General
Sturdee came with Mrs. Sturdee and
Lieut-General Beavis and Mrs. Beavis.
Air Vice-Marshal George Jones was with
Mrs Jones, the latter’s formal floral
gown worn under a fur coat. The Nor-
man Brookes couple were there, she
in eye-taking leaf-green satin and silver
foxes. Mrs. Drakeford, who accom-
panied her husband, chose a hip-length
silver fox cape over a black gown
trimmed with diamante. Mary Louise
Fowler set a new style with a short dinner
frock of royal-blue velvet, a matching
muff and an ermine coat. The Vincent
Smiths, the latter in formal black, came
with daughter Iris, smart in ice-blue
taffetas covered with a full-length parma-
violet velvet coat. Hilda Corbett con-
trasted her midnight-blue angora dinner
gown with long cyclamen-toned gloves,
adding a bolero of silver fox. With
Major-General Clowes was Mrs. Clowes,
whose gown was of rose pink. Mrs.
Norman Myer struck a new note with a
short cocktail frock of silver lam£. The
Frank Beaurepaires and Cr. H. L. Lyall
and Mrs. Lyall were also among the
applauders.
The centenary window in the north
transept of St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill, was
dedicated by the Archbishop of Mel-
bourne. With its long association with the
mission work in New Guinea, the Vicar,
Canon F, Maynard, and churchwardens,
thought it would be fitting to have the
window tell the story of the martyrdom
of missionaries in the war with Japan.
One panel (there are three) is devoted
to the work of women missionaries, and
also inscribed on the windows are the
imperishable names of Gona, Buna and
Dogura. Also at the service of dedica-
tion was the Bishop of New Guinea, who
will receive a cheque subscribed to by
the congregation of St. Peter’s and friends
for the work of the mission. It is a
thanksgiving offering for 100 years of
splendid work done by this church. All
this week the centenary will be celebrated
by many functions.
Since the strike house parties have taken
the place of the usual visit to picture show
and theatre. A delightful one was given by
the many friends of Rex and Lelie Potter
on the occasion of Lelie’s birthday anni-
versary. Lelie set off her fair coloring
with hostess pyjamas of black velvet,
girdled at the waist by a glittering sash
of gold lame. Mrs. Eric Goldring and
Helen Ellison, ex-A.A.N.S., who also
wore smart blacks, organised the surprise.
Don Sharp, recently returned from
Hollywood, was there. So was Mrs.
Eileen Bertram, who iost her husband in
the same air crash which cost Australia
the splendid services of General Vasey.
Eileen now lives at Wollongong (N.S.W.),
where she grows orchids.
Thinking that post-war conditions
would bring the Oaks race meeting back
to its mid-week position, a group of ener-
getic youngsters decided to hold a
Cabaret Dinner Dance on Oaks Eve, and
fixed the date as Wednesday, Nov. 6. The
race must be held on the Saturday as usual,
but the dance will go on as scheduled.
Drinks and savories will be served at
7.30 ; price of the ticket, 255., includes
dinner, dancing and supper. Funds of
the St. Vincent’s Hospital Party Drive
will benefit. St. Kilda Town Hall is the
setting. Pretty Pat Green, who has
recently been demobbed from the
W.R.A.Ns. and has settled down to a
job in father’s office, is one of the ticket
secretaries.
A recently-announced engagement of
interest is that of Katherine, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. Lupton, of
Fairfield, to Edward, youngest son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. P. Atkins, of Glenormiston
South. Kath, who has been in Mildura
for some time, where she has a fashion
job at one of the stores, has just been
home for a family dinner to celebrate the
event. Her fiance has now been dis-
charged from the Army after long service.
A lovely sapphire ring is the token.


A*
I «
(7
0
c>
z\
I
V
■ftS
I
MAKE NO MISTAKE—USE "OSRAM"
Macßoodle was a most sincere,
Correct and competent cashier,
But working under feeble light
He paid out fifty pounds one night
Instead of five—now wouldn’t it
Make anybody throw a fit.
Said "Mac” "No more cheap
lamps for mine,
From now on- only ' OSRAM’s *
shine.**
QoQsraiji
THE WONDERFUL LAMB
Guaranteed by:
£e*tefoi£ ££eetfue
(Sole Australian Representatives of The ff.&.C. of England.)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH
HOBART • LAUNCESTON
The ''Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
5iH
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
ran also auote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
tables magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlastmg
“S“attr* a“d oil-Srßendrockand all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED.
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. serves, senres.
1939.. 132,578 10 p.c. = 89,035 0 48 ’ 543
From suspense account, £22,800 .. 253,407
1940 110,479 10 p.c.- 90,511 19,968 273,375
1941 ‘ 103 089 10 „ „ 90,511 12,578 285,953
1942:: 125 192 8 ” ” 52,784 338,737
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 56,310 395,047
Investment reserve disclosed, £39,695 434,742
1944.. 140,300 9 p.c. = 86,697 51,603 486,345
Added investment reserve, £3,560 .. 489,905
1945 142 901 10 p.c. = 98,552 44,349 534,254
me" iisS? 8 .. „ 78,842 04,185 598.439
Not much notice need be taken of that
table now. From October 1, 1946, the
co. ceased to operate the overseas Beam
service, which it inaugurated on April 8,
1927. In future external communication
services, including cable, will be operated
by a commission for the Federal Govern-
ment, which has bought the telecom-
munication assets of A.W.A. and
the goodwill attached thereto. This
is part of an Empire scheme by which the
U.K., Dominions and India have been
asked to agree to nationalise their external
communication services. A.W.A. will
continue its other wireless activities, such
as manufacturing, servicing, broadcast-
ing, etc., and will reconstruct itself for the
purpose.
The price agreed upon was £1,400,000 —
a very satisfactory figure. It represents
the interests of shareholders, other than
the Government, in the assets taken over,
including goodwill. Of the co.’s £985,518
of paid capital, the Government owns
£500,001, and other shareholders the
balance. The proportional interests of
the Government and others are there-
fore 50.7 p.c. and 49.3 p.c. respectively.
On the basis of balance-sheet figures at
June 30, Government and other interests
in the co.’s “wireless services” were:
Government. Other. Total.
Wireless services—
Land and buildings.. £89,891 £87,409 £177,800
Plant and equipment 875,007 739,658
Total .. .. £464,898 £452,060 £916,958
Establishment .. 24,877 24,190 49,067
In addition, patent rights, some of which
might relate to overseas wireless services,
figure at £85,811. However, appearances
are that the purchase price to private
shareholders includes something in the
neighborhood of a million pounds for
goodwill and rights, which is greatly in
excess of the figure at which their pro-
portion of the intangible appeared in the
co.’s books.
The Government will also pay the co.
£25,000 to assist in meeting the neces-
sary adjustment that will result from the
deal, and will continue to hold its pro-
portional interest in the reconstructed co.
The intention is to issue bonus shares
to the amount of additional goodwill in-
volved. To enable this to be done,
nominal capital is to be increased to
£2,250,000 by creation of 1,250,000 new
£1 shares, and a telecommunications re-
valuation reserve will be created, and then
drawn upon for the issue of bonus scrip.
After that capital is to be reduced by
returning to shareholders in cash the
whole of the compensation (£1,400,000)
received, which is equal to approximately
575. 7d. per share for other than Govern-
ment holdings. No part of these trans-
actions will involve income tax either to
the co. or to shareholders.
For the pound shares, which could
have been bought for 435. 6d. in 1942,
buyers now offer 755. 6d. (ceiling price)
without attracting sellers out of their
shells. Among the largest “private” share-
holders are the following institutions;
Cable and Wireless, Ltd. .. .. .. 149,667
Marconi’s 1.M.0. Co. .. • • • • 42,666
Huddart Parker .. .. • • • • 89,155
Adelaide Steam .. .. .. • ■ 21,712
Australian Steamships .. .. .. 5,500
Bellambi Coal .. .. . • ■ • 1,000
Burns Philp . . . . • • • • 1,142
Mcllwraith McEacharn .. .. .. 4,000
Melbourne Steamship .. .. ■ • 1,642
Exactly how the remaining share-
holder, the Government, is going to pay
itself for its proportional interest in the
co.’s overseas wireless services hasn’t been
mentioned. Nor has the board vouch-
safed to other shareholders details con-
cerning reconstruction of the co. after the
return of capital already referred to.
Since the assets concerned have already
passed to the Government, it is difficult to
understand why the full text of the agree-
ment between the Government and the
co. has not been published, especially
since the public as well as shareholders
are now interested.
The financial set-up at June 30 was:
Liabilities.
Shareholders’ funds—
Paid capital .. .. £985,518
General reserve .. .. 620,000
P. and 1. balance .. .. 109,484
£1,715,002
Specific reserves—
Depreciation .. .. 987,854
Investment .. .. .. 43,255
1,031,109
Current liabilities—
Sundry creditors . . .. 752,214
Subsidiary cos. .. .18,464
770,678
Total .. £3,510,789
Assets.
Wireless services—
Plant and equipment .. ..£739,658
Land and buildings .. .. 177,300
Establishment, Beam .. .. 49,067
£906,025
City property and factories .. .. 505,551
Plant and equipment (factories) .. .. 381,111
Shares in subsidiaries .. .. .. 96,769
Shares in other cos. . . .. . . 14,885
Stock and work in progress .. .. 621,094
Debtors’ balances, etc. ~ .. .. 716,034
Cash and Govt, securities .. .. . . 129,509
Patent rights .. .. .. .. .. 85,811
£3,516,789
Exactly what the position will be upon
reconstruction is difficult to say until
more details, including the board’s pro-
posals on the matter, are available. Still,
existence of surplus liquids (including
shareholdings) with a book value of
£893,324 at June 30 suggests that the co.
will be well-ribbed financially.
As for futute earnings the board says:
It must be recognised that, at least in
the initial stages of the reconstruction
period, the loss of the telecommunications
business will depress the co.’s earnings.
The co., nevertheless, is in a strong position
with its reserves, and your directors, whilst
regretting the retirement of the co. from
the overseas telecommunications business,
are confident of the co.’s future.
But no hint is given as to how much of
last term’s record profit of £143,027 came
from overseas telecommunications.
Henceforth earnings will come mainly
from manufacture of all types of wire-
less transmitting and receiving equip-
ment and marine refrigeration plant, from
maintenance and operation of wireless
equipment in ships, and from broadcast-
ing (co. owns station 2CH) and patent
licensing, together with rents, and re-
turns from subsidiaries and other share-
holdings. Competition in the manufac-
ture of broadcast-receiving sets is
keen, but there is a strong demand in all
other spheres of the co.’s activities. Per-
haps the board will say more when, at a
later date, it asks shareholders to sanction
reduction and return of capital.
It is interesting to recall that since the
Government became interested in the co.
over 24 years ago, it has collected divs.
averaging 8 p.c. p.a., totalling £648,769 to
October, 1945. In addition the co. has
made handsome contributions to the
Treasury in telegraph terminal rates and
income tax. Also, before the Beam ser-
vice was opened by A.W.A. the charge
per word for a full-rate message between
Australia and the U.K. was 2s. 6d.; today
it is Is. 3d. The press rate, which used
to be 6d. a word, is now one penny a
word within the Empire. Other charges
have been substantially reduced, too.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
& £> £>£/£>
1938.. 9,386 2500 %i p.c. = 6,111 775 5,522
Surplus on life policies, £735.. .. 6,257
1939.. 12,904 2500 p.c. = 6,111 4,293 10,550
Surplus sale shares, £312 .. .. 10,862
1940. . 16,636 2500 8 p.c. = 7,333 6,803 17,665
1941.. 17,072 2500 Si „ „ 8,556 6,016 23,681
1942.. 10,005 2500 Si „ „ 8,556 22,630
1943.. 19,171 2500 4 „ „ 9,778 6,893 29,523
1944.. 45,547 2500 5 „ „ 12,223 30,824 60,347
To Staff Provident Fund, £2500 .. 57,847
1945.. 41,490 2500 5 p.c. = 12,223 26,767 84,614
To Staff Provident Fund, £2500 .. 82,114
1946.. 58,179 2500 8J p.c. = 20,778 34,901 117,015
To Staff Provident Fund, £2500 .. 114,515
This drapery co., whose store fronts
Queen-* and Adelaide-streets, and which
used to do a large mail-order business,
has had an eventful career. For the
half-dozen flush years to close of
accounts in 1930 the business expanded
by absorptions and otherwise, and share-
holders averaged a shade over 7 p.c.,
with little to spare. For the next four
depression years the net trading result
was a loss of £34,609. The corner was
turned in 1935, and, to clear the way
for resumption of ord. divs., 2s, per share
(£27,161) was struck off ord. capital, and
the pref. div. was lowered from 7 p.c.
to 5 p.c. After that competition from
chain and other stores stood in the way,
and for a while the management was
unable to squeeze much profit out of
the business.
Then war arrived. It created scarcities,
increased spending power, and brought
a heavy influx of our own and Allied
service personnel, together with other
ingredients of a seller’s market, to the
northern capital. So, despite restrictions,
retail turnovers stepped along in fine
style, as the following table shows —it
records percentage changes in aggregate
turnover of a dozen leading department
stores in Brisbane, compared with the
corresponding period of the previous
year;—
Average Three Months Ended
A
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
5938-39 .. + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- . . + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- .. + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941- .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 —ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 + 3.5 + 3.0 + 4.6 + 2.4
1944- .. + 7.6 +lO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 4.5
1945- .. +15.8 +25.2 +24.3
On the basis of these figures turnover
for the first three quarters of 1945-46
was about 73 p.c. above the 1938-39
level. Allan and Stark fared better than
the average. Sales shot up from £476,000
in 1939 to £1,065,735 last term, when
the improvement was £216,293.
Last term sales were bumped up by
a heavy demand for replacement of
wardrobes by demobilised service per-
sonnel and by the requirements of a
civilian market partly starved of goods
for the last half-dozen years. After set-
ting aside £85,000 (up £22,000) for
taxation and contingencies, the board
figured net earnings £16,688 stronger at
£58,179. That was sufficient to pay the
pref. div. and show 22.7 p.c. on the
£244,454 of ord. capital, compared with
16.3, 17.6, 6.8, 3, 5.9 and 5.3 p.c. back
to 1940. The div. was lifted from 5
p.c. to 6 p.c., and a 2\ p.c. victory bonus
was added, making 8| p.c, for the year.
More was put by than was distributed,
thus strengthening the prop (now
£114,515) for capital. And the position
is a bit better than stated because some
of the £134,202 now reserved for taxation
and contingencies is genuine profit.
As the present hunger for goods abates
retail turnovers can be expected to ease.
On the other hand, the Government’s
policy of “full” employment and a more
generous supply of merchandise are
encouraging features. Less encouraging
are the upswing of costs and the heavy
burden of co. taxation, the weight of
which will be felt more severely when
the competitive era arrives, and the
present seller’s market gives way to a
buyer’s.
Finances are comfortable:
194 0. 194 2. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £294,454 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 113,276 62,730
Sundry creditors 55,025* 57,655 52,407 71,163
Tax reserve, etc. 46,080 105,267 134,20-
Premises & plant 216,236 225,248 215,749 214,770
Stock. . . . 195,034 191,522 235,589 234,705
Shares other cos. 21,546 21,546 21,546 54,043
Investments . . 50 50
Book debts .. 54,968 53,359 28,357 3(,710
Cash, etc. .. 1,168 1,529 48,973 97,638
* Including tax reserve.
The year’s increase of £32,497 in shares
in other cos. reflects purchase of stock
and' plant of Brakes, Ltd., which has
been handed over to a newly-formed
subsidiary (Lloyd Mason Co. Pty.). The
stock position was well maintained, and
the holding of cash, etc., is substantial.
Since the close of accounts the co. sold
its holding in Stuparts (Maryborough),
in the books at £21,548, for £31,527


Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSCUJVAIt
LXf re . ira JL
Trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Collins
Austra-
—Advt
PATENTS, trade marks,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH. HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
8W4931
Missing Friend.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
No. 145 of 1946.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
ANN ELIZABETH OLSEN Petitioner against ALBERT
OLAVES OLSEN Respondent.
TO ALBERT OLAVES OLSEN formerly of Berrigan
in the State of New South Wales but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that ANN ELIZABETH
OLSEN of 5 Turnbull Avenue Toorak in the State of
Victoria Married Woman has commenced proceed-
ings in the Supreme. Court of Victoria for a divorce
from you on the ground that since the celebration of
your marriage with the Petitioner you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted the Petitioner
herein and without any such cause or excuse left her
continuously so deserted during three years and
upwards UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 20th day of November
1946 the case may proceed in your absence And
Take Further Notice that if you intend to defend this
suit you must cause an answer to be filed in the said
office on or before the 30th day of November 1946.
This advertisement is inserted by McEACHARN &
SHAW, of 414 Collins Street, Melbourne, in the State
of Victoria, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
IP
i
fill
iiililli
If!
11(11
KNI ii
mu
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled, cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
ẁ
HEAD OFFICE. SYDNEY
T he
financial
'Needs of new
Enterprises
nECAUSE of its wide ex-
perience and close touch
with the financial structures and
problems of very many busin-
esses, this Bank has a broad
understanding of the needs of
men and Companies who may
be establishing new enterprises,
big or little.
The Bank’s officers in Head
Office, and in 308 Branches, are
always ready to discuss the
question of Credit with those
desiring it.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORU LTD.
cash The purchaser was Nolans, Ltd.,
in which the big Burns Philp Co. is m-
teßuyers offer 225. 3d. (ceiling price)
for the f.-p. 18s. ords. The return at
225. 3d. is 4.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. The pound - P re l s - at
245. 6d. yield 4.1 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £8 3s. 7d. prefs. and 265. sd. ords.
Giving evidence before a Canadian
Standing Committee on Natural Re-
sources, Balmer Neilly, director of the
Ontario Mining Association, made some
sound remarks regarding goldmining
speculation. Asked if he knew whether
anything could be done to reduce the
high-pressure salesmanship of worthless
shares, he replied that the first thing
to do was to educate the public. Some
people who dabble in mining stocks were,
for all practical purposes, betting they
would find somebody crazier than them-
selves to pay more than they paid. Such
transactions had no more to do with
mining than speculation on the Grain
Exchange had to do with farming. If
someone got financially hurt, neither the
mining nor agricultural industry was
to blame.
* * * *
Australasian Petroleum, the big pros-
pecting concern in which Anglo-Iranian
Oil (London), Vacuum Oil (New York)
and Oil Search (Sydney) are interested,
started drilling again at Kariava, Papua,
on October 15. When operations ceased
early in 1942 the test well was down
5400 ft. The boresite is in difficult coun-
try about 75 miles up the Vailala River,
which enters the sea in the Papuan Gulf
some 200 miles nor’-west of Port Moresby.
Dr. S. M. Lees, chief geologist of Anglo-
Iranian, is now visiting the spot.
* * * *
Operational drilling in the New
Occidental Mine, Cobar (N.S.W.), to
delimit the orebody on Nos. 13
and 14 levels has indicated that
between Nos. 12 and 14 levels some
reduction in tonnage of probable ore
reserves may be anticipated. Further
drilling is in progress to establish values,
but information to date points to a pos-
sible grade of 7dwt. for these reserves.
* * * *
M|. Todd Gold Mine’s 80,000 tons of
13.3dwt. ore (B. 23/10/’46) is expected
to provide 10 years’ feed for the mill,
and to yield £224,000 of profit. When
the recent share issue is fully subscribed
and all the money is in, paid capital will
be £24,000 in ss. shares.
* * * *
London-controlled Paringa Mining
and Exploration (paid capital £270,439
in Is. shares), operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), has stepped-up ore
production by over 40 p.c. during the last
two years. Accounts for year to end
Aug., 1946 (due for presentation about
March next), should show further im-
provement in earnings, as the following
figures suggest:
Ypar to Aiur.. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Ore treated (tons) .. 66,055 77,024 92,881
Recovery, gold (oz.) 19,536 21,- 8
Proceeds* • ■ . • £126,709 £157,471
Profit* .. . . 10,059 13,147
Dividend! .. • • 10 P- c * 724 p.c.
* Sterling.
f Subject to English income tax.
The board recently decided to increase
plant capacity (now 95,000 tons p.a.),
open up the deeper levels (800 ft. to
1200 ft.) of the Paringa mine, explore
and develop the adjacent North Kalgurli
Central, Croesus South, Block 45 and
Brownhill Extended properties, and
further test the Maritana areas adjoining
Mt. Charlotte.
3f * * *
De Bernales-controlled Comet gold-
mine at Marble Bar, on the distant
Pilbara field (W.A.), has lost its lode.
Pilbara orebodies, though often rich and
strong near the surface, are noted fox
disappearing and not being found again.
Comet’s crushings have been good, but
all have come from shallow ground.
There is some talk of the co. taking over
the North Pole, an undeveloped mine in
difficult country about 80 miles from
Marble Bar. Diamond-drilling is said to
have shown encouraging results.
* >F * •
From London; Ora Banda United
Gold Mines, Ltd., is on the hunt for
£40,000 stg. Co. recently got six months’
exemption from labor conditions on a
Westralian auriferous holding, where, it
claims, there are abundant ore reserves
and a large treatment plant. Some local
critics think the milling grade of the ore
is low, and might get poorer at depth.
* * * *
Believing that “something might occur
that would put the co. on its feet again,”
a Swan Bitter meeting in Perth on
October 11 decided to leave future activi-
ties in the hands of the directors. As re-
gards the often officially boosted Swan
Bitter goldmine, chairman V. Abbott said
it was extremely doubtful whether further
development was warranted. Boring had
shown a contraction in both length and
value of the orebody below 400 ft.
« * * »
Edna May (W.A.) has had enough.
Following a loss of £12,230 for year to
end June last (the profit was £6543 for
the year before) and disappointing
diamond-drilling in deeper ground, the
directors have decided to end develop-
ment, take out available ore, salvage the
plant, and bid a mournful farewell.
* * * *
From London:' Two cos. operating in
Westralia, .Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment and Boulder Perseverance, are
being puffed on the Stock Exchange and
are tipped for a rise “under improved
market conditions.” The former’s liquid
assets represent about three-quarters of
the present market value of the shares.
The co.’s interests include three options—
Mt. Ida, Porphyry and Mt, Charlotte.
Boulder Perseverance is, according to
responsible opinion, “moderately valued
by the market.” Its scrip yields 6\ p.c.
at present market price. It needs to be
remembered, however, that the yield is
nearly halved by U.K. taxation.
* V * *
British Overseas Mining Association
has been formed in London to protect
the interests of U.K. cos. engaged or in-
terested in mining enterprises abroad.
Gold Exploration and Finance, Ltd., and
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., two con-
cerns operating in Australia, have joined
the new organisation, whose activities
will embrace all aspects of the mining
industry, other than technical. Another
London organisation watching the
interests of Westralian goldmining indus-
try has been in existence for some years.
It is known as the Westralian Mine-
owners’ Association.
* * * *
Because of a world shortage of mica,
Australia has to depend upon its own de-
posits for supplies. The Federal Govern-
ment has, therefore, decided to continue
control of production and distribution of
the stuff until end 1947. The industry
employs about 100 miners at Hart’s
Range, Centralia, annual production be-
ing valued at approx. £60,000.
* * * *
A new edition of Westralia’s Mineral
Resources has been issued by the Mines
Department in that State. The gold sec-
tion is full of information concerning the
nature and treatment of deposits. It also
includes a short history of the principal
fields. Coal, tin, copper, lead, iron and
asbestos wealth is discussed, and there are
interesting sections on rare metals and
mineral distribution in the State. Valu-
able statistics are added.


IV
_ a *
** 8 V.e* G V'* 0 '
*&&&**
& -W e
oS-
a^ (
a
vrvQ'
,s^
1
”1
*
7
live
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VG7/24
SUNDRY SHOWS
ART FROM CHANGI.
It is obvious from the show of paint-
ings and drawings by V. Murray Griffin,
sponsored by the Canberra War Museurr)
and hanging at Melbourne National
Gallery, that the artist has felt intensely.
An official war artist posted to Malaya in
1941, he saw the fighting in the Mersing
area and in the Gemas-Muar sector, and
was in the withdrawals when the frightful
ambush occurred at the bridge over the
Gemencheh River. He made quick
sketches and finished them in slit-trenches,
and painted in sepia at night in the brown-
out.
Twenty-five of Griffin’s canvases were
packed and sent away and lost by mid-
December, and in January he was back in
Singapore digging trenches. A month
later he was a p.-0.-w, on the 16-mile
march to Changi. The rest of his sojourn
he spent in Changi scrounging materials
for painting, manufacturing his own
colors from clay and improvising surfaces
to paint on —from door-wood, three-ply,
masonite from demolished buildings and
leaves from a photo-album. He even
held exhibitions, but towards the end of
his sojourn the Japs became suspicious of
any unusual object, and, with the assist-
ance of two Diggers, he bricked his pic-
tures up in a recess under the stairs of
the prison building, camouflaging the
outside with clay crudely scrawled over
with drawings of boomerangs and kooka-
burras.
All this time men were being bashed
and starved or were dying of dysentery,
beriberi and malaria. Griffin saw the
diseased and emaciated remnants of the
labor force return from Thailand and
heard their descriptions of what had hap-
pened on the jungle railway.’ • There were
more immediate horrors packed into
these three and a half years for this ex-
National Gallery student than Goya ex-
perienced in his 82 years.
Griffin hasn’t scamped the horror,
whether he is painting the warfare in the
jungle or the waiting in confinement. An
artist, however strong his emotion, can
only express himself within the limits of
his training, and Griffin’s has been that
of the average Gallery student. Inade-
quate as that is, it has been used to
the utmost in pictures of patients being
operated on for ulcers without anaesthetic,
of sick men scrambling over the scaffold-
ing of an unfinished bridge, or dying of
beriberi in a “hospital” in Thailand.
There is a bitter irony in “Portraiture of
War,” depicting a forgotten cache of
dead men in the jungle.
Most of the figures in this record of
suffering are symbols rather than indi-
viduals, and prisoners are almost indis-
tinguishable from their captors. The
poignant facts are there, much as a police
report would give them. Some artists can
make you feel without knowing; Mr.
Griffin makes you know without feeling.
The feeling comes later in the review of
the facts presented.
* * * *
Artists should beware of self-portraits.
Van Gogh has gone down to posterity as
owning a beard like a cornfield (a Van
Gogh cornfield), and Norman Cook,
’whose self-portrait hangs with the rest of
the Sydney Art Group’s exhibits in
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, runs a simi-
lar danger of misrepresentation. The
Norman Cook of the portrait is dark and
handsome, with features of stereotyped
regularity, and a remarkable pigmenta-
tion of the skin —rose, green and yellow
in alternate hard layers. Behind him
scarlet palettes —symbolical, for certain
—float auspiciously in a variegated sky.
The other paintings, although not reach-
ing the highlights of color the self-portrait
has attained, are similar in quality. There
are, for instance, John Cameron’s
“L’Homme,” a compound of reckless blue,
a suffering expression and soft hands;
Edmund Spencer’s “Quarry,” which re-
sembles the daubings of, some very primi-
tive tribe, and other works, which are
very modem, very startling, and very
boring. Will Roberts has a of
paintings, of which “Morning Mists” is
typical. It is colorful, in much the same
way as a pink bedroom cushion. In an-
other Roberts painting “Sparkling
Waters,” dealing again with the boats and
water, the thickly-laid-on paint, rough and
florid though it is, does sparkle. But it is
a small spark in an arid stretch.
* * * ♦
Twenty-eight paintings by Tom Gar-
rett, on view at the Grosvenor Galleries,
Sydney, show skilled craftsmanship, some
stiffness and a curious lack of Australian
light. The same thing is apparent in the
work of early painters in Australia—of
Conrad Martens, for instance —before the
great Australian landscapists discovered
that light here was different from the light
of Europe. Then, all at once, everyone
discovered it, and it is difficult now to
look at any Australian painting, whatever
its virtues, and recognise it for what it
purports to be if the vital light is lacking.
“Day Wane,” aptly enough, is the most
successful of Garrett’s exhibition —it is
an evening mood. “Batcheldor,” a study
of trees leaning over water, is comely
it, too, is pitched in a low key. For the
rest, “Coastal Town” has a fine leaning
tree —Garrett paints trees well —“Rough
Pastures” has pastures that are very far
from being rough, and “Barn,” with a red
splash of blossoms, is too like a postcard.
"Make It a Party."
Sydney Tiv. as a kind of anniversary
show —the programme doesn’t state which
anniversary, and the record is lost in a
memory of changes and vicissitudes of
the Tiv.’s present locale which have
carried it in years not yet even menaced
by the locusts from “grand” opera to
great leg shows —has decided to “Make
It a Party.” All the nice Tiv. girls are
there, looking as lovely as ever, and quite
a lot of new girls, looking as lovely as
all the others, and waving legs and hips
and all the other things they wave just
as daintily and effectively as they always
do.
Jenny Howard is as pleasant as ever,
and makes everybody laugh. Eddie Mar-
cel, Tibby Roberts and Terry Scanlan
are pleasant, too, and make nearly every-
body laugh. The Four Guardsmen sing
and make everybody sentimental, and a
whole host of people dance and make
nearly everybody excited.
The Ridgeway Trio balance on ladders,
which, like the Indian’s fabled rope, seem
to grow straight up into the air, and one
Ernesto balances on his hands, or on one
hand, and gives the impression that he
could balance on his little finger if he
felt so inclined. They balance so very
well, in fact, that they unbalance the
Party a little, since nobody else does any-
thing nearly so amazing to give it the
balance necessary or something.
Nicki Gallucci and Del Le Roy are
among the singers and dancers. They’re
just out from America, and their doings
are beautifully staged and end with a sur-
prise which very nearly breaks just be-
fore it should. But the most surprising
thing—and that not surprising perhaps
to regulars at the Tiv. —is the grace and
beauty of a pair of legs belonging to a
very pretty dusky lass who, unfortunately,
is just making back for America.
* * * *
The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
finished its 1946 series of subscription
concerts in the middle of a tram and
train strike, and it says something for
the concertgoing public that the three re-
peats were well attended, though possibly
it says more for the subscription system.
Approximately 36,000 people have
attended the concerts, and that says
much for an organisation which used
to be more or less pleased to play to an
audience of 400. Probably most of the
credit should be deposited on the door-
step of Professor Heinze, who soon goes
to Canada as guest conductor. His con-
ductorship has mellowed, and its mellow-
ness was never better displayed than in
the Brahms Symphony No. 1, with its
alternations of gloom and exaltation, and
in the close liaison between the conduc-
tor and soloist Ernest Llewellyn in the
Bax Concerto for violin and orchestra.
There is nothing showy about this com-
position of the present Master of the
King’s Musick, and there was nothing
showy about the Llewellyn playing of it.
The leader of the Queensland State String
Quartet and the orchestra tossed the
grave argument between them very nicely.
« * * *
Sydney University Dramatic Society
made a poor job of Maxwell Anderson’s
“The Masque of Kings” at Killara, Much
was a pity, for the play deserved better.
lan Maxwell, as. the Emperor Franz
Joseph, was the outstanding actor of the
cast. His quiet deadliness did a good
deal to retrieve the essential drama of
the play. John Richards, as the Crown
Prince Rudolph, although he looked
princely and harried enough, had a ten-
dency to bolt his lines, and Count Taafe,
the Emperor’s offsider (played by Dmitri
Makaroff), at times forgot his part alto-
gether. Peter Armstrong, as the hearty
Archduke John of Austria, was suitably
fluent and hearty, although there were
nuances to the role which seemed beyond
him.
At the Talkies.
“The Bells of St. Mazy's” (Sydney
Regent); Bing Crosby as a priest and
Ingrid Bergman as the Mother Superior
of a convent in a film obviously designed
to cash in on the popularity of “Going
My Way.” This one misses badly and is
in turn mawkish, clumsy and straightout
annoying.
* * * *
“Heartbeat” (Sydney Century): Re-
appearance of Ginger Rogers, this time
as an escapee from girls’ reformatory in
Paris who contrives to wed a rising young
diplomat within the film’s allotted run-
ning time. Adolphe Menjou and Melville
Cooper give it a touch of humor, while
Basil Rathbone’s performance as the
master of a school for pickpockets and
petty criminals is almost Shakspearcan
in manner.
♦♦* * ,
“The Bride Wore Boots” (Sydney
Victory): F.a.q. comedy about a wife
who likes thoroughbreds and racing and
a husband who writes scholarly historical
works and neither knows nor cares which
end of a horse goes in the feedbag.
Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Cummings
play it for what it’s worth.
* ♦ * ♦
“Holiday in Mexico” (Sydney St.
James): Extravagant technicolor musical
built around the slim story of teen-ager
(Jane Powell), who falls for an elderly
pianist (Jose Iturbi). Her father, the
American Ambassador to Mexico
(Walter Pidgeon), untangles the trouble
in mildly amusing fashion. Further in-
gredients of the spectacular hotchpotch
include Xavier Cugat and orchestra, Ilona
Massey and the fine clear singing of Miss
Powell.


Australia
Must Export
Or Go Under
Export trade is vital to Australia’s
economic survival.
If we develop exports, our manufac-
turers, farmers and workers will benefit
through increased earnings. New fac-
tories will spring up. More jobs will be
available. More people will flock to our
shores. ♦
But if exports are neglected, forcing
factories and farms to rely on our limited
home market, shops and warehouses will
be crammed with unsaleable goods. Fac-
tories will close and wide-spread unem-
ployment will follow.
Yet, for twelve months a communist
inspired ban on shipping to Netherlands
Indies has completely strangled that
valuable export trade and has seriously
interfered with our trade to Malaya and
China.
There can be no more serious threat to
the living standards of Australian workers
than this deliberate strangling of export
trade.
CEIGOA PT¥. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
Authorised by T. G. Dole, 54 Oxford St., Sydney
CE2I
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
With his outstanding staying record to back
it, Cordale’s third to Valcurl and Carey in the
Moonee Valley Cup on Saturday was the best
Melbourne Cup run seen to date. Next Satur-
day’s Derby and Hotham Handicap winners
(or thereabouts) will come into the picture, but
Cordale will remain this page’s pick for next
Tuesday.
Cordale has first-rate Cup credentials, and
should be able to manage his 8.12. A six-
year-old, he has —what nine-tenths of this years
Cup field lack —proved stamina, plus a dash
of brilliance. He has won over the two-miles
distance (Sydney Cup), and all his wins have
been those of a stayer; every one of them,
in fact, at more than a mile, the latest the
Metropolitan (Im. 5f.), for which he got a
61b. Cup penalty.
Had Cordale won at the Valley he could
possibly have been penalised out of the Cup.
Valcurl, repeating Gmtown s periormance of
winning successive Moonee Vauey Cups, led
all the way over the 13 furlongs; a considerable
reversal of form after never oemg in the hunt
in the Caulfield Cup and fimsmng next to
last, but he did the same a year ago, and it
was Cordale’s run that icceiveu sonic aacnuon
from the stewards. It was explained that the
whip was not used more on him in the straight
because he goes better when it’s just shaken
at him; also that he was a long way back early
because that’s how he prefers things. When
he did make his run he travelled round the
field, went wide at the turn, finished down the
middle of the short straight, and, for all his
top weight of 9st. and tne heavy track, was
gomg much better than anything else at the
end. In the Cup he will be nuden by ex-
Queensland jockey G. Moore, who was on
him on Saturday, and who is a tiptop rider
in good form.
Of Saturday’s other runs, the best from a
Cup point of view may have been Leonard’s
defeat of Monmouth and Cotham in the 10-
furlongs W. S. Cox Plate second division. The
Plate is a w.f.a. affair, but they were anything
but w.f.a. fields in both divisions, though there
was no question about the credentials of that
kind of the other winner, Flight, who downed
Star Act and Magnificent. Like Valcurl,
Leonard showed extraordinary improvement on
his Caulfield Cup stone last; but handicap
and w.f.a. runs are never safely comparable.
For that reason Leonard’s win might be passed
over but for his third in last year’s Melbourne
Cup. A four-year-old, he will carry 8.6 next
Tuesday.
Of other Valley runners who may accept for
the Cup, neither of the stable-pair Cherie
Marie and St. Fairy showed anything striking.
Still; they are respectively Oaks and Caulfield
Cup winners; St. Fairy appears to have
been specially prepared for the Melbourne
Cup (he was a good fourth last year), and
Cherie Mario is nicely in it with 7.13.
On Target has fair S.A. form, and is by
Spearfelt; Knockarlow, as an Australian Cup
winner, won’t be troubled by the two miles,
but may be short of brilliance; Magnificent
is, of course, a dual Derby winner, and ran
fair races in the Caulfield Cup and on Satur-
day; Monmouth finished well in second place
to Leonard, and is an improving four : year-old
who has been placed at H miles; the imported
Spam, with good distance form in Ireland,
ran Ins best race so far (sixth in the Moonee
Valley Cup); Russia has definite staying creden-
tials; Rainbird appears to have lost form, but
is never much good on a heavy track.
Saturday’s absentees include the good S.A.
contender Little Tich, a six-year-old Actor
gelding who has won in Melbourne over Im.
7f. and the Adelaide Cup (2m.), and who is
in next Tuesday’s race with the featherweight
of 7.4. He is reported to have had a recur-
rence of leg trouble, but if he’s all right on
the day he must be hard to beat; if there’s
a doubt' about it Leonard would be preferred.
Another absent was the New Zealander First
In (by Siegfried, sire of Wotan), who has been
third at two miles (Wellington Cup). None
of the Derby contenders who had a run did
anything very striking, but that form could
be misleading.
So for the Melbourne Cup; Cordale, 1;
Little Tich, 2; Cherie Marie or St. Fairy, 3.
Of the Derby prospects, the best showings
were made by Star Act (second to Flight) and
Cotham (third to Leonard). The stable elect
of Prince Standard, Concerto and Proctor must
have a good Derby chance, with stout opposi-
tion from Bold Beau, Flying Duke, Two Grand
and Conservator. It looks an unusually open
Derby.
» * * «
An attendance of only 23,000 at Canterbury
on Saturday ensured pleasurable freedom of
movement for those present. In any case,
Canterbury, with its unequalled greenness, is
always a pleasure to look upon, apart from
the present structure housing the photo-finish
gear, which is a perfect eyesore.
Apprentice allowances serve a definite pur-
pose and the declaration of some overweight
may be unavoidable, but the combined effect
of both can at times play havoc with the
handicapping. A fair case in point was the
Canterbury Handicap of 11 furlongs, which
might' just as well have been run at catch-
weights; only four of the 12 starters carried
the weight allotted them. Hereunder a list
of the field with, first, what the handicapper
gave them, and then what they carried:
Murray Stream .. .. 9.0 8.7
Codicil 8.7 8.4
Buzz Off 8.3 8.3
Turn Again 7.11 7.6
Lord Neith 7.6 7.6
Thanks America .. .. 7.4 7.5
Q resting 7.3 7.3
The Champion .. .. 7.0 7.0
Rifle 7.0 6.9
Big Push 7.0 7.1
Valaire 7.0 7.5
Skip Bomber 7.0 7.1
By giving two horses 7.4 and 7.3 respectively
the handicapper indicates that he is prepared
to make a distinction so fine as lib. in asses-
sing them, yet Murray Stream, who subsequently
won it, actually met one of the others, Valaire,
on 121 b. better terms than the handicapper
declared. Murray Stream and Codicil had the
best of the general reshuffle of weights, and
they finished first and third, with Questing
sandwiched between them in second place.
Bookmakers must chortle gleefully every time
Hall Stand is nominated for a race. Last
season he had 10 starts, was favorite on six
occasions and second favorite twice, and didn’t
win once. He has done no better since then,
but, despite this record, was again made favorite
"Now that Were alone , Miss Hook, will you marry me ?”
in the Flying at Canterbury—and again beaten.
Gay King led Brazier from start to finish, the
favorite finishing only fairly into third place.
The best performance seen at Canterbury
was that of Abokina in the fixed-weight Maiden.
Missing the jump at barrier-rise, he was at
the tail of a well-sfrung-out field atter tney d
gone a furlong. Still about last with seven of
the nine furlongs to go, he looked a hopeless
case, but, beginning a long-sustained run at
the six, he gradually made up the leeway, was
in the first half dozen at the turn, and kept
going to win a camera-finish from Busins and
Regal Step. Thompson showed fine judgment
of pace on the winner, but the horse had to
be good to win in that fashion. Though it
was his first start in a race, Abokina was
strongly fancied. By The Buzzard trom Even
Keel, he is a full brother to Yaralla and True
Flight; he shouldn’t disgrace his relatives.
Busiris, also by The Buzzard, is fully related
to Buzz Off.
Skip Court, a useful-looking son of Agin-
court, won the Juvenile for colts and geldings,
accounting for Sovereign and Coronation Lad,
both by Coronation Day. Agincourt was
further successfully represented in a similar
event for fillies in which two of his stock,
Courtesy and My Caravan, filled the minor
places behind Nizam’s Ring, another of the
grey Nizami breed.
Run in two divisions, the Welter gave appren-
tice F. Williams, who receives 31b., a winning
double. In the first, on Star Gold, he led
throughout to down Oliver and the litan geld-
ing lithonus (who returned over £l2 for five
shillings on the place tote). Williams then rode
Pennicuik, who finished with a shade too much
zest for the liking of High Flight and Dutch-
man.
« * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—
Nursery Stakes: Deep Sea, 1; Skip Court,
2; Sovereign, 3. Nursery Stakes (Fillies):
Courtesy, 1; My Caravan, 2; Rhapsody, 3.
Novice: Abokina, 1; Sun King, 2; Part ait, 3.
Flying: Earl Pentheus, 1; Oliver, 2; Hall
Stand, 3. Rosehill Handicap: Silent, 1;
Codicil, 2; Murray Stream, 3. Three-year-o d
Handicap: Bowturn, 1; Tynedale, 2; Denali,
3. Welter: Rouge d’Or, 1; Lady Mane, 2;
High Flight, 3.
* * * ♦
Hammond’s men in S.A.;
To read sections of the Sydney press when
the Englishmen were getting their land legs
in W.A. anyone would have thought they d
come here to learn how to play a locally-
invented game called cricket. It could be in-
ferred that it would be a shame to take the
money when they came East; they’d be pie
for Wagga Wagga.
Invading S.A., they had some further prac-
tice at the expense of a Country XI, Hutton
hitting up a free and easy 164, Compton 100
and Fishlock 98. Country, facing the invaders
total of 487 (for six wickets), scored 87 and
92, Wright and Smith doing the bulk of the
damage eight wickets each. Voce was
sparingly bowled, and was further saved (by
omission) in the match against the S.A. State
side, started on Friday.
The State game opened with the English
evidently bent on showing that their knowledge
of the game wasn’t learnt by cable. In a dour
partnership Hutton and Washbrook stayed
there all day, hitting up 117 and 111 not out
respectively, sundries lifting the day’s total to
237 for no wickets. Don Bradman led the
State side, and must have exerted a strong
effort of will-power not to put himself on:
he tried eight bowlers, including Dooland, and
none of them looked like making a dent in
what was a flatteringly defensive stand. The
wicket was an invitation to run-making, but
neither Hutton nor Washbrook, though each
was seeing the ball well, was tempted to do
much more than block good lengths and take
such runs as couldn’t be helped.
After ' the second day’s play there was still
stronger reason for swearing off premature
whooping. The invaders further acted the
role of a besieged force, staying there for the
day, and lifting the total to 506 for five wickets.
The openers were soon out, Hutton at 136 and
Washbrook at 113, but Edrich and Compton
each hit up 71, and, after Hammond was
stumped by Englefield off Dooland for 9,
Yardley and Ikin were still there, respectively
54 and 35, at stumps. Dooland’s three wickets
cost 142 runs, the other two going to O’Neill
and Mann.
Apparently deciding they’d had enough prac-
tice, Hammond declared, and had the satis-
faction of seeing two S.A. men out for 62
at lunch and the mortification of seeing Brad-
man missed behind the wickef when 18,
Washbrook’s and Hutton’s patient partnership
of 240 upset the record for the first wicket by
England v. S.A. Englishmen who have better
first-wicket figures in Australia are Hobbs and
Rhodes (323 v. Australia at Melbourne in
1911-12), Hobbs and Sutcliffe (283 v. Australia
at Melbourne in 1924-25), and Hayward and
MacLaren (314 v. N.S.W. in 1901-02).
After an excellent season in 1937 (in which
he scored 2888 runs, av. 56.22, including 10
centuries, one against M.L. at Manchester in
the second Test), Len Hutton, when 22, was
picked for the Tests in 1938, and in his first
innings against Australia rattled up 100. Then,
in the fifth Test at The Oval, he stayed at the
wickets for 13hr. 20min. to break the record
with 364. . Also in that match he helped make
records for the second wicket (382 with Ley-
land) and the sixth wicker (215 with Hardstaff).
The only English player with a higher score
in first-class cricket is Archie MacLaren (424),
but Australia’s Bradman (452 and 369), Pons-
ford (437 and 429), Charlie Gregory (383)
and Clem Hill (365) have done better. With
51 v. Northam, 10 v. Combined XI, 164 v.
S.A. Country, and 136 v. S.A., Huffon has
361 runs on the book this trip so far at an
average of 90.25. A great find for England.
♦ * * *
In the Sheffield Shield game in Brisbane
E. Toshack bagged 5 for 46, and the Queens-
landers were all out for 128, Rogers top-scorer
with 55. N.S.W. opened no better, Carmody,
Morris and Alley being out and the score at
the end of the first day three for 52, of which
Barnes had contributed 20. Barnes was still
there af the finish, 88 not out in a total of
192. Queensland started much better in the
second innings on Monday.
• * * ♦
Adelaide “Advertiser” gave a purse to
help the testimonial for golfer Rufus
Stewart, Kooyonga was the scene, and
Eric Cremin went round twice in 71 and
75. His 146 put him five ahead of
Naismith, only one stroke behind whom
came Pickworth, Mills, Robertson and
Martin Smith, A lot of visiting pros,
added their prizemoney to Stewart’s testi-
monial,
* * * *
Inches taller and longer in reach, Jackie
Wilson (9st. 41b.) looked a good thing to
beat Ted Sprouster (9st. 21b.) for a few
rounds at Leichhardt, but Sprouster’s
speed got him there on points. An acci-
dental butt opened the bridge of the
Sprouster nose before they’d been fight-
ing a minute, and his left eyebrow was
gashed later, but he did as he liked with
the opposition over the last three rounds.
Outpointed by Sel Hamilton in Mel-
bourne last Februaiy, Maorilander
Clarrie Gordon made a game bid to get
square at Sydney Stadium, but Him ikon
(10st. 2ilb.) still had too much class for
him, and Gordon (lOst. Bilb.) took his
second points defeat. Gordon forced the
fight, but wasn’t fast enough to beat
Hamilton to the punch, and Hamilton
was well ahead when he had an eyebrow
gashed in round seven. This handicapped
him enough for Gordon to do better for
a while, but Hamilton was landing solid
rights in the last two rounds, and nobody
complained about the verdict.


m
fa
PASS
DONT
ON
HILL
m
Published in the Interests of Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers of: "C.O.R Plus" Maior Spirit 0 "COR " Potcer Kerosene 0 “ CORALITE ” Lamp
Kerosene 0 “ C.O.R Diesoleum" 0 ‘C.O.R " Diesel Oils 0 “C.O.R Fuel and Bunker Oils
m
7 m
(Trusader
m
m
i
m
Kh.
m
m
m
msm>
OJUJU
miilA
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Cheaper Cars and Homes?
A question in which a large number of
people all over the world are interested
in is. Are the prices of motor-cars,
houses, furniture, etc., likely to come
down over the next two years or are
they likely to go higher still?
Many people have the idea that we are
in a period of “boom,” and believe that
after all previous booms there was inevi-
tably a slump, with goods and property of
all kinds going begging at prices far below
the previous high levels. This outlook
has the apparent backing of history:
land booms, share booms, commodity
booms —after each and every one there
has been a “bust.”
But history must not be read super-
ficially, nor present-day conditions too
readily put into a pigeonhole as being of
a type similar to others that have gone
before. A great deal more observation
and comparison than that is needed.
Today there is hardly a sign of the
beginning of a boom as we knew such
phenomena before the war. There is
scarcity of homes, goods and services
everywhere, but there is none of the
gathering production momentum that
precedes the traditional boom and which
subsequently causes supply to outstrip
demand and brings about the first break
in prices that subsequently precipitates a
more-or-less general slump.
The world has gone through, during
the war, an international monetary, in-
dustrial and social upheaval, and a lot of
new levels have been set in the human
outlook.
Someone has spoken of America as a
country facing “profitless prosperity,”
basing his forecast on price-control,
heavy taxation and high costs initiated
by high wages. Yet, by comparison with
Australia and the United Kingdom,
American industries have been allowed to
make high profits during the war and
post-war periods. Collapse in profit-
earning only came when post-war strikes
paralysed production nerve-centres. In
Australia there is so little prospect of
attractive profit-earning being offered to
industry that there is no breakneck rush
to get new factories operating and no
great credit-expansion or land boom
ballooning up now and threatening price-
levels later on.
On the other hand, we have had price-
control for a long period, land being
included with commodities, and it is
obvious to the analytical observer that
the inflationary credit accumulations of
the war, on wage-earners’ account prin-
cipally, have by no means exerted their
full effect on prices. The blackmarket
operating in house property is certainly
making a mockery of land-sale control
to a large extent, but wherever property
is still available within 20 p.c. of pre-
war figures it is a bargain that is seized
by those able to find a seller. Even if
land-sale controls do not effectively pre-
vent the pushing-up of land values in
blackmarket transactions, they and other
regulations have at least succeeded in
confining land sales at high prices to
cash transactions, with little credit —the
hot-air so dangerous in a boom —involved
in the dealings.
An analysis of most banking figures in
British countries and the United States,
and especially in Australia, show that
industry and the real-estate market are
"Police Commissioner, Melbourne. Dear sir ”-
relying much less on credit than they did
before the recent war, when there were
very few signs of boom conditions, even
if production costs were rising rather
sharply. Private enterprise is thus un-
likely to be suddenly deprived of financial
support by banks in order to check in-
flationary conditions, and so there is
likely to be little in the way of a jolt to
price-levels from such a source.
The high prices which the world is see-
ing today, then, are hardly the result of
overconfidence. They are more the re-
suit of underproduction and paper-
money prosperity on the part of wage-
earners and the like. During the war there
was almost a vacuum in certain types of
civil production, with a reduction in
nearly all types, whilst wages and
salaries flowed at a greater rate than ever
before, and even war-time taxation failed
to check the pressure of money that was
built up. The normal result of this
vacuum-and-pressure position would
have been a new, higher level of costs
and prices almost immediately. But the
rise has been delayed by arbitrary price-
controls in the hope that, within a year
or two of war’s end, new production
techniques and full employment would
bring greater production of civil goods
than was ever seen before, with the edge
that was put on costs by financial infla-
tion taken off by production improve-
ments.
So far we still have the inflation
menace but little promise of the effective
counter —higher per capita production.
In the United States the automobile in-
dustry is bogged down with strikes, and
auto, manufacturers are seeking increases
in permitted prices instead of reductions.
True, they have already been allowed
more latitude in their export prices than
on tha home market, but it is clear that
their early post-war plans as regards
production and selling have been thrown
all askew by the industrial attitude that
prevails today. Price-control has no-
where been as effective as its sponsors
have hoped, and wage-earners still feel
that they are being paid less than living
costs appear to warrant. They forget
that a large part of war’s cost was de-
ferred, in the financial sense, and they
object to paying for that cost, even in
“easier” instalments, now that fighting is
over. Hence their strikes for more money
wages, even if against all fundamental
reasoning.
Much the same attitude prevails in the
building trades today. The effective
work rendered for wages is not nearly as
great as before the war, and higher costs
surround the whole industry, starting with
coal. Even if, eventually, a better atti-
tude develops among trade-unionists it is
likely that by that time a new, higher
level of money costs will have been estab-
lished, to which incomes will have to
swing into line —if it can be done. By
contrast, deflation —that is, reducing costs,
including wages, and prices in order to
make production profitable and Govern-
ment finances stable —is no longer politi-
cally popular even if socially desirable
sometimes. This is another reason for be-
lieving that it will be a long time before
houses built at 40 p.c. above pre-war
price and motor-cars will be much
cheaper than they are today.
Even if all production breaks down
through strikes and general industrial
collapse the effect is likely to be, in the
long run, even higher prices than those
already seen. Nothing is truer than that
if wage-earners desire to see lower living
costs, cheaper cars and homes, they will
have to work diligently for them.
The Bank of N. S. Wales, in lifting its
final quarterly div. from 6 p.c. to a rate
(if maintained for a full year) of 6 \ p.c.
p.a., has made its highest distribution
since the depression. Not that it is any-
thing very substantial yet; on the con-
trary, it compares with 121 p.c. distri-
butions made before the slump of the
1930’5, and is much less than it appears
when total shareholders’ funds (visibly
£34 14s. 7d. per £2O share) are taken into
consideration. It was a reduction from
121 p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1939 that heralded
the onset of the depression; at least, the
reduction brought home sharply to that
generation that the financial weather was
in for a big change. It is unlikely that the
’Wales at the present time is making a
great deal more out of banking than it
was immediately prior to the war; all the
indications are, indeed, that it is making
less from this source nowadays. Although
deposits have piled up in all the banks
since war began, reflecting the general
policy of credit expansion forced by
Federal Government budgeting, the ratio
of advances to deposits, 92 p.c. in June,
1939, had fallen to 36 p.c. in June, 1945,
and it remained at this figure a year later.
In fact, at June 30 this year special de-
posits lodged by the trading banks with
the Commonwealth Batik at a nominal
rate of interest totalled £259 million, com-
pared with £224 million out on advance
to industry. Deposits with the Common-
wealth Bank were originally designed as
a war-time measure; but, of course, so
far as finance is concerned, Mr. Chifley
and Caucus still believe “war” to be on,
and frame the Budget accordingly. In-
stitutions like the Bank of N. S. Wales
have substantial investments in premises,
and at the present time any kind of
premises in almost any part of Australia
represents excellent property from a letting
point of view. That is one reason why
Bank of N. S. Wales shares appear attrac-
tive in the eyes of many investors at
£34 15s. notwithstanding the fact that
the Canberra Government has taken most
of the profit out of banking services.


4M&
3L
f'
For
Fine
Food
well served
ŵ
RESTAURANTS
OF DISTINCTION
Why I bank at the “Wales
Wl\miinii\
*
Running a property is not easy. It is made
worse by the uncertainties of the weather,
pests and unstable prices. Some of these are
local factors which only local people fully
understand.
So one reason why I bank at the “Wales?* is
because there is a branch right here in the
district. The Manager knows the district and
understands my needs.
Another reason is that I like the friendly
atmosphere and speedy service of the “Wales”.
It is a pleasure to do business with them.
Take my advice: if you have any financial prob-
lems, talk them over with the “Wales” Manager.
IPs a free service and may save you much
unnecessary worry .
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
PPiIIX
The Modern clock for the modern world. Precision-built
no mainspring, hair-spring or other troublesome parts to go
wrong. Just plug in and„you have the EXACT time ALL the
time.
\
i
p
TABLE CLOCKS
This ultra-modern electric
table-clock, featuring the
new perspex front, is just
one of the many new
designs now obtainable.
Assorted colours to har-
monise with any colour
scheme. Price £4/8/*.
KITCHEN CLOCKS
An essential feature of the modern
kitchen. This circular electric wall-
clock has a b inch diam., easy-to-
read dial and is obtainable in a
pleasing Walnut Bakelite case. Price
£2/17/9.
i
12
COMMERCIAL CLOCKS
Another Electric Wall-clock, suit-
able for Factories, Hospitals,
Schools, Offices etc., anywhere
where correct time is of supreme
importance.
Sin. diam. In Bakelite case.
Price £4/12/9.
lOin. diam. in Bakelite case.
Price £5/5/-.
NEW TRADING HOURS:
Mon.-Fri., 9 a.m.—5.30 p.m. Sat., 9 a.m.—11.30.
No. Winding. No Regulating. No Attention Needed.
PR OVDS
MASTERS OF TIME
CNR. KING AND PITT STREETS. SYDNEY. 8W2721
P73a
Nylon
Great interest exists in the nature and
possibilities of nylon yarn and fabrics.
Nylon is a name given by Du Fonts in
1938 to a variety of synthetic fibre-form-
ing polyamides, first of which were dis-
covered in the firm’s laboratories in
1935. The discovery was the result of
several lines of research, one of which
was investigation into the molecular con-
struction of naturally-occurring materials
such as wool, rubber and silk.
Nylon 66 is the result of a chemical
combination, the basis of which is phenol
or benzene, resulting in a salt in which
the atoms form a linear chain. Heated
under the right conditions, these chains
link together. The product, or polymer,
can, when melted, be extruded through a
spinneret; when cold the filaments may
be stretched to several times their original
length, and in this process the molecule
chains align themselves to the filament.
The official definition of nylon in
Britain is as follows;
Nylon is a generic name for all syn-
thetic fibre-forming polyamides i.e.,
organic-condensation products which con-
tain a multiplicity of structural units linked
in senes by amide or thio-amide groupings
produced by a process of manufacture in
which non-tibre-forming organic substances
of lower molecule weight are converted
into products of such high molecule weight
as to be capable of being formed into
filaments which, upon cold-drawing, acquire
a true fibre structure recognisable by
X-ray examination.
The United States, Britain, France and
Italy have been making nylon 66, while
the Germans made a different article dur-
ing the war. Nylon has often been said
to be the product of coal, water and air,
but this is true, as a rule, only in an
original sense —long chemical processes
take place before the nylon salt is
arrived at.
Nylon yarn is at present mostly made
from 66 ; it is twice as strong as silk,
light, extremely resistant to wear, and is
very elastic. Nylon stockings can be
shaped under steam-heating, the “set”
thus obtained only being removable at 4
higher temperature than that originally
employed. The United States has had
more experience in producing nylon
stockings than Britain. In England pro-
duction of nylon yarn was mostly for
the purpose of making parachutes and
glider towropes. The yarn has also been
used with great success in the manufac-
ture of tyre-cord.
Perlon, the German “nylon 6,” was
used principally in making a spun yarn
of staple fibre. This product is not so
resistant to heat as polymer 66, and
textiles made of it present ironing diffi-
culties.
Other uses to which the nylon polymer
is being put are monofil for tooth-
brushes, hairbrushes, surgical sutures and
fishing casts; moulding-powder and
lacquers ; film and fabric-supported film.
Production and development of nylon
materials have by no means yet achieved
their full momentum. Nylon products
were first sold commercially in the United
States in May, 1940. Since then there has
been great interruption to commercial
production by, firstly, war, and, secondly,
industrial trouble in America. Basic
patents were taken out on “fibre 66,” as
it was then known, by E. I. du Pont de
Nemours and Co. in 1937.
Mr. Chifiey, in his financial statement
of July 12, proposed to cut “war” ex-
penditure by £l5O million during 1946-47.
This figure is approximately the amount
by which his Budget failed to balance last
year. But a public loan is at present being
ottered to the public. Some of this year's
borrowing will be earmarked for State
“works,” including, apparently, water-
supply projects in N. S. Wales. However,
some of it will also be raised on behalf
of the Commonwealth. In the absence
of a Budget yet for 1946-47 it is im-
possible to judge how much the Com-
monwealth Government proposes to rely
upon borrowed money during the current
year in order to finance its heavy expendi-
tures. It has been flush with money
during the first couple of months of the
term ; between June 30 and Sept. 30 it
reduced the bank-credit debt from £343
million to £313 million. In this
period there appear to have been
large receipts from disposals of sur-
plus war-time stores, etc., as well as
other windfalls in the nature of repay-
ments by Allied Governments. The
bank-credit debt has been reduced from
a peak of £4OO million in February this
year. Any further reduction in this item,
whether out of taxation or public borrow-
ing, will be to the good. The Govern-
ment must not be afraid of the cry “de-
flation” when inflation is the obvious
danger facing the country. Nor should
the Treasurer be scared of trying to bal-
ance the Budget. Balanced Budgets are
by no means out of date in progressive
parts of the world.
* * * *
The city editor of London “Sunday
Times” in August pointed out that, on
the then most-recent figures, there were
440,000 more British people employed by
the central- and local-government author-
ities than in 1939, and about 296,000 of
the increase was attributable to non-indus-
trial staff. He commented: “This is a
serious matter, especially as industry is
short of manpower. Too many people,
including those in offices of industrial
concerns, are engaged in book-work and
paper-work as a result of Government
demands, and too few upon making,
transporting and carrying goods. That is
part of the penalty which the nation is
paying for the present regime of social-
ism and bureaucracy.” Apparently the
position is alarming even Mr. Morrison,
formerly Home Secretary and now Lord
President of the Council in the Attlee-
Laski Government. Said Mr. Morrison
the other day:
In the cockeyed economy of the ’thirties,
people imagined that the great problem
was the abolition of unemployment. To-
day we know ■ that even full employment
is not enough. We must secure a greater
output of goods and services all round for
a decent standard of ’life, fair shares for
all, and adequate incentives for all.
There are reports that Mr. Attlee is
visibly slowing down on socialisation of
industry, though the T.U.C. is still riding
its hobby-horse ; and Dr. Dalton hopes
that he will be within striking distance,
if thought opportune, of a balanced
Budget next year. Obviously Labor in
Britain is awakening to realities more
quickly than “Labor” in Australia.
* * * *
Butter production in Australia has
been bad all through the war and post-
war period. For butter output there was
only one good patch—l 939-40 ; after that
there was never a season when the out-
turn reached the level established in
1938-39, while in the 1943-44 and 1944-
45 seasons the fall was in the vicinity of
25 p.c. In 1945-46 the position was very
little better, if any. Output of cheese,
on the other hand, was accelerated
during the war, and mutton, lamb,
pork and bacon and ham were
all produced in greater quantities
until the past strike-disturbed year came
along; but beef and veal fell in quantity
during the wax in spite of all demands.
Flour output, down heavily during the
worst of the war period, has not yet fully
recovered to pre-war levels. Coal out-
put in 1944-45 and 1945-46 was only
slightly greater than in 1938-39 and
much below the level established in 1942-
43. Recent output of steel and pig-iron is
so low by comparison with 1941-42 out-
put as to be a disgrace to the coalminers
and other obstructionists. Zinc output
has kept moving up during the past six
years. Production and sale of electric
power has increased enormously since
before the war; this condition of things
applies to nearly every part of the Com-
monwealth. Tasmania is now generating
50 p.c. more electricity than in 1937-38.
Goldmining was deliberately curtailed in
all parts of the Allied world during the
war, and Australia’s production fell by
more than half. It is now showing signs
of recovery, but the industry receives
little official consideration.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Kelly was reckoned the
most unshakable man on the place. If
a horse pitched him off he’d arise un-
ruffled from the dust and casually re-
mark th£t he “must pick a softer bit of
ground next time.” When Little Curl
nearly blew his head off with a shotgun
Kelly looked round slightly, and serenely
asked what the noise was; and when he
just missed being skittled by a falling
gum on the river one night he didn’t even
jump but remarked, on seeing our
astonished faces, that we must have
thought he was going to buy us a drink.
Picked on in the town by the local
roughie, Kelly thoughtfully scratched his
neck with his left hand and in a detached
way let fly a right chop that laid the
roughie out. To a black snake that poked
its head from a butt of chaff he was carry-
ing Kelly said “Sorry, Joe, you’ll soon be
dead,” and heaved bag and snake into the
sheep dip. But his imperturbability was
wrecked the night the woolshed caught
fire. With the rest of us he slayed for
three solid hours carting water and fight-
ing the fire and, when the last spark was
killed, gathered with us at the cookhouse
for refreshment. Handed a tin pannikin
he sipped at it, spluttered, then hurled
the pannikin on the ground and roared
“Strike me pink, blue and handsome, I’ll
kick that babbler’s slats in. Coffee ! He
gives us blasted coffee on a night like
this!” It took three men to hold him
back and a hurriedly-brewed pot of tea
to soothe him down.
* * * •
“Atlanta”: Outbackers laugh at those
expensive horsehair or cotton lassos
which are whirled by the two-gun cellu-
loid heroes in chaps. The twisted green-
hide rope is used on most of the big
cattle stations. Quickly and easily made,
it lasts for years. Much more pliable than
the plaited affair, it’s strong enough to
hold the biggest micky or the wildest
tearaway cleanskin.
* * ♦ *
“C.E.”; Dad had a secret formula from
which he concocted his own special cure-
all. With it he treated sheep, cows, dogs,
fowls, the missus and the nag, sprayed
fruit-trees and disinfected buildings. One
day Ted Simpkins came over with the
news of a disease among his pigs. “What
they want is a dose o’ me mixture,” Dad
declared positively. “Here, give ’em half
a pint o’ this, an’ continue it every half-
hour till they’re better.” Next day, Simp-
kins reported the treated pigs all dead.
“Aw, y* never give it to ’em prop’ly,”
defended Dad. “Y’ got t’ have it exact an’
time it t’ the minute. Try some more,”
Next day there were four more dead.
“Cripes, I’ll have t’ come ’n dose ’em
meself,” growled the old bloke. “You
ain’t used t’ the stuff.” The first patient
was an enormous sow, but when she
passed out half an hour later the amateur
vet. declared she’d been too far gone to
cure anyway, and turned his attention to
another animal.' Carefully he measured
the dose, watched the time, and repeated
it at intervals. By evening the pig was
dead. “Well, I don’t think much o’ y’r
flamin’ med’cine,” fumed Simpkins.
“Now, don’t you go judgin’ it on that.
Ted,” came the indignant protest.
“Cripes, one animal ain’t a fair test. Pity
y’ ain’t got no pigs left, so I c’d show
y’ jus’ what this stuff ’ll really do.”
» * * *
“Blime”: Sam’s new place wasn’t sub-
divided, and it was his nightly practice
to turn his one nag loose in the 640 acres
round the hut. In the morning began
the work of recapture. With the bridle
under his coat, Sam would try to work
the animal into a corner, whereat the bay
would lay back his ears and race to the
far end of the paddock. Twenty minutes
later the performance would be reversed
from that end. It was around midday
when I came on Sam, very red in the dial
and blowing like a broken-winded moke.
“H-hey, help us catch this blanky so-an’-
so, will y’?” he called. “I bin after him
over two hours.” Galloping after his
“ So-long, kids! And not a word to the press till the school mag.
comes out!”
nag, my effort to wedge the brute in the
corner was spoilt by a sudden mad
charge that nearly spilt me. “Whew!
I’ll be knocking my own hack
up like this,” I pointed out. “Want him
particular today?” “Too right,” an-
swered Sam. “Got t’ ride down to the
post. Expectin’ a letter.” “But it’s not
over a mile,” I protested. “You could be
there and back in half an hour.”
“Walk!" Sam snorted his disgust.
“Cripes, a man would look a goat walkin’
’way down there for the mail when he’s
got a flamin’ nag on the place doin’
nothin’!”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Hadn’t seen Seventyfiver
for some time, so dropped in the other
day and found him tacking a new sole on
his boot. On a bag by the fire lay a big
white cat. With his mouth half-full of
tacks, the old bloke explained how it had
strayed into the hut about a week before
and, feeling sorry for the animal, he had
befriended it. We yarned on for a bit;
then, as the sun disappeared, I noticed
the cat growing restless. “Gettin’ on
time, is it?” the old bloke remarked pre-
sently, as the animal rubbed his leg. “Aw-
right, c’mere.” Taking a piece of old
hessian off a nail he dropped it over the
cat, shoved the thing’s head through a
gap at one end, and one after another
pulled its legs through holes at the
corners. He completed operations by
taking up the slack underneath with a
piece of tie-wire. The cat trotted to the
door and disappeared. “Gone to bed,
has he?” I inquired. Seventyfiver shook
his head. “Feed-time,” he replied. “Gone
t’ catch ’isself somethin’.” “In his
pyjamas!” I exclaimed. The old bloke
looked reproachful. “Cripes, don’t y’
know a huntin’ suit when y’ see one?”
he drawled. “Y’ see, Sol, he wears it for
the same reason that y’ don’t see no white
foxe* V wallabies in this country.”
* * * *
“DrOnestung”: In effusions on the
prolific Kangaroo Island strain of pure
Ligurian bees, an enthusiastic reporter
has written that “the queens were worth
their weight in gold,” Had he gone to the
trouble to have one weighed he wouldn’t
have taken them so cheaply. Weight of
bees varies slightly according to the feed-
ing at the time, but 4500 to the pound is
generally accepted as somewhere near the
mark. Queens of large size would not
exceed double the weight of workers, so
that something less than eighteenpence
would be the price of one on that esti-
mate. Any queen not worth a good deal
more than that quickly goes into discard
on a bee-farm.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Arguing about bush-
fires and wind is like arguing about the
chicken and the egg. But the fact re-
mains that in the great Victorian holo-
caust of January, 1939, the three separate
days on which the fires took their greatest
toll of life were the days when at sun-
rise a sixty-mile-an-hour tornado came
tearing down on the Cabbage Garden
from off the dry areas of western N.S.W.
On the intervening days, when this wind
did not blow, the fires, although they
still burned, were practically harmless.
Obviously they failed to induce a draught
sufficient to send them tearing along as
did the seventy-mile-an-hour sirocco
which came down from the north on
January 13, the worst day.
* * * *
“Moyhu”; Harry Larkspur, early
breeder of high-class beef-cattle in the
Porepunkah district (Vic.), had never quite
been able to reconcile the marked de-
velopment of the kangaroo’s nether limbs
with its puny chest. The rapid, vigorous
movement implied by the powerful leg
muscles, he reasoned, should have swiftly
exhausted the vital organs encased in the
tapered-off chest and. long since resulted
in the species’ extinction. On realisation,
however, that the ’roo, puny chest not-
withstanding, was possessed of more
stamina than many a better-proportioned
animal, his imagination was fired by the
concept of producing, by a process of
selective breeding, a super-hopper with
chest built in proportion to the lower
limbs. A decade of patient experiment
produced a buck with a deflated chest
measurement of 55 inches (it stood 6ft,
4in. in the normal upright position). Pro-
duction of a race of giant-chested ’roos
following its release in the near-by bush
did not, however, eventuate, as the does
would have none of Larkspur’s Pride,
which, after a couple of years spent dis-
consolately ranging the hills in search
of a mate, came in contact with a piece of
lead sent on its way by the proprietor of
the local hostelry, thereby accounting for
the perfectly square hide that decorated
the floor of Bung’s bar parlor for many
years,
“Colonial Cove”: That “kill and show”
mentioned by “G’snatcher” (B. 25/9/’46)
is no modern trait bred particularly into
the Australian greyhound.. Back in the
Perth “Gazette” of the IB3o’s one may
read advts. for the sale of kangaroo dogs
with the special virtue to kill and show.
♦ * * ♦
“Betcha”: That a dog depends more
on his nose and ears than his eyesight
was evident the other day in my cobber’s
old kelpie. Header is a one-man dog, and
though he knows me well nothing would
ever induce him to follow anyone but
Jim and the old brown pony he rides.
He was out after sheep when I overtook
Jim at Sandy’s camp, and, lamenting that
I had just lamed my hack, with cattle yet
to muster, we swapped nags. We’d each
turned our separate ways when, a bit later,
back came Header, and with nose on
the ground followed my trail up the spur.
Presently he caught up, wagged himselt
happily, and for the next couple of miles
trotted along, scuttling an occasional
rabbit, or looking round for approval or
instruction. Then 1 had to speak. Imme-
diately the mong stopped, looked at me
intently, and his nose twitched. My
extravagant encouragement might as well
have been addressed to a tree-stump as
he turned back. Arriving at Sandy’s
camp, down went his nose as he circled
several times for the familiar scent, then,
after half an hour on his haunches wail-
ing dismally, he tracked off sorrowfully
for home.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Though sudden shrieks
may be heard in Bengal as Muckerjee
Chatterjee descends upon Jaffer Ali in
the night, and while the noise of Bom-
bay is increased by shouts of encourage-
ment as Mutlab Khan courses Chundra
Bose along Marine Drive, there is one
community in India which heeds not the
passing strife —the big black bees. Re-
lieved from the climatic rigors which
send our swarms hunting snug homes,
these fellows just find a good wide ledge
and go to work ; a roof is all they ask.
High arches often carry half a dozen
great slabs of comb, the newest a dull-
gold, the others ranging through deepen-
ing-browns to the dirty-black patches
where old stuff had fallen away. There
is a sturdy colony high in the beautiful
arch inside the Jama Marjid of Old
Delhi; it hangs right above the pulpit of
the second priest, who thereby occupies
rather a sporting post when the weather
is hottest. Indifferent to politics or
creeds, they favor impartially the ornate
Secretariat in New Delhi, old Hindu
ruins in C.P., the stately, silent ramparts
of Fatepur Sikri (the ghost-town of
Akbar) ; or are content with a rock-ledge
in the bush —pardon, jungle. They saw
Alexander wind down the dusty roads,
and will swarm in the ruins of palaces
still unbuilt. Not above using man’s in-
genuity, they nevertheless keep well above
his reach and bend to the laws of nature
alone; symbol of aloofness, their days
shall be long even in a troubled land.
* * * ♦
“Fancar”: I have never witnessed
turmoil in the quail world, but perhaps
that’s because the small birds, shy and
unobtrusive, don’t parade their domestic
affairs to the vulgar gaze of man. Yet
the Chinese and Italians kept up the
sport of quail-fighting till recent times,
while the ancient Greeks and Romans
rated a quail-fight as good a spectacle
as a cock-fight. A quail feud is said
to end with the death of one and often
both participants. A legend relates that
Augustus put to death a Gyppo prefect
who served up for supper a quail which
had won many an Homeric battle.
♦ * £ *
“Milo”: Once satisfied that her choice
of position, soil, etc., is the right one, it
would take more than a squatting fox
family to persuade a rabbit to move.
Even a ferret doesn’t always scare a
mother rabbit from her home, and some
warrens are like blocks of flats as far as
accommodation and variety of tenants
are concerned. Cats, snakes and goannas
which take refuge in burrows don’t seem
to interfere with the occupants. Wild
dogs—foxes and dingoes—like to hunt or
search for their prey ; they are not keen
on what is already to hand and will live
peaceably in logs and other lairs with
strange room-mates. ■ Similar partnerships
exist among birds and insects. The pee-
wit-wagtail alliance is well known, also
the ant-and-aphis agreement. Then there
is the case of the blue butterfly —papilio
—which pupates within the awful pre-
cincts of the ants’ home, protected by
its own enemies!
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Just when I retire for a
few weeks’ rest along comes that “Sur
Cingle” bloke to disturb me (B.
23/10/’46) with his moaning about carry-
ing an orange into some God-forsaken
spot, shooting and skinning a euro, get-
ting his hands messed, up with blood and
tapeworms, nearly dying of thirst and
too scared to eat the fruit because there
wasn’t any water to wash his mitts. Any
bushman would have scoured the dooks
thoroughly in dry gravel and sand, bitten
a hole in the orange and sucked refresh-
ment therefrom. Yairs, I said bushman !
* * * *
“Bland”: Bill and his wife were
changing before going into the township
for the day, and as the visit was partly
to get some items she had forgotten to
order, Bill waxed slightly sarcastic about
absentmindedness being another of the
weaknesses in the feminine make-up.
As he happened to be dressed first, and
to sidetrack his thoughts on the slow-
ness of women in dressing, Mrs. Bill
said “Better set the fire. Bill, while you’re
waiting. We’ll be late home and then
it’ll be all ready to put a match to.”
Bill arranged the back-log, the wood,
paper and kindling, then, still harping
on his original tune of absentmindedness
in his spouse, he pulled out his matches,
struck one and touched the fire off. The
kindling was going up in a crackling
roar just as Bill with a great effort
switched his train of thought from his
favorite subject to something more
urgent.
THE DRIVER.
1 did not need a lantern light to find an honest
man;
I met him just by accident —Jack Stephenson or
Cann. . .
He’d never read a line of mine; 1 hope ne
never will;
But we were cobbers from the start and we
are cobbers still.
A bloke who drives a service-car has little
time or ease
For lyric camps within the west or sunset
ffint^sics
And yet in bushland I have known some quiet
men apart
Who never learned a poet’s lines yet poets
were at' heart.
The cavalcade of wheelmen bold is headed by
Jehu;
Its prowess has been long extolled in ballads
old and new — _ .
The handsome lads of classic Greece with
blonde hair blowing free
At Athens races must have been a pretty
sight to see;
Like those brave boys of ancient Rome who
round the c?rcus swirled
When Rome in pride and panoply was mistress
of the world.
But they who drove the Pharoahs and the kings
of Babylon,
With those who drove King Charlemagne, to
dust, alas, are gone!
1
The coaches, too, have had their day, and o’er
the dirt tracks go
No more Wells-Fargo’s famous men, or those
of Cobb and Co.
Their mantles fell on motorists; and here,
meseems, I can
Proclaim that one descended on —Jack Stephen-
son of Cann.
For I can sit by lanky Jack with confidence
and ease
Admiring all the passing show of hills and
. curves and trees,
And never think of headstones cold or hos-
pitals o'er-flowed
With bandaged patients who have met disaster
on the road.
If I were left a fortune fine, or won it in a
sweep,
I’d send a wire to Stephenson to tell him,
“Get a jeep;
And you and I henceforward will on fifty-fifty
stand;
Together we will take the road that runs to
Samarkand;
“We’ll go to Himalayan hills, the plateaus of
Tibet,
And, via China and Siam, from there betimes
we’ll get
Across the Gobi Desert to the passes of Iran” —
Ah! that’s the wire I’d like to send Jack
Stephenson of Cann!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Bo”: On the third day of his bender
Long Harry, the post-splitter, camped a
few miles out of the township, was
joined by Brophy, the blacksmith-cum-
undertaker, and a passing drover. In
the course of their libations at the
Native Dog the drover, hearing during
conversation of the nature of part of
Brophy’s activities, expressed the belief
that Harry looked “dead crook” —certainly
no understatement —that he couldn’t last
the day out, and opined that it might be
advisable for the part-time snatcher to
measure Harry up forthwith for a pine
topcoat. Brophy beerily concurred, and
then went through the ritual with his
tape-measure with owl-like solemnity.
The sun was sinking when the trio broke
up. On his way out to his camp Harry’s
feet became like lead and thoughts on
recumbency arose deliciously in him.’ He
happened to be passing a culvert, and an
old wooden box drain under the road
looked inviting. Some time after he had
laid his head down the black, starless
night was rent by a demoniac shriek, fol-
lowed by another. Shortly afterwards a
wild figure clawed his way out into the
open and, with sobs interspersed with
screams, he stumbled off. Half an hour
later Harry staggered into the police-
station, his bloodshot eyes sticking out
like hatpegs and demanded of the con-
stable that he arrest Brophy for trying
to bury him alive. “On’y that the care-
lesh cow frgot t’ shcrew the coffin-lid
down,” he said, still shaking, “I’d ’a’ bin
a proper cot cashe, ri’ enough! ”
* ♦
“Hanko”: Over a few jars they dis-
cussed Bernborough. “He mush have a
wunnerful shtride,” said Glassy-eyes.
“Yairsh,” said Droopy-lids. “He mush
take two to their one,” Glassy-eyes pon-
dered that assertion. “No,” he said, “they
mush take two to hish one.” Droopy-
lids’ brow corrugated in an effort at
clear thinking. “No,” he said, “he mush
take twicer longer shtride to their one.”
Glassy-eyes considered that. “No,” he
asserted, “he mush on’y take halfsh longer
Bhtride to their one.” Droopy-lids reeled
a few steps and brushed bis brow with a
“Hello, Petsy—miss me ?”
beer-moist hand. “Same diff’rensh,” he
said wearily. “Do y’ think it’ll—hie —
rain?”
• • • •
“Dusty Gully”: The cricket season at
Bungleburn has opened, and my first
essay at the batting crease yielded a
duck, the outcome of a most unfair
advantage taken by our keen rivals from
Mopoke Flat.. The Mopokes’ opening
bowler is a long, lean cove with the action
of a pigrooting brumby, and he came
tearing down with a fierce grimace and
glaring directly at the square-leg umpire,
1 turned to warn that somnolent in-
dividual of the impending delivery; two
seconds later I heard the sound of
timber crashing behind me. Too late I
realised that the “Cockeyed Bob” I’d
heard a few of the rival team discussing
did not refer to the miniature willy-willy
that had raised a cloud of dust along
the pitch just as the skippers were about
to toss,
* * * *
“Menura”: Wilson’s Promontory, says
“Horseless Horseman” (B. 9/10/’46), is
“accessible only to men of the commando
type.” Says him! Nineteen years ago I
was one of a party of school-
marms, perched on packing-
cases as we drove along the
firm, wet sands at ebb-tide
from Fish Creek, past Yan-
akie, to the chalet; tempera-
ture, IQB degrees in the shade.
Acclimatisation and admira-
tion for variety of the
scenery induced us to hire
horses from the ranger, and,
with a packhorse carrying
food, blankets, etc., we
crossed the “Prom” to
Sealers’ Cove, dossing first
night on bracken beds on
the banks of Tidal River.
Skirted the rugged coast-
line to Oberon Bay, then a
strenuous climb up the “Bad Saddle” —
this we left to the horses, who would
have known the way blindfold. Up
and down mountainous timber country
we proceeded along a narrow bridle-track
—dismounting to creep through a small
aperture in a granite pass—a slip meant
a sheer drop hundreds of feet down the
valley—thence through a lillypilly forest
and into the depths of a fern gully of
which the beauty could never be con-
ceived in imagination. Ferns graced our
track right to the water’s edge at Sealers’
Cove. Gazing with awe, we thought of
Bass and Flinders in their whaleboat,
150 years ago, striking “a huge bearded
promontory in a twenty-mile rampart
of defiant granite.” Flinders aptly named
it after his staunch London friend, Tom
Wilson.
* * * ♦
“Bob H.”: I agree with “Moira”
(B. 25/9/’46) regarding foxes that take
only black fowls, which are less con-
spicuous at night. But in my W.A.
habitat Reynard is awake to other
things. Which is why, when the
chocolate soil of the orchard is in fallow,
the Rhode Islands always disappear, and
the one serious attack on my White Leg-
horns coincided with a rare visitation of
snow.
* * * *
“Gtavelsnatcher”: Old Westralian
railwaymen still remember the Hermit of
Karalie. Generally reputed to be a
Swede, he settled at Karalie on the old
pushcart-and-wheelbarrow road to Cool-
gardie and constructed a dam at the foot
of one of those rock outcrops which are
a feature of the big State. Apart from
his desire for solitude, for which a variety-
of reasons were advanced, his only
peculiarity was a scrupulous honesty. He
was sturdily independent, too, but that
wasn’t such a rare quality, those days.
He refused to sell water from his dam to
passing stockmen, but didn’t protest
when it was taken without permission or
payment, and he adopted a similar atti •
tude towards would-be buyers of his
watermelons. From the loose rocks he
built one- and two-roomed houses, using
for mortar a cement-like substance which
later puzzled experts, but which was
probably white-ant nests With wooden
harrows and other hand-made implements
he broke his ground and sowed his crops,
and occasionally, when the need arose for
something which his own ingenuity could
not provide, he tramped 40 miles into
“Confound it,Eccleby! We've struck oil."
Southern Cross with a barrow-load of
vegetables. These he sold carefully,
frustrating the efforts of the good-natured
storekeepers, to overpay him, bought his
requirements, and tramped back again.
High up on the rock outcrop he con-
structed a seat where, of an evening, he
sat and played his cornet and relived
again, perhaps, the years before he
shunned society. And he could play that
cornet, as he could do most things, well.
At the end of his life a benevolent Gov-
ernment removed him, protesting, to
Perth’s home for the aged, where he
fretted for a week before a worn-out
body released his spirit to return to his
rock aerie to watch engineers construct
a railway dam near the site of his old
water-catchment at the base of the rock
at Karalie.
* * ♦ ♦
“Wester”: Rufus Morris’s cartoon of
the local citizen inviting the visiting artist
to put the new slaughteryards in his
landscape as an advt. for the shire (B.
23/10/’46) is funny but not far-fetched.
When I revisited Forbes (N.S.W.) after
an absence of years the first thing the
proud locals took me to see was their
recently-installed sewage-disposal plant.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: From now until mid-
February female green turtles will be
busy on the myriad beaches of the
southern Barrier Reef, digging their ISin.-
deep sandy incubators above high-water
mark, depositing the batches of round,
dinted eggs and camouflaging the refilled
holes with scattered sand. The males
never lend a flipper at the job, but float
idly offshore waggling the long tails which
distinguish them from their poor hard-
working wives. It will be more than nine
weeks later before the buried eggs hatch
out, and several days after that before
the 2in, infants burrow up to the surface,
usually at night, and make their perilous
way to the sea. Those who essay it by
day become certain food for seabirds,
and even when darkness lends protection
from enemies of the air, big shore crabs
are ready to grab them and hungry fish
patrol the beach edges. Only a small
fraction of each hatching survives the
perils of infancy—luckily, for an average
batch of eggs numbers about 120, and
but for such population-checks the sea
would be stiff with turtles. Used as live
bait, lightly-hooked through the after-
end of the carapace and dropped near
a reef coral edge, they surpass any
fisherman’s wildest dream. Those turtles
which win through will grow to Sin. by
the following year, attaining full adult
size of 44in. along the carapace some
nine years later.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: With today’s quickening
tempo even the Torres Straits “purri-
purri” man must be versatile to hold his
public. Though their corporeal temples
probably were unaware of it, the sprites
of Bishops of London, China and Sydney
recently boosted the stocks of one prac-
titioner. According to the magic-
merchant’s propaganda, they paid a
nightly courtesy call on him by canoe.
Though his manna was thus restored, the
episcopal regard brought him no added
kai-kai. His next spectral visitor was
less respectable. But the fact that Hitler s
wraith had demanded appeasement as
the alternative to their destruction
wrought upon the credulous boongs so
much they appointed the purri-purri man
plenipotentiary for the receipt of the
appeasement gestures, which came in
plenty in the form of prime dugong and
turtle steaks, pigs and taro, yams and cray-
fish. Placed on the roof of the purri-
purri man’s hut, they were removed
nightly, presumably by the partially-
mollified Fiihrer’s sprite. At this stage
an unimaginative official, observing that
the purri-purri man grew fat to the point
of apoplexy, though he had retired from
all tucker-winning industry, took pity on
his plight and jammed him in the peter.
Here he soon wasted away to normal
proportions. For a few days the villagers
trembled at the prospect of annihilation.
But after a few days they concluded that
the sprite of Adolf must be small
potatoes anyhow as a debbil-debbil, to
allow his envoy to be treated in such
undignified manner. Thereafter life re-
sumed its normal tenor on the island.
* * * •
“Shamuseen”: Despite the expressed
optimism of sentimentalists, I remain
sceptical as to the possibility of endowing
Black Brother with commercial acumen.
With about £6OO-worth of pearl-shell
cargo, the Torres Straits cutter Nancy
Lee, Binghi-manned and -captained, was
drifting in the throes of a nor’-west calm.
Most of the ship’s company were snooz-
ing comfortably. Then someone noticed
a succession of pairs of mating turtle drift
by. The prospect of such easy meat was
too much for the crew. To a man, in-
cluding the skipper, they went overboard
in childlike glee. As they were swimming
down their quarries, however, a sudden
squall filled the sails of their craft.
Goosewinged and unmanned she sped, a
miniature'Marie Celeste, to be irretriev-
ably lost in the mangrove-lined fastnesses
of the Papuan littoral.
* * * ♦
“Atlanta”: Equipped with light close-
meshed nets, wire-netting cages and all
the paraphernalia of the travelling bush-
man, the role of the bird-trapper is as
varied as it can be lucrative. At different
times he fits in ’roo shooting and rabbit-
ing with station work, and keeps his eyes
open for dog-scalps while doing a bit of
fossicking on the side. . The creaking
wagonette may have been replaced by an
ancient utility as transport, with two or
three camels for working the more arid,
inaccessible country. His beat may range
anywhere from the red mulga ridges and
Mitchell-grass plains of s.-w. Queensland
to the Riverina; from the Victorian
Mallee to the dingo country of the War-
burton (W.A.). His best hauls are from
sundown until dawn, when most birds
drift in to water. Waste lands of S.A.’s
Musgrave and Everard Ranges shelter
some of our most prized parakeets. The
Everards are believed to be the sole re-
maining habitat of those dainty and
mysterious night parrots the Princess
Alexandras, while at intervals the drab
mulga is splashed with color as a pair of
gorgeous scarlet-breasted parakeets flash
overhead'. Trapping them presents a pro-
blem, as they are never seen at water.
Blacks in this dry region believed that
they didn’t drink at all, but existed on
that succulent herbage parakylia. Con-
sidered extinct for many years, the
friendly Bourke parrot reappeared more
than a decade ago in the north of S.A.
Seldom seen by day, the Bourkes visit
some lonely soak or rockhole after dark,
and from midnight until an hour before
dawn they come in gradually-increasing
numbers until the air is filled with their
whirring thousands. They are gone with
the first nalp wa<?h in east sky, delicate
opalescent flashes fading into the grey
mulga.
THE TUMBLEDOWN WATER.
(Myer’s Creek Falls.)
There’s a wild little stream in the faraway hills
That races and rambles and scatters and spills
Through tall mounting timber, impatiently gay;
Till, suddenly reaching the rocky stairway,
By water-worn chasms and boulders of brown
The tumbledown waters come tumbling down.
In flurries of foam-bells and smothers of snow,
And showers of water-beads, over they go.
The river’s wild rhythm, the laugh and the
song,
The long gully echoes toss lightly along.
And the dappled light dances, the nodding
reeds say
The tumbledown water is happy today.
The mountain thrush pipes to me, seeing no
danger,
Though the whip-bird keeps telling him I am
a stranger
To this world of long whispers and voices that
shout
And sob and entreat me and yet shut me out
Where the foam-lilies float and the dark jewels
drown
And the tumbledown water comes tumbling
down.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


THE AftMIDALE SCHOOL
The Only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
• Excellent climate.
0 Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
0 Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
0 Matrons are ti’alned Sisters.
0 Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
Entrance Scholarships,
Four Entrance Scholarships, valued at
£5O per annum (to become £6O when the
hoy reaches the age of 14), are available
for 1047. These are tenable for five years.
Entry forms and scholarship conditions
may be obtained from the Headmaster.
Candidates may sit at approved centres.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc., Headmaster.
A SERVICE
THAT IS REALLY
COMPLETE!
When you team up with the Australian, Mercantile, Land
& Finance Coy. you don't need to send anywhere else
for anything—and you are sure of the maximum price for
everything sold, as well as the most economical cost for
everything purchased through the extensive A.M.L. & F.
facilities. Get in touch now with
ustralian. Mercantile, Land & finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc, in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, VVagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A 5.22.76
11 your
dog’b coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
m'm on a courser
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKO
Condition Powders and apply BAKKO Skin Lotlor
to the affected parts.. Wash 'your dog always with
BA PRO iodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN L.OTION 2/y
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/"
?OLD BY AI.Ij CHEMISTS.
ẃ
ẅ
BARKO
wnarever your
may be
“MAXIMUM” Portab'e
Piping has the Answer!
Distances up to one mile long and pressures up to 1001 b. per square
Inch—that’s the scope of “MAXIMUM” piping.
“MAXIMUM” connecting pipes with the famous Flexible Coupling
are the solution of all your water-conveying problems because:
A. They are portable. B. Can be laid by anyone. C. Are available
in standard lengths and bores which, together with the famous
“MAXIMUM” Flexible Coupling, enable you to build your system
to suit yourself.
Note: “Maximum” piping mil fit all usual irrigation equipment; quotations
and advice with pleasure.
Agents: SMITH A QLUYAS Pty., Ltd., 16-.M6C Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane. J 1456.
PASCOE & CO., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
WELLING & CROSSLEI Pty., Ltd., 143-140 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4BS9.
w
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
ŵ
80X403
ersonal
Do you need a
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance. THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN:
• LOAN • Weekly • Fortnightly • Four-weekly
incl. disc. instalment instalment instalment
15 5
£3 17 0
£7 13 11
Repayment OI loans may r -sr - «
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
[Loan?
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A New Sheep Disease
“Bungaree”; Some time ago investiga-
tions in W.A. showed that an early
strain of sub.-clover (Dwalganup) was
the cause of a curious fall in quality and
productivity of sheep. It was noted that
each year the percentage of ewes in lamb
in a number of flocks was decreasing
steadily. In some cases within three
years the percentage had dropped from
80 p.c. to as low as 10 p.c. Another
symptom was the number of deaths of
unborn lambs, which, unless promptly
attended to, usually resulted in the death
of the ewes also, A third symptom after
lambing was protrusion of the breeding
bag.
Merinos were chiefly affected, and, as
may be realised, the scourge was putting
some districts out of merino-breeding.
Dry sheep were affected in curious ways.
Maiden ewes, and even wethers, were
found to be giving milk. So far the
answer has not been found, but since
the cause has been traced to that par-
ticular type of sub.-clover, a change in
pasturage is indicated.
Since the publication of the W.A. re-
port, interest has been renewed in simi-
lar symptoms occurring in N.S.W. Breed-
ing-bag trouble has become prevalent on
some properties over a number of years,
with a decrease in lambing percentages
On a similar scale to W.A. In every case
the stock affected were on improved pas-
tures containing a high percentage of
sub.-clover, although not necessarily the
Dwalganup strain. The same cause is
bound to be identified with many other
cases which have hitherto been regarded
as unsolved mysteries. It demands im-
mediate investigation, and breeders
should report cases at once to their stock
inspector.
Cattle-Tick Control.
“Agric”: “Molecule” (B. 2/10/’46)
says it would cost a lot of money to
eradicate the cattle tick, and a compre-
hensive scheme was needed as early as
possible. Queensland is the State mainly
concerned with the tick and buffalo-fly
problems, and a much more optimistic
tone prevails here today as the result of
recent statements by scientists engaged
on the job.
Dr. I. M. Mackerras, principal research
officer of the C.5.1.R., told a conference
of cattlemen at Monto (Q.) that a 99 p.c.
kill had been obtained in four sets of
cattle-tick observations by C.S.I.R. in
connection with dips charged with
Rucide (a D.D.T. preparation). At the
Yeerongpilly (Brisbane) animal-health
station test cattle were dipped half a
dozen times in quick succession without
scalding. No evidence of systematic
poisoning was found in these or other
experiments. The kill was slow—from
five to seven days to complete—but it was
99 p.c., and the preparation had the re-
markable property of persisting.
Arsenic gave no lasting protection, but
1 p.c. Rucide (11b. in lOgal.), the
equivalent of \ p.c. D.D.T., gave a pro-
tective period varying from nine to 18
days. D.D.T. is the only substance
known which shows such a 'protective
period, and it is extremely important, be-
cause the cattle remained as poison baits,
killing the young ticks in the pastures as
fast as they crawled on to them. The
shortest interval before redipping is con-
sidered necessary is six weeks. After
“Do you think I ought to get the missus out? She's laid up with the ’j Hu."
the second dipping the interval appears
to lengthen and is probably more than
two months.
Salt for Stock.
“Billjim”: Commoi\ salt, which stimu-
lates appetite, should form the largest
part of all licks for horses, sheep and
cattle. Too much salt in licks for pigs
and poultry is not advisable. Calcium
phosphate is invaluable as a bone-builder,
and is generally obtained from pasture
topdressed with super. Meatmeal con-
tains much calcium phosphate, and if fed
as a protein supplement no further cal-
cium is necessary. There is a deficiency
of lime (calcium) in most concentrates
and grain which should be made up by
feeding 31b. of a mixture of 4-1 lime and
salt to each 1001 b, of grain for all stock.
Poultry get lime from shellgrit. In addi-
tion, £lb. to 11b. of salt is added to each
1001 b. of mash. Iron deficiency in ani-
mals is rare, except in those milk-fed.
such as sucking pigs. Sufferers may be
cured by running them on pasture or
placing a sod of fresh earth in the pens
daily.
Under normal conditions (in the ab-
sence of separated milk) best results are
obtained by feeding £lb. of meatmeal
daily to each pig, irrespective of size,
from the time it is weaned until it be-
comes a baconer. This rate of feeding is
approximately equivalent to adding 51b.
of meatmeal to each 1001 b. of cereal
meals in a self-fed mixture. When there
is not sufficient meatmeal to supply that
allowance the first ounce of meatmeal in
the pigs’ daily ration gives better results
than each additional ounce. Young pigs
require the meatmeal more than older
pigs. Savings of meal may be affected
by eliminating it from the diet of fatten-
ing pigs during the last two‘weeks before
they are marketed. Linseed meal may
well replace half the meatmeal require-
ments. Pigs which receive half a gallon
or more of separated milk a day should
not be fed meatmeal.
Blacksmithlng.
“S.V.V.”: To an engineer the article
(B. 2/10/’46) is somewhat vague and
not quite correct in technical details.
Analysis of mild steel will show it con-
tains carbon, manganese, silicon, sulphur
and phosphorus—impurities—in varying
amounts, which determine the quality of
the steel. Whether a steel splits or breaks
when being forged is governed by the
amount of phosphorus and sulphur it
contains. An excess of phosphorus 0.045
p.c. will make it hot short, and excess of
sulphur 0.025 p.c. makes it cold short.
The manufacture of bar steel and plates
will not permit porosity, but caps, seams
and folds do occur. There are no pores
in hot-rolled bars or plates, but porosity
does occur in castings. Quick cooling
will not harden or temper steel when the
carbon content is below 0.3 p.c. Steel
with more than 0.3 p.c. to 1.5 p.c.
carbon can be hardened and tempered by
cooling in water or oil, but the higher
the carbon content the more care in heat
treatment is required. Hardness of steel,
therefore, depends on carbon content and
heat treatment.
Sand used in welding is not for the pur-
pose of preventing the metal burning—
the only way to prevent burning is the
correct control of heat supplied —but to
prevent the formation of iron oxide,
which will not allow complete welding.
It is true that metal becomes “work-
hardened,” but it is a sound policy to
normalise all forgings, as work on metals
sets up undue stresses. Normalising is to
heat the metal to just below the critical
temperature and cool in still air. It is
usually known as “stress relief.”
Artificial Fertilisers.
“Bushy Park”: There is no doubt that
the whole problem of fertility depends on
the humus content of the soil. This
humus can only be prepared from ani-
mal and vegetable residues returned to the
soil; there is no other way. When the
soil is rich in humus the soil life is
healthy and it will grow crops free from
disease; when farm animals feed on
healthy grasses and crops they, too, will
resist diseases. These are fundamental
facts.
The first approach must be to find out,
on a small acreage of crop, just what the
effects are when only compost or organic
manure is used. There is always some
animal manure and some waste vegeta-
tion, if only weeds or straw, from which
can be made enough for a garden or
small paddock. It will be soon enough
to increase the area when the response
of the vegetables, grasses or crops is evi-
dent and when we or our animals show
appreciation of any improved flavor and
nutritive value of the food produced.
Artificial manures cannot be condemned
till we have found some better method
of continuing production.
There is ample evidence that present
methods call for revision. We must find
out how to check disease in animals,
plants and men. We must also find how
to prevent soil erosion. The solution of
both difficulties is somehow bound up
with the humus content of the soil, and
depends on preserving the life of the soil
—earthworms, bacteria and fungi among
others, and keeping them supplied with
food. Any method of manuring which
harms this life is suspect, and must be
closely examined. We must judge, not
by stimulated growth on land which
already contains supplies of humus, but
by continued fertility over sufficiently
long periods.
Personal tests by farmers appear to
be the best method of convincing any-
one, and we ought to be guided by the
observations and experiences of others
who have made tests. There are in most
soils every mineral required by plants,
but these minerals are not available for
the plants to use until they have been
prepared by the life of the soil. To keep
this life healthy must be the first con-
sideration.
Christmas Poultry.
“Myrrhee”: For the final fattening
confine the birds to small coops for about
two weeks, trough-feeding twice a day
on wet mash made of any one of the fol-
lowing mixtures: 51b. dried skim-milk or
buttermilk, 51b. meatmeal, 301 b. ground
wheat or barley, 301 b. ground maize,


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump oni
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The Hver should give dut two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.*’ Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BAHRERE acts ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23H) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
CVAnogaS
“A REAL KILLER”
FOR RABBITS
Cyanogas is instant death to rabbits.
You just pump it in. It kills the
last rabbit in the dead ends.
“It’s the Gas
That Kills Them”
Cyanogas destroys all vermin Rats.
Mice, Weevil and other pests. Has
been used by farmers throughout
the world for over 30 years.
NO FIRE PROBLEM
NO BLOWFLY PROBLEM
the rabbits are buried.
Cyanogas “A" Dust now available.
Obtainable from all storekeepers.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY
PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
* ’Phone: MA 6311
At all times, end
especially In the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, Talcum
Powder.
523
O>J
t
ẁ
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage,
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane. Queensland.
STRONGER-LIGHTER-LONGER-LASTING
I
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globitel
ẃ
%
.. *
Flying start
Now that the age of air travel has begun In earnest,
you may be. feeling you ought to know more about
us —8.0.A.C., the biggest British Airline. Firstly
then, we are an airline in being. Once as Imperial
Airways and British Airways, and now as 8.0.A.C.,
we have been operating continuously since 1924.
Today, on regular passenger services across the
world, we are covering some 450,000 miles a week.
Our assets are very sound aircraft, a world-wide
organisation—and a staff of incomparably experi-
enced men. There is much hard work in front of
us, ceaseless expansion with all its problems, keen
competition. But we have the men who have the
experience. That is what will count.
1 \ m
BO AC
Speedbird Routes to:
Great Britain, New Zealand,
Canada, U.S.A., Middle East,
India, Far East, South Africa
and West Africa.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney
GENERAL AGENTS:
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Cairns, Townsville, Port Moresby, Lae, Darwin . . .
Booking Agents In All Cities.'
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN
ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS, TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS.
6/AU
301 b. ground oats; or 101 b. meatmeal,
251 b. ground wheat or barley, 251 b.
ground maize, 401 b. ground oats; or
101 b. meatmeal, 701 b. ground wheat or
barley, 201 b. ground oats. Liquid skim-
milk could be used in place of the dried
milk or meatmeal; a gallon of skim-milk
(101 b.) is equal to 11b. of dried milk or
meatmeal.
Build the coops 9ft. long, 20in. broad
and 20in. high, and divide into three
compartments, each to accommodate five
or six birds. Use light battens and Kave
a space of 2|in. between for the birds to
get to the feed, which is placed in a
trough just outside the coop. A wire-
netting or batten floor will prevent foul-
ing.
Dairy Stock.
“Mac”; Drought in the Sydney milk
zone area, combined with good prices
for beef, has resulted in large numbers
of dairy-cattle being sold for slaughter.
The return of favorable weather condi-
tions will lead to grossly-inflated prices
for dairy-cattle.
The man who reaps the benefit of the
high prices is the dealer. Prices are forced
up for quality stock, which are actually
the only ones worth buying, by the
wealthier stockowners (who are mostly
Pitt-street dairymen), and that deprives
ordinary dairymen of any chance
of improving breeding stock, and en-
courages them to hang on to less profit-
able cows because of the difficulty of
replacing them with better stock.
My advice, born of experience, is: ( a )
ruthlessly cull below-average producers,
ib) breed only from a bull that is of high-
production strain, (c) rear as many heifer
calves as possible from proved stock, ( d)
keep stock adequately supplied with
nutriment from the time they are born, (c)
it is better to be understocked than over-
stocked. A smaller herd gets more atten-
tion and a good herd will always respond
to good feeding.
Beating Nutgrass.
“X, Aus.”: Investigations carried out
in Fiji suggest a method of control for
nutgrass (Cyperus rotunda ) in the rice-
fields there. The most successful effect
was obtained by planting sweet potatoes
on the land immediately after harvesting
the padi and using the potato vines to
smother the nutgrass. The “bucks” are left
as a ground cover and are ploughed-in
immediately before the rice is seeded
down. This leaves the nutgrass in an
attenuated condition and gives the rice a
chance to get well away before it can
recover. A field treated in this way
cropped almost as heavily as uninfested
ground, while on adjoining untreated
control areas the crop was a complete
failure, the rice being unable to com-
pete successfully with the nutgrass.
The only suggested control measure
used with any degree of success in Aus-
tralia to date is to plough the land and
turn pigs on to the nuts. No chemical
weed-killer has been found capable of
killing a nutgrass stand which does not
at the same time put the treated land out
of production for years ; and cultivation
only encourages the pest. It is hoped,
however, that some promising results
may be obtained by the use of selective
hormone sprays using 2, 4-Dinitro ortho-
cresylate in one of its many forms. Nut-
grass, being properly a sedge, is likely to
respond to this treatment —2, 4-D. is, of
course, not effective against any true
grass.
Hints tor the Farm.
“Billjim”: To combat Byrobia mite, the
eggs of which can be seen as red-colored
clusters at the base of spurs and twigs on
apple-, pear- and plum-trees, sprays of red
oil one in 15 or lime sulphur one in 10 are
effective. Lime sulphur, one in 10, will
eradicate pear-leaf blister mite, which
causes green blisters, later turning the leaf
a dark-brown. This mite cannot be seen
.with the naked eye,
“W.E.M.R.”: For an anvil cutter break
a few inches off a large three-cornered
file, heal it red hot, quench in cold water,
sharpen corners on grinder. To use lay
it on anvil, place iron to be cut on shar-
pened angle and hammer it.
“Cuira”; Used .303 cartridges make
excellent hollow punches for cutting holes
in most compositions used for making
gaskets for cars, pumps and so forth.
“Atlanta”: A ring of corrugated iron
filled with sand makes a solid and easily-
erected tank-stand. The ring should be
sunk a few inches in the ground for
stability, should be securely rivetted and
further strengthened with hoops of fenc-
ing wire twitched tightly against the iron.
Since greatest water-pressure on the floor
of the tank will be around its centre, the
sand-filling should be slightly raised at
the centre, so that the tank when full
will settle with a level floor. The life of
all galvanised surfaces in contact with
the sand will be greatly lengthened by
painting with cement and linseed oil,
mixed one to three.
“Big Billy”: Spraying of apple- and
pear-trees during the early part of the
season with 31b. of arsenate of lead in
lOOgal. of water with half a gal of white-
oil emulsion in lOOgal, of water for the
combination spray is the only way to
beat codlin moth. Moths are usually
laying eggs on warm evenings when the
temperature at sunset is over 60deg. F.
Activity of spring-brood moths extends
into November.
“Prof”: Mushroom-gathering is not to
be scorned when they’re worth £1 a case.
Two chaps in this S.A. district let the
rabbit alone for a couple of months last
year and made a good business of mush-
rooms. Main thing when packing the
fungi is to see that they have plenty of
air space. Select boxes with wide gaps
between the boards, and when packing
separate each layer with newspaper.
Don’t pack too loosely or the mushrooms
will get broken by rough handling; on
the other hand do not pack too tightly,
as they are liable to sweat or become
crushed.
“Sarina”: Good as fowl-manure is for
enriching the ground around citrus-trees,
it should not be spread over the surface
so thickly that the entry of rain is pre-
vented. Where trees habitually suffer
from drought, a couple of large tins sunk
in the earth near each tree will be very
useful. Any water poured into these well-
holed containers will go straight to the
roots of the trees, without any being
wasted in the topsoil.
“Billjim”; Creosote is one of the most
effective chemicals for protecting wood
against borers. It is also an excellent
preservative against decay and weathering.
Unfortunately, it discolors wood and ad-
versely affects any subsequent polish,
therefore its use is restricted to rafters,
joists, bearers and fences. Creosote may
be applied by a brush, and several liberal
applications will be necessary before satis-
factory control is achieved. Where
highly-polished furniture becomes in-
fested by the furniture beetle it should
be treated by means of a hypodermic
syringe or fountain-pen filler. Such a
method is tedious, but effective if re-
peated several times.


WHEN THINGS SEEM TOO
FOR YOU
■
m
A
II
%
A
IT
FOR
CAPSTAN
"CAPSTAN: THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE"
LIMITED. ENGLAND
m
M
0$
m
m
m
m
RAYON
VWhen you are constd-
W ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yarns provide
quality and service as
well as beauty.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS :
MELBOURNE
Head Office
SYDNEY -
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH -
- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
- Ltd., Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane.
- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., BroughtonHouse, 181 Clarence St.
- Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
K. T. Flint, 178 Rundle Street.
- A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street.
; -
nri
3590 a
DTs/cHT^
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■
m
mm i
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
Newspapers rustled. The Stork, over-
joyed, simulated embarrassment.
“You mustn’t say things like that,”
she said severely. “That is very rude.”
Mr. Cape’s smile had lost some of its
gaiety. It looked, indeed, a little sickly.
The Stork, despite the hole in her
stocking, began explaining. “He didn’t
mean to be rude,” she said, rather loudly.
“It’s a story we read to him. It’s about
Old Shovel-nose the Shark. And now,”
she said, “he thinks every face he sees
looks like a shovel.”
Mr. Cape grunted “Yes, yes, quite
natural.” He retired into himself, wishing
she’d have shut up. But the Koala wasn’t
satisfied. He clapped his little hands to-
gether delightedly, and piped up again:
“Mummie, tell the man with a face like
a shovel about the Old Griffin with a face
like a bit of Biffin.”
“That’s in the story, too,” explained
the Stork, feeling the ladder climb a bit
higher.
“Face like a bit of Biffin!” repeated
the Koala happily. He worked his way
in under her arm, 'coiling uo in her lap.
“Tell me about the Old Griffin,” he said.
THE ladder was widening out.
“Once,” chanted the Stork, audibly,
“there was an Old Griffin with a face
like a bit of Biffin, and one day he was
floating about on Billinudgel Bay keep-
ing a wary eye on the three fishermen
over on the shore. The fishermen had
their boat pulled up high and dry on the
sand and they were standing at the edge
of the water with their trousers rolled up
to their knees, when all of a sudden one
of them jumped 20 feet up in the air and
began pulling his line in as fast as he
could. ‘Why,’ said the Old Griffin”
“With a face like a bit of Biffin!”
shouted the Koala.
“Yes, dear,” said the Stork. “ ‘Why,’
said the Old Griffin with a face Tike a
bit of Biffin, ‘he must have hooked a
whale to make him jump that high. I
know,' Old Griffin said, ‘that would be
Mr. Toby Whale, who ate my wife’s
eggs,’ and he felt as happy as a sunbeam
to think that Toby Whale was going to
be eaten himself for a change. Then all
of a sudden the sea began to chum up
right underneath the Old Griffin, and he
put his face like a bit of Biffin down
into the water to have a look. At first
he couldn’t see anything at all, because
all the Jellyfish in the bay were using
his shade to keep themselves cool, so he
swam fast past them, and looked down
again. And there, underneath him,x
threshing about everywhere was not bad
Toby Whale but his poor old friend
Shovel-nose.”
“Shovel-nose,” said the Koala, drowsily.
“He swum down and bit the line, an’ the
fishermen chased him.”
“Yes, dear,” said the Stork, rocking
him. “They were so angry that he’d bit
the line and let Old Shovel-nose get away
that they fired their gun at him and
broke his wing. And there was the poor
Old Griffin with a face more like a bit of
Biffin than ever swimming away as fast
as his wing would let him, and the three
fishermen jumped into their boat and
pulled hard out after him singing out
‘You’re for the pot! You’re for soup!
You’re for the pot! You’re for soup!’ ”
“You’re for the pot!” cried the Koala,
sitting up and calling to Mr. Cape,
‘‘You’re for soup! You’re for the pot!
You’re for soup!”
“Yes, dear,”
said the Stork,
hugging him and
thinking of her
stockings. “But
the harder they
pulled the faster
the Old Griffin
paddled his feet,
because once
he’d got out of
the bay and
away to sea he
knew their cockleshell boat would be
swamped by the waves. He was just
beating them, too, when all of another
sudden . . . Bump! In his hurry to get
out to sea he’d missed the channel, and
there he was with his chest stuck in the
sandspit, and the fishermen jumping up
and down in the boat with glee yelling
out louder than ever ‘You’re for soup!
You’re for soup!”’
“An’ up came Old Shovel-nose puffing
and blowing,” chanted the Koala.
“Yes,” said the Stork; “and Old
Shovel-nose got to work, and before you
could say Mullumbimby he started shovel-
ling away with his nose, throwing shovel-
fuls of sand right and left, till he’d dug
a channel clean through, and so the Old
Griffin with a face like a bit of Biffin
and his old friend Shovel-nose sailed
away out to sea, and the fishermen, three
had dry toast for their tea.”
The Koala looked happily at Mr. Cape,
and when Mr. Cape, making the best of
it, managed a wink, he piped up plead-
ingly: “Mummie, tell the man with a
face like a shovel all about it again.”
But the tram there coming to a stop,
Mr, Cape, as if it was his destination,
stood up and, wagging an admonitory
finger at the Koala, stepped down to
the roadway.
The Stork, her laddered rage somewhat
mollified, watched him as he went. His
hairy hands, the right one holding the
round bowl, swung down near his knees.
His sloped shoulders hunched forward.
His legs bent outward at the knees. His
bulky body swung from side to side in
his half-trotting gait.
“Mummie!” said the Koala.
“Yes, dear, what is it?”
“Was that thing the man with a face
like a shovel had a coconut?”
“It may have been, dear,” said the
Stork.
“Ladder,” she thought. “The big Ape!”


WR46/I5
i»
proud mark of
value and worth
The crown, Sheffield’s hallmark since
1773, is a world-renowned symbol of
quality, a mark tvorthy of respect.
OLD GOLD, the finest dark eating
chocolate ever made, also carries a
proud mark of value and worth
upon every pack is imprinted the
symbol of sterling quality found only
-upon confectionery of the highest
grade, the signature
9
ŵ
"OLD GOLD"
CHOCOLATE
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
V
h
\
O
*
%
*
♦
'V
*
*
V
VALET BLADES NOW
REDUCED IN PRICE:
10 Blades • - 3/2
5 Blades - - 1/7
(Supplies now normal)
It’s so much easier ... So much simpler! You get the
benefit of a keen cutting-edge every morning and the only
requirement is a few brisk strokes on the strop. The
same blade lasts for weeks. Nothing to unscrew. Nothing
to take to pieces. Valet is still the simplest and best of
all Shaving Systems
Valet Razor stock position is not yet perfect but they can
be obtained, and more are on the way from England.
ẁ
Autostrop
Safety Razor
SMOKE-OH!
To the Ball
With the Ball
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
ẅ
w
She trained to be an opera-star.
Success came to her later.
She won fame on the radio
Asa fowlyard imitator.
Eve.
•I* *J* 4*
“There’s nothing attractive about tired or
puffy eyes.”— Beauty note.
It’s all in the process of getting them.
4* *i* *»•
“The only thing that can really alter the
shape of a large nose is plastic surgery.”
— “Woman.”
Poking it into other people’s business
has beeh known to help.
•i* 4* 4* 4* . _,,
“Chick, Mum upset. Communicate. Dad.
—Sydney “Heraid” column.
Chick’s being brought up to scratch.
“About ’25 women and children crowded
into my shop when the shooting began. Some
hid under the counter.” — “Sun.”
Bad luck. Now he’ll have to find a
new hiding-place for his cigarettes.
The Quest.
When, after Bill the fifth time had been
wedded,
I asked him if he’d found the perfect
wife.
He sniffed and said: “ You’ve got the
thing wrong-headed.
For that has never been my aim
through life.
In point of fact, it’s my ambition’s end
To find a ma-in-law who’ll prove a
friend.’’
BRIAN BUREAU.
Startling Growth.
ẅ
D. H. E.
The Misogynists.
“According to a magazine writer, monkeys,
but not women, can vote in Liberia.”
Well, now the awful truth is known
It won’t be long till someone tries
With words of fire to organise
The girls of that benighted zone;
Who knows, if once the seed were sown,
A sable Pankhurst might arise
And like her prototype devise
Some monkey business of her own ?
And yet, with all their imperfections.
You must admit they’d find elections
A lively function in Liberia,
And when it comes to estimating
The female intellectual rating —
They own, you’d reckon, no superior.
P. M. LUSK.
Feminine Fancy.
“Women in the home are often greatly in-
fluenced by things which a man would consider
too trifling even to note.” — Radio speaker.
It all started when Belinda’s uncle
gave her a small, bilious-looking vase.
Having swept aside a photo, of myself
as a blade in an egg-boiler and stern-
freezer coat to make room for the mon-
strosity on the mantelpiece, she stepped
back to appraise it.
“It’s beautiful! ” Belinda began, “but I
think”
“Your avuncular relative,” I inter-
rupted, “with that gracious magnanimity
that vouchsafes him such distinction,
coughed up six bob for that artistic
excrescence at Bullworths —I saw them on
display yesterday. As a self-invited guest
who partook extensively of my reluctant
hospitality for ten weeks, this expression
of his kindly thought on departing to
subject some other unfortunate wight of
a relative to the agony of his pestilential
presence for an indeterminate period
worked out at a cost to him per diem of
approximately a penny point nought two.”
But my shafts fell blunted. Belinda
was rapidly taking in details of the furni-
ture with a calculating look which
aroused my misgivings.
The blow fell next day, “Tve been
thinking about the lounge-room,” Belinda
announced at tea. “The vase does clash
with the suite and those awful dark cur-
tains. Anyway, the suite’s getting old-
fashioned now —we’ve had it five years
and the color is depressing. And I daren’t
wash those net curtains or they’ll fall
to pieces. I’m going to town today to
look for a new suite. I’ve seen some in
a rust-and-fawn that will go perfectly
with that vase. And chenille curtains in
a caramel shade will brighten up the
room as well as tone in with it beauti-
fully. It’ll be a good opportunity, too,
to alter the pictures. Those dark frames
and black mounts simply shriek des-
pondency, You could alter them your-
self ; you’re always saying how handy
you are about the place. After all, there’s
no need to be extravagant and get them
done. I’d like the mounts white and the
frames a shade like daffodil.”
“The human cannonball doesn't know it yet , but
the boss has fired him!”
Eventually I tracked down in the
garage, amid a jungle of blood-and-bone
bags, empty paint-tins, garden-stakes, old
flex, seed-boxes and rusty tools, the lone
paint-brush 1 possess, a pure-bristle one
which I have guarded lovingly. I essayed
to flex the bristles; their resiliency was
rather like that of g piece of petrified
ironbark. However, after an hour’s
boiling, followed by a week’s soaking in
turps, it yielded sufficiently to allow the
outer bristles to absorb paint.
Two weeks later, in the time snatched
from work, golf, gardening, cards, movies,
entertaining friends, etc., I had two coats
of flat white on the mounts and esti-
mated that with only six more it would
be almost impossible to detect the black
streaks which still showed through. That
I was able to draw a 3in. brush down
the 2in. mount and yet only get half-an-
inch of paint on the pictures themselves
—most of this came off by using kerosene
immediately—is a feat I regard with no
little pride. Lots of other handymen I
know would have got the whole inch on.
The color daffodil I found was un-
procurable. I could have got jonquil, but
I have ever been a stickler for accuracy,
so I had to experiment. Obviously a
cream-and-khaki mixture was called for.
Cream 1 could get in a synthetic enamel.
To get a khaki 1 had to buy a 6gal.-drum
of army-disposal oil-paint. The resultant
mixture came out on the brush in a muci-
laginous mess of a consistency somewhere
between chewing-gum, molasses and the
Black Soil Plains after the wet. I’ve
often wondered whether the hens of the
next-door fowlyard into which I slung it
found the stuff palatable or nutritious.
However, from it
I learned one valu-
able tip—that syn-
thetic enamels and
oil-paints, having dif-
ferent bases, should
be kept apart. An-
other few weeks of
experimenting and I
was satisfied with
the color.
Finishing the
messy job at last —
the only slight de-
fect was that the
final coat (the 14th)
of flat white hadn’t
quite dried when I
reassembled the pic-
tures and the mounts
stuck to the glass—
I essayed to rehang
them. I came in to
the lounge-room as
Belinda was in a
too-familiar attitude
of contemplation. I
noticed then that the
bilious vase was gone
and a dark-looking
plate depicting a
Venetian scene in the
days of the Doges
was stuck in its place.
“Isn’t it cute?” she asked, indicating
it. “I picked it at a bazaar today.
It clashes with the new suite, so I’m
buying the old one back from the dealer
and getting him to sell this one. And
wasn’t I lucky still to have the old cur-
tains! And you’d better do those
frames and mounts dark again—that
white simply makes the room glare. The
other will tone with the plate and the
effect will be more restful . . . well, what
are you waiting for?”
BO


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Cost of Living
In Australia, as well as in most other
parts of the world, there is a very strong
demand for higher wages for all sections
of the community, the obvious cause of
which is the increase in living costs. Un-
fortunately the usual way of dealing with
the problem is to increase wages instead
of decreasing the cost-of-living. Over a
very long period it has been amply
demonstrated that the purchasing-power
of any wage-increase is immediately
absorbed by higher prices for every com-
modity—food, clothing, housing, trans-
port and even for amusements —and the
wage-earner is worse off than he was
before.
Fifty years ago a man could live in
comfort on £3 a week. Then it was pos-
sible to buy a hindquarter of mutton for
about Is. 3d. Prime beef was sold at
3d, or 4d. a pound. Similar joints today
would cost from Bs. to 10s. The humble
cabbage was priced from 4d. to 6d.,
whereas last year it sold in Sydney for
2s. Beer cost 3d. a pint, and 3d. would
also buy a packet of 12 cigarettes. Cloth-
ing was also vastly cheaper in those days.
Postage was Id. and tram fares the same,
A workingman could obtain a good three-
course meal for 6d. anywhere.
With the introduction of machinery,
female labor and scientific methods of
production, one might have expected a
reduction in costs rather than such
abnormal increases. The fiction of “im-
proved living conditions” through
increased wages has been exploited
to the detriment of men in all
classes of the community. Some
of the would-be economists argue
that overseas markets largely control the
prices of goods in Australia, particularly
with regard to meat and wool, but surely
the cost of goods for home-consumption
could be dealt with independently to
stabilise the financial position in Aus-
tralia.
Recent experiences in America of soar-
ing wages and rocketing prices should
make our trade-union leaders more keenly
alive to the possibility of chaotic condi-
tions caused by excessive price of goods
—conditions which will never be offset
by the expedient of increasing wages.
There is another phase of the situation
which has to be considered. Forced to
increase wages, employers will seriously
consider some staff reduction, reasoning
that five men at £6 per week should
undertake the amount of work done by
six men previously earning £5 per week.
There is yet another point—the estab-
lishment of new industries by firms from
overseas. In the last few months a couple
of such firms from America have estab-
lished factories here simply because pro-
duction costs in Australia are more
favorable than in their own country. It
is not so much a question of cheaper
labor, but the fact that the balance be-
tween wages and living-costs is at present
more stabilised. There is, not yet, such
a mad race between increase of wages
and increase of prices as in America.
But the tendency towards this has
already begun and should be halted with-
out delay. The surest and safest method
is to cope with the costs, rather than
with the wages that help to swell tne
costs. Production per head governs costs
in the final analysis. Price-control means
not only fixing at present levels, but a
firm determination to reduce costs. —
C.E.T. (N.S.W.).
Is Gold Necessary?
James Peterson (B. 10/7/ ’46) argues
that gold is indispensable to Australian
prosperity and that the price of gold
should be raised to £l5 an ounce to
increase production and encourage the
development of low-grade deposits,
I disagree, A farmer may never mine
an ounce of gold on his land, but he
can do very well producing wool and
wheat, fat lambs, butter or fruit. He
has an asset in his fertile acres more
real than gold, for gold neither feeds nor
clothes us, A nation is like the farmer,
and can prosper by producing these and
other essential commodities independently
of gold. The Government could boost
gold-production and thus open low-grade
or otherwise unprofitable mines by pay-
ing £l5 an ounce, but it is a fair bet that
Australia would have little to show for
the millions expended in a few years
other than abandoned mines and deserted
towns.
On the other hand, if the Treasury
spent the same amounts irrigating and
developing agricultural land the nation
would have a lasting asset producing
wealth in primary products for ages to
come. The economic soundness of Bal-
larat and Bendigo depends not on gold,
but on the rich farming lands of sur-
rounding districts. They are independent
of gold-production.
If James Peterson could inspect Kal-
goorlie in a few hundred years he would
probably find uninhabited ruins of
deserted houses and shops, with goats
nibbling about the crumbling statue of
Paddy Hannon. But the fertile south-
west corner of W.A., the rich Western
District of Victoria, the north coast of
N. S. Wales and the Darling Downs will
still be contributing life and wealth to
the country.— Alpha (8.C.0.F., Japan).
The Farmer’s Pay
Having been farm-laborer, wheat-
lumper, stationhand, market-gardener,
employee and owner, I can claim, with
“H.L.” (B. 25/9/’46), to have gained my
experience the hard way. My sole ven-
ture as my own boss ended so disas-
trously that the savings of years vanished
overnight and left me in a position from
which I had barely recovered when war
broke put. Now, back on Civvy-street
in a 40-hour five-day-a-week job, on high
pay, I can ask myself why I am working
to re-establish myself on the land. I
"Lay of me! I might've known you'd have the ref. in your pocket."
have just bought a small property from
which, by working twice as hard and
twice as long as I do now, I can hope
to make a pound or so a week less than
my present wages. Of course I’ve “got
myself in” to the extent of imagining that
eventually I’ll do considerably better.
At the moment, though, prompted by
“H.L.’s” comments, I’m asking myself
why I consider the venture worth while.
Of course there’s the freedom. My
movements won’t be restricted by the
demands of an employer, nor my output
restricted by unions. I will not be
forced to be for ever on the alert against
the machinations of workmates who
jealously seek to hinder my promotion
or embroil me in disputes. I won’t live,
as most workers do, in constant fear of
strikes which deprive me of my wages.
By making my small acreage practically
self-supporting I’ll save my family from
the effects of these “paralysing” industrial
disputes. My interest in my work will
give me a profitable, or at least inexpen-
sive, means of occupying leisure hours.
All very definite advantages. But over
and above all this is a nebulous some-
thing which probably goes back to the
days when men first found comradeship
with birds and beasts in tillage and hus-
bandry. I don’t know what it is, and
maybe my devotion to it won’t get me
far. But I wouldn’t exchange it for a
coalminer’s hours and wages.— Salmon
Gums (W.A.).
Informed Votes
The number of votes “cast” into the
w.p.b. at last election is a disgrace to the
community and a danger to good govern-
ment. The cure for this kind of ignor-
ance is education. .
There are thousands of Australians
who could not pass the simplest quiz
about the merits of any member or party.
There are thousands who blindly write
the whole ticket at the biassed dictation
of a canvasser. There are very many
who make silly marks with a blunt pencil
to avoid being fined. We will soon have
shiploads of immigrants who know no-
thing about our political procedure. To
expect intelligent voting from such people
is like expecting to gather pineapples off
prickly-pear.
We have three years in which to edu-
cate the public in the task of electing
their masters. The necessary know-
ledge need have nothing to do with
policies or planks, but it should show
how to place correctly a few crosses or
numerals.
The schools, colleges, press, radio and
pamphlets could all be used, and the
lessons could be prepared by a mixed
team of politicians without prejudice to
any seat. The result might not be a new
order, but it would certainly be better
than the display of moronic illiteracy
produced by our present plan of leaving
the blind to lead themselves. — Groper
(S.A.).
“Ek Dum”
“Laetitia’s” criticism of “Ek Dum”
(B. 16/10/’46) leads me to believe that
he is by no means a frequent reader of
“E.D.’s” pages. If he were, he would
know that no other journal in Australia,
and pitifully few overseas, ever printed
fairer or more detailed accounts of the
last war than those to be found under
the cryptic “Ek Dum.”
As a soldier, from mid-1940 to the
end of 1945, I read his accounts avidly
and never ceased to marvel at the extent
and accuracy of his information —and
the soundness and justice of his conclu-
sions.
From his reports of the Syrian Cam-
paign (which gave facts and figures, places
and dates when the rest of the press was
wallowing in shock headlines), right
through to his current account of Borneo
p.-0.-w. and their treatment, “Ek Dum”
has covered the«activities of the A.I.F.
and A.M.F. in a way which made his
published pages a lesson to the present
and a godsend to the future.
For a long time I knew relatively no-
thing of the Malayan Campaign and the
fate of the Eighth Division. Had I
relied on our press to inform me I would
still know nothing. Thanks to “E.D.” I
am beginning to get some understanding
of what I just missed.
I was a memb'.r of the 18th Brigade,
to which I transferred after the Milne
Bay Campaign. In the 30-odd months
I spent with that brigade I never had
from either man or officer one account
of Milne Bay which differed factually
with the reports of “Ek Dum.”
As a member of the A.I.F. I always
felt grateful to "E.D.” because he seemed
to me to be the only man in Australia
who took the trouble to give a truthful
account of the A.l.F.’s achievements. I’m
now hoping that The Bulletin will be
able to publish the cream of his
pages in book form. — Nexa (N.S.W.).
T.B.
The Victorian Government has had
to abandon its proposal to convert
Bonegilla military hospital, near Albury,
into a T.B. sanatorium, because six more
nurses needed cannot be obtained.
According to Sir Sidney Sewell, one of
Australia’s foremost authorities on the
disease, nurses are safer from T.B. in
a sanatorium where adequate safeguards
are taken than in a general hospital,
where the unsuspected T.B. victim, ad-
mitted for some other complaint, is a
menace to those who minister to him.
For this reason, and as part of a general
campaign to stamp out the disease, he
advocates that all patients should be
X-rayed on entering hospital to find if
they are affected.
The annual report of the Victorian
Health Commission states that the T.B.
death-rate has improved from 663 per
1,000,000 in 1928 to 362 in 1945, but
that this rate cannot be reduced
materially without earlier diagnosis of
cases. The Association of Apex Clubs
throughout Australia has embarked on
a three years’ campaign to fight T. 8.,
which many authorities consider could
be stamped out in 25 years. In S.A.
on polling day over 160,000 voters signed
a petition, prepared by the Adelaide
Apex Club, addressed to the Playford
Government and seeking action against
the disease. — Dutigalla (Vic,).
Mines in N. Queensland
Queensland deep-sea fishermen are
very perturbed by the number of mines
which have broken moorings and
are now scattered about the Barrier Reef
near Magnetic Passage, about 40 miles
from Townsville. The mines, apart
from being a menace to deep-sea fisher-
men, are a danger to shipping using the
inner channel. No fewer than eight mines
were sighted recently in an area of
approximately one square mile west of,
and on, Hopkinson Reef, which lies west
of Magnetic Passage. Some of the mines
are floating low and are hard to see,
especially if the ship is approaching into
the sun.
The appropriate authorities must know
of these mines, but they seem to be
making no effort to deal with the danger.
Something should be done, and quickly.
—Bennie (Q.).
Children and Books
If “The Falcon” (B. 9/10/*46) hasn’t yet
met the kid who would prefer The Wind
in the Willows to “Superman,” his ex-
perience is very different from mine.
In citing the popularity of The Wind
in the Willows 1 was not referring
specifically to the war years. It is as
hard to get hold of now as then.
Mr. S. P. B. Mais, British author and
broadcaster, who has given many talks
on literature to children over the 8.8. C.,
has recorded that he found The Wind
in the Willows first in popularity with
nearly all girls and most boys. “It is
to the young of today what Alice pre-
sumably was to the youngsters of the
’7o’s.” Most of his listeners also liked
Treasure Island, Hack Finn, John
Buchan’s The Thirty-nine Steps and
Emil and the Detectives. The girls, sur-
prisingly, showed a decided weakness
for so Victorian a book as Little Women.
A liking for comic strips is not in-
compatible with interest in decent books.
In my own early ’teens I regularly in-
vested in “Lots o’ Fun” and “Comic
Cuts,” avidly following the misadven-
tures of Dreamy Dan, Pyjama Percy,
Balmy Bill and other worthies of those
comic papers. However, 1 was also an
enthusiast for the stories of Baines Reed,
Strang, Henty, E. S. Ellis, Whyte-
Melville and Kingston.
Many a modern youngster is no doubt
the same. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Marriage Laws
Australia badly needs a uniform
marriage law. At present each State runs
on its own, so that while in Victoria three
•days’ clear notice of intended marriage
must be given, in Tasmania seven
are required. In Queensland couples
can be married only between the
hours of 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.; in
Tasmania the ceremony may take place at
any hour of the day or night.
Another thing that needs looking into
is the matter of registration of births,
so as to ensure some system of uni-
formity. Many people are finding that
their Christian and surname spellings do
not tally with those in the official regis-
ters. One girl I know who was firmly
convinced that her name was Lydia dis-
covered she’d been registered as Linda.
A young man whose name was Lindsay
found when his marriage documents
were checked by the Registrar-General
that he was down as Lensley. And birth
dates are often out by a day or two.
For legal and other purposes, correct-
ness of particulars in personal relation-
ships is important. Why not have an
officially-issued card, compiled at the time
of birth, and added to as circumstances
require, with particulars of name, date
of birth, family relationship and so on?
It could then be produced at marriage
or when needed for legal or other pur-
poses. — Tasma Jun. (Tas.).


An Immigrant’s Questions
We are a small tamily—my wife, 32,
myself, 38, and one boy and girl aged
two and seven respectively. In response
to the suggestion that all ex-servicemen
would be welcomed as immigrants to
Australia I have applied for inclusion
in the scheme.
Australia House in London has sup-
plied a small booklet containing some
information, and has told us we shall
receive most careful consideration when
shipping space and the housing situation
allow the first flow of families from
this country.
My wife is rather worried about the
apparent high cost of linen as shown in
this booklet, and as we are allowed to
bring a maximum of £3OO furniture and
effects this may prove a big item. Of
course, if prices now are at their highest,
as in Britain, there might be a chance
of some reduction later on.
We don’t expect a brick house, and,
as we haven’t a refrigerator or electric
washing-machine right now, the lack of
these things won’t worry us. What we
do want are fairly good schooling for the
kids and prospects for their future.
For years I have worked alone, so
that no one has carried me nor I any-
one else. My profession—commercial
traveller —won’t help me in Australia. I
am really what is known in England as
chief of test in the radio and electrical
industry. I was loaned out by the Army
to a company during the war for some
time, and worked on radar for two
years with some success. On demob.,
however, I returned to the road, mainly
because the company ! worked for helped
my wife while I was in the Army.
We are very concerned about this side
of the move because we hear that Aus-
tralia requires mainly bricklayers,
plumbers, joiners and the like. I am
not a tradesman in that sense of the
word, although I am familiar with con-
trol of staff and the inspection layout
' of modern mass production.
Why do we want to come to Australia
when we have here an eight-roomed
house, nice garden, good job, £7 10s. a
week and all expenses? Well, we fed
that your country can offer rather more
scope for advancement for our children
in later years. We feel there are not
the hidebound conditions which, with
every month, get worse and worse in
Britain. We feel that many men in the
past have left comfort and security in
this country to begin anew under much
more primitive conditions and to seek
greater freedom of expression, thought
and action.
Our handicap is that we can only look
to the towns, having no experience on
the land. We wonder in these autumn
evenings, when the children have gone
to bed, “Shall we be looked upon as folk
from Home who have come to take the
jobs our boys fought to hold?” This
is our greatest worry. Is there enough
for the many thousands of would-be
immigrants in the towns?
One cannot write to Australia House,,
London, asking all these things, but the
people of Australia themselves could
answer some of the questions, just as
I could tell anyone not of my town just
what chance he had of making a success
of a little business here.
We shall not know for a long time
just where the Government will want to
place us, but would anyone interested
enough to read this letter please pass
on any friendly advice? —G. J. T. (Liver-
pool, England).
“Only Twelve Rounds”
That Bulletin article (25/9/’46) on the
boastings of Communist leaders that they
inspired munition strikes during the
battles of Greece, Crete, etc., will recall
vivid memories to us of the “Scrap-iron
Flotilla.”
When we returned to Alexandria for
stores and so forth before taking another
convoy, lighters would come alongside
and discharge their cargoes. One could
feel the tense atmosphere as the ammuni-
tion-lighter came under the derrick,
sometimes with only 12 rounds for the
N.A. guns. We would all have liked to
take the dingoes who inspired the
strikes (and a few of the strikers) back
to Greece with us, to let them see what
it is like to be hammered from the air
and be unable to hit back.
I often wonder what has happened to
the men who swore to drive the Commos
out of the country when they got back.
They soon forget, worst luck.— Sextant
(N.S.W.).
Schistosomiasis
Australian troops were hit by schisto-
somiasis more than “Galenus” (B.
9/10/’46) seems to know. Several
R.A.A.F. men—members of the first and
only Australian unit to fight on American
soil —had to be brought back from
Borneo just before the end of the war to
undergo tests for the disease at a
R.AA.F. camp at Somers (Vic.). The
men affected were members of the
R.A.A.F.’s No. 3 Airfield Construction
Squadron, which staged through Leyte
Island in the Philippines in November,
1944, en route for a D-day landing at
Mindoro Island, just under Manila, on
December 15, 1944.
When the squadron, about 560 strong,
arrived at Leyte Island from Morotai, it
was given a temporary staging-camp
area between the shores of the Leyte
Gulf and the Bislig River, a lazy fresh-
water stream about six miles from Leyte’s
capital, Tacloban. The squadron pitched
its tents on a sandstrip between the sea
and the river/
It was not until the unit was busy with
its record-breaking airstrip construction,
under constant bombing on Mindoro,
that suspicions were aroused that therr
was something medically wrong with a
large number of the men. They tired
very easily and suffered from fever while
others had various ailments which could
not be nailed down to any particular
disease. It was then found that hun-
dreds of the Americans who had been in
the Leyte landing in October, 1944, had
the same symptoms.
The disease was later diagnosed as
schistosomiasis japonica, a complaint
which had been present in Filipino
natives nearly 40 years. Incidentally,
much of the early research on the disease
was carried out by Japanese scientists.
Only a few square miles of Leyte
Island were infected, and all troops who
bathed or had washing done in the Bislig
River were suspect. The host for the
carrier of this disease is a tiny snail, no
bigger than the knob of a woman’s hat-
pin, and as the only snails of this variety
“I don't care if Commodore Collins DID give you permission—it makes
the office look untidy."
in Australia are sealed down in bottles,
there is no fear of the disease becoming
contagious in this country.
A complete test of the unit was made
a few weeks after the Mindoro landing,
and all identified cases were treated im-
mediately, The tests and treatment were
followed up when the unit moved down
to Borneo in the middle of 1945 to assist
in the construction of an airstrip at Balik-
papan. It was then found that some of
those who had been treated earlier had
suffered a relapse, and in other instances
the disease manifested itself months after
infection.
As a result of earlier investigations, the
original treatment —injections of fouadin
—was replaced by the injection of a
more effective drug. Proven cases were
later treated at Somers (Vic.) by injec-
tions of nearly 200 c.c. of a tartar-emetic
solution at the rate of one injection every
other day for about six weeks. Of the
hundreds of Americans who contracted
the disease, there have been only two or
three fatal cases. U.S. Army doctors
carried out a slightly less severe treat-
ment than that used by the R.A.A.F.
medical men.
What do I know about it? Schisto-
somiasis spelt home to me. When I
had given up hope of ever getting south
on any pretext, I was ordered down as
a schistosomiasis suspect —and stayed
south. The test, in my case, was nega-
tive. — Japonica (Tas.).
‘‘News”?
The gentlemen of the fourth estate are
wont to reply to criticism of their pro-
duct by insisting that they give the public
only the news that it wants. No doubt
that shopworn alibi will appear again
and again at appropriate intervals.
The Sunday press recently tugged at
the heartstrings of its susceptible readers
by recounting the fact that a week-old
pup was being brought up by a lady
(photographed) who carried it constantly
in her dress. It is to be hoped for the
lady’s sake that the mite is housebroken
and reasonably free from pulex irritans.
On the same day a rival rag harrowed
its readers’ feelings with an account of
the obsequies of a Sydney dog whose
owner unsuccessfully petitioned two
members of the clergy to read church
rites over the remains, which reposed
in a satin-lined casket fitted with a
swans’-down pillow. An inset photo-
graph, presumably for the information of
subscribers who cannot read, was in-
cluded in the column, together with the
assurance the superstructure of the
tomb was of marble and the grave was
4ft, deey
Durhig the week the clothes of the
drarr.atis personce in a court case were
described in considerable detail and at
£reat length. One of the witnesses was
pursued by a tenacious roundsman to
her home for further news for the week-
end reader. Unfortunately we have no
information concerning the ensemble that
his Honor wore, and counsel, also, must
be feeling rather out of the social swim
as they didn’t rate a mention.
In spite of the way my news-wants
are looked after, in spite of the spate of
photographs of undraped dress-models
and the bare pelts of Hollywood starlets,
I’m still not satisfied. But maybe that’s
a perverse reaction from the ghouls who
photograph grief-stricken widows and
victims of assault and from the con-
scienceless louts who publish the pictures
on the pretext that the press must give
the public what it craves. — Barwon
(N.S.W.).
I endorse The Bulletin’s criticism
(16/10/’46) of the attention given
by the majority of Australian news-
papers to racing and gambling. This
undue publicity accorded to the
alleged “Sport of Kings” has led
a large section of the public to believe
that racing is the main reason for living.
During the war, when newsprint was
rationed, important overseas and local
news-items were cut drastically and to
small paragraphs, but there was no notice-
able decrease in the space allotted to
racing.
It is also regrettable that racehorses,
punters and bookies are allowed to be-
come front-page news. Recently I saw
a war-time edition of a Brisbane daily
which devoted most of its front page to
a five-column spread describing how so-
and-so won a particular race. An item
headed “Greatest Air Battle of the War”
was tucked away as a shallow two-column
story on the lower portion of the same
page. No wonder the standard of Aus-
tralian daily journalism has declined dur-
ing the past few years.
Politicians say that Australia should
be proud of the men who won the free-
dom we enjoy today, but national pride
seems to be centred on the “heroes” of the
racecourse, and on the punters who find
thousands of pounds for a single bet,
while Government loans lag for want of
subscriptions.—J. E. D. (Q.).
Road Safety
Proper road lighting (B. 10/9/’46) may
make a big difference to the accident
rate, but the root of the trouble still lies
in human conduct. How many people
would dream of wandering over and
along railway lines as they do on roads?
A classic example occurred recently on
a country road in S.A., when a party
of footballers and scouts were travelling
by truck to Adelaide. It was on a gravel
road, and there was an old man walking
along the centre of it. Apparently he
didn’t hear the .truck nor see the head-
lights. The truck swerved, skidded in
the side-gravel and overturned. Two
passengers were killed and 18 injured.
In the statistics that will be shown as
a “motor” accident.
The final solution of the accident
problem lies in the cultivation of correct
road manners by all road-users. In 90
per cent, of the material published on
this question the motorist is blamed.
Blaming people, rightly or wrongly, gets
nowhere. Education is the cure. — Camsa
(S.A.).
Farm Labor
One reason for the shortage of farm
labor is the average farmer’s reluctance
to pay decent wages, even to his own
sons and daughters. Few dairyfarmers
give their children any wages. Of course
they get their food and clothes and a few
bob for infrequent visits to the nearest
town, but they don’t get wages.
Many farmers’ sons and daughters who
joined the services received regular
wages, and for the first time in their lives
they knew what it was to have a few
pounds to do with as they pleased. It
was a good feeling to be able to buy
something without having first to ascer-
tain if Dad approved, or if the bank
account would stand it.
These young people will not go back to
the farm when discharged, certainly not
on the same terms as they left. Who
can blame them? —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
• '
Migrants
Mr. Calwell was right in publicly con-
demning the use of the word ‘pommy.”
It might have helped if he had explained
its harmless derivation immigrant;
pomegranate; pommy. Like another
favorite but not very proper noun it
can be employed as a friendly greeting
or an affront according to the mood of
the moment and the adjectives that
accompany it.
Unfortunately comic artists in the Aus-
tralian press are fond of using the Eng-
lishman within our gates as a target for
their wit, and their unintentional propa-
ganda has created the popular idea that
most individuals of the bulldog breed are
spindly morons. Low’s sketches of
Colonel Blimp did the same disservice
for British brasshats, and it took a war
to disillusion Germans and Aussies alike.
The least we can do now is to give
the immigrants a fair go till they have a
chance to prove that they are not all clod-
hoppers or clowns, any more than we ate
all racial snobs. —703 (S.A.).
License Radio-servicemen
The “backyarder” radio mechanic (B.
16/10/’46) is indeed a menace. Fre-
quently his. test-kit consists of a pair of
pliers, a screwdriver and a soldering-iron.
He can be anyone from a coaltrimmer to
a butcher’s offsider, but is rarely properly
qualified.
• A radio engineer is often regarded a
member of the Institution of Radio
Engineers, Aust. Even your average
“engineer” in a broadcast station often
basks in the small glory of the title. He
is actually a broadcast-operator (second
radio qualification of the Commonwealth
of Australia). Obviously, the backyard
species is still further removed from the
inferred status.
There are men who have spent many
years of study, and a lot of money, in
training themselves as radio technicians.
Most of us, of course, served four or
five years in the recent strife, and the
backyarders have done plenty of harm in
our absence. On level terms they could
not hope to compete with us. What they
have done is to leave a nasty taste in
clients’ mouths* —which covers all radio
men, good, bad or indifferent —by doing
such disgraceful work as “Hut 60” de-
scribes.
Obviously the remedy lies in licensing
radio-servicemen on proving their quali-
fications and ability. Gen Type
(N.S.W.).
Cement
With Australia short of cement it is
time attention was paid to the enormous
deposits of raw materials at Moorlands,
near Tailem Bend (S.A.).
Cement is broadly a mixture of calcium
aluminates and carbonates produced by
combining approximately 80 per cent,
lime and 20 per cent. clay. Gypsum is
added during the calcining process, and
the heat necessary is generated by blow-
ing pulverised coal into the rotary kiln.
This operation produces nodules of vary-
ing size, from peas to walnuts, which are
afterwards finely ground.
At Moorlands lime and clay form the
overburden to large deposits of lignite
(brown coal), and therefore all the basic
materials for cement are available in one
locality. Profitable operation could be
started immediately. There are broad-
gauge railways, bituminised roads run-
ning through the deposits, and the Murray
River is only a few miles distant.
Cement for Australian building and
construction for the next 100 years is
available at Moorlands, and the sooner
the Government realises it the better for
our homeless thousands. —J. W. G. (S.A.).


let your Summer Motomq
Drain, flush and refill your engine
with "drag-free" Shell Motor Oil.
The extra "oiliness" of "drag-
free" Shell Motor Oil reduces
running costs—reduces carbon
and sludge reduces engine
wear. To get the best out of your
car this Summer you must put the
best into it. The best is "drag-
free 11 Shell Motor Oil.
MOTOR 0 L
muck
So
alike
the
to
eye
o/vc
yet only
is
Let your Garage
or Service Station
'DRAIN and REFILL"
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
