

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3451
Wednesday, April 3, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE THRONE ROOM, BUCKINGHAM PALACE.
gUCKINGHAM Palace was originally built in 1703 for John
Sheffield, Duke of Buckingham, but was acquired in 1761 by
SfrL tr.Tr? be t tv rf' l ‘ 82 , 5 and t 1836
m me Faiiadian style by John Nash, and notable additions to his
design have been made from time to time. One of the principal
State apartments is the Throne Room, of which this view shows its
appearance during the reign of Queen Victoria. To be consistent
with the dignity with which Her Majesty held her “Drawing
Room, the Throne Room at Buckingham Palace, was sump-
tuously decorated and furnished. Its walls were bung with gold
and crimson satin and velvet, the ceiling was richly carved and
gilded, and the massive candelabra added no small contribution
~ x
th ® general splendor. One of the most attractive features of
. e T* ll ' oll6 Room was its marble frieze illustrating incidents
Wars of the Roses, sculptured by Baily after designs
by Stothard. The Queen’s Throne,' which gave its name to the
apartment, is seen in this view surmounted by a canopy.


ť
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL-
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 14G AGE
The Red Page
TWO BLACK HATS.
In The Bulletin of March 13 there
was a short story by J, H. Melville en-
titled “The Black Hat.” Since there is
no finer craftsman in Australia or New
Zealand, nobody with quite the mastery
of form that enables Mr. Melville to
weld a group of characters and a series
of events into a complex and wholly sat-
isfying unity, this writer’s work is worth
watching at any time; but what particu-
larly brings it to mind at the moment is
a book of Welsh stories, Gwyn Jones’s
The Buttercup Field (Penmark Press,
Cardiff).
For Mr, Melville has succeeded in
doing just what Gwyn Jones set out to
do. Like most of the other Welsh short-
story writers, novelists and poets whose
national “revival” has invigorated and
almost dominated the English literary
world in the last three or four years,
Gwyn Jones is a “regional” writer. He
takes a small Welsh district and tells his
readers all about it, and all about its
people. But, again like all the other Welsh
writers, he strains and overstrains credi-
bility to insist that his people are strange,
poetic and passionate.
Mr. Melville is also a regional writer ;
his people are strange, poetic and pas-
sionate ; but they are credible. “The
Black Hat” comes directly from his ob-
versation. He has known, or he has con-
jured up from an imagination stored with
the experience and observation of life,
an eccentric old man who wears, as a
symbol of authority and vitality, an out-
size black bowler hat. Something of a
wowser, the old man is going to accuse
a wild neighbor of stealing his coal; and
when, companioned by a boy, he jour-
neys through the night to make his com-
plaint, Mr. Melville takes his readers
through a landscape wholly convincing;
a countryside he has observed and ab-
sorbed :
Chuckling he moved on, jauntily swing-
ing the lantern by its creaking handle.
The hoy clutched grimly at this assur-
ance. But down in the bed of the stream,
where the tops of trees were lost in the
mist, the unreality of the scene dismayed
him. He looked longer and with less cer-
tainty at the black hat.
What he understood as fixed in its own
daytime pattern was being dragged out
piecemeal now by the reeling light of the
lantern. Trunks of willows emerged oddly
warped. The reflection moving alongside
in the water skimmed over the saddleback
log, and the pool where the big eel had
lashed himself round the spear handle
might have been miles deep.
There is, as it happens, an old man in
a black hat in Gwyn Jones’s title story:
He checked at the gate. The buttercup
field poured like cloth of gold to the
hidden boundary stream, swept smooth and
unbroken to left and right in half a mile
of flowers, taking the noontide air with the
yellow radiance of angels’ wings in old
manuscripts. The brightness made him un-
steady. He bad to narrow his eyes, tighten
his jaws, for the whole world gleamed
like the forehead of a god.
It was then he looked close right and
saw the old man. He was dressed in
funeral black, most old-fashioned. His
hat had a low crown and a wide stiff brim;
there were big flat lapels to his coat, which
was cut square and long, his trousers were
full at the ends and dropped stiffly to his
glittering shoes —shoes with bright brass
eyelets.
Gwyn Jones’s landscape is, of course,
beautiful; all the Welsh writers paint
beautiful landscapes. It is also a little
“stepped up”; too bright, too beautiful;
not quite convincing. A buttercup by a
river’s brim is hardly a buttercup at all
to Mr. Jones. And so is the old man in
the black hat somewhat “stepped up” ;
and the plot, too; for it transpires that
the man, from jealousy, set fire years ago
to his sweetheart’s house in that very
buttercup field and burned her to death,
and is now searching among the flowers
for a ring she had worn ; and when he
has told his story he cackles hideously
with maniacal laughter . . . always an
alarming thing for a character in a short
story to do.
This story is typical of Gwyn Jones’s
art, and of the Welsh movement gener-
ally, for in it are displayed the two essen-
tial' characteristics: fantasy, and the
eternal triangle. Because the Welsh
villagers have to be portrayed as strange
and passionate, Mr. Jones nearly always
offers either a bizarre -story or a triangle
story ; and the result is that, by repeti-
tion and overemphasis, both become
commonplace. A fashion of fantasy
quickly becomes wearisome, even mad-
dening: as witness the popular Shaggy
Dog anecdotes, so funny the first few
times you hear them, so obviously
doomed.
In the fashionable Welsh stories, as in
the Shaggy Dog yarns, one has the un-
comfortable sensation of having been
tricked. And, having been tricked
enough, one comes inevitably to doubt
the validity of the Whole movement. Is
it really Wales in The Buttercup Field?
Are the people really Welsh? Or is it
all only a kind of literary game, a fash-
ion and a fake? The genius of Wales
has expressed itself to some extent in this
movement, but more naturally and far
more strongly in the genuinely strange
novels of the Powys group. There is
something forced about Welsh region-
alism.
It is precisely because there is nothing
forced about it that Mr. Melville’s writ-
ing succeeds where Gwyn Jones’s —in
spite of its charm —fails.
Over the past couple of years he has
sent to Th£ Bulletin about a dozen
stories, all masterly in construction— 1
he has never had a rejection—all fault-
lessly written, all set in the one district,
and all both strange and convincing.
Whether or not he has a definite plan of
“documenting” a section of New Zea-
land life (and sometimes it seems that he
has) he is certainly not flamboyantly
nationalistic about it. And if, as it seems,
he is chiefly interested in the bizarre
characters of his countryside, he is cer-
tainly not making a cult of strangeness.
Because he is primarily concerned with
the exact observation of scenes and
people his truth becomes stranger than
Gwyn Jones’s fiction. Mr. Melville is
the genuine magician in the black hat.
Hopalong on the Hop.
Reviewer: You will agree, Mr. Cas-
sidy, that Tom W. Ronan’s Strangers on
the Ophir (Dymock’s) is as good as any
Western you ever read?
Hopalong Cassidy : Shucks, pardner ;
ain’t got no coyotes in it.
Reviewer: But that is just my point,
Mr. Cassidy. This novel
Hopalong : Doggone it, it ain’t got me
in it.
Reviewer : Exactly! These Australian
characters
Hopalong: Never did care for no
durned foreigners moseyin’ into the range.
Reviewer : But how much better than
imitation Americans.
Hopalong : Say, stranger, was you
meanin’ anythin’?
Reviewer: Don’t point it, Mr. Cas-
sidy ; it might go off. I am only trying
to tell you that Mr. Ronan has written
an Australian novel which is very much
like a Western, and yet
Hopalong: I ain’t shore but-what he
ain’t got the story all wrong. It don’t
begin right. I don’t see nuthin’ about
that lone cowpuncher who is ridin’ peace-
fully through the main street of Hicks-
ville, way down in Montana, when sud-
denly, just as he sees a beauteous golden-
haired female cornin’ out of the sheriff’s
office, a goldurned rustler lets fly at him
with his Colt from around the corner of
a building.
Reviewer : Again, that is just the
point. Dealing with cattle-stealing in
Queensland in the surprisingly recent past,
Mr. Ronan is handling material very
much like that of a good Hopalong Cas-
sidy story; and to some extent he seems
to have modelled himself on the writers
of Westerns. Even though he mentions
Robbery Under Arms, and his plot—con-
cerning a great cattle-steal and the drov-
ing of the stolen herd to South Australia
—is somewhat similar, he reminds one
more of Clarence E. Mulford than of
Rolf Boldrewood or of Scott, from whom
Boldrewood derived. And yet, if an un-
practised writer, Mr. Ronan has attempted
something more than a mere Clarence
Mulford Western.
Hopalong ; Ain’t no place on the
Bar-20 for a hombre that don’t respect
Clarence E. Mulford. Ain’t no place no-
where. Reckon I ain’t totin’ these here
shootin’-irons for fun, hombre.
Reviewer: Pardon, pardner. I shore
do respect Clarence E. Mulford. I just
want to say that Mr. Ronan’s characters
look like Australians and talk and act
like Australians in a place that looks like
Queensland. Even the beauteous golden-
haired girl, with whom the trooper, the
bold, bad baronial pubkeeper, the
assorted drovers, cattlemen and horse-
men, and most of the villains are in
love
Hopalong: Stranger, that beauteous
golden-haired female has a babby. And
she ain’t married at the time. ’Tain’t right,
pardner. Never been known to happen
on the range. Ain’t in any of Clarence
E. Mulford’s novels. Ain’t no good for
the films.
Reviewer: I was going to say that
Strangers on the Ophir might appeal very
strongly to the film people. And there is
a certain amount of realism that redeems
even the golden-haired girl
Hopalong; Ah, it ain’t right, pardner.
I’d shore like to run across the doggone
coyote that left that beauteous golden-
haired female with a babby in her arms
so she had to marry the sheriff.
Reviewer : He ain’t a coyote ; he’s a
djrover. And it ain’t the sheriff but the
trooper. Haven’t I been telling you all
along that Mr. Ronan’s greatest merit is
that he knows his Australian back-
ground?
Hopalong: Stranger, I shore like the
way they fight in this here neck of the
woods; I shore like the hoss-races; I
shore do like to see there’s turble drinkin’
and gamblin’; I shore like the rustlin’;
but there ain’t no coyotes, there ain’t
even a single rattlesnake in the whole
durned country. I guess Mr. Ronan has
written a purty good yarn at that. But
me, I’m quittin’. I’m goin’ home, home,
home on the range, where the deer and
the antelope play, where seldom is hurrd
a discouragin’ wurrd and the skies are
not cloudy all day.
Anthology of Humor.
Like all other anthologies of humorous
verse, What Cheer (Coward-McCann;
Longman’s) is claimed to be different
from all other anthologies of humorous
verse. And, like all other anthologies, it
is—slightly.
A few lines by Christopher Morley
pretty well sum up the spirit of it:
Instead of the Puritans landing on Plymouth
Rock
(Said Jo Davidson, the delightful sculptor)
How much pleasanter this country would have
been
If Plymouth Rock
Had landed on the Puritans.
Which indicates, firstly, that it is de-
lightfully funny ; secondly, that it’s essen-
tially American in flavor; thirdly, that
there’s a certain manliness and strength
about the selections, the editor having
steered a happy middle course between
the hardboiled and the piffling; and
lastly—since the quotation would have
to be described as, if anything, free verse
—that the editor hasn’t worried too much
about technique as long as there’s humor
to be found . . . though, on the whole,
the standard of craftsmanship is the
highest.
The “contributors” range from Shak-
speare to Ogden Nash ; and, though the
modem American wits such as Nash,
Dorothy Parker and Samuel Hoffen-
stein give it its distinctive coloring, there
is a broad selection from English comic
verse, with the requisite old favorites by
Lear and Lewis Carroll.
There has been some attempt —though
not a very energetic one —to have the
whole English-speaking world repre-
sented. Roy Campbell speaks for South
Africa; there are verses from Canada
and India ; and, from Australia, there are
“Waltzing Matilda” and extracts from
“The Sentimental Bloke”—hardly, of
course, an adequate cover of humorous
versifying in this country. The world has
yet to discover, among others, “T. the R.”
Ernest G. Moll, the Australian poet
who lives in America, is represented by
several pieces, including a charming item
about trout fishing in the Australian Alps.
As a whole, it makes as pleasant an
anthology as one could wish for. The
editor, David McCord, has divided it into
categories that make for easy and orderly
reading —’“Birds, Beasts and Insects,”
“Parodies at Par,” “Limericks,” “Tomb-
stone and Twilight” and so on —and has
added some lightly learned notes.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“J.F.”: “I have seen and heard of
Cockney impudence before now,” wrote
Ruskin, “but never expected to hear a
coxcomb ask two hundred guineas for
flinging a pot of paint in the public’s
face.” The victim of that critical blast
was Whistler and the words precipitated
a famous court case. But if Ruskin had
attended the London Group’s exhibition
at David Jones’s gallery, Sydney, and
assimilated the fact that Matthew Smith’s
“Sunita” was priced at 439 guineas, it is
more than probable that he would have
had a fit. For Sunita is the kind of girl
no sensible man would have at any price.
Created from blowsy blurs* and deformed
in the arms and hands, she resembles, as
much as anything, a nightmare apparition
of an aged inhabitant of Cairo’s least
respectable suburb. The mythical “Tiger
Lil” perhaps, seen through the blurred
spectacles of remorse. And there are
others of the same kidney, with stiffish
prices; some well-known names among
them, including one terrible John.
Augustus John is a good artist, with a
distressing tendency to go haywire on
occasion. Lynton Lamb’s “Saint Paul’s
Cathedral” is on a different plane. It
shows the dome swimming in a mist of
pale golden light, with portions of other
buildings in the foreground. One interest-
ing point about the more esoteric works is
the fact that they have some harmony
about them. They are obscure, as it were,
in a mellow way, whereas Australian
“modernists,” with the violence of adol-
escence, are more inclined to seek what-
ever effect is shocking. There is hope,
therefore, that they may follow the Eng-
lish precedent; progressing from the
repulsive to the merely ornamental.
Sydney artists, following the successes
of Rah Fizelle and John Eldershaw, con-
tinue to be well received in Brisbane. An
exhibition of flowerpieces and land-
scapes in oils and watercolor by Mar-
garet Coen at the Centennial Galleries
sold practically right out. A flowerpiece
went to the Brisbane National Gallery.
In Adelaide the demand for Albert Nam-
atjira’s watercolors of the Centre con-
tinues as keen as it has been in the other
capitals. His show at the Society of
Arts Gallery brought a record crowd
for the opening, and one which showed
that it was in earnest by buying out, for
about £lOOO, every exhibit.
“Dhas”: Always excepting Norman
Lindsay, there is at present no finer
watercolorist in Australia than John
Eldershaw, whose work —including some
heavyhanded experiments in oils —is on
view at Melbourne Athenaeum. At times
Mr. Eldershaw tends to prosiness ; and
even when he is at his best, in his sub-
dued and quietly poetic studies of trees,
hills and water in the soft light of after-
noon, there is a touch of monotony, a
lack of the excitement that would come if
he sought drama rather than tranquillity
in nature. But, within its limits, it is
work on the grand scale. There are
breadth, dignity, an impression of re-
strained power; and, in the best Aus-
tralian tradition, he paints with a rich,
full wash.
At his show at George’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, William Prater, who was among
the first batch of Max Meldrum’s pupils
when he set up his school on his return
from Europe, uses a sketch technique
which would probably surprise his master.
There is a very pleasing brightness and
freshness about some of his pictures,
notably “Back Road, Lome.”
At the talkies:
“Guest in the House” (Hoyt’s de Luxe,
Melb.): The case-history of a neurotic girl.
When she falls in love with a young doctor
all she wants is to make him jealous, and
when she transfers her affections to an artist—
a bad one —she asks him what he would do if
she were unfaithful. Her neurotic fears mani-
fest themselves in a horror of birds, which
finally drives her over a sea cliff. Gruesome
but interesting, and admirably acted by Anne
Baxter, Ralph Bellamy and' Marie McDonald.
“Cornered” (Sydney Plaza): A Canadian
soldier who tracks his French wife’s collabor-
ationist slayer over two continents. Dick
Powell gives a good performance in a com-
plicated story.
“It’s a Pleasure” (Sydney Regent): Techni-
colored ice-skating film incorporating a triangle
drama. Sonja Henie skates better than she
acts.
Mazo de la Roche’s “Whiteoaks,” at
Sydney Independent, is an irritating ab-
breviation of a good book, and a failure
as a play. The seeds of failure may he
in the original, in which Finch and Renny
both make the significant statement that
when they are away from Jalna, their
home, they have an odd feeling of un-
reality, And that, in effect, is a total
statement. Jalna is the centre of things,
around which the Whiteoaks revolve.
Atmosphere is everything, and the char-
acters are revealed slowly, but none the
less clearly. The whole makes a fasci-
nating family chronicle. But in the play,
although the action takes place at Jalna,
in essence there is no Jalna ; which is
like playing “Hamlet” without the Prince
of Denmark. The carefully-built-up atmo-
sphere, based on close observation of the
daily life of the Whiteoaks, is missing.
The result is a series of telescoped inci-
dents, without the vital context. And of
the Whiteoaks themselves precious little
remains—an interesting old lady and an
adolescent with musical aspirations. The
rest are only stage characters, squabbling
over a will, washing a dog in the drawing-
room, and so on. Some of the fault lies
in Anthony Ward’s exceedingly shallow
interpretation of the character of Renny.
A masterful person, concerned with
horses and dogs, he is far from being
the swaggering fool.presented. And Mr.
Ward made it rather worse by swagger-
ing in an unhorsemanlike manner, despit-
his ■ well-cut breeches. Alistair Roberts,
as Finch, gave an impressive perform-
ance—not quite the character of Fincti,
but sometimes reaching the heights. Hn a
Dorrington, of course, was an excelbn
grandmother.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW"
%
There’s a Little Gadget invented by an Australian that will roll away
troubles.
It’s called the "SKIN-CLOW” ROLLER.
It rolls away Headaches, Facial Wrinkles, even Bruises and Sprains..
Its application is ice-cold, refreshingly exhilarating!
DO* TRY IT!
The "Skin-Glow” Roller is exclusive to Anthony Horderns’ and is
sold in cur Perfumery Department, Pitt Street Ground Floor, at 27/6
t
i
■
am
II
H
m
■>
1
/voo
rr" 55
adache
ca^
he
ropW
such
He
has
Hubby
rn'Ug
roo
kA oubfV
? J
'
rT
m
■
LfSf-
I’ll
d/f-
-w 4s
w 'th Z" *h
n^t
niy
Sk
r J h.
%'S
"7
e$
C/ (
&
%
"V/,
o//
«c/>
e/-
i
4
a
i
- f i v>• fm
v
j&//
f)
%
6?
/
W
s?
t
\
O
nisi
m
r
m
She’s off to a Dance. Naturally
she wants to look her very best.
So she carefully creams her deli-
cate skin wifh a good massage
cream. Then cut comes the
“ Skin - Clow ” Roller. Result:
Radiant Loveliness!
w*
m ! ft •
illlBill! jiiiili
- ■
FACTIOUS. LOID PRICES
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
m
n
I/'".
.» *- j*- -L -
HKs j
iiw
r > *, uf^/‘
ns
■
ril
%
II
ii a
\
i
HI
!
'
w^jA
i J
.
*
/ }
Si
I
; j
' \ \ I
-111
How’s the headache?
hou- ?go with you
marvellous Little Gadget.
01
.
-
'" *'% P> Z J-Kix -■■'•■ a *’ '.
.V ; f\ ; s V'? f
' iv' - Mj
* '- SL-L
BOX 271 2 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


Co
Co
Ul
U|
co
Co
ARMc O offe
conZ h ' y el * eChnic * 1 ad w
C •». 2T eerin * ** T Y Se,Vi '°‘ of I
I Pr °^ ctloo ns of are
J c ou nse/ SS S7 *«
- av eilabt
f '«Ho„ s ca/( S a ' nfe « S, S 9( on 9 „
*• - of s,; n r'
Uf Ooaresf ArJ „ °‘
ar "" :o office, 9e ' «
tubes w - S SUp PHors nt c
h * and o d/ ,a '"'o« S f 96/ ■
fOGf m> ee/ m sfceefc.
ARM C O
% .
also supply and stock • ELECTRICAL STEEL
DEEP DRAWING STEEL • BRIGHT STEEL STRIP
BLACK STEEL SHEETS
ARIHCO
ARMCO (Australia) PTY. LTD.
)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3451
Wednesday, April 3, 1946
ORIENTAL ILLUSION.
“This is where you get off.”
“But lAM off. Haven’t you read my latest assurance to our allies?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NAURU.
Long overdue at Canberra is a statement
on Nauru.
On the material side Nauru is a subject
of consequence to every manufacturer
of super, and to every farmer who uses
it; and, leaving out graziers, that goes for
every wheatgrower, except in one or two
especially favored districts. But more
intimate matters, military and personal,
are involved.
What is really called for is a candid
Ministerial history of Nauru for the three
years and eight months since the enemy
occupied the island, concealing and ex-
tenuating nothing, together with an
account of the measures taken to restore
the situation that existed for 21 years —
creditably to all concerned, especially the
Australian guardians of the natives —and
resume the working and export of the
phosphate deposits. But since Mr. Ward
is the Minister this is too much to hope
for. During the last fortnight what Mr.
Ward is pleased to call his mind has been
wholly occupied with the glories of
Russia, whose vast territorial grabs and
claims would strike him dumb with ad-
miration if that were not a physical im-
possibility, and the iniquities of the
Bretton Woods agreement, to which
Britain (always wrong and hateful) has
subscribed and Russia (always right and
wonderful) has not.
In September it came out that the Nauru
Administrator, the Government medical
officer and his assistant and two Phos-
phate Commission employees, an engineer
and an overseer, had been murdered by
the enemy in March, 1943. These devoted
men had stuck to their posts when they
could easily have got away. The matter
was raised in the House by Mr. Archie
Cameron, who said he was particularly
interested in the fate of the Admini-
strator, Lieut.-Colonel Chalmers, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., as he himself “was partly re-
sponsible for the appointment in 1938,”
and “the Administrator was my battalion
commander in France in 1917-18 ; one
of the whitest men this country has pro-
duced.” After the first World War, the
Administrator, a Tasmanian, had retained
his association with the battalion —the
27th, in which the man „who is now
Premier Playford was another of his
Diggers—until he left for the island that
was to be his graveyard. With Mr.
Cameron he “discussed the prospects, be-
cause even in those days some of us in
this House were of the opinion that we
were heading inevitably for a breach of
relations with the Japanese.” The mem-
ber for Barker proceeded in a justly
critical strain:
To the best of my knowledge Nauru has
not been the scene of any activity by
troops other than Australian. It is an Aus-
tralian territory, administered by the
Minister of External Territories, and the
only military intrusion of which I have
any knowledge by any of our Allies was
the bombing raid which was used by the
Japanese as a pretext for the so-called
execution —I call it murder —of five persons
in March, 1943. The island was occupied
by a very small number of Australian
troops when taken by the Japanese. I
remember the last signals which came
through on, I think, August 26, 1942. The
onus is on the Minister to secure all avail-
able information in regard to what hap-
pened, and, if possible, identify the
Japanese responsible for the atrocities,
who should be handed over to the Aus-
tralian Government for trial in Australia.
Whatever sentence is imposed should be
carried out on Nauru.
The Minister replied that his Government
was “anxious not only to apprehend those
responsible for this atrocity, but also to
ensure that they should be made to pay
the full penalty.” There would be
no disagreement on that point, but there
might be “on the point whether the Aus-
tralian Government should proceed to the
trial of these persons or whether there
should first be some consultation with
another authority in London”:
Actually, Nauru is a British mandate,
which is administered by the Australian
Department of External Affairs, under
agreement with the Governments of the
United Kingdom and New Zealand.
So he was already in the mood to pass
the buck, invariable expedient of his
Government when responsibility can be
dodged.
“Actually” Nauru is a British Empire
mandate; but the term “Empire”
is, of course, abhorrent to Mr. Ward.
The mandate to the British Empire was
confirmed by the Council of the League
on December 17, 1920, and the first Admi-
nistrator —an Australian, like all his suc-
cessors —arrived in June, 1921, under
orders to “conform to instructions issued
by the Government which appointed
him,” all his ordinances being “subject to
confirmation or disallowance by the Gov-
ernor-General of Australia • acting on the
advice of the Federal Executive Council”
(Commonwealth Year-Book, 1942-43).
The three Governments had in 1919
bought the interests of the Pacific Phos-
phate Company in Nauru and Ocean
Island, part of the arrangement being that
the phosphate deposits should be worked
by a commission of three members, each
representing one of the associated Gov-
ernments. Australia subscribed 42 p.c.
of the purchase money and received
roughly two-thirds of the phosphate ex-
ports, New Zealand’s share being a little
less than one-fourth. Education has all
along been in Australian hands, and
leprosy, scourge of the natives, was
virtually wiped out by Australian doctors.
A report of the Nauru debate appears
in “Hansard” of September 20. Since
then nothing has been heard from Mr.
Ward or any of his colleagues about the
search for the murderers whom they were
so “anxious to apprehend.” There have
been no arrests, much less trial and pun-
ishment. And curiosity as to why the
enemy was left unmolested for three years
on a remote island so economically im-
portant to Australia arid on which Aus-
tralians had been so cruelly done to
death —left in undisturbed possession
until the general surrender —has also
gone unsatisfied.
The Americans landed in the neigh-
boring Gilberts and in the Mar-
shalls in November, 1943. Their
control of these groups was virtu-
ally complete by Christmas of that
year. 111-protected as it must have been,
Nauru could have been recaptured with-
out interference from the Japanese Navy
any time in 1944 certainly in the latter
part of that year, when the Americans
went into the Philippines with horrible
consequences to the Japanese Navy.
And such an operation could surely
have been taken by Mr. Ward’s
Government in its stride. It would have
been in keeping with the bold “Labor”
strategy which frustrated that Tory
plot to withdraw behind the Brisbane line,
evidence of which—plot and line —a
Royal Commissioner appointed by Mr.
Ward’s Government was unable to find
save in Mr. Ward’s speeches ; and Mr.
Ward’s speeches are evidence only against
Mr. Ward. There was no comfort for
the families of the victims or for the
families of the “316 civilians” (among
them the Deputy Administrator) “un-
accounted for” in New Guinea in Mr.
Ward’s assurances that he was sorry for all.
To the end of last week the only thing
Australians had been told about Nauru
was that it was one of the mandated ter-
ritories for which it was proposed to make
a new arrangement with the Trusteeship
Council of U.N.O. Amplifying a news-
paper statement, Dr. Evatt used these
terms (March 13): —■
The Australian Government, mindful of
the obligations which the Charter imposes
announces its intention of negotiating
an appropriate trusteeship agreement with
a view to bringing the Mandated Territory
of New Guinea under the international
trusteeship system At the same time
it announces a similar intention in regard
to the territory of Nauru. Both the
United Kingdom and New Zealand Gov-
ernments, with which Australia shares this
mandate, concur in this course of action.
Of the phosphate position and pros-
pects on Nauru and Ocean Island, Can-
berra had said precisely nothing. Yet
the day before Dr. Evatt made his state-
ment N.Z. farmers had received pertinent
information from their Labor x Minister
of Agriculture, Mr. Roberts.
Mr. Roberts said that, “owing to the
need for substantial replacement of hand-
ling equipment,” it was “unlikely that the
full requirements of New Zealand would
be obtained for several years” ; but “im-
ports and stock on hand should insure
that farmers would obtain their full ration
of fertiliser for the current rationing
period.” Nothing was being left undone;
The Government, in close collaboration
with the Phosphate Commission, is work-
ing continuously to secure increasing ton-
nages of phosphate for the Dominion’s
requirement's for the coming years. It is
expected that shipments from Nauru and
Ocean Island will be resumed next July,
and that each year will show constant
increasing tonnages from these sources.
It seems a pity that the Nauru mandate
wasn’t transferred to New Zealand dur-
ing the year in which the island was lost
and the Australian forces in New Guinea,
Ambon, Java and Timor were thrown
away. The grand war record of the
little Dominion, its zeal for the defence
of the islands, not only in its own zone
but in Australia’s, and the active interest
of its Government in the things that mat-
ter —on the civil landscape, housing, re-
habilitation and food for Britain, not
betting, lotteries and wheat for tripehound
biscuits —all suggest that if Nauru had
been made a Maoriland responsibility
things would have worked out very dif-
fereritly.
Above All, for Betting.
On February 13 it was here stated that
the revolt of Sydney housewives arid
bachelor girls against the zoning inflic-
tion seemed to have “so scared the ‘Gov-
ernment’ that it could scarcely read the
lottery results, much less give sober atten-
tion to the problem of Victoria Park race -
course—whether the sale to the Nuffield
concern should be permitted or whether
the course should be kept for ‘Wednes-
day meetings.’ ” The Bulletin had known
for a long time that N.S.W. “Labor,”
together with the Sydney daily and Sun-
day papers, was racing-mad, but it did
not then realise how completely racing-
mad “Labor” was and is.
A hint of an obstacle to the Nuffield
plan for establishing a factory on the
old pony racecourse was given in the Leg.
Assembly on March 26 by the “Labor”
Premier, Squire McKell, whose consider-
able transactions in farm property and
those of his Land Minister, Squire Tully,
had come in for attention, particularly
from the many thousands of would-be
settlers from the services, for whom Mr.
Tully had provided a whole 65 farms be-
fore breaking the news to them that he
was going to London as Agent-General
for five years.
Squire McKell complained that “the
representatives of Lord Nuffield” had
“shown an absence of care in purchasing
Victoria Park racecourse without con-
sidering the existing lease and the powers
of resumption of the Sydney Turf Club.”
“I understand that certain negotiations
are going on,” the “Labor” gentleman-
farmer proceeded, “and I have no doubt
that they should result in a satisfactory
adjustment of the whole matter.”
This brought Lord Nuffield into the
picture with a devastating statement. He
said his concern had been one of several
.after Victoria Park, and had bought it
for £205,000, approximately £lBOO an
acre —“expensive property on which to
conduct horseraces” —aiming at “body-
building work on portion of the race-
course not now used by trainers,” and
ultimately at “the manufacture of vehicles
of complete Australian content.” The
suggestion that his representatives showed
“an absence of care” in buying the prop-
erty and that he “might have been better
advised to consult the Sydney Turf Club
on its inclinations” amounted to “an
amazing proposition.”
When all is said and done, we are seek-
ing to establish in this country an industry
which, often and in many high places,
has been described to me as vital. It
would be idle to proceed when faced with
the threat that the Sydney Turf Club
claims the right in its own time to decide
to deprive us of the site upon which all
our plans and preparations are based.
So he had arranged to have the body-
building work planned for the racecourse
done in South Australia —by, it transpired,
Richards Industries, which now has a
copper-bottomed contract.
Squire McKell had to reply but made
heavy weather of it. Although the estab-
lishment of a Nuffield factory in N. S.
Wales should have been of prime im-
portance to his “Government” (as he must
have known, three other State Govern-
ments wanted it, and the one at Brisbane
included a railway in its offer), and although
the Sydney Turf Club was his Govern-
ment’s war-time creation —legislated for,
with Treasury backing, when Japanese still
occupied vast tracts of Australian man-
dated territory and held many thousands
of Australians in their barbarous prison
camps, from which thousands never re-
turned —he tried to assume the role of
benevolent outsider;
Some mqnths ago Lord Nuffield’s repre-
sentative saw me, and I informed him
that I considered he should discuss the
matter with the representatives of the
Sydney Turf Club;- personally, I had no
doubt that an amicable adjustment could
be arranged. Since then neither Lord
Nuffield nor his representative has been in
touch with me, nor have they informed me
whether there were any further negotiations
with the Sydney Turf Club. Although this
is a matter between the two parties con-
cerned, I am prepared as Premier to
arrange a conference.
And the chairman of the “Govern-
ment’s” great incorporated contribution to
victory was heard from. Like Squire
McKell, he professed merely a nodding
acquaintance with the facts.
We understand that Lord Nuffield’s
representative purchased Victoria Park
racecourse some time ago, subject to a
lease held by the S.T.C. and certain rights
under the S.T.C. Act and certain rights of
resumption. No approach was made to us
for the purchase or to ascertain our re-
quirements, but some time later Mr. Lloyd,
Lord Nuffield’s representative, talked with
me regarding possession of a section of the
area, whilst still allowing training. We
did not feel inclined to agree.
The gentleman’s “reason,” which future
historians of “Labor” will doubtless
note:
We have been charged by Parliament
with a duty to racing, and entered into a
three years’ lease with the purpose of ful-
filling that trust and providing accommo-
dation.
“We are at all times willing to meet Lord
Nuffield’s representatives and discuss the
matter,” the gentleman proceeded. He
mentioned “an alternative scheme, on
which we have been working” (!), but he
intimated that, while “we should be ex-
tremely sorry if the works should go away
from this State,” “we” had very definite
opinions which would need to be over-
borne.
It appears to us that there are many
sites in the outer suburbs and the near-
country which would provide not only a
factory site but would take care of the
housing problem of the employees. The
taking of Victoria Park racecourse, in our
opinion, would remove a recreative centre
in a very congested area.
“Recreative centre” is great. Other
“recreative centres” taken over the gentle-
man did not mention; among them
Moorefield, Canterbury Park and Rose-
hill—-the last seized virtually without
warning under the extraordinary powers
given to this extraordinary club.
There have been further exchanges be-
tween the parties to the Victoria Park
affair; but the central fact remains.
N. S. Wales has lost the Nuffield factory
because “Labor” has drifted to the stage
where it considers betting more important
than industry. It encourages people to
gamble; it is actively or passively on the
side of lawbreaking minorities, nearly
always led by Communists, when they
refuse to work—leaving the public with-
out sufficient light or fuel, holding up
shipping and damaging relations with an
honest ally which only wants to trade and
be friends. N. S. Wales had already lost
the Philips enterprise to Adelaide, and it
will lose others until it gets a Govern-
ment which doesn’t regard toil as a curse
and gambling as the noblest pursuit of
man.
Uncle Sam's Mighty Atom.
A PREViousLY-unheard-of professor was
alleged to have revealed that the
marvellous inventive genius of the
Soviet Union had come up with a pocket-
edition atom bomb the size of a tennis
ball, capable of pulverising everything
standing, sitting or lying down over an
area of some 25 square miles, as well as
everything flitting about up to six miles
above. And then the Canadian Mounties
went and ruined the whole story with
their revelations.
These last had an evident authenticity
which even the most credulous may have
thought those of the professor some-
what lacked. They showed the Soviet
Union —through its own official admis-
sion—so desperately devoid of atom-
bomb knowledge that it had a gang or its
familiar hired agents employed in trying
to spy out the secret in Canada; appar-
ently elsewhere also. No doubt scraps
of information did get through to the
Kremlin, but those in a position to know
are reported satisfied that the secret is
still in safe hands, mainly Uncle Sam’s,
and that the clumsy agents ensured a
still closer watch over it henceforth.
Actually, it is not claimed that the
U.S.A., Britain and Canada alone know
the secret of the science of atomic energy.
But science is only part of the problem.
An authoritative writer in American
“Foreign Affairs” has put it this way:
The real secret of our success with the
atomic bomb is simply the skill and effici-
ency of American industry. There is
scarcely a branch of that industry which
did not contribute to making the bomb.
Machines never before built, never before
even dreamed of, new chemical processes,
carbon of a purity never heretofore re-
fined, are part of the secret. All the in-
dustrial and manufacturing talent of
America contributed. The real secret of
the atomic bomb is not a formula of
physics but the unwritten summary of the
total industrial experience of Americans.
It is evident that what the Kremlin’s
gang of spies was trying to get a blue-
print of in Canada was really something
which cannot be blueprinted—the whole
combined engineering and industrial
experience of a nation which has shown
itself without a superior in precisely those
particular fields. The successful manp-
facture of the atomic bomb can be said
to have been nothing more or less than
the culminating peak of the American
genius working under the forced pressure
of war.
When Mr. Roosevelt, in 1940, told Con-
gress he believed the “nation should plan
now to provide us with 50,000 military
and naval ’planes,” it was put down by
many as a bit of Yankee boasting. It
was thought even more so when Mr.
Roosevelt shortly raised thd objective to
60,000 ; the production rate was then 2141
a year. But the objective was made to
look small. To June, 1945, American
manufacturers turned out over 294,000
war-’planes, including 100,000 heavy
bombers. Meanwhile, the average weight
of these products had gone up from a
little over a ton to over five tons.
The details of ships built may
be best translated into something with
meaning for unstatistical minds in two
simpler phases: (1) The U.S. Navy in
1941 had a total of 7695 ships; today,
counting all in from the largest to the
smallest, its total is over 100,000. The
author of The Arsenal of Democracy,
Burnham Finney, has translated that
again in such terms as that the U.S. Nav)
now possesses almost as many ships in
various categories as it had men in 1939>


ţ
and that it “overshadows all other navies
combined .” (2) The same authority (he
is editor of the “American Machinist”) has
pointed out that to all that naval ship-
building must be added the 56,000,000
tons of merchant shipping turned out by
U.S. yards in five years, an “increase of
five times the U.S. pre-war tonnage.
The figures for munitions manufactured
are such that it is impossible to visualise
them. What meaning is there in 37
billion rounds of small arms ammunition,
the amount shipped by U.S. factories ?
Or in 337 million rounds of aircraft gun
ammunition for U.S. and Allied ’planes ?
Or in five million tons of aircraft bombs?
It may help a little to quote Mr. Finney:
“Present U.S. facilities for making ex-
plosives are large enough to supply all
the armies in the world.”
Add the guns, trucks, tanks, jeeps and
all the rest and the production becomes
mountainous. From it could be spared to
enable the Russians to carry on: 14,450
’planes ; 7000 tanks ; 3200 armored cars ;
52.000 jeeps; 363,000 trucks; 35,000
motor-cycles ; 8200 anti-aircraft guns ;
135.000 sub-machine-guns ; 343,000 tons
of explosives—to give only samples of the
endless stream of war materials poured
into Russia. The U.S. output reached its
peak in the last full war year:
1944 output: 96,359 ’planes, including
16,048 heavy bombers; 30,889 ships; 17,565
tanks; 595,330 army service trucks; 3284
heavy field guns and howitzers, and 7454
light ones; 152,000 army aircraft rocket-
launchers and 215,177 of the 2.36 in.
bazookas; 1,416,774 short tons of ground
artillery ammunition.
The War Production Board report
added “and much more besides,” setting
the production value in goods and ser-
vices for that one year alone at over 199
billion dollars.
It was from the whole vast national
energy of that industrial and engineering
volcano that Uncle Sam’s mighty atom
really emerged. Not something that can
be pinched from official archives by
any band of Soviet spies, but some-
thing in which the Soviet is lacking.
Throughout the war Soviet Russia had
not one invention to offer that the U.S.A.
and Britain did not have already, or
better. And actual “know-how” produc-
tion of the atom bomb involved one solv-
ing invention after another.
Uncle Sam is now spending some five
hundred million dollars a year on his
atomic project, calculated to represent a
yearly 500 of the Bombs. Just what he
could turn out if put to it his war record
should be a sufficient indication for even
a power-drunk dictator.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Another to the Opposition.
With 6089 preferences left undistributed
(they might have gone fifty-fifty), Mr.
Coles’s majority over Major Gullett in
Henty (Vic.) 31 months ago was 7805.
On a smaller by-election poll Major
Gullett will go in 6000 votes or so ahead
of the Ministerial candidate, Flying-
Officer Doube —one of seven brothers, all
servicemen and all in the electorate
during the campaign.
From Canberra and A.B.C. the public
was immediately assured that the by-elec-
tion voting didn’t mean a thing. It means
a great deal, as Mr. Chifley well knows,
and Mr. Calwell, too, though that gentle-
man professed to draw supreme satis-
faction from the figures.
“Labor” was put into office in Octo-
ber, 1941, by Mr. Coles and his fellow-
independent, Mr. Wilson (Wimmera), and
they were its dutiful supporters for four
years. Almost at the same time the im-
pulse came to them to retire, and the
grateful Government was ready with sub-
stantial rewards —the Norfolk Island
Administratorship for Mr. Wilson; the
chairmanship of the “National” Airlines
Commission for Mr. Coles. The swift
loss to the Opposition of both their seats
has a significance which no “Labor”
Minister, writing or radio boy can argue
away. However tardily, the electors of
Wimmera and Henty have pronounced a
severe judgment on the Wilson and Coles
affairs, and it looks as if they would have
been delighted to strike at the members
now beyond their reach as well as at the
“Government.”
In Wimmera the “Government,”
realising that the “Labor” vote would
not be sufficient, threw its support to a
political soul-mate of Mr. Wilson, a so-
called C.P. “radical.” He was beaten
hands down by a C.P. man who has no
use for “Labor” politics, and who made
no secret of his intention to go into the
Fadden-McEwen party-room.
Of the two blows Wimmera was worse
than Henty; and not only because it
came first. It brought the frightful feel-
ing that country opinion, guided or
sharpened by servicemen, had turned
against “Labor” everywhere, especially
in electorates like Wakefield, Grey,
Swan, Forrest, Wannon, Hume, Riverina,
Gwydir and Calare, nearly all recent
acquisitions insecurely held. All need not
be lost if the Big Cities remained con-
slant; but it was necessary to hold Henty
or, at the worst, to press Major Gullett
hard. So a cloud of Ministers and mem-
bers descended on that constituency, com-
forted by the thought that its boundaries
and composition have changed greatly
since Major Gullett’s father was member
and that a large part of it, Oakleigh in
particular, went “Labor” at the State
election. No good again. An adverse
majority of 6000 is nasty by any standard.
Another fact with a bearing on the
general election is that all the recent by-
elections, Federal and State—Wimmera,
Henty, Greenough (W.A.) and East
Toowoomba—have been won by returned
servicemen of the 1939-45 war. “Labor”
will be short of candidates with this new
and striking appeal. In the 49 House
electorates it now holds (largely with
elderly hacks) it will have only three who
wore the King’s uniform. The Opposition
will have many, nearly all young men
with stout fighting records.
Queer Work in Hew York.
Not Mr. Makin but Lieut.-Colonel
Hodgson was Australia’s representative
in the U.N.O. Security Council when it
met in New York; and Lieut.-Colonel
Hodgson is a man whom Australians who
know him hold in high respect. He has
been a Duntroon graduate, a soldier of
the first German war and a foreign-
affairs official who as such has served his
country well in Canberra, Paris and other
places. But he seems to have been im-
perfectly instructed for the job in New
York. At the beginning he could
scarcely have been fully informed of the
sudden change that has come over Aus-
tralia’s (/.<?., Dr. Evatt’s) Foreign Policy.
Fervent championship of the small
nations —Persia, for example—is no
DOUBLE-EDGED MEANING?
“Lord Louis Mountbatten presented Mr. Chifley with a Samurai sword.”
“ Thanks, Supremo; but what’s in your mind?”
longer in season. Dr. Evatt struck the
new note; “The Soviet Union’s policy
is directed towards self-protection and
security against future attack” —from
Persia and Latvia, perhaps.
Arriving in New York and learning
that Persia, in defiance of Russian
threats and mistrust of Russian promises,
had determined to bring its case before
the Security Council, and also that
Gromyko had asked for a 16 days post-
ponement, the lieut.-colonel took up the
same attitude as Mr. Byrnes (U.S.A.) and
Sir Alexander Cadogan (Britain): —■
Australia has always advocated free
and open discussion. Any country which
wants this postponement means that it
wants to negotiate behind the scenes,
which is the equivalent of power politics.
The world is waiting on this. Why should
we have another postponement? The
sooner we deal with it the better.
When the Security Council met for
business Gromyko tried to block the hear-
ing of the Persian case on the ground
that his masters had reached an under-
standing with Persia for the withdrawal
of troops. “I cannot agree,” said Mr.
Byrnes, “harshly and bluntly,” and Sir
Alexander Cadogan supported him, re-
minding Gromyko that the Soviet had
been asked by Britain for information
on the situation in Persia and had not
replied. Deletion of the Persian affair
from the agenda was moved by Gromyko.
Only the representative of Communist
Poland —a professor named Lange, who
has had to renounce his * American
citizenship—supported him.
Next day Gromyko was back with a
reiteration of Russia’s “demand” for the
postponement of the discussion to April
10; and he alleged again that Persia
had agreed to a withdrawal of Rus-
sian troops “within five weeks” —under
the terms of a hatful of agreements they
were to have been withdrawn by March
2, as were all the British and American
forces. Failing again, he whirled him-
self out of the .meeting.
A representative of the lately-beloved
small nations, Egypt in this case, moved
that the Persian delegate, who was on the
premises, be asked to make an oral state-
ment. This was carried against the rep-
resentatives of Communist Poland —or
the Communist part of Poland —and
Australia. An Australian proposal that
the delegate make a written statement
was not put to the vote.
Uneasily mindful of his previous
week’s comment and questions (the cables
must have run hot in between) Lieut.-
Colonel Hodgson pleaded that his ex-
pedient would not have led to postpone-
ment. But by this time the Persian dele-
gate had stated that “Persia has suffered
and is suffering interference in its in-
ternal affairs through the intervention of
Soviet agents, Soviet officials and Soviet
armed forces” ; that “it has had no de-
finite and unconditional assurances that
Russian troops will be removed from the
whole of its territory by a given date” ;
that “the demands made on Persia are in-
consistent with its sovereignty and terri-
torial integrity,” and that “the seriousness
with which peoples throughout the world
regard the situation testifies to the fact
that delay in settling the dispute is a
threat to world peace.”
Delay is requested by the country with
the most to gain by delay. Delay is re-
sisted by the country with the most to lose.
What is going to happen now no man
can tell. It seems unlikely that Russia
will carry its bluff to the point of seced-
ing altogether from U.N.0., though
secede it may. The great thing for the
democratic world is that the U.S.A. and
Britain, after temporising too long, have
at last called a halt to Russian aggran-
disement, which has been perfidious all
along and in Persia has taken the -forms
of blackmail and conquest by means of
sedition. The point for Australians to
note is that while the British and Ameri-
cans stood firm the Australian representa-
tive —doubtless under Dr. Evatt’s orders
—voted with a Communist Pole whose
“Government” is . completely in the
Russian bag.
Story of on Australian Film.
Ten years ago Dr. Donald Thomson was
lent to the Commonwealth by the Univer-
sity of Melbourne to look into tribal fight-
ing and disturbances which were worry-
ing the Department of Internal Affairs.
With his wife as helper, he lived for two
years in Arnhem Land, a lot of it in
parts never previously visited by a white
man. His knowledge of the tree-
dwelling abos.’ ways, customs and
language got him into their inner coun-
sels and gave him opportunities of study-
ing at first hand rites to which not even
their own women were invited. As a
trained observer, Dr. Thomson took
over 20,000 feet of film which is of
unique scientific interest.
The Commonwealth Government
showed a languid interest in the doctor’s
work. It had one copy of the film
printed. Dr. Thomson wanted to have
it edited for general exhibition. Failing
in this, he took it to England, where it
was shown at Cambridge to members of
the British Association and the Royal
Geographical Society. One of the
scientists it impressed was Julian Huxley,
who wrote to the Prime Minister’s De-
partment asking for the film to be re-
leased. Dr. Thomson was then requisi-
tioned for special war service in New
Guinea, where he obtained more valu-
able material before being badly
smashed-up in an air crash.
When he returned from war service
he found the single copy of the film had
been deposited with the Department of
Information. That organ of enlighten-
ment proposed to have bits cut out of it
for its newsreels, but for sound scientific
reasons its author objected. Nothing
more was heard of the matter until the
other day, when a fire broke out in the
department’s storerooms. One of the
casualties was Dr. Thomson’s film.
A serio-comic aspect of the situation
is that, while the department had this
irreplaceable and unique film in its
possession, it was negotiating with a body
of American scientists to conduct an ex-
ploring expedition in Arnhem Land to
deal with precisely the same subject
matter.
Empty Homes.
Written by a houseless serviceman:
Syduey City Council, among its multifarious
rights and functions, has the power to con-
demn any property within the limits of its
jurisdiction. Exercising this right against it-
self, it commenced the demolishing of a 20-
roomed building it owned in King’s Cross for
the purpose of widening a street and providing
a public park. The building, Maramanah, had
been used during the war first by American
forces and later by the Royal Navy.
On the night of March 20 two young
married couples and four single men, all ex-
servicemen, moved into the house, and two
days later one of them made formal applica-
tion to the Court for a legal tenancy of the
property. Alderman Bartley, the Lud Mayor,
affirmed the right and the intention pf the
Council to proceed with its plan, the State
Government ordered a suspension of demoli-
tion, the hearing of the tenancy application was
postponed for a week to enable the Council
to investigate the position, more people moved
into the house, and by March 25 the property
was sheltering 11 families, with a total of 33
people. The Council, in the best traditions ot
passing the buck, offered the property to the
State Government for 12 months, rent free. The
Government is still considering this proposition.
Alderman Bartley professed to regard the
issue as “one between Communists and lawful
authority,” and the Communist press, ever ready
to make capital out of the misfortune of others,
claimed to have instigated the seizing of the
building. But there were thousands of people,
members of all parties, or of no party at all,
to whom the knocking down of the King s
Cross building, or indeed of any building, in
a country where the housing shortage runs into
hundreds of thousands 'seemed the craziest
idea that ever oozed out of a muddled muni-
cipal mind.
A few days later another group of ex-service-
men moved into a vacant house at Bondi, and
one of their number applied to the Court for
a tenancy order. Like Maramanah, the Bondi
house, Tiranna, had been leased to Americans
and the Navy, but, unlike the Council, the
owner had no intention of demolishing it he
intended, after carrying out renovations, to
open it as a guesthouse. This case, too, was
adjourned for a week (till April 2).
The two cases emphasise unassailably that it
is the Government’s duty to work out a policy
whereby every house with a willing owner may
shelter the number of people adequate to its
size. There are many things the Government
can do right away. It can suspend the pro-
visions of the Local Government Acts wtuen
give the Councils power to prevent house-
owners from subdividing their homes.
In the N.S.W. Assembly on March 27 Mr.
Treatt proposed something along these lines.
Mr. McKell cold-shouldered the proposal. He
had other things to think of, as he had just
learnt that obstacles raised by his pet war-time
creation the Sydney Turf Club had resulted in
chasing another industry—the Nuffield pro-
ject —over into South Australia.
Removal of the restrictive powers of the
Councils would be of immediate help m eas-
ing the housing shortage, as there are plenty
of house-owners only too eager to go ahea
with subdivision, but at present hampered oy
non-flat-area regulations. There are many o
whom the idea of sharing a property with
others has no attractions.
During the depression there was a proposal
for a reduction of interest on Commonwealtn
bonds, and every bondholder received a per-
sonal letter of appeal. All but a small minority,
some 3 per cent., voluntarily accepted tne
reduction.
Something of the same kind is needed today.
The desperate need of the homeless has not been
brought home to those who are themselves m
comfortable circumstances. Governments must
see that it is not brought home by Communist
troublemakers, by unlawful entry on a large
scale and by forceful seizure of property ; but
they must give the lead, a moral lead, to those
who have it in their power to provide temporary
homes for families in dire distress.
Of course, as State Opposition-leader Mc-
Donald has said in the Victorian Assembly,
“the fundamental problem is that there is
shortage of houses, and the only solution
the building of houses. He was debating a
measure in which the Cain Administration has
secured power “to authorise people to„
private dwellings and take them over. tne
shortage of houses exists mainly because of
Commonwealth “Labor” self-sufficiency and
sloth and the complacent ineptitude of its Mr.
Lazzarini. It has been prolonged by Com-
munist strikes, go-slow and intimidation in t
building trades. The longer these Communist
outrages are tolerated the longer will tne
only solution” be delayed. But even the Cam
Administration, while ready to take drastic
steps against reluctant householders, shies from
tackling the wretched creature Thomson, who
has set up a sort of Communist dictatorship in
the Victorian building trades.


N
5788
CRAVENA
IjetiU aMUciutt tkeh
•m
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
fmm
E SP ECIAL L V
POLITICAL POINTS
Though “Labor” must have been
disappointed when the “Argus” came out
for Gullett, it was bucked up by the
paper’s account of boundary alterations
and changes effected by arrivals and de-
partures :
Since 1936, some of the strongest
Liberal portions have been transferred to
•Fawkner, and Henty has been extended
along the Dandenong line to take in the
State electorate of Oakleigh, which is
strongly held by Labor.
Moreover, “Labor” had an unusually
good candidate in Flying-Officer Doube,
with six servicemen-brothers to assist his
campaign. Droves of Ministers, headed
by Chifley, took the stump for him ; at
his final meeting he had Ward, Calwell
and Barry, K.C., on his platform, and
was introduced as “the future member
for Henty.” Yet when it was evident
that Gullett would beat him as easily as
Coles beat Gullett, his disgruntled
backers blustered that they had never
expected the young man to do more than
lose by 5000. Their bluster will avail
them nothing against the wrath to come.
N.S.W. “Labor” has gone to Toorak
(Melb.), of all places, for a State Gover-
nor, Some of the boys believed to the
last that it would send for one to Red-
fern (Sydney).
Chifley is to have Spooner for an oppo-
nent, and Spooner is no mean opponent
for even a P.M. Nor is Macquarie any
man’s property—Chifley has failed in it
as often as he has succeeded.
Apropos of passages from and to
Britain, it would save a lot of time and
temper if Calwell published a list of
“priorities.” Naturally English Rugby
League footballers would be first and
Australian newspaper proprietors last, but
people would really like to know who
come in before and after refugee Jews,
Not being absorbed in the preparation
of obese week-end racing issues, as were
so many of its contemporaries, Melbourne
“Age” had time for consideration of what
was going on in the Security Council at
New York, and for a pertinent comment:
In the light of all that has happened in
recent weeks and the clear evidence of tor-
tuous and evasive Russian tactics, it seems
extraordinary that, of the ten members of
the Council entitled to vote, Australia
should be bracketed with Poland as the
only two countries not prepared to approve
the hearing of Persia’s case.
The “Age” asked for an explanation. This
would mean accounting for the sudden
change from championship of the small
nations to a “liberal” understanding of
a “Soviet Union policy directed towards
self-protection and security against future
attacks” from ferocious countries like
Persia, so it won’t be furnished.
From the Sydney standpoint it seems a
pity that Lord Nuffield didn’t simply
“squat” on Victoria Park racecourse.
Could he have got Communist backing
he would have been “home on the bit.”
Joe Abbott, the forthright Ndw Eng-
lander, asked Scully, the great agricultural
optimist, if it were true that he had made
50,000 bushels of wheat available to
makers of biscuits for racing greyhounds
at 4s. lid. a bushel at a time when human
beings were starving for want of wheat.
Whereupon Chifley, the great smoother-
over of awkward questions, said he would
ask Scully to “examine” the complaint.
The Mountbattens got a royal welcome
to Sydney, as they did in Melbourne, and
will in other parts, being thoroughly de-
serving of it. But though they met
droves of people they didn’t meet any-
body who painted a picture or wrote a
poem that will be remembered. People
who write or paint or compose music
aren’t valued in Australia as specimens
to be proudly shown to educated visitors
from abroad.
Under the N.S.W. lottery laws and
regulations, “Labor” lotteries in other
States are “foreign,” and the tendency
to regard other parts of Australia as
“foreign” seems to have spread. Con-
sider the moan of the Sydney “Sun”:
Because of procrastination and lack of
guarantees from the State as to the safe
tenure of Victoria Park racecourse, the
£1,000,000 motor-car-building plant goes
to South Australia. This is an economic
tragedy, a devastating blow at our indus-
trial recovery and post-war expansion.
Heart up, brother, even if the prospect
of lost circulation displeases. After all.
South Australia is part of this Common-
wealth.
In a somewhat emotional article on
New Guinea’s future under U.N.O. trus-
teeship, Dr. Lucy Mair, “lecturer in Colo-
nial Administration, London, attached
to Department of External Affairs,”
asserts that civil government in N.G.
resumes with, among other assets, “a Min-
ister who, for the first time in Australia’s
history, had the vision to formulate a
policy covering all aspects of develop-
ment.” Believe it or not, the master
policy-maker is—Ward!
8.8. C., though publicly owned, never
places itself at the service of minor Min-
isters who want to thrust their ideas down
listeners’ throats. A.8.C., being under
“Labor” dictation, is different. So last
week people who pay for entertainment
and instruction had a nauseating dose of
Ward on the Bretton Woods agreement.
The unwanted speaker, champion of in-
terest-default in his early years as a mem-
ber, is now “convinced that the Bretton
Woods agreement will enthrone a world
dictatorship of private finance more com-
plete and terrible than any Hitlerite
dream.” This means only that hateful
Britain has signed it and holy Russia
hasn’t.
Dedman is not the only Minister who
goes in for long sentences. Makin came
out as a rival to him during Makin’s first
(and probably last) Security Council
chairmanship,
I was wondering as to whether it would
be possible for the Council to feel happy
about the chairman being empowered to
seek to express in some statement what
really might be the view that' is held upon
this subject and to indicate that in the
opinion of those who have expressed
themselves, apart from the Powers that
have actually been involved as participants
or party principals in this matter, there is
not today in this matter that which it is
regarded as constituting a threat to inter-
national peace, and that the matter might
now be closed.
An American reporter took it down, ex-
plaining indulgently that the self-
exhausted orator was “proposing lan-
guage which might satisfy Bevin and save
the face of the Russians.”
In the film “Mission to Moscow”
Joseph E. Davies, the former U.S. Ambas-
sador, lent his name and person to a deli-
berate falsification of history. That shook
his public reputation severely, and noth-
ing is left of it since he had the face to
declare, apropos of the Soviet conspiracy
against Canada, that “Russia has every
moral right to seek atomic-bomb secrets
through military espionage if excluded
from such information by its former fight-
ing allies.” For that he was denounced in
articles from San Francisco to New
York; only the Left-Wing press spared
him, “What a code of right for Capone,
Dillinger and Dutch Schultz!” com-
mented George E. Sokolsky, a Russian-
born Jew, in the New York “Sun,” “It
is a pity that any man can, in political
extremity, defend theft as a way of life,
even for totalitarian States.”
“Truth” has had to apologise and pay
costs for declaring in Baume’s Budget
that Beaverbrook’s son Max had “gone
on a spree to the Riviera,” and was
neglecting his two jobs as M.P. and man-
ager of the “Sunday Express.” The
apology, which was duly cabled to all
“Truth’s” loving contemporaries, was
about the most abject thing of its kind
that ever appeared, plaintiff’s counsel and
the Judge being at pains to demonstrate
that “Truth” had no connection with the
paper of that name founded by Labou-
chere. Labby was trenchant enough, but
he and the editors who succeeded him
have always been noted for their scrupu-
lous search for and presentation of facts.
There is a kind of reporter who thinks
that he can publish anything he likes
about a man, at home or abroad, pro-
vided he prefixes the words “it is alleged
that.”
In Portland, Oregon, three Russians
arrived at police headquarters complain-
ing to the capitalist myrmidons there that
a compatriot had been kidnapped by men
in two cars as he was about to board a
Soviet ship. It then came out that the
captive, a Russian naval lieutenant named
Redin, had been grabbed by F. 8.1. and
charged with spying on a U.S. destroyer-
tender. It was natural for the three to
assume kidnapping, that being a standard
practice in their own and adjoining coun-
tries.
Referring to the threat of a “sub-
department administering employment
and social-services legislation,” the presi-
dent of Queensland Demobilised Soldiers’
Association claims that 55 of 60 officers
selected for it are not ex-servicemen, and
that their ages range from 27 to 30. He
takes this as making it clear that the
“Government” “disregards soldier prefer-
ence in selecting personnel” for Govern-
ment jobs. But surely they all hold union
tickets or are of the right political color.
Since Murray water went to Why-
alla (S.A.) the place has begun to burgeon
into greenness, which has naturally
brought the rabbits crowding in from the
saltbush plains. So B.H.P. is to build a
rabbit-proof fence right round the young
city, 14 miles of it. Had Whyalla had
to depend on a “Labor” Government’s
building the fence it would have been
eaten out before the first post was driven.
To recount the list again:
Two chests of tea, seven 701 b. bags of
sugar, 13 cases of canned vegetables, 10
cases of jam, 39 cases of canned fruit,
six of fruit juice, three of canned meat,
two of canned soup, three of prunes, three
of lexias, two of cream, two of condensed
and two of powdered milk, one of
powdered beverage and one of malted
milk.
That, on Chifley’s word to the House on
March 22, is what the Beasleys took to
London “in accordance with the practice
of other diplomatic representatives ap-
pointed to positions abroad.” In cash
Beasley will receive, again according to
Chifley,
Salary, nil; entertainment allowance,
£1660; Parliamentary allowance, £1000;
official residence, £2000; Ministerial allow-
ance (estimated), £l5OO a year.
Beasley will stagger along on this for
“eight or nine months” and then become
High Commissioner for five years. Lucky
Jack!
Passing the buck having become a dis-
ease, there is to be a referendum on
liquor hours in N.S.W. —6 p.m., 9 p.m.
or 10 p.m. The bill also provides for com-
munity hotels, club licences, liquor sales in
cafes, standard measures and sundry other
things. “Nationalisation” and abolition
of tied houses are out. Meantime the
Liquor Trades Union executive, after fail-
ing to silence Sheahan, M.L.A., issued
the threat that bill or no bill his union
won’t agree to opening the pubs after six
o’clock. That should be sufficient to
scare the Government into a blue funk.
There is a possibility of getting at least
a trifle of reparations from Japan in the
shape, of gold, and it might help if Gen-
eral Northcott invited occupation-force
men with a bent for prospecting and some
knowledge of mineralogy to have their
names and qualifications put on a list.
Gold has been mined in Japan for cen-
turies, and during the 10 years 1930-40
annual output increased from 400,000
ounces to 720,000 ounces, which was a
great deal more than the production in
all the Australian States except West-
ralia. And that was in Japan proper;
Korean gold-production in 1939 amounted
to 975,000 ounces, but Korea is out of
bounds for Northcott’s men. According
to the New York “Herald Tribune” 488
Japanese goldmines were operating be-
fore the war, average individual output
being 1480 ounces a year.
To the chagrin of Premier Cosgrove,
who has turned 61, a Tasmanian A.L.P.
conference carried a motion for compul-
sory retirement at 60 years for men and
55 for women. Introduced in 1942 and
made universal (supposing the English-
speaking world to have been that mad), it
would have cut out General MacArthur
and the two great British Admirals Pound
and Ramsay. On a lesser plane, it
would have eliminated two Labor
Premiers, Cooper (Q.) and Willcock
(W.A.), as well as W. M. Hughes,
Deputy Premier Dwyer-Gray (Tas.),
Dicky Darcey, then a Senator, and
a host of lesser lights. Applied
this year it would compel Chifley
to go back to Bathurst, and Ministers
Holloway, Cameron and Ashley to pack
their bags. Of course those who intro-
duced the resolution and those who
carried it had no such intention. They
merely had a rush of nonsense to the
head.
Reporters with little knowledge and
lots of Leftist bounce have appa-
rently been able to get anything they
like into some Australian newspapers.
One specimen, sent to Java, discovered
that “our Indernesian comrades” despised
—yes, despised —the British, which no
member of the alliance of much more
formidable enemies ever did. And, simul-
taneously with the Yugoslav allegation
that the Poles under General Anders
were, with British connivance, massing
for an attack cfn Tito, there was a rash
of newspaper attacks on Anders and his
men. One hurled scorn at Anders’s
“extraordinary army,” asserting that it
spent the war years “south of but com-
paratively close to the Soviet Union,
taking no effective part in the war,
but training assiduously for the on-
slaught on Russia.” In point of
fact, Anders, as Alexander, Mont-
gomery and the London “Times”
have testified, proved himself one of the
ablest corps commanders in the field.
And his Poles fought from Tobruk (with
the Aussies) to Tripoli, and from the
Sangio to Trieste, winning deathless glory
at Monte Cassino,
Canberra is suffering a relapse of holi-
day mania. June 10 is to be “Victory”
holiday. That will mean two week-end
holidays in N. S. Wales, which celebrates
June 17 as King’s Birthday, though it
isn’t. Last year there was a rash of
“Victory” holidays, but that doesn’t
satisfy Canberra, though few people
would want to celebrate Canberra’s vic-
tories.
For the third year in succession Vic-
toria hasn’t had a major bushfire, there
being only one outbreak that looked like
getting nasty. Forests Commission offi-
cials attribute the fact entirely to the in-
creasing public appreciation of the need
for care in the use of fires in the open.
It'is to be hoped that they are right, but
the truth is that there has been no day
which recapitulated the conditions that
produced the frightful conflagrations of
previous years. The new fire-prevention
organisation still waits to be tested.


“THE GAME” MUST GO ON.
“Take that contraption away! Can’t you see you’re interfering with the horses?"


t
COMMONWEALTH
RE-ESTABLISHMENT
LOANS
for
AGRICULTURAL
OCCUPATIONS
in the State of New South Wales
Now available to eligible discharged
members of the Forces.
Application forms and
full particulars from
all Branches of the
RURAL BANK
or
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors ; THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
K. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. BUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Sane Labor Man
F. P. Walsh, representing the Federa-
tion of Labor on the New Zealand
Economic Stabilisation Commission, has
startled Maoriland Labor circles by de-
manding a course of “sound economics”
for the Dominion if it is to avoid “dam-
age that will jeopardise our progress in
later years.” Mr. Walsh drew attention
to the huge spending money now avail-
able in N.Z. that was set alongside an
extreme shortage of goods and of labor
in key and skilled industries. He was
also disturbed about the “distorting”
effects of price control upon produc-
tion, however primarily necessary,
about price subsidies, and about the rural
industries, upon which the Dominion
depends so much for its national income
and export revenue
Mr. Walsh told the national council oJ
t-, , o T . ,
the Federation of Labor tha the only
way the Labor movement could increase
hving standards was by the production of
more goods and services. He did not
advise a policy of deflation to cure the
unbalanced relation between the quan-
titles of money and goods, but a policy
of greater production to beat the evils of
inflation, at the same time raising living
s addards - ■ u t ,
This is where workers can do
a real job, he said. Provided
we can get raw materials, it is within
our own power to produce more goods
and bridge the gap between money and
goods. If we do not close this gap by
our own efforts it will be closed by an
inflation of prices, perhaps by a deflation
of money and incomes Both of these
things are poison to the economic sys-
tem. Nothing should be allowed to in-
ternipt the productive system It was
Labors responsibility to work for the
maximum production, and anything ob-
strutting this was contrary to the best
interests of the Labor, movement.
It was doubtful, said Mr. Walsh,
whether the Dominion’s sterling balances,
high though they seemed, were enough to
buy arrears of needed machinery, etc.,
that had not been imported during the
war and at the same time satisfy ordinary
trading requirements' It might be that
a policy of repaying sterling debts had
better be discontinued in the immediate
post-war period. If everybody’s imports
were met immediately, the Dominion’s
external funds would vanish overnight,
Import controls were still necessary. But
a wall of protection should not be built
up around local industries regardless of
their efficiency.
Wage increases and their effect on the
cost structure would have to be con-
sidered very seriously by Labor. All up-
ward wage movements, of which the 40-
hour week was only one example, had to
be met by price increases or by sub-
sidies. There was a limit to which in-
dustry could absorb wage increases. The
Government is now faced with a
mounting bill for subsidies, and it
wifi be seen that a policy of sub-
sidies cannot be carried on for ever with-
9 U !" disastrous results. Industry was not
being propelled under its own motive
power, but had subsidies injected from
Government tunds. A large proportion
these funds was contributed, directly
or indirectly, from wage- and salary -
earners incomes.
J 1) this country, at any rate, said Mr.
Walsh, the battle for adequate mim-
mum wage standards has been won ; and
the tendenev now is for our movement
1” we
economic system. Inis means that we
have ’ positive ap p roa ch to econo-
. Drob i ems because everv eain in pro-
gain to the workers,
w can no )onger B stand apart from the
economic te B and the respon _
sibi|it f L h worki on 7 m .
,J , h Government. We are
£ * contribute something more to the
<kxmomic system , han our , " bor . we are
asked to play a part in solving its prob-
, and improving its efficiency.”
. <The onl / soluti B n to our p / oblem is
increased p ? oduction . j stress again the
; that i f we are t 0 have higher stan-
£,rds of Hving we must have re goods
and services. Our movement is no longer
. flghting for wages . We want to in-
irease\otu|l standards c f living. To do
thjs we must increase producti S n Real
standards come £rom pr^ductionj and not
from the rinti of ' note issue ...
when pres f dent ot the A , C .T.U. in
A[lsrra ji a takes up a similar cotnmonsense
stand and receives support from his rank
and ffl th commonwealth will indeed
have a great £uture ahead o£ it It would
be wr ong to assume that what Mr. Walsh
has said is £u u y supported by N.Z. Labor,
But his report to the national council is
a hopeful sign.
’
The Waterside Workers’ Federation
(representing the wharfies) was in favor
of a permanent Stevedoring Industry
Commission, first set up as a war-time
measure in 1942; Australian shipowners
desired a return to the Arbitration Court
system, with the right to hire and fire.
Judge Foster, who inquired into the posi-
tion, has reported, inter alia, that,
although the Stevedoring Commis-
sion did not secure industrial peace
or harmony, in his opinion the
position would have been worse
without it. One of the reasons
for the lowered output in the industry
was that “men whose industry had lived
through decades of degradation were in
some cases recruited from the worst ele-
ments in other industries.” They had
loafed and “pointed” and resisted not only
their foremen but also the better ele-
ments among them and their organisa-
tions. Judge Foster recommends the
setting-up of a permanent Stevedoring
Industry Commission, allowing no right
of appeal to the Arbitration Court, in
preference to a return to arbitration.
Comrade Healy, secretary of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, favored the
same thing. The Judge also recommends
that only one union be recognised in the
industry.
* * * *
Import and export business of the
Netherlands Indies has been made a Gov-
ernment monopoly under the control of
N.l.G.l.E.O.—Netherlands Indies Gov-
ernment Import and Export Organisation
—and trading independently by businesses
or private individuals is prohibited. A
Sydney merchant, seeking to import rat-
tans, has been asked by N.1.G.1.E.0, for
details of grades and qualities required,
but it adds that, in view of the difficulty
of getting Dutch ships serviced at Sydney
wharves, “we fear that, with the general
large demand for our products all over
the world, not very large quantities will
be shipped to your territory.” Com-
munist wharfies, other Corns., Eddie Ward
and the like have done an amazing job
in killing-off our trade connections,
destroying our productive capacity, re-
tarding recovery from war-time exhaus-
tion and reducing the population’s
standard of living.
• * * a
Because of the interference of Eddie
Ward and his offsiders, a vicious produc-
tion situation has arisen in New Guinea.
After a commendable recovery from the
conditions which followed the Jap occu-
pation—by October last year most rubber
or copra estates were in full production
and owners were making efforts to in-
crease output—-Ward’s department, that
of External Territories, cancelled all
native laborers’ indentures. Natives then
either returned to their homes or went
into concentration camps, and were fed
on Government doles until transport be-
came available for them. Without this
mischievous interference in native-labor
affairs it is estimated by the chairman of
Koitaki Rubber that rubber production
by July this year would have been two-
thirds higher than before the war. Now
it is difficult even to keep the plantations
in decent order; rubber production has
generally ceased, and copra is rotting in
spite of a world shortage of these things.
The Department of External Territories
is so out of touch with conditions in New
Guinea that an officer of the department
recently was unable to tell an inquirer
what ordinances were in force in Papua
and the Mandated Territory. The Min-
ister’s methods of smashing industry, how-
ever, seems to be extremely effective in
the islands, as elsewhere.
* * * *
On the score of involving
graft and cprruption alone the Federal
Government should promptly revise all
National Security Regulations as soon as
the need —if it ever existed—for certain
“controls” expires. Graft is extremely
difficult to check-up on. For that reason
alone no unnecessary regulations impos-
ing restraint on the citizen should be “en-
forced” for a moment longer than abso-
lutely necessary.
* * * #
There has been considerable activity
lately in the shares of Oil Search, Ltd.,
w'hich holds approximately a fifth interest
in Australasian Petroleum Co., now
drilling for oil at Kariava, up the Vailala
River, Papua. Originally Oil Search held
a third of the capital, but it has not
always been financially able to accept
its quota of new shares. A recent issue
of 200,000 new ss, shares, however, was
fully subscribed, enabling Oil Search to
take its proportion of an issue of £205,000
of fresh capital put out by Australasian
Petroleum to provide funds for opera-
tions during 1946. In addition to resump-
tion of drilling at Kariava (the borehole
was down to over 5000 ft. when the Jap
war caused a suspension) prospecting
and surveying are to be carried out in
other areas. Already several anticlinal
structures have been discovered on the
co.’s extensive Papuan permit area, and
the search has been very thorough, as
well as costly. Results to date seem to
have been at least promising, though no
flow-oil has been struck. The Vailala
River enters the sea about 200 miles
along the Gulf of Papua north-west of
Port Moresby, and the boresite is 75 miles
up the river, in difficult country. Over
£2,000,000 was spent on the hunt for oil
in Papua and New Guinea up to the
time of the Jap invasion, and of this
total Australasian Petroleum and an
associate. Island Exploration Co., had
spent more than half in about five years.
Oil Search will now hold about £250,000
of Australasian Petroleum’s capital, and
the remaining £1,000,000 or thereabouts
will be in the hands of D’Arcy Explora-
tion Co, (subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian)
and the Vacuum Oil Co. in approximately
equal shares. There are now 1,691,707
issued shares of ss. each in Oil Search.
On its own account it has spent large sums
in prospecting for oil in the Common-
wealth as well as in New Guinea. The
ss. shares are being dealt in on ’Change
at slightly above par. If the present
bore turns out to be dry it is unlikely
that the matter will be left there. And a
great deal more should now be known
about the geography and geology of New
Guinea than was the case in 1942.
* * * *
Bruck Silk Mills (Australia), Ltd., is
preparing to import machinery from
America for its Victorian «rayon- and
nylon-weaving and -dyeing factory. The
co. is to offer the Australian public
£250,000 of 5 p.c. pref. money and
£300,000 in ords., while £170,000 in ords.
will be taken by the Canadian sponsoring
co. of similar name. A prospectus of the
Australian issue, which has been under-
written, will be circulated in May. Fol-
lowing a Canberra report that Courtaulds,
the big British rayon-producing co., might
“do a Nuffield” and erect its £5-million
factory in South Australia, N. S. Wales
Premier McKell has announced that it
will be established at Hexham, on the
Hunter River, as originally planned.
Apparently the Nuffield catastrophe
spurred McKell to the most unusual
“administrative” activity since he was
fathering the Sydney Turf Club.
* * * *
All the holding cos. in Greater Union
Theatres, Ltd., have agreed to the offer
from the Rank film interests in Britain
to buy a half-interest in G.U.T. for
£750,000, and the appropriate companies
have sanctioned the separate sale of vari-
ous theatre properties held outside
G.U.T.’s direct control. Norman Bede
Rydge, managing director of Greater
Union, said that, on the basis of the pur-
chase price agreed to be paid by Rank
for a half-interest in G.U.T., the approxi-
mate value of West’s shares was between
345. and 355. each, Greater J. D, Wil-
liams’s 295. and Spencer’s 275.
* * * ♦
A general letting-out of share ceilings
by about 5 p.c. is under way, but it does
very little towards allowing fair prices
to be got for many stocks, even if only
examples are taken in which it is possible
to make comparisons with London and
New Zealand quotations. Much higher
prices can be got for Huddart Parker,
Bank of N. S. Wales, Morris Hedstrom
and many other shares in N.Z. than in the
Commonwealth —ceilings operate on all
ord. shares in Australia, whereas there are
no ceilings in Maoriland, Britain, U.S.A.
or Canada. As Staniforth Ricketson, of
J. B. Were’s, points out, the war efforts
of these other countries were in no way
impaired by freedom of their share-
markets.
* * * *
It is estimated that Australian-made
Lincoln bombers, mentioned on another
page, will cost £llO,OOO each to produce.
They are being made under the control
of the Beaufort division of the Depart-
ment of Aircraft Production. There are
61 on order, and total outlay, including
cost of spare engines, propellers, various
parts, tooling, equipment, machinery and
buildings, is given by Minister Makin as
£9,600,000. The Minister also said that
it was intended to continue the manufac-
ture of Rolls-Royce Merlin engines only
until such time as a report by experts on
the production of gas turbines in Aus-
tralia was received. But, according to a
Department of Information handout, the
first Australian-made Rolls-Royce engine
will not be delivered until July next!
There seems to be a bad lag in the timing
of our aircraft production.


LEAR
AT HOME
FOR.
WEEKLY
It’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLY GUITAR
• BANJO MANDOLHN
O PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
« SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN v
• ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
Caoa have succeeded
OUUU why not you ? Takes
3 Lessons to play first piece—
-10 Lessons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—-doesn't
matter where you live,
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
rnrr Illustrated catalogue and descriptive
rivlli£a booklet FREE—Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 3, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
Whether.it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Good value
is guaranteed and i
your inspection
invited.
fIAIG&AITKEN
m 4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(' Near A nth an u H nrderns )
HARTS
Circular Charts Jo» alt types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKStTN & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. tTO. BRISBANE. O’lD.
Ton cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W
<=> TH i > t
V
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
ţ
ť
TuwjlbA
ALUMINIUM ENAMEL
Shj'u oJUi Vyp&i -of rruiitciJU/j-cyiM, !
A bright, clean, rust-resistant
and heat-resistant silver finish
■with a brilliant sheen.
*0 H's
alum/N.
2°**ork
Tkif&iiSL
syntSetIc
QUICK-DRYING ENAMEL
The miracle finish for interior
decoration. Hard, tough, water-
proof, with a brilliant lustre.
For all wood or iron work in
bathrooms, kitchens and living
rooms. Easy to apply—long
lasting.
m
EL
IWW
S-bbpJZAs
PAV/NG ENAMEL
*D'U&d OJ> 4\jOJ\xL Obi <Axm,!
Brilliant lustre, quick-drying,
waterproof. This iron-hard sur-
face is ideal for garage floors,
concrete paths, steps, verandahs,
passages. It is guaranteed to
withstand heavy foot traffic.
ŧ
NUMBER 13
maximum concentration
D.D.T. SPRAY
Kills flies, fleas, mosquitoes,
silverfish and all insect pests.
Spray on surfaces, not into
the air.
KEEPS ON KILLING
FOR WEEKS.
All these products are available
from the hardware store that
is your local Taylor’s Paint
agent. Made by TAYLOR’S
PAINTS PTY., LTD., Sydney,
N.S.W.
t
fry, 5 Yea/id
INVEST IN THE COMMONWEALTH SECURITY LOAN
A Land' of Hope
Given sound government and a return
to industrial sanity there should be a
great post-war future ahead of Australia.
S. M. Bruce, who is returning to Britain
instead of attempting to re-enter Aus-
tralian politics, said in Melbourne last
week that this country had emerged from
the war incomparably better-situated
than Britain, the United States or the
Continent, but now, by political strife and
industrial unrest, was busily trying to
create for itself a serious problem. The
position Mr. Bruce sees has been fore-
seen and predicted here for years past.
But before very long, either through
actual hardship or through awakening in-
telligence and public conscience, there
may be a change for the better. If Aus-
tralians again return to a state of mind
in which a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay becomes a guiding principle,
and if Governments are willing (and able)
to reduce taxation rates to much lower
and more equitable and scientific levels,
then in this young and only partly-
developed country there must be a great
future. To begin with, the continent
possesses a fine climate and thousands
of miles of splendid seaboard.
On present known natural resources
there are limits to the additional popula-
tion that Australia can carry. Water
conservation is an immediate problem-
even Sydney is confronted with water
restrictions almost every second year.
The drawback in the most-livable (or, at
any rate, at present most-populated) parts
of the Commonwealth is the uncertainty
of rainfall. Given a guaranteed water-
supply by reticulation large areas would
become economically more valuable and
more closely habitable. There is room
for enormous development still even in
coastal areas along these lines.
Water-conservation is thus one with
national industrial and financial policy in
the future of Australia. It is something
which deserves the greatest study and
research, not excluding the study of
methods of waterworks construction that
involve a minimum of cost. Heavy cost
usually indicates that excessive labor has
been paid for on a job and that excessive
time has been taken. Our intelligences
by this should be enlightened enough to
bring the realisation that the mere spend-
ing of money and the giving of jobs are no
proofs that a worthwhile task is being
done. We cannot afford to do less than
make the best use of our money, our
labor and our time. We’ have wasted too
much of each already.
Of course, we shall continue to make
mistakes, to incur waste. But so long
as we try to reduce both to a minimum
we will be doing all right. The Aus-
tralian, properly led, is an intelligent and
willing worker, and he resents waste as
much as anyone. Stimulated by more
attractive living and productive condi-
tions such as would arise from greater
water-conservation and -reticulation, plus
public finances administered for the bene-
fit of the nation instead of on the basis
of mere party politics, there would arise
in the land a spirit of greater opportunity.
Australia has seen such things happen in
the past, on less substantial grounds. The
gold discoveries from the eighteen-fifties
onward brought a great influx of popu-
lation to the Commonwealth. Real de-
velopment of those industrial resources
from which higher living standards rise
would be of much more permanent value
to a growing population than gold-
mining. The Old World is looking for
living conditions such as could be found
in this country if we set about develop-
ing it in the most logical way, and not
discouraging industrial enterprise by ex-
cessive taxation and trade-union dictator-
ship. If the right kind of citizen wants
to come to Australia we must not insist
that this land is the sole preserve of the
Australian-born trade-unionist. Every type
of citizen in the Commonwealth would, in
the long run, be better off if we welcomed
the right kind of immigrant. The
migrant’s success in the country would be
as much our own.
For a long time many of us, not with-
out full cause, have been damning the
present Federal Labor Government. But
that should not be the limit of our out-
look, even if better government must
become one of our immediate objectives.
It is true that we can, at the present, do
little more than make plans for the day
when the preposterous entanglements and
obstructions surrounding our economic
initiative are swept away. But if we do
less than make those plans we shall be
guilty of an unpardonable waste of valu-
able time. Without plans and convic-
tions of better things to come it will be
almost impossible to overcome the pre-
sent obstructions to progress.
It would be a lamentable commentary
on Australia’s population of 7,400,000 if
it were shown it had become so soured
within itself that it was politically and
economically unable to take advantage of
the opportunities of development which
now so obviously lie at hand.
It appears that Lincoln bombers, Mos-
quitoes and Mustangs are still being
manufactured in Australia. Until re-
cently at any rate, Wirraways were also
on the production line —it was officially
reported that “the last for the
reduced order for Wirraways are being
assembled.” In the Budget papers issued
last year it was estimated that the ex-
penses of the Department of Aircraft
Production, including cost of new machin-
ery, would be £4,724,000 in 1945-46, com-
pared with £1,855,230 in 1944-45. For
1945-46 it was forecast that “aircraft,
equipment and stores” would cost the
Air Force £2l million, compared with
£46 million in the last full year of war.
The Department of Information recently
stated: “Lincoln, Tudor, Mosquito and
Mustang aircraft are fitted with Rolls-
Royce Merlin engines. Production of
these engines is being steadily developed
at the Lidcombe engine factory in N. S.
Wales. Component parts are being pro-
duced in quantity, and it is anticipated
that the first complete engine will be de-
livered in July.” All this is meritorious
up to a point. An aircraft industry is a
very good thing to develop in any coun-
try. But in the past Australian-made (and
Government-supervised) aircraft has been
excessively costly, and has often been
obsolete by the time it has reached the
tarmac. Unless we are to start with
Britain or America right from the blue-
prints it is inevitable that we shall con-
tinue to build obsolete aircraft. The
Rolls-Royce Merlin engine, too, is far
from being the latest development of this
premier designing and manufacturing firm,
even if still in extensive production in
England, especially for civil aircraft.
Merlin types fought the Battle of Britain.
There are now the Griffon 130, with
three-speed supercharger, and the Der-
went V jet-propulsion unit, with which the
Gloster Meteor recently established a new
world’s record air speed. Nobody wants
to criticise the Australian aircraft indus-
try harshly, but many millions have
gone down the drain in Government-con-
trolled aircraft production during the war,
and too many millions are still going
down the drain somewhere under the
heading of “defence and war costs,” which
includes aircraft production. The big
snag in our aircraft industries is: Politics.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Uco”: My neighbor was amused by
“Arpeos’s” story (B. 27/3/’46) of the small
boy who bit his classmate. Neighbor’s
son, aged six, came home from school
recently with a black eye, and reported
that “someone” had hit him. “Did you
hit him back?” asked his father, recall-
ing earlier lectures on self - defence.
Shamefacedly the youngster admitted that
he had not. Neighbor, fearing that he
had nurtured a coward, issued definite
instructions. “When you go to school
tomorrow you go straight up to whoever
it was that hit you and hit him hard.
Tell him it’s for what he did to you to-
day.” Son looked doubtful, but said
nothing. Next night when his father
arrived home he was perched on the front
fence. “I hit her, Dad,” he crowed trium-
phantly.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Melbourne University has
issued a reminder that poisoned arrows
brought from Borneo by Diggers
may be dangerous to children. The
Borneo natives use two kinds of
poison to tip their blowpipe mis-
siles. A weakish one is made from the
sap of the upas tree, which was a legend
centuries ago in Europe, the Sultans of
Java being said to execute their criminals
by making them walk beneath its shade.
Actually it is only lethal enough to
stupefy a small bird or monkey. It is used
in the great fishing battues when a whole
village turns out on the banks of a river.
The juice is crushed from the bark into
a canoe and the canoe capsized upstream.
As the milky fluid slowly moves down
thousands of fish float to the surface and
are easily captured. The stronger poison
is similar in its effects to strychnine. It
is used with deadly precision against the
large apes, including the human ones.
Nevertheless, both poisons are sufficient
to cause death by heart failure in small
children. In the case of an accident due
to the bird type, it is possible to use arti-
ficial respiration. Against the human type
no antidote has been discovered.
“Flat Dweller”; Apropos of trams and
tickets, pre-war Paris had slot machines
at busy stops. From one of these you
drew a numbered ticket and the conductor
or conductress —even (hen Paris trams
employed women—admitted passengers
according to the numbers on their tickets.
In the land of Liberty, Equality and
Fraternity, trams carried two classes of
passengers, trains four, and the under-
ground charged one price whatever the
distance to be travelled.
“Wallace” goes back to 1880: —
I can go a good way further back than
Wing-Commander Swift (B. 6/2/’46) as a reader
of The Bulletin. As a boy I was present at
the first issue of the paper—printed in an old
building in a lane leading from Castlereagh-
street to the back of the “Evening News” and
“Town and Country Journal” offices in Pitt-
street and the “Daily Telegraph” office in
King-street. Sydney “Punch” was in Castle-
reagh-street, on the south corner of the lane.
My grandparents had a news agency and book-
shop in King-street, where Dick Hagon now
has his tailoring business. He had portion of
our premises leased at that time. Our old shop
was frequented by many politicians and news-
papermen of the time —Jack Haynes, J. F. Archi-
bald, “Mudgee” Taylor, Dan Mayne, of
Bathurst “Sentinel,” Harold Grey and many
others. Haynes and Archibald were great
friends of the old man, and he visited them
regularly to collect their “copy” for the paper
when they were dong time in the debtors’
“Have you put the cat out , Lance ?”
prison at Darlinghurst over the Clontarf libel
action. On W. H. Traill faking over the
management the office was shifted from 13
Bridge-street to the old triangular building at
24 Pitt-street, where Hop and Phil May joined
the staff. One of my earliest recollections was
the colored Christmas cartoon by Hop: “I
thought I had a stamp.” Another was “Damn
Chicago” Bibb's, on rollers, trying to balance
his Ministry on his shoulders. In the next
issue they were spreadeagled over the floor.
The Bibbs Ministry had been defeated —about
1886 I think. I left Sydney in 1890 to work
on a country newspaper in s.-w. Queensland.
Met up with Harry Morant, ‘‘The ■ Breaker,”
and in ’92 left the printing office and went
cattle droving. I was nearly always able to
get a copy of The Bulletin in the many
towns we passed through in our travels, and
during the 55 years I have been in Queensland
I have seldom missed a copy. I had every
copy of “The Lone Hand,” and my family
has been getting the “Woman’s Mirror” ever
since it started.
* * * *
“Bis”: There was excitement in our
street when a foreign lady from the flats
opposite was haled before the Court by
her landlord, who alleged that she had
(1) bored a hole in the bathroom floor
and poured dirty water through, to the
discomfort of the tenant underneath ; (2)
played an organ after 11 every night,
keeping the other tenants awake till all
hours; (3) washed a mangy and vermin-
ous dog in the community laundry
tubs; (4) brandished a sword and
threatened the landlord when he remon-
strated with her. The magistrate declined
to refer the matter to U.N.0., ignored all
diplomatic channels and ordered madame
to quit the otherwise peaceful zone within
two months, or else
* * , * *
“HAL”: My niece picked up two
pound notes in the street. She took them
to the police station, but she knows better
now. It took the old sergeant 12 minutes
to take down fufl particulars, which he
tapped out with one finger on the type-
writer. Then came eight ’phone calls,
and, two months later, notice that
the money had not been claimed
and that she’d have to write a
letter setting forth her claim. She did
this • then she was requested to call, and
found that she had to sign a form and
pay for a 2s duty stamp on it, plus an-
other 2d for duty stamp on a receipt,
Bv this time she decided that she had
really earned that two quid—and had also
decided what she would do next time she
j find
*'* * *
“C.Q.”: In one of Melbourne’s suburbs
even dogs are rationed. Camberwell has
passed a by-law making it an offence for
any citizen to maintain more than two
dogs. The problem presented by the
sudden arrival of a litter of puppies will,
however, be sympathetically dealt with,
*’ * * *
“8.J.”: There is only one ex-President
alive, Herbert C. Hoover, who will
be 72 this year. This is not so
surprising in view of the long term
F.D.R. had at the White House,
What is remarkable is that during the
last few weeks of Hoover’s term as First
Citizen he had no living predecessor ;
Taft died in 1930 and Coolidge in
January, 1933—Hoover’s term did not
expire until March The early Fathers
of America must have been men of
tougher fibre; when John Quincy Adams
was inaugurated in 1825 four out of the
first five Presidents were still hale and
hearty. They were John Adams, at that
time 89, Thomas Jefferson 82, James
Madison 74 and James Monroe, a
youngster of 67. The first two passed out
together on Independence Day the fol-
lowing year, and Monroe on the same
day five years later. Churchill and
Baldwin are the only two ex-P
Ministers of Britain still defying Time a
defeat. Australia, with Cook, Hughes,
Bruce, Scullin, Page, Menzies and Fadden,
has almost enough to form a new party.
Five of them are still at Canberra,
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: There must be some-
thing in it. According to the world’s
champion glassblower, Joseph Swann, of
London, glassblowers can make their big-
gest blow after drinking rum, but for
elegance and delicacy of touch a beery
breath is better. Swann, who has blown
glass for *7O years and in almost every
country and holds the width record for
making sheet glass, is retiring from his
job at 82.
* * * *
“V, Cluse”: Jephson, at home alone
on Sunday afternoon, was mooching idly
about the front garden when a flapper
from up the road, clad in a two-piece
bathing costume, walked past carrying a
bundle of clothes. He saw her enter her
own gate and emerge a minute or so
later, to pass him again, still in her cos-
tume. Then Jephson noted her scarlet
limbs and thought to himself about sun-
burn and the foolishness of the young.
The flapper returned, now walking with
difficulty, and turned an agonised face
upon Jephson, crying “Oh, please! The
house is locked up and the chemist’s shut
and I’m aw-awfully s-s-sunburned.” She
tottered, and Jephson leapt to the rescue,
led her inside, dug out some tannic acid
ointment, prepared a cup of tea and
made her lie down. After about half
an hour, Jephson saw her family return,
so he got her on her feet and helped her
home. But, from flat and cot all along
that hundred yards of street, Jephson saw
avid female eyes peering from behind
curtains and partly-open doors. Which is
why, immediately he delivered the girl
to her home, he insisted on her being put
to bed and a doctor called —and he’d pay.
Jephson knows suburban women, and he
wanted that doctor as a watertight alibi.
“Morehead”: One of my Army jobs
was to select books for units wanting to
buy libraries out of their regimental
funds. I was ordered to attend a
conference at a small specialist unit which
was considering setting up a library.
When I was called in the colonel, a major,
a captain and the padre were already
seated around a table littered with book-
sellers’ catalogues and marked literary
journals. Long lists of books were read
out, opinions canvassed and expressed and
deletions and additions made before I
was invited to tender any advice. A
mere staff-sergeant, I meekly inquired how
much it was proposed to spend. “Five
pounds,” answered the colonel. Upon
my pointing out that a fiver buy
about a dozen new books there was a
stunned silence. “Well,” said the Old Boy
when he had recovered, “how much will
we need?” “Roughly about £150,” I
answered. “That settles it, gentlemen,”
said the colonel firmly. “We’ll spend the
money on Chinese checkers and dart-
boards” And so the cause of culture
suffered another setback.
* * * *
“TnG”: While the R.N. boys were in
Melbourne a good Scotch friend of mine,
whose only son is in the Navy, enter-
tained ratings for week-end after week-
end in the manner typical of her race. A
neighbor, of the type that frowns on
the presence of strange men in the
house, asked her bitingly if the young
sailors she’d seen frequenting the home
were her sons. Her answer came pat:
She’d have been proud to do it, but she
hadn’t mothered the entire Navy!
* ‘ * * *
“Ramac”; All Jap guards weren’t
inhuman monsters. Some at Haisho
prison camp, Hainan Island,
almost earned popularity. Take
Bat Eye, for example. A small
work party, after a slogging day
of roadmaking, was returning to
camp on foot when a truck, Jap-
driven, offered a lift. The party
was amazed to find itself atop
a cargo of rice. Our sole guard.
Bat Eye, was an unknown quan-
tity, but the opportunity was too
good to miss, and soon the life-
saving grain was flowing into all
available containers: haversacks,
pockets and mess-tins. Bat Eye,
who had been interested in the
countryside, suddenly took an
interest in more local happen-
ings, but seemed puzzled by our
actions.' The sergeant in charge
of the Aussies began the usual
pantomime, pointing to his
empty belly and sucking in the
cheeks of his already hunger-
drawn face. Bat Eye grinned,
poked a hole in a bag of rice
with his bayonet and then
pointed out that some of the
men were wearing boots. The
idea was conveyed instantly. Off
came the boots, and an extra 10
kilos of “komi” safely reached
our kitchen.
* * * *
“B. & C.”: Add to the unusual murals
that one which adorns the Bread and
Cheese clubroom in Melbourne. Beer
labels from nearly every Australian
brewery, with a few from overseas sent
by service members, make up the pattern.
One brewery refused to supply samples,
but that difficulty was easily overcome.
* * * *
“Colbun” on a family of gardeners:
William Guilfoyle (B. 13/3/’46), designer of
the Melbourne Botanical Gardens in their pre-
sent lovely form, came of a family noted for
genius in that line. His paternal grandfather
was steward of the Tichborne estates in Ire-
land, and planned the splendid landscape
gardens there for Roger Tichborne’s father.
His father, Michael Guilfoyle, was trained
under Joseph Paxlon, most famous of English
landscape gardeners of his day, and married a
descendant of a French emigre family, amongst
whose forebears was Count Louis Delaforce,
adviser to Louis XIV in his scenic-garden
hobby. Michael Guilfoyle came to Sydney
with his young family in the late 1840’s,
planned several of Sydney’s finest private gar-
dens, founded a famous nursery-garden at
Double Bay and t(pok a -prominent part in de-
signing the Domain and Botanic Gardens as
they exist today. Later he made a world tour
in the interests of the then-youthful Australian
sugar industry. He brought back more than
100 varieties of cane for experimental trial on
the northern rivers, and from these were evolved
some of the best modern stocks used today.
William, his eldest son, took up sugar-growing
on the Tweed, but left it to become botanist
on H.M.S. Challenger during her classic scien-
tific cruise, and was afterwards appointed
Curator of the Melbourne Botanical Gardens
in succession to Ferdinand von Mueller. Wil-
liam’s brother John, after a somewhat hectic
early life at sea —he was for a period second
mate with Bully Hayes, and had a tow opinion
of that bogus hero’s fighting abilities—made
several highly adventurous orchid-collecting
trios in New Guinea and the Solomons during
the late 1870’s and early 1880’s, and later be-
came Curator of Parks and Gardens m Mel-
bourne. He planned the present design of the
St Kilda and Sydney-road entrances to the
city, and greatly improved the Fitzroy and Ex-
hibition Gardens. Another brother, Michael,
died young, but not before he had done valu-
able original work in improving sugarcane
stocks on the Tweed.
WANTED—A LORD.
“Lady, 31, aristocratic appearance, wishes meet
titled gentleman, British or European nobility, view
matrimony.”— “S. M, Herald” advt.
Here’s something that should set your nerves
a-tingle,
Stray noblemen and indigent grandees!
It even seems, provided that you’re single,
There’s no embargo upon refugees.
Nor race, nor age, nor means, nor tastes are
vital;
No creed is stipulated. In requital
For stable partnership in bed and board,
The advertiser only asks a title,
She only wants a lord.
She isn’t “choosy” about non-essentials:
Blue blood and ancient lineage are all
She looks for in the matter of credentials
For those who hearken to her mating-call.
Her field extends beyond the high-and-mighty
Inheritors of storied names in Blighty.
Bisdaining racial bars, she wouldn’t stop,
It’s clear, at what our Biggers call an Eyetie
And Yankees term a Wop.
She sets above all ordinary gauges
By which her sex assays a helpmate’s charms
A pedigree thick with the dust of ages,
A well-authenticated coat-of-arms.
She’s offering a definite affiance
To any maybe unsuspected scions
Of Bourbons or Braganzas, Hapsburgs, too —•
Granting, of course, that she can place reliance
On what they say is true.
And since her own appearance is patrician,
Her tale of years still on the sunny side,
It’s only fair to hope that her ambition
May be achieved, her ideal gratified.
Spliced to a titled gent. I see her rising
(There’s lots of precedent for such surmising)
Into the ranks of the assured noblesse,
A Bago countess or—no more surprising—
A Georgian princess.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“Redfern”: The Red Page of The
Bulletin will be 50 years old in about
four months. Until the end of Aug., 1894,
the inside of the front cover of the paper
carried advertisements and no literary
matter. On Sept. 1, 1894, there appeared
a page headed “Books of the Day,” an
advertisement for “The Bulletin Book
Exchange,” one of the paper’s side-
lines. The heading was changed to
“The Bulletin Book Exchange,” and
the feature was continued until Feb. 22,
1896. During the period there is evidence
of a tendency towards criticism of the
books offered for sale. On Feb. 29, 1896,
the feature was replaced by a page of
reviews and paragraphs entitled “Literary
Items.” This heading was employed, with
an occasional change to “Items” and
“Chiefly About Books,” until Aug. 1,
1896. The following week the heading
was “For the Red Page,” and on Aug.
22, 1896, this was shortened to the present
title. The founder was A. G. Stephens,
who edited the Red Page for 10 years;
successors have been Arthur Adams,
Bertram Stevens, David McKee Wright,
T. B. Clegg, J. B. Dailey, Cecil Mann,
Tom Mutch and Douglas Stewart.


“Jasby”: It happened in a training
regiment. There had been a reorganisa-
tion during which two mates who had
joined up together had been placed in
separate batteries. One of them ap-
proached the unpopular commander of
X battery and explained their problem.
They had been together all along and
wanted to be together again. Could a
transfer be arranged? “I see,” said the
officer. “You want to come into my
battery?” “No, sir,” blurted the gunner.
“My mate wants to get out of it.”
* * * *
“Jamwood”; A fig for these detractors
of Rhodes Scholars! During the last six
months or so Rhodes boys have been
right in the boom. There was that Ger-
man Count (I can’t spell his name) who
was Foreign Minister .in the Doenitz
Government till the Allies declared the
Government bogus and gathered the
Ministers in ; there is the American Sena-
tor Fulbright, a figure at the San Fran-
cisco conference and a possible candi-
date for the Presidency ; there are Vernon
Treatt, now leader of the N.S.W. State
Opposition, and Victoria’s J. A. Seitz,
summoned to London to advise on the
re-education of Germans or something
like that, and Colonel Kent Hughes, also
a Victorian, who is publishing a poem in
31 cantos, “written on 20 small pieces of
paper smuggled out of Changi prison
camp in a tin of talcum powder.” The
title is “Slaves of the Samurai,” and
snatches that have appeared in the news-
papers read very well. But one couplet,
as printed in Melbourne “Herald” and
copied in Sydney “Sunday Sun,” does the
not-so-young captive a gross injustice:
Unwashed, unshaven, furrows deeply etched,
Like scarecrows by a caricaturist etched.
As the colonel well knows, caricaturists
don’t etch—they sketch,
* * * *
“Zake”: As a coincidence this takes
some beating. Recently the Waratahs,
the Rugby Union team that toured Eng-
land and France in 1927-28, held a re-
union at a Sydney hotel. They decided to
send greetings to Mrs. Gordon Shaw,
widow of their manager, who had been a
generous hostess to many members of the
team. The lady lives at Bombala, in the
Snowy River country. After the shivoo
was over the reunionists piled into a
couple of cars and headed for the seaside
suburb of Collaroy to visit Huck Finlay,
an old Waratah, laid up with illness con-
tracted in a Jap prison camp. The cars
pulled up at a street corner while Wally
Meagher, the Waratah utility halfback,
got out to ask directions. There must be
something about Meagher’s voice. As
the male occupant of the house he hap-
hazardly selected was giving instructions,
a feminine voice called out from inside
the house: “Is that you, Wally?” A
moment later out came Mrs. Shaw, holi-
daying in Sydney.
* ♦ * *
“Orb”: Yes, the wars have thrown
Australians into some unlikely places. One
Aussie pilot, ferrying American ’planes to
the Middle East, made an emergency
landing near the Foreign Legion outpost
in the Lake Chad territory from which
General Leclerc made his march to North
Africa. When he asked the R.A.F.
ground mechanic to fix his motor quickly
he was promptly told in good round Aus-
tralese of another equally hot spot that
would be the better for his presence.
Realising at once that he had come across
a fellow-Australian he apologised pro-
fusely, brought out a bottle of beer—and
the job was done,
“Trebor”: Another homing World
War I Digger clocked in three weeks ago.
He had stayed on with the War Graves
Commission, married a Belgian girl and
set up a pub in Antwerp. His wife mur-
dered before the war, his pub destroyed
by rockets last year, he has returned to
his homeland to start afresh.. I came
across another Aussie at Kilo 48 on the
Sinai road to Palestine: an ex-Light
Horseman managing a Shell-Mex depot
in one of the most God-forsaken spots
on earth. The Chief of Police in Alex-
andria was .an Australian, is King
Farouk’s personal dentist; while every-
where in England it is possible to find
“Excuse me disturbing you, sir, but is this a genuine antique ?”
an Aussie. One has a farm in a little
North Devon village ; another Old Digger
keeps the village pub in an Oxfordshire
hamlet that became a favorite haunt of
Diggers stationed near by in 1940; and
I have before me now the business card
of another Australian with a typewriter
repair business in Seven Sisters-road,
London, given me one morning when he
was busy removing typewriters from a
building blitzed an hour or so before by
a rocket bomb.
* * * *
“Nota Bene”; Lieut.-Col. Holman
James (“Fred Lindsey”), dead in New
York at 71, was a picturesque figure in
the Orange River Colony after the Boer
War. As representative at Kroonstad for
Meyers, the army supply contractors, his
job was to furnish fodder to the A.S.C.
He used to drive a fine 17.2 bay mare
round the corners of the dorp on one
wheel of his jinker he wasn’t busy
practising with his stockwhips. He felt
a yearning for London and fame, and he
asked my advice on the hows and wheres.
We rehearsed his “Cracking Round the
Clock” and cutting a cigarette out of the
other fellow’s lips. Two years later I saw
his top-of-the-bill act at the London Coli-
seum.’ In a full-stage set handsome Hol-
man James was holding his audiences
spellbound in a bush scene, garbed in
the supposedly traditional red shirt outfit
of the Australian stockman.
"He's on the Housing Commission, where everything's upside down!"
“Pip” gets his pass-out check: —
The discharge depot is a dusty, dirty place,
but to the soldier about to be demobbed it looks
like paradise. He proffers his papers to the
sergeant at reception and automatically takes
a three-day leave pass, keeping an anxious eye
on the horizon for a special messenger from
L.H.Q. bringing personal orders from the
C.-in-C. to delay his release. X-ray is first
on the agenda, a simple business of standing
against a machine for a few seconds. Then
come the final medical board —a perfunctory
interview at the best —and a visit to the “de-
kit” store t'o return a few items of equipment.
With a leave pass for a few days the soldier
is able to do the town over with a light heart.
At least the wheels are turning, and while he
roams the streets looking for a pub that sells
beer on the whitemarket the process of demob,
is operating. Once more to the discharge
depot, where things happen at an amazing
speed. Leave credits are brought up to date,
followed by an interview with the rehabilitation
officer, housing experts (with a tale of no
houses), issue of food coupons, clothing
coupons, tobacco chit, pay, Returned from
Active Service badge and discharge certificate,
signed, sealed and delivered. For the first
time the ex-fighting man realises he is really a
civilian. Rather subdued he walks out the
gate. A well-dressed lout detaches himself
from a nearby tree and generously offers to
sell a genuine 15-jewel wristlet watch for £2O.
The soldier has returned to civvy life.
* * * *
“Cungevoi”: Mention of Samuel Plim-
soll (B. 13/3/ ’46) takes me back to 1882,
when I went to the Old Country in the
British India steamer Manora, on her
first and only trip to and from Queens-
land, as she was afterwards transferred
to the Indian run. Included in the pas-
senger list was the name of Samuel Plim-
soll, and I can still recall his burly form
pacing the deck, always with a cigar in
his mouth. The vessel carried a casket
containing the remains of Mrs. Plimsoll
for interment in the land of her birth.
No passengers were aware of this fact
until the end of the voyage, as had it fceen
known beforehand some superstitious
individuals might have refused to travel
on the ship.
* * * *
“Tip”: “I have always held that there
is no real difference in the races of man-
kind but what circumstances and environ-
ment have produced; that if all men
were fed and clothed alike, educated alike
and dealt with alike in every respect, there
would be very little difference between
them, morally and physically.” A quota-
tion from Hume or some other philo-
sopher who held similar opinions? No ;
an extract from a letter written to Mel-
bourne “Sun-Pix” by Shadrach L. James,
secretary of the Aboriginal Progressive
Association, to protest against Aimy
Minister Forde’s branding of his race
as unfit to be members of the Japanese
occupation force, James •is employed
by the Ardmona Fruit Products Co. 'at
Mooroopna (Vic.), and is secretary of the
local branch of the Food Preservers’
Union. His dignified epistle ranks him
with David Unaipon, author of books on
abo. myths and legends ; the late James
Noble, of the Forrest River Mission ;
Albert Namatjira, the painter of the Never
Never, and Lieutenant Saunders, of the
A.I.F.
* * * *
“Bo”; I rejoice to observe that the love
song, practised down the ages, is now
approaching the zenith as an art, particu-
larly in regard to the lyrics. A great leap
forward was taken from the staid danc-
ing-with-tears-in-my-eyes school by a
lyrist who complains elegantly that
When I’ve got my arms around you
And we’re going for a walk
Must you ya-ta-ta, ya-ta-ta, ya-ta-ta, ya-ta-ta,
Talk, talk, talk?
Follow the graceful thoughts put together
in a later opus by a gentleman of unmis-
takably Semitic origin. Although he
avers in the song “ya don’t love me, do
ya?” he goes on to assert that, unless
things are rearranged, “my heart’s gonna
boo ya.” The ultimate in sheer beauty
of expression, however, has now been
released as a balm in which to steep the
wounded spirit of a suffering world. I
quote:
Onezy, twozy, I love youzy,
Twozy, threezy, you love mezy.
Compare the delicacy of those sentiments
with, the crudity and coarseness of the
eighteenth-century lyrist, with his pathetic
idea of a love song:
Do you not hear my lady
Go down the garden singing?
Blackbird and thrush were silent
To hear the alleys ringing.
O saw you not my lady
Out in the garden there
Shaming the rose and lily,
For she is twice as fair?
Hoorah for modernity!
* * * *
“Melbn”: During the Western District
floods, the Victorian Country Roads
Board gave an example to the housing
authorities which have been dillydallying
for months over prefabrication. Faced
with having to replace eight bridges, it
rang up the War Disposals Commission
and bought eight new ones of the box-
girdef type, each 80 feet in span and
capable of carrying a load of 10 tons.
The bridges, the same as carried the in-
vasion troops across Europe, were on
their way to Warrnambool before the
floodwaters had subsided.
* * * *
“Staff”; Here’s another whom the
Yoizuki affair left cold. I travelled
on the Queen Mary in ’43. The
tourist-class cinema in the stern of
the ship had been floored halfway
up, making two large rooms. Each
floor had on it innumerable tiers of bunks
with four bunks to each tier and narrow
passageways between. A tiny suicidal
ladder gave access from one floor to the
other. Light was scarce and air prac-
tically non-existent after blackout time.
To get into the bunks required the agility
and suppleness of limb of a contortionist,
and it was necessary to keep firmly fixed
in the mind the danger of suddenly sitting
up in bed. Washhouses were distant and
primitive. Evening meal was at 4.30, and
the drill was to save a hunk of bread or
a potato for supper before turning in. As
food was pretty light-on, to put aside
some of it for a future occasion called
for great firmness of purpose. Still, we
didn’t mind the discomfort —we were on
the way home.
* * * *
“Findy”; “Demonstrations” in foreign
capitals have always been a good standby
of the cable services of the dailies. Most
of them are doubtless about as effective
as the average Sunday-afternoon meet-
ings in Sydney Domain or on the Yarra
Bank, but with a Buenos Aires or Buda-
pest dateline they make impressive read-
ing. Lately a touch of humor has for
the first time forced its way into these
items —dare we hope it is the first gleam
of sanity returning to a demented world?
In Madrid, following on demonstrations
in front of the Spanish Embassy in Paris
protesting against the execution of
Spanish political prisoners, “students”
dressed in the garb of the traditional
Troggie demanded the release of Petiot,
the French multiple murderer. A few
days later “demonstrators” in Holland,
forbidden to use placards derogatory to
the head of a technically friendly foreign
State, paraded with posters bearing .the
slogan “Down with .” “Students”
were mixed up in this display, too, but I
fancy they were on the anti-demonstra-
tion side. Even the report of the Oslo
housewives unloading oranges from a
“black” Spanish ship has a rich element
of humor, and certainly a strong strain
of sanity.
METAPHOR-MIXERS.
“Opposition members do not care a halfpenny
dump about the housing problem. They are simply
interested in kicking a political football about, but
I can tell them that cock won’t crow.’’
—Lazzarini in the House of Reps.
“I smell a rat,” in days that were,
His audience heard Boyle Roche declare,
His tide of turbid speech in flood;
“I hear him brewing in the air,
But with your aid” —he told the Chair —
“I aim to nip him in the bud.”
And you may note that Canberra has
A resurrected Boyle in Lazz.
Class with the rat that one may smell,
And listen to aloft as well
Before its time arrives to go,
The football, sport of serried lines,
That nathless stubbornly declines
To emulate a cock and crow,
But takes each imprint of the boot
Perversely dumb and coldly mute.
The “bull” was once, by all repute,
A purely Irish attribute,
Yet Paddy Lynch is there no more,
And still it sometimes gets a spin
To give the gallery a grin
And send a ripple ’cross the floor
From angered orators whose clan
Is clearly not Hibernian.
ţ
MIDFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Any Aboliar who joined
the occupation force for the purpose of
watching Japanese birds would be dis-
appointed. By the shores there are plenty
of scavenger kites and large gulls, rather
like our Pacific gull but duller; and
around the houses the übiquitous sparrow
adds an alien Cockney touch to the enig-
matic East. A week’s casual observation
has produced a few crows, whose call
is more a bark than a caw, a wagtail,
paler than the grey fellow in Asia proper
—our own William is a fantail and a
much superior bird—a lone white heron,
a pale dottrel and a pair of plump duck
which made the fingers itch for a
D.8.8.L. A spin along a rattling green
river added an attractive little stranger,
mostly black with white wingers, dipping
for insects above the water, and a fine
pied, crested kingfisher; but, apart from
these few, all the wise fowl, apparently,
are down south for the season, and those
of us suffering the sudden impact of the
Nipponese winter heartily approve their
good sense. All that is by the Inland
Sea; but in Tokyo the evening brings
great flocks of black cormorants. They
wheel above the city for 20 minutes
or so, then, forming into great phalanxes,
head up the huge moat that surrounds
the Imperial grounds. Don’t know if
that was their contribution to the gestures
of homage so evident in that mystic area,
but I’ve seen no better sight of its kind,
not even above our western watercourses.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: Although it blossoms
annually the manna gum gives its heavy
crop every second year, attracting bees
and insects by the million and hordes of
honey-eating birds of every description.
Even the gang-gangs and red rosellas
are interested, their activities evident in
the carpet of nibbled blossoms under the
trees. In high-rainfall mountain forests
the manna gum reaches giant proportions,
and the smooth, shining white trunks go
up a hundred feet without a branch. The
rich, creamy-white blossoms almost
blanket the leaves, and, as the trees favor
the deep gullies, the effect from above is
as if heavy snow has fallen. The honey
from it is deep golden, clear and of a
distinctive flavor.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: It is the day of Ted Brani-
gan’s funeral and the seven dilapidated
weatherboard buildings of Bunglewingie
are closed in deference to the shrewdest
man the district has ever known. The
procession passes slowly through the vil-
lage on its tortuous way up among the
foothills to the cemetery, viewed only
by a lanky, dejected individual and his
dog on the pub verandah. As the cars
return the bar door opens and a jostling
crowd surges in, followed by the man
and the yellow dog. Suddenly Tim
Barker, who has been eying the stranger
curiously, lets out a yell of recognition.
“Hey, ain’t you young Charlie Brani-
gan wot cleared out from his old man
thirty years back?” he asks. “Yair, that’s
me,” says Charlie, grinning. “The dad
wrote a few days ago f’r me t’ come
home an’ settle down.” “Well, I don’t
like t’ break it t’ y’ sudden,” says Tim,
“but that was him went past an hour
ago.” “Y* don’t say?” Charlie says with
admiration. “ ’Struth, that’s lookin’ ahead,
ain’t it? Gittin me home t’ work orf
the mortgage so’s I c’n pay f’r the
fun’ral.”
* * *
“Alpine Willie”: The wombat has a
crude, though effective, way of getting off
with a rabbit trap if the jaws and the
“Same again, Alf?”
. ~ , j ±.
chain hold together m the first despera e
test of strength. The wily borrower
keeps circling and scratching up the eartli
till he has a high mound built; then,
squatting on the mound, he lifts the trap,
draws the leg straight up and out and
wanders away to bash the trap oft on me
butt of the nearest strmgybark,
* ' * , * roA
“B. A. Ker : That chap who spe
one solitary flat h £ad wh ile rod-and-
fishermen hooked half a dozen or mor
(B. 6/ 3/’46) should have taken a lesson
from a fefiow who appeared at Narra-
been Lakes (N.S.W.). Six fishermen
boats and a dozen or more angling fro
the most logical place—-a bridge bearing
the notice No Fishing hadnt caught
one fish per hour among them when th
spearman arrived. Wearing goggles an
trunks and carrying his silvery projectile
fitted on to a crossbow arrangement
with rubber bands for the propellent, the
stranger walked about in water three or
four feet deep, keeping his head bent and
eyes submerged. Although from the
bridge, seven or eight feet immediately
above, no fish could be seen among the
weed, at intervals of two or three
minutes the arrow would shoot out,
travel barely a couple of yards, then
come to the surface as an impaled black-
fish floated up. Strangely, the other fish
didn’t become frightened of the prowler
in their midst, and within half an hour
the underwater archer had ten victims
strung on his belt,
* * * *
“Naturala”: I saw a termite-mound
rise in a single night from the earth-and-
sawdust floor of a disused stable
attached to a W.A. timbermill. It
was at least 12 inches high by 18 inches
across, shaped like a large inverted
pudding-bowl and as wet almost as mor-
tar. Kicked to pieces, it disclosed thou-
sands of termites going about their
business. By next morning it was recon-
structed on a larger scale. Again de-
stroyed, it was again reconstructed. Over
the week-end, the mill being'idle, it rose
to a couple of feet, with a corresponding
base area. It was then completely de-
stroyed and was not rebuilt; possibly in
the destruction the queen was killed. The
stable floor, disused for years, was dry,
so presumably the termites had a well
down to water-level some 20 feet down.
* * * *
“Blime”: Lockie dumped his belong-
ings on the post-office verandah, learned
within that it would be half an hour
before the down-country mail ’bus
happened along and strode over to the
bank. Dropping on the counter the
wages cheque he had received from Hig-
gins, he asked for cash. The banker
scrutinised the cheque, consulted a
ledger and passed back Lockie’s offer-
ing. “Sorry,” he announced. “Not suf-
ficient funds.” Lockie walked thought-
fully to the door, looked anxiously up
the road and presently dived over to the
pub. “Lend us five singles, will y’?”
he asked Bung. “Y 5 know me; been
workin’ fr Bill Higgins. Got his cheque
f’r 15 quid here, see? Pay y’ back soon’s
I get it cashed.” Bung came to light,
and Lockie once more approached the
bank. “Want t’ deposit a quid in Bill
Higgins’s account,” he explained, passing
it over. He pocketed the receipt, “And
cash this cheque, will y’?” he asked,
again presenting it. A hasty glance back
at the ledger, and again the cheque was
handed back, n.s.f. Lockie walked out-
side, fished for another greenback and
returned with another deposit and for
another presentation of the cheque.
Again it came back. After the third de-
posit the stolid banker murmured “Cer-
tainly,” handing over the 15 in time for
Lockie to pay Bung, swallow a glass of
interest and streak for the mail ’bus.
* * * *
“B 4”: Years agone many of his ilk
swam the upper reaches of the coastal
trickles of S.Q. Ashes washed from
burnt scrubs fouled the riparian haunts
and suffocated those of his ancestors
missed by angling scrubfellers or “jelly”
fiends. One lordly descendant, lone and
magnificent, lazed his way against the
turgid spate, lured by an infallible instinct
towards the deeper holes near the source,
and alarmed denizens fled his advent.
One night he was hooked and dragged
ashore, the astonished youth promptly
firing a .22 through the monster’s head.
Telephones buzzed, and cars of curious
folk roared to view the big fish, whom
none could identify. He proved to be a
huge river cod, but as I received a slice
of the stranger I devoutly wished he had
been spared to replenish his fast-diminish-
ing species.
% * *
“Wonk”: Mick solemnly took in his
small remaining hunk of meat, cut off the
scrag end, and* carrying it into the yard,
tossed it to the cat. Three seconds later
a big rooster risked his mug in a
good cause. With the prizb in his beak,
he had nearly reached the shelter of the
henhouse when the pup bowled him
over, snatched up the meal, and as hastily
dropped it as a young kelpie spotted him.
The kelpie’s triumph lasted as far as the
woodheap; then a warning growl
heralded the arrival of the old Border.
A quick snarl, and his jaws opened m
acceptance of an all-in effort to justify
possession. Arriving in haste to referee
the scrap, the greyhound grabbed the
booty and retired to the solitude of the
hitching post. Mick turned as a burst of
reviving courage led tabby to the spot,
airing a spiteful opinion of dogs in
general. “Ah well,” Mick announced, as
her right hook sent the greyhound howling
in ignominious retreat, “I can go an’ eat
me own, now all you mob’ve had some-
thin’.”
* * * *
“Propalong Cassidy”: Waal, folks, this
is to announce that I’m gosh-darned
homesick for Gahd’s own country. I jus’
bin readin’ in m’ “Saturday Evenin’
Post” about a cow trail down New
Mexico way that’ll shore make these yere
Ahstralian trail drivers wish they had
e-lectrically-heated bedrolls an’ cafeteria
lunches. This yere trail, the Magdalena
Driveway, is shore ’nough a real stretch
o’ beef boulevard —she’s as much as one
hun-der-ed mile long. And the “Post”
hombre calc’lates that, in the wild an’
des’late region she passes through, there
ain’t a many ranches takes in less
’n’ ten squar’ mile. That’s the ol‘
Wild West for yuh, folks. I shore
reckon that plain statement’s likely
ter choke off these yere Ahstralian stark-
men with their two-bit spreads. An’ all
o’ that stoo-pendous trail is fenced; yes,
sir —fenced frum end to end, an’ they's
wells ev’ry ten miles, an’ “concrete drink-
in’ fountains.” An’, ’stead o’ this yere
effete salt beef an’ biscuits, out West they
face real hardship. The “Post” reckons
a trail crew totes “vacuum jugs, lunch
boxes and pop bottles.” Y see, the trail
boss, bein’ real tough, sends an automobile
ev’ry day forty mile to a town t’ get cut
lunches. Yes, sir, she’s sure ’nough wild
out in the mesquite and pampas country.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Westralia has just woke up
to the danger of losing her river mullet,
her chief food fish, because of the netting
of immature fish during the
past 50 years. So what chance
has a fish got whose habitat
is confined to a narrow net-
work of three or four rivers?
Millions of years ago Nature
decreed that the Murray cod
should have just so much of
an annual hatching and no
more. This was sufficient to
maintain the species against
all enemies and eventualities;
man with his snares, and his
introduction of the alien carp,
was not reckoned in. The
trout long ago would have
vanished only that enlightened
communities maintain num-
bers by methods approximat-
ing to that of the gardener’s
nursery.
* * *
“Prop”: “For sheer nous,”
said Bill, “the goat’s the
animal my oscar goes on.
Now look at that nanny over there, the
spotted one —Scenty the kids call her
She’s bin goin’ off in her milk, an’ I said
the other day when the goats was in the
yard that we’d have t’ fatten her up f r
mutton if she didn’t improve. Well,
next day she’s down at the rubbish tip
an’, would y’ believe it, instead o’ jam
tins like she usually goes—plum’s her
favorite —she was whalin’ into ever)
flamin’ powdered milk tin she could root
up.”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: A well-padded cove
who’d feel naked without a tie on told
me the other day that Will Ogilvie’s
“Linden Lea” verse (B. 13/2/’46) was “a
sentimental anachronism,” that it was as
unreal and mistimed now as a mammoth
in a milk-cart. I’m not so sure. Stuff
written primarily for horsemen is not yet
out of date. Strangely enough, in an age
of crooners and aeroplanes, Ogilvie’s
“The Riding of the Rebel”— usually
called out bush “The Outlaw of Glemdol
—is still a favorite, and not only with the
old blokes. I’ve heard it recited too many
times in mustering camps to doubt that
it belongs to at least a part of Australia.
I’ve sat by the fire and watched a hard-
faced, broad-shouldered 20-year-old de-
claim the adventures of “The Rebel,
finishing up with great gusto: “Y’ c n
reach me down me bridle, gimme girths
an’ saddle back. For the outlaw of
Glenidol—is a broken lady’s hack.” And,
knowing that next morning, in the frost
at sunrise, when a man’s courage is
usually on the ebb and the city bloke 3
warm in bed, the reciter would be swing-
ing aboard a black gelding that, all
through the day, would look for the
slightest chance to drop and savage his
rider—well, I didn’t laugh at his choice
of verse, and I don’t intend starting,
whatever chaps far from the realities that
Ogilvie once knew may say.
A SONG AGAINST GRANDPAS.
Ginger is a bay horse; a brumby station hack,
Cunning as a tomcat and stubborn as a hlac.
But for all his wickedness Ginger ain’t to
blame,
For his flamin’ ancestors first thought out the
game • ,
And passed it on to Ginger, the dirty tricks
and low —
For Ginger had a Grandpa, a little spotted
Grandpa,
Ginger had a Grandpa a million years ago.
Now Grandpa he had five foes, or maybe it
was three,
And learned to use ’em brisk enough when
he was forced to flee;
When Ginger breaks his bridle reins and clears
across the plain—
The devil himself on roller skates’d chase the
moke in vain— _
It’s interesting to sit and think that Ginger
got his toe
When .Grandpa fled front wolf packs a million
years ago.
When daylight’s just a word to use anticipating
day.
With sleep still gumming up my eyes and the
horses far away; .
When stumbling through the silent dark it
hurts a man like hell
To know that cunning Ginger horse has gone
and camped the bell,
I don’t expect a tinkling note, I haven’t got
a show,
For Grandpa froze in forest leaves a million
years ago.
%
And when I tie him to a fence and go to look
around
The cattle on the scenery he paws up all the
ground
By scraping with his forefeet as if he’d made a
vow
To dig a grave that’s deep enough for old
Jack Johnson’s cow.
You’d think he could remember it, the digging
in the snow
When Grandpa searched for winter feed a
million years ago.
A man can’t always watch the brute, and
sometimes I forget
And drop the reins a minute while I make a
cigarette; . .
Then the pommel rises like a fist that’s aiming
at my face
And punctually disappears to let me look on
space.
Sitting on the gibbers then, it’s mighty nice to
know
A lion jumped on Grandpa’s back a million
years ago.
Ginger is a bay horse, capricious as a dame;
Grandpa had no manners and Ginger is the
same;
But perhaps because it hurts him, with a
pedigree like his,
To crawl round flamin’ fences he simply has
to fizz.
It’s making me a tight-leg, although I hate to
blow,
’Cause Ginger had a Grandpa, a little spotted
Grandpa,
’Cause Ginger had a Grandpa a million years
ago.
S.A.
PROPALONG.


“Bo”: “Some blokes,” said Tarcutta
Ted, “ain’t got any gratitude for a turn
y’ do ’em. Take old Mick Gorton from
over on Shane’s Mistake, for instance.
Not long after the big rains last autumn,
I’m cornin’ through from The Bluff in
the old utility, and just where the road
skirts the big swamp near Manton’s I
get a blowout. I’m goin’ along the road
lookin’ for a fair-sized gibber to put
behind one o’ the back wheels, when just
off the side o’ the road, stickin’ out o’ the
mud, X sees a new-lookin’ briar pipe. I
goes to pull it out, but it’s stuck hard—
y’ know the mud round them parts is the
stickiest in the country. Well, I gets over
the top of it, bends me knees, gets a grip
an’ gives a hell of a heave —an’ up out o’
the mud comes Mick! He’s still dingin’
to his pipe. After I dig him out he turns
on me an’ gives me a proper earbashin’
for loosenin’ one of his teeth. Reckoned
I hadn’t saved his life, ’cause he was in
no danger, as he was breathin’ through
his pipe like the abos. do through reeds
in a lake. ‘But, y’ ungrateful ole swine!’
I roars, ‘y’d have starved to death if I
hadn’t pulled y’ out! ’ Well, y’ know how
fine Mick is—if he slid down a house
drainpipe he’d still have plenty of room
to exercise. Mick flares up an says ‘A
lot you know, y’ interferin’ coot —I’d
have lived on me fat, just like a camel
does, until I’d ’a’ got the strength to fight
me way out!’ ”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: It doesn’t matter what
some sensation-hungry daily says about
the “value” of a find of ambergris (B.
13/3/’46); the people who have all the
say are the buyers, and they are definitely
not interested in the stuff nowadays. I’ve
spotted and sold it myself in earlier years,
as have other people I know. The golden
rule used to be “never let the newspapers
know ihat you have found a big lump” ;
if you did buyers duly noted the head-
lines and their subsequent offers would
be low. That “£50,000 worth” picked up
near the Azores would have depressed the
market for years had it been found when
the stuff was valuable. Some of my finds
were classed as first-grade, but I never
obtained more 'than £3 15s. per ounce
for it. My last was on the Coorong
beach (S.A.), just before the war; the
firm of wholesale chemists to which I
took it were politely sorry: the only
market left in the world today was Cairo,
and the last lot they sent there netted
only 30 shillings. “It’s not worth hand-
ling,” their buyer said. “Artificial fixa-
tives for perfumes have replaced it. The
“How many coupons you gibbem
for that fella, missus ?”
only use for it today is in some brands
of Egyptian cigarettes,”
* * * *
“Jam6s W.”: Our town’s plumber is
a movie projectionist of no mean
merit, and often helps his cobber, the
proprietor of the picture show. The pic-
ture bloke is also a handy citizen with
the soldering iron. One day there was
consternation in the pub. The beer pipe
sprang a leak, and Wally, the publican,
rang Arthur, the movie man, requesting
repairs. “I don’t want to ring Bill” (the
plumber), he poured into the ’phone, “the
cow always takes a week to get on to
the job. What? That’s not Arthur
speaking? Where’s he? Away? Hell,
I’ll have to ring Bill. G’bye.” He rang
Bill’s place, to be informed by Mrs, Bill
that William was at the picture show. He
rang the picture theatre again and asked
for Bill. “Speaking,” says William.
“Who’s that?” “This is Wally, Bill. Bill,
y" see” “Yairs, I know, I know. You
told me all about it over the ’phone a
while ago,” came to a stunned Wally.
“I’ll be along.” Mrs. Wally was deputed
to point out the punctured pipe when Bill
arrived with his blowlamp and whatnots.
* * * *
“Chev”: The spectacle of a grazier
walking among his sheep striking snakes
from their backs with a stockwhip would,
in ordinary circumstances, provoke
the natural comment that he must have
been “on it” ; but it actually happened
during the floods in Victoria’s Western
District. In some cases there were two
reptiles to one back. It wasn’t all tragedy
at Port Fairy, either. One heroic Bung
continued to serve beer while the water
was rising towards his waistline. He gave
in only when the beer ran out. His cus-
tomers swam out through the doorway.
“Grumpy”: The floods removed one
perennial source of worry in Victoria’s
Western District by putting out a fire in
the 8000-acre area of peat at Buckley’s
Swamp. It had been burning for three
years despite all the fire brigades’ efforts.
“D.R.H.”: Since the rains a lot of
the feed in this northern S.A. district has
been spoiled by a caterpillar that feeds
on the bindi-eye. Bushes are covered
with a dirty, yellowish web, and beneath
it and the plant are scores of small, very
lively, greenish caterpillars which quickly
strip the succulent leaves. I suspect that
a small, lavender-blue moth is the culprit.
Hf * * *
“Pinjarrah”: If “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
27/2/’46) really wants to inspect some-
thing that in its construction measured
up as really hard toil, I advise him to
seek out a few of those split-log fences
and buildings once common in the W.A.
south-west. First the big jarrah or karri
trunk was sawn into lengths 6ft.
to 12ft., these being then split into Sin.
or 4in. slabs. When sufficient had
been assembled, a trench 2ft. or 3ft. was
dug; for a fence, along the whole con-
tinuous line; for a building, around the
line of the proposed walls. .The simple
idea was to stand the slabs side by side
in the trench, thus forming a structure
that required neither a nail nor a rail for
support. Fences so bqilt could neither
be pulled down, pushed over nor under-
mined—no small advantage in a country
where cattle and pigs ran wild. For a
building the longer slabs were used,
rafters of handy saplings being notched
and joggled so as to fit on and lie secure,
with, of course, the roof of thatch. Labor
was the only cost. The virtual impossi-
bility of getting nails made a necessity of
such methods of construction.
* * * *
“G’roper”: I agree with “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 20/2/’46) that one of the
wonders of agriculture is the way in which
rich vegetable crops can be won from
Westralian sand. But even more mar-
vellous are the trees.
In 1829 H.M.S. Suc-
cess, entering Cock-
burn Sound, crashed
on the bank that
today bears her
name. Among other
damage she shat-
tered her stempost.
A new one was
hewn out of a jarrah
tree cut on the
summit of Mt. Eliza,
now King’s Park.
Such timber, nearly
all of it sizable, is
sound right through
to the heart. Yet
all it has to nourish
it comes from about
a foot of white sand,
bottomed by up to
30ft. of yellow sand,
so free from decayed
organic matter that
it is used universally
for the mixing of both lime mortar and
cement. Perth is built with it; yet it not
only nourished the primeval forest, but
will carry in wonderful luxuriance the
modern fruit-tree of almost every kind ;
and what it does with the Moreton Bay
fig has to be seen to be believed.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dad oiled the combine, shut
the team in ready for an early start and
strode towards the house looking round
expectantly. “Where’s me seed oats,
Ma?” he asked. “The carriers didn’t
bring them,” was the reply. “This’s
the third time they promised t’ fetch ’em
without fail,” he bellowed. “Trouble is
I’m too soft. By jingo, I oughter roar
like some o’ the blokes round ’ere. They
ain’t kept waitin’.” When morning came
he had thought up reams of cutting
remarks, and, going to the ’phone, he
called the transport service. “That you.
Carter?” he demanded. “My seed oats
weren’t delivered, an’ I tell y’ I ain’t
goin’ t’ stand it. I’ll get somebody else
t’ do me cartin’; somebody that’ll”
Two minutes later Dad felt feebly for the
’phone hook. “What’d he say,. Dad?”
The old bloke flopped into a chair. “He
said ‘Suits me. I’ll send y’r bill. Get
y’ new man to call for your stuff,
G’bye.’ ” Dad rubbed his forehead in
dismay, “But, Ma,” he gasped, “with
this boundary system for carriers there
ain’t no such thing as another man.”
* * * *
“B 4”: Here’s one who will never
again encourage kangaroos to hang
round the camp by feeding them. One
day I noticed in the distant heat haze
the old man with a bulky object in his
arms, into which the does dipped their
paws. Shoving the contents into their
pouches. Greatly puzzled, I locked the
dray wheels, but the mob faded as I
approached. Pondering their sudden
aversion to distinguished company, I dis-
covered as I sneaked closer that the big
buck had pinched my bag of sugar and
was busy consolidating his favor with
the does by handouts in judicious imita-
tion of a Yank with a carton among a
mob of sheilahs.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: “Funniest bloke I ever
toiled for,” said Mat, “was one o’ them
Englishmen sent out here t’ be a
farmer. He had big ideas, an’ one of
’em was that a farmer ought t’ have a
town house. So he goes into Cowangie
an’ builds a little house an’ sleeps there
every night, cornin’ out t’ the ranch every
day. It’s my job to stay on the place.
Funny thing about it was that Cowangie
is only a siding an’ a store an’ a one-man
bank an’ about three houses an’ a dog-
kennel in them days, an’ he might just as
well have bin on the farm as in there.
But no, that’s his idea an’ he sticks t’ it.
Well, after 1 bin there about a month an’
got a bit of a cheque together I reckon
t’ go in one Saturdee an’ buy a few
things. ‘Very well,’ says his Nibs —‘you
shall come to my town house an’ dine
with me.’ Strike me fat, when I get t’
the place there he is, all done up like a
sore toe, dinner suit an’ stiff shirt an’
everythin’. Y’ ought t’ seen the table!
Glassware an’ cutlery an’ serviettes an’
everythin’. An’ me in dungarees an’
bluchers.” Mat paused and stared
thoughtfully back at the memory.
“Well?” I prompted. “Aw, that’s about
all. We had a good feed an’ a lot o’
talk. But I found out afterwards that
he starched an’ ironed them shirts him-
self. He was a funny bloke, all right.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: The hot weather had
proved too much for the meat packed
out on the back country trip, and I was
sadly contemplating
three days of stale
bread and damper
when I remembered
Seventyfiver. I f I
pushed my bailies all
day, then cut across
country to the river,
I should strike the
old bloke that night
at the crossing. He
had salt jerk and
always took plenty.
Soon after dark I
threw the mob into
a blind gully, tied
the dogs at the
mouth of it, and a
couple of hours
later was rounding
the outskirts o f
Seventyfiver’s herd
to reach his camp-
fire, “Meat?” he
drawled, on learning
my mission. “Gripes,
Sol, I ain’t got no
meat or nuthin’.
Flamin’ dingoes
raided the camp last
night an’ cleaned up
me supp 1 i es.”
“Every thing ?” I
gasped. “All ’ceptin’
a bit o’ loose tea
I scraped up.”
“Gosh! But . . .
last ftight? Well, why
didn’t you cut over
to the McFarlane
place?” I asked.
“You’d have made it
in three hours.” “I
know,” he agreed,
“but where’d me bullocks ’a’ bin when
I got back? Anyway, Sol, it weren’t
worth it,” he shrugged. “Gripes, after
t’night it’s only a matter of a couple more
days an’ I’ll be finished the trip.”
* * * *
“Petermac”; Drowsily drinking in the
sun in Sydney’s Hyde Park the other day
I soon found myself surrounded by a
score of pigeons who strutted amiably
within arm’s reach to peck up lunch
crumbs. Trams rattled and clanged
within a few yards, but they remained
unperturbed by the din. Suddenly a
motor-car backfired. In a flash every
pigeon in the park was furiously winging
its way to safer quarters ; which goes to
show that despite the city’s civilising (?)
influence their native instinct to beware
of anything like a gunshot was still as
sharp as ever.
* * * *
“Record”: Here are the facts of the
Skillicom ride to Bathurst (B. 13/3/’46).
In September, 1860, one Skillicorn made
a wager of £l5O with a Bathurst hotel-
keeper, Joe Manning, that he would ride
from Bathurst to Sydney, 125 miles, in
less than 20 hours. On bad roads he
did the journey in 19 hours 50 minutes,
but he lost the wager on a technical point.
He had walked about 100 yards with a
man who had asked him to have a drink.
It was said, afterwards, that the man
had been stationed at a wayside inn for
this express purpose.
* * * #
“Old-timer”: When Curyo Charlie hit
Woomelang for the races he had a bank,
a sweat-wheel and other cash-extractors,
but Woomelang had a police sergeant
with a phobia against such things, so
Curyo morosely abandoned hopes of
business. In the street he struck .Nigger
Burke, who made a book when he had
the money and sold patent nostrums when
he hadn’t. The pair conferred, floated
a temporary partnership with Charles as
chairman and got them to the course,
where Charles performed the rites and
Nigger kept the accounts. They were
slightly ahead of it when the third race
arrived, six runners and money coming
freely for three of ’em —Mallee Boy,
Flying Doe and Speckles. Any six-
starter race with three almost equal favor-
ites is good bookmaker country and
Curyo let his head go. When the rush
eased off he noticed a rather attractive
young woman standing by and, a trifle
elevated by the state of the book, he
said “Yairs, lady, wot do y’ fancy?”
She lowered her glance shyly and some-
what timidly replied “Well, it’s my
birthday, you see, and I’d like to bet on
Happy Day if you’d let me.” A bene-
volent smile on his battered countenance,
Curyo quoted her tens; she produced a
fiver and Curyo wrote the ticket. Then
he put the smile away and thoughtfully
watched her move off. Later, as they
watched the start, Curyo suddenly shed
the bag, hung it on Burke, hurried away
and was back just as they jumped out.
Happy Day won by a length and Burke
began to moan. “Chop it out,” said
Curyo, “I slapped a tenner on it at eights.
No woman puts up a red parasol just
before a race for nothing.”
DUST-BOWL.
Sand upon sand: the cattle huddle tight.
Mouthing the dust —the bitten square that's
mine; .
Sun peeling from their laddered hides in
flakes,
Their eyes accusing and wide as night.
No green grows here, no wetness slakes
A land embittered with her own design,
And grown cruel and hawklike bearing pain;
Too long I’ve walked behind the choking
plough,
And only idle thoughts can paint her now
With trees and birds and grass-blades in the
rain.
Ah, bring me water when you pass my door;
Water, cavern-cool, from haunts I know.
Scoop it from the Mitta’s rainbow leap,
Or moon-white from .Cobungra’s gravel floor;
That this poor earth may touch in breaking
sleep
Forgotten ecstasy in melted snow.
And she will greet you like a lover come afar
Pouring your gift, like music, to the ground;
(We listen, she and I, for just this sound)
And deck our wasteland with a desert star.
N.S.W.
A. S.ALLISON.


LIMITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
for loveliness
lliai lasis . • •
x'rew clothes are an event these
days and it is wise to buy
for quality. You will therefore
find it advantageous to purchase
dresses and lingerie made from
Courtaulds rayons. If you 'prefer
to make your own things at home,
the lovely rayon fabrics made from
Courtaulds yarns provide quality
and service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are still avail
able, although the quantity is
restricted.
m
*
m
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT:
SYDNEY : Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.*
18 x Clarence Street.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are.
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Soviet Co-operation Price.
(London “limes” letter by Lord Dunglass.).
Recent manifestations of Russian
foreign policy prompt me to recall the
summer of 1939 and the failure of Mr.
Chamberlain’s Government to secure an
Anglo-Soviet alliance. Towards the end
of protracted talks the price of co-
operation was raised until it stood at a
demand that Great Britain should assent
to the forcible absorption of the three
independent States of Latvia, Lithuania
and Estonia into the Soviet Union. Mr.
Chamberlain, although he realised to the
full the strategic value of such a deal,
felt bound to refuse it on those terms.
Apart from the price, another aspect of
the negotiations caused much concern.
Whenever agreement seemed to be in
sight the Soviet delegates found some
excuse for delay or introduced some
irrelevancy with an irritant value, and
they carried this technique so far as to
throw serious doubts on their sincerity
of purpose. In the event, the Russian*
German alliance and the smooth occupa-
tion of Poland by the Soviet armies
proved that these moves must have been
prepared while Anglo-Russian talks were
proceeding.
During the war Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Eden made map# sacrifices in order to
secure Russian co-operation, but no
sooner had the common enemy been
defeated than the treaties and agreements
which they had signed were broken in
rapid succession. With the peace, Mr,
Bevin and his party came into office with
the declared determination to work with
Russia. They have found that the price
of co-operation is still on the 1939 level
—namely, the sacrifice of the sovereignty
and political freedom of independent
countries. The tactics, too, are unchanged.
Many people in Great Britain censured
Mr. Chamberlain and the Conservative
party, but it is to be hoped that they
now have more understanding and will
realise that co-operation and friendship
with Russia do not depend upon the per-
sonality of the British Prime Minister or
Foreign Secretary, or the nature of the
party in office. Friendship can only
grow from action based upon common
moral and ethical principles, and so long
as Communists direct Soviet foreign
policy these are not there.
Pearl Harbor Blunders.
( Though the U.S. Congressional inquiry on
Pearl Harbor had special interest for Australia,
scarcely any of it appeared in cable columns.
The summary of it here given from “United
States News” adds up to an extraordinary
story of almost incredible blundering.)
A complete and detailed report on what really
happened at Pearl Harbor, and why, at last
can be made. That report is distilled from
nearly 2,000,000 words of testimony taken to
find who, if anybody, was responsible for that
disaster. Every shred of important informa-
tion, from every one of the principal actors in
that drama, is in the record. Almost every
suspicion of every interested member of Con-
gress, Republican or Democrat, has been ex-
plored about as far as it can be explored. There
have been five separate investigations of the
Navy’s role in Pearl Harbor and four separate
investigations of the Army’s role.
The record shows clearly that the Japanese
struck at Pearl Harbor with full knowledge of
what they would find. They knew what ships
the U.S. had there, and exactly where these
were located in the harbor. They knew that'
the U.S. was maintaining no long-range air
patrol. Despite the fact that many of their
radio messages were being intercepted and de-
coded, they kept the secret of this particular
plan. As a result, all high officials of the U.S.
Government were caught by surprise. That
included the late President Roosevelt, the then
Secretary of. State Cordell Hull, t'op Army and
Navy officials in Washington and the two com-
manders in Hawaii —Admiral Kimmel and
General Short.
Also shown clearly in the record is that the
fleet was not kept at Pearl Harbor as “bait”
for the Japanese, but rather as a “deterrent”
to discourage Japan from aggressive action
toward the Philippines and the Netherlands
Indies. During the period leading up to De-
cember 7, 1941, President Roosevelt and the
High Command in Washington were trying to
stall off trouble with Japan. They considered
Germany the greater threat, and they felt the
U.S. was not yet ready, for a two-front war..
No evidence has been introduced to show that
Mr. Hull’s Note of November 26 to the
Japanese was intended as an ultimatum. In-
stead, the Note was a U.S. refusal to bow to
what Mr. Hull considered the Japanese ulti-
matum of November 20, demanding that the
U.S. free Japanese funds, lift embargoes on
oil and other materials and agree not to in-
terfere with Japan’s actions in China. That
refusal was taken by the Japanese as the signal
to go through with war plans that already were
under way.
When the Japanese attacked, the aircraft-
warning system was not operating. The long-
range air patrol of the Navy and the inshore
patrol of the Army had not been maintained.
Anti-aircraft batteries were not manned and
supplied with ammunition. Fighter airplanes
were not ready to take to the air.
The disaster was traceable largely to these
four causes: first, lack of clear communica-
tion between the various parts of the U.S.
military establishment; second, lack of suffi-
cient weapons; third, failure of the military
leaders in Washington to diagnose the Japanese
plans correctly; fourth, failure of the com-
manders in Hawaii to give sufficient weight to
the likelihood of an air attack.
Numerous cases of faulty liaison and mis-
understood communications have been brought
out. Between the Army and Navy at Hawaii
there were important gaps in the knowledge
of each as to what the other was doing. This
was in spite of the fact that detailed war plans
for joint Army-Navy action had been worked
out, the fact' that Admiral Kimmel and General
Short were personally on friendly terms and
often played golf together, and the fact that
the two men did discuss with each other the
November 27 warning from Washington.
General Short did not know that the Navy
had no long-range air patrol. He did not see
the messages sent from Washington to Ad-
miral Kimmel on December 3, 4 and 6 saying
the Japanese at various posts were burning
codes and documents.
On the morning of December 7 the Army
at Hawaii was not told of the Navy’s reported
sinking of a Japanese submarine outside Pearl
Harbor, although a letter to the fleet issued
by Admiral Kimmel on October 14 had warned
that a single submarine attack might indicate
the presence of a considerable surface force,
probably composed of fast ships accompanied
by an aircraft-carrier.
Admiral Kimmel did not know that General
Short, in response to the November 27 warn-
ing from General Marshall, Army Chief of
Staff, had ordered an alert only against sabo-
tage. He thought that the Army at Hawaii
had only one form of alert —an all-out one—
and did not know that on November 5 three
forms of alert had been defined, of which that
against sabotage was the mildest. Admiral
Kimmel thought the Army’s radar was fully
manned on a 24-hour basis, whereas it was
being operated only on a part-time basis, and,
on the day of the attack, was operated only
from 4 a.m. to 7 a.m.
The Navy at Hawaii, on December 7, was
not told of the Army’s detection of the
Japanese ’planes by radar. Lieut. K. A. Tyler
(since promoted to lieutenant-colonel) did not
pass on this information to the Navy until after
the day of the attack, too late to help the
Navy locate the position of the Japanese
carriers.
Between the Army and Navy in Washington
information was being exchanged rather fully.
Nevertheless, there were slipups. For example.
Colonel Edward F. French, who sent General
Marshall’s final warning of December 7, failed
to use the stronger Navy radio when the Army
radio could not get through to Pearl Harbor,
and sent the message by Western Union and
R.C.A. instead. Also, Major-General Sher-
man Miles, then assistant Chief-of-Staff in
charge of Intelligence, has admitted that the
messages of December 3, *4 and 6 sent by the
Navy and intended to be shown to the Army
at Hawaii did not carry specific instructions
that they were to be so shown. These are the
messages General Short says he did not see.
Within the Navy, between Washington and
Hawaii, there was a wide gap as to general
background of the war situation. Admiral
Stark and his associates in Washington were
acutely aware of the imminence of war. They
thought they were conveying this knowledge
to Admiral jkdmmel in the warnings and orders
that were sent from October 16 to December
7. But Admiral Kimmel and his associates in
Hawaii, after studying these messages, thought
only that war was “more probable.”
In Washington the November 27 warning
directing a “defensive deployment preparatory
to carrying out the tasks assigned in W.P.L.-
46” was considered to mean sending the fleet
to sea to avoid a possible attack on Pearl
Harbor. But to Admiral Kimmel it meant to
stay temporarily on the defensive and get ready
to carry out the westward offensive into the
Marshall Islands provided for in “W.P.L.-l-
-46,” the Navy’s war plan.
Now Admiral Kimmel, citing the many letters
he had received from Admiral Stark all through
1941, warning that war might break out any
time, says he had a “plethora” of war warn-
ings but no specific orders. Furthermore,
he points out, Admiral Stark himself weakened
the effect of the October 16 and November 24
warnings by sending personal letters afterward
minimizing -the likelihood of immediate hos-
tilities. No word of Mr. Hull’s November 26
Note to the Japanese was sent to the Navy
commander in Hawaii.
Admiral Kimmel had asked for complete
information from Washington, and thought he
was receiving it. But Washington, trying to
prevent the Japanese from knowing their code
had been broken, was not sending him the in-
formation obtained from “Magic” (the inter-
cepted Japanese messages). Among these were
several in which Tokyo showed special interest
in the location of ships in Pearl Harbor. Ad-
miral Stark thought Admiral Kimmel had
facilities at Pearl Harbor for decoding the
Japanese messages, as Admiral Thomas C.
Hart did at Manila, and was so informed by
Admiral Richmond Kelly Turner, then chief


WONDERFUL BUYING
OPPORTUNITIES . . .
Take advantage of these splen-
did offers in Surplus War-tim^
Military Equipment.
Strong Quality
12ft. by 14ft. TENTS ... . . . £7-0-0 Plus
ditto, (with small tear or tears) . £5-0-0 Freight
Ideal for emergency accommodation or camping.
Waterproof Combination Military Ground Sheets & Capes . . 7/6
Mosquito Nets . . 10/-, R.A.A.F. Kit Bags . . 5/6, 8/6, 10/6
R.A.A.F. Blue Combination Overalls (Send Measurements) . . 12/6
Add 1/6 Postage for each above 4-items
Canvas Buckets for campers, fishermen, etc. — Heavyweight. (Post Free) 2/6
Military Water Bottles for hikers. (Post Free) 3/6
AMERICAN DISPOSAL CO.
15 McKillop Street Melbourne
ţ
ť
JUS T Rf 6 H T fff P PLY Ift 6
t
UGHTVUtBHT • 10 SB Aft
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airwayl
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
ŧ
Boftpfacfurm'of C. LOBITE Travel Coses
IMSUIATe
against
SUMMER HEAT
WINTER CHILL
-c
7,
with
CANE-ITE
When you use Cane-ite you not only beautify
your home but you protect it as well. Cane-ite
insulates your house against its two great enemies
—excessive cold and heat.
This modern attractive building board keeps your
home cosy in the winter, cool in the summer.
Enjoy the double protection that Cane-ite gives
you—protection for your home and added com-
fort for yourself all the year round.
Cane-ite is easy to use. In renovating it goes
right over unsightly walls, covering cracks and
stains quickly and inexpensively. Cane-ite is
white-ant proofed.
t
Manufacture! by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney—Melbourne—Brisbane—Adelaide—Perth
Other C.S.R. Products: Slagwool, Asbestos, Plaster Products
of the Navy’s War Plans Division. But Ad-
miral Kimmel actually had no such facilities,
nor did he know until afterward that Admiral
Hart had them.
Within the Army, between Washington and
Hawaii, the gap' was similar to that existing
in the Navy. General Short, like Admiral
Kimmel, was not receiving Japanese “Magic.
He failed to interpret the November 27 warn-
ings, as General Marshall expected he would,
and as the commanders at Panama, Manila and
the West Coast actually did. Within 30
minutes he dispatched his reply, that he was
alerting against sabotage. Later, when he re-
ceived specific orders from Washington to
guard against sabotage, and then no further
word, he was convinced his interpretation was
correct. In Washington neither General Mar-
shall nor Major-General Leonard T. Gerow,
then chief of the Army’s War Plans Division,
noticed that no other reply from General Short
had been received. Hence, when December 7
arrived, they actually did not know the state of
readiness of General Short’s command.
Within the Navy in Washington there was
confusion between Vice-Admiral Theodore S.
Wilkinson, then Director of Naval Intelligence,
and Admiral Turner as to which was responsible
for sending information to field commanders.
Within the Army in Washington no one took
the responsibility of acting in General Mar-
shall’s absence on Sunday morning, December
7, when it was realised that a final warning
should be sent out.
Within the Navy at Hawaii some of the
admirals did not know of the November 27
warning. Among these were Rear-Admiral
(now Vice-Admiral) Patrick N. L. Bellinger,
then commander of the Navy’s air arm at
Pearl Harbor, and Rear-Admiral (now Vice-
Admiral) John Henry Newton, commander of
the task force that left Pearl Harbor December
sto deliver ’planes to Midway Island. Ad-
miral Kimmel now explains, however, that he
Letter to London “ Times’’’ on a
famous charge: With your authoritative
permission may I be allowed to place on
record before I die a conversation that
was indelibly fixed in my memory five
decades ago ? Dr. Ligertwood was then
in medical charge of the Chelsea Pen-
sioners, and, after taking me to see an
old bedridden Balaclava hero who was
in hospital after being “knocked about
by his wife,” told me the following
story. He was on the staff of Lord Rag-
lan, and saw the charge of the Light
Brigade. He saw Lord Raglan write the
dispatch and Nolan deliver it. Lord
Cardigan, after reading, spoke to Nolan,
who waved his arm in the direction of
the Russian lines. He then saw Nolan
killed on his return ride, and was pre-
sent when Lord Cardigan rode up to
Lord Raglan after the charge, and heard
him say “Those fellows have been
pulling me about.” Dr. Ligertwood
then told me the dispatch in question
stated “The Light Brigade will advance,”
saying nothing about a charge. When
Lord Cardigan had read the dispatch he
said to Nolan “The Light Brigade will
advance, but where to ?” and Nolan,
waving his arm towards the enemy, said
“Well, my Lord, if you don’t know
where the Russians are, they are over
there.” Lord Cardigan may have been
piqued by Nolan’s behavior, for they
were on unfriendly terms. Dr. Ligert-
wood told me finally it was afterwards
learnt from tHe Russians that the officer
on the chestnut horse had his steed to
thank for his escape. That officer was
Lord Cardigan. — G. Lenthal Cheatle,
Green Gates, Stanmore, Middlesex.
had discussed the November 27 warning with
Vice-Admiral Wilson Brown, to whom these
other admirals were subordinate.
Within the Army at Hawaii many of General
Short’s subordinate officers were completely
unaware of the critical situation existing be-
tween the U.S. and Japan. General Short
says he was following out General Marshall’s
instructions to limit knowledge of the Novem-
ber 27 warning to “minimum essential officers.”
Thus, in many parts of the military establish-
ment confusion arose because vital information
was not transmitted and orders were misunder-
stood. That confusion, it now is clear, was
one of the factors that permitted success of the
Japanese attack.
Another factor was failure of the nation to
build weapons soon enough to make Pearl
Harbor and other outlying bases secure. Ad-
miral Kimmel was unable to carry on a regu-
lar and complete long-range air patrol because
he lacked enough ’planes. He needed 250
’planes for this purpose, whereas he had only
59, and these really belonged to the fleet and
were intended for possible offensive action. He
says that he could have used his scanty supply
of ’planes for such patrol only for a short
period and could have detected the Japanese
task force only if the attack could have been
predicted within narrow limits of time. Other-
wise, the ’planes soon would have been worn
out and the crews exhausted.
Similarly, the Pearl Harbor base was handi-
capped for lack of enough fighter ’planes and
anti-aircraft guns and lack of identification
devices for radar.
Faulty diagnosis of enemy plans was even
more fundamental as a cause of the U.S. de-
feat. Practically every high American military
officer, in both Washington and Hawaii, ex-
pected the Japanese to attack in the South-
west Pacific, and there was what Fleet Ad-
miral Ernest J. King has called a “general
blindness to Japanese potentialities in the
Central Pacific.” Because of the belief that
Hawaii was far from the probable war front
that territory was being used as a training
centre by both the Army and Navy. The in-
tercepted Japanese dispatches, if read aright,
might have given a tip-off to the Japanese
plans, but no such interpretation was made
until after December 7.
Underestimation of air-attack possibilities by
the commanders in Hawaii contributed further
to U.S. unpreparedness.
General Short feared that there were many
disloyal persons among the big Japanese popu-
lation in Hawaii, and thought sabotage was
the only real threat to the Pearl Harbor base.
That is why he considered his alert against
sabotage sufficient.
Admiral Kimmel believed that the greatest
danger to the fleet was from Japanese sub-
marines. He carried on air reconnaissance for
clearing the sea lanes of submarines where the
fleet was in training. Even when he thought
war was near he kept much of the fleet in the
harbor to avoid the possibility of a mass sub-
marine attack in the adjacent areas.
The commander of the fleet was convinced
that aerial torpedoes could not be used in the
shallow water of Pearl Harbor, where the
depth is not greater than 40 to 45 feet. Secre-
tary of the Navy James Forrestal has asserted
that information was available earlier in 1941
showing torpedoes could be launched in depths
comparable to that of Pearl Harbor. But Ad-
miral Kimmel says that such information never
reached him. At any rate, when the Japanese
made their attack they surprised not only Ad-
miral Kimmel but many other Navy officers by
successfully using obsolete aerial torpedoes that
had been rebuilt with wooden vanes along the
sides.
The underestimation of what aerial torpedoes
could do was crucial, for, as Admiral Kimmel
points out, except for the destruction they
wrought, damage to the fleet was “compara-
tively negligible.”
Summing up, a study of the Pearl Harbor
evidence reveals that on December 7, 1941, the
U.S. was not yet fully geared for war, even
though a big-scale defence programme had
been under way for 18 months. The Army
and Navy still clung to many of their peace-
time methods. The science of war was evolv-
ing rapidly and, in respect to aerial torpedoes
at least, Japan was ahead of the U.S. The
result was that the U.S., careful not to com-
mit the first overt act, waited on the defen-
sive and fell victim to the surprise first blow
aimed by Japan. But the final blow was struck
by the U.S.
Bombing Effects on Germany.
(From London “Times” Parliamentary report.
The explanation of the rapid collapse of the
German front against the Russian breakout
from the Baranovo bridgehead in the December,
1944, winter fighting solves what has till now
been to careful war observers a baffling
mystery .)
Giving the opinions of the men at “the
receiving end” of the bombs —of the
leaders and directors of the German war
effort —Mr. Strachey, Under-Secretary of
State for Air, in the House of Commons,
said that in the closing months of the
war precise, economic, strategic bombing
had risen to its climax and was concen-
trated on two classes of objectives—the
German transportation system and the
German synthetic oil industry. The view
of Dr. Albrecht Speer, sometime Reich
Minister for Armaments and War Pro-
ductions, given in interrogation, of the
effect of our bombing of the transporta-
tion system of the Ruhr in June, 1944,
was that concentrated day and night
attacks on the Ruhr transport and com-
munications system first began to cause
most serious anxiety about future de-
velopments, since supplies to industry in
the rest of the Reich of numerous pro-
ducts of the Ruhr were bottled up in the
Ruhr owing to transport difficulties.
In spite of bad weather—and Mr.
Strachey said he would always regard
that as the greatest single achievement of
Bomber Command —during the last
winter of the war that Command evolved
a technique of night precision attacks bn
oil plants; then it delivered a series of
attacks upon the major oil plants of
Germany which were now known to
have been some of the decisive operations
of !he war. Speer’s report for January
19, 1945, said: “It has now been deter-
mined that the attacks which take place
so often at night now are considerably
more effective than daylight attacks, since
heavier bombs are used and an extra-
ordinary accuracy in attaining the target
is reported.”
These final series of attacks—British
and American —upon the great German
oil plants and upon transportation were
the decisive contribution made by
strategic bombing to the achievement of
victory. As showing how the shortage of
fuel affected the breaking of German
resistance, Speer’s account said that in
the Luftwaffe the shortage of liquid fuels
became insupportable as from September,
1944, onwards, since as from that date the
allocation was cut down to 30,000 tons a
month, whereas the monthly requirement
amounted to between 160,000 and 180,000
tons. The Army’s shortage, also due to
supply difficulties, first became catastro-
phic at the time of the winter offensive
of December 16, 1944 ; and this was sub-
stantially responsible for the rapid col-
lapse of the German defensive front
against the Russian breakout from the
Baranovo bridgehead. There were
approximately 1500 tanks ready for
action, but these had only one or two
fuel supply units and >vere consequently
immobilised.
When Speer was asked “Do you believe
that strategic bombing alone could have
brought about the surrender of Ger-
many?” he replied “The answer is yes.
The attacks on the synthetic oil industry
would have sufficed, without the impact
of purely military events, to render Ger-
many defenceless.”
Russian Suspiciousness.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times” supplement
article by W. H. Lawrence .)
The differences between the leaders of
the Western world and officials of the
Soviet Union are far more vital and far-
reaching than mere inability to under-


m
V
0*
%
s*
<****• \
x_r
0*
*0 .
IftVO
3 Generations of busy men have restored energy
and appetite with Tintara Sherry. Tintara
Amontillado Sherry belongs to that line of fine
Wines which includes also Tintara Gold Label
Port and Gold Label Muscatel, the
Tintara Sparkling Wines—Champagne,
Hock, Moselle and Burgundy, and
Tintara Old Brandy,
I often wonder what the Vintners buy,
One half so precious as the goods they sell.
Omar Khayyam
INGRAMS
(®©9
V '9
3)
B
7
YOUR CHEMIST
IS SELLING
INGRAM'S
Your old friend, INGRAM'S, is back in civvies again
after six years with the fighting services. Now you
can buy 120 COOL SHAVES for 2/-,
stand each other’s words, even after these
have been translated. They are differ-
ences in mental processes, in reactions to
the same set of facts.
That these differences on one side are
Russian rather than Soviet in origin is
basic to any solution of the riddle of the
Russian mind. History demonstrates a
sameness in the problem of dealing with
Russia whether that country is ruled by
the Czars or led by Communists.
First and foremost of these differences
is that among Russians there is an in-
herent suspicion of foreigners. That sus-
picion exists whether the foreigner in
question is a capitalist or a Left-Winger.
It is a historic state of mind, and one not
readily dispelled.
Only a very few Russians are consid-
ered by their fellows sufficiently trust-
worthy for dealings with foreigners, hence
the great restriction on foreign travel by
Russians, Only a comparatively few)
foreigners are admitted to the Soviet
Union, and they are circumscribed in
their movements through the country and
among the people.
In tH6 Russian language the word
“nemets” originally meant stupid, then it
came to mean Germans, and, finally, it
was applied to all foreigners. This evolu-
tion in language came from the fact that
the first foreigners that Russians had met
and the ones with whom they had most
contact through the years were Germans.
The village of Nemchinhova, in the
rolling hills near Moscow, takes its name
from this word. It was there, three or
four centuries ago, that the plenipoten-
tiaries for foreign Powers came, and car-
ried on their discussions with the rulers
of Moscdw. Suspicion kept the visitors
outside the seat of power and away from
the people until the conversations had
taken a definite turn. If the discussions
failed, the Russians pointed out the road
that led to Smolensk and the West, and
the foreigners went their way. It the
talks were successful, the gates of the
Kremlin were thrown open and the visi-
tors from abroad were invited in for one
of those gala ceremonial parties, not too
unlike those given for visiting dignitaries
of the present period after their confer-
ences with Stalin have ended in agree-
ment.
Isolation is the natural result of this
'suspicion of all foreigners. This is a
historic attitude of the Russians, although
it became the more extreme in the period
between the Russian revolution and the
German invasion of the Soviet Union in
June, 1941. Under the leadership of
Lenin and Stalin, the Russians concen-
trated on building Communist socialism.
That meant to them that Russia had to
be a’country which kept its own people
inside, and its potential enemies—ideo-
logical or military —outside. Suspicion
and isolation have resulted in ignorance
of the outside world, the people who in-
habit it, their aspirations and their way
of life.
None of the top leaders of the Soviet
Union has travelled extensively abroad,
and none of them knows the Western
world well. Stalin, after he came to power
in 1924, didn’t venture outside the Soviet
Union until he went to Tehran for a
strictly business talk with Roosevelt and
Churchill in 1943. This journey was fol-
lowed by a similar one to Potsdam last
summer. Molotov has travelled only
slightly more, though he did make two
trips to the United States under condi-
tions of international urgency that gave
him little opportunity to study the land
or its people. The two Soviet officials
best acquainted with the West and West-
ern ways are Maxim Litvinoff and Ivan
Maisky—and both of them are in the
“dog-house,” although they retain official
titles with minor functions.
Canada’s New Stature.
(From an American “Foreign Affairs” article
by Lionel Gelber.)
In that momentous redistribution of
world power now taking place, Canada
must be classed with those nations which
have gained rather than lost in stature.
The evidence of Canada’s new position
in the world is unmistakable. When
lend-lease is suspended, General de
Gaulle, Premier T. V. Soong and Lord
Keynes do not fail to include Ottawa
in their North American quest; the head-
quarters of the International Civil Avia-
tion Organisation is established in
Montreal; the first conference of the
Food and Agriculture Organisation of
the United Nations meets in Canada
under a Canadian chairman; Canada is
the largest contributor of supplies and
third largest contributor of money to
U.N.R.R.A.; and when the atom is split
she emerges as a partner with the United
States and the United Kingdom in that
historic enterprise.
From 1940 to 1941, when, against the
German onslaught, the nations of the
British Commonwealth held the fort
almost alone, Canada was literally one
of Britain’s principal allies. The presence
before and after Dunkirk of Canadian
troops in the United Kingdom and the
quick shipment from Canada of men,
arms and foodstuffs helped steel the
British to resist and reinforced, at its
supreme crisis, the cause of humanity.
For when Britain most needed allies, if
freedom were to survive, Canada, as an
ally of Britain, was second to none.
Out of Canada’s population of
fewer than 12,000,000 people, 1,031,000
were enrolled in one or other of
the three services. The main pro-
tector of the North Atlantic con-
voy route, Canada became third
among the United Nations in naval
power. The contribution of Canada to-
ward the conquest of Italy and north-
western Europe was a notable one. She
was fourth in air power herself and a
host of her sons also served with the
Royal Air Force. From the British Com-
monwealth Air Training Plan, established
on Canadian soil and run mostly by Can-
adians, flowed a stream of graduates to
her own and other air forces. At the
crucial, early phase 6f the war Canada,
in the words of Franklin D. Roosevelt,
was the airdrome of Democracy.
Meanwhile, from a semi-agricultural
country devoted to primary raw material
industries she converted herself almost
overnight into an arsenal of manufac-
tured war supplies. At El Alamein it
was the timely arrival of mechanised
transport from Canada which enabled
Montgomery and the British Eighth Army
to carry the day. Among the top-flight
Anglo-American co-ordinating agencies,
Canada is a member of the Combined
Production, Raw Materials and Food
Boards. The world’s second greatest ex-
porter during the war, she now may see
her exports halved. But having once
exhibited her productive capacity, she
will never be content to sink back to
pre-war levels.
A decade ago Canadians would have
scoffed if told that they could transfer
a billion dollars’ worth of goods as an
outright gift to another country. In 1942,
when the United Kingdom’s ability to
pay had fallen behind her need for sup-
plies, that was done. Canada did more.
On May 20, 1943, her Mutual Aid Act
was passed. Under it, during the next
two years, 2.360 billion dollars of further
supplies were allocated on grounds of
strategic need to Britain, the Soviet
Union, China, France, Australia, New
Zealand and India, while 1.892 billion
dollars in other kinds of financial accom-
modation were also provided.
To Britain alone Canada furnished
per capita as much as the American
programme gave everyone. Mutual
Aid being her own variation of
lend-lease, Canada could have re-
ceived but did not ask for re-
ciprocal assistance; she herself, dis-
pensing rather than consuming help of
that sort, drew no lend-lease at all from
the United States. She paid for her
own American imports by the manu-
facture of war material and equipment —
exports to the United States amounting in
1944 to 1.444 billion dollars, imports
from the United States amounting to
1.447 billion dollars. And after lend-
lease came to a halt, Canada was the
only Power besides the United States
which could cushion some of the shock by
means of fresh arrangements with Britain
and others.
To what does all this add up? On
the stage of world affairs, Canada since
1939 has been playing a very much bigger
part. From the period of Dunkirk, when
Canadian forces and supplies helped
Britain to weather the worst of the Ger-
man storm, it was plain that Canada’s
role was no longer that of a minor
Power; under the impact of war she had
risen to a new stature. Her relatively
small population and lack of colonial
possessions prevent her from being a
major or super Power. But her natural
wealth, the capacity of her people, the
strength she has exerted and the poten-
tialities she has displayed show that she
is not a minor one. Henceforth in world
politics she must figure as a Middle
Power.
French Ideas on Europe.
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. Times
staff correspondent in Paris.)
Few of the French feel convinced as
yet of Germany’s real defeat, and this is
the foundation of French differences with
the Big Three upon the future organisa-
tion of the Continent and the world.
France’s security can be assured, the
French believe, first by decentralisation
of the German administrative system,
next by an international supervision of
the Ruhr and the detachment from the


JP
S '.hr*
r '#M
<
m *WM
HUGHES
m
id
Twenty-FIVE YEARS of service to
Australia under nine successive Prime
Ministers is one of the records of
“Qantas” achievements in the field
of air transportation.
Serving without prejudice from
Hughes in 1920 to Chifley to-day,
from peace, through war and on to
peace, 144,000,000 passenger miles
have been flown by “Qantas” air-
craft in establishing and maintaining
Australia’s overseas air finks. .
Equipped with experience based on
past achievements, “Qantas” is
pre-eminently qualified to assist in
developing Australia’s International
routes.
QcmCoA
fanfuJui,
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
111
m
W
<s®
TH IS
YEAR
a
s *
i
ever
it was necessary to save carefully
and to spend wisely, it is now.
We are all planning for the future.
To carry out those plans means ex-
penditure of money and that money
must first be accumulated.
True Thrift is not only the accumu-'
lation of money—it is just as much
a matter of careful, useful spending,
but obviously the saving must come
first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings
Account and use it faithfully. It costs
nothing, but will help you to help
yourself.
mma
IQKIMEI
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
|{ OF AU ST RALI A
There's a Branch or Agentity in YOUJI District
c s o-v* da.
Reich of the Rhineland approaches to
the gates of the invasion of France.'
France does not ask political detach-
ment of the Ruhr, but she wants Allied
direction of production which will ensure
the Ruhr’s operation for the benefit of
Europe as a whole and not as a threat
to the peace.
The French want the Rhineland
detached from the Reich, not necessarily
under French control. They would be
satisfied to give it independence under
the supervision of Allied authorities.
Finally, France desires the title to coal-
mines of the Saar and economic safe-
guards for them, but would also cede the
political administration to a local Saar
Government or international control.
These are the principal desires which
the French regard as essential to permit
them to play a role in Europe.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The [British] Navy’s losses in 1939-45 were
two and a half times as great as they were in
1914-18, and losses of merchant’ shipping
mounted to the figure of 20,000 tons a day for
the greater part of 1942. The magnitude of
the Navy’s task is well illustrated by the' re-
vised figures of execution done against the Ü-
boats; 996, an average of one every second
day throughout the war, were destroyed by the
Allies, one-third of them within 500 miles of
the United Kingdom. —London “Times.”
* * » »
For 14 years Chiang Kai-shek fought it out
with Japan with whatever resources were avail-
able to him. He never faltered. He could
have made deals with Japan at any time which
would have made it tough for the United
States in any war with Japan. He remained '■
steadfast. He rejected their peace offers. But
what does he find today? The United States
does not know its mind. Itfj policy is fuzzy.
Pat Hurley, who grasped the truth, is thrown
to the dogs, and the kids of the State Depart-
ment play at being Talleyrands. Chiang is
being forced in Manchuria to grant to Russia
the entire programme that Japan sought by the
Twenty-one Demands and from the Anfu Club.
Chiang will, by all appearances, be forced into
a partnership with Soviet Russia. —George E.
Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
One of the most striking of all the war’s
many spectacular records was the building
from scratch in less than four years by the
U.S. of a completely new industry—synthetic
rubber. U.S. constructed new plants and per-
fected new techniques that made it able by
1945 to manufacture a larger tonnage of rubber
products than ever before in history. Synthetic
rubber production for 1945 was close to
1,000,000 tons.— Burnham Finney; “American
Mercury.”
* * * *
Speaking in London, Sir Robert Craigie,
former Ambassador to Japan, said that vilify-
ing those with whom we disagreed only
weakened our diplomacy, but there was all the
difference between vilification and stating truly
why we had to resist certain tendencies. He
thought every diplomatist abroad would offer
a prayer of thanksgiving to every Foreign
Minister who told the truth in this respect and
let the people know it. His career had taught
him that from an early stage we should tell
our foreign friends exactly how far they might
go and still retain our friendship. That - way
lay peace; in appeasement ultimately lay war.
—London “Times'” report.
* * * *
The Council of Ministers has fixed June 2
as the date of the general election and of the
referendum which is to be held at the same
time to decide whether Italy shall become a
republic or shall retain the monarchy. The
date of May 26, which had been provisionally
agreed to, had to be abandoned for administra-
tive reasons. Venezia Giulia and the province
of Bolzano (with the exception of Trento) will
be excluded from the general election because
of the international situation existing in the
former region and because in the latter area
the electoral registers have not been com-
pleted owing to the uncertain status of its
citizens, who formerly opted for Germany. It
is understood that the ballot-paper to be used
for the referendum will bear the symbol of
the royal crown for the monarchy and of the
Phrygian cap for the republic.— London
“Times.”
* * sH H=
Clear-visioned recognition of the fact that
Communism is a large part of the crime prob-
lem in this country [U.S.] is greatly needed.
By its hostility to religion and to religious
teaching, Communism destroys morality. By
its filtration into school and college faculties
and into student bodies, Communism poisons
education. By its studied disloyalty to our in-
stitutions and its insistent attacks upon law-
enforcement agencies, Communism promotes
disregard for law and order. By its appeals
to class conflicts and its agitation of racial
questions, Communism impairs the solidarity of
our citizenship and inculcates intolerance. By
its actions of violence in labor disputes and
its preachments of violence as a “weapon” of
“revolution,” Communism creates both violence
and the spirit of violence. Thus Communism
fertilises the social fields that crime may grow
in.— N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
Major Beamish and Major Conant, the two
Conservative members of the British Parlia-
mentary delegation which visited Poland, in a
minority report accused their Labor colleagues
of having given a misleading, unbalanced and,
in some respects, inaccurate picture of the situ-
ation in Poland. Setting out to discover to
what extent the Poles enjoy the four freedoms,
Major Beamish and Major Conant reached the
conclusion that the present regime left much to
be desired. They found that the fear of arrest
for alleged political offences was strong and
that tens of thousands of Poles remain im-
prisoned without trial. There was no subject
on which they heard more bitter complaints.
The Polish Socialist and Workers’ parties
(P.P.S. and P.P.R.), which control the Govern-
ment, are pursuing a Socialist-Communist
policy with liberal use of the security police and
drastic censorship of the press. The report
stated that it is generally admitted that free
and unfettered elections would result in the
heavy defeat of P.P.S. and P.P.R., who are,
therefore, determined that elections shall be
held on the bloc system. Of the resettlement
in the west the report says: “Every Pole to
whom we mentioned the subject considered that
the new western territories up to the line of
the rivers Oder and Neisse were already part of
Poland. The problems of rehabilitating this
area, which has great economic potentialities,
are immense, but the determination of the
Poles to make a success of this task was every-
where evident.” — London "Times.”
* * * *
At the war’s end the Japanese possessed the
three largest submarines in the world —one of
5700 tons and two of 3800 tons each. The
biggest of these had three decks, three ’planes,
a hydraulically-operated catapult, a crew of
200 men and capacity for 1000 tons of sup-
plies. These ships had adequate radar and
radio, were painted with radar-repellant paint
and were equipped with the German Schnorkel,
or air intake and exhaust tubes, which enabled
them to cruise submerged at periscope depth
more or less indefinitely.— Hanson W. Bald-
win; American “Foreign Affairs.”
* * * *
Sir Miles Thomas, vice-chairman of the
Nuffield organisation, told motor agents from
overseas at Oxford that the organisation had
firm orders for cars and trucks to a sales value
of £42,400,000, and many of these were for
export.— London "Times."
* * * *
U.S. is the only real source of capital with
which to set up in business again a post-war
World that largely is bankrupt. Political con-
ditions will underlie any loans that later are
made to China and to Russia. To get dollars
on terms comparable to those offered Britain,
these nations will be expected to come at least
part way in meeting the U.S. viewpoint on
world affairs. — “United States News.”
* * * *
One has only to scratch the surface of foreign
opinion to realise that the prestige of the
United States, soaring a few months ago, is
now on the toboggan. What with domestic
strife, near-mutiny in the armed services and a
wobbly diplomacy based on appeasement, many
are convinced that U.S. will never live up to its
post-war commitments. These commitments
are colossal. We have said we would occupy
Germany for 50 years if necessary. We were
going to change the politics, the religion and
the national economy of Japan. We were
going to help China get on her feet as a demo-
cratic republic and keep the peace of Asia by
policing the Pacific. We were going to under-
write the security of the entire western hemis-
phere at a conference at Rio de Janeiro and
ban Fascism for ever from the Americas. We
pledged free and unfettered elections in all
former satellite States of the Axis. Not only
did we assume leadership of the United Nations
but gave it a permanent home within our
borders. In case of aggression we stand com-
mitted to the use of force if necessary to put
it down wherever it may be. Meantime, we
have accepted the lion’s share of the responsi-
bility for feeding, clothing and financing the
rest of the world during the difficult years of
reconstruction. But now our national discipline
has broken down. The American victory over
totalitarian dictatorships, which cost us
1,070,672 killed, wounded and missing—not to
mention a national debt of 300 billion dollars
—is going by default. — Washington correspon-
dent, N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
.** * *
Aeronautical developments may now have
reached the crossroads where military and civil
aviation must part company and go their
separate ways. This stage had not been reached
even as recently as the end of the war against
Germany. But in the last few months such tre-
mendous advances have been made that the
future requirements for warplanes may not' be
those of air transport. This will be due to
the advent of the rocket and to the success of
jet-propulsion as well as to the atomic bomb.
The future “shape” and size of air forces
cannot yet be determined. But the terrible
success of the atomic bombs dropped on Japan
may prove to have changed,the requirements
for bombers fundamentally. Unless the use
of atomic bombs is abandoned the huge
bomber aircraft may well go down to history
as the last as well as the first of the giant
super-bombers.— London “Times” air expert.
* * * *
J. Edgar Hoover, in his address to the Inter-
national Association of Chiefs of Police, put
U.S. on an alert against the slimy, slippery tac-
tics of the Red underground here. He referred
to these Red Fascists as “panderers of diabolic
destruction who are concentrating their efforts
to confuse and divide by applying the Fascist
smear to progressive police departments, the
F. 8.1. and other American institutions, to con-
ceal their own sinister purposes.” He added:
“It behoves us to be on guard for an enemy
that brazenly and openly has advocated the
corruption of America, that spends sleepless
nights working one propaganda line alter
another, that poses behind a dozen fronts, that
squirms and twists his way into these great
American forces, such as the church, schools
and the ranks of labor.” — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
Addressing the Royal. Empire Society, Mr.
Harold Nicolson said there were many serious
young men and women in Britain who
had a sort of suspicion that the defence of
British right's was something very wicked, and
that the defence of Russian rights was some-
thing very good. Referring to Spain, Mr.
Nicolson said he did not think there was any
person so much disliked as Franco. He did
not know why; but he cared much more for
the principles of decent foreign policy, and to
intervene in the internal affairs of a country
was surely to allow partisan emotion or feeling
to cut right through one of the basic principles
of foreign policy. If the British did not main-
tain national principles and national interests
in diplomacy they might lose the great oppor-
tunity to assume the moral leadership of
Europe.— London “Times” report.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
flS^
J
SA
ms
t'
/
mm
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
CVANopAS
Use the rabbits’ natural home—
the warren: destroy them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem... the rabbits are buried.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
: 4!i J//4
fev- wa ? VIW/Il'//fy'jr?
Li
%
&
fS.
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and built to fit
your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very attractive, and some pur-
chasers have reported recovering their full
outlay in one season.
MAXIMUM COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS.
t
The patented Coupling: is the only one on the market that has
nositive flexibility for it can be coupled in any direction to an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight. The patent outlet j
enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions witholit
pump or the motor. Quotations given for plants suitable
stopping either the
for 2 to 1000 acres.
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.,
39-41 DIXON STREET,
SYDNEY, MA 7858.
Agents; SMITH & GLUT AS PTY., LTD., 154-156 fclarence Street. Sydney. M29 ”'
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY., LTD., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Box ~1 Soutu
Brisbane. ’Phone, J 1456.
|r FT T gr CROSSLEY PTY.. LTD., 143-149 Clarendon St., Stb. Melbourne. Phone, MX.
PASCOE & CO. PTY., LTD., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia.
MSI 954
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat-stock Prices.
“Graz”: Sheep and cattle prices in
eastern Australia are the highest for
nearly 20 years. Fat lambs are barely
sufficient for local demands, and few are
going to Britain —lamb and mutton car-
cass exports to Britain, 7,310,852 in 1940-
41, 3,786,984 in 1944-45 and still falling.
Australian ceiling price for fat lambs is
9}d. per pound on the hook, but the
British Food Ministry will pay only
for frozen lamb, and freezing would cost
id- per pound. Carcass butchers are un-
willing to lose 6s. to 7s. per lamb for the
sake of keeping up the export trade. Con-
sequently, until prices are forced down
by heavy yardings in spring, few fat
lambs are likely to be exported unless
severer rationing is imposed.
Under keen competition bidding over-
stepped ceiling prices, and butchers have
had to charge accordingly to clear
themselves. To end this blackmarketing
the Canberra Government “froze” meat
stocks in Melbourne. Victorian butchers
decided to lower prices at auction by
restricted bidding and self-imposed price
limits. Growers immediately withheld
stock from markets at Melbourne, Gee-
long, Bendigo and Ballarat, saying they-
need the high prices to compensate them
for severe drought losses in the last two
years.
If we must have price control, the best
way seems to be to fix minimum prices
payable to growers, which would give
stability to fat-stock markets. Short of
this, and with wholesalers, retailers and ex-
porters working on fixed limits, about ail
the growers can do is yell for subsidies.
Stock Shortage.
“E. 2”: Prospects for a bumper year
in Victoria are bright, with good feed
plentiful. Most landholders are keener
on buying than selling stock, and those
who managed to keep breeding stock up
to normal will reap the benefit; 1 there’s
an acute shortage in almost all classes
of sheep and cattle, and the quality has
fallen below average.
Dairy cattle are at a premium—almost
any sort of heifer or cow in calf com-
mands a high price. Canny dairymen
are getting good money in saleyards for
culls that would ordinarily go to the
butcher. The next generation or two of
dairy herds will probably fall below aver-
age, but there’s a healthy sign of future
improvement in the keen competition for
better-quality milkers when they appear.
Beef cattle are in steady demand.
Sheep are urgently needed for restock-
ing and especially good breeding ewes
for fat-lamb raising. There is little hope
of this industry reaching its previous level
for several seasons. There should be
plenty of agistment for sheep from less-
favored parts.
Victoria’s stock shortage is attribut-
able in the main to drought, though recent
floods have made it worse. The drought
“ ’Ow d'yer expect me t' cut y'r hair properly if y' won't keep the burrs
out of it?”
effects were intensified by shortage of
fodder reserves, an outcome of political
disregard for farmers’ need to store
fodder when they had it in the preceding
spring. Had labor been made available
then the national contribution to food
for Britain could have been much greater.
A Land Problem.
“Mug 50”: I’ve the opportunity of
buying about 120 acres of rich dairying
land, mostly black, silty river flat, and
some 20 acres bare hillside, for £4O an
acre. The trouble is I’m one of those
mugs with an eye to the future of land
as part of the national wealth and
stability. I could, most likely, pay off
this farm in 10 years or so and show a
handsome profit, but by then the land
would be flogged to less than half its
value, and I’d have to continue the pro-
cess to make a good income until I saw
fit to unload the property on someone
else. I’m legally entitled to do that.
I’d prefer to hold this land in equity
with the nation and pass it on improved
to its full measure of fertility, but as
things stand I can’t see my way clear
(financially) to attend to the nation’s
equity as well as my own. So if I do
take the place it will have to be commer-
cialised, and I’ll have to work it so that
it will last me just long enough to put
away the money I’ll need to retire.
As a capital investment it should return
good dividends. The humus already in
the soil should last a dozen years, though
the nation and the farmer who follows
me won’t be able to rebuild it in twice
that time. It’s a callous proposition, but
if I’m to take it on and get the returns
equivalent to my capital outlay and labor
it’ll have to be that way. No one but
myself and family is going to lose sleep
over my fighting an uneconomic battle
for the rest of my days to hand the land
down as an oasis among the played-out
farms that will surround it.
Soil Loss.
"‘Outback”; Although a C.S.I.R. expert
reported after an investigation that soil
erosion was not a menace in the sheep
country of western Queensland, graziers
in the more closely-settled cattle districts
of south-eastern Queensland don’t be-
lieve it. In the Wandoan district a casual
inspection would not disclose any erosion,
but an expert investigation would show
that valuable surface material is being
lost all the time. This has started a con-
troversy regarding the merits and demerits
of ringbarking as a protection against
erosion.
Those favoring ringbarking contend
that a good body of grass binds the soil
together and thereby prevents erosion, but
opponents of ringbarking point to the
increasing size of gullies in ringbarked
country year after year. As each district
appears to have its peculiar erosion prob-
lems the graziers’ organisation is seeking
an expert investigation into the problem,
particularly in grazing districts. The
views of practical men indicate that the
problem is more serious in some grazing
districts of Queensland than is generally
recognised.
Legumes in Pastures.
“Plane Creek”: You want ’em in cow
pastures to keep the feeding value high ;
grasses drop prodigiously in protein as
they grow old or when drought hits ’em.
Legumes are generally more drought-
resistant than grasses and don’t lose
their protein under tough conditions.
They lose some, of course, but this loss
seldom takes ’em below the grasses in
food value. Old, mature lucerne has
more protein than couch, blue couch,
Rhodes or Kikuyu grass have when
young and succulent.
Legumes also have a distinct enrich-
ing etfect upon grazing land. They thus
have a beneficial effect upon grasses with
which they are sown. The grasses, how-
ever, are often unfriendly to the legumes.
Paspalums and Kikuyu grass are destruc-
tive to lesser herbage, being gross feed-
ing and smothering in effect. Lucerne
and a newly-introduced grass —Paspalum
scrobiculatum —have been teamed to-
gether on a Darling Downs (Q.) grazing
j property for over a year. But they are
in rows 2£ft. apart, so that the “scrobic”
can’t beat the lucerne.
There are many pasture legumes.
Choose with an eye for your particular
locality and climate, then stock and
manage the paddocks with the greatest
care until you can see that the legume
has consolidated. Legumes sometimes
make good headway when the grasses
around them are in a dormant condi-
tion ; that’s the time to scatter seed over
bare spaces after a shower of rain.
Bracken Fern.
“C.C.”; Complete eradication of bracken
fern on southern coastal areas (N.S.W.)
is not an easy task. Its presence is a lia-
bility on any property, providing a per-
fect harbor for rabbits. Of the three con-
trol methods ploughing, Kikuyu grass and
lopping, the last-named is well suited to
steep sailings. Best time for lopping is the
December-March period, with the addi-
tion of 31b. or 41b. of subterranean clover
and lewt. or more of super, per acre of
lopped fern during the March period.
Spring lopping, whilst retarding the
growth of the fern, is almost a super-
human task over a large area unless
plenty of labor is available.
Kikuyu grass is good in smothering
fern, but is best used on the sunny side
of the property, and its growth even there
is not rapid. If ploughing it is a good
idea to set the plough deep enough to get
right under the mass of roots and leave
them for a time, before harrowing, ex-
posed to the sun or frost.
Fern ground is usually very fertile and
grows a good crop for a year or two be-
fore sowing with regular pasture mix-
tures. The dropping of the fern leaf year


EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyci and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co, Ply, Lid.. King Street. Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e Buffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course
Con f ition PowderirConstant' scratch -
L ng if*. ofte S a ? ign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
S b «" *»
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION g/9
nmr. i£ DINE DOG SOAP .. ~/S
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
5
BM
ţ
BARKO
IN MIDDLE-AGE
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a slowing
down of the healthy bladder action of youth. While
this is to be expected to a degree, if frequent and
poor kidney action is experienced Nature may be
warning that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous wastes out of the blood. They
help most people eliminate about 3 pints'a day.
An excess of acids or poisonous matter in your
blood, when 'due to functional kidney disorders,
may be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling and puffiness under the eyes, head-
aches and dizziness.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic used successfully by millions for over 40 years.
DOAN’S are a special medicine for the kidneys and
will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate
poisonous wastes from the blood. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Out* postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with 'orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO ,
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Do you need a
Jhtut/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The
Tour
»
nines
have
registered
twice
it
Caterpillar
-
many
a
Diesels
Hour-Meter
.
9
9
9
9
ť
Again and again "Caterpillar” has
exploded the old belief that the maxi-
mum economical life of a heavy-duty
tractor was around 10,000 working
hours. Even the early "Caterpillar”
Diesel Tractors including Diesel
"Thirty-fives,” "Fiftys,” and "Seventy-
fives”— have done 20,000 hours
and more of heavy work in the hands
of owners who keep accurate operating
and maintenance records. Scores of
other later model "Caterpillar” Diesel
machines, factory equipped with the
hour meter, have registered 9,999,
three times and more!
The Caterpillar Tractor Company
provides the hour meter for several
reasons. One is to encourage the
owner to lubricate, inspect and adjust
his Diesel at regular and recommended
intervals. Another is to provide a basis
for accurate power cost accounting.
And a third is to declare this com*
pany’s faith in the soundness and in-
built long life of its Diesel equipment.
CATERPILLAR D/£S££
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J, A. Ratbborne, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone—2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
45 03 South Brisbane. Phone — Jl4s6, Rankin St,, Innisfail, 'Phone—lnnisfail 475,
after year builds up the humus content of
the soil.
Calf Feeding.
“Rooster”: Patience, of course, is the
first requisite. Many finger tricks are
used by old-timers, who, more from habit
or tradition than anything else,- believe
in mimicking nature. But I’ve proved
that this is a waste of valuable time ;
it means 10 to 15 minutes per calf. In
the spring months, with anything up to
a dozen calves on hand, it would entail
hours of wrestling and “head-dipping,”
not to mention frayed tempers. I’ve seen
too many calves lie exhausted, panting
for breath after such struggles, to follow
such obviously futile methods.
Main idea is to get the calf really
hungry. It doesn’t hurt to starve it for
24 hours after taking it away from the
dam. Keep them as far apart as pos-
sible. Nothing renders the calf more
stubborn than to hear the familiar bel-
lows at feeding times close by. It’s a
reminder of captivity. Keep them tied
up where there is plenty of air and sun-
shine. When sufficiently hungry approach
naturally, avoiding clattering the bucket,
and tie the bucket securely to a tree
within easy reach of the calf. Then
fondle the animal for a few minutes,
gradually leading it to the bucket by
offering a finger. In this way you gain
the calf’s confidence. More often than
not the calf’s head goes down into the
milk with no other pressure applied.
Once it has had a taste, be it ever so
small, leave it to its own resources. Prob-
ably it won’t drink the first time. Repeat
the process at each visitation. Generally
the animal will drink from the bucket
within 48 hours, with no struggling or
finger-sucking. I’ve started hundreds off
in this way, with a minimum of trouble.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C”: Few laymen will attempt
minor operations on stock because of the
copious bleeding that sometimes follows.
This is eliminated if the part be first
painted with adrenalin chloride (6btain-,
able from any chemist). It is neces-
sary to break down the substance with
1000 parts of water before use. If bleed-
ing follows the operation, keep dabbing
with the solution. Monsill’s solution of
iron is also effective for arresting
haemorrhage.
“Sarina”: Queensland Agricultural
Department says Cheshunt mixture is
effective against “damping off,” a disease
that affects beet and cabbage seedlings
during damp, warm weather. It’s made
by mixing two parts of finely-powdered
bluestone with 11 parts of rock ammonia
(also finely-powdered) and allowing the
mixture to stand 24 or 30 hours in an
airtight glass jar before use. To use, add
loz. of it to every two gallons of water
and water the seedbeds generously. Wash
the watering-can in clean water after-
wards ; the mixture corrodes metals.
“W. Court”: Chinese long or snake
beans are heavy croppers on the Queens-
land tropical coast during the wet months,
and they appear to be immune from bean
fly—a curse wherever green manure crops
are grown in Queensland. A wire-netting
trellis or group of poles with crosspieces
enables the vines to climb and hold their
curved, greyish-white beans out of the
mud. The large New Guinea butter bean
is another quick-growing vine, and its
big beans have a delicate flavor when
picked young, and boiled.
“Myr”: Mangolds need a fairly rich,
deep soil with a good rainfall, as in
N.S.W. coastal and tableland districts. In
coastal areas sow any time from Febru-
ary to April; on tableland, August to
October. After a deep ploughing, the
soil needs to be worked until fine and
moist. The seed is sown in rows 3ft.
apart using 81b. to 101 b. to the acre. A
wheat drill using every fourth or fifth
run will do the job. Keep down weeds
and thin out the crop when large enough,
leaving one plant every 12 inches. Man-
golds take seven or eight months to
mature.
“Virgil”: Spray or dust tomatoes
afflicted with moth with lead arsenate
For the spray mix 2oz. of lead arsenate
powder in 4gal. of Water, or use a 50 p.c.
arsenate of lead powder as a dust. Apply
at intervals of seven to ten days, be-
ginning as the first blossoms are setting.
Continue for six to eight weeks. If lead
arsenate is visible on the fruit at picking-
time, wash it off.
“Humos”: Better to confine compost in
a bin. Mine is made of saplings, painted
with sump oil. Erect bin with saplings
laid “pigsty” fashion, line with old bags
which will rot quickly. Mix about 6oz.
lime or Boz. wood ash with each layer of
soil. Bacteria work better in a slightly
alkaline medium. An iron rod plunged
to the centre of the heap, left for a couple
of hours, when withdrawn will indicate
how the heap is heating.
“Bennie”: When staking tomatoes use
hardwood stakes, 15in. to 18in. apart,
in rows 3ft. to 3ft. 6in. apart. Stakes
should be about 7ft. long and driven in
about 2ft. At the given distances about
8000 stakes are needed per acre. Train
plants from the outset to single stems,
pinching off all laterals as soon as
formed. Tie the stems loosely to the
stakes every 12in. with rag or binder
twine.


AKUBRA
hat
hint—
No. 4
WRONG
RIGHT
Illustrating the correct and incorrect
method of placing your hat on a
hat peg. When hats are carelessly
placed on pegs, brims collect dust
and dirt and are pushed out of
shape by resting against walls or
other surfaces.
Always rest the side of your hat on
the hat peg—this allows it to hang
clear.
Take the hint—good hats are scarce.
i.
The correct way to put on a hat—grasp
brim at back and front.
Always brush WITH the nap—see arrow.
When ram-soaked, push out dents, turn up
brim and star>d hat on level surface.
Never allow your hat to be placed in a pile
with other hats.
Turn out leather—this allows perspiration
and hair oil to dry out.
When laying asfde a hat, put It away In a
hat box.
AKUBRA
t
ţ
'One a day for
your health*s sake**
e
WOLFES
UOMJtTK
W.S.I7S
WOLFES
KzJhvmdb6
SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Slip on to a hot dish and serve at once.
— Woman’s paper.
Hoping that your partner will find no
fault with the net result.
+ 4*
“Aid. S. W. Winders claimed that the posi-
tion of the Coolangatta Town Council in rela-
tion to the turf life-saving movement was
probably unique in Australia.
— “Courier-Mail.”
No risk of dead-uns being rung in
there.
•b *b *b
Cynic.
“Besides, this boy is lazy and a bully, also
he flirts with other girls and will not work.”
—Letter to Dorothy Dix.
And Dotty Dix wrote back to say,
“Quick! Wed this boy without delay.
Your letter, which again I scan.
Has proved you’ve got —a real man.”
Eve.
4* 4*
“Michael, his face studiedly expressionless,
was fiddling with the strap of his wrist watch.”
— “S.M.H.” magazine story.
Some coves can knock a tune out of
anything.
•b *b *b *b
“Why is it that women seem to have more
faith in men surgeons than in their own sex?”
—-“New Idea.”
The patient may entrust her life
To women medicos, and love them;
Yet knows, when illness needs the knife.
Men surgeons are a cut above them.
D. H. E.
•b *b *b # *b
Infernal Machine.
“A Los Angeles millionaire’s wife alleges
that he attempted to blow her up with a Ger-
man fountain-pen gas-bomb.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
When my Aunt Annie decided to blow
up her husband the rest of the family
encouraged her whim, as we considered
Uncle Albert had treated her rather badly
in trying to sell her to a circus as a
bearded lady. Uncle Albert was also
obscenely rich, but that had no bearing
on our co-operation.
We built Aunt Annie a shed at the
bottom of the garden, and soon became
accustomed to her turning up late for
meals in a blackened state, missing halt
her hair or an eyebrow. Her experiments
had a bad effect on the shed> whjch ended
up as a useful trellis for the front porch.
She eventually created a time-bomb,
which she intended to place under Uncle’s
bed. However, as her only method avail-
able for timing the device was a second-
hand grandfather clock, she found this
impracticable, as the clock wouldn’t work
in a horizontal attitude. She got over
b >' P ackin f, th f “Plosive
““ U ” I 1 ba “ B™ng Uncle the clock
r ;1 ,y pras f? b .
, 8 eV f ryo ?f
, h .j 1 e y , a ? nc c tlnk^ rt:t WI . LI
fcfS, “ ? ’ ?" mi ? g that the
clock was two days slow. Unfortunately,
Aunt Annie forgot herself to the extent
of going to help him. The only trace
we found of her was a persistent ticking
noise w hich haunted the room ever after-
wards. Uncle Albert collected most of
clock s mechanism on his torso, and
although he wasn’t badly injured we
found it impossible to extract the gears,
springs and catchments with which he was
pe^ e er^i d him to a cirals as a hunian
™bot
. . , . Plum.
“Ex-servicemen Wd hntterv manufacture
Must be \ hea I enly j ob '
“Will sell curio collector.”
— “Courier-Mail.”
Short-staffed museums will bid reck-
lessly for him,
4*4*. 4*4*
Coal-owners surprised.” S.M.H.’
A handful of misinformed miners must
have turned up for work.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Don’t search for the dream wife.”
— “Sun” (Dorothy Dix).
She may turn out to be a nightmare,
.j. .j. 4.
“There are more women of marriageable
age in Australia than there are eligible men.”
. ’ , —“New Idea.”
result that some will be
thrown to the wolves.
“Russia may soon influence our weather.”
— “Pocket Book.”
Hope she doesn’t make it too hot.
Dry Thought.
Thirsty days have September,
April, June and November.
Each other month’s a thirsty one —
A barman’s work is never done!
Paton.
4* 4*
Sartor Non Resartus.
“To enable him to wear them to a confer-
ence at Orange, clothing exhibits in a house-
breaking case, valued at £75, were restored to
their owner, a Sydney union official and
M.L.C.” — “Sun.”
The Organiser of the Dolls’ Eye
Polishers’ Union stepped back, the better
to regard the array of suits laid out on
his bed.
Chin in hand, he pondered the prob-
lem. He was to meet a deputation of
shop stewards that afternoon, and such
an occasion called for fastidious selection.
The 20-guinea brown double-breaster
was in quite good taste, but he had worn
it the last time he had met them in con-
ference, and it would never do to wear
it again this time and perhaps give them
the awful impression it was the only suit
he had. The pencil-striped navy sac.
“Mt new civvy boss used to he a corporal .”
although still in good order, was quite
old —he’d had it nearly three months
now and was tired of it. The smoke-
blue serge with the faint red stripe was
a favorite ; but only the other day he had
seen one of those bankers wearing a suit
of exactly the same material. Obviously
the cloth wasn’t exclusive as his tailor
had said. Now it was common he’d have
to throw it out; after all, he had the
dignity of his office to consider.
The morning coat with the grey striped
trousers was the outfit he reserved for
Domain rallies and Four-Hour-Day pro-
cessions and for car trips to Canberra
when ordering the P.M, to do something
special Meadows should have known
better than to have put it out. Somehow
ŧ
The Lesser Evil.
“U.S. Supreme Court Judges have had to de-
cide whether the Varga girls’ legs in ‘Esquire’
are ‘too long to be Art.’ ”
The layman who surveys a slim
And lissom female nether limb
Will find that it conveys to him
Impressions of agility.
But when it comes to legal lore
The leg provides occasion for
Some criticism on the score
Of stark improbability.
And yet, when Art assumes the guise
Of “modern” paintings which comprise
A mass of polychrome distortion.
Artistic judges, I’d surmise,
Would find the longest Varga thighs
Guiltless of any disproportion.
P. M. LUSK.
Ode to a Bluebottle.
Oh, bluebottle, at ease reclining
Where sunny sands are wetly shining,
You seem in harmony with life
And not at all desiring strife.
So prithee tell me why should I
Upraise my walking-stick on high,
And bring it down upon you neatly.
Annihilating you completely ?
I don’t see why I should, do you ?
Still, that’s what I propose to do.
T. W. NATHAN.


Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of MRS.
FLORENCE HENDRY (widow of CRAWFORD
HENDRY), formerly of Richardson Street, Middle
Park, but last heard of in Sydney, communicate with
the undersigned?—A. S. FITCHETT, Solicitor, High
Street, Terang, Victoria.
IP THOMAS ARNOLD GREENHALGH son of Mary
Elizabeth Greenhalgh deceased late of Blundellsands,
Lancashire, England, or if he has died any of his
C -ii u 8n ’ Wl££ comm unicate with the undersigned they
o£ ®° methin S to their advantage. LIGHT-
BOUNDS, JONES & CO., Solicitors, 18 Water
Street, Liverpool, England.
HARD HITTING
AUSTRALIANS
? i
S
V
/
fi
ICI
lAMBS
\
Adrian Quist, prominent member of
Australian Davis Cup teams from 1933-
39. Holder Australian singles champion-
ship, 1940. A classic performer.
While production of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN and
.22 RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES is increasing
steadily, existing conditions prevent full
supplies at the moment. Police permits are
still necessary, but ■ holders must not be
disappointed if supplies are not immedi-
ately available.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
INVEST IN THE COMMONWEALTH SECURITY LOAN
Why the money you
have in the Bank
would be better in the
SECURITY LOAN
It’s good to have money in the bank, to enjoy the feeling of security your
“nest egg” provides. But you can do better ... money invested in Security
Loan earns better than bank rates of interest!
Remember, a current account earns no interest at all. Fixed
Deposits range from \°/o to Even Savings Banks do not
pay as well!
Here is what your Security Bonds will earn for you 9 with no
limit on the amount invested:
3i%
PER ANNUM IF YOU
INVEST IN 12-YEAR
SECURITIES.
ft
I O/n
Urn /U
PER ANNUM IF YOU
INVEST IN 3-YEAR
SECURITIES.
Your money is always available
Your money is not necessarily tied up for the full term of the Security
Bonds you buy. If you need ready cash for any emergency your
Security Loan Bonds are readily saleable for their full market value.
Investments in Security Bonds serve a
twofold purpose: —
1. You put your savings to work at
higher than bank rates of interest,
thus obtaining increased income. Pay-
ment of interest and repayment of the
loan in full at maturity are a first
charge on the whole assets of Australia
—this is the finest security available.
2. You directly assist in establishing the
present and future economic security
of Australia (and yourself) ; you speed
the re-conversion of industry; you
help keep prices down; and, most im-
portant of all, you help make possible
the complete Rehabilitation of our
service men and women.
Check your savings to-day and invest to
the limit —make new savings as well, and
buy Bonds by instalments out of income.
FACTS ABOUT THE
£70,000.000 SECURITY LOAN
All you lend will be used to meet commit ■
ments arising out of the war, particularly the
rehabilitation of Australian service men and
women.
2. Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO,
or Inscribed Stock, may be purchased for
cash or by instalments through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or
Stockbroker. Interest is payable each six
months, at 3\% per annum for 12 years or
2% per annum for 3 years. The 2% short-
term interest rate should appeal to companies
and individuals with money temporarily
available for investment.
3, Repayment in full at maturity is guaran-
teed by the Commonwealth. Bonds and In-
scribed Stock are readily saleable to meet an
emergency.
4. On your application form credit your
subscription to your district to help its
quota.
Sign your name
for Security
INVEST IN THE
SECURITY
LOAN
5L19.113.36
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Meditations, by Descartes; Principles
of Human Knowledge, by Berkeley; Life and
Thought in the Greek and Roman World, by
Cary and Haaroff. —3717.
To buy Livy, Book II; Life and Thought in
the Greek and Roman World, by Cary and
Haaroff; and Ancient Times, by Breasted. —
3718.
To buy and sell rare books. —3719.
To buy Ogilvie’s Fair Girls and Grey Horses.
—3720.
To buy Deadline, by Pierre Lazareff. —3721.
Name and address of married sister of the
late poet William Baylesbridge.—3722.
Information Sought.
Winners of gold medal awarded annually
by the Australian Literature Society for (1)
fiction and (2) poetry?
(1) 1928: Martin Boyd, The Montforts;
1929: Henry Handel Richardson, Ultima
Thule; 1930: Vance Palmer, The Passage;
1931: Frank Dalby Davison, Man Shy; 1932:
Leonard Mann, Flesh and Armour; 1933: G.
B. Lancaster, Pageant; 1934: Eleanor Dark,
Prelude to Christopher; 1935: Winifred
Birkett, Earth’s Quality; 1936: Eleanor Dark,
Return to Coolami; 1937: Kenneth Mac-
Kenzie, The Young Desire It; 1938: Xavier
Herbert, Capricornia; 1939: Patrick White,
Happy Valley; 1940: Eric Lowe, Framed in
Hardwood; 1.941: Kylie Tennant, The
Battlers. No award has been made since 1941.
(2) 1938: R. D. FitzGerald, Moonlight Acre;
1939: William Baylebridge, This Vital Flesh;
1940: No award; 1941: Leonard Mann,
Poems from the Mask. No award has been
made since 1941.
* * *
Method of removing cuttings from a scrap-
book without damaging them?
Place clean, wet blotting-paper over the
cuttings or apply to the back of the page if
the back is blank and only if the page is made
of porous paper. When the moisture from
the blotting-paper has had time to soak through
the cuttings may be removed without difficulty.
* * *
The difference between a barrister’s and a
solicitor’s studies ?
To become a barrister matriculation is neces-
sary before becoming a student-at-law and
passing all examinations or 1 ” obtaining a degree
from the university. A solicitor must matricu-
late, become an articled clerk for at least' five
years as well as pass all examinations. The
Prothonotary, Supreme Court, Sydney, can
supply further details.
* * * *
The process of converting barley into malt?
Barley is steeped in water until thoroughly
saturated and spread on a concrete floor, where
germination proceeds for several days. It is
turned at regular intervals so that the growth
may be uniform. Before the acrospire grows
beyond the confines of the grain the desired
chemical change has taken place in the starch,
further growth is arrested by placing the
growing barley in kilns, where the grain is
again turned periodically until quite dry. The
rootlets are then dressed off, and the malt is
ready for the brewhouse.
Brief Answers.
A.B.: Decision to observe in N.S.W. Aus-
tralia Day on the Monday following Jan. 26
took effect as from 1935, when the holiday was
proclaimed for Monday, Jan. 28, instead of
the preceding Saturday. The Act has not yet
been amended, but special action is taken by
proclamation each year. There have been two
occasions (1938, 1943) since 1935 when the
holiday has been observed on the day it fell.
G.I.: (1) The proportions are correct. (2)
Soak the linen fishing lines in a solution of
£lb. to fib. of common soap per gallon water,
then pass them through a copper sulphate
(ilb. to 1 lb. per gallon water) solution. Some
fishermen maintain that solpah oil gives the
best results on linen lines J.A.S.: Sprinkle
naphthalene liberally in places frequented by
the bats... .G.McL.; The book, which is out
of print, is Australian Authors and Artists’
Handbook G.T.S.: Flea powders should be
used, every four days, as nits hatch in that
time B.U.: (1) The M.V. Neptuna made one
trip to Hongkong via Rabaul before she was
taken over by Bums, Philp and Co. The
Merkur did not make any voyage to the East
on the Norddeutscher Lloyd account, but was
taken over at Sydney by Bums, Philp and Co.
(2) The vessel was the Bremerhafen A.N.:
On October 7, 1909, Oscar Asche, playing
Brutus, gave a special performance of “Julius
Qesar.” The full programme can be inspected
at the office of J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Syd-
ney D.F.: (1) Proposed composition of the
detachment for London has been given in the
papers and over the air. (2) U.N.R.R.A.,
A.C.I. Building, William-street, Sydney....
JC.E.H.: That saw is distributed by Walter A.
Cox Pty., Ltd., 193 Clarence-street, Sydney.
....H.S.A.; Such tradesmen are at a premium
in Sydney. A specimen of your work to-
gether with a written application should be sent
to Angus and Coote Pty., Ltd., 500 George-
street, Sydney N.B.H.: Those maps may be
obtained from the S.A. and W.A. Departments
of Lands... .H.A.S.: Mark’s Timber Ready
Reckoner, Sawn and Log Timber and Aus-
tralian Saw-millers’ Log and Timber Ready
Reckoner are obtainable from Angus and
Robertson.
Answers to Correspondents.
L.G.: It has more virtues than faults, but
the virtues aren’t strong enough M.L.: “A
deep, soft, green valley where fauna is rare.”
Wordsworth would never have written “When
all at once I saw a crowd, a host of golden
flora” R.C.: The insertion of a few elegant
jawbreakers doesn’t really add much to such
an old theme J. 8.: Hit the ancient on the
head J.W.: As you suspected, too blank.
G.P.: For a woman’s paper G.J.W.:
It hardly begins to be a poem Grumpy:
Grumpy K.McA.: Merely dropping your
“g’s” won’t get you very far JJ.A.:
Rough; but there’s feeling in it... .J.E.S.:
Picture of poet sitting in Nature’s lap is unin-
tentionally comic... .N.MacP.: A hunk of
nothing in particular J.L.: Desperate....
C.G.W.: You seem to be seeing stars....
Bellerive: The letter is long, the verse is
short, but both are welcome;
PRIVATE DETAILS.
Born in Dunedin, New Zealand, on March 18,
1871, and reared from an infant in Victoria, I’m
75 today, and I feel the effects of my former varied
career. One of the many battlers on small wages
in the long-dead-and-gone years, I’d neither the
means nor ambition to devote my days to study.
Most of my early samples of verse were jotted down
during late hours of night. Though the most un-
profitable of my versatile abilities when a young
man, I pursued the task, which influenced me.
From my recollections of big Burke-street in former
years I recall the once popular Orient Hotel, where
I oft relished a little tasty counter-lunch with a
glass of ale for threepence, like one of Nature’s
gentlemen.
I like to look back
To the long years sped.
Memories live though
The past is dead.


MAKERS O/lIGH
ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATORS,
ECKERSLEY SODA FOUNTAINS
AND AERATED WATER
MACHINERY,
EKSEL EXPANSION VALVES,
E.K. CORDIALS AND ESSENCES.
CCHERSLEY&SONS PTYLTD .VICTORIA
AGENTS: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA.), LTD.
Insure with, the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Claims * ruu H n w . j. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
THE MARTYR
BY E. A. GOLLSCHEWSKY
EVERYBODY said Uncle Hugo was
hard on Aunt Martha, And it
seemed grossly unfair that the
wicked should prosper (as did
Uncle Hugo, flamboyantly and spectacu-
larly) and that the meek should inherit
so little of this world’s goods (as did
Aunt Martha).
Our mother would never admit that
this was the actual state of affairs.
“Underneath,” she would state decidedly,
“he must be feeling it. And some day
he’ll get his just deserts, you wait and
see,”
But although we studied our uncle
intently, every Christmas when we went
to spend a few weeks at his home, we
never detected any sign of inward suffer-
ing. Indeed, as the years passed, Aunt
Martha showed more signs of wear and
tear, of ill-concealed sorrow, and half-
hidden tragedy ; while Uncle Hugo grew
steadily plumper, flasher and more
jovial with Aunt Martha’s hard-earned
money.
We were spending our last vacation
with Uncle Hugo, though none of us
knew it. He came to meet us at the
station, and piled our miscellany of lug-
gage on to the scarlet wheelbarrow he
had bought for the purpose. We
thought, covertly, that he looked rather
handsome, and were ashamed because
the very thought seemed a treachery to
poor Aunt Martha. His plump face was
rosy, his well-oiled hair gave off a lovely
smell of carnations, and his neatly-
patched, shiny serge suit was immaculate.
Everybody said Aunt Martha kept him
like a new pin, and how little he appreci-
ated it. That morning, from his speckless
collar and bizarre tie to his thin-leathered,
twinkling shoes, he was splendid.
OUTSIDE the tall, leaning building,
ugly with’ peeling paint and general
neglect, he parked us under an orna-
mental tree.
“I have to see a man in here about a
job. He’s promised me something worthy
of my ability, and I shouldn’t like to
miss the opportunity.” He mopped his
forehead with a fragrant, blue-bordered
handkerchief and gave me a speculative
look. “Do you happen to be holding
well?”
My fingers tightened over mother’s
little black purse.
“I have five shillings. Father said I
wasn’t on any account to let you get
your hands on it, so I can’t lend it,
Uncle Hugo.” The last sentence struck
an apologetic note.
He grinned. “Righto. Now mind your
little brother till I come back.”
The shade left us after a bit and the
sun grew hot. Other people entered the
swing doors of the pub and came out
again, but not Uncle Hugo. We slept
for a while, and when we woke up Uncle
Hugo was asleep beside us, his head pil-
lowed on the" box of cakes mother had
sent to Aunt Martha.
We picked up the handles of the wheel-
barrow and set off for Aunt Martha’s
house, leaving him there, with dust from
the road drifting lazily into his open
mouth.
Aunt Martha waited for us at, the
garden gate, her face, pinched and
anxious, turned towards the road leading
to town. When we arrived she ran to
meet us, and caught us in her arms,
hugging us tight to her hard, fiat chest.
“Poor little things! ” she reiterated over
and over. “Poor, poor, little dears!”
We began to cry, not knowing quite
why. The morning had been interesting
enough, jknd somebody had given us
lemonade* and pies while we kept our
vigil.
“Cod knows what your mother would
say, exposing you to such terrible things.
That man has no sense of responsibility.”
Drawing back suddenly she gave us a
piercing look. “Where is he?”
We told her briefly. Sadness settled
on her like an enveloping cloud. No
more anger touched that infinitude of
sorrow.
“Well, go in, children, and have some
tea.” The matter was closed. She
wouldn’t mention it again. But there was
that in her voice, her bearing, that con-
stantly reminded us of the cross she
carried.
People always said how brave our Aunt
Martha was. And never once did we
hear her complain. Nor did anybody
else. When well-meaning friends and
relatives offered her sympathy or pity she
said nothing, only flashed her deter-
minedly bright smile and pushed her chin
a little higher.
Aunt Martha’s doorsteps were as spot-
less as ever. The knocker twinkled in the
afternoon sunshine. But her lovely gar-
den lay in ruins. She saw us looking at
it and sighed,
“Somebody,” she said resignedly, “left
the gate open a few nights ago and the
goats got in.” We knew at once that
Uncle Hugo was the culprit, and felt
clever because we’d seen through Aunt’s
little subterfuge. Let her protect him
if she would —we knew what a beast he
was.
EVERYTHING in the house was bright
and shining and old-fashioned;
shabby, with a sort of proud, well-cared-
for poverty that resolutely kept its spirits
high. It was like Aunt Martha her-
self.
Tall and spare, with her mousey hair
neatly bunned, she moved swiftly around,
setting out tea things. Her eyes were
small and red-lidded, her nose long, her
lips thin. And the elongated effect was
emphasised by a. stringy neck red from
exposure to the sun.
When we went to bed that night, Aunt
Martha sat sewing by the lighted lamp,
her spectacles on the end of her nose, her
face uglier than ever with distorted,
shadowy contours. She would still be
there when the errant one came fumbling
his way indoors.
It used to embarrass us the way Uncle
Hugo spoke to Aunt Martha—as if she
were something beneath his notice but
had to be recognised because she held
purse-strings, public goodwill, business
acumen and other civil conveniences.
“The steak’s burnt,” he would growl,
not lifting his eyes quite high enough to
meet hers. She would be thrown into an
immediate flutter.
“I’m so sorry, Hugo. Try this piece—
it’s underdone. Just how you like it.”
But he liked to push his plate away
and rise from the table, leaving his meal
scarcely touched. Tears would spring to
Aunt Martha’s eyes, but she always
brushed them off and turned a smiling
face to us.
“Your uncle’s a trifle offcolor this
morning. Now tell me what you’ll do
while I’m at work.”
She slaved five days a week at the
local factory, and the other two she spent
slaving at home. Everybody said what
a toiler our Aunt Martha was, and how
lazy was Uncle Hugo.
After she’d gone to work Uncle Hugo
used to come out and have a feed, and
make us cups of thick, sweet cocoa and
tell us about the new two-up school he
was attending. For a while we forgot
his fiendishness, and laughed at his jokes
and felt he was a pretty good uncle. Then
he’d go all over Aunt Martha’s hiding-
places and if he couldn’t find any money
he’d get furious.
“Don’t you ever marry,” he’d warn
us, his eyes squinting swinishly from
behind rolls of fat. “Leastways, not a
good woman. Some good women are
hellishly good.” Then he’d throw every-
thing off the knick-knack stand and&reak
little china figures. And he’d turn out
the drawers and lift up the lino, and,
puffing and heaving, would subside at
last.
“Now, where’s she put it this time?
Two bob to the kid who finds it first.”
“ But we never looked very hard be-
cause our hearts were torn between
loyalty to poor Aunt Martha and lust
for the two bob.
Sometimes he found it himself. When
he didn’t, he would sulk to Aunt Martha,
spend all his time at the tobacconist’s on
the corner, talking to the girl who worked
there, and scarcely touch his food.
Aunt Martha used to cry then, and
write long letters to our mother in which
she never mentioned Hugo, so mother
knew he was playing up ; and she would
laugh and talk to us with one of her
birdlike eyes on Uncle Hugo.
If she held out too long he’d go away
for a few days without telling her where
he went. By the time he returned Aunt
Martha would be in such a frenzy of grief
and terror that she would receive him
with open arms, showering him with all
her worldly possessions, and treating him
to the best of everything she could pro-
vide.
FROM one of these trips Uncle
Hugo never returned. He was
fishing with an old crony, camping in a
disused hut down on the beach. While
Aunt Martha sent frantic messages ail
over the country after him, barely three
miles away he lazed away the long
summer days, fishing, eating and sleeping.
They couldn’t have caught much,
though, or Uncle Hugo wouldn’t have
The Devil and the Angel (5).
This one is something of a different story,
Our rendezvous the National Library.
You know the woodcuts of an earlier
period ?
The King I speak of dies in such a one:
We met there to release him.
There he lay
His body pinched up to a shrunken
splendor.
One hand With sceptre and one at his heart
To still the catch of his vacating breath.
His crown upon his head; his cloak of fur;
And canopy over all: with much of rich-
ness—-
And all so crammed into a little space,
We kept the doorway, so to speak, for air,
Standing upon the threshold of the pic-
ture.
The Queen and all her ladies, crowd,
attending
In mediceval poses of dismay,
While several angels hover up above
them
With scrolls and trumpets and a wreath
of flowers.
How memory sets the picture still before
me !
The wicked Regents plotting in the back-
ground
With hand to sword, their brows cross-
hatched with evil,
And half the Court it seems; the Mini-
sters,
And Bishop in his robes. Then tapes-
tries
With knights at tourney, Daphne turned
to laurel,
Columns and archways, carved almost to
riot.
“Death” I said to the Devil
Who made a stir of restlessness beside me,
“Death is not dignified by such regalia;
“Better at last is poverty and aloneness.”
He nodded in agreement, to my pleasure.
Then, like conspirators, unseen, on tiptoe
We left them to their panoply and
splendor —
Throe centuries since that was.
The King, I suppose* meanwhile is still
a-dying
And every now and then it pricks my
conscience.
The Devil’s, too, perhaps, if he allows it.
And yet we both keep silence on the
matter.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Possum.
Vast at the ' window
The gum-trees stand.
They watch the movement
Of the writing hand,
They hear the thunder
Of the mind at work,
They are crowned with starlight
Out there in the dark;
Gigantic they tower
On the mind’s black ridges.
The pitiless watchers.
The secret judges.
Stranger, who are you ?
What do you want?
there at the window
Where the branches glint.
With your black-nailed claw
And your black round stare ,
And your sharp wild face
And your silver fur.
Is it food, then, possum ?
Is it only cake ?
When you stretch out your hands
It is mine that shake.
In symbol and mask
Our masters come,
They stand at the window.
They enter the room.
They stare at that bitter
Bright world of men,
The sweat on the forehead.
The moving pen . . .
Possum, who are you ?
Half beast and half ghost
With your great black eyes
In that body of mist —
Who would have thought
They would send out of space
So much of gentleness.
So much of grace ?
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


A'o
-V
How do You measure Travel Time?
Whether the destination of a
trip is across a country or a conti-
nent, the airplane has made the
calendar obsolete in measuring
time spent en route. As a result
of the plane, typical telegrams
which once read "Leaving Monday
will arrive Tuesday night” now
say, "Leaving seven o’clock to-
night will arrive before midnight.”
The plane cannot create more
days per week. But it can save
hours on short trips and anywhere
from days to weeks over longer
distances. More important, each
trip will be shortened to hours or
minutes of easy comfort, instead
of the commonly expected fatigue
of travel. As for cost, when you
go by air you will find rates com-
parable to, or in some cases, even
below, those of first class sur-
face travel over the same route.
One reason for the ease and
speed of air travel is efficient,
economical engine power. On air
routes the world over, you will
find Wright Cyclone engines used
by leading lines,. They are in use
because of their power, reliability,
and the payload bonus
they offer due to their lighter
weight per horsepower. Their con-
tinued use is doing much to bring
the world’s air travel to you.
THE JOB FOR PLANES TO COME
a:
In future air commerce, the Martin Mars
transports will be heavy-duty carriers
on long ocean routes. In three days, a
Mars transport can carry 20 tons of
cargo to any spot on earth, at one of
the lowest lon-mile rates yet reached.
Its power; four Cyclone 18's of 2,200
horsepower each.
t
MIGHT
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
Division or
CURTISS^ES^WRIGHT
FIRST IN FLIGHT
Wright Aeronautical Corporation • Paterson, New Jersey,
REPRESENTATIVES: AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E.
A
L. HEYMANSOK & COMPANY, MELBOURNE
got ptomaine poisoning from the tinned
stew. It killed him. ,
“You must go to your Aunt Martha s
just the same,” our mother told us when
we got the letter. “You’ll have a much
happier time without that terrible man.”
- Everybody said it was a release tor
Aunt Martha, and that it only went to
show you that the wicked get their just
deserts in due time.
So the following Christmas we went
again to Aunt Martha’s.
It should have been a happier holiday.
Aunt Martha should have been radiant,
free from care and the crushing effects
of life with one entirely selfish and de-
praved. She had plenty of money for
herself now, but her clothes were even
shabbier and showing signs of neglect.
She met us at the station, and took us
home in a taxi. Somehow it wasn’t gay
and exciting as the trips with Uncle Hugo
had been. Aunt Martha seemed preoccu-
pied and depressed, even impatient of our
chatter and questions.
What was even more surprising, the
pride and joy of her life, the little tumble-
down cottage at the end of the lane, re-
vealed lack of care and attention. The
garden was overgrown. Fowls had wan-
dered over the front steps, and the
knocker was mildewed. Everything spoke
of makeshift and neglect. We couldn’t
get our gaunt aunt to romp and sing
hymns. The glow of her bright, unfailing
good humor was, for the first time, com-
pletely extinguished.
When she went to work we were lonely.
We looked through her albums till we
knew all the faces by heart, and then we
started on the garden. But she didn’t
even notice we had dug up her geraniums
and planted sweetpeas along the border.
Disappointed, we gave that up, too.
Meals were poorly cooked and served
on soiled cloths or none at all. Many
consisted of cold sausage, cooked ham,
warmed-up pies.
“It’s not worth cooking a meal for
just us,” said Aunt Martha.
She looked tired at night when she
came in, and went to bed early. There
were no more games of chess or
consequences, because there was nobody
to wait up for.
Everybody said our Aunt Martha was
heartbroken over our Uncle Hugo’s treat-
ment of her, and that the final blow he
had dealt her—of dying away from her
watchful care —had broken her undaunted
spirit at last.
THE following year we wouldn’t go
to her place for the holidays. So she
came to us. But everybody was glad
when she went home.
She kept getting offended at things we
said and did, and took to flouncing away
on her own. In those days Aunt Martha
was hard to live with. She took to talk-
ing of sickness, and brought huge volumes
labelled Home Physician or Female Dis-
turbances and other disquieting titles. Her
room overflowed with bottles of all sizes,
shapes and colors.
Lots of things affected her in a way
they’d never done before, and we were
obliged to shut doors and windows, chop
out the wattle-tree and fill her hotwater
bottle every night.
Food became an obsession with her,
and mother was reduced to a nervous
state trying to satisfy an appetite that
could not cope with fat, sugar, acid, milk,
fruit or meat.
She began to talk about Uncle Hugo
as if he’d been a saint. Incredibly, she
completely forgot his stolid indifference,
his orgies of drinking, his shiftlessness
and the dark years of their life together.
“When dear Hugo was with me,” pre-
faced almost every remark she made.
But just after her return to her own
home Aunt Martha began to mention in
her letters a man called Edward. He
worked at the next bench to hers. Once
he took her to the pictures and bought
her a packet of jubes (“enclosed find
ribbon from same for Judith’s hair”). An-
other day they went to the beach.
Illness took up less space in her letters
after that, and Edward took up more,
with ever-increasing approval and coy
references to his manners, looks and
worthiness.
Everybody said she’d be a fool to marry
again. She’d got nothing but trouble
from her last packet; why shouldn’t she
enjoy her freedom? But it made no dif-
ference to Aunt Martha. She wrote that
Edward was hard-working, kind and
middle-aged.
He was a teetotaller, too. It was hard
to get total abstainers these days, especi-
ally when one was no longer young. He
looked a little like the earlier pictures of
Lloyd George, distinguished and refined,
but his face was a little stronger-looking,
if we knew what she meant. They were
being married in April.
Not till some weeks after the honey-
moon did Aunt Martha burst her bomb-
shell. Then it \vas dk>ne casually, as if,
after all, it was only what one would
expect, and not a bit out of the ordinary.
“I don’t think I mentioned,” the letter
ran, “that Edward is the father of six
fine boys Edward is going to insist
that they treat me with more respect and
consideration when they settle down. In
the meantime we must just love them and
hope for the best. lam making marma-
lade today.”
The Kidney and the Wren.
A MELODRAMA.
The jackass laughs in the white light;
The silence of the noon
Is shattered. From a crooked tree
He cackles like a loon.
The crow throws on his villainous cloak
In the footlights of the sun.
And though the lark, the thrush, the wren,
May hiss from stalls of briar.
The black crow looks from lidded eyes,
His voice is colder than the skies,
He pecks a young lamb’s kidney out
And throws it to the choir.
And lo ! The smallest little wren
Quits hissing, quits the thicket;
Sun glints from avaricious eye ;
Her beak is quick to pick it.
A golden hawk drops from the sun;
The wren and lamb are one.
The jackass laughed in the white light;
The silence on the noon was shattered.
I asked him what the moral was?
He said “As if it mattered!”
He laughed aloud: “It was kid-stakes;
I prefer snakes.”
N.s.w.
DAVID CAMPBELL .
Theseus.
Who can guess at the truth, when the
tides of Time
Ruffle the bed of history’s sea,
And shifting grains of sand add to the bulk
Of once-slender anonymity ?
Theseus, drunk with love and Cretan rites.
Thinking of tight-breasted Ariadne
And the sword she gave in answer to his
boast.
Trod fearfully and slow the darkling
path.
Beset by self-reproach; the coast
Glittering in his memory, and all
The daylight’s things, new-cherished since
he had them not.
Soft-stepping through the darkness with
the sword and thread,
He thought deliberately, in that place of
the dead,
Of the accomplished act, and the claque
of his fancy
Rendered the darkness vociferous with
applause. <
Applause that diminished not, so that his
head rang,
While the circumambulant blood in his
veins
Leapt to the song that he sang;
So that the noise he made awoke the
Minotaur,
Who stood at bay, and looked him long
and straight.
The sword-proud one paused wonder-
struck to see
Not the mis-shapen monster of allegory
But a youth with handsome body like a
god;
Bull-headed, but in all else more than
human.
Having eyes that mirrored youth’s un-
rest
And all the unhappiness and discontent
Theseus himself
Could remember thinking his alone.
His glance slid from those eyes.
He could not bear
To see the things he might have been
Mirrored so clearly there.
The Minotaur read his purpose, and
backed to the chalky wall,
Bracing himself to accept the sword’s
swift fall;
And Theseus, pinning him as he stood
(His sword piercing the man-beast’s breast
To bed its point in the yellow wall),
Averted his gaze from those knowing
eyes,
His soul shuddering a response to the soft
cry
Which issued so oddly from those in-
articulate lips.
And then back again to darkness.
That he might reach the light and the
glittering coast
And the chanting crowd assembled there
To praise the man who made good his
boast.
Triumph he had; but, thinking of those
eyes,
The little cry, of pleasure not the least.
It seemed long dormant wisdom stood.
An umbra at the feast.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National, life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluyius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
Office: 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY 1
Your WILL...
A Will that is not correctly and explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The prudent man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against such possibilities by having
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn by
his Solicitor and appointing a qualified Executor and
Trustee.
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expert
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
information you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on
application.
Write for a Booklet.
ft
V,
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
John Ewing
P. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
Owners* and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
/—* Dividends Nominal
Pref. Ro-
Oct., Profit. 6J p.c. Ordinary. serves.
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 p.c. = 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ ~ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 .. 343,783
Cash bonus (3f p.c.), £306,042 .. 38,741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
1938.. 911,479 96,507 10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
1939.. 915,951 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 1,200,708
Unexplained addition, £126,960 . . 1}327,668
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.c. = 862,944 1,353,463
Unexplained addition, £ll2l .. 1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,378,009
Unexplained addition, £lOO7 .. ..1,379,016
1942.. 983.187 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 .. 1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,450,418
Unexplained addition, £9902 . . 1,460,320
1944.. 961,910 111,188 9 p.c. = 848,474 1,467,568
Unexplained addition, £16,305 ..1,483,873
1945.. 948,915 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,478,126
* After deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
This big and efficient industrial organ-
isation enjoys a commanding position in
the Australian tobacco trade. The operat-
ing subsidiaries are W. D. and. H. O.
Wills, British Australian Tobacco, States
Tobacco Co., Carreras and S. T. Leigh
and Co. The last-named makes and prints
the cartons in which the cigarettes and
tobacco manufactured by the other four
are packed and sold.
The group is a handsome contributor
to the public Treasury, paying over
£20,000,000 p.a. in import and excise duties
alone. In addition, the Government takes
64d. of the lOd. at which a popular brand
of cigarettes sells retail, and Is. 9d. of
the 2s. 10yd. the public pays for a 2oz.
packet of a popular brand of tobacco.
That leaves the manufacturer 3yd. and
Is. respectively to cover the cost of
leaf and other raw materials, manufac-
ture, distribution, taxation and other over-
head, as well as wholesaler’s and retailer’s
profit margins. And the taxgatherer
makes off with a large slice of the profit,
which is again taxed when distributed
as dividends to shareholders.
The shrinkage (£12,995) in last year’s
profit was the result mainly of a . further
rise in cost of imported American leaf.
The £948,915 was written after deduct-
ing outside shareholders’ interests, allow-
ing £77,732 (down £2920) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation. It was
sufficient to pay the prefs. their 6y p.c.
and show 8.9 p.c. on the £9,371,933 of
ord, and B capital. The div., kept at
9 p.c. for the fifth year in succession,
called for £5747 more than the profit
claimed. In addition to reserves shown
in the table —labelled nominal because
they are subject to £3,969,610 of intan-
gibles—there is a depreciation provision
of £2,583,310 against freehold and plant
that cost £2,970,080. Fixed assets, there-
fore, have a net book value of only
£386,770.
While manufacturers! selling prices
have remained fixed, there have been
annual increases in the cost of American
leaf and lifts in excise, tariff, wages and
other costs. The broad aim of the Gov-
ernment in its price-fixing policy was to
keep the cost-of-living index steady, and
so remove the cause for wage adjust-
ments. Increases in the cost of imported
goods, owing to rises in price in the coun-
try of origin and other causes, were to
be met by payment of a subsidy or ab-
sorbed by the business concerned. The
British Tobacco group applied for a sub-
sidy in July, 1943. The Government
answered in April, 1944, with special
legislation granting a rebate of 4y p.c.
on excise, which has no connection with
landed cost. This discriminatory depar-
ture from policy and principle was car-
ried yet a step further when Minister for
Trade and Customs Dedman informed
the board that a “certain maximum profit
for the co. had been decided upon, and
that any profit over and above this should
be paid to the Government.” On the
ground that this was illegal the board
refused to comply with the Ministerial
demand, and there the matter ended.
After protracted negotiations, the worst
iniquities of the special legislation were
ironed out on a basis “satisfactory” to
the co.
Now the Government, for reasons of
its own and against the advice of all sec-
tions of the tobacco trade, has discon-
tinued tobacco rationing as from end of
March. Until production gets more into
line with demand, manufacturers have
decided to continue distribution of their
products on the basis of the official quota
system, because it is considered most
equitable to the public in the circum-
stances. The production problem can be
expected to right itself as soon as the
present shortage of female labor is over-
come. Stocks of American leaf in Aus-
tralia are ample, says the chairman. Sup-
plies of the 1944 American crop have
been received, and the co.’s full requisi-
tion from the 1945 crop has been pur-
chased, at increased prices, but not yet
delivered. Australian-grown leaf —there
is a ready market for the right type—is
in short supply.'
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the group:
1939. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £9,619,186 £11,082,521 £11,082,521
Outside shares* 18,854 90,457 89,362
Deprec. reserve 1,985,459 2,529,962 2/583,310
Creditors! .. 621,631 1,985,091 1,851,587
Freeholds .. 1,138,241 1,264,272 1,284,700
Plant, etc. .. 1,470,620 1,677,047 1,685,380
Stock .. .. 6,625,660 8,472,866 8,236,275
Debtors .. 1,246,264 1,202,616 1,241,625
Investments .. 309,922 363,077 371,087
Cash .. .. 124,557 299,930 389,948
Goodwill, etc. . . 2,693,293 3,969,610 3,969,610
* Including proportion reserves.
! Including tax provision, etc.
Last term stocks were reduced by £236,591,
and £133,504 was clipped off the outside
debt. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£8,387,348)
was £34,050.
The £11,082,521 of capital is in
1,710,588 6y p.c. cum. prefs., 8,753,196
ords. and 618,737 B shares. The B shares
participate equally with the ords. for
divs. and, in a wind-up, in any remaining
assets after repayment of pref, and ord.
capital. The market prices the prefs. at
325. 3d., the ords. at 535. 9d. and the B
shares at 48s. At these figures the return
is 4 p.c., 3.3 p.c. and 3.7 p.c. respectively
on the basis of last year’s distributions.
Including the depreciation, etc., reserve,
the net tangible backing is £6 10s. Bd.
prefs., 21s. 6d. ords. and Is. 6d. B shares.
Huddart Parker. Ltd.
r- Dividends —*
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£, £> £ £> £
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 p.c. =52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7J „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 ~,, 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 772,642
1939. .139,216 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 4,216 776,858
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.!
Surplus sale investment, £6450 .. 2,028,157
1940. .128,634 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 8,634 2,036,791
Adjustment, outside interests, £9986.. 2,046,777
1941. .140,213 30,000 12 p.c. =90,000 20,213 2,066,990
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..2,056,990
Adjustment outside interests, £4892 .. 2,061,882
Surplus sale assets, £5457 .. ..2,067,339
1942. .125,416 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
Profit liq. subsidiary, £75,376 ..2,148,131
Adjustm’t outside infests, etc., £7244.. 2,155,375
1943. .107,966 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 2,143,331
Surplus sale assets, £Bl4B .. ..2,146,479
Unexplained addition, £13,651 ..2,160,130
1944.. 103,911 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 2,144,041
Unexplained addition, £61,379 .. 2,205,420
1945.. 149,901 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 29,901 2,235,321
* Excluding specific reserves until 1940. ! Eliminat-
ing outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
The co.’s fleet of two passenger vessels
and half a dozen freighters is still on
charter to the Federal Government. The
Wanganella, used as a hospital ship, is
being refitted for return to the co., and
is expected to take up the trans-Tasman
run again within the next few months.
Refitting of the Westralia is under con-
sideration, but the vessel is unlikely to
return to the inter-State passenger trade
for some time. Government charter rates
are not sufficient to meet the increased
cost of maintenance and repairs (which
has more than doubled since 1939), plus
depreciation. The heavy expenditure in-
curred in keeping the ships, especially the
older ones, up to ordinary trade stand-
ards has been largely responsible for fluc-
tuations in net earnings of recent years.
However, it is returns from investments
outside the shipping business that pro-
vide most of the profits nowadays. These
investments include £1,612,030 of Gov-
ernment securities, which is over twice
the figure at which ships, plant, etc., stood
in the books at the close of last accounts.
Other interests include holdings in Heb-
burn. Metropolitan and J. and A. Brown
and Abermain-Seaham all in the dis-
traught coal trade—and in A.W.A., Mel-
bourne Steam, A.N.A. and Tasmanian
Steamers. A subsidiary of the last-named
went into voluntary liquidation about
three years ago, and there was a profit
of £75,376 on the clean-up. A.N.A.
recently issued 250,000 new £1 shares to
help pay for four DC4 Skymaster
aircraft, which, with spares, etc., cost
about £750,000. Purchase of four DC6
’planes is also being considered. These
are 52-passenger, four-engined machines',
with a cruising speed of around 250
m.p.h,, and would cost about £1,000,000.
If these are purchased, A.N.A. (paid capi-
tal now £800,000) will ask shareholders
for more.
Last term the gross return from invest-
ments was £125,518 (up £4700). After
providing for taxation (£64,170, up
£48,549), depreciation (£88,277, down
£5178) and contingencies (£35,000, up
£31,852) and deducting the amount to
which outside interests were entitled, de-
clared net earnings from all sources were
£149,901 (up £45,990). That leaves out
of the reckoning unexplained additions
to reserves totalling £61,379. The
£149,901 was enough to pay the pref.
div, and show 15.9 p.c. on the £750,000
of ord. capital, as against 9.8, 10.3, 12.7,
14.7, 13.1 and 14.6 p.c. back to 1939. The
div. was kept at 12 p.c. for the sixth suc-
cessive year, making the average over the
last decade 11.8 p.c.
As for the future, a very different set
of circumstances is at hand from that
which prevailed pre-war. The spread of
Communism among the miners has ob-
scured the outlook for coal. On the ship-
ping side, costs have rocketed owing to
lifts in wage-rates and prices for fuel
and stores, etc. And in future the Fed-
eral Government will continue to regu-
late coastal shipping freight charges and
passenger fees, etc., and the coastal trade
is to be reserved for Australian-built ships,
not to be licensed after they become 25
years old. It all means a sharp rise in
capital costs, and the public will have
to pay higher freight and passenger
charges to cover inflated operating exes,
and the extra cost of maintenance, in-
surance and depreciation on the higher
price of locally-built tonnage. Super-
imposed on all this is the question
of a 40-hour week, a lift in the basic
wage and-the spectre of industrial trouble,
always rife on the waterfront and among
seamen.
Financially the co. is well ribbed: —•
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
1989. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 418,529 408,286 417,416
Sundry creditors! 278,029 446,880 481,223
Inter-co. balances! 13,161 16,716 13,386
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 528,560 524,741
Ships, plant, etc. 1,156,457 784,758 702,648
Government sec... 1,281,935 1,542,630 1,612,030
Shares, etc. .. 764,975 900,529 934,497
Stores .. .. 77,223 81,842 88,472
Sundry debtors .. 200,485 365,346* 468,571
Cash .. .. 56,601 129,758 133,892
* Includes proportion undivided profits, f Including
taxation. ! Due to variation in balancing dates.
The year’s net addition of £33,968 to
shares, etc., reflects the increase in the
holding in A.N.A. already referred to.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£2,742,844) was £186,335.
On the market buyers offer 30s. for the
prefs. and 51s. 9d. for the ords. The
return at these figures is 4 p.c. and 4.6 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last year's
distribution. The net tangible cover is
£6 19s. sd. prefs, and 795. 7d. ords.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70.077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
6 p.c.
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
4 p.c.
1939.. 21,338 10,000 Nil 10,099 51,572
10 p.c.
1940.. 56,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30,966
1941.. 38,751 25,000 Nil 10,540 27,755
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1942.. 31,496 15,000 4500 10,527 26,286
1943.. 33,577 15,000 4500 10,063 22,272
1944.. 48,702 15,000 4500 10,003 3,073
1945.. 41,676 15,000 4500 9,872 9,231
The contraction (£7026) in last year’s
profit was due to seasonal conditions.
Rainfall on the co.’s western properties
was below average. This affected both
the quantity and quality of cattle sold
and the weight of the wool clip. Gross
earnings (£162,248) fell away £24,741.
Exes. (£130,444) were pulled back £17,846.
They include something for taxation and
£9872 (down £131) for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table. That
left the net amount available for dis-
tribution £6895 lighter at £31,804; and
only thrice since the end of World War I
has better than that been shown. The
£31,804 covered the pref, div. and 22.4
p.c. on the £75,000 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 31.6, 11.3, 7.9 and 17.6 p.c.
back to 1941. The div., the fourth thing
of its kind since 1920, was kept at 6 p.c.,
and the £12,304 that remained wiped out
the deficit and left the whole of the
capital and £9231 besides intact.
The co.’s big leasehold runs, aggregat-
ing some 12,000 sq. miles, are in the far-
west of Queensland and over the border
in the Territory, And there are three
coastal freeholds, totalling 45,900-odd
acres, in the Gladstone, Nanango and
Kilroy districts as well. During the
between-wars period the story was mainly
one of drought, lost markets and rising
costs —the influence of Vestey’s in Britain
and of the Meat Trust in America
guaranteed the inside running to the
Argentine. To wipe out accumulated
losses £525,000 (17s. 6d. per share) of
ord. capital was jettisoned in 1932. Six
years later the prefs. agreed to forgo
£192,500 of accumulated divs. and to
reduce the rate from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. Dur-
ing World War II the struggle has been
chiefly against seasons and costs. Stabil-
ising factors have been the British wool
and meat contracts, which have assured
both a ready market and satisfactory
prices for wool and meat.
As for the outlook, “beneficial” rains
have fallen on all the co.’s properties
since the close of accounts. With the runs
covered with good autumn feed, a better
off-turn of fat cattle and an improved
wool clip are to be expected. Britain will
continue to take the exportable meat
surplus on the basis of present prices (sub-
ject to adjustment to meet any pro-
nounced movement in costs) until end
September, 1948. And the new wool-
stabilisation scheme has reduced the
threat of accumulated stocks to weigh
down unduly prices in the post-war
market.
The plan aims at feeding stocks,
together with current clips, on to the
market in such a way as to stabilise
prices at an economic level. Under the
British contract, which runs out at end
June next, the clip realised an average of
15.4 d. per pound, regardless of condition.
Under the minimum reserve auction
arrangement it will bring at least the
reserve figure, yet to be decided. Figures
bid at auction are influenced by the con-
dition and quality of the wool shorn


ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
ť
ABBOT
Filter
Cylinder
GUTHBIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CAMPEKOOWN,
sroNEr,
fIANUWCTURERS
I TK» VI
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney, N.S.W.
LET
f ATLAS )
CARRY THE
i BURDEN j
V
a
&
•s
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
mm**
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * »
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Incorporated in England by Koyal Charter in 1833. The liability of the members
is limited.
THE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)«
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve Inability of Proprietors under the Charter
.. £4,500,000
.. 2,500,000
.. 2,000,000
.. 4,500,000
£13,500,000
ONE HUNDRED AND TWELFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO
15th OCTOBER, 1945.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAE MEETING HELD
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 38, 194 G.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 15th - October last,
with the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. The figures appearing in
the Profit and Loss Account are expressed in sterling, whereas in previous years the
corresponding figures were presented partly in Australian and New Zealand pounds and
partly in sterling. After providing for rebate on bills current, for United Kingdom,
Australian, and New Zealand rates, and estimated taxes on profits for the year, and after
making a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision
for all bad and doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year amounted to
£200,666/6/10.
To this has to be added £237,504/5/9 brought forward from the previous year’s
account, making a total of £438,170/12/7. From this £78,756 was paid as an Interim
Dividend on 28th September last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further
sum of £112,500 to pay a Final Dividend of 5/ per share, less Income Tax at the full
standard rate of 10/ in the £, making, in all, £191,250, equal to 7/6 per share less tax,
and representing for the year a distribution at the rate of per cent, before deduction
of Income Tax, as against 6 per cent, for the previous year. The net result, however,
after applying the provisions of Section 52 Finance (No. 2) Act 1945, which requires that
United Kingdom Income Tax shall be deducted at the rate of 10/ in the £ instead of, as
hitherto, at a rate arrived at after allowance for Dominion Income Tax Relief, is
approximately the samei. There will remain £246,920/12/7 to be carried forward to the
next account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia, and New Zealand on 29th
March.
Mr. Philip Nesbitt has been appointed to a seat on the Board. His name will
be submitted for the approval of the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Deed of Settlement.
The Directors retiring by rotation are:— The Hon. Geoffrey C. Gibbs, C.M.G., and
Philip Nesbitt, fisq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Grifiiths, & Co., offer themselves for
re-election.
Since the date of the last report the Branches ht Eltham and Waipawa, in New
Zealand, which had been closed in 1943 on account of depletion of staff, have been reopened.'
G. C. GIBBS, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 18th March, 1946.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
From October 17, 1944, to October 15, 1945.
NOTE: As explained more fully in the Chairman’s Statement, the figures appearing in the Profit and Loss
Account shown below are expressed in sterling, whereas in previous years the corresponding figures
were presented partly in Australian ■ and New Zealand pounds and partly in sterling.
£ s. d.
Balance brought forward from October, 1944 237,504 5 9
Profit for the year to October 15, 1945, after deducting Rebate (£7,912/2/5)
on Bills current at Balance date, and after making a transfer
to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account
provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made. . .. .. £1,373,876 10 5
LESS:
I. Charges of Management—
Australia and New Zealand— '
Salaries and Allowances at 209 Branches & Agencies.. £434,678 19 0
General Expenses .. .. .. .. .. 173,279 12 6
London—
Salaries and Allowances .. .. .. .. 83,907 9 3
General Exes., including Directors’ remuneration 37,825 11 10
£679,691 12 7
11. Rates, and estimated Taxes on current year’s profits—
Australia, New Zealand, and London .. .. .. 493,518 11 0
1,173,210 8 7
200,666 6 10
438,170 12 7
From which deduct:
Dividend paid September 28, 1945 ~ .. ~ ... 78,750 0 0
Dividend payable March 29, 1946 .. .. .. ~ 112,500 0 0
191,250 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
£246,920 12 7
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 15, 1945.
LIABILITIES. £ s. d.
Osculation . . .. .. 2,030 0 0
Deposits at Interest ~ .. 25,641,145 0 1
Current Accounts .. . . 43,785,599 19 2
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit,
and other accounts, including
provision for contingencies .. 5,847,012 1 11
Acceptances for Customers, as
per contra .. .. .. 42,657 7 4
Capital:— •
900,000 Shares
of £5 each,
fully paid ..
(There is
under the
Charter a re-
serve liability
of the pro-
prietors o f
£5 a Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business o f
the Bank) ..
Currency Re -
serve (used in
the business
of the Bank).
Dividend pay-
able March
29, 1946 ..
Profit and Loss
Account Bal-
ance
,500,000 0 0
2,500,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
112,500. 0 0
246,920 12 7
75,319,044 8
9,359,420 12
84,678,405 1
Contingent Liabilities: —
Outstanding Credits, Guaran-
tees, etc., as per contra .. 2,816,510 8
£87,494,975 9
7
1
1
2
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS. * £ b. d.
Specie, Bullion, Government
■Notes, and Bank Balances .. 10,170,d1l 5 4
Loans at call and at short
notice 50,000 0 0
Treasury Bills—Australian .. 0,750,000 0 0
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia .. 18,907,000 0 0
British Government Securities .. 1,691,270 7 5
Australian and New Zealand
Government Securities, and
other Investments, including
Tax Reserve Certificates .. 16,050,197 7 3
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in transit .. .. 2,718,124 8 ,9
Advances to Customers, and other
Accounts .. .. .. 27,493,114 4 10
liability of Customers for Accept-
ances as per contra .. .. 42,657 7 4
Bank Premises and Sites in
Australia, New Zealand, and
London, at Cost less amounts
written off .. .. .. 805,590 0 2
84,678,405 1 1
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra .. .. 2,816,510 8 1
NOTE: The Australian and
Now Zealand assets and lia-
bilities are included at the
par rates of exchange and the
net difference which would
have arisen had they been
converted at the rates ruling
at the date of the Balance
Sheet is covered by Currency
Reserves.
£87,494,975 9 2
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS* REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books of the Bank in
London and with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia and
New Zealand. We have verified the Bank Balances, Bills Receivable and Investments held
in London. Having obtained all the information and explanatibns we have required, we
report that, in our opinion, the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books in London and the
Returns received from the Branches.
DELOITTE, BLENDER, GRIFFITHS, & Co., Auditors.
London, 13th March, 1940.
year by year and the prices which tops,
yams and fabrics fetch in the world’s
markets. Apart from the never-ending
struggle with nature, the big problem for
growers will be to keep production costs,
which are mostly outside their control,
below the level of average selling prices.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities .. 231,130 91,218 111,055 135,352
Freeholds .. 68,774 27,893 27,903 27,903
Leaseholds .. 154,857 132,312 126,602 124,452
Plant, etc. .. 60,509 02,022 62,041 60,722
Livestock .. 198,648 179,599 157,003 161,672
Wool.. .. 10,338 540 345 9,222
Cash, debtors, etc. 1,904 11,097 78,588 90,113
Liabilities (up £24,297) include provision
for taxation and other contingencies.
Cash, etc., was strengthened by £11,525.
The more or less liquid surplus (£125,655)
was visibly £774 better than at the previ-
ous balance.
The pound prefs., covered by 265. 6d.
in net tangibles, seldom come on to the
market. At 2s. 9d. the f.-p. 2s. 6d. ords.,
covered by 2s. lOd. in net tangibles, yield
5.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div, basis.
The lure of the prospector is exempli-
fied in discovery of rich pockets of gold
by the lucky few in Westralia of recent
years. Since 1941 Doolittle South, near
Sandstone, treated 903 tons ore for
15430 z. The Democrat, about a mile east
of Linden, got 24630 z. from 1462 tons
between 1942 and 1945. In the same
locality North Democrat treated 2182
tons, averaging over 2oz. Richest of all
was the Boomerang, at Burtville, from
which 423 tons averaged just under Boz.
over the plates: In addition 100-odd tons
of sands were treated for an average of
an ounce. A smaller show in the Burt-
ville area raised 73 tons for 3160 z. That
was in 1941-42, and the owner then en-
listed ; he is now reported to be back on
the find again. The Barbara, Coolgardie,
has raised 1971 tons ore, containing
14510 z., over the last couple of years.
Mountain View, at Day Dawn, treated
1500 tons of soz. ore last year. After
deducting Federal gold tax, the yellow
metal is now worth £9 17s. 7-}d. to the
prospector. So the owners of these
shows have some rich harvests.
* * * *
Ora Banda United (W.A.), which closed
down during 1943 owing to shortage of
labor and materials, proposes to start up
again as soon as the necessary funds can
be raised- At end 1942 the Westralian
Government had advanced the co.
£11,701, and there was £9423 coming to
sundry creditors, including the bank.
Current assets totalled £4444. The p.
and 1. debit was. £31,216. A 3000-ton-a-
-month treatment plant was installed in
1941. The co., which is London-con-
trolled, took over the Mopoke, Gimlet
South and Victorious blocks at Ora
Banda from the B.A.N.Z. Co. late in 1934
The consideration was £40,000 cash and
400,000 f.-p. ss. shares. Ore reserves are
put at 727,600 tons, averaging 4.3dwt.,
mostly above the 200 ft. level. Paid capital
is £275,000 in f.-p. ss. shares.
* * * «
Western Mining Corp. has added four
blocks near Southern Cross township to
its Westralian lis't of auriferous options.
These blocks are said to contain the con -
tinuation of gold carriers worked to a
vertical depth of several hundred feet on
the long-defunct Fraser’s group, Co. is
also reported to have taken an option
over another Southern Cross show, known
as the .Three Boys. If recently applied
for prospecting rights over a large area
in the salt lakes district south of Kal-
goorlie, for the purpose of investigating
the possibility of alluvial gold occurrences
at depth. Directors say resumption of
operations at the Callion and Yilgangie
Queen mines has not yet become pos-
sible.
* * * *
“O.B.”: A feature of the Westralian
goldmarket in London is the revival of
interest in Wiluna Gold Corp. Shares
recently bought up to 13s. stg., best
figure for the last eight years. The
advance is said to be associated (1) with
a report that accumulated residues, now
in course of treatment, will yield a profit
of £A400,000, and (2) with favorable de-
velopment at Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie,
in which a 75 p.c. option interest is held.
It is worth noting that the net holding of
cash, bullion and debtors’ balances of the
wholly owned subsidiary, Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd., was equal to 13s. lOd. a
share at end March, 1945.
* * * *
For the 40 weeks to Dec. 25, 1945,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) milled
85,270 tons ore for 18,7780 z. fine gold,
worth £158,896, after deducting Federal
gold tax and realisation charges. Mining
and treatment, including provision for
development, took £130,207, leaving an
operating profit of £28,689. Work-
ing costs averaged 30.545. a ton
compared with 30.325. for the 12 months
to end March, 1945, Development work
for the 40 weeks totalled 5669 ft., and
3189 ft. of diamond-drilling was done as
well.
. * * * *
Evanston Gold (W.A.) —it used to be
Hill 50 South—reports several promising
orebodies in the Evanston mine, which
“should provide considerable tonnages of
seven to ten dwt. ore.” Much will
depend upon whether the stuff is refrac-
tory, like the ore in the deeper workings
on the main lode. Exploratory diamond-
drilling continues.
* * # *
Ajax South is resuming operations on
its goldmining venture near Wiluna
(W.A.). Like many other mines in the
West, this venture closed down owing to
war-time difficulties. The board is now
offering 15,650 forfeited shares paid to 4s.
at Is. each. Shareholders are given first
option.
■l* ♦ * *
According to A. D. Viney, chairman of
the Jo’burg Stock Exchange, S, Africa
is on the eve of big mining developments,
which are impeded by shortage of
machinery and labor. Three years ago
London was a heavy seller of S. African
gold scrip ; now it is a buyer. The poten-
tialities of new fields, notably in the
Orange Free State, have done much to
strengthen the market. A goldmining
inquiry commission in Southern Rhodesia
advocates abolition of co. income-tax,
gold premium tax and royalty payments.
It recommends forfeiture of mining claims
where production has been unreasonably
delayed and urges large-scale prospecting
by modern methods and a high level of
competence in mining operators.


t
WHEN Victory came,
“Mars” switched all its
plant, equipment and skilled
craftsmen from Production
for War to Reconstruction
for Peace.
In addition to the three
Machine Tools pictured here,
“Mars” also manufactures 6", 8"
and 10” Lathes, Millers, Shapers,
Planers and Boring Mills, as
well as Special Machines for
any specific Industrial need.
Full details gladly supplied
by the manufacturers or the
Distributing Agents listed below.
The MARS
Heavy-Duty
Radial Drill
■
1
s
J*
=sss=9^!
HH
#8
I
£i
■
:; : P P |
ii
» mmmbSsE
« H
? i
—i
I
I^Bubr
' - ■ : '. ■
iiilW'i
a
p
i
:
gi
sm
m
i
MS
■
WBSSB i
: ,;,-p
Hi
:
;
m
Accurate
Sturdy
Durable
Produced in response to
the demand for a High-
Efficiency Radial Drill
for Australian condi-
tions at a price within
the reach of the average
Engineering Shop.
J. & O’S. Advt.
~ , Distributing: Agents;
S< New^ aI | eS: / I^ rAS HEKBERT & CO. PTY. LTD.. 189 Clarence St.. SYDNEY
New Zealand: MOTOR SPECIALITIES LTD.. Anzac Avenue, AUCKLAND
.Branches throughout the Dominion
The “HERCULES” s|m. LATHE
“The little GIANT of the Lathe World”
I
The “VENUS” 7 In. LATHE
A Sturdy, Accurate,Quick-Action Lathe
All “Mars” Machine Tools are distinguished by these
outstanding features: ACCURACY—buiIt toSchlesinger
standards of accuracy. BALANCE—aII necessary re-
volving parts are dynamically balanced. FINISH—aII
surfaces are machine ground. SMOOTH RUNNING—
aII Gear Teeth are generated. VERSATILITY—aII
Lathes have Detachable Gap Bridge.
K
n
m
MACHINE TOOL MANFG
BRIDGE STREET • VALLEY • BRISBANE •
IRKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (EXCEPT CANADA AND GREAT BRITAIN!


(VllOtUM*
ţ
PERSONAL ITEMS
Creswick, the small Victorian town that
gave Australia a war-time Prime Mini-
ster, John Curtin, and its most famous
artistic and literary family, the Lindsays,
gets another feather in its civic cap with
the appointment of Lieutenant-Ge'neral
John Northcott, C. 8., M.V.0., as ‘Gov-
ernor of N.S.W. Northcott was born in
Creswick 54 years ago, began his Army
career back in 1908, was wounded on
Gallipoli and finished World War I with
a reputation of being a man with a
future. By the time the war was resumed
in 1939 he had consolidated this repu-
tation with solid work in Australia, a
capital pass at Camberley and various
jobs well carried out in Britain. During
the war he was in turn Deputy Chief of
General Staff, Commander of Ist
Armored Division, Commander 2nd Aust.
Corps and Chief of General Staff. Re-
cently he was placed in command of
British Commonwealth Occupation Forces
in Japan. It is expected that this job
will prevent his taking over his new
appointment for some time.
When Stradivarius was putting the first
coat of varnish on the violin Dubois has
drawn tucked lovingly under the chin
MAN WITH ST RAD.
of Szymon Goldberg Poland was ruled
by John Sobieski, conqueror of the Turks,
Java, though nominally Dutch, was still
under the sway of native princes,
and Japan was in the middle of her 300
years of self-imposed hermitage, so the
old violin-maker could hardly have fore-
seen that there would come a time when
that instrument in the hands of a Polish
violinist, captured by the Japs in Java,
would be smuggled through 14 prison
camps. Goldberg, born in 1909 in a
Polish town with a name that is more
easily played than pronounced, gave his
first concerts at the age of 12, was first
leader of Dresden Philharmonic at 16
and of Berlin Philharmonic at 20.
During the 1930’s he made concert
tours in Britain, nearly every coun-
try of Europe, China, Japan and
U.S.A, He was in Java when the
Japs came; hence the indignity suf-
fered in its old age by his Strad. —it’s the
Liegnitz instrument, and came to him
from Cecile Hansen, a famous violinist
of a generation ago. Goldberg is giving
a series of concerts for A.B.C. ; the first
will be heard from Adelaide this week.>
Robert Best, dead in Melbourne at 89,
was a man of law and politics. His poli-
tical career ended in 1922, but he
attended his legal office daily to the end.
Elected to the Victorian Assembly in
1889, he is remembered for the
“Best” tariff, which as Minister for Lands
and Customs he introduced in 1896, and
for his Lands Act two years later. At
Federation he became a member of the
first Senate and its Chairman of Com-
mittees. Later he was Trade and Cus-
toms Minister under Deakin. In 1910
he went to the Reps, as member for
Kooyong and held the seat for 12 years.
To Best can be credited two of Mel-
bourne’s finest pleasaunces—the dreadful
old stretch of river bank by Princes
Bridge which has been changed into a
garden, and the land bordering St. Kilda-
road, which has helped to make that
thoroughfare the pride of Melbourne,
On March 18 H. F. Walker, C.P. mem-
ber for Cooroora, established a new all-
time record for continuous service in the
Queensland Parliament. Now 72, he was
first elected on May 18, 1907, and has
served during the terms of 16 Govern-
ments and 11 Premiers, from Kidston
to Hanlon. The previous record, 38 years
and 10 months, was held by the late
W. H. Groom, member for Drayton and
Toowoomba from 1862 to 1901, who in
the latter year transferred to the Darling
Downs Federal seat and died in the fourth
month of the first session. The new
trophy-holder is to call it a day when
the present Parliament ends next year.
Brigadier J. S. Wardell, visiting these
parts on the staff of Lord Louis Mount-
batten, is an old newspaperman, but in
recent years rockets have been his chief
concern. A Sandhurst man, he retired
from the 10th Hussars in 1925 to join
the “Evening Standard” and became
chairman and managing
director of the firm in
1931. When war came he
rejoined the Army, and
served with the Welsh
Guards, but in 1941 was
seconded to the staff of
Lord Beaverbrook, then
Minister for Supply, and
placed in charge of rocket
production. This work culminated in the
“Land Mattress,” a rocket battery capable
of firing a salvo equivalent to 540 100-
pound shells. Wardell took the first bat-
tery to Belgium, and during the last six
months of the war in Europe the weapon
was increasingly used by the British and
Canadian armies. After Germany col-
lapsed Brigadier Wardell was transferred
to South-east Asia.
“King’s Pawn” on a checkmate:
The death of Alexander Alekhine in Lisbon
has solved for chess players a problem as
difficult as any set for solution. Russian-born,
Alekhine married in France and was in later
years a French citizen. He was caught by the
Nazi invasion. His enemies say he collaborated
with the Nazis; he claimed that he did no
more than give chess exhibitions at the bidding
of the Nazis to earn his and his wife’s ration
cards and write articles whose anti-Jewish dia-
tribes were Nazi forgeries, and that, as soon as he
could arrange it, he escaped to Spain. Although
he has been champion of the world since 1937,
none of the present leading players was
prepared to play him for the title. His invi-
tation to recent British international tourna-
ments was withdrawn because other entrants
intimated that they would be absent if he
played. Even in the Spanish championship
tourney he was ostracised: players played their
games against him, but refused to speak to him.
The controversy whether he should be forgiven
or blackballed was dividing chess players all
oyer the world; but while the world’s cham-
pion still lived it was obvious that no more
world’s championships could be held without
conceding his right to play. Even his death did
not stop the controversy. The first cable an-
nounced that Alekhine died at the chess table.
A later message told how he had choked with
a hunk of steak and added an elaborate story
of his peculiar eating habits —how he invariably
dined alone and ate with his fingers, disdaining
knife and fork. In Sydney Lajos Steiner, Aus-
tralian chess champion, the French Consul-
General and Dorothy Dibley, all of whom knew
the champion, scout the suffocation story.
“Dick Tafone”: With Charlie
(“Chiller”) Jones, of West End, Brisbane,
a truly gallant Australian soul has passed
into the silence. A fine swimmer and
amateur boxer in his youth, he was at-
tacked by a shark in the Brisbane River
in 1905 and severely injured in the legs.
Good surgery and his own healthy body
saved him from permanent disablement,
and in 1914 he joined the A.I.F. At Bulle-
court he was hit in both legs and captured
by the Germans, but managed to pull
through in a p.-0.-w. hospital without
losing a limb. Fifteen years later he was
knocked down by a Brisbane tram, and
both of his much-enduring legs had to be
amputated as a result. Even that did
not break his spirit or spoil his cheerful
outlook on a life which had dealt him
so many bad cards.
When Harry Budd was appointed
editor of the “Land,” he looked
so young and delicate, and was so quiet
and so devoted to the ’cello, that well-
informed C.H. politicians called him “that
boy.” Budd never took his coat off, never
shouted or swore at the staff, never
appeared to do any work. The then
F. and S.A- president called to see him
twice. Budd was out. Told that he was
having his tonsils out, the president
thumped the table, “There’s far too much
of that going on!” But for Old Man
Trethowen, now deceased, Budd would
have been booted out in his first six
months. Now the N.S.W. C.P. revolves
around him—if anybody has to reach a
decision its always “see Budd” first —and
they’ve made him a M.L.C.
Well known in the Scout world, N.S.W.
Commissioner for Training Hartley Mac-
alister has completed 21 years in the
job. During World War I he served in
the 9th and 14th Battalions and finished up
with the 14th Field Ambulance. Originally
his Scout work was a spare-time hobby,
but in 1929 he entered into permanent
residence at the Training Camp, Pennant
Hills, later adding the duties of Com-
missioner for Unattached Areas, Country
Organisation, in which capacities he has
visited almost every town in N. S. Wales.
He has attended World Jamborees held in
Denmark, Holland, Great Britain, Hun-
gary, Victoria and N.S.W. and has trained
for leadership in Scouting 2600 men and
women and 2600 boys as patrol leaders.
Recently released from the Army after
between two and three years as an Edu-
cation Officer, he is quickly getting back
into harness.
Henry Baynton Gullett, winner of the
by-election for Henty caused by A. W-
Coles’s appointment to the Airways Com-
mission, would have known the electorate
pretty well even if he hadn’t courted it in
August, 1943 ; his father represented it
for 15 years. Like his dad, young Gul-
lett started out as a reporter after getting
his B.A. at Oxford. War intervened and
he joined the A.1.F., went through Libya,
Greece and Syria, and gained a commis-
sion in the field. He came out of the
evacuation of Greece with head-wounds,
but returned to Australia with the 17th
Brigade and fought in New Guinea as
a company commander. In 1944 Gullett
was chosen to serve with the British Army
for the invasion of Europe ; he saw action
MAN WITH SEAT.
in Normandy, Holland and Belgium and
collected another wound. The new mem-
ber, drawn here by Tram with a blunt
crayon, is entitled to put M.C. in front of
his M.H.R.
Air Marshal Richard Williams, Aus-
tralia’s highest-ranking R.A.A.F, officer
and holder of No. 1 air licence, leaves
the service to take over the job of Direc-
tor-General of Civil Aviation. His his-
tory is pretty well the history of the Aus-
tralian Air Force. He learnt to fly at
MAN WITH JOB.
Point Cook in 1914, went to Egypt with
61 Squadron (Aust.) R.F.C. and took
command when it became No, 1 Squad-
ron A.F.C, By the end of Allenby’s cam-
paign he commanded a wing, and had
won a D.S.O. and a more unusual deco-
ration, the Arabian Order of El Nhada
of the Hedjaz. He got this for work
done in association with T. E. Lawrence.
Between the wars he played a big part
in the organisation and training of the
R.A.A.F., passed through Camberley and
Andover and became Chief of Australian
Air Staff. In 1938 he went to England
on exchange, and at the outbreak of war
he was in charge of administration at
R.A.F. Coastal Command. In 1940 he
came back to Australia as a member of
the Air Board, but the next year saw him
away again as Air Officer commanding
R.A.A.F. Overseas HQ. His last appoint-
ment was Air Representative, Australian
Military Mission in Washington. Wil-
liams was born in Oswald Pryor’s
Moonta, is 55 and is president of the Air
Force Association.
Despite the polyglot composition of
America’s population, all but one of the
nine Supreme Court Judges bear names
denoting British descent. Stone, Jack-
son, Black, Reed, Douglas and Burton
are names that proclaim themselves im-
mediately, and Murphy was a British name
when the first of the tribe crossed the
Atlantic. The ninth Judge, Frankfurter,
is not even American-born; his birth-
place was Vienna, but he went to U.S.
with his parents as a boy and has been
in the Federal service for 40 years. He
is also the only “big city” man on the
Bench; the success of small-town men
is a feature of American public life.
Into the silence:
“Bates of the Island” has died at Kangaroo
Island (S.A.) at 91. Born in England, came to
Australia when four, and at the end was. the
State’s oldest J.P.
In Adelaide, at 89, Henry Downes, who was
in the Navy at 16, a diver in constructing the
old railway jetty at Darwin when it was still
called Palmerston, and officer in charge of
the signals station at Fremantle in the 1914
war. His favorite souvenir was a certificate
for. recovering, as a diver, wrecked treasure
from 16 fathoms in the China Seas.
In Adelaide, at 60, C. M. Field, known all
round Australia with the Adelaide Steamship
Co. He was accountant in Albany, Fremantle
and Newcastle, and in recent years chief
accountant at the head office in Adelaide.
At 63, at Dandenong, Victoria, Dr. Frank
E. Langley, one of the most popular medicoes
of the district. In his young days he was a
brilliant athlete, and dominated Caulfield
Grammar and the University of Melbourne in
the sports field. He was a brother of the
Dean of Melbourne.
In Adelaide, at 54, Herbert William Harring-
ton, Superintendent of Wireless in 3.A., and
formerly of the Third Australian Flying Corps.
Decorated for service during 1914-18, he became
controller of civil defence radio in S.A. during
World War 11.


Missing Friends.
McKENNA, LEONARD JOHN. —Would the above-
named, formerly of Cowes and Hobart, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, kindly communicate with
J. C. B. McKENZIE-McHARG, LL.B., Barrister and
Solicitor, Box 4, Wodonga, Victoria?
DUELL.—WiII ALFRED DUELL (son of the late
Charles Duell), formerly of Terip Terip, or anybody
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate with
MACPHERSON & KELLEY, Solicitors, 340 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne ?
Public Notice.
I, EMANEUL TAMVAKIS, of Greek nationality,
born at Cireggo, Greece, and resident 8J years in
Australia, now residing at 51 Francis Street, East
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Banish
act
quickly
Smash them 3 ways
with
Double
tsucalufttui ext'uut
How about smashing that Cold, to-night? .Get
busy with Double “D” Eucalyptus. You will be
surprised how quickly the Double “D” 3-way
treatment helps to break-up even the most
stubborn Cold.
TMtM
JWB
fMf/Alt
3 drops of Double “D” Eucalyptus
on sugar.
chest and back with Double
Eucalyptus.
15 drops of Double “D” Eucalyptus
in hot water.
If you have a temperature, stay in bed
and repeat the treatment every four hours.
Also sprinkle Double “D” on your pillow
and handkerchief. Double “D” Eucalyptus
is pure, strong and reliable.
lid. & 1/7.
8m
Wmtfm
mm
m
m
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SHELL
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts &s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
ITS YOURi/^j
£
foma&e
ifieir/ufore
secure
MW
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
suitable life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
family responsibilities.
See the
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& GENERAL- INSURANCE CO. LTD.
#e*rio/ftceJ7/-373t?nmfr, Brisbane
WIHCELLO HOUSE, ANCEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
R, V. PERKINS, General Manager
THE SERVICE MAN
Maoriland and the Soldier.
“Ek Bum”: During the wars Maori-
land was on an absolutely total mobilisa-
tion basis. That is to it used the
last possible man and woman for effective
war purposes. In World War I its en-
listments were 10.6 per cent, of the total
population, which meant nearly all fit
men of fighting age under 30 ; in the late
wars a record for all ages and all countries
was put up —12.6 per cent, of the popu-
lation, which means every man fit to
fight under the age of 35, plus a large
female force. In six years 205,000 were
enlisted, and of these 135,000 Went over-
seas.
Of the total force—home defence and
overseas —one man in 20 gave his life ;
one man in 10 was wounded, and, at the
peak figure, one man in every 25 was a
prisoner of war.
The peak strength of the Maoriland
forces overseas was 70,300 ; that of the
home forces 65,000 —in Sept., 1942.
Australia’s population is more than
four times that of Maoriland. At its
peak (which came much later), Australia
had about 280,000 overseas, the bulk
of them in its own island terri-
tories. Total home strength was about
578,000. In September, 1942, when the
M.L. peak was reached, Australia had
four men at home for every one overseas.
In relation to actual strength, Aus-
tralia’s problem was about the same as
Maoriland’s save that Australia, with
greater industrial resources and acces-
sibility to forward areas, should have
been able to carry out its programme
more quickly.
At the end of January there were only
33,846 Maoriland soldiers not yet re-
established. These included 27,496 in
hospital or on leave, 3984 who had re-
fused help—their intentions were still un-
decided —a few hundred more who
had left the Dominion, who were dead or
who had private means, together with
1275 women engaged in their own homes.
The balance worked out as follows:
Returned to pre-war jobs .. .. 37,529
Self-placed in employment .. 28,575
Found employment by Department 17,623
Under training in rehab, centres 2,045
Under training on subsidy with pri-
vate employers .. • 2,532
Returned to own businesses or
farms .. .. .. • • 5,426
Acquired own businesses or farms 6,452
Therapeutic employment .. .. 29
These, with a few others, made—at
January 31—a total of 134,150, including
those on leave and sick.
To that date total rehabilitation loans
of £15,600,000 had been made, in-
cluding £4,250,000 for home-building
and £5,664,000 for farm purchase, plus
£882,000 for furniture and £1,223,000 for
buying of businesses. The gross amount
was being added to at the rate of about
£1,000,000 a month.
About 4700 Government rental houses
and flats had been allocated to service-
men. There had been over 4000 ex-
servicemen abroad on service bursaries,
securing special training at universities
and trade schools. Two-thirds of these
had already finished their courses and
returned home.
A Soldiers’ Job
Largely the success of the Maoriland
schemes has befen due to these facts:
(1) Flexibility in the authority given to
those dealing with the problems which
arise.
(2) An organised pattern in the scheme
which aims to get the soldier into his own
town and family as quickly as possible
and to place as much authority in local
hands to deal with his case as possible.
Red tape is reduced to a minimum at
least by Australian standards.
(3) Exclusion of politics.
(4) Legislation dealing with the scheme
is simple, so that every soldier understands
it. The Rehabilitation Act was passed in
1941, and the department which was
created was fairly experienced by the time
a rush of men began to come back.
(5) Administration of the Act has been
placed in the hands of fighting men of
. such an age and rank that they are well
in touch with the rank and file.
(6) Tire existence of a powerful and
virile returned servicemen’s organisation
which the Government uses as consultant
in all its schemes.
There are none of the age-and-experience
bars which mar Australian methods in
regard to training : none of the reams or
red-tape which hamper departmental
operations in Australia, nor any army ot
political favorites to be maintained in fat
jobs.
The first move in N.Z. was the forma-
tion of a Repatriation Ministry. As
Minister, the Government brought home
a young fighting soldier-member, Major
C. F. Skinner, M.C., who had just been
through the episodes of Greece and
Crete. As permanent head of the depart-
ment, it appointed Lt.-Colonel F. Baker,
D. commanding officer of the Maori
Battalion, wounded and fresh from the
glories of the Tunisian coastal battles.
He, himself, boasts Maori ancestry. Both
these men are in their forties. Soldiers
have an almost absolute preference in
appointment to their department, which
aims at placing all servicemen and -women
back in civilian life “on terms at least as
favorable as would probably have applied
as the result of their efforts if they had
not been required to serve in the armed
forces.”
Preference
Men are divided into two sets; those
who have served for six months in the
European, Asian and Pacific forward
areas, outside New Caledonia and Fiji;
those who have served 12 months out-
side New Zealand in other non-combatant
Pacific or other zones on non-com.
duties. These are all eligible for No. 1
priority for housing and financial assist-
ance to buy homes, farms or businesses.
When they have all had their share,
other servicemen who have been outside
the Dominion, irrespective of length of
service, come in. Men who have seen
service in Maoriland come in last —they
have none of the privileges won by over-
seas service, but their claims may be
considered later. Air Force and Navy re-
ceive recognition as combatants when
they have done a certain amount of flying
or minesweeping or other dangerous duty
in the home area.
When They Come Home
When the Maoriland serviceman leaves
the forces, he has first, long leave, like
the Australian soldier —two days for every
month overseas, with a minimum of 28
days and a maximum of 91. He gets
service warrants for travel and meals to
his home, and, within a year of dis-
charge, free railway travel for a month
to any part of the islands. This, of
course, is outside standard pay and
gratuity allowances.
He fits himself out with clothes. His
allowance is a minimum of £lO after
six months’ service, rising to £25 at the
rate of £2 10s. per month for each extra
month of service.
If he cannot get immediate employ-
ment, there is an interim rehabilitation
allowance for him of £3 10s. per week if
he is single ; up to £6 if he is married
and with children. This can be drawn
for a maximum of 13 weeks. In addi-
tion, small hardship grants may be paid.
Payment of these amounts can be de-
cided on and obtained promptly—local
rehabilitation committees see to that.
Trade Training
Every returned man with overseas ser-
vice is entitled to trade training. If it in-
volves his leaving his own locality for
the time being he gets railway fares for
himself and his family, furniture-removal
costs (to £25), travelling allowance at the
rate of 15s. a day, and separation allow-
ance at 30s. a week if he is obliged to
maintain two homes during training.
The returned man is not allowed to
lose while qualifying. For example, if
training as a carpenter he receives £5
15s. p.w. for the first 32 weeks ; £5 17s.
6d. for the second half of the year. In
the second year he gets full journeyman
rates which, with cost of living and tool
allowances, work out at £6 17s. 9d. for a
40-hour week. These rates are paid at
home-training centres.
Much of the work done by carpentry
trainees contributes to the construction
and fitment of State houses, for which
servicemen have preference, so that the
scheme serves a double purpose. At the
end of two years the trainees are capable
tradesmen.
A second branch of the training scheme
aims at establishing men in private em-
ployment, at the same time making it
possible for the private employer to
afford to train them. Under this plan, the
employer’s liability rises with the skill of
the trainee. Roughly speaking, he finds
half the wage of the trainee in the first
six months, three-fourths after 18 months ;
the whole wage falls on him thereafter.
The entire range of industry has been
covered by these training schemes, with
special emphasis on those in which labor
is short, such as the building trades.
It is a fact, of course, that most soldiers
rehabilitate themselves. They need only
incidental help in the bulk, but the local
system of decentralisation which rules in
Maoriland seems to ensure that the case
of every soldier is vetted by his own
people. Very few do not meet the local
boards and discuss their problems with
them, even when they need nothing. This
interests soldiers in other soldiers.
These local boards have very wide
powers and they are the main contact
points between the overseas soldier and
the rehabilitation scheme. They ensure
that he depends primarily for help and
advice, not on civil servants but on the
fathers and elder brothers of his
own community, most of them soldiers
of the last war; men with power to give
or arrange employment and with experi-
ence of what the soldier himself is going
through. The soldier embarking in busi-
ness may borrow up to £5OO, or up to
£5O above his tool allowance for special
trade equipment—in the latter case
interest-free. Loan interest generally is
based —whether for farms or businesses
and home-building —on rates of 2 per
cent, for the first year and 3 per cent,
thereafter.
Land seftlers are allotted to holdings
by ballot. They are put on development
work for a period on a basic allowance
of £6 per week, rent-free. For purchase
or erection of homes up to £l5OO is pro-
vided and interest-free furniture-purchase
loans are available for men married or
about to marry, war widows and depen-
dent widowed mothers.
Simple Acts
It seems that most of Maoriland’s
soldier problems are already solved, and
much of the credit is due to the early
start, soldier management and the sim-
plicity of the Acts. The Rehabilitation
Act is one at the sight of which the pun-
dits and longhairs of Canberra would
faint —it covers only 13 octavo pages in
bold type and consists of 25 sections. The
Act dealing with land settlement, which
had to cover a wide range of civil-law
provisions affecting the rights of owners,
is embodied in 70 short sections and 31
octavo pages.
One reason why Maoriland can afford
to be generous to its men is that it has
worked and produced on a scale which is
without parallel in relation to area among
new countries with limited industrial
resources.
During the war it sent to the British
and American forces just on 2,000,000
tons of meat, 700,000 tons of butter,
630,000 tons of cheese, 5,400,000 bales of
wool and 137,000 tons of vegetables; this
apart from munitions and stores worth
£21,000,000 sent to the Eastern Supply
Council. And it has maintained itself on
a far better living and clothing scale than
Australia.


BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY.
WELL-ESTABLISHED Firm in Hong-
’ ’ Long desires importation of Food-
stuffs, Chemicals, Textiles, Piece Goods,
Knitting Wools, Metals, Paper and Other
General Merchandise or Daily Necessi-
ties. Prefer acting as Sole Agents for
Manufacturers. Also Exporters of China
Produce and Local-made Articles. First-
class references. Please address G.P.O.
Box 1165, Hongkong.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
ffuTtfezxlle&Ti.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —■
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lO 0
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUBREY OSWALD IRELAND late of Chilling-
ham Tweed River. —TAKE NOTICE that Shirley
Ireland has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4791 of
1945 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Office Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 6th May 1946 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Ellitt & Law Solici-
tors 70-72 King Street Sydney.— '(l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC RAYMOND RICHARDS late of Newcastle.
—TAKE NOTICE that Roma. May Richards has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5287 of 1945 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 3rd day of June 1946 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
J. K. Dixon Esq. Solicitor of 115 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARK JOHN CAMPBELL late of Narrabri.—
TAKE NOTICE that Una Daphne Campbell has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 633 of 1946 on the
ground of desertion without just cause for three
years and upwards and adultery with a woman
unknown to the Petitioner at Kairi in the State of
Queensland If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 26th April next and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
R. R. Bruce Solicitor 2 Bowen Street Narrabri or
his City Agents Sly & Russell Solicitors 14 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HECTOR DOYLE LAMB late of Parkes in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
Vera Rose Lamb has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1499 of 1945 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by the 3rd day of June 1946 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from C. W.
Robinson Solicitor 74 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
j,M
■. 1 i
l\Wn'
<T>vv;
It ere’sanother
inviting thirst-Queiier
hy
VIBKERS
★ GIN SQUASH. Slice a lemon
into a jug, add two dessert-
spoons sugar, bruise peel well,
crush sugar and lemon
together, add pinch cinnamon,
nutmeg and six cloves if avail-
able. Add four good nobblers
Vickers Gin, mix thoroughly,
add sprigs of mint and stir.
Strain into four large glasses,
add ice, fill with water (or
soda-water —if you can get it!)
j ■ i
M iEA -
i -H
NVv
s 41 nr
VG46/3
ickers Gin Satisfies FAMOUS SINCE 1750
,Jb*t ipsz*.
Stainless Steel Cutlery tor the
modern table service is back
again at Prouds ... in traditional
English quality. .
Fine examples are the Stainless Steel, Mirror Finished Knives
illustrated; slightly curved in the modern trend; correctly balanced;
round white handles. Will give a lifetime s service.
DESSERT 32/6 half doz.
TABLE 35/- half doz.
Also 3-piece Carving Set. Stainless Steel Knife; Stainless Steel Fork;
Steel. Mirror Finished; shapely design; round white handles.42/6 set *
Stainless Steel, Mirror Finished Bread Knife with clean-cut saw
edge. Round white handles. 9/6 e °ch
Owing to restrictions still in force in England, boxes are not available.
7-FLOOR GIFT STORE
’Phones 8W2721 (3 lines)
Cnr. King & Pitt Sts., Sydney
P 6
Diplomacy and Java.
“Ek Dum”: Lord Louis Mountbatten
last week showed himself gamer than the
Chifleys and the Fordes. He invaded the
inner sanctum of the Communists and
fellow-travellers who have been holding
up Dutch shipping and talked turkey
to them:
I am not going to pull any punches and
I don’t want you to, either. You know,
you’re all wrong in thinking you’re help-
ing the Indonesians by holding up Dutch
supply ships. British subjects in Burma
and Malaya, not the Dutch, are being
penalised by your hold-up of these ships.
British shipping has had to be diverted
from carrying much-needed supplies to
Burma and Malaya to do the job that these
Dutch ships would be doing in Java if
you weren’t holding them up.
Communists knew, of course, that this
was the position. And what had happened
suited their book, since the main Commu-
nist objective is the disorganisation of
British defence and of the British Com-
monwealth. But they were faced with an
assurance that, if the Dutch ships could
not be used here for the purposes of
South-East Asia, Lord Louis would send
them elsewhere and replace them with
British ships, which would be under his
naval control. Though nothing was said
about that side of the matter, Communists
knew that if the British said they would
send the ships they would send them.
And they know at present the state of
public opinion. As the servile Senator
Ashley put it afterwards:
Suggestions have been made and favor-
ably received by the trade-union representa-
tives that may be responsible for the re-
lease of idle tonnage in the near future.
There seems to have been a carefully
prepared, though characteristically stupid,
movement to break the present rule at
the war’s end right down the flank of the
China coast and, in the confusion, to
“liberate” French Indo-China, Malaya
and Indonesia by the same sort of forces
as have “liberated” Hungaiy, Bulgaria,
East Germany, Yugoslavia, Poland,
Rumania and the Baltic States.
The plan miscarried in Indo-China be-
cause the new South-East Asia Com-
mand had wind of it in time, scotched
the Jap-helped dissidents and the Com-
munist agitators and, by tact and diplo-
macy, secured agreement between the
French and the Annamites. As Lord
Louis Mountbatten remarked: “This
provides a good basis for similar negoti-
ations in Indonesia.”
He characterised the non-Communist
Indonesian leaders and the Dutch negoti-
ators as “men of broad vision and good-
will.”
In Indonesia both Moscow and its
Australian agents misjudged both the situ-
ation and the amount of harm they could
do. Partly, this was due to turgid
reporting of the situation by Australian
newspapers. At one stage it seemed to
the Commos apparently that they had
only to send home the “Indernesian
comrades” whom they had been har-
boring and tutoring in the Common-
wealth, hold up ships and, of course,
silence the futile Government at Canberra
and all would be well.
At that time the British command had
many problems that needed to be taken
one at a time. Moreover, Indonesia was
a new area which it had had no chance
to explore politically, since it had been
in the American zone.
With their usual orderliness the British
first of all cleaned up the problems which
they had in hand—Burma and Malaya
and Indo-China and the sending home of
the troops who were due to be sent home.
Then they turned their attention to
Indonesia, choosing as the special man to
do their job Archibald Clark Kerr, the
senior ambassador in the British Diplo-
matic Service, who kept the Russians on
a reasonably straight path during the
war.
The results have been almost magical.
Dutch and Indonesians under the chair-
manship of the new British visitor are
getting along well.
The Commander-in-Chief of S.E.A.C.
said in Melbourne that whatever was
happening in the way of fighting in Java
was negligible and not the emanation of
the national movement, which had
secured almost absolute control of its
followers —“only six shots were fired
during the occupation of Bandoeng [the
Netherlands Indies capital] by two bri-
gades of troops.”
And the stage has been reached at
which the discussions are to be trans-
ferred to The Hague for final settlement.
It has been another all-out victory for
the supposedly effete British. And the
Australian “Government,” with all its
boasted influence and genius for mould-
ing world opinion and solving problems,
has done less than nothing towards the
settlement.
“Ek D.”: Those who saw the tour of
the Prince of Wales in 1920 and that of
the Mountbattens in 1946 noticed one
very striking difference. The 1920 show
was a soldiers’ show. The Government
of the day did everything possible to
bring A.I.F. men into contact with the
Prince. Canberra Ministers apparently
have not heard about the A.I.F. A great
servicemen’s demonstration should have
been staged, and the relatives of p.-0.-w.,
who have their own association and who
have every reason to thank the Seac Com-
mand and its emissaries, should have been
invited to take a lead in the welcome to
the visitors.
* * * *
Major-General Plant having refused
the office, his old schoolfellow, Major-
General A. J. Boase, goes to London as
Australian military representative. Major-
General Bather, from the Rabaul Com-
mand, will lead the Australian contin-
gent in. the Victory March in London in
June.
* * * *
Seven ratings from H.M.A. sloop Dun-
garee have been placed in custody since
the alleged discovery of a deficiency in
450,000,000 guilders sent to Batavia (ac-
cording to the Melbourne “Argus” corre-
spondent), “following strong representa-
tions made in Canberra by the Dutch
Government and the Allied Command in
S.-E. Asia.” And in Melbourne police
are investigating wholesale thefts from
the R.A.A.F. store at Port Melbourne,
concerning which 21 charges have been
laid against 14 men. According to an
R.A.A.F. spokesman, “hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds’ worth of equipment,
some on the secret list, has been stolen
in the past few months.” .
* * * *
The revised conditions for the award
of the Defence Medal to Australians who
served in Britain will soon be issued.
The qualifying period will probably be
reduced from a year to six months, and
so it should be. Anybody who was
through August-September, 1940, in the
Battle of Britain deserves a medal.
* * * *
During last week the Japanese officer
who was Chief ,of Police in the New
Guinea area was sentenced to death.
Other trials are in progress ; indeed, the
supply of war criminals looks endless.
The latest batch to be brought forward
are 20 enemy naval men who are charged
with the massacre of 200 Ocean Island
natives last year on August 20, five days
after the surrender. Ocean Island is a
phosphate plot near Nauru., and one of
those islands which should never have re-
mained in Japanese hands to the time of
the surrender.
* * * *
The F. 8.1. began its spy-catching in
U.S.A. last week with Lieutenant Nicolai
Gregorovich Redin, a Russian naval
officer, charged with obtaining illegal in-
formation about a new U.S. destroyer.
And more persons have been arrested in
Canada, where Fred Rose, Communist
member of the House of Commons, has
been committed for trial. Some English
papers mentioned a mysterious trial at
Bow-street at which no names were made
public and all the witnesses sworn to
secrecy. The proceedings had a diplo-
matic sound.
* * * *
The secretary of the Eighth Light
Horse (A.1.F.) Association, Box 4538,
G.P.0., Melbourne, is anxious to hear
from former members of ,the regiment
who can be present at the regimental
prisoner-of-war dinner on April 27,


Serve
V
A
and
WATER
SQUASH
GINGER BEER
PEPPERMINT
LEMONADE
BITTERS
LIME
ORANGE
GINGER ALE
FRUIT JUICES
VERMOUTH
TONIC
SODA
your parties off in the right spirit witn
Gilbey’s the purest of all gins. Served with
1 ■
water or your favourite cordials or fruit juices
\
Gilbey’s provides a drink to delight every palate.
sdre/jr
GL.J3O
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones; MA 6007/8
and at all branches
SPORTING NOTIONS
With Lord Louis Mountbatten and his Lady
visiting the Canterbury meeting, S.T.C. appro-
priately renamed all races, providing as the
main event a Lord Louis Mountbatten Cup,
contested over seven and g quarter furlongs
under quality, conditions. It carried £lOOO
added money and a sweepstakes of £lO each,
• • • • •
The visiting party arrived before the run-
ning of the Cup, drove‘through an avenue of
mounted police on to the track, and then, pre-
ceded by the mounted men riding in column
four abreast, drove down the straight past the
stands and back to the weighing enclosure,
Lord Louis managed to look a big man along-
side the S.T.C. chairman, W. W. Hill, who, an
ex-footballer of note, is himself a very big man.
• * ' • ' ,
The Cup race proved a not particularly
thrilling affair, despite a firsbclass field, sus-
pense being limited to a question of how long
the early pacemaker, Puffham (G. Podmore),
would last out. He did so right to the post,
It was rather an anticlimax; early in the race
the rest of the field appeared to be biding their
time and allowing Puffham to lead on suffer-
ance. The second favorite, Abbeville, tucked
in nicely on the rails in about fourth place,
seemed the probable winner, particularly when
J. Thompson started him moving in the straight,
but Puffham had three parts of a length to
spare at the end. In a first-up run Swan
River finished strongly for third money. Favo-
rite Murray Stream was not going well at any
stage and finished last, Munro refraining from
punishing the horse in a hopeless chase.
It was a good result for the books, Puffham
going out at 10 to 1, but it was a pleasure
to see this vastly improved and most honest
galloper win a worthwhile event. A change of
ownership apparently brought a swift change
of luck to the five-year-old gelding. At the be-
ginning of last season he was running for
W J. Smith, and when acquired by the present
owner, Mrs. J. Ferguson, he was yet a maiden,
At his first start in the lady’s colors (pale blue,
white stars, red cap) he won a maiden race at
Newcastle and went on to bag four minor plac-
ings from eight further starts that season.
So far this season he has had four wins, his
last five starts having yielded two wins, two
seconds and a third. He has shown ability at
from six furlongs to a mile and a quarter, and
his win here should not have been as surpris-
ing as the betting suggested, since he had twice
previously won Flying Handicaps at Canter-
bury, including one at seven and a quarter
furlongs in which Abbeville was among other
good gallopers who finished in the rear. One
of the reasons for his usually starting at fair
odds may be his insipid-soundiqg name. It’s
a simple derivation from his breeding, Lack-
ham-Powder Puff.
The Mountbattens presented the trophy, said
a few words and stayed to see the H.M.S. Kelly
Handicap (11 furlongs). Named after one of
the admiral’s war-time commands, the handicap
provided them better entertainment, with the
short favorite Cordale (G. Moore) finishing
brilliantly to snatch the race from Waratah,
who stopped badly after seeming to have it
in the bag. The rank outsider Gallant Law
finished third, after being never further back
than that throughout.
The win of Monmouth, in the Burma Thrce-
and Four-year-old, represented D. Munro’s very
best form. Away badly, he was second-last
as they settled down, but inside the distance
was challenging Fire Chat and Silver Spear.
The three passed the post together, with Munro
practically lifting Monmouth over the line, and
the camera showed Monmouth, Silver Spear
and Fire Chat in that order, a head and a half-
length.
Earlier, in the second division of the York
Handicap, a six-furlongs dash for two-year-
olds, Munro rode an almost identical race on
the odds-on favorite Flying Duke, but just
failed to catch Tynedale (E. Swinton), who
led from the start; Gold Taj was third.
Had Flying Duke won, it would have made an
interesting double with Monmouth, both
favorites, ridden by Munro, trained by M.
McCarten, owned by P. Miller and sired by
Miller’s imported Le Grand Due. As it was,
McCarten scored a trainer’s double and nearly
did much better, two of his charges being nar-
rowly beaten, while Swan River filled third
place. His other winner was the Midstream
colt Zambesi, a full brother from Hall Mark’s
sister to Murray Stream. Zambesi (E. Fordyce),
at 5-to-4 on, won the first division of the
two-year-old race from Two Grand and Per-
sian Prince—a photo-finish with only half-heads
between them. Zambesi has won at his only
two starts.
With 18$ wins, 13 seconds and 17 thirds,
McCarten is running second in the trainers’
premiership to Payten, 21$ wins, 16 seconds
and seven thirds. J. W. McCurley is the only
other trainer in it, with 13 winners and a tidy
bunch of minor places. Payten, of course, will
take a lot of catching, with his stableful of the
best two-year-olds. Havoc, Chaperone, Vigaro,
Royal Court and Concise have been respon-
sible for 15 of his wins.
The. Mercury Maiden was a dreadful lesson
to those who have the temerity to instal a
5-to-2 favorite and a 3-to-l second chance in
such a field. Hemisphere (J. Hickey) won it
from Quadrant and Grateful —the tote divi-
dends: £lO Bs. win and £2 9s. place; £8 2s.
and £4 13s. 9d. for the other places.
As well as the two-year-old event the Com-
mando Encourage was divided, giving a card
of eight races, and the record attendance of
32,000 put £102,322 through the tote, the
previous highest, established on the preceding
Saturday, being £90,030 10s. The Encourage
first division went to the four-year-old Felcrag
gelding Ophir (A. Mulley), who finished with
a great burst from well back to down Trover
and Notre Dame. Oberon (H. McFarlane) won
the second division from Killiecrankie and
Cisco. Trained by McCarten, Killiecrankie, a
three-year-old gelding by Genetout, was having
his first run in a race and, backed to favoritism,
failed by only half a neck to land the cash.
Though some in it are getting a bit long J®
the tooth, it was quite a Grand National field
that turned out in the two-miles Gordon
Steeplechase at Caulfield on Saturday—a field
with a good sprinkling of fast fencers, some
of them getting ready for what promises to be
the best hurdling and ’chasing season for some
years. It included old Tente, Puckawidgee and
Night Life, who finished in that order, with
Hearsay next, then Just Jill, Fugleman, West
Haran and such others as Highway King and
Victory March further back.
Accelerate made most of the Steeple running,
but jumped riskily towards the end, and finished
up getting rid of his rider. Puckawidgee—one
of the remarkable David breed; a six-year-old
gelding, sure to win before long —took over
from Accelerate to lead Night Life a couple of
lengths into the straight, with Fugleman handy,
and Tente coming on great guns. Continuing
his run, Tente went on to overhaul Pucka-
widgee and beat him three-quarters of a length,
with a couple of lengths to Night Life, who
should be greatly improved by the run. Tente’s
win so impressed the handicapper in S.A. that'
he clapped an extra 41b. on the old chap for
the Grand Eastern Steeplechase.
Not so strong a field, though a useful one,
contested the earlier Narong Flurdle over about
the same distance, with the six-year-old
Parenthesis gelding Hiatus, favorite at 6 to 4,
scoring a nice win from Walladale and Solvent,
with Gyrone best of the others. There was a
protest on the ground of interference at the
last jump, but it was quickly dismissed. All
going well, Hiatus should win better races
than this before the season ends. He has shown
the pace to go well in staying ccpmpany on the
flat, and he’s a generally sound jumper, though
he nearly ruined his chance with one bad
jump. Solvent, who led for a fair part of the
journey, will be improved, and Walladale’s run,
too, was promising.
Soundest performance in the half-dozen flat
races was the good Portofino colt Attley’s
four-lengths win from Three Wheeler and Busy-
body in the first division of the South Yarra
Handicap. Starting favorite at 7 to 4, Attley,
despite his topweight 9.3, unwound a powerful
finish, and cut out the six furlongs in the good
time of I.lls. Three Wheeler, who, by the
betting, had evidently shown something good
lately in private training, played up at the start
and got away rather badly. A five-year-old
Manitoba mare, this Newmarket winner should
do better next start. Though never in the hunt,
another worth keeping an eye on may be
League, who looked to be hampered.
Quezon, a 50-to-l turn-up for the books,
took close on a second longer in winning the
South Yarra second division, defeating Somers
a head, after that very unlucky Kinderscout
gelding had bad a stiff battle to just prevail
over the stayer Valcurl. The first-up run spoke
highly of Valcurl’s trim for his proper dis-
tances later. On him A. Breasley was
favored by one of those remarkable rails runs
that come his way, and he had another in the
main distance event, the 12-furlong St. Kilda
Handicap, getting Neutron there a neck from
Antares and Sir Locket.
Another of the day’s outsiders, the hitherto
consistent failure Judith Louise, won the mile
Kooyong Welter first division from the much
more consistent Lunar Lynx, with Gallant Gen-
tleman third. Attley’s rider, J. O’Brien, grt
Big Shot home from Baffin Bay and Carey in
the next division, after which O’Brien was
given a holiday by the stewards for a little
interference. Judith Louise’s pilot was ex-
Queenslander G. Bougoure, who, going by this,
could win on a clotheshorse. It was the
Enfield mare’s first win in 36 starts spread over
five seasons.
Woodrow, a Law Maker-Cimbro bay colt
who showed fair promise at the start of his
career, proved too strong for Seymour, Bray
Law and a big field of other two-year-olds in
the six-furlongs Orrong Handicap.
* * * #
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Macarthur Quality Handicap: From the
Payten stable, Chaperone, Vigaro, Concise,
Royal Court and Smooth Action are nominated,
and whichever is started should win. Novice:
Open Air, 1; Rose Glory, 2; Courier, 3. Rail-
way Handicap: Abbeville, 1; Cragsman, 2;
Field Captain, 3. Rawson Stakes: Bern-
borough, 1; Magnificent, 2; Silver Link, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Questing, 1; Native
Son, 2; Blue Legend, 3. S.T.C. Handicap:
Cordale, 1; Puffham, 2; Swan River, 3. Parra-
matta Handicap: Waratah, T; Fire Chat, 2;
Craftsman, 3.
* ♦ * *
The betting courage, or whatever it may be
called, of Melbourne crowds in the hurdling
and ’chasing season is often a matter for
wonder, but they have nothing on the English
in the cramped odds at which they’re prepared
to do business on such events. In the current
English season it’s nothing to see results of
programmes of half a dozen or more jumping
events with up to half of them running
to odds-on favorites, sometimes 3 or 4
to 1 on. At the lovely little Windsor track
this season they laid 6 to 4 on a hurdler
who had not started since the previous April,
and at that last start he’d been beaten! As
an odds-on “cert” at Windsor he finished
nowhere in the field of 14. “Probably,"
said the “Times” sporting writer with masterly
English understatement, “he needed the gallop.”
Still, laying the odds on the jumpers in Eng-
land seems to be as often as not justified by
the results. One notable odds-on chance to
come home recently was the Irish steeplechaser


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 22T), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
McGLLI/S Est. 1860. Subscription Department Ist Moor.
POPULAR OVERSEAS MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS
Direct from Publishers to Customers
Life, £3/2/6; Saturday Evening Post, £2/9/6; National Geographic, £l/17/6; Coronet, £l/8/-;
Better Homes & Gardens (three years only), £2/8/-; Popular Photography (Just released),
£2/4/-; American Photography, £l/6/-; U.S. Camera, 16/-; Popular Mechanics, £l/3/6;
Popular Science, £l/3/6; Popular Homecraft, £1; American Woodworker, £l/4/- ; Veneers & Ply-
wood, 12/-; Model Airplane News, 18/6; Model Railroader, £l/2/-; Model Craftsman, £l/4/-;
Mechanix Illustrated, 18/6; Science & Mechanics, 15/- ; Parents Magazine, 15/-; Wee Wisdom
(children 5-13 years), 7/6; The Instructor (Helpful Classroom Material), £l/9/-; Rudder (two
years), £2/12/-; Yachting, £l/16/-; Etude Music Magazine, £l/3/6; American Record Guide,
£1; Theatre Arts Monthly, £l/12/-; Variety Theatre Magazine, £4/4/-; Readers Digest, 12/-
one year, £1 two years. Please add exchange to country and interstate cheques.
New American and English Novels and Technical Books by Every Mail,
Large range of stationery and office requisites stocked.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth St.,
MELBOURNE. CBll3-4
/The G.P.O.\
opposite I
r
f* '
\*jg;
SINGING
a salt-sea sailor song,
In the slack of a sailing-day,
We glide along for Old Hong Kong,
And we’ll soon be far away—Belay!
Under each hatch in row below,
A thousand cases are stowed—YOHO!
For bronchial ailments, that compound pure—
Cough-Proof Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!
♦** *yjm '<■<* | 4-
*so
D
Q
m
S¥S
'& '
i :: ' ! :i| :
p;a?
. ■
;•<
mm
*
'W
i$ i
*A Ti
OZW&MM
m
i
m
wS-
mmmmm
mm
wgmi
m
m
»;\v.
9
\\
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG Products
Prince Regent in the Cheltenham Gold Cup.
Even so, it calls for a large supply of confi-
dence to lay 7-to-4 on (Prince Regents price)
in a steeplechase over 3 miles 2 furlongs, and
at that on a horse who is rising 12 years old!
The placed horses in the Gold Cup were Poor
Flame (8 years) and Red April (9 years). Prince
Regent (favorite for the Grand National on
Friday, April 5) won in great style. Poor
Flame blundered at a fence towards the end.
They met at level weights (12st.); in me
National Poor Flame has 11.11 to Prince
Regent’s 12.5.
* * * *
Beating Cambridge by three lengths
on the traditional Putney to Mortlake
course on Saturday, Oxford rowed the
41 miles in the fast time of 19 minutes
54 seconds. During the war inter-’varsity
rowing races outside the regular series
were held at Henley, where the series
themselves began one summer evening
back in 1829. Trying to get at what special
pull the boatrace should have to attract
up to a million spectators of all classes
every year—particularly as only a few
of them have actual ties with either uni-
versity, and most see very little of the
race, anyhow —an American writer con-
cluded that apparently “the British have
at heart a special admiration for folk who
do tough things just for the pleasure and
satisfaction of doing them.”
* * * *
“Mid-off”: The Australians mentioned
as having played for two countries in
Test cricket (B. 20/3/’46) all repped
before playing for England. W. E. Mid-
winter was in the first Australian XI at
Melbourne in 1876-77 ; then he played
for England in Australia in 1881-82 and
for Australia v. England in Australia
in 1882-83 and in England in 1884. Jack
Ferris was in the Australian XFs v. Eng-
land in 1886-87, 1888 and 1890 ; then
for England v. S’Africa in 1892. Billy
Murdoch played for Australia v. England
in 1876-77, 1878-79, 1880, 1881-82, 1882,
1882-83, 1884, 1884-85 and 1890; and for
England v. S’Africa in 1892. Albert Trott
donned pads for Australia in 1894-95 v.
England, and for England v. S’Africa in
1899. Sammy Woods (in residence at
Cambridge Uni.) played for Australia in
England in 1888, and for England v.
S’Africa in 1896. All did a good job
for both countries.
* * * *
The Australians in M.L.:
The finish of the match v. Wellington gave
Australian left-hander Toshack a real chance
to show how he’d go on a damaged wicket,
and in the second innings he had the remark-
able figures of 26 overs, 12 maidens, 40 runs,
6 wickets; 8 for 58 for the match. His tour
figures to the end of that game were 132 overs,
51 maidens, 220 runs, 17 wickets, averaging
12.94—quite a good effort for a first season
in big cricket. Final scores in the Wellington
match were Australia 415, Wellington 94 and
161.
Maoriland won the toss in the Test at Christ-
church, and Hadlee chose to bat on the rain-
softened wicket. The side crashed for 42 in
135 minutes, the only double-figure scorers
being Scott (14) and Wallace (10). The previous
“worst” by M.L. was 94 v. Australia at Wel-
lington in 1905; but it isn’t an all-Tests “low,”
since Australia fell for 36 v. England (Trumper
got 18 of the total) at Birmingham in 1902,
and S’Africa was outed for 30 by England in
1895-96 and in 1924. O’Reilly took 5 for 14.
Toshack’s unchanged effort of 19 overs, 13
maidens, 12 runs and four wickets was a re-
markable performance. Lindwall got the other
wicket for 13.
Australia made a bad start when the first
wicket fell at nine (Meuleman nil), but Brown
(67) and Barnes (54) added 109 for the second
wicket. When eight were out for 199 on the
second day Brown closed the ifinmgs. J. Cowie,
of Auckland, who took 6 for 40, has been
M.L.’s most reliable trundler for quite a while.
In 1937 in England he took 19 wickets (out
of 40) in the Tests, including 10 for 140 in the
second Test at Manchester. t
In its second innings Maoriland scored 54.
Still, the “double” wasn’t a Test-match
“worst”: S’Africa crashed for 36 and 45 in the
fifth Test at Melbourne in 1931-32, Ironmonger
getting 11 for 24. (That was the match in
which Grimmett, who had taken 3 for 94,
8 for 72, 8 for 192 and 14 for 199 in the other
Tests, was not given a bowl in either innings!)
The M.L. debacle was brought about by
O’Reilly (3 for 19), Toshack (2 for 6), Miller
(2 for 6), Lindwall (1 for 16) and McCool
(1 for 0).
The succession of easy wins suggested that
in future Dominion tours the Board of Control
could well risk giving more “colts” a chance.
On the tour Brown scored 443 runs, averaging
73.83; Hassett 361, averaging 72.2; Miller 257,
averaging 64.25; Barnes 264, averaging 52.8.
Hamence, with 74 runs, averaging 18.5, didn’t
strike form. O’Reilly got most wickets (28,
averaging 10.6); Toshack bagged 23, averaging
10.34, his full figures being 163 overs, 71
maidens, 238 runs, 23 wickets. Tallon’s wicket-
keeping was patchy in the earlier matches, but
he was in great form in the Test.
* * #
“Old ’Un”: Two Test captains—Joe
Darling, who lately passed on, and F. S.
Jackson (Eng.)—had birthdays on the
same day (November 21, 1870). They
tossed their coins up in the five Tests in
England in 1905.
H* *l*
Big money is in the air for the Louis-
Conn world heavyweight scrap at the'
Yankee Stadium on June 19. With movie
rights and the like, the rake-off will run
into millions of dollars, Conn’s share
alone being estimated in advance
at half a million. It’s not as good
as it looks, since “Mr. Whiskers,” as they
call the taxgatherer over there, takes a
huge whack of it. Conn views that more
or less cheerfully, taking consolation from
the fact that for his first fight he received
$2.50, and his trainer, took the two dollars.
* * * *
In a return match at Sydney Stadium
Jack Kirkham won the middleweight title
for Victoria by knocking out Alan West-
bury in the second round. Exactly \\\
pounds heavier than in February, West-
bury attacked from end to end of the first
round, although repeatedly beaten to the
punch. A right counter sickened him
soon after they came up for the next
stanza, and he was wide open to a flurry
of fists that laid him across the bottom
rope for “five.” Out on his feet he
had no defence for a right to the chin
that made his head hit the ring-apron
with a bang. He was “out” for more
than 10 minutes.
* * * *
Because their styles did not blend,
Hockey Bennell and Tommy Ward gave
a disappointing display at Leichhardt.
Bennell outpointed his opponent from
the first bell. Ward missed with almost
every punch, and when Bennell made no
attempt to take advantage of the other
pug’s being off balance full-throated
hoots were heard. At the end of the sixth
round Pearson ordered Bennell to do
some fighting. He persisted in boxing
under wraps, always adding to his lead
on points, and before the seventh was
half-over the referee threw both arms in
the air and retired: “No fight.” An old-
timer’s opinion is that both were trying
but were badly matched.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Australia wished its Governor-General,
the Duke of Gloucester, many happy
returns of his birthday, which was last
Sunday. The Duke was 46, and with the
Duchess and the Mountbattens he cele-
brated with a surf at Palm Beach and a
picnic at Whale Beach.
The Governor-General, the Duke of
Gloucester, and the Duchess paid, their
flying visit to Norfolk Island last week.
There the islanders gave them royal wel-
come, staging all, the traditional functions
to show their pleasure. The royalties, ac-
companied by the Duchess’s lady-in-wait-
ing, Miss Eileen Phipps, arrived in Syd-
ney last Friday. They will be in residence
at Admiralty House till April 23. To-
morrow afternoon, in the grounds of
Government House, they will hold a
garden party of great dimensions.
Sydney met the Mountbattens last
Friday, and was not disappointed. Rather
the city found that report and rumor for
once had done the subject less than
justice, and had worked up dramatic
effect by understatement. In a play of
Priestley’s he has one of his characters
remark that he had always thought of
himself as an exciting sort of chap. Well,
that is what the Mountbattens are —they
are exciting people. He comes like the
hero of some odyssey of hard danger and
perils overcome; she comes, the modern
Penelope who has gone abroad seeking
and knitting into decent pattern again,
through her Red Cross and St. John Mis-
sion, the raw ends of war. Best of all
they give out to the world in smile and
friendly glance their own spirit of glad-
ness. As the woman resting her loaded
shopping basket on one of the barricades
where they passed said: “He’s so hand-
some and brave, and she’s so sweet and
pretty, and they’ve got so much, it makes
me believe in fairy tales all over again.”
On arrival at Mascot the two talked
to Brigadier Schreiber, who met them on
behalf of the Duke of Gloucester.
Premier McKell and Mrs. McKell, to
Service chiefs, and to Robyn Taylor,
aged two, held aloft in her flying officer
daddy’s arms, with the same easy
approach. There were cheers and wav-
ing crowds all the way from the airport
to Admiralty House. Later, when Lord
Louis arrived at the Australia for the State
Government luncheon, Castlereagh-street
within cooee ofxthe hotel swarmed with
women eager to glimpse the profile.
Many of them through push and persis-
tence had a close-up of it, in spite of
the array of police. A matey wave and
smile, from the steps of the hotel, were
the gallant admiral’s acknowledgment.
A happy surprise was Lady Louis’s
visit to Sydney Hospital. She not only
shook hands with every patient in the
four wards she visited, but she had a
ready and easy greeting for all. Matron
Pidgeon, Medical Super. Dr. Rose and
Colonel Burrett did the honors. Both
Dr. Rose and Dr. A. A. Moon, assistant
gynaecologist, had been p.-0.-w —one in
Germany and one in Siam. In the
children’s ward the smiling visitor scored
another hit.
Sydney’s Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress had a bright idea when they
decided on the green and sylvan looking
centrepiece for the vestibule of the Town
Hall, where they received the guests at
the afternoon party given in honor of
the Mountbattens. The centrepiece was
built up of growing maidenhair fern, and
the only thing lacking was the glitter of
the handsome crystal chandelier, still in
war-time bondage.
Lord Mayor Bartley, the Mayoress
and their distinguished guests stood
on a little carpet just inside the left-
hand doors of the vestibule. Lord Louis,
his six rows of decorations fascinating
the eye, and Lady Louis, slim and fetch-
ing in her uniform of Chief Superinten-
dent of the Nursing Division of the Order
of St. John, smiled at each guest as though
they meant it. After the handshakes
everybody went into the concert hall for
tea. Here there were - bursts of more
greeny shoot and leaf, and little tables
spread for tea.
Women admired the silver service on
the Lord Mayor’s own table, and many
cast looks of admiration on the pale
hyacinth-pink suit worn by Mrs. Hugh
Poate. With this went a tiny hat that
was just a lyric in pink. With her was
her doctor husband, who is a sturdy
Crusader of St. John. The Clifford Hays
were there, and the Historical Society’s
Mr. Stephen. Admiral Moore, his wife
and France’s new Consul-General.
Ministers of the Crown and their wives
and councillors and their wives were
among the four or five hundred.
After two days’ rushing about that
might have dented even an armored tank
the Mountbattens made smart and alert
entry to the party given in their honor
by the committee of the King George
Fund for Sailors, Lord Louis is the
president in chief of this fund, which was
founded by King George V, but he owned
that this was the first of its functions he
had attended, through press of engage-
ments of a different kind.
State chairman of the fund knight
Thomas Gordon and deputy-chairman A.
M. Pooley and their wives welcomed Lord
and Lady Louis, who shook hands with
everybody, and got off into their usual
sprint of conversation. She was intensely
pleased over her win on Cordale at Can-
terbury, and proudly displayed the two
pound notes she had won.
Their zest for life made the whole room
sparkle, and even the pink roses and chry-
santhemums along the buffet seemed to
deepen in tone. Or maybe that was the
drinks. There was everything you could
fancy, plus fruit juices. The Gordon
lady, in her smart patterned silks, and
Mrs. A. M. Pooley, a soft white cravat
LADY LOUIS MOUNTBATTEN.
—From a London photograph.
finishing off her black afternoon frock,
were untiring hostesses. Viki Gordon,
her hat a white butterfly affair of stif-
fened net, was an attractive aide. Admiral
Moore was there, and with him daughter
Barbara, who goes off soon to Montreal
and marriage. Andree Du Boise, her
pretty head filled with her Arts course,
was among the company, which was
mainly composed of shipping magnates
and their wives.
Last-minute call of the Mountbattens
was paid to. the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron at Kirribilli. The pair came
with the squadron’s commodore, the
Duke of Gloucester. The party was re-
ceived at the gates by Vice-Commodore
James Milson, and secretary, Mr.
Wilkinson. Lady Louis was the only
woman present. She thought the view
from the club balconies as lovely as it
really is. If it’s of interest her drink was
sherry. The squadron’s most-decorated
member, Wing-Commander C. G. Milson,
R.A.A.F., D.S.O. and bar, D.F.C. and
bar, a veteran of 26, just returned from
the wars, was there.
A visit to the Captain Cook Dock, calls
at Kismet, naval officers’ wardroom at
Potts Point, Anzac House, the races at
Canterbury and dinner parties given by
the Lieutenant-Governor and the Fred-
erick Jordan lady, and by the Governor-
General the Duke of Gloucester and the
Duchess on Saturday night, and a Sun-
day-morning ride in Centennial Park and
a dash to Manly and a siyf display—all
to the accompaniment of a constant
stream of talk —were other items in the
non-stop week-end of Lord Louis and
his wife.
Australia’s famed aviator Captain P.
G. Taylor ate his midday salad with the
Society of Women Writers last week.
He was the Women Writers’ first guest
of the year, and that these flying men
still cast a spell was sfrown by the num-
bers of women who squeezed into the
Chelsea. There wasn’t elbowroom. Cap-
tain Taylor tells his story in direct fashion
without any trace of oratorical trick. But
you feel that there isn’t an atoll in the
Indian Ocean or the Pacific West and
East that he hasn’t knowledge of. He
touched all briefly on his flights with
Kingsford Smith and Ulm, gave warm
praise to the Americans for their fore-
sight in turning Canton Island into an
airport, mentioned the 150,000-word book
he has just written, and quite forgot to
mention Jiis own Military Cross and
George Cross.
From Melbourne
Melbourne took Lord and Lady Louis
.Mountbatten to its heart. They came,
they saw, they conquered ; but they needed
every ounce of vitality they possess to
keep up with their engagements. One of
the most notable things about Lord and
Lady Louis is their amazing memory.
Men who served under Lord Louis were
singled out immediately, and p.-0.-w.
seen by Lady Louis when she went
through Ghangi and Singapore were
spotted and named. At the Lord Mayor’s
reception J. E. Adams, who was met in
Changi by Lady Louis, was recognised
at once, though, as said, “You have
put on a lot of weight since then.” “Yes,”
was the reply ; “five stone.”
First official function was the recep-
tion given by the Australian Red Cross in
the banquet hall of Menzies. Vice-presi-
dent of the council knight John Latham
and Dr. Newman Morris, chairman of
the Australian Red Cross Council, re-
ceived the guests of honor. Lord Louis
was in his much-beribboned uniform of
an admiral; Lady Louis wore the simple
navy-blue uniform of Superintendent of
the St. John Ambulance Brigade. A
speech of welcome was made by Mrs.
H. F. Creswick, Principal Commandant
Women’s Personnel, A.R.C.—she was
continuing a friendship formed in Eng-
land in the early years of the war.
Among those who gathered to meet
the distinguished visitors were Miss A. M.
Sage, Matron-in-Chief of the A.A.N.S.,
who had met Lady Louis in Manila ;
First - Officer Sheila McClements,
W.R.A.N.S. ; and Miss Lang, Principal
Matron of the R.A.A.F. Nursing Service.
Also noticed in the throng were Mrs.
Rupert Downes, smart in navy; Mrs.
Alex Russell, who chose royal blue for
her frock and a feather hat in the same
tonings ; and Mrs. T. J. Ryan, in a black
frock and small feather hat in shadings of
pink and pastel-blue feathers. With
Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton was his
sister, the Hon. Mrs. Ronald Douglas, and
General Thomas Blarney was there with
his wife.
There is always an eagerness about the
Mount battens to get down to fundamen-
tals, and they did it at the Lord Mayor’s
reception. The Lord Mayor mentioned
that the room in which the reception was
held had seen many famous visitors (one
of them was Admiral Togo!); “but at
no time have we had two more lovable or
dynamic personalities than the two we
now honor.” The speeches included those
of Premier Cain and Cr. Townsend.
Lord Louis paid tribute to the Aus-
tralian fighting men, and his lady to the
women of Australia for their work in
industry, and to nursing sisters and Red
Cross workers. One person she had
looked for she found at the civic recep-
tion Colonel “Weary” Dunlop; by
this name he was known throughout Java
and the prison camps. Said A.B.C.’s Col.
Charles Moses: “I would never have
arrived in Australia but for him —he got
me out of Java.”
The Lady Mayoress was in a deep-
beige frock and matching coat, her brown
sailor hat trimmed with reseda-green
ribbon. Cr. G. R. Boulton brought his
wife and daughter, and both chose black
for their smart outfits. Mrs. Essington
Lewis wore with a black Persian-iamb-
trimmed coat a small black hat trimmed
with aqua-blue velvet ribbon. Mrs.
Charles Allum, former president of the
Victorian War Nurses Comforts Fund,
was also in black. Professor Bernard
Heinze dropped in between lectures at the
Conservatorium, and Kevin Coleman
squired Barbara Sellick, attractive in black
and a small floral hat. With J. W.
Brophy was Mrs. Brophy ; and Mrs. G. I.
Stevenson chose aqua-blue for her charm-
ing ensemble. The Fraser lady was in
black. Mrs. J. F. Wilson wore an ermine
cape over her black frock. Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, in black, was accompaniedtby
Mrs. Norman Spry. With J. Bowen Pain
was his wife, smart in an outfit of hunter-
green. "
Delightful informality was the keynote
at State Government House reception.
The State ballroom was ablaze with
flowers and the gardens bright with
colored lights. To the roll of drums, the
vice-regal party entered the ballroom
and, after the National Anthem, mingled
with the guests, many of whom were
presented to Lord and Lady Louis, who,
despite a strenuous day, displayed un-
flagging charm. Lady Dugan wore a
charming gown of mushroom-pink crepe,
and over it a hiplength jacket in the same
shade, embroidered in silver. For the
first time Melbourne saw Lady Louis
in'formal dress instead of uniform —she
wore an apricot-toned georgette frock,
patterned in small, circular design in navy
and dull-green shadings. A fichu of
navy-blue georgette with a design in
apricot-tones matched her belt, which,
ended in sash ends. In the vice-regal
party were knight Edmund Herring, C.J.,
and his wife ; Mary Lisle Johnson, whose
frock of heavy white crepe featured a
bodice of deep tucks and a full skirt, and
Second-Officer Sheila Taylor, who accom-
panied Lady Louis on her travels —she
wore deep reseda-green crepe. For her
hair-do Lady Louis favored the latest
flat-top, with short pieces softly curled
at each side, the back turned over in
a short pageboy bob.
So that Captain Benjamin F. Tomp-
kins, newly-arrived U.S.N. Naval Attache
and Naval Attache for Air, and Mrs.
Tompkins might meet some of this city’s
prominents, Lieut.-Commander William
E. Dwyer, U.S.N.R., gave a cocktail
party at Grosvenor, where guests were
received under an ancient oak whose
branches were festooned with colored
lights. Drinks and savories were served
under the tree before guests went in to
the buffet dinner. Mrs. Tompkins, who
had pinned gardenias to the black
sequin-trimmed jacket of her suit,
chatted to Mrs. B. J. Moynham, whose
husband is the newly-arrived Assistant
Naval Attache. Other recent arrivals
from the U.S.A. present were Brigadier
and Mrs. E. Sebree and their two
daughters Pauline and Martha.
Melbourne’s American colony was
well represented by the Consul, Mr. C. J.
Spiker, and his wife, Colonel and Mrs.
Ralph Michaelis, Mrs. Helen Wessells
and Mrs. Lena Ruppert. Other guests
included Colonel D. M. Renucci, of the
French Legation, the Chinese Consul and
his wife, the last-named wearing a very
gay national costume. Well-known Mel-
bourne folk included Mr. and Mrs. W.
Purves and daughter Valerie, smart in
a cherry-red frock and black flower-
trimmed hat; Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh in
black crepe, the skirt having a lace frill
at the hemline, the jacket featuring a
matching lace peplum; Mrs. Norman
Myer, in a lime-green satin, the skirt cut
on the new draped lines, hatless and with
lovely pearls and diamond clips as acces-
sories. Mr. Frank O’Gollins was with
his wife and daughter, Mrs. O’Collins
smart in black, with a high-crowned, off-
the-face hat setting off her titian hair,
daughter Moira in brown. The Blarney
lady, who came with the general, was
very smart in black.
The attractive lass pictured here is
Moira, daughter of Mr. and Mrs, P. F.
O’Collins, of Park Lodge, Frankston, who
will marry Dr. Jim Peters next Saturday at
Newman College, Melbourne University.
The ceremony will be performed by
Moira’s uncle, the Bishop of Ballarat,
Very Rev. O’Collins, and another
O’Collins uncle, who was a missionary
and a p.-0.-w. for some years. Nuptial
Mass will follow, then a reception at
Grosvenor, Toorak. The bride will go to
the University in the afternoon to see her
new husband receive his Master of Sur-
gery degree ; Dr. Peters, who was a Lt.-
Col. in the A.1.F., is a Tobruk Rat.
Moira will wear a wedding gown of white
crepe romaine, with her great-aunt’s veil
which also served Moira’s mother, and
will carry a bouquet of gardenias. The
three bridesmaids will be frocked alike
in white marquisette, and will wear ban-
deaux of white lace with clusters of tiny
red roses at each side of the head, and
they will also carry posies/of red roses.
Moira’s grandfather, Patrick McMahon
Glynn, was a figure in early Common-
wealth Parliaments and Ministries.
Vivienne Betty Stephens, daughter of
Mrs. Carl Stephens and the late Dr. Carl
Stephens, has been appointed organis-
ing secretary to the Royal Melbourne
Hospital. Betty has just been released
from the Australian Red Cross Society
Field Force, with which she served for
more than three years as a hospital visi-
tor in Victoria, N.S.W., Centralia and
with the 2/4 A.G.H. in Labuan.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Merely Australians
Thanks for S. E. Pearson’s letter (B.
13/3/’46). Since its publication we have
seen the end of the hysteria over the
Yoizuki. The mistake that the men of
the Eighth Division made was that they
did not arrange to be born “Indernesian
comrades” or Formosans.
Into nothing is an inquiry more
urgently needed than into the story of
the Eighth Division, and particularly
into the story of the 23rd Brigade of that
division, scattered in Timor, Ambon and
Rabaul. Two-thirds of the men of that
brigade died in captivity from a variety
of causes, ranging from beheading to
beriberi. Of the 2/21st Battalion on
Ambon, plus a few ancillaries, some 300
only have survived captivity. Of some
400 men at the Laha aerodrome on Am-
bon (my elder son was there) there are
no survivors to tell what happened. In-
formation that I have (trustworthy, I be-
lieve) is that those of the Laha men who
survived the action that began on
February 2, 1942, were massacred be-
tween the 6th and the 17th of that
month.
We next-of-kin of that tragic 2/21st
want an independent inquiry, to be
conducted by the highest obtainable per-
sons ; if possible, Judges of the High
Court. We want to know why these
widely-separated outposts were garri-
soned by token forces; what reserves
there were; whether the terrains were
properly reconnoitred ; what instructions
the commanders had and what arms the
men had; what sea and air cover was
provided; whether the C.O. 2/21st was
relieved of his command because he re-
ported that to leave his men on Ambon
was to court certain disaster ; why the
men were left at these outposts when it
was obvious that annihilation must be
their fate if attacked ; why no attempt
was made to rescue the prisoners, at least
on Timor and Rabaul, when sea-power
had passed to the Allies? And much
more.
Perhaps it is asking rather much in
these mad times to demand that there
be an inquiry into the fate of mere Aus-
tralians. Still, we can try. Such an in-
quiry would clear the air for us who
mourn; the bland assurances of politi-
cians and Victoria Barracks assuredly
will not. Oh to be an “Indernesian” in
these days! —L. C. Legge-Wilkinson
(Vic.).
“Brisbane Comes of Age”
The statement “that from 1942 to 1945
Brisbane became, in effect, a garrison
town with a vastly increased migrant
population and greatly reduced resources
in manpower for carrying out municipal
work” (B. 13/3/ ’46) is all too true.
The next sentence —“A ‘Labor’-domi-
nated council naturally fell down on such
a job and an alarmed citizenry replaced
it at the first opportunity by a more de-
pendable article under the leadership of
J. B. Chandler as Lud Mayor”—is not in
accordance with fact.
The truth is that the council did fall
down on the job, and it was dominated
by the anti-Labor party, with J. B. Chand-
ler as Lord Mayor. The falling-down on
the job did not commence in 1942 but in
1940, when J. B. Chandler won the rabbit-
skins, and he still holds them.
The “more dependable article J. B.
Chandler” also holds the record for high
taxation. For the six years of Chandler
—1940 to 1946 —the general rates have
totalled 6s. 6fd. in the £. Under Labor
control, 1934-1940, the rates totalled 4s.
10fd. in the £.—D. C. Coutts (alderman,
Brisbane).
That “Third” A.I.F.
Perhaps “Ek Dum” could be persuaded
to write a survey of the Australian
armored formations since 1941. This
would correct the many errors made in
the daily press and repeated by “C.S.”
(“0.F.M.,” 20/3/’46). “C.S.” seems to
think that (1) all armored units were re-
tained until a short time before V.P. and
(2) only two regiments left the main-
land (the general opinion is that none
left).
Australia’s armor was in 1944 concen-
trated in the Fourth Armored Brigade,
formed in 1943 under the inspiring leader-
ship of Brigadier Macarthur-Onslow.
The brigade consisted of five regiments.
All other regiments had been disbanded,
their personnel reallocated to infantry or
else used to make up deficiencies in the
we. of the Fourth Armored Brigade.
The Fourth was specially trained for
Hie contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line
jungle warfare, infantry co-operation and
amphibious work.
“C.S.” and others will probably be
surprised to learn that five tank regi-
ments served in the islands. These were:
2/6 Australian Armored Regiment, N.G.,
1942-43 ; 2/8 Regt., N.G., 1943 ; Ist Tank
Battalion, N.G., 1943 ; 2/4 Regt., N.G.
and Solomons, 1944-45 ; Ist Armd. Regt.
(formerly Ist Tank Btn.), Borneo, 1945 ;
2/9 Regt., Borneo, 1945.
One agrees with “C.S.” that there
should be official recognition of those fine
regiments which languished in the Moora-
Geraldton area (W.A.), on continuous
bivouac, in desert-like conditions. Cer-
tainly the Westralians would favor it. —
Red and Green (N.S.W.),
Discharged Servicemen
You can see them everywhere, many
wondering, some a little desperately, what
they are going to do when their deferred
pay cuts out. At an age when they
would normally be considering appren-
ticeship to one of the trades, they entered
the A.T.C. or otherwise prepared them-
selves for a part in one of the services.
They served that part. And now, having
had in a mixture of danger, nerve-wrack-
ing exploits, mental and physical torture
and mud, blood and guts, what stay-at-
home unionists refer to as “all the best
of it,” they are dumped on the industrial
scrap-heap, not because they are not still
needed by their country, but because of
the alleged limits to the absorptive capa-
cities of the unions.
Any man who, starting from scratch,
could in a short time gain the ability
“Here, miss, you might want this — it's quite cold out of the Water."
to pilot or navigate aircraft over thou-
sands of miles and through enemy bar-
rages, or who could calmly keep his
wireless operating under impossible con-
ditions and show the guts to hit back at
the enemy fighter on his bomber’s tail,
or who could master the intricate tactics
of changing infantry warfare, and who is
still young, is capable of acquiring the
trade he would have had if “safety first”
had not been subordinated to patriotism.
Yet the best that Australia can offer
these men is hard manual labor of the
pick-and-shovel type.
There is no disgrace or suggestion of
disgrace in this work. Indeed, many a
man might be happy at it who would be
harassed in a more complicated job. But
it was once our boast that this was a land
where a man with the will to work could
win through to the reward of his industry
and intelligence.
The Government, obviously, won’t dis-
cipline the unions in this or any other
matter. Equally obviously it doesn’t in-
tend to ally itself with servicemen in their
conflict with the unions. There is one
hope: that servicemen who are already
union members or on whom union leaders
may deign to confer membership will
remember the years of comradeship and
will remain Australians first and unionists
second. They will not be numerically
strong enough to sway a decision at union
meetings ; but in the justice of their cause
and the courage of their convictions they
may discover an eloquence that will
defeat the purposes of some petty dic-
tators. Their old mates, on the scrap-
heap, will tell them it’s worth a try
Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
“Disposals” Policy
In reply to “C.S.” (B. 6/3/’46): -
The Commonwealth Disposals Commission is
the sole authority designated to handle the
economic distribution of surpluses in the Com-
monwealth. To date it has returned to Treasury
some £30,000,000 in revenue. Its policy is to
attempt to sell every type of surplus, and des-
truction, such as “C.S.” suggests, is not earned
out, nor has it been contemplated.
The method adopted for selling surpluses is
to offer all lines as they are declared surplus to
service requirements to the panels of trade and
manufacture, which normally distribute these
lines to the public. For example, 33,000 motor
vehicles, chiefly trucks, have been passed back
to the motor vehicle trade, which has sold them
at prices and on discounts authorised by the
Prices Commissioner. The distribution of these
vehicles has been 70 per cent, to the country,
30 per cent, to the metropolitan area. Textiles
have been offered to the textile trade, and elec-
trical goods to the electrical and radio panel.
All surpluses not taken up by the trade are
offered for sale by auction, or if not suitable
for -auction by public tender. The commission
does not favor private sales.
All typewriters which are declared surplus by
the services are passed over to the typewriter
control. Machine-gun carriers are offered to the
public at a flat rate of £5O each. The price
should interest most people, as the engine alone
is worth in the vicinity of that sum. The com-
mission recently called for tenders for “tanks,
Australian cruiser, mark 1.” Water trucks,
mobile cookers, wireless vans, breakdown trucks,
scout cars, etc., have all been sold back to the
public, but at the present moment jeeps are not
available for sale until the lend-lease aspect is
cleared up in U.S.A.
To dump this valuable equipment or, worse
still, to let it lie and rot, would be criminal, and
taxpayers, if such should happen, would have
grounds for objection. An assurance is given
by the Commonwealth Disposals Commission
that no dumping or unloading outside the Heads,
or in any other waters, will take place
until every avenue of disposal has been ex-
amined, including sale overseas of the articles
which would, if sold in Australia, interfere with
the rehabilitation of men and women coming
out of the forces.
The letter is from H. I. Sabey, Public
Relations, Melbourne.
Two “S. M. Herald” issues (Wednes-
day and Saturday) carried Common-
wealth Disposals Commission advertise-
ments, all bearing the Australian coat-of-
arms. The insertion of this embellish-
ment alone (at published rates) cost
£37 Bs. for the week.
One wonders why it is necessary to
display the coat-of-arms in such advertise-
ments at the rate of almost £lOOO per
annum in one newspaper only—and how
much in how many-others?—G. W. H.
(N.S.W.).
A Victorian farmer attended a Fisher-
men’s Bend sale at which 1000 sets of new
harness were to be auctioned. Finding
that the horse furniture was to be put up
in 100 lots, which put the producer who
needs the stuff and can use it out of the
running, he asked for 20 or 30 sets
to be submitted and was told to mind his
own business. Two lots of 100 were dis-
posed of and the remaining 800 were
knocked down for £5OO, probably to
some dealer. This works out at 12s. 6d.
a set of new harness.
Commission policy is playing into the
hands of the big man. Yet it is the small
man who is doing something about the
food shortage.—C. Q. (Vic.).
Unfair to Collectors
Evidently post-office officials agree with
thousands of philatelists regarding the
puerility of the designs of the “Peace”
2£d. and 3}d. stamps. They certainly do
their best to obliterate the designs during
journeys of letters through the post. I
enclose some ghastly examples of deface-
ments.
This is not a fair deal. The Govern-
ment makes tens of thousands of pounds
from the sale of these stamps to collec-
tors ; and it should instruct its “pile-
drivers” to go easy when defacing
stamps. Postal officials in other countries
seem to have had the necessary instruc-
tions. — Black Out (Q.).
Tax-grabbing and Meat Shortage
Although our Molongloside “Govern-
ment” has discovered belatedly “a
terrific blackmarket in meat,” it seems to
be unaware of the job that its Taxation
Department has been doing for years
past in reducing the amount of meat
available for export.
Take the case of any average fat-stock
owner in a drought-stricken area. With
feed becoming inadequate and seasonal
prospects adverse, his natural course
Ivould be to sell off all his stock while it
was still in fair condition and restock
later when conditions improved.
But if he did this he will be socked
at lull income-tax rates on the trans-
action, irrespective of the fact that it
would have been impossible for him to
carry on without heavy loss in stock and
consequent reduction in the national
meat supply for home and export.
If, however, he were to sell only half
of his stock, keep half of the remainder
alive as best he could on what was left
of his pasturage and let the remaining
25 per cent, die, he would be taxed at a
much lower rate on sales, would be en-
titled to rebate on his losses and would
still have a nucleus for restocking when
conditions improved. He would have
reduced the national meat supply to the
extent of a quarter of his original hold-
ing, but he would have saved hand-
somely in taxes.
The loss in national meat resources
brought about in this fashion during the
war drought years must have run into
hundreds of shiploads of exportable
meat. —Fi Fa (Q.).
Ration Coupons
In South Australia many people tore
coupons out of their ration-books and
sent them to the Food for Britain appeal.
This was done in particular by people who
wanted to help but could not afford gifts
of money.
Along came the Food Controller with
cold shoulder for all these appeals. Along
came Mr. Dedman with the decree (or
whatever it was) that the gift coupons,
instead of being used for the purchase of
rationed foods, must be destroyed. And
now we hear from A.B.C. that what Mr.
Dedman denounced is being done in New
Zealand, and that at the instance of a
Food for Britain organisation on which
trade-unionism is strongly represented. —
Bitter Half (S.A.),
Jobs —Women Only
My evening paper contains several large
advertisements by manufacturing com-
panies seeking employees.
Employees are offered good wages, ex-
cellent working conditions, congenial sur-
roundings, and a chance to learn an in-
teresting trade, with the added induce-
ment of “no Saturday work.” The em-
ployees sought are females, 19 years of
age and over.
The same paper contains several
columns of “positipns vacant” advertise-
ments. At least 75 p.c. of the jobs offer-
ing are for women.
In the news columns are reports that
more and more discharged servicemen
are unable to find employment and are
going on to Re-establishment Relief.
The exodus of women from industry
which we were told would take place
when men became available to take their
place shows no signs of beginning.
Rather it seems that, women having
proved themselves as competent as men
in the jobs they did during the war, em-
ployers are anxious to avail themselves
of their cheaper labor.
Equal pay for equal work, irrespective
of sex, seems the only solution unless
we are prepared to change to a society
where the female goes out to win the
daily bread while the male stays home
and does the domestic chores. — Junius,
JR. (Q-).
“Judicial Aloofness”
Justice Brennan’s criticism of Chief
Justice Webb’s appointment as president of
the tribunal for the trials of war criminals
at Tokyo after acting $s investigator of
Japanese atrocities is the theme of much
discussion in Queensland. Only the good
sense and tact of a highly respected C.J.
have been questioned. But, as I see it,
the principle of judicial aloofness from
the smallest prior connection admits of
no qualification whatsoever.
During the war I had a long experience
of courts-martial and the ways of Judge
Advocates. The Judge Advocate was
almost invariably the staff officer who had
defcided (after reading the summary of
evidence) whether or not the accused
would be put on trial. Having decided
that a prima-facie case had been made
out, in a very larjjfe number of cases he
became, in effect, the prosecutor. An
objection to the legal sufficiency of an
indictment was seldom successful; nor
was the defence often allowed to take
advantage of the breakdown of any
witness called by the prosecution. The
Judge Advocate, after looking at witness’s
depositions in the summary of evidence,
would be apt to help the witness over the
hurdle.
And after summing up in open Court
he had a way of remaining with the lay
members of the Court when they retired
to consider their verdict. In the some-
what open-air conditions in operational
areas one could actually hear the Judge
Advocate, after such retirement, arguing
the point with members of the Court who
with him.— -Alpha Minus (Q.).


7
'6
M
H
A
d.
\s a result of Wireless
ocean » * ** l0 ° g “
Service lte world. Service be-
Tde S L~*~£s£Z Cont SS
*«““ A, and New Zealand
A^t‘rr«an M nißßion £ £~
Pictntegrana England, and "»
between Anstrab has
-—
n*rr£
The A.W. technicians . gc i e nce
Wii r kBB 2 “I« developments in commum finest
exploring » eW Beajn Setv.ee as
m ost efflcent and
services.
BEAM
Peacetime Facilities
Now Available
The Beam Wireless Service now operating on a full
Peacetime basis offers the public fast and accurate world-
wide communication services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to the
United Kingdom, the Continent of Europe, the Middle
East, Canada, United States, South America, India and
the Philippines.
Commercial Wireless Services have recently been
reopened for messages between Australia and Lae, Port
Moresby, Java and Nauru.
Codes are again permissible and you can use your
registered code name as address and signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the
acceptance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will he pleased to open a Credit Account for you.
Complete information available regarding codes,
classes of messages, rates, routes, etc.
Beam Wireless messages may be lodged at:
BEAM WIRELESS OFFICES,
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone: MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
ffieam Wheiet*, CammanicaUatid - - -
During the War the Beam Wireless Service efficiently
handled enormous traffic, eliciting praise from both the
Government and the Press.
From twelve million words handled in the first year of
war, traffic increased to fifty million words in the year 1944.
New Beam services were inaugurated with the Philippines
and San Francisco in 1941 and with Java, China and India
in the following year.
When G.H.Q. of the South-west Pacific moved to Brisbane
in 1942, A.W.A. opened a Beam Wireless office there for public
and press messages. As the war moved north so did members
of the A.W.A. Wireless Telegraph staff first to Port Moresby
in 1943, then to Hollandia and later Leyte, transmitting
millions of words to Governments and newspapers throughout
the world.
The news of the Continental invasion by the Allies
made enormous demands on the Beam services from England
and North America to Australia. The first news flash on
June 6, 1944 brought into being a co-ordinated plan for
handling an enormously increased volume of press messages.
Over 61,000 words in 500 press messages were received
during the first 24 hours.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (ASIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
