

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3460
Wednesday, June. 5, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seeppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
DRURY LANE THEATRE.
17HNG CHARLES II had two companies of players; one of them
known as “The King’s Servants” opened the original Drury
Lane Theatre in 1663 with a play called “The Humorous
Lieutenant,” but this earliest theatre on the site was burnt down
in 1672 and replaced by one designed by Sir Christopher Wren,
and that, in turn, was replaced by a third in 1794, and in 1809 fire
again destroyed the Drury Lane Theatre. The fourth and present
theatre was opened in 1812. On the boards of the Diuiy Lane
Theatres, Garrick, Kean, the Kembles, Macready, Mrs. Siddons an
Madame Vestris have won fame. After the, Victorian era Drury
Lane was for a time the headquarters of opera in Eng an , Tir
Thomas Beecham’s series of grand opera proving widely popu ar.
In 1922, after reorganisation, Drury Lane Theatre reopened wit
the spectacular “Decameron Nights.”


Learn '
/ - *
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Uy Same
tty Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Red Page
BIRDS IN THE BUSH.
A bird in the bush is, of course, worth
two in the hand: as far as nature-
lovers are concerned, anyhow. And that
is the, great merit of Archer Russell’s
Bush Ways (Australasian Publishing Co.)
—he takes the reader right out into the
bush with, him to watch, for instance, a
bustard, or “wild turkey,” dancing be-
fore its harem:
One day as I rode along I could see
among fhe saltbush, stalking about like
moving brown-white lumps of clay, the
forms of three or four very large birds
Then it was that I made a remarkable dis-
covery—one of the most amazing scenes
1 have witnessed in all my 50 years of
wild-animal study. Even as I watched I
noticed that the bustard cock’s neck was
visibly swelling. Larger and larger it grew
until, like a huge feather duster, it hung,
suspended to the ground. It was a proud
and haughty courtier that I saw before
me now. *
Sweeping the monstrous inflation be-
fore him as he moved, the bustard cock
strutted in and out among the bushes,
the assembled female birds following admir-
ingly, or at any rate obediently, in his
wake. Thus, for about a minute or more,
the weird display went on. Then suddenly
I grew aware that the great air-filled in-
flation was gradually shrinking; the cock
bustard, now standing still, seemed gradu-
ally to regain his breath, and the neck went
back to normal shape again. The dance
was over.
Mr. Russell is not hashing up nature-
notes at secondhand. He has been and
seen. Seen brolgas dancing, “a great
company of these giant birds dancing
against a background of shimmering red
dunes, their long slender bodies tinted
to a salmon hue, the cere red patches
on their heads gleaming like rubies ini
the sunlight.” Seen the lyrebird:
In a flooding stream of mimetic calls,
intermixed with occasional click and clucks,
and attended by ground-scratching, shuffles,
struts and prances, he sent his wooing
melody floating through the dew-wet deeps
of the jungle. Thus, for 15 minutes with
hardly a pause for rest, his tail unfolded
and flowing over his head and body in a
diaphanous veil of silver, he displayed and
sang—a vision of loveliness at which even
Apollo would wonder. Nor was that all.
Having performed at one mound, he needs
must go on to another, and yet another,
until each of the five mounds he had
formed within his territory had been visited
and performed on in turn.
Mr. Russell has been and seen the
pardalote and the rainbow-bird excavat-
ing their tunnels—the eggs of all burrow-
nesters, he records, are white; “hidden
away from sight in the dark earth they
have no need of color-markings or
camouflage.” He has watched flying
possums, or “squirrels,” has been stared
at by luminous fungi, has studied the
venerable wombat, has observed—at very
close quarters —various kinds of leeches ;
and —in the interests of natural science^—
has endured buffetings and peckings from
outraged butcher-birds and plovers. He
describes a fight between a crocodile and
a buffalo; and a fish-drive by a flock
of pelicans; he gives his opinion of
camels; has a fascinating chapter on
mirages; and he says that the black
falcon uses grazing cattle as “beaters”
to drive his prey into the air:
The falcon, soaring high in the air,
follows the sheep and cattle as they graze
across the plains, and “stoops” upon any
small bird that the stock disturb, streaking
down from a height of perhaps two hiln-
dred feet to seize its quarry as it t rises on
the wing. Twice when riding by I have
seen desert chats caught in this way. As,
on each occasion, the chat had only to
fly some 30 or 40 feet to gain the cover
of the nearest bush, and yet was caught,
the speed of fhe black falcon in its earth-
ward swoop must be amazing—anything up
to 250 miles per hour, possibly.
Curiously, though it contains plenty of
nature lore. Bush Ways is not what one
would describe as packed with information:
as is, for instance, McKeown’s book on
insects; or even as, in their supremely
attractive blend of observation and fine
writing, are the works of Fabre, It
is a book of pleasant rambles, well de-
scribed in its sub-title, “A bush-lover’s
wanderings on plain and range in central
and eastern Australia.” Its charm is that
it takes the reader into the bush with
the author; and also, by its style as
well as its thought, into the author’s
mind.
Mn Russell is not a literary man of
Fabre’s or Hudson’s stature; and some-
times, trying to express his mystical con-
ception of nature, he uses an awkward
jargon, all in capital letters —“This is the
inherent inevitability, the fundamental
base of all, in the endless Scheme of
Movement and Change—the ever-de-
stroying, the ever-constructing, multifold
Expression of Developing Life.” It is
just as well that this sort of obstruction
is rare in his prose. And—paradoxically
—just as well that one does encounter it
here and there. It gives the writing a
tang, a flavor, a quaintness, an individu-
ality. “At such a time and place men
stir from their corporal ego and become
for a while like the birds, the trees and
the flowers.”
And Mr. Russell has certainly an
original mind, and a fine one. He quotes
“Banjo” Paterson; he emphasises that
the Centre (as indeed Heysen and Namat-
jira have shown) is not just a dreary
waste but glowing with color, weirdly
beautiful; he points out, tellingly, that
Australians have given the kangaroo a
place of honor in the national coat-of-
arms, yet continue to slaughter the
creatures ; he is full of praise for the
Australian Alpine country—“a land of
rumbling and mysterious gorges, dazzling
ski-ing fields and icy, trout-filled
streams”; he is a very good Australian.
As a naturalist he has the courage to
believe that the wild creatures do not
perform their miracles only by “instinct,”
but that they think; and he declares—
in opposition to those blindworms of
science who believe that birds sing only
to captivate their mates or to warn off
other birds from their nesting territory—
that they also sing for joy.
Upon one point he stands in need of
correction. “Strange that so few of our
poet-naturalists have sought to interpret
the undersong and whisper-voices of the
Australian bushland.” Mr. Russell
should read, among others, Norma Davis
and James Devaney. Norma Davis’s
poetry, incidentally, was recently praised
by Field-Marshal Wavell in a letter to
Norman Lindsay.
However, that’s the only complaint.
Bush Ways, which is an Australian Book
Society choice, is altogether a delightful
volume: in which one may wander
“hither and yon on river, range and
plain” and hear plainly through the
printed page “the ‘pun-pun, witty we’ of
the golden whistler and the pleasing
‘witer-witer-witer’ of the mistletoe-bird.”
Dandyism Up-to-date.
From Long . Long Ago. by Alexander
Woollcott (Cassell; Angus and Robert-
son) :
There are certain scattered and miscel-
laneous experiences which I shall re-
member as long as I remember anything,
and one of these is the last glimpse I had
of Bernard Shaw. It was at dusk on a
chill November day one year ago, and
the place was his house at Ayot St. Law-
rence, in Hertfordshire. He had just set
me on my road to London —or tried
his conscientious best to —and was on his
way back up the curving drive to his own
front door. For me the occasion had the
bitter-sweet flavor inseparable from last
times. It seemed so improbable I would
ever see him again. After all, he was
eighty-five, and I wasn’t feeling any too
indestructible. Wherefore, as my car
drew away, I twisted round so that through
its rear window I might have a farewell
sight of him walking up his drive. But
that’s not what I found him doing. He
wasn’t walking. He was running.
It is hard to find the right label for
Woollcott’s note on Shaw; too short for
an essay ; more than a paragraph ; but —
pen-portrait? sketch?—it’s a model of
whatever it is. It has the characteristic
mellifluousness and lucidity of Wool-
cott’s prose ; the assurance of a man who
hobnobbed daily with celebrities; the
wit; and the gentle malice that records
at the end:
“Almost thou persuadest me,” I thought,
“to be a vegetarian.” I said as much to
Mr. Wells at dinner.
“Well,” he said, “I don’t like to peach
on a pal, but Shaw cheats.”
“Cheats!” Vainly I tried to imagine
the author of “Candida” and “St. Joan”
giving way to beefsteaks as a solitary vice.
“Yes,” said Wells. “He takes liver ex-
tract and calls it ‘those chemicals.’ ”
There was a good deal of restraint —
indeed, an affectionate warmth —about
Woollcott’s criticism of personalities:
even when he described Walter Winchell
as a “mechanically multiplied chatter-
box” ;
If, at last, I managed to scramble aboard
H.M.S. Resolution at Philadelphia with
no more than seven pieces of hand-luggage
[food parcels for his friends’ friends in
England] it was only because most of my
neighbors did not know I was going. They
thought I had already gone. You see,
three days before I was scheduled to sail*
a mechanically multiplied chatterbox named
Winchell announced, inaccurately but help-
fully, that I had departed the night before
in a bomber.
Woollcott liked, it appears, to criticise
within limits. If it was true that Wells
and Shaw were “not artists but teachers” ;
and that the wicked capitalist system
which H. G. Wells had spent his life
attacking had, after all —and from very
humble origins—produced H. G. Wells:
Wells was born into the era of ragged
individualism, and could not be expected
to see, I suppose, that he himself was the
finest proof of that particular pudding. Is
is possible that there was, after all, some
merit in a world which was able to evolve
him ?
that did not prevent him from enjoying
Shaw as a teacher and Wells as a
Socialist. He thought Gershwin’s paint-
ings were terrible ; and he had his doubts
about others; but he still enjoyed
“modernism” as a spectacle:
Gershwin’s ingenuousness also found its
most frequent expression in relation to his
painting. He had taken up the graphic art
in a big way, spending long hours at his
easel, looking up only to gaze meditatively
over the rooftops of the magical city and
wonder out loud whether he might not do
well to give up music altogether in favor
of oil and canvas. Since painting presented
the more interesting problems, why not
divert his indisputable talent from the one
art to the other?
Meanwhile there were many of his own
works to be seen in his new home,
affably sharing the wall-space with little
things by Utrillo, Renoir and Cezanne, who
are good painters, too. On the merits of
these early Gershwins 1 would not feel
qualified to speak. My instinctive notion
that they are godawful is tempered by a
humbling knowledge that I feel the same
way about many modern paintings for pos-
session of which our malefactors of great
wealth pay through their respective noses.
Which provokes the reflection, of
course, that our age really has gone mad.
Here is one of the most cultured of
Americans looking at paintings, seeing
clearly that they are “godawful” and
“humbly” doubting the evidence of his
own eyes. A man who has, in his own
writings, restored the lost connection be-
tween journalism and good prose style—
possibly the only American newspaper-
man who has looked beyond Hemingway
to Henry James and Pater —and he is
“not qualified to speak” about the obvi-
ously amateur, daubings of a jazz com-
poser who has “taken up” painting.
Woollcott’s was almost the standard
academic mind, to which all things are
equally valuable; great art for its great-
ness, awful art for its awfulness. Almost,
too, there was a touch of the snob in
him, at least of the American success-
worship ; for, although he praised the
poetry of A. E. Housman above all others
(and recorded, incidentally, that the total
of Housman’s poems was 104, the same
number as Horace left —“I think it was
no coincidence”), he could write about
Mrs. Alice Duer Miller —author of the
popular war poem The White Cliffs —
with apparently equal gratification.
But such comments seem inappropri-
ate to a book as captivating as Long,
Long Ago. Although one can read a
good deal of Woollcott’s criticism with
respect and all of it with interest —his
praise of Edmund Gosse’s Father and
Son, his enthusiasm for “Green Pastures”
as the greatest of American plays (which
it may well be), his liking for Jane Austen
and Emily Bronte —his mind, essentially,
was not critical but appreciative. Simply,
he liked life ; and that is why this miscel-
lany of short essays is such delightful
reading.
He liked “godawful” paintings; they
amused him. He liked celebrities of any
kind; they decorated the spectacle of
existence. He liked the pathos of things
—the death in poverty and neglect of the
dipsomaniac author of “Old Black Joe”
and “The Old Folks at Home”: Stephen
Collins Foster, who knew very little about
the negroes and the South, but had to
make his living as a Nigger Minstrel —
the pathos and the strangeness. He liked
the joy of things—Charlie Chaplin and
the Marx Brothers. And, at a suitable
distance, he liked violence, so that a large
section of this posthumous book is de-
voted to the recounting of famous mur-
ders, He “cherished” murderers; they
amused him:
Thus I am now cherishing a case brought
me here in New York It concerns a
homicide that enlivened the tedious lull at
Eton shortly before the war —the horrid
knifing by a jealous lover of a servant girl
employed in the house of a master of the
school, one R.L.P. Booker, who, as a
disciplinarian, vainly cultivated a ferocious
scowl in his efforts to overcome the dis-
advantage of cherubic lineaments. When
Mr. Booker was led to where the poor
wench lay, slaughtered in a passage, he
turned on the household, assembling agape
at his heels, and inquired severely—bless
him! —-“What dangerous clown has done
this?”
Woollcott’s period, really, was the
Regency. He studied the newspaper re-
ports of murders in the spirit with which
Beau Brummell might have gone to a
prize fight. He was the man-about-town,
the Dandy: detached, ironic, amused ;
wearing his prose style like a curling and
elegant periwig; and valuing, above all
things, wit. Set down amongst Woollcott
and his group, Sheridan would have
found himself very much at home.
Publishing for Pleasure and Profit:
Walter Buchler (Useful Publications,
London). “This is an account of six
years of publishing, with the author’s
personal observations on the technique
and commercial possibilities of the craft.”
Useful Publications also deals in Useful
Gifts, such as lion- or goat-skin bags, and
buys and sells stamp collections. Alto-
gether, a very useful organisation.
Various Verse
The Leaf.
Leaf, leaf on the tree,
No measure of me
Are you where you break
To bud and awake!
No measure ? The last
Year’s leafage is past,
And, as I, too, must,
Is mouldered to dust.
While the fresh new leaf
Knows naught of the brief.
Bright thing that was seen
In its mantling green.
For only the tree
Endures, and, as we,
(This leafage is man)
You know but your span.
And yet though you fall.
Though none may recall.
Where broken you drift
Life still is your gift.
But ; oh, never yours ! ...
What moulder endures
In root or in sap
Is an unknown hap.
N.S.W
MARY GILMORE.
Off the Rails.
Time was, about this calling world I ran,
A free, a lordly man.
Here and there, to and fro,
Wherever whim might lead —
Changing direction, changing speed,
In a split second,
When hill or stream or moorland
beckoned,
According to my bent;
And where I wished to go
I went.
But now great, blind, inexorable forces
Springing from hidden sources
Bind and enclose my courses;
I have to run on rails.
Whither they lead I cannot know,
Yet thither I must go.
Against my will,
Against my firm conviction,
Or stand for ever still.
No struggle of mine avails
To break that tyrannous restriction —
If one rebels
As some poor fools have done,
Disregarded he must lie,
Helpless, prone,
Defunct, pathetic wheels turned to the
sky.
His shameful inwards to base mockery
Exposed, beside the embankment, over-
grown
With giant weeds obscene,
A useless, passionless, inert machine.
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.
Poel.
I am the indoors man who keeps drab
company
With lamps and books and all that these
accompany
Through secret panels and through man-
holes cut
In ceilings where unwanted lumber’s put.
I can’t pass out of doors, but, hemmed
between
Mind’s roof and floors, must live in the
obscene
Privacy of rooms—the hothouse heart,
And cold library of the brain apart,
Connected by the windy corridor
Whence sounds of hate and laughter dis-
cord pour
Into the ante-rooms of others’ ears.
So I repel, I know, many, my dears.
Had I a sunroom by which leaned a tree
Scratching the window pane of either eye,
A bird to whistle me each day at six,
I would sell then my loathsome candle-
sticks ;
And, clandestine, wearing my footprints,
run
Outdoors, escaped, to *greet the rising sum
But, since I have to praise all that I know,
Else cannot bear to live, how can I view
The world outside, who rarely find the
time
Indoors enough, searching my house for
rhyme ?
Forgive me, then, if overlong I dwell
Within myself, when I my story tell.
QUEENSLAND,
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
* I
w i
IS
-N
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
122 YEARS OF SERVICE
ill
N
iSSSSSfc*
mmm
MW
«««S
mmmmmmmm
ws m
‘WHILE I LIVE I'LL CROW”
/
)
Vi
i'
"• CN
7
2
I Au.i\
4
;: «=
a
1
(fa
£
ANTIQUE WELSH DRESSER
Dated 1678
Carving very finely executed on front and
ends by a Welsh Bard. 4ft. 6in. wide,
3ft. 2in. to top, Ift. Sin. top to shelf.
Height overall, 6ft. 1 Oin. Width, Ift. 9in.
Price £lB5
OLD BRISTOL DELFT PLAQUE
Diameter, 14£ inches. Price .. £lO/10/-
CENUINE OLD DELFT PLAQUE
Diameter, 14£ inches. Price .. £9/9/-
OLD BLUE AND WHITE CHINESE
GINGER JAR
Height, 12 inches. Price £lB
ANTIQUE LADDER BACK CHAIR
16in. high floor to seat, 3ft. 1 in. floor to
top of back. Width of seat, *l7in.
Depth, 13in. Price £l4
OAK ARM CHAIR
18in. high floor to seat, 3ft. 2in. floor to
top of back. Width of seat, 21 in. Depth,
16in. Price £l4/14/-
• Fine Art Gallery —Fourth Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


A b WAYS CIYE
CS\ A BAIkY
THOUGHT
To the things you do or ought.
Always feel and know at night
All you do is fair and right.
Always promptly check a chill
With a dose which always will.
Always tell your neighbours, too,
All Woods’ Great Peppermint Cu/e will do.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
For Bronchial Coughs, Colds, Influenza.
STRONGER-LI CUTER LONGER-LASTING
L
GLOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globile!
•I
ill
m
ui
■
■
m
m
m
-
YOUR hope, as it is the hope of evety
parent, is to set your child firmly on the
path towards a life of success and happiness.
And it is no mere truism to say that what
he does in the future depends largely on
what YOU do in the present.
The present, in its relation to the future, is
a specially critical time for the children of
Australia. It is now, during the difficult
transition period from war to peace that we
shall determine the measure of our progress
and prosperity for many years to come, and
thus determine the opportunities we shall be
able to provide for our children.
Nothing is so important at this time as the
preservation of economic stability, a task to
which we can all contribute. Until industry
is in full peace production, a process that
will necessarily take time, the watchword
for all must be restrained spending. Un-
restrained spending* on a market still short
of many goods would send the cost of
living soaring and bring about conditions
from which it would take years to recover.
Save your money therefore, and - equally
important invest it, remembering that
Commonwealth Bonds and Certificates are
the best of all possible investments for the
small investor. Keep on buying them, &nd
hold them. Later on they will provide
money that will buy more for every pound
of the things you want whether for your own
or your children’s needs.
* Savings Certificates may be purchased at any
Bank or Money Order Post Office, and advance
subscriptions to the next Commonwealth Cash Loan
may be made through any Bank or Stockbroker.
WHAT TO DO TO EHSURE YOUR FUTURE SECURITY
i Spend wisely. Get full value. Buy only
' what you really need. Save all you can.
Hold all your Bonds and Savings Certificates.
0 Share and share alike the goods available .. ,
* don't foster the black-market by paying more
than maximum prices. Check all prices with
the lists available.
Q Keep your own prices down . Don't take
* advantage of shortages to ask more for your
goods or services .
Pay your way settle your debts make
no new ones.
Invest your savings, at better than bank
interest, in Commonwealth Bonds and Savings
Certificates. When goods are plentiful again
you can make good use of the money you save
now —for then you will get more for your money
in everything you buy.
iße a Saver, Not a Spender-Help Keep Prices
N. 5.66.113.56
N.S.66.II3.56
m
a*
.
" * w '' r™ i % r i'v y (Wlnww?
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Good value
is guaranteed and
your inspection
invited.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns )
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Australia’s Awakening, by W. G.
Spence; also Hughes and Dick’s acccmnt of the
Labor party and Federation.—3759.
To buy copies of the “Federal Capital
Pioneer” magazine.—376o.
Words of the verse “Balaclava Bunkum,” by
W. F. Young.—376l.
To buy Cheiro’s Predictions. —3762.
To buy Living Off the Land. —3763.
To buy Reminiscences of Fifty Years in
W.A., by J. T. Reilly, and Story of the
Southern Cross, by Kingsford-Smith and Ulm.
—3764.
Information Sought.
In Uncabled Additions (B. 17/4/’46) it is
stated that before the war there were 3,500,000
Jews in Poland and 500,000 in Germany. Are
these figures correct ?
According to the census of June, 1933, there
were in Germany 499,682 Jews (0.7 p.c. t>f the
total population). In Austria in 1934 there
were 191,481 Jews (2.83 p.c.). The 1931 census
in Poland disclosed 3,113,900 (9.8 p.c.). Figures
are from the Statesman’s Year Book.
* * * *
(1) I wish to erect a stock- and animal-proof
fence on my property. Is the owner of the
adjoining block of land forced to pay half
the cost ? (2) If some trees on my neighbor’s
land appear liable to fall across the fence,
would it be legal for me to cut down these
trees? (3) If trees on my property fall into
the adjoining land, must I remove them ?
(1) N.S.W. Dividing Fences Act was not in-
tended to cover such circumstances. In the
absence of any agreement between yourself and
adjoining owners, the fence would have to
be erected at your own cost. (2) You have
no right to enter upon your neighbor’s land
and cut his timber. You should warn him
personally or by letter of your intention to
erect a fence and the danger which would be
caused to it by his decayed timber. If they
afterwards fall and damage your fence he
would be liable to compensate you. (3) Unless
they are causing a nuisance they may be left
there.
♦ * * *
(1) What pensions do war widows receive?
(2) What is the allowance for each child, and
what other dependants are provided for ? (3)
Do privates’ widows receive the same pension
as officers’ widows?
(1) £5 per fortnight’. (2) First child 355. per
fortnight and all subsequent children 255. per fort*
night, including stepson or -daughter, adopted
child, ex-nuptial child who was born before or
within nine months after the serviceman’s death
or discharge from the forces or termination of
the war, whichever first happens. Also such other
members of the family of a serviceman as were
wholly or partly dependant upon his earnings
at the time of his enlistment or at any time
during his service from the time of enlistment
to the date of his death or discharge from the
forcfes or the termination of the war, whichever
happens first. (3) Widows’ pension is assessed
at the rate of army pay to the member, and
small increases are granted where the rate
exceeded 275. 6d. per day.
* * * *
Formula for grafting wax?
For use when warm: 11b. tallow, 21b. bees-
wax, 41b. resin; melt and stir together until
thoroughly dissolved, and stand the vessel in a
dish containing boiling water while being used.
For use when cold: 11b. mutton suet, 21b.
pitch, 41b. beeswax, 41b. turpentine; melt and
stir slowly over a low fire. When cold roll
into balls.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Price Warung,
author of ‘‘Tales of the Convict System"?
Real name William Astley. He was born
in 1855, and his stories of the convict system
were the result of 20 years’ study of early Aus-
tralian history. In addition to his first book,
Tales of the Convict System, he wrote Tales of
the Early Days, Tales of the Isle of Death, Tales
of the Old Regime and Halfcrown Bob. He
left unfinished a novel and a history of Aus-
tralian bushranging. As a journalist he was a
strong advocate of Federation. He died in
1911.
Brief Answers.
H.H.; (1) Legacy Club, 45 Market-street,
Melbourne. (2) Contact the Department of
Education... .T.H.D.J.: Pamphlets are Refrige-
ration Applied to the Preservation and Transport
of Australian Foodstuffs and An Outline of
the Possibilities for the Export of Quick-
frozen Packaged Meat (and Fruits), both by J. R.
Vickery B.B.: The Rolleiflex camera could
be used for enlarging provided it is attached to
a suitable lamp house and negative carrier.
This equipment is not now available, but in-
structions for building are contained in Making
an Enlarger. If a suitable lens can be obtained
it is better to build an enlarger complete,with
its own lens, but if the enlargements are not
bigger than 2|in. x 2£in. any 3in. or 4in. ana-
stigmat will be satisfactory. An aperture of
f 6.3 or greater is desirable C.N.: Beach
sand would be unsuitable, as the grains are
almost invariably rounded, thus making them
practically useless for abrasive purposes. The
hones could probably be made up from sharp
river sand, crushed stone or ground quartz,
incorporated with 10 p.c. plastic ball clay
(obtainable from most potteries) which acts as
a binder; it is then fired at 700-800 deg. C.
Production of a satisfactory grinding tool is not
an easy matter and requires careful selection
of the right grade and type of abrasive and
close control of the proportions of the mix and
the processes of manufacture. It would be
more economical in the long run to buy the
mass-produced article Eighth Div.: As far
as Eighth Div. is concerned, the Pacific Star is
for operational service in Malaya between
8/11/’4l and 30/10/’43, while Burma Star quali-
fications include operational service in Malaya
from 1/11/’43 until end of war... .R.G.McC:
Make the mould any convenient size: say 18in.
x 7in. x sin W.L.: Know of no firm that
has the article in stock J.R.: Quotes can
be obtained from most builders M.G.W.:
Information not readily obtainable. Suggest
you make search of files of Sydney
dailies G.H.S.: There is no mention in
standard American boxing books or in any
Australian publication of Mick Dooley fight-
ing Bob Fitzsimmons. The bouts in question
may have been exhibitions, and would there-
fore be unofficial R.Z.: Santalum lanceo-
latum is the botanical name of the quandong
nu t J.R.: 110 yards x 75 yards are the
dimensions of a Rugby football field.


CALLING ALL
WRITERS
The National Literary Research Agency
markets on your behalf radio scripts,
short stories, poems, novels or any
literary effort. Registration fee of 5/-
per item required. If MSS. is unsuit-
able it will be returned with criticisms.
National Literary Research
Agency,
443 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRANDAUEP
PENS
#
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANQAUER * CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
The “Detergents” now in CALTEX
“R.P.M.” Motor Oil soften, loosen and
reduce to minute particles the unwanted
impurities left in your engine by ordinary
oils. As you use your car or truck
CALTEX “R.P.M.” holds these particles
in fine suspension until the time comes
to drain your crankcase, then . . . OUT
THEY GO! Carbon deposits, varnish,
gums and other impurities that used to
slow up moving parts and made your
TOMORROW'S OIL -TODAY?
/
'M
«*
&
JW w
PETERGSNTSf
To the finest Motor Oil ever introduced into Australia CALTEX now
adds , . , “DETERGENTS” . . . supplementing the unrivalled
protective quality of “TOMORROW’S OIL TODAY” with a new
characteristic that frees moving parts of carbon and varnish .
CLEANS YOUR ENGINE AS 1 IT LUBRICATES
engine sluggish. Your engine is cleaner,
more virile, more responsive.
SEE THE PROOF YOURSELF
Pm CALTEX “R.P.M.” in your crank-
case today. Run your car or truck a
thousand miles . . . then drain the oil.
CALTEX “R.P.M.” will drain discoloured
and dark, proving beyond doubt that it
is doing its job.
Here is the finest oil available. It pro-
tects ... it cleanses . . . it makes your
engine more responsive and it costs no
more than ordinary oils!
USE IT! You’ll be really pleased with the results.
CALTEX
1
O
O
o
08/336
Sauce.
W 'dJL ~t/U, DcsttAUltfltf
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
M.A.R.: “Slavery” shows insufficient evi-
dence of hard work 0.W.: If you can’t get a
wife it’s probably because you show prospective
applicants your poetry E.T.R.: “For I
would weave a poem an I could.” An you
keep on saying that sort of thing, gadzooks
you won’t... .J.A.R.: We shoot fairies....
G.C.: A cove from Llanfyllin swears that none
of your characters are dinkum Taffies... .D.H.:
You should make a crust compiling cata-
logues for seedsmen M.P.: What a deuce
of a time you take to get started... .A.C.:
The fierce stock and station agent is now cool-
ing off in the w.p.b F.W.: We’re more
interested in authors bearing fruit than the
budding variety 8.N.J.: An indigestible col-
lection of polysyllables and tortuous sentences.
. ...5.8.: You’ve been reading too many
Yankee crime-story magazines... .M.H.: It
doesn’t make sense or even printable non-
sense K.W.: There must be a parish maga-
zine that would give you a free ticket to a
Sunday-school picnic for that gem....T.5.:
Any young man who delivers a two-thousand-
words speech when proposing marriage de-
serves to be accepted... .J.0’8.: Surely that
commercial traveller has enlarged his reper-
toire by n0w....F.R.: Tale of guerrilla war-
fare was ambushed J.D.: Archaeologist is
an old bore M. 5.8.: Come again. Epi-
grams promising... .T.M.W.: Nearly; the
warhorse sounds too venerable... .W.R.: You
personify Nature to an impossible extent....
J. : “But how to tell in feeble words?”
You can’t tell in feeble words F.8.H.:
Metre romps like a kitten F.C.: Review of
Picasso’s “Woman in a Fish Hat” is deep as
the deep sea and a trifle fishy... .E.A.K.:
“The wild, bush wattles are in bloom.” And
so, it appears, are the wild spring-poets....
K. : Help! Can’t we have even a month of
winter? ....J.P.: Two lines, then: —
Industrial peace is not now seen,
All is chaotic, nothing serene .. •
.... J.M.: It’s both false and insulting to
think of the individual as the “little man”
A.A.C.: Not a bad little poem about the little
boats W.P.: Hardly up to Housman
L. : Use your own words instead of
phrases you remember from last century’s
poetry W. 8.5.: “There Are No Roses” came
close N.W.: Rhymed prose is an abomina-
tion L.E.G.: “Red, White and Blue” was
heartily cheered from the premises X.R.:
Wordsworth will turn in his grave, but it’s a
thought:
. ...C.S.: Sure, we want good short stories,but
you don’t send us any Ruth: ’Struth!
E. : “For centuries man was wedded to his
bow and arrow.” Then somebody discovered the
typewriter and the rot set in... .D.T.Y.:
“Below the Belt” is a f0u1... .V.G.: “The
Fraternity” white-anted by hyperbole
Mick Ryan: We don’t publish hymns T.M.:
“The Run Home” got away well but floundered
on the back stretch T.N.: “Father’s Girl”
too good to be true F.Es.: “Is it poetry?”
Is a turnip a rose? Tom K.: Why is it that
every fictional swagman drops his swag “with
a weary sigh”? The real ones drop if with a
grunt of pleasure 8.G.T.: Anthem on beer
sent to the Temperance Alliance... .Fred H.
Well, there’s a warning in it:
Atom bombs on far Bikini
May spell our civilisation’s finis.
I.Mc.: “The Shearer Butts In” shows what
happens to a man who has too much to do with
merino rams E.M.T.: So you’re the lady
who sends us the MSS. tied with the tartan of
the Urquharts... .Miss J.: “Sacred Lady” now
being cross-examined by the Religious Editor.
Billy Boy: “Harry’s Reef” mostly mundic
and clay 8.T.: Framework of “The Skele-
ton” all right; you dressed it wrongly
Miss Price: No dice Butch: But how
could Slipper “take the pot with a line of
trumps” in a poker game?... .N.H.Y.: It was
a good story—until you wrote it C.D.:
That’s not poetry, it’s a report... .W.T.: If we
published “The Naked Truth” we’d have Mr.
Baddeley in here next day E.E.: All around
you are the people and the things you know;
why write about Peru, which you evidently
don’t know?... .Trumpeter: That fish story
was rejected for the first issue of The Bulletin
and optimists have been trying to hook us with
it ever since Vic. H.: About as interesting
as the annual report of the South Perth Toy
Terrier Club T.U.: “The Old Horse” stag-
gered to a dreary finish W.S.D.: Cut out
everything but the title and try again....
T.8.G.: Well, it was nice knowing you.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.H.: Can’t see a framed Bulletin cheque
hanging in the studio of the artist who turned
out that atrocity J.J.8.: Well, at least
the butterbox passed muster W.C.D.: We
thought everybody was acquainted with that
“Bang-went-saxpence” gag....R.F.: You seem
to have gone to the original Joe Miller’s Jest
Book for your humor A.S.: Those chaps
in the jeep look nothing like Diggers....
P.M.: You can’t stage that battle between the
boss’s wife and his secretary in these pages....
F. : Conversation between midget and giant
not even faintly amusing R.S.: Sundowner
is making the return trip C.G.H.: Don’t
send “rough outs,” but let us see some of
your finished work... .M.W.: Fairytale illus-
trations and a juvenile brand of humor....
E.R.: An appalling collection of misplaced
scratching R.J.T.: We, too, heard it over
the air W.S.: Anything more elaborate than
Uncle Joe’s moustache has you beaten.
Guy Fawkes! thou shouldst be living in these hours:
New South hath need of thee; she is a pen
Of stagnant loafers dress’d like labor men.
Whose industry is gone to the bowwowers.
Our millers moil, sheep bleat, and the cow cowers
Between the teenies and the Upper Ten.
Oh, blow us up! Return to earth again
To move the House and atomise its powers!
Thy soul was Etna, ripe to rive apart
The mount of Governmental tyranny.
Knowing (all know) its crass hypocrisy,
So didst thou stagger on thy gallows way.
Martyr to moral views, and yet thine art
“Eureka!” to the Roofless must convey.


Queues make
life difficult Last year we made over a million pairs of
ladies’ and children’s shoes—other reputable makers also had big
outputs. Yet the number of pairs that left these shores for overseas
markets was a mere drop in the ocean. Lots of other things, besides
charity, begin at home and we can’t expect permission to export
many shoes when English women find difficulty in getting the pair
or two that English rationing permits and are queueing at the shops.
It can’t be long now before more normal times return and when
they do you’ll find that we have not forgotten good style just
because, for six years, everything - has given place to utility.
Made by C. & J. CLARK, Ltd. (Wholesale only).
Street, Somerset, England,
London Office : Mitre House, 177 Regent Street,
London, JV.I.
5 SHOE!
EDWARD MMLEYASONS PTY LTD
The oldest and largest Insur-
ance Brokers in the Southern
Hemisphere effecting insur*
ances at—
S'
FROM ITS INCEPTION in the seventeenth
century, Lloyd’s of London has become the
greatest name in Insurance to-day ... a name
associated with the acceptance and payment of
policies interwoven with the very fabric of
history. But Lloyd’s has another significance.
It offers you, the private Australian citizen, the
fullest insurance protection . . . through the
oldest and largest brokers in Australasia . . .
Edward Lumley & Sons. Pty. Ltd. After years
of war, most insurance policies need competent
revision to bring them into line with present-day
conditions. Have your policies revised free and
without obligation by —
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle; 33 Watt
Street. Melbourne: 57 Queen Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building.
Brisbane: A.M.P. Building. Perth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart:
82 Collins Street. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
new ZEALAND, and EDWARD LUMLEY INC., LONDON, NEW YORK, PARI#,
COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
LL.f.lff
THE THREE JOLLY FOXES
By Douglas Sliwart.
AT the hour of seven on a fine June
morning, two handsome glossy foxes
are hurrying towards the store and
teashop on Fat Chow Creek. The
one who is closest is carrying no rabbit in
his mouth; and that is a pity, for the
great red fellow, trotting from the ti-tree
to the golden rushes by the creek, ears
up, plumy brush waving—a rabbit in his
mouth would make him the perfect pic-
ture of a fox on the hunt in the morning.
As for Mr. Hardcastle, big, knuckly
hands gripping the steering wheel of his
shiny red car he’s got his rabbit
all right, and you can almost see her in
his mouth; the new Mrs. Hardcastle —
brand-new ; only last night—snuggling be-
side him in her coney-seal coat. The
tip of her small nose twitches.
“You’re cold!” shouts Mr. Hardcastle.
You can tell he’s a fox by the bark of his
laughter. “You’re cold. Bark! Bark!
Bark!”
“Oh, no,” she says, archly, sarcasti-
cally. She laughs, too, very loud and
shrill and high, like a tremendous and sur-
prising bell; the pealing of wedding bells.
“Hey, yes you are, you’re cold. It’s
too early in the morning for you. Ha,
we’ll make a man of you yet.”
“You wouldn’t want to do that.”
“Ha, that’s right! ” Mr. Hardcastle barks
and barks. “But you are cold. I’ll warm you
up. I’ll stop the tar and warm you up.”
“You’d better drive on. Besides, I’m
not a bit cold. Really I’m not. I love
this South Coast in the morning. The
mountains with the sun on them ; und the
sea that delicate, delicate blue ; and the
foam. It’s a wonderful place—for a
honeymoon.”
“Honeymoon! Ha! ” The big fox
barks. His hair is silver, there is a bald
patch on top, his eyes are grey and small;
the character of his face is in his large,
fleshy nose and his mouth, which sets
firmly, even savagely, as he steers the
big car round a bend. He makes it lurch
round the corners.
“Just to be driving along,” says the
rabbit. She smiles up at him, so that her
frizzy hair and her horn-rimmed glasses
seem to disappear, and all he can see are
her red, red lips and her enormous false
teeth. “And a whole week of it,” she.
says. “A whole week to Melbourne.”
“If I can find that Middleton scoundrel
in Melbourne I’ll prosecute the brute,”
he says. “He took us down. Deliberately.
We supply him with the goods—two years
ago—and that’s the last we hear of him.
I’ll get him and I’ll send him to jail.”
Mr. Hardcastle has a factory.
“Oh,” says the new Mrs. Hardcastle,
“don’t let us think about business. This
is too heavenly.”
BUT the fox —the other red fox in the
rushes —is certainly thinking about
business.
He knows it is heavenly, ail right. The
sun is warm on his back ; the creek before
him glitters ; he can smell the salt sea,
the tidal mud, the crabs; he can see a
black-and-white bird, a pee-wee, that runs
along the path between the rushes. But
he cannot catch that pee-wee. And if he
could it would not be much for a fox’s
breakfast. To run from dawn to seven
o’clock, to hunt and sniff and hunt and
sniff all the way from the rocky bush
to within sight of Joe Packet’s store and
teashop by the bridge on Fat Chow Creek,
to watch the mist lift and the dew dry
and the seagulls go over in a clear, shiny
light, to have the scent of shellfish and
birds and vegetation in your nostrils —
all this is to make hunger grow immense,
a madness.
And if it is a madness to sneak right to
the edge of the rushes where, along the
line of his withered corn, Joe Packet has
set his rabbit-traps—then let it be mad-
ness. But nobody sings or shouts
in Joe Packet’s store and tearooms,
no smoke yet curls from the chimney. Joe
Packet and Mrs. Packet lie snug abed
while the fox is at their rabbit-traps.
Yet it might, indeed, be a mad fox
who thinks he can catch Joe Packet
asleep. Joe is like a fox, too; he lies
snug with his vixen in the warm burrow
of the bed, but all night long he leaves
his mouth out in the paddock to catch
the rabbits ; his spare mouth, his dozen
spare mouths, all gaping, waiting, with
sharp steel teeth. Joe Packet has caught
two rabbits while he sleeps. Broken, they
lie in his spare steel mouths —fast shut
these mouths are. How warm, how appe-
tising they smell! How inviting is the
thought of pink flesh under that soft
grey fur! The red fox lolls his tongue.
He whines with pleasure.
He takes a little run round the rabbits,
partly for joy, partly to make sure Joe
Packet is not about. Not%. sign of him ;
only, on the steel mouths, a little rank
smell of Joe Packet where he has touched
them last night; to cover a yawn, it
might be.
Fox, fox, Joe Packet never yawns. Look
out, red fox!
Yes, yelp! But yelp too late, you mad
red dog of the mountains. Joe Packet is a
lucky man, he has caught a fox in his trap.
Joe Packet stirs in his bed. Time for
a cup of tea. And the store and the tea-
rooms to open. Someone might be com-
ing along the road. A fine day for business.
And then, too, a fine day to take a
little walk around the traps while the wife
lights the fire and cooks the breakfast.
A black woman in the mornings! But a
blue day outside. Joe Packet in his blue
dungarees, his hard, big belly rolling over
the narrow black belt; his open grey shirt
showing the dark hair on his chest; dark
hair turning grey.
The square head of Joe Packet, usually
hunched forward, now thrown back as
he snuffs the salty air. The feet of Joe
Packet, in the unlaced, torn, dirty, com-
fortable, rubber-soled sandshoes, travel-
ling lightly over Fat Chow bridge. Grunt
as he climbs through the fence.
Stealthily along the corn, as if the dead
rabbits could run away out of his mouths.
Ho! And a high, whinnying laugh.
A fox, a fox in the trap! Before he
can bite his leg off. A stick, a stick, a
cudgel. The red fox spins and dances.
Joe Packet, a heavy man, light on his
feet, darting about the cornfield and the
rushes, hunting for a cudgel he hardly
notices the big, red car crossing the bridge.
Burly man, tall skinny girl, Mr. and
Mrs. Hardcastle alight from the car at
the tearooms. Ah, Joe Packet sees them.
Thud goes the stick on the fox. lour-
ists! ” says Joe. “My lucky day today.
MR HARDCASTLE is as hungry as
the fox was, but nobody is going to
hit him on the head with a cudgel. Not
if he knows it. . ,
“Come on now. Quick, quick, quick.
he says to Joe Packet’s wife. A cup of
tea before we start. Then bacon and
eggs for two.”
“Oh,” says Mrs. Hardcastle. Just a
piece of toast. Just a wafer.”
“Bacon and eggs for two! ” shouts Mr.
Hardcastle. “Now, quick about it,
old dear.”
“Certainly,” says Joe Packet’s wife.
The honeymoon couple are alone.
They are among fragile cane chairs, and
glass-topped tables and vases of paper
roses. A wall of windows shows between
creamy curtains the distant blue of the
sea and a section of the white-painted
railing of the bridge. Shafts of sunlight
enter. Almost, a faint, subsiding rattle
is heard as Mr. Hardcastle’s jollity ceases
to crash about the glassy room. The
floor quakes as Joe Packet’s wife goes
about her business.
“They’d do pretty well here,” says Mr.
Hardcastle confidentially. “Cheap, No
rent. Grow your own vegetables. Pluck
your own fowls. Pluck the tourists.”
“Really?” says Mrs. Hardcastle. “So
far from anywhere—l wouldn’t have
thought. But of course you’d know.”
Is she mocking him when she flatters,
or does she really respect it so much —
his business ability? Mr. Hardcastle’s
eyes narrow. His mouth takes on that
savage, down-curving line that shows
when he is heaving the car round a bend.
“Of course they’d do well!” he shouts.
“A peculiar woman, isn’t she?” says
Mrs. Hardcastle. “So dark and slink-
ing. She gives me a creepy feeling. That
long, snooping nose, those jet-black eyes.
She’s the sort of woman who’d have lain
in wait for travellers in the old days—an
innkeeper’s wife —and murdered them in
their beds.” Mrs. Hardcastle’s large eyes
blink behind the horn-rimmed glasses. She


WHEN DO I SEE
YOUR INGRAM'S FACE AGAIN?
Question: To what did Helen of
Troy owe her fascination? The
face that launched a thousand
ships must have had something
more than the usual compliment
of eyes and things. Ingram’s, on
the other hand, has launched a
thousand faces. A million maybe.
Close-shaved, s-m-o-o-t-h, skin-
happy physiognomies that give a
man a head start in the world.
Ingram’s baulks the erkiest beard.
Bubbles in and stands up the
wiriest whisker while the razor
bats ’em down. And it’s cool.
INGRAM’S
SHAVING CREAM
/« \
XJ
CJ
nlii
im
gra***
?hav
INC
Obtainable at all Chemists,
INB.
m
MW
fid a
CAPSTAN
CAPSTAN! THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
• • 4
thrusts her hands into her frizzy hair and
drags forward a black curl of it, as if
she is the villain in a melodrama throw-
ing his cloak over his features. “Like
some cold, slinking animal. I’m sure
she’d like to murder us.”
“Stuff!” roars Mr. Hardcastle. He
has noticed his wife’s tendency to roman-
ticise. It might become worse.
Joe Packet’s wife brings in tea and
toast. She points her long nose at the
tourists. “Joe’s caught a fox. He’s out
there now with the skin.”
“Now, what’s that worth?” says Mr.
Hardcastle quickly.
“A fox. The skin of a fox. Oh, I must
see it!” cries Mrs. Hardcastle. “Where
is it? t Can I see it? Where?”
“On the garage door,” says Mrs. Hard-
castle. “He’s nailing it up to dry.”
“To think,” says Mrs. Hardcastle
dramatically, pausing in the doorway, “to
think that at this very hour I would have
been arriving at the office and taking the
cover off my typewriter ; and here—down
the South Coast—on the way to Mel-
bourne—and the lovely skin of a fox!”
She rushes out.
“She’s excited, isn’t she?” says Joe
Packet’s lean dark wife. “Just like a girl.”
“My dear lady,” says Mr. Hardcastle
very winningly, “how much you could
excite me by bringing me my bacon and
eggs.” He pushes a whole finger of toast
into his mouth, and the butter runs down
his fingers. He sucks them. “Ah!”
“Just like a girl, eh?” he thinks as Joe
Packet’s wife retires to the kitchen. “Ha!
Last night!” (He barks.) Yes, like a
girl. And not as if-well, she’d been his
secretary for ten years. Secretary, you
could call it. And still like a girl; kitten-
ish, excited ; rolling her big eyes behind
the glasses, twitching her nose, smiling
with her huge white teeth. A girl, a
kitten, a rabbit
Mr.’ Hardcastle’s rabbit is forty years
old. Why marry her, then? And after ten
years. Well, we grow old. Time, lone-
liness and—the dark thing. A widower
in a dark house. And then, she wanted
it so much. On the shelf; spinsterish;
really, a little bit dotty; damn’ nearly,
anyhow. Why not please her? A house,
money, a coney-seal coat, a car, a wed-
ding, a honeymoon on the South Coast;
and a man—ha, yes, a man!—how much
he could give his little rabbit.
Joe Packet’s dark-eyed wife brings
him his bacon and eggs. “I’ll keep the
lady’s warm for her,” she said. “Are you
sure she really wants it?”
“Of course she wants it,” says Mr.
Hardcastle roughly. “Fill her out. Do
her good. A leaf of lettuce in a back
room in Darlinghurst, that’s what these
girls live on.”
Mrs. Hardcastle’s knees are too bony,
he thinks. Ah, well, she shall eat. Not
really a girl, not trim and tight and
bouncy; but there you are.
“How would I look with a girl?” he
asks Joe Packet’s wife. “An old codger
like me! ”
“I’m sure you’d look very well with a
girl, sir,” says the sallow-faced woman
diplomatically,
“Ha! ” he says scornfully. “Run you
down into the grave and then make off
with your money. You don’t catch me
like that.”
X A RS. HARDCASTLE comes flying in.
IVI “Oh!” she cries, “it’s horrible,
He’s gdt it all pegged out on the wall,
crucified. The inside of the skin show-
ing. Ugh, slimy. And the head’s lolling
forward, it looks alive. And it’s grin-
ning. There on the wall, grinning.” Her
frizzy hair seems to be springing up and
down with alarm.
“Ha!” says Mr. Hardcastle. “I must
bave a look at that.” He rises from the
table
« 0h „ hi if « let ? s eo Wve
\ ”
mi ?® s to „ go . tod^, y - Le t s drive on now.
Ik , Mr - Hardc^f tle P u ? hes f? br^ d ‘
Hardcastle into her chair. You sit
down and eat your breakfast, he says,
couldn t.
“Eat it. It’s ordered. We’ll have to
pay for it— you’ll have to pay, because
you’re the housekeeper—so eat it up and
be done with it.” He goes out.
Joe Packet’s wife looks sympathetically
at Mrs. Hardcastle. “You must have
been up very early,” she says, “if you
came from Sydney this morning.”
“Oh, yes,” says Mrs. Hardcastle airily,
“Mr. Hardcastle likes to make an early
start when he’s travelling. Even—well,
even this morning.”
“A special morning, my dear?” asks the
sympathetic wife of Joe Packet,
“Oh, no,” says Mrs. Hardcastle. “Oh,
nothing special.” Is it, she wonders. Is
it? What have I done? He’s so rough,
he’s so burly; blundering through life
like a footballer. ' \
“I wonder,” says the sympathetic lady,
leaning towards her and dangling a little
trumpery necklace of bright flowers made
from dough, “I wonder if you’d like to
help me with my good work. These are
for the Red Cross.”
Joe Packet’s wife does not look like a
lady who sells things for the Red Cross.
She has a long, ominous nose, which is
piercing Mrs. Hardcastle in the bosom ;
she has a cold, glittering black eye which
Mrs. Hardcastle would prefer to see fixed
on someone else ; she has a stealthy, cat-
like tread, which Mrs. Hardcastle wishes
would transport her out of the room. But
Joe Packet’s wife does not move away
from the breakfast-table. She stands
there still and ominous.
“Oh,” says Mrs. Hardcastle, “you sell
them, do you?”
“For the Red Cross, my dear. Ten
shillings.”
Ten shillings. But Mr. Hardcastle,
strong, protective Mr. Hardcastle, is not
to be seen on the left of Joe Packet’s
wife’s nose, nor on the right of her nose.
If only she will go away.
Mrs. Hardcastle fumbles in her purse.
“Thank you, my dear,” says the
woman. “Now would you like another
little necklace? Pretty, aren’t they? Or
some earrings? For the Red Cross.”
“I think,” says Mrs. Hardcastle despe-
rately, “that will be enough for just now.
Perhaps some other time. When we come
back. I think says Mrs. Hardcastle
bravely, “I’ll just pay for the breakfasts
now and then we can be on the road.”
“Another ten shillings, my dear,” says
the lean wife of Joe-Packet.
Ten shillings for bacon and eggs! But
Mrs. Hardcastle pays it. Shall she face
the fox again? She must find Mr, Hard-
castle and go.
BUT Mr. Hardcastle is not outside by
the garage door, where the red fox
grins at his wife. Joe Packet has him in
the store.
“Packet’s my name,” says Joe Packet,
“and Packet’s my nature. Ham, Mr.
Hardcastle, eh? You’ll want it for the
trip. I’ll pack it.” Swift and light in his
movements, swift and fluent in his speech.
“Ha!” roars Mr. Hardcastle happily,
“you want to pack me the whole blasted
shop.”
“The old red fox, he’s dead, eh?” says
Joe Packet. “He’s finished, that one.
But you and I, we live. Hey, Mr. Hard-
castle, we live —and while we live we eat.”
“You got any salmon?” asks Mr.
Hardcastle, “Put it in.”
“Three tins,” says Joe, chuckling.
“Four tins. We’ll make it four. The old
red salmon, he swims in the sea no more.”
He’s a hard case, is Joe; his face all
wrinkled with laughter, and his upper lip
lifted at the corner in a permanent grin
that shows a yellow fang.
“What the hell will I ever do with four
tins of salmon?” Mr. Hardcastle joyously
bellows.
“You’re going to Melbourne, With a
lady. You take a week for the journey.
You eat by the roadside. Plenty, to keep
your strength up.”
“Put ’em in then, put ’em in,” says Mr.
Hardcastle. “To keep my strength up.”
{Bark.)"
Joe laughs. Square head lifted off his
chest again, thrown back, and the high
whinnying laugh shooting up, it seems, at
the tins of biscuits on the top shelf. His
hands hold his belly in.
“Right!” says Joe. “Now then. Fruit,
chocolates, cigarettes, what else does the
lady like? Biscuits! Gingernuts, wafers
--no, chocolate fingers.” He climbs a
ladder to the top shelf. Force of habit
alone prevents his blue dungarees from
slipping off.
Mrs. Hardcastle is astounded. The
pile of foodstuffs and groceries. Simply
squandering money. And him, of all
people! What would he say if he knew
about the ten shillings for the necklace
and the other ten shillings for breakfast?
Why, at the moment, he, Mr. Hard-
castle, shrewd, tough, tight-fisted manag-
ing director of a factory, he would say
nothing at all. How curious ; curious.
What have he and Joe Packet been saying
to each other while they stared at the bid
dead dog-fox? What male jokes have
{Continued on page 32.)


AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
~ THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
NT4S/36 “Wake
up Tommy, a little
'NUGGET 9 will
| soon make you
( as bright as the
others”.
m
5
£
Finest Leather
Preservative >
For 50 years a GOOD polish
NUGGET
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
AS THE EGYPTIANS SEE IT.
(Ismail Sidky, Prime Minister of Egypt, in a letter to London “Times.”)
Critics of liberal policy towards Egypt
appear to be still imbued with prejudices
based on outworn conceptions of armed
domination, of safety of Empire com-
munications, etc.
They forget that many things have
changed in the world and that peoples
that have developed and think for them-
selves refuse henceforward to be mere
instruments of supremacy at the service
of the great and the powerful. It is true
that these peoples are aware of the need
to adapt themselves to the support of
those who are stronger than themselves.
But they wish to do so without alienating
their freedom and their dignity as inde-
pendent peoples. Such is the case of
Egypt; and the fact must be realised in
London as in Sydney, Ottawa and Cape-
town.
The fact must also be understood that
it was not the 10,000 troops and the 300
airmen stationed in Egypt that allowed
the Allies to win the Middle Eastern war,
but the good faith and goodwill with
which Egypt carried out her treaty of
alliance with Great Britain. The critics
also seem to have forgotten (1) that
Egypt, with her large population and
with industrial and agricultural resources
that are being more and more developed,
is an ally to be met and cared for, not
a country to be dominated, for that would
bring a harvest of more or less active
hostility; (2) that the lessons of modern
warfare have overthrown all previous
assumptions, and that the defence of
Egypt and of world peace no longer re-
quires the presence of the British on our
soil. We ourselves will undertake these
tasks in accord with the military staffs
of Great Britain and of the Security
Council; (3) that Egypt, as a member of
U.N.0., is not able to carry out her duties
under the San Francisco Agreement as a
guardian of collective security if she does
not enjoy sovereign equality with all her
fellow-members.
The members of the British delegation
understand all this and have judged that
the interests of Great Britain, both poli-
tical and military, will be better safe-
guarded through friendship and collabora-
tion than they will be by means of the
outdated formulas of imperialist politics.
They must have realised the unanimous
determination of a whole nation to live
free in its own territory and no longer
to undergo the humiliation of a foreign
occupation.
This determination must be respected ;
to disregard it would entail the gravest
consequences. The advice which from
my experience I would offer to my friends
the British people is to seek, throughout
these negotiations, to safeguard the
dignity of Egypt, which would be a
guarantee of her friendship and a
guarantee of peace, rather than to remain
rooted in the out-of-date and barren con-
ceptions of a past age and of a policy
for ever outworn.
And a British Answer,
(Lord Cranborne in a letter to London
“Times.”)
Ismail Sidky Pasha appears to have en-
tirely ignored the basis on which the
Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of Alliance of
1936, of which he himself was a signa-
tory, was framed.
The main purpose of the treaty was to
provide for the defence of their respective
territories by ensuring the liberty and
security of navigation of the Suez
Canal. It was agreed that Great Britain
should keep forces on Egyptian territory
until such time as the Egyptian Army it-
self was in a position effectively to under-
take that function. The period for the
duration of the treaty was fixed at 20
years, after which its terms were to be
reviewed, and any difference of opinion
was to be submitted to the League of
Nations or any other body agreed upon
by the two parties. It was provided that,
with the consent of both parties, negotia-
tions should be entered into for the re-
vision of the treaty after 10 years, and
it is under this provision that the present
negotiations are taking place.
The withdrawal of British forces from
Egypt at this stage thus depends on a de-
cision of a question of fact —whether the
two parties are satisfied that the Egyptian
forces are now in a position to ensure
the defence of the canal. This is a matter
vhich only the competent British and
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
SOMEONE WENT THIS WAY BEFORE.
Egyptian military authorities can decide,
and it cannot be settled by a simple state-
ment that the lessons of modern warfare
have proved that the presence of British
troops for the defence of the canal is no
longer necessary. Nor should I have
thought that this would be the deduction
necessarily to be drawn by an impartial
observer from the events of the last six
years.
The assumption that the belief in the
need for British troops in Egypt is dic-
tated by “outdated formulas of imperialist
politics” or that their presence, if con-
sidered militarily necessary, would involve
the humiliation of Egypt through a
foreign occupation appears to be based
on a false conception. Nobody wants to
put Egypt in a position of inferiority. But
there is no justification for the belief that
the maintenance of the armed forces of
one country in the territory of another
implies, of itself, any inequality of status
as between the two parties,
To cite a very recent example, the bases
leased to the United States Government
by Great Britain in the West Indies in
1940 are manned by United States forces
without any derogation of British
sovereignty, and certainly without impair-
ing the dignity of the British Empire or
involving the “humiliation” of a foreign
occupation.
It would be unrealistic not to recognise
the effect on Egyptian public opinion of
the long delays in regularising the position
of our forces in Egypt. But this should
not obscure the fact that the object of
the treaty is to provide, on a basis of
absolute equality, for the protection of
our mutual interests through an alliance
which, as laid down in Article 16 of the
1936 treaty, was to continue irrespective
of any subsequent revision.
THE WORLD NEEDS PEACE.
(Condensed from an article by William Henry Chamberlin in “Wall-street Journal.”)
The Treaty of Versailles between Ger-
many and the Allies was signed on June
28, 1919, less than eight months after the
“cease fire” order had been given. The
treaties with Germany’s allies had been
disposed of still earlier.
These treaties, in retrospect, are open
to criticism on a number of counts,
although even the severest of them was a
model of justice and equity compared
with some of the arrangements which
have been arbitrarily put into force in
Eastern and Central Europe during the
last year. But at
least the signing
created some ele-
ment of finality and
stability which was
helpful to recon-
struction. It is now
almost three years
since Italy sur-
rendered, a year
since Germany sur-
rendered, more than
eight months since
Japan indicated
willingness to lay
down arms. And
the drafts of future
peace treaties are
still blank sheets.
The deputy
Foreign Ministers
of the United
States, Great
Britain and the
Soviet Union have
been deadlocked
for months on what
should have been
a relatively simple
problem; the draw-
ing up of a peace
treaty with Italy.
Since Italy is a
homogeneous
country, with no
racial minorities of
any consequence,
there is no
reasonable case for
changing its fron-
tier, except perhaps
in the way of minor
modifications i n
favor of Yugoslavia in regions where the
last treaty favored Italy unduly. And, since
Italy is bankrupt and dangerously close
to the starvation level, getting blood out
of a turnip would be easier than extract-
ing reparations.
The Soviet Government favors a figure
of $300,000,000 of reparations from Italy,
apparently on the assumption that
America would be naive enough indirectly
to underwrite this sum by pouring into
Italy funds which could be sucked out
again in the form of reparations.
Another obstacle has been the Soviet
demand for the Italian colony of Tripoli-
tania. Tripolitania is of little actual or
potential value to Italy, Russia or any
other country. But in the hands of a
strong military Power it could be built
up into an uncomfortable threat to the
British lifeline in the Mediterranean. It
is not surprising that this proposed Soviet
leap into North Africa should have ex-
cited little enthusiasm in London.
Perhaps the most explosive issue in con-
nection with the Italian treaty is the in-
sistence of the Soviet satellite Govern-
ment in Yugoslavia that Trieste be ceded
to Yugoslavia. The majority Of the
population in the city is Italian; the
hinterland is Yugoslav. A fair solution
would be to leave the city under Italian
sovereignty while assuring Yugoslavia
adequate free-port facilities. But here
again Soviet expansionist desires make a
compromise agreement difficult. Moscow
stands behind Tito ; Trieste, like Tripoli-
tania, would be a valuable steppingstone
in Moscow’s march toward the Mediter-
ranean.
It is highly important that the pro-
longed deadlock should be broken, that
peace treaties should be signed not only
with Italy but with Germany, Japan and
all the smaller European States which
entered the war on the side of the Axis.
Delay makes for ever increasing stagna-
tion and disintegration.
A large share of responsibility for the
near-famine conditions in Europe may be
attributed to the prostration and vivi-
section of Germany and to the uncer-
tainty and insecurity which prevail
throughout Central and Eastern Europe.
Austria, for instance, has been discour-
aged from the feeblest attempts at re-
covery because it is forbidden to carry on
trade and exchange with Germany,
The U.S. Government has been acting
on the optimistic presumption that the
economic Unity of Europe can, and will,
be restored. Planning for Germany has
been on the basis of a unified country
within shrunken frontiers. Relief sup-
plies, mostly of U.S. origin, have been
lavishly dispensed to countries within the
Soviet sphere of influence, to the Ukraine
and Byelorussia, to Poland, Yugoslavia
and Czechoslovakia. Meanwhile the
Soviet Government makes political capital
by selling grain to France and displays a
glacial lack of interest in making a simple
and obvious contribution to the relief of
distress by withdrawing or diminishing
its armies of occupation.
America should be prepared to try an-
other policy—to build up, so far as pos-
sible, that part of Europe outside the
Soviet sphere of influence, concluding
separate peace treaties if necessary, work-
ing for the removal of trade barriers,
granting or withholding loans and credits
in order to promote sane economic
policies looking toward European revival,
not toward sterile objectives of destruc-
tion and revenge. It is high time to make
peace, a whole peace if, possible, a peace
for the area where American influence
can make itself effective if necessary. *


sxooa Nvnvmsnv awos
The Island World. An anthology of the
Pacific, by Charles Barrett. Illustrated.
8/6 (post. 4d.).
Naught to 33. By Randolph Bedford. 10/6
(post. 4d.).
More enthralling than fiction—lover of Aus-
tralia, mining company promoter, significant
novelist, the author here tells the indiscreet
history of the first 30 years of his life.
The Distant View. A delightful autobio-
graphy, by W. Arundel Orchard, formerly
Director of the New South Wales State Con-
servatorium of Music. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
The Australian Aborigines, How to Under-
stand Them. By Professor A. P. Elkin.
Numerous illustrations. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
The Great Boomerang. By lon L. Idriess,
with 50 illustrations and two maps. 8/6
(post. 4d.).
The Great Australian Loneliness. By Ernestine
Hill. With 36 illustrations. 10/3 (post. 6d.).
A delightfully entertaining book from cover
to cover.
The Unceasing Ground. Poems by W. Hart-
Smith. 6/- (post. 4d.).
This new book is a work both of promise
and achievement.
The Price of Admiralty. The Australian Navy,
by Paul McGuire. Illustrated. 15/- (post.
Bd.).
The Pronunciation of English in Australia. A
fascinating study, by A. G. Mitchell. «/-
(post. 4d.).
Place, Taste and Tradition. A study of Aus-
tralian Art since 1788, by Bernard Smith.
21/- (post. 6d.).
Soil and Civilisation. By Blyne Mitchell,
author of “Australia’s Alps” and “Speak to
the Earth.” With its high earnestness and
depth of understanding, this is a significant
book. 4/6 (post. 4d.).
Cobbers. By Thomas Wood. New supply of
his famous book. 6/6 (post. 4d.).
The Australian Language. An examination
of the English language and English speech
as used in Australia from convict days to
the present, by Sidney J. Baker. 21/-
(post. 6d.).
An Australasian Anthology. By Pereival Serle.
Australian and New Zealand Poems. 8/6
(post. 4d.>.
Wild Orchard. By Isobel Dick. A story of
Early Tasmania. 9/6 (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
ADVT
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.:
New Zealand;
Dominion.
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., 450 Ann Street, Brisbane.
Motor Specialities, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the
Churchill on Empire.
(,Extracts from a speech by Churchill on the
occasion on which he was made the first
honorary freeman of Westminster. Condensed
from London “Times."}
It would, I am sure, be a profound
shock to the great mass of the British
people if they woke one morning and
found that our Empire and position in
the East and the Middle East had
vanished overnight, and if the mission we
have faithfully discharged in so many
lands came to an abrupt and incontinent
collapse. If such a disaster occured we
should certainly have to reproach before
history all public men in any way respon-
sible for such a failure of duty on the
morrow of that victory won by what
seemed to many against desperate odds.
We are here the only unbroken nation
that fought against Hitler’s tyranny in
the war from start to finish. We declared
war upon Germany when Hitler invaded
Poland. We sought no material gains ; we
coveted no man’s land or treasure. We,
and with us the whole Empire, all unpre-
pared as we were, drew the sword against
the mighty antagonist at the call of honor
and in defence of the rights of weaker
nations, according to our plighted word.
We did not fight only' in the sacred
cause of self-defence, like the Russian
patriots who defended their native soil
with sublime devotion and glorious suc-
cess. No one attacked us. We fought for
a higher and a broader theme. We
fought against tyranny, aggression and
broken faith and in order to establish
that rule of law among the nations which
alone can be the shield of freedom and
progress. We did not fail when we were
all alone. Neither did we fail, when
mighty nations joined us, in giving all
we had to the cause of mankind.
Taught by the hard necessary lessons
of the American Revolution, we found
the way, unique in history, to build and
hold together a free association of self-
governing Dominions by voluntary ties
and spontaneous forces, and those, like
our vast Eastern and colonial empire, rose
superior even to the awful stresses of
1940. There is not, there never has been,
and, perhaps, there never will be again
so widespread, so truly united a gather-
ing of nations and races as was then and
is today comprised within the circle of
the ancient British Crown.
Will it continue or will it pass away,
and if it passes away what coherent
theme will take its place? What would fill
the void, for void there would certainly be?
It will evidently be a long time before
the quarrel between Jacob and Esau has
faded away from the life of the Middle
East. Are we not entitled to ask our
friends, whose judgment is the same as
ours, to give us a helping hand?
India, a continent as large as and more
populous than Europe, and not less
deeply divided by racial and religious
differences, has no more unity than
Europe, except that superficial unity
created by our rule and guidance in the
last 150 years. Protected by the British
nation and Parliament, it has not in
modern times been torn to pieces by
hideous internal warfare ; nor has it been
invaded from over the sea.
Some voices bid us quit Palestine ;
others bid us quit India. But Britain and
the world should consider deeply what
would be the consequences and what
other arrangements Could be made to
safeguard millions of men and women —
in India 400,000,000 —from the cruel fate
which has laid Europe in dust and ashes
and now threatens China with a protrac-
tion of her long torment.
What happens if the United Nations are
sundered by an awful schism and clash
of ideologies, interests, policies and pas-
sions? What happens if, with all our
loyal endeavor, we can build no more
than a Tower of Babel? What if the
United Nations, victorious in their grand
conflict against Nazism and Fascism, give
place to a vast confrontation of two parts
of the world and two irreconcilably
opposed conceptions of human society?
The supreme hope and the prime en-
deavor is to reach a good and faithful
understanding with Soviet Russia through
the agency and organism of the United
Nations. In this patient, persevering,
resolute endeavor the English-speaking
world and the Western democracies of
Europe must play their part and move
together. Only in this way can catastrophe
be averted ; only in this way can the sal-
vation of all nations and races begin.
Burma, India and Malaya.
{A review of conditions in South-eastern Asia
condensed from the report by Sir Charles A.
Innes, chairman of the Mercantile Bank of
India.}
In all these countries the legacy left by
the Japanese is the same. It is a tale of
shortage of food and consumer goods,
neglected public utilities and ruined com-
munications, with the added complication
of chaotic currency and exchange.
In Burma, Malaya and Hongkong the
liberating British armies were received
with open arms. The inhabitants, of
course, had no knowledge of the world-
wide shortage of food and consumer
goods and of shipping difficulties. They
thought that prosperity and comfort
would return with the British, and when
this did not immediately happen feelings
of disillusionment and frustration set in.
There are other troubles. In Malaya,
for instance, there is plenty of money,
but very little to buy. Consequently,
there is a high degree of inflation, and
prices are sky high. There is also a
flourishing blackmarket. Violent crime is
rife, especially in the northern part of
the country, and there has been an epi-
demic of strikes in Singapore. Transport
is a grave difficulty, and there is also a
shortage of houses.
Conditions are much the same in Hong-
kong and Burma. In Burma, too, the
economic regeneration of the country is
hampered by political issues. The
Burmans have been guaranteed self-
government as soon as it is practicable.
I believe that the wise course is for
Burman, Britisher and Indian to co-
operate in the intervening period in the
physical rehabilitation of the country, the
restoration of law and order and the re-
establishment of trade and commerce.
All these difficulties are transitional
and some signs of a return to normalcy
are already apparent. The immediate
need is for imports, not only of food and
consumer goods but also of machinery
tools and motor vehicles. When the im-
port trade is restored economic recovery
will begin in earnest.
As regards long-term prospects, much
will depend in Burma on how soon the
important rice export trade can be re-
established. In Malaya the prosperity of
the country is bound up with that of the
rubber and tin industries. The physical
damage to the rubber plantations has
been less than might have been expected,
but damage has been done to the fac-
tories and buildings, and in many parts
of the country it will not be easy again
to collect an adequate labor force.
Tapping has already begun, but a con-,
siderable time may elapse before exports
reach the pre-war level. The tin industry
will take longer to get on its feet.
In India the scene is dominated by the
political problem and by the threat of
famine. The latter is a very serious
threat. I was Foodstuffs Commissioner
in India in 1919, but the problem then
was merely a matter of organising the'
import and distribution of the ample sup-
plies of rice available in Burma supple-
mented by some wheat from Australia.
It was a period of high prices, but there
was no shortage of food, and one thought
famine was a thing of the past in India.
One could not foresee, of course, that
there would be so great an increase in
the population and that India would be
converted from a net exporter of food
into a net importer, that there would be
a world shortage of food.
It is difficult to see where India can
obtain the 3,000,000 tons of food which
she requires, and the next few months are
critical. The food crisis further compli-
cates a political situation which is already
tense. There are also other problems
which are the direct result of the war.
There is an enormous increase in pur-
It is a gloomy moment in history.
In France the political cauldron
seethes and bubbles with uncer-
tainty ; Russia hangs like a cloud,
dark and silent upon the horizon
of Europe; while all the energies,
resources and influences of the
British Empire are sorely tried, and
are yet to be tried more solely, in
coping with the vast and deadly
Indian insurrection, and with its
disturbed relations in China. —
“Harper’s Weekly,’’ Oct. 10, 1857.
chasing power. On the other hand, there
is a shortage of consumer goods. Thus
there are still inflationary forces at work.
These problems are temporary. The
long-term prospects depend on a satis-
factory solution being found for the all-
important political problem. If the
Indians resolve their difficulties the pros-
pects for India are bright. Its financial
and economic structure has been im-
mensely strengthened by the war.
The U.S. and Manus.
(Condensed from an article by Gill Robb
Wilson in N.Y. "Herald Tribune
Prospect of United States bases in the
South-west Pacific causes heartburnings
in Australia. In this our good friends
are unrealistic. Their touchiness is dic-
tated by a characteristically fierce sense
of independence and pride, and with this
spirit we sympathise. But Australia can-
not have her cake and eat it too.
The U.S, is inescapably responsible for
security in the Pacific. The south-western
area is remote from American coasts
but none the less vital. Strategists of
American military power cannot envision
American responsibility for Pacific
security without a crutch “down under.”
There is nothing in the South-west
Pacific which the United States desires
or, for that matter, would have. The
only reason for maintaining a sea or air
base at Manus or elsewhere down there
is to keep faith with reality in the prob-
lem of Pacific security. The time when
the Solomons or Bismarcks, Aleutians or
Volcanoes can be considered remote is
past. The airplane changed all that.
Japan, declaring war, headed for the
Antipodes and made such swift progress
that she soon sat on the Australian door-
step. The United States, which had to
stop her, if she was to be stopped, was
faced with an overtaking project, finally
accomplished when a few Marines estab-
lished a toehold at Guadalcanal. There
they held on valiantly. Thus Henderson
Field became an American base and sub-
sequently American air power of land
and sea provided checkmate to Nippon.
Soon thereafter our air power started the
long trek to carry the bomber line effec-
tively to the heart of Japan.
Reality dictates that not again can
we tolerate that the fate of the Pacific
rest upon such a hairbreadth decision
as was represented by Guadalcanal and
Henderson Field. Valiant as they are,
there is not sufficient strength in the Anti-
podes to justify weakening the American
concept of responsibility in deference to
Australian pride. If preventive strategy
is to serve permanent world peace there
must be no tempting weak places left on
the whole Pacific perimeter.
Australia is indeed a pearl of great
price and the fires of her spirit burn
brightly. But, like even the most lustrous
pearl, Australia can be easily crushed,
as was proved by the thrust of Japan.
Nor does Australia seek in law or spirit
to become a populous nation capable or
holding the line of the South-west Pacific.
Until that time comes, if ever, Australia
must realise that the United States, re-
sponsible as she is, cannot take her re-
sponsibilities lightly, nor in fidelity to
such give way from an honest convic-
tion that a South-west Pacific base is in-
dispensable. Our value to Australia is
our strength. She will not wisely cut off
her nose to spite her face.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
In the Far East the United States has given
notice —since the end of the nineteenth century
—that no encroachment would be permitted u
it were of such nature as to exclude the United
States from economic opportunity. # In ettect,
this meant that the conquest of China or any
part of China would not be permitted. Japan
tried, and Japan and America finally went to
war. Hence the tension oyer what Russia is
doing in Manchuria. It is in this part of the
world that Russia and America can come
directly into conflict. They were already at
odds over that part of the world early m
the present century, when Russia was steadily
pushing across Manchuria and Korea,
and for this reason America gave Japan
moral, financial and diplomatic support
in the Russo-Japanese war. If Russia should
resume the course that its defeat by Japan
interrupted, the analogy with Amencan-Japa-
nese relations in the last 25 years is
ominous. America would have to abandon
one of the basic principles of its foreign policy
or Russia would have to reverse its course, or
the collision would come. — Nathaniel Peffer it
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
It is the charge of our anti-imperialift.
friends in Russia and the United States that
Britain is impervious to the new currents of
nationalism and independence among the
“colonial peoples.” That is ridiculous non-
sense. Britain is intensely sensitive to them,
and the evolution of British policy towards
India is a characteristic sign. We sense the
fast-flowing * tide that is sweeping the East ;
we know that India’s demand for “freedom,
government by Indians for Indians, is not only
natural and right but irresistible. The demand
is passionate, heedless of difficulties, even
in some, ways destructive of immediate wel-
fare. But we have no right to impede its
fulfilment. — Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
Much of the hue-and-cry raised against
Franco in the tJ.S. would be logical only if we
were willing to go all-out on a crusade against
dictatorship everywhere. There is no evidence
that Franco, since the end of the sanguinary
civil war, has killed, tortured or jailed as
many people, in proportion to population, as
has Stalin in Russia or such Soviet satellite
rulers as Tito in Yugoslavia and Bierut in
Poland. Yet there is no proposal to exclude
the Soviet Union and its satellite regimes from
membership in the United Nations. Does it
make sense, in morals, logic or American self-
interest, to direct our foreign policy on the
assumption that Communist or _ Communist-
controlled dictatorships are admirable, while
anti-Communist dictatorships are utterly
wicked? A careful examination of Franco’s
war record reveals extremely little positive aid
to Germany after America’s entrance into the
conflict. Former Ambassador Carlton Hayes
cites repeated instances in which Franco was
deliberately unneutral on the United Nations
side. What the Spanish dictator apparently
tried to do, and with some skill and success,
was to keep his country out of the war. If this
involved some appeasement and some flowery
speeches at the time when large German armies
were at the Pyrenees, one should not forget that
Stalin and Molotov paid Hitler in the same
coin during the period of the Soviet-German
pact. — William Henry Chamberlin in N.Y.
“Journal-American.”
« * * *
Russia has occupied Latvia, Estonia, Lithu-
ania, part of Finland, half Poland and the
Danish island of Bornholm. There are Rus-
sian puppet Governments and troops in Hun-
gary, Yugoslavia, Rumania and Bulgaria.
Russia has obtained Pacific outposts in the
Kuriles and the island of Sakhalin; she has
fulfilled an old Tsarist ambition by the eco-
nomic domination of Manchuria. She has
set up an “autonomous” regime in Azerbaijan
and threatens the independence of Persia. She
wages a nerve war against Turkey and casts
covetous eyes on the Dardanelles, the Dodeca-
nese and former Italian colonies in North
Africa. • She has incited agitations and revolts
in India, Turkey, Palestine and Indonesia by
unceasing anti-British propaganda. She is once
more openly advocating worldwide Communist
revolution. That is the record. No partisan
cries can either excuse or mitigate it. — “Trans-
atlantic Daily Mail.”


OUT OF THE PAST
J. H. M. ABBOTT
Pamphlet & Co,
WHEN Mr. Surveyor-General John
Oxley discovered the Brisbane
River in the last quarter of 1823
he also discovered an extra-
ordinary adventure —the story of Thomas
Pamphlet and his three companions, who
had sailed from Port Jackson for Illa-
warra on a cedar-getting expedition and
had landed up in Moreton Bay under the
impression that they were somewhere
south of Sydney.
Pamphlet had sailed from Sydney in a
large open boat towards the end of the
previous March with three companions
bound for the Illawarra district to trade
for cedar. The others were Richard Par-
sons, part-owner of the boat; John
Thompson, an ex-navy man ; and John
Finnegan. They had almost reached the
Five Islands, opposite to Wollongong,
when a sudden and heavy westerly gale
blew them off the land. Hastily taking in
sale, they allowed the boat to drift before
the wind for ten days.
They had no navigation instruments,
and when the gale abated were utterly at
a loss as to their probable position, but
had an idea that the prevailing southerly
current had carried them somewhere to-
wards the latitude of Van Diemen’s Land
—so they hoisted sail again and headed
the boat nor’-westward. They had been
at sea for 21 days before they again
sighted land. Their water had given out,
and, as they steered in towards the coast,
Thompson went raving mad and presently
died.
To their almost incredulous joy the
others saw a stream of water falling into
the sea as they closed with the land. But
the boat was capsized and smashed as
they made shift to get ashore.
When they had rested a while and re-
covered themselves they tried to save
what they could from the wreck.
They managed to salvage three bags of
flour, but only one bag was unspoiled
by the salt water. They divided this up
and presently started to make their way
inland along a native footpath. Before
long they came to a blackfellow’s gun-
yah, outside which was a naked abori-
nal and a child. When he saw them the
man snatched up the infant, and, with a
very stout woman who came out of the
humpy, immediately fled into the bush
uttering cries of alarm. So the unfor-
tunate trio plodded on, and before dusk
fell in with some more natives.
The blacks received them with the
greatest kindness and pity, and for the
next five months treated them with
generosity and consideration. According
to the narrative taken down by a member
of Oxley’s expedition from the lips of
Tom Pamphlet it would seem that the
three men did little to deserve the indulg-
ence which the natives showed them.
They were cranky and ungrateful, and
in the course of their efforts to get back to
Sydney—which they several times re-
peated —did not hesitate to steal the black
men’s boats. On one occasion they made
off with a quantity of fish which they
found in one of them. This time the
justly angered aboriginals chased and
overtook them, but when they caught up
with the thieves were so moved with the
famine-stricken condition of the white
men that they not only allowed them to
cook and consume the stolen fish but
immediately set to work catching them a
further supply.
From the two castaways Oxley heard
of a large river which flowed into Moreton
Bay, and immediately set out to look for
the entrance to it, taking Finnegan with
him as a guide. How difficult it was to
find the real mouth of the. stream
amongst the mud banks and mangroves
may be gauged from the fact that a
whole day was lost in exploring a false
channel, which Oxley took for the
estuary of the main river.
At last, however, he managed to get
into the proper channel —on December
2, 1823 —and rejoiced that he had found
such a splendid waterway. He ascended
it for about 50 miles, and though his re-
port to Governor Brisbane, after whom
he named his discovery, is notable for an
enthusiastic exaggeration that indicates
his delight, he had, as a matter of plain
fact, found the finest river that may be
entered by ships from the ocean between
Cape Leeuwin and the southern end of
the Great Barrier Reef. He had been
sent out to search for the mouth of a
large river whose existence Captain Cook
had suspected thereabout, and in quest of
which Matthew Flinders had spent some
unavailing time. But it was really only
a piece of amazing good fortune —his
encounter with the badly-lost Illawarra
cedar-getters—that enabled him to find
what he was looking for.
H.M.S, Spitfire
IN 1884 a young Hunter River native
named Daniel Moynahan left New-
castle (N.S.W.), and set out to seek
his fortune on the north-east coast.
Not long ago he posted a most interesting
letter to the writer, in which he describes
H.M.S. Spitfire, one of the earliest naval
vessels built and commissioned in Aus-
tralia.
Moynahan comes of a race of ship-
builders, and has had to do with ships
and shipmen all his days. “My partner,
the late S. B. Andreassen, was a sail-
maker,” he says, “and I am a shipwright,
“A shame! They had everything paid off but the lounge-room, too.”
having served my apprenticeship in the
Newcastle district. My father, in the
early eighteen-seventies, was shipbuilding
at Clarence Town. I have been 58 years
in the tropics, and have only been back
to Newcastle two or three times, and that
within the past 15 years.” Here follows
his description of the little ship that
accompanied his letter, and included with
it were a sketch and plan of the vessel
which unfortunately cannot be repro-
duced here.
The fore-and-aft schooner Spitfire.
Built for a guardship for the Australian Navy
on the New South Wales coast by John Cuth-
bert, of Miller’s Point, Sydney, in 1855.
Her approximate size was 62 feet overall —
16ft. beam, 6ft. 6in. depth of hold.
She carried one gun. This gun had been
placed between the fore- and mainmast, as
the deck beams between had circular sets of
“partners,” set under the gun, as shown in the
attached sketch.
She had hemp rigging. The fore- and main-
shrouds, and the standing part of running back-
stays, were five inches in circumference. The
only wires of her standing rigging were the
forestay, jibstay, topmast runner and main top-
mast forestay.
Her bowsprit had originally been fitted as a
running one, as “fid-holes” had been cut in it.
That meant that when the jib, which was a
flying one was reefed, the bowsprit was run in,
according to the number of reefs put’ in the
sail. That had been altered, and the bowsprit
made a standing one.
She was handed over to the Queensland Gov-
ernment at the time of separation from N.S.W.,
and was probably the first vessel owned by
Queensland.
Her career was a long one. When not acting
in the pilot service in Moreton Bay, she car-
ried officials along the Queensland coast. She
brought the first lot to Bowen. She was the
first pilot vessel at Cooktown, and was em-
ployed laying beacons and buoys in Torres
Strait. She was in any emergency expedition
that might occur, until about 1885 or ’B6, when
she was sold out of the service.
Spitfire was bought by Capt. Alex Matthew-
son, was employed by him in the beche-de-mer
fishing of the Great Barrier Reef and the New
Guinea coast. He sold her fo others in the
same business in 1889. She came into the pos-
session of the writer, as part owner with the
late G. B. Andreassen, in 1892, until January,
1896. She was dismasted in Sigma—One of
Clement Wragge’s hurricanes —on the 26th of
that month. We saved the forestaysail, foresail
and mainsail, and brought her 160 miles under
jury rig to Cairns. We sold the hull there.
She was refitted, and continued in the same
trade until December, 1899, when she sank at
her anchors near the then Piper Island light-
ship. And there she lies —what may be left
of her —in 10 fathoms of water.
In his covering letter Moynahan says
“My three years in the. Spitfire were not
profitable to me. She never gave me a
leisure hour. When laid up during the
hurricane season, I had put anew stern
in her, one bilge, and part of a bow.
Just as I was thinking I had her in fair
order we ran into a hurricane (Sigma) off
Hinchinbrook Island. We had a bad
time. Our masts were carried away—
fortunately for us that saved our lives,
as she rode at her anchors for the rest
of the blow. We took her to Cairns
under jury rig, as I have already ex-
plained.
“She was a historic little ship, and I
often wondered that more reference had
not been made to her in the early history
of the Queensland coast. Many reefs
and bays are named after her....
I have no photograph of her, but every
part of her is photographed in my mind.”
T omalo
WE met Tomalo long ago on
the shores of a big lagoon in the
the Solomon Islands. He was
the great man of that primitive
community—all the more important be-
cause he had been “alonga plantation
belong Queensland one time” —and we
went shooting pigeons with him in the
jungle.
Tomalo was a sinewy, active fellow,
upright in bearing and quick and springy
in his carriage. A small and dusky pot-
bellied infant with wondering eyes ran
up to him as we walked towards the
palm-thatched houses above the beach,
and trotted beside 4 'him, clinging to his
hand and twisting round now and again
to gaze at us.
“This feller, he belong me,” said
Tomalo —“piccaninny belong me. Good
feller piccaninny.”
Tomalo was proud of many things—of
his travels in Australia, of his knowledge
of “pidgin,” of his. small son, of his
superiority to his fellow-villagers and of
the fact that he carried my gun.
The village had the sour smell of all
native villages. Flies rose in swarms from
stagnant rain pools, the acrid scent of
wood smoke drifted out of the dark
doors of the grass dwellings, patches of
golden sunlight mottled the bare, trodden
earth between the huts, pigs strolled
about as if everything belonged to them,
and scraggy fowls scratched in the dirt.
A little naked girl chased a mongrel
cur round a house with a stick. An old
woman sat in a doorway smoking a short
clay pipe, and shading watery eyes with
a withered claw to stare at us. A young
woman, smoking also, hastily retired
within doors as we came near, her thick
ballet-skirt of dry grass rustling as she
moved.
“Tambak?” whined the old crone in a
shaking voice as we approached. “Tam-
bak?”
“She mother belong me —you got any
’bacca? She savvy catch him,” laughed
Tomalo—and we gained a toothless grin
of friendship from the ancient dowager
at the cost of a stick of black “trade”
tobacco.
At once our escort took up the chorus,
and we gave them all we had. Even small
Tomalo, who was about four years old,
produced his pipe and lit up. We went
to Tomalo’s house at the further end of
the village, and the rest of the mob drew
back respectfully. Tomalo gave instruc-
tions to two youths in their own lan-
guage, who immediately and miracu-
lously climbed a couple of fruit-laden
coconut palms and threw down half a
dozen of the green nuts. Skilfully they
were husked and opened at one end, and
we drank deep of the cool, refreshing
“milk.”
“No good that feller like rum,” re-
marked Tomalo with a grin, and we
promised our host that when he next
came aboard he should have a drink of
rum with us.
Tomalo’s house was larger and more
ornate than the others in the village. He
invited us inside, where, through the dim
haze of smoke from a tiny fire kindled in
the midst of it, and in the obscurity of
an interior only lighted from the low
entrance, we met a young and comely
woman nursing an extremely new baby.
“Mary belong me. Young feller Mary,
he belong me, too.” Tomalo introduced
us to his wife and youngest daughter.
“Five Mary belong me,” he added
proudly “five Mary plenty picca-
ninny.”
After a while we followed Tomalo into
the jungle, and were attended by the
swarm of boys who had come with us
from the beach. Nearly all the women
were working in the gardens further
along the shore, and most of the men
were paddling about the ship in canoes,
or boarding her with an eye to trading
curios—many of which were alleged to
have been “made in Birmingham.”
It was wonderful in that great "forest.
Mighty trees supported a deep green roof,
through which the sunlight filtered in
golden beams. Their huge, vine-clothed
trunks towered up, like pillars in a
cathedral, out of the densest and most
varied undergrowth. Twisting vines, as
thick as a man’s arm, swung from the
spreading branches that supported the
leafy roof. Now and again a banana-
tree or a graceful sago-palm caught
patches of sunshine on their gleaming
fronds. Red hibiscus blossoms made
bright splashes of color in the sombre
green. Ferns clustered about the roots of
the trees, and delicate mosses clothed
their sides. Gaudy parrots, screaming
and chattering, darted through the high
treetops. Now and then one of our fol-
lowers would point out a pigeon sitting
up aloft, and I’d blaze away and some-
times get him, but more often didn’t.
One of them, hit, stuck in the fork of a
tree.
“Done, finish that one,” says Tomalo,
and sends an active lad up to get the bird.
When, after an hour or two spent in
wandering along the natives’ paths shoot-
ing often and giving Tomalo many shots
—greatly to his satisfaction and the aug-
mentation of his pride—and wholly
awed by the beauty and grandeur of that
noble forest, we returned to the beach,
we were followed by a train of bearers
with the “bag.” Half we gave to Tomalo
and half we took aboard,
Tomalo came with us in the dinghy, and
had two goes of rum when he got aboard
the ship so that he expanded mightily, and
spoke with pompous pride of “Punda-
perg” in Queensland, and of his doings
there. He professed scorn and contempt
for “niggers,” and departed finally loaded
up with cheap wooden pipes, “kaliko”
(gaudy and inexpensive Manchester
goods), a tomahawk, much “trade”
tobacco, a smile like a gash in a pumpkin,
and a hiccuppy enthusiasm for a second
visit to his demesne.
“You feller all same brother belong
me?” he protests fervently, as we shake
hands at the top of the ladder, off which
he falls into the water. “Come some
more,” he yells, as his underlings haul
him aboard his canoe.


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3460
Wednesday, June 5, 1946
PREPARING FOR VICTORY DAY.
“What are YOU doing here? You can’t be in the procession.”
“Can’t I? I’m deputising for Joe.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CORRUPTION.
Joe Darling, the old Australian cricketer
and Tasmanian M.L.C., died before his
charges of corruption in the administra-
tion of the Tasmanian Forestry Depart-
ment could be inquired into and reported
on. This is a pity, for Darling, a man
of sterling character who was never one to
call a spade an agricultural implement,
staked his credit and his political exist-
ence on his sweeping indictment. And,
though some of his many counts failed,
others were established to the satisfaction
of Judge Kirby, of N. S. Wales, whose
royal commission had been drawn up
in comprehensive terms by Chief Justice
Morris, as “Administrator of the Gov-
ernment of the State of Tasmania and its
Dependencies in the Commonwealth.”
Tasmania has had “Labor” Govern-
ments since June 22, 1934. Concerning
one of the Darling charges, “our trusty
and well-beloved Judge Richard Clarence
Kirby” was asked to determine whether
“in or about the year 1937 or the
year 1938 the Government of the
State or any Minister of the Crown
improperly sold or caused to be
sold at a gross undervalue” to Arthur
Garibaldi Newman, of Brighton, Vic-
toria, and nine “friends or associates”
6000 acres or thereabouts, situate near
Lake Leake in the County of Glamorgan,
as third-class land without “regard to
the forest value.” The late A. G.
Ogilvie was then Premier, the late T. H.
Davies was Minister of Lands and Mr.
Cosgrove, now Premier, was Minister of
Forests.
The Commissioner reported that the
Newman group got 5995 acres for
£2058 4s. Bd., payable by instalments.
Each application (there were ten) was
approved by Davies and returned from
the Forestry Department endorsed “No
Forestry objection.” Yet on the land
there was upwards of 50 million super,
feet of timber, to which “circumstances”
have given so great a value that “the
State has lost by the transaction a sum
varying from £12,500 to £25,000, the
actual amount depending upon the
royalty rates,”
In 1946 the effectual purchase price
(royalty payment) would be nearly double
that of 1937 and 1938.
The “No Forestry objection” endorse-
ment was made by Mr, B. A. C. Elliott,
then secretary of the Forestry Depart-
ment, in the absence of and without the
knowledge of the Conservator of Forests,
Mr. Steane. In the Royal Commissioner’s
view, Elliott was “guilty of a gross error
of judgment and breach of departmental
practice, not amounting to improper con-
duct,” though “it had appalling conse-
quences.” In respect of Mr. Ogilvie, Mr.
Davies and Mr. Cosgrove “there was no
Ministerial impropriety or responsibility
and it therefore follows that the then
Government did not act improperly nor
was it responsible.” But as for the New-
man group:—
The surviving members swore that their
dominant object was to obtain the land
for pastoral and agricultural purposes. I
am satisfied that this is not so, and that
the dominant and immediate object was
to obtain timber for milling purposes
The Newman group purchased Crown
lands with timber in commercial quantities
without paying for the timber as a sepa-
rate item or without the fact that the
timber was purchased with the land being
taken into account in the fixation of the
purchase price.
Yet this Melbourne crowd already had a
forest permit and sawmilling interests in
the neighborhood, and a forest officer,
referring to the 10 applications for the
Lake Leake area, which he had visited in
the course of his duties, stated in evidence
that he had said to Elliott “Remember
they haven’t got our report on these and
we want to object—we don’t want these
applications to go through.” This evi-
dence the Commissioner did ,not accept.
After Mr. Cosgrove as Minister of
Forests came Mr. Thomas George de
Largie D’Alton (1939-43), and he was suc-
ceeded by the present incumbent, Mr. W.
P. Taylor, Canberra having appointed
D’Alton High Commissioner at Welling-
ton (M.L.)
In August or September, 1937,
“A. G. Newman mentioned the Lake
Leake land to Mr. Taylor,” then a publi-
can at Swansea, and, with thoughts of
his pub and district, Mr.' Taylor “urged”
the Newman “case.” He was not then a
member of Parliament, Eight years later
Mr. Taylor was present at Flemington
when Mr. Newman’s horse Quixotic won
the Grand National Steeplechase, and
afterwards he boasted in a Melbourne
bar that Newman had laid him £5OO to
£lO, This, in his Honor’s opinion, was
mere “convivial boastfulness” ; the actual
wager made “during the running of the
race” was £5O to £1 [the starting price
was 12 to I], and the £5O “was subse-
quently paid by Newman to Taylor.”
Having “given full consideration to the
fact that Taylor in 1937 did give assist-
ance to Newman in regard to the Lake
Leake applications, that he is Minister
for Forests and Newman a sawmiller,”
the Judge had “no difficulty in accepting
the evidence that the transaction at the
racecourse was a genuine wager.” All
the same the “transaction” was very
unusual, and Mr, Taylor would have
been much better occupied in trying to
get from Newman “£12,500 to £25,000”
for the State than in accepting a wager
from him at five or six times the odds
that any bookmaker would have laid
“in running.”
On the subject of some of Mr. D’Al-
ton’s “transactions,” referred to in B.
10/4/’46 and B. 1/5/’46, and his refusal
to give evidence, Judge Kirby was im-
pressively severe:
In December, 1941, W. G. Noseworthy
and E. A. Alstergren, directors of Alster-
gren Pty., Ltd., made a payment of £3OO in
notes to D’Alton. The money was offered
to and accepted by D’Alton as a bribe for
services and favors improperly rendered
and to be rendered by D’Alton as a
Minister of the Crown to Alstergren Pty.,
Ltd.
Between February and April, 1943,
Ronald J. Howard made a gift of a parcel
of timber of the value of £94 14s. 3d. to
D’Alton a bribe for services and favors
improperly rendered and to be rendered
by D’Alton.
Concerning the Alstergren “transaction”:
D’Alton was a Minister with whose de-
partment Noseworthy and Alstergren were
dealing and negotiating for valuable con-
cessions. It is evident that Noseworthy and
Alstergren considered it highly desirable, if
not essential, that D’Alton himself, as
Minister, should actively assist them in
obtaining such concessions from that de-
partment It is equally evident that
D’Alton agreed and did act as their sup-
porter and advocate in their dealings with
his own department, even to the length of
agreeing in the case mentioned of advising
them how to answer questions raised by
his own department.
On this extraordinary point there was
the evidence of a letter and the oral testi-
mony of Conservator Steane, who remem-
bered D’Alton “tearing the letter off the
file rather violently and saying ‘lt is not
minuted to your department; it should
not be on your file.’ ” “Such conduct on
his part,” his Honor commented, “must
be regarded as highly improper; it is
abundantly clear that his denial is false.”
D’Alton continued to be Alstergrens’
“supporter and advocate” even at Wel-
lington when High Commissioner. There
had been an application for “an increased
cut to 4,000,000 super, feet of timber a
year,” and D’Allon had “personally prom-
ised Alstergren that the increased cut
would be granted.” On this account
Steane “reluctantly agreed to the compro-
mise figure of 3,000,000 super feet.”
Meantime “D’Alton communicated by
letter with his successor” [Taylor] urging
“an unspecified cut.” Whereupon
Judge Kirby:
The fact that D’Alton did write the
letter automatically results in the allega-
tion being proved. [lt] demonstrates that
D’Alton’s personal interest in the welfare
of the Alstergren companies was so intense
as to be beyond the usual in a Minister,
and so great as to impel him to make a
request for an unspecified cut on behalf
of one of the Alstergren companies before
that company had itself made its request.
A suggestion that the £3OO had gone to
Mr. West, secretary of the State A.L.P.,
for the use of that organisation was dis-
proved. “The only conclusion possible
was that the money was intended for
D’Alton, and that D’Alton received it.”
As to the Howard affair, his Honor
rejected evidence that D’Alton had paid
Howard the £94 14s. 3d. in cash. He
found that there was no evidence to justify
Darling’s allegation that, “as a result of
the gift, Howard received orders for
£12,725 worth of timber from the Ship-
building Board,” or that “because of the
undue preference shown him, Howard
has got a monopoly of the Huon pine
on the West Coast and is charging what
he likes.” Rejected also were allegations
of improper conduct against D’Alton in
respect of Pugh Bros.’ application for an
exclusive forest permit in the Mersey
Valley. But his Honor found that “seri-
ous offences” had been “committed by
Roy Melville Garrett and Donald Wal-
lace Chisholm, officers of the Forestry
Department,” the “serious offences” —
except for a case in which “information
the property of the department” was sup-
plied by Chisholm to Hine Bros, througn
an intermediary, and another in which
Garrett improperly required Chisholm to
negotiate a cheque—being the acceptance
of bribes.
Garrett: From Frank Jaeger (now de-
ceased), £5O, Feb., 1940; from G. P.
Taylor, £5, December, 1940; from Dunk-
ley Bros., £2O, December, 1940.
Chisholm: From Dunkley Bros., £lO in
December, 1938, £5 in December, 1939,
and £5 in December, 1940; from J. S. Lee
and Sons, £B2 12s. in January, 1939; from
Frank Fenton, £llB in December, 1940.
Sawmillers concerned in these “trans-
actions” appeared in the witness-box
Their demeanor and admissions prompted
the Judge to declare himself “satisfied
that the sawmillers who gave bribes are at
least as responsible for such a practice
of bribery as existed as those who re-
ceived them.” Yet “the attitude of saw-
millers on occasions seemed to be: ‘lt
was quite all right for me to make the
gift, but criminal for the official to accept
it.’ ”
“Showing a lamentable lack of
appreciation of the obligations of citizen-
ship,” Alstergren and Nose- (or Nos-)
worthy refused to appear before
me Royal Commission either in
Hobart or in Melbourne. So did
D’Alton, though his Honor offered
to hear him on the island or on the main-
land, and though if pronounced guiltless
he would have been assured of costs,
which, under the legislation preceding
the inquiry were granted as legitimate
Treasury outlays to Mr. Cosgrove, Mr.
Taylor, Mr. Steane, Mr. Darling and
seven Ms.L.C. who stepped into the
breach when he died; to the estate of
E. H. Fenton, and even to Garrett and
Chisholm, though in their case only for
2\ days. Of the non-appearance of
Federal Labor’s High Commissioner, the
Royal Commissioner said;
Mr. D’Alton knew of the accusations,
shocking to a man of honor and regard for
his reputation The almost automatic re-
sponse to such accusations by a former
Minister of the Crown would, in ordinary
expectation, be for him to seek and de-
mand an opportunity to reply to them
I asked Mr. Wilmshurst [D’Alton’s counsel]
if he wished a recommendation to be made
for D’Alton’s expenses in coming back to
Tasmania to assist in the inquiry. To that
Mr. Wilmshurst replied that if provision
were made for D’Alton’s expenses “there
may be other reasons for his not coming.”
At this time D’Alton was still High
Commissioner at Wellington, though
what he was doing there and what he
had done there for years are veiled in
obscurity. The obligation resting on the
State Labor Government in the light of
its Royal Commissioner’s report is plain
enough. Federal “Labor,” for its part,
will have to answer to Parliament for
choosing D’Alton as High Commissioner,
and for letting him remain as such, with-
out calling upon him to justify himself,
for months after he had been accused of
corruption, and that in his own State
Legislature.
The Socialist Sixth.
Nothing better illustrates the trends of
the present Government than its treat-
ment of the Northern Territory. There
totalitarianism is to be seen in all its
nakedness and all its muddle.
Darwin was bombed on February 19,
1942. The facts revealed by the report
of Justice Lowe make it clear that no
attempt had been made to establish any
civilian defence or any civilian routine
for defence in case of bombing, though
bombing or naval attack or even a land-
ing had been on the tapis for months.
Indeed, no plan had been made for
evacuation of civilians in case of enemy
action, nor any provision to feed them
if the sudden need arose. It was only
through the mercy of Providence that
hundreds more did not die. Apparently
there was not even a proper census, vitally
essential in a military outpost which
could be the playground of the spy and
the saboteur. There may still be raid
victims unaccounted for.
The people, many of whom wanted
to stay in their homes and take their
chance, were hurried out of Darwin.
Their properties were not taken over —
they were just kicked out of them.
Even on the distant goldfield of Ten-
nant Creek and the distant wolfram
field of Hatches’ Creek there was a
forced exodus of miners, though the
Hatches’ Creek men were mainly lease-
holders and experts in mining wolfram,
full production of which was a vital
necessity.
They were replaced by a flock of
Singapore Chinese, most of whom be-
lieved till then that a mine was something
which exploded among the mangroves.
Huge quantities of machinery and cement
were carted to the wilderness hundreds of
miles from a railhead at immense cost.
When the effort was finished £379,000 had
been spent and £27,000 worth of wolfram
had been produced. Every shaft on the
place had been ruined, and large quanti-
ties of machines were left behind.
Faced with exposure, the Government
hastened to appoint a committee of in-
quiry. Compensation had to be paid,
and never was it paid with greater
celerity. “Labor” had no wish to have
the Hatches’ Creek fiasco revealed in all
its folly.
By this time the Northern Territory
Was completely under official grip. Virtu-
ally all the normal population of Darwin
and surrounding areas had been thrown
out. There was no civilian life. Any
man, woman or child who ventured within
1000 miles of the north coast was liable
to be seized, locked up behind a guard
of fixed bayonets and deported. It was
not found necessary to impose similar
restrictions in parts of North Queens-
land nearer to the coast and to the fight-
ing and under far greater menace. But
those areas had a State Government to
protect them.
Towards the end of the war Darwin
was a ruin, its empty houses pillaged and
sometimes carried off bodily, by whom
and whither none knew. The population
was scattered from Cairns to Perth. Most
of it was pining for home. The Govern-
ment, however, had its own views and
intentions.
On the ground that “Labor” proposed
to establish some vague sort of defence-
on-a-large-scale “Labor” passed a Bill,
an outrageous confiscation measure, a
disgrace to any British country, under
which it seized Darwin, the homes and
business sites of its people and all the
surrounding land. “Labor” took power
to settle the date of assessment, the bases
of values on which property should be
grabbed and the disposal of the property.
It provided for no adequate appeal
against seizure terms, nor had owners
any priority of application for posses-
sion. If they had not the means they
had not even the right to return to their
home town (unless they pleaded pauper-
ism, in which case their claims are
“considered”), after having been shang-
haied to Melbourne or Kalgoorlie.
Hundreds of these people are still
stranded throughout the country. Their
only consolation is that, though they
have no means of reaching “home,” in
Darwin or elsewhere, means would prob-
ably be valueless to them in any case,
the Government’s industrial policy hav-
ing produced chaos in transport and food
supply. In what was Darwin there is not
even a hovel for the average newcomer.
Whoever wants work must bow the knee
to Comrade Walker, boss of the One Big
Union. Private enterprise, for all practi-
cal purposes, has been abolished.
Puring the latter stages of the war
Northern Territory residents in the south
turned to their acting-member, Mr.
Archie Cameron, M.H.R., for assistance.
Probably because Mr. Cameron had
shown himself all too efficient in dealing
with such matters, it was indicated
by the Minister that residents would get
a better deal if they ignored the member
and made a direct approach through a
local body. This was quite in line with
the current Muscovite policy of making
it impossible for any opposition to exist.
At their wits’ ends, residents reconsti-
tuted the Darwin Chamber of Commerce.
Meetings were held in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. In Sydney these were invaded
by young Communist speakers, in the
guise of the saviors of the North, con-
fusing every issue.
At Alice Springs, when 600 irate people
tried to meet the Minister for the In-
terior, a Mr. Johnson, he immured himself
between four walls and refused to see
them. It was afterwards alleged that this
refusal was based on the fact that the
movement was “Communist”! It cer-
tainly was infiltrated, like everything else
in the Territory, with Communists, who
have found it easier to go there as new
residents or to remain there as old ones
than other classes of the community. But
it represented, basically, the whole of
Centralia’s residents.
Before the advent of the present Ad-
ministration Darwin had been replanned
by the Brisbane town planner, Mr. Mc-
Innes, and all Darwin residents agreed
that he had done a very good job. But
this did not satisfy the bureaucrats. They
drew up another plan. Mr. Blain, M.H.R.,
who, symbol of the fighting spirit of the
Territory, had gone to his second war and
spent three years and a half in a Japanese
prison camp, applied his experience as
the Territory’s former chief surveyor to
examination of this scheme on the spot,
and then gave vent in Parliament to his
horrified feelings:
The peninsula [on which the main town
of Darwin stands] is to be used for the
residences of naval and military officers,
which will be surrounded by vast, cool,
open spaces, on the pretext that one day
those spaces will be needed for defence
purposes. Mere humbug: they would be
a bulls-eye for raiders. The old residents,
the mere democrats, are to be thrown into
the mosquito-ridden backblocks away from
the breezes and the views and the health-
giving heights. As for the rebuilding of
Darwin, there are men who are willing to
carry timber in on their backs to repair
the ruin, but that task must be reserved
for the vultures who seem to hover over
everything this Government undertakes.
It points a lesson for the rest of Aus-
tralia of the trends in progress that one-
sixth of the continent has become within
three or four years a Socialist Sixth which
would delight the Red Dean of Canter-
bury. From this Socialist Sixth estab-
lished citizens have been expelled, and it
has been converted (in Mr. Blain’s words)
into a “northern Siberia in. which indi-
vidual liberty and rights are no more
extant than in the days of Bligh,” and
where freedom has been driven “down
into the very gravel.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mud From a Muddy Spring.
Obviously in a savage mood because
State Transport Ministers had gone cold
on his £230,000,000 rail-standardisation
scheme, Mr. Ward made another attack,
this time at Adelaide, on his aversions
the High Court Justices, imputing to them
a catalogue of offences. They have on a
number of occasions “stood in the way
of progress” (meaning that they take a
high and serious view of the duties
assigned to them under the Constitution),
they are too old, and the oldest are hang-
ing on to their offices to prevent “Labor”
replacing them with younger men who
have “shown their loyalty to the party.”
Leaving out Justice Webb, appointed
by the present Government, who will be
60 when he takes his seat on the Bench,
there are six serving High Court Justices.
Their ages are on record. Those of some
of the “Labor” Ministers are concealed.
Even so, it would be safe to wager that
the average age of the six High Court
Justices is less than that of six of Mr.
Ward’s colleagues. Though one is ap
octogenarian, like Senator Collings, three
of them are younger than Senator Don
Cameron, Senator Ashley, Mr. Holloway
and Mr. Lazzarini. But no one has heard
Mr. Ward complaining that any of these
Ministers is too old. Nor did any yelp
come from Mr. Ward or any other mem-
ber of the 1930 Caucus when Scullin
Labor appointed Isaac Isaacs Chief Jus-
tice at 75 and Gavan Duffy his successor
at the same age, having in the meantime
named Isaac Isaacs Governor-General.
Gavan Duffy was, in fact, a hero to the
Wards when, being fortunately in a
minority, he pronounced the Financial
Agreements Enforcement Act invalid.
In another sally from the gutter, this
Minister of Transport and External
Territories denounced Arbitration Court
Judges as “overfed and underworked,”
and “one at least” as “biassed against
‘Labor.’ ” He, of course, is a political
throwback to the Sydney larrikin of the
’nineties, when the “pushes” had to be
dispersed by salutary legislative, police
and judicial action. In all periods the
Sydney larrikin has hated Judges. In
other English-speaking countries, where
the rule of law is still respected, the
judiciary is safe from the malice of
Ministers of the Crown. Even in “Labor”
Australia it should be considered a serious
matter for one to attack them; thrice
serious when crimes of violence are
rampant, as is notoriously the case.
The Cousens Affair.
There could scarcely be a stranger case
than that of Major Charles Cousens, now
and for long under open arrest.
Before he came to Australia Major
Cousens was a British regular officer. A
radio announcer in Sydney when the Ger-
man war broke out, he volunteered for
active service, and was sent to Malaya
with the 2/19th Battalion of the Eighth
Division. In the last phase of the bitter
fighting he was in command of a com-
pany, and was esteemed a good officer.
He was taken prisoner. The next that
was heard of him (or supposedly heard
from him) was in a broadcast from Japan.
On account of his outspoken broad-
casts before the war. Major Cousens had
made bitter enemies, “Australian” Com-
munists. His enemies remembered him,
and attacked him in the usual vile lan-
guage (“When you scratch a Red-baiter
you scratch a traitor”). There was no-
thing of a serious nature in the broadcasts
from Japan, and the generous presump-
tion might have been that they were made
under very severe duress —as was the case
with officers of higher rank in Japanese
hands ; Rohan Rivett’s Behind Bamboo
cites poignant cases.,
The voice (supposedly that of Major
Cousens, though that has even yet to be
proved legally) did not say things such
as people who were most virulent in
demanding his instant execution had said.
It never denounced the war as “an im-
perialist war” or expressed the hope that
“the ‘scabs’ of Downing-street” would be
“defeated.”
In the course of time Japan was beaten,
and one of the first demands of the Com-
munists and of the young lions of the
“capitalist” press was for Major Cousens’s
trial. Nobody suggested trying Comrade
Thornton, though a Security Department
officer had sworn at the Australia First
inquiry that, in his belief, Mr. Thornton
should have been arrested.
Major Cousens went to Tokyo on
October 1, 1945. On October 4 it was
radioed that the Army was “probing his
activities.” He was brought to Sydney,
arriving “with elaborate secrecy” on
Nov. 14. »Plans for his trial were men-
tioned next day; but a few days after-
wards he was in hospital. Then he was
reported (Nov. 27) under “open arrest.”
Parliament took a hand last session.
On March 13 Mr. Forde told Mr. Wat-
kins that “the matter has been discussed
by the Army authorities and the Crown
Law Department”:
Having regard to the issues involved and
to the importance of securing that there
shall be a fair trial, I am not disposed to
make any statement apart from saying that
appropriate action will be taken as soon as
possible.
“As soon as possible”! How like Mr.
Forde, Other questions were answered
as evasively.
“High officers of the Commonwealth
Law Department” are alleged to have
told the press last week that “the Aus-
tralian Army Act does not provide for
such a case”:
This is a common-law offence on which
he must be tried before a civil court.
Treason is an offence against the King.
So the case has been referred to the N. S.
Wales Justice Department.
In effect, and in the jargon of “Labor”
buck-passers, it is not “a Commonwealth
matter” but “a State matter.’’
The buck-passers seem to have forgotten
Habeas Corpus. If there is any ground
whatever for a charge of treason, the
objqct of them should be at once
arrested by the civil police in pursuance
of the ordinary criminal-law procedure,
which does not tolerate the holding of a
subject of the King without a charge
being laid and without his being brought
at once before a magistrate. If the Army
is holding this officer under open arrest
in connection with a charge beyond its
jurisdiction, the thing has a Russian or
German rather than a British flavor.
Flying Sheep.
When an A.N.A. freight ’plane landed at
Mascot aerodrome with 16 rams for the
Sydney sheep show, cutting a five-day
rail journey to four hours, it did some-
thing more than accommodate a South
Australian merino-breeder. ’Plane and
cargo added up to a devastating comment
on the Ward rail-standardisation plan and
to a warning to all concerned in Gov-
ernment railways and Government trans-
MATTERS OF MOMENT.
“Major Cousens has been ‘detained’ for many months without being brought to trial.”
“You’re not an Army matter, and you’re not a Federal matter, and if I know
anything of our Government you can’t be a State matter. You say you lived
in a Sydney suburb, Then you must be a municipal matter.”
port regulations that progress cannot be
denied.
Air-freighting of passengers and of
perishable goods and livestock, as well as
mails, vital parts for machines, medicine
and other things, is simply the beginning.
In an enormous country like Australia
air-travel and air-freighting will be as
commonplace in 1955 as were railways in
1915 ; and the effects will be speedy and
beneficial. Beyond the Commonwealth lie
markets awaiting exploitation —Austra-
lian goods are already being air-freighted
to China —and nobody with imagination
could fail to be impressed with the pos-
sibilities.
Those 16 merino rams have added a
new page to the merino’s contribution to
this country.
Czechs and Their Masters.
Since Czechoslovakia was improvised the
Sydney morning papers have always had
a soft spot in their hearts (or heads) for it,
and even before Munich they were
demanding that the British Empire should
go to war to preserve the Czechs
dominion over their dissatisfied minori-
ties of Germans, Poles, Hungarians and
Slovaks, in the mass equivalent to them
in numbers. “S. M. Herald” has now
discovered that “Czechoslovakia has,
since liberation, shown an example to
Central Europe.”
If this means that the Czech Govern-
ment has restored the barbarism of public
executions, has carried out a mass expul-
sion of Sudeten Germans into the British
and American zones of Germany with no-
thing more than they stood up in and could
carry on their backs and in their hands,
heedless of the immense tragedy it must
cause among old people, women and
children, all guiltless of the war and with
roots in Bohemia and Moravia as old as
those of the northern Slavs —the last king
of Bohemia, who lost his throne in 1620,
married a daughter of our James I, and
was a German —and has crawled on its
belly to Russia, even to surrendering to
Russian greed one of the four original
constituent provinces of Czechoslovakia,
with 700,000 people, the claim may be
conceded. But the “example” is certainly
nothing to get mushy about.
Czechoslovakia had an election last
week. In every other European country
where elections havg been held —Hun-
gary, Austria, Belgium, France, the Nether-
lands, Scandinavia, Greece and parts of
Germany—Communists have failed of a
majority. They were so sure of carrying
Czechoslovakia that they gave out pre-
dictions of a 70 per cent. Communist vote.
But even among the Czechs there are
sturdy people who object to Commu-
nisation, and this became so clear that
Moscow ordered its commanders in the
region to march 100,000 Russians across
Czechoslovakia during election week. The
arrangement was made in concert with
the Czechoslovakian General Staff, and
the Government at first approved ; but
remonstrances from Washington and
London, backed by an American seizure
of boats on the Danube, had such an
effect that the march was postponed till
the day after the election. So the out-
rageous measure did not produce all the
effect intended, but it must have produced
some effect. Indeed, many electors must
have voted in fear of their lives.
Nevertheless the Reds signally failed to
bring off their majority. They will be the
leading party in Bohemia and Moravia,
but in those provinces they got only 31
per cent, of the votes. In Slovakia, which,
of course, is nearer the Workers’ Father-
land, their proportion fell to the astonish-
ing figure of 7 per cent. Another and
most striking proof that the war has made
no change in the feeling of Russia’s
neighbors, most of them Slavs, towards
their would-be Communist overlords.
It would be a great advantage to the
world to have another Switzerland' in
Central Europe, and Masaryk seems to
have been guided by that noble ambition.
His successors prefer al policy of vengeance,
dictated by Moscow, which in the long
run will be ruinous to their own people.
How the Soviet peoples will fare as a
result of the truculent, double-crossing,
sedition-promoting and peace-sabotaging
policy of their leaders remains to be seen.
It is not now clear who is their ultimate
boss. On the ground of ill-health Stalin
has refused an invitation to talk things
over with Truman, and Molotov has dis-
avowed Stalin’s promise of support for
the American offer of a 25 years’ guar-
antee against German and Japanese mili-
tarism. This suggests that Molotov is
now on top, probably as the instrument
of a group of marshals and generals. It
is significant that fifty (50) of these
worthies were recently “elected” to the
U.S.S.R. “Parliament.”
Whose Money ?
Up to July 31, 1945, from sales of skin
wools, noils, tops and so forth during the
currency of the British wool-purchasing
scheme, the Central Wool Committee real-
ised £7,000,000. Many growers have been
curious about it; they and many more ob-
jected when Canberra announced that the
£7,000,000 would be devoted to “research.”
The Queensland United Graziers are
protesting against the money being used
in that way, and are to seek counsel’s
advice as to its legality, meantime urging
the Woolgrowers’ Council to compel Can-
berra to whack the £7,000,000 up among
growers. The N.S.W. Graziers, after
remarking that the Council asked the
Government to state its intentions last
November, and received a promise from
the Prime Minister that before any an-
nouncement was made his Government’s
proposals would be submitted to the
growers, avers that the announcement was
made without consulting the growers.
The N.S.W. men say it will be
“interesting” to know how £7,000,000 (on
top of an income of £600,000) can be used
in wool-use promotion and “the slow pro-
cesses of research,” and wonder whether
growers may yet get a cut through having
the £7,000,000 passed back as reduction
in wool tax.
As for £20,000,000 reported to have
been made after the British, purchase
scheme was cleaned up, it has to be con-
sidered in connection with the Wool Dis-
posal Plan of the Joint Organisation.
Shortly after the British purchase
scheme was launched in 1939, Senator
McLeay, then Minister of Commerce, said
growers would get any profits, and Mr.
Curtin gave a similar assurance in 1942.
Canberra has been mighty reticent
about the disposal of both sums.
It has treated all grower requests for in-
formation with a mixture of off-handed-
ness and churlishness. Apparently it aims
to do with profits from the British
wool purchase what it aims to do with
wheat—pay the growers a price arbi-
trarily fixed by itself, sell the wheat at the
very much higher world parity and use
the balance for so-called “stabilisation” or
“equalisation” adjustments in a problema-
tical future. That’s no good to Gundy.
After the 1914-18 war Australia’s share
of profits from war-time wool and wheat
pools went to the growers, as was only
right. Fiddling with “stabilisation” and
“equalisation” notions is the typical Social-
ist way of handling other people’s cash.
Dog in the Manger.
History credits the elder Pitt with saying
at a time of crisis “I know that I can save
England and that no-one else can.” The
N.S.W. Housing Commission has a less
heroic slogan—“ We’re not sure whether
we can solve the housing shortage, but
we won’t lot anyone else try.” At least
that is the impression gained from a
study of the Commission’s use of its
powers of resumption of land.
The Legion of Ex-servicemen, in an
effort to do something towards providing
homes for its members, organised a co-
operative society and planned to build
houses on a non-profit basis. Material
to be used was concrete, so the question
of priorities for bricks and timber did
not arise. The first site chosen by the
Legion was Rydalnlere, an outer Sydney
suburb. While negotiations for the pur-
chase of the land were in progress the
Housing Commission resumed the land.
The Legion then turned to East Hills
and arranged to buy a tract of land suffi-
cient for 65 cottages. Warned by pre-
vious experience, as soon as the contract
was signed the secretary of the Legion
notified the No-Housing Minister of the
fact. The following day the Commission
resumed the land. In explanation the
Minister (a Mr. McGirr) said that it
was first offered to the Commission in
1943, and again in August of last year.
“Because the land was part of a deceased
estate, the Commission for legal reasons
obtained the land by resumption rather
than by purchase.”
Legal reasons notwithstanding, any fair-
minded bookie would be prepared to lay
his Cup Dqy takings against a handful of
Housing'Commission ballot slips that if
the Legion had not attempted to buy the
East Hills land the No-Housing Minister
would not have given any more attention
to its resumption than he had in the three
years that had elapsed since it first came
under his notice.
The East Hills case is not an isolated
one, although it is the most glaring that
has come to light. At Lane Cove the Com-
mission resumed 31 home sites belonging
to a private concern, which had already
erected 11 homes on portion of the pro-
perty when housing restrictions put a
stop to operations in 1942. The company
offered to bind itself to build on all the
blocks within 12 months, but the Commis-
sion was not interested. A Bankstown man
bought a block, paid for it and registered
his title. A fortnight later he found Com-
mission employees erecting a house there ;
the land had been resumed without even
the courtesy of telling the owner.
Land-resumption powers are necessary
—though their extension to a Govern-
ment-sponsored racing club cannot be
justified by any argument in the Socialist
textbooks. When they are used in an
arbitrary manner to crush any efforts at
homebuilding, it is hard to avoid the
conclusion that the N.S.W. Government
is not really interested in overcoming the
housing problem, but is merely using the
desperate shortage of homes as an excuse
for working towards a Socialist Utopia
with biddable millions living where they
are told in State-owned houses.


-- ■
CRAYENA
ikufte
smclk* fudt
Obtainable In 10’s & 20 9 s
MADE SPECIALLY TO PR EVENT
n
&
wm
m
5767
POLITICAL POINTS
The swing against “Labor,” evident in
the two Federal by-elections in Victoria,
the Leg. Council elections in Westralia
and Tasmania and the municipal elections
in Queensland, was equally pronounced
in the Goulbum (N.S.W.) Assembly con-
test. Though the Tully succession will
continue—for a time —Father Tally’s last
majority (3091 in 1941—he was unop-
posed in 1944), was reduced to 400 or
so in the case of his son. Bladwell, a
C.P. man, late in the field, ran young
Tully to within 2000 votes, a fact which
augurs well for the revival of the Country
party, which was harder hit by war con-
ditions than any other —immeasurably so
compared with “Lqbor.”
The Goulburn figures made every
N.S.W. “Labor” member not possessed of
an industrial stronghold shiver. Con-
tinent-wide the swing would cost “Labor”
21 seats in the Hous'e—Eden-Monaro,
Hume, Riverina, Gwydir, Calare, Robert-
son, Parkes, Martin (N.S.W.), Wannon,
Ballaarat, Corio (Vic.), Brisbane, Griffith,
Capricornia (Q.), Wakefield, Grey (S.A.),
Perth, Swan, Forrest (W.A.), Denison and
Bass (Tas.).
It was a good week —as weeks go—on
the N.S.W. coalfields. Except for a
strike because someone lost a shirt, and
another because the management objected
to providing a car for “representatives of
the Queensland meat strikers,” and an-
other on the score of pit-top meetings,
everything was in order, and coal came
up. Meantime Wells and Co. called
Chifley and Co. into conference, and
Chifley and Co. came out with a pro-
posal for spending about £10,000,000,
£5OO or £6OO a head, on “amenities”
(probably including spare shirts), and
Wells and Co. announced that the Gov-
ernment wage-pegging law had been got
around but didn’t go into details. There-
upon Corns, called off the threatened
general strike —-for a little while, anyhow
—and everybody got ready to celebrate
the “Victory” holiday.
Most of the persons who profited by
dealings in Tasmanian forest lands belong
to Melbourne. One Nosworthy or Nose-
worthy (so spelt in Hobart “Mercury’s”
digest of the Royal Commissioner’s
report) figures as having been a
party to squaring D’Alton, the State
“Labor” Minister of Forests whom
Federal “Labor” sent to Maoriland as
High Commissioner. A Melbourne
“Herald” man sought out Nosworthy or
Noseworthy, with this result:
If you want my opinion, I think it’s a
political wrangle. And I’m playing golf
this afternoon. That’s how I feel about it.
“This afternoon” was a Tuesday after-
noon, The business world would be
sweeter if Nosworthy or Noseworthy
and persons like Noseworthy or Nos-
worthy gave all their time to golf, cir-
cumstances permitting.
Sydney newspapers have made much
of the fact that a boot manufacturer cut
up for £130,000, after paying about
£lO,OOO for a couple of yearlings, one of
which won a small race. In the sporting
columns other boot manufacturers are
mentioned as following the racing game ;
generally two,.and sometimes four. Men
on fixed incomes who have seen their
savings vanish since sky-high taxation
came in read these artless communica-
tions with morose and unsatisfied curio-
sity.
The only State that doesn’t seem to be
bothered by N.S.W. coal strikes, stop-
pages and pit-top meetings is Tasmania.
The Apple Island has developed its
hydraulic forces to such an extent that if
all the coal were cut off the citizen of
Hobart could still get his power merely
by turning a switch, and radiators there
cost a farthing an hour, against three-
pence in Melbourne. In fact, the cost of
current is very low by mainland standards.
Victoria hasn’t as many leaping torrents
as the Speck, but has enough of them
to make it independent of Communist
bullies and their mobs.
What with having to drink his evening
beer by candlelight, struggle for a place
on the depleted tram and train service,
run the risk of getting knocked on the
head in the darkened lanes of the city
and having to go home to a wife who has
been deprived of electric lights, irons,
radiators and radio between eight and
noon and between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m.
daily, the Melbourne citizen is wonder-
ing whether he wasn’t better off under
the threat of a Japanese invasion. His
gloom was further deepened by the an-
nouncement that, after a conference be-
tween the Minister of Electrical Under-
takings and representatives of the
A.C.T.U., the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council, the Victorian Chamber of
Manufactures and the State Electricity
Commission, it had been decided to de-
clare every second Monday “powerless”
in industry, whether the workman “stood
down” will be paid being subject to a
Wages Board determination. Under
“Labor” rule a free-born Australian will
soon not be able to blow his nose with-
out a conference between at least ten
authorities.
Dalton (not D’Alton) was questioned
in the Commons on the fact that G. B.
Shaw had transferred his property in
Eire to a voluntary civic improvement
fund for the good of the community.
Apparently the questioner had the notion
that Shaw wanted to dodge taxation. In
one of his prefaces Shaw pointed out
that he had made far more money than
he had use for, and that it was impossible
for a decent man to dispose of a fortune
in any way that wouldn’t damage the
very principles he stood for.
At a meeting of the Federal A.L.P. in
Melbourne an instruction was issued to
the South Australian A.L.P. to call for
nominations for a Labor candidate to
oppose Blain, the only M.H.R. who was
a front-line soldier in the late war. Thus
Labor in the N.T., deprived of so many
things, has been deprived even of its right
to say whether or not it desires to oppose
a fighting soldier. Blain’s defeat has been
made a national matter by the de facto
Government of the Commonwealth,
which is not the titular Government.
When Ward attacks members of the
High Court Bench on the score of their
age and their interpretations of the Con-
stitution, his first dollop of mud is always
flung at Justice Rich. Justice Rich is
certainly a bit older than Ward’s colleague
Ceilings, but if the Codings intellect and
Ward’s and Lazzarini’s could be inserted
in the Rich cranium there would still be
room for Don Cameron’s, and then some.
That the Sydney Bench and Bar still
hold Justice Rich in the highest respect
was shown by Judge Kirby’s first report
on things that have gone on in the Tas-
manian Forestry Department. In arriv-
ing at his conclusions Judge Kirby, as he
recorded, was guided by the observations
of Justice Rich in Briginshaw v. Brigin-
shaw:
In a serious matter... .the satisfaction
of a just and prudent mind cannot be pro-
duced by slender and exiguous proof or
circumstances pointing with a wavering
finger to affirmative conclusion. The nature
of the allegation requires, as a matter of
commonsense, worldly wisdom, careful
weighing of testimony, a close examina-
tion of facts proved as a basis of inference
and a comfortable satisfaction that the
tribunal has reached both a correct and
just conclusion.
Wholly admirable; but before Ward
could grasp the meaning a surgical opera-
tion would be necessary, and then it
would probably be unsuccessful.
A visit of inspection:
A Bulletin man was having a look at the all-
steel house being erected by the Beaufort
Division of the Department of Aircraft Pro-
duction in the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne.
An official was explaining how his staff had
started putting the glittering thing up one morn-
ing at 8.30 and had everything finished but the
interior fittings by 4.30, how his department
could run 20,000 of them off the assembly
lines annually as easily as winking, and how
here was the solution of the housing problem,
if only the Government knew it. Then came
a ’phone call. It was to the effect that all
outside workers bad been called off the job' by
the Building Trades Federation because the
D.A.P. workers were being paid at “main-
tenance” rates instead of “outside” rates.
The strike was called off after a halt of some
hours during which there were conferences:
State Minister of Housing, Minister of Labor,
representatives of the Department of Aircraft
Production and delegates from the Communist-
controlled Building Trades Federation. The
Bulletin man went off, with his glowing vision
of millions of Beaufort houses, complete with
electric refrigerators, cookers, baths, sinks and
insulated steel walls, springing up all over the
country overnight somewhat tarnished.
The local brand of Commo. apes his
Moscow masters very closely. When
U.N.O. against the wishes of Uncle Joe
determined to discuss the Persian ques-
tion, Gromyko walked out of the Council
room. He stated later that this did not
mean a withdrawal from U.N.0.; it was
merely a protest against the decision.
Last week when Sydney Trades and
Labor Council decided by 97 votes to 68
to admit to membership the Balmain
Ironworkers who have had the guts to
throw the Commos. off their backs, Com-
rade McPhillips and his henchmen walked
out of the meeting. McPhillips told the
Press that the retirement “was not a
threat of disaffiliation from the council,
but a protest against the admission of
unauthorised delegates.”
An extensively boomed Sydney book-
maker got another lot of free advertising
for distributing £12,000 among two hospi-
tals, and McKell ‘joined racing-mad
sheets in extolling the young man. Cynics
waited for the views of the Deputy Taxa-
tion Commissioner, but they were not ex-
pressed. In point of fact, a taxpayer can
claim full rebate on gifts made in any
year provided they are less than taxable
income. So if the yo,ung man returned
an income of £20,000 he would be en-
titled to full rebate on the £12,000, and it
must be granted, except that the depart-
ment could assess him at the rate of
tax on £20,000.
A returned soldier has been discovered
in N.S.W. with a block of land on which
to begin farming. It has a door at one
end, is 6ft. deep by 10ft. long and 4ft.
wide and was once an air-raid shelter. In
it the Digger will try mushroom farming.
Both Federal and State soldier-settlement
authorities hope that it won’t be taken
as a precedent.
Melbourne “Argus,” almost as wild as
Ward because the great rail-standardisa-
tion conference crashed, calls the fracas
“a depressing comment on the state of
the nation,” alleging that “this long-
delayed reform has been approved
by the people and by responsible leaders.”
What people, and what responsible
leaders? When did Ward become re-
sponsible for anything but receipts for
his salary?
It did not escape notice in Melbourne,
which has Calwell for Federal member,
that, on the day before Cardinal Gilroy
was due in the city on a four-day visit,
the lay critic of his nomination for the
Red Hat hurried off to Adelaide on a
blither expedition, prolonged till the
cardinal was back in Sydney. The un-
knightly Arthur thus spared himself the
excruciating experience of hearing his
Eminence discourse on the pleasant tune
he and the friends he made in Rome, “the
three British Cardinals,” had with four
of “these English people” (Calwell)—the
King and Queen and the young Princesses.
A. J. Fraser, the new Victorian Senator,
could spend a pleasant hour or two turn-
ing up Sydney newspaper references to
his candidature and election. “Terewth”
and the “Daily Mirror,” now the compleat
grovellers to “Labor,” were angry at the
very thought that the Messines M.C.
should be nominated against Senator
Keane’s campaign secretary. In the
“Sun” office there was a charming divi-
sion of opinion:
“Sun” (Daily). “Sun” (Sunday).
Senator Keane was Labor criticism of
elected by a Labor the Victorian Parha-
majority, and there ment’s choice of a
has been nothing to non-Labor Senator to
show that the electorate succeed a Labo man,
has changed its opinion on the g r ound that it
The appointment is against tradition, has
should, logically and no justification.
fairly be in accord- Records show that m
ance with the will of every State, when a
the people expressed non-Labor Senator has
at the last election, died and Labor has
The Opposition parties had a majority in the
have nothing whatever State House, it has
to gain by putting up chosen a member of
candidates of their its own party,
own to fill the vacancy.
Fraser will no doubt reflect with a grin
that there was no such flaw in the liaison
work at Messines.
Six blocks in the Hughenden district
of Queensland, ranging from 21,000 to
38,000 acres and capable of carrying from
5000 to 8000 sheep, are to be balloted for
by ex-servicemen. Four or five are be-
lieved to be open for selection in N.S.W.
At this rate it is hoped that all ex-service-
men’s demands for land will be settled
by June 2, 2046.
' A revolt against Communist control of
the British coalminers has ended Com-
munist hopes of forcing “affiliation” on
the “Labor” party. It has extended to
South Wales, where the union branches
were 100 p.c. for “affiliation” last year, as
well as to Yorkshire and Durham. This
will be almost as repugnant to Moscow
as the manoeuvres which led to the U.S.
Senate approving of the loan to Britain,
It is given out that the eight Victorian
“Labor” Ms.H.R. are to stand again.
They are all getting up in years, Calwell
being the “baby,” and he is nearly 50;
Scullin is just on 70. Save for compara-
tive youngsters like Falstein, Burke and
Chambers, who can claim some service
in the war against Japan, and, of course,
Miss Tangney and Beazley, “Labor” is
in nearly every State oversupplied with
members to whom youth is a thought of
yore ; and many of them will be matched
with young, vigorous and critical returned
servicemen. In the days of the party’s
greatness, the average age of its candidates
was considerably less than that of the
other side, and the lack of a youth appeal
is worrying A.L.P. headquarters.
A “Saturday Evening Post” article on
MacArthur credits him with the convic-
tion that “the Second World War proved,
once and for all, that wars are a failure.”
The general pointed to the effects on the
nominal winners—“a great part of Russia
ravaged and gutted, the United States
ruthlessly drained of precious resources
and the British Empire ‘desperately’ en-
feebled.” He could have referred also to
the ironic fact that the U.S.A. and Britain
are bearing the lion’s share of the expense
of feeding and governing the Germans.
The writer of the article, Martin Som-
mers, praising MacArthur’s work in Japan
—and it deserves praise, though Dr.
Evatt has joined the Soviet repre-
sentatives in carping at it, though not in
the Professor Stone manner —attributes
to him the authorship of the new Japanese
Constitution and the aim of shaping “a
model on which a world of peace and
democracy can be constructed.” It is a
pity MacArthur can never become Presi-
dent. At 68 in 1948, he will be too old.


“NOT UNDERSTOOD.”
“Premier Cosgrove, unexpectedly arriving in Sydney when the D’Alton case was under consideration at Hobart, referred to ‘public dissatisfaction with the present
Federal Administration,’ and said the Tasmanian A.L.P. had ‘asked it to lower taxation rates.’”
“If Attlee’s not coming, Chif., perhaps we could get Dalton.”
“Don’t mention any of those Tasmanians to me!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLEMS INGKS"
* Lord Luvus”; Opening an art show
in Melbourne R. G. Menzies said that
he had once had the secret dream of
being an artist, and his idea of heaven
was a place of silence and contemplation
with a few artists. Politicians, he added,
became obsessed with the supreme im-
portance of the moment, but in a few
months all they said or did had been
forgotten. I have heard the same thing
from K.Cs., Lud Mayors, major-generals
and others whom the world regards as
distinguished people. My usual reaction
is “If you don’t believe in what you are
doing, why don’t you give it up?” A
K.C. told me mournfully that his vocation
had been a minor tragedy and that he
despised the whole legal set-up ; but when
his own son began to make his mark in the
profession he was delighted. It reminds
me of a publican I met once. I asked
him how his son, a youth of 19, was
getting on. “He’s a good, clean-living
boy,” replied Bung. “Never touches a
drop.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Nivius”: Have they forgotten to tell
the P.M.G. the war is over or is he trying
to meet his difficulties by reducing the
number of his telephone subscribers? If
it is neither of these, then I can’t under-
stand why he endorsed the envelope con-
taining my ’phone account “A still
tongue makes a good citizen.”
* * * *
“Dukachita”: Recently cabled that a
chip from an idol has been returned to
a Cingalese temple accompanied with a
sad story of bad conscience and the awful
revenge that can be inflicted at a distance
by these deities of Old Asia. It appears
that the chip was knocked off the image
—no doubt of the peaceful Buddha —
by a wealthy Vancouver tourist. That
Vancouver vandal.has sunk progressively
down the social ladder and is now a
casual laborer ; he attributes his ill-fortune
to the sacrilege he committed in 1937.
Tourists mainly American who
stripped the temples of Bali of their
dishes and saucers will doubtless read
this news with perturbation. For cen-
turies the Hindu of Bali was in the habit
of decorating the walls of his shrines and
temples with valuable porcelain imported
ages ago from China. The saucers were
set in position with clay, which allowed
of very easy removal. After a very few
years they got wise to the ways of the
foreign tourist, removed all their valu-
able pieces and replaced them with
imitations, from Birmingham and Chicago.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Regarding leaflets
dropped in Siam, “Frank Mauri” (B.
15/5/’46) will possibly remember two
well-known messages. One said, “Be
Brave! Be British! Be Bombed! Be
Free!” The other, written in pencil on
news leaflets, informed us briefly, “It’s in
the Bag, Chums.” In one p.-0.-w. camp
the senior British officer was threatened
with death if he did not disclose the
whereabouts of “The Bag.” After that
the stock joke during a search was, “Are
these beggars still looking for The Bag?”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Australian' brides who
cherish visions of seeing their first-born
rise to the Presidency of U.S.A. may find
that the Fathers of the Constitution put
a little obstacle in their way. Babies
saken to America by their mothers are
American citizens all right. On that point
the law is simple—a child born abroad to
an American father and a foreign mother
automatically becomes an American citi-
zen if he enters the States before his six-
teenth birthday. But being a citizen and
being eligible for the job of First Citizen
are not the same thing. A candidate for
President must be “natural-born,” and up
to the present the legal pundits have not
been called upon to decide whether
natural-born means born a U.S. citizen
or one born in U.S. But the Aussie bride
who was afraid she had disqualified her
infant son from future Presidential
honors by undergoing a Caesarean opera-
tion was putting too literal an interpre-
tation on the American Constitution.
* * * *
“J”: “Brian Bureau’s” par. (B.
22/5/’46) reminds me of the land sales-
man who called on a suburban housewife
and, thinking to improve his chance of
a sale, glibly lied that the woman next
door had bought a block. “That settles
it,” she replied. “I wouldn’t live near that
person again in any circumstances.”
• ♦ ♦ •
“Melbn”: No doubt as part of his
campaign for a Brighter City, Lud Mayor
Connelly, of Melbourne, is calling for six
blondes, six brunettes and six redheads —
in the parlance of the A.1.F., blood-
nuts —to ride 18 snow-white horses in the
Victory Night procession. They will be
paid for this aesthetic service, and
on hearing this one aspirant anxiously in-
quired whether there would be any of
It may be all right on the xylophone, but it's not so hot on the Bechstein."
this Lady Godiva business in the terms
of contract. I question the good taste of
turning a ceremony connected with the
most bloody and destructive war in his-
tory, which is being followed with disas-
trous haste by all the four Horsemen of
the Apocalypse, into a Hollywood glamor
show; but I suppose the Lud Mayor
knows his own business.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: Somebody had started the
rumor that Mrs. Glumpkins had not been
married to the late Mr, Glumpkins ; the
furphy got back to Mrs. G., causing her
considerable mental suffering. We were
all seated for the evening meal when she
entered the dining-room, red-eyed and dis-
traught. Addressing the assembled
boarders she vigorously ■ repudiated the
slander, threatened vengeance on the un-
identified mischiefmaker and plucked a
foolscap envelope from the pocket of a
cardigan. “Mr. Owlface,” she cried
dramatically to the oldest boarder. “My
marriage certificate is in this envelope.
Please read it and tell these people the
truth.” Old Owlface took the envelope,
Mrs. G. collapsed into a chair and burst
into hysterical sobs, and the rest of us
toyed uncomfortably with our curried
chops. Then Owlface announced in his
usual magisterial manner, after perusing a
document he had taken from the en-
velope, that Mr. and Mrs. G. had been
without question lawful husband and
wife. Owlface and I retired to the draw-
ing room. “Poor old girl,” he mused,
“she must have been terribly upset. Would
you believe it, that envelope contained a
licence for that damned poodle of hers.”
♦ sfc 4; sje
Balgowlah”: Ours is an old-fashioned
bookselling firm with a staid clientele.
Crowsfoot, the manager, is a grave and
scholarly fellow, and the bookshelves in
his private office are filled with hand-
somely-bound editions of Victorian
classics. No appointment was ever made
to the staff unless Crowsfoot persopally
satisfied himself that the applicant shared
his reverence for Edward Bulwer Lytton
and Anthony Trollope and other Vic-
torian worthies. To Crowsfoot’s sanctum
was ushered one day an applicant for a
job as salesman, a sharp-featured
old codger in flash clothing. All went
well until Crowsfoot politely inquired:
“And ,what experience have you had of
bookselling?” “Plenty,” responded the
old codger. “Been sellin’ ’em ever since
I was a kid. Racebooks every raceday,
but I’m gettin’ a bit old for jumpin’ on
and off trams.”
• * * *
“J.M.C.”: It happened at Petburi, in
Thailand, where about 120 Americans
were prisoners in the same hut as
Australians. An argument was in pro-
gress between a Yank and an Aussie, and
both were in deadly earnest. Finally the
Digger boiled over with “You’re just
shooting off your mouth, Yank.” Replied
the Yank “No, Dig.—l was never more
fair dinkum in my life.”
* * » «
“Civvy Street”: Young Snifter was the
knowall of the office, and someone should
have warned Bloggs, a newpomer to the
staff, that Snifter’s knowledge at the best
of times was a sketchy affair. When Bloggs
asked one Saturday how he could get to
an address in a distant suburb. Snifter
produced a set of written instructions and
sent him happily on his way. Later, over
a few drinks. Snifter remarked grandly
to a group of us “It’s easy when you
know how. I just looked up a map in a
street guide, consulted an old post-office
directory and told him what tram to catch
and where to get off, I even pin-pointed
the house he wants; it’s the fifth on the
left two turnings to the right and one to
the left from the tram stop. He’ll get to
10 Victoria-street, Rosemont, without
any trouble.” “No doubt,” murmured
one of the senior clerks; “but Bloggs
wanted to go to 10 Victoria-street, Mon-
trose, and that’s about nine miles in the
opposite direction.” For once all of us,
except Snifter, looked forward to Monday
morning.
* * * *
“L.P.”; Away with these critics of the
adjutant (B. 22/5/’46)! Air Force
adjutants, as a rule, displayed plenty
of initiative and efficiency. It was
when Walter Lindrum was billed to put
on a turn at our station and we were
wondering how we were going to squeeze
into the small recreation-room to get a
glimpse of the champ, in action that our
adj. showed his real form. He had the
table moved on to the platform of the
unit’s picture theatre where all would be
seated in comfort. And when he learned
that the lads wished to see the play as
well as the player, he suggested that the
back legs could be packed and the table
sloped to face the audience. Even Lin-
drum, with all his experience, would
never have thought of that.
* * * *
“Five by Two”; Gili Gili plantation, at
Milne Bay, had run cattle in pre-war days
and there were still a few running around
when the Jap invasion started. The air-
strip had been mined and the Nips were
making determined efforts to take it. The
sigs. were working “flat-out” and the
wires were nearly red hot when a message
came through to h.q.: “The blanky cows
are on the drome.” “Blow them up!”
was the reply. So about five tons of
assorted cattle went up in the air simply
because someone at h.q. thought that
“blanky cows” must of necessity mean
Nips.
* * * •
“Bo”: It is a maxim of good journal-
ism that a writer keep a tight rein on
his superlatives; for if he expend them
recklessly on mediocre subjects, the tell-
ing "effect of them will be lost when
material arrives on which the use of them
would be justified. The flapper press, of
course, tosses them around with the aban-
don of a Federal Minister making con-
cessions to Commos, and sometimes by
doing so may even cast doubt on a state-
ment of which the superlative is part. I
instance my afternoon paper’s claim,
referring to a gentleman who passed on
a few years ago, as having been “the
world’s keenest collector of ancient Greek
coins.” Doesn’t this give an entirely
wrong view? Who, after all, would be
keener collectors than the ancient Greeks
themselves?
» ♦ * «
“Malua”; For crass stupidity those
responsible for organising the Duke of
Gloucester’s visit to the N.S.W. coalfields
stand alone. A skip specially built for
the Governor-General’s visit was up-
holstered and cushioned, and the miners
who demonstrated the coal-cutting were
provided with brand new overalls for the
occasion. At the steelworks every piece
of gravel was specially put in place and
was doing its duty, and even the points
on the railway lines in the works had
been newly painted. In addition to this
the red carpet that is kept for such occa-
sions was laid down. The Duke would
probably have preferred to see all these
things under normal conditions without
any window-dressing. As it was, he has
been given an entirely wrong impression.
* * * *
“Zake”: A Sydney politician whose
waistline has been expanding decided,
in an effort to reduce, to make the
supreme sacrifice and chop out beer as
the alternative to any exercise more exact-
ing than the pulling on of his braces. His
martyrdom has been followed with keen
sympathy by colleagues of the Macquarie-
street circus. “But do you think it’s
worth it?” asked one legislator earnestly.
“With all the beer he’s missing he
hasn’t got slim again.” “I don’t think
Magger ever hoped to get exactly slim
again,” replied another law-maker. “He’ll
be satisfied if he gets to be a few stone
less prominent! ”
♦ * * *
“Makdee”: “Sweater,” the town soak,
before the Bench on his fortieth drunk-
enness charge heard the grim words
“Next time, the island.” The thought of
Rotorea, the inebriates’ home, kept
“Sweater” out of trouble for weeks. Then,
one 11 p.m., the horrid hand of the
Law fell upon his shoulder as he
was leaving the back door of the
pub—and the legal light of the ser-
geant’s torch focussed itself on the
“square-rigger” in “Sweater’s” hip
pocket. In court next morning he
admitted being on the premises but
submitted that he had gone there
to see his girl friend. As “Sweater”
was rising 60 and the cook at the
pub was of a similar age, the
magistrate was as little impressed
as the sergeant. “Sweater” declared that
his girl friend had given him some sand-
wiches and a square-rigger of cold tea.
The sergeant snatched the cork from
exhibit A and sniffed. “Sweater” didn’t
go to the island after all.
* * * ♦
“Bottle-oh”; Every now and then
someone comes to light with a new use
for bottle tops. Latest idea in Brisbane
“schools” is to use them in a game which is
a cross between pitch-penny and a
juggling act. Players toss the tops to-
wards a mark on the ground—or a wall if
there’s one handy. Up to this stage the
game is the same as we used to play it
with cigarette cards. But, games of chance
being taboo, and to keep the business en-
tirely a game of skill, the juggling act is
introduced. The player whose top is
closest to the mark picks up all the tops
and balances them in a pile on his elbow.
Then, with a quick downward flip, he
catches as many as he can as they fall.
Bottle tops may also be used to keep beer
in bottles, but this use is not recom-
mended.
* * ♦ •
“Hamer”: My favorite (or at least most
persistent) nightmare, in my small kid
days, was the one where the steamtram
used to leap from the rails and chase me
round the roads and railways. If I dodged
through shops or houses to get away, it
met me at the back entrance and con-
tinued the chase. My yell when it made
its final pounce always awoke me and
the whole house. My grandchildren, be-
ing modern, dream of aeroplanes which
skim along low down in,pursuit, and, when
they dodge round comers, soar over the
buildings to come down again and head
them off. One grandchild awoke and,
screaming, said he had been chased by
a tram “with an ingine on it.”
The kid has never seen an example
of the old rattling steamtrams, but
his description of the thing seen in
his nightmare was very much like the
old “bogey” of the steamtram days. In
the strange inheritance of instincts and
subconscious knowledge and thought that
is the lot of the human race, it may be
that even the base of a nightmare can be
carried on,
GODSEND TO CARTOONISTS.
In Reid’s of statesmanship
Or which he’d a considerable spell.
You may recall with what an eager grip
Cartoonists fastened on his monocle.
That artificial adjunct served them well:
Whether they sought to tickle or to swipe.
His eyeglass was the thing whereon to dwell—
And now its much the same with Chifley’s
pipe.
That crudely elongated upper lip
Is wild exaggeration—by an ell—
That might give any public man the pip
It he were touchy or susceptible;
Why its persisted in is hard to tell.
There s something that’s a lot more true to type,
Something that hits the spot and rings the
bell,
If one may phrase It so, in Chifley’s pipe.
A black, well-seasoned brier, I’d like to tip,
„ Not su . as P os h tobacco-merchants sell
Who with expensive articles equip
The new-made profiteer or languid swell.
Cigars that Churchill favors would repel
A people s man, however rich and ripe
One sees a symbol, hard to parallel ’
Of sheer democracy in Chifley’s pipe.
I sometimes wonder if he finds it hell
When rabid union bosses snarl and snipe
A™ seek to cram some stuff that doesn’t srhell
Much like tobacco into Chifley’s pipe.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Clooter”: Out at Coonabarabran, in
the shadow of the Warrumbungles, where
people have time for long, long thoughts,
there mayn’t be any Victory Day show.
When the R.S.L. branch announced that it
would co-operate in any celebrations, a
public meeting was called and it resolved
that “as no satisfactory peace has been
achieved” it would have no part in the
doings. The resolution has gone to the
local council, but since its next meeting
is on June 11 it can hardly be discussed.
Perhaps Coona. should send a beam mes-
sage to Dr. Evatt, urging him to seek the
support of the “small nations” in calling
the whole thing off. In any case, if
Coona. doesn’t celebrate it will at least
escape the dreadful ordeal of having to
listen to politicians giving addresses.
My own town, a place chiefly distin-
guished by a bridge bigger than the one
over the Castlereagh and by the weary
faces of its housewives and by its daily
Government lotteries, isn’t to be so lucky.
It is to hear (Heaven help it!) a “victory
oration” by a politician who never heard
a shot fired in anger and who leads a
Government whose only notable achieve-
“Quite clever, but where does it get you?”
ments have been a turf club, set up in the
middle of a war for survival, and life
pensions for Assemblymen —£6 a week,
with £3 a week for widows—of which,
if he carries out his threat or promise, he
will be the first recipient.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A variant of the
“call-me-Bill” employer occurs in my
memories of depression days in the Wes-
tralian wheat belt. Our road-construc-
tion gang was as representative a cross-
section as could be found, and it
took much to arouse our curiosity,
but the chap who got off the train
one morning and asked for the
“supervisor” merited more than a
cursory glance. He looked, acted
and spoke like a bank manager,
and his application for a job hyp-
notised the ganger into giving him
one. Later he was to earn our
unstinted admiration for his exhi-
bition of sheer guts in sticking to
pick and shovel uncomplainingly
through the blister-and-backache
stage, but at first sight we shared
the ganger’s amusement. Came
lunch-time, and, as we chewed our
sandwiches and swigged black tea,
the ganger asked the new chap his
name. “Williams,” he said briefly.
“’N’ what’s y’r first name?” he
was asked. He subjected the ques-
tioner to a withering frown and
snapped “Mister.” We grinned
broadly, but the ganger smiled
tolerantly. “Mister it is,” he said,
and Mister it remained, long after
he’d outlived the agony of his first
descent to toil, and could laugh
with us over his nickname and the
manner of its acquisition.
* *
“Bethune”: I’m all in favor of “Weff’s”
suggestion (B. 29/5/’46) of Australian
names for pubs, but isn’t he a bit behind
the times with his selection? For aspir-
ing Bungs who want to be up to date and
still Australian in their nomenclature 1
offer the following, free of all copyright:
The Strikers’ Haven, Miners’ Rest, Whar-
fies’ Pride, Politicians’ Promise are a few
that need no comment. Instead of the
Wheatsheaf we could have the Double
Dump ; instead of the Border Gate, the
Brisbane Line. The Newmarket, ot
course, would become The Blackmarket,
The Hero of Waterloo would proudly
emerge as The Frankie Forde and The
Flying Pieman, suggested by “Weft,
would be given the name of that gentle-
man’s successor, Bert Evatt.
“Findy”: “Weff” would find in South
Australia a fair measure of support for
his advocacy. In and around Adel-
aide may be found an Aurora, Bush-
man’s Club, Southern Cross, Old
Colonist, Land of Promise and Wheat-
sheaf. There’s an Old Bushman at
Gawler, at least three country towns
sport a Rising Sun and two (Carrieton
and Red Hill) a Eureka. Some of these
names may have been used in England
generations before the first pint was
pulled in Australia, but at least Kadina
should be able to claim that its Wombat
is the only pub in the world so named.
* * * *
“V, Cluse”: Jephson got home one
night to fincT his spouse close to tears and
the evening meal far off because of some
fault in the gas. He ’phoned the gas
company and was informed that it was
probably water in the pipes. “We’ll send
outySomebody as soon as we can, but all
the fitters are out on repair work now,”
the official said. He then told Jephson
where to look for the drain-pipe and
suggested that he do the job himself.
Mrs. J. was against it, having had previ-
ous experience of Jephson’s work on
water-pipes, electric mains and so forth.
“Think I’m a child?” Jephson snorted, in-
dignantly, and went forth, dug up the
lawn until he found the end of a rusty
pipe, spent an hour searching the suburb
“Just tell them it's for Mrs. Jones— THEY’LL understand .”
for a wrench, arrived back and by the
light of the street lamp unscrewed the
stop nut. A two-inch stream of water at
high pressure shot forth and Jephson,
drenched and vainly trying to stop the
flood, yelled for help. His family rushed
forth and he learned, between gasps, that
the gas men had arrived during his search
for the wrench, adjusted the matter and
departed. What he had found was the
forgotten end of a branch connection
from the water main which had never
been used.
* * * *
“Eve”: A hot-headed woman, but fair-
minded, she bought a leg of lamb, and,
when asked for four coupons, said
“Three!” The butcher seemed puzzled,
but the lady was so determined that he
shrugged and took three coupons. Next
day she realised her mistake. The
butcher, knowing her, wasn’t surprised
when she said “I say! About that leg of
lamb yesterday!” The butcher laughed.
“Oh, you’ve come to apologise about the
coupon, I’ll bet.” “No!” snapped the
lady. “That was my intention before I
ate the meat, but now I’ve come to get
you to apologise for the meat!”
» # * *
“Sulphide-street”: A Sydney wander-
ing reporter, who spent a few days in
Broken Hill, burst into print in his Sunday
rag with the allegation that Barrier girls
chased visitors and endeavored to make
dates with them. The general picture
conjured up was reminiscent of Carole
Landis’s “beat ’em off with clubs” out-
burst. When Broken Hill citizens from
the Mayor down protested against the
slur on the modesty and morals of their
womenfolk, the reporter crawfished a bit,
said he didn’t mean what they
thought he meant, and gave a chapter
from his night life claiming that at a
public dance at the Hill three separate
girls tried to make dates with him. The
young man wants to move around a bit.
He could repeat that experience at public
dance halls in almost any city in the
world, but that still would not justify him
in a general slander on the women of
any of those cities,. The Smart Modern
Reporter, modelling himself on the less
desirable type of American journalist, has
scant regard for the feelings of worthy
people. * * *
* * * *
“Hydro”: Unique among A.R.P. mea-
sures was Brisbane’s salt-water reticula-
tion scheme. Pipes were laid on the sur-
face in city streets, and at one major
flare-up at least the efficiency of the sys-
tem was proved. Now the pipes are com-
ing up —to the joy of motorists and the
wonderment of many. For it had been
announced that the pipes would remain
in position until the city water supply was
improved and the pressure was sufficient
to take care of any conflagration.
* * ♦ *
“Ides of March”: At a time when ad-
vocates of calendar reform are making
their umpteenth attempt ■_ this tune
through U.N.O. —to bring in a fixed
Easter and a perpetual calendar, it is
refreshing to read of the refusal of
the Robertson (N.S.W.) Agricultural
and Horticultural Society to change
its ancient custom of holding its
meetings in the full of the moon.
Iconoclasts urged that future meet-
ings be scheduled for second Wed-
nesdays or third Tuesdays or some other
prosaic but easily determined night, but
the majority stood firm for the old sys-
tem, which goes back to the days
when members came to the meetings on
horseback or in buggies or sulkies and
were glad of the moonlight for the ride
or drive home. Nowadays, when most
members travel by car, the moon’s assist-
ance is nof so important, but Robertson
people apparently have sufficient grati-
tude towards an old friend not to dismiss
him now his usefulness has been outlived.
* * * *
“Becks”: Lottery dreams have been
getting some publicity lately; one for-
tunate citizen is alleged to have dreamed
of a number, bought the corresponding
ticket and -collected first prize. Another
reported case was not quite as straight-
forward as that, but it also tied a first
prize up to a dream. I suppose in the
course of a year thousands of people
dream of winning numbers and don’t buy
lottery tickets, while other thousands
dream of losing numbers and do buy
tickets. Sooner or later some dreamed-of
number must click, but that proves noth-
ing of the power of dreams to foretell
the future any more than the winning of
a first prize by a syndicate of “investors”
calling themselves “Kidney Pie Syndi-
cate” proves that kidney pie is “lucky.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Until last week I was re-
flecting that the tobacco shortage had at
least one compensation in that it had
eliminated the cigarette “hum.” But I rolled
a smoke in Sydney’s Martin-place and
was pounced upon by an unkempt fellow
in military dress —except for the patent-
leather dancing-pumps on his feet. “I
thought you blokes got a ration,” I
complained. “That’s right, pal,” he re-
plied. “But it’s too ruddy far out to the
Showground t’ collect it.” I wonder how
many civilians would be glad to travel
twice the distance for an issue.
* * * *
“Fitz”: To our newspaper office
there came one morning a plainclothes
constable armed with a warrant for the
arrest of McSnozzle, one of our free-
lance reporters, for failure to comply
with a maintenance order. The manager
directed the “demon” to a clerk with
whom McSnozzle usually left his
“copy.” The clerk made the copper
comfortable, gave him the latest issue
of the rag to read and settled
down to his work. Several persons,
including McSnozzle, entered the room,
had discussions with the clerk and
departed on their way, while the
copper chuckled over his paper. After
about two hours the sleuth said to the
penpusher “It doesn’t look as if my
man’s going to turn up.” “You’re wrong,
detective,” answered the clerk, “he came
and went an hour ago.” The policeman
hit the roof and reported to the manager
the clerk’s neglect to tell him of Mc-
Snozzle’s arrival. Said the manager,
who had read the copper’s description of
the wanted man, “If you haven’t the
nous to pick up a short, fat man with a
red beard when he walks under your nose
you should be on pick-and-shovel work.
Good morning.” Dejectedly the demon
walked out and ran slap-bang into Mc-
Snozzle being congratulated by the cleric
in the next-door pub on his narrow
squeak.
* * * *
“Bill H.” looks back:
Although Ernest O’Ferrall (B. 22/5/ 46)
wrote many fine stories for The Bulletin and
the “Lone Hand” he was equally well known
throughout Australia for his topical verses
illustrating Cobra boot polish advts. m whicn
Chunder Loo, of Akim Foo, was a weekly
hero. The series (illustrated by Percy Lind-
say) was a feature in The Bulletin for years,
and was looked for as avidly as The Phantom,
Ginger Meggs and other comic strips are
sought nowadays. O’Ferrall s fetish for| 3m.-
high linen collars got him the title of Rehgious
Editor in the long ago. One thing Kodak
and artists David Low and Hopkins had m
common: all were particularly sombre-taceo,
yet in their own way got bundles of joviality
out of life, even though Hopkins found ms
chiefly on the bowling green with manager
William Macleod and other enthusiasts.
A DOUBTFUL PRECEDENT.
“N.S.W,. Minister Tully, wh°se right to benefit
fmm flip Parliamentary Pensions fund is tne suojec
of controversy, said that he had been appointed Agent-
General for five years, adding that,: h ® car ” e 4
hies dnfipc; satisfactorily, he would, according to pitx
dent, probably be offered another term of five years.
A trifle optimistic, aren’t you, Tally?
Like some 100 trustful cricketer _ who ip
A Ta a king ha the °chance YTwfll evade the grips
Of those whoTe clustered there so plentifully
On the alert for catches, watchful slips,
Two thou a year’s a comfortable pittance,
But think how many there have been to hnd
Th S^ y Vr^rof a 0 n £ y t S adm,l,a " Ce
It signified a severance or quittance
From prospects in the land they left behind,
Claims that they might have pressed upon the
In absence were so easily forgot. ,
Think of the disillusionment complete in
Poor Fisher’s case, which surely takes the
As High 11 Commissioner he trod his beat in
London, yet when his arduous job was done
He sought and sought in vain to find a seat in
The country where he once was Number One.
And quite a lot of others, not so great,
Have shared the same unenviable fate.
And five years hence what warrants you assum-
will still be here to put you back?
They may be then, though now so brisk and
blooming,
Themselves be relegated to the pack, _
Or, even if they’re not, be busy grooming
And readying some other party hack
For those rich stakes, a valuable, prize,
Rest well assured, for many wistful eyes.
The A.-G’s. job has proved the grave of various
Careers that seemed to wait ambitious men;
Even a five-year tenure is precarious
From instances within quite recent ken.
Hence, Tully, you’re extremely temerarious,
StUl SeVno’ham taCpig“ OS you go,
But for what period only time will show.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Nigger
in
The Wood Pile
The statement was recently made that al-
though agreement had been reached about
the sailing of the Dutch ships, there was a
“nigger in the wood pile” somewhere.
Yes, there is a nigger but it is a “red"
nigger.
The A.C.T.U. and the Trades and Labour
Council agreed that the ships should sail.
The Federal Labor Government and the
Datch authorities concurred, but nothing
happened.
Although the A.L.P. still nominally
controls the Labor movement it would
appear that it has little, if any, control
over the many unions now under
communist domination ,
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of
Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
CE9
Extruded Brome Grilles
m*’
m
&
m
1
Pi
m
I
■
m
Si
an
m
m
wm
Craftsmanship
in fine
ARCHITECTURAL METAL-WORK
SINCE THE TIME—OVER 50 YEARS AGO—
when the first Wunderlich Metal Ceiling was installed in the Sydney
Town Hall, the firm has been prominent in the production of all types
of fine architectural metal-work.
During the war-time years Wunderlich Limited
were fully occupied with the fabrication of components in metal—for
defence purposes* To-day, the organisation is now, more than ever,
equipped to produce high-quality metal-work (cast, wrought, or stamped)
r 0 meet architectural requirements in peace-time construction of buildings.
c/er /Ic>A Ited,
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALTITY FOR OVER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. 'Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE. N.S.W., and BRISBANE, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
LAUNCESTON. HOBART.
You are cordially invited to visit our showrooms at the above addresses.
THE SERVICE MAN
General Slim on Burma.
“Ek Dum”: During its progress the
Burma campaign was severely neglected
by the Australian press. When Burma
fighting was reported it was from an
angle which suggested that the British
were for ever getting themselves into
serious difficulties from which they were
extricated by luck.
General Slim, the Allied 14th Army
commander in the area, has now given a
very fair picture of the whole of the
operations of the Army, of which he took
command in the autumn of 1943. This
has been produced in Various addresses
at the Royal Empire Society in London
and elsewhere.
The war was fought in a belt of hills
which ran up to 9000 feet and more, in
the world’s worst country, with the
world’s worst climate. In it there were
no roads and railways in the ordinary
sense, and its tracks, during the five
months of the monsoon, were almost im-
passable even for pack animals. It was
through this country that the Japs were
compelled to advance, and the JBritish-
Indians, West and East Africans and
smaller forces of Americans and Chinese
were compelled to drive them back.
Opposing Strengths
The forces opposed to each other were
fairly equal. The Japanese had, at the
crucial period, 10| divisions, plus 100,000
men in their lines-of-communication.
This means that, at strength, there were
“Sure you've allowed for contraction and expansion?"
close to 300,000 of them in the front line
or immediate rear ; probably 500,000 in-
cluding their relay depots. And with the
constant change caused through rot and
disease and exhaustion, at least a million
of their men must have passed through
the mill of Burma during the whole
period of the war. Their loss was 250,000
men to August, 1945, before the sur-
render.
General Slim says that the Japanese
Army was second-class in much of its
equipment, the capacity of its leaders and
in its staff work, and fifth-class in ad-
ministration. In fact (he declares),
it would have been a completely second-
class army, below the Italians in
standard, save for one element —the
Japanese soldier.
All armies talk about fighting to the last
round and the last man—the Japanese do
it. And they are the only army I have
ever met that does. The Japanese soldier,
whatever his arm or rank, marches and
fights till he dies. Now, if you meet an
army of several hundreds of thousands of
men of that type, armed with modern
weapons, you are up against a most for-
midable adversary.
Of the Japanese forces in Burma at the
crucial time two divisions and a bit were
occupied by Chiang Kai-shek’s Yunnan
forces and by General Stilwell’s U.S.-
trained Chinese forces in the north.
In the early stages of the main war
two others were on the Arakan front and
on the coast of the Bay of Bengal. This
left six divisions and a bit for the main
front —the Imphal-Chindwin area, where
they were opposed by the British-Indians,
who never managed to push their strength
up to seven divisions.
The war was, however, in point of
material a much greater war, period for
period, than the North African war, up
to Tunisia at least.
When men and materials were avail-
able the difficulties of the country and
the wear and tear were such that six
divisions were about the possible maxi-
mum for which communications could
be provided. It was an infantryman’s
war, despite the great service of other
arms, and success depended on mainten-
ance.
The Air Era
By the time the 14th Army was formed
in October, 1943, the old Japanese
superiority in thfe air had been wiped out,
transport by air had begun to be de-
veloped, and the campaign began to
teach its first great lessons,
The tasks given General Slim were:
(1) To open the gates of China,
< 2 ) To defend India against invasion,
(3) To effect a limited advance in the
Arakan up to the Maungdaw-Buthidaung
area.
Compared with other fronts, the army
was then short of support weapons—
artillery, rockets and tanks, flame-
throwers. But these deficiencies were
ma de up for by interweaving air sup-
port with ground fighting, to make the
most of supplies and armament and have
them where they were needed at the right
moments. Aircraft provided artillery.
j n this respect, much of the technique
0 f other fronts was built up in Burma,
Before such things were thought of on
other f ronts > fighters were firing their
cannon 100 yards ahead of advancing
troops and bombers dropping bombs 200
yards ahead of them,
In Europe air forces had been con-
structed in relation to a power to use
great forces at short distances against
great targets. In Burma there were
neither great and heavy bombing forces
nor great targets. Operation was against
a dispersed enemy. The main attack was,
therefore, directed at his communications
and supplies. Communication must have
a main line. And in the country in which
the Burma war was fought infiltration was
the watchword of the enemy and air-
power a powerful counter-weapon for
isolating forward forces and condemning
them to starvation.
Gradually air transport was developed
to a stage which had never been seen in
war before and which opened vistas
which would have seemed incredible to
the public in 1941.
At the battle of Imphal six complete
divisions were moved several hundred
miles by air. About 30,000 men and
6000 animals were landed in the heart
of enemy territory. Eight full divisions
were maintained in full battle for several
months, completely equipped by air. Are
you reading, Mr. Ward?
When the advance into Burma was
made four Indian divisions (one-third
British, with British command) were fed
with 2000 tons of supplies a day delivered
over distances from 250 to 300 miles per
day on a regular schedule.
The development of air transport and
support also made posSble the box
method of fighting which so terrified
anti-Blimp’ non-starters in the days of
Arakan. But Air Vice-Marshal Vincent’s
No. 221 Group kept communications far
more open than if the detached units had
been in an integrated line, dependent for
runners or telephone under fire for con-
tact, and for supplies on ground trans-
port.
The Maungdaw Box
It was this operation in the Maungdaw
area which began the moves by which
Burma was cleaned up. The Japanese


VO,
V N >
Ci
sn
225 K
73
V
U*n>
n/'
C 3
v
r r r
UA
WHAT EVERY MECHANIC
SHOULD KNOW
Now, young mechanics, please beware,
And exercise the greatest care
t
To use the very best of light
And so avoid an oversight;
For just imagine how it feels
To find you’ve left out half the wheels—
A contretemps which can arise
When “OSRAM” lamps the light supplies.
O
for an
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Guaranteed by:
Ca
(Sole A ustralien Representatives of The C. of England.)
. NEWCASTLE . MELBOURNE . PERTH
HOBART . LAUNCESTON . ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
bright horizons , happy days
Serving the Allied Cause throughout the War, the
K.P.M. and other principal Netherlands Shipping Lines
lost 164 vessels as a result of enemy action. This was
almost half of their combined fleets.
Happily, that is all in the past. The day should not
be far distant when “Great White
Yachts” of the K.P.M. Line will be
thronged again with happy travellers
bound for the glamorous islands of
the Netherlands Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated in
the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION GO. LTD , SYDNEY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
played the first stroke with a fierce and
fanatical thrust which swirled round the
established British force by infiltration,
and appeared in its rear. The British
units, under orders based on a pre-
arranged plan, stood firm.
General Slim says that the plan was so
minutely that all he had to do
to meet the crisis was to order his re-
serves to move and to say to his principal
administrative officer “From tomorrow
the Seventh Division goes on air supply.”
When some time later he suggested to his
p.a.o. that a case of rum might be
dropped with each aircraft load as a bait
for searchers, the p.a.o. replied with an
air of injured innocence; “We are already
dropping two cases of rum from each
aircraft.”
Presently the Japs discovered that, with
British reserves infiltrated to their rear
by aircraft, it was they who were in the
trap. They were in a nutcracker between
the division which they had “surrounded”
and the reserves which had been dropped
in strength behind them. Cracked they
were, and XV Corps went on to take
Buthidaung from them.
This, incidentally, was the first time
that a British force inflicted a major
defeat on a Japanese formation.
The Battle for Imphal
The Japanese counter-offensive had
been intended to break into Eastern
Bengal and to draw jthe main British
reserve strength from the Imphal area,
where the enemy planned his main in-
vasion.
British Intelligence was well posted.
There were three possible British plans
to meet the attack —to advance across the
Chindwin and attack the enemy at
assembly points ; to stop at the Chindwin
across the hills and meet the foe on the
west of the river; or to pull right back
into Imphal and let the enemy come
across the terrible hills and the river.
General Slim says:
A number of enthusiasts pressed me hard
to “fling” a couple of divisions across the
Chindwin. If you hear people talking of
“flinging” divisions about, be careful. They
are not very experienced commanders.
He decided to pull right back to Imphal,
leaving the Japanese to flounder through
the hill country before he fought them.
It was the strategic policy of all Britain’s
successful wars—retire and choose your
own battleground.
The general says all went according to
plan save for two mistakes —he delayed a
day or two too long in bringing out the
most southerly division, and he calculated
that the Japanese could not bring more
then a brigade against the hill position of
Kohima itself, whereas they brought a
full division.
The British division on the south fought
its way out and gave the enemy a bad
hammering in the process. And of
Kohima the general says:
I was saved from the consequences of
my mistake by the heroic valor and ten-
acity of my troops, and then by my Com-
mander-in-Chief [of the 11th Army Group],
General Giffard, who rapidly brought by
rail and air into the Kohima area XXXIII
Corps H.Qs. and a division from India.
Three divisions of IV Corps in Kohima
area went on air supply.
Another division from Army reserve
was flown in and another from Arakan.
Both these were thrown into the Kohima
fight. Two crack Jap divisions were
caught in a nutcracker Between Kohima
and Imphal and crushed, and the victori-
ous force swung southwards to Imphal,
where the Japs made a last stand. Their
33rd Division commander said “We will
take Imphal, we shall be annihilated, but
Ave will win victory.” They were anni-
hilated.
Meanwhile, 20,000 men had been flown
into enemy territory almost on the other
side of Burma in the shape of the Win-
gate “Chindits.” They cut the main Jap
communications from the south, making
it possible for General Stilwell, coming
down from the north, to take Myitkina.
The reitmant force of Japs, retreating
from the Imphal area, had no respite.
They had believed that large-scale move-
ment in the monsoon was impossible, but
they had an African and an Indian divi-
sion hanging on to their tail all the way.
And in front of them the Chindwin
bridgeheads were already smashed.
On the Road to Mandalay
The 14th Army Command now set out
to organise for a decisive advance into
and battle in the dry Mandalay area of
Central Burma.
The plan was to bring XXXIII Corps
(three divs.) straight across the Chindwin
to Mandalay, so as to draw the bulk of
the Japanese army to this area. While
this was going on IV Corps (three divi-
sions) was to infiltrate secretly through
the hills and forests ahd seize an Irra-
waddy crossing in the Pagan region. This
involved a silent trek of 320 miles by
land andl air. From the bridgehead a
thrust would be made at Meiktila, 80
miles south of Mandalay. Meiktila was
the bottleneck of all Jap Burmese com-
munications northwards. “Its seizure
would be like grasping a wrist when the
Japanese were fighting at the fingertips.
It would paralyse them.”
The plan succeeded. The Japs fighting
the Chinese were pulled into the Manda-
lay area, and two Jap divisions were with-
drawn from Arakan. Virtually all the
Japs in Burma soon were streaking for
Mandalay.
The XXXIII Corps had bloody fighting.
The IV Corps grabbed the Irrawaddy
bridgehead and took Meiktila in thrilling
hand-to-hand scraps. The Japanese, hav-
ing suffered tremendous losses, withdrew
their badly-mauled forces. In Arakan
their weakened army had lost Akyab and
Ramree islands, which gave the British
airfields capable of providing fighting
cover for their advance on Rangoon.
Rangoon Falls
However, the advance southward by
IV Corps (now two mechanised and two
airborne divisions) was a race against
the monsoon, due in five or six weeks.
It called for an average advance down
the Mandalay-Rangoon railway route of
12 miles a day. The advance developed
into a race between Jap and British, with
the IV Corps men very often bowling
along with the enemy moving in the
same direction on each side. Tokyo
Radio boomed: “Our forces are rapidly
pursuing the enemy in the direction pf
Rangoon.” The Jap garrison was with-
drawn from Rangoon to fight on the
Pegu.
The IV Corps was out of luck. The
monsoon beat it, and only infantry with-
out vehicles managed to get within 30
miles of the city before the news came in
that on May 3, 1945, an Indian division
from XV Corps had been landed by sea
south of Rangoon and had taken the city
without opposition.
Cadet History.
From L. C. Robson, headmaster of
Sydney Church of England Grammar
School: —
Under the heading “Cadet History” (B.
22/5/’46) you state that the “Shore” Cadet
Corps was formed in 1929.
In point of fact, the “Shore” Cadet Corps has
been a matter of some pride to the school for
nearly 40 years. At no time, even when en-
thusiasm waned elsewhere, has it been anything
but strong. Indeed, we have flattered our-
selves that it has been the strongest and the
most consistently efficient of the School Cadet
Corps over the past 35 or so years.
The corps was formed in 1908. In his report
of October, 1908, the then headmaster said:
“The military authorities had removed all the
obstacles which made us hesitate in the past,
and 1 issued a circular to ascertain the views
of the parents, and met with a hearty response.
In May, 100 cadets were enrolled, and our
First Company was gazetted as G. Co. of the
Third Battalion of Senior Cadets. Since that
time many more have joined, and we hope next
term to have two full companies. Captain
Pulling and Mr. Harris and Mr. Wiltshire
have devoted much time and trouble to organ-
ising the corps, and thanks to their efforts and
to the enthusiasm of the boys themselves we
were able to put in an appearance at the re-
view held during the visit of the American
Fleet, in company with the rest of the battalion
formed entirely of the Great Public Schools,
and gained some compliments for our marching
and turnout. There can be no doubt that if
the cadet work is continued in the Great Public
Schools with the same thoroughness and en-
thusiasm with wh?ch it has been begun, it will
prove a lasting benefit not only to the boys
who have been members of senior cadets but
to the Commonwealth.”
Captain J. Lee Pulling, soon to become
major, was well known in the cadet movement
for many years. The eldest of his three sons,
Lt. C. W. Lee Pulling, was killed on Gallipoli.
The second, Hugh, served with great distinction
in World War I, reaching the rank of major
at an early age. The third, Guy, also served
then with distinction. He later went to the
Indian Army, in which he reached the rank
of colonel. He was Area Commandant at
Tehran at the time of the Big Three conference.
“Mr. Harris” became Major J. R. O.
Harris in France during World War I; he
recently resigned from the headmastership of
Hutchins School, Hobart.
It would be easy to give many names of
Old Boys who started their military training
in the “Shore” Cadet Corps and subsequently
attained considerable distinction even in 1914-
18. Captain B. C. A. Pockley, the first member
of an Australian force to be killed (at Rabaul
in 1914), was a cadet officer of the corps;
Lieut.-Colonel R. J. A. Massie was another.
Brigadier J. W. Crawford was, I think, an
officer of the corps in 1919. Brigadier Claude
Cameron, a distinguished officer in both wars,
and now of the Port Jackson S.S. Company,
also occurs to me.
For many years past the strength of the
School Corps has been well over the 300 mark.
Incidentally, about a thousand Old Boys, of
whom 130 lost their lives, served in the first
war; the corresponding numbers in the second
war (not yet complete) are approximately
2000 and 211.
[The Bulletin is sorry for the slip.
The latest official list gives the date of
“Shore” Cadet Corps’ foundation as 1906.]
At Finschhafen (N.G.) lie 9800 U.S.
servicemen who fell in the island cam-
paigns. In conjunction with the American
Legion, a party from the R.S.L., headed
by national president Millhouse, took]
part in memorial ceremonies last week,
placing laurel wreaths in the cemetery
(one was from General Blarney) and drop-
ping scarlet poppies on the white crosses
from the American bomber in which they
travelled, Australia is fortunate in having
an R.S.L. which knows what to do on
these moving occasions.


"HEN IT'sgj
IMIls
imim
6.45
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
Exide serves the publit in a hundred
ways, from telephonic communication to
the production of coal. In your choice
of a car battery be guided by un-
dertakings that depend upon Exide.
a
o o 2
i 5
-■ V\
a
PERSONAL ITEMS
Early publication of awards for Eighth
Divvy men and others who fought in
Malaya and Java are probably fore-
shadowed by a cabled announcement that
Brigadier Arthur Seaforth Blackburn,
V.C., has been awarded the C.B.E. for
gallant and distinguished services in Java.
Blackburn was in command of the for-
lorn-hope contingent left to face the Japs
in Java, where, as Rohan Rivett testifies
in Behind Bamboo, 10 enemy divisions
were landed in the first week of March,
1942. The citation to Blackburn’s award
states that “due to his excellent leader-
ship and personal example, the little
force fought splendidly and discipline and
morale remained high throughout.”
Devon Minchin has crowded excite-
ment into his young life. At 20 he
worked his passage to England and joined
a chemical firm as salesman, was sent to
Ireland and then to America, where he
was star salesman of the firm. Returned
to Australia, joined the R.A.A.F, and
trained in Rhodesia, from where he went
to Middle East as pilot in the “Desert
Harassers,” flying 123 sorties and getting
a mention in dispatches. Grounded by
malaria, he managed the squadron pub on
the slopes of Mt. Etna. Minchin’s version
of the song “Lili Marlene” was sung not
only by his own squadron but by flying
blokes right throughout the Middle East.
He was in charge of the unit history and
wrote it in very breezy language in one
German and two Italian ledgers which he
picked up. Back in Australia at a school
of Army Co-op., he tried the same style
on one history sheet, but the Brass Hats
sent it back to the unit with a request for
more dignified language. After the sur-
render Minchin went to Borneo with
Civil Affairs, secured some timber and
milling concessions and decided to settle
there. Soon after his discharge from
R.A.A.F., he and party of eight set off
in a launch, which struck bad weather
and foundered in Broken Bay, forcing the
party to swim ashore. Devon has flown
back to Borneo to keep the scheme mov-
ing whilst the rest get a new boat and
follow.
John Beverley Peden did not long sur-
vive his retirement from the Presidency
of N.S.W. Legislative Council; he died in
Sydney last week, consequence of injuries
sustained in a fall a few weeks previously.
As Challis Professor and Dean of the
Faculty of Law at Sydney Uni. from 1910
to 1941, his influence on legal practice
in his State has been profound—the great
majority of men at present in practice
having come under his tutelage ; as Presi-
dent of the Council, if his example has
not always been followed, it has, at least,
been admired by all who respect integrity
and high standards in public life. J. B.
Peden was a brilliant scholar and a man
of wide culture. In 1930 he was made
a K.C.M.G.
Arrived by Lancastrian from Britain
to take over R.A.F. administration, Air-
Commodore Thomas Prickman has
wandered far since he was born in
Iquique, the Chilean nitrate port, in 1902.
He was sent to England to school at
Tiverton, in Devon, and in 1923 was
commissioned in the R.A.F., and served
at various stations in Britain before going
abroad for service in Irak, Palestine and
Egypt. Back in Britain in command of
32 Hurricane Squadron by the time war
broke out, he was in charge of the fighter
station at Kenley during the Battle for
Britain. By war’s end he was command-
ing No. 13 Group, Fighter Command,
and had collected a C.B.E.
The big job of training the Chinese to-
use the many millions-worth of machin-
ery which U.N.R.R.A. has passed into
China to help it to become up to date in
industry has fallen to Australian Hubert
R. Heath, who has been appointed chief
administrative engineer in the training
school at Chi Nan University, Shanghai;
his work is to train men to train others.
Like many other Australian engineers,
Heath has had jobs in many parts of the
world; he was seven years on big con-
struction work in Africa, five years in
India, and was in Venezuela installing
machinery for a French firm when the war
came. That brought him back to Australia
to enlist in the R.A.A.F. Airfield Con-
struction Squadron attached to the Ninth
Division, whose quick and solid work
stirred the admiration of even the Yanks.
He was at the landing in Tarakan.
Out of the service only six days,
Brigadier M. J. Moten, C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
E.D., was recalled to take charge of the
Australian Army Contingent to the
Victory Parade in London, and when
Mcßeath slipped out to Watsonia a few
weeks ago to “get him,” he was up
to his eyes finalising the departure. En-
listing on his 18th birthday, he just missed
War I, but, taking up soldiering as a
hobby, was lieutenant-colonel command-
ing the 43rd /48th Battalion at the second
outbreak. He served throughout the
Western Desert and Syrian campaigns and
in 1941 took over Savige’s Phantom 17th
Brigade. He was en route for Java when
that island fell to the invader. C.O. of a
Ceylon province for five months, he was
back in Australia in 1942, and seven days
later got his first glimpse of the Japs in
the brisk business at Milne Bay. A few
months later his brigade, moved by air,
landed on the Wau aerodrome when the
Japs were already on its outskirts! The
LEADS THE MARCH.
10 days’ desperate scrap was one of the
turning points of the Pacific War. The
jungle operations that followed concluded
with the breaking of the Jap defences at
Salamaua, described in official records as
a brilliantly executed and faultless cam-
paign. Then came the Aitape-Wewak
campaign, which took the brigade into
the almost unknown Torricelli Moun-
tains and the headhunting districts of the
Sepik River. Finally at Yamil, Brigadier
Moten arranged for the surrender of
General Adachi and the Japanese 18th
Army.
Tasmania’s Chief Justice, John Deme-
trius Morris, is the youngest C.J. in
Australia —he achieved the honor be-
fore he was 37. Born at Auburn (Vic.), he
collected his M.A. and LL.B. at Mel-
bourne Uni., was admitted to the Vic-
torian Bar in 1927, and the Tasmanian
in 1930. For a time he was a partner in
the firm of Ogilvie (then Premier) and
McKenna (now a Senator). Setting up
his own shingle, he became Acting-C.J.
in 1939, and succeeded knight Harold
Crisp a year later. The C.J.’s pet interest
is the advancement of libraries ; he took
over from Prof. E. Morris Miller as chair-
man of the Tasmanian Library Board in
1943. He’s now 44.
Booth Tarkington, dead in Indiana, the
Hoosier State that provided the setting
for many of his novels, had been in the
front rank of American novelists for half
a century. His first book. The Gentleman
from Indiana, appeared in 1899, and was
immediately successful. It was followed
a year later by Monsieur Beaucaire, still
a good seller, and when these two works
were dramatised he had within five years
established himself both as novelist and
playwright. He twice won a Pulitzer
prize—with his novels Alice Adams and
The Magnificent Amber sons —and several
of his plays were also screen successes.
In addition to a large output of novels
dealing mainly with city and small-town
life, Tarkington wrote two books, Penrod
and Seventeen, which rank second only
to Mark Twain as humorous studies of
boyhood and adolescence. He was 76
at the finish.
Lieut.-General Sir Edward Puttick, in
charge of Maoriland’s team for the Vic-
tory Parade in London, is a native of
Timaru, but was educated and spent his
boyhood in Oamaru. He served in the
First World War and again in the second,
being second in command to General
Freyberg. Returning to M.L. after
Greece and Crete, he was appointed
Chief of General Staff in M.L., and re-
tired from that position last December.
Rev. A. C. Stevenson, new Rector of
St.'Mary’s, Brisbane, plans to become a
Rugby Union umpire. An A.I.F. chap-
lain, he sailed for Malaya with the 2/10
Field Regiment in January, 1941, and
was invalided home three months before
the Japs struck. After more than three
years as chaplain of Greenslopes Military
Hospital he went to Singapore again in
July last with the Second P.-0.-W. Re-
ception Group and met many of his
former mates of the 2/10. An old Rugby
Union fullback, he played for the N.S.W.
Country team from 1922 to 1925, and
in 1924 and 1925 was captain of
Northern N.S.W. He trained the A.I.F.
team which beat Queensland in 1940.
Scorfield here depicts the unruffled
countenance of Herbert Taylor, who has
gone north to preside at the meeting of
the Associated Chambers of Commerce
of Australia. Taylor looks about as little
like the popular conception of a presi-
dent of the Associated Chambers of Com-
merce as an A.I.F. lieutenant is like a
Chinese war lord. Slim, equable, alert,
interested in life in general, he carries his
cares and his 61 years lightly. It would
be easy to pick him as a past captain of
Portsea Golf Club, but not so easy to
recognise in him at a glance a leading
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Ac-
countants and the author of standard
essays on the audit of sharebrokers’
accounts and the organisation of char-
tered accountants’ offices. A partner in the
Melbourne accountancy firm of Young
and Outhwaite since 1917, he is a direc-
tor of the Argus and Australasian, Ltd.,
graduated to his present office with the
Associated Chamber of Commerce via
the presidency of the Melbourne
Chamber, and finds time in a busy com-
mercial life for such varied interests as
ATTENDS A CONFERENCE.
the Australian-American co-operation
movement, the Australasian-Netherlands
Society and the V.A.T.C.
Coolangatta (Q.) claims an Aus-
tralian record for its just-retired Mayor,
S. W. Winders, and his wife. For the
last three years of his 13-year period of
office they were both members of the
same council, the Mayoress being an
“alderman” in her own right.
A. J. Fraser, who was given jjis walk-
ing ticket as chairman of the Victorian
Transport Regulation Board by the Cains,
ENTERS THE SENATE.
and then mortified his late employers by
walking into the vacancy in the Senate as
C.P.-Liberal nominee, was born in Mel-
bourne 50 years ago, but knows Vic-
toria’s provinces better than most city-
dwellers. He has lived at Kyneton, whose
State school and college taught him his
pothooks, at Leongatha, Foster, Korum-
burra, Terang and Mortlake, and has
spent most of his life interesting himself
in dairying from the manufacturing and
marketing side of Strawberry’s produce.
He was first Federal Secretary of the
Commonwealth Institute of Dairy Fac-
tory Managers, travelled all States repre-
senting the Australian Producers’ Whole-
sale Co-operative Federation seeking sup-
port for the Empire daily scheme in Lon-
don, in 1937 was appointed .chairman of
the board he was lately retired from, in
1940 took the honorary position of chair-
man of the Liquid Fuel Board, and in
1941 was appointed Director of Road
Transport. He is a trustee of the Sol
Green Trust, which builds houses for
eventual owners on a no-interest or
-profit basis, and his hobbies are golf
and reading.
First award of the Grosvenor Labora-
tories Prize, which is to be given annually
for work in applied chemical science in
Australia, has been made to W. E. Cohen
and A. Meller for their work in connec-
tion with the development of the Aus-
tralian paper industry. Dr. Cohen is the
principal research officer in forest pro-
ducts, C.5.1.R., and Dr. Meller is a re-
search chemist of Australian Paper Manu-
facturers.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne at 77, James Alexander
Mackenzie Elder, K.8.E., director of the
National Bank, of. Goldsborough Mort and
other firms, and a leader in the expanding of
many industries in Australia. Born at Elgin,
Scotland,' and intended for the law, he came
to Melbourne as a young man and helped
with John Cooke to pioneer frozen meat export.
Subsequently he did national service in fur-
thering Australian trade interests as a member
of the Commonwealth Board of Trade during
the last war in England, and as a Commis-
sioner for Australia in U.S.
In Sydney, at 68, Roy Doyle, one of the
pioneers of surf lifesaving in N.S.W. He
started a rescue service at Tamarama beach
in 1902, migrated to Freshwater two years
later and then became associated with the Surf
Lifesaving Association formed in 1907. A
Digger of World War I, he acted as president
of the lifesavers while Adrian Gurlewis was
a p.-0.-w. in Malaya.
At 64, in Melbourne, Sydney Leonard Hall,
doyen of Melbourne’s booksellers. His
quarter of a million volumes at his stores m
Bourke-street and in Chapel-street, Prahran,
was the biggest collection of its kind in Aus-
tralia. Chief buyer for Cole’s Book Arcade
for many years, he was a kindly guide to
generations of students in search of textbooks.
At Melbourne, Ernest Graham Ashton, one
of the State’s leading police superintendents.
Specialising in forgery cases he laid a gang
of postage-stamp forgers by the heels in the
’twenties.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Victory Celebration spirit is like
the ’flu. On June 10, Melbourne folk
will think they caught it suddenly, but
they really are working up to it now.
The ball will begin rolling with a proces-
sion in which decorated floats, the latest
in motor-cars and 33 majorettes will make
an appearance. The majorettes are
something new, and out of a very wide
choice these redheads, blondes and
brunettes have been chosen to lead vari-
ous portions of the procession. Even
the ’Varsity students have been asked to
join in the fun and will be permitted—
within reason —to let off some of their
youthful exuberance and give their imagi-
nation a little exercise. Dancers are due
to whirl their way through city streets
—Melbourne’s weather, of course, per-
mitting—and for this purpose a large area
has been allotted into which no traffic
will be permitted to enter. The Govern-
ment has issued invitations to a reception
in the Town Hall and here the more
sober-minded citizenry will celebrate.
Lord Mayor Connelly and the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze, did the
honors in the grand manner at the
luncheon at the Town Hall given in honor
of the queens, who, in the carnival
arranged for the Food for Britain Appeal,
raised the splendid sum of £21,116. Miss
L. Martin, the victorious queen, with her
committee, sent in over £ll,OOO. She
was presented with a wrist watch of
platinum and diamonds, a trip round Aus-
tralia by A.N.A. or, if she prefers it, a
cheque for the amount of the fare, and
a wardrobe of clothes, donated by various
city firms. Zita West, with a committee
of two, raised £6OOO. With four other
queens she was presented with a gold
wrist watch. The fund now stands at
over £200,000, but the Lord Mayor is
driving his willing helpers hard to get to
the £300,000 goal. Helen Macdonald and
Reta Findlay were guests at the luncheon
—both had worked like Trojans for the
success of the carnival, as had the hon.
organiser, A. G. Connell, who, with his
wife, attended the luncheon. John Geirge
spoke briefly of his recent trip to the still
weary and hungry city of London, and
urged even greater efforts to bring com-
fort to our kinsmen overseas.
St. Kilda Town Hall was gay with red,
white and blue in flags, flowers and
wooden plaques which bore the name of
a French colony, for the French-Australia
Ball, held in aid of the Children of
France Fund. Main attraction was the
can-can, danced by girls in pink satin and
black net frocks, the usual long black
stockings and ballet shoes and with large
feather plumes in their bonnets. Presi-
dent of the French-Australian Associa-
tion, Professor Maurice Belz, came with
Mrs. Belz, whose evening gown was of
black lace. General and Mrs. J. C. Hay-
don, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R. H. Portal,
M. and Mme. Modesti and Dr. and Mrs.
Maurice Barrett were among those who
danced and chatted. Noticed was the tur-
quoise wool jersey gold-banded frock
worn by Mrs. Redvers Bate, who told
of a letter she has received from Jeanne
Gautier, the violinist, who is touring S.
America. Barbara Selleck, who was
squired by Kevin Coleman, chose a dusty-
pink crepe which featured the new draped
shoulder-line. Ticket secretary Mary
Fowler sparkled in a sequined frock of
ice-blue net. M. and Mme. Pohl were
an energetic pair, busily disposing of
tickets for a variety of prizes.
The recent era of restricted lighting
gave fresh impetus to creative art in win-
dow dressing. Large crowds were at-
tracted to a city florist window to admire
the tall crystal candlesticks holding green
candles set in a mound of violets and
with sprays of pink camellias near by.
Lieutenant-Governor Edmund Her-
ring, his wife and their two daugh-
ters were at the third concert in the
A.B.C. celebrity series. Mrs. Colin Mc-
Kay sponsored the new full-length fur-
trimmed street coat, hers in midnight-
blue. With it she wore a matching frock,
high-lighted by diamond clips. Another
admired innovation was the belted, full-
skirted black cloth coat with lapels of
Persian lamb, worn by Mrs. Raymond
Lambert, with an upturned hat featuring
a black felt crown and faced with
pink taffeta ribbon. Heavy brocade even-
ing coats are staging a comeback.
Once the Silver Door, so named by
the energetic women who founded it, was
a Waste Products Depot, which helped
to augment the funds of the Kindergarten
Union of Victoria. For the time being
they have suspended this branch of their
jvork to sponsor the “Parcels for Britain”
service. But the Kindergarten Union
does not suffer, for over the past few
months £l6OO has gone into its coffers ;
the money came from profits from the
parcels service. These parcels are packed
under the supervision of the convenor,
Mrs. John Flintoft, by 200 voluntary
helpers, not only on orders by soldiers,
but .by business firms for their staffs in
England. The C.W.A. gift parcel scheme
also is carried out entirely by the
Silver Door committee and helpers, and
when the Queen Victoria Hospital decided
to send parcels to the Elizabeth Garrett
Hospital for Women, its counterpart in
England, dispatch was entrusted to the
Silver Door. A few men also give up their
evenings to help pack the parcels, and
already 38,000 have gone out from this
very busy depot.
Pictured here by the London studio of
Swarbrick is Nellie Barnes, favorite of
theatre-lovers all over Australia, who is
back after achieving instantaneous success
in England—her first appearance was in
“No, No, Nanette.” There followed a
hit in “The Fleets Lit Up,” in which she
played opposite the famous Stanley
Lupino at the Hippodrome. After doing
a run of nantomimes Nellie landed the
feminine lead in “Me and My Girl” at
the Victoria Palace with Lupino Lane, and
this she played for four and a half years.
Joining up with E.N.S.A., she entertained
troops all over England and in France,
Italy, Austria and India. A long holiday
is envisaged by Nellie before she goes
back to the stage.
The first meet of the hunting season
was held by the Oaklands Hunt Club.
Keith Campbell, as Deputy Master,
sported a pink coat, but most men turned
out in ordinary riding clothes. It was
left to the women to supply sartorial
dignity, Shirley Watts, out with her
father, and Mrs. Harry Minogue were in
smart habits, Mrs. P. J, Kearens was on
Tally Ho and Jean Pape on Dixon. Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell, mother of the Deputy
Master and former Lady Mayoress of
Melbourne, looked on with daughter
Margaret and Mrs. Keith Campbell. Mrs.
Colin Clarke was with Mr. and Mrs.
Murray Cox. J. Daniel,’ a member of the
club since its inception 58 years ago and
its secretary for many years, was another
keenly-interested onlooker.
For her wedding at St. John’s, Toorak,
to Geoffrey James Beck, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Beck, of Hobart, Fay
Louise Heymanson, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Heymanson, of Toorak,
wore a lovely frock of Chantilly lace
over cream satin cut on old-world lines
and a tulle veil surmounted with a
diamente coronet. The bride, who carried
a bouquet of gardenias, was attended by
Patricia Fay and June Beck, who wore
matching frocks of aqua-blue crepe
fashioned on slim lines. Best man was
Dr. Frank Heymanson, with Russell
Lane groomsman.
Two dolphins with sea-green bodies
and purple manes guarded the Town Hall
entrance, and a Fairy Queen, frocked in
pale pink net and wearing a crown of
gold, waved a silver starred wand over
guests arriving for the Fairy Tale Ball.
On one side of the orchestra an elephant
was surrounded by three Zulus, their
white feather headdresses, scarlet belts
and shoulder-pieces matching those of
the three Zulus at the other side of the
stage, where a giraffe raised its head. At
the back of the stage a rotund Humpty
Dumpty sat on a pink-and-blue wall
among ferns, midget cypress-trees and
bamboos. Suspended from the balconies
were figures of nursery rhyme fame —
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,
Pinocchio, Three Little Pigs and many
others. The official table was a centre of
attraction, for a model of the golden
Cinderella coach, drawn by six horses and
attended by six footmen and Prince
Charming, was set in the centre.
From Sydney
Kyeemagh, windblown and sunbathed,
was the ideal setting for the polo season,
the first in seven years. The Town and
Country Club’s tournament drew the old
familiars back as audience or players. The
field was ringed with cars, and followers
of the sport either sat within them in
comfort or stood out in the breeze, keep-
ing up running commentary on the game.
There were lots of newchums, both two-
legged and four ; and, according to hard-
working secretary J. D. Macleod, they
put up a good showing. Corinthians, Pil-
grims, Mudgee men, Springfields, Rom-
neys and all of them deserved the en-
couragement they received from their sup-
porters.
Curtis Skene, the Ashtons, the Lonera-
gans, Maple Browns, Mackays, Merri-
mans, Brays and Macleods were among
the picnic lunch-eaters. Oranges eaten
between chukkas, if they cost anything
like the charge in the city fruit-shops,
would be just another item to prove that
polo is really not a poor man’s game. It is
certainly a pictorial one, and in the Kyee-
magh setting, fringed with tall trees, the
shadows of the cars lengthening on the
grass in the afternoon light, ponies and
men made a spirited and dashing picture.
Among the spectator sports were, many
old Hopewood House pupils and the
pre-war well-known school principal, Miss
Nancy Jobson, with Willa Wilson. Mar-
garet Burns, Nuttie Mackellar and Mrs.
E. Crossing, Mrs. Reg Farrell, the Tom
Cahills, of Trangie, and Mrs. Sidney Field
were others. Shirley Pye and Mrs Ken
Mackay were active as line umpires.
Winchcombe, Carsons, at Pyrmont, was
a bustling scene of merinos, Border Lei-
cesters, Corriedales and what the Girl
in the Flat Opposite calls her Cornish
cousins, the Polwarths, from Friday of
last week. Sheep are really very amiable
or very bored ; even when a woman has
the bad taste to go to their levee in a
sheepskin coat she need never fear they
will become enraged and bunt her in the
back. Almost every onlooker and player
of polo were among the callers on the
sheep. And why not? City and country,
the sheep is Australia’s best friend.
Soprano Alice Prowse is due to give a
recital in the Conservatorium on June 11.
This will be Alice’s first public recital
since her return from U.S. and Canada.
While overseas she sang at concerts in
New York, Vancouver and Winnipeg.
She gave broadcasts over N.8.C., New
York, and C.8.C., Canada. On her com-
ing programme she has placed works by
Purcell, Bach, Robert Franz and Strauss
as well as contemporary British and
American composers. The singer’s hus-
band is Hamish Brash, whose composi-
tions are widely known among Australian
musicians.
At the reception to baritone Todd Dun-
can the food was good, the drinks varied
and the speeches (with the exception of
the guest’s own fine address, which was
concerned with truth in art and sincerity
in life) indifferent. Women really are
better speech-makers than men. Still,
Peter Dawson, reminiscing about great
baritones, and telling of one of them who
got rid of his superfluous energy by
wrecking his hotel bedroom furniture,
made quite a hit.
Oliver King was there, and the Roland
Fosters, Nathalie Rosenwax, Gladys
Verona, young Valda Bagnall, who was
one of the night’s singers, Neville
Smith, the Charters couple, Taits, Bow-
dens, Lashmars and almost every well-
known vocalist were in the ballroom of
the Australia. Todd was on the music
staff of the Howard University, Washing-
ton, D.C., when George Gershwin
plucked him to create the part of Porgy,
Since then he has toured the U.S. and
South America and has sung with the
New York Philharmonic Orchestra and
with the New York City Opera Company.
He has been Tonio in “Pagliacci” and the
Toreador in “Carmen.”
Cutler, V.C., and Helen Morris were
wed in St. Mark’s on a May afternoon
last week. The bride was formerly a
lieutenant in the A.W.A.S. She is a
daughter of the D. E. Morrises, of Belle-
vue Hill, and as became the bride of a
hero she was dressed in white. Her veil
was of Limerick lace. Marion Morris
and Doone Cutler were bridesmaids. The
Cutlers are going to be popular in Maori-
land, where he has been appointed as
High Commissioner for Australia.
Southward flying from Brisbane, a
company of celebrities was unloaded in
Sydney last week, among them the Oscar
Hammersteins. He is a world name when
musical plays and shows are mentioned,
and when in his pleasant unruffled voice
he recounts the names of some of his
successes starting from the first, “Always
You,” the listener wonders how he has
ever had time to acquire calm. Inci-
dentally, he writes the words of all his
own lyrics. (Why don’t working poets have
a uhion?) He must labor terrifically
hard and long. But then the theatre is
in his blood. Probably no baby has ever
arrived in a city which his grandfather
had so studded with opera houses. Oscar
Hammerstein I apparently never saw an
empty block of land around Manhattan
without thinking how nice it would be to
plant opera there. He had a link with
older Australia, too, because it was in one
of his houses, the Manhattan, that Nellie
Melba sang to American audiences.
Oscar Hammerstein II says he is planning
a work around his grandfather’s life.
That should be a New York epic.
Mrs. Hammerstein, a graceful and
pretty woman, gave Sydney women an
idea of what their sisters in New York
mean by high hats. On their one night
in Sydney they went to the Noel Coward
show at the Royal, and Mrs. Hammer-
stein’s hat was an affair of high swept
brim and drooping plumes. She was a
Melbourne girl, Dorothy Hinemoa Blan-
chard.
Soldier from the war returning is
Air Chief-Marshal Sir Keith Park.
He will be in home town Oamaru,
Maoriland, this week, having left
it for the First World War. He
and his wife came down from Singapore,
where both have been about their occa-
sions in the interests of the Empire.
Lady Park is a lieut.-colonel in the
British Red Cross, and she is also a
welfare officer of the R.A.F. She has
worked throughout this war, as she did
throughout the 1914-18 struggle. Then
she was attached to the Coulter Hospital
in Grosvenor-square.
Wedding in St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
for Betty Heaphy and Fraser Falkiner.
Betty, the only daughter of the G. A.
Heaphys, of Balgowlah, was radiant in
white crepes and a sweep of tiered tulle
veil. The bridegroom, who was a flight-
lieutenant in the R.A.A.F., was a
prisoner-of-war in Germany for four
years. Best man John Hoi borrow, ex-
R.A.A.F., was also a p.-0.-w. in Germany.
Fraser is the third son of the late R, S.
Falkiner and of Mrs. Falkiner, of Mel-
bourne. ’Groom’s sister, Mrs. Ron.
Payne, of Melbourne, and Barbara
Hamer were the bride’s attendants.
Wedding reception was at Rancliff.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, who arranged
an afternoon of music in the Chapter
House of St. Andrew’s recently in aid
of the Deaconess’s Fund, has also sent
out invitations for an exhibition of dolls
created by Lucille Bruntnell. The dolls
will be shown in the Pickwick Club on
June 6 from three o’clock onwards. Tea
and music will also be served.
Mrs. Julius, a Brisbane lady of 99, has
interesting links with the past. She was
for seven years at a boarding school in
Chelsea —next door to the home of the
Carlyles. Indeed, the pianoplaying of
the young ladies used to move the Sage
to violent expressions. There were four
acres in the schoolgrounds and the young
things learned (in addition to the piano)
archery. Mrs. Julius was the first woman
to belong to the Civil Service in Queens-
land and the old-timers raised disgusted
eyes to Heaven to see a woman in the
sacred building. But Sir Thomas Mc-
Ilwraith braved them all. Later Mrs.
Julius received that very new and excit-
ing machine the typewriter (the first in
Brisbane) and, becoming proficient, she
opened the first typewriting office in Bris-
bane —an office later carried on by her
daughters. Mrs. Julius, who is an aunt of
knight George Julius, gave up playing
bowls only a few years ago. For years
she has lived with her daughter, Mrs.
Ford, wife of former surveyor-general
F. B. C. Ford.


Who Will Look After
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 67 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb.,
F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hildet (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie Morshead.
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O,
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
rtSBi*®**
At an times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper*
ties which remove all trace -JjL
of roughness and soreness. V a i
One of the famous trio—-
Cuticura Soap, Oint-^^. 7 - •
ment, Talcum w » *
Powder,
sa
so
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE.
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department,
Written Added
Total Ex- Off. to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’39.12,182, MS 6,200,352 671,168 1 „ Rl9
Additional tax provision, £175,000 [ ’
’40.12,711,226 6,411,681 1,263,920 671,890 1 . =
Additional tax provision, £175,000 j ’ ’
’41.13,113,267 6,638,662 1,523,970 207,226 4,743,409
’42.13,299,107 7,428,662 1,493,428 85,010 7 , 9(U r . 07
Additional tax provision, £87,500 J ’ ’
’43.13,691,791 7,431,300 1,333,818 528,757 4,397,916
’44.14,410,742 7,009,339 1,487,834 574,532 5,339,037
’45.14,942,350 7,734,318 1,158,444 80,099 6,019,489
Income and land taxes ( £444,320) deducted from
1945 income and expense figures.
Industrial Department.
Written Added
Ex- Off, to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’39.. 3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 47,699 7 n n o n n«9
Provision for taxation, £25,000.. | ’ ’
’40.. 3,682,750 1,586,091 851,757 80,540 7 , on 9
Provision for taxation, £25,000 J x,ia»,ooA
’41., 3,866,840 1,632,056 907,385 38,508 1,288,891
’42.. 4,079,872 1,525,080 933,175 16,474 7 , - qs> fi4 o
Provision for taxation, £12,500 ) ’ ’
’43.. 4,294,091 1,562,482 939,028 16,214 1,776,367
’44.. 4,550,853 1,807,507 985,776 13,598 1,743,972
’45.. 4,777,940 2,053,209 939,405 7,226 1,778,100
Income and land taxes ( £67,451) deducted from 1945
income and expense figures.
The big mutual life offices, of which the
A.M.P. is Australia’s largest and oldest,
have played an important part in the
democratisation of wealth. They repre-
sent a system of collective security which
provides both a sheet anchor in the realm
of domestic finance and a stabilising
influence in the social and economic
structure. They have been the largest
individual contributors to war and other
Government loans, and the thrift of
policyholders through payment of pre-
miums has helped to ease the pressure of
accumulated spending power in a market
in which goods are in short supply.
Because the mainspring of savings is to
provide income, a strong and growing
demand for the protection that life assur-
ance thus affords can be expected to con-
tinue into the future. Certainly the
forcing down of interest rates over the
last decade has necessitated a general
lowering of bonus scales ; but this has
tended to place more emphasis on the
security aspect of life assurance. There
is no substitute for the protection afforded
to the individual by a contract with a
sound life office.
If the benefit payable at maturity
under a with-profits contract is to
exceed the amount paid by way of
premiums, the interest earned on the
premiums must cover the whole of the
death risk and all expenses associated
with the contract, as well as provide a
margin for bonuses. When interest earn-
ings were high the offices had the option
of declaring higher bonuses or of reducing
premiums. They chose the former, with
the result that, notwithstanding the pre-
sent interest position, no increase in
premium rates has become necessary.
To soften the blow from the fall in
interest rates and protect bonus-paying
capacity, the society accumulated large
reserves to support and assist its assur-
ance funds, and continued to value its
policy liabilities on a 3 p.c. net premium
basis. Since cheap money has been made
an important plank in the Government’s
programme, and since interest rates are
now very much at the mercy of official
policy, these reserves (£4,006,857 at end
of 1944) were added to assurance funds
last year, thus providing more than the
amount necessary to lower the basis of
valuation to 2j p.c. This was done in the
industrial section; similar action in con-
nection with ordinary contracts can be
expected later. The Australian type of
bonus scale requires a rapid release of
surplus as the duration of the policy in-
creases. A low rate of valuation meets
this need by locking up in the early years
sums which otherwise would be released
as surplus and by releasing them with in-
terest at a later stage.
Last term interest and rents turned in
£6,158,586 (up £86,671), equal to £3 18s.
9d. p.c. on mean funds, including the re-
serves already referred to. The net effec-
tive rate of interest (after deducting in-
come and land taxes, £511,771) was £3
13s. 6d p.c. When money from matur-
ing securities has to be reinvested these
days, the problem of obtaining approxi-
mately an equal return becomes practic-
ally insoluble. The aim behind the in-
vestment policy of life offices will be to
get as high a return as possible for as
long a period as circumstances permit,
consistent with security. As soon as
building activity gets into full swing more
attention is likely to be given to house-
purchase loans, which not only carry a
higher rate of interest than Government
securities, but are also very helpful in
writing new business.
Surpluses declared available for divi-
sion among policyholders—there are no
shareholders—compare as follows:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1938.. £3,094,348 £350,5X6 £3,444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
1940.. 2,053,491 409,718 2,463,209
1941.. 1,055,801 192,514 1,248,315
1942.. 1,791,984 210,796 2,002,780
1943.. 1,826,367 309,735 2,136,102
1944.. 2,493,222 334,049 2,827,271
1945.. 3,016,195 377,867 3,394,062
Last year an extra £522,973 was distri-
buted among ordinary and an extra
£43,818 among industrial policyholders.
Since 1939 no less than £5,350,000 has
been added to a specific actuarial reserve
for contingencies, making it £6,000,000,
in the ordinary department.
A record amount of new business was
put on the books last term —£38,701,622
(up £5,990,668), of which £31,420,277 (up
£5,194,549) was ordinary and £7,281,345
(up £796,119) industrial. The popularity
of group insurance as a means of provid-
ing staff pensions in commercial organi-
sations helped to swell the figures. And
the business, of which about 77 p.c, is
written in Australia, was handled at low
cost. Excluding taxes, exes, took only
6.91 p.c. of total income in the ordinary
department as against 6.68 p.c. in 1944.
On the same basis, figures in the industrial
section were 18.33 p.c. and 18.54 p.c. for
the corresponding years.
Claims on account of war deaths last
year amounted to £1,110,948, making the
total since war began £4,460,571. Still,
mortality experience was well within ex-
pectation. Although the after-effects of
war in relation to mortality may be felt
for some time yet, they are not likely to
be marked in Australia, where the civilian
population was not exposed to the same
hazards as in Britain.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £6,019,489 of the year’s takings
was added to the ordinary and £1,778,100
to the industrial funds. In the two de-
partments combined funds totalled
£160,293,470, which includes the
£4,006,857 of reserves already referred to.
In addition there was a tax reserve of
£BOO,OOO, which may never be required
for the purpose.
Since 1939 the society has invested the
whole of the increase in its funds, and
more besides, in war loans. The amount
added to public securities last term was
£10,022,952:
1944. p.c. 1945. p.c.
Public securi-
ties ..£112,099,439 71.6 £122,122,391 74.1
Mortgages . . 28,206,313 18.0 26,517,647 16.1
Loans on poli-
cies . . 12,470,995 8.0 11,813,899 7.2
Premises .. 1,852,651 .9 1,526,521 .9
Other assets. 2,437,877 1.5 2,790,367 1.7
Total assets £156,567,275 100.0 164,770,825 100.0
Liabilities*.. 3,070,340 8,457,529
Net assets £153,496,935 £161,313,296
* Other than under policies.
The year’s growth in net assets was
£7,816,361.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
.££ £ £
1935.. 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 .. 170,260
1936.. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 .. .. 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897 .. 185,749
1937.. 47,185 9 p.c. t= 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582 .. 201,191
1938.. 49,812 10 p.c. c= 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £18,960 .. 220,713
1939.. 53,577 10 p.c. r= 49,250 4,327 225,040
Added replacement reserve, £1547 .. 226,587
1940.. 49,443 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
Added replacement reserve, £9147 .. 235,927
1941.. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744 .. 250,235
1942.. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Added replacement reserve, £16,211 .. 275,355
1943.. 7,376 3} p.c. = 16,006 266,725
Added replacement reserve, £13,919 .. 280,644
1944.. 34,525 5 p.c. = 24,625 9.900 290,544
Added replacement reserve, £13,901 .. 304,445
1945.. 43,749 7 p.c. = 34,475 9,274 318,719
War-time shortage of labor, fertilisers
and mechanical equipment, together with
drought, followed by floods, combined
to bring about a heavy reduction in the
quantity and quality of cane produced
in Queensland since 1939:
Acres Tons Cane Tons Sugar
Harvested. Per Acre. Per Acre.
1936—39 t. . 251,736 21.52 3.16
1910 . . 265,738 19.50 2,86
1941 .. 246,937 19.41 2.82
1942 .. 238,213 18.26 2.54
1943 . . 228,895 14.84 2.12
1944 . . 222,215 19.79 2.90
1945 . . 241,300 18.87* 2.65*
f Average. * Approximate.
The wholesale selling price of fines has
remained fixed at £33 4s. a ton since 1933.
The retail selling price has remained un-
altered at 4d. a pound. Meanwhile there
has been a steady increase in costs, as
well as the variations in production shown
in the table.
That the industry has been able to keep
its head above the rising economic tide
has been due mainly to two factors: (1)
pre-war improvements in cultivation and
milling practice, which increased the ton-
nage of cane and yield of sugar per acre,
and (2) a steady advance in the price of
exported surplus sugar from around £A7
per ton pre-war to an anticipated £A 19-
odd per ton for the 1946 season. If costs
of production continue to rise, and a sub-
stantial drop occurs in the export price,
which seems likely after Java and the
Philippines get into production again,
then the retail selling price of sugar m
Australia might have to be lifted or a
subsidy granted to the industry.
The collapse of this co.’s Carnings in
1942 and 1943 was due mainly to flood
damage to crops. The effects of this
were overtaken in the following year, and
the mill got into its stride again. It aid
better still last term, thanks to escape
of the Bundaberg district from tropical
cyclones that did a lot of damage further
north. After allowing whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation and depre-
ciation, net earnings sprang £9224, reach-
ing £43,749, or 8.8 p.c. on capital as
against 7.1, 1.5, 1.8, 6.9, 10 and 10.8 p.c.
back to 1939. A couple of points were
added to the div., making it 7 p.q. All
that leaves out of the reckoning a net
addition of £13,901 to the replacement
reserve (£281,151), which accounts for all
but £32,568 of the lay-by shown in the
table.
As soon as shipping becomes available
rehabilitation of the co.’s copra planta-
tions in the Solomon Islands will begin.
Damage is not expected to exceed 3 p.c.
of book value of the subsidiary’s total
assets. Fairymead exchanged 95,000 of
its own f.-p. pound shares for £195,000
of scrip (held by the Young family) in the
Malayta Co., which owns and operates the
plantations. Appearances are that copra
didn’t contribute much to the pool pre-
war, when the stuff was fetching £9-odd
a ton in London. Plantation grade is
now fixed at £lB ss. 6d. a ton until end
1947 by the British Ministry of Food,
which is sole buyer in the South Seas
area.
The market prices the pound shares
at 395., at which figure the return is 3.6
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The investor
at 395. who looks for 5 p.c. on his
money counts on a 10 p.c. div. Net tan-
gibles cover is 325. 9d. a share, including
the replacement reserve.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £492,500 £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 84,484 273,553 200,676 185,392
Estates . . 330,681 338,218 338,786 388,786
Factories, etc. 360,124 463,426 488,321 494,467
Stocks, etc. . . 45,648 211,484 175,924 44,510
Book debts . . 85,066 17,234 10,961 142,910
Cash, etc. . . 6,468 5,657 354 5,413
* Including provision tor taxation.
Over the last seven years £134,343 net has
been added to the book value of factories,
which suggests that the management
keeps a keen eye on the costs factor in
production. When the books closed more
or less liquids exceeded outside liabili-
ties (including provision for taxation) by
£7441, an improvement of £26,878 over
the twelvemonth.


ITS TOUR ,/(),
foma/ze
i/ieir/afare
secure
sow
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
suitable life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
family responsibilities.
See the
ADVT
EQUITABLE PROBATE”
6 GENERAL' INSURANCE CO.LTO.
//e&officeJ7/-373@ueeJift, Sr/sbane
WINGELLO HOUSE, ANCEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R, V. PERKINS, General Manager
I END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and Ik days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUBSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
m
\ ..A \
SIB
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIEBS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
~1
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Adv.t.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building,. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Alice in Mining Land
The Federal Government’s decision to
set up a permanent Australian Mining
Council, which is to be assisted by an
inter-departmental body to be known as
the Commonwealth Mining Industry
Committee, which, in turn, will lean upon
the Bureau of Mineral Resources,
Geology and Geophysics, already set up
in the Supply Department to co-operate
with the States in providing technical
assistance and advice to the industry,
might be appropriately described as
Alice in Mining Land.
The council, to consist of Federal and
State Ministers, is to review mining de-
velopment and policy, consider plans for
stabilisation of mining, export and im-
port problems, taxation and “national”
mining questions generally. It will be
advised on “any problems that arise” by
the committee, which will be composed
of representatives of the Treasury,
Post-war Reconstruction and Supply De-
partments, under the chairmanship of
Mr. Chippindall, secretary of the Supply
Department.
There is some justification for the
bureau, which is to be under the direction
of Dr. Raggatt, who, with J. M. Rayner,
chief Commonwealth geophysicist, in-
vestigated American mining develop-
ments, especially oil, last year. It is to
turn its attention to the search for oil in
Australia, and will make a start in the
Kimberley area of Westralia, where the
Freney Oil Co. has been operating for
nearly quarter of a century without suc-
cess and where the Caltex Oil Co. has
also made investigations. Owing to
proximity of the area to places then under
enemy attack, boring was stopped by
order of Federal authorities in Feb., 1942.
One intention is to send Freney’s present
bore, now down 427 ft., to bedrock,
another 1000 ft. There is talk of the
Commonwealth undertaking scout boring
in other localities considered favorable
later. The services of H. Temple Watts,
an oil technologist with experience
abroad, has been secured, and geophysi-
cal equipment for large-scale surveys is
to be bought. Experience has shown
that the search for oil today is a highly
technical and very expensive business,
which might cost anything up to a mil-
lion pounds or more before success in the
form of commercial production is met
with.
As for mining generally, each of the
States has an ably-staffed and well-
organised Mines Department, which has
a sound knowledge of the geology and
mineral deposits of its own State, and
which is doing good work in assisting
prospectors and miners in the location
of ore deposits and solution of metal-
lurgical, milling and mining problems.
With a little more financial assistance
these departments could render a lot
more practical help to mining with
better prospects of worthwhile results
than is reasonable to expect from the
new politically-constituted council and
committee. There are also an Australian
institute of Mining and Metallurgy and
an Australian Mines and Metals Asso-
ciation, whose members are both able
and experienced in all matters relating to
mining ip Australia. Yet neither of these
bodies is represented in the new set-up,
which, in its present form, promises little
more than continual Government inter-
ference and meddling by people with
little or ho real knowledge of the
industry.
The option held by London-controlled
Gold Exploration and Finance Co. of Aus-
tralia over 2,000,000 shares at par (55.) in
Central Norseman Gold Corp., operating
at Norseman (W.A.), has been extended
until end March, 1948. Phoenix Mines,
N.L., has been granted the right to par-
ticipate to the extent of three shares out
of every 16 acquired by Gold Explora-
tion and Finance. In 1935 Central
Norseman took over the Phoenix-Mararoa
leases from Western Mining Corp., which
held them under option from the Phoenix
Co. Whether Gold Exploration exercises
its option will depend partly upon what
happens in connection with double taxa-
tion.
* * * *
Before the war Lake View and Star
(W.A.) gradually lifted its monthly mill
throughput to 60,000 tons ore. During
the war the figure fell to about 28,000
tons. The first appreciable rise was
recorded in March last, when 35,407 tons
were crushed, returning with retreatment
of residues 92750 z. fine gold. For April
the yield was 10,2640 z., extracted from
38,682 tons of ore and a quantity of
residues. A further gradual stepping-up
of tonnage to the pre-war figure is
aimed at.
* * * *
Laverton, on the East Mt. Margaret
goldfield (W.A.), reports a revival. Pay-
able returns are being obtained from
several small shows, and a battery is
being installed on the Lancefield, formerly
worked by a co., and from the oxidised
levels of which good crushings have re-
cently been got by the present owner.
United Gold Recovery Co., Melbourne,
has obtained a licence to retreat the old
tailings on this property. At Burtville, a
few miles from Laverton, Hill 50 Co. is
developing the Boomerang mine, over
which it holds an option.
* * * *
The Federal Government proposes to
introduce legislation to ensure that it is
informed of all known deposits of radio-
active minerals in Australia, and the use
to which they are being put. It will also
take power to enter upon any such pro-
perty and carry out technical inquiries.
Broadly, the aim is to ensure Government
control of all radio-active minerals, and
to co-ordinate and direct metallurgical,
chemical and physical research connected
with their utilisation.
* * * »
Two long-service directors of London-
controlled Westralian goldmining cos. have
passed on. One, J. H. Cordner-James, of
Lake View and Star, and the other, W. A.
Macleod, of Sons of Gwalia. Cordner-
James was a partner of James Bros., who
were consulting engineers to several Kal-
goorlie mining cos. They gave up busi-
ness some time ago. Macleod was a N.Z.
mining engineer, who was successively
director of Charters Towers School of
Mines and Bewick, Moreing and Co.’s
general manager in Westralia. He went
to London in 1917 to manage B.M. and
Co.’s business there,
* „ * * *.
, Joburg : Benefits of tax reductions by
the S. African Government will, it is
estimated, amount to about £3,000,000
P- a - In addition new and developing
mines, including deep-level, will benefit
dy the increased lates of amortisation
proposed. The request of West African
goldmining cos. to be allowed to reopen
mines closed under the Gold Coast con-
centration scheme has been granted. The
objects of this scheme, which dates back
to the beginning of 1943, were to econo-
mise in use of essential materials and
manpower. Only seven mines continued
working; the rest were placed on a care
and maintenance basis.
YOUNGHUSBAND, LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
28th May, 1946
Moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet at the Annual Meeting
of Younghusband Limited, Sir Clive McPherson, Chairman and Managing Director,
said:
It is with considerable pleasure that I present today our first post-war Annual Report,
and now that the great shadow of war has passed we must turn our thoughts to the many
and complex Peace-time problems.
The Wool Industry of Australia has for many years experienced conditions which, except
for short intermittent periods, may be classed as a cycle of lean years. Since 1927 there
have been many adverse seasons, depression years with low prices, and finally the war-time
period, all of which have combined to deplete that sound financial stability which existed
twenty years ago.
I have no hesitation in making this statement notwithstanding figures which have recently
been quoted to indicate the contrary, and, as I have done on many occasions at our Annual
Meetings, again warn those in authority that more consideration must be given in the future
to the welfare of this great industry. There cannot be prosperity in this our principal
industry, so vital to Australian stability, unless there is relief from present high taxation,
and from existing extraordinary high costs of production.
It is true that 49 p.c. of the pre-war Australian Clip was produced by 7 p.c. of growers.
It may be said by some that no economic consideration is due by Government under these
circumstances, but, notwithstanding this, the very value to Australia in the maintenance of her
solvency demands that this industry must not be allowed to languish, as has undoubtedly
been the case in the last twenty years. Rising costs and high taxation, if not checked, will
create that which we are all trying to avoid, another depression.
At our Meeting last year I referred to the necessity for the gradual elimination of all
controls, the continued existence of which has created such conditions of black-marketing
that now, in some quarters, those who respect the law are faced with the loss of their business.
It were better to have no controls rather than no respect be given the law.
The fear of extreme inflation is exercising the minds of many people in this country. The
outstanding necessity, in order to defeat this menace, is production and more production.
To achieve this objective as speedily as possible is the major responsibility of Government
today. To sum up, the outstanding requirements in our economy are more and more
production, less and less controls, . less Government expenditure and considerably reduced
taxation and production costs, before Australia can be said to be on the way to prosperity.
On the other hand strikes, black markets and the lack of will to work, unless eliminated
from our workaday life, will leave chaos and National disaster in their wake.
Now, turning to seasonal conditions, we have just come through what is recognised in
some areas as the worst drought experienced in Australian history. Losses of stock have been
very heavy; in sheep it is estimated that 25-30 millions died, and the lambing was very poor
in many parts.
In some parts of the Continent where your Company is interested, such as Western
Riverina, the season was especially dry, and heavy losses occurred.
The drought commenced to break in June last, since which time good rains have fallen
generally—however, recently the season is again giving cause for apprehension and good winter
rains are now anxiously awaited.
Our wool sales for the financial year reflect the drought conditions; as against 100,000
bales sold by our Company last year our sales this year are 67,000 bales.
Since the breaking of the drought restocking by our constituents has been continuous;
more particularly stock has been purchased from the Northern areas of New South Wales, where
the drought losses have not been so great, and we hope that through this process- we will be
able to show improved wool figures in the coming year.
Wool. —Following the result of the conference held in London in May last year, when
plans were made for the formation of a Joint Organisation by Britain, Australia, New Zealand
and South Africa to dispose of the war-time surplus of approximately 10,000,000 bales of wool
concurrently with incoming clips, the Australian Wool Realisation Commission has been set
up here as a subsidiary concern to conduct the operations of the parent Company. It
succeeded the Central Wool Committee on the 16th November, 1945, and will administer
the present Appraisement Plan until it is concluded.
Some details of the new Scheme were announced by the Prime Minister in August last
year, when he said the initial capital outlay by the Australian Government was to be
£40,000,000, provided over four years to cover her assumed half interest in Australian Stocks
previously owned by the British Government. Operational costs will be borne half by the
industry and half by the United Kingdom and Australian Governments, and each year the
four Governments concerned will jointly assess reserve prices for the following Season.
When sales by auction are resumed the Commission will buy in all lots for which there
is not outside competition up to or better than the reserve price, whilst at the same time
various quantities from stocks on band will be offered for sale. It is hoped by this method
to ensure some degree of stability, and to avoid the violent fluctuations that in the past have
caused concern to both Buyer and Seller.
It is evident that some degree of control will be necessary to maintain the industry on a
payable and steady basis at least until such time as the greater proportion of accumulated
stocks have gone into consumption.
The success of the Scheme will obviously depend on many factors, chief amongst whic
will be the ability of the Joint Organisation to reduce effectively accumulated stocks in as
short a period as possible, realistic administration, and the full co-operation of all sections
of the trade. _
S XAFF .—-The Directors wish to extend their deepest sympathy to relatives of those officers
of the Company who lost their lives whilst serving their country.
I am pleased to report our returned men are gradually resuming their duties. We
extend to them all a hearty welcome and congratulations on their safe return.
I should also like to express our appreciation of the loyal service rendered by all members
of the Staff during the past year, when the work was particularly onerous during the drought
period and has continued so in the large turnover of stock since the break of the season.


w
w
i
m
«SS
■
PEOPLE WHO SAVE
GET WHAT THEY WANT...
THE average man, or woman, acquires the big
things among the amenities of life the hard
way. It isn’t easy to regularly put aside a pro-
portion of a not over-adequate wage or salary, it
is sometimes very difficult to deny oneself the
pleasure of the moment for the advantage of
the future.
But it can he made easier,
A Commonwealth Savings Bank account does
provide a very practical easy method of saving
for a specific purpose. Open an account to-day,
and put your surplus monies away where they
will not be so readily subject to the urge to
spend - and where they will earn a steady
interest profit.
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
THERE’S A BRANCH OR AGENCY
IN YOUR DISTRICT
C. 5.8.-15-82
SUNDRY SHOWS
Binghi in the Ballet.
A ballet which has a beautiful young
white woman with a handsome stalwart
young abo. in brown tights for a lover,
an explorer in a red shirt and a corps-de-
ballet representing the eternal mother
spirit dressed like idealised caterpillars of
the Emperor gum-moth has all the in-
gredients for bathos. But there was no-
thing banal about “Terra Australis” at
Melbourne His Majesty’s—the first Aus-
tralian ballet to be attempted by the
Borovanskys.
It is a striking tribute to Esther Rofe,
who wrote the music, Tom Rothfield, who
wrote the story, and choreographer
Edouard Borovansky that there was no-
thing amateurish in it, either.
The ballet struck a sufficiently good
balance between the particular and the
general not to arouse too many thoughts
about the color question ; and irreverent
questions as to why the aboriginal spirit
of Australia should be a white girl clad
in a costume that would have passed
muster in any Melbourne drawingroom
were stilled by the vividness of Helen
Ffrance’s dancing. There was even some-
thing emotionally impressive about the
story.
You can do anything with ballet if you
know how, and the somewhat deplorable
history of the white man contra the black
man was told in a few simple movements
ending with Mr. Trunoff, as the tragic
figure of Binghi worsted by Caucasian
gunpowder, being laid on his back by
Martin Rubinstein (the symbol for
Western progress) and then being waved
back into the earth he had come from,
while the victor collects the spoils in the
shape of Miss Australia. Mr. Trunoff, a
powerfully-built dancer, was a dignified
symbol for the despairing savage, and, if
Mr. Rubinstein’s Explorer looked rather
cheapjack sorrowing over his defeated
rival, well, that is all in accordance with
the data. Miss Rofe’s music was tradi-
tional and allusive, but beautifully in
keeping with the action ; and the final
pattern was remarkably effective.
Satire on Radio.
“The Invisible Circus,” a three-act
satire by the Australian Sumner Locke-
Elliott, at Sydney Independent, was quick-
moving and entertaining.
There was one amusing, and at first
sight hopelessly exaggerated character, a
woman who wanders in in the belief that
she has won some competition or other,
and tarries, talking about her daughter and
her admiration for radio stars, and such
rubbish, until at last she makes a halting
exit, gently wagging the tail of a limp
fur and beaming vacantly. A caricature,
one might say, rather than a character.
Yet her like can be found, almost weekly,
in newspaper offices. In the circum-
stances, it was cheering to find that radio
offices have similar visitations, and, by
association, the rest of the characters, the
silly, vain, gossiping female “stars” of
radio epics, the ingenious but half-edu-
cated “executives,” and the Big Cheese
himself, the cigar-smoking “J. 8.,” all be-
came a good deal more real.
A fault was the American-style smart
retorts, which have become such an ordeal
to the average picture-goer. Hollywood’s
newspaper or business comedies always
have some disillusioned, hard-faced
female (frequently with a heart of gold)
ready and waiting to fire her synthesised
comments on Man and the world. And
so it was in “The Invisible Circus” ; the
same situations, the same openings, and
click, like a well-oiled machine, the dis-
illusioned damsel delivers the wisecracks
in a tired, disillusioned voice.
The character of Mark Cornell, the
writer of scripts, who is also disillusioned,
also seems to conform to the standard
pattern, but Mr. Locke-Elliott turns the
tables very cleverly by satirising him, too,
as a sort of Hemingway character. Which
is an interesting and pleasing develop-
ment, for it is almost as though the
playwright were satirising himself. In a
large cast the acting was all fairly good.
An Agitated Agitator.
“Close Quarters,” a play in three acts
adapted by Gilbert Lennox from the play
“Attentat,” by W. O. Somin, and put on
by Melbourne’s Little Theatre, concerns
an agitator in an unnamed foreign coun-
try where assassination is the approved
method of conducting political discus-
sions.
He has made a runaway match with an
English girl so devoted to him that she
has a liaison with the Minister for Public
Instruction or something, the price of her
favors being the protection and promo-
tion of her husband. The Minister even
gets them moved from a kitchen-living-
room in a working-class tenement to a
new flat in a modern block of workers’
dwellings.
The Minister, however, is a double-
crosser, and is using the information she
innocently gives him to throw a spanner
in the works of the revolutionary party.
On the same night that the agitator makes
an incendiary speech, in which he advo-
cates a strike and expresses a concrete
desire to “do for” the Minister for Public
Instruction, that infamous creature is
found with a bullet through his head out-
side his private domicile in a lonely forest.
The husband naturally concludes that he
will be arrested, charged and executed,
little knowing that his wife has fired the
shot in a somewhat belated attempt to
salve her honor.
When this information is conveyed to
him he is by no means grateful, and his
cup of bitterness flows over. He shoots
her and she shoots herself or vice versa
—it isn’t made clear which, as this part
of the action is performed offstage, as
with nine-tenths of the remainder.
The cast comprises only the two prin-
cipal actors, the development of the story
being given by knocks on the door, steps
in the passage, radio news broadcasts and
the daily papers. There is not a little
of the melodramatic in it and but slight
psychological content, and the main in-
terest lies in the astuteness with which the
technical device is used. Margaret Reid
and Lance Nicholls carried the burden
of the play between them with such sus-
tained emotion that it almost lived in
places. Mr. Nicholls’s angularity and
harsh delivery suited the grisly story.
Shaw at Killara.
If Shaw ever had anything interesting
and novel to say about armament manu-
facturers and Salvation Army lassies, it
has doubtless long since been said, so
nowadays “Major Barbara” falls a little
flat.
Nevertheless, the Kuring-gai Theatre
Guild did the show proud at Killara,
Sheila McDonald making an attractive
and spirited Major Barbara, with Honor
McGarrity and Nancy Bathgate both
quietly competent as the other Undershaft
ladies. And O. D. Bisset made a fine
Andrew Undershaft. Peter Trebilco was
a shade too stiff as Stephen, the son of
the family, but he was handicapped by
the nature of the part. Stephen is only
a stage device —an unnaturally ludicrous
target for his parents’ sententious witti-
cisms. Dawn Hughes, who played the
part of Jenny Hill, a staunch disciple of
Major Barbara, was promising and pleas-
ing to the eye. A good feature of the
Killara shows is that no great strain is
thrown on the imagination ; goodlooking
young ladies are goodlooking—a rare
thing in amateur dramatics.
As in many another Shavian play,
character comes a poor second to speeches
in “Major Barbara.” In fact, a minor
character, Bill Walker, the East-end tough,
is as well done as any. Gordon Rudd,
who took this part, did it full justice—
appearance, gestures and idiom were just
right. As was not the case with John
Wilkie’s interpretation of Snobby Price,
another East-end character. He got into
fearful difficulties with the Cockney
vowels, and persistently forgot to drop his
aitches.
BANJO PATERSON MEMORIAL
at Yass (N.S.W.).
The Yass Municipal Council having made avail-
able a suitable site, it is desirable that anyone
interested in perpetuating the memory or the
late A. B. Paterson in a tangible form please
forward subscriptions, together with views on
the subject, to the secretary of the fund, Mr.
D E. Wellisch, of 11 Adele Street, Yass.
Arfbursfs
The Society of Artists’ Special Exhi-
bition of Drawings at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney, was chiefly remark-
able for the fact that a large number
of the entries were not, in the strict
sense, drawings at all, being embellished
by a variety of colors. Nor, with the
exception of Hans Heysen’s “Bald Hills,
Rapid Bay,” were any of them in any
way impressive. “Bald Hills” was small
and slight, but there was a Diirer-like
mastery of line about it which made it
stand out from the rest like a Bern-
borough among a team of plough-horses.
“Craiser”: Sculptress Ola Cohn, in
opening an art show in Melbourne, raised
an issue which goes to the root of the
“modernist” conception of art when she
said that art was born within a person
and it gave the artist power to express a
vital force in his or her work which made
it live. That notion accounts for the
enormous amount of bad art there is in
these times. The urge to speak is born
within every infant, but unless it learns
the language all it can say is such simple
sounds as “Goo-goo,” If Titian or Vel-
asquez came along today they would
recognise in a very short time that a
great deal of “modjpiist” art is simply
saying “Goo-goo.” The modern notion of
the artist is that any close attention to
the technical details of his craft would
interfere with the free expression of his
intentions and that by concerning him-
self as little as possible with such matters
his creative efforts are left untrammelled.
An excellent example is a picture by
Sydney Nolan, “Ned Kelly at Stringy
Bark Creek,” hung with a lot of others
at the art exhibition of the South Mel-
bourne Council, which has been holding
a festival lately. Ned is depicted in his
celebrated armor holding a gun which
looks as if it had come out of a Noah’s
Ark. At his wooden feet is a wooden
trooper with his gore staining the sward.
Artistically, Mr. Nolan is saying “Goo-
goo,” but the daily paper critics have
been so completely bluffed by the
“modernist” aesthetic that they gave this
effort, untrammelled with technical know-
ledge, more attention than they did the
pioneer painters such as Gill, Von
Guerard and Buvelot, who, for all their
faults, were competent enough to give
us a lively picture of Melbourne in the
’fifties.
Af the Talkies
On the evidence currently presented in
Sydney, films were never more plentiful
and the average was never lower. There
are 17 film-houses currently screening 27
first-release films, and the most that can
be said for 20 of them is that the dollar
exchange could have been better used by
importing gopher holes and beaver teeth.
Of a dozen films let loose this week only
one —“The Southerner,” a moving and
faithful story of a young settler’s love for
the soil—rates above average.
Of the others, “Adventure,” at the St.
James, has two hours of Clark Gable
shouting, fighting and beating everything
from fellow-mariners to torpedoing and
shipwreck. He kicks down doors, wrecks
pubs and dance-halls, marries Greer Gar-
son and, finally, when their child is still-
born and the doctor has exhausted
oxygen, adrenalin and other means known
to medicine, delivers a few sharp, well-
chosen words, whereupon the infant takes
a deep breath and bursts into lusty
bawling.
Mr. Gable’s efforts are no less remark-
able than those of Charles Boyer in “Con-
fidential Agent” at the Tatler. Mr. Boyer
figures as a hireling of the Republicans
sent from Spain to England in 1937 to
gum up a coal deal between the Falan-
gists and British coal interests. He takes
beatings, shootings, a stoning, and the
incredibly dreadful acting of Lauren
Bacall as the daughter of British nobility
with a; seedy Continental stoicism.
In “Sentimental Journey,” at the Cen-
tury, Maureen O’Hara, advised of her
approaching death, adopts a 10-year-old
to carry on the work of looking after her
play-director husband, John Payne, Miss
O’Hara dutifully and dramatically throws
a seven, but her ghost returns at suitable
intervals to decorate the story and guide
the child in delivering Mr. Payne’s Sun-
day-morning breakfast and playing, his
favorite phonograph record. Under this
treatment Mr. Payne forgets to look like
a wet Monday, begins shaving again,
learns to love the child and returns hap-
pily to his business of directing plays.
Two bright items among the generally
depressing doings on the film front are
Dennis O’Keefe, working frantically with
the knockabout comedy of “Getting
Gertie’s Garter,” at the Empire, and Mr.
Costello working equally hard to get Mr.
Abbott’s goat in “Abbott and Costello in
Hollywood,” at the Capitol.


BUSINESS FOR SALE.
Protected Business. Fibrous Plaster-
Family reasons necessitate sale of Fibrous Plaster
Manufacturing Business near Sydney. Building, brick
foundations, iron and wood with stone front —Tor-
rens Title. Motor Lorries and Plant are worth
£6500, Stock £lOO. Capacity, 1250 yards per
week, excellent net return per yard. Price,
£lO,OOO or near offer. Business would not be for
sale under normal circumstances. Finance up to
£4OOO may be arranged on reasonable terms. En-
quiries in first instance to OSBORNE M. ALLEN,
Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney. (No agents.)
Missing Beneficiary.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS WILLIAM WILLIAMS, formerly of Christ-
church, New Zealand, or who can supply any infor-
mation that might lead to his being located, com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand?
Missing Friends.
FIELD, Matthew Henry, formerly of Numurkah, Vic-
toria, residing in Wagga district 1927, Tennants
Creek 1940, Darwin 1944, or any person knowing
his whereabouts, kindly communicate with MOR-
RISON & TEARE, Solicitors, Numurkah, Victoria.
WILL Mr. KROAT (late of Austria and Victoria)
or anyone knowing his present address please com-
municate with Mr. LARS BRUNDAHL, c/o Bank
N.S.W. (H. 0.), Sydney, N.S.W.?
Public Notice.
I, FRED ROY BLANKS, of Stateless nationality,
born at Schu Gmuend, Germany, and resident seven
and a half years in Australia, now residing at 12
Culworth Ave., Killara, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT REGINALD ARGENT late of 10 Mil-
dura Court Flats 31 Fitzroy Street Kirribilli in the
State of New South ' Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE JOAN ARGENT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1738 of 1946 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 28th day of June 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
J. V. LOBB Solicitor 72 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROY HUNTLEY GALL.—TAKE NOTICE that
ANNIE GALL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1557 of 1946 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 29th of June 1946 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from W. D. SCHRADER
& DUDLEY 113 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO JOHN LESLIE ROBERT FROST.—TAKE
NOTICE that LORNA HAZEL EILEEN FROST has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2947 of 1945 on the
grounds of repeated assaults and cruel beatings dur-
ing a period of 12 months preceding the presentation
of the Petition If you desire to defend the case
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before
the Ist day of July 1946 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—(L.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
In general, breeding is everything; but every
now and then a champion of the turf in his day
turns up by a sheer freakishness that is beyond
breeding. The Queensland-bred Bernborough
(Emborough-Bern Maid) clinched his claims to
a place in the list by his remarkable win in the
£lO,OOO T. M. Ahern Memorial Handicap run
over seven furlongs, less 93 yards, on the
angular Doomben track last Saturday.
Bernborough’s breeding is better than, per-
haps, many think. Emborough—by Gains-
borough, sire of that great English sire Hy-
perion—produced 28 last-season winners, and
his progeny is going just as strong this year.
But no other freak gallopers have so far shown
up among them.
Overlooking the element of freakishness,
there were fair reasons for doubting Bern-
borough’s ability to win, despite his preceding
eight wins in a row, including the Newmarket
in Melbourne. The Doomben field totalled 27;
the altered Doomben track is shaped like a
squared-off horseshoe, with little more than
a furlong of straight; and the six-year-old entire
had won all those other eight races by coming
with a late run from well back—in the New-
market to snatch victory by only a head.
As well, Bernborough at Doomben had the
steadier of 10.5; he drew the middle of the
field, with some of Australia’s fastest sprinters
both in the inside and the outside sections,
making it highly likely that he would be hope-
lessly cut off. Further, he was made to take
full weight of his burden by a rogue or two
playing up and delaying the start.
What Bernborough appeared to be up against
was reflected in his starting price—7 to 2 being
generous odds considering his record. With
three furlongs covered he was in Front of four
horses; with three to go there were still about
20 in front of him, with such speedy ones as
Hedui and Cragsman in the van. Cragsman
got a two-lengths break as they turned into
the short straight, and it looked all over. But
freakishness told. Taken wide by A. Mulley
at the turn for a clear run, Bernborough passed
one after another of them and was a clear
and easy winner, from Cragsman and Puffham,
with Hedui fourth.
Of the four placegetters, Hedui had the
best of the barrier draw (3); Cragsman, who
ran a really good race under his 9st., had next-
best possie (4); with Bernborough 13 ai\d
Puffham away out at 26. Flight also was out
there (20), but she got away well, and at the
weights was beaten on her merits. A better
galloper than many seem to think, Puffham
was wide all the way. The £lO,OOO was
whacked up; winner £6500, second £2OOO, third
£lOOO, fourth £5OO. Former Queensland trainer
H. Plant, who has made such a good fist of
handling Bernborough, also trains Hedui, an-
other Queenslander.
Apart from the big handicap sprint, the
Doomben programme was for moderates, ex-
cept the mile Carnival Handicap, won by an-
other good Queenslander, Repshot, very easily
from Three Wheeler and Falcon Knight.
If anything could down Bernborough in
his present form it would be Craigie, at the
weights, in next Saturday’s Doomben Cup.
With the full 101 b. penalty clamped on Bern-
borough, Craigie meets him with a 221 b. advan-
tage at a suitable distance (about 11 furlongs).
Next best should be Repshot with an advantage
of no less than 351 b.
* * * *
Racing at Flemington on Saturday was
mainly interesting with a view to the Nationals
now looming up. In that respect the best
performance was possibly the five-year-old
Friarsdale mare Boondale’s win from Securities
and Gyrone in the Port Phillip Hurdle. The
winner was a bottomweight, receiving over 3st.
from Hiatus, but she jumped in National style
and won well. Still, unless weight crushes him
out of it, Hiatus must still have prospects, and
Isambard, a regular placegetter in Nationals,
should be thereabouts again; he made up a
lot of ground in the Port Phillip.
The Steeple, won by old Tente from Leicester
Square and Garofil, might not have been a very
sound National pointer, if only because of the
variety of Steeple winners this year, consistency
being at a sorry discount. However, Tente
merely cantered all the way and won with Sholl
sitting up on him.
In this year’s distance handicaps on Mel-
bourne tracks the only consistency seems to be
that with which favorites go down. On Satur-
day the four-year-old Enfield mare Fungi was
the winner, from Punctilia and Carey, with the
favorite, Bisley, among the others. It was a
good race in the straight, with seven of them
coming on abreast.
The mile Juvenile went to the Hellespont
colt Adrian, with Reprisal second, but Robert
Bruce (third) had all the worst of it in the
running. The mile Welter, run in pouring rain,
gave consistency (and favorite backers) a wel-
come break, Eagle Flight winning from His-
pano and Medicine (who should soon win).
That completed a stable double, with High
Play’s defeat of Wonder Bird and Mysticus
in the day’s main sprint event.
« * * ♦
Poor-class fields made Moorefield, once called
the Punter’s Paradise, anything but that on
Saturday. Eight races were decided without
one favorite winning, but on what ground some
were made favorites is beyond conjecture.
Consenting to do his best, which is rare but
good, Vermeil accounted for the Flying. Civic
Pride set the pace and soon had the field well
strung out, but up the slope at the back Ver-
meil passed horse after horse and was chal-
lenging at the home turn. Civic Pride weakened
over the last 50 yards, and, finishing well
under punishment, Vermeil headed her on the
post. The favorite, Oriental, was a poor third.
The best result for punters was the ten-fur-
longs S.T.C. Handicap, contested by as poor
a middle-distance field as has turned out in
months.. Such a pure sprinter as John Halifax
was topweight, and very nearly won it, but
with a 121 b. pull in the weights Thanks
America had the best of a close finish. The
winner was second fancy at 7 to 2, favorite
being Chief Man, who won a Trial about two
years ago; he finished fourth behind Piccadilly
Lad.
J. Thompson rode the winners of the main
double, but otherwise had stiff luck, being on
the runner-up in no fewer than four races.
Ex-Queensland rider E. Fordyce landed a
winning treble. He had an armchair ride on
Titanic, a very easy winner in the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap from Cisco and
King’s Glen. Nor was Fordyce much
troubled in winning the Encourage on the
Nuffield colt Gallant Law, who downed the
100-to-l pop Chrystal Hall and Silver Spear.
However, Fordyce had to ride skilfully to get
Alderman home narrowly from Chantilly and
Pearler in the Welter, first division. In the
second division Balmore (Swinton) scored his
first’Sydney win by just pipping Battle King,
with Hellenger a close-up third.
On Clipper, who downed Lucky Escape and
Pittham in the Two-year-old, G. Weate had
a win of good omen —it was his first ride as a
fully-fledged jockey, having rounded off his
apprenticeship with a winning ride at Randwick
a week before.
Punters again fell for Killiecrankie, a minor
boom horse of the moment. He finished well
down the track in the maiden, while a 25-to-l
chance in Matchmaker gave the books a
skinner, winning from Miss Corrogin and The
Lancer. Matchmaker is a four-year-old gelding
by Beau Pere, whose progeny are having
good success in America, where they are bred
and raced by the film man Mayer.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Encourage: Spendthrift, 1;
Uranium, 2; Tamasha, 3. Novice: Quadrant,
1; Matchmaker, 2; Miss Corrogin, 3. Flying:
Abbeville, 1; Gay Monarch, 2; Civic Pride, 3.
Three-year-old Encourage: Skymaster, 1;
Crusader, 2; John Andrew, 3. George’s River
Handicap: Silent, 1; Accession, 2; Columnist,
3. Homestead Handicap: Waratah, ,1; Men-
tone, 2; Shining Night, 3. Highweight; Fel-
berta, 1; Alderman, 2; Magic Wand, 3.
* * * *
Continuing his run of success in S.A., St.
Fairy won the Select Stakes at Cheltenham
without the benefit of his usual guide, Breasley.
With Bastian substituting, the St‘. Magnus
"The mower, lad, and hurry!”
horse won easily from Best Idea and Smartex.
St. Fairy has now had 10 starts in S.A; for
seven wins and two seconds. His stake win-
nings for this season are close on £lO,OOO.
* * * *
The death of the successful young sire Titan
is a bad loss to Australian racing. Bred and
raced in England by Lord Rosebery, from
whom he was secured as a four-year-old by
F. W. Hughes for Kooba stud, Titan was by
Hyperion from the Phalaris mare Priscilla,
and though his oldest stock here are three-year-
olds they have already shown consistently good
quality. Hughes retained and raced most of the
first two crops, but 11 were sold at the last
Sydney yearling sales and averaged over 1000
guineas each.
* * * *
Before a Sydney C.G. crowd which,
though reckoned at 51,000, was not nearly
big enough to hog all the beer laid on,
the English Rugby Leaguers, down 10-niL
till well into the second half, rattled up
14 points and prevented N.S.W. from add-
ing to its score. The squealing insepar-
able from League footbrawl was carried
into the Sunday press—the winning try
should have been disallowed and the last
goal was yards outside the post. Seven
of the victorious side, with six others, had
to be rushed to Wollongong to play a
Sunday match, Sunday footbrawl, with
the usual accompaniments, having been
introduced to promote “the cultivation
of an enlightened and self-reliant com-
munity.” Showing form superior to that
of the average Sydney club, the South
Coast men won 15-12. The tourists
finished with 10 men, and it looks as
if three-fourths of them will be cripples
before they meet “Australia” for the
idiotic “ashes” and —what is infinitely
more important—the “gates.”
* * * *
Because it was a game for position in
the V.F.L. “four,” about 40,000 jammed
into Carlton Oval on Saturday to see the
locals play Richmond. It was hardly
worth the trouble ; Carlton jumped away
to a four-goal lead and stayed there to
win, 15.13-11.10. The real excitement
occurred when Hawthorn, whose record
is so poor that some have been urging
it to get out of the League, was at
home to undefeated Footscray, and gave
that team, its supporters and Hawthorn
itself the shock of the season. At the
final change dead silence reigned from
Barkley-street to the Braybrook pub, for
Hawthorn was three goals in front and
until then had made ’Scray look like a
Wednesday team from Associated
Churches. Then ’Scray unwound a para-
lysing run, booted 6.2 to 2.0 and won
14.15-13.12. Meantime, Essendon was
beiting St. Kilda 20.20-7.16, Fitzroy
flattening Melbourne, 14.13-5.11, and Col-
iingwood collecting Geelong’s scalp,
20 12-10 8. There was a close go between
North and South Melbourne, South just
getting there, 10.16-10.10.
The “four” are Footscray (unbeaten),
Essendon, Collingwood and Carlton, with
Richmond just out of the picture. Next
week-end’s games are divided between
Saturday and “Victory Day” Monday and
the best should be the Collingwood-
Carlton meeting on Monday.
* * * *
A bleak westerly wind made condi-
tions unpleasant for Sydney Rugby Union
matches on Saturday, especially at
Coogee, where Randwick met Gordon.
Although the ’Wicks received a pie-
thora of the ball they held only
a slender 9-6 lead for half the game ; then
their backline began to function, and they
finished with five tries to one, 18-11.
Manly met Parramatta on its home
ground and should have won; but
wild passing and individual play
failed against the steadier “Parra”
side, 9-8. North expected to have
an easy win at St. George’s expense, but
Saints’virile forwards gave nothing away.
A last-minute penalty goal by five-eighth
Campbell gave the Dragonkillers a well-
merited draw, 19-19. Other games: Uni-
versity 24, East 15 ; Drummoyne 11, West
6. Randwick leads, three points ahead
of Uni., with Manly and East equal, third.
“P.McM.”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
this season is strong in forwards, hefty,
hard-rucking fellows, and the packs
selected for N.S.W. I and N.S.W. 11,
which clash next Saturday, are well
chosen. However, Richards, St. George
breakaway, should have had a trial, as
he is a full 80-minutes player and has
a keen anticipatory sense. There were
some surprise omissions in the backs.
Full-back Rankin is slower than when in
his heyday, and why Colin Schomberg,
of Parramatta, was passed over is a mys-
tery: he handles and kicks well, and at
converting defence into attack with
strong, evasive runs he has few peers.
Randwick’s 17-year-old centre Paskins
has still a lot to learn, and could have
done with another season in club foot-
ball before attaining rep. honors.
Randwick’s try-getting winger Len Slat-
tery must be thunderstruck to find that
he missed being picked even as a replace-
ment ; and Tonkin (Gordon) is another
speedy flank man who might have been
given a trial. Both five-eighths, Cremin
(Randwick) and Thomas (Parramatta), are
solid players, but on form this season
Campbell (St. George) merited selection
before either.
at * • n
Finalised M.C.C. tour arrangements set
the first Test at Brisbane (Nov. 29-Dec.
5), second at Sydney (Dec. 13-19), third
at Melbourne (Jan. 1-7), fourth at Ade-
laide (Feb. 1-6), and fifth at Sydney
(March 1-6). The tour includes 23
matches, opening on October 11 v. West-
ralia at Perth.
Larwood has retired from professional
cricket and is running a business —sweets
and cigarettes—in Blackpool. His wife
and four daughters, he says, “always
wanted to settle in Blackpool, and now
we’ve made it.” Before the war the fast
bowler played with the Blackpool Club
in the Ribblesdale League as a pro., and
he considers this the happiest cricket he
ever played. “We always enjoyed our-
selves, win or lose,” he says, “and there
were no inquests.” At 42, still wiry and
fit, Larwood plays again with Blackpool
this summer, as Mr, Larwood.
* * * *
Pails gave Australian standards of
sportsmanship a bad advertisement when
he pulled out in his match with Baxter
in the Surbiton tournament. England,
from which the young fellow himself
hailed in the first place, took a bad war
pasting in his absence, and its people are
in no mood for that sort of thing. He
was criticised, deservedly, and his excuse,
that the state of the court would ad-
versely affect his tennis, sounded thin.
afc * * *
Legh Winser, who takes over the secre-
taryship of the Adelaide (Seaton) Golf
Club, has won the S.A. golf champion-
ship eight times. Also he kept wicket for
Staffordshire before leaving England, and
for S.A. after arriving in Australia about
40 years ago. For 25 years he was private
secretary to successive Governors of S.A.
$ * * ■ *
Though he looked at least a stone
heavier, Bert Roach could not cope with
Ted Sprouster at Leichhardt. Realising
early that outboxing Sprouster was an
unrealisable dream. Roach attacked with
solid swings, few of which landed on the
shifty Sprouster. It went 12 rounds, and
Roach may have had the points in one
round.
Boomed as a threat to Vic Patrick,
Billy de Belin showed out as slow as
treacle against Al Moran, a Victorian
welterweight, at the Sydney Stadium, and
Moran stopped him in 10 rounds. Moran
continually beat De Belin to the punch.
He confirmed a lingering impression that;
except for Patrick, Victorian form is
superior to N.S.W. form.


Is your WILL
a wise man's
WILL?
OUPPOSE that you were asked
for your opinion of a friend’s
Will. You would require to he
satisfied upon a number of points.
Take, for example, his choice of
Executor. You would ask: Who is
he ? What is he ? What are his quali-
fications ? What experience has he ?
What is his background? Could
he be depended upon impartially
to administer the Estate in the
best interests of the beneficiaries
under all circumstances? Would
he have the time to devote to the
duties involved ? Would he always
be available? What is his age?
Is he in good health? What would
happen to the Estate if anything
happened to him?
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) satisfies all these
requirements in a nay that no
individual can—what individual
could offer 60 years experience in
the management of Estates of all
kinds together with perpetual
service ?
Consider the choice of your
Executor in the same way—and
then ask yourself whether it is not
a wise man who appoints Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited)
as his Executor —in conjunction
with a friend if he so desires.
Write for a copy of the booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee,”
which explains the service the
company renders and what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0.; E. R. KNOX ;
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. O. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£61,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING DESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Connack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern Districts Representative; F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
v 3 W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Business Rollery.Etc.
Waiting to Go Full Blast
With the need for greater production
of living essentials becoming every day
more urgent, there are hopes on many
sides that unwarranted Government re-
strictions on free enterprise will be
removed before the end of 1946, A
Federal election some time in September
or October next may prompt the Labor
party to make concessions to the pro-
prietary side of industry in advance, or
may be a change in Government
that will'raise expectations of more wide-
spread and fundamental alterations.
-Concessions to Labor vested interests
have already gone far beyond what the
economy can stand, and, even if it is only
from the swing of the pendulum, other
interests are now entitled to nourish hopes
of fairer treatment. A “new aristocracy”
that has arisen within and around the
ranks of “Labor” will probably want to
look after its own gains, well-gotten and
otherwise, at this stage, anyway.
Price-control still operates widely in
the Commonwealth, restricting, with high
taxation, the prospects of profit-earning
by companies and individuals. Treasury
control of new capital issues is still en-
forced in cases where more than £lO,OOO
a year is asked for, and interest rates are
also fixed, together with prices for Com-
monwealth securities. The prices of ordi-
nary shares on the Stock Exchanges are
confined within Treasury-imposed limits.
External trade and finance are subject to
supervision, especially on the dollar side.
* Australian industry is endeavoring to
burst out of these restrictions and get
going full blast in the most productive
and profitable way. Probably the chief
difficulty at the moment is the inadequate
supply of competent and willing labor,
of fuel and raw materials. Most of these
shortages tie up with some Government
restriction or other, especially that of
price-control. If there was a full supply
of coal and efficient labor there would
be such a full production of some com-
modities that price-control in their case
would be unnecessary. Until production
does recover, a measure of price-control
will remain essential.
The investing public at present shows
great willingness to put its money into
industrial stocks, either ordiiiiry or pref-
erence, and an almost equal degree of
reluctance to fill Government loans. The
natural inclination of investors should be
watched by the Government and its les-
sons absorbed; it seems clear enough to
economic observers that the time is
now opportune to make efforts to
balance the Federal Budget and turn
the pressure of investment towards
private industry, always the most
productive of worth-while jobs and civi-
lian goods. Balancing the Budget would
mean end of Federal borrowing to
finance deficits, and a real demand might
eventually grow for Consols on the Stock
Exchanges without much, if any, increase
in interest rates. A heavy cut in all Gov-
ernment borrowing would open the way
for free investment in private industry,
subject to such control of interest rates
as might be reasonable.
Taxation, of course, must be reduced
in order to allow industry a full incen-
tive to produce and earn “take-home”
profits. This will make Budget-balancing
difficult. But industry will not function
fully and effectively while it is subject to
war-time company tax, private company
tax at present rates, and ordinary income
tax of up to nearly 17s. in the £. The ordi-
nary company tax of 65.-7 s. in the £,
though high, does not present such an
obstruction to incentive as do many other
taxes. But there should be a return to the
principle of “no double taxation” in the
case of company earnings, or at least a
rebate of tax should be allowed on divi-
dends up to the taxpayer’s personal rate
of tax.
Restoration of employers’ initiative in
industry would do a great deal to solve
the problem of recalcitrant labor. The
cutting-down of Government spending
would restore ordinary competition by
and for labor, there would be a check
to the present state of industrial lunacy
in some vital industries, and the profit-
making incentive, tempered by normal
competition on the marketing side, would
tend to bring efficient and adequate pro-
duction.
Under freer economic and industrial
conditions there is a big productive future
ahead of such Australian industries as
steelmaking, textile-producing, clothing,
engineering, building and allied, cement,
furniture and some food, including brew-
eries. Various services, such as transport
and finance, have a very large sphere of
activity indicated for them also.
Broken Hill Prop, represents an indus-
try almosf in itself. It has a paid capital
of £13,885,012, and it owns all ord.
shares in Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
operating at Port Kembla. There are
many other subsidiary enterprises. In 1939
B.H.P. earned £1,431,513 on its capital.
Last year £759,367 was disclosed. This
approximate halving of B.H.P. earnings
has been chiefly the result of low selling
prices in relation to rising cost, including
heavy war-time depreciation and taxa-
tion.
B.H.P. has made a big contribution to
Australia’s war effort by keeping its prices
low. But as time goes by it will be fully
justified in asking for prices more in
line with production costs. Shareholders
naturally look forward to the day when
profits again bear a reasonable relation-
ship to capital, and the whole country
awaits full-scale production from all the
B.H.P. group. Possibly the coal issue
will have to be settled first —but that
issue, in any case, must be settled.
B.H.P. may be taken as a large-size
example of a common problem in
Australian industry today. All branches
of industry are waiting for the
opportunity to earn reasonable profits,
to expand their production, to give
of the best in the way of em-
ployment, and to establish the basis
of a growing population, from which all
classes, including investors, should benefit.
Investors have been given a particu-
larly raw deal during the war. In a
change-over to an economy depending
on private enterprise to provide full em-
ployment investors will need to be con-
ceded a better political and economic
"I'd take it if I Were you, sir. There's not another genuine
Donegal in Sydney .”
status. It is theirs by natural right. One
of the first moves in their re-establish-
ment should be removal of the Stock Ex-
change restrictions on prices—restrictions
which were of little or no practical value
during the war, and which are only a
deterrent to business expansion and finan-
cial confidence now.
Bank shares are mostly at their highest
permitted price on Australian ’Changes,
an exception being the Commercial of
Australia. There has been a lifting of
the ceiling price in all cases ; Bank of
N. S. Wales £2O shares, previously fixed
at £2B 10s., have been permitted to rise
to £33, which is still below New Zealand
parity. Commercial of Sydney has
moved up from £2O Is. to a ceiling of £23
ss. since war in the Pacific ended. On
“break-up value” alone bank shares are
generally very good buying at present
ceiling levels—if they can be got. Con-
versely, they are bad selling—if they
have to be sold. Bank of New South
Wales has written-down assets of
£34 13s. sd. behind every £2O share,
and Commercial of Sydney has £24 3s.
3d. standing beside its £l2 10s. denomi-
nators.
The future of the trading banks as
traders may also be improving. No one
knows what shocks Labor may receive
at the next election, and the more respon-
sible Labor members by now must be
fearful of what would happen to the
country if radicals were allowed to do to
the banking system what they have done
to the coalmining, shipping and similar
industries. There is a noticeable, if re-
luctant, swing towards the restoration of
private initiative as a counter to the un-
disciplined and reckless selfishness of the
vested interests of Labor.
Banking, as one of the essential parts
of our economic structure, must be sub-
ject to no inhibitions imposed merely to
satisfy political pressure, otherwise the
whole country will be the worse for it.
Trading banks at present are closely re-
stricted as to initiative and profit. As
time goes by these restrictions may have
to be relaxed. The Government, Gov-
ernment agencies and trade-unions can t
direct the whole business life of Australia.
The output of steel in Australia has
been falling since 1941-42, when coal pro-
duction was approaching a record. During
the war with Japan the shipment of iron
ore from Whyalla was disturbed by the
sinking of ore-carriers off the N. S. Wales
coast, but the real damage to production
has been done by strikers in the coal and
other industries. At the present time
average annual production is at a rate
below pre-war level, which is the greater
scandal when it is realised that during
1941-42 both iron and steel output were
more than 50 p.c. above the 1936-39
level, B.H.P. having made a great effort
to increase its plant capacity in the early
part of the war. Australia is steel-
hungry at the moment, as is almost every
country in the world. Many industries
depend upon steel, and the housing of
tens of thousands of people is being held
up because of the Australian steel short-
age. Wire and wire-netting are still very
scarce, and the landman feels the pinch
as much as anyone. Until steel produc-
tion is in full swing again there will be
no stability either in production .or em-
ployment. The shortage of steel is part
of the plan of Communists to increase
their stranglehold on Australian industry
and Government. Comrade Thornton
leads the ironworkers, comrade Wells
the coalminers. Healy and Elliott are at
work on the wharfies and seamen respec-
tively.
• * * «
In 1939-40 Australian steel output was
13.8 p.c. greater than the average over
the three years ended June 30, 1939. In
’4O-41 it was 45 p.c. higher, ’4l-42 49.6
p.c. higher, ’42-43 43.9 p.c., ’43-44 34.3
p.c., and in ’44-45 approximately 12.6
p.c. During October, November, Decem-
ber and January of the current financial
year industrial strife caused a very heavy
fall in steel output; in February and
March returns have been rather better
than the average for 1944-45, but are still
much below the high point established in
1941-42. Australia’s future development,
which embraces population and living
standards, will depend greatly on our
steel production.
* * * «
In January 76,519 personnel were dis-
charged from the forces; in February
the number was 51,009, and a tentative
figure for March is 47,756. In three
months total discharges have thus been
175,284, reducing the number awaiting
discharge on April 1 to something like
230,000, including women. Discharges
of N. S, Wales, Queensland and West-
ralian personnel in particular fell away
during February and March.


C%aSS
PERSONAL
and
CONFIDENTIAL
These two words are the essence of banking service.
Branch Managers of the “Wales” take a close
personal interest in their clients, for the develop-
ment of the Bank’s business depends primarily
on the progress and prosperity of its clientele.
All “Wales” officers are under pledge of secrecy
regarding the affairs of the Bank’s customers.
If you have any financial or business problems,
why not talk them over with a trained and experi-
enced banker? The Manager of your local Branch
of the Bank would like you to consult him and
there is no charge for this service.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
m
3 Generations of Australia’s armed forces have
honoured loyal toasts in Tintara Gold Label Port,
and celebrated Victories in Amontillado Sherry,
Tintara Gold Label Muscatel, the Tintara
Sparkling Wines —Champagne, Hock,
Moselle and Burgundy —and Tintara
Old Brandy.
I often wonder what the Vintner* buy,
One half »o precious as the goods they sell.
Omar Khayyam
w
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
fto the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
In July, 1941, before Labor took Fed-
eral office, there were 446,100 Govern-
ment employees in Australia. Within a
year the number was raised to 522,700,
increasing to 546,900 in August, 1943.
At the end of 1945 the figure had declined
to 497,200 —still 51,000 in excess of the
1941 figure. (At the end of February
the total Government employees had
again risen to 506,400.) The reduc-
tion since August, 1943, could almost
entirely be accounted for by the
contraction in the Allied Works Coun-
cil staff. But, in addition, there
has been a drop of 85,800 in em-
ployees engaged in “Governmental” fac-
tories in the same time. The compara-
tively small decline in the total of all Gov-
ernment employees is thus puzzling. There
appears to have been a considerable
expansion recently in Government trans-
port and “white-collar” workers.
* * * *
Masonite Corporation (Aust.) repre-
sents an interesting Stock Exchange in-
vestment through its ordinary shares.
Masonite is a product in great demand
in the building trade, supplies being below
requirements. Keen demand should per-
sist for a number of years to come, the
product being well received by the public,
and the building industry facing a period
of great activity as soon as essential
materials are in full supply. There are
287,500 £1 ordinary shares issued in
Masonite as well as 100,000 deferreds of
2s. 6d. each. The deferreds are entitled to
half the profits after the ords. get 7 p.c.
The ords.’ share of the profit last year was
equal to 11.1 p.c. on the amount paid
up, and an 8 p.c. div. was handed out.
The co. is now in the process of doubling
the capacity of its plant, and its funds
should be ample for the job. Though
little or no benefit is likely from this
expansion during the financial year soon
to close, in 1946-47 profits should respond
appreciably, granted freedom from indus-
trial stoppages and from too much of an
“overall-profit” view by the Prices Com-
missioner, Though there is little to be
seen in the accounts in the way of net
general reserves, tax provision appears to
be fully adequate and depreciation allow-
ance liberal. The co.’s prices were strictly
controlled during the war, and there
appears to be no inflation in revenue or
assets figures. The ord. shares are pegged
at 325. 9d., and, under open-market con-
ditions, would seem to have scope for
appreciation.
* * * *
Britain’s exports continue to expand,
rising to £69.6 million sterling in April,
in spite of the Easter break. They were
25 p.c. above the February total. Some
observers are critical of the expansion
shown, claiming that middlemen, with
speculative intent, are coming too strongly
into the picture, buying from the manu-
facturer in Britain and exporting to the
overseas market ready to pay the highest
price. This, it is claimed, is not good
for long-term trade prospects, and is in-
clined to give export values an inflated
appearance. On the whole, however,
British trade will be conducted by old-
established firms endeavoring to recapture
their pre-war markets, and it is unlikely
that long-term prospects, in the main, are
being overlooked.
During the lend-lease period there
were times when the United States had
to pay more for imports than it received
cash for its exports, there being such an
outflow of U.S. production on a “free”
basis. During the first nine months of
1945, U.S. commercial imports were
about $530 million in excess of commer-
cial exports. The position has now
changed, and by February of this year
that debit had been largely wiped out
by an excess of paid-for exports. Even
at that, United States exports are far
from being in full stride again, as is
plainly seen by the absence of new Fords
and Che vs. in Australia.
* * * *
Outline of Canada’s major financial
dealings with Britain during and since the
recent war:
Early in 1942 the Canadian Government made
an outright gift of £2BO million Australian to
the United Kingdom to facilitate purchases of
Canadian goods and services. The Canadian
Government, too, early in the war converted
before maturity Canadian Government direct
and guranteed securities held in the United
Kingdom. This step made available to Britain
£421 million in Canadian dollars. The Canadian
Government later repatriated remaining British-
held Canadian securities valued at £222 million,
thus providing additional Canadian dollars.
Then Canada consolidated accumulated Can-
adian sterling balances in London amounting
to £194 million into a loan to the United
Kingdom, interest-free for the duration of the
war. (By terms of the new post-war £345
million loan to Britain, this loan has been ex-'
tended on an interest-free basis to 1951.)
During the war the Canadian Government
bought British war-plant investments in Canada
valued at £55 million. Under the new post-
war loan agreement, Canada cancelled the debt
of more than £lOO million owed by the U.K.
to Canada in respect of Canada’s operation bf
the Commonwealth Air Training Plan. Up to
the end of the war the cost of Canadian goods
and services supplied to the United Kingdom,
free of charge, under mutual aid totalled more
than £4OO million. Charges for mutual-aid
goods and services supplied after the end of
the war, when mutual aid had ceased, have
been cancelled. A post-war loan ,of £345 mil-
lion to the United Kingdom by Canada was
announced on March 7, 1946.
The population of Canada is about
11,700,000.
* * * *
Not so long ago the Federal Labor
Government put forward the increased
interest bill as a reason for maintaining
heavy taxation in the post-war period.
Now its “reasons” are mainly based on
alleged necessity for “tapering-off” war
activities and the cost of its alleged social
security. An interest bill £4O million
higher as a result of World War II is
no excuse for continuing to spend nearly
£4OO million more. Certainly there will
be a hangover from the war for a year
or two, but the case of World War I is
no parallel. The recent war was more
nearly a total war in this country, and
the only logical reaction in the peace is
one of reduced Government spending.
Any other view represents a wanton
courting of socialistic extravagance and
industrial deterioration.
* * * *
On any “party” matter Mr, Chifley, the
Prime Minister, is always the faithful
servaqt of the trade-unionists and Labor
Caucus. He is there at the crack of the
whip. But has anyone ever heard of Mr.
Chifley calling together representatives of
all the building trades to a round-table
conference so as to discuss ways and
means of speeding-up home-construc-
tion? During the war “munition
workers” were given special priority in
getting into houses that became vacant,
and were also protected, by Federal laws,
against ejectment. Trade-unionists as
a body are not the most-badly-
housed section of the community today;
they got well entrenched during the
war, especially as they were mostly in
receipt of high pay. Many a soldier, on
the other hand, gave up his home on
enlistment and arranged for his wife to
live with some relative, for obyious
reasons. Others, single when they enlisted,
got married prior to embarkation, wife
continuing to live at home, and here
again there is a housing problem, especi-
ally where children have arrived in the
family. One of the first acts by the
Chifley Government following the end of
the war was to hand housing-control back
to the States, one Premier describing the
restored State privilege as a “hot potato.”
But many of the obstructions to a speedy
return of building activity remain a Com-
monwealth matter —the general produc-
tion rate of the nation remains in the
hands of the Federal Labor Government
and its satellite bodies. Millions of
pounds are still being spent on the con-
struction of useless aircraft. The Canberra
Administration’s “housing research”
efforts, while costing much money and, in
some ways, obstructing other efforts, are
a sad joke. To the tens of thousands who
are virtually homeless, even if temporarily
“housed,” the attitude of the Federal and
most State Labor Governments to the
tragic housing problem seems cold-
bloodedly indifferent.
* * * *
Zinc production in Australia has re-
mained steady during the war ; it has
been, lately, 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. higher
than the average established in the three
years immediately preceding the outbreak
of hostilities. The price of spelter has not
risen overseas so spectacularly as lead,
but at £39 ss. sterling in London it is
more than double the price allowed to
be charged in Australia. Electrolytic
Zinc depends principally for its profits
on exports. Its ord. div. has fallen from
15 p.c. to 8 p.c. during the war, but with
a higher income from exports now it
should be doing better. The ords. are
occasionally available in Melbourne at
655. 6d. Lowest sale during 1945 was
at 565. 6d.
* * * *
Cardinal Gilroy, if reported correctly,
advocates a higher basic wage, mentioning
that “a higher basic wage means that there
will be a lot of money in circulation, and
that means prosperity to the small shop-
keepers and a boom in the building
trade.” Deficiency of wages, basic or
higher, is not Australia’s present trouble ;
there is an excess of wage-earners’ money
in circulation, which has certainly brought
“prosperity” to shopkeepers of many
kinds. But still the building industry
doesn’t “boom.” The reason is that
highly-paid wage-earners, on the coalfields
and elsewhere, won’t do the work neces-
sary to make it “boom,” Many people
have stjll to learn that a nation cannot eat
money wages, and you can’t build homes
out of them. F. P. Walsh, representing
the Federation of Labor, on the New
Zealand Economic Stabilisation Commis-
sion, has recently told the national council
of the Federation that the only way to in-
crease living standards is by production
of more goods and services.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Once a month Bill
Stevens and “Overdone” arrived in the
town from Back Tultul dead on the
Saturday noon, gathered their supplies,
loaded their buggy, sheeted it down, then
went on a bender. The bender always
ended precisely at 3 p.m. on the Sunday,
when they departed the town, and Mon-
day morning found them toiling once
again at Back Tultul. Five years passed
and Back Tultul acquired a new manager.
Slackness set in and became obvious when
Bill and “Overdone” didn’t get back from
their monthly trip until late on the Mon-
day mornings- Eighteen months passed,
a new manager came who stood no non-
sense. But Bill and “Overdone” had
acquired a bad habit and couldn’t break
it. On their sixth offence the manager
warned them, for the last time, that late-
ness would bring the sack. They went
into the town that month very worried
men. But they had a plan. From Satur-
day noon till Sunday noon they drank
nothing but tea, then, with a load of
bottled stuff they set out to make a
leisurely passage home, enjoying a mobile
bender while the horses steadily plodded
on. By sundown that Sunday both
were happy. Sometime in the night
they fell into the hut and into
further sleep. Bill was up with the dawn
and sighted the boss. “Well,” he said,
with a splitting head and a wide grin,
“reckon we’re on time this morning, eh?”
The manager looked at him. “Yairs,”
he said, “but whereinell were you and
your mate Monday and Tuesday?”
* * * *
“Billy See”: It may interest “Humber-
stone” (B. 1/5/’46) to know that, besides
the man who spreads ballast on the rail-
way, the chap who dresses castings in a
foundry is also a fettler. And my dic-
tionary is concise on the point: “Fettle,
verb, to put in right order; noun, good
trim, order or condition.” And both the
chap who finishes the railway and he who
dresses the casting do that. Also the
athlete or the racehorse that attains pink
of condition is in “good fettle.”
* * * ♦
“Nor’-west”: Up around Derby, north-
-west W.A., ther primitive abos. used to
pound up a root, toss it into the diminish-
ing waterholes along the Fitzroy and
other rivers, and then reap a harvest of
fish, mostly barramundi. They called this
root Panchor,' and it is probably similar
to the derris root spoken of by “Tuva”
(B. l/5/’46). If so, it should be worth a
little botanical study, since derris powder,
as an insecticide, is always in short supply,
and a small but profitable industry might
be added to the potentialities of our
vacant north.
* * * *
“Blime”: I have paddled through pools
of caterpillars, shared my belongings with
mice too numerous to grumble at and
considerately shoved aside hordes of
grasshoppers from my bunk; but may
the fates spare my mottled hide from
another flea plague! Two normally reason-
able blokes and one exceptionally good-
tempered bloke camped together, it wasn’t
long before we were three bleary-eyed,
irritable scratchers who looked long over-
due for the measles ward. Even the
mongs grew poor ; while our schemes for
a few hours’ sleep were as varied as they
were useless. Soon, we’d discarded all
but our most essential duds, and our early
practice of shedding our tormentors into
the fire changed to a vigorous rub down
outside the hut, followed by a liberal
application of anything new our weary
brains could hit upon. We’d exhausted
every likely remedy, from pennyroyal to
axle grease, when Ted began experiment-
ing with a home-made concoction of
every evil smell he could locate. The
result drove everything from the hut but
the fleas. Our protests, entreaties and
threats proving vain, “Mudgie” retaliated
with smoke fires that sent all hands
blindly hunting dossing quarters under
the stringybarks. The easing of that
plague came in time to save two normally
reasonable blokes and one —er —excep-
tionally good-tempered bloke from being
all mixed up in two murders and a suicide.
* ♦ * *
“The 0.D.”; If there’s one kind of
advice I value above all other, it’s the
breed handed out by bushmen (?) as to
what to do when doing a perish in water-
less country. Here’s “Gill Guy” (B.
22/5/’46) joins the helpful throng by
telling me that “anyone stranded in the
far outback sandy country” can tap a
needlewood-tree, cut a root from it, heat
the top of the tree to drive the sap down,
and catch the moisture in a receptacle.
Well, I value that advice, since it warns
me never to be out in that far outback
sandy country without a water-bag—l
mightn’t be able to find a needlewood in
time and I doubt if I could find one with
“leafy top branches” to bum.
♦ ♦ * »
“Sou’-west”: The sand bars that
periodically close the mouths of many
Australian rivers display some odd
vagaries. The one at Mandurah, W.A.,
is an example. Itself a sea lake with a
“Five thousand, me foo t—I demand a recount !”
spread of several hundred square miles,
the Peel Inlet receives the floods of three
rivers. At a mile from the sea it narrows
to a few hundred yards. At the verge
of the ocean this mouth, from season to
season, wanders anywhere up or down a
beach-spread of a mile or more. Given
a dry winter it closes, the bar often heap-
ing up to 10ft. With access to the ocean
cut off, fishermen and local authorities
become perturbed. So, over the years,
many attempts have been made to open
the bar by human effort. With horse-
drawn sand-scoops a sizable channel has
bedh cut, scientifically, with a narrow
barrier left at the sea’s rim, to be broken
through at the highest point of the tide.
So the sea has rushed in, filled the
channel and the river has been open. But
only for an hour or so, for the sea with
a peculiar perversity has always filled the
channel in again. But sooner or later
the real hour arrives; a north wind, or
even a heavy swell from that direction,
and the obstinate sand melts away,
at times so rapidly that too-venturesome
spectators have had to run to avoid being
engulfed.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Seven or eight of us
were camped in Mildura’s Pinkie Bend
awaiting a start at grape-snatching, and
one night the yarns started. The subject
matter ranged from snakes to bosses and
travelled per railway, car, horse, boot
and ship from the Gulf to Fremantle,
Mat and I threw in a yarn or two each,
but mostly listened and laughed at the
others’ efforts. As time passed the fresh
yams—there are never many fresh yarns
—became used up and we began to hear
tales we’d heard several times before.
The’evening became dull, with patches of
long quiet as everybody tried to think
of something new. Then Mat sat up.
“Hey,” he demanded, “did y’ ever hear
that yarn about the cocky and the new
hand?” He stopped while sundry voices
assured him profanely that they had.
“Well,” said Mat, “don’t stop me, you
blokes. It’s so much better than what
we bin bearin’ that I want t’ hear it
again.” Ten minutes later everybody
was in his nap.
* * * ♦
“Exkewex”: “Bo’s” staged suicide (B.
15/5/ ’46) set “Long Jack” talking. Bill,
the yardman at the Tumbledown Pub,
was always spouting about the better
days he’d seen and how he’d “end it all”
when he’d been on a bender. “I’m there
once knockin’ down a cheque, and when
I finally came round I’m in a room in
bed and here’s Bill makin’ passes at his
throat in front of the mirror with a
razor.” “Wodjer do? % ’ asked Bob the
Babbler. Jack grinned. “After a coupla
minutes I hopped up and took the razor
off him.” “Coupla minutes!” snorted
Bob. “Why, the poor cow might have
been serious.” Jack grinned. “Well,” he
drawled, “I just wanted to make sure
whether it was me or him that had the
horrors.”
♦ * * *
“C.E.”: Even wild animals have their
usual haunts and habits, and a dingo pre-
fers to kill on his accustomed area. Gen-
erally, only when he is disturbed or the
sheep are shifted does he roam into an-
other paddock in search of them. Domes-
tic dogs with the sheep-killing habit favor
similar tactics; I’ve known a couple
of mongs travel miles of sheep-
packed country to kill nightly on the
same ridge. While the practice aids in
the destruction of the dingo, in the case
of the home dog it often throws suspi-
cion on the wrong one, for seldom does
a wary old-timer kill near his own quar-
ters. Nor is he hungry. Gluttony some-
times, but mostly it is love of the chase
that drives him to the slaughter of ten or
a dozen victims in a night. Caught in
the act, if the killer’s owner is a sheep-
man, his destruction is immediate and
sure, but a different owner often means
an indifferent shrug and a vain promise
to keep the tyke chained in future. Hav-
ing been caught this way more than once,
I now find it pays better to shoot first
and forget to inquire later.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: As a universal provider
the coconut may beat the bamboo (B.
22/5/’46), but both of them run a bad
second to the sago palm, which grows
wild along the banks of Bornean rivers.
I used to travel in a Government launch
up and down a river in Brunei visiting
rubber plantations, and on our route was
a tribe which lived upon the vegetable in
its wild state. On most occasions they
were sleeping or languidly fishing, but
there was one fortnight annually when
the whole population was stirred to an
activity which was terrific. Having
leached their prime the palms had been
felled across supports, one side of the
trunk removed and swilled with water, and
the women, with their hands clutching a
beam above their heads, in the way they
tread grapes in Italy, were rhythmically
trampling the farinaceous content with
their feet, so that it flowed over into con-
tainers. On our next visit the stuff could
be seen drying, and on the next the vil-
lage would be observed to have sunk back
into its habitual state of lethargy and
contentment. The fortnight’s work pro-
vided the sago-eaters with all the nourish-
ment they needed for the whole year,
and the trunk of the palm provided them
with all the material they needed for their
simple utensils —they didn’t use weapons
because there was no necessity to do any-
thing so exhausting as hunting. The food
was shared in common. It is a rather
striking commentary on socialistic doc-
trines that the tribes which subsist on
wild sago have no arts, no crafts, much
more primitive industries than the war-
like Dyaks, are undersized and under-
intelligent compared with neighboring
races. They suffer from a universal skin
disease which is the only thing that pre-
vents them sleeping 24 hours a day in-
stead of a dozen.
* * * *
“Dronestung’*: An unknown eucalypt
has cropped up in the sub-alpine forests
fringing Mt. Bogong (Vic.). As yet only
two occurrences have, so far as I know,
been noted: one at the S.E.C. township
of Bogong, on the Kiewa hydro-electric
scheme, and by the writer south from the
Mitta Valley at Eskdale. It is believed this
tree may be a hybrid of the Victorian
blue-gum (E. bicostata ) and the broadleaf
peppermint (£. dives), as it combines
many features familiar to both; but in
appearance it is definitely a gum. Numer-
ous in patches, the trees reach to 100 ft.
or so, and have usually thick trunks with
numerous long and spreading branches.
The foliage is more or less dense, and at
times has a distinct blue appearance when
seen at a distance, showing out in marked
contrast on the closely-forested slopes.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: No, there isn’t much
difference between Toos and euros (B.
8/ 5 / ’46) if, like “The 0.D.,” you’re blind
to dissimilarities in color, build, pace,
habits and environment. At ranges up to
100 yards the hollow-pointed, long-rifle
.22 bullet will stop either ’roos or euros
so long as you slap it into the right spot.
As even “The 0.D.” should be able to
tell one kind of marsupial from another
at these distances, identification doesn’t
present insurmountable difficulties. The
greatest difference between ’roos and
euros, relevant to the stopping power of
the pearifle, however, is their respective
habitats. Here, out from Hawker (S.A.),
the red blokes infest wide-open stretches
of gibber plain. It’s easy enough to find
’em; you make for the only vegetation
visible within a mile or two, say a solitary
bullock bush. When you’re within two or
three times the effective range of the .22
the hoppers jump nimbly over the
adjacent horizon. This ensures that even
“The 0.D.” wouldn’t be very likely to
knock a red buck in mistake for a euro,
so long as he carried a miniature rifle.
In the ranges, however, the euros lie up
either in thick pine or oak scrub or
among the porcupine clumps. There is
plenty of cover and anyone with reason-
able control of his feet can get shots at
close range, especially as the wallaroo is
not remarkable for his mental and phy-
sical abilities at getting off the mark.
Finally, I’d suggest “The 0.D.” check up
on his geography of Unley and try an-
other guess.
♦ * * ♦
“Prop”: So “Dominic” (B. 8/5/’46)
wants some Australian costume, does he?
In the days when the baby colony of
South Australia was trying to develop
the Territory and —a fact overlooked by
writing-boy optimists these days—was
trying crops of every known tropical and
sub-tropical vegetable in the top end, a
Parliamentary party was sent up to look
things over. This is from a contemporary
report: “The Minister [of Education and
of the Northern Territory], the Honorable
J. L. Parsons, in a slashed slouch hat with
veil a la bushranger light tweed
trousers, with singlet, black umbrella and
long white oil leggings, on (as was fit)
the best horse of the lot.” Two other
M.Ps. and a professor were similarly
rigged out. Any Australian novelist who
can’t get color out of such goings-on is
suffering from Daltonism,
• * ♦ »
“E. 2”: Activities of a colony of bees
are guided by collective impulses rather
than dictates of the queen or any section
of workers, and the hive performs as a
single unit. Seasonal conditions and state
of the flora greatly influence the hive im-
pulses. When scouts locate a new and
rich source of nectar the fact is quickly
made known, and workers locate the
blossoms by following the scent borne on
the air currents. After locating a few
wild bees’ nests from honey baits, I’m
inclined to the opinion that bees are
readily able to pass on information to
their mates. The first bee to take a load
home is soon joined by others, and before
long a roaring swarm of them are gorging
the honey. The bees, as if following care-
ful directions, fly in without hesitation to
the exact spot where the honey is spread,
MID-WINTER’S EVE.
Silence, distance and color.
Sickles of yellow beach.
Cobalt blues of the channel
Merging each into each.
Opal, emerald and silver
Far as the eye can reach.
Little brown boats at anchor
Beside the old brown quay.
Lazy ripples hush-hushing
And climbing stealthily
Up to the tinkling shingle,
Sliding back to the sea.
The opal loses its fire
The pale sun descends
To his court in the halls of sunset
That every cloud attends,
Till you know not where heaven begins
Or ocean ends.
But the tide in the Rip is turning
Home through the headlands grey.
The stars’ blue mirror is broken,
And the black masts dip and sway
Where darkness has gathered early
The gold of the shortest day.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZJEL.


“ Righto, Sam—a soft lullaby while I fan ’i'm to sleep!”
“B 4”: Stand by for my white-ant yarn.
A mounted constable stationed on
the Woolgar (N.Q.) goldfield left his
bark shanty on,a walkabout. Returning,
he found that the termites had eaten his
Q.G. wurlie and irretrievably damaged
ail his crooner-records. Deciding they
disliked Bing’s doleful groaning, he
ordered a supply of Sinatra’s to appease
them, and on arrival ran the repertoire
in his new cabin. That night the termites
ate his boots and uniform, and were drag-
ging him out of his bunk by the ears
when he awoke and escaped.
* * * *
“Zake”: Should the question arise as
to whether or not an ant can gnash its
teeth, I would confidently plump for the
affirmative. It was a hot day, and I was
lolling in the shade of a gum near where
I had scraped some old fat from the
camp frying-pan. An ant, on recon-
naissance duty, came on the food hoard
and started to lug a piece of the fat away.
Eventually its perambulation took it out
of the shade and into the sun. No doubt
the insect was quite perked up at the
thought that it must have been gaining in
strength. Alas, it was merely that the
load was getting lighter. In the end
when its burden dissolved away to a
black drop of moisture in the dust that
ant looked around suspiciously. No other
ant was in the offing and I, the only other
suspect, was recumbent some feet away.
He might have scratched his head, but
I wouldn’t swear to it. He went back,
heaved another piece up and went his
way. After five weary feet his load had
again literally run away from him. He
tried it a few more times. Then I think
he went home and gave his missus a
hiding.
* ♦ * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A feature of the
Australian bush which still moves me to
wonder is the size at birth of some of
its native inhabitants. The classic example
is the kangaroo. I’ve seen them, on the
teat, to where they had crawled after
delivery, little bigger than the top of my
thumb, and they may have been weeks
old then. Snakes, too, produce diminu-
tive young, and a goanna’s egg is roughly
about the size of a canary’s, giving an
indication of the size of a newly-hatched
go. Contrast these with the mallee hen’s
chicks. When hatched they are strong
and powerful enough to battle their way
through sand to the air, and sufficiently
developed to be able to take off when
they get there —probably the only born
aviators in the world.
# * * *
“Bogaduck”: When seen under the
microscope, the little double-action pump
inside the mosquito’s head, which
sucks up the blood, is a thing to marvel
at. In form it resembles a couple of
rubber bulbs; while one is filling with
blood the other is passing it on to the
stomach and vice versa. So long as she
has her head down, however, the pump
goes on working, ceasing only when the
stomach is full and the insect withdraws
the proboscis from the wound she has
made. With some species it is possible
to prevent this withdrawal by placing a
finger and thumb on the skin on each
side of the feeding insect and stretching
it taut. When her stomach is full the
insect tries to withdraw but finds herself
stuck fast —and the pump keeps on work-
ing. She struggles frantically, her blood-
distended abdomen swelling rapidly;
finally, when it is about the size of a
small currant, it bursts with an audible
click, sending a spatter of blood in all
directions. The pest then gives a couple
of feeble kicks and expires. After our
malaria expert, up in the Islands, had
shown us the trick we often amused
ourselves by making mossies burst in
this way.
sfc
“Yarri”: You don’t have to go out-
back to see the mysterious apparition of
the apus in casual water. When I was
a kid in Warracknabeal (Vic.) there were
bare depressions about the town which
filled with yellow water whenever it
rained. Within an hour or so we’d be
there with jam-tins, catching what we
called Dimboola turtles and using ’em
for bait in the Yarriambiack,
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Imagine a bunch of leaves
six and a half inches long, or nine and
a half if you include the green twigs at
the top end. Make the leaves that soft
and lovely green that is peculiar to young
grass, and give them the correct parallel
venation of young grass blades. From
among the long leaves produce some
smaller ones with serrated edges—and
you’ll have a fair picture of the insect I
picked up the other day. She is a phas-
mid, a ghost insect, and one of the love-
liest and most improbable animals in this
world. Beneath her ‘grass-simulating
wing-covers she wears a pair of wings of
delicate green gauze, folded fan-wise in
the grasshopper fashion and edged with
a half-inch strip of brilliant rose which
is discreetly hidden except when she uses
the great wings to parachute down from
the gum-tops on which she feeds.
Despite her giant size her head is slightly
less than a quarter-inch across, and
when at rest it fits exactly into two hol-
lows on the inner sides of the fore-
legs, making her camouflage complete.
Although a relation of that insect
panther the mantis, she is a harmless and
rather absent-minded vegetarian: brows-
ing around on young leaves, she drops
her eggs carelessly into space with a fine
disregard for their fate. What the Vic-
torian naturalists, who concerned them-
selves over the morality or otherwise of
insects who pretended to be something
else, would have said about her would
have been probably in accord with repu-
tations generally allotted to other ladies
who are beautiful but deceptive.
* * * *
“Exkewex”: “Dicky Beach” (B.
15/5/ ’46) isn’t making a discovery when
he finds whale meat edible, Bullen men-
tions it, and one of the characters in
Moby Dick waxes lyrical about whale
steak cut from the “small,” i.e., the
smallest part of the whale’s body im-
mediately in front of the tail. Also, I
seem to remember men who went to the
Antarctic with Norwegian whalers in
recent years complaining that the only
meat they ever got was whale. I’m glad
to hear, though, that it is being canned—
it ought to add a bit of variety to bully,
m.-and-v., dehydrated mutton, etc., when
we go to fight Franco or Peron or Wil-
helmina or whomever the wharfies decide
we will declare war on next.
* ♦ * *
“Narrin”; In my experience it’s just as
easy to draw an arrow back to the cheek
as to the chin (B. 24/4/’46). You
draw the string as the bow comes up,
take a quick sight when the bow is about
three-quarters bent, the target being, of
course, to the left of the arrow point,
and then, in one movement, draw the
arrow to the head and let fly. I fancy
that the longer arrow gives some advant-
age—certainly the English archer of the
Middle Ages had it all over his Conti-
nental opposite, who used the short mis-
sile, drawn to chin or chest —but don’t
know enough about the physical laws in-
volved. Perhaps “H.A.L.” can throw
some light on the subject.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: The constable recognised the
applicant for the pension as “Baldy”—the
only name anyone locally knew him by.
He’d been hovering around the district
for years, and had led a hazy sort of
existence, with a dog and a couple of
goats, in a bark humpy between the
township and the river. The constable
“Better hand over your fags, Ocker—this bag's full o’ gas."
ran a dubious eye over him, said he had
to be 65 and must provide a birth cer-
tificate. “Baldy” absorbed this, thought
a while, theq mooched out. Two
days later he returned, drew from
his tattered overcoat pocket a sus-
piciously new-looking prayer book,
placed it open at the fly page on the
constable’s desk and pointed with a grimy
forefinger at an entry which read :
“‘Baldy’ Peters, born April 14, 1881.”
“There, that makes me 65, don’t it?” the
applicant asked. “I can’t find me birth
certificate, but this ole fambly prayer
book’ll do, won’t it? Me mother writ
that the day after I was born. I remem-
ber me ole man tellin’ me ’ow she asked
for the pen” The constable wiped
his hand across the page, looked closely
at his fingers and then grimly at “Baldy.”
“Why, this ink’s still wet on it,” he be-
gan. “Baldy” peered at it. “Gripes, so
it is!” he exclaimed slowly, “They made
reel ink in them days,” he went on, “not
like the stuff y’ get in the post office these
times that dries on y’ right away!”
* * * #
“Anthropo”: The abo. legend of the
bunyip can readily be placed on a com-
monsense basis. “Mungo,” as the early
settlers dubbed him, told a story of a
huge man-eating monster which arose,
mostly at night, from swamps and rivers.
Obviously this was the crocodile. True,
no saurians existed in southern Australia,
where the bunyip yarn was mostly re-
tailed, but the ancestors of those sable
yarn-spinners had all travelled through
this continent’s crocodile belt, the first of
their kind having, obviously, landed either
at Cape York Peninsula or on the
Bathurst-Melville Islands. Also, all the
way down from Asia they had known
and encountered the man-eaters. So,
even after the vanguard of the migration
had passed beyond the croc, belt, the
story of monsters that suddenly heaved
out of swamp and river persisted, much
as the legends of the Druids and King
Arthur persisted among the English.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; If those Mallacoota
(Vic.) jellyfish are the big, yellow
“blubbers” that float up the coastal
rivers and creeks of N.S.W. I fear
that it will take . more than a
“fresh” to kill them (B. 22/5/’46). I’ve
found the species living in water that was
little more than brackish. Rather than
accept the theory that it is their slime
that rots the nets I would submit that
the corrosion is caused by the powerful
secretion that is the organism’s only
means of defence. How powerful it is
will be vouched for by anybody who has
been unfortunate enough to brush
against the long, lacy tentacles that hang
beneath the saucer-shaped body. The
sting will last for hours —proportionate
to the delicacy of the skin that is con-
tacted. I still remember the angry red
blotch on the stomach of an agonised boy
who had slipped on wet mud and fallen
across a dead blubber that had been
thrown up on to the bank of the creek.
On one occasion the water in which we
were swimming suddenly developed a
stinging quality. Yet no blubbers were
visible. The explanation became obvious
when, a hundred yards upstream, a
couple of boys were seen breaking up a
jellyfish by pelting it with stones and
bashing it with a bamboo. Pieces of
tentacle too minute to see were potent
enough to “charge” the water. The crea-
ture Has a vulnerable spot, however:
grasped from the top it is harmless; but
with its only means of self-propulsion—
a pulsing kind of movement with the frill
around its circumference —it will some-
times escape by submerging and slipping
to one side.
BALLAD OF THE GOOD DEED.
The tale is of my grandsire and his sturdy bar-
quentine,
Outward bound from London Pool for Tasman
waters green.
With decks aslant in half a gale, with singing
sheet and stay,
She frolicked down the Channel coast in shots
of silver spray;
And on her beam the Flower of Clyde, a rival
clipper, flew,
Close hauled aloft and snug below and bound
for Sydney, too.
“A race it is, my bullies!” My grandsire
thumped the rail,
“Now to teach yon braggart scum a trick or
two in sail.”
First Finisterre was lost to port, then Teneriffe
dropped by,
But Flower of Clyde still held her way, bold-
sparred against the sky;
And winds blew fair and winds blew foul and,
sometimes, not at all,
As prow to prow they turned the Horn in
veering scud and squall.
On past the Bluff with spanking trades they
sailed the seas as one,
Till Bof’ny sands rose golden in the dying of
the sun,
And then the hurricane came down and skies
were turned to lead
And the wind wailed in the shrouds aloft as
though to rouse the dead.
The lookout’s voice came sharp and shrill —
“Man overboard!” he cried.
“Two points to port. See, there he goes!
He’s from the Flower of Clyde.”
My grandsire Was no heartless man, though
tough as any spar—
He put his ship about that day to aid the
luckless tar.
Round came the helm, down went the gig upon
the quartering sea,
And decks ran white with tumbled spume from
weather-side to lee.
She wallowed there while tall sticks groaned
and hearts were filled with dread,
As top’s’ls burst like cannon shot and sheets
were snapped like thread.
And through it all my grandsire stood, a
Viking born again,
And cursed the wind and cursed the tar and
cursed the drumming rain.
But now the crew were coming back, high-
mounted on a wave,
A line snaked out and hands reached down
to snatch them from the grave;
And then my grandsire swore again—no word
did he repeat—
As they brought the sodden corpse aboard and
laid it at his feet;
And as strange a sight was witnessed then as
sailors ever saw,
As my grandsire plied his seaboots to a dummy
made of straw.
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


r
,
Mi I
of this NEW
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE'
VIBRATOR OPERATED TABLE RECEIVER
&A& 7t&w
See and hear this outstanding Dual-Wave Receiver
(Model 326) at your nearest “His Master’s Voice”
Retailer.
★ There is also an A.C. operated Broadcast Receiver
(Model 456).
“HIS MASTERS VOICE”
true-to-life Radio
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R.12/46/B.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: B. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.-
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MORES,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
r7^
- Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
- All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bulk Classing.
“B-gar”: There is no reason why so
many “star lots” should be a feature of
catalogues when wool auctions are re-
sumed. It would benefit all con-
cerned if bulk classing were exploited
to the full, but small growers must have
the system fully explained to them and
be taught that the higher price invariably
received for bulk-classed lines will more
than compensate for the small price
charged by brokers for the work entailed.
Many object to having their wool inter-
lotted or bulk-classed mainly because they
don’t understand the modus operandi of
a wool sale. I know from experience that
they take a lot of convincing of the ad-
vantages to be gained by bulk classing
their two- and three-bale lots.
Some years ago the Wool Inquiry Com-
mittee thoroughly investigated bulk class-
ing, and proof was forthcoming that it
was of great benefit to growers and the
industry in general. The British Wool
Federation expressed the same opinion.
Figures were produced that should dispel
any doubts. Various wools passed at auc-
tion showed a gain to growers of as much
as 4|d. per pound after they’d been bulk
classed and sold. And for the same types
of wool that were sold as fudges or bags
the prices paid when bulk classed were
from 2d. to 4d. per pound higher. It
seems certain that a grower can’t lose by
having his wool bulk classed ; if it loses
its identity in the sale catalogue a bigger
cheque should more than compensate.
Care of Heifers.
“C.A.A.”: Four weeks before calving,
heifers should be included in the milking
herd, bailed after milking is done and
fed some mill offal and crushed grains as
well as all the silage, hay or chaff they
will consume. Handle the heifer. She
will thus obtain the additional feeding
necessary and will become accustomed to
the milking shed, the persons working
there and the older cows. If training be-
fore calving has been carefully done little
or no difficulty should be experienced
with initial milkings. Few heifers kick
except through fear. 4
Troubles like heifer pox, chafed and
cracked teats are disturbing to both
heifer and milker and reduce yield. If
milking is done by hand, wet milkers
have more trouble with these things than
dry milkers. Trouble can be prevented
by ordinary cleanliness. Before starting,
teats, udder and milker’s hands should
be washed in clean water to which a little
chlorine sterilizer has been added. Wash
udder and teats after milking. Udder
inflammation in heifers is usually normal
and will respond to gentle massage. When
machines are used the same system of
washing should be employed.
If maximum lifetime production is to
be obtained, no heifer should be allowed
to get in calf too young or to calve while
immature. Services should be so con-
trolled that heifers will not calve within
12 months of the first calving.
Breaking-in a Colt.
“Rooster”; Castration in the second
month will be necessary. When about six
months old, yard the colt daily for an
hour to get him used to mankind.
Familiarise the animal with your
voice; it will know every inflection
in time and obey them instinctively.
Best age to begin haltering is con-
troversial ; as a general rule, the
earlier the better. I’ve broken them
in under 12 months old. Experience
is the best teacher, but there are cer-
tain precautions which must be taken
if injury to horse or man is to be
avoided. The halter should be
looped with a non-slip knot (the
sheepshank is probably the easiest
and best). The lead should be suffi-
ciently long to give the colt plenty
of play and to retain several loops
in the hands. The rope should not
be kept taut; a gentle pull will, after
about a week’s circular prancing,
tutor the colt into the feel of it.
Never step in front of a rearing
colt, or, for that matter, directly be-
hind a plunging one. Keep always
on the left side, letting the colt run
in circles. It pays to coax rather
than to hoax into submission. The
constant feel of an arm around the
neck will shortly make it quiet and
unperturbed when haltering for the
first time.
Having so far broken the animal in,
the next step can be withheld for several
weeks. In the meantime the gradual
preparation for saddling, collaring and
winkering can be simplified by the sense
of touch. A saddle-cloth, felt or bag
collars, rope blinkers are good intro-
ducers.
At 20 to 24 months the colt is ready
for a test haul. A log of wood suffices,
pulled by a single swinglebar and chains.
Give the colt its head for a little while,
then gently pull the near-side rein, alter-
nating it frequently with an offside pull.
Any attempt to jump the traces can
usually be checked by gently flicking the
reins on the withers. The voice should
be kindly pitched and clear when calling
for a halt or a turn. Difficulty may be
experienced when halting for the first
time. Reins should then be gently, but
firmly, held until the colt sees sense, then
go immediately to the head, coaxing and
soothing.
Introduction to a team requires special
precautions. Best idea is an in-between
position where cross-reining will enable
the outside horses to restrain the colt’s
impetuosity. Shortening the traces helps
in this. From here on the animal learns
quickly, the older horses tutoring it along.
With these preliminaries, at 2% years it
should become a steady puller. Harsher
methods may get results, but the animal
is certain to be highly strung and tempera-
mental—merely a nuisance on the farm.
Bees in Victoria.
“Bumble”; Victoria has had poor
seasons and light honey crops, and some
apiarists have had heavy losses. The
fires of 1944 destroyed many apiaries and
drought took toll of others. A shortage
of material, particularly boxes and frames,
has greatly hampered bee farming.
The coming season should offer some
compensation ; yellow-box and red-gums
“O’ course we'll never be built-in now the adjoinin' property is a
national park and bird sanctuary."
are well budded and seasonal conditions
are so far satisfactory. Maximum price
of honey is 7|d. a pound, and, though
offset a bit by the cost of tins, selling
charges, etc., the crop should be easy to
dispose of at more than 30s. a 601 b, tin.
The food value of honey is high and it is
in heavy demand for export to countries
where famine stalks. Victorian apiarists
have the flora in sight to produce a
bumper crop next season, but shortage of
material will hamper them.
Try Some Rye.
“E.H.S.”: Rye is the hardiest of
cereals: it is practically frost-proof, and
will yield remunerative crops on land too
poor to produce wheat, oats or barley.
It provides excellent green feed through-
out the winter, makes more vigorous
growth under low temperatures, and will
sfand more cutting than any other cereal.
If it is still vigorous when the spring
grass displaces it as green fodder, it should
be grazed off or allowed to mature, when
a fair return of grain may be expected.
As it approaches maturity it becomes
tough and spindly and almost devoid of
flag, and for this reason it is seldom cut
for hay.
Rye" flour, although of high nutritive
value, is rarely used in Australia, but is
a staple food in Russia, Scandinavia and
Siberia. The grain makes excellent poul-
try food—there is nothing better for
growing fowls than coarsely-ground rye
meal. Rye straw is superior to that of
any other cereal for thatching.
Ploughless Farming.
“Bumpkin”; Touching organic farm-
ing (B. 10/4/’46), Edward Faulkner, the
ploughless farmer who has got agricul-
tural America talking, has found that by
merely disking the organic matter in the
first three or four inches and sowing in
that he gets larger crops at far less cost
than his ploughing neighbors- without the
use of artificials. He advises doubting
farmers to prepare two plots by his
method, adding super, to one. If he finds
there is no difference between the two
crops he will know that all the necessary
ingredients are a] readv present in the soil,
but, in ploughing, are buried out of reach
of the plants by the mouldboard.
I tried a couple of experiments this
year. For one the worst available bit of
hill paddock was selected. It had been
cleared of stunted gums and wattles, and
there was not more than two or three
inches of grass and humus in the sur-
face. The subsoil was stone and clay.
The surface was rotary-hoed to a depth
of three inches and then hilled for irri-
gation, but without breaking into the
subsoil. Sweet corn, marrows and pump-
kins were sown, and the ground produced
a heavy crop, some of the pumpkins
being 40-pounders, and the sweet corn
flourished until the Rutherglen bug got
it. The second was on an arid hillside
which had been ploughed and manured
for several years and was pretty well ex-
hausted. This time it was rotary-hoed to


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
99-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Uudford, Homager,
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
IF BACK ACHES,
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Many sufferers relieve nagging backache quickly,
once they discover that the real cause of their trouble
may be tired kidneys.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking the
excess acids and waste out of the blood. They help
most people eliminate about 3 pints a day.
When disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
matter to remain in your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, disturbed nights, swelling, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent or poor
kidney action sometimes shows there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
PUBLIC 7 trustee
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
Don't allow Trappers to
Prune your RABBITS.
DESTROY THEM!
Use a Real Killer—
Use the rabbits’ natural home —
the warren: destrey them there.
Work can be carried out at any
time. No fire problem—no Blowfly
problem the rabbits are buried.
CYAnoGAS
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from all storekeepers throngbogt Australia.
','r)
r*
t-
Ni
HE RIGHT KNIFE
FOR EVERY MAN . .
Whatever the outdoor man-r
or boy desires in knife
equipment, he can obtain it in
a Whittingslowe. All Whit-
tingslowe knives are strongly
built and the blades are care-
fully made, ground and tem-
pered in the best Sheffield
tradition.
7 TOOLS IN ONE. Combining pen-
cil sharpener, blade sharpener, bottle
opener (screw top), bottle opener
(crown seal), tin opener, screwdriver,
three-inch rule.
\\
POCKET KNIFE. Strongly made,
complete with bottle opener. Handy
pocket size, with attractive nickel
finish.
CLASP KNIFE. Heavy blade, can
an “bottle opener. Blackened finish.
A similar knife is obtainable with a
marlin spike.
STOCKMAN’S KNIFE. One general
purpose blade, one castration blade.
Very strongly made. Solid brass
handle.
HUNTING KNIFE. 6-Inch blade,
strong polished wooden handle. Sup-
plied with leather sheath. Also avail-
able without the can opener in handle.
• «f * •
♦
*
I
t\m
Keep Them Keen With An
EVERLASTING KNIFE SHARPENER
The Whittingslowe Everlasting Knife Sharpeijer
quickly puts a keen edge on cutlery or any type
of blade. Long-lasting sharpening discs are self
adjusting and quickly and inexpensively replaceable.
WHITTINGSLOW^ENGINEER^LTD^^^^^n^^^^^n^M^^M^A.
a depth of three inches in June and sown
with Mulga oats. This was rotary-hoed
in November and 2000 late tomatoes
planted in the surface rubbish, two plants
to a stake and stakes two ffiet apart.
Even with this close formation the crop
was considerably larger and the fruit
bigger than the previous year, when more
orthodox methods were followed. The
only fertiliser used was a few bags of
fowl manure run along a few rows when
irrigating, and no difference was discern-
ible between the manured and unmanured
rows ; 83 marketable tomatoes were
counted on one plant, with 30 more com-
ing. The experiment, incidentally, fol-
lowed on three of the driest years on
local record.
” 7"
Dehornmg.
“Simon the Tanner”: Apart from the
advantages of dehorning cattle to the
grower (B. 15/5/’46) in the matter of
handling, etc., horn marks are a serious
fault in hides, and the value is depreci-
ated by id. per pound. This decreased
value is assessed by the Australian Hide
and Leather Industries Board through its
appraisement committees in the various
S^tes
The percentage of horn-marked hides
at the weekly Sydney hide auction
amounted to as high as 58 p.c. pre-1939,
when brokers abided strictly by the classi-
fication, and listed their catalogues ac-
cordingly. This damage in the aggregate
amounts to a very large sum annually.
In Argentina most cattle are either
polled breeds or are dehorned. Cattle
trucks are loaded from the end of the
train, and follow a decoy through the
corridor trucks. This saves crushing and
bruising. More cattle could be placed
in a truck if they were all minus horns,
and so the grower would benefit from
freight savings. A tanner can only make
leather as good as the raw material avail-
able to him, and a horn-marked hide will
not make first-grade leather.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: For the first time S.A.
Department of Agriculture reports an
outbreak of blackleg among merino rams
in the State’s mid-north. An infectious
disease, it is due to a minute germ which
can live in the soil apart from the animal.
Blackleg can also affect cattle, and young
beasts from six to 24 months are most
susceptible. Two types of symptoms have
been observed in merino rams, a swelling
of the head region and large, puffy swelling
on the leg. The former symptom is the
more common and death follows in a
few hours. There is no curative treat-
ment. Prevention consists of inoculation
of sheep with blackleg vaccine issued by
the Commonwealth Health Department.
“Myrrhee”: If the largest part of the
pig ration consists of cereals and their
by-products, with no separated milk, add
salt and a lime-rich supplement. If tubers
are extensively fed, phosphates should be
added. The minerals could be fed in
any one of these mixtures: (a) Ground
limestone or agricultural lime, two parts ;
common salt, half-part—p.c. added to
the food. ( b ) Ground limestone or agri-
cultural lime, one part; bonemeal or
dicalcic phosphate, one part; common
salt, half-part—same proportion. If roots
and tubers are fed extensively, feed ( b ),
which is better for brood sows.
“Double Bay”: Try this for itch in
horses: Equal parts boracic acid, sulphur,
kerosene and castor oil, mixed together.
Dress the affected parts each night and
morning.
“Prof.”: To distinguish between young
plants of wheat, oats or barley in the field
examine the auricles, which are to be
found at the base of each leaf where it
meets the stem. If these are absent the
plant is oats ; if they are small it is wheat,
and if large and clawlike the plant is
barley. Examine a few known cereal
plants yourself and get to know the dif-
ferences. Of course, if you have had a
lot to do with these crops identification
by color becomes second nature.
“Plane Creek”: In districts too dry or
too wet for lucerne put in Kikuyu grass
for the pigs. It’s a great grass when once
established. In the Belgian Congo it’s
regarded as one of the finest drought-
resistant grasses, and in Queensland it is
rapidly replacing paspalum on dry coun-
try. Pigs are not likely to beat it, and it’s
good for cattle.
“Lub”; Garden tools last longer and
give better service if kept bright. To
keep from rusting they should be cleaned
after use and kept out of the weather.
Spirits of salts may be used to remove
rust. Paint it over the rusted part and
leave for a few minutes before scrubbing
off with water; several applications may
be needed for deep rust. Keep shovels,
hoes, etc., properly sharpened.
“Chook”: Roup or avian diphtheria
affects young birds; W.L. cockerels
seem particularly susceptible. Detected
by smelly discharge from nostrils, if
neglected it will bring on cheesy eye—
the eye being replaced by an evil cheesy
mass. It may be prevented by putting
Condy’s crystals in the drinking water to
the, color of claret, but the best treatment
is bluestone in drinking water to just the
faintest tinge of blue. For bluestone
treatment use delf, copper or enamel ves-
sels, never iron or zinc.
“Rhode Is.”: A strengthening food for
chickens from two days old is a small
portion of onion twice weekly. The
onion must be cut up very finely and left
in a vessel. Chickens thrive on it and
losses are infinitesimal. Onion also im-
proves the laying propensities of pullets
as they grow. •
“P.R.A.N.”: If one’s feet are im-
mersed in warm water the body can be
sponged with icy-cold water with much
less discomfort than in cold water. The
same principle applies where there is a
good mulch. on the soil around citrus
or other evergreen trees or shrubs. Trees
so treated suffer less from heavy frosts,
thejf make earlier spring growth and
flower to better advantage. As winter
approaches some inches deep of dry grass,
straw or similar vegetable matter is ser-
viceable, and improved by a cover of
stable or cowyard manure.
“Mrs. Jock”: Best results are obtained
from strawberries with healthy green
leaves. To keep them in this condition
and to prevent disease, dust well with sul-
phur. Application is easy if sulphur is
put on a piece of coarse hessian and
shaken over the plants.
“Sarina”: The sweet-potato crop
should be nearing maturity in May.
Heavy frosts quickly cut the vines and
i-uin the tubers. However, they shouldn’t
be dug until the roots are quite ready.
Cut tubers should dry a white color, not
a greenish hue. The old method of shov-
ing a frn es&ings back in after digging
out a patch has gone out of favor because
it exhausts the soil and breeds insect pests,
Be careful what you plant after a crop
of sweet potatoes, for the land which has
grown ’em recently is usually crowded
with cutworms. .
“ivfr ” • P*nr anncot scab sdtrv with
Bordeaux £m0 P “ (hetot & are
Bordeaux 6 4 4 victoria)
'fj st^f(midAuS !
?rmake t thr s pr b ay dSStaPfflhW-
crystalline bluestone in 72gal. water in
an 80gal. spray vat. Then mix 121 b.
hydrated lime with Bgal. water. Start
agitators in the vat and slowly pour in
the lime solution. For small quantities
(say lOgal.) dissolve l*lb. bluestone in
sgaL water in a non-metal vessel. In
another container dissolve either l*lb.
hydrated lime or 11b. quicklime in sgal.
water. Then mix the two by pouring
simultaneously into a third non-metal
vessel.
“Sauna’ : When the tops of paw-
paw-trees start dying off the trees, it not
too old, will be given new life if the tops
lo PPe d off well down the trunk Tto
side shoots should develop and bear fruit,
but don't allow more than a couple of
them to remain. To prevent water getting
into the trees and rotting ’em, cover the
-vered trunks with an inverted frnrt-trn
until the cuts have healed,
“P.R.A.N.”: Before planting pineapple
suckers be sure to pull or cut off close
to the stem the lowest five or six leaves,
This allows the rootlets that form to
make immediate contact with the soil and
the plant to make early growth. Without
such attention the suckers will languish
and perhaps die before the rootlets get
through or past the obstructing leaf bases.


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
t-j. D o g soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/0
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
YOUR DOG
BARKO
SOLD
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump out of
Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds of liquid
bile daily or your food doesn’t digest. You
suffer from wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel irritable,
tired and weary and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. Yon must get
at the cause. It takes those good old Carter’s
Little Liver Pills to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel "up and up." Harm*
less, gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills by name.
Stubbornly refuse anything else. 3/- & 1/3.
£l7/10/-
DUPLICATOR
all the finest features at high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National'' Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing*
Plans. Music, etc.
tniirfh o> Austria b> SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE,
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■- SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■
OWL*
OIL PAINTINGS
WATER COLOURS
SCULPTURES
PRINTS
0 We represent the leading Australian Artists
of all Schools, and have permanently on view a
selected cross section of Australian Art, past
and present.
A good painting is the ideal ornament for your
home. No gift is more acceptable and dignified
than a Wort of Art.
PRICES FROM 5 GNS. TO 300 GNS.
Morley & Torda
invite you to visit* their
FINE ART GALLERY
Suite 417. St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Telephone: "MA 5805.
Gallery open Daily from 9.50 a.m. to 5.50 p.m.
Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to l*p.m.
One for
All.
AU for
One.
MANSE ASB
the perfect coinfort male
•upport for everyman’e
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chp.rn.ist*.
Manufactured by Uansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
Do you need a
pCflti/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loaos Depart-
ment.
/HukaUfmtk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Doons
DeSoto
DOOBE
mmimm
TRUCK!
In unity lies the strength of the great Chrysler, Dodge,
Plymouth, De Soto line—in the fixed policy that the
research resources of all shall be at the disposal of each
one . . . and that the discoveries and developments of
one shall be made available to all.
Every owner of a Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth or De Soto
Car or a Dodge or Fargo Truck owns more than a
vehicle—he owns the outcome of the combined genius
of all six powerful organizations, each with its own
engineers, designers and research facilities.
The essential ingredients in the plans of Australian-
owned and controlled Chrysler Dodge Distributors
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. is the maintenance, in closest
harmony, of the fellowship that has served Australia so
well in the past—a “one for all, all for one” policy which
is extended to include traders and customers.
C hrgsier 'toodge D
(AUSTRALIA) PT Y . LTD.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY! Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd.. Harden & Johnston Ltd.. York Motors Pty. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Stradbroke Motors Pty. Ltd,, Austral Motors Pty. Ltd. % ADELAIDE: Way mouth Motor Co. Ltd.
• PERTH; Wentworth Motors Ltd., Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd. • HOBART://. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.
, Motors Pty. Ltd.. Co-operative Motors Ltd.
isiriMtors
R. & Me.
D 35
they cracked? She knows. She knows.
The three jolly foxes together.
But here comes that woman behind
her; the long, sharp nose is making a
hole in her spine, “Oh, come,” says
Mrs. Hardcastle to her husband, “We
must go.”
Joe Packet slithers down the ladder.
“Yes,” says Mr. Hardcastle. “In a
minute.”
“I’m sure you’ll have a lovely
journey,” says the wife of Joe.
“I think,” says Mrs. Hardcastle to
her husband, “I’ll sit in the car and wait
for you. Don’t be long.” She looks
down, over the tops of her horn-rimmed
glasses, at Mrs. Packet, who is not now
some sliding, sinister animal, but, be-
cause Mrs. Hardcastle is departing,
merely the avaricious wife of a store-
keeper. “Goodbye,” trills Mrs. Hard-
castle sarcastically as she goes out the
door, “I do hope you bring lots of suc-
cess to the Red Cross,”
Mrs. Packet smiles, her long, flickering
upper lip, with its faint black moustache,
disclosing very small white teeth, like a
fish’s. Such a repellent-looking woman!
“Quick, then,” says Joe. “Three at one-
and-two is three and nine, the biscuits
two and sevenpence, salmon, pears, three
tins of peaches, chocolates, say two shil-
lings, no, half a crown, ham, chicken
paste, loaf of bread sevenpence, then
there’s the cigarettes; look here, Mr.
Hardcastle, I’ll throw in a packet of
matches; now that’s two pounds ten
the lot. And no charge at all for look-
ing at the old red fox.”
“Ha!” laughs Mr. Hardcastle. “I know
who’s the old red fox. Two pounds ten!”
“But isn’t it worth it?” says Joe. “Life
is worth it! Picnics by the roai are
worth it. You and me, we know, Mr.
Hardcastle. You’re only old once.” His
whinnying laughter.
“Two pounds ten, then,” says Mr.
Hardcastle, a little sadly, for, after all,
money is money.
“And ten shillings for the breakfasts,
don’t forget,” says Mrs. Packet, her long
nose entering the conversation.
“Three quid,” says Joe. “Three jolly
old quid the lot.”
Mr. Hardcastle pays him. “I’ll tell you
what,” he says, “that damned old fox-
skin won’t be worth a cracker to you,
anyhow. You saw the holes where the
ticks had got into it.”
“Never mind about that,” says Joe.
“We’ll find a use for him somehow. He
was a good fox in his day. Good-bye
Mr. Hardcastle.”
As Mr. Hardcastle drives off Joe Packet
waves, and the red fox, on the garage
door, is grinning,
THOUGHT we’d never get away,”
I says Mrs. Hardcastle, looking back
from a bend in the road at the store by
Fat Chow Creek. “Those awful people.
They robbed us.”
“I told you they’d do pretty well there,”
Mr, Hardcastle answers. “Three quid
they got out of me. Well, it was worth it.”
“What was?” asks the brand-new Mrs.
Hardcastle. “Three pounds just for that
box of groceries.”
“Ten bob of it was for the breakfasts,”
says Mr. Hardcastle.
“But I paid them for the breakfasts!”
“Damn it, I did! ”
“We both paid!” Mrs. Hardcastle is
aghast. “We’ve paid them twice for it.
Oh!”
“Ha!” laughs Mr. Hardcastle, placing
his hand on her knee as, doubtless in
error for the gear lever, he so often does.
“Diddled us, diddled us properly.”
“We’ll put the police on to them!”
says Mrs. Hardcastle.
“No,” her big husband scorns her. “I
can afford it. Let ’em go.”
“I think you should drive straight back
to that shop and demand your money
back. You must have gone absolutely
mad to take it so calmly. Laughing.”
“I like to see it! ” Mr. Hardcastle
shouts with his bark of laughter. “The
old fox and the vixen! They’ll do all
right, that pair. They’ll make money.
I’d like to have that old fox on my sales
staff.”
“You’re a bit of a fox yourself,” says
Mrs. Hardcastle softly. She looks at him
archly, over the rims of her glasses. “But
you want to look out, you know. More
than one old fox has put his foot right
into a rabbit trap. And that was the end
of him.” Her wedding-bells peal and
peal,
Mr. Hardcastle begins to laugh, then
does not. He stares at his brand-new
wife. There is something strangely steel-
like in Mrs. Hardcastle’s appearance.
Bones, wires, those hom-rimmed glasses,
that frizz of springs on her head, those
enormous teeth. And the old fox in a
trap. He stamps his foot on the accele-
rator.


sate
ATft
m
■ul,
LI
0
11>
fli
■
I ;
mWA
V V\? w\
p«Wfr &
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATORS,
ECKERSLEY SODA FOUNTAINS
AND AERATED WATER
MACHINERY,
EKSEL EXPANSION VALVES,
E.K. CORDIALS AND ESSENCES.
(Orders have to he Booked to Ensure Delivery )
AGENTS: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA.), LTD.
SMOKE-OH
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Blue grey lady’s tailored costume, N.C.’
—Suburban paper.
Evidently she isn’t in the pink of con-
dition.
4* 4* 4*
“Taximan Sails to Hebrides.”
—“Daily Telegraph . ■
No doubt he’ll go the long way round.
4* 4* 4* *l*
“As a matter of fact, babies are very
durable.” —“Sunday Telegraph.’’
Rubbish! What baby ever lasted more
than a couple of years?
4" 4* *l* *l*
“Of all the manifestations of higher lunacy
there’s none I find so utterly incomprehensible
as modern mountaineering.” —“Sunday Sun.’’
“Black child’s patent leather shoe, lost be-
tween Nudgee Junior College and East Bris-
bane.” —“Courier Mail.”
No color bar at Nudgee, eh?
•f,
“One night Dive was a little under the
weather, swearing and bemoaning this State’s
politicians.”
—Divorce report.
Full as he was, Dive knew what he
was talking about.
“Flattering yourself, aren't you ?”
“Women are very much the superior race,
and can buy and sell men mentally.”
—Woman s paper.
Particularly those who can show good
figures,
“The prisoner had many previous convictions,
several of them for unlawful transactions in
cars. He found them, pockets turned out, in
the lounge-room. The burglar had broken into
the flat through the servery .’—Sydney bun.
So saying, he unbuttoned his slippers
and smote the strings of his piano.
4* * * *
“Wanted, experienced male or female to draw
fowls every Friday at Port Hacking. _
b.M.U.
But how can the darned chooks be in-
duced to pose?
Borrowed Plumes.
“An unprecedented demand by women and
girls for slacks and tailored suits has caused
an acute shortage of men’s suitings in New
York.”
Though slacks appear an indiscretion
On ample ladies, one agrees,
A certain measure of suppression
Improves the average female knees;
This might, however, fail to please
The blokes who realise their spouses
Have cunningly contrived to seize
Potential extra pairs of trousers.
A thwarted feeling must oppress
The man whose wife decides to dress
In outward symbols of virility
That might have been His pants—unless
He notices their clothes possess
A handy interchangeability.
P. M. LUSK.
When man has such a little reck
For life, that he will blindly seek
On alpine cliffs to break his neck,
That’s surely madness at its peak.
D. H.
Culinary Art.
“A middle-aged London housewife uses a
mangle for an easel and a plate for a palette
when painting.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
This recalls the day when our cook was
bitten by the Art bug.
The first symptoms passed almost un-
noticed in the general assortment of itsy-
bitsies in pastry on top of a steak-and-
kidney pie, although Father, who had
just finished a five-day drinking bout.
toyed apprehensively with a section of
crust modelled into a medieval gargoyle.
Cookie was soon in full production,
with results that were a tribute to her
artistic sense, though depressing on the
food front. She would develop an attach-
ment for some work of art at odd
moments* and many was the roast of
beef decorated with a Greek frieze, or the
iced cake depicting the gasworks at sunset
that was snatched from under our slaver-
ing jaws. Meals were also delayed in the
kitchen while she got a still-life done to
her liking. This didn’t matter so much
with the bowl of fruit, but was often
disastrous in the case of a difficult piece
of fish.
Cookie found her pigments on the spot,
and achieved vivid effects with cochineal,
apricot jam, tomato sauce, burnt porridge
and weed-killer. We were, however, a
little particular about eating any dis-
carded masterpiece depicting grass or
trees.
Finally came the day when our butter
ration dropped to zero, and we found
cookie happily, though greasily, model-
ling a dying gladiator. Stern measures
were indicated, so we stole the teatray
she had been using as a palette.
That discouraged her, especially when
a contemporary art show hung it as “Girl
Bathing in Storm Drain.”
Plum.
No Empty Thought.
“Waiting police laid a ghost atjiawn? v
That doesn’t give them cause to boast.
It takes no skill to lay a ghost.
We’ve often seen a deadbeat who
Has downed a lot of spirits, too.
EVE.
Pre-Selection Ballot Intelligence
Test for A.L.P. Candidates.
1. —You are member for a coalfields
electorate. While you are conducting an
election campaign a man, in response to
your chairman’s idiotic announcement
that you would welcome questions, rises
and points out that during the past three
months the miners’ leaders motored to
Canberra 27 times to deliver threats to
Cabinet, thus necessitating expenditure of
between 800 and 900 gallons of petrol.
He wants to know who supplied it for
these joy-rides. Would you (a) Demand,
on the ground that he was creating a
disturbance and interfering with the
sacred democratic right of free speech,
that the police eject him? ( b ) Inform
him that the miners’ officials supplied it
exclusively from their personal rations?
or (c) Suddenly lurch against the table,
dramatically clasp a hand to your heart
and sway around before tottering to your
seat, thus allowing the chairman to ex-
plain the tremendous strain you have
been lately subjected to before he closes
the meeting?
2. —You hold a borderline seat which,
at the last landslide to Labor, you won
by £B9 votes in a poll of 65,000. Another
election is imminent. Your opponent is
a handsome ex-serviceman with brilliant
scholastic and war records who is im-
mensely popular with the ladies. You
did not attend the war. One of the local
publicans, who is, of course, a stout sup-
porter of the party, is, you hear, laying
2 to 1 against your opponent, and no
limit. Would you consider it a judicious
move to sell all your securities and
have the proceeds quietly “placed” at
these excellent odds?
3. —Your most serious contender for
the pre-selection ballot in the industrial
electorate you represent runs the dis-
trict’s biggest s.-p. joint—your own
chosen profession before you were elected
to Parliament. Your “runners,” in whose
judgment you have complete confidence,
inform you that a big majority of the
electoral council will vote for your rival.
In such a “safe” seat this will mean his
certain election and his equally certain
compulsory abandonment —owing to the
great distance between the electorate and
Canberra —of his local s.-p. activities.
Would you deem it desirable to start up
immediately in opposition to him (this
would entail absence from the last pre-
election Parliamentary session) or would
you consider it prudent to wait until the
ballot announcement and then take over
a ready-made clientele?
4. —Parliament has reassembled after a
five-months’ recess. This has been a very
strenuous one for you, your electorate
being a waterfront one which demands
long sessions playing poker with striking
wharfies and listening for long periods to
hoary yarns. After an hour on the
benches listening to one of your col-
leagues give a long recital to the House of
the conferences he has attended, the sub-
committees he has formed and the
avenues he has explored in endeavors to
arrive at an “acceptable formula for
industrial peace, you find the effort to
keep awake while listening to the drone
intolerable. What, therefore, would you
do: (a) Adjourn to the bar to see if a
schooner would wake you up? ( b ) Have
a hundred up at billiards with a crony?
(c) Drop straight to sleep on the nearest
shoulder?
s—You have built up with the flapper
press a reputation as a “fearless critic”
of your own party. It has hailed you as
a man who insists on his right to think
for himself, and has lately been referring
to you as the party’s “stormy petrel.” A
bill, the principles of which you have
condemned “outside,” is introduced by
the party, and the division bells ring. The
Whip is particularly active. Explain
briefly why you will vote for the
measure.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The S.-P. Racket
That s.-p. article (B. 15/5/’46) re-
minded me that I shared a tent in N.G.
with the unit bookie for some weeks. I
was never interested in horses except
when I could see them, but for want of
something better to do I often helped Bill
with his pencilling, and he told me a fair
bit about the business.
Unit strength was 160, including
officers, and Bill was handling a steady
£l5O per week. About 25 p.c. of it was
profit. He had an occasional bad spin,
but never lost on two consecutive week-
ends. In fact, the regularity with which
he won was one of the most intriguing
things about his operations. Nevertheless,
half the conversation every Sunday
around the camp seemed to be about the
enormous sums which someone had won
from Bill. He did pay out some pretty
big wagers, but he went calmly on taking
his average of ss. in the £l.
About 30 p.c. of the punters were
regular customers, who never failed to
have two or more bets every Saturday.
About half of them provided 90 p.c. of
the turnover. Most of those chaps were
literally staking on the horses every penny
they earned. There were others who
had a “five-bob double” each week, and
plenty of casual bettors who, after listen-
ing to some of the regulars, deceived
themselves into thinking that racecourse
“certainties” really existed.
No class of bettors won with anything
like consistency. The regulars, who ap-
parently read .nothing but “form guides”
and talked of nothing but horses and
“good oil” got from the south by mail, lost
a quarter of their stakes with the same
regularity as everyone else. If they had
a good win one week-end they simply
plunged more heavily. The result was
sometimes delayed a little, but it was ap-
parently inevitable—Bill got his money
back and a lot of theirs with it. About
three chaps left the unit with some of
Bill’s money, but not one of them was a
steady customer or ever won a large bet.
That camp contained an average lot
of Australians. They came from all
walks of life, from professional men to
laborers, and the notion that it was
possible to “beat the bookie” was held in
common, irrespective of education or up-
bringing. The fact that many of the in-
corrigible punters were incorrigible liars
about their “winnings” may have helped
the fallacy on its way. To which may be
added the fact that Bill talked a great
deal about his losses in public, but was
close-mouthed about his good runs.
Probably s.-p. flourishes on much the
same scale in Civvy-street as it did in
the Army. If it were abolished it is prob-
able that a lot of Australians would find
other ways of wasting their money, but it
is hard to believe that any other way
would be quite so futile.— Five by Two
Bank Officers’ Hours
Two popular beliefs—(l) that a bank
clerk works only from 10 a.m. till 3 p.m.,
and (2) that Mr. Chifley’s Government
watches over his conditions with tender
solicitude —are effectively disproved by
facts.
At busy Commonwealth Bank offices
staffs are required to follow this schedule:
Monday, Wednesday and-Friday, from
8.45 a.m. to 9.30 p.m.; Tuesday and
Thursday, 8.45 a.m. to 5.45 p.m •
Saturday 8.45 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Smoke-
ohs are unknown ; no breaks for morning
or afternoon tea are allowed, and 45
minutes is the mealtime. The unfortu-
nate clerk, working 53 hours a week,
finds it impossible to do any shopping
or attend to private affairs.
As the Commonwealth Bank is now
practically a branch of the public service,
the indifference of the Government to
the slavery of its own employees is re-
markable, particularly in view of the con-
sideration it shows for miners and wharf-
laborers—E. J, B. (N.S.W.).
Government Employment Agencies
A striking example of the manner in
which “Labor” looks after friends was
afforded in our town during the war.
For about 12 months a house-agent
acted as manpower officer. He gave com-
plete satisfaction to employers, and the
Government found no fault with his
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
work. He supplied an office, and carried
on with a typist’s help for £3 a week.
One day he received word that his ser-
vices would no longer be needed, the Gov-
ernment having decided on a separate
office. A true-blue disciple of “Labor”
was installed in the separate office, and
the cost of the service rose from £3 to
about £lO a week.
Came the time when manpower offices
were converted into alleged employment
agencies. Ours is functioning beautifully
for the bureaucrats in the office. When
a man comes in looking for a job he is
given the names of two or three or per-
haps a half-dozen employers. The em-
ployers have never been consulted, they
may or may not want a man, and the
unfortunate job-seeker goes from one to
the other, generally without success.
A private employment agency adopts
the sensible practice of getting employers
to register, stating the class of labor they
want and other particulars. But you
couldn’t expect a Government department
to do anything like that. — Demos (Tas.).
“Only 94 p.c. Accurate”
A recent statement by a Russian poli-
tical commentator, Ivan Yrmasheff, that
the Anglo-American bombings had not
seriously affected the outcome of the
war, and that only 94 per cent, of the
“Tell the doc. I'm not receiving visitors today!”
bombs aimed at Krupps had hit their
target, is as stupid as anything that has
stained paper since the end of hostilities.
If the percentage of hits was that high
we were doing remarkably well. I took
part in a raid on Krupps in the middle
of 1941. Because of the effectiveness of
the anti-aircraft defences and the huge
smoke screen, it was considered a good
show if 70 per cent, of the night’s effort
fell on the target, after allowing for a
30 per cent, casualty list.
From those figures it is plain why Essen
was considered the “hottest” target in the
Ruhr (or “Happy Valley”).
It was not until the advent of the Path-
finder Force that Bomber Command be-
came really accurate as a whole, and I
think that its efforts from 1943 until
the end of the war completely offset our
earlier efforts and mistakes. Balfe
(S.A.).
“Cruelty to Animals”
Stock in transit do suffer unnecessary
cruelty, but fewer head per truck (B.
15/5/ ’46) won’t alleviate it. The worst
that can happen to a beast is to go down
—it is soon trampled to death or
smothered by other animals coming down
on top of it. The best way to keep them
on their feet is to pack them until they
haven’t room to stagger about and lose
their footing.
Also, if “Yair” had ever travelled in
trucks, he’d know that cold is a worse
enemy than heat, and packing animals in
keeps them warm.
Where cruelty does occur is in long
journeys without water or without anyone
to see that weakened animals are removed
as soon as they go down. If train
schedules can’t be speeded up, surely
sheep and cattle can be unloaded for rest
and water at least once on longer
journeys. And is there any justification,
economic or humanitarian, for the truck-
ing of “bobby” calves? — Five by Two
(Q.).
Bureaucracy and “Bad Form”
Queensland’s Deputy Prices Commis-
sioner, a certain Mr. Lindsey, has pro-
vided a revealing illustration of the
bureaucratic outlook.
A check made by a visiting marketing
officer for the information of the Tas-
manian Government showed that retail
fruit prices in Ipswich were 25 per cent,
lower than those in Brisbane. The fruit
was of equal quality, and the lower
Ipswich prices included 25 miles of haul-
age from the Brisbane market.
When the intruder from the Apple Isle
blew the gaff to the press Mr. Lindsey
was indignant. “I consider it exceedingly
bad form,” he told the questing news-
hounds, “for an officer from another
State to criticise the administrative actions
of officers in this State....To aggravate
matters, the officer comes from a State
which has largely benefited from the
operations of the Apple and Pear Board.
He is hardly in a position to criticise high
prices of fruit which have to a consider-
able extent been brought about by the
actions of a board which, is benefiting
growers in his own State.”
It is sincerely to be hoped that lots
more “bad form” of the same kind will be
forthcoming.— Colonel Bungstarter (Q.)
Non-productive Work
Every man who runs his own business
will sympathise with the Tasmanian
farmer who has begged to be excused
from collecting, and being responsible for,
other people’s taxes.
No small businessman can really afford
to undertake this non-productive work,
but that is just what he is being forced
to do. As well as unpaid wages-tax obli-
gations, he has all the extra clerical work
of the sales tax and the hours wasted in
waiting to interview Price Control, Liquid
Fuel, Timber Control and all the other
bureaucrats.
Filling in forms and waiting to see
officials doesn’t build a house or make
a door for it; it doesn’t tan hide for foot-
wear or cut a suit of clothes.
Everywhere you meet people who think
that social benefits can be brought about
merely by legislation, while others seem
unimpressed by the facts that the home
market is going short of goods and that
golden opportunities for export are being
lost.
All these things, plus senseless strikes,
lead to shortages of everything we need,
from houses to shoes. They cause sav-
ings and deferred pay to be frittered
away. The final result is inevitable —
another depression.— EssEcks (S.A.).
Rugby League Ballyhoo
The way Australians fall for it is really
pathetic,
In one of the Sydney afternoon
papers there was a picture of two
English League players with their new
jerseys showing the rose as emblematic
of England, the daffodil of Wales, the
shamrock of Ireland and the thistle of
Scotland. The paper must have forgotten
about the emblem of the Isle of Man.
No known Irish, Scottish or Welsh
club plays League. Three attempts have
been made to introduce the hybrid game
outside Yorkshire and Lancashire, and all
have been dismal failures. One would
like to know what warrant the players
have for putting the thistle on their
jerseys. ■
Two Welsh clubs, Ebbw Vale and
Merthyr Tydvil, were subsidised by the
League for about two years, but had to
give it up. The Welsh players in the
touring team are men who were paid
large sums to go “north.” They never
go “north” to play League for the love
of the game—they are well paid.
The same afternoon paper gave figures
for the first League game in London in
which N.S.W. players took part, their
share of the “gate” being £22-odd. It
alleged that the gate for a “Test” now
would probably reach £lO,OOO. Possibly,
but not in London. They might get a
tenner if they went there now. A London
Highfield club was set up, but the Lon-
doners would have none of it.
No wonder the English (and Welsh)
in this side would like to play in Aus-
tralia for Australian teams. Anything
more dreary than a tour of “Great
Britain” by an Australian League team
would be hard to find. The H.Q. is a
central hostel, and on the day of a match
the team goes in a motor-bus to the town
in one of the two counties, Yorkshire
and Lancashire, where they play. It is
only a few hours away at most.
Risman, the captain, has given us
something new in the way of information
about the Welsh Eisteddfod in that it is
held mostly in North Wales. A Welsh-
man who makes a mistake like that
about the National Eisteddfod of Wales
shows amazing ignorance. Every Welsh-
man knpws and is expected to know that
the National Eisteddfod is held yearly
and alternately in North Wales and
South Wales. Risman had better stick to
football.— ldris (N.S.W.).
Case for the ex-P.-0.-W.
Men of the Eighth Division who re-
turned after three and a half years in Jap
prison camps are claiming certain special
considerations, and their claims should
be heard. They are made not only for
themselves, but also for the dependants
of those who did not return.
These men contend that, because of the
special circumstances associated with
prison life under the Japanese, they are
entitled to subsistence pay at the rate of
3s. a day during their captivity. “Sub-
sistence pay” is the amount provided in
cash by the authorities for the support of
a soldier while he is not in receipt of
food, clothing and shelter from the Army.
It is regularly paid to every, soldier when
he goes on leave, or, when in transit, he
has to find his own accommodation and
food.
During the incarceration of these
Eighth Division men and their mates
from the Seventh, the authorities
were not called upon to provide
food, clothing or shelter for any
of them, and all of them suffered
some disability as a result of being im-
properly sheltered, fed and dressed. Many
of the complaints are not pensionable—
malaria, cholera and (most important)
general deterioration of health. As for
a dead soldier’s dependants, his pay and
allowances stopped at the date of his
death. In many cases refunds are now
being claimed for “overpayment”—and
the widow’s pension is £2 10s. a week.
Every prisoner of war' suffered physi-
cally during his captivity. He was hungry
and ill-clad, and in many instances mal-
treated, The heavy laboring work under
these conditions imposed physical strain
on all men, and they have deteriorated in
health and strength accordingly. Even
those men who today are apparently fit
have unsuspected weaknesses, while those
with obvious complaints are much worse
than would have been the case under
proper conditions.
Despite the present leniency in ascrib-
ing complaints to war service, repat-
riation treatment benefits are only
available for illnesses; “due to or
aggravated by” service. Most of the
ex-prisoners were discharged before
their medical histories were completed.
What had happened to them while they
were prisoners had not been trans-
ferred from prison-camp records to
master records before the men were
returned to Civvy-street. That means
that many have been discharged
before becoming as fit as possible in all
the circumstances. Men anxious to be
free again are apt to minimise their ex-
periences, no doubt foolishly, but the
authorities should have protected these
men from themselves.
Just as the soldiers suffered, the relatives
were subjected to strain, anxiety and suf-
fering. Many men who died before the
capitulation were not reported as dead
until after the release of the prisoners.
The authorities were not to blame, but
it does not minimise the unhappiness of
the relatives who waited torn between
hope and fear for three and a half years.
Nothing will bring these men back or
remove the pain and suffering they and
their relatives have undergone, but gener-
osity towards the living will be some sola-
tium for their loss. —F. S. (Vic.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates payable in advance (including postage)
aie: 12 months .. ... .. £1 * »
/» •• • • • • I" v
3 ” TO
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
13 months .. .. •• 15 0
« 8 0
3 .. .... 4 0
By airmail”to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lBO
Jobs for Ex-Diggers
Many business firms expect prospec-
tive and returning employees to start
straight in with a full knowledge of
present-day conditions, or to make a fresh
beginning in a relatively junior position
with those who, for some reason or other,
weren’t in the forces. The latter have it
all over “stale” dischargees, and by
“down-grading” the ex-service personnel
offices and factories are giving civilians
advantages over ex-servicemen.
This applies more particularly when
the ex-soldier or ex-servicewoman is seek-
ing employment other than with a pre-
war employer. Here are three examples:
(1) A pre-war clerk, with a good general
experience in bookkeeping and account-
ancy, applied for a position as assistant to
a cost accountant in a factory. He was
tested on his ability at rapid calculations,
and found to be slow. He readily admitted
this, stating the reason was simply lack of
practice. He didn’t get the job. It went to
a young man fresh from a similar post
elsewhere.'
(2) Another ex-Digger, before enlisting
six years ago, was in charge of a small
office, handling correspondence, accounts
and general procedure matter. Interviewed
by the proprietor of a small manufacturing
concern who wanted a man to “run his
office,” he was told later that the job had
gone to someone with recent experience in
similar work.
(3) The third job-seeker, a general clerk
with typing and shorthand capabilities above
average, applied for a position in which
a “knowledge of typing” was essential.
It was routine work, but he was asked if (
he had a knowledge of current sales-tax *
procedure and overseas exchanges and cur-
rencies, as the firm was an import and ex-
port agency. He admitted to only a general
knowledge of such matters, but was certain
he could master them quickly. Despite
his other excellent qualifications he lost the
job to one who had recently been handling
such matters.
Can’t the Ministry of Post-war Recon-
struction —or, better, a panel of associated
business houses and manufacturers —set
up a “crash-course” in current business
and factory methods and procedure to
help ex-service people into decent jobs?
—H. W. (N.S.W.).
P. 8.1.
Nobody fails to realise the blood-and-
guts nature of the infantry’s role in
modern warfare, but few understand that
the infanteer is the most highly-trained
soldier in the Army. His syllabus of
training covers seven weapons, grenades,
mines, booby-traps, compass and pro-
tractor, map-reading, bushcraft, judging
distance, fire-control, chemical warfare,
fieldwork, field signals and field hygiene.
He must have a sound knowledge of the
tactical requirements of the advance,
attack, patrols, defence, withdrawal, night
operations, river crossings, amphibious
operations and co-operation with tanks —
and each of these operations requires its
own particular application of general tac-
tical principles.
Yet the layman fondly believes that a
rifleman can be trained in a fortnight,
that all he needs to know is how to slope
arms, march in step and fire a rifle. And
the Army, which itself refers to the in-
fantry as the “most varied and exacting
arm of the service,” gives a trade-group-
ing of one to three shillings a day to
cooks, clerks, drivers and storemen, even
if they are five thousand miles from the
battlefield. True, the trained rifleman
receives sixpence a day proficiency pay,
but so does the batman on Corps Head-
quarters.
The infantry suffers more than 90 per
cent, of all battle casualties. The rifle-
man not only lives dangerously but also
enjoys a minimum of comfort. In battle
or training he is constantly on the move,
eating and sleeping when he can. He
is furthest away from and, therefore, re-
ceives least of amenities, recreations and
better-quality rations. It is incongruous
that the only honor paid to the soldier
with the widest military knowledge, with
the greatest risk of personal injury, and
with the hardest-living conditions, should
be the expressive term “Poor bloody in-
fantry.”
The New Army should raise the status
of the trained rifleman by introducing
the following reforms; a trade grouping
of four shillings a day, a battle bonus of
not less than three shillings a day, a
genuine effort to provide the best scale
of rations, amenities and entertainment in
the forward areas, an extra allowance of
tobacco and beer and an extra entitlement
of leave.
Above all, there should be a change in
the system whereby this “most varied and
exacting arm” receives its quota of re-
cruits. Towards the end of the war a
system was evolved which divided recruits
into four grades, and it was specifically
ordered that the infantry should be given
its fair share of Grade I men. The flaw
was that the infantry received more than
its fair share of Grades 111 and IV,
although nobody less than Grade II in-
telligence and ability could be properly
trained in the time available. In battle
a half-trained rifleman has only half the
normal chance of coming‘through with-
out injury, and a poorly-trained rifleman
is a menace to everybody except the
enemy.— Peter Mike (W.A.).
Country Art Galleries
Recently I saw a list of 23 new indus-
tries to be established in Victorian coun-
try centres. Since then others have been
announced, both in Victoria and other
States.
All the capital art galleries have more
pictures, etchings, prints, water-colors and
ceramics than they have space for. Why
not decentralise art as well as industry?
Any centre prepared to establish a gallery
could well be given a loan of 24 pictures,
to be replaced periodically, as a start
instead of keeping them stored in a base-
ment.
And it would open up a small but
growing market for artists and others. —
C. H. Regelsen (Vic.).
“Wheat Stabilisation”
The Commonwealth Government seems
due for trouble with its “wheat stabilisa-
tion plan.” Farmers are writing to the
papers and holding protest meetings
everywhere; the Australian Wheatgrowers’
Federation has condemned the plan and
suggested a number of alterations; and
the N. S. Wales Farmers and Settlers’
Association has threatened to test some
of its provisions in the Courts.
Only the Wheatgrowers’ Union seems
friendly. It is suggested that dele-
gates were so flattered by the presence of
such a large contingent of Labor poli-
ticians that they voted against their better
judgment. The Wheatgrowers’ Union
had to report to its Parkes (N.S.W.)
conference that it had lost 500
members for the year, while the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association could report an
increase of 1500 for 10 months.
The plan provides for the Government
to take and sell wheat on behalf of the
grower (present export value is over
10s. per bushel ports), and pay him
ss, 2d. ports, the balance to be doled out
in deferred payments of uncertain
amounts at uncertain intervals over the
next five years. Home-consumption
price for wheat for flour, stockfeed and
dog biscuits is to be based on ss. 2d.
ports, regardless of export value or pro-
duction costs.
In 1940 Labor made a great outcry be-
cause the Menzies-Fadden Government
considered introducing compulsory loans
for the duration of the war. Now, after
raising taxation to unheard-of heights,
Labor expects farmers to contribute
to its compulsory loan —which is
the only description of deferred
payment to farmers of their own wheat
money. And there is no promise of any
reduction in cost of farming machinery,
interest charges, wheat handling charges,
freight-rates or taxation, nor any assur-
ance that wharflaborers will load the
grain.
Mr, Graham, N. S. Wales Minister for
Agriculture, has promised that handling
troubles will be overcome at silos and
wheat receiving depots. But it’s hard to
forget the promises of Mr. Graham, and
the N. S. Wales Minister for Transport,
and the Commissioner for Railways, and
the Premier, about deliveries of super, in
time for sowing.—N. E. W. (N.S.W.).
Food-parcel Postage
Since the earliest food shortage 'in
Britain my mother and 1, by careful con-
trivance and some self-denial, have been
sending food parcels to England. As
soon as we were permitted we also packed
small parcels for relatives in the liberated
countries.
Last month I bought 15s. worth of food
for three parcels, and, although I made
my selections with due consideration of
weight as well as food value, the postage
exceeded the value of the food. Rates
on food parcels to England have always
been excessive, but postage rates on food
to liberated countries are twice as high.
If the Commonwealth contented itself
with legitimate profit and diverted excess
profits to U.N.R.R.A. or Red Cross to
relieve the present overseas distress, I
wouldn’t object to even higher postal
rates, but I hate being taxed for being a
compassionate imaginative or sentimental
fool.
There must be a whopping profit on
food-parcel postage. A parcel just under
31b., sent to a liberated country, costs
4s. 7d., while two packages of Australian
newspapers, heavier and bulkier, cost half
the amount, although their destination
was the same. —J. J. K. (Q.).
Wasted Assets
Nature has not provided Australia with
the rivers, mountains or rainfall neces-
sary to produce cheap electrical power
on a large scale. Japan (B. 22/5/’46),
with its mountain backbone and short,
fast-flowing rivers, possesses ideal condi-
tions for the use of pelton-wheel units,
and can produce power for about 0.2 d.
per unit. The best we can do in Aus-
tralia is about 0.6 d. per unit, and even
that is possible only in favored localities.
Japan, China, India, Sweden, U.S.A.,
Canada, Brazil and S. Africa are all
actual or potential producers of cheap
power, and it would be absurd for us to
compete with them in industries depen-
dent on cheap electricity. We have, how-
ever, abundant coal and base metals,
splendid hardwood forests and some of
the best farming and grazing land in the
world. If we exploit these fully and in-
telligently, we have natural assets suffi-
cient for any population.
B.H.P. has done a fine job with iron
and steel, but we still send most of out-
copper, lead and zinc away in ingot form
instead of manufactured articles. Of the
logs we send to our mills we market about
50 per cent, as timber and burn the rest
as waste. Our wool goes away as fleece
instead of cloth. Too much wheat is
exported as grain, and not enough as
flour. We ship mutton and beef car-
casses, neglect a fine leather industry
in the skins and hides. We irrigate land
and sell our oranges overseas, but in Cali-
fornia at least 50 products are factory-
produced from culled fruit and rinds.
And, faster than we bring new land into
use by irrigation, we lose better land by
erosion.— Harap (Vic.).
These Shortages
If nothing else defeats the Chifley Mal-
administration at the coming elections, the
growing scandal of shortages in necessary
commodities —particularly in monopoly
lines—should do the trick.
Take cigarette-papers. Even when
tobacco was in extremely short supply,
cigarette-papers were fairly easy to obtain.
Suddenly, for no explained reason, the
drought set in. Yet the fellow who runs
the little shop at the end of our street
swears he was recently offered six gross
at 4yd. a packet. Nobody is convinced
that there is a real shortage.
Enormous quantities of other lines, such
as canned fish and other foods from
military stores, must be available for the
open market, too, but I’ll defy the aver-
age housewife to obtain a tin of salmon
or a pound of margarine from the average
retailer.
I’ve voted Labor all my adult life, but
the sooner I can get to the polling-booth
to help toss this band of blunderers out
the better for fny peace of mind. —P. O.
MacCabe (N.S.W.).
The Missing Suit
The shortage of suits and suiting
material in Australia is, acfcording to
Abbott, M.P., mainly caused through an
abnormal proportion of woollen piece-
goods exported since July, 1945. Figures
supplied by the Commonwealth Bureau
of Census and Statistics reveal a tremen-
dous lift in exports for the six months
July-Dee., 1945, compared with the full
year 1938-39.
1938-39. July-Dee., 1945.
Sq. Yards. Sq. Yards.
New Zealand .. 10,000 437,573
United Kingdom .. 2,887 220,000
N.E.I 31,477
Irak .. .. .. 30,000
U.S.A. .. .. 3,631 28,964
Canada .. .. 6,700 22,888
Czechoslovakia .. 11,000
Egypt .. .. 3,000
Total exports of woollen piece-goods
for the last six months of 1945 were
786,000 sq. yards compared with only
33,575 sq. yards for the whole of 1938-39.
The increased output of our mills has
not been sufficient to expand exports 47
times over. U.N.R.R.A. supplies are not
included in the figures quoted.
As our mills shut down during the
strike and long holiday period in
December, it is evident that the home
trade is being starved. A discharged ser-
viceman has a much better chance of
picking up an Australian suit length in
Maoriland than he has in the land where
Mr. Chifley’s Government controls im-
ports and exports. —F. D. (N.S.W.).
Russian Puzzle
For 70 years the U.S.A. was the land
of promise to the poor and adventurous
of Europe, and so many millions crossed
the Atlantic that Congress turned the
flood into a trickle by fixing a quota.
These people didn’t just talk about
America, its freedom and its opportuni-
ties —they went • there if they could.
Today Russia occupies a place in the
thoughts and dreams of men to an extent
which America never did. The Russian
form of government is ideal, according to
millions who have never seen Russia. Its
industries, its economy are wonderful.
Yet the extraordinary fact remains that
none of those who admire it so much
want to go there to live.
On several occasions I made this
point to rhapsodists, a university lec-
turer among them, holding forth on
Russia. One typical reply was “The
Russians are building up their coun-
try for themselves —not for others to
enter and reap the benefit. It is our job
to copy their example so that our own
land will be just as good to live in.” An-
other, “Russia is not short of population.
The Government wishes to employ its
own people, not foreigners.”
Since then, however, the war has
robbed Russia of the pick of her young
manhood—7,ooo,ooo was the figure given
by Stalin himself. In other words, Russia
is desperately short of manpower. But
still there is no talk of emigration to
Russia —those who profess to admire
Russia most are most persistent in keep-
ing away from it.
I’ve met but one man who did go to
Russia and work there. He was an
American and he summed up his expei i-
ence in three words —“It was hell.”—
H. A. L. (S.A.).


The Bulletin
WIRELESS
CO MMUNICATIONS
The Beam Wireless Service now operating
on a full Peacetime basis offers the public
fast and accurate wo rid-wide communication
services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to
the United Kingdom, the Continent of
Europe, the Middle East, Canada, United
States, South America, India, the Philippines.
Commercial Wireless Services have recently
been reopened for messages between Aus-
tralia and Lae, Port Moresby, Java and
Nauru.
Codes are again permissable and you can use your registered
code name as address and signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the accept-
ance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will he pleased to open a Credit Account for you .
Complete information available regarding codes, classes
of messages, rates, routes, etc .
io*
ci^
\k» l
te*
w ****?& *m
w ,e 40
Vlltli
I'Vss
Hiss
Kilt
'^GJSs
(ea *rii
ctio n
n °* he,
of
l *se
en
of
e ; (
es s
s hips - - " *** rf *h
°* h
*nd
9y *v*H
For
e.
«u PH „ tek &*pb
° f 'ie w
»«r« ,■„
°ard
Bef *ic e
***OSi
JV«
ffc
Aus^lh
""r,l. j,
the
sh
£
*Ps U H
to
teli
Aut
rate
" * hil
e^ph
is
lid.
per
'*ps
*ord.
d
rate
l llOst
fo
te *gn
Snips
mi
Psh
he tlv
°He e
:i S<Hn
a»
6d.
ps
at rali,
BEAM WIRELESS ACCEPTING OFFICES:
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone: MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
