

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletins” Vol. 67—No. 3484
Wednesday. November 20, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
“The THE DURDANS,” EPOM.
to the Surrey town of Epsom, some fourteen miles from
the metropolis, “The Durdans” is a house which had many
interesting associations. The thirteenth Lord Berkeley built the
original house of this name, and here entertained Charles II and
others, including Evelyn and Pepys. The occupiers of “The
Durdans” were the Earl of Guildford and Frederick, Prince of
Wales. In 1764 the older house was burnt, and in its successor
lived the Marquis of Lome. This mansion was later acquired by
the Earl of Rosebery, who greatly improved the house. During
Lord Rosebery’s premiership Derby winners were produced from
the stables at “The Durdans,” which were among the finest in
England, Lord Rosebery won the Derby three times, in 1894,
1895 and 1905, with horses named Ladas, Sir Visto and Cicero
respectively.


Learn
Kddffikpip^ l
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell • Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Fret
liooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
If y Name
My Address
S B. 246 AOE
The Red page
SHAW AND WILDE.
The Life of Oscar Wilde, by Hesketh
Pearson (Methuen), and G.B.S. 90
(Hutchinson), both from Angus and
Robertson, are respectively a biography
and a conspiracy; the first by a ruthless
monopolist who specialises in making a
vested interest of the lives of other
people, turning one after another of
hem out entomed with the carefree in-
iustry that some have devoted to the
birthrate; and the other the joint work
of an alarming number of hands, and
feet.
The G.B.S. book is sub-titled “Aspects
of Bernard Shaw’s Life and Work,” and
the aspectres—including the editor, 28 of
them! —are drawn up in formidable
typographical parade on the title-page in
the shape of a pyramid standing on its
head, a posture in which fl# first of the
line, Max Beerbohm, once drew Shaw
himself, the implication being as obvious
as the malice.,
Confronted with a similar but com-
paratively inoffensive conspiracy, Wilde
wrote that “It has taken four people to
write it, and even to read it requires
some assistance.” Multiply that in its
entirety by eight and turn to, say,
aspectre C. E. M. load, “A point which
Shaw stresses is the abruptness of the
appearance of the acquisition, whether
it takes the form of organ or faculty or
awareness, in which the new evolu-
tionary advance consists,” and at once
the abruptness of the disappearance of
hireable assistance in sufficient numbers
because of the current manpower short-
age becomes a tragic reality.
The aspectral trouble with the G.B.S.
book is not that, despite editorial and
other assurances, it is a palpable con-
spiracy to applaud—that’s what a book
for anybody’s ninetieth birthday ought
to be—but rather that so many of the
applauders take it as an opportunity to
palm off their own particular wares, as,
of course, Shaw would himself have
done. So Dean Inge sermonises at
length on theology, J. B. Priestley pontifi-
cates leftily on sociology, A. S. Neil
asserts his *pet substitute for education,
load jargonises on philosophy, and others
likewise. The result is that the bulk of
them hardly measure out one grain of
Shaw to the bushel. Therefore, it’s a
surprising pleasure to come across, near
the end,' the estimable Chinese author
S. I. Hsiung and find him more interested
in Shaw than in himself. An inspiring
example of Oriental politeness.
A striking omission is that, whereas
Shaw is dealt with, or at any rate re-
ferred to, as a dramatist, a wit, a scientist,
an educationist, etc., he is not by any one
of them considered as a literary artist.
In their aspectral fashion they see him
as primarily what each of them himself
happens to be, the range running from
Professor Dent’s contribution on music
to a contribution by Alderman Davies on
Shaw in local government.
Of course if such approach were right
—if Shaw was merely lastly and not
firstly a literary artist—all the ological
qualities these aspectres discern in him
would amount to less in the long run
than his average hourly consumption of
live steaks cut from the ruined sides of
carrots. Happily, the magic clear Eng-
lish of his prose alone confutes them.
That matchless clearness binds his entire
life s work into one single masterpiece;
his passport to posterity, as the sociology,
theology and other like content will be
his passport to antiquity.
To be just to G.B.S. 90, there are at
least some Shavian grains to be poached
here and there in its aspectral woods. A
frontispiece painting of Shaw by Clare
Wmsten might be assessed as worth a
ton of Toad and two tuns of Priestley,
and there are various photographs even
more valuable. One of the photographs
—of the youthful, clean-shaved Shaw;
vintage 1879—suggests that whatever
reason Shaw may have had for letting
his face run to whiskers it wasn’t self-
consciousness about an absence of chin.
In this photograph he has a rounded and
strong chin. In the photographs in Pear-
son’s book Wilde’s chin is where the
Potter’s hand shook. Shaw, who didn’t
need them, grew whiskers; while Wilde,
who could have done with some, did
without. The bearded and beardless chins
might be key symbols.
Shaw grew his whiskers because from
birth he was a patriarch; all accounts
of his having had a boyhood are as in-
credible as the statement of one of the
G.B.S. 90 aspectres that “he enjoyed his
share of fisticuffs.” By all that is known
of his life —Pearson himself did a pass-
able biography of him —he has always
been mature ; his emotional and intel-
lectual natures always in perfect balance.
That is as evident in his work as in his
life ; at' once his strength and his weak-
ness. In neither the life nor the work
does the heart ever run away with the
head. There is the same evenness in his
whole life as in the controlled clear style
of his prose.
Shaw has given his reasons - for his
rough-handling of Shakspeare. They are
plausible, but unconvincing. His given
reasons have to do with the necessity of
demolishing in order to build anew.
Actually, for all his knowledge of Shak-
speare, there is no sign of understanding.
It is completely significant that his par-
ticular poet is Shelley ; not the Shelley
supreme in lyrical poetry, but the Shelley
extreme in ideas. Shaw wrote of Shak-
speare’s “enormous power over language,
as conspicuous in his senseless and silly
abuse of it as in his miracles of expres-
sion,” failing to realise that a human
nature incapable of the one could not be
capable of the other. Elsewhere Shaw
wrote: —•
1 In fact, we have got so far beyond
Shakspeare as a man of ideas that there
is by this time hardly a famous passage in
his works that is considered fine on any
other ground than that it sounds beauti-
fully, and awakens in us the emotion that
originally expressed itself by its beauty.
Strip it of that beauty of sound by prosaic
paraphrase, and you have nothing left but
a platitude that even an American profes-
sor of ethics would blush to offer to his
disciples.
To plumb the nonsensical depths of
that it’s only necessary to apply the pro-
cess to any example of poetry whatever.
All criticism is first of all a criticism of
the critic; and Shaw’s, self-criticism is
that, while he has a musician’s apprecia-
tion of the melody of verse, he has not
the faintest appreciation of the emotional
content of poetry. It is, moreover, a
terrific criticism of Shaw’s own work in
comparison with Shakspeare’s. What
like quality is there in Shaw ensuring
immortality, other than the magic clear-
ness of his prose? That, in his total
masterpiece, is considerable enough to
be called his passport, but regard it be-
side Shakspeare’s poetry, which is not,
as Shaw thinks, either his “word-music”
—Shaw’s phrase—or his “purple pas-
sages” —Wilde’s coinage—but is the
emotional totality of conception and
completion; the beautiful totality of
“The Tempest,” the steel-cdld totality of
“Hamlet,” the stupendous totality of
“Lear.”
Shaw had no need to grow a beard
either for his chin’s sake or for demolish-
ing Shakspeare. All that he attacked, and
had the understanding to attack, in Shak-
speare had already been long demolished
by the master-tradesman in that line,
Time, The beard is the key-symbol of the
always perfectly-balanced Shavian-
spare us unshavian —emotional and intel-
lectual maturity, and he has been wearing
it now for some 70 years. No such
balance either ever produced or ever
understood poetry.
The beard symbolises both Shaw’s work
and his life. In both he has always been
the practising patriarch. As to the work
overlooking the novels, unread —it was as
’ mature when Shaw was writing his m- *
comparable dramatic criticisms in the
’nineties as in his most grey-bearded plays.
The same perpetual patriarchialism can
be found paralleled exactly in his love
relationships ; set out in curious detail
in Pearson’s Bernard Shaw : His Life and
Personality. They have a fyearded Biblical
quality, though falling a few short in the
matter of number. They give no impres-
sion other than that of perfect emotional
control, with Shaw anything but ex-
uberant and not overwilling; in fact, in
the first encounter the usual order for
such things is completely reversed. Barr-
ing that mishap to him, all is as serene
and patriarchal as his writings, and his
beard.
A less tragic life than Shaw’s was never
lived, nor a mor£ tragic life than Wilde’s.
Both can be set down as being Irish of
part-English extraction, playwrights, wits,
talkers and poseurs; and every point of
resemblance is a point of contrast. Shaw
has laid claim to descent from the Mac-
duff of “Macbeth,” but a nearer ancestor
on the male side was a Puritan soldier
from Hampshire. The English ancestor
of Wilde was a builder from Walsingham,
near Durham. As playwrights, nothing
could be more unlike than what Pearson
calls Shaw’s “dramatisation of the religi-
ous temperament” and Wilde’s society
comedies. They might seem to have some-
flung exactly in common in the fact that,
because the screen can make no allow-
ance for stage pauses for laughs, nobody
has yet heard all the jokes in a Shaw film,
and the same holds for the first part of
the recent screening of Dorian Gray.
Laughter blots out in both cases, with
the difference that it is caused by entirely
different sorts of jokes.
As wits, there was no acid in Wilde,
whereas Shaw has been summed up in the
words of a fellow-countryman: he has
“a tongue would clip a hedge.” Wilde
said of Shaw: “An excellent man; he
has not an enemy in the world, and none
of his friends like him.” Shaw said of
Wilde: “He was my fellow-townsman
and a very prime specimen of the sort of
fellow-townsman I most loathed: to wit,
the Dublin snob.” Incidental to this,
when Wilde heard that a fellow-dramatist
had been secretly one of his most relent-
less enemies in the court proceedings all
he said was “How absurd of Brookfield.”
While the actor Irving lived Shaw fre-
quently attacked him; because, accord-
ing to Pearson, Irving did not appear in
Shaw plays. Irving was buried in West-
minster Abbey:
As a playwright of consequence Shaw
received a ticket for the Abbey ceremony
from George Alexander, who was greatly
relieved when it came back with the note:
“I return the ticket for the Irving funeral.
Literature, alas, has no place at his death
as it had no place in his life. Irving would
turn in his coffin if I came, just as Shak-
speare will turn in his coffin when Irving
comes.
As talkers, Wilde was in his element
$t a champagne dinner, Shaw on a
public platform. As poseurs, WiFde
did not exactly “walk down Piccadilly
with a poppy or a lily in his medieval
hand,” but Shaw did the West End in his
knitted suit of wool, which combined
waistcoat, jacket and trousers in one
piece, and which he wore in preference
to the fur collars and so forth favored
by Wilde. If it may be considered any
help . jn the picture, both had some dislike
for Australia: Wilde because of its shape
on the map; Shaw possibly in reaction
to his lifelong martyrdom to vege-
tarianism and wearing wool; enough to
put anyone off a country that seemed
still largely in a vegetable state, with a
few plots cut out of the vegetation here
and there for the accommodation of
sheep. It could not have been the shape
of the place; after all, he went to New
Zealand.
With those and all their other resem-
blances turning out to be contrasts,
Wilde’s beardless weak chin is as much
Wilde as Shaw’s bearded chin is Shaw.
Pearson says of Wilde;
The main oddity in his composition can
be described in a sentence: half of him,
the emotional half, never developed beyond
adolescence; the other half, the intellec-
tual half, was wbll developed at an age
when those about him had hardly begun
to think for themselves, and reached
maturity at an age when his talented con-
temporaries were still trying to find their
feet.
On the one hand, the approximate per-
fection of emotional and intellectual
balance, and, on the other, the very
opposite of such balance. In their work,
that led, for the one, to the Shavian per-
fection of clear prose and dramatisation
of ideas; for the other it led to The
Importance of Being Earnest, the perfect
comedic representation of life as he saw
it, but also to a hopeless confusion of
ornateness with poetry.. In their lives
if led to Shaw’s controlled serenity and to
Wilde’s uncontrolled tragedy.
Perhaps “uncontrolled” is not quite the
.right word. Wilde’s tragedy had the
authentic dramatic element of tragedy in
that the victim of it so definitely encom-
passed his own downfall that Fate could
be regarded as playing merely the part
of interested spectator or assisting chorus.
Pearson’s realisation and acute analysis
of that make up the strength of his un-
commonly good biographical study. He
portrays Wilde as one always partly and
in time entirely conscious of himself as
a figure of tragedy; as one actually in-
terested in that tragedy’s development;
helping the development along to its
climax.
Fate, of course, does from time to time
lend a hand. The enormous success of
Wilde’s plays went to his head ; but that
again could not have happened if Wilde
had had the mature balance of a Shaw.
With that sort of assistance from Fate,
Wilde himself becomes like a detached
spectator of his tragedy. A singular fact
of the Wilde Case was that it was Wilde
himself who started the court proceedings
that led to his own downfall; not only
started them but persisted in them against
legal advice when it became evident where
they could lead. Moreover, even when
that turn had been taken, and he him-
self was being proceeded against, his
refusal, against all urgings, to fly the
country was that of one both immersed
in the tragedy he had contrived for him-
self and obsessed with the action of it.
The whole life of the man, as cleverly
presented by Pearson, is like a stage build-
up to the eventual catastrophe. Every-
body knows the crude element of the
tragedy, and it says a lot for Pearson’s
build-up to it that, though knowing it
awaits there ahead, inevitable, readers
may find themselves trying to wish it
away. It is like watching one of Wilde’s
own plays in the knowledge that all the
wit and brightness and artificiality is
merely the build-up to awful and un-
mitigated tragedy. To read the first half
of the account is to witness the acme of
the theatrical; the rest is the dark depth
of drama.
Stultifying Creation.
A bad feature of the crippling taxation
imposed upon productive effort is its
effect upon the developing national cul-
ture. The Australian who contributes
to the nation’s art and literature daren’t
be really successful in having the public
buy his works. Let him sell 10,000 copies
of a book or £5OO-worth of pictures and
the taxgatherer swoops on him so heavily
as to numb the desire for further pro-
duction.
There are plenty of examples. One
will do. A man on a weekly salary writes
in his spare time. In 1943 a couple of
his books sold very well, not merely be-
cause they appealed to the public but
also because it was a time when over-
seas books were scarce and Australian
writers, for the first time in history, had
a large market. The writer made roughly
£5 a week from his books in 1944-45. His
tax assessment for that year, received
after a lag of nearly 18 months, shows
that his income tax for the period totals
more than he received from royalties.
This because the tax authority added his
extra income to his fixed income, thus
raised him into a higher tax group for
that year and slugged him accordingly,
making his tax more than a quarter of
his total income, which was less than
£9OO. And for the next year, when his
income from books shrank to a fraction
of the peak-year figure, he was asked for
“provisional tax” at the rate of the peak-
year income. ,
Writing a book isn’t a matter of com-
merce or of sowing a crop in autumn and
selling it in spring. The writer spends
years acquiring experience and skill. It
might take «him three years to write a
book, two more to get it published,
another waiting for people to begin buy-
ing in the quantities that would give him
some reward for his six years of work
and patience. Similarly with an artist
who may spend three months on a pic-
ture, have it in the studio for three years
and then sell it for £5O. Tax is de-
manded on the £5O for that one year;
there is no recognition of the time of
production and waiting.
Plainly, no creative artist can do his
best under such a system, and, as in other
fields, the incentive to produce is stulti-
fied. Far as their minds may be above
such mundane things as taxes, authors
and artists are no less human than any-
one else in their desire to gain some
financial return from their work —
especially Australian authors and artists
who, despite increased demands for their
output and the blah-blah of literary and
art societies, publishers, dealers and
newspapers about “an awakening of Aus-
tralian culture and a greater desire to
patronise native art and literature,” are
still living in that most soul-crushing of
all living conditions —genteel poverty.
If there is to be an Australian culture
it will be created by Australians, and if
it is a function of government, as it
surely is, to nurture both the creative and
appreciative spirit in native culture, then
the Government should relieve the crea-
tive artist of an unfair tax system. It
was done in England by spreading the
tax responsibility over the years of work
—thus in the example here given the
1944-45 income from books would be
divided by six and the tax computed for
each year at the appropriate rate. It
could easily be done here, since there
are not enough authors and artists to
make the job a difficult one. If some
relief isn’t given the Government may be
responsible for seeing the blossoming
Australian culture wither in the bud-
killed by the frosty touch of the tax-
gatherer.
C. S.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
Made from the finest
Leathers to
withstand the
hardest usage
TAM GRAINED
RIDING BOOTS
Fashioned hy
(
A
V,
m?
H
I
j?
r i
mmm
1
T(
w
iu
lU ('
M
mM
mm
Wm
A:
mm
■ : m
; m
m
■
il
This is the shoe that combines smartness with comfort,
excellent workmanship with superior quality and
greater ease in riding with the pleasures that go with it.
Made on a neat fitting last, these Riding Boots are
calf lined right through, have genuine welted soles and are available
in full and half sizes. This is a "Baxter" product. Price, pair, 49/11.
I
1
MEN’S SHOE DEPARTMENT GROUND FLOOR , GEORGE STREET .
V
*3
—^
£
7
r<7
/I
M
J F
n-"
53a
wvm
2\
For your Leisure Hours!
TAN GRAINED SANDALS
Attractive and comfortable men's high-
grade sandal for sports or leisure wear.
Available in Tan Grained Leather, reparable flex soles,
full and half sizes. Anthony Horderns' price is 33/3
★
TAX OR BLACK BOX CALF
Shoes - 34'3
Sturdy and stylish are these
men's High - Grade Shoes in
Tan Calf and Black Box Calf,
in medium or extra wide
fittings, full and half sizes.
They have genuine welted
soles and are priced at 34/3
* IN TAN OR BLACK, HIGH GRADE
Officers’ Boots
36'»
Strongly made, stylish and com-
fortable are these men's high-
grade Officers' Boots in Tan
or Black. Available in stout
welted soles, full and half \
sizes. Their price is 36/9
- p
m
HOW HORDERNS’
s Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night). Postal Address: ISox 2712 C 9 G.P.0. , Sydney


=H
52
f
* 9
S'k
o
v
kf
<9
<9
M,
X
S
□
VALET BLADES NOW
REDUCED IN PRICE:
10 Blades - - 3/2
5 Blades - - 1/7
(Supplies now normal)
Weeks of perfect shaving from the one blade! Each
morning you spend 10 seconds on "strop-drill” and . . ,
Presto! . . . there’s a new keen edge to the blade that
positively caresses your face as it mows those whiskers down.
Nothing to unscrew or take apart. Cleaned in a jiffy!
.* 9 J
Valet Razor stock position is not yet perfect but they can
be obtained, and more are on the way from England.
VALET
Autostrop
Safety Razor
n
c
Ti
•4
/
>*}
fr.
W
W.
Afuiti
Round off the day’s sport with a Gilbey’s. Gilbey’s is the Gin you’ll
find in all good company wherever friends meet. Its quality
never varies its flavour never changes
ip|li|iH
118
gin sitV
f.
//
C
THE STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED 1
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or ia out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursemss
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
Jng Is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LiOTION */»
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
dsf
dsf
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Love Sonnets of a Hoodlum, by
Wallace Irwin. —3901.
Information Sought.
How to grow flowering-gums from seed ?
Put the seed pods or nuts on a sheet of
paper, or in a shallow tray in the sun, and
wait until they burst or open sufficiently to
allow the seed to be shaken out. Sow this
at once, the seed’s own depth, in a pot or
pan, well drained, in sapdy soil. See that
the soil surface does not become too dry or
too wet. When the seedlings have made two
sets of leaves, transplant into small pot's in
sandy soil that will not cake or bake, and
when 6in. high they can be planted where you
want them' to grow.
* * * * *
What were the aims of the Young England
movement, and who were its originators?
In 1842 a section of the English Conservative
party began a movement whose spirit and aims
are well shown in Disraeli’s Coningsby. The
author of this novel and Lord John Manners,
Duke of Rutland, were the chief leaders of
the movement, which aimed at a revival of
the medieval relations between the upper and
lower classes as an antidote to the rapid spread
of democratic principles.
* * * *
What was the object of the Sale of Honors
Bill introduced in the British Parliament?
Correct title is Honors (Prevention of Abuses)
Act. It was designed to carry out the recom-
mendations of a committee set up in 1922 to
advise on the procedure to be adopted by the
Prime Minister in making recommendations for
titles. It stipulates, among other things, that
any person promising to secure an honor for
any pecuniary payment or other consideration,
and any person promising such payment, should
be liable to imprisonment or a fine.
* • * *
Some facts about the prayer said daily by
Mohammedans ?
It is called the azan, and consists of seven
or eight phrases, to each of which there is a
set reply that is chanted by the hearer. The
man' who proclaims the azati is called the
muezzin, and he stands at the door or in the
minaret of the mosque, with his face towards
Mecca and his ears stopped by his fingers.
During the proclamation the passers in the
street must stand still, all work must cease
and even the sick must sit up in bed.
* * * *
How many wives had Ivan the Terrible?
Who were they and what were their respective
fates? .
Seven. Anastasia Zakharin, Maria Temgrynk
and Martha Sobakin are supposed to have been
poisoned; Anna Koltovska was sent to a con-
vent ; Anna Vasilchikoff and Vasillisa Melentief
he discarded; Maria Nagaya outlived him.
* * * *
What is the abo. word for “child” corres-
ponding to “piccaninny” among American
negroes ?
No single word can be given, for abos
speak not one language but many. In the
language of the Kamal-arai tribe a Jit tie child
is “waggai”; a baby, “widyalang”'; a child,
size and age not specified, “boori”; children,
“gullingo-bangboor.” Other tribes whose
nomenclature has been classified have a similar
variety of terminology.
* * * *
How to remove a mottled appearance on the
inside faces of the lenses in field-glasses?
The mottled appearance is due to a growth
of fungus which generates an acid that etches
the surface of the glass slightly. It is impos-
sible to remove this except by repolishing,
which, unless done by an expert, would ruin
the binoculars. You can treat the glass with
strong nitric acid to destroy the fungus and
spores.
* * * *
Results of Test cricket matches in Australian
capital cities ?
In Melbourne: Australia 17, England 12,
drawn 2; Sydney: Australia 16, England 14;
Adelaide: Australia 8, England 5; Brisbane:
England 3, Australia nil. Total: Australia 41,
England 34, drawn 2.
Brief Answer*.
P. 8.: Lead-poisoning cases generally improve
slowly if the patient is removed from all sources
of infectipn. You could get expert treatment
by a medical specialist at one of the big Syd-
ney or Melbourne hospitals... .R.K.J.: To
treat rust in geraniums mix one ounce of
potassium sulphate in a kerosene-tin of water,
emulsify with soft soap, and spray the leaves,
particularly the backs L.F.: The words
tortoise, turtle and terrapin are used indis-
criminately. Some writers embrace the terres-
trial and semi-aquatic species under the term
tortoise, and call only the marine species turtle.
A present-day authority describes that creature
as the Australian snake-necked turtle and it
is aquatic... .H.W.8.: Apply to Officer in
charge of the police-station in or nearest to
your place of residence. If refused, appeal
within 21 days to local Court of Petty Sessions.
On facts stated, licence should be granted
M. : (1) Provided for by Supreme Court Act,
1935. (2) His books were first published about
1890 J.G.; (1) Issue of bonus shares without
the Commonwealth Treasurer’s consent is
prohibited so long as National Security
(Capital Issues) Regulations remain in force.
(2) Do not understand question. Power of
consent may possibly become vested in State
Treasurers after expiration of regulations. (3)
It is impossible to say how they will be issued.
... .F.S.: Prices are controlled under Nat. See.
Reg., and although specific prices have not
been gazetted individual approval has been
given to certain manufacturers. If in doubt
you should contact the N.S.W. Prices Branch
and state the particular items used, the manufac-
turer’s brand and the prices charged D.B.R.*.
The Art of Shooting, by C. Lancaster, Prin-
ciples of Firearms, by C. E. Balleisen, Gun Care
and Repair, by C. E. Chapel, Elements of
Ammunition, by T. Ohart, Handbook of the
Rifle for Use in Schools, by L. R. Godfrey,
are all obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., Sydney. The Ideal Handbook is un-
obtainable... .J.V.W.: Pressworking of Metals,
by Hinman, Press Tools Practice, by Houghton,
Tool Design, by Donaldson, Power Presses, by
Molloy, Die Design and Diemaking Practice,
by Jones, Punches and Dies, by Stanley, and
Modern Machine Tools, by Town, are obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney.
... .T.E.W.: There were so many agreements,
alliances and pacts between those and other
countries at that time that it would be an
impossibility to list them all here R.G.:
Write Wallace Irwin, East Setauket, Long
Island, New York, U.S.A. M.A.: An Aus-
tralian literary agent for U.S.A. publishers is
Noelle Brennan, 72 Bayswater-road, Rushcutters
Bay, Sydney R.J.Q.: Not if the dividends
of the shares have been taxed at the property
rate... .R.E.D.; Apply to the Pensions Dept.,
Brisbane J.E.P.: There has been no agent
for Massey-Harris cycles for many years. You
could contact a firm of cycle traders with a
view to having your cycle converted to a
modern, standard-type fitting C.L.: Dissolve
4oz. of hard soap in two gallons of hot water.
Apply when warm D.G.: Frederick Ward,
alias Captain Thunderbolt, was born at
Windsor (N.S.W.). He escaped from prison
at Cockatoo Island and began a bushranging
career in the New England district in Decem-
ber, 1864. On May 25, 1870, he was shot by
the police. He is reckoned the last of the
N. bushrangers.


Divorce Notice.
TO BOBBY NYLAND formerly of 695 Crown Street
Surry Hills in the State of New South Wales.-
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the 4th
day of December 1944 has been issued in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear as
Co-respondent to answer the petition of ARCHIE
STURGES of WX12670 111 Gen. Tpt. Co, A.I.F.
Australia Soldier praying for a dissolution of his
marriage with BEATRICE EILEEN STURGES In
default of your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the petition proved and pronounce sentence in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within 30 days from
the date of this publication to attend in person or
by your Solicitor at the Central Office of our said
Court at Perth in the said State and there to enter
an appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
DATED the 21st day of October 1946.—(n.5.) G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
This Citation waa taken out by Messrs. Dwyer
Durack & Dunphy, of 33 Barrack Street, Perth
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
END your RUPTURE
dsf
WORRIES!
pliance free. Enables von
lo do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
tte’y holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery
Recommended by Doctors!
Satisfaction
v luarun jriace, SYDNJEY
Try the new Roussel Ap-
matter where you live. Call or send stamp’ for
details, self-measurementform, and U days’ iree
trial offer. No obligation. y lree
THE KOUSSEE APPTTIver.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
e. Call or send stamp for
hnf fAWI nnJ V I 1
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
11l
ii Dim
in
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room,, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
HARIS
Circular Charts Jot aO types of
Recording Instruments lor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O 10.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co. t Drummoyne, N.S.^V.
dsf
m
m
mm
L »
1
■
\
mM
m
ftememoer.,.
COLGATE
V
PENTAI CREAM'
cleans your breath
while it deans
J
%
uour teeth/
"HERE'S WHY: Colgate Dental
v > r ' .
Cream has an active penetrating foam that gets into the hidden crevices
between teeth helps to clean out decaying food particles and so
removes the cause of much unpleasant breath. Colgate's soft polishing
agent cleans enamel thoroughly, gently, safelyl"
/
URGE
GIANT
twice
V
BO*
■\Q J
D4/336
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
R.N.8.: “Prithee, gentle rustic, what ails
you?” If that is a fair sample of an “intel-
lectual” addressing a dairyfarmer, the farmer
may be forgiven for chasing him with a shot-
gun : except that shotguns are not normally
kept in the bails....E.R.: There’s something
in it, but it’s rough... .W.Q.: Milk-and-watery.
H.K.: Write about things you know....
J.A.: Uncouth sailor is excessively uncouth
T.J.0.: Sprawling narrative, and far too many
characters F.O’S.: Quaint old lady is far
too sweetly quaint 8.V.: No need to ex-
plain that it is your first attempt..,. .A.D.P.:
“What do you think I should concentrate on
—poetry, tragedy or humorous writing?”
Judging, by the subtlety of your humorous
sallies, you might fry your hand as a black-
smith’s striker Beflerive: And very natural
it is:—
V.C.McT.: “Have just read your opinion
of my sonnet... .there is no need to be rude.”
There is also no need to write sonnets....
H.McG.: “The Diver” dived into the w.p.b.
J.L.: Writing a story in the form of a
reminiscence places it about two removes away
from reality; visualise characters, * and don’t
ramble S.S.C.: Treacly... .G.P.: Same old
swaggie D.C.McL.: Same old racecpurse
cr00k.... J. 8.: Slight... .T.U.
Let sleeping dogs lie A. 8.: Damon Runyon,
thinly diluted... .C.C.: Altogether too slick
and mechanical T.F.: Try a woman’s paper.
... .F.F.: “Ode to a Cigarette Paper” is touch-
ing, but ragged P.McM.: An impressive col-
lection of archaic words R.A.H.: Absinthe-
sipping artist stepped straight from the pages
of melodrama... .N.C.: It is, indeed, a hard
world A.A.: Similar sentiments, but with
a ray of hope:—
J.A.A.: You’re more interested in keeping
tally of the number of beers consumed than
in the development of the p10t....W.L.:
Romance between the major and the A.W.A.S.
corporal gives a false picture of army life.
F.H.: Weed out the stereotyped phrases
and try again.... AJ.; Not in the market for
essays on reincarnation....R.J.; You can call
and take away your go-getter before we toss
him out of the window J.H.: Sorry, unable
to use yarn, but glad to note that everybody
enjoyed “The Butchers’ Picnic” S.G.G.:
When were you in Tibet? KJ.: Reads like
a report of a mothers’ meeting in the local
church-hall R.C.: There’s small demand
nowadays for that eljiss of story E.G.: The
first of this season’s surf yarns. Alas! It was
a dumper J.M.: Missed W.P.: The
sentimental sundowner is a frequent visitor....
A.McL.: Appreciate your candor in describing
your effort as a “poor shot in the dark”....
E.F.: You might get somewhere if you would
only stop moralising K.G.W.: Our Re-
ligious Editor reports that your night-club
scenes are unreal.. ..J.8.5.: Cruel stepmother
dismissed with a warning A.H.; Why not
try your hand writing testimonials for patent
medicines?... .N.C.; Yes, we prefer them typed,
but not single-spaced and without margins....
L.D,: Too close to Arthur Machen’s “The
Cosy R00m”... .EJ.P.: “No Good for Work”
no good for The Bulletin S.D.: Yams
with dream-endings invariably end up in the
basket G.M.W.: Bullocky Bill is on the
homeward track H.J.N.: Doorkeeper has
instructions to shoot any more of your ghosts
on sight A.H.: “Happy Jim’s Xmas Gift”
contains too many tears for this hard-boiled
journal. •. .F.T.F.: Too much space wasted on
descriptions of unimportant characters....
W. 8.: Hopeless... .5.M.8.: Mix-up between
Peter, Paul, . Polly and Pearl obviously derived
from “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”....
N.L.D.: Henry Lawson did it better W.G.:
The sort of yarn that seems to go on and on
until the end of time without saying a thing.
C.W,: As we tipped, the outsider “flashed
past the winning-post ten lengths ahead Of
the field”... .R.F.McC.: Most glaring fault is
that you do not know police-court procedure.
M.A.: Whereabouts in Sydney these days
do bearded whalers “sodden with rum, fight
out their differences with harpoons”?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.R.: Merely a drawing of the Bridge....
G.M.: The dilapidated golfer should have been
allowed to remain at the 19th hole... .A.6.:
You did not conceal all your mistakes with
Chinese white F.S.M.: No colored sketches,
please... .T.M.: You’re unable to draw even
a hangman’s rope.. .'.M.M.; A very slapdash
effort H.L.: Picture of Chifley sitting on
top of flagpjjle and Jack Lang armed with an
axe was knocked on the head R.G.: Neatly
drawn and decorative but completely humorless.
G.F.: “This is not a first attempt.” Well,
it looks like one C.M.: The tightrope walker
didn’t make the distance J.H.M.: The day
your drawing arrived we heard the gag it
illustrates from four different sources.
SCENES FROM NATURE.
I love the green grass
And the fragrant flowers,
Tree-shadowed nooks
During summer hours.
I love to recline upon
The banks of a stream
While the golden sun
Upon the waters gleam.
A spectacle grand
On a tranquil night
Are the silvery beams
Of the pale moonlight.
Resting in front of a smouldering fire
The old blue cattle-dog closes his eyes
And dreams.
He is far, far away from the dusty ins
Of bullocks in stockyards, where he never would tire
But now he is tired.
And he rests. But the spirit within him never dies.
His ribs are ragged but his scarred old head
Dreams of the days that are long ago dead
Of Lassie....
Clouds are black above me now,
They’ll be that way for quite a while
Until you drive them all away
With your winsome smile.


find Be aitie s
THAT TOO NEVER KNEW EXISTED
*35
5"
«•
ys
i
s9>
v f/
On a Pioneer Tour you really find the beauties of your
own country golden, sun-soaked beaches, stately
forests, timbered hills, riotous fern gullies, misty water-
falls, broad rivers. Every turn reveals something new
and colorful. Pioneer tours take in all points of interest
so that your trip will remain forever with you as an
adventure of thrilling and treasured memories.
Pioneer tours embrace the unexcelled luxury of specialised
service. The blue and silver Pioneer Coaches are
sumptuously appointed—the courteous driver-guide takes
luggage, meal and accommodation worries from your mind.
pioneer tours
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE
MU6014 8U5511 84635 C 2514
EDWARD LMIEViSONS PTVITD
BULWARK OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY
FOR TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY YEARS
During the two hundred and fifty years of its
Insurance history, Lloyd’s of London has become
one of the most important factors in developing
and expanding trade and commerce between the
nations of the world. It has given security to
international ventures of the first magnitude. It
has provided protection for public and private
undertakings of every description. You, too, can
enjoy the benefits of a Lloyd’s policy by placing
• your insurance with the oldest and largest
brokers in the »Southern Hemisphere. If your
present policy needs revising, we will be pleased
to do this for you free and without obligation.
EDWARD EEjiIEY
& SONS PT Y. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SONS PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY; 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle; 33 Watt
Street. Melbourne: 57 Queen Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building.
Brisbane: A.M.P. Building, berth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart;
82 Collins Street. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
NEW ZEALAND, and EDWARD LUMLEY INC., LONDON, NEW YORK, PARIS,
COLOMBO, SINGAPORE and MONTREAL.
The oldest and largest Insurance Brokers in the
Southern Hemisphere effecting insurances at—
LL.a.tß
Is
The Golden Age
At Hand?
Is a “Golden Age” for Australia at hand?
Houses and factories are springing up,
new industries are being established,
more and more jobs are offering better
conditions and brighter prospects.
(hie problem remains.
Our small population can absorb only a
fraction, of what we can produce.
Unless we develop oversea markets, our
warehouses and shops will soon be
crammed with unsaleable goods. Factories
will close and wide spread unemployment
will result.
Close to our northern shores are the
teeming millions of the Netherlands Indies
offering a lucrative market that has been
allowed to slip away from us because of
internal disputes in Australia.
Surely now is the time for team work
for manufacturers, merchants and work-
ers to pull together for the common good.
There can be no “Golden Age” in Austra-
lia without virile export trade.
CEIGOA PTY. LTD.
Consolidated Export and Import Group of Australia
54 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
f
sit*
IHtO * oUR
P 0 S T-W A 9
I
*e
■ .1
R
See the AGA Cooker . . . biggest economy, most exquisite luxury in a
country or city home. The AGA cooks economically, cleanly, continuously
and almost automatically by heat storage, the most efficient cooking
principle known to modem science. Every AGA carries a double guarantee.
(1) It is guaranteed specifically not to burn more than an amazingly small
fixed quantity of fuel per annum. (2) It is guaranteed against faulty
material or workmanship for ten (10) years.
Call in and see an AGA Cooker in operation. Or write for illustrated
Catalogue RU.
AGA
REGD. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Esi. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney, and
432 Bourke St., Melbourne
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmei
& Preston Ltd., Adelaide. Qld.
Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd.,
Brisbane. Tasmanian Agents:
A.G. Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart. W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
JL
>i


OLD ROSY
BY CECIL MANN
MR. ROSEN—OId Rosy, as they
called him —had not, like his
brothers, graduated to the needle
and wax and black thread and
gimlet in his father’s boot factory back in
Copenhagen. The youngest Rosen, he had
had another, loftier career mapped out for
him. Not academic; he was to be a
soldier, to rise one day into the personal
service of the King, and perhaps become
a great general and lead his land back
to something of its ancient power and
glory.
To the consternation of them fill,
the next-youngest of them, Henrik, be-
came ill with the white sickness. So the
great doctor in Copenhagen said when
Henrik was taken to him, with his thin
face already giving the shape of the skull
within it.
Henrik did not improve. He became
thinner, and, except that it flushed
quicker at times, his face became whiter.
And so in time Australia had the not
inconsiderable benefit of yet another
seven inhabitants.
THE new country did not turn out
well for one intended, as Old Rosy
had originally been, to be a soldier. It
had no traditions in that field. There
was to be a later making of tradition,
but when the youngest Rosen from old
Denmark looked about the strange land
that was all still far td come. However he
was to make out here, it would most
obviously not be as a soldier.
His education being incidentally suffi-
cient, the pay being miserable and there
being many lonely places to be sent to,
he had no trouble in becoming a teacher.
In that role he was always at his best
when giving history; as he gave it, a suc-
cession of fierce and ringing battles,
starred with the performances of splendid
heroes. Not all these were strictly in
accord with the English History version,
in one notable instance in particular.
Mr. Rosen—as at least his ex-pupils
called him, with respect —had never been
able to forgive Lord Nelson for what,
in his view, that hero of the British had
done some generations before Mr. Rosen
had himself listened to a history master.
At Copenhagen Horatio behaved inex-
cusably.
“He disopeyed orders,” Old Rosy would
denounce to the new classes when the
painful subject unavoidably came up each
year, “He disopeyed his commanding
officer. That is not a good soldier. If
he had had his brober rights he vould
have been shot.”
Carl was Old Rosy’s only contribution
to the male population of the Valley.
There were daughters, three of them, but,
regarded as soldier material, which was
how he regarded Carl, they were hardly
in the same class.
His thought of Carl for that special
purpose was at first so secret that he him-
self was only barely conscious of it. As
yet there* was no glimmer of hope for it
here. Blit later he had the thought that
Carl could go back to Denmark or to
Germany or England, and to whichever
it was fix a soldier’s loyalty.
Loyalty to a land was one thing; that
was quite another. It was a profession,
to be regarded with the detachment of
science. On that principle Carl could
in due course somewhere become a
soldier ; and Mr. Rosen had no doubt
whatever that he would be a great one.
Mr. Rosen did . not share this secret
ambition with Mrs. Rosen., He knew in-
stinctively that it would not be welcome
in that quarter. For one thing, Mrs.
Rosen was Australian, and how could
she be expected to favor something in a
tradition her country knew nothing about?
For another thing, even in the family
back in Denmark the old Mrs. Rosen had
fought against the idea of her youngest
taking to such a profession. But that
was not a matter the older Mr. Rosen
had been prepared to leave to the whim
of a woman.
As young Carl grew older Mr.
Rosen, finally actually aware of what
had been growing meanwhile in his
mind, got as far as rehearsing a set piece
to be laid before Mrs. Rosen, for her
approval in due course. Whenever what
looked like a suitable opportunity offered,
he spoke of his own early intentions, but
that line of approach, he felt, was not
altogether a success. To Mrs. Rosen it
carried the logical statement that if her
husband’s earlier ambitions had been
realised back in his native Denmark he
could, of course, never have come to
Australia. His still hankering after those
ambitions naturally as good as said that
it would not have counted a great deal
if he had never met her.
That was scarcely just to Mr. Rosen,
who, if he had had to choose even now,
let alone when he first knew her, would
have let his ambitions pass on the spot.
At that time, when he first came to the
Valley to teach eight bare-legged pupils
gathered in the shack beyond Grey Knob
from the outer selections, she had seemed
to him, with her tossing gold hair and
“Old Rosy” is a second extract
from the novel “Light in the Valley”
to be published this month by
Dymocks, Ltd. The episode has been
abridged and rearranged here sio
that it may be read as a short story.
her blue eyes, as if he was wooing the
new land itself; as maybe he was. It
was as if it had been to find
her, and not to bring Henrik in search of
sunshine, that they had. come here.
His love for her had one perhaps not
altogether peculiar effect on him. For all
his comparatively higher schooling and
his sufficient, if accented, vocabulary, it
made him, with her, almost completely
inarticulate. He had been able to make
an awkward statement to the general
effect that he loved her and would she
marry him, and that, luckily, had been
enough, as it could hardly have helped
being, considering its intensity and earn-
estness, and, perhaps, the lack of com-
petition. Still, it was hardly the love
address of one of those fluent, voluble
wooers whose name by all and very
numerous accounts is legion.
But, if inarticulate by such high stand-
ards, his love for her was deep and last-
ing ; and it still kept a tight rein on his
ability to express it, or to discuss ration-
ally with her any topic into which it at
all entered.
So he never quite got round to the
simple declaration: “What I wasn’t able
to do because of circumstances, I mean
to have Carl do. I want to send him
back to Europe with the means to study,
so that he can become a great soldier.”
FOR another reason altogether he did
not so much as consider saying any-
thing about it to Carl, already grown, as
they seemed to do in this country, as
tall as himself and certain to be a good
deal taller. He felt that, in the language
of the land which his son spoke as a
native, Carl would rush it with his ears
back. It simply did not enter his mind
that perhaps Carl might have other ideas.
v Therefore it was just as well that when
he did hear of Carl’s own ideas it should
have come to him as a thunderclap. It
stunned him beyond even feeling it. That
Carl should have decided not to be a
soldier would have been bad enough.
What Carl had decided to become came
as an utter flattener.
His son to be, of all things, a parson!
It was simply beyond his comprehension.
He could not think at all what could
possibly have led to such a choice.
Carl, at 19, was the makings of a
towering figure of a man. He was wide-
shouldered ; built as a tall triangle, with a
strong, long-jawed face above it. He
could have worn a uniform —any uniform
on earth —with a striking dignity.
And he would wear black —like, Mr.
Rosen thought in his bitter disappoint-
ment, the mealy-mouthed Rev, McNab.
With his collar back to front; harangu-
ing down Sunday after Sunday from a
pulpit somewhere.
Instead of going on to a grand parade,
looking like a man. Instead of going into
action, and fighting like one.
Mr. Rosen said “Veil, veil, veil!” and
that was the whole of his uttered protest.
To look at him, there was no differ-
ence in Mr. Rosen; to his pupils, there
was no difference in Old Rosy. He
taught History still as if it was a vast and
endless battlefield. His Science experi-
menting was still to the purpose of mak-
ing* things smoke, flame, explode and
stink. No difference.
The difference was deep inside Mr.
Rosen, Carl had gone from there, utterly
and completely. But there , was no vac-
ancy. Carl’s place was taken, and more
than taken, by the breadth and depth
of a dead dream.
Carl’s letters home from the west of
Queensland, a weekly excitement to Mrs.
Rosen, were to Mr. Rosen so much waste
of good paper.
Carl, it seemed, was doing well. He
had moved in from the west. He had a
church of his own in Rockhampton,
Well, what of it? What could that
ever lead to, what could Carl now ever
hope to be but perhaps some such thing
as a bishop done up in gaiters with a
patch of purple at his throat like a black
crow that had been at the dieberry bushes.
Even an archbishop. Well, what? How
many hundred years was it back to
Becket and the others of them who
thought it right to turn soldier when, the
occasion offered? Who indeed joyed to
do so.
And here now was the occasion, and
the need. Here, if Carl had chosen
rightly, was the chance to lead in battle
like a man.
It was August, 1914 —the end of an era,
though" the world was as yet unaware of
it. jSo much of the world was springing
or had already sprung to arms. Its echo
ran even here ; and in their hundreds and
thousands and tens of thousands % the
traditionless youth of this land were mak-
ing in from the most distant parts to the
city barracks to enlist. A goodly number
of them from the Valley itself,
Carl was coming down from Rock-
hampton. He had arranged a temporary
substitute and was, he wrote to his
mother, making for Brisbane.
For what? To try if they would have
him —as a chaplain!
To Mr. Rosen it was the very mockery
of an ideal. To' be in uniform, and to
be a non-combatant!
He wrote to Carl; thought better of it,
and tore the letter up. It was all-but
incoherent, anyway. And quite unneces-
sary.
Carl was in uniform, and not as a
chaplain. He wrote his mother a letter
with an unusually light note in it:
“They told me they were sorry, but
they had rather a surplus of parsons, and
not half enough chaplaincies to go round.
But they could use a fine upstanding
young fellow like me, and if a chaplaincy
became vacant I’m to be on what the
Major called the inside running, with a
fair chance of being first past the post,”
That did not greatly move Mr. Rosen,
and the fact that they made Carl im-
mediately, without a day’s training, a
sergeant pleased him even less. To Mr.
Rosen that compliment to Carl’s fine ap-
pearance was anything but a compliment
to the country where such a thing could
happen. .What an army that would be
which made a sergeant on the spot of a
man who had never so much as tried
on a uniform before!
There were some ructions in Brisbane
before they got on the way; and more
in Port Melbourne; and more, much
worse, in the Battle of the Wazir in Cairo.
All to some extent reported in the papers.
What a hopeless travesty of an army!
As well for Mr. Rosen that that was
all he knew of it. Just as well he did not
hear of the colonel lining up a shipload
of them on the port pier and solemnly
reading them the Riot Act. As well for
him, and more so for Mrs. Rosen, that
the Battle of the Wazir had not been
clearly understood as the Battle of the
Brothels. Just as well, too, that they
heard nothing of the ones behind the
wired compound on the Mena sands who
had been amongst the sick fleshpots of
'Egypt. Or the ones spreadeagled to the
gun-wheels there. Or those, doing shot-
drill inside the walls of the Citadel.
More than enough without any of that!
And then, to Mr. Rosen, the incred-
ible — Gallipoli, Anzac, the Landing!
And the early death-roll to prove it, and
send another fresh rush of men of the
same splendid natural fighting quality
flocking to the colors.
The dead dream in Mr. Rosen stirred
a little at the mere reading of it. And
how much it might have stirred! It could
have sprung up there and then into the
strength of full life,
CARL was there, a sergeant still. In
the splendid Ninth.
Carl in one of the first of the ship’s
boats to ground its bow on the shingle.
Leaping with the rest into the thigh-deep
water with rifle and bayonet. Splashing
on up to the beach they had been told
was there ahead of them in the dark.
The flashes of the firing rifles and
machine-guns in front of them. The crack
and whine and zipping splash of the
angry bullets. The yelling of men drunk
with the fire of life and death commingled
in them. Of men crying out as the sudden
avalanche of pain seared them. Falling
to drown wounded in the water.
On to the firm bit of beach. Darker
in there in the shadow of the cliff. And
another kind of yelling. The howls of
death and defeat, the mad shouts of
triumph.
On and up as the day broke. Through
the prickly gorse and the myrtle shrubs
and the wild thyme. On up to the heights
above.. Shooting now at the leaping
silhouettes. Using cover as the day be-
came clearer. At their backs, the sea.
Ahead of them, nothing tangible that
they could have named. Nothing but
Turks to be killed, to be picked off and
shot down in their tracks as they leapt
and twisted like mountain animals from
cover to cover.
Sergeant Rosen became aware of him-
self again near the crest of the hill. His
rifle was gripped in his big hands, with
the bayonet jutting out just in front of
his face where he crouched.
He looked at it. Not the scarlet blade
he had thought to see. Save for a little
runnel of red in the groove of it, it was
a shining point of silver in the morning
light.
The runnel of red flowed towards him.
He watched its thin flow to the inner
end of the bayonet groove. It ran over
and fell in drops. Three drops, and after
a time another. The drops touched the
red-brown earth and turned black.
On the hook of the bayonet Sergeant
Rosen saw the small flag of a fragment
piece of wet grey rag. He reached out a
hand to pull it off ; felt a stickiness about
the nose of his rifle.
His hand was dyed slightly red. On
the wet palm of it were two short bits of
black hair.
He looked out to the ships lying like
things of another world in the distance.
Through the bush twigs he saw a figure
crouched, and carefully raised his rifle.
Afterwards, a long time after,
back again in Egypt, Sergeant Rosen
wrote home. He wrote to his father.
They were reorganising and expand-
ing the army still further, and so were
able to offer him a chaplaincy. His father
would try to understand how it was, and,
he hoped, forgive him. He had declined.
Gallipoli was ended, but it was only
a beginning. They wanted the right sort
of seasoned soldiers now for officer rank.
He was as good as a certainty for a
commission.
He hoped his father didn’t mind, but
that was how he felt about it.. He wasn’t
going into details. A lot had happened
there between the Landing and the end.
The old battalion was shot to pieces, and
there were few of the originals left.
At last he got out what he wanted
to say. He felt, anyway, that this was
really more in his line. He had never
been altogether comfortable as a parson,
though without knowing why. Now he
felt that he knew. Let it go at that; and
please excuse him, “And don’t show
this, of course, to my mother.”
Mr, Rosen did not show it to anyone.
It was something which belonged to him-
self. It was a consummation with life;
the uplifting and the consecrating of a
dream.
There were occasional letters for Mrs.
Rosen, but now only occasional. They
were short and cheerful and bantering.
She sent him parcels and wrote that she
was glad that he was so happy and well.
The longer letters came to Mr. Rosen,
addressed to and delivered at the High
School. They were as welcome to the
boys as to Old Rosy. He worked bits of
them into his teaching of History, and
they brought the old battles of Marl-
borough’s Continental campaigns and of
William of Orange, the
France and the Netherlands,
Instead of a picture in a fybpk, Mitfl-
borough or young Williarti 3yas there
(Continued on page 32.\


& T ir r *
%
“
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd,* as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Bams - R. J. Noeworthy - Dewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—B. R. Overton, A.P.I.A.
BORNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
SP 9-it.
\V
YOI I.lv TRAVEL
L GHTER
WITH A
GLOBIT
Just pick up a Globit© and you'll see how much weight you can
save. Globit© Travel Cases are sturdy, smart-looking, and
weatherproof. They give extra, years of service and <tfe being
mad© available as fast as materials and manpower permit.
Illustrated is a Globlte One-Suiter, which makes packing easier
and prevents creasing and crushing.
Manufacturer.: FORD SHERINGTON LTD. (Wholesale only)
15
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE CONDITION OF ITALY.
The Paris “Peace” Conference did very
little to solve any of the difficulties and
problems with which it was confronted,
There was discussion of, but no real
decision on, the draft treaties presented to
the conference by the Council of Foreign
Ministers, and those enemy countries
whose reconstruction and political future
depend almost entirely upon the terms
which shall eventually be offered for their
acceptance are left in continuing doubt
as to what is to be their ultimate fate,
There, has been growing concern as
to what shall be the future for Italy, and
a growing fear that the “harshness” of
the proposals concerning Italy put to the
Paris meeting may be a potent cause of
disunity in that country not alone but
in Europe as a whole.
Writing in the N.Y. “Sun” George E.
Sokolsky pointed out that Italy, “never
economically self-sufficient, has always,
even in the time of the Caesars, imported
food and exported people. Mussolini’s
campaign against Ethiopia and his alliance
to Hitler were as much a product of the
restricted movement of foodstuffs and
raw materials after World War I and
limited immigration into the U S as due
to ideological associations Italy s popu-
lation pressure and limited supply of
an d raw materials remain un-
solved today. The Italians can be treated
as a conquered people; their industries
can be stripped ; they can be starved and
their boundaries can be redrawn so as to
reduce them to a speck among the Euro-
pean nations. Italy has to rely upon
the willingness of the conquerors to
draw a peace on the basis of the
welfare of Europe. The alternative is
a peace of revenge with attendant civil
wars, revolutions and the eventual ex-
plosion of peoples. The Italian problem
is basic in the peace, for in its solution
lies the key to the general procedures of
the peace for all the conquered coun-
tr j es _”
The N.Y. “Times” was of much the
same opinion. It found the Italian
Premier’s indictment of the draft treaty
“largely justified,” though, of course, it
could not “absolve Italy of her respom
sibility for the war, nor relieve her of
the necessity of paying to her utmost
for the damage done to smaller
nations like Greece and Ethiopia, That
liability cannot be wiped out by changing
Governments and switching sides in the
midst of war. But there can be no
quarrel with the larger thesis that a peace
which leaves Italy prostrate and defence-
less, is likely to prove a blunder which
can only cause future trouble for Italy,
for Europe and for the world.”
William Henry Chamberlin reported on
a visit to Italy for the “Wall-street
Journal.” He found “most Italians dis-
tinctly gloomy about their country’s
future. On the other hand foreign
observers who have been there since the
Germans were driven out see some silver
linings in the Italian clouds. Rahway
transportation has been pretty well re-
stored. Predictions of famine and col-
lapse of the social order have® failed to
materialise. There are goods for sale in
Italian shops, silks, textiles, clothing,
leather products, even low-grade choco-
late, which is conspicuously lacking in
most European countries, Italian foreign
trade is slowly and painfully reviving.
“There are some formidable items on
the negative side of the balance-
sheet. The country is in a state of acute
uncertainty over the peace treaty. There
is bitter resentment over the prospective
loss of Trieste and Briga and Tende,
which are to be ceded to France,
Apart from sentimental considerations.
Italy stands to lose valuable sources of
electric power in Briga and Tends and
badly-needed coal in the part of Istria
which is to be assigned to Yugoslavia,
Reparations demands hang over the im-
poverished country like a Sword of
Damocles, and Italian businessmen fear
that no credits will be granted to a coun-
try which is placed under a crippling
reparations burden.”
Chamberlin decided that “Italy needs
a shot in the arm in the shape of a
reasonable peace treaty and a certain
amount of internal economic and financial
self-discipline, which the present Gov-
eminent can scarcely impose if it is to
consolidate the ground which has been
won in recovery, revive its industrial pro-
Auction (now about half the pre-war
figure), rebuild its merchant marine and
gradually win for itself at least a modest
place in the sun ”
London » Times » found signs for hope
attitude of the Ita i iail people : “In
ber reac fion against the melodramatic
ex t ra vagances of Fascism which brought
t 0 tbe verge of ruin Italy is facing
the future in a temper of commonsense
which d not seek to evade the conse .
quences Q v f def | atj but asks that a patie nt
and i abor i ous people be left with reason-
ab]e h of re-establishing themselves
by their J
own exertions.
„ . ~
Behind the desire for tolerable peace
terms hes an £ Y e J I deeper resolve to save
a country which has already been a
theatre of war from becoming a battle-
ground of ideologies. From this springs
the eagerness to set Italy s house in
prder in Italy s own way, resolving
in the process difficulties which are
telt to be social and economic rather
than political. Outstanding among these
difficulties is that presented by a popu-
F^ loll which is continually outstripping
its means of subsistence. The renewal or
facilities for emigration is, indeed, vital
to the country’s future. The present ex-
Pedants whereby large numbers of per-
sons or whom no work can be found
are kept on the wages sheets of industrial
hrms and of Government departments
cann °t do more than tide the country
OV£r the uncertain interlude between war
and peace. If Italian industry were ade-
quately supplied with raw materials, and
* the Italian countryside lacked neither
tools nor seeds, there would still be a
sur Pl us of labor. Hence the anxiety to
c 9 commercial treaties which will
S ive access to raw materials and
markets for her goods. The revulsion
a S amst the formulas of self-sufficiency is
vei Y. marked; but not even full and tree
participation in international trade will
se «le the population question. This con-
sciousness of the necessity of finding
homes for thousands oversea colors Italy s
attitude towards the future of her
colonies, and dominates her conception of
her future relations with South America,
“Such is the general public attitude ;
it follows that political controversies ex-
cite little interest. The republic is
accepted as the visible sign of the break
with the past, but there is an almost
total indifference to the work of the
Constituent Assembly. The present inter-
regnum called for a coalition Government,
which was formed after the elections, and
which has survived in spite of the pro-
found differences among the parties which
compose it. A Government of this
complexion must confine its activities to
matters of common agreement—such as
expenditure on public works to prevent
unemployment—a condition which has
tended to exalt the authority of an
always too powerful bureaucracy. But
the Italian people, having been over-
governed for more than 20 years, no
longer pay much heed to decree laws, and
the central Government commands little
respect.
“In spite of occasional disorder,” the
“Times” found “no administrative break-
down such as gave Mussolini his opening
The average Italian go.es about his work
thankful that he has work to do, and the
country’s life is carried on in a spirit or
self-reliance, which is the outstanding
characteristic of post-war Italy. This
spirit should suffice to maintain the coun-
try’s unity, and will probably find ex-
pression in a system of regional Goyern-
ments. It will also help to maintain in
being the broad-based national parties
which emerged from the last election,
The political future of Italy, with all that
is involved in it, rests with these parties
and especially with the newest of them,
the Christian Democrats, But party pro-
grammes and party controversies are
largely in abeyance until the final peace
terms are settled. Not until the treaty is
operative will Italy know how far her
circumstances will permit her to devote
all her reviving energies to the recon-
struction of her national life.”
MACARTHUR VIEWS JAPAN.
General of the Army Douglas Mac-
Arthur has evoked a great deal of criti-
cism in his handling of the occupation
of Japan—criticism often based solely on
the premise that he has made of the
occupation machinery a tight bureaucracy
governed by himself alone, and that
therefore the result must necessarily be
bad. The record of the occupation seems
not to bear out that view. Certainly in
comparison with the record of disturb-
ances and still-growing quarrels among
the Powers and Administrations governing
the occupation of Germany his achieve-
ment in Japan has been remarkably tran-
quil and efficient. Murder of and by
occupation forces and rapine against the
civilian populace have been rarely charged
in contrast to the sorry stories which
have come from, disrupted Germany.
Mac Arthur has been heard in his own
defence. Reviewing the problems of the
first year of his overlordship he claimed
“much has been accomplished—much
still remains to be done. Over all things
and all men in this sphere of the universe
hangs the uncertainty arising from im-
pinging ideologies which now stir man-
kind. For our homeland there is no ques-
tion, and for the homelands of others,
free as are we to shape their own political
order, there is no question. But which
concept will prevail over those lands now
being redesigned in the aftermath of
war? This is the great issue which con-
fronts our task in Japan—a problem
which profoundly affects the destiny of
all men and the future course of all civili-
sation.
“The philosophy underlying the first
year of occupation was written at Pots-
dam. It is a simple philosophy embody-
ing principles of right and justice and
decency. Its impact and its lasting im-
print upon the Japanese character and
conscience and mind can only properly
be visualised and assayed by an under-
standing of the Japanese philosophy. For
centuries the Japanese people have been
idolaters of the art of war and the warrior
caste. They were the natural warriors of
the Pacific. Unbroken victory for Japanese
arms convinced them of their invinci-
bility, and the keystone of the entire arch
of their civilisation became an almost
mythological belief in the strength and
wisdom of the warrior caste. It per-
meated and controlled not only all
branches of government, but all branches
of life—physical, mental and spiritual,
It was interwoven into all phases of
daily routine. It was not only the essence
but the actual warp and woof of Japanese
existence. Control was exercised by a
feudalistic overlordship of a mere fraction
of the population, while the remaining
70,000,000 were abject slaves to tradition,
legend, mythology and regimentation.
“During the progress of the war, these'
70,000,000 heard of nothing but Japanese
victories and the bestial qualities of
Japan’s opponents. Then they suddenly
felt the concentrated shock of total de-
feat. Their whole world crumbled. It
was not merely an overthrow of their
military might—not merely a great defeat
for their nation —it was the collapse of a
faith ; it was the disintegration of every-
thing they had believed in and lived by
and fought for. It left a complete vacuum
morally, mentally and physically. And
into this vacuum flowed the democratic
way of life.
“The falseness of their former teach-
ings, the failure of their former leadership
and the tragedy of their past faith were
infallibly demonstrated in actuality and
realism. A spiritual revolution almost
overnight tore asunder a theory and
practice of life built upon two thousand
years of tradition. Idolatry for their
feudalists masters and the warrior caste
was transformed into hatred and con-
tempt, and the hatred and contempt once
felt for their foe gave way to honor and
respect.”
It is Mac Arthur’s belief that “this re-
volution of the spirit represents no thin
veneer to serve the purposes of the
present. It represents an unparalleled
convulsion in the social history of the
world. The measure of its strength and
durability lies in the fact that it represents
a sound idea. Given encouragement and
the opportunity to develop, it can become
more deep-seated and lasting than the
foundations upon which their false faith
was built.”
He believes further that “it represents
the most significant gain during the occu-
pation—a gain for the forces of demo-
cracy in furtherance of a durable peace,
which must be consolidated and extended
if we would discharge our responsibility.
Its underlying concept will remain the
cornerstone to Japanese freedom unless
uprooted and suppressed by the inroads
of some conflicting ideology which might
negate individual freedom, destroy in-
dividual initiative and mock individual
dignity.”
There is more than a hint there of the
disruptive tendencies in Russian propa-
ganda as addressed to Japan, which Mac-
Arthur has more than once thought it
necessary to curb. He declares that
“ideologies of extreme too often gain
converts and support from the true
liberals, misguided by slanted propa-
ganda and catch phrases which hold as
‘reactionary’ all things which spring from
the underlying concept of the past. Such
propaganda seeks too often to exploit the
knowledge common to all men that
sociological and political changes from
time to time are mandatory if we would


“A daily dose of ' NUGGET ' will
put new life into
you. Keep your
smartness and
you'll keep your
job”.
A>OA*AH
For 50 years a GOOD polish
ftIGISTIRIO TRADE M
E
an
rmest Leather
Preservative
AUuly&l
SHOE POLISH
A STATELY SELF-CONTAINED PROPERTY
on the Southern Highlands
Gentleman with large family who desires to live 73 miles from Sydney. An
opportunity is offered to acquire a magnificent, stately, self-contained
property On the Southern Highlands. Furnished two-storey mansion with
verandahs all around (1 6 rooms, tiled bathroom) surrounded by park lands,
overlooking the major part of the 680-acre extent of the property. Well
fenced, improved pastures, subdivided into 12 paddocks, about 200 acres
cleared, half under cultivation. Property is bounded on one side by the
Hume Highway and by nailway station on the other. Unparalleled, exhilarat-
ing climate 2000 feet above sea level. Ideal for guesthouse.
There is a large feed shed, 144 ft. x 40ft., with concrete floor, connected
to an up-to-date piggery. Sales from pigs £l6O monthly; 10 farrowing pens,
concrete automatic troughs, piggery well laid out everywhere. Two-storey
brick stables, 2 machine sheds, small dairy, poultry sheds, windmill, two
concrete underground tanks (20,000-gallons capacity each), 1 overhead
tank, never-failing spring, miles of pipe line, pump, etc. Water and septic
system installed. All agricultural implements, including tractor, rotary hoe,
etc. About 300 pigs, pedigree stock; 8 cows, two horses, Chev. 1942 3-ton
truck, grinders and other machinery. Price £1 0,000, stock and plant excluded.
1 For full particulars apply to:
No. 317 Advt. Dept., The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney
keep our social system abreast of the
advance of civilisation. Should such a
clash of ideologies impinge more directly
upon the reorientation' of Japanese life
and thought, it would be no slight dis-
advantage to those who seek, as intended
at Potsdam, the great middle course of
moderate democracy, that a people so
long regimented under the philosophy of
an extreme conservative Right might prove
easy prey to those seeking to impose a
doctrine leading again to regimentation,
under the philosophy of an extreme radi-
cal Left.”
It is MacArthur’s opinion that “if we
would guide the Japanese people to re-
shape their lives and institutions and to
foster and preserve a peaceful society,
we must adhere unerringly to the course
now charted—destroying here what yet
should be destroyed, preserving here what
should be preserved, and erecting here
what should be erected. This would re-
quire all the patience, all the determina-
tion and all the statesmanship of demo-
cratic peoples. The goal is great—for
the strategic position of these Japanese
islands renders them either a powerful
bulwark for peace or a dangerous spring-
board for war.”
To MacArthur’s statement Washington
“Post” added a postscript, remembering
that at the signing of the surrender docu-
ment in Tokyo Bay the general had en-
visioned a better world emerging “out
of the blood and carnage of the past—
a world founded upon faith and under-
standing.” It found now that the “major
task is still that of working out under-
standings with a proud, sensitive, stub-
born and sometimes bellicose ally that
knows little of our system and distrusts
our basic political ideas.”
The future standing of Japan will, it
seems, be dependent on the solution of
that other problem.
Recruiting for the Workers’
Paradise.
Latest complaints of the deportation of
foreign workmen and technicians to
Russia —Reuben H. Markham reported
them from Balkan countries in the
“Christian Science Monitor,” and there
have been veiled suggestions that enforced
slavery has been practised throughout
Eastern Europe—have come from the
Russian zone in Germany, and the matter
was referred to the Allied Control Com-
mission on the suggestion of the British
commandant in Berlin following the “re-
moval” of 300 technical specialists’and
skilled workmen from the Zeiss and
Schott works at Jena, in Thuringia.
The Russian general in charge of the
“removal,” one Dobrowolsky, said that
he “could not understand why the
workers were objecting, since those sent
to Russia would get work, homes and
bread.” London “Times” remarked that
this bewilderment may well be genuine,
and is the measure of the gulf between
Russia and the West. Russian authorities
are accustomed to a mobility of labor
which can carry workers of many nation-
alities at the will of the State from Kiev
to Vladivostok. Why not from .Berlin,
too? And are not the assured privileges
of a Russian skilled worker —work, homes
and bread—sufficient compensation for the
compulsory loss of home and friends and
country? The Allied inquiries may make
plain to the Russians that they are not.
A “Times” correspondent had previ-
ously reported on the manner of the “re-
moval”: “The method by which the men
and their families were summoned to
leave for Russia was similar to that which
has been used throughout the Russian
zone. About four o’clock in the morning
large lorries drew up outside the houses
of the men selected. The houses were
surrounded by soldiers and sentries were
posted in the street. A Russian officer,
accompanied by soldiers and an inter-
preter, then entered each house and told
the men to prepare to leave immediately.
Where protest was made and the
authority demanded, the interpreter pro-
duced a document in Russian which bore
no office stamp or signature. It was to
the effect that the man and his family
must leave within three hours, and that
the Zeiss and Schott works were to be
dismantled and sent to Russia.
“No warning was given of the impend-
ing removals. Where contracts existed
binding the men to work in Russia these
were loosely framed, and none of those
taken away had reckoned with early de-
parture. The method by which the re-
movals were carried out suggests that
considerations of strict legality or of the
reaction of the Germans concerned, or of
the German public generally, did not in-
fluence the Russians. The wide scope of
the plan suggests that the removals were
decided on some time ago and are not, as
some have concluded, a reprisal for the
defeat of the Socialist Unity party in the
municipal election. It is possible that the
Unity party may have secured a post-
ponement of the plan till the election was
over, and so averted a larger adverse
vote.
“Few, if any, of' the workers left will-
ingly! No regard was paid to either
sickness or age. One man died of heart
failure. One family had to leave without
two children, who were away from home.
Among those removed were two pro-
ONE PARTY LINE
-chicago “Sun.”
lessors of Jena University. The director
of the municipal savings bank was also
taken away. Those taken from the Schott
works included research scientists, speci-
alist engineers and skilled workers.
Among the workers were optical-glass
grinders and quartz-glass blowers,”
The “Times” man reported that “the
Russians intend to dismantle the Zeiss
and Schott plants and remove them to
Russia as reparations. The two firms come
under the Carl Zeiss Foundation, by
which profits are shared with the workers
and go towards support of the Friedrich
Schiller University at Jena and its various
technical institutes. The closing-down
of the firms is a heavy blow to the town.
The Schott works, which manufactures
raw optical, technical and chemical glass,
employs 2750 people, and the firm of
Carl Zeiss has almost 14,000 workers.
Jena before the war had 58,000 inhabit-
ants, of whom about 40,000 were directly
dependent on the two firms. In addi-
tion, about 10,000 glassblowers, working
in their homes in the Thuringian forest,
who make chemical glassware and glass
ornaments, will be deprived of raw
material. The wider effect of the removal
of the two firms would be that every
important branch of industry and re-
search would be deprived of essential
equipment. Formerly both exported a
quarter of their total production.”
Other undertakings listed as having
provided workmen for Russia included
“the firm of Henschel at Stassfurt, which
during the war manufactured aircraft
(800 workers removed); the Koetschen
textile factory at Apolda, heavy industrial
undertakings in the Chemnitz area (125
engineers and 4000 other workers re-
moved) ; the Leuna works at Halle; and
the Bleichart machinery works at Leipzig.
At Bleicherode, in the province of Saxony,
dismantling began of the Rabe Institute,
which produced parts of the V 2 weapon.
Several hundred workers have been re-
moved from this works. At Lehesten,
in Thuringia, a similar works is being dis-
mantled, Branches of the Zeiss under-
taking at Gera, Poessneck and Saalfield,
which together employ about 3500
people, are also scheduled for dismantling.
The Zeiss-Ikon works at Dresden has
already been completely dismantled and
sent to Russia.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
U.S. help of many kinds is still going to
Russia, Yugoslavia and other countries in the
Russian orbit, though Tito’s thugs have downed
U.S. ’planes and Stalin is promoting anti-U.S.
sentiment wherever he can. The latest ship-
ment to Yugoslavia carried U.N.R.R.A. food,
farm equipment and medical supplies, including
75,000,000 units of penicillin and 13 cases of
whisky, damn it. During the war the U.S.
shipped Russia more than $11,000,000,000-
worth of lend-lease materials, including trucks,
jeeps, locomotives and airplanes. Russia didn’t
shoot, away all this stuff in the war. Since
VJ-Day the U.S. has sent Russia another
$290,000,000-worth of lend-lease goods. Via
U.N.R.R.A., the U.S. has given Russia
$175,000,000-worth of food, clothes, farm
animals and machines. The American Society
for Russian Relief is still in business. Altogether,
since the war ended and Stalin turned on the
U.S. as if it had been his enemy instead of his
ally, Russia has received more than $466,000,000-
worth of help. Since VJ-Day U.N.R.R.A. has sent
to Tito’s country $235,855,000-worth of supplies.
At least 5,000,000 Yugoslavs, according to
U.N.R.R.A.’s Yugoslav agent, are living on
U.S. food and could not live without it. The
U.S. has also sent $32,000,000-worth of lend-
lease materials, including food, tanks, aircraft
parts and other war gear. U.N.R.R.A. con-
tributions to Poland have amounted to
$262,000,000. Poland got $ 17,000,000-worth
of lend-lease goods from the U.S. during the
war, and has got another $15,000,000-worth
since. The Red Cross has given Poland about
$5,000,000-worth of clothes, medicines and
food. Yugoslavia and Poland are the biggest
nations in the Russian orbit. Smaller ones are
Hungary, Rumania and Albania; and all three
are still benefiting. The Governments of all
three, meanwhile, are busily doing their little
best’ to urtdermine American influence and
blacken the name of the U.S. The grand total
of U.S. help to Russia and Co. since the war
is $1,120,000,000. That is the picture of Uncle
Sap in some of his post-war activities. — N.Y.
“Daily News.”
* * * ♦
It is common knowledge that the Communists
and fellow-travellers have muscled their way
into key places in U.S. labor unions, and it
should be apparent that they have not done
this merely for their health. The Allies are
making little or no progress in working out
peace treaties. The U.S. and Russia have
opposite ideas on almost every question. That
these differences hold serious dangers cannot
be denied. During the war the primary
strength of the U.S. rested on its ability to
outproduce the enemy. This ability constitutes
the main strength of our representatives at
the peace-table. Communists in the U.S. are well
aware of developments at the peace conferences,
and it requires no great ability to determine
where their interest's lie. That those in. the
labor unions would not hesitate to utilise their
power and influence there can be no doubt.
These fellows are never half-hearted. Should
war develop between the U.S. and Russia as
a result of inability to reach agreement on
peace treaties, the U.S. would be seriously
handicapped because of the strikes it has
encountered. It may be certain that Russia
has permitted no such situation to develop
within her boundaries. Moreover, she has lost
no time in grabbing productive facilities of
other countries. And she has been using all
available labor, including “prisoners-of-war,”
to rush reinstallation of these facilities in
Russia. — Ralph Hendershot in N.Y. “World
Telegram.”
* * * *
Russia’s totalitarian Government is the single
obstacle and threat to peace. It is a quibble
to say Americans have no right to complain
about the form of Government which some
other nation utilises. But we do have. When
an internal question threatens world peace it
no longer is internal —it is international. When
Hitler began in 1933 his totalitarian brutality
it was inevitable that what was happening
inside Germany would threaten eventually the
peace of the whole world. There is little dif-
ference between the Nazi Government and the
present Moscow dictatorship. To talk of
appeasing that kind of Government is to invite
war. To compromise with Communism, which
is indeed totalitarian, is to ignore the facts of
international life today. We cannot go to war
to overthrow the Moscow Government unless
we are attacked. But we can mobilise the
moral forces of the world so that ultimately
the desire of democracy for friendship will
become known to the Russian people. There
can be no peace in the world until Stalin and
his gang are superseded by a people’s Gov-
ernment. Then America and Britain and all
other nations can work together with reduced
armament expense in an era of peace.— David
Lawrence in the “United States News.”
* * * *
All Americans ought to have the U.S. Navy’s
list of Pacific bases which it considers essential
to future defence • engraved on their inside hat-
bands if not on their hearts. Here is the list,
together with the condition in which the Navy
hopes to keep each base; Adak, Alaska (re-
duced operations); Attu, Aleutians (mainten-
ance) ; Dutch Harbor, Alaska (caretaker);
Eniwetok (maintenance); Guam (full oper-
ations); Kodiak, Alaska (maintenance); Kwaja-
lein (maintenance); Majuro (caretaker); Manus
(caretaker); Midway (reduced operations);
Okinawa (maintenance); Palau (maintenance);
Saipan (full operations); Samar-Leyte, Philip-
pines (reduced operations); Samoa (care-
taker); Subic, Philippines (reduced operations);
Tinian (caretaker) ■ Truk (maintenance). We
are being propositioned to share control of
many of them with the British, Australians,
New Zealanders, French, Dutch and Portuguese.
This because all these nations have holdings
in the Pacific. Not that all would contribute
to the upkeep. The whole proposal is imper-
tinent, absurd and dangerous. The U.S. will
have to bear the main burden in any Pacific
war in the foreseeable future. We cannot
afford to take such chances with our national
safety—or with the success of any more rescue
jobs we may be drawn into performing for
Imperial Powers which cannot hang on to their
own Far East possessions. Accordingly, we
should turn down this joint-control proposal,
and keep on turning it down; and we should
be prepared to use force to make those refusals
stick. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
“During the past five years American Com-
munists have made their deepest inroads upon
U.S. national life. In our vaunted tolerance
for all peoples the Communists have found
our ‘Achilles’ heel.’ Their propaganda has been
projected into practically every phase of our
life. The fact that the Communist party in
the U.S. claims some 100,000 members has
lulled many Americans into a feeling of com-
placency. The Communists themselves boast
that for every party member there are 10 others
ready to do the party’s work. These include
their fellow-travellers and their so-called pro-
gressive allies. They have manoeuvred themselves
into positions where a few Communists control
the destinies of hundreds who are either willing
to be led or have been duped into obeying the
dictates of others. In some unions the rank-
and file find themselves between a Communist
pincers, manipulated by a few leaders who have
hoodwinked and browbeaten them into a state of
submission. The Communist influence has pro-
jected itself into newspapers, magazines, books,
radio and the screen. Churches, schools, col-
leges have been penetrated. We are rapidly
reaching the time when loyal Americans must
be willing to stand up and be counted. The
Communist party in the U.S. is not working
for the general welfare of all our people—it
is working against our people. It ‘is not in-
terested in providing for the common defence.
It has for its purpose the shackling of America
and its conversion to the godless, Communist
way of life. If it were a political party its
adherents could be appealed to by reason.
Instead, it is a system of intrigue, actuated by
fanaticism. It knows no rules of decency. Its
unprincipled converts would sell America short
if it would help their cause of furthering an
alien way of life conceived in darkness and
motivated by greed for power whose ultimate
aim is the destruction of our freedom. Let us
no longer be misled by their sly propaganda
and false preachments on civil liberty. They
want civil licence to do as they please. Those
who seek to provoke prejudice and stir up the
public mind to angry resentment against our
form of government are a menace to the very
powers of law and order which guarantee and
safeguard popular rights.”— J. Edgar Hoover,
head of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion in a speech to the American Legion of
Ex-servicemen.


. V a •*? > % . .
•.•••¥* .• ' •: ;•• • • ' ••• :•• ;.:• . . ■:•: .• •
. ~•;•:>■ x vc-' j. /' /:• • •• \> , N
x-‘ s? > , • # S . + v' ••
X r v ' • -X* >x> ~if'.,.K ? X ~,/ ...vA ,:■ A -...
#: .•.•#*' X ,-X' v ..« x : - ;..x#k
■ V V V • ...
W it f . „ o- , . ' 4
' „ -' ' 1 ” ii‘ '„ [S\, v ' J#
IHI ipiSid
v: 4k¥; : :;,:4x4 ,
-- < *
* i ' -X
. , .xk ,x;y - 'yy - g
' ' .\ ■
vf .X ■
•4 <■ * 4^44
i ' ' k <*, 4 * ■*
i ". v 44; ar.*C
- , y % LI
4 * . ’ ■ x-‘•>
v-tv. ' x4&4 .•xl
Silfe.
m&mmmm&m
*■:■ ./ Sfik JS?y\
t V A' " '
4:
%r\ v v 'i
. • X. V
<• " I I r~\ Ij I i IVi f~K rv.|\ ■ % -
•. ' 'r'- 4 " ' • ' ' ' - *
yk - y x.x. Air
i *■ V- VV
Vf,% 4 1 x„
<> ;■. '\ • .‘V x-, ;
V. *i - • ,
X • ■■>;■:.■■:■ ■:>:* . f
v" V
<3 ,
4 '■■ ?• *
Sißf
- ' ' « ¥ - > v
i i | ■ ,| I f
i % t i f ¥¥ % i 1 ;V '-i-
-■■: ' 'ft ' v -
mm .k
i* M V
.;-x., : : * ■'■
;i: ¥ i t -
.^'4T
A* ■■. ■ ■•_-.,.■ v.;:sV .
:> s -B •» X,<,:
i • -•••- ' .. - • ' . B
■ ■;. .■■ » , ' > •. . A 'v v » .W , J: -j : , ' * V
» *• : .s \ * * ■;
r ■■ x :. - ■;> :¥- ' s ; ..••
■ V f f i | - t ... ;
| v .
-V- ' , .■ ¥ " i ' J ’ , ' ;v 'J ;
•?: ; ... ■;■*:, ■:■•: '■■■■ f. 5f ~.,.■■ s:> ■;■
1- ■<>; - ■■* s
■ !■ •>>■•• : ’
.v \<c ■'■•:;• <••
.'% Jv
%;•%: V,
■' • : : 1 V <•:. - ;
.♦ .. ~.f ’
# i |
iiW i\/* :< i v%., ' s t,:v
••;. >o-•-•.
• ■>''■’ ’ v <x r <' jtv
viAA: i | :S i i
•■ ;>■ -s ; r i. :?■ :s;
r B ¥■•■.■*••■•? -i:
V. 'B' y A
?. •> '•• \C. ■•
'4. s .< '
..■ ''
, a: ■;, .-;; ..,
i .. sff„> \ : ii§i|| ;| & J :
'■ - ¥ ' ' ' f < ' , ' .
.’• . -. • .■’ x •:>■ ■4: 4 '>
m' ' % ■ .
x ' N
x >v
y^-W.
* -r v ■* v
.: ' - ' j ■■■ - '
• • ■ ••<:•• ■■fi- ;;i!
' ■». ■;: $■ j: ; - : '
' -■ j <; .
# %. .• ,5S 4 .;’
• ■ X-V v:
■e
. x '' % , ■'
, •/* #■ ' ',< V
~<:;... > ’ k-: *4 :> k
■ ■ %% % ¥>■ :> . 4 ';-k ->:k
>- .
; v - ; '% s y> 'i : ' : ( y- ;y.:'
.■i ’ ■ i:44v4 -i
•• y. %'4 V V x , 4
» X > % 4
' \ 4 \ \ V, ,4:4
V k » 'k •
■4:-'4> 4.V iy 4k,-
•• > 4'x , . 44.
;V '* \ * y A o
• 4 ■•••4 V< ”■■: -
‘ .
x % >% % ¥/ t M ' •
: k <•■ ,< A •:> -■> ... y : -..
> • ••••• V ■< 4- . v .
• • >4 >' :> •• •
4.-: ‘ % . '. • <■ -v. •;• •-• x- • ■•■ •>■-.■ •> n •■'.• :•■ >'
%•• -x : Vxk *?:_
- u £ v* < >% - * x■■ * ,
~-:; > ::4 ' <>x ;
V 4x '.yfy: X 4 ;.
:■ s 4 \ vj.' < 4 '.. •, 4
k :fe : %
($ A
i,.4 k, 4 *; ; , ,V .4/ <••
?: ' 'k ' " / ''4 . •• : V ■¥: 4'4 4 •: ~
i >, s 4 ,* ‘J , 4 > , $ *** '
X > ’■ 4> V •-• 4 < v/ /•/ N /jX ■<* ;
■; 4■ -y 4-. *<x v y 4 : 4,:' <•.:/• .•■•*' 4 \ < >• •,. A A. '
° ■' ■■ ‘A. .•. k • >
< ' 44.4;, 'a, b ' x' •■ v- \ ' , -y r
'■ >■' i ■ ■■', k *> . '.:■ *, >k :.• " 4.., - V - < - k k -.;
<x y
// > y'vx
i. &
Ti. '•*
> . r ' x • »
•■■r k - '> # ,
, /■■■:;; '> k ”, yy, .y
y - #
4:^
S-: 1-4®
4. •:•• ’• ■ .if /< • >':•■ ./■* -V 4 i
• ■-X-.N -4 ■■ ;.x 4:-. 4 V - • /.•■ -i< .:< .4 /.:.<' x ••< '<, t
S 4.4 .. N / v A-v .<• v 4 /4 .4 > . 4. '/, >
■:•■■■:■ yS;:. ■. ; ;- ; x4. :4*;>; •s•sss>/•■>.>*&.■ ov. . x ; v. y •
'W%: :: ':: : ,14 ’ ,4 # v '>Wi JtrW
«4 : -:
• ■' . /
; < 4 4 --4. x, 44 v <. ■ • •... .• . /
4> ■%. ' >;.
4 ;-4^3
44*
Abbotsford Ng. VicforiakAustrolia.
yy ■ y- - y - - - k < ;y. • . >
<>■-*• x:


The Bulletin
Vol. 67 —No. 3484
Wednesday, November 20, 1946
THE SHADOW ON THE CENOTAPH.
“The threats of Jewish murder gangs have led to extraordinary measures being taken to protect the Royal Family, mejnbers of the Government,
Parliament and the heads of services.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
J. BULL AND CO. TODAY.
Of the three big concerns on the winning
side in the late war, the old firm of J. Bull
and Co. is the only one that has not
pegged out territorial claims, the single
local move for incorporation in the Union
of South Africa of what was “German
South-West” for a mere 31 years being
by request of’ the natives. On the con-
trary, unlike Russia and America, the
firm as a general concern has actually
parted with territory, as it did after the
other world war.
The Russian territorial expansion is
the outstanding aftermath of the six-
dears’ nightmare. It includes, either by
total annexation, actual control or over-
powering domination, Finland, Karelia,
East Prussia, the Baltic States, Poland
(part annexed), Bessarabia, Czecho-
slovakia (part annexed), Rumania, Hun-
gary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Albania,
Dairen, Port Arthur and parts of North
Manchuria and Eastern Mongolia, with
extension of part-oontrol even to North
Africa. A good deal of this is complete
annexation, open and unashamed and
final—if anything can be final in such
matters.
The American expansion must be for
Australia a more welcome phenomenon,
but it is none the less an extraordinary
one. It amounts to complete strategical
control of the Pacific, along with a free
hand in China. In almost as many
words, U.N.O. has been told that
America wants a trusteeship arrange-
ment permitting it to hold whatever
islands it took from the Japs and to
defend them, without interference, in
any way that it thinks fit including
secret defences —the, alternative to such
trusteeship arrangement being that they
will be taken over anyway. In appear-
ances this is to some extent balanced by
the granting of independence to the
Philippines, but America retains the right
to establish defences at points there, and,
in any case, will have them under
strategic control. Apart from the free
hand in China, the actual territorial gains
are small compared with those of Russia,
but the extension of power is great.
Britain, for its part, has lost Egypt
outright. Its hold on the Sudan and
Palestine becomes more and more
tenuous. In India, Burma and Malaya
the hold is in different stages of going.
The position in Shanghai has been given
up, though not Hongkong. In all, a very
considerable contraction of empire.
Together with the strain imposed on the
British taxpayer and housewife by the
' desperate plight of Germany, it would
look as if J. Bull and Go. should really
be numbered not on the winning but on
the losing side, except for one important
difference.
The British Commonwealth remains.
It not only survives, but in its
parts has been substantially strength-
ened. There is no reason, short
„of their own lunacy or a shattering war,
why the strengthening process in the parts
should not go on from greatness to great-
ness, vastly increasing the strength of the
whole. It depends on a continuance in
peace-time of that co-operation among
the parts which became most evident in
the war, arid on which the entire future
of J. Bull and Co. as a world concern
now entirely depends.
That is wholly up to the various parts.
It is for their decision whether they are
to continue as free and independent
nations linked in an organisation of that
character, which has no parallel in his-
tory, strengthening themselves, one
another and the whole by co-operation
together, or are to become eventually
dominated countries in some particular
world Power’s sphere of interest and
control.
That the firm of J. Bull and Co. is at
a point where its parts must either ad-
here still more closely together if the
firm is to continue to function and they
themselves are to continue independent
was realised in the debate in the Com-
mons on one of the most important
aspects of the future co-operation
—that of British Commonwealth de-
fence regarded as a joint affair. Ex-
cept for the noisy rabble of Leftists, it is
appreciated there —as it surely now must
be even by those troglodyte minds in the
Australian Government that did not
appreciate it when the recent war started
—that any war involving Britain must at
once involve the various parts of the
British Commonwealth. That unques-
tionable first lesson of the recent war
was not properly understood in the other
world war or after it. Then the role
of the Dominions was that of sending
over a few divisions to help the Old
Country in a fight it had got itself mixed
up in. The Dominions could think of
themselves as being altruistically gener-
ous; that it was no concern of theirs,
really, but of course one had to lend a
bit of a hand. In fact, it used to be a
common fear that Britain should not have
this, that or the other Continental com-
mitment lest it should lead to strife and
the Dominions be expected to assist.
That, admittedly, was reasonable
enough when wars could be localised ; be-
fore Mars had been infected with the later
mania for broadcasting. There might
still be local wars, and it could be a use-
ful function of U.N.O. to keep them
localised ; but nobody can now hope or
expect that any war brought on by a
great Power, as in 1914 and 1939, can be
other than a world war. In such a set-
up there can be only one choice for J.
Bull and Co.: to act together as equal
and equally-involved partners. The
notion that when Britain is faced with a
war brought on by a great Power the
assistance to be lent by any Dominion
can be regarded as purely voluntary is
now company for the dodo. If that les-
son has not been learned from the latest
war it will never be learned, because
then there will be no survival from the
next one.
If the lesson has been learned—-Aus-
tralian co-operation with Britain in at
least planning defence arrangements may
be something of a sign to the good—
there is no ground for dire pessi-
mism about the contraction of the Em-
pire. These Pacific Dominions, Canada,
South Africa and Britain together make
up a considerable strength judged by any
standards. In co-operation they are, in
fact, a strategically very powerful con-
cern, especially with air power dominant
in the waging of war. And, just because
of that growing dominance, without.co-
operation each part of the whole would
be an easy mark.
The practical application of the lesson
must be a co-ordinated British Common-
weath defence. So far, there has been
some co-operative discussion to that end.
There has been talk of combined plan-
ning and so forth, but there has been
the very opposite of practical applica-
tion. What shape, for example, is Aus-
tralia’s practical co-operation to take?
What is to be Australia’s defence estab-
lishment in relation to the joint defence
establishment of the whole? There is no
sign of any. Instead, Australia’s defence
establishment is in a fair way to dis-
integration. After the other world war
the natural reaction against war resulted
in action against having any sound de-
fence whatever. It seems to be happen-
ing again. There are more Ministers on
the job now than even when the war was
on: they are like kings without subjects.
A difference this time is that there is
no parallel of the other post-war excuse
for defencelessness—faith in collective
security under the League of Nations.
There is no such faith in wrangling
U.N.O. In any case, even if U.N.O. does
come good—as all must hope—a strong
joint British Commonwealth defence will
not be incompatible with it. While such
a thing stood there would be less temp-
tation for any country to take the U.N.O.
law into its own hands. The weaker the
joint defence co-operation of J. Bull and
Co, the greater that sort of temptation
must be, and if somebody falls for it the
tougher must be the going for J.B. and
Co. It is time the talk on the subject
took some practical shape.
From the Bombers' Land.
At a time when the terrorist gangs in
Palestine are adding daily to outrages
as fiendish in nature as those of the Nazi
gangs, with ferocious ingratitude added,
and when the Royal family, Cabinet
Ministers, and heads of the fighting and
civil services have had to be placed under
armed protection lest they share the fate
of the faithful men blown up in the King
David Hotel and narrowly escaped by the
occupants of the British Embassy in
Rome, it is an abominable thing that
Jews from Palestine should be coming to
Australia with preference over the
Britons and stranded Australians await-
ing passages from the U.K. —upwards of
100,000 by all accounts.
When the terrorists are of both sexes
and apparently five of the seven ages,
what guarantee is there that any Jew
from Palestine is not a sympathiser with
or even an actual member of one of the
terrorist organisations? Not even the
guarantee of Mr. Calwell’s word, if his
word is worth a rush.
There were Jews from Palestine
among the 246 alien “migrants who
came to Australia last month by the
Strathmore, This has been admitted by
the secretary of a so-called goodwill
council which hangs out at St. Kilda, St.
Kilda being to Melbourne what Bondi
is to Sydney. His admission may be
transcribed:
There were also some Palestinian
migrants, some of them the only survivors
of large families who had known the dread-
ful cruelties of Nazi tyranny. Some had
suffered the horrors of Belsen.
If that is the case when did they get to
Palestine, and how?
“All migrants,” the goodwill person
proceeded, “have been sponsored by rela-
tives living in Australia.” Here he was
following Mr. Calwell, replying to Mr.
Lang, the Calwell stuff being that “repre-
sentations” had “been made on behalf
of a few close relatives of Australian resi-
dents who had been stranded at Port
Said for months —at a cost of £5O a
month to their guarantors in Australia —
'and others in Egypt”:
These people saw ship after ship pass
through the Suez Canal with passengers
from the United Kingdom and no vacant
berths for them. It is not unreasonable,
therefore, that on one ship out of the
many some provision should be made by
the British Ministry of Transport to lift
the most needy of the stranded passengers.
Here this performer on the flute, with
muted jews’-harp accompaniment, was re-
peating a charge explicitly denied on be-
half of the British Ministry of Transport.
The denial was to the effect that “the Aus-
tralian Government” had “asked the
British Ministry to provide transport from
the Middle East for 200 people awaiting
passages to Australia.” It went on to
point out that “as most of the passages
on this route are allocated to the Aus-
tralian High Commissioner, any passages
from the Middle East could only be made
available at the expense of people await-
ing passages to Australia from the United
Kingdom.” - s In this conflict of testimony
what unbiased Australian will swallow
the Calwell version or accept the Calwell
implication that in the securing of berths
and free entry for JeWI from the
Bombers’ Land the pockets, feelings and
character-certificates of “Australian resi-
dents” (origins and shape of noses un-
stated) rightly prevailed over all other
considerations?
A Lang request for the tabling of the
papers relating to the Strathmore party
and its sponsors was refused in a strain
of insolent jocularity. No feature of the
Palestine business is a joking matter.
The Opposition should lose no time in
moving the adjournment of the House
to call attention to the Jewish-immigra-
tion racket and demand the appointment
of a Parliamentary select committee to
probe it and fix the blame so that it may
be ended, once and for all.
Maoriland and its Ministry.
[The writer of this article was a Country-
party M.H.R. and Minister in Australia. He
visited New Zealand with the general election
in mind —polling day is November 27.]
When you arrive in Auckland the
Aucklander loses no time in getting your
impressions. His question is most posi-
tive : he doesn’t say “What do you
think of Auckland?” but asks “How does
Sydney compare with Auckland?” I ac-
quired merit by replying that Auckland
reminded me very much of Sydney, but I
did not add I was thinking of Sydney as
it was thirty or forty years ago, when
George- and Pitt-streets appeared to exist
mainly to bring people to and from Cir-
cular Quay.
The Quay in Auckland is Auckland,
and all streets debouch there. The city
still has its war-time shabbiness and is
noticeably quiet at night. During the
war, when the young Maorilander of
both races was away, Maoris too old or
otherwise unfit for war service were
brought to it to do a bit of wharflaboring.
They are still there, two, three and even
four families to a tiny cottage, and have
given the Government a slum-area prob-
lem of no small dimensions. The Maori
wharflaborer is no tidy householder.
But in Auckland also you see the fruits
of the Government housing scheme.
There are whole suburbs where pleasant
and varied cottages have been erected.
Through agencies the Government buys
the land, designs the types —about 300 —
and does the letting; but the houses are
built by private contractors. There is
ample space for lawns and gardens, and
single houses have a living-room, a meal
alcove off the kitchen and two to four
bedrooms. Rents run from 12s. 6d. a
week in a four-h'ouse unit (flats) to 325.
6d. for a single house. The great major-
ity of these houses are one- and two-
house units, and the preference is for one
detached house. Rent arrears are
astonishingly small.
You can find Government houses
in all the inland towns, as well as
in Auckland and Wellington and the
larger, towns in the South Island.
It was a pleasant surprise to visit
Huntley, a coalmining town on the
way from Auckland to Hamilton: no
shacks anywhere ; everywhere trim little
cottages, with lawns and gardens and an
air of prosperity and contentment. When
one thinks of the dreadful tenements
around Adamstown and Cessnock
(N.S.W.) it is clear that there are Labor
Governments and Labor Governments.
New Zealand has a tremendous asset
in its inland towns, with their 20,000 to
100.000 inhabitants. Here the parks and
gardens are magnificent, and there is
always ample provision for children —
paddling pools, playgrounds; in some
cases roller-skating rinks. And country-
town publicans seem genuinely pleased to
see a visitor. Nearly all the tribe spreads
supper, and the landlord or his wife gives
you the impression that it is a pleasure to
slice juicy cuts off a huge round of beef
to keep you going until breakfast. No
nasty calculations as to what you have
spent or will spend in the bar.
The Government has brought in a 46-
hour week. All shops and offices are
closed on Saturday. This means that the
farmer has to use another day of the
week if he wants to do business or
shopping; but it means more than that.
New Zealand is absolutely dependent
upon its farmers. Sir John Russell esti-
mated in 1943 that the gross production
of each farm-worker was £450 sterling,
as against £3OO in Australia, £205 in
Britain, £lB5 in the U.S.A. If the 40-
hour week and other social concessions are
allowed to impact fully upon the farmer
New Zeala'nd is going to come right up
against it. This the Government realises.
In talking to me Mr. Fraser and Mr.
Nash said, in effect, “Labor has given
the people —not only Labor supporters—
working hours, conditions, child endow-
ment, employment, houses, transport;
everything Seddon visualised at the end
of the last century. We know and have
counted the cost, and we know there is
only one answer —production, increased
production.” In every cinema the Gov-
ernmentshows a slide—“ Good conditions
depend entirely upon production: keep up
and increase production.” And there
was the Walsh report, written by a
Labor man for Labor men and
published by the Government as soon as
Jt was ready. Mr. Walsh said flatly that
unless the workers kept industry moving
and increasing they would not be able to
retain the privileges gained.
It seems to me that the New Zealand
workingman is taking notice. During the
two months I spent in the Dominion
there was not a single industrial dispute
of any dimension. Even on the water-
front, where there have been efforts to
dictate foreign policy (“No wool for
Franco” and so forth), the position is
miles better than it is in Australia. Con-
sider the Waterfront Control Commis-
sion’s report for the year to March 31,
1946: 109,800 hours lost (mainly in
Auckland, which is closest to Sydney and
its “comrades”); 0.93 per cent, of total
hours worked. Australian figures cannot,
and, under Communist-mob rule never
will, compare with this.
There was a sit-down strike in the Air
Force, The airmen said they wanted
Saturday and Sunday off the same as
anyone else. For 48 hours the Govern-
ment let the officers commanding air-
force stations do their best. Then, as
the men were still recalcitrant, the Minis-
ter of Defence, who had consistently
refused to meet them unless they returned
to work, said that those who objected to
the hours could apply for and receive
their immediate discharge. #That settled it.
This New Zealand is a fine little
country, but I doubt whether it can in-
crease its rural population very greatly.
Over 85 per cent, of the farmers and
graziers are on holdings ranging from
one acre to 640. acres, mostly on areas
up to 200 acres. There is an awful lot
of mountain, and the supply of virgin
land suitable for cultivation is scarcely
worth talking about.
The Government has ideas about
secondary industries, but these are always
difficult to establish economically without
iron-ore deposits, and New Zealand lacks
these. Moreover, the coal, Westport ex-
cepted, is not of good quality. Coal,
50.000 tons, is being imported—
not from Australia, as was the case for
generations, but from the U.S.A.
Scenically, it is a wonderful place.
One thinks of the Franz Josef and Fox
Glaciers, solid rivers of ice between vivid
green sub-tropical forests; of Mount
Cook, the “cloud-piercer,” pink and
beautiful at dawn and dusk above the
clouds which veil his lesser brothers; the
hell’s brew of Rotorua and Wairakei,
with pulsating geysers and ominous splut-
tering mud-pools; best of all, perhaps,
the lovely tranquil waters of Lake
Wanaka, reflecting the snow ridges of the
surrounding mountains.
One takes away from New Zealand
memories of a kindly people, happy,
hospitable and proud of its association
with the British Empire and of its part in
the Empire’s battles.
•
C. L. A. ABBOŢ.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Remembrance Day Jars.
Imperishable memories of 1939-45 hav-
ing been added to those of 1914-18, it
was right and proper that the King should
have appointed the Sunday before Nov-
ember 11 as Remembrance Day for the
dead in both wars; and the ceremonies
in Britain were as solemn and moving as
of old. It would have been dangerous
for the hides of any group minded to
disturb them.
' In this country it was different. Ever
since Communists, whispering and mut-
tering treason, skulked among Londoners
sheltering from the Blitz, they have been
despised and rejected by the broad masses
in Britain. But “Australian” Communists
have learned from “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ments” that they can take leave to despise
the King’s laws as well as his wishes, and
nothing that is sacred to real Australians
is sacred to them.
So they chose Remembrance Day for
one of their vulgar and boastful celebra-
tions of “Soviet Russia’s Day.” To the
eyes and ears of weeping women and
mourning ex-servicemen came the
familiar sights and sounds of Communist
processions — banners, floats, bands,
marchers (“Eureka Youth” and the like),
aliens and members of Communist-con-
trolled unions, the whole crowd making
for the Sydney Domain or the Yarra
Bank, where the familiar blatant and
hectoring mob-orations Were turned on.
And all this three days after “Soviet
Russia’s Day.” And all in insulting “com-
memoration” of a messy “social revolu-
tion” which, running the dreadful course
of all messy “social revolutions” —civil
wars, famines, counter-revolutions, prison
massacres, dictatorships and foreign wars
—has destroyed a large part of the
population, and left most of the survivors,
especially in the Ukraine and White
Russia (the ruling class, of course, ex-
cepted), in so appalling a plight that they
have had to be fed and clothed by the
“capitalist” English-speaking nations.
Left them also in so sullen a mood that
the dictator and such of his instruments
as have escaped the current Purge dr
Terror have been reduced to plying them
with poisonous stuff to the effect that they
must resign themselves to the upkeep of
vast forces, and to short commons for
another dreary period of years, because
their “capitalist” benefactors are plotting
to finish them off with atom bombs.
“Soviet Russia’s Day!” On that day
29 years ago Soviet Russia had, betrayed
Britain, France, the U.S.A. and the
smaller allies and set the Germans free
to* swing huge forces against the British
armies and the armies of France. On the
same day seven years ago it had signed
up with Hitler, had grabbed half Poland
and was preparing for war on the Finns
and its seizure of the three Baltic States,
all in repudiation of its engagements
under the League and its non-aggression
pacts with Poland and the four little
peoples. Because of these Oriental
crimes great numbers of Australians died
and great numbers more were consigned
to lifelong pain and misery.
It would be simple as it would be just
and decent to ban all public Communist
demonstrations on Remembrance Day.
If “Labor” is too scared of Communists
to do this when the next Remembrance
Day comes round —that is, if “Labor” is
still in office —men who are proud to
have worn the King’s uniform may take
the matter into their own firm hands.
Ashfield—Phew!
Moved by Liberal protests against the
condition of the electoral rolls in the
Ashfield subdivision of the Parkes
(N.S.W.) Federal electorate, and referring
to the position in general, the Chief
Commonwealth Electoral Officer said it
was “not surprising that rolls are not what
they used to be.” “Not surprising” is
right, when all things are considered, but
coming from the non-political head of
the department it is a curious admission.
Curious also was the statement attri-
buted to unnamed “electoral officials”
that “the Ashfield rolls might easily con-
tain the names of many soldiers who
had been killed,” since “the Army had not
notified the Electoral Department of
deaths.” Surely it was the business of
the Electoral Department to get
them, not only from the A.M.F., but
other services. Striking the names of
dead persons off the rolls is one of its
most important duties. There was never
any shortage of service clerks, and the
civil authorities concerned with vital
statistics carried on as usual.
Parkes is one of the original (1901)
Federal constituencies, and before the
1943 election it had had only one Labor
member —E. A. McTieman, elected on
October 12, 1929. By January 15, 1931,
Mr. McTieman had gone to the High
Court Bench and had been succeeded by
C. W. C. Marr, of the U.A.P., whose
absolute majority over three opponents
was 7567. Mr. Marr’s majorities at sub-
sequent general elections were greater
still: on two occasions upwards of two
to one. In 1943, when another landslide
to Labor occurred, he lost to Mr. Leslie
Clement Haylen, but that gentleman’s
absolute majority was a mere 1020 in an
effective poll of 61,608.
This was considered a fluke, especially
as three of the four State electorates of
which Parkes is composed, Ashfield, Bur-
wood and Croydon, were held by Opposi-
tion members at the State elections of
1941 and 1944, both heavily adverse to
their party. The fourth State electorate,
Dulwich Hill, has been Labor since 1941,
but was non-Labor in many previous
Assemblies. Mr. Athol Richardson, a
barrister in good standing and an Old
Digger, resigned from Ashfield after 11
years, for two years of which period he
had been Treasurer, to contest Parkes.
He was in every respect a strong candi-
date, which Mr. Haylen is not, and the
general expectation was that Parkes would
retire Mr. Haylen (“Playwright, Novelist,
Journalist”) to the cultivation of his other
interests. But when the last effective
vote, 65,448, had been counted Mr.
Haylen was 164 to the good. In Ashfield
he received more ordinary votes, 10,199 to
10,028, the excess being thus seven more
than his majority in the whole electorate,
than the man who had been Ashfield’s
M.L.A. for 11 years and who has now
become Ashfield’s M.L.A. again.
The date of the Parkes election was
September 28, and that of the Ashfield
“TOBACCO IS AN INDIAN WEED.”
“How do you like our Queensland tobacco?”
“Fine, Frankie; but, look here, where did you get it?”
by-election November 9. In the meantime
the Liberal organisation had examined
the rolls and made discoveries that
caused it to announce that it had com-
municated with the police, and would
take its own precautions against person-
ation and other forms of hanky-panky—
which it did. In the result the figures
were 12,031 for Mr. Richardson and
9263 for Mr. Peters, the Labor candidate
—and by no means a bad Labor candi-
date ; majority, 2768. A stunning change,
and all in six weeks.
According to the Chief Commonwealth
Electoral Officer, “action now being taken
will clean up the rolls before the next
Federal election.” On his own- showing
it is very delayed action —preparation of
“a check roll of all those who voted” on
September 28, issue of cards to those who
did not vote, and the beginnings of “a
real clean-up when the cards are returned”
—and he has said nothing about the
State elections due within the next few
months. Yet N. S. Wales and South
Australia, with elections impending, and
Victoria, which may have one any time
(the “Labor” Government being in a pre-
carious position), use the Commonwealth
rolls, which are “not what they used to
be”—if they ever were.
Foley and Healy Cases.
In the Queensland Parliament on August
20 Mr, Wanstall, M.L.A. for Toowong,
asked a series of questions concerning
“the person named Michael Healy,
who is secretary of the Trades and
Labor Council of this State,” one being
whether “the person” had a police record.
“Hansard” proceeded;
Hon. T. A. Foley (Normanby) replied—
“lt is not permissible for the Police
Department t'o divulge the record of any
individual except in accordance with law
to a court of competent jurisdiction.”
By an extraordinary coincidence, both
the Hon. T. A. Foley and Michael Healy
occupied the centre of the stage in
Queensland last week in separate acts.
The Hon. T. A. Foley is the Minister
on whose private premises in Camp Bay
large quantities of bagged tobacco on
which excise had not been paid were
seized by Customs and police officers:
2761 b. in a truck and 2691 b. in a garage.
A. H. Pianta, a brother-in-law of Foley,
who gave his occupation as “former
shearer,” and Goldfinch, a truck-driver,
pleaded guilty to illegal possession of the
2691 b. and the 2761 b. respectively, and
were each fined £l5O or six months, with
£lO 10s. costs. Pianta told the officers
that neither Mr. nor Mrs. Foley had had
any knowledge of what was afoot.
Nevertheless, people naturally won-
dered why the Ministerial head of the
Police Department had not been called
upon to prove his innocence in court.
There were alarums and excursions in the
Assembly, with echoes at Canberra. Mr.
Foley made a statement in which he said
he had had “the misfortune to be the
victim of a set of circumstances which
occurred independently of my will.” On
a day when he himself was at Parliament
House from 11 a.m. till 9 p.m. Pianta had
arrived unexpectedly from Townsville by
motor-truck and asked his sister for per-
mission to leave the truck and con-
tents in the yard and “place a few things
in the garage” ; and Mrs. Foley did what
any sister would do—agreed.
The truck was in the yard for a week,
during which time I gave no particular
attention to it; there was nothing about
its appearance that gave any cause for
suspicion.
So with the sacks in the garage, which
“I never use for parking my car.”
Premier Hanlon thereupon proposed
that the House, having accepted the
Minister’s statement “without qualifica-
tion” (the Opposition had not done so),
should “exonerate him” not only from
“complicity in any events asspciated with
the seizure of contraband tobacco” but
from “the innuendoes” conveyed by the
leader of* the Q.P.P. group, and express
its “satisfaction” on all counts. This was
too much for the Opposition, and after
“stormy scenes” in and out of the Cham-
ber, in one of which f Mr. Foley and Mr.
Barnes of Bundaberg came to blows, the
Government agreed to an Opposition de-
mand for a royal-commission inquiry,
Mr. Foley saying he would welcome it.
Healy, for his part, brought a Supreme
Court libel action, claiming £5OOO
damages, against the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail* people on the score of a report
of an A.W.U. delegate meeting (January
19), in which strong remarks were
attributed to C. G. Fallon:
It has been a common practice in this *
State to collect funds allegedly for political
or industrial purposes and not - to account
for them This union subscribed £BOO
to a fund to establish a hostel for returned
servicemen the hostel was not estab-
lished. Something of the kind is now being
done allegedly for the Indonesians
People without training or any opportunity
of knowing the Indonesian position are
taking upon themselves, led by a man
named Healy, to side against the Dutch
The Dutch have been our gallant allies
during the war and the leader of the Indo-
nesians has been a Japanese collaborator
Unionists in Queensland are assisting a
movement led by these Japanese collabora-
tors against 1 our allies the Dutch. Com-
munist supporters handling the proposition
have such an unsavory record in handling
funds and accounting for them that the
funds should be the subject of the fullest
inquiry.
The Jury found that the matter was
defamatory of Healy, but was published
in good faith for the public good ; and
Acting-Justice Stanley entered judgment
for the “Courier-Mail,” with costs.
Healy was his own principal witness.
Concerning the hostel, he said a site had
been chosen, but the Federal authorities
had refused a building permit. The
A.W.U. money was contributed to a
Trades and Labor Council patriotic fund
started in 1942. It had been audited and
had been the subject of reports to the
1944 Trade Union Congress and, in
1945, to “the unions of Queensland.” In
the meantime the A.W.U. had been in-
vited to discuss the matter, but did not
attend the meeting; expenses were then
£5Bl, leaving a balance of £16,083. The
present balance was about £2OOO, and the
Chief Secretary’s Department had re-
fused to let it go to the R.S.L.:
The Indonesian fund was part of the
general fund. Launched on Oct. 3, 1945,
it “lasted only about 14 or 15 days”; the
bulk of it came from Chinese seamen and
the Indonesians themselves. “From the
Indonesian fund £4BB was spent on meals
for 350 Indonesians who were living at
the Trades Hall for six or seven days,”
. all payments being made by cheque.
Of himself, plaintiff said he was a
member of the Communist party, having
joined it in March or April, 1933, and
a member of its State committee since
1937. His Trades and Labor Council his-
tory was: acting-secretary. May, 1943 ;
secretary, July, 1943 ; salary, £420 a year.
Previously he had run the Anvil Book-
shop in Elizabeth-street, Brisbane, “for
about five years from about 1936,” and
during the German war period, when the
Communist party was an illegal organisa-
tion, the shop was raided under
National Security regulations ; “the most
silly, stupid mistake.”
Part of this evidence was given under
cross-examination by A. D. McGill, K.C.,
and there was a great deal more:
Witness, an atheist, was born 42 years
ago in Belfast, Northern Ireland. Name in
Belfast, Francis McCracken. He was never
in trouble there; he would swear that. It
was not true that he was convicted of
stealing before Judge Thompson. He was
in trouble in the Children’s Court “with
a lot of other kids.” Couldn’t recall the
charge or remember any punishment “I
think we were fined.” He would swear that
he had never been charged in the Belfast
Recorders’ Court with armed robbery in
company; it was a scurrilous lie. He had
come to Australia from New Zealand on
Npvember 3, 1931, and taken the name of
Michael Healy (now his by deed poll, dated
March, 1945), under which he drew a
double dole.
In September, 1935, having married in
that year, he was fined £2 on each of two
dole charges, having stated that his wife
was dependent on him when actually she
was working. He was charged in the
name of Francis McCracken, and when he
changed his name by deed poll he declared
he had not used that name since 1932;
that was not true. He did not know the man
named Scott. He was charged, in com-
pany with Scott, with having assaulted a
doctor and with having stolen 10s. from an
aboriginal. On the assault charge he was
committed for trial and was acquitted;
in the other case, the blackfellow did not
turn up and the Crown Prosecutor entered
a nolle prosequi: anyway, he was not guilty
of either charge.
There was more still, of interest to the
Commonwealth Attorney-General. And
now, perhaps, that Minister will call for
a statement of the fellow’s personal and
industrial history with a view to satisfy-
ing himself as to whether it is not a case
for deportation proceedings.
Bushfires.
Victoria is entering upon the bushfire
season with assurances that preparations
for fighting the scourge which in one
period destroyed 70 people and millions
of pounds’ worth of property are such as
no previous Government has ever under-
taken. Watch-towers equipped with radio
have been erected, aeroplanes are part of
the equipment, and the Forests Commis-
sion has installed a patrol system which
is about as complete as it could be.
There is another side to the picture,
however, and experienced country fire-
men are not so optimistic. As a result of
abnormal winter rains, there has been the
biggest growth of grass and brush ever
seen in the State’s history. Bracken,
weeds, wild oats and blackberry are
everywhere in the mountains, and less has
been done to check them than in any
previous year, the war and the shortage
of labor being partly responsible for this
situation.
Then dams and reservoirs should
be full to overflowing, but in the case of a
small fire that occurred recently a fireman
had to scrape away feet of rubbish in one
dam in order to get a bit of water. And
a report by the urban fire brigade
stated that the principal dam in the Bel-
grave district, a thickly-populated moun-
tain resort 40 miles from Melbourne,
contained thousands of tons of silt and
very little moisture. The brigade threat-
ened to resign unless the council did some-
thing about it.
Despite Judge Stretton’s report after
the 1939 disasters, which should have
made a Government of slugs sit up, there
is still no single overriding authority in
bushfire politics in Victoria, and in the
Belgrave example neither the council nor
the Country Fire Authority accepts re-
sponsibility for providing fire-fighters with
water. And there are similar situations in
other parts of Victoria.


■
CRAVENA
ff
r^SS
Hi
soiethumts
Obtainable
In 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
A thing without precedent has hap-
pened at Canberra —a foreign-affairs de-
bate extending to five days. Dr. Evatt
opened and ended it, having in each case
carefully prepared his brief. But he
was so hard - pressed by Opposition
speakers, not only by Menzies, Cameron,
Earle Page, Spender and Abbott but
Anthony, that he felt obliged to give, as
it were, a ball-to-ball description of Our
Foreign Policy. It was very long, and
when he had finished the Opposition
looked mystified, but it handsomely
allowed that he was in favor of it.
The Minister for External Affairs,
momentarily a prey to melancholy, in-
vites and gets a quip direct:
The carrying out of the policy which
Australia is attempting to follow has' been
a lonely, difficult and onerous business.
It has required the co-operafion and assist-
ance of the Australian delegates, for whose
work I desire to pay tribute.
Anthony: It required co-operation from
all parts of the House, but that has not
been sought.
Startled by so apt a remark from so un-
expected a quarter, the doctor promised,
rather lamely, that “some of the sugges-
tions put forward will be considered.”
Meanwhile the “delegates” continue to
ape Talleyrand and Castlereagh to no
purpose. One young man, so it was said,
“began the Battle of the Veto” in a
U.N.O. assembly committee by “attack-
ing Russia.” At the same time an “Aus-
tralian” union boss announced, in effect,
that the boycott of Dutch ships would go
on until Russia was pleased to approve
of the New Order in Indonesia.
With Red racketeers performing in
three other States, N. S. Wales, Victoria
and South Australia, Westralia’s Govern-
ment railway strike entered upon its third
week on Monday, though indications
were that it couldn’t last much longer.
At the week-end those of the strikers who
are not Communists must have been
wishing they’d thought twice, about it.
Their union, the Locomotive Drivers,
Firemen and Cleaners, and 23 officials
were separately convicted by President
Dunphy in the Arbitration Court of hav-
ing instigated an illegal strike, penalties
being withheld pending the union’s reply
to a Government offer regarding Garratt
engines. It is significant that the staff of
the English-owned Midland Railway Co.
was not a party to the wretched affair.
It has its own unions, which pride them-
selves on keeping their engagements with
the customers.
There was a notion in Tasmania that
the much-discussed D’Alton would
nominate for another term in the
Assembly, from which he went to Wel-
lington as High Commissioner; but he
decided not to. Labor is running a
ticket of eight, and the Liberals a ticket of
six, for each of the five electorates,
which have six members apiece; there
are 16 other candidates as well. Labor
has pride of place on the ballot paper,
which is reckoned equivalent to a sub-
stantial prize in Tatts., in Darwin,
Denison and Franklin ; the Liberals in
Bass and a group of three Independents
—one pf them Burbury, who stood for
the Senate —in Wilmot. No. 19 on the
Wilmot ballot paper is ex-Premier Lee,
but, having always had a following, the
veteran is not discouraged.
The Commonwealth Statistician
reckons that wages and service pay
from £790 million in 1943-44
to £766 million last year, when £72 mil-
lion of deferred pay was included. A
pinch was also felt by “public authori-
ties” —railways chiefly, the slump here
being more than a quarter. But the
P.M., undoubtedly with authority, insists
that the inflation danger is “as formidable
as ever.” What a commentary on the
country’s present output of consumer
goods, services—and strikes!
J. F. Barnes, “the Bundaberg Bomb-
shell” (or smoke bomb), has been “sus-
pended” once more, this time for refus-
ing to apologise, as did Minister Foley,
for his part in a scrimmage which suc-
ceeded the debate on the tobacco affair,
now to go to a royal commission. Barnes
asserts that he has been refused delivery
of his Parliamentary correspondence, and,
if this is the case, legal justification may
be difficult to establish.
Wells, president of the Miners’ Federa-
tion and self-styled disciple of Stalin,
“neglected” to pay his union dues and
thus became ineligible for re-election.
He was nevertheless declared eligible at
an executive meeting—on his casting vote.
If the members of the union stand this
they will stand anything. If they don’t
pay union dues they are liable to be sued
and brought up on judgment summons to
show cause why they should not have
their goods and chattels seized or, if they
have no goods and chattels, why they
shouldn’t be put in jail until the debt is
satisfied. When Willis was general secre-
tary, droves of Queensland coalminers
were sued for non-payment of levies—
contributions to the financing of a crazy
N.S.W. strike on which they had not been
consulted.
Sugar is to remain a rationed com-
modity because, in the words of the
Rationing Commission, drought in
Queensland has seriously reduced the
sugar yield of such crops as it spared.
True enough, but it doesn’t explain the
quarter-million tons of raw sugar now
congesting North Queensland mills and
wharves. That congestion is caused by
waterfront hold-ups, and when cane-
farmers themselves offered to load the
ships the threats of the Commo bosses
of the wharfies had the “Labor” tail
drooping once more.
From Wellington (M.L.):
With few exceptions candidates for the general
election are having poor meetings. Broadcasting
of policy speeches is held to be responsible. One
of the exceptions is J. J. Maher, who is making
a strong bid to unseat a Labor opponent.
Maher, for one, has never forgotten that in
1943 the overseas soldiers’ vote gave the Gov-
ernment a narrow win in several electorates,
after early figures had indicated its overthrow,
and that their ballot papers were destroyed by
fire. “In my time,” Maher commented at one
of his meetings, “I have often heard of people
being burnt out, but before 1943 I never heard
of anyone being burnt in. v
Reported from Europe that the U.S.
Army is releasing from the American
zone nearly 600 Danube river-boats to
their owners in Yugoslavia, Czechoslo-
vakia, Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria.
A big revival of river navigation may
now be anticipated on the Don, the Volga
and the Dnieper.
Bass, for which Barnard, now Minister
of Repatriation in succession to the de-
feated Frost, is Federal member, may
prove the decisive electorate in Tas-
mania on November 23. One of the six
Liberals is a soldier-son of the Marriott
who was blinded at Bapaume in 1917
and who became a Tasmanian Assembly-
man for a longer period than any sight-
less member has had in any Parliament,
even Britain’s lan Fraser; and two
of the three Independents have cut some
figure in politics. One is J. F, Ockerby,
known in the Assembly aforetime, being
enthusiastically tt, as “Sparkling ’Ock.”
Another is E. D. Pinkard, Allan Guy’s
Labor opponent in Federal Wilmot three
years ago, who polled so well that he
deserved another chance. Refused it, and
objecting to the choice of Morrow for
the Senate team, he left, the party.
Troubled France has had another
genera! election. It gave a few seats to
the Communists at the expense of the
Socialists, and a few more to the Re-
publican Party of Liberty at the expense
of the Popular Republican Movement,
otherwise called Catholic Progressives or
Leftists. There may be a Communist-
Socialist Government with Thorez, the
1939-40 traitor who bolted to Moscow,
as P.M., but if so it will be in a minority
in the Chamber. De Gaulle was not a
candidate, but things are obviously going
his way.
Many Frenchmen are getting their
living by engaging in election and refer-
endum work, and so it will be with many
Australians next year, when there will
be State elections in N. S. Wales,
Queensland, South Australia and Wes-
tralia, with a probability of a fifth in Vic-
toria. There will also be two referen-
dums in N. S. Wales, on the bar-closing
and Legislative Council issues, if not a
third should the faint-hearted “Labor”
Government decide to put mid-week rac-
ing to the vote.
It looks as if “S. M. Herald” is twist-
ing again. Early in 1942, breaking with
the traditions of half a century, it hailed
Curtin as Our Leader. "Two years later,
discovering that the Opposition had no
chance at the N.S.W. Assembly election,
the Old Girl blithered that McKell could
claim to have “best served the State and
the nation by going along quietly.”
Another three years found Granny rail-
ing at McKell for having gone along too
dashed quietly in respect of housing and
soldier-settlement, instancing as one effect
of this quietude McKell’s failure to put
even one soldier-settler on a farm. The
latest bleat from Hunter-street, Sydney,
is that the by-elections show “how strong
is the Government’s standing in the rural
areas: Mr. McKell is genuinely interested
in rural development.” He certainly has a
very fine property in Goulburn.
There is little significance in the loss
of Albury to the Labor man Hurley,
though it sent Granny “Herald” all of a
tremble. Until Mair came along Albury
was always a touch-and-go electorate.
As far back as 1913 Cusack, afterwards
M.H.R. for Eden-Monaro in Scullin’s
time, won it for Labor, and so did Fitz-
gerald, previously a Lang Minister, in
1930, Like Jimmy McLachlan in Gipps-
fand and William Watson in Fremantle,
who twice beat Curtin, Mair rolled in a
strong personal vote which was inde-
pendent of party. Had Granny waited
for the final figures in Ashfield, where
Athol Richardson doubled his 1943
majority, she needn’t have become so
bad a prey to the shakes.
One lesson of the Keane incident is
that the Minister of Customs shouldn’t
be in the Senate. He never was until
1940, when McLeay was appointed a
stop-gap Customs Minister to relieve
Menzies, who had taken the portfolio
himself, as well as being Prime Minister
and Treasurer, after the affair of Law-
son’s horse. Previous incumbents, most
of them of outstanding quality, were
Kingston, Lyne, Fisher, McLean, Chap-
man, Tudor, Best, Groom, Watt, Massy-
Greene, Bruce, Gullett, Fenton, Forde,
White and Perkins; and Harrison
followed McLeay. When the Minister
is in the House, as he should be,
a close watch is kept on his administra-
tion, as was shown in the case of Jensen,
as well as that of Lawson. This Keane
was spared by virtue of being in the
other Chamber; and though there is
nothing against Courtice, a decent old
cock, the case for a reversion to the prac-
tice in nearly all the Administrations is
unanswerable.
Hoping that the situation had changed,
the Dutch sent another vessel to Port
Melbourne to pick up medical and other
supplies for Indonesia. The result was
as usual —a Communist hold-up. The
“Age,” whose editor was a member of
the Evatt party at the San Francisco
conference, called upon the “Govern-
ment” to rise up and do something. The
“Government” will do what it did in the
cases of the other Dutch ships sub-
jected to a criminal Communist boycott
—nothing.
State Governments are to get £4O mil-
lion, up £6 million, as tax reimburse-
ment in 1946-47. South Aus., W.A. and
Tasmania have already been allotted
£2,133,000 as extra financial assistance,
and the usual grants will go out to them
later—£3,67o,ooo, up £674,000. All the
States are to split up £45 million of loan
money for spending on “works.” It was
apparently after studying these figures
that Chifley remarked: “In the light of
present exceptionally strong private in-
vestment and consumption demand and
the unprecedented levels of employment
the borrowing programme represents the
maximum that would be justifiable. ’
A round £6,000,000 is earmarked for
spending on “the Territories” this year,
an increase of £4,400,000. Rehabilita-
tion services” in Papua and the Man-
dated Territory are down for £1,685,000
and the N.T. for £1,184,000; and that
other “territory” —Canberra —is allotted
£1,184,000 for “works.” Hence, ap-
parently, efforts to get —from shattered
Britain—some bricklayers who’ll work
on the “works.”
The N.S.W. Auditor-General’s post-
mortem on the Government Charcoal
Undertaking has a melancholy interest
for all taxpayers. “Production” ceased
in October, 1945; “kilns have been dis-
mantled and sold, equipment not disposed
of” —doubtless because it was unsaleable
—being “stored.” Capital totalled
£300,218, including £8049 “expended on
inspection of private charcoal operators,’
and £225,570 was lost irrecoverably. The
Government Charcoal Undertaking was
one of N.S.W. “Labor’s” contributions to
the defeat of Japan.
Salazar, the Portuguese dictator,
mildest of the breed, has broken a long
silence to laud Russia’s achievements in
war and peace. Simultaneously Moscow
and Madrid called off their radio and
press hostilities, so something may be in
the wind. Dictators, whatever their brand
of politics, have a sneaking regard for
one another, as witness not only the
Hitler-Stalin pact but the manoeuvres of
Peron, of Argentina. Perdn has fol-
lowed his arrangement with Stalin, as a
result of which a Soviet Embassy has
been installed in Buenos Aires, by under-
taking to provide, on loan, all the food-
stuffs of which Franco stands in need.
To “conferences” of 1.L.0. go parties
of Australians, always with “Labor” poli-
ticians and trade-union bosses, Com-
munists included, among them, every two
or three months, Maoriland Labor may
have cause to wish it had never heard
of the blessed thing. While it was busy
electioneering it came out that J. H.
Thompson, its Federation of Labor nomi-
nee at the 1.L.0. show at Montreal, had
stated that “nationalisation” of all the
banks in M.L. would be a fact in “the
very near future” and that the unions
were going to socialise “the means of pro-
duction, distribution and exchange.’
Works Minister Bob Semple described the
statement as irresponsible and said that
the matter had never been seriously dis-
cussed by the Government “as far as I
know.” Unless there is some more em-
phatic refutation, the medicine being
made by the Nationalists may have a
potency more powerful than the usual
political prescriptions dosed out at elec-
tibn-time.
Most Australians have been under the
impression that the Battle of the Coral
Sea was won by American and Australian
airmen. They have been corrected by
a Mr. Donald, “Labor” member for
Bremer (Q.). Mr. Donald says the Gov-
ernment coalminers at Collinsville won
the battle, for “when the real crisis came
the State Government recruited surplus
miners from the Darling Downs and
West Moreton,” who were “rushed to
Collinsville and worked hard and lived
under primitive conditions.” Collinsville
miners are now entitled to add “Coral
Sea” to their battle honors.


OR ELSE!
“Circus clowns, as well as writers, have come under Soviet displeasure. Most of them have been warned that their patter is ‘unsatisfactory.’”
“Go on, clown—make me laugh!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane’s jacaranda
trees are in their azure pageantry of
bloom, and lots of earnest tree-haters are
getting off the annual grumble. “Oughter
be cut down—useless dam’ things—give
people the spring fever, they do,” is the
burden of their dreary song. Fifty years
and more of scientific observation have
failed to produce any evidence of any con-
nection whatever between/ the seasonal
disease —three-day fever some term it —-
and jacarandas. The delusion seems to be
peculiar to Brisbane and is certainly not
shared by other places where they flourish
in even greater splendor. Grafton
(N.S.W.) even has a Jacaranda Week in
their honor. Maybe the Brisbane notion
has arisen from the fact that many of the
most abusive and uproarious Parliament-
ary squabbles in Queensland’s history
have occurred at this season within close
range of the fine specimens which adorn
the Gashouse gardens.
* * # #
“S. Gumm”: Neville Cardus is at it
again {e.g., Macartney “plundered his
runs with the mingled charm and menace
of a Dick Turpin”), and the artful old boy
must be chuckling once more at the
efforts of his imitators. One likened a
sedate, earth-bound, 40-runs-an-hour
batsman to one of those dashing horsed
characters of the age of chivalry:
“Hammond played the gay cavalier.”
There could scarcely be a worse
comparison in the world. Others are
charmed with “hostile” bowlers and
vexed with those who are not “hostile.”
It seems that you can be “hostile” if you
bowl for an hour without getting a
wicket and not “hostile” though you take
five wickets for 30 or 40 —Toshack has
been so branded after such a feat. I
hold Neville responsible for inventing
this too-fine distinction; but I don’t
blame him for inspiring the discovery
that “Bradman, running between the
wickets, must have gone close to ‘break-
ing’ even time again and again,” Even
time is ten yards to a second. No
flannelled, padded and booted man carry-
ing a bat has ever been known to “break”
that or ever will. It is as inconceivable
as that A.B.C. reporters will find an
alternative to their eternal formula for
the recording of a run: “The batsmen
go through for an easy single.”
* * * «
“Melbn”: Adam Lindsay Gordon’s
cottage at Brighton, Melbourne, has been
condemned as unfit for habitation. After
vigorously fighting for its preservation,
Cyril Goode, hon. sec. of the Henry
Lawson Society, did the next best thing.
He bought the cottage, and is numbering
the bricks and timber as he wrecks it in
the hope that some Government will some-
time or other finance its re-erection. It is
a vain hope. Melbourne has few literary
or historic monuments and the one with
the most prestige—Cook’s cottage in the
Fitzroy Gardens had the luck to be
imported by a private citizen, Russell
Grimwade, If it had been under the
jurisdiction of some local council, it
would long since have beerf demolished.
Although Gordon’s dwelling hasn’t the
architectural quality of Cook’s cottage, it
is a pleasant-enough little relic and it is
at least certain that the poet lived there
until the day of his death. There is no
real evidence that Cook ever paid his
parent’s home more than a week-end
visit.
“M8”; In this era of theft and skull-
duggery, let me nominate for the novelty
stakes the blokes who kidnapped 900,000
bees from near Kilcoy (Q.). What beats
me is why the bees didn’t yell for help.
* * * *
“Marty”: References to Whitaker’s Al-
manac of 1911 (B. 6/11/ ”46) set me turn-
ing those time-worn pages seeking surcease
from the problems of this day and age.
After the shock of finding Wilhelm II
appointed as Admiral of the Fleet and
the Mikado invested with the Order of
the Garter, it was some consolation to
“What papers will We appear in?"
read that Mr. Asquith, rejecting a pro-
posal to increase taxation above nine-
pence in the £, assured the House that
“our future as a Government, and
possibly our fortunes as a party, are
bound up with the Budget.” Prophetic
words, but even then I sympathised with*
the three Brahmans sentenced to death
for murdering a tax-collector. Winston
Churchill’s appointment as Home Secre-
tary temporarily parted the veil of the
years, but I was cheered by the sentiments
expressed to the House by Mr. F. E.
Smith, who remained “utterly unconvinced
of any considerable body of female opin-
ion favoring women’s suffrage.” But
this brief paragraph on Page 411 brought
me back to the present. “Nov. 8; — A
strike was declared, by the coalminers in
New South Wales, 12,000 going out on
strike,” In fairness to a previous gener-
ation, I must admit that the sub-heading
was “Remarkable Occurrences.”
* * * *
“Traymon”: Misplacement of prefixes,
the prerogative of B.S.Ms. (B. 6/11/ ’46),
has invaded the official documents of one
of Australia’s best-known life-assurance
offices. When the Insurance Act was
amended a few weeks ago, this sodety
issued formal notifications for use in re-
lation to the transfer of its % policies,
irrevocably authorising the transferee “to
deal with the said Policy... .at any time
as he shall in his own controlled dis-
cretion think proper.” Banking circles,
who use most of the forms, haven’t yet
decided if this implied restriction on their
traditional uncontrolled discretion is a
subservient surrender to “Labor’s” Bank-
ing Bills or merely an unobserved
printer’s error.
♦** * *
“Dick Tafone”: Citizens of Brisbane
are feeling uneasy over the coat of arms
suggested to replace the city’s present un-
registered one. The two griffins in
support have a distinctly voracious look,
and their heraldic reputation of never
being taken alive recalls the jolly
swagman in “Waltzing Matilda.” A
leopard’s head poking out from some-
thing resembling a brick chimney-top
seems to be looking round for some-
thing to devour, possibly a ratepayer’s
bank - account. The motto, “Meliora
Sequimur,” officially translated as “We
Aim At Higher Things,” is the most dis-
turbing feature of all. One school of
thought regards it as presaging a rise in
tram-fares, another as a hint of increased
property valuation for rating purposes.
A third reckons that them aldermen
ain’t satisfied with their recent screw-
rise and are out after more. All unite
in fervent agreement that something of
local interest should be included in the
design, even if it is only a rat.
* * * *
“Findy”: Most of the athletic records
of the nineteenth century have been
broken time and time again during the
last few decades, but when Bert Couzens
finished his endurance walk at, Romford
Stadium (Eng.) on November 11 he
knocked over a record that had stood
since 1809. The task set him was to
walk 1000 miles in 1000 consecutive
hours, at least one mile to be walked in
each hour. Couzens managed 2652 miles
in the period, took a brief rest and ambled
off again in an effort to notch 3000.
Captain Barclay—his full name was
Barclay Allardice—was the pedestrian
whose long-standing record has just been
broken, A Scot, he put up some remark-
able hiking performances. At 15 he
walked “fair heel and toe” six miles in an
hour (moderns have managed over eight
miles in the hour), and at 22 he walked
from his home at Ury in Kincardineshire
to Boroughbridge in Yorkshire —a mere
300 miles —in five days. That was during
midsummer of 1801 when the weather
was described as oppressively hot. Later
the same year he backed himself to walk
90 miles in 2l\ hours. He won with over
an hour to spare. Of his performance in
setting the record just broken by Couzens
it was recorded that “he often had to be
lifted after resting, yet his limbs never
swelled, nor did his appetite fail.” Five
days later Barclay was off with his regi-
ment on the ill-starred Walcheren expedi-
tion. He survived it to become a farmer
with progressive views on land improve-
ment and died on his property at 75.
,’* * * *
“R. Volt”: Cutting a cable may not be
a difficult operation (B. 30/10/’46), but
picking it up is, unless one has access to
the splice-sheet, jealously guarded by the
owners of the cables. The splice-sheet
is a complicated document which records
the resistance, capacity, dielectrical re-
sistance of every knot of cable, the depth
at which it is laid, the temperature of the
sea-water and all the variations which
have been produced by repairs and the
splicing in of the fresh cable ; and, of
course, the direction is carefully charted.
It requires a skilled electrician to under-
stand it. Yet those Chinese filibusters
seem to have acquired a working know-
ledge. According to reports the cable
company’s repair steamer was actually re-
placing one stolen section when the
pirates calmly cut a couple off miles more
out of the cable within sight of the re-
pairing steamer. How they got the exact
information to do it is a mystery.
*** ' *
“Jasby”: I wish these quizmasters
would quote authorities for their
disputed answers. Recently the “Quiz
Kid” jackpot was cracked by a fortunate
“listeners’ representative” who was asked
to explain the origin of the word
“barracking.” The Quiz Kids had
already suggested that it was derived
from the supporters of a military
barracks football team, but on being
asked where the team played or what
barracks it hailed from had answered
Sydney. The listeners’ rep. plumped for
Victoria, and got the decision and the
dough. He would find several authori-
ties to disagree with him. I quote two.
Morris’s Austral English (1898) gives
Barrack for: to support as a partisan,
generally with clamor. An Australian foot-
ball term dating from about 1880. Derived
from “to poke borak”; or from barking,
as larrikin from larking There is no
connection with soldiers’ barracks.
Eric Partridge includes the word'“barra-
kin” or “barrikin” in his Cockney slang,
with the meaning “barking, chatter,
shouts or shouting.” He suggests that the
Australian “barracking” is the same
word, and rejects the “poke borak”
etymology.
* s}= * *
“X.Q.X.”; An even cleverer smuggling
trick than “Macnell’s” (B. 6/11/ ’46) was
uncovered while we Were in the M.E.
A certain Wog was exporting camels
from Palestine to Egypt, where they
were killed for human consumption. The
authorities werq puzzled by the high
prices one Gyppo butcher paid for the
oonts, until someone thought of raiding
his slaughter-yard. In the stomach of
each camel they found a canister of dope,
swallowed shortly before they crossed
the border.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: As I sat idly on a park
seat during lunch-hour, the sun forced me
to pull my hat brim over my eyes, where-
upon I was afforded a sort of panorama
of passing limbs from the thigh down.
How few people walk correctly! Most of
them use their legs from the knee
down in a sort of duck-waddle, and it
was easy to observe how the human foot,
inured through generations to leather
encasement and hard pavement, still
momentarily shrinks from the shock of
hitting iron-hard ground. This tiny hesi-
tation, I’m sure, contributes to the afore-
said impression of a duck - waddle.
Strangely, high-heeled women seemed to
have greater leg freedom in their stride,
stilted though it is, doubtless because it’s
almost impossible to walk otherwise when
the foot is bent at an unnatural angle. Of
the hundreds or so who passed, only one
had the free, straight-footed swing of the
natural walker, leg moving in a flowing
pendulum-like action from the hips down,
and, when I raised my eyes to his face,
he proved to be an elderly colored man
walking with a dream in his eyes. Many
young men wearing returned-soldier
badges have quickly forgotten what they
learned in the Army about walking.
* * * V
“Ex-Noncom.”: There was a company
commander in N.Q. who’d have sold
his soul for a few Yanks (B. 13/11/ ’46),
when wharfies shuddered violently
and hastily withdrew from a shower of
rain. Having been instructed that the
shells were urgently needed in the Islands
—a permanent condition while the blue
was on—the c.c. switched some soldiers
on to loading the slings. The boss
wharfie came forth hnd told him to stop.
The b.w. was ignored and withdrew, mut-
tering something about “gettin’ in touch
with bloody Canberra an’ fixin’ it.” With-
in five hours orders came through, right
down from the Minister of the Army, in-
structing the troops all Middle East
veterans that wharfies and wharfies
alone were to do the loading and if rain
intervened they were within their rights
in taking shelter. What the troops said
would hardly cheer an exile to Canada
and is therefore better not repeated.
* * * *
“Orona”: Tell “Zake” (B. 6/11/’46)
that all Gilbert Islands bucks have the
prefix “Ten” to their name, so that Ten
Llewellyn Me Voltaire would be the Gil-
bertese he is waiting to hear of. In the
meantime let me introduce him to Ten
Robert O’Brien, the Gilbertese radio
operator on the London Missionary
Society’s three-masted sailing-ship John
Williams. Robert’s dad was a six-foot
ginger-whiskered broth of a boy, who
was shipwrecked in the islands years
ago. When a Jap plane made three
attacks on the unarmed little vessel at
Vaitupu in the Ellice group, Ten
Robert O’Brien hurled verbal abuse at
the Nip in Gilbertese, Ellice and Irish.
He * * *
“G.M.”: It looks as though recent
successful tests by the Victorian Forestry
Commission in conjunction with the
R.A.A.F. to extinguish bushfires with
chemical bombs portend the day when
the man on the land will welcome the
dropping of bombs on his property.
This was not always so. In the early
days of my war-time training as a pilot,
I was flying out to a country ■bombing-
range when I accidentally jettisoned my
full load. The eight bombs fell right
in the middle of a poultry run. They
were harmless smoke-bombs, but they
sent the chooks scurrying to the four
winds, and the farmer to the nearest
telephone. I copped 14 days C.B=
NOT LANG.
Most public men, you’ll notice, ‘grow more
mellow
And less aggressive when their time of life
Approaches what is termed “the sere and
yellow.”
They feel they’ve had their fill of factious
strife
And what the Germans label sturm und drang.
Not Lang.
The part they like to take is what sagacious
Old Nestor played in the Homeric days.
One sees them calm and staid and grave and
gracious,
These Elder Statesmen —in our English phrase.
But who abjures vociferous harangue?
Not Lang.
Mostly the demagogue whose back has bended
A bit beneath the burden of the years
Becomes a pattern to be recommended
To noisy hunters after party cheers
Who foam and bellow as their desks they bang.
Not Lang.
Who in the Canberra legislative forum
Provides a lesson for impetuous youth
In quiet restraint and courteous decorum
And scrupulous regard for tactful truth
Delivered by a tongue devoid of tang?
Not Lang.
Who yet may settle down in dull propriety,
Pulling his weight with either Ayes or Noes,
And cease to give his old-time mates anxiety
And furtive pleasure to his former foes,
And quit the Ishmael role without a pang?
Not Lang.
Well, clowns and pantaloons have each their
uses,
And so have stormy petrels, narks and such,
Whose mere existence merriment induces
And gives drab politics a comic touch.
And, when all’s said and done, who gives a
hang?
Not Lang.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“H.W.M.”: Rendezvous of the annual
Adam Lindsay Gordon pilgrimage
was changed this year from Brighton
Cemetery to the poet’s monument by Paul
Montford in Spring-street, Melbourne.
It was hoped there would be a much
larger attendance, especially as there had
been so much publicity in the Mel-
bourne press over the failure of Gordon
lovers to save the poet’s old cottage in
Brighton. Hopes were disappointed, and
Bernard O’Dowd, who has attended every
Gordon pilgrimage, said he was senti-
mentally sorry the event was not held at
Brighton.


“J.H.M.A.”: It is proposed that the
King’s School at Parramatta should be
removed from its present position to the
vicinity of Mount Keira, overlooking
Wollongong. It is to be hoped that
neither the authorities nor the people of
Parramatta will permit the realisation of
such an idea. The King’s School was
opened in 1832, and, with the exception
of a break of a few years in the eighteen-
sixties, during which it had some sort of
unofficial existence, has functioned there
ever since. The Rev. Robert Forrest
started it in a still-surviving house in
George-street in the year mentioned, and
in 1836 came the move to the present site.
So for HO years the school has been a
feature of Parramatta’s corporate exist-:
ence; as much a part of the place as
the ancient stone bridge built by David
Lennox across the river, the dam in front
of the school and Old Government House
on the hill in the park across on the
south-western side of the dam. To Old
Boys (I am one) the mere suggestion of a
migration to Mt. Keira or anywhere else
is preposterous, outrageous.
* * * «
“Ex 6th Div.”: It must have been
great consolation to lads in military
hospitals and convalescent homes to hear
over the radio an interview with one of
our home-keeping champions. The gentle-
man in question, a lightweight pug, men-
tioned that he had been obliged to engage
in contests with middleweights during the
war, there being insufficient lightweights
of worthy calibre available, and “I had to
earn money, y’ know.” While one can
understand that 6/6 per day would have
little appeal it was nauseating to hear the
announcer saying how “honored” he was
to have interviewed such a person ; and
this on the eve of Remembrance Day!
* * * ♦
“V. Cluse”: Jephson was being driven
home from a bucks’ party by a friend,
both of them slightly elevated. The night
was wet, so the friend was travelling at
“ Display , indeed! I'd call it an exhibition!”
reduced speed, when there was a bump
and a sound of things smashing. Braking
quickly, the driver peered around and
so did Jephson. They couldn’t see what
they’d hit, so both stepped into the rain,
went back and, to their horror, discovered
a mangled bicycle on the road. Now cold-
sober and sick with apprehension, Jeph-
son assisted his friend to search for the
victim, but, though they inspected the
road, looked over fences, under the car
and even on the roof of it, no body could
they find. By this time both were wet
through and concluded the only thing
to do was ring the police. While his
friend continued the search Jephson made
for the nearest house, knocked and was
greeted by a young man. “Want to use
your phone,” said J. “We’ve hit a cyclist
but we can’t find him.” The young man
gasped and rushed past Jephson to the
road, where he picked up the battered
cycle and howled, “That’s my bike. It
was leaning against the kerb. Can’t you
see where you’re going, you” He got
no further, for Jephson, drenched and
shivering and suffering from anticlimax,
pushed him into the flooding gutter and
rushed his gaping friend into the car.
# * * *
“Clooter”: Reading the account of a
poignant Sydney case in which a 13-
years-old lad, posted missing for a week,
was found dead under the house of a
friend, and the friend, aged 14, was
arrested and charged with murder, I was
experiencing the feelings common to any
ordinarily humane person when I came
upon the reporter’s closing words:
Mrs. (the mother) and her husband were
overcome by anguish when they heard of
their son’s death. Mr. (the father) broke
down when he identified the dead boy’s
clothing and was escorted by friends to
his home.
What on earth has journalism come
to? Surely the reporter, the sub-editor,
the make-up man and the editor didn’t
believe that harrowing passage to be
necessary. Or did they suppose that,
unless thus assured to the contrary,
people who read the story would assume
that the stricken parents would break
into amused laughter and invite every-
body in to crack a bottle of beer?
» * * *
“Jurumudi”: The Indian doesn’t seem
to have changed his spots as a result of
receiving responsible government as a gift
from his oppressors. His way of rioting
hasn’t altered for generations. Years ago
a Victorian engineer on a job in India
was passing a factory when a crowd of
Moslem workers came rushing out on
strike. Forgetting that they were striking
against an Indian employer they con-
centrated on the white man. He pushed
out his pocket as if he had a revolver in it
and walked down the street, while the
mob poured along on each side, making
uncomplimentary remarks, in the Indian
way, about the morals of his parents.
Just as the situation was getting really
ugly the procession passed a Hindu
temple and some of the Moslems started
singing. A Hindu mob rushed out of the
temple and in less than two seconds the
two mobs were fighting one anotlier.
Breathing a sigh of refief, the Australian
hurried home to his tiffin,
# * ¥ *
“Pawang”: Dental oddities? A Vic-
torian Digger had all his teeth extracted
to enable him to go to World War I. In
1917 he grew another set. They weren’t
too good so he had them all extracted.
In 1927 a fourth issue of molars came
down and had to be yanked out.
* * * *
“R.W.”: It is not necessary to go
back to the times of the Rev. Richard
Johnson (B. 30/10/’46) to read of the in-
difference of soldiers to religion. During
Holy Week, 1942, the Anglican Bishop
of New Guinea arrived in Port Moresby
to take the Easter services there. The
Rector of St. John’s, the Rev. Henry
Mathews, had been drowned when his
lugger had been sunk by a Japanese sub-
marine a short time before. The Bishop
entered the vestry and found a state of
utter confusion —cupboards rifled, papers
and books littering the floor. He tidied
the mess and wondered what queer turn
of mind had actuated the vandals. Order
having been restored and his devotions
being ended, he left the building. On
the Saturday afternoon, accompanied by
some native ‘"boys,” he returned to
decorate the church for the Easter ser-
vices, The altar, */rgan, lamps, lectern,
pews and seats had been removed or
smashed, and even memorials had been
ripped from the walls. The bishop’s first
thought was to try td rsstbre order, but
his .mind forbade. A building so dese-
crated could not be used for Easter ser-
vices. He. turned away, and St. John’s
knew no Easter in 1942, It is only fair to
add that the church was restored later in
the year by men of the three services, who
“Now give it a go with this over there and that over here.”
gave their skill and time so that the traces
of destruction were removed, and St.
John’s was once more fit for worship.
* * * *
“Seahawk”: At night-time a merchant-
man’s signalling staff, whose efficiency is
apparently a matter of some concern to
the Navy (B. 30/10/’46), consists solely
of the officer of the watch. He Ms in-
numerable matters to attend to during his
four hours on the bridge, and a call-up
merely .to assess his dexterity with the
Morse key is liable to send up his blood
pressure. In pre-war years one sorely-
tried second mate, who had spent the
best part of a middle watch replying to
idle questions by curious strangers off
Wilson’s Promontory, was called just be-
fore the end of his spell of duty by a
vessel the rapidity of whose signalling
proclaimed her Navy. In exasperation
the second grabbed the Morse key and
sent just one word, and it wasn’t the
ship’s name. It wasn’t printable, either,
but the Navy man must have been a
sport, as the second mate was with the
company for a number of years after-
wards.
* ♦ * •
“Bondi Beachcomber”; Men who ran
two-up games in the Islands made, for-
tunes, and I always regarded the esteem
in "Which they were held most interesting.
Although “bludgers” and men tight with
their cash were generally disliked, the
“sports” who staged the swy were always
popular. Astonishing also was the delu-
sion that two-up was the fairest of games.
Fair to the “boxer,” no doubt. He took
two-bob of every pound won “in the
centre,” and though the same money
changed hands repeatedly he extracted
his “house fee” every time. I could never
make friends see that if game con-
tinued long enough the “boxer” would
be the only winner. His whine of “any
little winners?” or “what about you tail
bettors?” would always bring contribu-
tions from temporary winners. If they
didn’t toss in they were regarded as tight.
But I never saw a game in which the man
in the middle distributed consolation
money to “any little losers.”
» * * «
“Mother of None”: There’s some-
thing wrong with either the health
authorities or the bakers in Sydney.
Almost daily from one or other of the
radio stations a health “expert” urges me
to eat wholemeal bread, and tells me the
dire risks I run by continuing to eat the
white variety. The health pages of the
three women’s magazines to which I sub-
scribe repeat the same advice and the
same warnings, and even the daily papers
find a little space every now and then
for a spot of crusading on behalf of the
wholemeal loaf. Yet, whenever, after a
more-than-usually alarming attack on
white bread, I ask a baker for whole-
meal I get the same answer —they, don’t
make it.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Since Hansard is
becoming a dictionary of slang (B.
23/10/’46), the modern trend towards
general sophistication must be well under
way. It received a decided impetus re-
cently in a Westralian court when a wit-
ness described how a purely innocent
visit to the bar for a “quick ’un” de-
veloped into a “session.” While lawyers
stroked noses and sought means of eluci-
dating the statement the Bench turned
to the panel. “I take it,” he said, “that
the jury is familiar with the meaning of
these terms.”
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”; On the Burma-Siam
railway, close - cropped pates (B.
6/11/ ’46) were the barometers of re-
action to news over the “nightingale”
(secret wireless). Anyone who cropped
his head after the opening of the Second
Front in Europe was dubbed “no-hoper”;
presentable locks were desired for the day
of release.
“McGlum”; He . was a new Taiwan
guard at Haisho prison camp in charge
of his first work-party and we couldn’t
very well call him by any name other
than Boris Karloff. During “yasmae” he
came to me and wanted to know why.
I explained: “Karloff, number one
Americano cinema ; Buck Jones, number
two ; Clark Gable, number three.” (All
Orientals know the last two names.) The
horrible face showed signs of a grin, and
from then on Boris delighted in his new
name. About three months later he
dragged me out of the hut and waved a
Jap edition of an American film maga-
zine under my nose. I caught a glimpse
of Karloff as the Frankenstein Monster
just as the offended Taiwan’s dog-
walloper made contact with me. After
that we called him Shirley Temple.
* * * *■
“Cauboy”: Tasmanian - born prima
donna Margherita Grandi (born Mar-
garet Garde), who, after a long sojourn in
Europe, has forgotten her native tongue
and can speak only Italian, wouldn’t
have understood the significance of a
remark which was bellowed out at Melba
when she was singing at a provincial
opera house in Europe. She had just
finished a glorious aria when a voice
shouted, in unmistakably Australian ac-
cents; “Good old Lilydale!” The diva
was probably the only person in the
house who understood it.
* * * *
“Wanchai” ; Methods of looking after
lottery tickets, pending their fate, seem
to depend upon the degree of optimism
or the temperament of the holder. Some
are careless,' others systematic there
have been cases of super-optimists going
so far as to lodge a ticket for safe custody
at a bank! An odd case is that of a
Greek cafe proprietor who pasted a
ticket on the back of the lavatory door
at the rear of his cafe. The ticket drew
a prize of £lOO. Fearful that, in the
process of removal from the door, he
might mutilate the ticket beyond ac-
ceptance, he took off the door and carried
it to the office to establish his claim.
* * * *
“Mullum”: In a good many camps
during the war, “The Vinegar Inn” was
the name given to the nearest hotel.
Many pubs acquired nicknames. One,
in Casino (N.S.W.), after a fire had des-
troyed the upper floor, became known
among the R.A.A.F. as “The Charcoal
Inn.” I noticed the other day that the
licensing court had officially approved
the name. It is a start towards brighter
names for hotels, but some publicans will
hesitate to use the nicknames the troops
gave their premises: “No Beer Inn” and
“Temperance Bar” would hardly be good
advertising.
TOO BAD.
“The number of really first-class boxers in Aus-
tralia can be counted on the fingers of one hand.
Sporting writer tn “S.M.E. ’
We’ve politicians, an imposing heap—
Per capita has any country more.
Stout fellows who essay to earn their keep
By spouting on the legislative floor.
We’ve lawyers up to dizzy heights who soar,
Whether they be defenders or accusers.
But one deficiency we must deplore
Lies in the woeful scarcity of bruisers.
We've doctors with attainments wide and deep,
Professors skilled in academic lore.
And, if you talk of poets, there will leap
To mind at once the names of quite a score
Whose title to that rank none may ignore,
Of whatsoever measures they’re the users.
But that’s scant comfort when from shore to
shore
Our land is almost bare of top-notch bruisers.
We've batsmen seldom to be caught asleep
By any wiles within a bowlet’s store
Of swerve and spin—deft, too, loose balls to
sweep
To boundaries that make the Hillmen roar.
We’ve tennis-players in our Davis corps
Who’ll die before submitting to be losers.
And yet, it seems, we have but three or four
Really efficient pugs and A 1 bruisers.
Records must go that flattered us of yore
In this or that—it’s plain we can’t be choosers.
And Granny, poor old soul, is grieving sore
At our inexplicable lack of bruisers.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


The Ideal form of
ROOFING...
&
t
AW*
UAJH
Steel-Strong,
longer lasting!
Essential for water
ponservation!
0 Fire proof, per-
manent!
0 Goes up faster-
cuts costs!
L141a—5049
LYSRGHTS
D
QQ
RIGID
GALVANIZED
IRON
® Because of its low first cost and the
speed with which it can be erected,
Lysaght's RED ORB Galvanised Iron
is the ideal form of roofing. Essential
for water conservation, 100% fire proof
and possessing great tensile strength
it also makes a stronger, safer and
more permanent roof. More than
100,000 tons specified in building con-
tracts annually . . .
John Lysoght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brfibone
Adelaide Perth
11l
JsjNv (I
HB
m
Wmwm
m
!,Wv°
gmmi
&.-
£ 2a
DU
r.
rti
v"'\x\
mi
«
■:>
're
m
m
hui
st
>\'n
AJPx , . ......
“Our experience to-day is tlie key
A happy truism from the otherwise
vitriolic pen of the greatest of French
philosophers . . . categorically proved
in the design rooms of Babcock &
Wilcox.
From a legacy of priceless experi-
ence we have developed the modern
high temperature and pressure boiler
—apparently the ultimate in effici-
ency and operating economy. Yet
our research staff, in workshop and
laboratory, and a world-wide net-
work of Babcock engineers, are con-
tinually advancing the suggestions
and ideas which will be incorporated
in the Babcock boiler of to-morrow.
Here then is the reason why Bab-
cock engineers are always interested
in the problems presented by steam
BABCOCK & WILCOX
UMTU
STEAM ENGINEERS-INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE&WORKS—REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
users in every industry. We have
tbe experience and technical re-
sources to solve these problems and
an alert designing staff wbo appreci-
ate tbe significance of problems
and solutions. There is a Babcock
engineer in each State at your con-
stant service.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search. and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framewprh we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation , . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
• T has /■ hoff i> thF. sf hfica: -;of ,n iiir.dis hou.fr
THE SERVICE MAN
Our Men in Japan.
“Ek Dum”: Speaking at the United
Service Institution in Sydney on Novem-
ber# 14 the Governor of N. S. Wales,
formerly Commander-in-Chief of the
British Commonwealth Occupation
Forces in Japan, referred to the arrival on
the previous day of 882 troops from the
Kure area. He said he was glad to see
that many of the men agreed that the
press complaints presented from time to
time concerning conditions under which
they and their mates lived had been
greatly exaggerated.
When he had been asked what the
strength of the body of Australians to be
sent to Japan should be he had told the
Government that it should not be less
than a division, complete in its organisa-
tion, The British Government had then
determined to send a composite British-
Indian division, and the New Zealand
Government had expressed a desire to be
represented. Canada at first had in-
tended to add a brigade, but in view of
the extent of Canadian obligations in
Europe Mr. Mackenzie King decided
not to add to his Dominion's military
responsibilities.
Gradually a complete scheme was
evolved under which it was agreed that
the force should serve under Australian
command, with a composite Dominion
staff. It was an important arrangement,
in that the task set involved the integra-
tion for the first time in history of a
British Dominion military body engaged
in a specific piece of duty. And it was
important especially to Australia, since
it was the first time that such a task had
been entrusted to its military command,
and particularly because of this country’s
peculiar interest in the Pacific and its
policies.
It had taken a little time to bring th#'
organisation into being. He had. visited
India, where he had discussed the posi-
tion with Sir Claude Auchinleck, C.-in-C.
of the Indian Army, and with members
of his staff, headed by Sir John Swayne,
all of whom, with the exception of two
Indian members, he had known at Cam-
berley Staff College.
They had given absolute co-operation
in the arrangements, virtually without
discussion or argument. It was agreed
that the British contribution should be
a British-Indian division backboned by a
British brigade which included the
Cameron Highlanders and the Dorsets.
To this were added a naval con-
tingent and R.A.F. support, which in-
cluded three Spitfire squadrons. From
the R.A.A.F. came three Mustang
squadrons. The air establishment was
completed with transport and general-
purpose units and ground constructional
corps. From New Zealand, which he
also visited, he had equal co-operation,
with the result that it was agreed that
the joint Australian-Maoriland represen-
tation should be an Anzac division.
The Occupation Areas
The next move was to visit Japan and
see General Mac Arthur, than whom Aus-
tralia had no better friend. General
MacArthur had immediately agreed to
place the British Commonwealth troops
as nearly as possible on the same basis
as his own Americans. He had offered a
choice of three areas for occupation—
a choice, indeed, of all the most vital
areas outside Tokyo, in which he him-
self had his headquarters. The first of
these was Hokkaido Island, in the north.
Hokkaido was rejected because its sub-
Arctic climate was unsuitable for Aus-
tralians and Indians, especially in
January, when the occupation was con-
templated. The second was The first
central industrial region embracing Kobe
and Osaka, at the north-eastern end of
the Inland Sea. This area was rejected
because he (General Northcott) felt that
the British Dominion force would be too
small to control a population of
15,000,000 to 16,000,000, seeded through
with large bodies of returned Japanese
soldiers, and in which all the problems
consequent on wholesale military destruc-
tion were inherent.
The third available area was the south-
western end of the main island of Hon-
shu, with the adjacent island of Shikoku,
across the Inland Sea to the south. This
was a very important area. It contained
the Japanese Navy’s primary base of
Kure, with the surrounding highly-mili-
tarised district of Hiroshima; also the
main air-training ground for kamikaze
pilots and the main route by which Jap-
anese prisoners-of-war were being re-
turned to their homeland. It was suitable
in climate, being warmer than the north
coast, which took its weather from Man-
churia. The scenery was something never
to be forgotten—dream seas, studded
with fairy islands. And to boys accus-
tomed to the climates of Sydney and
Melbourne the seasonal winds and heat
presented no hardships. *
An additional reason which dictated
the selection of the area as the British
Dominion zone was the nature of sea
communications. There were open only
two main routes to the Honshu coasts
—one, to Tokyo Bay ; the other, a narrow
channel swept through the Bungo Strait,
between Kyushu and Shikoku. Other-
wise Japan was entirely surrounded by
minefields, some laid by the Japanese
themselves, the rest by the American Air
Forces, one of whose types had been ex-
perimental and hadb become an unknown
quantity after months of immersion.
Thus, outside the sea routes to Tokyo
Bay, which carried the main head-
quarters traffic, and that to Kure, the
only route open then or later was to the
Fukuoka area in American-administered
Kyushu Island, which became the
central ingress point for returning
prisoners-of-war.
Japan’s Ruin
To realise the difficulties of administra-
tion and the necessity for direct sea
communication it was vital to under-
stand the conditions as they existed in
the country when the British Dominion
occupation began. Honshu, the main
island, consisted of a rough, high moun-
tain district in which communications
A were limited and difficult. Hie popula-
tions were crowded into intensely-occu-
pied areas, mainly where plains obtruded
from the sea on the southern side. The
excellently-run 3ft. 6in. railway provid-
ing the link between Tokyo and the
south-eastern industrial areas crept pre-
cariously along the coast. There was
considerable railway-electrification, owing
to the abundance of hydro-electric power
from the mountain streams. But all lines
were crammed with local traffic. The
terrain and the fact that it was a condi-
tion that their own maintenance was the
task of individual occupation forces dic-
tated that the area occupied should be
at the end of a direct sea route.
The condition of Japan as a nation
was terrible to behold. The Australian
occupation force found itself decanted
into a country in which every great city
was destroyed utterly or 60 to 80 per
cent., with the exception of the sacred
city of Kyoto.
Most of the destruction had been
caused by fire-bombing, but in the great
naval and munition area of Kure-Hiro-
shima the occupiers found themselves
face to face with the problems due to two
other forms of destruction. Hiroshima,
a city the size of Brisbane, had been laid
flat, even its rubble melted, with a single
bomb.
Kure had been the main naval base,
and as such, had been subjected to hiafr-
explosive bombing. Australians looked
with pride on their naval dock and dock-,
yard. In Kure there were six docks, with
attendant dockyards comparable with
Garden Island’s, and vast areas of stores
and machine-shops. All these had been
reduced to a tangled wilderness of rusted
iron and steel.
Round the harbor, beached, on their
sides or half-sunk, were 24 major naval
units, heavy cruisers, first-class carriers
and battleships, besides hundreds of
wrecked smaller craft. And when the
task of filling up all the giant docks save
one was tackled it was discovered that
there were 150 or 160 midget submarines,
of the type of those which invaded Syd-
ney Harbor, to begin with as filling
material. These were dumped with great
relish.
The Struggle for Food
The mountainous nature of the country
behind the occupation areas was such
that it needed to be seen to be believed.
It was out of this condition that many
of the difficulties and complaints which
beset the occupation force arose.
For one thing, it meant that only 15
p.c. of the area of the islands was culti-
vable, and this in turn made it necessary
that every inch of ground should be pro-
ductive. The margins of road grew vege-
tables, and the plots along the railway lines
came right up to the ends of the sleepers.
So great was the restriction of the use


An &PiIESS-ion of satisfaction
I
—as he lights his
SWeQ(phess
355
j^nig
aA!
»* oi-aoos
<**3%
'/ // I \vT N
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
{lncorporated in Victoria )
Head Office and Registered Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ;
H. D. GIDDY, Chairman. The Hon. Sir F. G. CLARKE, k.b.e., m.1.c.,
Vice-Chairman. T. C. ALSTON. G. J. COLES, c.b.e. H. G. DARLING.
Sir CLIVE McPHERSON, C.B.E. D. YORK SYME.
Chief Manager : Senior Chief Inspector: Chief Inspector :
L. J. McCONNAN. S. M. WREFOED. H. R. MACKENZIE.
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1946
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each .. . £3,000,000 0 0
875.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each 7,000,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-200.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each, fully paid .. £2,000,000 0 0
600.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each, £5 paid . .. 4,800,000 0 0
£6,800,000 0 0
Paid Up Capital £5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business) 3,300,000 0 0
Final Dividend Proposed 150,000 0 0
Balance of Profit and Loss Account ~ 160,957 13 7
Total Shareholders' Funds £8,610,957 13 7
Deposits, Bills Payable, and Other Liabilities,
including Provisions for Contingencies 87,993,500 10 8
Notes in Circulation 47,507 10 0
Balances due to Other Banks 490,183 8 7
£97,142,149 2 10
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, etc.) £3,463,168 7 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers ' £4,542,607 10 9
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 1,378,228 16 3
Balances with and Due from Other Banks 501,881 5 11
Treasury Bills Australian Government 3,000,000 0 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills),
at or under market value —
i. Australian Government Securities 12,229,318 11 0
ii. Other Government Securities ~ 1,447,382 9 1
iii. Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities
Securities 379,350 0 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia 34,714,000 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 4,507,174 13 11
£62,699,943 6 11
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad or doubtful) .. 32,784,181 4 0
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost, less
amounts written off) 1,347,346 18 1
All Other Assets 310,677 13 10
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss figures
are stated in Australian Currency)
£97 <t 142,149 2 10
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £3,463,168 .7 8
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on
the books at the Head Office and with the certified returns from the
branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations we
have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and
Profit and Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and of the results
of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of
our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by
the books of the Company.
Melbourne, S. J. WARNOCK, F.C.A.(Aust.) 7 *
31st October, 1946. J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A.(Aust.) f Auditors.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of 6%,
of cultivable land for other than produc-
ing purposes that there was only one air-
field on which it was possible to land
four-engined Liberators —that was near
Tokyo. The paucity of the background
facilities in Japan for a nation opposed
by such might as that of Britain and the
U.S. had been astonishing.
It was no wonder that early in the war
the Japanese had shown themselves
desperately anxious to acquire airfields
outside their own islands.
In such circumstances it was obvious
that the occupation forces must make it
a primary objective not to interfere with
food production. This involved the
cutting-down of sports fields and parade
grounds to a minimum and the elimina-
tion of cross-country > exercises and
manoeuvres, necessary for the health and
well-being of the troops.
Areas of Occupation
Eventually the occupation was made
and areas were allotted. The Australians
arrived first and took over headquarters
at Kure-Hiroshima. Then the British-
Indian division, under command of
Major-General D. T. Cowan, C. 8.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C.—a man with a
long and distinguished career in the
Indian Army, who came fresh from six
years of Burma service—arrived in two
echelons, the British first. The British
regiments took over a strip the full width
of the island to the north-east of the
Australian area, which in turn ran from
the south-western end of Honshu to the
British boundaries. The British area
consisted of three prefectures—Okayama,
Tottori and Shimane —virtually equiva-
lents of Australian States. The Indians
took over the island of Shikoku.
The Terrible Aussies
The Americans who moved out to make
way for the Australians were old comrades
of the fighting 32nd and 41st Divisions.
Inhabitants suffered as the changes took
“Half-speed, Mac —I think he's going to sound!”
place from a series of groundless terrors.
Firstly, they had been filled with dread
at the thought of the ingress of the
Americans, and those lavish and friendly
fellows did not fail to paint for them a
horrible picture of the Australians.
“We know them,” they said. “We
have lived with them. A fearsome lot!”
Japanese fathers and husbands hastened
to hide their women and their treasures in
the hills. They were soon back, how-
ever, only to hear of the imminence of
the Indians from their new friends of the
A.I.F.
“You wait till you see them,” said the
Australians. And Japanese soldiers
home from Burma confirmed the worst
that could be said.
The Indians, said General Northcott,
however, proved to be the mildest of the
lot; so gentle and disciplined that when he
came to discuss the forming of detention
camps he was told that none were neces-
sary for the Indians, since none of them
ever warranted detention.
Meanwhile the Maorilanders were on
their way from Italy with measles aboard
their troopships. Adult measles in a
devastated area among a population on
the starvation-line would have been a
serious matter. But the outbreak was
scotched before it reached Japan.
Air Problems and Staff
Eventually all units were in place. The
naval detachment was at Kure. The
R.A.F.-R.A.A.F. forces were more diffi-
cult to locate. In the early days the
R.A.A.F. was at Bofu, far-west of Hiro-
shima.
“The only time I ever felt sorry for
Australians in Japan,” said General
“was for those at Bofu.”
Features of the Bofu scene were a dismal
concrete runway and wooden barracks
with no amenities whatever. Part of the
barracks went up in smoke. The condi-
tions in the field west of Kure, in Iwa-
kuni district, were better but restricted.
Eventually, however, reconnaissance dis-
covered the place in which the Japanese
had trained their kamikaze pilots on the
shores of a beautiful bay near the borders
of Tottori and Shimane.
The final difficulty was the co-ordina-
tion of the staff. Drawn from all parts
of the British Commonwealth, it had to
be welded into a whole and made to
function without the services of efficient
typists, women being debarred from the
area at first,
« , * .i r*
Tasks of the Force
v we [ e numerous and un-
First, the force was the syrn o
of 4 Allied authority and of freedom. T
Japanese soon came to like its admims-
tration, for while it was the source rom
which Japanese local authorities dre
lh eir P° wer to act » jhe people found t a
the strangers ?tood between their own
ti aditionally dictatorial administrators
and themselves. Never before had the
Japanese been able to talk as they like
and go where they liked so freely,
, The mam primary essential tasks,
however, were military. Officers and men
were charged with the supervision of the
cleaning-up of the ruined areas, and with
supervision of the maintenance of the
living of people in general. The destruc-
tion of munitions, having regard to the
fighting potential of the returned Japanese
manpower, was urgent.
The occupiers found, when they came
to examine the Hiroshima prefecture
countryside, that it appeared to be one
vast munition dump. In every valley and
gully stores of war were packed away,
Hills were burrowed-out into huge caves,
sometirfies air-conditioned and cork-lined,
in which hundred of thousands of tons
of 'h.-e. were packed. And there
were thousands of tons of war-gases
Lewisite, mustard and all the others —
some in a most dangerous condition,
Thanks to the facilities given by the
United States Army much of this lethal
store was loaded into unwanted landing
vessels and sunk far out at sea.
Stores of weapons of all kinds seemed
endless. Once, skirting the coasts of the
tourist Isle of Paradise, off Hiroshima,
the C.-in-C.’s party spied what appeared
to be a pile of telegraph-poles on shore.
It proved to consist of more than 100
14- and 16-inch guns with all accessories.
Such dumps were dealt with vigorously.
Other duties ranged from the filling-in
of the Kure docks and the disposal of
tens of acres of Kure wreckage to the
supervision of the education system and
of the elections, the problems of which
were added to by the apparently unani-
mous decision of Japanese women (a
race different from and superior to the
Japanese men, the Governor said) to
vote, even though some could think of
nobody to vote for save General Mac-
Arthur.
Added to these occupations were the
cares associated with the transport of
6,000,000 returning Jap p.-0.-w., nearly all
of whom passed through the area along
with tens of thousands of Chinese and
Korean laborers, who were being repat-
riated to the mainland. The Koreans
were a difficult lot to handle, since they
were much diseased and far from an
amenable people.
Conditions and Food
The conditions of the occupation
troops, General Northcott said, were as
good as or better than could he expected
in such circumstances. When he had
taken over he had acquired all the ameni-
ties which the Americans were prepared
to leave behind, including large quantities
of cold-storage rations at Kure. The Aus-
tralians had the benefit of these. When
the British and Indians arrived they were
amazed at the bulk and quality of Aus-
tralian feeding. In the lean and difficult
years of the Burma campaign they had
known nothing like it.
One knotty problem was the absence of
women and of entertainment —provided
normally by professional camp concert
units —but time was mending these de-
ficiencies. Before he left Japan, the
general said, he had arranged for the
building of accommodation for families
on the beautiful little Eda Island, off
Kure, site of the old Japanese Naval
Academy, in the barracks of which every
brick had been made and laid by the
Royal Engineers. General MacArthur
(Continued on page 24.)


Every day in some
way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY.
WHEN
C
SYO
START
6.45
Exide serves the public in a hundred
ways, from telephonic communication to
the production of coal. In your choice
of a car battery be guided by un-
dertakings that depend upon Exide.
&
n
-
PERSONAL ITEMS
Death took two fine young Victorians
last week. In England, after an opera-
tion, Major Keith Knox, son of knight
Robert Knox, of Melbourne, died at
27. He was in Britain at the outbreak of
the war and gained a commission in the
King’s Own Scottish Borderers. He was
in the Dunkirk retreat and served with
the King’s African Rifles in Abyssinia,
winning the M.C. Back with his old regi-
ment, he added a bar to his M.C. in
Burma, where he was badly injured.
Colin Swinburne Martin, a rising member
of the legal profession and associate to
his father. Justice Martin, was killed in a
motor accident. From the University of
Melbourne he joined the R.A.N. in 1941
and served on Scout and Norman, being
mentioned in dispatches. He was recently
awarded a rehabilitation scholarship to
Oxford.
Most-favored tip for the next Queens-
land Judgeship is A. L. Bennett, one of
Brisbane’s foremost younger barristers.
His handling of the Olsen v. A.W.U.
case on behalf of C. G. Fallon and the
union a few months ago marked him out
as an advocate of outstanding ability and
a legal tactician of the first rank. A
brother is Don Bennett, air vice-marshal
of the R.A.F. and world authority on
air navigation. They are sons of G. T.
Bennett, a land and estate agent in Bris-
bane.
An ex-Navy man has collected the
N.S.W. Rhodes Scholarship for 1947, He
is David Roy Stewart, an engineering
student who, after gaining his B.Sc, in
1942 with distinction in maths and high
distinction in physics, joined the R.A.N.
and became radar officer on Warrego and
Bataan. He saw service in most parts
of the s.-w. Pacific area and finished up
in Japanese waters. Since his discharge
he’s back at Sydney Uni. picking up the
threads of his interrupted engineering
course.
Binghi was much in evidence in Mel-
bourne last week, though normally that
city is about as aware of his existence as
if he were on another planet. A show of
water-colors at the Athenaeum by Edwin
Pareroultja produced a flood of aesthetics
on primitive art in general, and a speech
of protest by Dr. Charles Duguid, the
noted Adelaide anthropologist, against the
proposed rocket tests in die abos.’ ances-
tral hunting grounds—said protest being
followed by a resolution from the Presby-
terian Assembly. In the same week an-
other anthropologist, Donald Thomson,
was invested with the 0.8. E., and made
a trenchant attack on the Federal Gov-
ernment for its neglect of the abo. in the
Far North. Add to these an address de-
livered by John Heath, a Melbourne
dentist, on the condition of teeth among
primitive races. With four scientists
Heath investigated the jaws of natives
in the district Pareroultja comes from, and
one of his exhibits was a cast of that
artist’s jaw. Contrary to orthodox opinion,
he found that the aboriginals’ molars
showed all the defects supposed to be
produced only by centuries of civilisation.
James A. Farley, in these parts on a
flying business trip, is a big man physi-
cally—he’s 6ft. 2in. and tips the scale
at 16 stone —and was for many years one
of the political giants of U.S.A. By 1918
he was a power in the Democratic party
in New York, and successfully “ran” Al
Smith for State Governor. Ten years
later he managed Roosevelt’s campaign
for the same office, and then went on to
see F;D.R. reach the White House. He
became P.M.G. in Roosevelt’s team, and
was his able lieutenant for many years.
In 1940 Farley came out as an opponent
of the third term, and sought the Demo-
cratic nomination for President, Failing
to gain it, he resigned his Cabinet rank
and the Democratic chairmanship, but for
all that he is still a Democrat. During
the war Roosevelt chose him for many
missions abroad, and he visited most
battle zones. His visit to Australia re-
calls that Herbert Hoover, Republican
President who had reason to regret
Farley’s energetic campaigning for Roose-
velt in 1932, spent some time in this
country—as a mining engineer on the
W.A. goldfields.
Wing-Commander Herbert Clifford
Harrison, 0.8. E., superintendent of air-
worthiness and aeronautical engineering
section of Civil Aviation Department,
was born in Norwich (England) and
graduated with honors at the Royal
College of Science (London) in 1908. He
won a Daimler scholarship and spent
two years in the Daimler workshops be-
fore becoming, in 1911, assistant engineer
to H. V. McKay, Sunshine, on the design
of stationary engines. From 1915 to
1920 he was in England with Boulton
and Paul as chief draughtsman of their
experimental section. Then he joined the
R.A.A.F. and became director of tech-
nical services in 1921, remaining in that
post until 1925, spending one year on
exchange duty with the R.A.F. In 1930
he was a member of the Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation mission to Britain
and America, and was responsible for
design and construction of engine-aircraft
factories and installation of the entire
factory equipment and electrical service
of C.A.C. In J 939 he supervised the lay-
out of factory buildings at Fishermen’s
Bend and Mascot, rejoining the R.A.A.F.
in 1942 as deputy-director of repair
and maintenance, in charge of motor
transport.
“Becks” on a man and his brain-child:
Jim Bancks has been drawing Ginger Meggs
and Ginger Meggs has been waging war on
Tiger Kelly, carrying flowers to Min, breaking
windows, stopping ripe tomatoes with his face,
exchanging butt's with billy-goats and going to
birthday parties in the pages of Australian
Sunday papers for 25 years. At a dinner given
to Bancks in Sydney last week to celebrate the
anniversary, reputable citizens who were old
enough to know better went on record to testify
the enjoyment they derived from the adventures
of Meggsie, but the mere fact that the red-
headed youngster has beaten off all opposition
from other comic-strip characters for so long
is sufficient proof of his popularity. But he
has done more than that. Venturing abroad,
he has become established in Britain, in France
and South America, and —the final test —he has
successfully invaded America, the home of the
comic strip. James Charles Bancks himself is
51. His first drawing appeared in print when
he was 17 and he joined The Bulletin staff
shortly afterwards. For eight years from 1913
he drew caricatures, Sundry Shows sketches and
joke blocks for this paper. Then he 1 began
for the “Sunday Sun” a strip from which the
Meggs adventures developed. From the “Sun”
it spread to every State and eventually encircled
the world. Success hSs not spoiled Bancks.
He’s a level-headed chap with his feet on the
ground and is popular with his fellow-artists
—and in the Australian art world it is generally
conceded that if a man is popular as well as
successful there can’t be much wrong with him.
Ex-Air Vice-Marshal Adrian (“King”)
Cole, D. 5.0., C.8.E., M.C., D.F.C., was
an original member of No, 1 Squadron,
A.F.G., won the M.C. in Palestine and
the D.F.C. in France in the Kaiser’s war,
and in the last one added to his raft of
decorations the D.S.O. for conspicuous
gallantry as leader of air operations in
the Dieppe raid. He was born in 1895
CHALLENGED AIR MINISTER.
at Glen Iris, Melbourne. Between the
wars he climbed steadily, commanding in
turn No. 1 Flying School in 1926, Laver-
ton 1929-32. Three years as Air Mem-
ber for Supply followed ; then he put in a
spell in charge of Richmond (N.S.W.) be-
fore he went to the Imperial Defence
College a year or so before Hitler’s war.
During that scrap his jobs included O.C.
Southern and Central Area and A.O.C.
North-west Area. Demobbed, he op-
posed his late political chief, Drakeford,
for the Maribyrnong seat, but for once
found a machine that was too strong for
him.
While the studied silence of all political
parties during the month of September
made the Powers Referendum “cam-
paign” the most bloodless and wordless
LED “NO” CAMPAIGN.
in Australian constitutional history, a non-
party man came out as leader of the “No”
school in N.S.W. and labored mightily
and, on two of the three issues, success-
fully, to convince voters that they wefe
being asked to sign away their liberties.
Since 1935 Francis Armand Bland, pic-
tured here by Dubois, has been professor
of Public Administration at Sydney Uni.
His chair, the only one of its kind in Aus-
tralia, was established in that year, but
for 20 years previous to that he had been
lecturing in the same subject at the same
address. Born in 1882, the professor en-
tered the N.S.W. public service, but an
inborn habit of study earned him a B.A.
in 1909, LL.B. in 1912 and M.A. in
1914, and led Him to the London
School of Economics. A man of
broad liberal beliefs, Bland has been
a great worker for the Sydney Uni-
versity Settlement at Chippendale and for
W.E.A. He is an advocate of adult edu-
cation, believes there is still a place among
conflicting ideologies for an enlightened
middle way of and is heartily
opposed to the 1 idea of the bureaucratic
State.
“Jay”;—
Coventry’s caricature of Evan Mander Jones
(B. 30/10/’46) draws attention to a family
whose record must be hard to beat. George
Burnett Mander Jones, Sydney medico, born
in Queensland, went to London in his early
twenties. He gathered with honors M.R.C.S.
and L.R.C.P., which carried the endorsement
of the renowned physician Sir William Jenner.
He returned to Australia, married, and practised
his professon at Ashfield, Sydney.
Two daughters and three sons carry on the
name. A brief outline of their careers:
Phyllis is a 8.A., Sydney Uni. Won the
Fairfax prize, and is close to the top of librarian
ladder in the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
Mildred took up nursing. Graduated. Went
overseas, was eventually appointed matron in
Queen Alexandra Imperial Military Nursing
Service. She worked in India and Burma and
has lately returned to Australia.
Evan is M.A., Oxford. Housemaster, North
Shore Grammar, Sydney, for many years.
Joined Intelligence Staff Headquarters in 1939.
Saw service in Greece, Syria, Crete and
S.W.P.A.; collected the 0.8. E. in Sumatra.
, Climbed to rank of, colonel. Recently appointed
Director of Education, S.A.
Burnett graduated M.Sc. at Sydney Uni.
Keenly interested in the scientific and practical
aspect of anti-aircraft artillery, he joined up
early in 1940 and saw service in the Middle
East. Returned to Australia'in 1942 and helped
sting marauding Jap airmen in Northern Aus-
tralia. Rose to the rank of lieut.-cblonel
and was in command of the 2/13th A.-A.
Regt. Now back at his job as analyst, De-
partment of Mines, Sydney.
Geoffrey graduated at Duntroon. Resigned
from the Australian Army and joined the
Yorks and Lancs. Regt. in England. Fought
in Bprma and Indo-China. Holds rank of
lieut.-colonel. Now in India.
Apparently Australian political institu-
tions have charms for other people. Two
recent visitors to Melbourne were Pro-
fessor B. P, Adarkar, a keen cricketer
and a product of Cambridge University,
and Braj Kumur Nehru, a cousin of
Pandit Nehru. A tall and cultivated
Indian, the younger Nehru graduated
from Oxford to a Government billet at
New Delhi, He has come with his col-
league to pick up some hints in the fram-
ing of the Indian constitution ; aspects of
Australian finance which intrigue them
are the Loans Council and the Works
Council.
Clive Amadio, professor of saxophone
at Sydney Conservatorium, comes of a
musical family. Amadio senior was a
first-rate clarinet and oboe player; Nev-
ille is the principal flautist in the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra and Clive is just as
much at home on the clarinet as the
sax —he played in the original A.B.C.
orchestra and for years was its principal
clarinet player. Next Saturday night at
the Sydney Town Hall with the new
Sydney Symphony Orchestra he will give
the first public performance in N.S.W.
of Debussy’s “Rhapsodic” for saxophone
and orchestra.
Henry Krips, conductor of Sydney
Symphony Orchestra, has been invited to
conduct at the Vienna Opera House next
year. Now an Australian citizen, Krips
was born in Vienna 32 years ago and
came to this country when Hitler marched
into Austria. At 21 he was chief con-
ductor at Salzburg Town Theatre and
shortly afterwards conductor of the Volks
Opera in Vienna. In this country
he has been very active musically,
though union rules kept him out of the
profession for a time. He organised the
Alfred Hill concert at Sydney Town Hall
early this year, wrote the music for two
Kirsova ballets and the musical score for
the film “Smithy.” During the war Krips
served some time with the A.M.F.
A link, dating back to 1892, with St.
Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, has been
broken by the retirement at 80 of Canon
George Sutton, Canon of St. Paul’s and
examining Chapter to the Archbishop.
The first precentor of the Cathedral,
Canon Sutton was appointed Canon in
1902, in Archbishop Clarke’s time.
J. R. Dridan, who becomes deputy-
engineer-in-chief with the Engineering
and Water Supply Department in S.A. —
a newly-created post to cope with the
department’s growing activities—has
been acting-engineer for water-supply
since the death of R. G. Wilton a few
months ago. Dridan joined the staff in
1923, spent 11 years on lock construc-
tion on the Murray. Became district
engineer in 1934 and inspecting engineer
ten years later.
Dead at Camden Park (N.S.W.) at 79,
Major-General James William Macarthur
Onslow was prominent for many years
in the life of his native State. A soldier
in three wars, he had Parliamentary ex-
perience in both Houses in N.S.W. and
maintained an interest in the family
properties at Camden, where his great-
grandfather laid the foundations of the
Australian sheep industry. After com-
pleting his education at Cambridge in
the ’nineties he turned to' soldiering, and
saw service in India, where he took part
in the storming of Malakand —it was
that campaign that first showed Winston
Churchill’s genius as a war historian —
and later went to the Boer War on
General Hutton’s staff. In politics he
represented various seats in the N.S.W.
Assembly from 1907 to 1922, in which
year he was appointed to the Council,
where he remained till 1934. When the
Council was reconstituted in that year he
did not seek re-election. During World
War I he served as O.C. transports for
two years.
Into the silence:
At Melbourne, Andrew Hodge, a well-known
portrayer of Dickensian characters. He
organised' the Hodge and Harper Dramatic
Co. which toured Australia and M.L., and
was later on the Fuller circuit.
In Melbourne, at 87, Edward Luke Vail,
of E. L. Vail and Son, after George Wise,
who is 93, the oldest practising solicitor in
Victoria. Admitted to the Far in 1883, Vail
went into partnership with his father, who had
opened a law office in a tent on the site or
Victoria Barracks in the ’fifties. An athlete
in his youth at Wesley College, he made a
hobby all his life of breeding and racing
thoroughbreds, among them Poseidena, Little
Millie and Tente Encora. He was known as
Mr. Vail, the younger.
At 71, in Melbourne, Timothy Carton
Cremean, father of the late H. M. Cremean.
M.L.A., J. L. Cremean, M.L.A., and F. Cremean.
secretary to the Minister for Housing.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BARBARA GLADYS COOK late of North Rich-
mond—TAKE NOTICE that ANDREW RICHARD
COOK has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2893
of 1946 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 9th day of December 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
C. JOLLIE SMITH & CO., Petitioner’s Solicitors,
185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
REYNOLDS, Alfred Stirling Tankard, who married
Catherine Elizabeth Richardson 9th October, 1890,
at Hillston, and who was then a Butcher of Hillston
and who was later believed to have been in Henty
and Albury, or his next-of-kin or Legal Personal Rep-
resentative, or anyone knowing his whereabouts or of
his death, please communicate, concerning the estate
of Catherine Elizabeth Reynolds, deceased, with
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney?
Public Notice.
I, HENRY RICHARD KRYGIER, of Polish nation-
ality, born at Warsaw, Poland, and resident 5 years
in Australia, now residing at 328 Edgecliff Road,
Woollahra, N.S.W., intend to apply fof naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Dressing was mixed at the State Gov-
ernment’s reception at the Town Hall to
the Governor-General and his Duchess.
Day frocks worn with hats mingled with
elaborate evening gowns, full-length
gloves, feather fans and lovely flower
corsages. With the sac-suits of some of
the men mingled the glitter of gold-
braided uniforms. Against the back-
ground of the mushroom-toned curtain
the stage of the Town Hall was decorated
with tall palms and tree-ferns, in front of
which were massed banks of. schizanthus
in cyclamen, mauve and pink tonings, all
blended into a muted color pattern, while
the edge of the stage was outlined in
multi-colored calceolaria and cineraria.
First to be greeted by the Premier and
Mrs. Cain were the Lieut.-Governor, Sir
Edmund Herring, and Lady Herring;
then at the foot of the staircase Sir
Winston and Lady Dugan were received.
A few minutes later, tq the roll of drums,
the Royal party and their staffs entered,
to be received by Council president
Clifden Eager and Assembly Speaker
George Knox.
The Duchess wore one of the most
beautiful and spectacular gowns in which
she has been seen in this country. Of
black panne velvet, the full skirt fell from
a low heart-shaped bodice. Its fine
diamond straps carried trails of tiny Cecil
Brunner roses. She wore a diamond
tiara, a diamond necklace and an unusual
heart-shaped brooch from which fell
three diamond pendants. Her Royal
Highness carried a bouquet of red roses
presented to her by Mrs. Gain. Lady
Dugan’s frock was of hyacinth-blue ; the
bouffant skirt was of tulle allied to a
bodice of blue and silver lam£, and she
carried a presentation posy of roses. Mrs.
Cain chose a frock of Parma-violet and
gold brocade-made tunic fashioned with'
a low-cut back and a full bustle bow.
Attending the Duchess was Miss Eileen
Phipps, whose full-skirted black taffetta
gown, had appliqued cream lace finishing
the low heart-shaped neckline. With the
Consul-General for -U.S.A., Richard
Boyce, was Mrs. Boyce, who wore a
short Chinese-embroidered jacket of
bright red-and-gold brocade over a frock
of gold lamd. U. S. Military Attache
Brigadier E. B. Sebree was accompanied
by Mrs. Sebree, whose frock of honey-
beige chiffon had the bodice heavily
beaded. Dancing with Wing-Commander
D. Swifte, R.A.A.F., was Joan Cain ; her
apple-green taffetta gown was trimmed
with ruchings of the same material. Mrs.
L. Coleman’s soft-pink crepe frock was
worn with a silver-kid belt and matching
pink orchids at the shoulder. Mrs. C.
Keppel, wife of the Consul for Argen-
tina, chose a blue gown embroidered in
gold beads.
The red - and - white banner of St.
George made a brave and vivid back-
ground to the animated scene in the ball-
room of the New Alexandria, St. Kilda,
when 30 cadets from the Melbourne C.
of E. Grammar School formed the guard-
of-honor at the reception given by the
Melbourne branch of the Royal Society
of St. George to the Duke and Duchess
of Gloucester. Soft beige fox-furs were
worn by the Duchess with her frock of
hyacinth-blue, in which she pinned a
diamond flower-spray brooch. A natural-
straw saucer-shaped hat trimmed with
autumn-toned berries and honey-beige
gloves and shoes made a charming con-
trast. Lady Dugan, who accompanied
the Duchess, wore a navy-blue hat
trimmed with powder-blue ostrich
feathers, and with her French grey frock
she wore silver fox-furs. Vice-president
of the Society, W. T. Charge, and Mrs.
Charge received the guests, and were pre-
sented to the Duke and Duchess; Mrs.
Charge covered her black frock with a
fur bolero, her small black hat being
finished with filmy veiling. Society
official Dr. A. E. V. Richardson was with
Mrs. Richardson, whose frocking was of
midnight blue with a matching hat.
Lady Eager was smartly tailored in a
grey-checked suit; her daughter, Miss
M. Eager, chose a short-sleeved black
frock and hat. The Royal pair chatted in-
formally with many of the 300 guests.
Bright sunshine brought women race-
goers to Flemington for the Williamstown
Cup meeting, wearing patterned silk
frocks and linen suits. Louise Bradshaw,
of Sydney, wore a flat-crowned coolie
hat of black straw with her frock of
Parma-violet, blue-and-black-patterned
silk. Mrs, W. P. Mein, wife of the chair-
man of the W.R.C., entertained at a large
luncheon-party with orchids on the
shoulder of her black romaine frock, the
bodice and tops of the sleeves relieved by
appliques of the material mounted on
net ; pastel-blue and -pink ribbon and
white veiling trimmed her black hat. Mrs.
Maurice Nicholas, her daughter, was in
a white frock and a large green straw
hat with small white flowers under the
brim. The Hon. Mrs. Ronald Douglas
chose a navy-blue frock, with white
flowers and navy veiling trimming her
navy straw hat. There were more large
picture-hats seen on the lawns than on
any other of the Spring race meetings.
Judith Herring, second daughter of
Lieut.-Governor Edmund Herring and his
lady, was wed at Christ Church, South
Yarra, to Nicholas Hume, son of Dr.
and Mrs. Richard Turnbull, Toorak, the
Bishop of Geelong, Rt. Rev. D. McKie,
officiating. The bride’s lovely gown of
cream-slipper satin, had a long-sleeved,
fitting bodice, with the full skirt ending
in ,a brief train. A coronet of orange
blossom caught the veil of Limerick lace
to the hair, and she carried a trailing
bouquet of cream roses. The two brides-
maids were frocked alike in aqua-blue
crepe with long draped bodices; their
bouquets of gold roses matched the
flowers worn in their hair. Richard New-
ton was bestman and Stewart Philpott
groomsman. Later a reception was held
at the South Yarra home of the bride’s
parents.
Pictured here is Jean, the wife of Air-
Commodore A. L. Walters. The air-
commodore is now on his way to Eng-
land, where he will spend 12 months at
the Imperial Defence College. Jean,
who hails from Sydney, is the elder
daughter of the late Rev. G, Manning,
for many years vicar of Parramatta. She
was presented at the Coronation Court
when in England with her husband.
During two war years Jean worked in a
munition factory; she also was secre-
tary of the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund. Now
doing a peace-time job, the R.A.A.F.
Locker Fund has been reformed, and
Jean is about to take on the job of pub-
licity officer. Air-Commodore and Mrs.
Walters have one daughter, Robin, who
is still at Clyde Girls’ School. Working
hard for the Clyde Old Girls’ Association
theatre night, Jean will be one of the
helpers on the sweets stall, which will
be stationed in front of the Union
Theatre.
It took four strong policemen and a
couple of firemen to hold back the hordes
of women who stormed the Model Hat
Salon at the Royal Melbourne Christ-
mas Fair held in the Town Hall. Betty
Stephens and Hazel Honeyman had
worked for months retrimming over 600
hats which had been given to them by
their friends. Many bore the labels of
famous overseas houses. Iris Vincent
Smith, one of the helpers at the salon,
had to rescue her own hat from one in-
sistent buyer. Lovely flowers, the spoils
from gardens in the Dandenongs and
Macedon, were on sale in the foyer.
Lady Dugan, who declared the fair open,
urged the many hundreds of men and
women who had done splendid patriotic
work during the war years to become
“hospital-minded,” and she paid a special
tribute to doctors and nurses who had
carried on their work over the past years.
The Tommy Trinders came in for special
attention. Mrs. Tommy bought a hat,
and Tommy drew out the winning ticket
in the raffle. The hats, very reasonably
priced, yielded over £220.
The Lord Mayor, Cr. Ray Connelly,
is appealing for £BOOO to finance his
Holiday Camps for Outback Children.
John D. Porter, who is in charge of the
appeal, thinks there must be many people
in Melbourne’s suburbs anxious to help,
and he is asking them to donate works
of art, old silver, china or antiques for
which they have no further use. These
goods will be sold at auction, the first
of which will be held the first week in
December. All gifts will be received by
John Porter at the Town Hall; if
necessary, arrangements will be made to
collect them.
From Sydney
Mrs, Northcott, wife of the Governor
of N.S.W., was a study in soft greys and
pinks at the reception given in her honor
by the Victoria League last Wednesday,
To chime in with her color scheme her
presentation flowers were pink water-
lilies. Mrs. Northcott is now the presi-
dent of the league; daughter Elizabeth,
who accompanied her to the reception, is
the president of the Young Contingent.
Deputy-president Mrs. Nicholas and
members of the executive received the
Government House party, and after the
members had been presented to Mrs.
Northcott there was a tea-p # arty 200
strong in the ballroom.
Mrs. Stanley Addison, who has been
general secretary of the league in Mel-
bourne for over 20 years, was one of the
much-greeted. ,The Kelso King and Mark
Sheldon ladies, Mrs. G. Macarthur
Onslow, Dr. Jessie Freeman, Mrs. Bowes
and Mrs. Alan Foott were among the
many. Mrs. D. Lindsay and Mrs. G.
McGeorge were attractive, the one in
grey, the other in black, their skirts
miracles of fullness. Mrs. Vernon Cole,
Mrs. Persia Porter, Mrs. F. Watson, Mrs.
Franki and secretary Beulah Bolton were
other tea-drinkers. Among the missed
was Mrs. Walter Swinson, not well
enough to come.
It was soft-voiced Mary Webb, manag-
ing the Contemporary Art show, who
gave this writer information and explana-
tion of the aims of the society. Mary,
who is a good artist and who was
with the Dattilo Rubbo studio for. some
years, has a striking piece of work in her
“Figures in Sunlight.” But the king-
fisher-blue of her own frock held more
insinuating tone than the blue in her
“Mother and Child” painting. Her young
nephew Joseph has inherited a fair share
of the family talent, too, judging by his
two exhibits. He is 15, and this is the
second time he has shown with the C.A.S.
Hal Missingham, director of the
National Art Gallery, opened the show,
and by three o’clock the Education Gal-
leries buzzed with the young in art. The
foreword on the catalogue has much to
say about the power of imagination and
its influence on life and happiness and
art. But painters as well as writers must
beware of mistaking the fanciful for the
imaginative.* When you visit this show
look out for Frank Drayton’s “The
Catch,” Dutruc’s “Paddington Rooftops,”
Filby’s “Storm Prelude,” George Dun-
can’s rhythm of sail in “Ladies’ Day,
Belmont,” and Kaufler’s “Native Girl.”
Margaret Olley is an exhibitor from
Brisbane. Mrs. Albert Rudner’s painting
“Enigma of Life” attracted attention. She
and her husband, formerly of the Lt.S.
Army, sail for America before the end
of the year.
Welsh-baritone Hubert Evans (of
whom Granville , Bantock wrote, “his
singing is a joy to listen to”) and his wife,
who as Pat Siedle does her share in
making their joint recitals famed, arrived
in Sydney last week from Perth, where
they spent their first two months in
Australia. The two met and married in
a town in the North of England when they
were entertaining the fighting forces of
Britain —in the services and in the fac-
tories. Pat Siedle headed a quartet of
musicians giving classical compositions,
and Hubert Evans had hisjittle company,
mostly vocalists. After giving concerts
all over England they toured through the
Middle East.
They were in Teheran when the world-
shaking Three-Power conference was on.
The place swarmed with Russian, British
and American troops, and the atmosphere
thrbbbed with excitement over the
presence of Churchill, Stalin and Roose-
velt—not that the ordinary citizen saw
much of them, what with roped-off areas
and avenues of soldiers.
It was here that the two received a
Command to give a concert in the Shah
of Persia’s Palace. The room in which the
two played and sang was a large oval in
shape. There were some good paintings
on the walls, and what do you think cov-
ered the floor? Right!—rich and glow-
ing rugs. The Shah’s sister, herself an
accomplished musician, and the ladies of
her Court wore frocks that looked # s
though designed by one of the great
French houses. In Bagdad, Jerusalem,
Cairo, Durban, Beirut and Bombay and
many other cities ancient and modern
the Hubert Evanses have made music.
Now, before returning to London by way
of America, they intend to settle in
Sydney for a few months.
There were very few empty seats in
the Town Hall in spite of the murky
night last Friday. The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, led by Farnsworth Hall, and
Joan Hammond’s singing made up a
much-applauded programme. Mendels-
sohn’s Fourth Symphony was the orches-
tra’s happiest work of the evening. Joan,
who wore a frock of flowered moire, was
in good voice, and was at her best as
Madame Butterfly singing “One Fin'e
Day,” She sings again with orchestra on
November 26 in the Town Hall. • Big
disappointment to Friday night’s concert-
goers was that the great, glittering, Ed-
wardian chandelier was not in place.
The area in the vestibule where the
operation of uplift is being performed
was enclosed with hessian.
Great roll-up of violin players of the
Order of Merit is expected on Friday,
November 22, at the Conservatorium.
Gertrude Healy, talented violinist from
the south, will give a recital which will
include works by Vitali, Rameau, Bloch
and Stravinsky. Rita Hope is the pianist
and Barbara Bennett manager of the
concert.
Jolly party at the Independent Theatre
last Sunday night welcomed the members
of the Australian Ballet Society, who
danced blithely into a season of intimate
ballet at the Miller-street, North Sydney
address, on the following evening. The
season is limited to six nights, and is an
all-Australian production. The Society
has its foundations in Melbourne, where
Mina Wallace supplied much hard work
and enthusiasm to it. The Society is a
non-profihmaking company, and its prin-
cipal aim is to found a permanent ballet
and thus open up a new field to this
country’s composers, choreographers and
artists. The Independent’s season will be
the Society’s first appearance in Sydney.
Y.W.C.A. needs another £5OOO to re-
spond to the ever-growing demands on
it. In the drawing-room of Government
House last Friday there were gathered,
at the invitation of the Governor’s wife,
many enthusiasts who felt stirred into
giving by gifted speakers. Nor did Lady
Gowrie forget her old friends. She sent
a cable of good wishes from Windsor
Castle.
All the gems you see blinking at you
so gaily up King’s Cross way are not
“costume,” Last week Mrs. Wallace
Anderson, of Bellevue Hill, lost one of
a pair of diamond and platinum dress-
clips valued at £BOO somewhere between
her home, a late-afternoon party and
dinner at Gleneagles Restaurant. The
clip is in the shape of a crown.
Next Saturday night (the 23rd) the
Workers’ Educational Association is hav-
ing a real party at Sydney University.
The Association’s yearly dinner is to have
a splendid interlude when the portrait of
secretary David Stewart will be unveiled.
Now, what David Stewart has been to
the W.E.A. it takes Robert B. Symington,
fellow-enthusiast in spreading the gospel
of education, to tell. The movement is
one of the best things that ever happened
to the mentally-hungry girl or boy who
has had to leave school at a young age.
It must be to them what the looking-
glass was to Alice in Wonderland.
Tire Homes for Incurables at Ryde
are in need of funds to carry on the
work of mercy. Tomorrow at noon
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Bartley will
launch a public appeal in the interests of
the homes. The meeting will be held in
the vestibule of the Town Hall, and you
and your friends are asked to be there.


ini
i
CITO
will
m,
m
Ml
m
insects
SSSSSI
ouTwuk nmm
Flies and mosquitos spread the germs of dreaded
summer diseases and epidemics. Doctors and
public health authorities are continually stressing
the importance of protecting food against flies.
Ihe only safe and adequate protection is flywire
on your doors, windows and fireplaces. Keep flies,
mosquitos and other insects OUTSIDE, and food
is safe at all times. Flywire protects the health of
your household and it's the most economical way
of doing so.
Flywire is still in short supply—but large
quantities are being made—so keep ashing!
Qyclone flywire
CYCLONE CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
c MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Sral Manager!
R. A. MANZIE. Managing Director. m Pitt strert Sydney.
'Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Bydney._
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300,000 50,000 1,245 3,456,186
1940.. 356,096 300,000 50,000 6,096 3,462,282
1941.. 301,296 300,000 20,000 3,443,578
5i p.c.
1942.. 289,759 275,000 20,000 3,438.337
Sept., 2£ p.c.
1942*. 137,290 125,000 10,000 2,290 3,440,627
5 p.c.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448,106
5i p.c.
1944.. 290,926 262,500 25,000 3,426 3,451,532
5J p.c.
1945.. 342,362 287,500 60,000 4,862 3,456,394
6 p.c.
1946.. 354,563 300,000 50,000 4,563 3,460,957
* Six months.
The world has lost its old balance and
it will be some time before it gains a
new one. Nearly everywhere the old
virtues of freedom and enterprise have
been abandoned in favor of a so-called
planned economy, prime aims of which
are “full” employment and social
security. In Australia the Government
is approaching these problems from the
wrong end. Officialdom has shown little
vision beyond application of a pre-
fabricated political plan and a blind hope
of increased production. The planners
have been so intent upon amenities that
they have had little room for any worth-
while ideas about production, upon which
amenities rest, and the incentives neces-
sary to stimulate it. The “Wild Cat”
knows of many instances where manu-
facturers and other traders, who know
all about their problems at first hand,
have had to coax permission to do things
vital to their business out of civil ser-
vants, whose knowledge of such
problems must be theoretical and super-
ficial at best. Such a matter would be
laughable were its consequences not so
tragic. One thing trade and industry
needs at the moment is a chance to
develop, untrammelled by needless official
inhibitions and restrictions and industrial
hold-ups.
The banks have been brought within
the framework of official control by
legislation designed to regulate the nature
and purpose of their advances,'the rates
of interest they can charge on loans and
pay on deposits, the Volume of their in-
vestment in Government and other secu-
rities, and the proportion of deposits
which they must lodge with the Com-
monwealth Bank —the newly-embellished
agency for policing Government
economic policy on the money side.
The idea behind it all is that investment,
interest-rates, taxes, subsidies and a lot
of other things can be so arranged by
officialdom that trade and industry will
always have jobs for workers and
materials for them to work on yet
everywhere jobs are held up because
some essential part or material is un-
obtainable. Whether the products will
always be marketable at a profit is, of
course, another question, involving wage-
price co-ordination. It will become acute
when the present hunger for goods abates
and the economy ceases to suffer from
overabundance of money. Meanwhile,
much will depend upon whether the
Government can prevent a spiralling of
wages and prices. The nation would be
better off with a plan to ensure adequate
and continuous supplies of coal and other
essentials. Owing to lack of these sup-
plies, manufacturers and other traders
are unable either to fill orders on hand
or embark on expansion on the scale
that national interest demands.
The banks are able and ready to play
their part, and never were they better
equipped for the purpose. The most
welcome feature of their latest accounts
is the up-turn in advances —chief earn-
ing asset —which marks the beginning of
the transition period for the banks. Con-
sider the National’s balance-sheet figures:
, —March— v September
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 47,549 47,507 47,507
Deposits' 3 ' 41;05?,57 2 3 6 r 82 ’ 368 ’ 383 88 ' 483 ’ 084
Liquid assets.. 16,433,044 64,412,688 62,699,943
Advances . . 36,403,779 24,994,578 32,784,181
Premises, etc. 1,392,312 1,615,0119 1,658,024
Last term advances increased by
£7,789,603; but they were only 38.1 p.c.
of deposits as against 79.8 p.c. in 1939.
The continued growth in deposits (up
£6,151,301) which have nearly doubled
over the last seven years, reflects still
heavy Government spending. Liquids
(down £1,712,745) include £34,714,000
(up £3,578,000) on special deposit with
the Commonwealth Bank. This deposit
is the largest single item among the co.’s
assets. Add to it Federal Government
securities (£12,229,319) and Treasury
bills (£3,000,000) and you get a total of
£49,943,319 —equal to 56.4 p.c. of de-
posits, or 51.4 p.c. of total assets —which
the co. has made available to the Gov-
ernment. The trend is noteworthy by
reason of its association with official
policy.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
(£1,891,228) Was £220,797, thanks to the
revival of ordinary trading. Exes.
(£1,256,537) took £148,613 of the in-
crease, and taxes (£280,127) an extra
£59,983. That left the net result £12,201
stronger at £354,563, equal to a wink
over 7 p.c. on capital, or a modest 4.18
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined). The div. was lifted
from 5| p.c. to 6 p.c. How much, if
any, further the div. will be allowed to
climb depends largely upon official policy.
The £8 shares paid to £5 and the f.-p.
£lO shares are at their ceiling price of
£7 13s. and £l5 4s. respectively in the
market. The return at these prices is
3.9 p.c. in each case on a 6 p.c. div.
basis.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd Nominal
. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 6£ p.c. 3 p.c. . Off. serves.f
& £ £ £ £ £
1938.. 68,009 18,000 19,338 12,148 7,771 36,934
1939.. 60,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
1940.. 56,061 18,000 19,360 \ Nil 8,274 63,104
1941.. 64,535 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,485 69,706
1942.. 62,603 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,473 64,328
1943.. 59,888 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,384 65,824
1944.. 63,682 18,000 19,360 16,198 8,094 67,854
6 p.c.
1945.. 68,660 18,000 19,360 20,247 6,578 72,329
6 p.c.
1946.. 80,382 18,000 19,360 24,296 7,151 83,904
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Latest is the largest amount of profit
claimed since the co. was formed in 1902.
Like other retailers, it enjoyed a bumper
turnover last term, demand being stimu-
lated by the requirements of demobilised
service personnel and of a civilian market
partly starved for goods for the last half-
dozen years. Also, 5 p.c. (first div. since
1930) was received on the 100,000 £1
ords. which the co. owns in Bon Marche
(paid capital £200,000), a drapery con-
cern down the street in Broadway which
has now cleaned its pref, slate. And
Miller Anderson (Adelaide), in which
Marcus Clark bought 67,260 £1 ords. at
par about three years ago, has paid 6
p.c. for each of the last three years.
After providing something for taxation
and allowing £7151 for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table, the net
result was £11,149 stronger at £73,231.
That covered the full contract rates to
the first and second prefs. (together
£37,360) and 8.8 p.c, on the £404,938 of
ord, capital, compared with 6.1, 4.5, 3.3,
4.1, 4.5. 2.5 and 1.4 p.c. back to 1939.
Another point was added to the div.,
making it 6 p.c. The £11,575 that re-
mained lifted reserves to £83,904, sub-
ject to goodwill (£72,378), Thus for the
first time since the reconstruction in 1937
the ords. could see the whole of their
capital intact and £11,526 besides.
In the clean-up £219,790 of ord. capital
(10s. per share) was jettisoned and
£23,558 of reserves was rubbed out; this
mainly on account of the failure of
Craig, Williamson (Melbourne). At the
same time the pref. slate was cleaned by
payment of £7500 cash, plus 135,000
f.-p. 10s. ords to the firsts, and £8622
cash, plus 235,296 f.-p. 10s. ords., to the
seconds. Neither lot of prefs.—there are
300,000 6 p.c. firsts and 297,848 6£ p.c.
seconds, all of £1 each —is now subject
to the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act.
The co. does a big departmental-store
business, largely on a t.-p. basis. Head-
quarters are at Railway Square, Sydney,
and there are- branches at Newcastle,
Wollongong and Dubbo. It ran into
trouble during the economic blizzard in
the early 1930’5, when losses totalling
£138,232 were recorded for the three
years to close of accounts in 1933.
The immediate- outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover.
Certainly sales can be expected to lose
some of their buoyancy as the present
hunger for goods abates. On the other
hand, the general economic background
of “full” employment, a more generous
supply of merchandise and the lag in
building, and therefore in demand for all
descriptions of household furnishings and
equipment, are encouraging features.
Less heartening are the upswing of costs
and the high level of co. taxation, the
effects of which will be felt more severely
as demand eases and competition be-
comes more aggressive. Still, the business
is in better trim than it has been for
many years, and there are good reasons
for supposing that Miller Anderson will
continue to contribute to the pool, and
probably Bon Marche, too.
The financial position will be further
strengthened by resumption, just before
the close of accounts, of the parent’s old
premises at the comer of Pitt and George
streets by the Commissioner for Railways.
This freehold, previously let as an army
hostel, remains in the accounts at its book
value pending settlement of the co’s.
claim (amount not stated):
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages. . 507,769 281,481 291,680 261,250
Other debts* 109,800 140,094 163,410 219,437
Freeholds, etc. 675,886 687,547 700,071 700,855
Plant, etc. 67,071 48,395 34,591 32,951
Stocks . . 181,360 227,240 293,687 278,215
Book debts 559,774 325,716 262,922 311,525
Shares, etc. 118,913 106,074 173,643 172,916
Cash, etc... 6,388 53,663 32,840 41,512
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term £30,430 was clipped off mort-
gages and £48,603 was added to debtors’
balances. The amount coming to trade
creditors, which includes an unspecified
provision for taxation, increased by
£56,027 and stocks were down £15,472.
The more or less liquid surplus (£323,481)
was £15,479 stronger.
Doubtful about the less immediate
future, the market prices the first prefs. at
255. and the seconds at 255. 3d., at which
figures the yield is 4.8 p.c. and 5.1 p.c.
respectively. The ords. af 11s. 3d. return
5.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover is £3 Bs. lid. firsts, £2 9s. 3d.
seconds and 10s. 9d. ords.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £, £> &
1937.. 55,936 6 p.c. = 30,000 25,936 100,117
1938.. 52,115 7i „ „ 37,500 14,615 114,732
Special depreciation, £10,000.. .. 104,732
Pref. Ord.
7$ p.c.
£ £
1939.. 67,403 10,547 7J p.c. = 37,500 19,356 124,088
Unexplained addition, £29,775.. .. 153,863
Written off shares, £2OOO .. .. 151,863
Sale of Far East patents, £50,000 .. 201,863
1940.. 39,230 8,438 6 p.c.= 30,000 792 202,655
1941.. 31,263 8,438 4 „,, 20,000 2,825 205,480
1942.. 22,550 8,438 „ ~12,500 1,612 207,092
1943.. 25,572 8,438 4 ~,, 20,000 204,226
Written off shareholding, £2,426 .. 201,800
1944.. 30,312 8,438 4 p.c. =20,000 1,874 203,674
1945.. 18,198 8,438 4 ~,,20,000 193,434
1946.. 36,963 8,437 4 „ ~20,000 8,525 201,959
* After deducting intangibles,, now £lB,OOO.
From a string of factories throughout
the Commonwealth and Maoriland, this
co. turns out reinforced concrete pipes
for water supply, drainage, irrigation and
sewerage, as well as septic tanks, light
standards, paving slabs, etc. Chief sub-
sidiary interests are Hume Pipe (Far
East), taken over in 1938 for £112,500 in
f.-p. p.c. cum. prefs., and Hume Steel,
in which all the £250,000 of ord. capital
is held.
Essential-service orders, less profitable
than the old peace-time public works
and other contracts, kept the pot boiling
during the war. The apparent spring in
the 1944 profit figure was due entirely to
an abrupt drop of £21,500 in the allow-
ance for taxation (£7500). Last term the
volume of business increased, but factory
output was well below requirements,
o\Ving to shortage of materials and labor.
Cement was the bottleneck on the
materials side, an inadequate supply of
coal being the prime cause. Operations
in Maoriland again resulted in a loss
(amount unstated), but the position is ex-
pected to improve during the current
term.
After allowing £23,000 (up £9000) for
taxation and £19,769 (up £1808) for de-
preciation, net earnings were £18,765
better at £36,963. This covered pref. re-
quirements (£8438) and 5.7 p.c. on the
half-million of ord. capital, compared
with 2, 4.3, 3.4, 2.8, 4.5, 6.1 and 11.3 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at
4 p.c., leaving £8525 for reserves, now
£201,959 in excess of the book value of
patents (£18,000), but subject to intan-
gibles in the subsidiaries.
Prospects are encouraging. As the
labor and materials position improves,
public and private demand for the co.’s
products can be expected to strengthen.
Last term additions were made to exist-
ing plant, much deferred renewals and
maintenance work was carried out, and
a new factory was built at Mildura
(N.S.W.). When the order-book warrants,
additional factories are to be erected in
other States on sites bought a year or
so ago. High taxation and continued
rise in costs will bite deeply into any in-
creased takings,
Hume Steel, which put out 100,000
p.c. prefs. at a premium of 7s. 6d.
each a year or so back, reports consider-
able orders on hand, but shortage of steel
is holding up business. The co. paid


DAVIES & OOLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
GOLD MINING.
OWNERS wishing dispose genuine gold proposition
North Queensland. Invite enquiries interested Coih-
panies view grant working option to purchase. For
full particulars apply BARRY & BARRY, Solicitors,
Proserpine, N.Q.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
Dividend No. 59.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of Directors
has decided to recommend at the Annual Meeting of
the Company to be held on the 6th December, 1946,
payment of a Final Dividend of 27J p.c. (Is. 1.2 d.
per share) in respect of the year ended 30th June,
1946, less United Kingdom income tax at 9ff- in the
£_ (5.94 d. per share), the net amount of dividend
being 7.26 d. per share sterling. This dividend makes
a total distribution of 40 p.c. for the year ended
30th June, 1946. Subject to confirmation by the
shareholders the dividend will be payable on 18th
December, 1946, to all persons registered as holders
of shares on the Australian register on 16th Novem-
ber, 1946. The transfer books will be closed from
18th to 20th November (both days inclusive).
For Lake View and Star, Limited,
R. D. MORRISON,
Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, 9th November, 1946.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel ~~ And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
muBt *et at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘up and up,” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
else nB 3/- e & jSgUkbornly refuse anythin#
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
o’suluvaiv
prtiro * |
Trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists *
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
“WORLD BOOKS”
m
Yms
OF ,
VICTOR
rs«da-i8o;
ARM I
m
: iiiM
r. f;ilM-v 1 7 Vi'Jr® y y?J?»SSS
MS
: x.:^
7'
<V -:;:>;i: fe
xvxv;;-?^
YOURS FOR ONLY 5/6 EACH
Start now to build your own personal
library with these lovely de-luxe
editions.
“World Books”- come beautifully bound
in buckram for only 5/6 each, irrespec-
tive of the regular selling price of each
book. Subscription rates • cover all
costs, including postage. Lodge your
order early as only a limited number
of new subscribers can be enrolled each
month.
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED.
Dec.: “Left Hand, Right Hand,”
Sir Osbert Sitwell
Jan.: “The Ballad and the Source,”
R. Lehmann
Feb.: “The Commodore” .... 0. S. Forester
Mar.: “Elizabeth and Leicester,”
Milton Waldman
April: “Collected Kipling Stories,”
. Rudyard Kipling
May: “Fanny By Gaslight” M. Sadleir
Free Illustrated leaflet giving further particulars available on request .
SUBSCRIPTION RATES.
Six (6) Months £l/16/- Twelve (12) Months
Kindly add exchange to country and Interstate Cheques.
£3/13/-
————MAlli THIS COUPON WITH YOUB REMITTANCE «>—
To: MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP,
9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ’Plione BW 3107.
Please enrol me as a member of “World Books.” I enclose £ / /
NAME
ADDRESS
(B„ 20/11/46)
MS
(&
/T\
1 KX
J>
7
lei i
HOW BINGO PASSED
HIS LEAVING
Young Bingo Jones the
silly ass—
Was always bottom of his
class;
His homework was a perfect
fright,
His sums were never, never
right.
You couldn’t really blame
the lad,
The lights he used were cheap
and bad;
But since they gave him
"OSRAM” lamps
He tops the class—amongst
the champs.
tor
an
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Guaranteed by:
S£eeAic Ca
(Sale Australian Representatives of The ff.r&.C, °f England.)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE
MM ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH
HOBART • LAUNCESTON
2} p.c. for the three years to end Sept.,
1944, but nothing since.
The Far East subsidiary at Singapore,
which was earning substantial profits
prior to 1942, is now being reorganised.
Here the outlook is promising. On re-
possession about 75 p.c. of the plant was
found intact, and limited production was
resumed in Oct., 1945. Some £50,000-
worth of steel-pipe-making equipment
was bought from Hume Steel early in
1946, and manufacture of steel oil-drums,
on a joint-venture basis with an American
co., has commenced. All the co.’s fac-
tories in Malaya are now reported fully
equipped.
Here are the parent’s balance-sheet
figures:—
1959. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £608,900 £612,500 £612,500 £612,500
Liabilities .. 113,885 209,863 210,797 253,532
Freeholds, etc. 73,862 75,854 88,991 98,395
Building, plant,
etc 189,442 147,520 117,398 142,254
Stocks . . 95,773 82,138 100,321 100,187
Work in hand 40,659 15,921 15,470 13,272
Book debts . . 112,973 147,506 85,619 111,280
Advances subsid. 94,244 189,389 236,057 224,924
Cash, etc. . . 25,589 14,733 25,303 28,784
Shares & invests. 67,919 69,019 63,469 63,625
Shares sub. cos. 168,900 281,537 277,529 277,529
Asbestos deposit 22,256 30,792 30,960
To add £9404 to freehold, £24,856 net
to plant, carry an extra £25,661 of book
debts and advance a further £12,133 to
subsidiaries the board went outside for an
additional £42,735 last term. Excluding
the Maoriland asbestos deposit, whose
value is doubtful, the more or less liquid
surplus (£566,069) was £26,902 less than
at the previous balance. ,
At 245. 6d. (225, a year ago) the pound
ords. return 3.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. The investor at 245, 6d. who looks
for p.c. on his money counts on the
div. going to 5| p.c. The prefs, at 345.
yield 4.4 p.c. Net tangible cover (book
value) is £7 4s. lOd. prefs. and 28s. Id.
ords.
At the recent annual roll-up in London
of Mining Trust, Ltd., chairman Earl
Castle Stewart said it was unlikely that
Mt. Isa (Q.) would pay a div. for the year
to June 30 last. But if a monthly output
of 3000 tons of lead bullion could be
maintained, and if costs and selling prices
remained as they were a few months ago,
the co. might earn sufficient to make a
maiden distribution for the year to June
30 next. During the Dec.-Jan. period of
the last two years mining and milling
operations had to be suspended because
coal stocks reached danger-point. For
the same reason resumption of lead-
bullion production, scheduled to com-
mence early in 1946, did not begin until
May—owing to war-time difficulties, the
co. switched to all-copper output in
April, 1943. The present high price of
metals, including silver, means much to
Isa, where the drill recently disclosed a
strong lode 760 ft. below the 1250 ft. mine
level. The grade is believed to be similar
to that of ore in the blocked reserves.
* ’ * * *
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, whose
properties are on tributaries of the Bulolo.
in New Guinea, is champing at the bit to
get away in the post-war production race.
A staff has been assembled, war damage
assessed and claims submitted, and on
the Sandy Creek section a store, road,
bridge over the Bulolo and men’s quarters
have been built. Resumption of opera-
tions is held up by inability to recruit
native labor, which isn’t anxious to re-
turn to work under improved peace-time
conditions, at least until some or the
opulence it acquired during the war has
been dissipated. Hopes are that the co.
will be able to make a start early in 1947.
The new property of about 230 acres or
river flats and terraces on the Upper
Watut is expected to give a good account
of itself. For the four years to close of
accounts in 1941 divs. of 3d., 6d., 4d.
and 2d. a share respectively were paid.
Paid capital is £77,500 in f.-p. 2s. 6d.
shares, which the market prices around
Is. 6d. At end March last cash, etc.,
totalled £21,663 and outside liabilities
£BB6B.
* * * *
Initial difficulties have been overcome
and the plant should now operate continu-
ously, according to the latest communique
of Evanston Gold, N.L. (W.A.). Some-
thing is also said about enlargement of
power and treatment capacity being con-
sidered, extraction of gold locked up in
mineral, and storing of concentrates pend-
ing treatment. After all the official state-
ments about assays, gold production, etc.,
shareholders are anxious to know when
bullion from the first clean-up is likely
to be lodged in the bank, and at what
figure its estimated value is put. They
would also like to know more about
what ore now visible in the mine can
be treated at a profit.
« * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L., pro-
poses to revive the White Hope mine, at
Hampton Plains, near Kalgoorlie (W.A.).
It wants to borrow £20,000 from the
Federal Government, and either instal
new plant on the White Hope or transfer
plant from the closed-down Celebration
mine a few miles away. Co. owns the
plant at Celebration, as well as that at
Golden Hope, another mine in the same
district. Both are mortgaged to the
Westralian Government for about
£23,000.
* * * *
Applying for exemption from labor
conditions on some of Paringa’s Wes-
tralian blocks the other day, attorney
Tommy Greenhill disclosed that the co.’s
holdings covered nearly 500 acres between
Kalgoorlie township and the Golden Mile.
On a recently-pegged area at the Kal-
goorlic end, over £5OOO had been spent
on diamond-drilling, and big low-grade
ore-bodies, which would have to be
worked on a large scale to pay, had been
intersected, he said. Most of this ground
was held in the early days by London
and Eastern States cos., which did some
shallow prospecting and then left.
* * * *
In its latest progress report North
Kalgurli (W.A.) mentions continuance of
high values at and below No. 6 level
of the North Kalgurli shaft workings, the
grade in each case being 40dwt. Exposure
of ore assaying 21dwt. in driving south at
the No. 14 level of the Kalgurli workings
is also reported.
* * * *
Following the lead of Canada, Kal-
goorlie School of Mines (W.A.) has
started a class for prospectors. They
are to be given, free, a special course in
elementary geology, the nature and origin
of rocks, structural features that have a
bearing on ore deposition, sampling of
costeans, dumps and mine workings, and
preparation of samples for assay and
ore-treatment investigations. The course is
designed to give an elementary but prac-
tical working knowledge of minerals,
rocks and ores. Simple tests, capable of
being carried out under field condi-
tions, for the identification of minerals
will also be explained.


m
m
mm
Benvenuto Cellini, 1500-1571
*
Master goldsmith, caster of bronze statues and writer of the
Italian Renaissance period, Cellini had a most tumultuous
career. Soldier and artist, rash of speech and action, a man
of moods and violent temper, his works were, nevertheless,
outstanding in a period noted for artistic development.
One of his finest works is the famous statue in bronze,
“The Perseus.”
RAFTSMANSHIP is still
required . . . Whether in art or
in industry, craftsmanship is still
the first requirement of pre-
eminence. The brewing of malt
beverages is an industry with a long
tradition of skill and craftsmanship,
and to the making of their products.
Tooth & Co, Limited bring the
knowledge and experience gained in
more than 100 years of careful
manufacture in Australia. It is this
care, skill and experience which
make Tooth’s products second to
none for purity and excellence.
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED-SYDNEY
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
I
T. 3.24
had, as in everything else, been generous
in making allocations for families, who
were to come in with priority to the
Indian Army units, 'which were in worse
case than the Australians, since many had
left their families behind in cantonments
in India.
The adjacent sea and the multitude of
small boats provided the troops with
plenty of marine sport. And arrange-
ments had been made for an Empire
Club in Tokyo and for leave centres in
and around the capital. On Empire Day
Australian troops had had the honor of
doing the first ceremonial guard duty over
the Emperor’s Palace, and of showing—
as the Americans had been the first to
admit —how ceremonial guards should
perform.
A Long Business
The two questions he was most fre-
quently asked. General Northcott pro-
ceeded, were, first, whether the Japanese
realised that they were a conquered
people; second, how long occupation of
Japan would have to continue.
The Japanese fully realised that they
had lost the war. Any isolated units
from distant isles who returned with a
superiority complex were, quickly 1 disil-
lusioned by their own compatriots, who,
paradoxically, were not only fully aware
that they were beaten but were glad to
be beaten, in that defeat had brought con-
trol over the totalitarian administrative
class, given them a degree of freedom
which they had never known before, and
absolved them from many arduous and
onerous duties to the State.
The trouble was that, while the present
administration would in the end be liqui-
dated, its disappearance for a time would
leave a vacuum which had to be filled by
a supreme authority. This authority, in
the interests of our own security and of
peace in the Pacific, must be under
American-British control, until demo-
cratic government was assured. For if
it were withdrawn, some other authority
from outside must inevitably flow in and
take charge, and there were very good
reasons why that must not be allowed to
happen. It must be assured that the Japa-
nese people, a potent weapon for peace or
war, were guided and educated in the
right way until they could be trusted to
stand on their own feet and permanently
tread a path both peaceful and friendly
to ourselves. That meant that, in the in-
terests of world security and peace, we
must occupy Japan for a long time to
come,
SUNDRY SHOWS
"LIFE WITH FATHER."
For Clarence Day’s “Life with Father,”
at Sydney Minerva, Whitehall Produc-
tions have imported an American pro-
ducer, John Hayden, and American leads,
Leonard Lord and Virginia Barton—she
Australian-born, but American-trained.
Production is’ excellent, stage-setting com-
plete and detailed. The play itself is
mildly amusing.
As a dictatorial, would-be tyrannical
father-of-four present commentator found
Leonard Lord’s dictatorial, would-be
tyrannical father of the four Day boys
but palely shadowing the commentator’s
own best efforts in the line. Lord carica-
tures and burlesques the part, so that his
shouted “Damnation!” is just a little
funny, and his baffled anger and eventual
despairing resignation at the handling of
the household accounts seemingly un-
feeling. Presumably, of course, the cost-
of-living in the 1880’s was so much more
reasonable as not to drive a father to
the terrible, towering rages that it does
today.
Those things aside there’s no fault to
be found with the playing. The dozen
or so housemaids, cooks, female relatives
(“Damnation! Haven’t they any homes
to go to?”) and children all fit neatly
into their frames.
For his biographical play on Francis
Thompson, “Song out of Sorrow,” Felix
Doherty made the obvious selection of
that chapter when the drug-ridden and
starving poet was more or less rescued
from the Thames embankment and
assisted back to some slight semblance of
health by a London prostitute. The play,
as presented by the Genesian Players at
Sydney Radio Theatre, carried feeling
rather than conviction; the actors
made the Jonsonian error of trying to
conform to types rather than play human
beings—James Scullin was the standard
philanthropic doctor and Francis Mac-
Dermott, as Meynell, conformed to the
cut-and-dried Hollywood pattern of a
kindly benefactor. The same criticism
could be levelled at Vicki Holmes and
David Preece—they made Flossie and her
common-law husband well-acted but con-
ventional characters. Brian Moorehead,
as Thompson, sometimes got above the
conventional portrait of a starving poet
to show the individual, but occasionally
overreached himself.
• * » »
“Gaslight,” Patrick Hamilton’s play
about a murderer who tries to destroy
his wife’s reason, was presented at Killara
by the Kuring-gai Theatre Guild. In the
recent film of the same play the tension
was built up slowly and Jack and Bella
were introduced happily enough in an
idyllic atmosphere. Then came the first
cold drops of fear, suspicions and the
gradual breaking down of Bella’s moral
" resistance. In the play the firs? act opens
with this fearful atmosphere already pro-
duced, presenting it within an economy
of time, but with some dramatic loss.
Both Diana Lawrie and Michael Pate had
a clear advantage in appearance—they
looked their parts. But if Miss Lawrie
looked pathetic, some shading to the
pathos is lost in the early scenes by a
certain drabness and monotony in her
acting. It was hard to feel sympathy
with her until she caught fire. Mr. Pate
was sufficiently fierce and diabolical with
just the right touch of craziness. The
maids. Hazel Davys as Elizabeth and
Barbara Smith as Nancy, were good.
And George Simpson-Lyttle, as Rough,
the patient and perspicacious policeman,
was stumbling at times, but extraordin-
arily good in patches.
* * * *
Joan Hammond was at the top of her
form for Friday night’s concert at the
Town Hall with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under John Farnsworth Hall.
In fc the opening “II Trovatore” aria the
soprano gave an exposition of flawless
lyric singing; the “Ah! Fors e Lui” from
“La Traviata” was an excursion into
coloratura, to which she brought a flexi-
bility limited only by her type of voice.
For the “Mirpi” air from “La Boheme”
some beautiful mezza voce singing and
a fine legato were allied. In “One Fine
Day,” from “Madame Butterfly,” the
orchestra blatantly ignored the urgent
adjurations of the conductor for a lighter
accompaniment, with the result that Miss
Hammond had to call upon all her re-
serves to lift her voice above the din.
The orchestra put its best effort of
the evening into Mendelssohn’s Fourth
Symphony (“The Italian”), the work of
the massed upper strings in the “pil-
grim’s-song” motif, and the boisterous
dance of the closing stages being first-
rate. Tschaikowsky’s “Romeo and
Juliet” fantasia was a nicely-disciplined
stream of melody, but Cesar Franck’s
symphonic poem, “The Accursed
Hunter,” had too many ragged patches.
Art from the Centre.
If, 10 years ago, somebody had
predicted that an aboriginal in the
Centre would hold an exhibition of his
art in Melbourne, that it would be visited
by the Duchess of Gloucester, that con-
noisseurs wpuld be tumbling over one
another to buy his pictures and that ex-
amples would be bought by the trustees
of the National Gallery of Victoria, he
would probably have been, signed up.
This has happened in the case of Edwin
Pareroultja, a friend of Albert Namat-
jira, one-time camel-boy of Rex Battar-
bee. Pareroultja has picked up fewer of
Mr. Battarbee’s conventions and retained
more of his tribal art traditions than
Namatjira. Formerly he, no doubt, ex-
pressed himself in lumps of yellow clay
and red ochre on surfaces of rock and
bark ; now he uses Winsor and Newton’s
water-colors and Watman’s paper. He
paints blue ranges, spectral white gums,
the unending yellow desert of the Never-
Never and red cliffs like bloody gashes in
simple unrelated washes of plain color,
and depicts the anatomy of a landscape
with the eye trained for detail of a black-
tracker. In one or two of his pictures
he catches the character of his environ-
ment very nicely.
Contemporary Art.
The Contemporary Art Society’s Ex-
hibition at the- Education Department’s
Gallery, Sydney, has 290 pictures and
pieces of sculpture (the latter in a min-
ority) clamoring for attention. There is
the usual run of artistic foolery and
abracadabra —anatomical oddities and
large crimson patches with grotesque
figures like Arthur Boyd’s “The Mockers”
and “The Mourners.” Sidney Nolan’s
“Hare in Trap” shows a greasy,
brownish plain, sticks of trees and a large
leaping hare, with trap attached, turning
a large, startled and innocent blue eye
down towards the body of the hall. In-
nocent and touching in intent, the paint-
ing itself is innocent.
D. Orban’s “Winter Flowers,” with its
glazed effect, has subtlety and restraint;
his “Hungarian Monastery,” with its soft
yet artificial trees, yields too much to the
artist’s tendency to formalise. But it has
delicacy. Paul Haefliger has a fresh, dark
and charming “Young Girl,” with gaiety
and spontaneity in it, but with “Girl
Resting” he has missed his usual softness
and warmth in flesh tones.
Another excellent Australian docu-
mentary film is “A Lamb for Mary”
(Melbourne Grosvenor). With no word
spoken except those of the commentator,
it gives the autobiography of a lamb
from the time it is dropped by its mother
on a station until it makes its final avatar
as a gown or sports coat or jacket on
the frames of Australian girls posing be-
fore the bridge in Sydney, which was
largely built out of the sheep’s produc-
tion. In between it passes through all
the vicissitudes of a good season, through
a drought when even the artesian bores
dry up and the cracked paddocks look
like a landscape in the moon, a bushfire
transportation 500 miles to greener
pastures and back again when the
drought breaks and the owner and his
family, who have never lost hope because
they have been through it dozens of
times before, repair to the little tin-
roofed chapel for thanksgiving. Jumbuck
isn’t a very engaging subject, generally
speaking, but this film succeeds in mak-
ing the narrative interesting over a wide
space of time and distance.
* HP sp $
“A Night in Casablanca” (Sydney
Empire): Amiable buffoonery by the
Marx Brothers, this time in a hotel where
are concealed a fortune of Nazi loot and
a gang of ex-Nazis looking for it. Marx
addicts seemed to shed their vest buttons
laughing at it, and even the ranks of
Marxophobes could scarce forbear to
grin.


©ra LORE
'A
43
%
French <JMousq
highly ornamented example of
l 7ih Century Craftsmanship /
However, the modern sporting gun designs
emphasize performance rather than ornate
beauty, and to the experienced sportsman of
today 1.C.1. sporting ammunition is as familiar
OfS the weapon he uses.
Delicately inlaid with precious metals, mother-
of-pearl and ivory, this highly ornamented
clouble wheel-lock Mousquetoon typifies the
peak of artistry reached by 17th Century
Parisian gunmakers.
\®s
No. 2Of a Series IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED.
SPORTING MOTIONS
VOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
REIMILL RUM.
Leg infirmity had kept Cold Shower off the
winning list for more than 18 months —in fact,
he’d had very few runs in that time. Appre-
ciating the softish track at Randwick on Satur-
day he reproduced his best form to win the
six-furlongs Horsley Handicap. Ridden by
Mulley, he was near-last at the half-mile, but
moved up brightly to be fourth into the straight,
and, going to the front at the distance, won
running away from Gay King and Hiraji.
Peter was finishing best of the also-rans, sug-
gesting that he should win shortly at a more
suitable distance.
By Midstream from the N.Z. mare Society
(dam of Talking), Cold Shower will, if sound,
be one to keep in mind for the Villiers. He
has won over the Randwick mile in very
good company, beating Accession, Moorland,
Katanga, Hall Stand, War Eagle and others in
the All-Aged Stakes.
Panet'ic, a Queensland galloper having his
first Sydney outing in the 10-furlongs Milperra
Handicap, was obliged to carry a couple of
pounds overweight with G. Moore in the saddle,
but Moore’s heady riding more than offset a
trifle of weight. After giving his mount plenty,
of time to settle down, he moved him up
sharply to a handy position at the turn, joined
the leaders at the leger, and the horse capably
did the rest, outstaying Laudus and Questing
over the final furlong. Panetic is a five-year-
old chestnut entire by Peter Pan from Ethyia.
Questing must have been the real loser when
she beat Magnificent in the 1945 Roseljill
Guineas. Though not sparingly raced, she
hasn’t won since.
April Pride finished third to Nechi in the
Gimcrack Stakes, but was strongly fancied to
turn the tables in the Kindergarten Stakes and
did so in good style. Ridden by W. Cook,
she finished full of fight to dish Lady Calm
and My Caravan; Nechi, after showing up
briefly in the middle of the race, dropped back
to finish last. With the false rail now restored,
the distance was five furlongs and 16 yards, so
April Pride’s time, 1.21, was not bad on the
soft track. Fellowship (Briscoe) ran it a
quarter-second faster to down Gold Rust and
Sovereign in the Junior Stakes for colts and
geldings.
Parfait, Cevantes, Kureebi and Nigeria were
all well in the betting on the mile-and-a-half
Novice, but they didn’t fill a place among them,
a tum-up for the books appearing in Binnia
Lassie. Another rough ’un, The Marine, tried
to lead all the way, but didn’t" quite see it out,
finishing third behind San Demetrio. Binnia
Lassie should be able to stay, being by Spear
Chief, who still holds the * Commonwealth
record of 3.191 for two miles.
The Ajax colt Tengur doubled his number
of wins when he finished too strongly for
Double Mint and Star Vite in the Three-year-
old Handicap of seven furlongs. The prize-
money of £525 was rather less than one-tenth
of what the colt cost as a yearling, but he’s
showing improved form of late and should win
his share in the future.
Receiving a 71b. allowance for L. Jones,
Johnny Zero carried only 7.12 in the mile
Leumeah Handicap. At that he had 191 b.
less than Man o’ War, and the difference told
when the pair of them fought out the finish.
Babillard was third behind Man o’ War.
* * * *
The Williamstown Cup, run over 1 mile 5
furlongs at Flemington on Saturday, was a
one-horse . affair, the maiden performer Royal
Scot, at the bottom of the weights, leading
all the way to win by a comfortable length
from Chaytor, with Knockarlow another two
lengths away third. The favorite was Leonard,
on the strength of his w.f.a. wins and good
Melbourne Cup run, but he lacks something
as a distance handicapper. The winner, a
33-to-l outsider, is a four-year-old chestnut’
horse by Caithness from Ornamental.
Products of Dhoti have been winners at
pretty well every Melbourne meeting for
months past, Saturday’s winning representative
being the bay filly Eba (from Air Song); she
won the five-furlongs Rawdon Stakes in nice
style, with improving Seleria and Two Kings
in the places.
The Strand Handicap was one of the finest
events seen in all the spring racing. The big
field —29 of them —came up the “straight six”
almost abreast most of the way, and at' the
end it was a photo.-finish, River Hero getting
the camera’s verdict by a head from Burne-
voke. David’s Last and Greensborough crossed
the line together in third place half a length
back; the first dead-heat recorded since they’ve
been using the camera in Australia.
Nantilla, of the David breed of jumpers, won
the Gup Hurdle from The Feline and Priority,
and in a photo.-finish Garofil got there by
the barest possible margin in the November
Steeplechase, a mere whisker to Parentena,
with Quixotic third. Spearmain won the day’s
other event, the 10-furlongs Captain Robinson
Handicap, downing Propontis and the costly
Sea Patrol, with favorite The Sirdar, even more
costly to punters, among the also-rans.
* * * *
For its Christmas meeting Port Adelaide
Racing Club gives £16,000 in the three days:
Challenge Stakes, mile. and a half, on Decem-
ber 21; Christmas Handicap, 6} furlongs, on
Dec. 26; Port Cup of £4OOO, lim 7f., on
Dec. 26. Short distances or long, St. Fairy
heads each of three enormous entry-lists, with
10.3, 10.5 and lOst. respectively; and in each
case Royal Gem is next with 31b. less.
* * * *
Fleche d’Or, winner of a Maiden Plate at
Victoria Park, Adelaide, has entered the records
list, the win having returned odds of 1151 to 1
on the two-bob tote.
“We've come four ’undred miles ter get yer autograph, Mr. ’ Ammond .”
Basy successes of the French stayer Marsyas
II and others in England have made some
take stock of trends in British breeding. The
London “Times” racing writer has suggested
that the best move would be to allot a sub-
stantial grant from tote profits for races of
twd miles or over. At present, because there
isn’t sufficient inducement to own and race
stayers, fewer of them are being bred and
bought; “consequently fewer entries for the
races are being made, and executives are more
inclined to drop the events than increase their
number.” For the last Doncaster Cup (21
miles) there were only four starters. .
**_ * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes: Deep Sea, 1;
The Groom, 2; Fellowship, 3. Maltine Stakes;
April Pride, 1; Kindly Light - , 2; Hytest, 3.
Encourage: San Demetrio, 1; Le Fusil, 2;
Even Time, 3. Kirkham Stakes; Temeraire,
1; Deep Sea, 2; The Groom, 3. Camden
Handicap: Gay King, 1; Hall Stand, 2;
Hiraji, 3. Warwick November Handicap:
Panetic, 1; Questing, 2; Codicil, 3. Welter:
Johnny Zero, 1; Oliver, 2; Man o’ War, ,3.
* * * *
Hammond and Co.:
In the England-Australian XI match in Mel-
bourne, opened with a thunderstorm and played
between showers, Hammond and Co. hit up
314; Hutton, showing formidable consistency,
topping the score with 71, and Washbrook
and Hammond contributing respectively 57 and
51. All three were victims to Colin McCool,
who wound up with the Grimmett-like
bag of 7 for 106 —maybe it would be as well
to see him in a really serious match before
making comparisons.
The rain left only enough time for the locals
to better the invaders’ score by 13, with five
wickets down; Bradman, though limping from
a strained thigh muscle, knocking up 106
before Pollard caught him off Compton, and
Morris making a solid opening 115. Match,
of course, drawn.
In Sydney the air was so thick with mois-
ture on Friday that Hammond, winning the
toss, sent the State side in, reckoning that if
there was any devil in the wicket it would be
there then. The wicket' seemed all right, hut
maybe the thick air served instead. Anyway,
four wickets were down for 97 when the wet
suspended hostilities —as it did on the second
day and Monday.
The M.C.C. bowling and fielding were ex-
cellent. Bedser, the fast-medium bowler, who
hadn’t done well in earlier matches, got 2 for 26
off 13 overs. In action and stature he recalls
Bill Howell. Wright, with tricky leaps to the
wicket, got 1 for 42 with his “spinners.” He
bowled Pettiford with a beautiful ball, and will
do well so long as batsmen fail to go out and
smother the breaks.
When the drizzle and wet grass made it
greasy fieldsmen tossed the ball to one another,
each giving it a wipe. Once as many as five
different men handled the ball before it reached
Bedser. That drying meant much to the bowler.
Had the umpires inspected the wicket early
and notified that further play was impossible
—the wicket was covered completely, presum-
ably for the night—the customers would have
left for home in a better frame of mind. As
if was they huddled in the grandstands for
nearly two hours. At last, just after four
o’clock, a groundsman hauled down the M.C.C.
colors from the pavilion, inspiring the only quip
of the day: “Struth, they’ve capitulated!”
* * * *
Bradman’s 106 in Melbourne made his 94th
century in first T class cricket. He began the
habit at 18 with 118 for N.S.W. v. S. Aus.
in Adelaide (1927). His first Test centuries
were 112 v. England in Melbourne, 226 v.
S’Africa in Brisbane, and 223 v. West Indies,
also in Brisbane.
* * * *
Concerning McCool’s remarkable figures in
the Melbourne match, it’s interesting that in
the opening Sheffield Shield match v. N.S.W.
at Brisbane the Queensland Skipper didn’t put
that bowler on at all in the first innings. Then
in the second innings McCool sent down 20
overs, no maidens, and took one for 80.
• » » *
Bright patches in S.A.-Vic. at Adelaide were
the efforts of Victorians George Tribe (7 for
85) and Ken Meuleman (87). Tribe, a left-
hand slow bowler, has the knack of getting
sensational figures. Against Queensland last
season he took 9 for 45 (six clean bowled) and
6 for 101. The Victorians had no trouble
passing S.A.’s first-innings score of 270, wind-
ing up the second day’s play with only 3
wickets down for 285; Miller and Hassett
carrying on a solid stand, which they continued
on Monday. Because of muscle soreness, Brad-
man did not field on Saturday.
* * * *
“Long Memory”: For the most remarkable
Tests (B. 13/11/ ’46) my vote goes to the
1894-95 series in Australia and the 1896 series
in England. The rubber in each was decided
in the fourth innings of the final match.
* * * »
It must be hard for a British sporting
writer to refrain from writing straight
from the stomach, as one did in comment-
ing on a recent French R.U. team: “The
visitors were a big, husky lot, and their
fine physique and fettle were a splendid
tribute to French rations.” It may have
been sheer envy that made the English
side dish them.
* * * *
“Sevener”; Like Von Nida, whom he
beat by three strokes in the Vic. pro.
championship, and like Alan Waterson,
the Australian amateur champion, Eric
Cremin (N.S.W.) is proof that you don’t
have to be big and hefty to drive a golf
ball straight and far. These three little
men are the best players in Australia
today, and in a three-way contest my
money would be on Cremin, largely be-
cause nothing can shake him in a round,
and the genial grin with which he begins
a game is still there when he finishes.
Waterson is the austere type—he has the
aesthetic face of a poet or a scientist —
and his golf is just as austere. Von Nida
cannot hide his tautness in a game—a
hat accidentally blown off, a dog bark-
ing upsets him—and his moods some-
times defeat him.
. * « * £
Though racing writers in England have
been very glum about a decline in their
country’s horse stamina, there’s ap-
parently nothing much wrong with the
human variety. A few weeks back the
cross-country champion, J. T. Holden,
not only broke the 30-miles record that
had stood since 1881 but lopped just on
quarter of an hour off the old time
(3 hours 15 minutes 9 seconds). He did
it in 3 hours and 16.4 seconds. His time
for 10 miles was 58 minutes 45 seconds ;
for 20 miles, 1 hour 58 minutes 38
seconds. And it was raining when he
started and the track was heavy. Also
there’s no lack of stamina in the walker
Bert Couzens, who has made past hoof-
ing endurance records look like sprint
performances by padding it round Rom-
ford Stadium 3000 miles in 1136 i hours.
* * * V
Again at Leichhardt the featherweight
Ken Hatcher has been given the decision
over Alan Hall on a questionable foul.
For three rounds he outboxed the Mel-
bourne lad, but in the fourth a Hall left
to the body floored Hatcher for three
seconds. In the seventh Hatcher lost all
the points of the round for landing too
low with his right. In the eighth Hall
dropped Hatcher with a right. To ring-
siders it seemed a fair solar-plexus
punch, but the referee ruled otherwise, and
that was the end of it, save for the hooting.
Fighting like Tommy de Wildcat in
the last three rounds, Billy de Belin
(lOst. 9|lb.) tried hard to get ahead of
Victorian Sel Hamilton (lOst. 51b.) at
Sydney Stadium, but Hamilton had won
the first nine rounds so conclusively that
only a k.o. could have forestalled a points
decision in his favor. Earlier Billy did
more crowding than leading, and the
Melbourne lad’s snappy punches made
two or three rounds look one-sided.


FORESIGHT
with regard to
your Estate
WHAT will happen to the
“ Estate that you have built
up over a lifetime when your
guiding hand is withdrawn?
Consider the advantages
assured for his dependents by
a man who appoints Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited) as
his Executor and Trustee. The
Company is specially consti-
tuted to carry out these duties.
It has a record of sixty years’
service to the Community,
whose confidence in its scien-
tific, business-like methods and
its courteous sympathetic ser-
vice has made it one of the
greatest Trustee Comparvies in
the world.
Call or write for a copy of
the booklet “Your Executor
and Trustee,” which describes
both advantages and service—
also what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
I Company Limited
DIRECTORS ;
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A J PLAVFATp mt n w
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
-T „ Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street. Tamworth.
Ml
IS**?!
•T * .
!!£|lUliftR E8
Cjreat lAJiiile lyjaclh
The “Great White Yachts” of the K.P.M. Line re-
kindle happy pre-war memories glamourous cruises
sunny days tropical nights.
Soon, it is hoped, these big luxurious liners will be
again sailing from Australian ports on them regular
schedules to the Netherlands Indies and Singapore.
Incorporated in the Netherlands
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO LTD SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The National Budget
The Federal Budget, presented after
four and a half months of the year to
which it applies had already elapsed, pro-
vides for sales-tax concessions but no
further income-tax reductions beyond
those granted earlier in the financial
year. The general rate of sales tax has
been reduced from 12y p.c. to 10 p.c. as
from November 15, while the 1\ p.c.
rate on clothing and household drapery
will be eliminated. The 10 p.c. “special
award duty” is removed from the Cus-
toms tariff, and a penny a gallon is to be
taken from the tax on petrol, reducing
the levy to a gallon. However, all
benefits to the taxpayer taken in, the
Treasury aims to give away only £l2 mil-
lion net altogether this year. Customs and
excise collections being buoyant. The
net figure is arrived at after allowing the
State Governments a bigger refund of
income tax, as agreed at the Premiers ?
conference.
Analysis of Budget figures and com-
mentary shows the following:
(а) The Government will still be spend-
ing nearly a third of the national in-
come, compared with about a tenth before
the war.
(б) Actual value of Australian resources
devoted to “war” this year is estimated at
£llO million, compared with £278 million
last year and £548 million in 1943-44.
(c) There is almost no reduction in total
tax collections.
(d) The States get a bigger reimbursement
of income tax.
(e) The cost of social services again
shows a large increase, and is an obstacle
to tax reduction.
if) The Budget deficit is forecast at £59
million, compared with £153 million last
year.
(g) A re-emergence of borrowing on an
extensive scale for State “works” is in-
dicated.
(h) About £3 million is set aside as
capital for the Government airline and the
telecommunications undertaking, afid bigger
sums are allocated for aerodromes and
similar facilities.
(0 There is no reduction whatsoever in
company taxation.
(j) Mr. Chifley comments: “With the
rapid demobilisation of the services and
abolition of controls, production is mak-
ing headway in most industries, but is still .
a long way from overtaking the scarcities
°tthe war period and increased demand
which has arisen from higher employment.”
Large cuts in “defence” spending
are allowed for, but the Budget still fails
to balance by an estimated- amount of
£59 million, compared with a deficit of
£153 million last year and £403 million
in each of the years 1942-43 and 1943-
44. The progress indicated towards bal-
ance in the present figures would be more
encouraging if Mr. Chifley expressed any
desire to achieve a balance, and if it
were shown that economies in “war” ex-
penditure will be persisted with except as
to essential defence precautions.
Both the past and present financial
years have had, or are having, the benefit
of certain large credits, which may not
be available on the same extensive scale
in 1947-48. However, included in the pre-
sent year’s proposed “war” expenditure
is £64 million to be paid overseas, “prin-
cipally on account of war liabilities
carried forward from earlier periods,”
and this sort of outgo should not recur
so largely in later years, thus easing the
problem of achieving Budget equilibrium.
In the current year also, among items of
civil outgo, considerable sums are being
charged to revenue for “works” which
might in part be reasdnably charged to
the loan fund, and this is another indi-
cation that budgetary balance may be
possible later on provided the value of
such a balance is appreciated by the
Treasurer and not discountenanced alto-
gether by Caucus. i
In outline, proposed revenue, expendi-
ture and deficit-finance for the current
year • compare with two preceding
periods as follows:
Expenditure.
Actual, Actual, Est.
1944-45. 1945-46. 1946-47.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
Defence .. .. 460 378 221
Civil .. ~ 150 132 183
610 510 404
Revenue and. Loans.
Taxation .. 313 327 315
Business income 31 30 30
Loans .. .. 266 153 59
610 510 404
There is a shrinkage, on the face of it,
of £157 million in “war” spending. “On
present plans the strength of the three
services, which was 137,000 in June this
year, will have been reduced to 67,000
by June, 1947,” the Prime Minister told
Parliament last week. A more detailed
presentation of what Mr. Chifley calls
“defence and post-war charges” is given
thus;
1945-6. 1946-7. Inc. +
Actual. Est. Dec.
Defence and Allied
Services — £m. £m. £m.
Defence and service dep. 307 124 —lB3
Production dep 15 13 2
Reciprocal lend-lease 26 5 21
War gratuity 5 +5
Total defence and allied
services 348 147 —2Ol
Post-war ( 1939-45)
charges —
Public debt charges .. 41 46 +5
Re-estab. and repat. .. 14 35 + 21
Lend-lease 8 +8
U.N.R.R.A 6 15 +9
Subsidies 33 23 10
Miscellaneous .... 10 4 6
Total post-war charges 104 131 +27
Gross expenditure .. 452 278 —174
Less misc. credits .... 74 57 +l7
Total defence and post-
war charges .. .. 378 221 —157
It is natural that rehabilitation charges
should rise, just as that actual service
costs should fall—the decline is expected
to be £lB3 million this year, and would
be more but for the incidence of deferred
pay and for the necessity to meet the £64
million overseas, principally charges
brought forward. Some departmental ex-
penditure has been removed from the
defence account this year—Labor and
National Service, Transport, Post-war Re-
construction and Information have been
tacked on to the civil vote, and to this
extent-—a matter of some millions —the
reduction in the defence estimate is not
quite all it seems. Subsidies, etc., still
charged to “war” are £lO million lower
at £23 million entirely because less assist-
ance is required by rural industries. The
publicrdebt charge of £46 million (up
£5 million) includes sinking-fund pro-
vision as well as interest on the 1939-45
war debt.
Among the civil items in the Budget,
payments out of the National Welfare
Fund—representing old-age and other
pensions, child endowment, hospital bene-
fits—are expected to amount to £6B mil-
lion this year, an increase of £l5 million,
and £4 million above the social-service
allocation (£5l million) from income
tax and the receipts from payroll tax (£l3
million). New works valued at £l5 mil-
lion, up £13.4 million, are to be paid for
out of revenue, and administrative costs
(£l7 million) are doubled by reason of
the transfer of the war-time departments
previously referred to. Collectively
these items represent the greater part of
the £5l million by which civil outgo
(£lB3 million) will have expanded this
year.
So far as revenue is concerned, it is ex-
pected that gross personal income-tax
collections, including the social-services
contribution, will be £l7 million lower at
£142 million. But company tax, includ-
ing the continuing “war-time” tax, is ex-
pected to yield £5 million more at £6O
million. Refund to the States is reckoned
to be £6 million higher at £4O million.
From Customs and excise (£B9 mil-
lion) an extra £ll million is hoped for,
imports being buoyant; and, nothwith-
standing the cut in sales tax, increasing
sales to civilians are expected to offset
most of the cut and to leave the yield
only £2.6 million lower at £3l million.
Post-office revenue is expected to hold,
but a drop is anticipated in railways re-
ceipts. The P.M.G. will pay for new
works totalling £7| million out of
revenue, including million for the
telecommunications undertaking, which
covers the amount payable to Amalga-
mated Wireless.
The Budget, while aiming to cut living
costs by removing sales-tax on clothing
and reducing it on other items, still fails
to give much incentive to greater, cheaper
production. It is true that some income-
tax reductions were granted earlier in
the year; but, on the whole, they have
failed to produce the desired productive
response. No relief whatsoever has been
allowed in respect of company tax, which
remains at the highest war-time level.
Mr. Chifley said that in August this
year there were 770,000 people “em-
ployed” in Australian factories —20,000
above the war-time peak and 230,000
above the level at June, 1939. He added:
“We undoubtedly have the capacity to
achieve much higher levels of civilian
production than those so far attained.”
But “a higher all-round standard of effi-
ciency and productivity” was required.
Failure to reach even pre-war levels of
production on this higher “employment”
regardless of cost is an indication of the
problem confronting the nation. It is
a problem which the granting of addi-
tional financial incentive will help to
solve, but one jvhich financial “cpntrols”
alone cannot hope to remove ftfily. In-
dustrial law must be enforced ; produc-
tion, transport and long-term marketing
problems must be studied ; Government
budgetary spending (especially “patron-
age”) must be restricted so as to give the
productive forces of private enterprise
their full head.
It is time enough for expansive
Budgets when demand for goods is fall-
ing. Problem of the moment is to pro-
duce anything like the amount of hous-
ing, clothing, food and transport that the
nation requires at a stable level of costs.
Government enterprise obviously has its
limitations, and continued official blink-
ing at industrial indiscipline is dragging
the country into a production depression.
Australia’s salvation lies in harder work
all round, a renunciation of ideas based
op “paper-money prosperity,” and a
higher national production that will re-
duce the need for present large central-
Government spending, for price-subsidies
and “controls,” and which will increase
real wages and make reduced taxation
exactions feel even lighter in relation to
the increased national income.
First statement on the new schedule of
shipping fares between Australia and
England—the sailings to commence early
in 1947, when the reconditioned Strathedefl
and Orion take up the run again—was
made jointly by the P. and O. and Orient
cos. The fares show an average 29 p.c.
increase over the pre-war figures, ranging
from 17 p.c. to 40 p.c. First-class rates
will run from £llO to £lB5, compared
with a lowest of £94 before the war, all
amounts sterling. Some first-class cabins
will be less elaborate than they were,
but it will still be possible to have a
private bath and such-like at extra cost.
A “de-luxe” suite on the Orion—the sort
of thing which used to be called a “flat,”
with bathroom, servery, lounge and
double bedroom—will work out at £690
(£862 10s. Australian). Tourist-class
rates with P. and O. will range from
£64 to £100; tourist B with Orient from
£59 to £9l, again sterling. Time-schedules
are to be cut to 28 days, and both com-
panies have new ships building. A new
Orcades for Orient and Himalaya- for
P. and O. are hoped to be in service by
the end of 1947. Airline companies have
announced a reduction of their fares to
£250 Australian, to take effect sometime
about mid-1947.


c lkc
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England)
miracle (Expansion
3j you are considering
dad L
expansion we 5
yiad to assist you i
euery way possible
e
in
OF
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
Agents in all parts of the World
—Protect your Property insure with—*
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
.’Phone: BW 8131 (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
THE
uWj4y , pr oVE GOODYEAR PERFORMANCE .. ■
WORLD'S HIGHWAYS
FIRS
THE
T CHOICE
WORLD
OVER!
*T\
§ll
■
- ■ -
rj?-
“SX-
y.\*
I’M
ft
// m
11 , hi
/'/'„//,
»/''//
/
5^
FOR 31 YEARS,
outstanding and
consistently
superior perform-
ance has made
Goodyear Tyres the
world’s favourites with
J men who move on
wheels. History offers
no more convincing endorse-
ment of tyre quality than
this unmatched popularity!
5-XlB-46
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Although no Budget had been pre-
sented to the end of the period, the Com-
monwealth Government spent £81.4 mil-
lion on “war” during the four months to
October 31. That is a net figure from
which have been deducted various credits
running into large sums. Subsidies
granted in order to keep the price-level
down are included as “war expenditure,
and costs of this kind are increasing
every year. Even woollen-manufactur-
ing is being subsidised ; the raw material
has risen sharply in price during the
current season, and, in order to avoid
the passing-on to the consumer of this
addition. Commonwealth Government is
bearing the increased expense. But the
public pays, in taxes, just the same. A
great variety of other expenses, includ-
ing losses on coastal shipping and steve-
doring operations, are being charged up
as “war” outlay at the present time.
The outgo of £81.4 million net (£22.4
million paid for out of borrowings) for
a third of the year 1946-47 obviously
indicates bloated Federal spending, what-
ever its nature.
Total spending for the four months,
excluding £10.5 million handed back to
the States out of income-tax collections
and £4 million advanced for housing,
was £136 million. Taxation and other
revenue for the period was £124 million,
compared with £116.6 million for the
same part of 1945-46. Customs, excise
and sales-tax revenue has been par-
ticularly buoyant this year, and, though
income-tax collections are lower, for the
full year there may be little difference.
The Treasury-bill debt of £307.6 million
compares with £316.5 million a month
ago and £363 million a year ago. This
reduction is a good thing to see.
* * * *
Latest computation of the national
debt is £2794 million, on which the
annual interest liability is £79.6 million.
The interest bill is about £34 million
greater than before the war. This in-
crease is a comparative minor item, how-
ever, alongside other “war” expenditure
during this year of peace—for four
months (to Oct. 31) alone “war” expen-
diture has amounted to £81.4 million
net, undisclosed but very large sums
having been deducted from the figure be-
cause of recoveries from disposals, etc.
* * * *
Part of the recent Commonwealth
Loan offered to the public will be
required to finance a Commonwealth
Budget deficit; part is earmarked for
“works” of various kinds. Australian
taxation rates are considerably higher
than those in the United States, yet, while
the U.S. Treasury is already talking of a
balanced Budget, there has been no sug-
gestion by Mr. Chifley that budgetary
balance is even considered desirable by
his Government. Now that defence ex-
penditure in the Commonwealth has
been reduced to generally political dimen-
sions it is confession of administrative
incompetency to show huge Budget de-
ficits year after year. If the Federal
Government intends to find “employ-
ment” for recalcitrant “wage-earners”
who won’t work it is bound to continue
levying high taxes or to be faced with
annual revenue deficits. It is essential
for the security of those buying Com-
monwealth bonds yielding only from
2 p.c. to. 3| p.c. that Budget deficits be
eliminated and borrowing reduced to a
minimum. Not nearly enough of war-
time borrowings was taken by the people
individually to indicate that present bor-
rowing *rates are true rates; and, so long
as large holdings in the hands of “institu-
tions” remain virtually undigested, there
can be no feeling that, with excessive
borrowing continuing, interest rates
or security values are really secure. Under
present-day conditions, also, Treasurers
are in a position to force on to the bank-
ing system the portion of “public” loans
that doesn’t float, and the real credit
position thus becomes temporarily con-
cealed, and, for that reason, the more
dangerous.
* * * *
Tin is another Australian metal for
which miners are not permitted to charge
the full overseas price. Fixed Australian
price is £371 a ton. The London export
price is £362 sterling, equal to £452 Aus-
tralian. Production of the metal in the
Commonwealth is inadequate for re-
quirements. One way of encouraging
output would be to allow an increase
in the price to something nearer world
parity. Although depressing Australian
metal prices to levels far below overseas,
parity in order to keep the cost of living
down, the Commonwealth Government
has offered no quid pro quo in the way
of a stabilising scheme for the future.
One glaring fault in all the dealings of
the Federal Government with the'people
has been its disregard of equity and
minority rights. The High Court has
ruled against the Administration re-
peatedly in cases of confiscation of
property at a price contested bv the
person deprived of his asset.
In an article in London “Sunday
Times” recently G. L. Schwartz com-
mented on Dr. Dalton’s “cheap-money”
policy:
It cannot be sufficiently emphasised that
the cheap-money policy as originally con-
ceived has no relation whatever to existing
circumstances. Born of the depression and
designed for the absorption of unused
resources, it was dovetailed into war finance,
and is now being carried on with a rigid
doctrinaire obstinacy in a world totally
remote from the theoretical bogey economy
of exhausted investment opportunities.
Cheapness has no meaning except in
relation to abundance. Cheap money,
meaning cheap capital, is a reflection, not
a cause, of abundance. The abundance
arises from a large-scale willingness to
forgo consumption, and thus to release
resources for the pinduction of capital
goods. The fruits or this abstention are
achieved when the abundance has taken
the actual physical form of the capital
goods.
Much of the cheap-money argument
takes the result for the cause. At a 6 per
cent, rate of interest the rent of a £BOO
house is 18s. 6d. per week; at 3 per cent,
it is 9s. 3d. Force down rates to 3 per
cent, and the trick is done. So it is for
the fortunate person who gets the accom-
modation, but the price has no relation to
the general housing situation. The true
economic sequence is first to obtain the
volume of savings—that is to say, real
abstention from consumption which re-
leases sufficient resources to produce such
a volume of house-building as will bring
down the rent of a £BOO house in the free
market to 9s. 3d. a week. At that stage
the capital is obtaining the real rate of
3 per cent.
Interest rates in Australia are more
fictitious: than they are in Britain.
Rates offered on Commonwealth
borrowings are nowhere near what
is required to provide full public sub-
scription to loans! If this were a free
economy with adequate production real
interest levels would soon become evident.
v * * * *
In the United States, even with war
production cut vastly, civil output in
many lines, notably steel, wood products
(including paper), iron pipes and castings,
is still below demand. At the same time
wage-earners’ incomes are still rising.
U.S. Department of Commerce is calling
for a greater output per worker in order
to overcome what otherwise threatens to
be a chronic shortage of essential goods.
If pre-war production-rates could be re-
established in key industries the problem
woulS be largely solved. The entire
democratic world appears to be afflicted
with the present industrial malaise, which
springs from political causes mainly.


ABORIGINALITIIES
“Bo”: A short, scrubby, dehydrated
man who, hot as it was, wore a tattered
overcoat reaching almost to his ankles, he
came to Stanton’s, announced himself as
an expert dowser and offered with an
easy confidence to find water; payment,
on results. Stanton, who could do with
the water, told him to go ahead. It was
then the dowser announced that his
method differed from the orthodox. The
wire and the forked stick were never, he
declared, thoroughly reliable. He invari-
ably used a bottle, which was an infallible
guide. Had Stanton one? The owner
of the property pointed to a heap of
empties stacked against a shed. Stanton
was busy in a far paddock all the morn-
ing, and when he went to the homestead
for dinner he was surprised that the
diviner hadn’t come back. It wasn’t until
around four o’clock that the mystery of
the bottje-wielder’s disappearance was
solved. He tumbled out of the mailman’s
car and staggered up to the homestead.
Seeing Stanton coming from the feed-
shed, the diviner made across to him.
“It’sh a flamin’ conshpiracy to shtop
me doin’ me work —tha’sh warrit ish!”
he exclaimed before the owner could get
in a word. “Y’d left shome beer in the
borr’l, an’ it led me shtraight to the pub.
I told y’ borr’l method never makesh a
mishtake!”
=:< * * *
“X.E.D.”; Raddle had offered a star-
vation price for a felling contract.
Sam and I turned it down flat, Sam in-
timating that we might consider a few
days on wages. “But how much’d y’
do in a day?” Raddle asked cautiously.
“How’d y’ go on a stick like that, f’r
instance?” He pointed to a bluegum
with a 20ft. girth. Sam eyed the tree
up and down solemnly for a minute.
“Well, now, it’s certainly a corker,” he
said. “Let’s see. The shade’ll be jist
right f’r the under-cut in the mornin’s
an’ we c’d do a bit on a scarf at the
back when the sun gits orf it in the
afternoons. Then if we struck a couple
of cloudy days we c’d put a nick or two
in at the side t’ sort of ease it down.
Yair, we’d have the whole bang lot of
it on the ground in a fortnight—and if
y’ fed us particularly well we might even
drop it in as low as ten days!”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Tell “Golden
Mile” (B. 6/11/ ’46) that his guess at the
origin of the noise which preceded the
disappearance of Lake Nooga Nooga
as due to a broken bar is entirely
wrong. There never has been a bar
within miles of the place. Also, the
noise was described as a single heavy
thud. Bar-breaking in really early Kal-
goorlie days was much more interesting
than a 20-year-ago example quoted by
“G.M.” It began with a rise in scale and
volume of the customary roar, becoming
punctuated with intermittent samples of
the more-favored words of the Australian
language. Sharp cracking sounds would
follow, as of bottles or pots coming in
contact with heads, to be succeeded by
repeated thuds resembling bodies land-
ing on a floor. As the roar increased
to the extent of bulging the bar walls,
locked figures would burst through the
door to struggle on the road to (he
accompaniment of more Australian
idioms. Arrival of the police would be
followed by more cracks as they used
their batons, and yet more Australian
phrases gradually disappearing in the
direction of the lock-up. If “G.M.” makes
all that fuss about a lin. slip in a bar
the place must have degenerated sadly
since the ’nineties.
••♦ • ,
“Zake”: The drover and his mate had
knocked over a few at the wayside pub
and, happening to glance through the
open bar door into the parlor, were sur-
prised and delighted to see a billiard
table. They said they would have a
hundred-up. An easy decision, but the
cues were whittled-down saplings with
a piece of leather tacked to the ends
and the table itself had a slight ridge
across the middle where it had once
had its back broken, and the three
balls defied the players to distinguish
spot, plain and red. They took
them into Bung at the bar. He didn’t
hold them up to the light, but
took them into the table and rolled them
along it in turn. Without hesitation he
put one at the top of the table, rolled
one across to the drover and the other
to his mate. “That’s the spot,” he pro-
nounced, pointing to the drover’s ball.
“Come back ' ere, you cow — you're hours past yer milkin' time."
“But how are we to tell it?” asked the
drover. “Easy,” declared Bung. “It’s
got a bit more bias on it than the plain ;
and you’ll tell the red by listenin’ for the
clickin’ sound it makes just before it
comes to a stop!”
* * * *
“Ornithos”: So “Shamuseen’s” Binghi-
manned cutter Nancy Lee, smitten by a
nor’-westerly squall, sped “goosewinged”
into the Papuan littoral (B. 30/10/’46).
Well, well! In my tongue “goosewinged”
means having two sails filled, one on
each side of the vessel. Not referring to
a jib or headsail, the term cannot apply
to a cutter —only to a schooner or a
ketch. Further, since sailing goose-
winged implies that the breeze is dead
astern, how in the name of St. Elmo
could a nor-’westerly squall take a ship
northward out of Torres Strait to Papua?
♦ * * *
“Simon”: As to bowyangs (B.
16/10/’46), among, a dozen possible
uses mentioned the main one was omitted.
The bowyang was worn mostly by men
working among mullock. At such work
trouser bottoms often became mud-
encrusted and heavy. A strap above the
calf ensured that the weight was local-
ised and not allowed to hang from the
waist. There was probably a psycho-
logical reason,‘too —it was the fashion.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Some recent attacks on
people by magpies have raised the in-
evitable howl, which has been backed by
petulant golfers in Canberra, and maggie
has been branded as savage, vicious and
spiteful, by those who understand him
not nor share his qualities. I submit that
this native fowl is one of the few denizens
of this land whose conduct is consistently
worthy ofAnzac. He is vigorous, adapt-
able and a bold scrounger ; always the
individual, he can still find time to join
a cobber in song, and is not above a bit
of leg-pulling. But when his home is in
danger his plan is simple; hit first, and
do it outside the home territory. As a
result of this you’ll see tomtits’ nests
snuggled against the maggies’ for security.
Still, one could hardly expect the
feathered Digger to be appreciated in
Canberra, for it was there the Great Ones
decided that, though Australia was in
danger of attack, called-up troops could
not go beyond a certain line in her de-
fence. Magpies would never understand
that reasoning—they simply chase the foe
till he’s belted ; and of course politicians
could hardly be expected to learn from
magpies.
“Betcha”: Considering the pheasant’s
reputation for shyness, the one that nested
this year on a main Victorian highway
is something of a novelty. Many people
had come on the bird, and the nest was
discovered on a rock ledge several feet
up the high roadside cutting. Maybe
the site was chosen as a safeguard against
prowling foxes, and the fact that it had
drawn the interest of the locals seemed
in no way to disturb the home-maker.
An average .of probably twenty cars
passed daily, almost within arm’s length
of the nest, and one inquisitive female,
inserting a hand, was pecked sharply for
her intrusion. The nest itself was built
over with a dome, much after the style of
a wren’s nest, the entrance being in the
side. Latest investigations showed the
one egg hatched and the youngster gone,
though the big, long-tailed parent lias
since been glimpsed several times run-
ning across the road,
“Gryllus’.’: E. J. Brady’s tuneful song
of praise for black cockatoos as sure
harbingers of needed rain (B. 6/11/’46) is
not borne out by facts, at least in these
s.-Q. coastal parts. The reasons which
bring them screeching from their usual
haunts in the forested mountainous
country to the westward are bushfires
and the urge to show their youngsters
new feeding grounds. Six years of
checking-bp on their forecasting as
against .that of the Meteorological
Bureau left them as badly beaten as
were Chif, and co. when the Big Fellow
from Auburn got to work on them. And,
were the poet to view the stripped bark
and gouged trunk of the old dead black-
butt in the creek bend where they now
congregate, he would rightly extend his
menu “Of tough gumnuts and seeds
galore” to the rhymed equivalent of
wood gruljs in largest possible supply.
The raucous, sombre giants do eat seeds
on occasion, but their special taste for
wood-boring larvae makes them the most
valuable of all birds in the saving of what
remains of our sorely-ravaged forests.
“Gravelsnatcher”: While the first two
or three eggs are hatching my budgerigar
mother does her job conscientiously, even
working overtime to the extent of laying
a few more eggs. The appearance of the
first chicks, however, brings an era
of child-labor, during which Ma cavorts
around the aviary, repairing only occa-
sionally to the nest to lay another egg or
assist an overworked Pa to fill hungry
mouths. The owners of those mouths
supply the warmth for hatching the later
eggs, and when, by virtue of increasing
numbers, that warmth rises dangerously,
Ma issues and executes an eviction
order. As the displaced persons
use beak and claw to drag their
naked bodies up the aviary wire, they
must feel grateful to a kindly nature
which ordained that the breeding season
should not occur in cold weather.
* % m
“Juglo”: His ancient camp being in-
fested with cockroaches old Sam denied
himself of the last half-inch of beer in his
weekly bottle. Pouring it into a tall
pickle-bottle he laid a pathway up to
the wide mouth of the pickle-bottle with
a scrap of a frpit-case. The first night’s
catch was a solid three inches of roach,
the top layers still alive though exhausted
from vain attempts to climb up the side
of their glass prison. Roaches love beer
—actually, is there any species of life,
save wowsers, that doesn’t?
* * * ♦
“Propalong”; “Neck-waterbags! ” said
Joe with a scornful grunt as he dosed
the leather-punch on the tough harness-
leather. “All a man ever got out o’ them
things was a flamin’ buster. Yair, I seen
it happen; cork comes out an’ the water
splashes on the prad’s shoulder. Or the bag
bumps when y’ hop a young horse into a
canter. Y’ get caught on the top—an’
there y’ are. Now, these here wither bags
don’t flap about, even when y’re gallopin’
after a beast, y’ got ’em under y’r eye all
the time an’ they don’t get y’ left on foot
twen’y mile from home in dry sandhills.”
Joe finished the leather-work for his bags,
rivetting two straps on top where the
backing would cross his horse’s withers
to carry the long, narrow bags. Next
day,' when we went out into a white-hot
shimmering hell to move sheep off the
drying Last Swamp, he filled them
proudly* slung them across Boko's
shoulders in front of the saddle and
buckled up the dee-, girth- and breast-
straps. “Y’ want a bit more saddle-cloth,
Joe,” the boss advised. “Don’t matter,”
said Joe. “Them bags’ll ride so easy the
leather'"won’t chafe on his neck.” The ,
boss and X met again at noon beside the
dusty ti-tree along the cracked and curl-
ing swamp, each of us with a few outlying
sheep. We boiled the quarts, staring into
the baffling heat swirls, but still Joe didn’t
turn up. Then the boss lighted the old
chestnut shuffling across the flat in a
peculiar manner, wincing, humping his
back and propping round. “Bill, you
back-track him and find Joe,” he ordered.
“We’ll catch the horse.” We did, and
then, handling Joe’s famous bags, the
boss put his hands on the exposed rivets,
whose heads, on the underside, pressed
Boko’s shoulder. They were almost red-
hot. Yes, we told Joe.
* ♦ * *
“Boulder No. 1”: Yarns about tossing
boxes of gelignite about and the nipping
on of detonators with the teeth leave an
old miner cold—he’s done ’em both and
suffered no injury. When fracteur
really causes fun is when it gets as far
as the cracker (the rock-breaker to you).
Just once in a while a misfire charge will
escape all notice-r-not hard to happen
in a stone vault illumined with only a
solitary candle. Most of the plugs, too,
will keep close together. Then when
crunching iron jaws nip on to the
detonator! It’s the shock from the ex-
plosion does the cracker man the most
harm, though men have been killed by
flying rock and iron—since quite often
the big white iron cracker jaws shatter
and scatter.
* * * *
“C.E.”: The mail bus was late, and
after waiting so long in the bar Dad
found it was quite dark when he finally
made for the hitching-rack. “Whoa,
Darkie, y’ silly cow,” he called to the
restless shape ahead. “You pull back,
an’ ” There was a snap and a clatter
of hoofs as, with broken rein dragging,
the freed nag wheeled for the road. With
an oath, Dad followed. Turning on to
the home track he broke into a trot;
the horse did the same. Dad yelled,
coaxed, threatened, and after a bit
dropped back to a walk; the hoof-beats
in front also slackened. Dad wiped off
the sweat and tried again. Six miles
further on he was still 10 yards behind,
lifting one weary foot after another, while
a rising tide of vengeance brought ever
greater threats through his gritted teeth.
Twenty minutes more, and he shepherded
the nag Wrathfully through the home-
gate and growled his way in to tea. Came
the tinkle of the phone. “It’s Bung,
Dad,” Mum turned from answering the
call. “He says to ask if you saw any-
thing of that old saddle-horse of his on
your way home. He’s broke loose again.
An’ he wants t’ know what he’ll do with
old Darkie that y’ left down at the
hitching-rack.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Came in the other day to
find Seventyfiver building an elaborate
array of junk over a few scattered spud
plants that had come up round the hut,
“What’s the idea?” I inquired. “There’s
not going to be a frost.” “No,” came
his drawl, “but there’s gonna be hail-
stones, an’ it’s no good lettin’ these things
git cut t’ bits. Bloke on Bung’s wireless
give us the office about it, so I hurried
back.” “Yair?”'l said. “Well, I heard the
forecast at midday over at Johnston’s
and I. didn’t hear ’em say anything about
any hail.” “Then y’ didn’t listen prop’ly,”
snapped the old bloke, turning to swear
at Blue, who’d just knocked down four
tins, three trap pegs and a hat in position
over a couple of spuds. “ ’Course
that wireless bloke don’t call ’em hail-
stones,” he remarked loftily, “but what
else’d he mean, anyway, when he sez
ice-er-lated showers?”
SAGA OF THE STRAIT.
The breeze that blows benignly from
A clement south today \
Has crowned its waves with frolicsome
White-muslin caps of spray
And waltzed them gaily from “The Prom.”
To Mallacoota Bay.
It murmurs —in my reverie—
Of little ships that, slow,
Across this restless Tasman Sea
In years past come and go—
Wind-driven tubs of history
With freights of long ago.
Out yonder, Bass apd Flinders peer—
A yet-uncertain strand
Which turns from Gabo in severe
Shore-lines of cliff and sand —
Still westward trending as they veer
To meet Van Diemen’s Land.
Thus, bravely led, a frowsy fleet —
As early records tell —
Will through the Strait a passage beat
And beat it back as well;
Some honest hands at wheel and sheet
And some born sons of hell.
Squat whalers from New Bedford rove
In quest of bone and oil,
And rivals out of Sydney Cove
’Gainst frequent headwinds toil;
These meet, in neither trust nor love,
On common grounds of spoil.
Then comes the last entrancing phase,
When famous clippers tall
Go down the rolling waterways
That south of Gabo fall;
In days of Speed, romantic days,
The finest days of all.
Those stately fabrics ne’er shall wing
Again in seaward flight,
And to the hearts of sailors bring
A thrill of proud delight;
By Gabo now black steamers swing
Securely, day and night.
This breeze benign no drowning call,
No dirge, brings from the gate;
Though yet its passing footsteps fall
On paths of death and fate,
And sombre notes run through it all —
The Saga of the Strait.
vie.
E. J. BRADY.


rats in the roof.
Rv snrreDtitious and forbidden ways
Men have forced doors, great barners circum-
glorious day freely to gaze
Tr,?£ thp blinding life beyond their small
Redii of permitted knowledge, when they shall
No longer steal by alleys unfrequented
Or through chance crevices fearfully spy
Upon that ampler light, and peep, and pry.
Let us go shrewdly, brothers, with our peering
Into the secret springs and founts of power
Lest angry gods, our squeaks and scratchmgs
hearing, . ,
Should round upon us m an evil hour,
And justly and implacably determine
To rid their crystal walls of human vermin.
M L Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: There was a good deal of
excitement when the talking-pictures first
came out our way, the initial entertain-
ment being a picture called “The Black
Watch.” Our most inveterate picture-
goer was Bill, who’d achieved some small
fame locally for the distances he’d
travelled at odd times to see certain
films. Bill was an authority; he could
discuss “The Perils of Pauline” and “Over
the Hill” and produce solid arguments as
to whether William Farnum or Francis
X. Bushman was the better actor and
whether Bill S. Hart could ride a horse.
Well, off we went to see our first “talkie,”
and most of us thought it pretty good.
After the show, having successfully
evaded the law, we gathered in the bar
parlor and awaited the pronouncement
of the sage. He pursed his lips, pondered,
nodded in silent communion with him-
self, then announced the verdict: “Yair,
it wasn’t too bad. But it was hard t’
foller the picsher with all that talkin’ an’
yellin’ goin’ on. They wanter make ’em
keep quiet before I’ll go to ’em in future.”
We fell over ourselves ,to explain.
Amazement dawned on Bill’s dial. “Aw,”
he said, “I reckoned when they called it
a ‘talkin’ ’ picsher they meant like what y’
say when y’ call a photo, a speakin’
likeness.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: My long-stand-
ing opinion of the character and pro-
clivities of those lumbering and useless
frauds St. Bernard dogs has been con-
firmed by a case reported from their own
Alpine place of origin. Twelve of them
attacked two women lost in a mountain
snowstorm, critically injured one of
them, and had to be beaten off with
whips to save her from being dragged
to their kennels and eaten. Away with
those pictures of canine heroes setting
out into the icy storm, each with a keg of
brandy slung to his collar, to succor lost
travellers! What the hairy impostors
probably did whenever they got a chance
was to eat the unlucky traveller, wash
down the horrid meal with the brandy
and sleep off the debauch in the snow.
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”; We were crutching on
a Riverina station running about 20,000
sheep, and among the hands was a chap
who could handle words. When Mat
heard him remark, while looking over
yards full of sheep, that “The entire
landscape heaved with ovine mammals,”
“Better give the guard another few minutes, Alf — he’s developing
a photo.”
the big fellow was intrigued and, on
seeking an interpretation, learned for the
first time that a sheep was a mammal.
“Cripes,” he said, somewhat subdued by
the thought, “I always thought it only
had somethin’ t’ do with cows.” Months
later, camped in a deserted homestead
out of Dubbo (N.S.W.), we found a pile
of old magazines in a corner, and Mat
drew mv attention to one page. It was
blank save for the following, in small
black type in the middle of the page:
ON FLAPPERS.
Seals are creatures
With fishy features.
Ogden Nash.
As best I could'l explained to my
puzzled mate that the American prob-
ably collected £250 for it, and tried to
show its sublety and wit. Cripes, Mat
murmured, “them Yanks must be funny
people.” Then he went into a brown
study for two days and at lust, shy but
with the eagerness of a girl showing her
first grown-up dress, handed me a bit of
paper, asked “What y’ reckon thafs
worth?” and fled into the bush. This is
what I read:
ON OVINES.
The people of Australia
Are keen on their mammalia.
We’ve been trying to sell it ever since.
Any luck?
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: Ned was a pretty good
shearer, but he used to work in a sort
of daze when he was shoving ’em through
at his top pace. More than one casual
stroller was upset in a flying tangle as
Ned made a dive for the next woolly,
though the jummie barber was usually
the last to become aware of it. While
inspecting the proceedings the new
schoolie paused near Ned’s pen just long
enough to become involved in the old
cove’s tackle. He was on his back, his
coat and pants in shreds, and yelling for
tar by the, time the accident was dis-
covered.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: To the modern
mechanically-minded bush kid the horse
as a beast of burden doesn’t rate very
high unless it’s incorporated with many
of its ilk under a streamlined bonnet. But
the kid I met out behind Kalamunda
(W.A.) was a born animal-lover. Poor as
it was, the track was heading in the
direction of my next stop, and was, I
hoped, a short cut. He was on a pony
heading my way,- so I put it to him.
“Can I get through to Mundaring this
way, son?” “Yair,” he answered with
just a slight hesitation. I stayed with
that track while it developed into dry
gullies with stones that quickly raised
me into a high priority for tyres ; but
finally I abandoned the attempt. Coming
back I met the kid. “Thought you said I
could get through to Mundaring this
way?” I demanded belligerently. “I said
you could,” he answered gruffly. “An’ so
y’ can. But y’ can’t take that thing with
y’.” As he cantered off I looked at “that
thing” with eyes from which the scales
had fallen ; but it was the sole surviving
remnant of my deferred pay, and I was
reluctant to leave it. I went back to
Kalamunda.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Many a newcomer to
Barrier Reef fishing has sighed sorrow-
fully on being told that his splendid-
looking 20-pounder was only a “China-
man” and poisonous. Symptoms were
those of an acute gastro-enteritis; but no
fatal case has ever been recorded. Nor has
any case of poisoning from it been re-
ported to the Special Registry of Injuries
Produced by Plants and Animals, estab-
lished by the B.M.A. at Cairns (N.Q.) in
1936. In a recent “Fisheries News
Letter” Dr. H. Flecker, a leading
authority on Australian poisonous fishes,
has pointed out that there is no reliable
or satisfactory evidence that the thread-
finned sea perch, its polite name in scien-
tific circles, is poisonous when eaten under
ordinary conditions, and that any fish may
become so under certain conditions of
storage and temperature. Many Barrier
fishermen eat this perch —I have done so
on many occasipns and found it one of
the best-flavored of all Reef fish —and it
“Shake it a bit harder or We’ll never get
it started.”
is sold freely in Cairns, although there is
a prejudice against it on the Townsville
market. As Dr. Flecker points out, it is
unjust and uneconomic to condemn it as
poisonous food unless and until more
satisfactory evidence is forthcoming.
* * * *
“Blime”; Scout had learned very
thoroughly that he must never leave
the mustered jumbucks till called off, and
Jim felt reasonably safe with the little
kelpie on the job. It was a hot and dusty
morning when, returning to the home-
yards with a„ mob, he spotted the skin
buyer’s truck on the highway, and with
a word to the dog strode down for a
yarn. For ten minutes Scout watched
the bunch carefully; then came signs of
a growing restlessness. With his back
to them, Jim yarned on. Presently he
turned to find the sheep half way up the
paddock, Scout driving them energetically
in the wrong direction. There followed
a quick circling to halt them; then the
dog disappeared over the bank of a
small water-hole. Two minutes and he
was back, cocked a wary eye at his
charges, turned in the stragglers, and once
more disappeared. Jim waited quietly.
Fifteen minutes later the jummies were
again halted on the home tract, while
on the outskirts Scout, a wide grin on his
mug, waited for the boss to finish his
yarn.
* * * *
“Mick O’Pick”; Ted had been pinned
under his capsized dray.. His rescuers,
panicky, rushed around and eventually
started to free him by lifting the vehicle
off his legs. Then came a calm drawl
from the victim: “Up here first, boys.
I’ve got two legs, but only one head.”
IF * * •
“Dronestung”: It’s not uncommon to
find bees working honeydew, the extra-
floral secretions of a number of plants.
But I wasn’t prepared for the insects
found Busily engaged among the curled
leaves of a cherry-tree. Aphis were the
attraction, and they were milked in-
dustriously for the sweet substance they
exude. The usual team of ants wasn t
to be found.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Along an open bathing
beach a little Pekinese picked up a bait.
His owner cried in distress “Oh, Chang
is poisoned; can’t we do some-
thing?” But her city-bred cavalier was
helpless —all he could suggest was a
frantic dash to a vet. five miles away.
Then a bushy-looking bloke took com-
mand. Grabbing Chang he rushed him
out to deep water, pdsed open his jaws
and let the sea pour in. With a stomach
full of brine the Peke did the only pos-
sible thing. He was a very wet and very
sick little dog when brought ashore, but
his life had been saved.
♦ * * *
“E. 2”: “Morgan,” said Jorkins, “is
just like a lot more of ’em —never looks
ahead. Take Saturdee night, f’r instance.
The set of inflations on me milkin’
machine, which were gettin’ a bit worn,
cracked up completely. I hopped over t’
Morgan’s t’ borrer a spare set t’ see us
over the week-end. Had a bit o’ fuss,
too, gettin’ me lad Joe t’ stay home from
the dance t’ put ’em on ready f’r the
mornin’ milkin’ —but y’ve got t’ expect
that &rt of thing when y’re cockyin’.
An’, by cripes, didn’t he go crook when
I lobbed back at ha’-past ten without
’em! That Morgan’s got funny ideas
of runnin’ a farm —not a spare set in
the joint. Now I got to make a special
trip to the factory store to get some!”
* * * *
“Propalong”: Desperately in need of
a hand to ride the Watercourse paddocks
and knowing that Lonesome Bob, a well-
known and hard-to-please hatter, was in
the township, temporarily unemployed,
the boss expended a bit of flattery and a
lot of beer money and roped the old chap
in. The following Monday Lonesome
left the homestead with his packbags
bulging with the best the station store
could provide to ride out to the Water-
course hut. It was a dry 25 miles, most
of it over black gibber plains and burnt
red-clay flats, and Lonesome wasn’t sorry
to see the little blue-grey hut in the sim-
mering distance. When he pulled up at
his new home he found that the rain-
water tank had been leaking and the
seeping water had given rise to
an eight-by-ten patch of greenery
outside the hut door. There was
plumed speargrass, tasselled silver
grass, a rich lawn of spinach,
thick-leaved squash, some green,
some golden, a patch of blue and
white daisies and a glorious bush
of “Salvation Jane,” opulent
purple and bright, luminous blue.
Lonesome’s first action on dis-
mounting was to boot his dog for
trying to roll “in me flamin’
garden,” and after that he gave
his whole heart to that exotic
patch, walking carefully round it,
so as not to trample the plants,
and watering it daily. Back at
the homestead the boss waited
two or three weeks for the old
chap to get settled in before calling on
him. Then, knowing Lonesome’s opinion
of “motor-car managers,” he caught a
hack and rode out. The old chap was out
and the trump, stretching his stiff legs out-
side the hut, saw the patch of “watered
green. Leading his horse through the
gate he dropped the reins and left the
prad to graze. An hour later Lonesome
arrived. If anyone knows of a boundary
rider please let the boss know.
» » * *
“Zoo-zan M.”: Trunks of bottle-trees
in the Dawson Valley (Q.) are bringing
the drought price of £2 each. The pith
makes passable fodder.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Some years ago an old
bushwhacker cobber of mine gave his
impressions of Sydney: “A rotten place!
If you pass a stranger in the street and
bid him the time of day he looks at you
as if you’ve gone mad. Everybody is in
too much of a tearin’ hurry. The people
don’t act sociable and the birds don’t act
natural.” Just what he meant by the last
observation I jcould never make out.
At Petersham recently old Teddy’s
words came back. On a girder of the
railway bridge a dove had made her nest.
Not more than 20ft. away grew a small
ornamental tree which was quite capable
of carrying three or four such nests;
but apparently the bird had not been in-
terested, She had preferred to build the
structure directly over the centre of the
down track, where the top of the trains
would pass within a few feet of her as
she sat, and locos roaring beneath could
not fail to envelop her with smoke and
steam. The nest, the usual crazy affair
of crossed sticks and twigs, was jammed
between two bolts on the girder —which
is probably the reason why it was not
blown off, A more unnatural place for
a bird to build a nest would be hard to
find —and yet it would be equally hard to
find a safer spot: immediately above a
power insulator, as it was, and in a posi-
tion that even the most foolhardy boy
could not reach. But I’m still wondering
whether the mother knew her coloring
was matched by. the grey of the bridge.
» * * *
“Hanko”; Bound for a swim, we were
just topping the bank of the belar pad-
dock tank when Big Joe pulled us down.
“Ducks,” he breathed, and glanced
meaningly at Snowflake. Without a word
the abo loped away on the half-mile
journey to the hut. Big Joe grinned
happily and leaned to my ear. “Obligin
bloke, Jackie, an’ quick on the uptake,
too,” he whispered. I nodded without
letting my neck creak too loudly. Soon
the abo was pounding the cottonweed
on his return with the shotgun. Big Joe
grabbed the weapon from him and flicked
his fingers impatiently for the cartridges
that Jackje couldn’t produce. Startled
teal make a peculiar “sleazy-whish ’
sound when they rise from water, and
the birds on the belar paddock tank
faithfully reproduced the sound upon
that occasion.


OUTSTANDING AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
DUSTY. A brilliant new novel, by
Frank Dalby Davison, winner of the
Melbourne Argus and Australasian Post
£5OO novel competition for 1946. 8/6
(post 4d.).
CHIIDBEN OF THE DARK PEOPEE.
An Australian Polk Tale, by Frank
Dalby Davison. 6/- (post 4d.).
THE ANTICS OF AEGY. A delightful
story for young readers, by Musette
Morel!, with full-page plates in colour
—an ideal gift. 6/- (post 4d.)
AUSTRALIA IN COEOUR. Containing
96 plates in colour by Australian Artists,
text by Dora Blrtles. 5/- (post Sd.).
THE ART OP WIEEIAM DOBEEE.
Edited by Sydney Ure Smith —“Present
Day Art in Australia” series. 30/-
(post 6d.).
NED KEELY. A Play by Douglas
Stewart, with 18 illustrations by Nor-
man Lindsay. 30/- (post. 6d.).
WHAT BIRD IS THAT? Every bird
of Australia in colour, by Neville W.
Cayley. Now reprinted. 12/6 (post 6d.).
SOIL EROSION IN AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND. By J. Macdonald
Holmes. 17/6 (post 6d.).
THE MAKING OF A SENTIMENTAL
BLOKE. The romantic story of C. J.
Dennis, by Alec H. Chisholm. Illus-
trated. 10/6 (post 4d.).
CRICKET CRISIS. By J. H. Fingleton,
with a foreword by Neville Cardus. 30
illustrations. 12/6 (post 6d.).
NORTH OF 23 DEGREES. Ramblings
in Northern Australia, by W. E; Harney.
Illustrated. 9/6 (post 6d.).
A MAN, A DOG, TWO HORSES. The
long-awaited book by J. C. Bendrodt.
Illustrated. 6/6 (post 3d.).
CULLENBENBONG. By Bernard
O’Reilly, author of “Green Mountains.”
4/9 (post 4d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd, 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
yu
Sterilised
C
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-ds Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixtu
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum oi
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 088 Perth.
Public Notice.
STOCK INSPECTOR—FIJI
GOVERNMENT.
APPLICATIONS, addressed to Dalgety and Co., Ltd.,
Fiji -Government Agents, 15 Bent Street, Sydney, are
invited for the position of Stock Inspector with the
Department of Agriculture, Colony of Fiji.
SALARY, in Fiji currency, equals approximately
£326 to £522 Australian currency, subject to re-
vision from time to time. Initial salary fixed accord-
ing to qualifications, experience and age. No quarters
or allowances provided, unless stationed outside Suva.
Free passages to and from Suva, up to a maximum
of the cost of three adult passages, provided to
successful applicant.
DUTIES will include advisory work on Animal Hus-
bandry, treatment of ailments and diseases of live-
stock, dairy inspection, etc.
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants should possess a
Veterinary Science Degree of a recognised University,
or a Diploma in Dairying or Agriculture of a recog-
nised College, or have a sound practical experience
of animal management.
APPOINTMENT on probation for one year in first
instance, and is subject to a further two years, at
the conclusion of which the appointment n»y be-
come permanent.
APPLICATION FORMS and full details will be sup-
plied on receipt of request.
4
f/jt oCz
n
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
-WARNING !*-
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygexa
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the hona fldes
of the ’Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation,
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1937.
DISTRIBUTORS: •
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
' (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenatora (Qland),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart. __
THE MAN ON THE LAND
”DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Culling Ewes.
“Sheepo”; It is better to cull too
heavily than to keep one ewe that doesn’t
make the grade. The high percentage of
inferior fleece wools that you see on
floors is evidence of poor culling.
Good rams will correct some defects in
the flock, but they can’t overcome the
faults of bad ewes —a bad-fleeced ewe
or one of weak constitution or any other
major fault cannot help producing pro-
geny of a nondescript type, no matter
how good the sire may be. The most
economic way to raise sheep is to breed
those that give a maximum return per
head, and that can’t be done without
rigorous culling.
Some say heavy culling is costly be-
cause it’s hard to sell the culls at a pay-
able price. Any price is good value for
a mongrel, and the right place for bad
ewes is the butcher’s shop. If they’re not
good enough for mutton give ’em to the
dogs.
With culling goes suitability for the
district. Climatic and pastoral condi-
tions determine which is the best type
to graze and breed from and the only
guide is return per acre. In the merino
field there are graziers attempting to grow
super-fine wool in districts totally unsuit-
able for it—stubborn souls who look
enviously upon a neighbor doing well
out of (say) medium wools, and put it
down to the other chap’s good luck.
A New Dip Mixture.
“C. Punch”: Through using Gam-
mexane, a war-time discovery, control
of the arsenic-resistant tick, a trouble-
some pest of cattle in the Eastern Cape
and Natal, is now in sight, according to
the South African “Farmers’ Weekly.”
In a paper, “Gammexane Dips for the
Control of the Arsenic-Resistant Tick,”
two entomologists of African Explosives
and Chemical Industries, Ltd., point out
that during the last 30 years at least seven
species of injurious insects had evolved
strains which were more difficult to kill
with recognised chemical insecticides than
were the normal populations of these
pests.
In 1939 it was learned that a tick
seemed to have developed a resistance to
arsenic. The tick was the common one-
host blue tick, the transmitter of red-
water and gallsickness. The tick-killing
properties of D.D.T. were investigated
by British scientists, who discovered the
even more promising Gammexane.
It was first tested against arsenic-re-
sistant ticks in December, 1944, and 12
hours after the test its remarkable tick-
killing properties were apparent. Since
then the resources of A.E. and C.I. have
been directed towards finding a Gam-
mexane dip which would be safe and
simple to use. The authors of the paper
describe experiments in which cattle were
sprayed with a wash containing only 50
parts of Gammexane per million, and
how, half an hour after spraying, ticks of
all ages began to fall from the cows.
Gammexane has no ill-effects on cattle.
Shade for Stock.
“Atlanta”: During lambing, losses
among ewes and lambs are greater in
country devoid of shade, and in addi-
“Seen old Brophy about? Some o' these people are NEVER at home to
get their mail."
t i on to b eat effects crows and eagles are
mo re active on open plains,
Bough sheds handy to watering places
g i ve summer shelter to sheep at Lans-
vaie Dorset Horn and Border Leicester
s t u d ne ar Macalister (Q.). .Cheaply and
easily erected, these sheds will last for
years, with occasional renewal or top-
pblg ’ Q f boughs, and are ideal for open
downs country. Boughs last longer if
spread on wire netting, which helps to
re tain the drying leaves. In watercourse
country reeds or rushes make an excel-
lent shed,
But trees afford the best shade. Around
horse-, cattle- and sheep-yards or near
watering places the Moreton Bay fig is a
useful shelter tree, but adequate Pfovi-
sion should be made for its rapidly-
expanding trunk. Average Seasons in
the 16-inch rainfall belt are suitable to
the fig. Although favoring limestone or
light mulga country, the kurrajong will
grow practically anywhere. In low-
rainfall western areas its growth is
slower, but the deep tap-root makes it
hardy, while allowing grass to grow fight
up to the trunk. The dense foliage is
practically non-fibrous, and as a fodder
reserve has a nutrient value of 46 p.c.,
with a valuable water content of 35.6
p.c. Discriminate lopping for fodder
during drought years means only a
temporary setback to the tree.
D.D.T. and Thrips.
“Wilydah”: N.S.W. Departmental
tests with D.D.T. spray and dust on
onions for the control of thrips have
given remarkable results, according to
the current issue of The Agricultural
Gazette. Yields increased from 26.8 p.c.
in white onions to 75 p.c. in brown,
which meant an increase of from 2.45 to
3.8 tons per acre, valued, after deducting
cost of materials, at from £2B 3s. 6d. to
£BO Is. per acre.
Actual thrips counts during the ex-
periments on brown onions showed a
marked decrease on D.D.T.-sprayed
plants, there being *2O times as many
thrips per plant on the untreated, 19
times as many on the tartar emetic-
sprayed plants, and 15 times as many on
the plants dusted with D.D.T. Actual
treatments tested were: (a) D.D.T. sol-
vent naphtha emulsion at 0.1 p.c. D.D.T.,
(b) 1 p.c. D.D.T. pyrophyllite dust, (c)
tartar emetic loz., sugar 40z., water
4gal, (d) untreated checks.
The tartar emetic sprays were applied
as a fine mist over the plants at roughly
48gals to the acre, whilst the D.D.T.
emulsion was put on more directly and
heavily over the plants at the rate of
96gals to the acre. ,Dust was applied
at 321 b. to the acre.
Grain Sorghum.
“N.K.”: Milo has come into promi-
nence during the past few years, especially
since the wheat shortage has become
acute. It is a summer-growing crop,
quickly maturing and harvested with
the same plant as wheat. Fairly thick
sowing is preferred, 151 b. to 171 b. to
the acre. Thin sowing leads to plant
stooling with consequent uneven ripen-
ing of the seed. Yields of from 40 to 60
bushels to the acre are not uncommon
under fair average weather conditions.
While its food value is not quite equal
to that of wheat, it is much in demand
for poultry feed and—crushed —is good
for pigs, cows and practically all classes
of stock. Grown extensively in Queens-
land, it is a much more reliable crop
than maize, and will grow under drier
conditions than most other grain crops.
The greatest pest is the parrot, and any-
one who wants to see bird life could get
a good view over a milo field in Queens-
land. Thousands of bright parrots of all
sizes and' colors hover over the field and
take heavy toll of the seed. The best
method of coping with the pest is for
all neighbors to sow at the same time,
as the birds leave the seed when it be-
comes hard. The seed will not shed, so
there is no great hurry to harvest as with
wheat, oats and other grain crops.
Fire Prevention.
“W. Court”: Years of experience with
grass fires convince me that many of
’em arise from careless burning of fire-
breaks. Many farmers make sure there’s
no fire about before leaving a just-burned
break in the evening, but neglect to walk
around again first thing next morning.
Often there’s something smouldering
freely the morning after a fire that had
only a few sparks on it the evening before.
Be particularly careful when burning
off grass that has accumulated over a
period of years. On no account allow a
fire to burn uphill through such grass
after dusk. It is likely to keep burning
throughout the night, especially if the
night is windy. Should a fire get away
and bum all night, go up and tackle it at
daylight, and you will usually find it easy
to extinguish, for grass fires invariably
slow up during the night hours.
Long Beans.
“Bennie”: A strictly tropical bean,
they thrive well during the torrid months,
the planting season being from August
to February. If the earth in the bed is
inclined to be poor mix a little blood
and bone or bone dust well into the soil
prior to planting. Best method is to
plant in double rows about 30in, apart.
Lean light sticks about 6ft. long from
the rows to each side of a central wire
or sapling ridge, forming crosses over
the wire.
Expect the first cropping in about
seven weeks ; it’ll last from six to nine
weeks. As the pods are produced on long
fruit stalks, the utmost care must be
taken when picking to ensure no damage
to the fruiting stems. Harvest the pods
while they are round and fat and before
the seeds start to swell. The beans need
plenty of water.
Bulldozing the Scrub.
“Atlanta”; When some Queensland
graziers, unable to hire scrub-cutters, be-
gan using bulldozers to push the scrub
over it was said the practice would de-
nude the land of timber and lead to ero-
sion, So it would if done heedlessly. On
a 40,000-acre property in the St, George
district a 38 h.p. tractor fitted with
hydraulic bulldozer feeds 8000 sheep and
150 cattle at an estimated cost of 255.
per eight-hour day. Operated by one
man, this unit cuts a ten-mile strip four
days a week. Scrub consists mainly of
mulga and wilga, and after several
months feeding stock are in good condi-
tion. As each tree is pushed down the
tractor is reversed to avoid crushing
leaves.
The 90 p.c. regrowth of trees pushed
down refutes the statement referred to.
Experiments on North Comongin, near
, Quilpie, indicate that cutting, rolling or
discriminate ring-barking of mulga has a
. beneficial effect in promoting regrowth


TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present '
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
TT
Sitf'* 6
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment- Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti*
septic . Cuticura "cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum I’owder. ,
r
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty. Ltd., King Street. Sydney,
.
.-’"Vj
DESTROY THESE PESTS
C^wogaS
with
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD,
MA 6311 7-U MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOB
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOB
(a) THE UNIVEBSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the
discretion of the Trustees,
OB
(b) HAWKESBUEY AG BICUT, T U BAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the, above Bursaries, made available under the
Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the
requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to
. the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than
the 6th January, 1947, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College and not later than the 10th February, 1947, in the case of
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may be
obtained from: —
PEBPETUAL T BUS TEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HCNTEB STBEBT, SYDNEY.
M.M.L. & F. Leads!
It leads in its standards of appraisal, grading, lotting and
auctioneering—and,- as a result, it leads in the securing of
the maximum price per lb. for every item offered.
The Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
leads also in the complete service it provides its clients-
service such as only a company with its wide facilities
can provide.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc . in England 1863
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
AUUi
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces.
Approved by the War Office,
London, and under the Common-
wealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme.
The following are taken from several
similar communications received whilst
this announcement was being prepared.
The writers have got half way or further
through the Pelman Course. Our mail
each day contains many such apprecia-
tive references from service members and
civilians alike.
12th June, 1946.
“My wife advises me that nowadays I
appear to be more affable and in my work
I have noticed that at times I remember
little things which other people have not been
able to recall. This is a definite help, and
I feel that I am improving in all respects
as I progress with the Course.”
12th June, 1946.
“Since I began the Pelman Course I have
found a great improvement in myself gener-
ally. I have acquired the ability to make
decisions and have confidence in those deci-
sions. I have more confidence in myself and
I am more precise in the way I do things.”
24th June, 1946.
“I consider I have benefited greatly and I
intend, on the completion of this Course, and
winn less adverse conditions prevail, to go
completely through the Lessons a second time
and carefully look for points which I may
have missed.”
24th June, 1946.
“My aim was social, moral and financial
gain. Have easily doubled social contacts.
Morally, have made good progress. Have
improved my employment situation and am
. earning more than before starting your
Course. The Course is very helpful in my
other studies, even if only* because of more
agile brain.”
QUALIFICATIONS: The Quali-
fications the Pelman Institute
looks for in those seeking its help
are:
(a) the ability to read and write
intelligently;
(b) a sincere desire for self-
improvement ; and
(c) a willingness in the pupil to
co-operate fully with the
Institute in its effort to
develop his aptitudes and
powers quickly and per-
manently.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pel’manism does is to quicken the perceptions so that
we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We
see more and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence
there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact
knowledge, remember it, and recall it as required. We learn to trust
our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then
open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and women.
The more important of these qualities are:— —
Observation Concentration
Will-power Organization Social Ease
Decision Judgment Initiative
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, ,figures, names, appointments, prices and useful data of
every kind.
The exercises are pleasant, and each has its special purpose. The
Pelman Course is a real training, its primary objects being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones,
to train the conscious and the sub-concious so that every faculty will,
when called upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of
anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 60,000
have enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” are posted free. Inquiries are
regarded as* confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements
to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
J TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
' 396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
I Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
I
NAME
I ADDRESS - *
I
187
of young and succulent trees. Country
previously considered “sour” has pro-
duced a variety of useful grasses after
ringing of standing mulga, while good
seasons bring heavy growth of seedlings
in areas rolled during droughts. In addi-
tion, the fallen timber provides excellent
protection for re-establishment of seed-
lings, grass, etc., which would otherwise
be eaten by stock.
Although comparatively short-lived,
mulga is an amazing drought-resister, and
will continue to flourish long after cooli-
bah and allied gum species have perished.
But once again the importance of reason-
ably light stocking must be stressed. Even
mulga cannot survive if seedlings are
eaten by hungry stock, and no amount of
rain can restore light country from
which artificially-denuded topsoil' has
washed or blown.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mr.”: L. A. Downey, Vic. pig expert,
believes that pig-raisers can best measure
the performance of their pigs by weigh-
ing the littersfwhen weaned. A standard
of 2501 b. for the whole litter at eight
weeks old should be aimed at. As a
check on growth after weaning, a fair
standard is 2001 b. live-weight for each pig
200 days after its birth.
“Carmi”: Though a feed of dry straw
before turning cows on clover, lucerne,
etc., will lessen the risk of bloat (B.
9/10/’46) a reversal of the procedure
will cause a quick and violent bloating
which necessitates immediate use of the
trochar.
“Big Billy”: Fowls kept in large
numbers under intensive conditions are
susceptible to heat apoplexy. Best results
come from spraying the litter, the walls
of houses and the birds with water at
frequent intervals during the hottest part
of the day. There should be ample room
in laying houses. A house 20ft. square,
Bft. high in the front and 6ft. high at the
back with a 6in. opening along the back
under the roof will allow good ventila-
tion for 100 birds.
“Camber”: Vic. Department of Agri-
culture is advising peach-growers in the
Goulbum Valley, where green aphis is
bad this year, to use D.D.T. if they can’t
get enough nicotine sulphate to spray
their trees. The Department recommends
a 20 p.c. emulsion of D.D.T. diluted,
one part in 200 of water, and emphasises
the need for thorough spraying, particu-
larly heavily-infested laterals on which
the leaves have already curled.
“Billjim”: British scientists have over-
come another farmers’ enemy—frost. By
spraying fruit-trees with hormones blos-
soming can be delayed by days. Another
spray stimulates cells which hold a fruit
stalk, thus preventing premature falling.
By deliberately retarding the necessity for
picking fruit until it is wanted, market
gluts can be avoided and more regular
supplies of fruit made available. By the
use of plant hormones some fruits can
be made to shed their crops without
resort to hard labor; root growth of
cuttings can be stimulated even to pro-
ducing seedless torhatoes.
“Petermac”: J. C. Emery, Ayr (N.Q.),
has invented a combined ratooning-
plough and stubble-shaver for sugar-
farmers. With the cane trash lying in
the field the machine ploughs a furrow
straight as a die, shaves the stubble down
neatly so that it grows straight again, and
throws debris aside. Manufacturing
plans are under way to rqake a machine
selling at about £l3O.
“Atlanta”;- Before buying be sure the
new axe handle hasn’t twisted or warped
while standing in the shop. Select one
whose grain is reasonably straight and
uniform. Place end of new handle in a
vice, and with a handsaw deepen the cut
in the wide end until it is almost* level
with the heel. Rasp or chisel the handle
until it drives tightly to the full depth of
the heel. A piece of quarter-inch cast-
iron makes the best wedge, as wood
usually shrinks. Smoothing the handle
with fine sandpaper will make it pleasant
to use. Unless it’s hickory, cut off the
handle about an inch below the knob.
You’ll hit harder and faster and the wood
is less likely to shatter. When not in use
axes should be suspended on wire or
string to avoid warping. Rub the wood
lightly occasionally with linseed oil.
“Myrrhee”: Formula for waterproof-
ing a bag or hessian roof on a fowl
coop; Nail the material firmly to the
frame and dampen it about half an hour'
before applying a wash made of water
l|gal., cement 121 b., lime 21b., salt lib.,
alum ilb. Put salt and lime through a
fine sieve, stir into the water, then follow
with the cement. This will cover eight
square yards of material with three coats.
Apply with a stiff brush first outside, then
inside. Put the second coat on before
the first coat sets but after the initial
wetness disappears, and the same with
the third coat. Do the job’ on a cool
day or in the late afternoon and keep
the surface damp for three days.
“Will C.”; C.S.I.R. has been making
experiments to determine whether or not
burning-off of old, dry grass has any
detrimental effect upon natural pastures.
They aren’t finished yet, but so far the
scientists’ opinion is that fire doesn’t
cramp grass growth. Of course, there
are dry spells when a fire is a real
disaster, since a total moisture deficiency
in the topsoil makes it impossible for new
grass to come away. The longer grass
is forced to lie dormant the sparser it is
when it finally comes through, and the
more injury can be inflicted by soil
erosion.


m
The "ATLAS" Sin. Lathe
Two Models—Long and Short Bed
The "Atlas" 5-inch Lathe is a lathe of
most pleasing design and is an ideal
High-Speed. General Purpose Workshop
Lathe. It is a delight to handle, and is
equipped with Internal Unit Drive and
2-speed Gear Box. An ideal machine for
Garage and Automotive Workshops.
The "MARS" Shaper
A high-speed Machine for all classes of
Shaping work. The Ram has been speci-
ally treated to prevent seizing, thus ensur-
ing firm, even movement. All necessary
revolving parts are Dynamically Bal-
anced, and all surfaces are machine
ground.
Outstanding "Mars ' features are
ACCURACY Built to reoognized and
certified standards of accuracy. BAL-
ANCE—aII necessary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced. FINISH—-all sur-
faces are Machine Ground. MATERIALS
—Finest Matured High Test Alloy Cast-
ings throughout. SMOOTH RUNNING
all Gear Teeth are Generated. VERSA-
TILITY—aII lathes have generous Detach-
able Gap Bridge-
The VENUS Tin. Lathe
A sturdy, accurate quick-action Lathe
suitable not only for very fine work but
also lor medium and roughing out work
within the lathe's capacity of 4ft. lin.
between centres and 20in. maximum
swing
MARS
PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
Ho &Ld dustradian industries
ETA
Licensed Manufacturers
in Queensland of
MEEHANITE Metals
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W—Thomas Herbert <S Co. Pty. Ltd., i 39 Clarence Street. Sydney.
r VICTORIA—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.). 343 a Sydney Road, Brunswick,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.. 450 Ann Street. Brisbane.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA —Charles Davis Ltd.. Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—Motor Specialities Ltd.. Anzac Avenue. Auckland.
CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons. Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S- Mehta <S Co. Ltd., Medows Street. Fort Bombay.
Sole Queensland fDislrihuiinq Ofqenls for SSTViSII MSChillß TOOIS
J. It O'S. Advf.'
f
\/
ILi
mm
PTY
tTO
m
iiii
■Mi
ii
again, in the person of Lieutenant Carl
Rosen.
Carl was wounded in the bitter fight-
ing at Passchendaele. More than that,
he was decorated.
The citation said that, his sergeant
killed and the others of his raiding party
dead qr wounded, he had singlehanded
held the pill-box they had taken, killing
four Germans with the'bayonet. And
that though he had been wounded in the
shoulder and the head.
There was a letter which Mr. Rosen
couldn’t work into a History lesson. It
was in Carl’s usual cramped handwrit-
ing:
“I don’t know what you are going to
make of this, but I feel that I must write
it. I have been offered a chaplaincy again.
They must be getting short of soulsavers,
but they’re short of troops, too, and I
have refused it.
“I want you to try to see why, because
I know Mother of course would like it,
and I read between the lines in your
letter that you would too. It’s good of
you to go on pretending you are proud
of me as a soldier and all that; but you
must know what this is like, though in
spite of what it is like I can’t &op
now. I can’t change, and I don’t want
to. I must try to tell you why.
“This is an officers’ training school near
Bedford. It is the middle of winter.
There has been, heavy snow, so that the
batches on the houses in Bedford look a
good three feet thick. It must be foul
for the chaps if it’s like this where they
are, unless they’re out of the line by now,
as they ought to be. But they’re not
getting much rest the way things are now.
“Here it’s as if there wasn’t a war on
at all. Where we are is out along the
road past Bunyan’s Cottage, I’m afraid
poor old John was bom out of his time,
I think he’d have been in his element here
with us. He was meant for action, if
ever a man was.
“Does that help to explain things to
you and my refusal of the "chaplaincy?
There are two other Australians here
with me, both Georges—George Lawson,
of course he’s called Henry, and George
Flowers, otherwise Petals. We are here
by special request of the War Office or
somewhere, teaching a mob of kids what
it’s all about. Henry’s a grand fellow ;
one of those long, clean-looking chaps
who' play Australian Rules football in
Melbourne, where he comes from,
“Petals is a great chap, too. He has
a broken nose and an Australian bush
accent that you hear a bit in the Valley
but really have to go out round Charle-
ville to get at its strongest. As tough and
rough as they make them and a hell of
a good soldier. He has an M.C., D.C.M.
and M'.M. Henry has an M.C. and
M.M. and I’ve sent my one to you.
“Pretty well all the others here are
from Oxford, which isn’t far away, and
Cambridge, where I haven’t got to yet.
What a place Oxford is. And to think
with the chaplaincy I’d be stationed right
there for the duration! I suppose if I
was right in the head Fd be giving my
socks for it.
“The boys here are really only school
kids, but they’re wanting all they can get
now, and they take them young. These
chaps will be over there with commissions
leading infantry presently. Think of it.
A little child shall lead them. And the
Guards and the Northumberlands and
the rest of them will think the little child
is God. The English are like that.
“Petals has a neat dozen of them,
whom he calls his Disciples. Of course
with his three decorations up they’d follow
him anywhere. He takes them in hand
after parades for special study as he calls
it. He’s teaching them to swear. He
says their swearing is abominable. It is
bad, too. It gives you the creeps because
it makes them sound even younger than
they are.
“Is this getting us anywhere? Well,
they’ll be better soldiers, I know that
can’t mean much to you, and I’m afraid
I can’t explain it, but actually Petals is
doing a good job making soldiers out of
these kids, if only for their own sakes.
Perhaps it’s a wrong way to look at
things, but? to me being a soldier is every-
thing. I’m not trying to be a hero and
all that. All it seems to me is that this
is what I was really cut out for in the
first place.
“Other things don’t matter here. Other
reputations don’t count, either. We have
had a chap here who’s better known in
international sport than all our Prime
Ministers put together are known. That’s
why he was here. Influence. He could
no more go out with a bayonet charge,
let alone lead one, which was the idea
of having him here, than I could now
drink another whisky.
“We have been all the evening in the
mess. Outside the bar there’s a big square
telephone box. Petals started it, with the
rest of us, including his disciples, follow-
ing suit. When Tie shouted he bought an
extra double-headed whisky, ‘for after.’
He put it aside there on top of the
telephone.
“The box is about a foot square,
and when they pulled down the over-
head door on the bar closing up,
the box was packed tight with double-
headers. The party had dwindled down,
too. There were only Henry and Petals
and myself and four of the youngsters
to face up to it. One each was enough
for the kids, so Henry and Petals and I
were left to finish it off. As I’ve been
trying to say, I’m writing all this, and
I’ll post it when I’ve finished, so that
you won’t be under any illusions on what
this is all about and what it’s like.
“I have looked back through this, and
I had started off to tell you about the
chap with the big sports name. He was
so hopeless that when we set off on a
bit of a march, halfway to Bedford and
back again, he’d be tfre first to drop out.
The boots blistered his feet, or he’d get
sore eyes or a sore back. And he was to
go over and lead the P.B.L —God help
them!
“Well, Henry isn’t like Petals. He’s
about as easygoing a chap as you could
meet, but this chap was too much for
him. Henry said one day Til fix the cold-
footed !’ He fixed him all right.
He made up one of those jam-tin bombs
we used to use on Gallip, with the length
of fuse sticking out through a hole in the
top. Then he got him into the trench
where we practise throwing the Mills
from. There were only the two of them
there, and Henry said to him I’m going
to show you how you work one of these
things. Like this, see. First you light
the fuse, and you keep a good hold of it
till it burns well down, so that Johnno.
or it’ll be Fritz, can’t catch it and throw
it back and kill you.’ He held it out in
front of the other’ chap, with the fuse
fizzing. The other chap broke into a
shiver with sweat. Then when it would
have gone off and killed both of them if
there’d been anything in it, the poor blob
fainted.
“They’ve got him in some sort of a
half-mental hospital now, along with a
chap who was over there for a while and
has been writing savage anti-war stuff.
He was here too for a while, but put up
a show and had a couple of members of
the House of Commons to save him from
going back.
“That’s all right, too, I suppose. Noth-
ing like a bit of political influence. Come
to think of it, there seem to be some
bright specimens of politicians and
would-be politicians back there in our
own country from what we read here.
“I’m afraid this letter will be a shock
to you, but there it is. At least it won’t
be like most of what you will read about
war, pure and unadulterated fake. I have
no illusions about it. When I’m there I
can do it all right, but from here it
doesn’t seem possible. Still, you won’t
hear of me getting into an asylum to save
my skin.
“We’re putting the kids through their
finals this week. Of course they’ll all
pass. They’re a great lot of kids, and they
certainly want every one of them now.
“You won’t of course show this to my
Mother. Better not show it to any of our
windbag politicians, either. We’d hate to
hear of one of them cutting his throat
and ruining a perfectly good collar.”
WHEN the Cross came to the Valley
it, and the wooden one they had put
up near Poperinghe, made a final con-
firmation for Mr. Rosen. Carl’s letter
had shaken him somewhat, because it
did not altogether conform to his own
ideas of a soldier and soldiering. But
the rest uplifted him, especially another,
brief letter after the news that Carl had
been killed.
“The finest front-line fighter in the
Battalion,” Carl’s C.O. had written.
In the inside pocket of the light-grey
coat which he wore with all four big
buttons on it done up, Old Rosy kept the
Cross, not that he needed much remind-
ing now to assure him that Carl had been
a soldier.
Of course, had Mr. Rosen worn it
outside —say, on a black ribbon round
his neck —he could have passed as a
venerable chaplain himself, chaplains be-
ing always so closely associated with
crosses of one kind or another.


m
m
K?
ass
'fausabi
/il#
■
CLOTH
4
m
W
iIARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Films
WEEKLY to
For travellers to New Zealand on business
or pleasure, Tasman’s more frequent and
faster service with first-class “hotel”
amenities en route, provides the perfect
combination of speed with comfort.
And for the economical air-express
transport of all types of air cargo,
Tasman provides unparalleled speed and
efficiency on the ground and in the air.
Reservations for passengers
and freight can be made
through any office or agent
of QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, principal agents
in Australia for ....
ds
&
&
m iitiiiArvim iiicv t ?
aSUAwJrUd If If Uuk
* • • ••••• •• •• •• • • '
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“The first reform to be considered by the
Government would be the reduction of classes
from 45 to 50 pupils, but to do this 1000
additional teachers would be heeded.”
:—Melbourne “Age.”
Clearly a “Labor” Government.
•J* •& . :
“I am to be married shortly, and want some
advice on the signing of my name.”
—Correspondent in daily paper.
Watch how your husband signs his
cheques, dear, and copy that.
•i* 4*
“Today women are race-minded as never
before.” —“New Idea. v
Still, it doesn’t seem to be helping the
birthrate much.
*b
Self-portrait.
I’m no A polio; all can see
I’m ancient, battered, bent and bony.
There’s nothing statuesque in me
Except the fact that / am stoney.
Nat.
4* *J* As
“The recent tram strike proved that the city
would be far better off without trams.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
There’d be less overhead expenses, any-
way,
.J. v »!»
“Cosmetics were first used to preserve and
adorn the dead —not the living.” —“New Idea.”
But they were soon handed down from
mummies to daughters.
4* 4*
“A man should stick to his wife through
thick and thin.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
He’s more likely to do so if she retains
a normal figure.
“Theft on big scale is alleged.”— “Sun.”
Bashed and robbed on a weighbridge,
eh?
•b »b *b *b
“Experienced, inexperienced man wanted, .no
Saturday work, for shoemakers.” — “S.M.H.”
Doesn’t matter how good he is pro-
vided he’s useless.
•b »b *b *b
“So much then for the origin of Boogie;
next month I shall outline the technicalities
of this ‘new’ style and attempt to show how
pianists may most easily cultivate Boogie
Woogie and master the left-hand movement.”
—“Music Maker.”
Meanwhile, we’re praying for another
printers’ strike.
•b ' *b *b *b
“Men’s ties are a problem these days.
— “Woman.”
A knotty one, too.
•b *b *b *b
“Hogg wins by speed.”— "S.M.H: heading.
So that’s how the bacon got away!
•b *b *b *b
“Wanted, tricycle for 5 years old doll’s
pram, or scooter, pay well.” •
— “Daily,’ l " Mosman ( N.S.W .)
Evidently it’s tired of being pushed
around. »
*b« *b *b *b
“Melbourne man builds house on wrong
block of land.” —News item.
. He took a lot for granted.
•b *b *b *b
Variation of An Old Refrain.
My Bonnie goes down to the ocean,
My Bonnie goes down to the sea.
She always creates a commotion —
There’s so much of Bonnie to see.
C.
•b *b *b *b
“English song-writer Jack Hylton has written
a song dedicated to Molotov and entitled
“I’m Just a Guy That Must Say No.”
—News item.
Doc. Evatt’s theme song, of course, ia
“All Over the Place.”
“The quiet girl gets the wedding bells and
the best husband.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
She can always have her say later on.
•b *b *b *b
“Baby grand for bride.” —Social note.
Just what "the doctor ordered.
“Public demonstrations of affection between
engaged conpies are m article
“Sugar rhe called his bride-elect; '
That merely shorn how lore is blind
A „ddet£ There on the beach they
c , ct
So sweet, but yet so unrefined
Traymon.
Domestic Discord.
“A wife told the London Divorce Court
that her husband held a Bible in one hand and
hit her with the other.” —“Sunday Telegpaph. ’
Here was a doughty Covenanter,
As dour as any Hielandman
That ever fought a rival clan
In sporran, kilts and tam-o’-shanter.
Domestic wrangles „ in a canter,
He’d win before the fight began,
For, pausing fist and Book to scan.
She’d see his point of view instanter
Besides, if she were stubborn and
Could imperturbably withstand
His gentler efforts to upbraid her.
You’ll notice that he could command
Assistance from his other hand.
And use a weightier persuader.
P. M. LUSK.
Hot Number.
If it be true that I am fated
To very shortly be cremated,
I’m certain this will not unduly
Discourage or distress yours truly.
For all my life in joyous fashion
I have adored the flames of passion ;
So why should I lament or grizzle
At terminating with a sizzle ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Walkover.
“Before the war Hirohito ran an annual
poetry contest, always won first prize because
no one was game to defeat him.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
In dim, remote Athenian days
Fierce competition for the bays
That crowned the honored man of verse
Made living for a poet worse
Than fighting at the siege of Troy;
Likewise the bard and minstrel boy
In lusty medieval times
Worked hard and long to peddle rhymes
While jousters laid aside the flagon
To try conclusions with a dragon ;
This Emperor had the ambition
To enter every competition.
Assured he’d have an open go
And win it—ex officio.
D. H. E.
More Candid Confessions.
“A Cornish vicar, after hearing a recorded
broadcast of his sermon, said; ‘I listened to
an awful, parsonical voice and was horrified
when I realised it was my own. The unctuous
piety and affected manner of speaking, the
precise and pedantic phrases were revolting.’ ”
“I happened to catch sight of a photo,
in a Belgrade window,” said. Marshal,
Tito, “and I thought to myself, well, if
ever there was a twirp got up to look like
a composite of Colonel Popoff, the Duke
of Plaza Toro, a picture-show commis-
sionaire, a bandsman and a Cockney
pearly king there’s one! The ridicu-
lously stilted pose, the chest poked out.
“Wait till I catch you—T'll settle
you with a squirt of D.D.T.!“
the put-on-for-the-occasion stern look
to give him the appearance of the
strong-silent-hero type, the hair that had
patently just come out of bobby-pins—
why, you could almost get the overpow-
ering whiff of cheap scent that such a
poisonous type always uses. Then I
looked a bit closer and saw that it was
one of the seventeen-hundred-odd photos
I’d had taken of myself for the Allied
press when me and me gang of pa-harti-
sans were going through the motions of
fighting the Germans. I undoubtedly
must have been, and still am, a horrible
piece of work. And the corns I’ve ac-
quired through crawling to the Kremlin
on my belly is nobody’s business! ”
After putting down the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald,”' Mr. W- Fairfax said, “Well
I never! If it hadn’t happened that I was
stuck for something to read and in des-
peration picked up my own paper I might
never have realised what a political
twister the Old Girl really .is. One week
We’re tearing into MbKell and Chifley
and slobbering over the Liberals, and the
next we can’t find a good word for the
Libs., while at the same time we’re almost
cracking our necks to pat Billy and Ben
on the backs! I must find out one
of these days if the paper has a policy,
and how you go about sticking to it once
you’ve got one.”
After hearing a rebroadcast of a Par-
liamentary debate, Mr. A. Cal well re-
marked : “I was busy in me office calcu-
latin’ how many more reffos I could git
priorities for before the mob started to
git too snaky about it when a
droolin’, monotonous voice that sounds
like a rusty breadsaw goin’ through
tinplate and talkin’ the most awful
tripe, made me leap up an’ make a dive
for the knob. Just then the voice stopped
an’ I ’ears Sol. say somethin’ about the
Hon. the Minister for Information an’
Immigration. I realised then the bread-
saw-through-tin voice musta bin me
maggin’! No wonder I’m such a neck-
pain for the poor devils who chune into
the nash-nal stations of an afternoon.
An’ ’ave y ? ever ’card anything more
bone-’eaded than me interjections?”
“Before giving up my portfolio,” said
Mr. F. M. Forde, “I happened to be look-
ing over some of the minutes I’d made on
a few thousand of the reports I’d called
for. For sheer fatuity and drivel there’s
nothing like them in history. Really, it
brought home to me forcibly then that I
was an even greater dud in the job than
the public thought. How they ever came
to pick me to be Ministerial head of the
Army when I didn’t know the difference
between a breech-block and a deployment
is something I still marvel at. Now I’ve
been pitchforked into another job about
which I know even less than the one I
messed up. Ben says I’ll be a great
success in it. Why, he dispenses more
bull than .ever I did, and that’s saying
a lot.”
“I happened lately,” explained M.
Molotov, “to be in a Moscow newsreel
theatrette. I’d just finished laughing—
silently, of course, for the usual cursed
N.K.V.D. members were sprinkled
through the audience —at Joe’s squeaky
voice delivering a speech at some purge
or other when they gave a shot of me
making a sjieech at a Big Four meeting.
The smirk on my face as I warmly shook
hands with Bevin and Byrnes made me
positively writhe. But the sickening
hypocrisy I displayed later when 1
suavely agreed to meet the Anglo-Saxons
half-way in disarmament, whilst knowing
full well that the Soviet intended to keep
arming to the teeth despite any commit-
ments to the contrary, was as good as an
emetic. If ever there was a slimier thing
than me you’d have to lift a wet stone to
find it.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4»d. per line; all others 2%d. per line.
Whyalla and B.H.P.
Anyone who goes to Whyalla (S.A.) to
work soon becomes disgusted with the
lack of appreciation shown to the B.H.P.
by officials and members of the Iron-
workers Union and others too numerous
to mention. An anti-Communist, I re-
fused to join the Ironworkers when I
arrived and they threatened to blackball
me.
Every day dozens of workers may be
seen queueing up at the doctor’s and not
worrying the slightest about the fee, be-
cause they know that is paid by B.H.P.
All medical fees are, except in the case
of operations, when the company pays
half. Tlje hospital is one of the best in
the State. B.H.P. paid for most of it.
The housing position here is the best in
any large country town. About 700 new
houses have been built by B.H.P. in the
last four years. A five-roomed house
is rented at ss. a week, a six-roomer at
6s. a week. And the occupier does not
have to chase the landlord all the
time to have repairs done —the company
has workmen constantly on the job look-
ing for repairs.
The milk supply is of the highest
standard, and dairy equipment is second
to none. The milk doesn’t come into con-
tact with the air until the customer takes
the wad off the milk-bottle. Pipes which
carry the milk are all of stainless steel,
and are all sterilised before being used
again. Empty bottles are washed with
hot caustic soda from powerful jets, then
with hot water, and are then sterilised
with steam. The bottling machine, fed
from an airtight 500-gallon stainless-steel
tank, will bottle 2000 bottles an hour.
D.D.T. is sprayed on the walls of the
milking-shed.
All this is done by 8.H.P., with no
thanks from the Communist element.
The rabbit-proof fence now being built
around Whyalla is also a B.H.P. job.
While they are at it they might make it
Commo-proof, too. —N. I. J. (S.A.).
Victoria’s Transport Strike
The Victorian railways pay no divi-
dends to shareholders, no income tax,
no municipal rates and no water rates.
The employees get all “the fruits of their
labor” and more—out of taxes.
But they want still more and that is
why they went on strike. The only way
they can get more is by the people pay-
ing increased fares and freights or by the
Victorian Government borrowing money
to pay increased wages. The estimated
deficit this' year on the railways is
£1,250,000.
Commissioners responsible to Parlia-
ment were appointed to manage the
railways, but Mr. Brown, secretary
of the A.R.U., usurped control and
ordered the railway employees to
stop. They obeyed him. That is
“Dictatorship of the Proletariat”—the
Communist policy. Will this dictatorship
be allowed to continue without the Gov-
ernment or the Parliament or the people
resisting and defeating it? That is the
issue.— Shanks Pony (Vic.).
Moresby
Two young women gave the press
“A Story of Port Moresby.” I suspect
the ladies based their information on a
very brief visit, and I’d like to supply the
real story of Moresby.
The first thing I’d like to tell them is
that there is a Government vegetable and
fruit garden and that the Government
market sells twice weekly—green vege-
tables and fruits, both tropical and other-
wise. There is more than enough for
the white population, and what is left
over is given to hospitals and non-resi-
dents of Moresby.
Second point: We have a comfortable
20-passenger bus service running to an
hourly time-table from 8 a.m. to 10.30
p.m. The service is well organised and
free. There is also a water-taxi service
from point to point.
There are two free picture shows in
Moresby, one at Air Force Headquarters
at Donedobu, the other at Murray
Barracks. We have dances at the
R.S.S.A.I.L. club house at least twice a
week. We have well-organised golf,
cricket and tennis clubs, and the Moresby
Amateur Dramatic Society produces
plays for our entertainment. No one
could justly say that we’re not well
catered for in the way of amusement.
Moresby has the best drinking water
I’ve tasted for years. Sydney, Brisbane,
Tamworth and Toowoomba water sup-
plies are probably more modem, but
the taste of the water is not so sweet.
Natives do own trucks and jeeps. They
also own ships.. But these are bought
with village council funds. Native in-
terpreters in Government departments
have advance knowledge of disposals
sales and relay the information to village
councils. Expert native motor mechanics
trained by whites examine the listed
vehicles, and since council funds can be
counted in thousands of pounds, very
few whites can outbid them at the sales.
All Papuan natives are not thieves.
The Administration is too strict for that.
Every person with a motor vehicle must
prove his legal right to it before his
licence is granted. True, we don’t regard
the native as our “black brother,” but
we don’t run' to the opposite extreme,
either.
W e do have a week without fresh Aus-
tralian beef, pork and mutton, but our
fellow-workers in Australia create the
shortages by waterfront and other strikes
which hold up shipping. When our huge
freezer is empty, however, a local resi-
dent supplies some fresh beef.
Admittedly the housing shortage is
acute, but the Administration is doing its
best. Beautiful homes were either de-
stroyed by enemy action or borrowed by
the Australian and American Armies
and taken inland for officers’ messes and
other buildings. Requests to Australia for
materials bring the inevitable answer
that “shortage of materials prevents us
from supplying your order.” Contractors
to the Papuan Administration, however,
are providing homes as fast as supplies
of materials permit.
Regarding town hygiene, we do have
sewerage and septic tanks, plus a few of
the old-system lavatories. There is a
weekly visit by the sanitary and garbage
disposals squads, provided by the native
jail authorities. Prisoners sweep the
gutters mornings and evenings.
Respecting food, in my mess eggs and
bacon are included in breakfast menus
more often than beans and curried rice.
The same with other messes. And the
stores are filled with food and clothing.
There are no coupons and no queues,
nor is there any taxation. Tinned milks
are necessary, but, given a chance to re-
build a really war-damaged country,
we’ll soon have the pre-war dairies and
butcheries again.
* The people who returned to Moresby
still have the old spirit. They proved
that by returning entirely to different and
difficult conditions. I returned with some
200 of them, and I take off my hat to
them all.—H. G- Layt, J.P. (Port
Moresby).
Ways of Electors
I assisted in the distribution of Liberal
how-to-vote cards on election-day, and
noted the approach of the different
parties.
Country-party workers diffidently
handed cards to those they considered
supporters. The Liberal party adopted
a similar course, but went after all voters
in a more aggressive manner.
Labor, with an army of supporters in
the field, saw to it that as far as pos-
sible every voter was supplied with a
Labor how-to-vote card and verbal in-
structions. Vigor, enterprise and deter-
mination characterised the whole pro-
gramme.
Did this have something to do with the
Labor victory? I think it did. A per-
centage of voters will give their vote
to the party which presents its case most
forcibly.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
As a scrutineer at our school, I was
amazed at the number of people from
“better-class suburbs” who endorsed
their ballot papers with “Pull your head
in,” “You’re all mugs” and similar re-
marks. To such cases the penalty of £2
for not voting should be extended. —
Scrutineer (N.S.W.).
In my electorate there were three can-
didates, only one of whom (the Country-
party man) was a returned soldier. As a
scrutineer I carefully examined over 800
voting papers giving first preference to
Labor. In every case the second pre-
ference went to the non-soldier Liberal.
This in spite, of the fact that the C.P.
man had a brilliant war record, having
enlisted as a private and attained the
rank of brigadier.
Labor has not, and never has had, any
time for returned soldiers. The sooner
servicemen and -women and their depen-
dants wake up to that fact the better for
themselves and Australia as a whole.—
Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
After serving at many Federal elections
as assistant presiding officer, I am con-
vinced that two amendments to the
Electoral Act are long overdue. The
first is the prohibition of how-to-vote
cards. On September 28 voters were
entering the booth with bouquets of such
cards, which served only to deepen their
confusion and to litter the floor.
The second reform needed is a strength-
ening of the absent-voting provision,
which was never intended for voters too
lazy to vote in their own subdivisions. I
know that the declaration made covers
this matter, but unscrupulous people, to
avoid a little inconvenience, will sign any
declaration put before them. — Torreken
Farm (Vic.).
A Letter of Thanks
A few weeks ago my wife and I re-
ceived a parcel of groceries sent by good
people in Australia to the old people of
this borough. Let me thank them through
The Bulletin. Parcels are distributed
with the utmost care through the agency
of our Mayor and our local Women’s
Aid Department.
I am an old soldier of the 1914-18
war and am now 66. I served in France
“ I'm jist doin' a bit of strenuous thinkin'!"
with the 25th Siege Battery, and for a
good while was in the Somme and Ypres
areas with the Ist Anzac Corps. In
Joe Mason, of the Medical Corps, is still
alive and kicking may I thank him for
his kindness to me when I was in hos-
pital at Ypres? My thoughts also go out
to Harold Carrol, a good pal to me on
the Somme.— Albert M- Morsley
(East London).
„ I, , ,
r.-0.-w. Health *
It’s easy to remember the words of the
late Captain Davidson, the m.o. who per-
formed miracles on Ambon: “If you
fellows get back alive count 25 years
out of your life.”
The men who lived under appalling
conditions in Jap prison-camps for almost
four years were so glad to be back home
again that most of them did their utmost
to gain Civvy-street as soon as the Army
would permit. The Army facilitated their
discharges in a way that surprised the
optimists. All had thought that the
medical histories behind them would keep
them in hospital, or at least under obser-
vation, for years. The greatest surprise
was that Discharge Depots were not
in possession of the personal records that
Australian m.os. in prison-camps had
religiously kept, mainly for the purpose
of correct medical treatment when the
survivors were repatriated.
And so out they went, happy but not
healthy. Some have dropped dead since
then; most have been forced to seek
medical attention, either privately or
through Repat., and some have realised
that there will come a time when they
must ask for pension benefits, much
harder to get later than it would have
been on discharge.
It must be realised that cruel treatment,
disease and malnutrition went hand in
hand with existence in Jap prison-camps.
Beriberi, malaria, dysentery, typhus,
cholera, tuberculosis, starvation and
murder put Australians under foreign
soil from Timor to Mukden. Not many
of those who came back escaped the
ravages and permanent effects of some
disease for which there was no available
treatment. Recovery was a matter of
courage, plus the m.os.’ extempore treat-
ment, and was never complete. Any one
of those heroic doctors will admit that
today.
As one who saw and suffered these
things I feel the urgency of a problem
that demands attention and solution. In
hospital and out I have spoken to many
others with the miserable legacy of ill-
health, and heard about cases that have
become tragedies because the error of
hasty discharge was made 12 months ago.
Many ex-p.-0,-w. in civvies today believe
that they are reasonably healthy. They
could be, but a little thought might make
them feel doubtful of the future.
It is time that Repat. called all ex-
p.-0.-w. for thorough medical examina-
tion. If medical histories are still avail-
able, and they should be, the Govern-
ment may not have to pay out war pen-
sions certain to be claimed sooner or
later. What is more, lives will be saved.
Sgt. Damocles (Vic.).
“Kindly and Amiable?”
We didn’t have long to wait for
humanitarians such aS “R.C.S.” (B.
16/10/’46) to start upbraiding us for our
attitude towards the beaten Japs.
“A kindly and amiable race!” I’ve
seen them laughing like hell at the antics
of an Australian p.-0.-w. trying to
protect his raw “trench feet” as he was
marched to the stone quarry to break
and carry rocks all day.
And the educated Jap is no different
from the coolie in his sadism, as the case
of “Dr. Death” at Tamuan Camp
illustrates. “Dr. Death’s” little trick was
to force splintered bamboo down the
throat of any unfortunate dog that hap-
pened to be caught within the camp area.
And it wasn’t only that playful habit that
earned him his sobriquet, —A. F. B. (Vic.).
Merchant Service
I agree with “Tackline S.” (B. 9/10/’46)
on the mediocre prospects offering in the
Merchant Service. Nevertheless, the
standard of the Board of Trade examina-
tion becomes higher every year, calling
for a far better education than was
required some years ago.
After passing his first exam for second
mate, the junior officer can expect to
suffer a number of indignities that the
ordinary seaman would not tolerate, and
at a wage that is likely to work out less
per month than an A.B. receives. Only
a small proportion of mates can become
masters, and most certificated men have
to spend their sea career in subordinate
positions.
The man in the fo’c’sle is better off
in many ways. He has a degree of in-
dependence never attained by any mate,
and he has good working conditions
with a militant union to back him up
if anyone treads on his toes. At the
worst he can always pack his bag and
get another ship without much difficulty.
A mate is more or less tied to one com-
pany.
By and large there is little inducement
for the A.B. to study for a ticket and he
knows it. ' Many youngsters who serve
their time in the half-deck are soon
looking for a job ashore. Any youth
who has the educational qualifications
for an apprenticeship could put his
knowledge to better use ashore. If he
must go to sea he should ship before
the mast.— Seahawk (Q.).
Talkies in Churches
I can assure “Usher” (B. 16 /10/’46)
that the church in my small corner is
advancing with the times. A few years
ago innovations were severely frowned
on and no play or film was allowed in
the church. Nov*' at regular intervals
talkies dealing with sacred subjects are
part of the Sabbath programme. Those
I have seen have been well acted and
directed, and with suitable encourage-
ment could be made valuable adjuncts
to church worship.
We also have live-artist performances,
with talent recruited from church mem*
bers and dialogue and lighting effects
used in a way best calculated to give life
and color to the Scriptures. The reward
has been larger flocks to the fold and
a deeper understanding of Bible teach-
ings. As one old Wesleyan said; “Why
should the devil get the best inventions.
—Bozo (Vic.).


A Good Samaritan
In N. S. Wales alone there are 592
Diggers from the 1914-18 war still in
hospital. Another 1*1,130 are registered
as out-patients. In the same State there
are 1125 in-patients from the 1939-45
war and 36,750 registered out-patients.
In these days they must survey the
country for which they fought and are
still suffering with very mixed feelings.
One man who has not forgotten them
is Malcolm McKenzie, a Sydney engineer
and a 1914-18 Digger. A Maonlander,
he came to Australia and settled in the
West; he enlisted from Kalgoorlie in the
28th Battalion and served with distinction
in France. Wounded, gassed and twice
“mentioned,” he returned to Australia
in a hospital ship, but soon found his feet
in business. When depression hit he
went off prospecting. He met hard times
and was down to the bottom of his
pocket and of his tuckerbox when, in
1934, he uncovered rich ore on the Ora
Banda field outside Kalgoorlie. The Wes-
tralian Government named it McKenzie’s
Find.
McKenzie is a fine sample of the Old
Digger. The results of his 1914-18 service
have had him in and out of hospital ever
since 1919 ; but, despite that and other
setbacks and hardships, his spirit is still
sound. A keen yachtsman, he remem-
bered what the sea and open sky had
meant to him after one stretch of 10
months of gazing at the four walls and
ceiling of a hospital ward, and determined
to bring the same pleasure to as many
ailing Diggers as possible.
That was over two years ago. Since
then he has given his week-ends to taking
over 3000 Australian, British, 'Maoriland,
American, Canadian and S’African
patients from military hospitals out on
to the open waters and under the open
sky. His own yacht was commandeered
for war service, and lost by enemy action;
but other Sydney sailing men gladly lent
their craft for his scheme. When the war
ended and yachtsmen began refitting, the
R.N. willingly provided McKenzie with
boats to carry on his good work. When
the R.N. left these parts the R.A.N. pro-
vided the necessary launches in handsome
fashion.
In a typical week McKenzie had about
60 passengers from Army hospitals on
Sydney Harbor. There were ex-p.-0.-w
who have been in hospital ever since they
returned to Australia ; 1914-18 Diggers ;
men on crutches and limbless men;
servicewomen still suffering from the
effects of tropical service; there was a
man who fought with the Sparrow Force
in Timor long after the Japs had opcu-
pied the island and whose son served with
R.A.A.F. Catalinas. They were taken all
round Sydney Harbor, shown the Shrop-
shire in the Captain Cook dock, the
yachts and launches in the picturesque
bays and the fine homes on the fore-
shores. They lunched in the sun beside the
old rock carvings at Quarantine; went
through the Heads for a run on the open
sea, and then cruised slowly up the long,
calm reaches of Middle Harbor, They
returned to hospital happy, laughing and
soaked with sunshine and fresh sea air.
Next week McKenzie will be out again
with another 70 or 80 hospital patients.
And the week after that. Four regular
volunteers from the R.A.N. L.S.
Longue, Stoker Wiberley and A.Bs.
Sheehan and Stewart —will be with him
as usual, boiling billies, carting gear and
tuckerboxes and helping the lame.
This is doing a job and showing a spirit
that could be copied with advantage in
other places. —Oliver Filter (N.S.W.).
The Serviceman’s Lot
I met a man who had fought in
Greece with the Sixth Division. The
Germans captured him in 1941 and he
was’ released last year. Today he has a
station job outback, 40 miles from the
nearest town. Wages aren’t high, and
sometimes the hours are long. He’s 31 —
the age when, physically, most men are
at their best—but his endurance has gone.
He’s hoping for better pay and an easier
job.
Comparatively, this man is fortunate.
Outback, in season, there’s good money
for anyone who can use a rifle or who is
willing to spend half the night with traps
or poison. Usually the stations have a
vacant shearer’s hut, or a second-hand tent
can be bought cheap for shelter. These
privileges are lost to the city dweller.
Fifteen months after VP-Day ex-
servicemen haven’t achieved the things for
which they fought—freedom from want
and from fear. Today they still believe
in these things, but their thoughts are a
little confused. Doubt creeps into their
minds, and sometimes there is fear! Short-
sighted legislation has created difficulties
unnoticed until peace arrived ; war-time
problems remain unsolved.
The promised jobs have not yet
materialised. Men unsuited to the work
offered may drift back to the services,
but the inducements are slight—pay and
privileges are low in comnarknn with
standards prevailing in the armed forces
of the U.S.A. Men with ambition,
intelligence, integrity and leadership are
met with frustration. There is no room
for advancement. They may be in on
the ground floor, but there they stay.
Everywhere there is urgent need for
housing. Building material of all kinds
remains unprocurable. Deferred pay and
savings cannot long meet the exorbitant
demands of landlords and provide for
high-priced clothing and food.
The men who fought for Australia
deserve better than this. — Atlanta (Q )-
The Australian Spirit?
In the heat of the Federal elections we
were able to learn by air from all sorts
of people why they backed all the differ-
ent parties. One lady, all of 19 and
secretary of the A.L.P. branch at the
university, expounded her opinions.
A listener would be pardoned for ex-
pecting to hear something original from
a young person attending the highest
institution in the State. But what did we
hear? Labor catchcries repeated duti-
fully, like a catechism. From the way
the young woman prated about social
security one would have thought she was
59 and wondering desperately if she was
eligible for the old-age pension. Oh, for
our rough and rude “currency” lads and
lasses, who saw a wild, huge land to
conquer!
Don’t these youngsters appreciate a
world, lately made safe for them by the
efforts of men like Getting, Newton and
Derrick; by men of Sydney, Perth
and Yarra ; by the A.I.F. on the Kokoda
trail; by the Wirraways at Rabaul? It’s
impossible to assess what we owe to
their spirit—but for it the elections could
not have been held at all. — Suburbia
(N.S.W.).
Shortage of Teachers
For some time now the number of
teachers leaving the profession has ex-
ceeded the quota of trainees available
to take their places. School attendances
continue to grow, and when the school
leaving age is raised still more teachers
will be needed.
In Queensland the Education Depart-
ment has met the problem by reducing
the course at the Teachers’ Training
Colleg'e from two years to 18 months.
This is obviously side-stepping the issue
and can only be a temporary measure.
On no grounds can the present standard
of teaching be lowered without harmful
effects to the community.
Many young people are not attracted
to teaching because they can do better
elsewhere. Those who are convinced that
teaching is their real vocation are, after a
brief period at the training college,
appointed on probation to some school
anywhere in Queensland. A teacher is
expected to serve for a year or two in
the country, unless, of course, there is
someone with sufficient influence to keep
her, or him, in town. Though the new
assignment is hundreds of miles away,
reasonable notice is rarely given.
The department does not concern it-
self with accommodation available, if
any, and the young teacher may have to
board at a (or the) pub. There may be
worse places for a young man, but it’s
asking a good deal of any young girl to
live in such an atmosphere. The only
remedy at present is for parents to insist
on her returning home.
Country schools would be far better
served if they were staffed by teachers
over 21.—C. H. (Q.).
Life-saving Clubs
With the coming of summer Australians
will again flock to the beaches and, every
day, lives will be saved because we have
trained men and the necessary equipment
on our beaches.
It’s impossible to calculate the value
of the work done by these young men —
I have seen as many as 40 rescues effected
in one afternoon when the surf was
rough. Payment for the service usually
comes from two sources —public money,
in the form of Council grants, helps to
build clubhouses, and the clubs must find
the rest themselves. Collections at surf
carnivals, dances and other entertain-
ments are the usual means.
Fire-insurance companies willingly help
to pay for the upkeep of fire brigades —
it’s a money-saving investment. Surely
life-insurance companies are in a similar
position regarding the saving of lives, and
it would be in their own interests to assist
the surf life - saving clubs.—T. P. V.
(N.S.W.).
Gold
If “Alpha” (B. 30/10/’46) visits any
large Japanese city and looks in the shop
windows he may not be so dogmatic
about the value of gold. He will see
many things offered for sale that we
could do with here at home, and will also
see articles made 'from materials that we
produce to excess in Australia. If he
uses his imagination a little he will realise
that it might be a good thing to exchange,
say, some Jap silk for some Australian
wool. Then let him consider just how
the exchange can be made.
A squatter in Australia has, say, 100
bales of wool; but he wouldn’t know
what to do with its equivalent in silk
even if he knew how to make the trade.
And if he sold his wool at auction to a
Jap buyer and received a large bag of
yen he wouldn’t know what to do with
them, either. Fortunately for him, how-
ever, the banks will accept the Jap yen
from the buyer and give him Australian
pounds to pay to the squatter. The bank
will then pass on those yen to somebody
else who will use them to buy silk in
Japan, ship it to Australia, sell it for
Australian pounds and then return them
to the bank. But to do all these compli-
cated things there must be some common
factor to use for the valuation of wool,
silk, yen and pounds. For thousands of
years gold has been that factor.
It would, of course, be possible to de-
vise a system of exchange independent of
gold, but it would need to be universally
accepted. The chances of anything being
done along those lines in the near future
are so remote that gold is in urgent de-
mand in most countries of the world
today.
Here in Australia the production of
gold is particularly desirable. It provides
employment and, for the most part, uses
materials produced locally. And, as we
have a large external debt, it provides
a ready means of paying interest, when,
through drought, lack of shipping or
high-production cost, it becomes difficult
for us to pay in commodities. — Harap
(Vic.).
The distinction drawn by “Alpha” be-
tween gold and real wealth is sound
enough, but surely irrelevant while gold
remains the most acceptable of all ex-
ports. Let “A.” look back to the depres-
sion years. What happened then to the
prices of wool and wheat? Yet gold
more than doubled its value in terms of
the world’s leading currencies.
There have been times in this genera-
tion when it looked as if gold was on its
way out. But today the trend is all in
the other direction. The more unsettled
the political outlook the more men (and
Governments) desire something solid
and tangible as the standard of value.
Such an attitude may be primitive, but
it exists, and, as a gold-producing
country, we can benefit from it.
While gold remains freely exchange-
able for the imports we need it does,
almost literally, feed and clothe us. —
Col (N.S.W.).
Car Parking
The need for parking space in Sydney
is now a serious problem, and one that
will increase as restrictions are eased on
cars, tyres and petrol. The authorities
have wisely controlled kerb-parking, but
motorists must find places to leave their
cars during the day. Business and profes-
sional men heed special consideration,
and some day it may be found necessary
“I must play up to her , as she doesn't understand English."
to issue permits for city traffic which
would preclude the unessential motorists
from entering prescribed areas during
business hours.
The most feasible suggestion so far
advanced is that of underground park-
ing areas. Hyde Park has been men-
tioned as being suitable in position and
size, but a point to be considered is the
traffic congestion which would arise
through approaching and departing cars,
especially at peak hours. Daily hundreds
of cars would arrive from every direction
about the same time, and form into
long queues waiting to enter the park.
A similar situation would arise in the
evening, and tb* xasulting traffic blocks
would be even more chaotic than the
pedestrian traffic at Wynyard.
One has only to visualise the stream
of traffic on the Harbor Bridge, or from
Oxford-street or William-street, to say
nothing of Parramatta-road and other
main arteries, to picture the utter confu-
sion which would arise as each traffic
stream converged upon College-street by
Hyde Park. The use of Elizabeth-street
on the other side of the park cannot be
considered; as it is already overcrowded
with both pedestrian and tram traffic.
One central parking area, no matter how
spacious, would never solve the traffic
problem, and the very fact of it being
central would defeat its objective.
Cars must be diverted to different areas
as widely apart as possible. One site
might be selected to cater for the cars
from the Northern Suburbs, arriving by
way of the Bridge. An area in the
vicinity of old Fort-street school might
serve. Cars entering the city via Oxford-
street should have their separate area,
possibly in the vicinity of College-street.
From William-street and Double Bay the
traffic might be diverted towards the
Domain —and so on. The underground
idea is a good one, but the avoidance of
traffic congestion in the approaches to
parking areas should be a matter of para-
mount importance. —C. E. T. (N.S.W.).
A Non-starter
After deep thought I have decided not
to join the band of racehorse owners,
even if anyone feels the urge to donate
one to me —not an owner, a horse.
Costs of feeding and training the
animal alone would run to £5 a week,
and I’d have to gamble on it to make
ends meet. Its morning gallops would
be vetted by the newshawks who draw
attention with large headlines to any out-
standing work-out. I would be pestered
for periodical statements of my inten-
tions. If I failed to give the desired in-
formation I’d be rapped over the
knuckles by some sporting editor and
informed of my “duty to the public.” If
I did give it I’d allow the underworld
fringe of racing to back my horse on the
Friday blackmarket and spoil the price
for the stable (me).
Should my horse become a champion
I’d no longer be master of its fate. The
newspapers would select its races, the
speculative punter would take the cream
of the market, and woe betide me if I
decided not to nominate. I’d be “letting
the public down,”, although no individual
punter ever helped me with the feed bill.
If I answered the petulant wails of
pre-post bettors by remarking that the
only legal place to bet was on the course
on the day of the race, as a Sydney
trainer did in Melbourne recently, I’d be
subjected to a barrage of newspaper
criticism that would blast me into silence
and submission.
Any delay in making up my mind on
the neddy’s programme for months ahead
would draw a reproof from scribes,
and any deviation from it would bring a
“please explain” on the ground that I
had “failed to take the public into my
confidence.” I still can’t see what obli-
gation I have to strangers who would
abuse me raucously and obscenely if the
animal ran a bad race.
If, eventually, 1 managed to take any-
thing out of the Ring, some sensation-
loving press mathematician would
multiply it by 10 or so and I’d have the
devil’s own job convincing the taxation
authorities that I wasn’t beating the
Treasury.
Thus, as my main functions would be
those of improving the woefully low
averages of newspaper tipsters and en-
larging the bankrolls of work-shy black-
market punters, I simply won’t have any
disgusted owner unloading his prad and
his responsibility on to me. This deci-
sion is irrevocable. — Barwon (N.S.W.).


m
SO
%
>»■//
&
m
m
Hi
i$S
fa
;■ •'■ : :
%
■rsi
ks?
m
-,
1
7 :■
m
7 ,A
m
W
4*%?.
r 1
*c
O'.
m
m
M
■/' /*
w
r/
"v/
///U
so
«///
»r
4 1 *
UH
>
\.M.
IK
;/it
rn
A
f,
ft.
ceoßic v
Gf'lANoei. /
y
'//
v
r<?
P*
MUST WE SUFFER
IN NEW
SOUTH WALES?
6 O’CLOCK CLOSING
DENIES US CIVILISED
LIVING CONDITIONS
The average man enjoys a drink when his
day’s work is done. Deserves it, too. Very
few, however, enjoy the “jungle law” con-
ditions under which that drink is consumed
to-day. These conditions will continue as long
as 6 o’clock closing is with us. When bars and
lounges remain open until 10 p.m. men will
be able to drink in leisure and comfort . . .
will drink in greater moderation . . . and
women, too, will be able to join their menfolk
in the enjoyment of a quiet evening drink.
The proposed new trading hours (10 a.m. to
10 p.m., with hotels closed by law for an hour
between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m.) are the
sensible solution, the only solution, to exist-
ing 66 jungle law” drinking conditions.
Foi Comfort and Moderation —Vote 10 O’CLOCK
A.-' ' ' ' > •
Inserted by U.L.V.A., 12 O’Connell St., Sydney.
UL. 1.75
