

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3438
Wednesday, January 2, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Lincoln’s Inn Fields.
jyURING the latter years of Queen Victoria’s reign, Lincoln’s
Inn Fields, the largest square in London, were acquired by the
London County Council and made available for the use of the
public. Laid out by Inigo Jones in 1618, Lincoln’s Inn Fields were
formerly used for duelling and were later haunted by footpads
until the authorities purchased the property. This view in the
series presented with the compliments of the House of Seppelts,
shows on the left, the red-brick Hall of Lincoln’s Inn, third of
the London inns of court, built on the site of a monastery of the
Black Friars. The old hall, dating from 1506, was once the Chan-
cery Court. Also facing on to Lincoln’s Inn Fields is the Royal
College of Surgeons ; Sir John Sloane’s Museum ; and Lindsay
House, numbers 59 and 60, which was a town house of the
earls of Lindsay.


vf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your N ew p ree
Booklet, explaining how to Write Jor Profit, u
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
j ty Name
My Address
S.B. 246 ..
.AGE.
The Red Page
KARL SHAPIRO'S POETRY.
When the U.S. Army was in Australia
it brought with it Ane real, live, fully-
fledged American poet: Karl Shapiro, a
young man, dark, lithe and eager, whose
first volume of poems, Person, Place and
Thing, published in 1942, had quickly
won him a reputation,
Shapiro was seen around Melbourne,
Brisbane and Sydney (once in the hostelry
three or four doors down George-street
from The Bulletin office); and while
he was exploring the cities or on active
service in New Guinea a small collection
of his love poems—well written, but
seldom striking a balance between the
clinical and the exotic —was privately
published in Melbourne. He is now,
presumably, back in America.
His latest book, V-Letter (Seeker and
Warburg; Angus and Robertson), won a
Pulitzer Prize. The poems about Aus-
tralia are the weakest of the collection.
Sydney Harbor Bridge (over which more
than one poet has plunged to eternal
bathos) he sees as a queen walking in
“stays of womanly steel” . . . the poor
old Bridge! A poem about Melbourne,
describing the city as so respectable that
“even the dogs are well-behaved and
nice,” is more happily phrased, but is
confusing or contradictory. Mr. Shapiro
says that it was a mistake to build the
“sweet metropolis” because Australia is a
land of great distances “that were not
made for cities”; but then he appears to
state that Melburnians are
the wasted race
Thdt worships sullenly the sordid sheep.
Perhaps (he really cannot have seen many
flocks of sheep in Collins-street) he means
here to criticise all Australians ; or, very
likely, he doesn’t mean anything very
much.
Shapiro is a highly sophisticated poet,
much influenced by Auden, and obviously
his great difficulty is to discover what he
really feels about anything. He writes a
satirical comment on life, making only
one thing clear —that he is not to be
accused of not having read Freud and
Karl Marx; and writers who suffer from
ibis form of intellectual snobbery (the
term is to be used gently, for Shapiro’s
verses are as likeable as they are capable)
do find it very difficult to discover what
they really think or feel. The fashion of
the day provides them with stock intefiec-
i sal responses ; there is a blackmail- of
shame which inhibits them from unearth-
ing their own true, private and personal
reactions. So Shapiro finds it much easier
to satirise a movie actress;
And she speaks in her darkness alone and her
emptiness cries N -
Till her voice is as shuddering tin in the wings
of a stage,
And her beauty seems wrong as the wig of a
perfect disguise—
than to say with the proper simplicity of
poetry exactly what he himself feels in
the presence of a beautiful woman,
W. H. Davies —who, though a lyrist,
may yet emerge as, next to Yeats, the
greatest poet of the age—could look at a
butterfly sitting on a stone (stock theme,
hopeless theme, one might think) and
suddenly cry out in wonder at
This thing that has the power
To make a <stone a flower;
but Shapiro in New Guinea, with “the
largest snowiest butterfly” in the world at
his disposal, cannot or dare not make
more than a' decoration of it. And
Davies’s butterfly, of course, made the
whole world a flower.
It may be that Shapiro lacks vision;
that he is incapable of deep feeling. “Our
unfortunate century,” said William Gaunt
in The Adventure, “was born
middle-aged.” American poetry, which
opened with a splendid outcry of natural
feeling when old Walt Whitman sent out
his “barbaric yawp,” seems already,
having swallowed Auden, to have reached
that nirvana of oversophistication which,
on the other side of the Atlantic, sent
T. S. Eliot hurrying into religion in search
of new life... .something to believe,
something to feel. Shapiro himself sus-
pects that he is thus trapped:
We are too rich with books, our blood
Is heavy with over-fhoughtful food,
Our minds are gravid—and yet to try
To backtrack to simplicity
Is fatal. Every Walden fails;
Those cynical ladies of Versailles
With silken frocks and silver pails
Playing at milkmaid sicken us.
We have our war to quicken us.
In the last line—“We have our war to
quicken us”—there speaks the old Ameri-
can vigor. It is not quite true that Shapiro
lacks emotional depth. By comparison
with Kenneth Slessor’s “Five Bells” his
sonnet sequence on the death of a soldier
is too coldly analytical; yet there is a
measure of genuine emotion underlying
his poems on both war and love —particu-
larly the latter, “The Descent,” foi
instance;
Beloved and blest, I will come to you,
For a poet is a body who studies in hell;
I have seen old friends and many are well.
Heart of my heart, I have suffered, pain
And the fire is strong that is out of the cave;
I have danced in chaos with all the slain
And will come to you taller from out of the
grave.
A simple enough solution can be found
for the dilemma of .the sophisticate: to
write about unsophisticated people. It
is not to be imagined that Shakspeare and
Browning were less wise than Freud or
Karl Marx. Shapiro will never write
lyrics like W. H. Davies’s “as the bird
sings” ; but with wit, humor, facility, in-
tellect, a good share of the traditional
American gusto and none of Auden’s
pessimism, he has every qualification for
narrative or dramatic poetry —if Re can
find emotional depth in himself or in his
characters. His book as a whole leaves
one doubtful but interested.
Schools for Scandal.
In a preface to his novel The Fiddlers
of Drummond (Consolidated Press, Ltd.,
Sydney) Arthur Davies explains that the
whole story was told him by someone else,
and expresses some scruples at using his
friend’s idea. Since the latter died in ’37
(and since Mr. Davies used it, anyway),
this seems over-nice.
The Fiddlers of Drummond is a school
story, and Mr, Davies’s actual experience
of schoolteaching is dubious. At least,
some of his sketches of teachers, off-
guard, as it were, in the common-room,
are excellent, but at other times he seems
hopelessly astray. Furthermore, when a
writer apologises for his work, that work
is normally suspect. And there is some-
thing faintly apologetic about Mr.
Davies’s preface:
He [the original narrator] said it actually
happened in Canada; and he tried to make
it clearer to me by suggesting similar places
in Victoria, though it is obvious that the
school is not like Victorian schools
At times it is obvious that the school
is unlike any educational establishment
anywhere.
Despite this, the book is amusing. It
chiefly concerns the adventures of Mr.
Gladstone Cade, a land speculator who
found it politic to seek employment on
the teaching staff of Drummond, a “posh”
college in Melbourne. There Mr. Cade
prospers amazingly by virtue of his per-
sonal charm and truly formidable hypo-
crisy.
Some of the observation is shrewd.
Cade’s comment, for instance, on seeing
the spacious grounds, that there wouldn’t
be much left over for the teaching staff
after gardeners, architects, seedsmen, etc.,
had been paid. And the disparity be-
tween the salaries of Principal and
teachers is well illustrated ; as is another
anomaly, the banning of corporal punish-
ment in some schools, which usually leads
to illegal, and often more severe, punish-
ments.
But, for all its humor and shrewdness,
the observation is one-sided, and of the
acid kind suitable for caricatures rather
than portraits. Cade himself, cunning as
a serpent, good-natured, and possessing
an amorous facility sufficient to make
Don Juan hang his head in jealous shame,
is delightful. Russell, a fairly average
sceptical parent, is good; and the Rev.
Cheen, a likeable, pompous parson who
firmly believes he “understands boys” is
excellent. But the rest are dull rogues, or
dull fools, or both.
While there are bad schools, and while
there is no good reason to disbelieve that
a percentage of the teaching profession
is incompetent, Mr. Davies stretches
credulity to the limit by packing a whole
flock of pedagogic morons into one
school. And in his anxiety to underline
the incompetency and complacency he
makes at least one major blunder. Quite
a lively scene is made out of a staff meet-
ing, the object of which is to decide
whether Australian poetry should be
studied at Drummond. After some debate
the majority decide that what has been
good enough in the past will be quite
good enough for the future. While the
school must remain in the vanguard of
progress, it must not deviate from the
sound traditions of the past. All of this
is amusing enough, but in actual fact
the books, for public examinations at least,
are not determined by a few elderly fos-
sils within any particular school, but by
the Education Department. And all
schools, public or private, have public
examinations, and therefore roughly con-
form to an educational pattern for the
State. Furthermore, Australian poetry
(and prose) is studied in Australian
schools, in Victorian schools rather more
than in most. The Canada alibi, in this
case, simply does not hold water.
The same excess, and the same “de-
bunking” urge are plain in the characters
of the pupils. There is no doubt that
schoolboys, as a race, badly need de-
bunking. But in his anxiety not to repre-
sent them as saintly little chaps Mr.
Davies makes them monsters. When not
actively engaged in* making the lives of
their masters miserable by dint of
Machiavellian ingenuity (at least those
who fail to master them by superior cun-
ning, like Mr. Cade, or pound them into
submission, like Mr. Mason) the boys of
Drummond relax by wining and wench-
ing. That adolescent schoolboys do wine
and wench, when they get the chance, is
undeniable, and it is probably a grave
fault in our literature that these youth-
ful pastimes have been almost ignored.
But Mr. Davies’s schoolboys seem to do
little else. And if the average Australian
boy does not call his mother “mater,” at
least it is not usual for him to refer to
her in quite such lowly terms as do Mr.
Davies’s young hopefuls.
The book is chiefly remarkable for its
potentialities. The story is told with
gusto, bpt to do it justice it would need
to be nothing short of Rabelaisian. And to
write a successful Rabelaisian book it is
unfortunately necessary to be a Rabelais.
But there is plenty of room for a good
book on school life, either from the point
of view of a pupil or a teacher. If Mr.
Davies had been a little less heavy-handed
with his humor, and if he had presented
a balanced picture, he might have gone
a long way towards doing it. Of the best
school stories (and they are extremely
rare) Tom Brown’s School Days, with its
fag-roasting episodes and Rugby high
jinks generally, is somewhat remote from
modern taste; and it loses some of its
most interesting characters from year to
year. Stalky and Co. is captivating, but
with one exception (the Head) the teachers
are idiots, and Stalky, McTurk and Beetle
are accepted at their own valuation, some-
thing more than life size.
The Loom of Youth, which in many
ways is the best book of recent years on
school life, is marred by the strange obses-
sion modern English writers seem to have
for whatever is abnormal in adolescence.
It is significant that all of these are Eng-
lish. Perhaps this is because boarding-
schools (or Great Public Schools) have
greater prestige in England than they have
in Australia; at least they are more
firmly-rooted institutions. Yet the odd,
semi-monastic life of a large school is a
fertile field for writers; as in an army
or a jail human nature is seen with greater
intensity, because individual personalities
are rubbing shoulders with each other,
as it were, day after day. And —as is not
quite the case in armies and jails—
character is largely in the making. In
Australia the field is practically un-
touched, for Mr. Davies’s book does little
more than fiddle with the task.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Present showman was on his way to
survey “Viktoria-Moncrieff and Her
Hussar” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
when a large poster outside the Assembly
Hall in Collins-street arrested his atten-
tion. Inside, a lecturer from M.L., a
young man full of passion and convic-
tion, was telling an audience of farmers
and home-gardeners of the ruin and im-
poverishment that modem scientific agri-
culture had wrecked on the soil, not only
of Europe but of new countries like the
U.S.A., Australia and M.L., and what
miracles had been achieved in the sister
Dominion in restoring the fertility of the
soil by the use of compost. Present
writer found the subject so absorbing that
he reached His Majesty’s a trifle later
than he intended and so completely
humus-minded that he found it difficult
to disentangle his impressions of Paul
Abraham’s famous operetta from the
pressing problems of a world threatened
with soil depletion. By a remarkable co-
incidence, when he arrived he found Miss
Moncrieff, Herbert Browne, Don Nicol,
Fred Murray and others melodiously in-
volved in the harvest festival of the Hun-
garian village of Dorozsma, whose popu-
lation, judging by the healthy look of the
crops on the backcloth painted by George
Upward, still observe Nature’s cardinal
law of restoring to the soil all they take
out of it, unlike Australia, which recently
had the mortification of seeing millions
of tons of its precious topsoil blown into
the Pacific Ocean. According to the lec-
turer from M.L. there is a definite rela-
tion between full health and resistance to
disease and old age in plants, animals and
human beings and fertile soil rich in
humus, so it was possibly the influence of
the backcloth which was responsible for
the bouncing agility of the J.C.W. chorus,
the exuberance of Don Nicol and the pris-
tine freshness of Miss Moncrieff s sing-
ing. Whatever is responsible for the per-
sistence of Paul Abraham’s famous
operetta, however, it is certainly not a
return to Nature.-
Borovansky Ballet:
There’s no hint of apology now in the “Aus-
tralian” which the Borovansky ballet group,
formed in Melbourne, tacks on to its titles
And any reason for apology that may even
have existed has certainly vanished. The com-
pany has grown to a fulness of professional
maturity.
" The “Australian” doesn’t mean that - it is any
less in size or in external trappings than any
overseas company seen here in recent years,
any more than it means, or ever did mean, that
it is really Australian ballet in any sense other
than that the group was formed here and that
most of the dancers are Australian-born and
-trained. It’s a ballet company formed to
present what is traditionally known as Rus-
sian Ballet. Sometime it may develop ballet
that is typically and unmistakeably Australian,
though to do that it might have to incorporate
a few N.T. “boongs.”
Still, there’ll be need to guard against pride
in the title “Australian” overshadowing pride
in the quality of the dancing. There was
plenty of good dancing for the opening of the
company’s season at Sydney Royal, and there
was a lot more that was good enough as
dancing goes, but wholly uninspired. The
traditional “Les Sylphides” began the first
programme excellently as far as the “corps de
ballet"’ was concerned, but the principals
seemed tense and lacking in confidence. They
were more at ease in the arrangement by
Boiovansky, “Fantasy on Grieg’s Concerto in
A. Minor,” and in “Le Beau Danube; though
they missed the full gaiety of the ballet as it
can be done.
Laurel Martyn came soonest to life and en-
joyment of her dancing, and Serge Bouslofl
was dominant and vigorous. Those two, Jonet
Wilkie, Tamara Tchinarova and Martin Rubin-
stein are a fine face to the company, but what
pleased most was the general competence of
the bulk of the group, the brightness of the
dressing and the staging.
“Fun and Music,” the sedatest title
Melbourne Tiv. has yet attached to its
entertainment, is the Bourke-street house’s
Christmas box to the nation. The fun
is served with a suitable sauce of in-
nuendo by Jim Gerald and Mike Con-
nors, and the music by a really remark-
able variety of talent —a musical talent
sometimes, and even when unmusical,
displaying a technical dexterity which,
better directed, would make a Menuhin
or a Kriesler. Chopin gets a look in
and so do the South Pacific croonings
of Luahana, Lahni and Layah ; Johnny
Robertson blows the post-horn and the
trumpet and Laurel Paxford supplies the
lyrics of Vienna. Walthon and Dorraine
are more at home on a ball than a Mel-
bourne pedestrian on a city pavement
and George Hurd juggles brilliantly for
a living. “Juke Box Saturday Night” is a
spectacle satisfactory to the eye of Tiv.
asstheticians and the connoisseur of
female form. “Mother Goose” panto,
occupies afternoon and morning sessions.
Prints from the original plates of etch-
ings by Rembrandt, Durer, Whistler,
John, Callot, Ostade and others, collected
by Lieut. John Seymour, R.A.N.V.R.,
while on active service, have been on
view at George’s Gallery, Melbourne.
Rembrandt, the daddy of them all, is
represented by 10 examples, one of which
comes from the eighteenth-century col-
lection of John Barnard.
At the talkies:
“Anchors Aweigh” (Sydney St. James):
Technicolored musical done in the most opulent
M.-G.-M. manner, and with the nice balance
between story and music that distinguishes
such offerings from this studio. The music
is good, as is to be expected when Jose
Iturbi plays Liszt and Tchaikowsky, and the ;
story can stand on its own feet. Also, Kath-
ryn Grayson’s soprano improves with each
film, and Gene Kelly’s dancing is no whit in-
ferior to that of Fred Astaire when he was
at his best. Anyway, it says enough for the
film that it succeeds despite the terrific handi-
cap of Frank Sinatra, whose resemblance tra a
warmed-up corpse in close-ups is becoming
more marked.
“Duffy’s Tavern” (Sydney Prince Edward):
This film version of a popular American radio
serial is super vaudeville put over by fop-line
Paramount stars. Best of the work lies )in
the exuberant comedy of Betty Hutton and Gass
Daley, and a classic of a sketch with Walter
Abel and Eddie Bracken as film director and |
“double” respectively.
“Lady in a Train” (Sydney State): Comedy I
thriller, with murder treated with fight levjity S
and with some tuneful numbers by Deaijma t
Durbin. David Bruce gives adequate if imps- I
tinguisbed support as a writer of murder stories I
who is himself called upon to solve a rep-life
one, but the best of the work is done in charac-
ter roles by George Coulouris and Dan Duryea j
as two of the suspects. -j
“Sign of the Cross” (Sydney Capitol);! This
representation of the hardy perennial among
pre-biblical thrillers, complete with the fid Idling
Nero and hosts of Christian-hungry V lions,
establishes one fact: that Cecil De Mille Was no
equal when it comes to presenting mass scenes.
At his present-day girth Charles Laughton, (as
Nero) looks almost as lean and hungry as
Cassius or the lions, but his acting ability
remains unaffected by his lessened avoirdupois.
The piece remains one of the greatest of scireen
spectacles.


••TRUTH in ADVERTISING’
m
■
.
WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW’
We have purchased by tender large stocks of tables, forms, etc., made
for the use of the Armed Forces.
These articles are unused surplus stocks, and were made for hard and
rough wear.
The prices are remarkably low. Here is an opportunity for Cafes,
Halls, Schools, Clubs, Councils, etc., to secure these useful items at,
in many cases, less than the cost of production.
They will appeal to the home-maker for lawns, verandahs, sewing
rooms, etc.
Painting or lacquering will vastly improve their appearance.
We invite you to examine these tables and forms. You will appreciate
the value now being offered.
*
•■-t;
A
Q>
i
ftp l3 ’
*** 11
o# et
Vva'
9in 8 " qF-
» lllrtr
e on toP '
*f.a *
A C d Z ABLES -
Jams. « ?P S with /o/ j P nseas ures ~
' 6O A - c *- i. Sf„ t rr% 4
***— ffCred « 16/1 2°c?
■
la
4- B
3
=== ========== , , of, (.ins Varnished wooden
on FOLDING TABLES, 3ft. by lnn Wooden .pring )«.»-
4B- °p. with fold."* vflpe offered a. 19/6
Branded A-^-r-
-390 available.
1 a P od
* taB LES, 6ft- % t Tnd.d 8 4 F M “ C 9/ 9
each end-
\4O ava‘ laD
GO
L
ffi E Z F 5f t b
each end ofy <°* na legs B
at 2 2/« ran ded
VS each.
if /
;■
:
CE. WOODEN FORMS, 6ft. by 9ins., folding iron legs.
Branded A.C.F. at each end and in centre of top.
These forms have been creosote dipped. Offered at 13/3
each. 1560 only.
.
•/a p^y\VOcd
r FOLDING TABLE
»-\ b c r.o iHe F« him6 S M/9/-
*<•'-«* gupplrnd
■
BILLIARD table TOP
BaJ ls. Chalk and T ai Co,n Plet e with 2C * COVerecl wit
7ft - -f»-. by 3h JZ'.. 4 “’- «>y 3ft <L *“ ° f *»««.
; ' ’n, ■■ «s/iv. / '
A::.;-,;.;.:'.,,:- ;•••/ ; . . . ,
■■ ,i
a Mr t •; • ri n
\ - ' x-
!
■
||p||||i|| I || || |||| %t/;.
—Hi
• w.l-
- M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


WE WERE PROUD OF ESTHER
By E. A. GOLLSCHEWSKY.
FOR years the Fernleys had
made a legend of Esther, tell-
ing the district about her dif-
ferent jobs, her boy friends,
her social successes in town, as if
perhaps some of her reflected glory might
gloss over their own shortcomings.
To Mumma Fernley Esther was the
epitome of everything beautiful in life.
And it was funny* how Mumma had kept
her love of the lovely. She would call
me to come to look at the sun going
down behind the mountain, or my father’s
top paddock with the young lucerne
thrusting spears from the damp, red earth.
Or perhaps a bird’s song would cause her
to stop‘milking or baking, or a horse
racing across the ridge leading away to
the mountain-top. “That’s real pretty,
that is,” she’d say, and her voice would
be soft, ruminating. “Mark you, that’s
real pretty.”
The day Mumma came over to borrow
our hanging lamp she was almost in a
lather of excitement. Her beady, brown
eyes were nearly dancing out of their
sockets, and her fat, wrinkled cheeks were
flushed. “Esther’s coming home for a
week,” she told us. “I could hardly
believe me own eyes when I read it.” She
brushed the sandy hair back from her
forehead, and I saw the dust that lay
in the sweaty furrows there like blacked-
in lines. She sat on the top step,
and I could see the broken man’s sand-
shoes held to her feet by string; the blue
tracery of veins in her well-muscled legs ;
the skirt that had once been two pairs of
my father’s pants; the low, sagging
bosom hidden by a bright, unfaded satin
blouse of cherry-red.
“The lanterns are that dim,” she said.
“If you could spare the lamp”
Mother took down the pride of the
family—brightly polished brass .scroll-
work and a great globe of white china,
hand-painted with flesh-colored Cupids,
I was detailed to help carry it down to
Fernleys’.
AT the bottom of the hill was the creek
which divided Fernleys’ place from
ours, and beyond it “the home paddock,”
as the Fernleys always called the clearing
on the edge of the blue-gum forest where
their shack stood. There wasn’t much
to occupy the paddock, and just as well,
because it carried,mostly blady grass and
grass-tree; and the few big-hipped cows
and tired horses just managed to rub
along. People were always telling Amos
to plant Rhodes grass and a lot of other
things, and he listened so carefully to all
their instructions I was always mildly
surprised to find the blady still in posses-
sion.
“Where’s the pigs?” I asked as we
neared the backyard and hadn’t had to
kick them out of our way.
“Locked up,” returned Mumma in the
satisfied voice she kept for surprises.
“Did you think we were going to have
Berkies rooting about under the house
while Esther’s home?”
“Somebody’s mended the cowbails and
put a door on the dairy.”
“You just wait, young fellow,” was
all she’d say, but her shapeless body
shook with concealed laughter. Dogs
rushed out barking, to fawn all over us
when Mumma spoke to them.
The clamor brought Bill out of the
fowlhouse. He had a hammer stuck in
his gaudy belt and nails in his mouth.
Shiny wire-netting enclosed a newly-
erected run; but I had eyes only for
Mumma’s big shut-faced son. I watched
him with fear and admiration struggling
for supremacy in my interest.
“You finished whitewashing the kitchen,
Bill?” Mumma asked in her-no-nonsense
voice.
He nodded briefly. Bill was the best
shot in the district; the best rider, too.
Everyone said he should join a rodeo
and earn some honest money. But I
suppose Bill always managed to make
enough dishonestly.
“All right, then, son. But no going
into town now. We don’t want no John-
hops nosing around the house—not while
Esther’s here.”
Bill smiled bleakly. “You can trust
me, Mumma.”
And I knew you could, too, despite all
the things people said about him.
Chooks scratched about in heaps of
rubbish that had been tossed from the
house. On the back verandah Sadie
was sewing on the machine and singing
lustily above the rattle of the old, worn
works.
“Where’s the kids?” Mumma asked.
“They took the springcart over to pick
up the bed Dempseys’ are lending.”
Mumma took me into the lean-to
kitchen and looked around her with pride.
“Bill’s made it real pretty. You’d never
take it for the same room, would you?”
And, indeed, the whitewashed walls did
change it—hiding the accumulation of
many years’ grease and smoke. The big
open dresser had clean papers on the
shelves cut into little figures like dancing
dolls. The wild bees’ nest was gone from
its place behind the swinging meat-safe.
I asked after Amos —was he drunk
again?
“Amos Fernley? Not on your sweet
life! He’s putting up a new little house.
The old one’s liable to fall on you any
sitting.”
“Suppose—just suppose, mind you —
that Esther’s changed? She might be
flash as Caesar.”
Mumma Fernley’s rough, fat hand
stroked the faded drill of her skirt, and
she smiled complacently. “She’s all right,
our Esther is,” she said.
There was a yell from the gate and a
loaded springcart hove into view. Mumma
sprang to instant activity. “Put that bed
away careful now,” she shrilled, hurrying
to supervise the unloading. “Do youse
want Dempseys talking till Doomsday
about the scratches we put on it? ”
NJ EXT morning I hurried through the
* milking, dressed in my best suit, and
was over at Fernleys’ long before they
were ready to go to the station.
Mumma laughed when she saw me.
“No show without Punch, eh? All right,
me boy, you can come. We’ve got Riley’s
cart —ours is that shabby, what with the
chooks roosting on it and Amos’s mend-
ing all done with barbed wire.”
Riley’s cart was cumbrous, ugly in
shape and painted yellow, but it had
plenty of room and a place in front for
Esther with a clean corn-sack folded on it.
We set briskly off into the crisp morn-
ing, a little overawed now that we were
actually going to meet Esther. Mumma
wore a new floral dress and her old black
hat with the red and yellow chillies chas-
ing round it. Amos drove the two raw-
boned greys, his emaciated face purple
and unfamiliarly clean, his high white
collar sticking into his shaven cheek. The
serge of his suit shone like a sixpence in
the sunshine, and he was a bundle of
nerves from the effects of a rumless week
and the high pitch of his excitement.
Everybody knew where we were going.
People called to us from their cow-bails
or front verandahs. Horsemen on the
road nodded and smiled and asked to be
remembered to Esther. The mailman,
offered to run her luggage out for her to
save crowding the cart. Mrs. Ginnis
came out and gave Mumma a big bottle
of Rosella jam and a syrup-tin full of
eggs.
'lt was pig-trucking day and there were
a few vehicles about the station. Mumma
was glad that her friends would witness
Esther’s arrival. I could read it in her
face ; she laughed for nothing, and her
eyes were glowing. She shepherded us
on to the platform, where we huddled,
together, acutely selfconscious. The
Fernley kids were ill at ease in their best
clothes, and their boots seemed to be
everywhere at once. We shuffled about,
swamped by shyness. Several women
came up and spoke to Mumma about
Esther. They all wanted her to go and
see them before she returned to the city.
Amos joined a group of men who were
all talking at once and throwing their
arms around. They stopped arguing to
greet Amos and slap him on the back,
and asked him to go and have a drink.
Bill didn’t even have to give him one of
his warning looks. Amos shook his head
decidedly.
1 T seemed a long time waiting there,
1 with everyone staring at us. And then,
when at last the shriek pf an approach-
ing train split the air, the kids nearly
stampeded.
“It’s the train,” said Mumma flush-
ing and fumbling with her- purse and
belt. “It’s Esther.”
I had my first startled, panicky sense
of doubt. How could she be so sure?
The Fernleys’ faith was so exposed.
One by one the carriages drew past us,
haltingly. Nobody liked to admit that
any one of the unfamiliar girls’ heads at
the windows could belong to Esther and
we wouldn’t know. A carriage crawled
past us, and there was a girl’s face framed
in an open window. She saw us and
waved, her expression uncertain and
solemn.
Nobody in our group moved as the car-
riage drew to a final stop. It was almost
as if we’d lost that driving eagerness to
see Esther again. Mumma stepped for-
ward as a girl got off the train.
“Mumma! ”
They met in the middle of the plat-
form. The pretty girl’s arms were tight
around Mumrrja’s soft, fat neck and the
rusty black hat with it’s wreath of chillies
fell sideways. My breath eased out; the
tenseness in my stomach uncurled.
I didn’t know exactly what I’d feared.
I only knew that an enveloping dread had
evaporated—that something, some’boyish
belief had been confirmed and strength-
ened.
Mumma brought her over to us, and
we saw that her eyes were streaming. The
kids stood round, gawking, silent and
awkward. Esther kissed us all and laughed
a lot, and said I got more like
a Fernley every day. Everybody looked
pleased because she had known at once
I wasn’t one of her brothers.
She hugged Amos, too, as if she knew
the pitiful greatness of his sacrifice to
sobriety. “Good old pop,” her voice was
not quite steady. “I’m just dying to get
home and see everything. And I’ve got
a present for everyone—wait and see!”
We trooped back to the cart, with
Esther in our midst. She took her place
between Amos and Mumma, the baby on
her lap.
“Giddap,” said Amos to the greys, and
we set off down the main street, his raw-
hide whip wielded in spectacular style,
his back straight as a die. He bowed
and smiled when people stopped to stare
and wave greetings, raising his hat in
lordly fashion to the ladies. Mumma’s
soft, great bosom seemed to thrust itself
out to greater prominence, but her face
was calm, serene in the utter complete-
ness of her happiness.
Soon we were out on the road home,
and the wheels were scraping into the
deep ruts. Laughing at something Esther
had said, Mumma’s head went back and
the chillies skipped in joyous abandon
round the crown of her hat. I sat wedged
between Bill and Sadie, while one of the
boys sat on my feet, and I pretended that
I was Eddie Fernley going home with
my sister.
SMOKE-OH!
The fact that a woman has mousey hair
is not calculated to make a man go ratty
over her.
4* 4* +
“Death Comes as the End.”
“S. M. Herald” syndicated serial.
Judging by the story it would have been
more merciful had it come at the be*
ginning.
+ 4* 4 1 +
“Wanted, com. woman, over 45 or under 18,
to help in pantry.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Red aprons provided?
•J*
“ ‘I came in to give me a thick ear as I went
out,’ Abe said.” — Story in weekly paper.
That he overdid it is self-evident.
4* 4* 4*
“Lost, lady’s gold wristlet inscribed “To
Melba.”—“s. M. Herald.”
No wonder she’s making a song about
it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Exposure.
“Should We Women Tell?” — Woman’s paper.
Sweethearts, this subject we’ll pursue
Just far enough to tender you
Our cordial and private view —
You shouldn’t but you always do !
Pfjr c.v.
The Crisis.
Courage! That was what he needed in
the present crisis—courage to thrust for-
ward, regardless of consequences.
He strove to brace himself for the deed.
But just on the verge of action he paused,
irresolute. A feeling of fear, almost of
panic, surged over him. He remembered
the futility of his past. After all, this
was not the first time he had faced such
a test, and hadn’t he always failed. Then,
after a few seconds, he rallied. After all,
what was there to be afraid of. And it
would be glorious to succeed, for the
prize was infinitely attractive.
Then, giving his tie a twitch, he leaned
forward in the tram and said to the slash-
ing blonde seated opposite: “Excuse me,
but haven’t I met you somewhere be-
fore?”
Nat.
+ 4*
Cheer-up Item.
Weep not because you think there’ll be
A new depression, dark and dread.
Have courage and rejoice, for we
Before it comes may all be dead!
Nat.
4> 4" 4* 4*
“Tom —What’s wrong; give me a ring. Love
Dulcie.” —Agony column S. M. “Herald.’ 1 ’
Determined to get engaged somehow.
4* 4* 4" 4*
“Boy’s black raincoat, 32 in. football boots.”
—Weekly paper.
An umbrella would keep them drier,
«|i <{* *} 4*
“Cream baby’s loughboy.”
—North Shore {Sydney) weekly.
Tinned, clotted or separated?
4 1 4* 4* 4*
Funny the way hot-headed people en-
gender a lot of coolness. '
Quite Unaccountable.
“Messrs. Slater and Moloney, after short
terms as Minister to Russia, returned because of
‘ill-health,’ made miraculous recoveries on
reaching Australian soil and refused to return
to the Workers’ Paradise. A tentative offer to
Eddie Ward to fill the post was flatly turned
down. It was tipped that it might be offered
to Mrs. Jessie Street.”
“It is sad,” said M. Gloomovich, of
the Foreign Commissar’s office, “that we
cannot get continual representation from
Australia.”
“It is regrettable,” agreed M. Itchi-
bakski, “especially at a time when the
party is doing such a good job there.
Another few strikes like the one they just
engineered and that desired state of civil
war which is a necessary prelude to the
country’s sovietisation will be brought
nearer. So far they have carried out our
orders faithfully and are also giving us
a cheap—well, comparatively cheap—
espionage service. But this lag in official
representation is made more galling by
the obvious fact that nobody seems to
want the job. I can’t understand it.”
“Nor I,” said M. Gloomovich. “It
isn’t as if we hadn’t been considerate.
For my part, I can boast that not one
of the relay of men I’ve had tapping the
Minister’s wires has even by an act of
carelessness aroused suspicion and conse-
quent worry for the Ministers, a thing
which after all would be as unbecoming
to us as hosts as it would be distressing
for our guests.”
“True,” mused M. Itchibakski. “I, too,
have always endeavored to put these fly-
by-night diplomats from down-under at
their ease. Whenever it was necessary to
shadow them—which was every time they
left their hotel —I never used less than
four men ; and I flattered them by using
the best shadowers in the N.K.V.D. Why,
it was almost a protective cordon, prac-
tically guaranteeing them freedom from
criminal attack. Had they known of this
service I’m sure it would have been deeply
appreciated.”
“Who but I,” went on M. Gloomovich,
“would have gone to so much trouble
to please them in the matter of detecto-
phones? Never was I guilty of having
one hidden in the flowers on the
Minister’s desk and thus exposing him to
the risk of injury to his nose when he bent
over to smell them. Instead, I used the
wall pictures or heavy curtain folds. But
apparently one gets no thanks for such
courtesies. It must be a barbaric place,
this Australia. Despite all these evidences
of our goodwill its representatives go
faster than they come. It is beyond me.”
“I had high hopes for that M.
Milawney,” said M. Itchibakski. “I took
him over one of our show boot factories.
As an ex-union secretary, he should have
been impressed with the Stakhanovite
system, the 72-hour week and the fact
that one of the workmen that day had
been shot for not reaching the minimum
output of 600 pairs a day. But next day
he developed an illness which forced his
return. What he saw. must have con-
vinced him of the glorious benefits of the
Communist State, yet he hasn’t uttered
one word of praise for it since he went
back. And after our beloved godhead
had scotched the Comintern, too.”
“Yes” —M. Gloomovich gave a queer
little laugh—“and that body could never
come to life again, because we don’t be-
lieve in resurrection, do we? Ha! Ha! ”
“Exactly! Ah, well, there is a ray of
hope. There is talk of Comrade Jessie
getting the job. What a girl! Well ever
be grateful for those 17 sheepskins we
got from her appeal. My favorite Borzoi
has never had an overcoat like that I had
made for him from one of them.”
“Good old Jessie! ” agreed M. Itchi-
bakski. “There must,” he concluded
vehemently, “be no other woman like
her in all Australia.”
“I met her,” put in M. Gloomovich
feelingly. “And I’ll bet there isn’t!”
BO.
Misguided.
“ Don’t worry," well-wishers advise
When you’re harassed and very de-
pressed.
They look very knowing and wise.
Though half of your troubles they’ve
guessed.
"Refuse to be bothered ; relax;
Let nothing" they say, “fret or flurry
you."
But, when you get down to tin tacks,
You wish they’d shut up and not worry
you.
P. O. M. C.


The Bulletin
Vol. ,67—No. 3438
Wednesday, January 2, 1946
"YOU’RE NEXT!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’'
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Qheensiand: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
CORRECTED A.I.F. HISTORY.
Before departing on the ambitious mis-
sion of capably replacing Mr. S. M. Bruce
as Australia’s first representative in Lon-
don, Mr. Beasley made a statement on the
return of the A.I.F. —or part of it—from
the Middle East in 1942. Whatever pur-
pose Mr. Beasley may have had in giving
at this particular time and for no
apparent reason his version of that
dubious chapter of history, his statement
had one good effect. It drew a reply
from Dr. Earle Page, speaking with the
authority of having been Australian rep-
resentative in the British War Cabinet.
According to the Beasley version the
Government to which Mr. Beasley be-
longed became so “disturbed after the
Coral Sea battle in 1942” that, believing
“a battle to defend Northern Australia
from invasion was inevitable,” it decided
to withdraw the Australian divisions
from the Middle East. This “suggestion,”
Mr. Beasley said, was “not well received
in London.” The decision was “opposed
both by the British and United States
Governments.” London’s view (as pre-
sented by Mr. Beasley) was that “the Aus-
tralian troops should be sent to Burma,”
A message was received from Washington
that America supported the London view.
The natural line of inference from this
version of what took place is that the
reason Britain and America opposed the
withdrawal to Australia was that they
wished to employ the A.I.F. elsewhere
in their owrf rather than in Australia’s
interest, and that Australia owes a lasting
debt of gratitude to - its then Government
for having “struggled” against that inten-
tion, for having had “seasoned” troops at
its disposal, and thus having been able
to “save” Australia.
“It is extremely unfortunate,” Dr. Page
commented, “that the valedictory speech
of Mr. Beasley can be construed as a re-
flection on the judgment of President
Roosevelt, and may lead to such headlines
as ‘England Sacrifices Australia.’ ” In-
stead of Britain having left Australia in
the lurch —the inference to be drawn from
Mr. Beasley’s statement —Britain did
everything that could reasonably have
been expected. “Sore pressed,” Dr. Page
said, “with U-boats in every ocean, and
with her European and Middle East cam-
paigns, England managed to send what
she could of all sorts of machine tools
and equipment to Australia, and finally
dispatched the Prince of Wales and the
Repulse to Singapore.” An aircraft-
carrier sent to guard and assist them was
crippled on the way. “Immediately Japan
struck, Britain out of her meagre re-
sources, made everything she had avail-
able for Australia’s defence.” In Wash-
ington it was agreed by the British War
Cabinet and the Pacific War Council, “as
a principle,” that
the whole of the Australian Corps, the
Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Divisions, should
return to Australia as fast as was prac-
ticable and as soon as ships were avail-
able. The Seventh Division was already on
the water and it alone could arrive in
time to save Rangoon. The Australian Gov-
ernment was asked to agree to that division
going to Burma —then the most urgent spot
of the Pacific war—until other troops were
available from elsewhere. The Australian
Government was told that a named British
division would be shipped to Bombay and
railed through India and thence by ships to
Rangoon to relieve within a month or six
weeks. Boats bringing the new British
division would be available to transport
the Seventh Australian Division to Aus-
tralia. The remaining Australian divisions
were to go as fast as possible back into
the Australian area. Some of the Sixth
Division had already been embarked to
compensate for the slight delay of the
Seventh Division.
As well, President Roosevelt undertook
to send Australia an American division,
“in addition to the promised reinforce-
ments of men and ’planes.”
But, as Mr. Beasley said, the Australian
Government rejected the proposal of Presi-
dent Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill, so that
the Seventh Division found its way home
on many ships at different speeds, unes-
corted through seas alive with Japanese
submarines, and sat down in South Aus-
tralia and other States for several months
before going into action in New Guinea
m fact, months after the decisive naval
and air battle of the Coral Sea had put the
invasion of Australia out of the question.
The net result of “the great fight”—as
Mr, Beasley represented it —against Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt was that,
though the Seventh Division arrived in
Australia months earlier, the Ninth was
a year later than intended.”
And, as Dr. Page could also have stated,
the Ninth was withdrawn against the wish
of the Ninth itself and General Mont-
gomery.
In the meantime the Japanese had landed
at Rangoon simultaneously with the de-
layed British division under General Alex-
ander. As Australians had most of the
ships, General Alexander fought through
Burma to India, and ultimately to the
supreme command of the Mediterranean.
The Burma Road was closed for two years,
and the war in the Far East was possibly
extended many months longer for our
fighting men, who had no vantage point
from which to rescue their prisoners-of-war.
“History,” Dr. Page concluded, “may
tell whether the Australian Government’s
political decision was better than their
military advice.” And he deplored, as
did every other thinking Australian with
him, the resurrection of a “forgotten inci-
dent” at the “risk of disturbing the har-
mony and relations with England and
America at this present critical moment.”
Another resurrection—of “Hansard’s”
record of the war-entry debates at Can-
berra in September-November, 1939 —
suggests that what Mr. Beasley’s untimely
speech comes down to is an attempt to
cover up the bad conscience that must,
or should, haunt not only himself but
other members of the then Opposition.
With Mr. Beasley one of the earliest
advocates of the miserable role, their idea
of Australia’s part in the war was that it
should be restricted to helping feed the
fighting forces supplied by others, while
doing its own fighting, if forced to it,
within its own map boundaries, exclud-
ing New Guinea and other dependent
territories. Australia, Mr. Ward and
others argued, was under no obligation
and no necessity to defend those terri-
tories. If, Mr. Ward declaimed,
it could be argued that one must defend
certain territories in close proximity to
Australia in order adequately to defend
Australia itself, defence operations could
be extended right round the globe
The Opposition, for which lie spoke,
contended that the relevant provision of
the Defence Act applied “only to those
territories under the direct control of the
Commonwealth but within the confines
of the continent of Australia.” Messrs.
Ward, Beasley and the rest, after oppos-
ing as volubly as their tongues could
manage the Menzies Government move to
set up the Second A.1.F., voted in a body
against its formation and use. Mr. Beas-
ley favored “our foodstuffs” being made
available when needed.
Twice in his “valedictory speech” Mr.
Beasley referred boastfully to the
“seasoned” troops which the Government
he belonged to was able to send north
against the Japs. On Dr. Page’s showing
it was extremely lucky that many of those
fine troops were not sent to the bottom
of the Indian Ocean by Jap submarines.
In any case, for Mr. Beasley or any other
member of the 1939 Opposition to seek
kudos for the fact that such “seasoned”
troops were available indicates that the
toughest Australian hides are not used
for making boots
On November 29, 1939, Mr. Curtin
took the fight against forming the Second
A.I.F. to the point of asking Parliament
to declare itself per motion “opposed to
the dispatch of expeditionary forces”!
On the same date Mr. Holloway was pre-
pared to “oppose, even to the point of
stretching the law to breaking point, any
proposal to send Australian soldiers to
fight on foreign battlefields.” They were
typical of the whole Opposition, member
after member of which arose to voice
objections to sending one man one yard
outside Australia. Mr. Ward (November
15) gave their conception of the war at
that stage:
The sensible thing to do is to adopt
the suggestion of the leader of the Oppo-
sition, Mr. Curtin; namely, that instead
of carrying on this stupid conflict which
cannot bring benefit to the workers of any
country, an effort should be made at the
earliest moment to summon a conference
of the major nations for the purpose of
ending it.
By that distance remote from the reali-
ties of what was going on, they spoke and
voted unanimously against any raising of
another A.I.F. It can be read in their
record in “Hansard” that they opposed
even the sending of R.A.A.F. personnel
to help in the fight for survival. If they
had had their way—and they did their
best over months to have it—there would
not have been at the time mentioned in
Mr. Beasley’s pickled history a solitary
Australian soldier or airman “seasoned”
in the current fighting. Their majestic
conception of a new A.I.F. was a few
boatloads of dead sheep.
An Australian Cardinal.
Apparently without consulting Mr.
Cal well, the Pope created Dr. Gilroy,
Archbishop of Sydney, as first Australian-
born cardinal—one of 32 new cardinals
named; the largest creation in four cen-
turies, and specially notable, at a time of
striving to set up an international peace
organisation, for its very wide inter-
national representation.
Deciding that this looked as good a
brick wall for butting as he had set eyes
on in years, Mr. Calwell put his head
down and charged, doing great damage
to his logic. It had, he said, been the
“hope of Australian Catholics for the past
25 years that when the Vatican decided
to comer this long-overdue distinction
on an Australian” it would select Dr.
Mannix. Instead, said Mr. Calwell, there
would be “widespread consternation and
bitter resentment” that the honor should
“have gone elsewhere and to a compara-
tively junior member of the Australian
hierarchy.”
Mr. Calwell went on to give the Vati-
can some advice for its future guid-
ance. As Australia could “now claim an
Australian-born cardinal, the time was
surely over-ripe when it should have an
Australian-born Apostolic Delegate.” Mr.
Calwell hoped that the “influence in Aus-
tralian Church politics and Australian
affairs generally” of Archbishop Panico,
“whose ability and limited knowledge of
Australia and Australians* had ill-fitted
him” for that post, “would cease with his
early return to Rome.” “It would not
have surprised me,” Queensland Supreme
Court Justice Brennan commented, “if
Mr. CalwelJ had gone a little further and
recommended Comrade Ernie Thornton
for the appointment of Apostolic Delegate
to Australia.” The Calwell assumption in
general Brennan, J., designated “exag-
gerated vanity.”
No doubt it was a grievous Papal error
not to seek Mr. Calwell’s advice —an over-
sight very difficult to explain, unless, per-
haps the Vatican may never have heard
of Mr. Calwell. The Pope may, how-
ever, have been influenced in his choice
of an Australian-born cardinal by the
simple consideration that, whereas Dr.
Gilroy was born at Glebe, Sydney, the
Australian of Mr. Calwell’s choice, Dr.
Mannix, was born in Ireland. Perhaps
Mr. Calwell, who is Minister for both
Information and Immigration, was speak-
ing in the second capacity. Also, though
Dr. Gilroy will not be 50 until January
22, Dr. Mannix will be 82 on March 4.
In point of fact, the selection of Dr.
Gilroy is directly in keeping with what
has evidently for some time been settled
Vatican policy —the appointing of native-
born to the highest Church positions in
this and in other countries. The new
creation of cardinals widens that policy
considerably, with, as the Pope’s broad-
cast made clear, a deliberate emphasis on
universality. As well as Australia, Eng-
land, Canada, Poland, Armenia, China
and the Portuguese Empire each have one
new cardinal; two in Spain ; three each
in Germany, Central Europe and France ;
four each in the United States and Italy ;
six in South and Central America.
When the first Australian-born cardinal
goes to receive his biretta he will be re-
visiting peculiarly familiar surroundings.
With others of the 32, he will have known
them through his Church student days ;
but he knew them also in altogether dif-
ferent circumstances. Working at the
time as a N.S.W. postal Department em-
ployee, he joined the Naval Wireless
Transport Service soon after the 1914-18
war broke out, and was at the Gallipoli
Landing. On this ground—that he is an
“Australian who served with the A.I.F.
al Gallipoli”—Dr. Gilroy’s appointment
was welcomed by the N.S.W. secretary of
the R.S.L.: “The appointment is an honor
for Australia -and will be well received
by all troops and ex-servicemen.” “A
distinguished Anzac,” said the acting-
secretary of the A.N.A, In fact, the
choosing of Dr. Gilroy was so generally
welcomed that Mr. Calwell should now
be wishing that Father Christmas had
dropped a gag as well as the bundle of
hay in his Yuletide stocking.
In Communist-controlled
Europe.
It came by post, typed on a single sheet
of paper with letterhead “Paul Frolich,
121 Bathurst-street, Sydney,” and a signa-
ture which would baffle handwriting
experts:
“Myriads of starving wretches, expelled from
Communist-controlled Czechoslovakia” (Bulle-
tin, 22/11/’45, page seven, second col.) deserve
to be a little explained to your readers. The
starving wretches referred to are Germans who,
in some hundreds of thousands, flocked to
Czechoslovakia in order to escape the bombing
of the homeland, expecting that warfare would
prove less close and violent in that country.
They are also the same Germaps who lorded
it over the .poor subjugated people for some
years, who looted all the food of that richly-
producing country; the same Germans who,
for six years, bad been the best-fed people in
starving Europe.
As regards the number of these people, broad-
casts from the United Kingdom and Europe as
well as facts mentioned in letters indicate that
their number may eventually reach about
500,000; this due to the fact that all Germans
who could move beat it back across the
borders of the Fatherland just before Czecho-
slovakia’s liberation and did not wait to be ex-
pelled. If your correspondent has any doubt
about the quality of the people who are thus
being removed, I shall gladly show him letters
received from survivors of the past bloody years
giving details almost unbelievably cruel and
quite convincing that the “wretches” are not
deserving of ordinary humane considerations.
As for Communist-control; prior to Munich
the Communists were among the three strongest
parties in the Czechoslovak national Parlia-
ment. It is reasonable to assume that they
may be even stronger now numerically; but
it is wrong to take such for granted until such
time as an election has taken place which may
leave them in exactly the position they were
left min France where (B. 22/11 /’45) they were
“defeated.” And it may be worth your while
to remember that President Benes, just as much
as De Gaulle, is not a Communist, never was
one and has never yet submitted to Communist
dictate.
The ascertaining of facts and figures might at
times save you the trouble you go to in order
to slander those who are too far away to de-
fend themselves. “Starving myriads” indeed;
you don’t happen to have heard of the daily
menu of the citizen of Prague? I thought not'.
You couldn’t take it anyway.
The Bulletin can “take” many things,
but letters Teeking with bias and falsify-
ing facts are not among them. During
the week which brought the Frolich speci-
men to this office there also arrived an
illustrated “Life” article on “Displaced
Germans driven from their homes by
Poles and Czechs.” It bore out terribly
The Bulletin’s statement, which was
that “in Germany famine and pestilence
are threatened on an immense scale
largely because myriads of starving
wretches, expelled, with Russia’s permis-
sion, from Communist-controlled Czecho-
slovakia and Poland are crowding into
the ill-supplied British zone.”
“Life’s” pictures were “taken by British
photographer Leonard McCombe,” and
fully answer its description of “terrible
and shocking.”
One is “a footless soldier who has been
released by the Russians, but without
crutches” ; another of “released soldiers
from Russian prison camps, pale with
hunger” ; a third of a distracted “girl in
her ’teens” who had been “raped in a
train taking her out of Poland by young
Polish hooligans” ; others of “a German
Red Cross worker, stopped for a moment
by the stench from the death carriage of
the refugee train ; she braves the smell
of dysentry and death and the dying old
man, relieved by her approach, falls back.
Boiled water is all that the Red Cross
worker can give him.” And among others
equally heartrending, except, no doubt, to
Communists, there is a full-page picture
of an orphaned Sudeten German boy,
“looking aged from hunger and anxiety
and dirt, who was about three years old
when Hitler made the Sudeten Germans
of Czechoslovakia the pretext for the
opening moves of World War II.” There
are added the words “Since VE-day the
Czechs have set about moving all Sude-
ten Germans out of Czechoslovakia, con-
fiscating their property.”
If it can furnish any comfort to Mr.
Frolich or the writer with the undecipher-
able signature, another quotation from
“Life” is subjoined;
Most of the Germans now coming into
Berlin are from the part of eastern Ger-
many taken over by the Poles. The Pots-
dam agreement declared “the expulsion of
Germans from any country must be
orderly and humane,” and lead to “equit-
able distribution” of the displaced people
through Germany. The Czechs, who got rid
of 1,200,000 Sudeten Germans before Pots-
dam, have since tried to comply with the
declaration. The Poles....are still driving
Germans out as fast as they can.
The plight of these starving wretches,
many of them obviously doomed, drew
a protest in the Commons from Mr.
Michael Foot, the Leftist journalist-
M.P,:
There has been clear and open defiance of
the Potsdam agreement in connection with
deportations from Poland arid Czechoslo-
vakia. The House has a right to demand
that the deportations are stopped during
winter. As a Socialist I will never accept
the doctrine that German nationality ex-
cludes Germans from the bounds of human
compassion. If we find that our allies will
not act it is still our duty to do our best
to act alone. We are protesting against
the wanton and deliberate creations of a
new sore when all Europe is crying out
from its wounds.
And Mr. Bevin gave frightful figures
of displaced Germans;
Something like 4,000,000 have left the
new Poland; Czechoslovakia, Hungary and,/
other, countries have added probably
4.000. to 4,500,000; then there are about
3.000. Sudeten Germans being moved
over into Austria. “If is the most awful
sight one could see.”
Other parts of the letter from the
Frolich studio are contradicted by
“Time,” a witness rather friendly to the
Czechs, “Time” referred to the occur-
rence in Czechoslovakia of “elections of
a sort... .arranged by the only four
parties permitted to function”; “elections
conducted at party meetings, the vote by
acclamation.” “Time” noted that indi-
viduals “were no longer permitted to pub-
lish papers”; noted also that “Prague,
like most of the country,” had “escaped
with relatively light war damage.” With
Communists in key portfolios, “Dr. Benes
and his Government are adamantly deter-
mined to rid the country of almost all
of its 3,000,000 Sudeten Germans and
800.000 Hungarians,” and “so far Russia
has extracted one ounce of flesh —the
border province of Ruthenia” —the ounce
of flesh, actually nearly one-eleventh of
the original area of Czechoslovakia —was
“extracted” without reference to the
800.000 inhabitants ; in effect, by “a Com-
munist dictate,” accepted humbly by the
slippery Benes, who, it is alleged by the
unfrolicksome Frolich, “has never yet
subraittetT to anything of the sortj.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Moscow Meeting.
Like the earlier abortive one in London,
the Foreign Ministers’ meeting in Mos-
cow was purely preliminary exploring
and skirmishing. It gave no warrant for
such headlines as “Atom Secrets to be
Shared by Allies.” The key-word for
reading its decisions is “If.”
It is a vast distance from “The Foreign
Ministers agreed to recommend for the
consideration of the General Assembly
of the United Nations the establishment
by the United Nations of a commission
to consider problems arising from the
discovery of atomic energy” and any
sharing of “atom secrets.” “We recom-
mend” does not mean “You have it.”
The recommendation adopted, the com-
mission—to include Britain, the U.S.A.,
Russia, France, China and Canada —
would in time be set up, with staff,
and would then proceed to “inquire into
all phases of the problem” and “make
such recommendations from time to
time,” with respect to them, “as it finds
possible.” All going well up to this point,
the commission would make “specific
proposals”: —•
(a) For extending between all nations
the exchange of basic scientific information
for peaceful ends.
(b) For fhe control of atomic energy to
the extent necessary to ensure its use only
for peaceful ends.
(c) For the elimination from national
armaments of atomic weapons and all other
major weapons adaptable to mass destruc-
tion.
(d) For effective safeguards by way of in-
spection and other means to protect com-
plying States against the hazards of viola-
tions and evasions.
As all the preliminary skirmishing has
made only too clear, agreement to “pro-
posals” under any one of these excellent
heads could be mighty hard to come by,
to say nothing about carrying the “pro-
posals” into effect. Clause ( d) is defi-
nitely a score for the American view-
point, and just as definitely applies par-
ticularly to Russia. To expect that
Russia will eventually interpret it as
what it would actually mean—a lifting
of the “asbestos curtain” to permit as
free movement and inspection in Russia
as America and Britain would permit and
would require—would qualify anyone for
membership of the Optimists Club. It
will be on nothing short of such terms,
however, that America will ever share
“atom secrets.”
Still, though the road ahead is certain
to be long and rocky, the Three in Mos-
cow at least made tentative steps on the
approaches to it—in respect also of peace
treaties for Italy, Rumania, Bulgaria
Hungary and Finland; a Far Eastern
Commission (on which Australia, will be
represented) to “formulate policies for
.the occupation of Japan”; a Korean
“democratic Government,” to be
“assisted” by a joint U.S.-Soviet commis-
sion ; and “a policy of non-interference”
in China, with Russian and American
troops to be withdrawn from there “at
the earliest possible moment,” which may
be freely translated “When you go, I
go.”
Most significantly, against fantastic
optimism, the Three failed to agree on
Persia, On the day they parted Mr.
Harold Minor, Chief of the Near East
Section of America’s State Department,
gave up a 16-days’ wait for Russian per-
mission to visit Azerbaijan, commenting:
“I consider 16 days of such procrasti-
nation a definite refusal by the Soviet to
allow Americans to judge for themselves
if our friends and allies are being allowed
freedom in solving their own internal
affairs.”
The fact was that, even while the
Three were sitting Russia was busy estab-
lishing yet another puppet State, That
was a specialty also of the late unla-
mented Hitler.
Mr. Chifley Goes North.
Emulating the war-time example of Mr.
Churchill, Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Fraser,
Mr. Menzies and others, Mr. Chifley
made a peace-time visit to New Guinea
and thereabouts, to eat his Christmas
dinner seated between two privates and
enjoy for a few days the comparative
calm of those areas after the wreckage
and ruin and misery into which his form
of “Government” had permitted the home
front to be plunged.
Made in war-time such a visit would
have had the merit of showing the coun-
try’s civilian leader making himself fami-
liar with at least a rear-line view of the
fighting men’s part. Made at this time
it suggested nothing more than the
natural culmination of an inglorious
retreat.
While Mr. Chifley was on his northern
flight the country he had left was in a
state bordering on the very edge of chaos.
It had reached the stage in which the
Minister responsible for the imposition
of savage restrictions on industries and
homes could be represented as a shining
benefactor for permitting Christmas
dinners to be cooked and more than one
electric ligKf td be used in homes for one
night and a half.
That brief period of partial conces-
sion to merely ordinary living needs over,
the savage restrictions had to be clamped
on again in full force. Train services
were cut to little more than enough to
keep up the carriage of essential food-
stuffs from place to place. Trams were
locked in their depots at week-ends. Busi-
nesses, lighted with hurricane lamps, were
kept open to dispose of such meagre
stocks as factories had been able to supply
before being forced to close up. Enforced
unemployed were numbered by hundreds
of thousands. It was ordered that sick
people able to do so must leave hospitals.
Heavy fines were threatened for women
who in their homes switched on an elec-
tric light after 11 p.m., heated water with
gas or electricity to bath themselves or
their children, used gas or electricity to
make a cup of tea between 7,30 a.m. and
5 p.m. or between 7 p.m. and 5.30 a.m.
Those are only samples of the state of
the Australian home front at the time its
Prime Minister decided —and no wonder
—to leave it and retreat north. If his
trumpeters can point to one single act
of national leadership against the forces
that brought this state of chaos about
they should borrow a blowlamp or two
from the closed places of industry or a
candle or two from the darkened homes
and illuminate that act to the glory of
their hero.
The plain fact is that in this matter
Mr. Chifley’s national leadership con-
sisted of no more than attendance at one
or two conferences. He issued no order
at any stage. Those responsible for the
state Australia has been reduced to
AN EAR-BASHING AT LAE.
“You’d like to hear how I beat the Commas, down there? Well, boys, it was like
this. I got a flyin ’ start and they never saw me heels for dust”
escaped so much as a hint of punishment.
They continue to hold their positions
secure in the knowledge that those whom
they lead can still look up to them as
so far above the law that even a Prime
Minister is reckoned “firm” if against
them he dares to do nothing.
"Ourselves Alone!"
Whether or not Mr. J. F. Murphy’s
attack on the Food for Britain move-
ment was made with the foreknowledge
of the “Government” for which he is
Controller-General of Food —it was not
repudiated by the “Government” —it
signally failed to dish the appeals in the
several States. Very likely its only effect
was on selfish people looking for any
excuse to deny their British kinsfolk
personal help in their dire need out of
their own plenty. Anyway, none of the
appeals was withdrawn, and all have
been liberally supported in the old kindly
Australian spirit.
Mr. Murphy’s thesis was, in effect, that
we should consider our own appetites
first, and that we could safely leave it to
his “Government” to see that we were not
asked to go short of anything, whatever
happened to Britain.
What is still happening to Britain has
been made clear by leading medical
authorities. The quantity of fats and pro-
teins available in the average British
household is barely half of that which
was determined in 1933 as the minimum
required for maintaining health and work-
ing capacity among unemployed per-
sons. Children and adults alike show un-
mistakably, and on a vast scale, the
effects of inadequate diet superadded on
the long years of war-malnutrition. Put
in another way, they are in a poor condi-
tion to withstand the feared epidemic
from the Continent; and Australia
learned to its sorrow in 1919 that
epidemics from the Continent have no
respect for sea barriers, English Channel
or Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
But our Mr. Murphy evidently con-
siders that he knows better. Meat, other
than canned meats, fats, sugar, butter
and preserved milks, he said, must not be
bought from food-appeal funds. Other-
wise our own luxuries might be inter-
fered with. Only such articles as jam,
honey, condiments, peanut butter and,
“within limits,” dried and canned fruits
were to be permitted. If Mr. Murphy
had ever tried to keep alive and fit on
that sort of diet we would have been
spared his churlish and ungrateful
attempt to dissuade Australians from ex-
pressing in practical form some of the
lasting gratitude which they feel towards
the sorely-tried British people. Possibly
he had a warning from Canberra that, if
the meat supply went short, the dog-racing
interests would give trouble.
No generous thought or wise impulse
ever had its origin in Canberra.
A Deep-sea Port.
N. R. Wills and P. Vaidyanathan, of
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
studied the prospects of establishing a
deep-sea port on the N.S.W. North Coast.
Their finding was published in their de-
partment’s “Review of Marketing and
Agricultural Economics.”
After going into the historical, geo-
graphical, climatic and soil aspects of
the proposal. Wills and Vaidyanathan
attempted to forecast reasonable increases
in produce in the area affected. They
pointed out that, though it contained only
16 p.c. of all the holdings in N. S, Wales,
it employed nearly 30 p.c. of State land-
workers and had one-fifth of the tilled
soil.
Dividing the area into four regions—
Richmond-Tweed, Clarence, New England
and Namoi the authors found nearly
20.000 holdings, covering 27,500,000
acres, with 980,000 acres under crops
and 34,493 rural workers, perma-
nently employed. Annual value of
the exportable surplus of the four
regions they put at £10,501,700,
capable of being expanded by better
farming to £12,981,400. Their figures
for current and potential export pro-
duction in tons: Wheat, 180,000
present and 360,000 potential; sugar,
220.000 and 220,000 (sugar production is
fixed by agreement); maize, 40,000 and
122,000; bananas, 40,000 and 58,000;
wool, 40,000 and 40,000; butter, 25,000
and 38,000; potatoes, 4000 and 22,000 ;
beef 30,000 and 37,000; mutton, 30,000
and 38,000; pig meats, 4000 and 18,000.
The early settlement and movements
for a port are briefly dealt with. The
authors note that “market considerations
and financial links with Sydney have
tempered the enthusiasm for local
autonomy to a considerable extent,” and
that “desire for a deep-sea port has thus
to be viewed against the historical back-
ground.” But this is the big hurdle:
The only possibility for large ports is
at the semi-estuarine mouths of the larger
rivers; with open roadsteads protected by
breakwaters as the only alternative....
Whatever the site, much money would have
to be spent in excavating, diverting the
stream and dredging, and it is open to
question whether the result would be par-
ticularly satisfactory A railway (to con-
nect the port with New England and be-
yond) would be both circuitous and steeply-
graded.
These are admittedly difficult points,
but it should not be forgotten that modern
engineering skill is capable of making
harbors on open coasts, notwithstanding
the attentions of an enemy in action.
As for “links with Sydney” it can
be said that unless rural Australia
breaks these “links” with big cities it
can never go forward. The Sydney
Government has “appointed a committee”
to “investigate the proposition,” as is the
way of Sydney Governments. If northern
N.S.W. is to have a deep-sea port, it’s
best policy is to make itself into a new
State.
Two Cities.
“Wippegong” sends a comparison:
Fly over the two made-to-measure capitals
in the Empire, New Delhi and Canberra,
and you’ll be struck by the similarity in pat-
tern, Come down, and the comparisons can
be extended, while the contrasts hit you hard.
Each has circular centres .with streets running
out like spokes from a hub, and in each there’s
a wide, straight, tree-lined thoroughfare driving
through the whole; Administrative offices domi-
nate this avenue in both cases, though the
white walls of West Block bear no equivalent
of the great, black bees’ nests built under the
high eaves of the Secretariat overlooking Prince
Edward Place.
The design of each place compels miles of
travel not needed in cities whose streets are
all straight, so there’s a boom in bikes; but for
every one by the Molonglo there are a hun-
dred in Delhi, and in peak hours the presence
of charging military chariots and crawling ox-
carts, donkey trains and tongas, slick police-
men and slow pedestrians, develops a standard
of trick cycling never called for down south.
Go down to the Jumna Bridge and the con-
trasts by the rivers is staggering—and the odds
all our way. The great steel rail-and-road
bridge runs from an old fort with a gory past,
across the stream and the flood levels beyond
to the dreary plain stretching away east. Down
on the river, right round the long sweeping
curve that borders the old city and disappears
from view a couple of miles upstream, is an
endless swarm of dhobis —clothes-washers to
you—in all manner and color of raiment —
and picturesque only from a distance. Within
a chain of the water earthenware pots a yard
wide hold clothes to be washed; out in the
water are slabs of stone propped up to slope
like a washing board, and on these the dhobis
belt the garments either by flogging the slab
with them or laying them on the block and
battering them with a great wooden club.
When they have been sufficiently punished—•
God knows how this is decided —they are wrung
out and added to a pile on another rock
ashore; and when the tub is emptied the entire
mutilated wash is spread to dry on the river
beach, which has been turned to fine dust by
the combined operations of the Indian sun and
thousands of filthy feet, human and bovine.
Here and there in the wash-water buffalo lie
submerged to the nose, while river ferns flit
along and scrounge a living either because or
in spite of the teeming industry around them.
A cloud of dust from the bank announces the
arrival of a mob of cattle, and the dhobis
scatter to guard the half-dry rags; but' some
poking poddies still stroll across the wash,
leaving, at the very least, black hoofmarks.
Contrasted with it all the ’Bidgee belongs to
another world —and may it stay so! The mur-
muring waters at ,P°i nt Hid* the pool at Kam-
bah, the long reach at Belconnen —breathe deep
there, young campers! No air is better.
The only birds common to both cities are
the lowly sparrow and the bonny rainbow-bird;
beyond that the similarities are faint. Despite
the urban designs, Canberra is still a part of
the country, and the bird life there stamps it as
such; magpies and plover, robins and honey-
eaters, parrots and pigeons and quail and larks
live much the same life as they did before,
and the few crows and hawks that straggle over
are wild birds. Not so in Delhi; the fact that
the dominating species—kites, crows and vul-
tures —are all scavengers tells the whole story.
In the gardens there are still some flashes of
color that repay a few minutes’ quiet waiting:
purple sunbirds and pied wagtails, glossy dron-
goes and hoopoes, whose crests earn them
notice, rollers and dark robins and doves; but
nowhere is there anything approaching the
ringing notes of a rufous whistler, the fluting
of a butcher bird, the song of the larks around
Duntroon or the melody of the maggies in the
morning.
India is not a land of song. At first
you might be misled into thinking that a
shrill chatter is the voice of some agitated
wren; but it turns out to be a tiny, striped,
bushy-tailed tree rat—a complete contrast to the
plump ’possums that snooze in the redgums
on Capitol Hill.
Each capital has an older town near by, but
by no stretch of imagination could Cooma-
street, Queanbeyan, on a Saturday be com-
pared with the conglomeration of riches and
squalor, business and beggary, silks and sin,
palaces and hovels, perfumes, odors, smells,
stenches, yells, whines, wheedlings, bells,
bellows, bleats, flies, filth and treasures that go
to make up Chandi Chowk in Old Delhi.
Historically there are slender links. By the
’Bidgee Fairer bred wheats which changed the
future of the country, and from which even
more vigorous types were developed; by the
Jumna, a long list of ambitious rulers bred
wars with much the same results. The Quean-
beyan country has relics and names that recall
the bushrangers; Old Delhi displays the palaces
of Shahs who followed much the same practices,
but on the grand scale and with incomparably
greater success.
And so on, indefinitely. Reading the pub-
licity stuff you’d expect to see Delhi lined with
all the trees of Eden, but improved—in reality
their best plantations are scraggy scrub com-
pared with the glories of the trees now filling
the gaps among the gums so wisely left in
Canberra; while the flatness of this land is a
poor substitute for the rolling ’Bidgee country,
with the Brindabella Range, purple against the
sunset, waiting beyond. Yet in one way it
wins; the streets may twist, but the stranger
can get home quickly—he has only to step
into a road and yell “Tonga!” and a pony
trots up and away he goes. In Canberra he
could ring, howl dr beg for a taxi and he’d
finish up trying to find his way home across
paddocks or walking in circles half the night
—though his wanderings would not be dis-
turbed by jackals howling in the parks.


IN MIDDLE-AGE
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a slowing
down of the healthy bladder action of youth. While
this is to be expected to a degree, if frequent and
poor kidney action is experienced Nature may be
warning that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous wastes out of the blood. They
help most people eliminate about 8 pints a day.
An excess of acids or poisonous matter in your
blood, when due to functional kidney disorders,
may be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, disturbed
nights, swelling and pufflness under the eyes, head-
aches and dizziness.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic used successfully by millions for over 40 years.
DOAN’S are a special medicine for the kidneys and
will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes eliminate
poisonous wastes from the blood. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
m
/z
m
f/M
#4%
Both TODAY and in
the YEARS to come
The present regulated supply
of White Horse is an essen-
tial provision to ensure for
you the enjoyment of really
good Whisky both today and
in the years to come.
Whenever possible see that
your “Scotch” is . . .
i
m
.IM.O
i
HS
B'tai.
l-l
WH.2.45
mm HMt whisky
" EQUAL TO A FINE LIQUEUR"
Do you need a
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, caU
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
m’utlimk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
The New Year of 1946 opens with all
the really big and tricky fences of the
Grand International still ahead. The
first lot of obstacles will be faced by a
fairly strong field in London on January
10. All of the field are reputed, and some
are known, to be triers.
One “Big Three” conference was more
than enough for President Truman.
American sources stated after his return
from Potsdam that wild horses wouldn’t
drag him to another. The Lesser Three
reopened in Moscow on December 16
the discussions that broke down in Lon-
don, where Byrnes (not altogether
politely, according to report) and Bevin
declined to jump through a Soviet-brand
hoop at Molotov’s bidding. Taking a
lesson from Soviet diplomatic method,
Bevin and (particularly) Byrnes subse-
quently made public exactly what
happened. In effect, they told Moscow
that they had had enough of time-wast-
ing nonsense, and hence the latest meet-
ing, which wound up on December 27,
did at least begin to get somewhere, and
ended comparatively amiably,
Bevin, before leaving Moscow for
London, stated that “final agreement on
Persia has not been reached.” So that
he and America’s Byrnes would have no
doubt about the Soviet attitude, the Rus-
sian journalist Zaslavsky was put up in
advance to state the official view in
“Pravda.” He wrote that “under the
Soviet-Iranian treaty of 1921 the Soviet
Union has the right to introduce troops
into Persian territory.” One slight omis-
sion: the 1921 treaty gave Russia the
right to advance troops into Persia only
“if an armed attack on Russia is
threatened.” With such an example of
treaty reading given to them to digest as
the conference started, the Byrnes and
Bevin headshakes and “warnings against
the impression that one conference had
solved all the world’s problems” were
understandable.
In the mechanistic war lately concluded
hundreds of young Australians entered
the army, the navy or the air force, and
now, after from three to six years’ ex-
perience as electricians, mechanics,'fitters,
turners, sheet-metal workers, welders,
blacksmiths, moulders, armature-winders,
woodworkers and so forth, are coming
back in search of a job. But, under
Labor’s shortsighted “dilutee” agreement
with the unions, none of them can get a
job unless he was engaged in that par-
ticular trade before the war. So, for
instance, a man who entered the services
as an 18-year-old unskilled laborer and
now emerges a skilled motor engineer
with years of war service to his credit, is
expected to revert to the status of an un-
skilled laborer. Such is the reward of the
patriot volunteer under a “Workers’ ‘Gov-
ernment.’ ”
The Sydney public hardly had time to
get home from its Christmas and Boxing
Day holidays when it was informed that
“general resumption of industry on
January 7, as planned by the Govern-
ment, will not be possible unless the
public faithfully observes the restrictions
on the use of gas and electricity in homes.”
“Planned by the Government” was par-
ticularly impudent. Not a word from that
same “Government” about strikers being
made faithfully to observe the industrial
law.
One of the nastiest stunts being put
over the people of N.S.W. by their so-
called Government is the frequent state-
ment by some Minister or other that,
because of his administration of a “diffi-
cult situation,” this or that activity has
survived the Communist-led strikes. Thus
O’Sullivan, Minister for Trams Which
Stop at Week-ends:
Consumption of coal on the railways has
been reduced from 36,000 tons a week to
18,000 tons try the substantial cuts in rail-
ways services.
It must have been very consoling to the
thousands struggling, at risk of life and
limb, to get aboard overcrowded trains
and travel, at risk to life and limb, to a
holiday destination.
Calwell’s criticism of the appointment
of Dr. Gilroy to the College of Cardinals
astounded many people, but shouldn’t
have done so. It was symtomatic of what
afflicts him and his kind—an interference
mania which resents any move in any
quarter whatever without reference to
the “Government.” Having, by the acci-
dent of war, been able to order the life
of the nation for upwards of three years,
Cal well and co. assume that it shall
always be so. In other words, they are
power-drunk.
The Pope described the creating of the
32 new cardinals—including the first Aus-
tralian-born so honored —as giving repre-
sentation in the College of Cardinals
to “the greatest possible number of
races and peoples.” Incorrectly, cables
stated that it means that “for the first
' time in history Italians constitute a small
minority of the Church’s cardinals, who
are advisers to the Pope.” At one time
when the number of cardinals was only
20, 17 of them were French. Since the
College elects Popes, it would now be
possible for other than an Italian Pope
to be elected. The creation of cardinals
—it may surprise Calwell to learn—
is the function of the Pope alone. He
nominates those whom he desires to raise
to the purple; the consistory cardinals
bend the head as a sign of their consent;
and in due course those nominated receive
their red hats at the hands of the Pope in
a public consistory.
Still another union—Adelaide Chemical
Workers —has had a bellyful of Thorn-
ton’s mob and pulled out of the amal-
gamation with the Ironworkers’ Assoc.
Adelaide Corns., of course, heaped abuse
on the Chemical Workers, alleging that
they wouldn’t pay a 2s. levy to help Syd-
ney strikers, and T. J. Barnett, the C.W.
secretary, replied that his members “have
been sadly awakened, at great cost, to the
mischievous methods of the Ironworkers’
Association.” They haven’t got that on
their own.
Latest sufferers from the “shipping
position” are the British brides of Aus-
tralian servicemen, stranded apparently
indefinitely in England, many of them
without means of support. Most of these
Australians —mainly R.A.A.F. who have
married in England—would gladly give
up their passage home to others and wait
till they could accompany their wives out.
The N.Z. Government, which is so far
ahead of Australia in its treatment of
servicemen as to make comparisons piti-
ful, does everything possible to arrange
for married couples to travel back to-
gether. The Australian method is to
bring the husband back, discharge him
as quickly as possible, and immediately
cut off his wife’s allotment. He can then
sit around indefinitely sending her his
Australian pounds at a loss of four
shillings in the pound exchange.
Unley (S.A.) A.L.P. committee has
been informed by Chifley that the Com-
monwealth Government will do “every-
thing possible to circumvent the Commu-
nist party from becoming a political force
within Australia.” McPhillips, of those
to be circumvented, is “Jack” to “Chif,”
who gave “Jack” a friendly warning
about blood pressure. Thereupon “Jack”
was reported to have “upturned his hands
in a gesture of resignation.” He could
have caught that from “Chif.”
In his churlish “valedictory speech”
Beasley implied that his Government
“saved Australia” by bringing back the
Sixth and Seventh Divisions from the
Middle East. When like claims were
made earlier Senator (Major) Wilson
declared sarcastically that they amounted
to a “very high compliment” to the two
divisions brought back. Major Wilson
belonged to one of those divisions. The
two divisions —among the finest fighting
troops Australia has produced—would,
with Major Wilson, be the last to claim
that they only could have done the trick.
Many of their men, in fact, questioned
openly why the thousands of trained
troops in Australia at the time could not
have been used. Their questioning wasn’t
answered, and, of course, Beasley left it
still unanswered.
Queensland Country party has en-
dorsed two Diggers for the next Federal
election—L. A. Jenkinson, an Atherton
man, for Kennedy, and Sgt. Lloyd
Roberts, of Mackay, for Herbert. Jen-
kinson, a soldier of two wars, was this
time a p.-0.-w. in Germany for nearly
four years. Roberts is an Eighth Divvy
man who toiled on the infamous Burma-
Thailand railway while a p.-0.-w, of the
Japs. Alarm is noticeable in the vicinity
of Riordan (Kennedy) and Martens
(Herbert). North Queensland is proud
of its Diggers and very sick of the Can-
berra “Labor” Government to which
Riordan and Martens belong.
Announced by the French News
Agency that Britain and America have
“accepted the French proposal for three-
Power negotiations to discuss policies in
relation to Franco’s Government.” This
has been presented as the latest and surest
sign (scores of others having failed the
sign-readers) that the fall of the Franco
regime is imminent. There is one cause
for doubt: “Britain is showing some hesi-
tation at interfering in the internal affairs
of Spain at present,” For “at present”
read “indefinitely.” The value of the
Chamberlain policy of non-interference in
Spain has not been lost on Bevin, who in
August laid down as “the British Gov-
ernment view” that the regime in Spain
was “a question for the Spanish people
to decide.” “Intervention by foreign
Powers in the internal affairs of Spain,”
the Foreign Minister said, “would have
the opposite effect to that desired, and
would probably strengthen General
Franco’s position.”
Some 32i square inches of close-set
small type called for applications from
“service personnel” to fill 19 brand new
permanent secretaryships in the Depart-
ment of External Affairs at Canberra.
Salaries ranging from £928-£1052 for
an Assistant Secretary to handle Political
Policy and Research to £274-£562 for
each of nine Third Secretaries. Three
First Secretaries at £784-£856 and six
Second dittos at £598-£670 were also in
the wanted list, “Particulars of war ser-
vice, if any,” were required, suggesting
that the initial limitation of applicants to
“service personnel” was not quite what it
seemed, and as applications had to reach
Canberra by December 31, at latest, there
was not much chance for oversea service
personnel to share in the distribution of
office-chair prizes. That minor aspect,
however, does not come into practical
politics as understood at Canberra.
Two things merit keeping in mind in
assessing the current Labor-Corn, “hos-
tilities”: (1) The war having ended, it is
now safe to attack Corns, without being
assailed by both Corns, and the whole
army of fellow-travellers on the score of
possibly offending a valued ally. (2)
This is an election year, and making a
show of opposing Corns, is calculated to
return good dividends in votes. Hence,
the closer the elections come the hotter
the “hostilities” are likely to rage. There
will, of course, be the pretence that
“Labor” alone is capable of dealing with
Corns. No doubt it is, too —depending
on what construction is put on “dealing
with.”
The Housing Commission having de-
cided, 117 workers’ flats are to go up in
a garden setting in slum areas in North
Melbourne. They won’t be the lofty
affairs which have made the working
quarters of European cities look like N.T.
antheaps, being only of three storeys, but
they are the first step in what the com-
mission calls a master plan for rebuild-
ing the poorer parts of Melbourne.
The 1944 referendum, which Evatt
made very much his own chicken, went
bad on him, and did him no good with
the “party.” Mbst of the inside post-
mortem was directed at Evatt’s failure
to break the 17-point proposal up into
separate voting heads, and his over-
sanguine belief that it was “in the bag.”
Hence the role arranged for him of
hatcher-in-chief of another doomed bird
of the same feather is not one he contem-
plates with any relish.
Melbourne “Herald” has it that Queens-
land will oppose the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s intention to make uniform
taxation permanent, when it comes up at
the Premiers’ Conference on January 22.
Chifley has told the States he wanted the
thing recast and made a fixture. Vic-
toria, which opposed uniform taxation
under Dunstan, is likely to support it
under Cain; S.A, is unlikely to change
and, with Queensland, would make two
against. But the Commonwealth has
drastic penal powers against opposers—it
may not hesitate to use against a mere
State Government what it isn’t game to
use against Commo. strike-leaders.
The closing year witnessed a queer sort
of secession movement which has been
ignored by common consent. In a hot
debate in the Dail, De Valera came out
with the statement that “Eire is a re-
public.” If he were taken at his word
citizens of Eire would lose most of the
benefits of the U.S. quota law, which is
very favorable to the Irish, and would
become foreigners throughout the
British Commonwealth and Empire.
Under existing conditions they can
soon qualify as electors in any part
of the Commonwealth and Empire
to which they choose to emigrate and
become eligible for the highest positions.
Since October, 1929, Australia has had
three Prime Ministers of Irish descent
(combined terms, 13 years), their fathers
having come from what is now Eire ; and„
it now has a fourth.
If Chifley could possibly muster up
courage enough to take action against
Red Fascists, it wouldn’t be hard for him
to get hold of one of the “pamphlets pub-
lished by the Central Committee of the
‘Australian’ Communist party” and dis-
tributed in the Philippines: “the pam-
phlets described the British action in Java
as a foul conspiracy.” (“S. M. Herald’s”
correspondent.) Chifley should contrive
to remember that he is Prime Minister of
a British country urgently interested in
the pacification of islands with 70,000,000
Asiatic inhabitants right on its doorstep.
Playford, now the only non-Labor Pre-
mier, was named by blatherskites in
the Red Ironworkers’ Federation as being,
along with 8.H.P., responsible for the
unemployment, fuel rationing and travel
cuts in S.A. The Reds accused him of hav-
ing “faffed to develop local fuel re-
sources.” With Leigh Creek producing
coal after Playford had had to fight Can-
berra over it, and also to fight Commu-
nists who wanted the A.W.U. ousted from
the field, the accusation was not even a
plausible lie. But then any sort of lie
suffices for Red Fascists who want to pull
good Australians down.


d
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
i
Exide Batteries contribute to the conveniences
of modern living, from a telephone call to air
travel. In your choice of a car battery you
can safely be guided by the world’s largest
telephone exchanges, who depend on Exide.
sri
t
i
jtn
PERSONAL ITEMS
The arrival of Tasmania’s new Gover-
nor, Sir Hugh Binnie, K.C.8., D. 5.0.,
marks a return to the early tradition of
naval Governors. Phillip, King, Hunter,
Bligh, Hindmarsh and Franklin were
among the pioneers; later seadogs
turned pro-Consuls were Rawson and
De Chair. Admiral Binney trained in old
Britannia, served as gunnery officer in
Queen Elizabeth during the First World
War, and from 1918 onwards tried his
hand at most fleet jobs, afloat and ashore.
Hood knew him as commander in 1932-33,
and he became rear-admiral. First
Battle Squadron, three years later. When
Hitler’s war came hp was commandant
Imperial Defence College, from which
post he was uprooted to take charge of
Orkneys and Shetlands area. In 1942
he was promoted admiral. The new Gov-
ernor’s arrival in Australia was not im-
pressive—shipping shortage forced him
to travel to Melbourne in a freighter—
but aircraft-carrier Vindex took him to
Hobart.
Robert Hall Chapman, who succeeds
Charlie Anderson as S.A. Railways Com-
missioner, has been chief engineer of that
department since 1924. Adelaide-born,
he collected his B.E. at Adelaide Uni.
in 1913 and his M.E. in 1921, after serv-
ing four years with the Royal Engineers
in World War I. In 1926 he went to
Great Britain, the Continent, Canada and
the U.S., and in Commissioner Webb’s
time supervised the building of the Adel-
aide railway station. Latterly his depart-
ment has been responsible for many im-
portant jobs, including Finsbury muni-
tion works and the Birkenhead bridge
across Port Adelaide River. He’s also
State Government representative on the
board of directors of Cellulose, Aust., Ltd.,
and finds time to write for various
engineering journals—his treatise on
“Calibration of Guns” was published by
the War Office. Now 56, he is the son of
the late knight Robert Chapman, Pro-
fessor of Engineering at Adelaide Uni.
Wing-Commander Geoffrey George
Rossiter, one of W.A.’s new Rhodes
scholars, is .the second of his family to
gain the distinction —Major R. Rossiter,
the 1935 scholar, is at present with the
R.A.M.C. in India.)' Young Rossiter
passed his B.A. in 1938 at Perth Uni.
and went on to Oxford to specialise in
Modem History. Twelve months later
he joined the R.A.A.F. After winning
his D.F.C. he was sent back to Australia
and is at present C.O. of 40 Squadron at
Pbrt Moresby. Lieut. Albert Laurence
Arcus, Rossiter’s co-scholar, served with
Infantry and Engineers. He completed
his B.E. degree this year and intends to
concentrate on structural engineering and
architecture. Rossiter was champion
athlete and captain of University Club ;
holds the W.A. high-jump record and has
represented his State in National Games.
Arcus played tennis and football for
’Varsity, stroked Uni. boats for four
years and also stroked fours and eights
for W.A. Rowing Club.
West Australia’s new Chief Justice,
John Patrick Dwyer, has been on the
Bench since 1930. Born in Victoria 65
years ago, the new C.J. went from Geelong
College to Melbourne Uni., was called to
the W.A. Bar in 1904 and was in law
practice when he joined the 44th Batt.,
A.1.F., served in France and attained his
captaincy. He succeeded Justice Bum-
side on the Bench without having taken
silk. Much of his spare time is devoted
to the Boy Scouts; he has been W.A.
Chief Scout for the past seven years. The
vacancy on the Bench has been filled by
J. L. Walker, K.C., hitherto Solicitor-
General, who was W.A.’s first Rhodes
Scholar, in 1904. He got a half-blue for
boxing at Oxford.
“Atrax”: Locally known as D.E.S. —
short for damnation, education and
salvation St. Mark’s Church of
England at Eidsvold (Q.), was origi-
nally a store and post office, then a pub
and afterwards a school before achieving
ecclesiastical honor. It now awaits its
new incumbent, the Rev. D. Richardson
still in Wewak as chaplain with the 2/6
Battalion.
John Brennan’s impressions of the Man
of 1945:
Two impressions of MacArthur remain clearly
in mind—the one as he appeared for the formal
surrender of Japan aboard the battleship Mis-
souri in Tokyo Bay; the other as he was at
Leyte during the first week of the campaign
which began the reconquest of the Philippines.
MacArthur came aboard Missouri shortly be-
fore the arrival of the Japanese surrender dele-
gation and when everybody else was already in
place on the captain’s promenade deck. He
walked past the assembled generals and
admirals and delegations from the countries
allied in the defeat of Japan, seemingly with-
out noticing them. His manner set the atmo-
sphere of solemnity and formality for the occa-
sion. He wore khaki shirt and trousers, with-
out decoration other than the circlet of five
stars on his collar, and the worn cap with the
faded gold braid which he had carried with
him throughout the war with Japan. His face
was stern and set.
When he began to speak into the microphone
—“We are gathered here to conclude a
solemn agreement where-
by Peace may be re-
stored I announce it
my firm purpose to make
all necessary dispositions
to ensure that the terms
of- surrender are fully,
promptly and faithfully
complied with” h'is
voice was firm and well-
modulated, but the
papers from which he
was reading trembled
in his hands in the tense
nervousness of the strain
under which he was
speaking. This was his
greatest moment, but
there was still the
thought in many minds
that there might yet be
some sign of treachery
on the part of the enemy,
perhaps some demon-
stration by the Kami-
kaze squadrons.
After the Japanese
delegates had signed the
surrender document there
was a noticeable change
in the quality of Mac-
Arthur’s voice. It rang
with a new timbre, and
there sounded in it the
knowledge that he was
in complete command of
the situation. There was
no more nervous trem-
bling of the hands, and
he made a slight addi-
tion to the script from
which he was reading.
“I ask General Wain-
wright and General Per-
cival to stand beside me
while I sign,” he said,
and as he said it
was an almost irresist-
ible desire felt by all the
hundreds who heard
him to cheer the man.
He was completely at
his ease. If this was
acting it was acting of
the highest order.
At Leyte in October
of 1944 MacArthur
landed four divisions in
furtherance of his
promise to return to the
Philippines. In the
centre was the untried
96th, which unfortu-
nately encountered the
worst of the terrain, a
succession of deep swamps and flooded rice
fields. It made slow progress because of the
inability to push supplies forward, and it was_
further held-up by an unknown number of
Japanese in a hill position on its right flank.
A typhoon during the first few days made the
swamps even more difficult to cross.
MacArthur arrived unannounced at divisional
headquarters one morning towards the end of
the first week. H.Q. was in a partly-flooded
coconut grove and all its transport was bogged
down, but the general’s jeep-driver somehow
managed to get him through. He stepped
out of the jeep and seemed to perch on top of
the mud with his brightly-polished shoes. He
carried a stick and was smoking his corncob
pipe. There arrived almost at the same time
the first of the regular half-dozen or so 75mm.
shells the Japs were in the habit of sending into
the area every few hours. There was a wild
scatter for holes through all the H.Q., but
MacArthur stood quite unconcerned and waited.
A few of the division officers came shame-
facedly out of their holes to talk with him.
When the show was over he called for a
map of the positions. He pointed sharply at
the hill with his pipe. “Leave them there;
leave them there. Go around this way,” he
said. “They can’t do anything. Go around
them and then come in here from the other
side.” It seemed that he made his decision
quickly and certainly as soon as he saw the
position. It was the first time I had seen him
during a campaign, and I remembered the
U.S. Navy’s jibes at “Dug r out Doug.”
C. J. Eady, dead in Hobart at 75, was
President of Tasmania’s Legislative Coun-
cil, but long before he took on that job
he had become famous as the Speck’s first
Test cricket representative,. Playing
against Victoria in 1895, his fast bowling
earned him a place in the Test team that
toured England in that year. He took
4 wickets for 69 in the first Test but
was replaced by Ernie Jones, then at his
top, for the rest of the tour. In 1902 Eady
played in another Test at Melbourne, and
in the same year knocked up 566 for
Break o’ Day against Wellington, still
a world’s record in club cricket. A lead-
ing footballer as well, he stood six-feet-
four in his socks.
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Keyes, a
sailor for 60 years, died on shore at 73,
his end hastened by lung injuries sus-
tained during the invasion of the Philip-
pines. He was on the U.S. flagship when
fumes from a smoke screen laid him low
along with 40 others. A believer in the
Nelson touch, he got his first chance to
show it during the Boxer rebellion in
1900, when he captured four Chinese
MAN OF THE YEAR.
destroyers and took a party ashore to
blow up a fort. This was his first am-
phibious operation, and doubtless inspired
him 18 years later when he directed the
famous raids on Zeebrugge and Ostend
when in charge of the Dover Patrol.
World War II found him urging the same
bold measures in Norwegian waters as
he had advocated in the Dardanelles in
World War I, and later, as Director of
Combined Operations, he planned the
successful raids on Spitzbergen and the
Lofoten Islands. A fighter to the last,
he did not shrink from expressing un-
popular opinions, either in the Commons
—he was member for Portsmouth from
1934—0 r among dock workers in Aus-
tralia.
As the bells of New York’s City Hall
rang out the bid year they also chimed a
farewell to one of the most colorful
figures in a long line of New York
Mayors, and Fiorello La Guardia took
his boundless energy into a new career as
journalist on “P.M.” Little Flower (“Little
Stinkweed” to his irreverent opponents)
has run New York since 1933, the
only man to hold thq job for three terms
—like the Presidency it’s a four-year con-
tract. La Guardia fought graft, gambling
rackets, poker machines, burlesque shows,
bubble-dancers and smutty magazines.
He went in for slum clearance and public
building schemes ; he municipalised street
transport; he organised civil defence and
fought black-marketeers. It will be in-
teresting to see what influence the ex-
Mayor will have on and through “P.M.”
In 1944 the “Saturday Review of Litera-
ture” took a poll among Washington
pressmen. On the question “the news-
paper maintaining the best news service
as measured 'by reliability, comprehen-
siveness and fairness” “P.M.” was voted
ninth out of 15, polling four votes out of
160. For “the paper which is the most
flagrant in angling or weighing the news
to suit its own editorial opinion” “P.M.”
came third, with 29 votes out of 160.
W. H. Nelson, as new manager and sec-
retary to Melbourne Zoo in succession to
director Kendall, will meet some old
friends, or at any rate, their relations, en-
countered on big-game expeditions, for
one of which, as British Administrator in
Uganda, he was host to the now Duke
of Windsor. Holder of a Colonial Office
degree in anthropology and public ac-
countancy, Nelson is also a soldier and
explorer. He was born in Melbourne in
1895 and educated at Caulfield Grammar
and Melbourne and Cambridge Univer-
sities.
When the Maoriland. delegates to the
International Labor Conference at Paris
arrived they found a countryman there
before them. E. J, Riches, formerly a
Geraldine (South Canterbury) reside 5 •
had joined the International Labor
Organisation secretariat in 1927. Ai
headquarters of the organisation at Mon-
treal, Riches is in charge of the economic.,
and statistical department.
Justice Frederick William Richards, re-
tiring from the Bench of the Supreme
.Court of S.A., was admitted to the Bar
in England 50 years back. Son of a
Methodist parson, he was born at Gawler
(S.A.), and at 13 went tc Shebbear Col-
lege, North Devon, later gaining his
LL.B. with honors and the Doctorate of
Laws or London University. Returning
to S.A., he was admitted to the Bar in
1897, and after gaining experience as
managing clerk —part of the time with
Charles Cameron Kingston —he became
associate to Chief Justice Samuel Way.
In 1908 Richards was appointed to fill
the newly-created post of Parliamentary
Draftsman, becoming Crown Solicitor
in 1916. Taking silk in 1921, he was
Acting Judge of the Supreme Court for
two years prior to his elevation to the
Bench in 1927,
Into the silence:
In Sydney, Samuel J. Janes, identified during
a lifetime with the gas industry, principally the
North Shore co., of which he was manager for
many years. He was a Rotarian and former
director of the Royal North Shore Hospital.
His two sons, Lieut.-Col. A. F. Janes and
Lieut.-Comdr. R. Janes, served in the recent
war. The army man holds Sydney Uni. degrees
in both Medicine and Law.
At 63, Frederick Milburn, grazier, of Blair-
more, Cunnamulia (Q.). Since the 1920’s had
been part-owner and managing partner of
Burgess and Go., which controls Blairmore and
Bonna Vonna. Earlier he owned Darra and
Benares at Longreach, and Dalbassie and Black-
Valley in the Hughenden district.
At 93, at Pitt Town (N.S.W.), Thomas J.
Ryan, one of the State’s most noted breeders
of Clydesdales and a frequent R.A.S. exhibitor.
At Brighton (Vic.), Dr. Cecil Tucker, one of
the best-known practitioners on Melbourne’s
bayside. A son of the late Canon Tucker, for
many years associated with Christ Church,
South Yarra, and a brother of Rev. Father
Tucker, the unconventional cleric who kept a
six weeks’ vigil on a suburban verandah to
draw public attention to the iniquities of the
landlord-tenant war-time regulations, he prac-,
lised at Beeac and Prahran before moving to
Brighton. He was formerly on the State
Health Department’s staff at Mont Park Asylum.
In Melbourne, at 95, John Curtis, doyen of
Victorian J.P.’s and first president of the
Leather Goods Association. Born at Fitzroy,
he saw Burke and Wills leave on their ill-fated
expedition. »
In Brisbane, Herbert Crawley, a former presi-
dent and secretary of the Australian Natives’
Association. His 38 years as secretary of the
Ithaca branch is claimed as a record for any
A.N.A. branch.
In Sydney, on his 80th birthday, Brother
Felix. A Marist Brother who came to St.
Joseph’s College, Sydney, from Scotland in
1887. For 40 years he was in charge of the col-
lege Infirmary and Dispensary. A great rowing
coach, he gave many of “Joey’s” oarsmen their
first lessons.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Harassed Mother” with a paean of
joy:
I had a lovely Christmas Day. The restric-
tions were lifted you know, so I lit the gas
copper and did two weeks’ washing. It was
lovely drying weather, so by the lime I’d done
the carpets I got the electric iron going and
did the ironing. We hadn’t had a hot bath for
a fortnight, so I let the kiddies have a real
day of it. Jackie had four baths and Alice
three. Dinnertime came and I found that being
a bit out of practice with the gas oven I’d
burnt everything to a cinder, but we weren’t
hungty and the trams were running so we went
for a tramride just for the novelty. When we
got home we had a couple more hot baths, and
then I did the washing and ironing again be-
cause you never know when we’ll get the next
chance. Then it was bedtime, but with lighting
reductions lifted it seemed a sin to waste
the opportunity so we switched on all the,lights
and sat up till it was time to get breakfast.
The neighbors complained a bit because we had
our three radios going full blast, but Christmas
only comes once a year I told them. Yes, it
was a lovely Christmas!
* * * *
“Jachris”; The Papal appointment of
Dr. Norman T. Gilroy, Archbishop of
Sydney, as a cardinal is in a sense a
tribute to the wealth and financial stand-
ing of the Sydney Archdiocese. There’s
an odd right reserved to the Pope in
elevating prelates to the purple, and used
by him in cases where he believes the re-
cipient of the dignity may not be able to
afford it, of creating cardinals “in petto.”
When he nominates those he intends for
the honor he announces that there are
others “whose names he has concealed in
his breast.” When later —and it may be
any number of years later —he does an-
nounce those names the cardinals take
rank from the day they were reserved
"in petto” The promotions are retrospec-
tive, even to the matter of emoluments
which may be .attached to the position.
There is the difficulty that if the Pope
dies without having announced the names
the promotion is not valid. In 1875 Pius
IX announced the nomination of several
cardinals “in petto,” their names to be
given in his will. It was pointed out that
there was a danger that this course might
be contested, and he raised them to the
purple immediately.
*, * *
“Jasby”: Atomic energy may be the
means of making Australia’s deserts blos-
som like the rose (“Lao-dah,” B.
26/12/’45), but if it is used to dissolve
the icepacks and snow of the Polar
regions, Julian Huxley notwithstanding,
its effect will not be confined to “con-
verting foggy Britain into a land of
Spanish sunshine.” Dissolve those ice-
caps and most of Britain would be under
the sea. That Holland, Belgium, Den-
mark and large slabs of France and Ger-
many were also given over to the fish
wouldn’t be much consolation to Lon-
don’s millions, confronted with a long
swim to the safety of the Welsh moun-
tains, there to enjoy Spanish sunshine and
Welsh rarebit, while they wrote letters
to the Caden Iris “Times” advocating the
immediate re-freezing of the Polar regions
and the restoration of honest British fog.
“Milgia”: Launceston’s celebration of
the jubilee of its hydro-electric instal-
lation recalls that this Tasmanian city was
the first in the Southern Hemisphere to
utilise water to generate electrical current.
December, 1895, saw Launceston first
lighted by its own municipal power plant.
A point not mentioned in congratula-
tory speeches on the subject is that all the
early power plants in the Speck started
as private enterprises.
s= * * *
“Prop”: Within cooee of Christmas,
A.B.C. broadcast a radio drammer, “A
New Day.” It was about a pore cove
who had been transported for life as a
punishment for Chartist activities. He
ran away with a governess, lived with her
like a hunted dog, existing mainly by
petty theft, until, very indiscreetly, they
had a baby (for which even the napkins
had been pinched). At this moment, the
moment when the sound-effects man was
dishing out new-born baby squalls, along
came a crazy, drunken gold-digger look-
ing for tucker and flashing a bran-bag
full of nuggets. So the Chartist cove
bowled him over with a rifle. End of
play. Audience assumes the pore perse-
cuted Chartist, the governess and the baby
live happily ever after. Moral: if you
suffer for the holy cause of Labor you
are to be forgiven such small peccadillos
as cold-blooded murder. The play was
presented on the evening of a day when,
in the interests of the holy cause of
Labor, the wireless was rationed, when
“I don’t think you have been formally introduced , ladies. Meet
Captain Prendergast!”
mothers of small children were deprived
of electric power for hot-water services
and stoves, when mails were held up,
goods traffic on the outback lines cut
down, soldiers returning to their homes
stranded in strange places, when small
shopkeepers had lost heavily in spoiled
goods—the weather was hot and in many
cases ice had not come forward —and
thousands of people who had been look-
ing forward to something like a normal
Christmas were out of work.
* * * ♦
“Findy”: Sydney pre-Christmas parties
had an old-world atmosphere about them
this year, provided by enforced candle
light. At several I attended, despite a
plentiful supply of liquor, gleaned I know
not where, the Christmas spirit seemed
to flag as the night wore on. Guests
made no attempt to disguise their yawns,
jokes fell flat and folk began to leave
long before the drinks ran out —a sure
sign of failure in a Sydney party. I put
it down to poor-quality grog, frayed
nerves or too many late nights, but a
14-year-old science student gave me the
answer—oxygen starvation. The modem
flat isn’t built to cope with a dozen
'candles in a packed room. In the days
of candelabra lofty ceilings saved Grand-
ma’s parties from being carbon-dioxide
flops.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: There were two well-
defined stages in the history of Changi
(B. 12/12/’45). In the first year prisoners
were allowed to organise their own sports
and even built a theatre in which “Rope”
and other plays were staged, as well as
one-acters written by soldiers. Then the
Jap policy changed and these amenities
were frowned on. Bugs became even a
worse curse than bashing. One day the
Japs ordered a party of p.-0.-w. to build
a hut for them. The working party col-
lected bugs in matchboxes and when the
hut was finished released the insects. The
Japs burnt the hut a month later.
* * * *
“Craiser”: I see that Miss Inger Nor-
dentoft, 42-year-old unmarried principal
of one of Copenhagen’s largest schools,
has won her fight against the School
Board, which has decided to give her leave
to have her baby and keep her job open
for her. Miss Nordentoft announced that
she did not want a husband and had no
intention of marrying the child’s father.
The question now arises as to how she
will deal with any of her pupils who
decide to emulate her.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Numerous cases have oc-
curred in Melbourne of soldiers suffering
from war injuries being mistaken for neu-
rotics and of genuine neurotics being
treated by army doctors as if they
were responsible for their unfortunate
condition. Anybody should be able to
recognise a neurotic illness. People are
terrified of physical sickness. If they get
a real pain they want an explanatipn of
it. The neurotic doesn’t. He is almost
happy with his sickness. Some forms of
paralysis are entirely nervous and quite
curable by psychological treatment, but
the neurotic patient who has such
paralysis doesn’t look the least upset,
although he may be unable to write, cut
up his food, dress himself or stand un-
aided. He would be horrified if the same
effects were produced, say, by an injury
caused by something falling on him.
* * * *
“Billjim”: S.A. has had its first prose-
cution for running a Melbourne Cup
sweep. Adelaide Amateur Sports Club
was involved, and had to pay £3 with
£2 12s. costs. Admitting his client’s
offence, counsel submitted that such
breaches occurred every year in clubs,
offices, factories and even Government
departments.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I see where a “S.M.H.”
correspondent at Nuremberg reports that
a Dr. Gustave M. Gilbert is conducting
intelligence tests of “20 captive Nazi
leaders,” presumably for some psycholo-
gical treatise or other. The correspondent
notes that:
One of the tests —picture rearrangement —
which is used in the American version of
the Wechsler-Bellevue system, had to be
abandoned. In if you have to arrange a
series of separate little pictures of a comic
strip into an order which makes sense.
Comic strips mean nothing to the Nazis,
whether the pictures are in the right order
or not, so that was the end of that.
I don’t know what this Wechsler-Bellevue
system is supposed to reveal, but I’ll
guarantee to baffle anybody with a comic
strip without cutting it up. It’s called
“Skooner the Champ” and is current in
“S.M.H.”
• * ♦ •
“Melbn”: Divorce statistics last year
reached an all-time high in Victoria, the
number of divorces having doubled
since 1938. As 2000 fresh cases are listed
for 1946, this record is not expected to
stand long. However, Victorian figures
don’t touch those of the U.S., one Ameri-
can marriage in four eventually coming
before the courts, whereas only one in
20 gets wrecked in the Cabbage State.
Still, there is movement. Modern Vic-
torian women, it appears, are becoming
less faithful than Victorian husbands,
436 husbands being granted dissolutions
last year compared with 195 wives, all
on grounds of misconduct. In 1939, on
the other hand, 458 marriages were dis-
solved on the petitions of wives and 369
on the petitions of husbands. There was
the same rapid rise during and after the
last war.
* * * *
“Centen”: January 16 is the 150th
anniversary of the opening of the first
Australian theatre, with Young’s tragedy,
“The Revenge,” followed by “The
Hotel.” Tickets could be paid for in
money, flour, meat or spirits. A longr
enduring legend had it that it was on this
occasion that pickpocket Barrington spoke
the prologue containing the couplet
True patriots all; for, be it understood,
We left our country for our country’s good.
As a matter of fact, the “prologue” never
was spoken. It was a skit by Henry
Carter, printed in the “Annual Register”
for 1801. Its lengthy title says it is “sup-
posed to have been spoken by the cele-
brated Mr. B-rr-ngt-n” at the opening.
In 1802 a bright publisher attributed a
cribbed History of New South Wales to
Barrington and included the prologue.
From then until 1907 it was believed to
be by Barrington, but in that year Alfred
Lee discovered Carter’s effort with the
jesting title attached. Further research
has fairly definitely established Carter as
the author.
* * * *
“Ceg” on the oldest prop of Australian
melodrama:
It never failed to win growls from the audi-,
ence when the villain, with the Mortgage Deed
prominently protruding from the pocket of his
frock coat, stepped in, turned the heroine and
her infant out into the snow and possessed
himself of the farm —white fantail pigeons and
all. But in actual business practice foreclosing
is a rarity. The lender makes demand on the
mortgagor and, if he cannot pay, the mortgaged
property is advertised in the newspapers and
put up at auction. If a sale is not made
the mortgagee can sell privately, but must
always have strict regard for the rights of the
mortgagor, who retains, all through, any equity
he may have in the property. With foreclosure
the position is different. On first default equity
protects the mortgagor from loss of his interest
in the property, but if the default continues the
mortgagee may institute a suit in equity for
foreclosure. A decree for foreclosure wipes
out the mortgagor’s equity, but it also prevents ,
the mortgagee from bringing an action for re-
covery of the mortgage debt.
* * * #
“Adelaide”: S.A. takes booze-serving
to minors very seriously. A W.A.A.F.,
being under 21, was fined £2 with costa
for “having been in a city hotel for the
purpose of obtaining liquor.” The licensee
and the waitress who supplied it were
each fined £5 and costs.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Chess was played in Asia
long before it was revived in the p.-0.-w.
camps (B. 12/12/’45); it has been traced
back 1400 years in those parts. Old-
fashioned Malays are inveterate chess-
players, though their version of the game,
in which tigers, elephants and Other fauna
take the place of pawns, knights and
bishops, would give the Occidental expert
a headache. In the native States a gamp
sometimes resulted in the loss of a loser’s
physical independence. He would back
himself, first with his clothes, then all
his possessions, and finally, if hard
pressed, various portions of his body on
the result of a series of contests. If it
was a leg that had been wagered, the
limb could not be moved until it had
been won back by its owner. Occasion-
ally a run of bad luck resulted in the
whole body being mortgaged, whereupon
the loser became the debtor slave of his
opponent, under the immemorial Malay
adat.
* * * *
“89” on philatelic tributes:
A memorial stamp has already been issued
by the United States in honor of Franklin
Delano Roosevelt. This portrays the Presi-
dent and the White House, with the inscription
“1882-1945: Roosevelt.” In 1923 U.S.A. honored
just-dead President Harding by issuing a por-
trait stamp; in 1924 Soviet Russia did the same
for Lenin. In 1934 Albert, King of the Bel-
gians, killed while mountaineering in the
Ardennes, was remembered by issues from his
homeland and the Belgian Colonies, the colonial
issue depicting the monarch in tropical uniform.
Queen Astrid, beloved of the Belgians, met her
death while motoring in Switzerland in 1935,
and Belgian stamps of classic design enshrined
her memory, all being sold at above face value
in aid of a movement to establish playing fields.
Pilsudski, in uniform, was depicted in a 1935
Polish mourning series; in 1935, on the anni-
versary of the assassination of King Alexander,
special Yugoslavian stamps were issued, showing
the late King as an admiral. Hindenburg’s
death was philatellically commemorated the
same year by Germany. A striking portrait of
Marconi was included in an Italian memorial
set, struck during 1938. When Queen Maude
of Norway died in 1939 during a visit to
London a stamp bearing her portrait was issued.
Childrens’ welfare organisations, with which the
Queen had been in sympathy, benefited from
the sale. Dr. Dollfuss, Chancellor of Austria,
was killed in 1934 during a Nazi “putsch,” and
for two years annual mourning stamps were
printed. Each featured a fine portrait of the
tiny doc., unique border frames adding the
desired effect. The anniversary of the death of
Kamel Ataturk in 1940 was celebrated by an
entire set, featuring different likenesses of the
Turkish President.
UNEXPURGATED EXPLETIVES.
“The late General Patton had terrific drive and
energy, and a thorough command of unexpurgated
expletives.”— “S . M. Herald” corespondent.
Time was our troops swore terribly in Flanders,
We learn on the authority of Sterne;
They cursed at anything that raised their
danders,
In other words, occasioned them concern.
And one may well imagine that commanders
Along with husky privates took their turn
At whatsoever it may be that gives
Force to unexpurgated expletives.
But these are other days, when utilising
The methods once employed commands to
stress
Becomes a quality worth emphasising,
Though viewed by some with mild uneasiness,
Ever to be condoned by a surprising
Crop of results and measure of success.
When that’s attained, it shows some virtue lives
Still in unexpurgated expletives.
But just reflect, you blokes who bray and
blether
In hard-fought fights for statutes and for
laws,
Who® only armaments are lungs of leather,
Whose deadliest weapons are in iron jaws,
What storms you’d raise beyond your powers to
weather,
What righteous disapproval you would cause,
What frowns you’d fasten on a host of chivs
Unless you expurgated expletives!
A cumbrous and circuitous expression,
A euphemistic phrase, one must admit,
For what would elsewhere rank as a transgres-
sion,
A misdemeanor, crass and definite;
But, anyhow, it seems there’s one profession
Where one may swear and get' away with it.
For dashing generals still there may be divs.
In quite unexpurgated expletives.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Numis”; In S.A. and Westralia letters
in December were cancelled with a post-
mark depicting a smiling Santa Claus.
Other States were evidently not con-
sidered ripe for such pleasantries, N, S.
Wales, Victoria and Queensland, sore
afflicted with partial breakdown of their
respective civilisations, might not have
appreciated the merry jest.
* , * * *
“Bo”: For the free exercise of eccen-
tricity few human activities offer greater
opportunity than the making of a will.
Inordinate length and excessive brevity
are two of the favorite forms, but these
are followed closely by the “freak” will.
One hardy perennial that retains its popu-
larity is that written on an egg—and it is
rarely that a poultry farmer perpetrates
it. Some years ago a Queensland shearer
laboriously wrote his in Stockholm tar on
bis felt hat; the shotgun cartridge which
he eventually used to speed his departure
from a burdensome life made sufficient
of a hash of the homburg, which he
forgot to remove, to cause severe head-
aches for those who were later called on
to read it. A sailor from Newcastle
(N.S.W.) had his will tattooed on his
chest, shaving the hair off before having
it done. Doubtless he would have had to
use a blowlamp to burn off the resultant
luxuriant growth any time he wanted to
refresh his memory as to whom he had
left his worldly goods, whilst changes of
mind involving codicils might prove pain-
ful. The latest of the freaks is a London
baker who has inscribed his will on a
biscuit of his own baking. Which might
inspire the cynic to observe that after the
lawyers have nibbled at it there may be
a few crumbs left for the legatees.
3(5 * * *
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne daily pays half
a guinea to any member of the general
public who can get to a telephone and
tell it where news is breaking. It broke
the other Saturday afternoon in the
paper’s own office without reporters or
photographers knowing anything about it.
A young woman conveying a truckload
of ponies and a governess’s cart to an
institution which was giving a Christmas
treat for children found difficulty in un-
loading her cargo, and the driver sug-
gested the ramp of the newspaper office.
The truck was driven into the basement
and backed against the ramp, the ponies
being discharged into the capacious lift
in which papers are carried to the delivery
wagons. The lift was then raised to the
next floor, where trucks were waiting for
the afternoon edition. The carriers got
a shock when the door opened and out
walked the ponies, one of them the
smallest Shetland in Australia.
* * * •
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Brisbane is
having its annual early-summer fracas
concerning dress-reform for men. Flash
restaurants have refused to admit sick-
leave soldiers because their hospital-issue
garb doesn’t include a coat. Other joints
will admit the coatless provided they wear
a shirt-waist and tie. The principle of
a really cool cut of clobber in Brisbane’s
swelter-season is perfectly sound, but
none of the alleged reformers seems game
to follow it to its logical outcome. Collars,
ties, braces, belts, long sleeves and pants
are the real causes of clothing discomfort
in hot weather by reason of their interfer-
ence with upward circulation of air over
the skin surface. Any genuine reformer
who understands the principle and has
the courage of his opinions would at least
begin by wearing his shirt outside, as does
the wiser Asiatic. From that, he would
go on to the only reasonable rig, a pair
of bib-and-brace overalls, cut off at the
knees, and lifted with a circular cane-
spreader at waist-level to keep the gar-
ment well clear of skin-contact all round.
If there’s any trouble with eating houses
of the haughtier kind it will be a simple
matter to add enough pockets fore and
aft to carry a bottle or two of beer and
enough provender to render the comfort-
able wearer independent of such archiac
prejudices.
“A Major” on an old song:
“Warrawing” (B. 5/12/’45) trenches on con-
troversial ground in ascribing the melody or
“Home, Sweet Home” to Sir Henry Bishop.
His biographer in Grove’s Dictionary of
Music skates over the point by mentioning
that among Bishop’s “productions for Covent
Garden” was “ ‘Clari,’ with its household
melody of ‘Home Sweet Home.’ ” Rupert
Hughes, who made a very exhaustive study ot
“The portrait Was so good the wife used it to patch my suit”
the subject for his novel The Man Without a
Home, gives John Howard Payne’s own testi-
mony, which is that he scribbled the two verses
in a fit of depression; threw them away; had
them returned to him by a conscientious house-
keeper, and finally decided they would fill a
niche in an operetta “Angioletta” the libretto of
which he was writing, under contract, for
Covent Garden, where Bishop ruled the musical
side. As a suggestion to Bishop, Payne fitted
the words to “an old Sicilian” air that came
into his head, and for the refrain—-“ Ho-me,
ho-me, sweet, sweet home” —suggested “Ranz
des Vaches,” a Swiss yodel, used from time
immemorial for calling the sheep on the huge
trumpets affected by the Tyrolese. Bishop in a
brief note said words and music would “go
very nicely.” To balance this are two con-
siderations—(l) Major Hughes, a good Ameri-
can, had, perhaps, a national bias. (2) Even
if the facts are as stated, the very little that
Bishop did to put the material into shape may
have supplied the ingredient that made the
melody world-famous. Thomas Moore had
that knack —the melodies he rescued from
oblivion went on to posterity hearing the hall-
mark of his genius—and Bishop undoubtedly
had his moments, too.
* * ♦ *
“Zake”: With few exceptions Aus-
tralia’s best sporting writers have been
men who weren’t proficient in any sport.
Before the Stunt Press arrived experience
as a writer and observer was considered
of greater importance than possession of
a name known to the public. When the
writer-player arrived the inevitable
quickly followed —bad blood when one
of the ilk criticised his team mates. It
became so bad that, in Test cricket, a ban
had to be applied. That rule could well
“Hell, cant a lady EVER get any bacon here ?”
be taken to heart in tennis, which already
carries too many players spoonfed into
the belief that they are entitled to tem-
peramental tantrums. Recently Hopman,
writing in his paper, referred to Quist’s
“mental attitude” to his matchplay.
Quist, in his paper, said he “resented such
silly criticism.” Such inky sallies won’t
make things any better for the couple
the next time they play either with
or against each other. There is,
apparently, nothing to prevent doubles
partners tearing into each other in
print because of real or fancied de-
fects in the other’s play. Anyway, top-
notch exponents of a sport are rarely
good judges of it. As the game’s highest-
paid writer, Tilden, probably the greatest
tennis player thrown up in the last 50
years, repeatedly prophesied the highest
honors for players who never notched a
major title.
• * * . «
“Second Syllabus”: Things got pretty
willing at a pre-Christmas meeting of the
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation, whereat the
Commos. found themselves in the red in
common with most of their comrades
now that the public has begun to wake
up! There were the usual charges and
counter-charges, challenges which nobody
expected anybody to accept and all the
customary fiery language that breaks loose
when Commos. and anti-Commos. get
into holts at a union meeting. Then came
the inevitable claim that a teacher’s politi-
cal or religious beliefs are his own affair
and not to be interfered with by the
Federation, the Department of Education
or anybody else in this free and en-
lightened democracy. At first blush the
claim seems justified, but what would
happen if some teacher declared himself
a follower of the British Union of Fas-
cists or a convert to Mohammedanism,
with plurality of wives in his tenets?
* * * *
“Harry Kerry”: If Bushido still has
any influence and there is any truth in
the story that a Jap soldier who is taken
prisoner is disowned by his family, there
is going to be an outsize crop of disin-
herited elder and younger sons when the
Nip prisoners return home. It is reported
that over 40,000 Japs whose deaths had
been officially notified are now returning
home to families who had become accus-
tomed to thinking of them as resting with
their ancestors. These include an entire
unit of 500 men who, according to Im-
perial H.Q., had “perished gloriously on
Iwo lima.” I’ve always doubted the “dis-
owning” story. In the islands Jap
prisoners seemed to have few worries
about their future, and looked forward
to re-union with their families when they
got over their surprise at not being tor-
tured and killed by their captors. It was
this fear, deliberately instilled into them
by their officers, rather than fanaticism
or considerations of honor, that kept the
surrender rate so low during the island
campaigns.
* ♦ * ♦
“Alex”: A queer legal tangle, some
aspects of which must have been greatly
relished by the bewigged fraternity, has
come before the M.L. Supreme Court by
way of a motion for probate of the will
of one Jane Remington. This will, un-
fortunately, wasn’t signed by the testator
but by her sister Lucy. Jane and Lucy,
who lived together, decided *in 1930 to
make similar wills, but did not entrust
the business to a lawyer. When it
came to signing, by some mischance
each sister signed the other’s will.
Lncy died in 1941 and her will, before
being admitted to probate, passed
through many hands for inspection, but
the error was not discovered till Jane died
in 1944. Then, to complicate matters
further, Lucy’s will could not be found.
The case afforded Northcroft, J., and the
counsel engaged many opportunities of
pointing out what may be expected*to
happen if legal affairs are taken out of
legal hands. Upshot was a refusal by the
Judge to deal with the case on a motion.
He directed that the will should be pro-
pounded by action in solemn form, so
that there might be an opportunity to
appeal from the Court’s ultimate decision.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Bengal Governor R. G.
Casey’s suggestion, made during his chin-
wag with Gandhi, that the mahatma’s
shawl, made of coarse Tibetan wool, was
not up to standard, and his offer to
supply some better-quality Australian
wool which Gandhi’s handmaidens could
weave into a new shawl, has moved David
Rivett, of the C.S.I.R. in Melbourne, to
come out with an original proposal.
Rivett points out that the re-establishment
of the cottage-weaving industry which
was Gandhi’s programme for the redemp-
tion of the ryot forced to work in mass-
production factories, could be fostered
and an enormous market for Australian
wool created if Casey obtained a few
hundred bales of the real merino and in-
troduced it to his Indian fellow-subjects.
So that commercialism shouldn't ruin the
project the C.S.I.R. man suggests
that the organisation and any profits
that might accrue be put into the
hands of the Indian Red Cross, at present
gravely exercised over the shortage of
textiles in Bengal, He expects the idea
to spread like wildfire among India’s
400,000,000, and I wouldn’t be surprised
if it did. I was living in a small port in
Java when an American ship arrived
loaded With cheap kerosene lamps which
were distributed free to the native popu-
lation, much to its amazement. A month
or so later an American oil tanker turned
up and started discharging kero. Within
a year of so in tens of thousands of
Javanese homes the old bit of fibre in
the saucer filled with coconut oil vanished
and the huts burned brightly with kero-
sene lighting. The visits of tankers be-
came a monthly event thereafter.
* * * ♦
“Minim”: The periodical movement
to fit Australia out with a worthy national
song, hymn or anthem has boiled up
again. This time the ado has been started
by Prof. Walter Murdoch, who praised
“Waltzing Matilda” in a newspaper article
and suggested that new and nobler words
should be written for it. He mentioned,
of course, the precedent of Julia Ward
Howe’s magnificent “Battle Hymn of the
Republic,” rhythmed to the tune of “John
Brown’s Body,” and “merely as a hint
of what might be done if a real poet took
the matter in hand,” provided a speci-
men quatrain:
Live for Australia! Die for Australia!
Star of the morning—hope of the free.
Land of good comrades, citadel of liberty
Living or dying, thy warders are we.
The idea was taken up enthusiastically
in Melbourne, and William Tainsh had
a buck at providing Australia with a
battle hymn on the “Waltzing Matilda”
framework. It starts off “Deep in the
south there burns a light of liberty,” and
a little later on has a mention of the
“heroes who died to keep us free.” This
inspired an anonymous “Melbourne
businessman” to become lyrical;
Underneath the Southern skies there’s a bright
and happy land.
Where Justice reigns and man is free,
And the foot of the tyrant on this land will
never stand.
Who’ll fight, Australia! Who’ll fight for
Thee?
Chorus.
Who’ll come a-fighting? Who’ll come a-
fighting?
Who’ll come a-fighting? Australia for Thee!
A mighty shout for Freedom rang throughout
the peaceful land,
We’ll come a-fighting! Australia for Thee!
This insistence on freedom seems rather
pathetic in a country that goes lightless
and powerless every time two or three
trade-union officials decide such disciplin-
ing to be necessary.
OCCUPATIONAL.
Already we’ve an ample stock,
Yet year by year one sees
Some notice of another oc-
cupational disease.
Now “tennis elbow” comes to share,
At least in some degree,
The sympathy in days that were
Evoked by “housemaid’s knee,”
Each portion of the human frame.
I’m venturing a guess,
Reacts in very much the same
Grim fashion to excess.
“Sore throat,” suggesting prolix spans
Of speech from pulpits put,
Came to be known as “clergyman’s”;
And now we’ve “athlete’s foot.”
Few trades or callings there can be
In which you won’t be shown
Some special brand of malady.
Some ailment all their own.
Each with the imprint of a seal,
A trademark or a stamp.
But here my lay must close. I feel
A touch of “writer’s cramp.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gravelsnatcher”: James, who had
lived all his 20 years in Perth, where
men still occasionally offer seats in trams
to women, came to spend his holidays on
the farm, and found our conversation
crude, particularly in mixed company.
The day the dinner conversation centred
on dogs was particularly trying to him,
and later he chided Bluey on his
language. The redhead, who knew his
weakness and feared a slipping tongue,
was immediately apologetic and worried.
“What did I say?” he asked, fearing the
worst. “Well,” James explained, “when
you were discussing that brindle dog of
yours, you kept referring to it as a bitch.”
“Well”—Bluey didn’t see it. “She is a
bitch.” “Possibly so,” James conceded.
“And, of course, it’s all right to say so
between ourselves. But when there are
ladies present, y’ know” . He clicked
his tongue in admonition. “But, damit-
all,” Bluey exploded, “what d’ y’ want
me t’ call her?” “Oh, I don’t know,”
James hesitated. “What is the correct
term for a—er —lady dog?” “The cor-
rect term for a lady dog,” Bluey
assured him emphatically, “is bitch 1"
“Good heavens!” James ejaculated, “Is
that really so? I thought that was a cer-
tain type of woman!”
# * * *
“Celt”: An old native told me the story
of how the first tins of the prized “bula-
makau” were received by natives on the
north coast of the Gazelle Peninsula
(New Britain) from a trading vessel.
They stripped the paper labels off
and made a soup of them, throwing the
full tins away. Not appreciating the con-
coction, they decided to await the return
of the vessel and grab a few of the crew
with which to flavor their label soup.
Before the vessel’s return, however, one
of the discarded tins was accidentally
burst open, and thus another South Sea
Island massacre was averted.
* * * *
“Blime”: Ben’s fence was in good order
till a wombat took a fancy to the feed
on the other side. Coming on half a
dozen large holes tom in the netting, Ben
decided he’d have to “git the cow.”
Rabbit traps were his first effort, but after
discovering the wombat could pull his way
out he packed several dingo traps on to
the job. Frightened now from his old
haunts, the wombat transferred his atten-
tions further along; finding the fence
ripped up in several new places, Ben
wrathfully planned to sit up for the
marauder with a gun. Three long cold
nights failed to bring results, so he set the
gun in the fence and left it. A week it
remained ; then, to prevent the mists rust-
ing his favorite weapon, Ben rescued it,
cursed the wombat heartily and was
making homeward when he came on more
freshly-made holes in the fence. Mad as
blazes, he grabbed a mattock and started
in on the most likely-looking wombat
burrow he could select from the half
dozen that offered. Hour after hour he
toiled, only to discover towards evening
that the wombat wasn’t home. He was
disgustedly patching holes next morning
when old Hodge rode along. “Gripes,
Ben, you’re a fool puttin’ up with that,”
remarked the neighbor inspecting the
ruined fence. “Beats me why y’ don’t
make some effort to catch the brute.”
* * * *
“Luluai”; The natives of the Sepik
River would regard “Nor’-west’s” method
of catching crocodiles (B. 24/10/’45) as
fit only for the aged and decrepit. They
used a much simpler technique when
hunting “puk puks” in the swamps. Once
the ’gator has been located, the hunters,
who may number from 20 to 30, form
a semicircle, each man within a foot or
two of his neighbor; then they slowly
wade towards the spot where the croc,
was last seen to submerge, feeling for
him all the time with their feet. When
one of the hunters has located the prey
he ascertains where the head lies, and
after the mob have closed in a spear is
driven in at the base of the skull if it is
desired to kill it immediately. Should
they want to capture it alive a rope noose
is passed over the jaws, given a heave
and three or four of the hunters having
already got astride the brute, a free for
“ I'd like to meet the chump who loaded this truck.”
all starts and he is manhandled on to
high ground. The natives assure me
that the croc, will lie doggo when being
hunted like this, apparently thinking he
will be by-passed, but if he is wounded
in the hunt before seeking refuge at the
bottom of the swamp caution is exer-
cised, as he will invariably lash out when
approached. The boongs consider the
game easy; nevertheless I always prefer
to enjoy the hunt from the safety of the
bank or the deck of a pinnace.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Bluey and Dutch were
camped by the lagoon at Trangie a few
weeks before Christmas when a kid about
16 drifted to their fire. He had a cigar-
ette swag and was pretty shy, and they
got it out of him that he was looking
for a job and hadn’t had a feed for two
days. Blue and Dutch hadn’t much, but
from what they did have Blue concocted
a nourishing stew and made the kid eat
it. Next morning he was gone before
they got up. Time marched along, and
on Christmas Eve Blue and Dutch found
themselves back at Narromine, broke,
thirsty and optimistic. Near one of the
pubs they ran into the kid. He seemed
as nervous as ever, told them he’d been
working and insisted on them taking five
bob each. They took the money, watched
him walk away and then headed for the
bar. Blue seemed a trifle thoughtful and
said “Look, Dutch, gimme that dollar
for a minute, will y’?” Dutch handed it
over without question and Blue dis-
appeared. When he reappeared, he
handed the money back to Dutch and
said “Y’ know, it suddenly struck me
that kid might ha’ bin slavin’ his guts
out for half a note an’ keep. So I dug
him up an’ wanted him t’ take the money
back. But he wouldn’t. Got wild. Said
we’d fed him an’ he wanted t’ pay us
back.” The pair turned happily to the
bar. This fine, sentimental tale ought to
end here. But it is my painful duty to
record that at that moment the police
grabbed Blue and Dutch and some others
and an s.p. bookmaker and used as evi-
dence against them the marked coins
found in their possession.
* * * *
“Balurga”: Among native tribes in
Cape York Peninsula a “poison-uncle” is
a common relationship, though its mean-
ing is shrouded in the mysteries of tribal
law. In our mustering camp Dodger
was “poison-uncle” to Jimmy, and in the
two years that they worked and ate to-
gether I never heard them exchange a
word. If unavoidable circumstances com-
pelled them to communicate this was
accomplished by dumb “signs,” of which
the abo. has a wide vocabulary. Jimmy
could never join in any corroboree in
which Dodger performed ; he just sat in
the background, a dark, wistful shadow
clapping hands with the women keeping
up a rhythmic accompaniment to the
dancers. Dodger was a fierce-looking
warrior, with a hole pierced through his
nose. He used to grab a slippery brown
tree-snake and thread it through this hole,
from which the harmless reptile would
explore his face, head and neck with
sinuous curiosity. Once when a native
woman was struck by lightning in her
hut Dodger was blamed for it, and ever
afterwards other natives fled his presence
when an electrical storm swept up. A
tall, powerful fellow in the prime of life,
he began to pine away and eventually
died, more than likely a victim of “pourri-
pourri.”
“Sarina”: I don’t know of a better
combination than four or five foxies and
a kangaroo dog for hunting wallabies (B.
12/12/’45). They must be taken out and
taught their trade, however, or they’ll
prove useless. A good type of foxy will
hang on a wallaby’s tail for a whole day
if necessary ; a number of ’em yapping in
all directions will bamboozle the marsu-
pial completely. A good kangaroo dog
lets the smaller mongs steer the quarry
towards him, whereupon he captures it by
a surprise rush. A kangaroo dog I owned
would let the foxies enter a belt of scrub
while he himself patrolled the fringes.
The ’roo dog knew himself to be too
tall for scrub travel, whereas the low
foxies passed unstung under formidable
barriers of stinging-tree.
* * * *
“Bo”: Tom Hegarty was a little
wizened-up, sprightly ancient who lived
on his farm near Fletcher’s Flat with
his three burly, middle-aged bachelor
sons and his younger sister Alice, who
had been Tom’s housekeeper since he had
become a widower 25 years before. For
as long as anyone in the district could
remember it had been old Tom’s invari-
able Saturday practice to get a skinful at
Felan’s pub, after which he would turn
on a show of natural comedy that no stage
comedian could have bettered, and which
stored up enough merriment to last the
townsfolk until the next Saturday. But
it irked old Tom that he had reared three
teetotal sons, and when he would arrive
back at the farm he would upbraid them
on the fatal weakness of theirs. The
harder Tom roared at them the more
they roared with laugher at his antics.
This scene always ended the one way:
the old man would make a wild swing at
one of his laughing “boys,” whereupon
they’d joyfully put him to bed. llien
one day in the township Tom listened to
the honeyed words of a visiting evangelist,
and for two Saturdays he “kept off it.”
The township didn’t seem the same, and
everyone in Tom’s household on Satur-
day became as miserable as a bandicoot.
On the third Saturday of Tom’s back-
sliding from his old ways Aunt Alice
mentioned something to her nephews
about “doing something about it,” and
went off to the township. There she saw
old Tom arguing religion with a crony
outside the store. A minute later she had
her brother firmly pinned by the scruff
of the neck to the counter in Felan’s bar,
the while she held with her other hand
a double-header whisky. “Drink it! ” she
commanded in a tone far different from
her usual genial one. Four hours later
old Tom, dancing around his sons like a
foxy around three good-natured St. Ber-
nards, took a swing at “young Arthur,”
and in another minute the laughing trio
were happily parking the old man in his
bunk.
* * * *
“Rooster”: All known facts concern-
ing Australian snakes point to the general
conclusion that they bite man by acci-
dent more often than by design. They
“stand up” on their tails when angered
or cornered; but the strike is rendered
slow by comparison with the natural side-
to-side, sweeping thrust close to ground-
level. Occasionally a dog will “rear” one
aloft by cleverly cornering it. The
resultant contest nearly always ends in
favor of the dog.
* * * *
“Narrin”: “Edjudina” (B. 5/12/’45)
airs a common pipe-dream with his talk
of filling a vast succession of in-
land lakes and by so doing alter-
ing an arid climate. The trouble
is that evaporation is only half
the battle; condensation, the
necessary factor if wisps of
water-vapor are to be trans-
formed into rain, is the snag and
is the reason why the rainfall in
northern S.A. drops to what con-
servative geographers call “be-
low five inches” (so far below
you’d need a boring plant to
catch up with it in some places).
S.A. weather mostly is deter-
mined from the west, and our
moisture comes from the
Southern Ocean. That body of
water is mighty cold, and clouds
from above it are so cool that in-
stead of being cooled further to
the point where they will drop into
my rain-water tank they merely get
themselves nicely warmed up for
a further journey when passing
over most of the State. That’s
the reason the higher rainfall fol-
lows the hills where the tempera-
ture is lower. The 10-inch
isohyet, for instance, bends sud-
denly north like a pointing finger
along the line of the Flinders
Range. And it seems to point
out the fact that lakes full of
cloud juice aren’t going to affect
the rainfall much unless someone
installs an efficient refrigeration system
for the air above the sand and gibbers,
* *
“Stern-wheeler” Australian airmen
seeing something of the Kei islands, west
of New Guinea, might spare a thought
for Francis Cadell, for here that seaman,
adventurer and explorer ended his career.
After touching the fringes of the war in
China he was the second one to take a
paddleboat up the river Murray, helped
explore the Gippsland lakes, super-
intended steamboats on the Waikato in
the Maori War of the ’sixties, was a bit
of a frost as an explorer in and around
the Roper River area, and took to pearl-
ing. He was in trouble in n.-w. Australia
for starving his Malay crew, and the abo.
crew of one of his boats mutinied. In
September, 1878, he sailed from Torres
Strait, and, say his detractors, engaged in
blackbirding, although his supporters dis-
pute this. Six months later he was near
the Kei Islands with a native crew, and,
it is said, had about £5OO. One of the
crew killed Cadell, grabbed the dough,
forced the rest to take to the boats and
scuttled the ship, leaving Cadell’s body
to go down with it. His slayer was of
that race to which murder has become a
popular pastime: “our Indernesian com-
rades.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Bundy was sorting over seed
potatoes when I called. “Oughter git a
record crop,” he said. “Like larst year.
Y’see, I stuck ’em in that patch of black
soil near the walnut trees —a dry season,
mind y’ —an’ the blasted things did a
perish f’r a coupla munce. Well, I
reckoned I’d dig ’em as a few scats f’r
chook feed, an’ when I git there with a
shovel I find nary a spud or withered
stalk. That sets me back a bit till I do
some investigatin’—an’ find ’em growin’
thick under the bracken by the swamp.
Yair, they’d shifted down there where
the clay is moist an’ cool. Orf an acre
I got nine dray-loads, seventeen bags an’
a couple of kero.-drums full an’ fed the
pigs on the rest f’r a month.”
CATTLEMAN S TOWN.
Follow the way the waters run down the range
on the Dawson side.
Follow the way the waters run —the way is wild
and wide.
(f Gullies through the brigalow, where wilga and
oak and vine
Spread cool shade o’er the turkey’s mound
And the hoof-stirred mould of the camping
ground,
Where the weed-fringed clay-holes shine.
The cattle spread where the scrub is light—
there’s picking of tuft-grass there,
But let them be, while they’re heading right;
there are acres and miles to spare.
And every mile through the brigalow and
sighing she-oak’s gloom—
So long as they follow the gullies down—
Is one mile nearer the old, old town,
The cattleman’s town, Taroom.
Follow the way the big creeks lead, when you
come where the coolibahs grow;
A drover can’t always take his mob just where
the stock routes go.
A waterhole lying off the track a half a mile
or so
Cannot be passed when, with hollow flanks
And stringing along the dry creek’s banks,
His cattle are moaning low.
Above the trees on the river bank that shade
the water’s flow,
The old town stands where Leichhardt passed a
hundred years ago.
Join those that meet round the Leichhardt Tree
when its aged limbs darkly loom
Against the sky as the moon-rays steal,
For every man with a spur on his heel
Has a welcome in old Taroom.
Cattleman’s country and cattleman’s town, and
it has been ever so
Since the first of the cattlemen settled here in
the long ago. '
What of the march of modernity? Still there’s
plenty of room;
The change has been little in all the years
Since first they greeted the pioneers
In the cattleman’s town —Taroom.
QUEENSLAND.
Herbert Dawson.


“ Gripes, this one'll bump a bit!”
“Betcha”; Ted headed the big sow
down the river track. “Go on, y’ awk-
ward big cow,” he growled. “If I was as
clumsy as you I’d drowned meself.” He
prodded the lumbering brute to the edge
of the water, and after some trouble got
her started across the makeshift arrange-
ment that did duty as bridge. “Get on,
awkward, get on,” he urged, and had
reached the middle of the bridge when
the flimsy structure lurched sideways,
sprawling both of them into the stream.
Ted spluttered, sank, struggled to a pre-
carious hold on the wrecked bridge and
watched the sow swim safely to the
further bank and climb out. Then, letting
go, he struck out as he’d seen the kids do
down at the swimming hole. It was no
use. Rolled over by the current, he
struggled and gasped as he was carried
downstream. A sharp bend saved him,
and, half-full of water, he dragged him-
self up the bank. Twenty minutes passed.
Then he picked himself up and returned
for the sow. “G’on, awk er, go’on ol’
girl,” he called respectfully ; “we better
get home.”
* * * *
“Ack-Ack”: Had two natives of the
Ora-Kiava tribe working along a road-
side cutting grass at Poppendetta, near
Dobadura ’drome in Papua. It was a
hot day, and Huro decided he wanted
“Kia-kia oomoo, Taubada me trink.”
This entailed a walk of about 600 yards.
As he was a long time returning I
strolled toward the bend. As soon
as I was out of sight Teargart, the other
boy, who was still working, began to
yodel, and presently Huro loomed up,
walking with the exaggerated action of a
native wishing to convey an impression
of haste. As we approached the job again
Huro took a turn at the yodelling busi-
ness, and when we came in sight Teargart
was working like a threshing-machine,
though he obviously had done little in
my absence. I await with interest the
introduction of Eddie Ward’s “New
Deal” for the Papuan boongs, and
wonder how this and other age-old work-
dodging systems, which,have been put
into operation with such skilful ease
whenever required, will be handled by
Canberra’s champion cheer-chaser and
his proposed herd of tropical bureau-
crats. I’ll have a few bob on the herd
quickly going “troppo.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A streak of light-
ning descended via a pine-tree in a Perth
suburb to within a few feet of the ground.
Perhaps by that time gaining a fair idea
of the competition likely to be encoun-
tered in Australia by anything else that
strikes, it then made a strenuous effort
to reverse its course. Jumping a two-
foot gap to a picket fence, it raced along
it for 30-odd feet, scattering pickets on
its way to a garage, where it forced
an entrance, leaving the doors hang-
ing drunkenly. The car, of course,
was petrol-less. Chagrined, the flash
leapt to the electric light aerial and
literally tore up to the roof of the near-by
house, destroying all the house wiring and
telephone cables before smashing the
meter to smithereens. Thereafter its pro-
gress was untraceable, one theory being
that it hurled the electric aerial between
the house and garage into the air,
climbed it and pulled it up after it.
Anyway, the aerial vanished without
trace. Besides providing employment for
carpenters and electricians the lightning
almost enlarged the coffers of some heart
specialist. One of the pickets it prised
off the fence sailed 50 yards through the
air to smash through a window and strike
a woman washing at a sink.
* * * *
“Mouton”: “Jumbuck’s” doubts about
the possibilities of sheepskins as high-
grade furs (B. 7/11/ ’45) shows little
appreciation of the development of this
industry in the U.S.A., Canada and U.K.
Originally Hungarian—“Pannonia,” of
Budapest were the pantentees the pro-
cess was unavailingly hawked around
New York for 12 months before Laskin,
the U.S.A. Government sealskin proces-
sors, took it up. Now on the verge of be-
coming a major section of the fur gar-
ment business —imitation beaver coats are
the current big selling line —it may
eventually threaten the Australian rabbit-
skin export business in the utility fur gar-
ment field. And be it known that the
same humble rabbit-skin yielded this
country the precious dollar equivalent of
three to four million pounds annually
during the war period.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Always used
to think that the wells on the beaches at
Dirk Hartog Island (W.A.), which pump
stock water of a kind from half- to full-
tide only, were the most remarkable
fresh-water supply I had seen. But on
the little-visited Schouten Islands and in
particular Blupblup and Boisa, those
high-peaked volcanic isles off the n.-e.
coast of New Guinea, which are de-
void of permanent running water, I’ve
watched the Marys march down to the
black sand beaches where, not six feet
from the sea and not six inches above it,
they dig a small hole into which water
seeps. From these holes the women bale
good drinking water into large hollow
bamboo poles, blocked at one end and
about six to eight feet long, then carry
it home. The only way I can account for
this phenomenon is that the fresh water
from the mountain must drain down
through the sand on its way to the ocean.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “The first time I ever
met one o’ them immigrants girls,” said
Mat, “is on a New Year’s eve in the Vic-
torian Mallee. I’m wheatlumpm’ at
Cowangie with four other blokes. There s
no pub nearer than Murrayville, but some
of the local lads hit the place about dark
with a few kegs in a spring-cart an’ she
gets pretty willin’. I’m happy an’ singin’
with the mob in the street when it gets
on to midnight, an’ strike me if the store-
keeper don’t roll out another keg. Well,
not long after that a brawl starts—y’
couldn’t beat them Mallee towns for
brawls in them days, blokes used t’ save
up their grievances an’ grudges till they
met at local sales an’ shows, an’ New
Year celebrations an’ that —an’ I see a
lout wavin’ a bottle an’ makin’ t’ crack
another bloke with it. Well, I does me
nut properly an’ sails in, knocks him cold
an’ spreadeagles one or two more an’
the fight stops. The storekeeper’s mighty
pleased an’ takes me into the store an’
opens a bottle o’ whisky. I was all right
till I hit the open air, then
I must’ve gone under,
’cos next thing I know
it’s just breakin’ day an
I’m lyin’ on the wheat
stack an’ there, sittin’ on
a bag, eyein’ me off, is a
pink - cheeked young
woman. “How long you
bin here?’ I asks. ‘Ah’ve
joos coom, laad,’ she
says, with a big smile.
‘Ah see ’ee foightin’ an’
Ah sez you’re t’ laad for
me. Bah goom. Ah coom
thirteen thousan’ modes
t’ foind a laad loike yew
be.’ Well, I got up pretty
quick, y’ can bet y’r life,
an’ I says, ‘Sorry, miss.
y’ve had your trouble for nothin’. I
ain’t lost!’ Gripes,” Mat finished, “I
bin dead scared o’ them immigrant girls
ever since.”
* * * ♦
“Dronestung”: Oddest wild bees’-nest
I’ve struck was a large one at the point
of swarming, packed with bees and the
combs filled to capacity with brood in
all stages. The peculiarity was in the
bees, which, young and old, were of all
sizes. About half their number were of
good size and the others graduated down
the scale to less than half the size of an
average bee. How this came about is
hard to conjecture, for there was ample
pollen and honey. Perhaps the strain de-
generated in consequence of a queen lay-
ing faulty eggs. There was no doubt it
was a prolific hive, and the combs, a
season or two old, were quite normal.
Unfortunately, the queen was crushed
among the broken combs and I wasn t
able to make tests.
* * * *
“J.W.G.”: The success of the proposed
export of buffalo from the N.T. will
depend on the ability to muster and drive
them. The natural habitat of this beast
is in areas that are continuously under
water —mainly open marsh lands and
“paper-bark” swamps —although in the
dry season they find little difficulty in
foraging. Immediately they are dis-
turbed they endeavor to return to water-
logged districts. This gives the beast
some protection for, immense as the buf-
falo is, it can traverse areas that are im-
passable to a horse, and in which mus-
tering is practically impossible. Inciden-
tally, the cow has the widest spread of
horns, the growth from the head being
at a different angle from that of the bull.
According to Messrs. Fred and George
Stevens, both noted shooters, one set of
horns measuring 13 feet from tip to tip
were taken from a cow on Koolpinyah
station.
* * * *
“Bigbel”: It is often claimed that for
the castaway the coconut provides drink,
food, shelter and clothing, all of which
is true; but tree for tree, the sago palm
“That was a decent flash of lightning, Fred.”
—called Sak Sak in New Guinea—is a
feast, whereas the coconut is only a feed.
To the prospector, or recruiter, pushing
his way through uninhabited country a
stand of sago is a godsend, especially
should he have 20 or 30 native carriers
to feed. From one good palm can be
obtained threequarters to one ton of wet
sago. The leaf makes the best roof thatching
in the islands ; from the fronds the Marys
make grass skirts of excellent quality,
and I have seen quite a good cordage also
made from this fibre. The sago is ob-
tained from the trunk quite easily. The
palm, which may be anything up to 40ft.
in height, is felled and cut into lengths of
about 6ft. The bark, which is about an
inch thick, is removed ; the trunk is broken
down into a coarse powder by cutting
into it on a face with the back of an
axe. This powder is then washed in a
trough, made usually from the base sec-
tion of one of the fronds, and the sago
sinks to the bottom.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Mum had tried various ways
of getting Dad to cut the firewood.
Faced with another woodless morn-
ing, she pondered the situation gloomily.
When city people didn’t get what they
wanted they went on strike. It was
an idea. Mum thought it over. Well, just
for one day. Leaving the dirty breakfast
dishes and the unwashed milk buckets,
she let the coals die out and went off to
the garden. Mid-day found her fidgeting
uneasily. For the first time in 40 years
there’d be no dinner ready. She felt
unworthy and ashamed, but, fortify-
ing herself with the assurance that the
means justified the end, she unearthed a
book and propped herself on the
ancient couch. Half an hour of false
alarms reduced her nerves to shreds, then
she heard Dad’s step. She glanced at
the littered room, the unswept hearth, the
empty stove and endured several minutes
more of unhappy silence. Then came
more steps and Dad’s hearty voice raised
in greeting. “Ha, there, parson,” he
called. “Now this is good of y’t’ bring
y’ wife ’n daughters t’ see us. Go right
in, that’s right. Mum’ll have dinner all
ready an’ll be glad t’ see yez all.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: We were waiting a couple
of miles from Dustbath for a mob of
woollies to drove north, "and Larry, the
cook, decided to investigate the town-
ship, He got back some time after mid-
night, well stonkered and hungry. We
loaded him with damper and corned
mutton. At daylight he had us out again ;
he was lying at the side of the road and
groaning between turns of being sick.
“Fine matesh —youse turned out,” he
babbled tearfully. “Poison a man —with
hish own —blashted cookin’!”
♦ * * *
“Munja”: The “Vada” cult, sponsored
by the Koita tribe (Papua), reaches a new
high level in black magic. Vada adepts
claim the power of invisibility, a very
handy attribute when some unlucky
Fuzzy is to be bumped off. Selected vic-
tim is ambushed and beaten to death with
clubs. Incantation restores him to life,
blood and bruises fade away, and he is
sent back to his village. For a few days
he enjoys home and Mary and then dies—
and stays dead. We tried to blast the belief
out of our carriers with ridicule; acting
“troppo,” we’d solemnly catch invisible
Vadas, pop them into bottles and cork
them up, but you can’t kid the native —
he knows. We quit acting troppo when
one of the boongs dropped dead under a
351 b. load. Moresby-trained, strong as a
horse, he hadn’t a sign'of sickness or in-
jury. As the M.O. could find no adequate
reason for the sudden demise and the
carriers wailed “Vada,” we reckoned the
cult was about as funny as a couple of
good funerals.
ROEBUCK BAY.
Under the purple curtain of the night',
Pale are the gleaming seas, the smooth-white
sand
Of beaches and the silver-stippled light
Softening the stony margins of the land.
Here are the seas where William Dampiei
steered
His pinnace high three centuries agone,
The wind-caught spindrift glistening on his
beard,
Under a vague, cloud-guarded moon that
shone
With eerie gleam. Here swiftly from the deep,
With milky sails, the wave-worn frigate came,
Flinging from blunted bows the flashing spray;
And then while Dampier stared with eyes of
flame
Through the sea-haze, with calm, unhurried
sweep
Slid like a ghost into the silent bay.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
»T on AT t 4 ot? LIGH STREET. a. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO A T BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
OP’MTT-O TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
In Pastures and Fodders
Tn-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
01 ? ther su * 3s tance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from .*■
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SIDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott
BLOWER that makes it
easy.
A small quantity of
. Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
FOOT-PUMP
o cheap and
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
f
S . a
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Weight (approx.) 2£ tons
Ideal for use, in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS 1 MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.LTD;
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Distrib. Agents: For N.S. W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland, Branches throughout the
Dominion.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Counting Sheep.
“B-gar”: Plenty of practice is needed.
Good counters are few. An experienced
counter uses a gate just wide enough to
permit two sheep to squeeze through at
the same time, and there are plenty who
will find such an opening too wide. There
are “experts” who can take the count
through any wide-open gate ; they can be
written off as guessers and bad ones at
that.
Methods differ. Some take the sheep
as they come, others in two’s, three’s or
four’s. It’s a matter of opinion or usage,
perhaps, but I prefer to take ’em in
three’s, counting from one to 33 and
getting the odd sheep for the hundred.
When the counter calls “tally” it should
be loud enough for the man keeping the
tally to hear. Interruption by the tally
man asking “Did you call?” is liable to
put a counter out.
A counter should stand well away
from the gate but in such a position that
he will miss the dust and see each sheep
coming through. They should be counted
as they come towards the counter; it’s
hopeless attempting to count back. When-
ever a doubt exists as to the count the
sheep should be blocked, as they should
be if the counter feels eye-strain. When
a drover or some other check-counter is
on the job the sheep must also be blocked
if there is any difference when “tally” is
called.
Tally-men have their own ideas of
keeping the count, but the most favored
and perhaps the most reliable is 'notching
a stick. If the mob is big the notches
should be made in groups of ten.
D.D.T. and Cattle Ticks.
“Agric”; “Molecule” (B. 5/12/’45)
misses the main point when he tries to
pass off the “arsenic-resistant tick as com-
paratively of small moment, because only
a relatively small proportion of ticks
actually can resist the standard arsenical
dipping fluid.” Their numbers may be
relatively small, but a Government in-
spector will not pass a mob as clean until
every beast is clean. It is useless telling him
that there are only a relatively small pro-
portion which resisted the dip. It is ovet
three years since P. A. Ellis, of Gin Gin
(Q.), told scientists that some of the ticks
on his property could not be killed with
the standard arsenical dip. He was pooh-
poohed. But Queensland Minister foi
Agriculture Williams has had to admit
that “the arsenic-resistant tick has defi-
nitely proved a menace not only in Aus-
tralia but also in South Africa, Central
Africa and South America.”
Last June the Anderson meatworks at
Wallangarra had 420 bullocks dipped five
or six times in the Government dip at
Helidon. The manager stated that after
five dippings some of the ticks walked
across his hand as lively as ever. As his
bullocks were losing condition rapidly,
he appealed to the department to try
something fresh, and nicotine sulphate
was used. Anderson’s mob was promptly
cleaned up. It was thought that this had
solved the problem in Queensland, but
when next tried at Helidon nicotine sul-
phate was a failure.
The only hope now is D.D.T., but as
“Molecule” says, it is too costly at the
price charged by Australian manufac-
turers.
In America the average cost of D.D.T.
in Kansas tests was only \\ cents per
head, whereas a Queensland cattleman
has estimated that with Australian-manu-
factured D.D.T. it would cost him £2OOO
“Will youse kids get t ’ blazes with that water-bag?”
to charge his dips and, in addition, the
cost of dipping—labor, etc. —would be
4s. per head. D.D.T. can be imported
from America at 3s. 6d. per lb. landed in
Australia, but when a Queensland grazier
sought permission to import it the Federal
Government refused because of the dollar
position.
Spud-growing.
“Gravelsnatcher”: The finest crop of
spuds I’ve grown had tops six feet long.
So had the poorest crop I’ve grown.
Same variety and both manured heavily
with fowl manure, the only difference
being that the first was watered abund-
antly, the second sparingly. At that, the
poor crop appeared to be thriving until
the forks went in. Thereafter continued
experiments with a variety of crops proved
beyond doubt that nitrogenous .manures
will give good results only when allied to
plenty of water —more, possibly, than may
otherwise be deemed necessary. Reason
is that nitrogen is a leaf-building fertiliser
and, while a plant with a vigorous foliage
will endeavor to fruit well, an abundance
of nitrogen will produce a tendency to-
wards excessive leaf growth unless it is
assisted by an equal abundance of water.
There may be some crops of which it
may be said (B. 28/11/ ’45) that “there’s
no need to manure heavily,” but, if so, I
haven’t grown them. Good manuring
will almost invariably give good results,
provided it’s balanced. An abundance of
nitrogen, for instance, won’t compensate,
for, say, a deficiency of potash—a ferti-
liser, by the way, which isn’t employed as
much as it should be. Even in heavy
ground, with a clay subsoil, where
potash isn’t necessary for most crops,
potatoes can do with some.
My recipe for potatoes : Use potash,
nitrogenous and super-phospate fertilisers.
Plough a dressing of each under when
preparing the ground—a few weeks be-
fore planting where possible. Cultivate
well. Three weeks after planting another
dressing between the rows, stirred in well
with a cultivator. Another dose the last
time through with the. cultivator, which
should be when they’re so big that another
trip through would cause too much
damage. At least every week hoe be-
tween the plants and cultivate between
the rows. Water well in summer and
drain well in winter.
Snap Freezing.
“Nuffin”: The Queensland Govern-
ment is sending a delegation to the
United States to investigate modern de-
velopments in meat processing, including
snap freezing. In “5.F.,” the object of
which is to retain the freshness, flavor
and nutritive value of perishable goods,
the ice crystals formed in the frozen pro-
duct are smaller than the crystals in foods
treated by the orthodox method and do
not tend to disrupt the tissues. Therefore
the juices, etc., are retained when the
article is thawed ; they don’t run out of
meat as when ordinary frozen beef is
being thawed.
A noticeable feature of “S.F.” is that
it makes for the retention of the original
natural color of the product. Thus meats,
vegetables, etc., can be presented to the
householder attractively wrapped in cel-
lophane. Another advantage of the pro-
cess, as demonstrated in the U.S., is that
* brings to the retail market goods in
filled-fresh containers, as the prepara-
tion by washing, grading and processing
is done within a few hours of original
production. Speed is an important factor
the mam object being to carry freshness
straight to the freezer.
Sudan Grass. *
Hoitus : Plough early and leave as
long as possible, then work the fallow
and clean the ground of weeds as spring
approaches. Sow early in spring. It’s a
Cr ?? .^ as t* l6 knack of germinating in
colder soils than most crops. It’s best
to sow in drills. Put the seed (about 101 b
to acre) in every third drill. This allows
plenty of room for cultivation. You must
keep down weed-growth in early stages.
Add super. (Icwt. to 2cwt. per acre) to help
on young plants.
Sudan grass has a better feeding value
than paspalum dilatatum and Rhodes
grass. It’s just as valuable as green maize,
Japanese millet and sorghum. All stock
love it —some prefer it to lucerne. Milch
cattle thrive on it, with excellent milk
production, and it’s a great standby fot
working horses. If accidents do occur,
that is, if rules are broken and you get a
case of poisoning, a quick drench of half
a teaspoonful of Condy’s and 21b. glucose
or molasses in a quart of water is a good
remedy, Jf care is taken, no poisoning
need occur.
Hints for the Farm.
“V.G.L.”: Where footrot is likely,
make rigorous foot examination during
January or February and isolate all sheep
showing old areas of infection, superficial
lesions between the digits or signs of in-
fection under the horn. Treat sufferers
by thoroughly paring the feet and using
a 10 p.c. formalin solution in a footbath.
Put the apparently unaffected through a
2-5 p.c. formalin footbath in case some
have been missed in the inspection. Guard
against reintroduction, particularly by
new stock, strays or rams brought on to
the place.
“Myrrhee”; Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories have a “pulpy kidney anti-
toxin” ready for experimental field trial
in Victoria. The Laboratories claim that
the anti-toxin confers immediate passive
immunity to the lamb and that it will
protect lambs in flocks where deaths are
occurring. Supplies of the anti-toxin are
being offered free to sheepowners who
will agree to conduct experimental trials
on their properties under certain condi-
tions.
“Rooster”: In Gippsland thousands of
acres have been under potato crops for
years. Not only do crops diminish in
the souring soil, but valuable minerals
are used up which can’t be replaced ex-
cept with considerable expense. Repe-
titional planting of potatoes in the same
paddock is also conducive to blight and
other tuber diseases.
“Dis Moon”: Sudan grass hay is palat-
able and nutritious; its value can be
greatly improved if fed to stock in con-
junction with a legume to supply a better
ration than is obtainable with the grass
alone. In some areas a yield as high
as 12 tons to the acre is obtained, but in
most areas the yield is from eight to ten
tons. Sudan hay stores well and is a
great standby for long, dry months when
teed is hard to grow or buy.


Missing Friends.
WILLIAM JAMES AUSTIN.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of the
abovenamed William James Austin (hereinunder
called “William James Austin the Elder’’) who is
believed to have been born in Dorchester, England,
in or about the year 1884 and whose father’s name
was William James Austin and whose mother’s
maiden name was Matilda Lydon (or Rydon) please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR
VICTORIA.
If the said William James Austin the Elder sur-
vived his deceased son William James Austin late
of 39 Stuart Street Malvern in the State of Victoria
Constable of Police (hereinafter called “the De-
ceased”) who died intestate on the Twentieth day
of April 1941 the said William James Austin the
Elder would have been entitled to a share of the
estate of the deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that unless the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA who is the
administrator of the estate of the deceased receives
a claim in respect of a share of the estate of the
deceased from or on behalf of the said William
James Austin the Elder or from or on behalf of
some person claiming through him or as one of his
issue on or before the Eighteenth day of February
1946 the Public Trustee for Victoria will distribute
the estate of the deceased as if the said William
James Austin the Elder had predeceased the said
deceased without issue.—J. E. DON Public Trustee
for Victoria, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
WYLLIE ARCHIBALD THOMAS (also knwon as
Les Grey).—Please communicate with T. W.
GARRETT CHRISTIE & BUCKLEY, Solicitors, 14
Martin Place, Sydney, to your advantage.
TO MARIA CECILIA CAIRNS, formerly of Darling-
hurst, New South Wales, and any child of hers and
any person claiming through any of them. —PUR-
SUANT to an order made by the Supreme Court
of New Zealand you are required to send in your
claim to share in the esate of JOHN THOMS, late
of Port Underwood, New Zealand, Retired Labourer,
so as to reach the undersigned before the 30th day
of June, 1946, failing which such estate will be
distributed disregarding your claim. —THE SOLICI-
TOR, Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand-
|STOPvour Rupture |
Worries/
Mark® LocaHan.
of YOUR RUPTURE!
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. .Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation,
THE KODSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007/8
and at all branches
d
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei _.
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/fl
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
r
NP4S/38
“You’re always getting hurt -
Ask Mummy to
give you a daily
dose of ‘NUGGET’
to make you sturdy,
and strong like me’.’
9
For 50 years a GOOD polish l
QEGISTIRID TtaOl MfIRR
EfrHiMIH
WfITiWRCOOy. M?il PROM fIC.IO
The Finest Leather
\ Preservative /
‘NUGGET’ SHOE POLISH
Have a “Coke”. . .
Welcome back
i
&
o
V*
&
o
?A
I
as
. . or giving a returned soldier
a taste of home
With frosty bottles of “Coke”
on hand, offering a man in
uniform a refreshing welcome
is an easy matter. ‘Have a
“Coke” ’ is always the hos-
pitable thing to say. From
Broome to Bulli, Coca-Cola
stands for the pause that re-
freshes, —has become a happy
symbol of hospitality.
m
m
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called "Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, UiS.A.
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
CRAVENA
iketfbe always,,
smooth * fjUsM
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
EXD
PREVENT
a
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy six copies of Why Singapore Fell, by
Lieut.-General Gordon Bennett.—3684.
Information Sought.
To what use do breweries put the residue
left after brewing ?
The major by-products consist of grains,
yeast and spent hops. Each bushel of malt
used in a brew leaves a residue of one bushel
of wet grains, mostly sold to contractors who
supply dairies. Dairymen say the use of
brewers’ grains increases milk yield by about
25 p.c. Brewers’ yeast is practically all absorbed
by manufacturers of foodstuffs. With the ex-
ception of a small percentage reserved for
medicinal prescriptions during the war, the bulk
of this has been going to the forces and was
found particularly valuable for concentrated
foods. Spent hops are largely used by nur-
serymen and others to provide drainage in seed-
boxes and for loosening heavy soils.
* * * *
How many times did old-time boxers “Griffo”
and “Pluto” meet, and with what result?
They met twice in 1888, and three times in
1889. All contests were declared draws and
endured for eight, six, 23, 13 and 70 rounds
respectively.
Brief Answers.
A.W.: The manufacture of alcoholic liquors
in the home is an illegal practice A.C.8.:
In view of existing regulations and restrictions
it would be much safer and less trouble to
employ a solicitor; the cost would be very
small J.P.C.: Unless you are prepared to
water the floor every day nothing but concrete
would eradicate dust. If sand, gravel and
clinker are available, a mixture in the ratio
of three sand, one gravel and one clinker
should serve G.P.: Assuming you are a
British subject, you will be bound by the law
of the country in which you reside, but your
rights as an Australian citizen will not be
affected. A husband has no claim on his wife’s
personal and separate property Bee: In
N.S.W- the law is different; son would be en-
titled to administration but all children would
share equally in distribution F.C.: It would
not be advisable to sell it yourself; a solicitor’s
advice should be sought... .W.S.F.: Some Syd-
ney saddlers’ ironmongers are Davidson and
Smith, Bourke-street, and Farleigh Nettheim,
Ltd., Foveaux-street W. 8.: Sil Rohu, 143
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, Sydney Fishing Tackle
Supply, 8 Broadway, Sydney, or J. and W.
Stuart, Ltd., 199 Clarence-street, Sydney, may
be able to supply you S.J.R.: British Paints
(Aust.), Ltd., list a paint and varnish remover.
, ...R.McN.: (1) The question is hard to
follow. As the crime was committed over 100
years ago, the criminal would be dead by now
and his soul cannot be prosecuted. (2) If the
purchasers and their successors in title have
been in possession of the land for 100 years
their title is legally secure now. (3) Matter too
complicated and data insufficient to be dealt
with off-hand. Get a legal opinion. (4) Prob-
ably Crown Lands Consideration Act, 1913.
F.W.G.: The information may be obtain-
able from a boat-builder E.L.S.: It isj
doubtful if the decanter is old Blue Water-
ford as these have no factory distinguishing
marks on them; if it is the piece would be
worth about 10 guineas H.G.H.: (1) Pro-
nunciation is a matter of opinion; natives of
the district call it “Co-rye-oh.” (2) Arthur
Conningham played with Glebe in the Sydney
Premiership competition on Wentworth Oval in
1896-97 when that team won the title M.S.:
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd., 16 Bond-street,
Sydney, have extensive files that can be read.
... .Bird Lover: What Bird Is That? by Neville
Cayley, and Bird Wonders of Australia, by
A. H. Chisholm, are out of print. Other books
on the subject are Australian Bird Book, by
Leach, and the Australian Encyclopaedia. Whit-
combe and Tombs list a well-illustrated book.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
RJ.: Repetitive... .T.L.N.: Send it to the
“Boy’s Own” K.D.S.: “Away, away, away
with me.” You go, but we’ll have to ask to be
excused 8.C.M.; Little late in the day for
a detailed description of what you did and
how you felt the day war was declared
T.T.: Much too sweetly sentimental for our
taste... .M. 1.: There’s always something to be
said about a funeral; but very little that’s
new. .. .R.C.T.: “Virtue Undenied” filled us
with joy. Send it to a publisher of tracts
L.S.: Try it on the cow G.D.H.: Bumpy.
J.L.: “Hurrah! Hurrah! Australia,
wake!” Hooray, then V.K.: If that’s
poetry, most people would sooner read algebra.
B.CJ.: One of a swarm of bees... .G. 8.:
“When Santa comes down your chimney” he
would, alas, be bringing you back the poem
J.S.F.: “Beer” downed R.K.: “I would I
were a-sitting Out where the platypus floats.”
Are you amphibious?... .V.N.: “So dainty-
fair, so trembling-sweet, so rosy-pink from
head to feet.” She may be all that, but can’t
you say so without so many hyphens? Y.A.:
Atrocious puns in lamentable doggerel V.F.:
Written a hundred years ago, it might have
seemed tolerable poesy.


6
Have You Made
a Will?
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than 67 years*
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd*
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled] and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) j D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claud*
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raw*. C. 8.8.) G. S. Colman, C.P,B,|
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Mclb., F.R.CS., Eng.
General Manager* W. Sydney Jonea.
Manager* K. M. Hughe*.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS*
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart*
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwalladcr.
%
N.S.W. Manager* J. W. Ruxell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
#
whose
business takes them inter-state
HOWEVER you travel, be sure that you’re covered by
adequate insurance. In the air, for example, you’ll feel
all the safer for an aviation policy which Covers you at
all times, while flying, without the tiresome necessity of
arranging a policy every time you enter a ’plane.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 6J p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 226.529 8125 12 p.c.=132.000 7 9Q , , n
Written off, £41,113.. .. | 45,291 10,525
1937. .259,659 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 7 nn , sa ...
Written off. £41,533.. 78,001 88,526
1938.. 295.770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 7 fiQ Qft „ 17s , aQ
Written off, £43,682.. . . | 89,962 178,489
1939. .280,984 8125 14 p.e.=154,000 7,, Rn . 9t - n 9 qq
Written off, £47,055 .. } 71,804 250,292
Pref. r
64 p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
1940. .240,333 8125 1,031 14 p.c.=154,000 I oao G . Q „
Written off, £44,476 j 282,992
1941. .229,866 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 ( oon OQO
Written off, £43,945 \ 290,289
1942. .184,875 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 \ 9K9 i«7
Written off, £44,372 j 252,15/
1943. 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 ) nco OQn
Written off, £44,216.. .. .. j 253,280
From staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 263,280
Post-war restoration res. £128,592 391,872
1944. .225,058 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 „ Q ,
Written nfp £4.9 > oy&,/oo
1945.. 251.170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,066 468,800
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 .. 508,484
The co. is the largest and one of the
most prosperous newspaper organisations
in the Commonwealth. During the last
.half-dozen difficult war years net earn-
ings, including visible provision for depre-
ciation, averaged £225,876, compared with
an average of £243,233 for the six preced-
ing years, when there was £275,000 less
share capital at work. Over the dozen
years the prefs, received their full contract
rates, the ords. averaged 13 p.c. and
£583,801 was added to visible reserves.
Although circulations increased, there
was drastic rationing of newsprint, with
consequent shrinkage in the size of pub-
lications and curtailment of advertising
revenue, • In 1938-39 the “Herald” pub-
lished 189 pages and the “Sun” 294 pages
a week. Now the “Herald” is back to 76
pages and the “Sun” to 124 pages a week.
Costs, including the cost of paper and
newsgathering, mounted; and shortage
of staff and many supplies, and difficulties
associated with distribution, complicated
management problems. All this, how-
ever, was largely offset by savings in the
volume of newsprint used, and by extra
revenue from a lift from l£d. to 2d. in
the selling price of the “Sun” and
“Herald.”
In its own city the co. put out a string
of eight publications, chief of which are
the “Herald,” Melbourne’s unchallenged
evening broadsheet, and the “Sun,” morn-
ing competitor of the “Age” and “Argus.”
They lead the Commonwealth’s daily cir-
culation field with net sales of 337,000
“Herald” and 320,000 “Sun.” Broadcast-
ing interests 3DB and 2LK report the
biggest year’s business yet, and contri-
buted substantially to profits. The asso-
ciated publications, “Courier-Mail” (Bris-
bane) and “Advertiser” and “News”
(Adelaide), continue to progress. And
so does Australian Newsprint Mills (Tas.),
in which H. and W.T. was a prime mover
and is a large shareholder. These mills
are a vital contributor to the newsprint
pool, and their further extension awaits
equipment and labor. Of its holding H.
and W.T. sold 100,000 shares to Argus
and Australasian (Melb.) and 25,000 to
Consolidated Press (Sydney).
After setting aside £127,458 (down
£77,851) for taxation, net earnings from
all sources were £26,112 stronger at
£251,170. That includes £42,464 passed
to “reserve for post-war restoration of
stocks and plant,” to which a further
£40,184 was added, mainly as the result
of stock re-valuation. This reserve (now
£211,240) is tax-free; if not ultimately
wanted for the purpose for which it has
been created it is to be tossed into the
general lay-by. No visible addition was
made to the depreciation reserve (de-
ducted from assets concerned in the pub-
lished accounts), “because that reserve has
grown almost to the proportions of the
capital plant accounts itself.” The
£251,170 of profit shown in the table
covered the pref. divs. and 20.6 p.c, on
the £1,100,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 18.2, 18.1, 14.5, 18.6, 21 and 16 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at 14
p.c., of which 2 p.c. is still labelled bonus.
As for the current year, the Prices
Commissioner granted the co. an increase
in advertising rates at the end of the last
term, a 10 p.c. increase in newsprint sup-
plies operated from the beginning of
December* and a further 10 p.c. step-up is
expected by the end of next month. The
extra advertising and other revenue should
more than otfset additional cost.
Additions and alterations to buildings
and plant are to be made as soon as cir-
cumstances permit. The makers have
started on portion of the new battery of
presses and ancilliary equipment, ordered
18 months ago. The next table shows
the comfortable state of the finances:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Stock.. £416,322 £322,687 £261,013 £231,586
Debtors,
etc... 189,316 144,219 141,653 324,802
Shares in
other cos. 726,985 893,470 894,242 725,985
Cash, etc. 16,933 227,826 619,388 662,858
' Liquids £1,349,556 £1,588,202 £1,916,296 £1,945,231
Liabilities* 115,540 152,866 239,159 208,337
Surplus £1,234,016 £1,435,336 £1,677,137 £1,736,894
Freeholds*
etc. .. 465,456 475,025 474,691 474,691
Machinery
and plant 238,052 163,896 79,976 91,704
Net
assets £1,937,624 £2,074,257 £2,231,804 £2,303,289
* Excluding tax reserve, now £194,498.
The reduction of £168,257 in sharehold-
ings mainly reflects sales already referred
to. Despite disclosure of inner reserves,
stocks were down £29,427, but “paper in
transit accounts for a substantial ton-
nage.” Cash, etc. —the etcetera includes
£362,500 of Government securities—was
strengthened by £43,470, Growth in net
assets was £71,485.
H. B. Dickie (Melb.)
Net , Dividends —To Re- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, flcit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £27,000 27,000
}935*. 2,450 - 6 p.c. 2,783 667 26,333
J 936.. 8,127 5} p.c. 7 „ 7,510 617 25,716
1937.. 10,504 Bi „ 7J „ 8,325 2,179 23,537
1938.. } 3 > 960 5 i .. 8 „ 8,825 5,135 18,402
1939.. 13,422 5} „ 8 „ 8,825 4,597 13,805
1940.. 15,600 6 ~ 9 „ 10,944 4,656 9,149
Share premiums, £6,250 .. .. 2,899
1941.. 16,920 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,591 329 2,570
1 Reserves.
1942.. 19,066 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 4,666 2,096
1943.. 17,531 6 8 „ 14,400 3,131 5,227
1944.. 16,597 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 2,197 7,424
1945.. 17,592 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 3,192 10,616
* Six months.
War cut off imports and greatly ex-
panded demand for the products of this
Melbourne manufacturer of towelling,
terrycloth and surgical gauze. But earn-
ings were making encouraging strides in
the right direction before September,
1939, and this is the heartening aspect of
the long-term view of the co.’s prospects.
To meet the flood of defence orders,
and with an eye to the future, additions
costing approximately £lOO,OOO were
made to the spinning and weaving sec-
tions of the undertaking, and £75,000 of
fresh capital, which brought with it
£6250 of share premiums, was gathered
in 1940. Output continued to increase,
the improvement being 28 p.c. for the
1943 term. But shortage of suitable labor,
especially female operatives, has since
kept production well below plant capacity.
The position became worse last term,
when output and turnover both declined,
and this due to no lack of manufactur-
ing equipment. The chairman says:
This problem is one for co-operation be-
tween the Government and the textile in-
dustry, by releasing manpower, particu-
larly female, and the development of in-
dustrial technical schools, where prelimi-
nary interest and training in skilled trades,
such as weaving and spinning, can be en-
gendered and received, with the idea of
further development in the factories. Since
we last met the co. has expended capital
and revenue moneys on buildings and staff
amenities to the amount of £14,270.
The co, also has a very complete and up-
to-date dyeing and bleaching department
which cannot be brought into full pro-
duction until more labor becomes avail-
able.
The quality of the co.’s products has
ensured a ready market for them, and,
with cotton goods from overseas in short
supply, an excellent opportunity foi
further expansion of the business now
offers. But unless the production lag can
be overtaken in time its effect upon costs
will impair the co.’s competitive powei
and encourage development of imports
on a scale that might prove detrimental
to the business and those engaged in it.
After allowing £16,182 (up £77) for de-
preciation and including a Government
subsidy of £6311 (£3OOO of it in respect
of the 1944 term) 'on purchase of raw
cotton, last term’s net earnings (£51,986)
were £537 lighter. Exes. (£34,394, which
includes unspecified provision for taxa-
tion) were pulled back £1532. That left
the net figure £995 better at £17,592, oi
enough to pay the pref’s their 6 p.c. and
show 10.1 p.c. on the £150,000 of ord,
capital, compared with 9.4, 10.1, 11.1 and
8.5 p.c. back to 1941. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., and the £3192 that remained
lifted the lay-by £10,616 in excess oi
goodwill (£27,000), not treated as an
asset herein.
The financial position improved:
1935. 1938. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £92,755 £115,000 £190,000 £190,000
Liabilities . . 29,220 45,306 39,796 42,917
Tax reserve .. 1,580 2,470 21,500 21,000
Freehold .. 29,856 37,350 74,934 83,318
Plant, etc. . . 29,846 35,280 75,287 61,298
Stock .. .. 27,543 58,804 74,084 78,355
Debtors, etc. ) 10710 1 16,547 26,253 31,888
Cash, etc. j J 807 15,862 16,874
Last term’s addition of £8384 to freehold,
£4271 to stocks and £5635 to debtors’
balances reflects the board’s anxiety for
brisker trading. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£63,200) was £8797.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
r~ Dividends
Pref. To He- Ee-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21.000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ 24,000 26,438120,513
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 42,266196,013
1939.. 94,007 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 39,217235,230
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..215,230
1940.. 94,779 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 39,989 255,219
Written off buildings, £20,000 ..235,219
1941.. 49,459 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 229,888
1942. . 58,571 27,790 74 ~ „ 22,500 8,281 238,169
1943.. 55,429 27,790 74 ~ „ 22,500 5,139 243,308
1944.. 67,190 27,790 74 „ „ 22,500 6,900 250,208
To staff fund, £3OOO 247,208
1945.. 72,729 27,790 74 p.c. = 22,500 22,439 269,647
To staff fund, £4OOO 265,647
Last term’s net earnings (up £15,539)
are easily the best since 1940. The im-
provement suggests, among other things,
keen and alert management, eager to
make the most of opportunity as and
when it occurs. Though satisfactory, the
co.’s war-time trading experience has been
the reverse of that of big retailers in the
Eastern States, whose turnovers were
stimulated by a heavy influx of our own
and Allied service personnel. Net earn-
ings for the half-dozen years to the close
of last accounts averaged £64,693, com-
pared with an average of £79,587 for the
six years before that, which included the
tail-end of the 1930’s slump.
Last term’s profit was written after
allowing whatever was considered neces-
sary for taxation and depreciation. The
£72,729 was enough to pay the pref.’s
their 7 p.c. and show 14.9 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 9.8, 9.2, 10.2, 7.2, 22,
22 and 23 p.c. back to 1938. The div. was
kept at p.c., and £4OOO was sent to
the staff fund, leaving £22,439, which
lifted reserves to £265,647.
The co. is Adelaide’s biggest depart-
ment store, and is well equipped finan-
cially and otherwise to make further pro-
gress. Trading policy is modelled on
the pattern of the big Melbourne parent
co., which places a lot of emphasis on a
low margin of gross profit. Among other
things, this means shrewd buying and


LET
f ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN j
w
I#
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manage,-, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
f
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts &s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
» » * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ ♦ * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
Iheir cost. The "National*' Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■■■—■ V~.
ONLY
£l7/10/- E"SS»
i Australia by
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All metis-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W,
THE LIBERAL PARTY
OF AUSTRALIA
(NEW SOUTH WALES DIVISION.)
FEDERAL GENERAL
ELECTIONS—I 946
NOMINATIONS FOR SELECTION.
The Liberal Party of Australia invites
Nominations from Candidates who are pre-
pared to contest the Elections for the House
of Representatives and the Senate in the
coming Federal General Elections.
Nominations must be made on the prescribed
form, copies of which may be obtained from
the undersigned.
Nominations for the House of Representatives
should reach the undersigned not later than
12 noon on Friday, January 18, 1946, and
for the Senate not later than 12 noon on
Friday, February 22, 1946.
H. A. WARBY,
Secretary,
30 Ash Street, SYDNEY.
Extruded Bronze Grilles
i
■
i
uni
m
HI
Craftsmanship
in fine
architectural metal-work
SINCE THE TIME—OVER 50 YEARS AGO—
when the first Wunderlich Metal Ceiling was installed in the Sydney
Town Hall, the firm has been prominent in the production of all types
of fine architectural metal-work.
During the war-time years Wunderlich Limited
were fully occupied with the fabrication of components m metar—for
defence purposes. To-day, the organisation is now, more than ever,
equipped to produce high-quality metal-work (cast, wrought, or stamped)
to meet architectural requirements in peace-time construction of buildings.
di pl \
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS OF QUALTITY FOR OYER SO YEARS
BAPTIST STREET. REDFERN. SYDNEY. 'Phone: MX 2411.
Branches at NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.. and BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE.
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
lively turnover. The two stores are fed
from a string of locally-controlled work-
rooms and factories, including the Myer
Woollen Mills (Ballarat), as well as from
the wide field of Australia’s growing
secondary industries, and from their own
buying office in London. All this ought
to mean much in the buyer’s market,
which will develop again as controls are
relaxed, production is stepped up, com-
petition becomes keener and exes, more
difficult to restrain.
Plans for remodelling and brightening
the store, and for further extension of
activities, await labor and materials. And
the board isn’t likely to have to call upon
outsiders for much, if anything, to meet
the outlay:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital *. . £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities* .. 182,921 394,497 333,423 374,537
Tax reserve .. 30,000 98,000 —•—
Freehold, etc. 591,892 506,573 337,501 276,864
Plant, etc. .. 79,450 47,894 32,214 26,130
Stocks . . 346,950 705,024 693,246 742,631
Book debts . . 129,255 138,966 44,900 78,498
Cash .. .'. 26,497 49,822 200,165 247,456
* Includes unspecified provision for income tax.
Freehold, etc. (down £60,637 last term),
has been written down to less than half
its book value in 1939. Stocks (up
£49,385) are more than double the 1939
figure. They are reported clean, well
assorted and keenly bought. And the
strong cash holding (up £47,291) places
the management in a position to benefit
from cash buying as opportunity offers.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£694,048) was £89,160.
Public investment interest is confined
to the well-protected prefs. —100,000 A’s
and 297,000 B’s, both 7 p.c. cumulative —
the ords. being held by the big Myer
Emporium, Melbourne, which bought
control from the Marshalls 17 years ago,
paying 30s. each for two-thirds of the
holding, the balance being“taken at par.
After a preliminary survey of the old
fluorspar deposits in the Walsh and Tate
River catchments, Chillagoe field (N.Q.),
Government geologist Ridgway estimates
that there is upwards of 50,000 tons of
marketable fluorspar available at shallow
depths in eight of the larger lodes, with
possibilities of development disclosing a
lot more payable ore. All the deposits
are within a 30-miles radius of nearest rail-
head. Fluctuating and mostly low prices,
rather than diminution in grade or size
of ore-shoots, has been the trouble in the
past. For the decade to end 1936 the
figure, which was mostly around the £2
mark, fell as low as £1 16s. and rose as
high as £4 7s. a ton. The price continued
to rise during the war, and is now around
£5 a ton for high-grade stuff on rail at
Almaden, Chillagoe field. The prefer-
ence is for at least 92 p.c, calcium
fluoride, with iron oxide below 0.15 p.c.
and less than 2 p.c, calcium carbonate.
* * * *
Directors of First Hit, Mehzies (W.A.),
announce that during the last four
months the diamond drill intersected
several makes of ore, all unpayable.
Certain sections of the mine were
recently let on tribute, operations on
the co.’s account being confined to
one working party. The board is await-
ing completion of these limited operations
to “form final conclusions” regarding the
future of the mine. Geologist Finucane
recently inspected and reported that most
of the possible chances had vanished.
Opening of the co.’s second golden string
—Boomerang blocks, Burtville —has been
attended with “irritating and costly
delays.” A three-months’ extension of the
option on this property has been secured,
and the annual meeting has been deferred
for at least five or six weeks, so that the
board can give “definite information con-
cerning future prospects.”
* * * w
From London: As carriers along the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.) are mined
in deeper ground, fewer shafts and larger
treatments plants are again being dis-
cussed. It is argued that rising costs, and
a consequent call for economy, will neces-
sitate both. One main working shaft for
Lake View and Boulder, another for Per-
severence and South Kalgurli, and a third
for North Kalgurli and Paringa are advo-
cated. More will probably be heard of
this matter later in 1946.
* * * *
Two Westralian goldmining cos held
sales of forfeited shares in Adelaide on
December 14 last. One, Apex, auctioned
13,100 for non-payment of a Ud. call,
and sold the lot at Hd. each. The other.
Hansel Mundy, put up 40,420 for non-
payment of a call for the same amount
and sold them at a like amount.
* * * *
Westralian gold production for 1945
should be a bit higher than that for 1944.
For the 11 months up to November 30
output totalled 430,789 fine ounces, com-
pared with 424,257 for 1944. With several
mines, now shut down for want of labor,
again producing, the 1946 yield should
show a substantial increase on the 1945
figures. Total Westralian gold production
to the end of November, 1945, amounted
to 50,180,087 fine ounces, valued at
£A275,890,282.
* ♦ * *
A Kalgoorlie warden told a female
applicant the other day that, as a matter
of policy, he did not intend to grant
licences for gold prospecting areas
to women. He said he had found that
they merely acted as dummies for their
husbands, or boy-friends, who held other
ground in the locality, and were not en-
titled to hold more. The application was
withdrawn. A Bulletin man knows of
cases in the West where women have
helped their menfolk to work both areas
and dry-blowing alluvial claims, but
neither were held by women.
* * * *
Apart from gold, the most valuable
minerals produced in Westralia last year
were arsenic, scheelite and tantalite,
worth £48,384, £21,420 and £12,916 re-
spectively. Government financial assist-
ance over the last three years for the
production of these and other minerals
aggregated £294,000. Royalties from
Collie coal cos., at the rate of 3d. a ton,
during the same period totalled £20,827,


WILLS GROW OLD
Yours may need revision.
THE Will you signed a few years ago,
or even last year, may need revision.
It may need redrafting because of changed
conditions. It may be that the duties of
Executor should be entrusted to more
capable and experienced hands.
It is well to consider the advantages
that your family will derive by the ap-
pointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) as your Executor.
Write for a copy of the booklet “Your
Executor and Trustee” which explains the
service the Company renders and what it
costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX; H. NORMAN POPE.
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R. -
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £<54,000,000.
(The average Estate being less than £10,000.)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: 0. E. Cowdery,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw,
140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
Northern District Representative: F. B. T. Thomas,
\ Fitzroy Street, Tamworth. y
I
i
\
ERVICE
MX 1266
RING
Tne quality of ZEROHEAT
service and products is well
known throughout Australia.
Inter-State clients requiring
advice or service can con-
tact our agents—
Messrs. HENRY BERRY and
CO. (A’ASIA) LTD.
»• ECKERSLEY & SOUS PH- LIST®'
V /’ SOUTH MELBOURNE .... VICTOBI*
m
Business, Rollery, Ect.
Let Us “Deliver the Goods”!
The prosperity of Australia, and thus
our living standards, during 1946 will
depend upon the production of goods
and services by the people. When a
family supported itself by its own
domestic and agricultural efforts, rely-
ing little on trade or barter, the elemen-
tary truth that your living stand-
ard depended on your own produc-
tion was quite obvious. Nowadays, with
“the division of labor” amounting to the
most extreme subdivision, and with profits
to some and losses to others in the ex-
change of goods and services, the truth is
not quite so obvious, but it is none the
less generally real. Australia, taken as a
whole, must produce a great deal more
for civilians during 1946 than it did in
1945 if each citizen is to have a full
chance of gaining a better living standard
for himself and his dependants. The
nation will not produce more unless in-
dividuals, collectively, produce more.
Whatever country regains its full pro-
ductive momentum first will give the world
an economic and political lead in the peace.
Production, obviously, will rely a good
deal upon the number of hours each day
and the number of days each year that a
wage-earner works. Much will also de-
pend on the diligence with which he
works, and upon the efficiency of the
machinery and tools that he has at his
hand. The majority of wage-earners in
the Commonwealth are members of
trade-unions, and it is plain that upon
trade-unionists there rests a great re-
sponsibility in the restoration of living
standards now that peace is again with us.
The power of workers when united has
often been emphasised. The responsi-
bility that they owe to themselves and to
others must now be equally stressed.
Strikes cannot possibly help in restoring
war-weakened living standards, especially
where the strikers aim at taking more
out of industry than they put into it.
Where they take out more than they put
in they are polling on all other citizens.
A productive spirit must be revived in
Australia. When many of the present
generation were young the idea of being
a loafer or a “poor worker” was very re-
pugnant to the youth of the country. What-
ever differences there may exist among
various sections of the population over
questions of rewards for work and man-
agement, it will be a national obstruction
if these differences are allowed to inter-
fere with the production of and by the
country on the fullest reasonable scale.
Conditions in the Commonwealth today,
in most industries, are far removed from
“sweating” and “slave-driving,” once
claimed to have existed in different trades
among some employers. The stage
has been reached where a fair day’s
work under conditions as eomfort-
able as the type of trade permits is the
greatest factor required to give a big
boost to the living standards of. all. Arbi-
tration machinery exists for the settle-
ment of all industrial disputes, and it is
simply defying commonsense to hold up
p l 6 nation s production by striking and
go-slow in order to gam some pom
for a union when the matter will be best
dealt with in a court of arbitration with-
out an Y interruption to production,
Housing the population is a matter of
vital importance, and the greatest impetus
that home-building could get would be
from the production of housing materials
on a big and rapid scale. The sooner the
trade-unions, under the direction of pri-
vate enterprise, get to work in turning out
building materials in a vast stream the
sooner will they and their fellow-citizens
be able to erect homes at a reasonable
price. But while one essential material,
such as coal (or steel) is withheld from
the nation, all efforts to expedite the
building of homes must fail.
Trade-union obstruction to production,
apart from reducing living standards and
lowering housing conditions, is a danger
to national security. Unless wage-
earners who are free to work or not to
work do a fair thing, they place their
country at a disadvantage alongside those
countries where a totalitarian economy
exists—where, in other words, there is
no industrial freedom and few civil liber-
ties, and where a commissar has his own
way of getting a maximum of work from
the citizen. Wage-earners who will not
do 4 fair day’s work are placing their
democratic rights in jeopardy as well as
undermining their standard of living,
Government taxation policy must re-
main a big item in all incentive to produce,
Redistribution of incomes, in an effort to
“equalise” living standards, can white-ant
all living standards if carried to excess.
Australians must make a big effort to
“deliver the goods” in 1946. An abun-
dant supply of goods and services now
would be an invaluable corrective to our
social and economic disabilities. During
the war many people suffered great
strain; others took gross liberties. A
strong flow of goods and services to the
consumer—implying in itself a condition
of wide employment—would in turn en-
courage ideas of still greater industrial
expansion, stabilise the future of thou-
sands of potential home-makers, help to
restore the mental and economic outlook
of the people to a condition containing
more harmony and security than worry,
frustration and friction. Where we have
frivolous strikes and other efforts to
retard production the motives of the in-
stigators must be questioned on the
gravest grounds.
Before the 1914-18 war the French cur-
rency was fixed at 25 francs to the golden
sovereign. After a period of wide fluc-
tuations in the years following World
War I it was stabilised at 124 francs to
the sovereign. In 1931 Britain left the
gold standard, and, later on, the dollar
and the franc were each devalued. Both
the U.S. and France attracted gold im-
ports, though when France went socialist
it lost gold, and in 1936 Britain and the
United States had to help with an ex-
change agreement. During World War II
the £ sterling was fixed at 4.03 dollars (“60-
cent dollars”). On this basis fine gold has
been worth £8 Bs. an ounce in London,
compared with £4 ss. an ounce when
pound notes were interchangeable with
sovereigns. On the liberation of France
the franc was fixed at 200 to the £ sterl-
ing. On December 26 a new value was
put on the franc, apparently with an eye
to ratification of the Bretton Woods
currency agreement. The English pound
will now be worth 480 francs and the
dollar 119 francs. The old rate of 200
francs will still pertain in France’s Pacific
possessions, including New Caledonia and
New Hebrides. It is contended in metro-
politan France that the old rate fixed
a far too high value on the franc and
made exporting impossible. Inflation of
the costs structure was one of the first
results of the policy of Blum’s Popular
Front Government, and economic de-
generation has been the order almost ever
since, including the period of German
occupation. It remains to be seen
whether internal costs inflation has now
ceased and whether the new value of the
franc will remain its true international
value, assuming that the new value is at
present a true valuation. A speedy
recovery in manufacturing and rural pro-
duction, which implies hard work by the
French people, would greatly strengthen
the currency position. A depreciation
of the external value of the money of a
country does not necessarily mean that it
will continue to depreciate internally. Fol-
lowing the devaluation of the Australian
pound during the depression there was a
steady fall in costs for some years, though
that was definitely a period in which
costs reductions could be carried out with-
out violent political opposition.
The immediate effect of the further de-
valuation of the franc will be that it will
make French exports more competitive
by comparison with those of other
countries, and at the same time will re-
strain imports, apart from any other arti-
ficial controls there may be over all
foreign trade. At the end of August
France held gold to the value of
75,000 million francs, at 200 francs to the
£ being worth £375 million sterling.
Britain’s gold stocks are now very small.
But it is interesting to note that though
the franc is now worth only a nineteenth
of its pre-1914 value, the pound sterling
has been held at approximately half.
* * * *
It is the consensus of opinion overseas
that gold has been restored to its “throne”
by the Bretton Woods currency agree-
ment, by Britain’s acceptance of the
United States loan and by France’s de-
valuation of its currency. The United
States and Russia are reported both to be
staunch advocates of a return to the gold
standard, Russia’s stand being particularly
interesting in view of the attitude taken
on “the gold standard and the Bank of
England” by Communists in British
countries for years past. Britain, though
its Empire is still the world’s largest
potential gold-producer, has now com-
paratively little in the way of gold re-
serves, having passed most of them to the
United States during the Empire’s lone
fight against Germany before the intro-
duction of lend-lease. It has been the
opinion of The Bulletin during the war
that the gold standard would re-emerge
as a fundamental monetary factor. In
April, 1943, this view was expressed:
It appears that where there is gold after
the war it will have its traditional value;
where there is little or none it will still
exercise its influence underneath all other
trading arrangements, but there will be a
greater use of substitute exchange and credit
controls based on trade, political and
human factors. Economics have become
such an intimate matter in human living
in an age of specialised 'occupations that
unemployment, production, raw materials
costs and living costs and standards are
indicated as individual exchange and credit
factors for the future, with gold, like an
economic policeman, a more remote but
more universal influence.
The Bretton Woods currency-fund and
bank operations look like taking the place
of individual exchange controls in the case
of many countries, but gold and United
States dollars form the basic reserve.
* * * *
Thousands of Digger husbands return-
ing to find their wives and families
living—or trying to live—under housing
conditions that would be the subject of
public outcry during ordinary times can
thank Communists and militant trade-
union obstructionists for much of the
outrageous circumstances. The N. S.
Wales strikes that have been immobilising
many Commonwealth essential services
these past several weeks have set home-
building programmes back for months.
There can be no glossing-over of the
utterly destructive effect of the strikes,
go-slow and other industrial viciousness
and lunacy seen in the Commonwealth
for months past and culminating towards
the Christmas period. The war-time need
for man-power and materials in muni-
tions productions was an understandable
obstruction to home-making and main-
tenance of living standards. But the
present fall in our productive capacity
as the result of stand-over men in trade-
unionism is damnable and intolerable.
It is time that those hundreds of thou-
stands of “ordinary” people who have
suffered in silence showed their teeth to
these knaves and fools.


PLAN FOft HIS
FUT
EiOiJ:
Wise Is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available!
EQUITABLE PROBATE"
6- GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.-
Beado/ftceJ7/3.73Queen St, Brisbane
WINCELLO HOU§5, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
MOLASSESI
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen St eet - - - Brisbane
STRONGER • LIGHTER • LONGER-LASTING
_■
m
GLOBITE
«
mm
SCHOOL CASES
■
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Globite!
'Bill?
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I
m
if
Hill
ntufff
Modern high-clfss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first'
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams. Cables and Wireless:
•‘METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
X- TH^T*
4
mi
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simp!© codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly' forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchei
P. T. W. Black. . i Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE.- B 7901. Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
2? ~»4.
fd
Aspects of the Dollar Loan
The terms of the loan by the United
States to Britain suggest that a political
bulldozer is at work in world trade and
finance rather than an expert architect of
reciprocal prosperity.
The ' loan is definitely a make-
shift contribution to post-war inter-
national economic stability, but it
will no doubt be contended that,
whatever its financial shortcomings, it was
the only politically practicable plan
brought forward that was acceptable to
both parties at the Washington confer-
ences. It has the fault of adding greater
disabilities to those already carried by a
debtor, war-weary nation—a nation the
civil living standard of which has fallen
to a malnutrition level, and which had
to take the really hard knocks, among
the democracies, of this war.
The terms of the loan also tend to
make Britain an economic guinea-pig ;
weakened by war as it is, the United
Kingdom has, again been chosen as a.
shock troop to pave the way for “freer
world trade.”
It was Roosevelt who said that the
conflict was a global war, and he, too,
who took a generous, though still prac-
tical, view of the manner in which war-
time sacrifices should be shared. While
the war was on it was possible to convince
Americans that it was better to help
others to fight your battles than to try
and do all your fighting yourself, especi-
ally where your enemy had the edge on
you in battle practice. Now that the
“shooting war” has ended the promptness
with which the United States deemed its
war-time obligations under mutual aid
also to be at an end caused a shock from
which many parts of the world have still
not recovered, Britain was in the war
more than two years before America
came in, though some lend-lease aid
was rendered before December 7, 1941.
Still, it was not until Britain had made
extensive sales of its overseas investments
and exhausted its gold reserves that
mutual aid operated. Lord Woolton
Suggested that these investments be re-
turned to Britain and the loan waived.
Apparently the terms of the Lend-Lease
Act, passed by U.S. Congress in March,
1941, is a stumbling-block to lend-lease
aid or a grant-in-aid in peace-time. It
provides only for assistance to fdreign
Governments in the way of “war materials
vital to the defence of the United States.”
Another (political) difficulty was probably
Mr. Churchill’s defeat by the Attlee-
Laski party. An ironical angle to it all is
that the loan is in the nature of “pump-
priming,” an idea which Baron Keynes is
alleged to have “sold” President Roose-
velt as the basis of his New Deal in the
early 1930’5.
Britain is a country in which foreign
trade is essential to the very life of its-
inhabitants, and in foreign trade the
finance factor is predominantly im-
portant, especially in peace-time. Ex-
change difficulties, adverse trade balances
and the like can gravely affect the living
standard and economic position of a
trading nation. The United States, Aus-
tralia and other geographically big coun-
tries with large natural resources and
agricultural areas can to a great extent
make themselves self-sufficient in an emer-
gency. But Britain has to trade even to
exist, and it naturally cannot accept the
burden of £llOO million sterling of
foreign debt without being perturbed
about the effect of the future economic
strength and initiative of the country. It
does not want to default ignominiously
later on.
There is a feeling in many quarters—
including some American quarters—that
ordinary, immediate business considera-
tions should not govern the financial
treatment of an ally so soon after the
end of what is only the “shooting” part
of a great war. The nature of America’s
financial treatment of Britain could be
regarded as a hurried attempt to rid the
Republic of part of its apparent inter-
national obligations as soon as possible
after actual military danger to the
United States had passed. It may be that
it is politically impossible for the United
States to have given Britain more con-
siderate and farsighted treatment. If
that is so, then let it be placed on record
that the failure to finish the war in the
spirit that Roosevelt indicated has been
no fault of Britain’s, and that the causes
of any future international economic
breakdown arising out of post-war settle-
ments will have to be looked for some-
where outside the British Isles.
The question certainly does arise as to
whether the United States has placed a
sufficient value upon the importance of
an economically robust Britain in the
world scheme of things. After all, it is
foolish policy to make a big loan unless
it is believed that the loan will bring
permanent benefits both to the lender
and the borrower. If the United States
does value a robust Britain, either from
a world-trade or from a defence view-
point, then it must be admitted that
attempts to maintain that value, as ex-
hibited by the Washington financial agree-
ment, are far from being ideal.
The dissolution of the dollar pool in
London and projected interference with
Empire preference are matters of vital
importance to Britain and its Dominions.
It is unlikely that Britain favored either
of these conditions, and it may be
assumed that they represent concessions
to United States trade rather than action
designed to revive British trading power
speedily. The Washington loan and its
attached conditions therefore represent
a queer mixture of contradictory objec-
tives that is extremely hard to swallow
as a purely world-trade resuscitating
medicine.
It is elementary economics that full
employment, or something approaching
it, has to be a world-wide condition. The
British Empire must play a big part in
any condition of world prosperity. For
■this reason many people expected the
United States to show more realism in
its approach to Britain’s war-created
economic difficulties.
The loan is being made conditional
upon acceptance of the Bretton Woods
monetary-fund and world-bank plans.
Altogether, there are signs that British
trading and financial initiative are to be
considerably restricted, and that Australia
and other Dominions will have to review
the productive capacity and costs posi-
tion in several of their export industries,
notably with regard to sugar-growing
and wine-making. In respect of the re-
vision of Empire preference, it has been
stated from the British side that conces-
sions on our part would only be made if
reciprocal arrangements were allowed by
the United States and possibly other
countries.
From the British political view it is
an ironic possibility that the spending
of the U.S. loan will help maintain popu-
larity of the Attlee-Laski Government,
and that the task of paying interest and
principal instalments will not arise until
its first term has been completed. But by
that time • whatever industrial plans
Britain has in hand —and it appears to
have had quite a few, however much they
may be interfered with by the socialistic
“policy” of termites like Professor Laski —
should be bearing fruit and helping in
the earning of the large amount of foreign
exchange necessary to keep the British
Isles a first-class economic as well as
political Power.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN LESLIE ROBERT FROST.—TAKE
NOTICE that LORNA HAZEL FROST has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2947 of 1945 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for 3
years and upwards If you desire to defend the ease
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before
the 4th day of February 1946 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAYBS Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I, OARMELO SCARPIGNATO, of Italian nationality,
born at Motta Camastra in Sicily, and resident now
and for the past six years in Australia, and now
resident at Victoria Avenue, Castle Hill, N.S.W.,_ in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act, 1920-1936. ■
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^e'^xxlleix/n.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 12 6
3 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9 0
THE SERVICE MAN
Mr. Beasley and History.
“Ek Dum”: The statement which Mr.
J. T. Beasley gave the press on the eve
of his departure for England did not sug-
gest that he was in the best of condition
to embark on a goodwill mission to
Britain, where he is to be Resident Min-
ister for Defence and High Commis-
sioner.
Mr. Beasley was reported to have said
that the return of the A.I.F. from the
Middle East to Australia in 1942 was
opposed both by the British and Ameri-
can Governments, since world-war stra-
tegy was for the A.I.F. to be sent to
Burma to prevent a junction of German
and Japanese forces. But, he said, “the
Commonwealth Government became dis-
turbed after the Battle of the Coral Sea
[i.e., the first week in May, 1942], because
it believed that the Japanese were sweep-
ing south in the Pacific, and that a battle
to defend the North of Australia was in-
evitable. Cabinet therefore began to con-
sider the possibility of withdrawing the
Australian divisions from the Middle
East.” >
This suggestion, Mr. Beasley continued,
was not well received in London. Britain
held the view that a German-Japanese
junction might mean the end of the war.
However, said Mr. Beasley, the Australian
Government struggled with the problem
of defending Australia from invasion,
and finally determined to “withdraw our
seasoned troops from the Middle East.”
It knew it would have to depend on
American help, and did not want to do
anything to displease the United States.
At that stage a message was received
from Washington that America supported
London’s view.
But the Australian Government, Mr.
Beasley related, stuck to the brave deci-
sion, and Mr. Roosevelt said: “After all,
Australia is the best judge of its own
position. I want it understood that the
Australian decision will make no differ-
ence when the time arrives as to the aid
the United States will give in defence of
the Pacific.”
Then, said the amazing Mr. Beasley,
Britain generously provided the ships for
the A.l.F.’s return, but nevertheless tried
hard to keep the Seventh Division for
Burma, delaying a large number of them
at Colombo at a time when things looked
black in that quarter.
And never would Mr. Beasley forget
the message received from Mr. Roose-
velt, for at the time the waters through
which the troops had to be brought were
“so dangerous that it would bring a cold
sweat to your brow even now if you
knew just what we knew at that time.”
The Facts
Australian Labor had shown little dis-
position to co-operate in British Com-
monwealth Defence. Mr. Curtin in 1938,
when war threatened, had declared that
Australia should never “allow our re-
sources, our strength and our vitality to
be sunk in the quagmire of the wars of
Europe, and that no men must be sent
out of Australia to participate in another
war overseas.” When war had actually
broken out in 1939 the Labor party
disapproved of compulsory service to
defend even New Guinea and Papua.
They opposed the building of the Syd-
ney Graving Dock, without which Aus-
tralia could not be navally defended —it
was obvious that the British and Ameri-
cans would do most of the defending in
case of attack.
Immediately before the Japanese war
broke out —within 10 weeks of the Pearl
Harbor disaster —four of the five leading
Australian unions were involved in a
series of vicious strikes, planned on de-
fence plants and industries affecting the
development of war supplies, since there
they would be most effective towards ob-
taining the release of two Communists
(members of an illegal organisation) who
had been interned after conviction for
an organised attempt to wreck the indus-
trial war effort at the blackest period of
the war.
Some Labor leaders condoned these
strikes, which extended even to Garden
Island Naval Base.
This was going on after the Japanese
had invaded Indo-China and were threat-
ening Thailand, and while the blackout
had actually come into being in Manila,
Japanese credits were frozen and Japa-
nese cargoes held pending events in Aus-
tralian ports.
This did not prevent the new Aus-
tralian Labor Government yelling for
help like a frightened woman.
Early Preparations
Actually, Britain —whose good rela-
tions with us Mr. Beasley is to be paid to
promote—was not individually responsible
for the course of action pursued at any
time. Unlike the Australian Government,
which has been odd man out in every
negotiation and arrangement with its
major Allies since it took office, Britain
had long since agreed on a course of cam-
paign with the United States, and what-
ever was done was done jointly from the
beginning. And it had been agreed that
if war came to the Pacific the main initia-
tive there should be in U.S. hands.
Discussions in which Australian Gov-
ernments preceding the Curtin Govern-
ment had been involved had gone on be-
tween all the Allied Powers except Russia
(Japan’s pact partner) from February,
1941, onward to provide for the eventu-
ality of a possible attack by Japan. The
part which Australia would play as a
base was firmly in the' minds of Allied
strategists. It was fixed in their minds
that Burma and India must be kept, if
possible, to leave the way open to supply
China, because with China out of the war
it was adjudged that the war would be
lost. And Australia must be kept because
it was a continent of white people and
had industrial resources which would
make it possible to base hundreds of
thousands of troops there, out of reach
of easy attack, if necessary. The matter
had been thought out so far before Japan
attacked that it was known that Ameri-
can air defence would be early provided,
the actual towns for airports had been
chosen, and the nature of their aerodrome
accommodation decided.
Labor Dilatoriness
From the beginning of the war the
Curtin-Beasley Government was not
modest in its demand on Britain and
the U.S. It asked the British and
Americans to send 25 divisions! This
fact is now an open secret every-
where except in Australia. These 25 divi-
sions would, of course, be made up of
British and American conscripts, who
were to be used primarily to defend Aus-
tralia, which itself was not at that time
to send compulsory trainees a yard from
its shores to save British islands.
When the Japanese invaded the British
Solomons, there being no A.I.F, avail-
able, Australian compulsory trainees
could not be sent there (though later they
could have been sent to half of the Solo-
mons) and American Marines had to be
sent —this though the enemy had perched
himself within 700 miles of Australia.
To the end of the war compulsory trainees
could not have been sent without their
consent to rescue the Eighth Division in
Singapore, towards whose rescue Mr.
Chifley and Mr. Beasley proposed to pro-
vide in the end a “token force” to help
the British, if possible. The main work
was to be left to Allied conscripts and
Indian volunteers.
The British and Americans were unable
to send 25 divisions. Twenty-five divi-
sions means in fighting troops roughly
450,000 men. These would need immense
quantities of armor, ammunition, artil-
lery, commissariat plant, 70,000 tons of
shipping all the time per division —losses
at sea at that time were very heavy. With
supply personnel, air cover, convoys and
other services, it would have called for
a minimum of 2,000,000 men at once, and
all the shipping in the world, including
the Japanese. Australia could scarcely
have provided a pea-rifle at that time,
thanks mainly to the policy of the Beasley
party and its masters of the Communist
unions.
The A.I.F. in the East
The Australian divisions were not much
occupied in the Middle East at the time.
There was never any moment when either •
the British or Americans tried to influ-
ence the disposal of them permanently.
When the first yells of fear went up from
Canberra, however, it was pointed out :
(1) It is not possible to move a division
out of a war zone without creating a
vacuum ; therefore, it would be necessary,
if disaster were not to ensue from the
withdrawals, to have other divisions on
the spot to take over. (2) Certain
priorities, both naval and mercantile,
could not be disturbed without seriously
endangering existing plans. Large quanti-
ties of transport shipping and strong
escorts would be required to take the
troops home.
In demanding immediate withdrawal in
its panic-stricken fashion, what the Can-
berra Government was doing was tanta-
mount to deserting a mate in the firing
line.
The British-American plans, however,
were finally settled at the Christmas con-
ference in Washington in 1941. They
had already taken steps based on the
knowledge that whatever they might send
in the way of land forces to defend Aus-
tralia for months to come would be in-
effective. The idea of a few land divi-
sions defending 3,000,000 square miles is
ludicrous. The major Allies realised that
only effective naval defence could serve.
That which Pearl Harbor and Prince of
Wales and Repulse had been intended to
provide had gone. A powerful force of
cruisers followed these to the bottom.
These losses had compelled the Ameri-
cans to withdraw three or four capital
ships and a number of escort vessels from
the Atlantic.
Within a few weeks after the outbreak
of the Jap war there were five British
battleships with capital aircraft-carrier
cover in or near the Indian Ocean and a
sufficient air force was soon built up to
stop the enemy at Ceylon. Had the
enemy been strong enough to take Cey-
lon he would have been strong enough to
take also the trade routes to Russia’s
back door, to cut off oil supplies to the
Indian Ocean and Australia, to sever
Australia’s life lines with Britain and
Europe and Africa. Long before the
Coral Sea battle, after which Mr. Beasley
says he went into a cold sweat, those
actions had been fought in the Bay of
Bengal which General Eisenhower
described later as the turning point of
the war. Long before that, too, the whole
question of the disposal of Australian
troops was settled. At the time at which
Canberra supposedly was being firm most
of them were at home in Australia.
The Burma Incident
The incident relating to Burma did not
happen after the Coral Sea battle in May,
but about February 18-20. Mr. Beasley was
several months wrong in his dates. Every
authority, including the Chief of the Aus-
tralian General Staff and General John
Lavarack (G.O.C. Seventh Division), was
emphatic that it was vital to hold Burma
to keep the Burma Road open. What
a difference it might have made if Burma
had been held it is not difficult to sur-
mise. It would have saved tens of
thousands of Allied lives and shortened
the war considerably. And Burma was
within an ace of being held.
The Pacific War Council sitting in Lon-
don agreed after the fall of Singapore
that to hold Burma and Australia with
certainty would involve the sacrifice of
the East Indies by the Dutch, the loss of
their assets there, the surrender of the
islands without a fight and the abandon-
ment of many of their women and
children.
The Dutch were bitterly opposed to
this. They wished to fight, but in the end
they agreed.
On the say-so of a high Dutch official
to the writer at the time, the Australian
delegates were deputed to do the per-
suading. If this was so, they must have
blushed afterwards.
For (if the statement is true), with a
specific plea having been made to the
Dutch to sacrifice their possessions to
rape and rapine temporarily for the
general good of the Allied cause, the no-
conscription politicians of Canberra re-
fused to make any sacrifices whatever.
They demanded (so it is said, and they
should specifically affirm or deny it) that
the Australian troops who were then in
the D.E.l.—some of the troops which
Mr. Beasley says it was resolved to with-
draw from Egypt and Syria three months
later!—should have absolute priority of
evacuation, even over the Dutch and the
women and children who were left be-
hind and many of whom later were
murdered and starved to death. That
wish is said to have been rejected.
Despite the agreement with the Dutch,
despite the advice of the G.O.C, of the
Seventh Division, A.I.F. (who was.
shelved after his courageous stand for
the right course), the Curtin Government
flatly refused to send to Rangoon on loan
to support General Alexander the Seventh
Division, which was actually adjacent on
the water, even though the chances were
that the , British might be wiped out for
want of A.I.F. support. The refusal was
all the more disgraceful since the British-
U.S. request was based on the fact that
the Seventh Division was the only one
near enough to Rangoon to save it. The
offer made was: — , -
(1) That the Seventh Division should re-
main in Rangoon only a matter of weeks
until a named British division which was
on its way had reached Bombay and had,
been railed across India to replace it.
(2) The ships which brought this : new
division would bring the Seventh Division
under escort straight to Australia.
(3) President Roosevelt offered to send an
extra division to Australia to hold the fort
in the absence of the Seventh Division.
The offer was refused because those at
Canberra were afraid that the Seventh
Division might not have absolute protec-
tion. But they were not afraid to leave
Darwin without proper air-raid shelters.
They were- not afraid to squander thou-
sands of men sent on forlorn hopes
in Ambon and elsewhere. They were
not afraid to leave a small helpless
force of inexperienced, scarcely-armed
youngsters and devoted civilians to meet
their deaths in Rabaul and afterwards.
They were not afraid later to leave Milne
Bay virtually undefended at a crucial
time or to embark on the silly Owen
Stanley campaign, which resulted in the
almost complete extinction of two
flimsily-armed divisions which they had
brought from the Middle East, in the
process of wiping out a division-and-a
bit of stranded Japs, whose sea communi-
cations were cut —Buna-Gona cost more
than 5000 lives, more than 6000 wounded
Australians and Americans and nearly
40.000 malaria casualties, if official figures
do not lie.
Mateship—Save the Mark
Two weeks after these shameful inci-
dents the Prime Minister made a state-
ment sympathising with the unfortunate
Dutch. He said:
We are not only a base from which
to attack the enemy but a sanctuary for
all our allies if they need it. t
He added that “he had in mind the
Henry Lawson doctrine of mateship in
which one mate can call on another
without fear of refusal of anything that
mate possesses.”
It should be remarked that at that
time there were U.S. troops already in
Australia and that the early presence of
90.000 of them was assured.
A week later again (on March 16),
Mr. Curtin was broadcasting to the
American people telling them that the
importance of Australia and India as
bases for the launching of this attack (on
Japan) was fully realised ; that Dr. Evatt
would tell the U.S. people that “we be-
lieve attack is the best defence. We know
it means risks, but safety first is the devil’s
catchword today”; also that Australia
was “the last bastion between Japan and
the west coast of America. If Australia
goes America is wide open. It is said that
the Japs can bypass Australia and be
met and routed in India —I say to you
that the saving of Australia is the saving
of America’s west coast.”
Even though all go there will still in
Australia be Australians fighting on Aus-
tralian soil till the point be reached, and
we will advance over blackened ruins
through blasted and fireswept cities, across
scorched plains till we drive the enemy into
the sea.
If General Alexander, struggling back
to safety in Burma without aid from his
Australian ally, or Chiang Kai-shek, with
the Burma Road closed, or the faithful
Dutch, who had sacrificed to Allied
strategy at the appeal of Australia, heard
that broadcast they must have greeted
it- with sardonic laughter.
It was made on the day General Mac-
Arthur was approaching the Australian
coast and 10 days after a statement had
emanated from official Canberra that
“me itage of withdrawals to prepared
positions is over. There is no doubt
about our ability to defend Australia.”
It was also three months before Mr.
Beasley says that his “cold sweat” was
persuading him to force the British Gov-
ernment to disgorge the divisions which
already mostly were in Australia.
Mr. Chifley owes it to the conscience
of the Government to repudiate Mr.
Beasley. And Parliament should de-
mand that all the papers and cables re-
lating to the negotiations of early 1942
shall be tabled, and that Australia’s repre-
sentatives at the London Conference shall
give the Houses a frank, public, official
version of the negotiations which took
place at the relevant time.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
In Titoslavia.
(From a “Harper’s Magazine’ 1 ’ article by Major
Temple H. Fielding, who wpts for some time
in Yugoslavia with the Independent American
Military Mission .)
The Yugoslav National Liberation
Front has pledged itself unequivocally
to a four-point platform. Let’s examine
each plank; —
1. Creation of a nationally-equal
Federal Yugoslavia, where all nationali-
ties will enjoy their national rights.
In the Cabinet of March, 1945,
Tito is (1) Premier, (2) Minister of War,
and (3) Commander-in-Chief. Subasich,
a hundred-per-cent machine politician, is
Foreign Minister [he was ; Subasich is
“out”]. Twenty-one Ministers are Tito-
men; four are mild dissenters.
Yugoslavia has been apportioned into
six “locally autonomous” States, respon-
sible to this Cabinet: Serbia, Croatia,
Slovenia, Macedonia, Bosnia-and-Herze-
govina, and Montenegro. In five States
the controlling Ministries are in the hands
of young Communist intellectuals; in
Serbia, the sixth, the reins are held by
the pre-war leader of the tiny Republi-
can party, fierce enemy of the king.
This chops off the legs and arms of
Tito’s bitterest opposition, the once-
powerful Serbian Kingdom. By shrewd
gerrymandering, the solid block has been
hewn into four chips, three of them fall-
ing into precincts where they constitute
small minorities. The Serbs, comprising
51 per cent, of the country, charge
that not one of their pre-war leaders has
joined the National Liberation Front.
They accuse Tito of executing thousands,
of imprisoning tens of thousands. They
name names ; they charge destruction of
their most basic rights. They are Tito’s
gravest problem; a hefty, hearty, swag-
gering people, they are Texan in tempera-
ment, Texan in what they believe are
their personal liberties. Tito has one-
third of Yugoslavia solidly behind him.
It is an axiom that a dynamic, armed
minority, holding power, can maintain
itself indefinitely; it is also an axiom
that the man who jams down the lid of
the powder barrel never hears the ex-
plosion.
2. “Truly democratic” rights and
liberties.
For American military personnel to
enter Yugoslavia or to do business in
Yugoslavia, all names had to be sub-
mitted to Partisan Headquarters at Bari,
Italy, and at Belgrade. Candidates “poli-
tically unsympathetic” were rejected.
American citizens who were natives of
Yugoslavia were rejected. Knowledge
of the language was a distinct liability.
The screening process often took a month.
Once inside, Americans were forbid-
den, on penalty of immediate expulsion,
to communicate with civilians. They
were forbidden to go three miles from
their base without a special pass for each
occasion, and a Partisan guide, “for
protection.” The restrictions are virtually
penal. Americans know democracy, in
its purest form ; they must not see too
much of the Partisan version.
Commissars and secret police are
everywhere. People seen in the wrong
company are promptly arrested; criti-
cism of Tito or of the U.S.S.R. is pun-
ishable by death. A State Trust has been
set up for control of all movies. The
Courts have been reorganised along
Soviet lines. “Politika,” the Belgrade
party organ, has stated: —
Until now, justice has been anti-people.
Now the movement (Partisan) has
created justice for the people. The old
Courts were expensive and slow ; ours will
be quick and without cost. The procedure
is simple and rapid....
In Belgrade alone, over 5000 people have
faced this justice.
From start to finish, from A to Z, the
Liberation Front is “truly democratic”
to just about the same extent as Soviet
Russia.
3. Inviolability of private property.
It has long been a boast of Tito’s men
that they confiscate nothing from the
countryside. They emphasise the point
that “every item of supply is a voluntary
contribution.” For Partisans, and for
Partisan-supporters, this is entirely cor-
rect. For others (two-thirds of the
country), it is not. I have seen “requisi-
tioned” homes, “requisitioned” factories
and stores and personal effects. No shred
is left to those whose political theories
are not in alignment with the Liberation
Front.
Food is distributed on the same basis.
If you are a Partisan, you eat; if you are
not, you starve. I was there during the
U.N.R.R.A. negotiations; Yugoslav
civilians were dropping in the streets
from starvation, but Tito refused entry
to American relief ships docked in Italy,
with cargoes rotting. He held out for
complete control of distribution of sup-
plies. “Otherwise,” he said, “U.N.R.R.A.
might be used politically against the
National Liberation movement.”
4. No revolutionary, economic or
social changes.
In November, 1944, in the city of Du-
brovnik, I witnessed one of the first
“free” elections in Yugoslavia. The
theatre was jammed with voters. The
stage and the stalls were strung with
placards—“Hurrah for the First Confer-
ence of a Single People!” and ‘"Hurrah
for the Union of the People of Dubrov-
nik!” Candidates from all parties made
impassioned pleas. A public-address sys-
tem flashed bulletins to the milling crowds
in the plaza. It was spectacular, a Holly-
wood production.
There were only two things wrong with
it:
(1) The audience was handpicked;
guards at the doors barred undesirables:
(2) The vote was cast by show-of-
hands ; commissars and secret police
watched the proceedings with practised
eyes; all candidates won their spurs
unanimously, without a single opposing
vote.
This is the vaunted “freedom from
revolutionary changes.”
The economic and social structure is
gradually and deliberately being Russian-
ised. Soviet officials can wander any-
where in the countryside; their smallest
desires are usually anticipated. British
and American officials are acutely re-
stricted ; they must argue for everything
they get. On direct orders from Tito, the
glories of the U.S.S.R. are pumped to the
people morning, noon and night. I have
heard Partisan commissars extol to the
people the marvellous “Russian” jeeps.
I have heard them “educate” the people
about meats tinned in Chicago, uniforms
cut in Philadelphia. On a boat along the
Dalmatian coast I saw a commissar herd
together a group of refugees, point to
three hundred B-17’s in the sky over-
head and announce with pride “Russki!
Russki /”
Poland’s Political Prisoners.
(Report by a N.Y. “Times” correspondent.)
This is written in Warsaw, but it will
not be committed to print until this cor-
respondent is safely out of Poland,
There exists throughout the war-torn
country today a condition approaching a
subtle reign of terror in which there is
no assurance of what may happen to
critics of the present regime.
There are, however, too many indica-
tions of what may happen. The official
line advanced by some Government offi-
cers is that there are no more than 1000
political prisoners in Poland today. How-
ever, other Government officials have ac-
knowledged to me that there were be-
tween 60,000 and 80,000, with the stipu-
lation that the bulk of them are “volks-
deutsch” —Polish Germans or German-
ised Poles. The belief is widespread in
Warsaw that there are 10,000 at Cracow
alone and some responsible observers
think the total may be nearer 100,000.
The former German concentration
camp at Oswiecim, whose name to any
Pole is synonymous with horror, is opera-
ting again under Polish auspices and its
wire fences have been charged with elec-
tricity. The round-up of persons whose
only evident offence was suspected oppo-
sition to the current Communist-domi-
nated regime was in any case extensive
enough to have netted a number of indi-
viduals with claims on American citizen-
ship, most of whom are still locked up
under no specific charges and without
trial.
Hitler’s Death Chamber.
(Visited and described by the president of
Hears's Newspapers.)
In Berlin I visited Hitler’s Chancellery
office completely smashed by our
’planes. A Russian guard (small Mon-
golian type; about 15 years of age)
stopped us at the entrance. When we
gave him a few cigarettes, he passed us
in.
The roof was completely gone. The
rain was falling on the pink Italian
marble walls. Everything was in ruins—
in shambles. Hitler’s large desk was
overturned and the marble top smashed.
Walking among these ruins one always
looks overhead for falling masonry and
girders.
Pete Huss, the correspondent most
familiar with the building, took us to
Hitler’s private office—showed us where
the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo Axis was signed
in the Ambassador’s room. Here we saw
the beautiful crystal chandeliers hanging
from a wall completely ruined by bombs
or shell lire.
We went through Hitler’s private office
quarters and then walked out into the
adjoining gardens. Huss warned us to
follow meticulously behind him as the
gardens are mined —two Germans had
been killed here by booby traps. We care-
fully followed Huss through the gardens
to two large pillboxes. There we saw
the entrance to Hitler’s underground air-
raid shelter.
Huss displayed a map drawn for
him by Hitler’s chauffeur, whom he
recognised and picked up on the street
in southern Germany. The chauffeur
claimed that unmistakably Hitler com-
mitted suicide a day or two before the
surrender of Berlin. The chauffeur drew
for Huss a complete diagram of Hitler’s
air-raid shelter.
The chauffeur confessed Hitler had said
he would never allow his body to be dis-
played in Moscow’s Red Square as a
museum piece.
Hitler is said to have ordered his adju-
tant and chauffeur to wait in a small re-
ception room in the air-raid shelter adja-
cent to his private sitting room. He told
them when they heard two shots to enter
and carry his body and that of his wife
(Eva Braun, whom he married two days
before his death) outside the air-raid
shelter, dig a grave, cremate the bodies
with gasoline, and then bury them in one
“The only seriously objection-
able part of the deification of the
common man is the implication that
mediocrity is an ideal, that the un-
common man is to be discredited or
discarded. One of the humors of
sociology is that the most recent
phase of the revolution in Russia
is a frantic search for the uncom-
mon man." —Former U.S. President
Herbert Hoover.
grave in the gardens. Six cans of gaso-
line were used to cremate the bodies.
The chauffeur also stated that Hitler
shot himself bending over with his head
on his knees and was picked up from the
floor, while Eva was shot as she reclined
on the couch.
Strange as it may seem, no Russian
guard was posted at the entrance of the
Hitler air-raid shelter. The electric lights
were on. Huss said: “The Russians may
haye left for lunch —they do things that
way.”
We toured the air-raid shelter, saw the
small waiting room, about 15 ft. long and
eight feet wide ; visited the small per-
sonal sitting room and saw the couch
with bloodstains at the head of the sofa —
blood the chauffeur claimed was that of
Eva Braun.
We went to Hitler’s small student-
type personal bedroom. His bed was
made of cheap laminated wood; the
wood had curled from moisture. Personal
effects were strewn throughout ihe place.
Adjacent to the small sitting room, on
the opposite side from Hitler’s bedroom,
was a small bedroom and dressing room
and bath used by Eva Braun. Here we
saw personal effects —combs, perfume,
etc., strewn on her dressing table.
Everything was damp and clammy with
about four inches of water on the floor.
Pictures had been taken from the wall.
Dishes and silverware had been thrown
about, indicating that the Russians had
done some looting.
Huss states that the Russians removed
Hitler’s remains to Moscow. Hitler’s
dentist had identified his dental work.
The dentist also was being taken to Mos-
cow, as was Hitler’s adjutant.
Huss says Hitler is unmistakably dead,
but the Russians apparently wish, for
some reason, to envelop his demise in
mystery. The Russians surreptitiously
release a news story that Hitler has been
found in Spain ; another story that he has
been discovered in Argentina, then in
Manchuria, Japan, etc. This causes em-
barrassment between nations as State De-
partments and other Foreign Offices write
notes of inquiry, engendering confusion
and ill-feeling.
It is, I suppose, merely another form
of Russian “diplomacy.”
Choice of Two Worlds.
(Condensed from a London “Fortnightly”
article by Stephen King-Hall. )
The post-war world can be one of two
kinds. It can either be a world of naked
power politics in which peace is in fact
an uneasy armistice and humanity builds
its cities underground, prostitutes the
achievements of science to the so-called
art of war and moves with fatal damna-
tion towards a third world war. That is
one possibility. The other is the evolu-
tion of a post-war world in which the
anarchic powers of the sovereign national
State will be subject to the sanction of
law, a sanction provided by the collec-
tive forces of mankind.
In the course of the war I have been
in the U.S.A., in Canada, the Irish Free
State and within the last few months my
duty has taken me to Sweden, Russia,
Persia, Egypt, Italy, France, Belgium,
Holland and occupied Germany. In those
countries I have talked with men and
women of all classes (except in Ger-
many), including Marshal Stalin, and
as a result of many investigations I have
reached some very simple but significant
conclusions about the post-war world.
The first is that Western civilisation is
very close to the edge of the precipice and
this is especially the case in Western
Europe, as we shall realise mote clearly
during this winter. Another is that the
nature of the solution which commends
itself to men as a method for dealing
with our post-war problems depends
upon whether one is dealing with a person
who understands what democracy is and
believes in that faith, or whether one is
talking to a person who does not under-
stand democracy.
“Democrats” are in a difficult position
as they contemplate the shape of things
to come, and what we have to consider
is whether Russia is going to add to these
difficulties or alleviate them.
It is argued by some people that demo-
cratic and non-democratic nations can
“agree to differ” and collaborate in world
affairs. If we look at world history in
perspective this will prove to be a pro-
found and damnable heresy. It is the
argument which was popular amongst in-
fluential people in Britain between 1930
and 1939 when they said that it did not
matter to us what kind of a regime existed
in Italy and Germany. Events and thou-
sands of bereaved and ruined homes in
Britain aqd overseas have proved the
fallacy of this argument. If the United
Nations are to remain united on a posi-
tive basis they must hold together be-
cause they believe in a certain attitude
towards life. The Americans and the
British share a common approach to life.
They believe in democracy; in the Four
Freedoms.
What about Russia? The Russians will
tell you that they have discovered a new
form of democracy. It is possible for
democracy to take many forms. The
British and Americans express their
democratic principles through the
machinery of Parliaments and a free
press. In Russia, the machinery consists
of the Communist party and the Soviet
system. The press, the radio and all
means of influencing thought are State-
controlled. Russia is “democratic” today
(we are told) because the overwhelming
majority of the inhabitants of the Soviet
Union are in whole-hearted agreement
with the present policy of the Russian
Government, and that Government has
been Marshal Stalin. But then we were
told that the vast majority of the German
people and Italian people supported
Hitler and Mussolini. I think that was
true, but we did not call the Germans
and Italians democratic peoples.
The test of democracy is not whether
dr not the majority approve of a national
policy. The true test lies in the policy.
What then is the Russian policy? Rus-
siafl policy today can most accurately be
described as nationalism, and it is in the
development of that policy that we must
seek the role of Russia in the post-war
world.
In order that Russia shall be able to
reconstruct and then resume her material
progress two conditions must be fulfilled.
She must have security from attack from
without ; she must be tenanted (in the
opinion of her rulers) by a people increas-
ing in numbers and passionately devoted
to the cause of Russian national great-
ness. As regards the first prerequisite
the Russians will see to it that neither
Germany nor Japan is in a position to
resume aggression. Secondly, the Rus-
sians will take very good care to see
that the Governments of all States ad-
jacent to Russia keep in tune with Rus-
sian foreign policy, and that policy at any
given moment will be whatever course
of action seems to the men in the Krem-
lin best to serve Russian national in-
terests. Thirdly, the Russians will most
certainly maintain a large army, and they
will probably build up a massive air
force. It is not unlikely that they will
also decide to have a considerable navy
and show the flag in the Mediterranean.
It would be a natural development of
this course of action were they to take
steps to control the Dardanelles. In the


LIMITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
h
loveliness
iiiai lasts . . .
'Vjew clothes are an event
these days and it is wise to
buy for quality. You will there-
fore find |t advantageous to
purchase dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayons.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yarns provide quality and
service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity i
restricted.
or
M
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT:
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
181 Clarence Street,
Just as soon as it is possible, Olympic Tyres
will be made available without restriction, to
everV Motorist^
Olympic TYRES
production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
| FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA j
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
INSULATED
CABLES
Far East they will develop bases on the
Pacific coast.
A population zealously wedded to the
cause of Russian national greatness, the
second prerequisite upon which Russian
policy will be based, is linked up with the
extent to which the Russian Government
will permit contacts between Russians
and foreigners. At the present time such
contacts are strictly limited, and it is
quite impossible for any foreigner resi-
dent in Russia or any Russian resident
abroad to become intimate with his oppo-
site number. Foreign correspondents in
Russia are frustrated men. and in Russia
the only news which is permitted for
export is what appears in the rigidly-
controlled press or radio. The Russian
people are very ignorant of the contribu-
tion which America and the British Com-
monwealth made to victory. They believe
that they more or less single-handed de-
livered the world from the Nazi menace.
Ilya Ehrenburg, the Russian journalist,
said: “The stronger we are, the easier it
is for us to recognise the merits of others
... we are not prone to be intoxicated
with victory, and if we draw attention to
the fact that it was our people who saved
Europe and the world from Fascism it is
not because we covet laurels, but because
we don’t want thorns.” It does not
occur to a Russian that these are strange
words from a source whose rulers made
a Pact of Friendship with “the Fascist
beasts” and kept it in being whilst Eng-
land stood alone in 1940.
All the resources available to the Rus-
sian Government by and through which
public opinion can be influenced, and
they are many and diverse, are devoted
to stimulating and maintaining in the
minds of the people a strong sense of
pride in Russian achievements, past,
present and prospective.
Furthermore, this worship of State-
capitalism in Russia is an article of
export. In every land outside Russia
there is a Communist party whose leaders
have a special regard for Russia. I asked
the leaders of the Communist parties in
Italy and Belgium, both men holding key
positions in the Governments of those
countries, why they felt particularly
linked to Russian nationalism rather
than British or American nationalism, I
gathered that these gentlemen believed
that of all Governments in the world the
Russian Government was to a special
degree interested in the welfare of the
people. They appeared to be ignorant of
the fact that in Russia there are “classes”
at least as sharply distinguished one from
the other in terms of privilege as any-
thing to be found in Great Britain. In
■ relations between other States and Russia
this exportable surplus of Russian
nationalism will have to be taken into
account.
The conclusion of the matter is this:
Russia today is a State-capitalist Power
governed by men or a man who realisti-
cally observes that the world is passing
through a phase of naked power politics.
Woe to the weak! Therefore Russia must
be strong and in terms of total war she
has the vast population and the inexhaus-
tible raw materials which are the indis-
pensable foundations of military strength.
Alone, these two factors are not enough.
To these must be added the existence of
a population mentally conditioned to ac-
cept planning and to place the interests of
the Socialist State above the idiosyn-
crasies of the individual. Such a state of
affairs exists today in Russia.
This is not an approach to the central
problem of life which is democratic, and
until the fundamental principles of
democracy as we understand them are
broadly accepted all over the world peace
is not secure, since until that is so there
is no hope of the international control
of the national sovereign States, great
or small.
For the next five or ten years I do not
anticipate any change will take place in
the attitude of the Russian people to
these great matters. They will be con-
tent to remain under what is in effect
military discipline in order to achieve
material progress. In foreign policy the
Russians will be tough and unbending.
But in due course Russia will evolve
into a new phase. Stalin will be suc-
ceeded by someone —no one knows his
name nor is this question discussed with
foreigners—and much will depend upon
the character and ability of the new
leader. He will be faced with a grave
decision. Will he decide to make a reality
of the provisions of the Soviet 1936 Con-
stitution and encourage freedom of
speech, association and contacts with the
outside world? Will he let progressive
Russian thought combine with that in
the British Commonwealth, America and
Western Europe, which realises that the
lesson of two world wars is simply that
if man cannot learn to make sacrifices
for the sake of an international loyalty,
which in the economic and political
spheres shall be superior to his natural
loyalty, he is doomed to self-destruction?
Or, will this Russian leader of the future
pursue the path of exclusive Russian
nationalism? If that be so, it will be
found that the world will be divided into
two camps. In one will be found
America and the British Commonwealth,
in the other Russia and all those States in
Europe and- Asia within the shadow of
her power. In such circumstances peace
would be preserved as long as a balance
of power existed between the two groups.
History shows that such a peace is an
armistice.
Unite or perish: that is the decision
man must make, and the sands are run-
ning low in the hour glass of human
affairs. The essential conditions for a
world policy in which national States
are independent cultural units, but sub-
ject to world law in economic and poli-
tical matters, exist in embryo in the
democratic countries. It will be for
Russia to decide which way she leans in
the balance, and her action will be
decisive.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
I imagine that most Europeans were more
taken by the pictures of the Foreign Ministers
than by. anything they have said. Molotov and
Bevin look very well fed. To the average
European, even Jimmy Byrnes must seem chock-
full of vitamins. Every time an international
conference is held, special food and wines must
be flown in so that the cerebral animosities
of the diplomats can be maintained without
regard to mundane considerations. I think
this is one thing to change. The next time
the big boys meet, no matter how big they
are, they should be rationed to the diet pre-
valent in the neighborhood. Then we would
have no trouble about procedure. Europe will
have less to eat this winter than if ever had
under the Nazi tyranny. This fact is more real
than all our fine words and pretensions.—Kerie-
saw M. Landis; Chicago "Sun.”
* * * *
In the looting of China it was the printing
press and not' the bayonet that was Japan’s
most potent weapon. For three and a half
years the Japanese Army and its puppets
fed, housed and maintained themselves in China
largely through the simple expedient of print-
ing banknotes and forcing them on the people
in return for goods and services. In terms of
dollars and cents the toll taken from China
through monetary inflation far exceeds the aggre-
gate losses from destruction and pillage. — N.Y.
"Herald Tribune" correspondent in China.
A score of rubble heaps, some of them higher
than the neighboring buildings, dot London.
They are the remains of bombed buildings,
cleared away and carefully sorted. Every
ounce is valuable. There are three categories
of wreckage material: wood and metal, which
are salvaged to be used again where possible;
rubble, which is valuable hard core for con-
"Many trends in our public life are not
democratic. They are the product of
groups of so-called experts whose findings
have never been submitted to the test
of public opinion. And if they are not
democratic in their origin they will most
certainly not be democratic in their re-
sults. They■ will give an immense irre-
sponsible power to precisely those men
who are now clamoring for more unre-
stricted authority. Your theorist, your
civil servant, your professional adminis-
trator, under such a system, would be
given power over their fellow citizens
such as has not been enjoyed by any one
class in our community for hundreds of
years. That is not democracy. That is
oligarchy of the most cast-iron type.
There is nothing democratic about gov-
ernment by officials.” —Professor David
Douglas, addressing the London Society
of Individualists and National League for
Freedom.
structional work; and debris, the finer grained
material and dust, some of which is being used
to raise the level of a lake in Kent, and for
filling in marshes. The rubble is reserved for
work of national importance. It was used in
making the Mulberry harbors for the invasion
of Normandy. When the defences of London
had. to be shifted to meet the menace of the
flying bombs, more than a hundred thousand
tons of the rubble were carted away in trucks
to make the foundations for the new gun-sites.
Rubble makes the best of afl bases for run-
ways on aerodromes, and much of it has been
taken for this purpose. And when Britain’s new
housing projects are laid out, the roadways
will largely be laid on these scraps of old Lon-
don. — "Britain."
* * * *
I asked Field-Marshal Alexander about the
Russians whom he had met in Hungary. “As
different from the Americans as cat from dog.
The Americans are frank and open and will
tell you everything. The Russians are all but-
toned up and very suspicious.”— Manchester
"Guardian” correspondent.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4od. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Compulsory Military Service
If we are to make it clear to the world
that we will fight for peace and national
security to the last man and the last
round, we must reinstitute a system of
compulsory military training.
The age at which our young men
should be required to undergo this train-
ing must be a matter for argument; the
best age from the Army’s viewpoint is not
likely to agree with the best age from eco-
nomic, vocational, social and educational
angles. Looked at from most of these
angles, the ideal might well be to increase
the school-leaving age to 16 years,
then send all lads to military training for
the greater part of the next year.
It was my experience as an A.I.F. offi-
cer that lads of 18 were too young
to be plunged suddenly into the social
whirlpool of an army existence. Men
under 20 were the most difficult to handle
and, on the whole, the least reliable;
whereas men in their late twenties were,
on the average, outstandingly good in dis-
cipline, co-operation, morale and courage.
At 21 a majority of young men would
have completed most of their post-school
training; at 18 many lads would
still be serving an apprenticeship or learn-
ing a trade. The modern army needs so
many technicians that it can both use and
help those who have completed technical
training and require further practical ex-
perience before they commence work on
their own account.
While it is true that the army way of
life develops the character of the soldier,
it can also adversely affect him. The
dangers should not be soft-pedalled for
fear of discrediting the army in the eyes
of anxious parents. The older the recruit,
the more likely he is to withstand moral
dangers. The longer the period of service
ahead of him, the less likely would he be
to regard his military training as a tem-
porary escape from the conventions and
proprieties of normal life.
From the military angle, continuous
service of six to 12 months’ duration
is preferable to a series of short, inter-
mittent call-ups; it is cheaper, easier and
more satisfactory to train one man con-
tinuously for nine months than to train
three men each for three months in each
of three years. A one year’s service sys-
tem would allow Australia to accept the
widest possible sphere of responsibility in
the Pacific without unnecessarily inflating
the size of the Permanent Force ; trainees
could spend portion of their service on
garrison duties outside Australia.
Summing up, I suggest that our young
men should do a minimum of nine
months’ army training in the year in
which they turn 22. — Pacifist (W.A.).
The Darwin Raid
That “wild stampede to Adelaide
River” of which A. J. Lambert writes (B.
5/12/’45), was not altogether to be
blamed on cowardice. Much of it was
due to want of proper control by the men
in authority, and to want of correct co-
ordination between the Administration
and the heads of the A.R.P.
Certain folk with experience of first-
aid and ambulance work hurried off, as
soon as the raid was over, to offer their
services to assist the injured and help-
less, only to be met by an official who
ordered them in threatening terms to get
out. He declared that the whole town
was to be evacuated that day, and that
he had authority to “deal with” anyone
refusing to leave. These people, their help
being refused, did leave at once ; and,
having their own conveyance, got through
to Katherine without delay. But —they
would not have gone, except by official
order.
The total deathroll given in Justice
Lowe’s report, 288, does not tally with
reports from other sources. An Ameri-
can report of the sinking of the Peary,
complement 700, says “there were a few
survivors.” Further, can anyone explain
why the total deathroll of the Army in
Australia for the period 3/9/’39 to
31/5/’45 in Australia alone was 1887,
with a list of wounded for the same
period totalling 14,358, unless casualties
during the raids on Darwin were much
more numerous than were at first re-
ported? One report said that 600 bodies
were buried in one grave near the new
'Darwin Hospital. An American corre-
spondent described the biggest raid as
ranking second to Pearl Harbor.
When the first hasty burials of the
victims of that tragic raid took place,
many of the graves were marked
with the names of those buried there. But
after the bodies had been transferred to
the new cemetery on Berrima-road,the new
graves were marked Only “Unidentified
civilian.” Why was no record kept of
the dead? Surely their friends and re-
lations had a right to know where they
were buried. — Darwin Evacuee (N.S.W.).
The Points Discharge System
The Director-General of Demobilisa-
tion claims that the points system is
“inherently fair.” Troops in Borneo are
strongly of the contrary opinion, for the
following reasons:
(1) The advantage given to those with
dependants is overwhelming. Assuming
the same age on enlistment, a soldier with
three years and four months’ service, with
a dependant, is rated in points exactly
with a soldier who has completed five
years’ service but who has no dependants.
(2) The question of “dependants” has
been loosely interpreted. Many war-time
brides have no family responsibilities, and
have been earning good incomes in their
husbands’ absences.
(3) Single men with over five and a half
years’ service in the A.I.F. are left in the
area. They failed to qualify for release
under the five-year plan because they
hadn’t completed two years’ overseas ser-
“So you cant take it!”
vice, this when the Army had kept them
over three years in Australia, with no
option but to stay there and stew in their
boredom.
(4) The points system has not been
uniformly applied. Troops from other
islands, with relatively low points, have
been discharged, and from this area many
have gone with fewer* points than have
those remaining, for no other reason than
that their units were “redundant.”
(5) No distinction is made between con-
scripted and voluntary full-time service
and between service in Australia and
active service overseas. Middle East
veterans stand by in Borneo while militia-
men in Australia are discharged to grasp
civilian opportunities.— Sergeant (A.1.F.).
Murray Valley Development
It is a great pity we do not advertise
the greatness of our Murray, for it is a
grand stream. The Murray Valley for its
entire length should be investigated by
experts in their several spheres with the
object of studying and developing the
many resources offering.
Through my approaches to the S.A.
Government the Moorlands lignite de-
posits, located near Tailem Bend, are to
be investigated with the object of develop-
ment. An assistant geologist has been
appointed and will begin work at Moor-
lands within the next few weeks.
I understand that the Murray River is
65ft. deep at Tailem Bend and at the
wharf it is 45ft. deep. This means that
boats up to several thousand tons could
trade up- and down-stream. From Tailem
Bend the river is navigable for 1600
miles.
If the Moorlands development bears
fruit Tailem Bend will become a centre of
industry, as already there is talk of freez-
ing works, cement works and other in-
dustries opening up when a power station
is erected on the Moorlands field.
The S.A. Government is rapidly de-
veloping the Leigh Creek coalfield, which
is a move in the right direction, but Leigh
Creek is nearly 400 miles from Adelaide
and has no appreciable fresh-water supply,
whereas Moorlands is 80 miles from
Adelaide and about eight miles from the
great Murray.
Tailem Bend is an important railway
town on the main east and west lines, as
well as being a junction for other im-
portant lines. The products of this town
could be sent by boat to towns and
centres both down- and up-stream. A
pumping station on the river at Tailem
Bend would supply water for domestic
use as well as irrigation, and thousands of
acres, at present depending on rainfall,
could be irrigated and would produce
feed to fatten stock for market.
A study of T.V.A. records will con-
vey some idea of what can be done with
co-ordination and imagination. There-
fore, let the people who appreciate how
truly great the Murray River is organise
to compel those who sit in high places to
do something about the matter. — John
W. Greig (S.A.).
The Constitution
Calwell’s talk of a “horse-and-buggy”
Constitution is misleading. The Con-
stitution provides for a division of powers.
If, as Calwell complains, the Federal
Government cannot legislate for a 40-hour
week, then obviously the States can.
Apparently they have too much sense to
do so at present —which is the real mean-
ing behind the assertion by Calwell’s
colleague Ward that “State Parliaments
have outlived their usefulness.”
True, it is costly for seven million
people to support seven Parliaments and
all that goes with them. But perhaps the
expense is worth while if the system puts
a check on ruinous law-making. A bad
Federal Government can hurt more citi-
zens than a bad State Government. Thus
the wider the extent of State powers the
less scope for legislation capable of harm-
ing the whole nation.
Of course, the argument applies both
ways. But good and desired legislation
can only be delayed, not prevented, by
the present system. If the whole of Aus-
tralia wants something done, there is
nothing to stop the State Governments
from acting in concert or, if centralised
administration is necessary, referring
power to Canberra for long or short
periods.
The present Government has made con-
stant attempts to “get around” the 1944
referendum decision which emphatically
denied it extra powers. Now, finding
its “free medicine” plan in jeopardy, it
is implying that there will be no social
services at all if the Commonwealth is
not allowed to run them. Yet there is
no legal doubt that the States can pro-
vide social services, as they have done
in the past. Australians, until they get a
Federal Government which ceases to
deceive them and to disregard their ex-
pressed wishes, should stick to the exist-
ing division of powers, and be thankful
that the High Court is there to uphold it.
—E. D. (N.S.W.).
A Country- Dwellers’ Union
At the annual conference of the
Queensland division of the Australian
Country party, Dr. Earle Page suggested
the formation of a Country-Dwellers
Union for the protection of everyone
living in the country districts —farmers
and graziers, civil servants, teachers and
others. Today, said Dr. Page, all who
live in the country are penalised by
differences in rail freights, petrol prices,
etc. The only way to get development
is by the adoption of flat rates for elec-
tricity, water, petrol and transport.
When Dr. Page arranged the sugar
agreement in 1923 he contrived that sugar
should be sold at the same price in Perth
and Hobart as in Brisbane, and when he
authorised a bounty for Lysaghts in 1923
the firm agreed to sell at the same price
in Sydney as elsewhere.
The New Deal for the West, a move-
ment which now has branches through-
out central-western Queensland, has been
campaigning for months for a flat rate
for petrol, but so far it has been im-
possible to get any satisfaction. What
Dr. Page achieved in the case of sugar
and Lysaghts products should be possible
of achievement in the case of petrol.
Motor tyres today are the same price in
Longreach as in Brisbane.
In the case of the limit of £l2OO on
the cost of a house which can be built
without a permit Central-western Queens-
land residents have asked that the £l2OO
should not include freight on materials
and/or the additional cost of labor as
provided for in the “western allowance.”
— P. Chappell (Q.).
Wine for Britain
It has been reported that millions of
bottles of Australian wine will shortly be
on the English market. What for? Of
all the ridiculous ideas that got into the
heads of Australian food-controllers
sending wine to England at the present
juncture seems to be the worst one.
Wine is a stimulus- to eating, and what
the people of England lack is food. Being ,
hungry, they don’t lack a stimulus for -
eating. The shipping space that will be
monopolised by drink will mean so much
less space for badly-needed victuals. — j
Bumpkin (Vic.). t i
Strikes and Arbitration
It is to be hoped that the disastrous
effects of the coal, steel and shipping
strikes have warned rough-and-tumble
unionists that refusing to work has ceased
to be either a useful or just weapon. Ad-
mittedly, strikes in their day have won
something for the workers, but now that
strikes have spread out of proportion to
their worth —now that any illegal
stoppage in one of the key industries
quickly moves on the “sympathy” pre-
text through other key industries to
national dislocation —the result must
always be harmful to the strikers in par-
ticular, burdensome to wage-earners in
general and catastrophic to the nation.
It has been claimed at various times
that arbitration doesn’t work. Actually,
arbitration hasn’t failed, but the system
has been allowed to deteriorate. Curb
militant extremists (this remains the pre-
rogative of the unions themselves), shear
industrial litigation of suspicion and de-
lay (particularly delay) and endow it with
genuine sincerity and efficiency and that
harmony between employer and employed
which »has been totally absent for years
will return very soon.— P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).
In terms of money it is almost impos-
sible to measure the cost of the troubles
brought on by ironworking, mining and
seafaring Corns., but, as we used to say,
the money was worth it. The tide
of sympathy for the Corns, has ebbed to
the backwaters and gutters of our life,
where it belongs. White-collar workers
have realised what an ugly thing was
being bred with the help of their mawkish
sympathy, and manual workers have
realised that the Corns, in their blood-red
Fascism are opposed to free unionism,
arbitration, the Labor party, any Gov-
ernment, peace in industry and secret
ballots.
Let us see that a sensation-loving press,
interested not at all in the ethics of what
it prints as long as the circulation can be
kept up to lure the advertisers, is never
again, under the licentious cloak of so-
called “freedom of the press,” allowed to
corrupt an all too gullible reading public
into believing that anyone who gives his
allegiance to Russia first is a potential
saviour of humanity. Ex-Comrade
(S.A.).
Food Waste and Regulations
I ran against an old friend who had
spent four years in a German stalag and
asked him if the Germans indulged in
starvation tactics. “Not so much as the
bureaucrats in Melbourne,” was his unex-
pected answer.
He had just been out to his brother-in-
law’s farm and had been shown bags and
bags of potatoes which were under the
standard size fixed by regulation. They
were just as good potatoes as the big ones,
more nutritious and highly favored by
the housewife because they are easier to
cook, being capable of being boiled in
their jackets ; yet the grower would incur
a penalty if he tried to sell them.
People in Europe are said to be starv-
ing by the million and children in Eng-
land are undernourished, yet a pack of
officials who can’t see beyond rules and
regulations won’t permit this farmer even
to give away his produce. They haven’t
even got the sense to notice that no potato
plant ever brings all its fruit to maturity
and some, in fact, as much as half, are
bound (o be under standard size without,
because of that, being any the less per-
fectly good food. — Peasant (Vic.).


"3
BEAM
Peacetime Facilities
Now Available
, 8 tra f 8 ’
,cean t**-. it fc .be longest
sssss*
and South Ame inaU gur ated tbe pict ures
l- 19 „ 4 s to. .be “7“t A«tL ana
PiClUl TTustua and E"*^’
between . W.A. h as
NOrt Th^gY^ C X a to tCforefronl of Overseas
L * hMal ;te r 0 d u3X
The A.W.A. technicians ate M
*7“ 51-h—f “jrCa *• ■"•“
in the world. t be Beam^ne
services.
The Beam Wireless Service now operating on a full
Peacetime basis offers the public fast and accurate world-
wide communication services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to the
United Kingdom, the Continent of Europe, the Middle
East, Canada, United States, South America, India and
the Philippines.
Commercial Wireless Services have recently been
reopened for messages between Australia and Lae, Port
Moresby, Java and Nauru.
Codes are again permissible and you can use your
registered code name as address and signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the
acceptance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will he pleased to open a Credit Account for you.
Complete information available regarding codes,
classes of messages , rates, routes > etc .
Beam Wireless messages may be lodged at:
BEAM WIRELESS OFFICES.
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone: MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
Meant WheicAd, GemnuuucaUattd
During the War the Beam Wireless Service efficiently
handled enormous traffic, eliciting praise from both the
Government and the Press.
From twelve million words handled in the first year of
war, traffic increased to fifty million words in the year 1944.
New Beam services were inaugurated with the Philippines
and San Francisco in 1941 and with Java, China and India
in the following year.
When G.H.Q. of the South-west Pacific moved to Brisbane
in 1942, A.W.A. opened a Beam Wireless office there for public
and press messages. As the war moved north so did members
of the A.W.A. Wireless Telegraph staff first to Port Moresby
in 1943, then to Hollandia and later Leyte, transmitting
millions of words to Governments and newspapers throughout
the world.
The news of the Continental invasion by the Allies
made enormous demands on the Beam services from England
and North America to Australia. The first news flash on
June 6, 1944 brought into being a co-ordinated plan for
handling an enormously increased volume of press messages.
Over 61,000 words in 500 press messages were received
during the first 24. hours.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A SIA) III).
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
