

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 67—No. 3442
Wednesday, January 30, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW' THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
Covent Garden Theatre.
T ONDON’S Covent Garden Theatre is the headquarters of
Italian Opera in Great Britain. It stands on the site of a
playhouse opened by the famous harlequin, John Rich. Peg
Woffington here made her debut and in 1773 “She Stoops to
Conquer” was produced. After John Kemble’s great triumphs, the
original playhouse was burned and in 1809 the second theatre
was opened here, only to be destroyed by fire in 1856. The
present building was built in 1858 by E. M. Barry to accom-
modate an audience of 3500 people. Almost without exception
the world’s greatest singers have appeared in opera here, notably
Adelina Patti, Tetrazini, Caruso and Clara Butt. The main en-
trance to Covent Garden Theatre is beneath the Corinthian
Colonnade : to the left is the glass-enclosed Floral Hall, a whole-
sale fruit market. The stone building facing the theatre is Bow
Street police station and the road at right angles to Bow Street
is Long Acre.


Storil Writing
yj U l * Vf at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.-’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Red Page
ARCHIBALD PRIZE.
There has never been assembled at
Sydney Town Hall an orchestra of 565
players, all blowing and banging and
scraping like the devil and all playing
different tunes. If, by the machinations
of the foul fiend, such a concourse were
assembled, and if, of the 565 players, five ■
were competent, 60 not entirely without
merit, and 500 had never roared through
a French horn or harrowed a fiddle before
in their lives—except perhaps in the
appalling privacy of their bedrooms —
then music-lovers who happened to attend,
lured by the publicity of the daily press,-
would assuredly dq suicide or murder,
A few brave souls might linger.
Through the clash and fury they might
detect some vague semblance of purpose.
Quite a number of the musicians, they
would observe, some with foreign faces
and others with Australian, would be try-
ing to make a noise like a refugee from
Europe. There would be others, purple
with effort, not exactly harmonising but
yet akin in that each would be trying to
make the loudest, the most discordant, the
most horrible and ear-splitting uproar
possible: because, the observer would
recall, it had recently been decided by the
critics in the daily newspapers that the
loudest noise was the best.
Upon the further recollection that this
peculiar and abominable activity had
something to do with competitions for
prizes left by great Australians who loved
beauty and their country, the observer,
if still alive and sane, would undoubtedly
leave the hall and catch the next ’plane
for New Zealand.
Consequently, if there are no gruesomely
dejected and dismembered bodies lying
about the New South Wales National
Gallery (not counting those on the walls
among the Recent Acquisitions), if there
are no demented citizens tryjpg to drown
themselves in the public drinking-foun-
tain outside, and if the entire company of
refined and sensitive souls in the State
has not left the country for ever, it must
be because people who like pictures have
stayed away from the exhibition of entries
in the Archibald, Wynne and Sulman
competitions. For the 565 paintings ex-
hibited do indeed affront the eye precisely
as that outrageous concert would affront
the ear.
The spectacle moved the Sydney dailies
to outcries of pain and lamentation. And
well it might. They caused it.
The trustees of the Gallery maintained
a stoical silence about it. They are
brave, resolute men. And then they did
give the Archibald Prize a couple of years
ago to Mr. Dobell’s seasick skeleton ; and
this year a lot of the paintings do seem
to be suffering from what might be called
sympathetic pains. And they did give
the Wynne Prize last year to a view of
some stairs in a slum; and a lot of the
Wynne entries this year—the majority of
them —are singularly slummy. Yes, much
better to be silent.
What has happened is this: the news-
papers told the trustees to go “modern”
or their art critics would be rude to them:
the trustees went “modern” ; and now the
best painters in the country won’t send in
to the competitions. The Archibald and
Wynne competitions—the Sulman entries
have never been up to much —have always
had a “tail” ; but this year (with excep-
tions, of course) they are all “tail.”
While the great tradition of Gruner and
Streeton —and Lambert and Longstaff—
was honored in the land, there were, in-
evitably, a good many inferior paintings
of an awful prettiness: the result of the
campaign for “primitivism” by the Syd-
ney dailies, encouraged in moments of
aberration by the trustees, is that, while
most of the good painters have departed,
and while the painters of awful pretti-
ness, being gallant and indomitable souls,
continue to send in, there are far more
paintings than ever before of an awful
ugliness. It is, in a way, an achievement.
It shows the power of the “Herald.” Had
it not been for Mr. Warwick Fairfax a
large number of these incredible daubs
might never have been painted.
He is a happy man who has not seen
this exhibition. But when, under the dire
compulsion of critical duty, it has bee
inspected, it arouses one interesting que
tion: could it possibly be worse nex
year? It may be. That is the astonishin
thing. The dailies have started a Mov
ment and it may not yet, even in th
extraordinary conglomeration, quite hav
reached bottom.
There are, doubtless, good painting
smothered in the present welter. A fe
emerge; Joshua Smith’s rather dull like
ness of Dr. Robert Wade Eric Wilson
self-portrait; William Dobell’s annua
shocker, and William Dargie’s prize-wir
ning military portrait. And, among th
Wynne exhibits, two paintings by Fred
Robertshaw, Frank McNamara’s “Storm
at the Breakwater,” Lance Solomon
“The Fire Break,” Douglas Watson
prize-winner and a couple of water
colors by Rufus Morris. Out at Sydne
University Vergil Lo Schiavo’s “Tribut
to Shakspeare,” which won the Sulma
Prize—a mild piece of work containin
Bottom in his Ass’s head and Othell
looking like a native problem of som
kind —may be contemplated, if not wit
rapture, at least with approval of th
industry displayed in it.
Newspaper reproductions did less than
justice to both Dargie’s and Dobell’s por
traits, making the one more com
monplace and the other more villainou
than is actually the case. Dobell’s, though
brutal, has a surprising and welcome
joviality about it, together with much
power. The head is really remarkable
and had it not been for the greasiness o
the clothes and background (both Dobel
and Eric Wilson appear to be painting on
wood, with unfortunately “tacky” results)
the portrait might well have been the
winner. Dargie has yet to reach Lam-
bert’s or Longstaff’s standard, but his
painting is firm and dignified, certainly
the best on offer.
The Wynne prize, in the present com-
mentator’s opinion, should have gone to
Lance Solomon. Since (though both
have their points) Freda Robertshaw’s
work gives the impression of tapestry and
the McNamara seapiece is turgid, anc
Rufus Morris’s watercolors are noticed
here only for their promise, the choice
would lie between Lance Solomon’s
picture and the prize-winner, and Solo-
mon’s is altogether more impressive.
Painting the bush from inside —working
among the trees instead of sitting on a
hilltop half a mile away—Solomon has
handled reddish scorched trees, an ashen
hillside and the blue smoky distance in
a way that contributes something new to
Australian landscape painting. His pic-
ture has the stature proper to a prize-
winner. Watson’s landscape—an old
grain store in W.A. —is a nice bit of old
stone; and that is about all one can say
of it.
Quite likely there are other paintings
that should be mentioned. But even if
the eyes were not dazzled by the excessive
splendor of the slums, the monsters, the
patchwork quilts, the lady with the fright-
ful smile and the gentleman with the
beetle on his brain, pictures of mild merit
would be lost from view because of the
higgledy-piggledy confusion of the hang-
ing. The exhibits crowd and jostle in an
indescribable turmoil, and the top row of
them —though enjoying perhaps a certain
blissful calm in their elevation —could be
viewed properly only by a bat or a giraffe.
Too Many Cooks.
J. Alex. Allan’s Men and Manners in
A ustmlia (F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne), announces that Captain Cook
has anchored in Botany Bay.
Mr. Allan also offers the information
that Batman has reached a spot nea
Melbourne and believes it will be the site
for a village. It appears, too, that con
victs used to be sent out to Australia
that the Rum Corps ruled Sydney; thai;
Macarthur bred sheep; and that golc
was discovered.
Before the war Mr. Allan published a
capable book of ballads, and during the
war he wrote some very fine soldier-verse
which was published in The Bulletin
Men and Manners in Australia is
pleasantly and entertainingly written ; but,
as with most short books of its kind, by
the time the author has re-told the
familiar history he has little room for
comment or to enlarge on topics that
might be interesting/Thus Mr. Allan says
the White Australia policy (he is inclined
to be sentimental about the Chinese) will
have to be “modified”; but he has not
allowed himself space to say precisely
what “modifications” he has in mind.
On the subject of literature, in which
one night expect him to have a special in-
terest, and which —with Australian paint-
ing—is of vital importance to his theme,
he offers a brief, rather derogatory para-
graph about “local bards.” About the
painters there is not one word.
The book is intended to be a study of
the “national character”; but, in spite of
its lively historical anecdotes, it differs
very little from P. J. Hurley’s In Search
of Australia, Arnold Haskell’s The Aus-
tralians, Marjorie Barnard’s Australian
Outline and Charles Barrett’s Around
Australia —all published within the last
couple of years. An irresistible impulse
to announce that Captain Cook has
landed must be added to the list of our
national characteristics.
A Shakspeare Film.
The extraordinary spectacle has been
presented in Melbourne of a play by
Shakspeare being packed every day for
six days a week at four daily sessions.
Shades of Allan Wilkie! He tried to
produce the whole series on the flesh-
and-blood stage during his lifetime and
broke his heart and his pocket in the
process. People who had never read a
play of the Bard since their schooldays
—because he has been surrounded by the
unfortunate associations of the classroom
—and others who had heard of him
through the columns of Melbourne
“Herald” have been flocking to see
Laurence Olivier’s presentation. The
phenomenon calls for explanation.
The question arises: Is it Shakspeare?
In one respect it is—too much so. The
Elizabethan stage had many limitations,
and Shakspeare, when he asks his audi-
ences in his prologue to “piece out our
imperfections with your thoughts,” was
not making a merit of bad lighting and
elementary stage equipment. He obvi-
ously regretted them. But what Mr.
Olivier seems to have tried to do is to
show up those very imperfections and
make capital out of the conventions Shak-
speare would have given anything to
get away from.
His plays are not interesting today, ex-
cept to the arty-crafty, for their conven-
tions ; they are interesting because,
through the machinery, emerge great char-
acters, and great drama and great poetry
and profound human understanding.
If the producers started out to give
this they soon forgot what they were
after. They so far forgot it that some
of Henry’s speeches are meaningless be-
cause of what has been omitted. Henry’s
attempt to inspire his ragged and dejected
troops before Agincourt seems as point-
less as Mr. Chifley’s clarion calls to the
Australian people to pull in their belts
a trifle more to feed the starving British
when they haven’t pulled them in at all
yet. Shakspeare describes the English
army thus:
The poor condemned English,
Like sacrifices, by their watchful fires,
Sit patiently and inly ruminate
The morning’s danger, and their gesture sad
Investing lank-lean cheeks and war-worn coats
Presenteth them unto the gazing moon
So many horrid ghosts.
Mr. Olivier improves on Shakspeare by
presenting this “ruined band” as being
as well-nourished and magnificently
accoutred as the French and he further
improves on Shakspeare by censoring the
speech before Harfleur in which Henry
threatens the citizens that “if they are
guilty in defence”—that is, if they don’t
surrender—they must look to see
The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking
daughters;
Your fathers taken by the silver beards,
And their most reverend heads dash’d to the
walls,
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes
Whiles the mad mothers with their howls con-
fused
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry.
Mr. Olivier’s conception conflicts with
Shakspeare’s again when he omits
Henry’s order to kill all the prisoners
at Agincourt. These are small objections,
however, in comparison with Mr.
Olivier’s handling of the play in his set-
tings.
The period was one of the most won-
derful in human history. Gothic archi-
tecture was at its peak and in imagina-
tion we can’t help seeing Shakspeare’s
characters, noble, base and silly, against
the magnificent background of the
Middle Ages. Mr. Olivier has real
knights on real horses galloping across
real grass against a wishy-washy back-
ground of Walt Disney scenery. If
Donald Duck had waddled into the fore-
ground nobody would have been aston-
ished.
There are castles and manor houses by
the dozen in England which were built
by architects some of whom may have
been contemporaries of Henry, and their
owners, no doubt, would have gladly lent
theirs. What was Mr. Olivier trying to
do? Was he trying to expose the inade-
quacies of the Elizabethan stage and the
inadequacies of our own? How can it
show the intrinsic beauty and power of
the Elizabethan drama to exhibit an actor
going on like a nervous idiot in his
dressing-room and then strutting on to
the stage as a monarch who ruled at a
time when men believed in the divine
right of kings? Was it important to
show that Elizabethan actors were vain
creatures? Actors generally are vain
creatures and, generally speaking C
muck up an author’s meaning y
The only part of the play which Mr
Olivier treats seriously and evidently
enjoys is the love scene between Henrv
and Catherine which Shakspeare obvi-
ously wrote as a burlesque. A robust
individual like Shakspeare wouldn’t have
believed that that was a real love scene
we have only to compare it with the
rough wooing of the Lady Anne i n
Richard III” to know that.
A young lady told me she thought the
play was a wonderful play, Mr. Olivier
a wonderful actor and Shakspeare a
genius of the first water. I couldn’t help
wondering how much her ecstatic feeling
was determined by the genius of Shak-
speare and how much by the fact that
Mr, Olivier is a very good-looking young
man.
“L. DE R.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Fantasy on Grieg’s Concerto in A
Minor” was the most ambitious of the
later programmes put on by the Borovan-
sky co. in Sydney. The theme, man’s
struggle between passion and love, was
powerfully handled. Serge Bousloff, as
Man, was good but somewhat obscured
by Dorothy Stevenson, as Passion. The
groupings may have been partly respon-
sible for this, and the brighter hues of
Passion and her satellites. But it was
mainly the result of Dorothy Stevenson’s
excellent interpretation of Passion:
subtle, mocking, provocative, the very
personification of desire. Indeed, she was
so good that she almost reversed the
moral and one felt that Man had made
a poor bargain when at last True Love
triumphed.
At the talkies:
“The Keys of the Kingdom” (Sydney Cen-
tury) ; Good transcription of the A. J. Cronin
novel, remarkable for the warmth and sin-
cerity of the work of stage actor Gregory Peck.
“The Constant Nymph” (Sydney Tatler):
The Margaret Kennedy novel with characters
complete, transplanted to the screen with skill
and insight by Kathryn Scola. Joan Fontaine
plays Tessa with gaiety.
“The Canterviile Ghost” (Sydney Capitol);
An Oscar Wilde story modernised. Oscar’s
own ghost would no doubt be astonished to
find that an American commando was the
descendant of the ghost of Sir Simon de Can-
terville, who some 300 years before had been
condemned through his cowardice to clank
through the ancestral halls at midnight—until
that descendant, aided by an unexploded aerial
mine, performed a suitable deed of bravery in
his name and so released the ghost from
durance vile. Charles Laughton is the robust
and rather pleasant ghost in this at times amus-
ing story, which gets through in spite of a
shot of cheeild sentiment supplied by Mar-
garet O’Brien.
“He Snoops to Conquer” (Sydney Victory):
George Formby in a smalltown dialect comedy.
Nothing out of the bag, but Formby is a com-
petent comedian and in this film he is given
excellent support by Robertson Hare as a
wealthy eccentric.
“A Bell for Adano” (Sydney Mayfair):
An American Civil Affairs officer, himself of
Italian extraction, straightening out the affairs
of a newly-occupied Italian town. The char-
acters, particularly John Hodiak’s Major
Joppolo and William B'endix’s Sergeant Borth,
are lively.
Winifred Biggins, Eileen Brooker and
Dorothy Stoner, three Tasmanians, have
the distinction of being the first starters
in the 1946 art handicap in Melbourne.
The most original viewpoint in their show
at the Velsasquez belongs to Miss
Brooker, whose “Sick Boy” and Laun-
ceston landscapes show signs of observa-
tion.
. A performance of Shaw;
When the doctor of Shaw’s “Doctor’s
Dilemma” discovers that the woman he loves,
and whose husband he has, in effect, murdered,
has promptly married another man, he observes
“Oh; well then, I have committed a perfectly
disinterested murder.” This, in its context, is
funny; good Shaw; its unexpectedness gets a
laugh. But of course all emotional reality is
destroyed; Shaw won’t be serious because he
can’t be. Consequently, if his plays are not
to become mere nonsense the actors must get
their laughs: and, more than that, glitter,
polish: for the glitter, the polish, the wit is
the only reality Shaw has to offer. A produc-
tion of “The Doctor’s Dilemma” at Sydney
Conservatorium (presented by Ross Buchanan)
was under a cloud from the outset because of
the drabness and flimsiness of the sets. Surely,
even if lack of finance made it impossible to
do better with the fashionable doctor’s con-
sulting-room—which looked like some haunt of #
lost souls and aspidistras in the back streets
of Darlinghurst—the producer could have bor-
rowed a few decent paintings to represent the
life’s work of the “genius” whom the doctor
murders. And then the wit itself, the
acting: it was, on the whole, willing; too will-
ing. Charles Tasman and Edward Esau fell into
a kind of desperate burlesque: broad, vulgar
color, one might say, not the glitter of restraint.
If they kindled some sort of fire in the theatre,
Clifton Penny (Sir Patrick Cullen) moaned into
his beard and put it out again. Ross Buchanan
(Ridgeon), intoning with a “dying fall,” a
weary, dreary superiority, did nothing to en-
liven the proceedings, Leonard Bullen, as
the artist . Dubedat, had the sort of
role he always plays well . . . though Shaw’s
attack on the creative artist (Dubedat is as
false a libel as the “poet” in “Candida”) is,
like the rough handling he allows Sir Ralph
Bloomfield Bonnington to give the poetry of
Shakspeare, more amusing to watch than to
think about.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
Self Striped Repp Cur-
tains with pleated
heading and pocket for
rod. Obtainable in
Burgundy, Fawn and
Rust, they are 6ft. Bins,
long and "ready to
hang." Price, pr., 55/-
® Furnishing Drapery —
Third Floor.
Fine quality Filet Net Crossover Curtains. Frilled on two sides
and base, with frilled valance attached, also two frilly tiebacks.
Obtainable in Green, Rose, Gold and Ivory. Price, pair .. 35/-
This style also obtainable in Cream. Price, pair 42/-
Lightweiglvl Duck Single Bed Covers. Ideal for spare room or
verandah beds. With box pleated flounce and trimmed with
contrast colour piping. Obtainable in Green, Rust and Burgundy.
Price, each 152/-
56-inch Art Silk Gotten and Curtain Repp, a
superior quality British Fabric in an excellent
range of popular furnishing colours. Rust, Blue,
Green, Fawn and Tan. Price, yard 23/6
33-inch Contrast Stripe Border Brocade, a smart,
striking fabric, suitable for any room and particu-
larly attractive in the sun verandah. Obtainable
in shades of Gold, Green, Blue and Primrose Blue.
Price, yard 12/6
Heavyweight Art Serge
Table Covers, trimmed
with high quality silk
braid in contrasting
colours and available
in four attractive furn-
ishing colours. Blue,
Marone, Brown, Green.
Size 70 inches x 80
inches. Price . y 65/-
ALL THESE GOODS ARE COUPON PR
df
d
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


m
g If
ISSI
mam
m
iii
:
mm
m
mmm
♦
Si
m
ft
I
iil
n
k %
■\
$1
.V
skid, a shout, a scream • , . another accident! An-
other accident that brings sorrow to someone’s
home sorrow and financial worry perhaps loss of
earnings for months, with attendant medical and
other expenses.
Accident and Sickness
Benefits
with Endowment Assurance
Annual Bonus Additions
THE METROPOLITAN “PERFECT POLICY”
provides all the benefits of Life Assurance with the added ad-
vantage of compensation against accidents and many sicknesses.
This cover extends to double the amount of Assurance being
paid upon accidental death.
Accidents are dangerous —so are delays. For the man on
the land the man in the factory the man in the street,
the ideal protection is the METROPOLITAN “PERFECT
POLICY.”
A U S
ALIA
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD
HUNTER. AND BLI(rH STREETS, SYDNEY.
INC. 1895, QUEENSLAND.
w. A. H. ALLWORTH (Chairman).
Asst. General Manager and Actuary;
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
DIRECTORS:
D. F. STEWART.
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON.
COL. ALFRED SPAIN.
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary;
GEORGE LESLIE, F.A.1.&
BRANCH OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND;
The Metropolitan Building,
367-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
J. L. Richter (Manager).
VICTORIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
R. S. Johnston (Manager).
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
22 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
A. B. Bolton (Manager).


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3442
Wednesday, January 30, 1946
DE BELLOW GALLICO.
“Gaul may be divided into three parts, but not De Gaulle!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P’ H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street .
London. E.C.4.
LAND FOR DIGGERS.
After the other world war there was a
frantic rush by Governments to put Dig-
gers on the land. Whether the particular
block allotted was likely to return a living
was only roughly considered, and, though
at first there were supposed to be tests,
whether the intending settler was likely
to make a good farmer was in the end not
considered at all. It was a March hare
scheme ; but all that is changed, and now
we have the scheme of thehobbled tortoise.
It is quite right that something should
, have been learnt from the old experience.
Then the only qualification finally re-
quired in the land-seeker was the desire
to own a block. That desire was fostered
by the publicity given to the stunt, and
the general upshot was that many were
put on blocks who would not normally
have gone near the land. A point which
should not be overlooked, though it ap-
pears to be, is that sufficient of these
eventually did well enough to prove fal-
lacious the current idea that only those
who were on the land before enlisting
should now be eligible.
Last time more than 37,500 were put
on blocks which, valued at up to £4OOO
each, were handed over together with a
loan of £625, all to be paid back on long
terms. There is not now much evidence
of the inspiration and generous feeling
which then prevailed. The ruling spirit
then was that the country could thus give
a practical demonstration of gratitude ;*
make some amends as quickly as pos-
sible to the men who had been away
doing the fighting for years. It came from
the heart, instead of, as now, apparently
wholly—and, disappointed Diggers think,
grudgingly—from the head. It did not,
of course, work out as desired. In fact,
it was a flop of flops. Only about seven
years after it had all started 29 per cent,
of those settled had left their blocks. That
figure was to double. Today fewer than
40 per cent, of those originally put on the
land are still there.
The loss to date is put at over £l2OO
for each Digger originally settled, adding
up in all to over £45,000,000. That is
a staggering, almost an incredible, sum
to be written down as loss ; yet even it
does not represent the total. Many an
unfortunate Digger put his deferred pay
and other savings into vainly trying to
make a do of it, and as well a commis-
sion which eventually inquired into the
whole affair had to estimate the losses
incurred by storekeepers and merchants
who advanced credits as “very heavy.”
A good many factors, of course, con-
tributed in this sorry business. Some of
those settled had little aptitude for mak-
ing a living on the land. Others hadn’t
the health for an undertaking which calls
for, above all, hard work and plenty of
it. To these it appealed, through the
glamorous publicity, as at any rate prefer-
able to the only alternative—hunting for
the then elusive job. In many more
instances, however, failure was no fault
of the settlers. Nobody could have suc-
ceeded in their circumstances. Much of
the land was unsuitable. Large estates,
all right as such, were cut into holdings
too small to return a living in their locali-
ties and with the only kinds of productions
suited to them. Other factors included the
post-war boom, in which prices for stock
and plant soared beyond the settlers’ reach.
To many a Digger this was disastrous.
There was also the inevitable Govern-
mental red-tape, which, by the way things
are now shaping, will this time be worse
than ever. Warning against a repetition
of what then went on, one Old Digger,
Mr. R. C. Wilson, told a Sydney audi-
ence a few months back some of his ex-
periences. He had been one of the par-
ticularly well-placed—looo acres of good
land at £4 an acre on long terms, with
the £625 advance. Also, he had £2OO of
his own, and as there was good feed on
the property he put all the money into
wethers. Mr. Wilson’s is not the drought
or other hard-luck brand of story dear
to fiction writers. He fattened the wethers
and sold thenrfor good money. Then
the Government stepped in to secure a
stranglehold with a red-tape lassoo. It
thought he should have bought ewes and
not sold them, and so it took the £625
away from him. ,
In consequence, Mr. Wilson would now
figure as part of the 60-odd per cent, of
those originally settled who have left their
blocks. His failure, however, was neither
the fault of himself nor of the land ; he
is now associated in running a similar
area and doing it successfully. Since his
time bureaucratic controlling has devel-
oped into a mania. It works to a pre-cut
pattern, making no allowance for indi-
vidual merit or ability. It would be too
much to expect, therefore, that one of
the lessons supposed to have been learned
would be that this time any ex-service
settler starting off as well as that First
War Digger will be encouraged to go
ahead without interference.
That is, when any of them are settled.
It certainly cannot be charged that Gov-
ernments are not heeding the lesson of
great haste having made great waste last
time. On the contrary, they appear to
be taking it so much to heart that the
ones they propose to settle some day on
the land would not seem to be the recent
war’s Diggers but their grandchildren.
In every State there are hundreds of
Diggers either going the rounds making
vain inquiries or else waiting in the hope
that something in the nature of actual
land must some time appear among the
mountains of words.
About the only reality that has so far
appeared is in South Australia, where the
Government —which happens to be
headed by an Old Digger—has an-
nounced the impending purchase of a
30,000-acre estate and other property in
the south-east of the State. It is good
country; also, which is highly important,
it is a beginning—a step from the volu-
minous theorising and mere babble to the
securing of actual land. For the rest,
Diggers have had their hopes lifted high
by Ministerial announcements of inten-
tions, large and windy newspaper adver-
tisements and a variety of official publi-
cations. They have as yet nothing real,
nor any early prospect of it.
It is one thing not to repeat the first
sorry mess ; but this is a shifting to the
other extreme. If the idea is to tire as
many Diggers as possible of the wait, it
must have been fairly successful already.
This is not an unfair view; it has definite
official support. One of the outsize
advertisements, which read like apologies
for doing nothing,»openly indicates the
aim. Listing half a dozen “principles”
on which settlement schemes are declared
to be based, it states: “The application of
these principles may slow down the rate
of settlement and reduce its total
volume,,.. ” The same advertisement
indicates the tortoise-like programme:
“Applications may be made at any. time
within five years after the end of the
war or after discharge from war service,
whichever is the later.”
A further indication of the tortoise in
action has been given by Queensland
Minister for Lands Jones in reply to the
State R.S.L., which had directed his at-
tention to the “hundreds of complaints
being received from men waiting to settle
on farms.” It had been decided, Mr.
Jones said, to provide
ready-made farms, which means that the
land must be investigated and classified
to determine suitability before subdivision
could proceed. Access roads, fencing,
clearing and water facilities must follow,
together with the erection of the house and
other necessary buildings. Stock and farm
instruments, including tractors where neces-
sary, must be provided. This work will
require hundreds of men, but manpower
is not yet available. About 44 per cent,
of the Lands Department staff is in the
services, including key personnel.
When those waiting to get settled have
translated that into terms of usual Gov-
ernmental methods of getting things done
they will have some real idea of the pos-
sible age at which they may eventually go
on the land. If they add into the reckoning
that (vide Post-war Reconstruction ad-
vertisement) “A market must be available
capable of absorbing the settler’s produc-
tion” before any block is allotted, they
will no doubt double the age they first
thought of, and waste no further time
getting into an occupation that will tide
them over the intervening decades. They
will note grimly the prevailing tortoise-
idea of land settlement; in particular the
insistence on the proposed' blocks being
ready-made farms to the last detail; and,
while estimating how long that will take
to accomplish by Government methods,
they will no doubt wonder at the total
absence of any allowance for ordinary
Digger initiative.
What would appear to be going on
should be familiar enough to all Diggers.
Instead of a generous, willing, earnest
endeavor to do something for them, it
looks like a hard war of attrition, fought
under the smokescreen camouflage that
Governments (see advertisements) are be-
ing “guided by a spirit of caution.”
Moscow's Clumsy Servants.
With a suddenness that must have been
overwhelming, our Little Normie Makin
became a world figure in the new power
politics and diplomacy.
Three weeks ago he was resting on his
laurels as “Labor’s” counterpart of Sir
Joseph Porter, K.C.8., without the title
and the cousins and aunts. By conscien-
tious study and observation he had
learned the difference between a cruiser
and a corvette, a mainbrace and a marlin-
spike. At times he may have thought
of the little cherub that sits up aloft in
the interest of seadogs, and was presum-
ably on duty when the Makin share
of the “Government’s” fleet of fluid-drive
Chrysler cars, the nobbiest in these
parts, mounted a footpath /in a Sydney
suburb with consequences that had to be
attended to in hospital. At other times
he doubtless mused on his appointment
as Resident Minister at Washington, with
its possibilities of enchanting conversa-
tions with fellow-admirals King, Nimitz
and Cunningham on famous sea-fights
with Germans, Italians and Japanese. He
could not possibly have then realised
what was in store for him, weeks crowded
with destiny.
Without warning the summons came—•
Admiral Makin was to fly to London and
lead Australia’s delegation at the meet-
ing of the United Nations. At London
he arrived to find that Australia had
been elected to a seat on the Security
Council, and that by virtue of its alpha-
betical pre-eminence, Argentina being out
of favor, he was to become the Security
Council’s first chairman. Bravely con-
tending with the effects of air-sickness
and other annoyances incident to travel
in an unfamiliar element, he tried to suit
his demeanor and line of talk to the un-
foreseen dignity. He was still attitudin-
ising and platitudinising when the Persian
delegation came in with a crusher.
In accordance with Article 35 of the
Charter, the Persian delegation wrote, the
Persian Government had “repeatedly
tried to negotiate with the Govern-
ment of the Soviet Union” concerning
“the interference of the Soviet Union,
through the medium of its officials and
armed forces, in the internal affairs of
Persia.” A situation having arisen which
“may lead to international friction,”
the Persian delegation had “the honor
to request” the admiral “to bring
the matter to the attention of the
Security Council, so that the Security
Council may investigate the situation
and recommend appropriate terms of
settlement.” The closing words were
“The Persian delegation is prepared to
assist the Security Council by furnishing
a full statement of the facts, together
with a copy of the relevant treaty which
binds the parties concerned.”
As if this was not disconcerting enough,
two other letters were placed before the
chairman of the Security Council, appa-
rently before he had had time to turn up
the “relevant treaty” or the Stalin-
Churchill-Roosevelt Declaration regarding
Persia (then called Iran), issued at
Tehran on December 1, 1943:
The Governments of the U.S.A., the
U.S.S.R. and the U.K. are at one with the
Government of Iran in their desire for the
independence, sovereignty and territorial in-
tegrity of Iran. They count upon the par-
ticipation of Iran in the establishment of
international peace, security and prosperity
after the war in accordance with the prin-
ciples of the Atlantic Charter, to which all four
Governments have continued to subscribe.
One of the letters was from Mr.
Gromyko, acting head of the Soviet dele-
gation in the mysterious absence of Mr.
Vishinsky. It was to the effect that the
delegation from Moscow was “acting on
instructions from its Government, which
considers it necessary to discuss in the
Security Council the situation which has
arisen in Greece as a result of interfer-
ence in the internal affairs of Greece with
the aid of the armed forces of a foreign
power,” which interference had “created
great tension fraught with grave conse-
quences for the Greek people as well as for
the maintenance of peace and security.”
The maintenance of British troops in
Greece after the end of the war cannot
now be explained by the necessity for pro-
tecting the communications of British
troops in the defeated countries. More-
over, it is becoming a means of pressure
on the internal political situation, which
is not seldom used by reactionary elements
against a country’s democratic forces.
The other missive came from the
leader of the Ukrainian delegation, Mr.
Manuilsky, who also professed to be
acting on instructions from his “Govern-
ment,” a prey to anxiety about “the situ-
ation in Indonesia.”
As is known, in that country during
several months military actions directed
against the local population have been
waged in which regular British forces, as
well as Japanese armed forces, have been
participating. In the opinion of the
Ukrainian Government this situation creates
a state of threat to the maintenance of
international peace and security. The
Ukrainian Government asks the Security
Council to carry out necessary investigations
and to take measures provided for by the
Charter in order to end the present situation.
Both Soviet delegations invoked Article
34, which provides that “the Security
Council may investigate any dis-
pute, or any situation which might
lead to international friction or give
rise to a dispute, in order to
determine whether the continuance
of the dispute or situation is likely
to endanger the maintenance of inter-
national peace and security.” In Article
35 it is laid down that any member-nation
“may bring any dispute, or any situation
ot me nature referred to in Article 34 to
the attention of the Security Council’ or
of the General Assembly.”
When Mr. Vishinsky reached London,
12 days late, the Persian Government—
the latest of several since the Russians
began throwing their weight about pre-
paratory to making an end of
ence, sovereignty and territorial integrity”
—had resigned, but not before the appeal
to the Security Council had been lodged.
The resignation must have been antici-
pated, but Moscow timing was bad.
And nasty messages from Athens and
Batavia were among the first things the
belated Vishinsky read. The Greek Pre-
mier dryly observed that British troops
were in his country with the full consent
of his Government, The Indonesian
“Premier,” Sutan Sjahrir, said that if the
Russians didn’t “mind” he and the othe.
Indonesians would prefer the British to
remain till accounts had been settled with
the Japanese. For if the British quitted
Indonesia the Japanese “might refuse to
lay down their arms.”
In other quarters, hitherto by no means
unfriendly to the Russians, there were
sarcastic comments on the clumsiness
of their manoeuvres and their effron-
tery in objecting to the British be-
ing in Greece and Java, in each
of which countries they arrived as libera-
tors and remained not only with the
authority of the Greeks and the Dutch
but with that of the United Nations, in-
cluding in the case of Greece Marshal
Stalin himself, while the Red Army is
spread over great parts of non-Russian
Europe and Asia, There are Russian
occupying forces in Finland, Latvia,
Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, Poland,
Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Hungary
and Czechoslovakia, and in the Danish
island of Bornholm, which is only a
hundred miles or so from Copenhagen.
What the Russians are doing there has
never been explained, but they show no
disposition to leave. And wherever their
proceedings have been unconcealable they
have made themselves hated for rape and
robbery, organised looting and Oriental
persecution, even by fellow-Slavs.
It is a time-dishonored dodge, as old as
the history of international relations, for
a Government in difficulties at home to
try to effect a diversion abroad. As well
as giving its oafish blessing as a U.N.O.
leader to the murderous Communist mobs
in Greece and Indonesia (thereby reveal-
ing that it has been backing them all
along), Moscow has stepped up its in-
trigues in the internal affairs of its allies,
inciting to new outrages wreckers organ-
ised in Communist parties and Commu-
nist - controlled unions, the leaders of
which, aiming at power and loot, rule by
fear and the doping of credulous minds.
But from behind “the dark curtain” itself
come signs that it is leading from weak-
ness, not strength.
That White Russia and Ukrainia (“the
granary of Europe”) are in a bad v/ay is
shown by their answered appeals to
U.N.R.R.A. for vast assistance. During
the invasion which newspapers reported
as an unbroken succession of Russian
victories (the influence of this serial story
is still powerful in English-speaking coun-
tries), the Germans, infamously as they
behaved, raised and departed with huge
levies of Stalin’s subjects, and remnants
of these fellows destroy themselves rather
than be sent back. Of those who re-
mained in the Red Army and survived
many behaved so badly that they not
only soon wore out their welcome but
made “Russia” a word of loathing as well
as fear, even in Slav countries, and many
others have returned home making awk-
ward comparisons between the conveni-
ences they found in the “capitalist” world
and the total lack of them in the Workers’
Paradise.
Of Marshal Stalin, except for a brief
appearance at Moscow while Mr. Bevin
and Mr. Byrnes were there, nothing has
been heard for several months, and it
looks as if a struggle for the succession
is beginning, if it has not already begun.
Whoever succeeds the marshal, whether
one of the other marshals or a Commu-
nist politician, may take over an empire
rent by nationalist movements, a natural
sequel to the invocation of Russian
nationalism, with Ivan the Terrible, Peter
the Great, Suvorov and Kutusov as
heroes, when 1917 and all that had be-
come an exhausted inspiration and the civil-
war commanders had been proved duds.
“Making his first appearance at
U.N.0.,” after his delegation, under
orders, had nearly strangled it in the birth
and rendered its survival doubtful, the
engaging Vishinsky made himself a party
to “the unanimous adoption of a com-
mittee report recommending the estab-
lishment of an Atomic Bomb Commis-
sion” in the terms of the Truman-Attlee-
Mackenzie King resolution at Washing-
ton. He had the face to say that “this is
the first important act in the efforts of
the United bt at ions to secure peace and
security,” and to laud it as “a noble
move.” The meaning of this fustian is
that Russia hasn’t got an atomic bomb,
though one of those Leftist scientists, a
Dr. Somebody, was certain it had.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Larrikmism and Chaos.
“Everything strikes in Australia but the
matches.” A cry from the heart, natural
if unjust to the matches, it circulated
among New Zealanders packed aboard
the “converted” troopship Katoomba,
which for a sweltering fortnight has been
tied to a Darling Harbor wharf. Passed
round, it afforded them a momentary
respite from their wretched condition, re-
peated on other days of misery when
they turned it over in their minds.
Men, women and children, nearly 600
altogether, these Maorilanders had been
stranded in Sydney beforehand, many for
long periods. All longed to see their
people again, and few could stand the
expense, as well as the worry, of the
harsh separation. At the urgent solicita-
tion of the N.Z. Labor Administration,
the “Government” at Canberra took the
Katoomba off troopship duty and
arranged, in its fashion, for her to carry
these unfortunate people to Wellington.
Necessarily she could not be fitted up
for the accommodation of women and
children, or of ailing persons of both
sexes; but the passengers were willing to
put up with any discomfort. As they
have gratefully testified, the Katoomba
stewards, who belong to an old-style
union in which the tradition of service is
still strong, were found ready to meet
them in every way.
The Communist-controlled Seamen’s
Union had other notions. Though its
agreement with the Maritime Industry
Commission provided for a stokehold
crew of 21, it demanded the engagement
of three additional firemen. It so hap-
pened that on the Maritime Industry
Commission there was someone with a
backbone—a rare thing in these “Labor”
times—and the demand was refused. So
the ship remained tied up, the Communist-
controlled union going back on its word
and its duty.
This faithless and heartless larrikinism
found support among a sectjpn of the
Communist-controlled lumpers, who de-
clared the Katoomba and three other
ships “black.” After a few days they
promised to be good—for what the
promise of a Communist-controlled mob
may be worth.
By grace of the “Government,” mem-
bers of the Communist-controlled Sea-
men’s Union are still drawing their war
bonuses —25 per cent, on wages and
overtime below the latitude of Towns-
ville, 50 per cent, above Townsville even
while still in continental waters and 33y
per cent, to New Zealand, Though no
servicemen in the islands are drawing war
bonuses, the Communist-controlled
mariners will apparently go on drawing
theirs until the next war or until the
“Government” hands all the ships back
to their owners, whichever happens first.
Then if the owners declare war bonuses
“off” there will be an old-man strike.
The “Government” has run shipping on
the “ ‘Labor’ principle” of “giving the
workers everything they ask for.” This was
said by Mr. Beasley when hfc was Mini-
ster of Shipping and a strike disturbed
his complacency; and Mr. Ashley, the
present Minister, has followed the pre-
scription even more ignobly, acquiescing in
and even defending the Communist boy-
cott of Dutch ships laden with supplies
for starving and sick white people men-
aced by murderous proteges of Moscow
in the East Indies.
Australia’s shipping industry was
founded by Scotchmen. After the last
war the Seamen’s Union, then led by an
Irish agitator who quoted Lenin and Trot-
sky when asked for a balance sheet, went
some distance towards ruining it. It may
be that the present breed of Communists,
who have learned to despise Government
action—which operated as a check be-
tween 1919 and 1926 —will complete the
job. There is not a shipping man in Aus-
tralia who doesn’t fear what will happen
when the “Government” removes its
palsied hands from the industry, leaving
companies to wrestle with unions
demoralised and corrupted by Commu-
nism and by the “ ‘Labor’ principle” of
giving the workers everything they ask
for and crawling to them on every con-
ceivable occasion.
End of the Campaign.
From Molongloside:
The war on the Molonglo ended suddenly
after Brigadier Schreiber, who had been under
fire from all quarters with one honorable ex-
ception—while the “Government” crawled to
the unions, as usual, Canberra tradespeople
spiritedly refused to carry out their boycott—
made a precise and detailed statement. He
explained that he had been silent because he
did not’ wish to prejudice an inquiry at which
he might have to give evidence.
“Mark how a plain tale shall put you down! ”
The statement showed that the Trades and
Labor Council’s protege, presented as an
injured victim, had, in fact, a job which most
Australian wage-earners would envy, at £3 15s.
a week sterling, with board, lodging, clothing
and perquisites. In the spring he had two
holiday periods on pay, with, in one case, the
use of a car and the gift of “a new wristlet
watch similar to my own.” From the second
holiday (“ten days on full pay”) he did not
return, nor did he explain his absence:
I sent for him and made it clear that
he had let me down. However, I offered to
help him if he were in trouble. He told me
he was a barman at the Kingston Hotel.
I took no action either then or later.
To this there came no coherent reply, and,
though Communists did their best to con-
tinue the struggle, hostilities ended with the
“victim” being confirmed in his position of
barman. It is to be hoped he will never have
cause to regret his change of calling. From
the “Government” there came, immediately,
whether as an expression of exultation, relief or
something, a promise of a 25 p.c. increase in
the beer issue.
In other times Labor aimed at “the cultiva-
tion of an enlightened and self-reliant com-
munity.” Booze and Betting are the twin gods
nowadays.
Short R.A.A.F. Review.
“J.E.R.”: It is a pity that the Federal
Government had to wait until the war was
over before deciding that R.A.A.F.
administration needed probing. Had
this service been shaken up and
reorganised earlier we might have been
saved a little face with our American
allies. The worst of it was that
the contempt in which the R.A.A.F.
was held on scores other than fighting
quality was justified.
Camps were in a poor way unless there
Were Americans to come on for food,
transport and canteen supplies. Discon-
tent existed among all ranks. Private
trading was rampant, and small fortunes
were made in goods other than liquor.
INDONESIAN CHORUS.
[With acknowledgments to the shade of Gilbert.]
You break our laws —
You are our foe:
We cry because
We hate you so !
You know!
You wicked old John Bull!
DON’T go.
These “business” activities were most
marked in operational areas.
Had the R.A.A.F. been properly organ-
ised from the beginning there would have
been no need for washing of dirty linen.
Two New States.
The six Premiers were in Canberra last
week, engaged in discussions with Com-
monwealth “Labor” Ministers, the possi-
bility of an extension of the Trades and
Labor Council boycott having been re-
moved by a settlement of the “dispute”
forced on Brigadier Schreiber. On the
business paper were uniform income taxa-
tion, the unemployed-relief scheme dis-
guised as standardising of railway
gauges, “wheat stabilisation” and other
subjects of less note. Not on the
business paper was the deliverance
of ill-governed parts of Australia from
the excessive concentration of power in
overgrown cities, which deliverance has
been rendered thrice necessary by the
. repeated holding of the country to ransom
by Communists with trade-union and
party headquarters in Sydney, never re-
sisted by the “Governments” at Canberra
and Sydney.
The formation of new States would be
a brake on Red Fascist ruffianism, and it
is a continuous process in U.S.A. Even
while the Canberra conference was begin-
ning President Truman, as the delegates
must have read, asked Congress to admit
Hawaii and Alaska as additional States.
The foundations of our Federal system
may be said to have been laid in Febru-
ary, 1886, when the first Federal Council
met at Hobart. There were then 38 States
of the American Union. The subjoined
table gives the States admitted since, to-
gether with the population in 1900 (year
of the passing of the Commonwealth
Constitution Act and the forming of the
first Federal Ministry, Edmund Barton’s)
and 1940: —
’ n Population, Population,
xt 23 X e^ rs - 1900. 1940.
North Dakota (1889) 319,416 641,935
South Dakota (1889) .. 401,570 642,961
Montana (1889).. .. 243,229 559,456
Idaho (1890) ~ .. 161,722 524,873
Wyoming (1890) .. 92,531 250,742
Washington (1889) .. 518,103 1,736,191
Utah (1896) .. .. 276,749 550,310
Oklahoma (1907) .. 398,331 2,336,434
New Mexico (1912) .. 195,310 531,818
Arizona (1912) .. .. 122,931 499,261
These 10 States were formed out of
States or Federal Territories. Of the two
more to be admitted, Alaska in 1940 had
only 72,524 inhabitants, of whom 39,179
were whites, and Hawaii had 423,330,
157,905 being Japanese, 14,375 Hawaiian
natives and 49,935 “part-Hawaiians.” Our
six States remain as in 1901, except for
increases of population, increasingly dis-
proportionate in N. S. Wales. That State
has or will soon have 3,000,000 out of
7,400,000, whereas New York, the largest
American State, had in 1940 13,479,100
out of 131,669,200, “continental popula-
tion, excluding non-contiguous territory.”
So in respect of component parts the
American Union exhibits a healthy pro-
cess of growth. Change is not only pro-
vided for, as it is in our Constitution
(thus far unfruitfully), but is a living thing
and a source of strength. Pride in the
State co-exists with pride in the Union,
and the small town, which has had a
melancholy history in Australia since cen-
tralisation became dominant, exercises a
palpable influence for good. Most of
the great American military leaders went
back from their triumphs to small towns
before taking up their post-war burdens—
General Eisenhower returned to Abilene,
in Kansas, which in 1940 had a popula-
tion of 5761. Nothing, like that has hap-
pened or could happen in Australia undei
the present dispensation, though nearly
all the V.Cs., including the latest among
them, came from the country.
To superficial observers, America pre-
sents an alarming appearance just now.
There are immense strikes, and great
numbers of the men serving abroad want
to go home. This very human weakness,
underlying which is an intense love of
country, has been exploited by Commu-
nists for their own evil purposes, and Com-
munists, too, have been largely concerned
in the strikes. But there were strikes as
bad or worse after the last war, and the
nation is too proud and resilient to be-
come the plaything of Red Fascists.
Nor can these nuisances run America
from New York, as their congeners in
this country are running it from Sydney,
In the early days of the Roose-
velt Administration excessive power was
given to trade-unionism, among other
things by legalised enforcement of the
payment of dues and levies through em-
ployers as unpaid collectors. A 6 will pre-
sently be shown, there are checks on it
which do not exist in Australia, with its
apparatus of “Labor” Governments, the
chief of which has a yellow streak as
broad as a shark’s back, and with the
thwarting of the Constitutional provision
for new States, which could reply to the
outrages directed from Sydney, in most
cases lawlessly, with arguments which the
larrikins could understand.
A "Raw" Deal.
From a C.S.R. report ;
According to cables received recently,
retail world sugar prices in the principal
cities of the leading countries, converted
into Australian currency at the official ex-
change rate, are: United Kingdom, sd. a
pound; Canada, 5.67 d.; South Africa,
4.38 d.; New Zealand, 4d.; India, 4.92 d.
to 5.98 d.; U.S.A., 4.99 d.; Sweden, 4.99 d.;
Italy, 27.9 d.; Spain, 20.1 d.; Russia (1938),
nearly 2s. (lump); Australian capitals, 4d.
The Australian price has remained un-
changed for 13 years, and sugar prices else-
where have risen materially, as have nearly
all other foodstuffs in Australia.
Very interesting, and striking evidence of
the value of the Australian sugar indus-
try, which, though often called “un-
economic,” has proved its usefulness in
two wars. All the same, the state-
ment doesn’t explain why during the
shortage of refined sugar, caused by
strikes and other things, the house-
wife has to pay the same price
for the raw stuff as for refined. The
retail price of refined sugar is £37 6s. Bd.
a ton, made up as follows:
£ s. d.
Retail grocers .. .. ..428
Discount to wholesalers .. .. 8 0
Concessions to fruit industry, etc. 14 3
Transport charges 2 13
Refining at cost 2 12 6
Cost of financing the pool .. 5 8
Insuring raw stocks (cost) .. 6
To C.S.R. for administration, tax
and profit 15 5
To C.S.R. as selling agents .. 7 2
To Queensland Government for
distribution among growers and
millers 25 9 3
Total £37 6 8
Thus the C.S.R. gets its Australian
profits under its contract with the Com-
monwealth Government mainly from an
allowance for administration, selling, etc.
Refining is done at actual cost. Refined
sugar is coming on the market again,
but the housewife, who has had to use
more raw to get the equivalent in sweet-
ness of refined, price and coupons being
as usual, would be intrigued to know who
has been getting the saving on the raw.
Surely Mr. Chifley’s wonderful “Labor”
Government wouldn’t take a rake-off like
that!
Chance for Youfh.
Many bright lads and lasses won 1945
Leaving Certificates, entitling them to ( a )
seek a University course or ( b ) begin
careers in commercial and industrial life.
A few may already know what vocations
they will follow; more will try first one
thing and then another; still more will
be looking around them for openings.
Youth is the time when ambition
flowers and the call to the service of the
nation or of mankind has a strong appeal.
Australia today needs, above all else,
young men to study its land industries,
become land scientists and to go forth
into the country and teach by demonstra-
tion and word the way to better rural
living. The country has never had
enough agricultural teachers—if it had it
wouldn’t to-day be suffering from forest
denudation, water scarcity, soil erosion,
frequent and periodic shortages of feed,
infestations of pests and diseases, bad
farming economics, overcapitalised land
and a hundred other disabilities.
There is a great evangel awaiting in-
telligent young men. Land men know
now that practical agricultural science
must rescue their industry, save the soil,
improve the quality of land products and
stop the drift from the land. They know
that a vast reform in land, water and
forest usage must come, that pasture im-
provement and fodder conservation and
improved soil fertility go together. And
they are eager and ready to assist the
trained man and co-operate with him.
For the old conservative, narrow-
minded farmer is fading from the scene.
The life of an agricultural officer is a
good one. He meets the best types of
Australians; spends much time in the
open ; travels and experiences the inner
satisfaction of one to whom others defer.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
wants to hear from young men inspired
with a desire to take part in this splen-
did work. It will provide them with
training facilities in the various branches
of agricultural science. Their passage
through the training course will be made
easy by financial and other help and,
after a period of four or five years of
study both in the laboratory and on the
land itself, they will emerge fully quali-
fied.
Truly a fine and noble career. The
Government thinks so highly of it that
it actually makes money available to pay
the graduates. A man can earn £7 a
week in his first year. After five years he
may get £ll 10s. Of course, he could
earn more on a Sydney wharf, and more
still in a starting-price joint, and as much
driving a truck; but damitall, you can’t
have everything.


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This Old Treatment
Often Brings Happy Relief.
Many sufferers relieve nagging backache quickly,
once they discover that the real cause of their trouble
may be tired kidneys.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking the
excess acids and waste out of the blood. They heln
Ino ® t . peo Ple eliminate about 3 pints a day.
611 disorder of kidney function permits poisonous
w'i r , to remain in your blood, it may cause nagging
backache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, disturbed nights, swelling, pufflness under
tne eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent or poor
Kidney action sometimes shows there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
nniiS.'o ! Ask your chemist or store for
-DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, a stimulant-
diuretic, used successfully by millions for over 40
years. DOAN’S give happy relief and will help the
do miles of kidney tubes eliminate poisonous waste
from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
JriLLS*
HARVARD
DICTIONARY OF MUSIC
By Dr. Willi Apel.
Large handsome volume, 839 pages. 35/- (post 1/-).
Here is a Dictionary of Music which all intelligent musical amateurs will thoroughly
enjoy and which the scholar in music will find to be the first reference book in
English to satisfy his needs. The product of exceptional scholarship, the Harvard
Dictionary of Music provides accurate information on all musical subjects. It is
written with clarity, directness and explicitness. The arrangement of the material
permits the quick reference that makes a dictionary most valuable.
This volume, published by the Harvard University press, contains a comprehensive
list of definitions and many articles on technical subjects. Short musical illustrations
are used to a greater extent than in any other dictionary.
Boston Herald says: '‘One of the finest books on Music ever to reach print. I don't sec how
any person seriously interested in music can afford to let this finest musical reference book in
generations go by.”
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Do you need a
fhtm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
A long wrangle with the Premiers about
uniform income taxation ended in Chifley
arranging to give them £40,000.000
a year out of the proceeds, instead
of £33,000,000 or so. Previously all
hands had agreed on what was hailed as
“another important step towards stand-
ardisation of railway gauges” ; estimated
cost, “£209,259,000 in standardisation
works and another £14,684,800 in associ-
ated works,” the North-South railway,
which the Commonwealth undertook to
construct at its own cost when taking
over the Northern Territory from South
Australia, being finally excluded. So
ends the dream of a substantial and last-
ing reduction of taxes.
Contradicting one of those queer birds
in the U.S. State Department, Moscow
announced at the week-end that the
Russians were going to hang on to the
Kuriles, saying that the Kuriles were
promised to Stalin by Roosevelt and
Churchill. This will stiffen the U.S.A.’s
determination to retain the islands man-
dated to the Japs and any other Jap
islands deemed necessary for its protec-
tion. And South Africa is not going to part
with the contiguous territory it wrested
from the Germans in 1914, and to which
it gave a Constitution in 1925. Only the
mug Government at Canberra proposes
to hand over a vital defence area, New
Guinea, to a U.N.O. “trusteeship,” heed-
less of the possibility that the “trustee-
ship” may be partly Russian.
With Playford reluctant but finally
overborne, the “wheat stabilisation plan”
was adopted at the Premiers’ conference.
Lemmon and Mountjoy, the “Labor”
members for Forrest and Swan respec-
tively, will now have the job of overcom-
ing the objections of Westralian farmers,
among them those who were paid
£285,600 in 1945-46 for not growing
wheat—this in a time of world scarcity,
with, in the latest phase, Truman and
Bevin imploring Australia to send more
to starving Europe. There has been
greater hostility to the “plan” in the West
than in any other State.
Being short of men for more important
duties, N.S.W. Police Commissioner
Mac Kay has established a Sydney park-
ing-police unit composed of 50 men. They
are nearly all war veterans who were
knocked, though not too badly. A good
idea, though not original—MacKay heard
about it in Britain after World War I.
“The Parker case was a trifling affair
that should have been settled in a few
minutes. Instead, it involved the steel
industry employees in a total loss of
employment for 15 weeks” (Lang’s “Cen-
tury”). It also involved the nation’s in-
dustries in losses running to many mil-
lions ; and the effects are still felt in
unemployment and shortage of material,
and will go on being felt. Parker, an
ironworker at Port Kembla, had been
transferred from one job to another, re-
fused to obey and was put off. His Com-
munist union bosses called the strike ; the
employer’s action was upheld by one
Court and, in a subsequent appeal,
Parker’s reinstatement was ordered. Now
he has left the job and gone into the
building industry—“joined the Housing
Commission,” according to “Terewth.”
Cain, the latest “Labor” Premier,
whose State, Victoria, will have to pull up
most of its railway lines under the extra-
ordinarily stupid standardisation scheme,
was annoyed when McDonald, the Oppo-
sition-leader, criticised his acceptance
ot it. “Australia,” Cain burbled, “cannot
be developed by a parish-pump attitude.”
To spend £224,000,000 on a “standard-
ising” plan in an age of electricity,
rockets, 600 m.p.h. ’planes and atomic
power is the very delirium of parish
pumpism.
Once more the British Communist
party has sought affiliation with the Labor
party, and once more the reply was in
the negative. Australian Corns, don’t
have to bother about affiliation with the
A.L.P.—they’ve got the “Labor” Gov-
ernment where they want it.
The McKell crowd’s ambition to
restore Wednesday racemeetings to
oydney is getting a bad press, even the
producers of “form guides” being agin
it Every housewife and newspaper in
the State opposed the extension of bread
and milk zoning, but McKell went on
with it just the same. What’s a housewife
compared with a bookie?
Forestry Advisory Council of
JN.S.W., a thriving honorary concern
actively engaged in pushing the cause of
timber conservation, is alarmed at the
sangfroid with which the Commonwealth
Government is prepared to commit the
nation to £224,000,000 rail standardisation
scheme. It has. expressed its alarm in
a resolution insisting that water, soil,
fodder and tree conservation has a prior
claim on public funds and must precede
great expenditure on railways. The
F.A.C. is dead right, but, like anybody
else with a practical idea, it will be
ignored.
A Sydney “Sun” correspondent, de-
scribing present conditions in Brisbane,
concluded, “Nobody knows why so many
people cram a Brisbane which has ceased
to exist as a war base.” A fair guess
is that a lot of ’em have tried Sydney.
Connolly, secretary of the
N.S.W. Publicans’ Union, to its northern
branch:
We realise that the [Liquor] Act is not
going to be remade for the publicans, but
for the people as a whole. The only thing
we can do is to advise the Government
what we think will be best for all.
Any would-be buyer of a bottle of beer
could spot the two redundant words.
Replying to a flat-owner in Melbourne
who had said he would gladly convert
his house into flats to relieve the housing
situation but couldn’t do it because of
the high costs of building, a house-
hungry individual retorted that he would
willingly provide labor gratis to anyone
wishing to make such a conversion, the
work to be done entirely to the owner’s
satisfaction. There are lots of desperate
people who would do the work for no-
thing. But there is doubtless a union
rule against it.
Tenders are out for preliminary work
on Victoria’s first big post-war job—
the Upper Yarra dam, which, with a
capacity of 30,000,000 gallons, will
double Melbourne’s water supply, making
it sufficient to cope with any increase of
population for 25 years. The construc-
tion will employ 1000 men for five years
and the estimated cost is £2,700,000.
Meantime, great hopes are placed in de-
centralisation in every mainland State.
Great hopes have always been placed in
decentralisation, but the vast wens grow
bigger and bigger.
Lang’s “Century” reports the organisa-
tion of a resistance movement among
Communist-bossed trade-unionists. The
resisters are for “full democratic con-
trol,” relying on the ballot to protect
unionists against Communist methods of
terrorism —expressed in “fines, loss of
industrial rights, expulsion and alteration
of rules to prevent opposition groups
organising”—and for the requirement of
“detailed balance sheets” to prevent,
among other things, “the use of trade-
union funds to provide employment for
Communist organisers.” This most
necessary provision doesn’t appear in a
statement of Liberal policy for trade-
unions, and the sooner the Liberals
rectify the omission the better.
When the Beasleys arrived in London
Mrs. Beasley confided to a “Daily
Mirror correspondent—unless the corre-
spondent dreamt it—that they had come
for “six years.” Then Beasley has no
right to remain M.H.R. for West Sydney
on the score of being Resident Minister,
and the seat should be declared vacant.
This Resident Minister business is doubt-
fully constitutional in any case.
Officers of the Seventh Division force
that was landed in Java in February,
1942—G0d knows why—have traced the
history of their mates of the 2nd-2nd
Pioneer Battalion, uselessly sacrificed.
They failed to learn the fate of two offi-
cers and 21 other ranks, but have ascer-
tained that 622 others are back in Aus-
tralia. The rest of the story is tragic—
-23 were missing in action, believed
dead ” in Java, 11 others died there fight-
ing to the last, 64 went down with tor-
pedoed Japanese boats and 196 died in
enemy hands, 180 on the Burma railway.
Is any inquiry proposed by the Govern-
ment that Saved the Country? It never
mentions the subject or the sacrifices in
Amboma, New Britain or Timor.
Nothing has been heard of “Balance
Sheet Thornton since he came home to
contemplate what is left of his union,
which, aiming at B.H.P. and Australia,
struck itself a felon blow, or how he got
a priority denied to thousands of worthy
people ; but a characteristic impertinence
followed the fellow to this country—
which is not his country. Some British
ironworkers visited Russia while he was
there, and in their report to the other
British ironworkers they said “A few
more slogans about care of the machine
and a few less about the virtue of their
leaders wouldn’t do the Soviet people
any harm.” On this Thornton—who has
never worked in iron in his life, his
medium being tripe— wrote a pamphlet
for “Russia Today” in which he yelped
that the British ironworkers had “gone
to Russia like representatives of steel
barons, with their noses in the air, believ-
ing they came from God’s own country,”
and that their account was “distorted,
prejudiced, unfair and filled with sus-
picious sneers, half-truths and profound
ignorance.” What a combination Thorn-
ton and his crowd present—hectoring
larrikinism where Australia and Austra-
lians are concerned, abject Oriental ser-
vility in their attitude to Russia.
The Comic Spirit or something is hav-
ing a fling at Percy Spender. Percy came
into politics as a stern and unbending
opponent of pre-selection, and as such
defeated Archdale Parkhill for Warringah
in 1937, when Parkhill was Minister of
Defence and had not abandoned hopes of
becoming Prime Minister. In 1940 and
1943 Percy was the endorsed U.A.P. can-
didate while still professing altruistic let-
’em-all-come sentiments. It was a dread-
ful blow to him when the Warringah
Electorate Council invited Bruce to accept
nomination as a Liberal this year, and,
though Bruce politely refused, 11 other
gentlemen are disputing claims to the
party label with Spender. If one of them
beats the present member to it the present
member will have to accept the position
or come out as a freelance again in cir-
cumstances horribly different from those
of 1937.
In a Sydney paper’s list of candidates
for Wimmera Turnbull figures as “Ind.
C.P.” He carries C.P. endorsement
equally with Everett, and Everett
is very sour about it. It seems
paltry, for while Everett was a
member of the Wheat Board—scarcely
“a thing to thank God on” —Turnbull,
who comes from Warracknabeal, was eat-
ing his heart out in a Japanese prison
camp. Parliament could do with some
Young Diggers, and, however the Everett
faction may rail, most Victorian farmers
will applaud those who had the ordering
of the matter for giving young Turnbull
his chance.
Galvin, the Labor Minister of Lands
m Victoria, has thrown out a hint that
sand-drift is causing so much trouble in
the water channels of the Mallee-
Wimmera system that the State Govern-
ment may have to run pipe-lines through
the area. As the channel system is about
10,000 miles long, replacing it with pipes
will be a costly business, though probably
a saving one in the long run.
William McKell is “Labor” Premier in
N. S. Wales. The “Standard” is the
official organ of his party. McKell
says he is opposed to the Red Fascists,
and so does the “Standard.” Yet to the
Standard” the secret ballot, the greatest
safeguard the rank and file of unionists
could have against the Red Ants, has be-
come a “coward’s castle,” and McKell,
who previously regarded the secret ballot
as a fortress or bulwark of liberty, lets
the amended title go unchallenged. Does
McKell really believe in the secret ballot
on industrial issues? Or does he consider
it a device that should be reserved for
really important matters such as balloting
out the surplus entries for race meetings
conducted by his war-time improvisation
the Sydney Turf Club?
Another of those “special representa-
tives” has come to light with a wonderful
picture of life in the Russian-occupied
parts of eastern Germany. He found the
‘Russian bogey exploded,” there was
“order” and “Russian sincerity” and so
forth, and ,
we were conducted everywhere by Russian
officers, who politely but insistently de-
clined to let us wander off by ourselves....
I think they were not so much concerned
with hiding things as with our safety and
with preventing us stumbling across excep-
tional incidents.
“Safety” against whom or what? And
jvhat “exceptional incidents” could there
oe where all was “order” and “Russian
sincerity”?
According to Leftist writers a “blood-
less liquidation of the estates of the Prus-
sian Junkers has been carried out by
provincial German authorities with the
tacit approval of the Soviet occupation
forces.” By Australian standards these
estates were oddly small, averaging a trifle
over 700 acres, a considerable part being
forest. They have been divided into
“nearly 3000 small holdings,” off which
the Soviet proteges ntay be able to live,
though doubts have been raised, since the
land is not of Orbost or Bacchus Marsh
quality. The doubters suggest that “units
of 15 acres are uneconomical.” The same
criticism has been heard in other parts
of Russian-occupied Europe, where “land
reform” on the Russian model has been
consummated, even through this sort of
criticism is dangerous. A New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent notes
that “Communists have been the loudest
in acclaiming the importance of the indi-
vidual initiative of property-owning
peasants,” though in the Workers’ Para-
dise they are all for collective farms
owned by the State —or say they are.
Among other fallacious notions which
touring Red Fascists pour into the ears
of credulous country people—Red Fas-
cists in this country have never been short
of rail priorities—is the one that collective
farming on the Soviet system would save
Australian agriculture. In The Earth—
Our Mother, B. A. Santamaria, after a
close examination of all known facts and
figures, declares that the conclusion is
obvious:
Not only is the efficiency of Russian
agriculture at a very low level, compared
with other European countries, but the
collective farming and mechanisation have
done little, if anything, to raise the standard
above Czarist levels.


MYSTERY MAN ON DIGGER CRUSOE’S ISLAND.


THE PROBLEM
OF YOUR ESTATE
Are you being stirred
by your conscience?
A/rANY a man is being stirred
by his conscience because
he has not made his Will or
revised it to meet to-day’s
conditions.
High taxation and living
costs make revision usually an
urgent necessity.
Many wise and shrewd men,
conscious of the difficult times
ahead, have appointed Per-
petual Trustee Company Limi-
ted as Executor. A study of
the company’s record of service
to its clients and the community
over 60 years should move you
to do the same.
The Company’s experience
in the management of Estates
having assets of almost every
kind, assures that your Estate
will be efficiently and economi-
cally managed in the best
interests of your family, after
your death, if you appoint it
Executor and Trustee.
Write for its interesting and
helpful booklet, “Your Exe-
cutor and Trustee”, which
explains the service the Com-
pany renders and what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE ; ALLEN C. LEWIS ; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G.* ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£64,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING EESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: D. A. Cormack,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
m
i
✓
mmrnmmm
df
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Sharemarket
The Stock Exchanges have been con-
trolled in Australia since early in 1942,
there now being a prohibition on forward
dealings* a condition that all shares bought
must be held for five months, and high
and low limits to share prices, Exercise
of these controls is in the hands of the
Treasury. There have been no similar
restrictions in Britain, the United States,
Canada or New Zealand.
For a period there were ceiling prices
set for shares dealt in on Australian
’Changes, and they were rigidly adhered
to, with a dozen or so exceptions, even
when extraordinary anomalies resulted,
Since the end of the war the ceiling policy
has been abandoned, and the Treasury
instead periodically sets new high and low
limits; but it is a cumbersome method,
and the anomalies remain. The Treasurer
has stated that he does not visualise the
end of Stock Exchange controls in the
near future; and the date on which the
National Security Act expires has not yet
been determined.
Among the pricey anomalies on Aus-
tralian ’Changes may be quoted the case
of Morris Hedstrom ordinary shares,
These are priced at about 535. in New
Zealand, but a seller may get no more
than 30s. in Australia, Bank of N. S.
Wales £2O shares, with a “high” limit of
£3l 7s. in the Commonwealth, are at
£33 10s. in Maoriland. Other compari-
sons are: 8.H.P., 445., 465. 6d.; Tooth,
fils. 9d., 655.; Huddart Parker, 51s. 9d.,
68s. 6d.; Mort’s Dock,* 225. 6d., 295.
Following the increase in the British
price for lead, shares in North Broken
Hill have jumped to 625. fid. (Australian
money) in London. Melbourne quotes
are limited by the Treasury to 565. fid.
Zinc Corp., 975. fid. in London, is 88s.
in Australia. New Broken Hill is quoted
at 355. in one place, 21s. the other.
The anomalies have weighed heavily
on small shareholders and larger inves-
tors who have been embarrassed by in-
come-tax and other commitments. Forced
sales by such people, and by executors
of deceased estates in order to pay pro-
bate duty or to facilitate distribution of
the estates, have meant substantial losses,
The disparity between controlled prices
and those obtainable in open markets in
other countries has often been far wider
than it is at present.
There never has been any real justifi-
cation for the control of share prices in
the Commonwealth, even if the five-
months’ holding condition and the ban
on forward dealing have some merit. On
the other hand, the Government arrange-
ments have provided opportunities for
certain people to gain considerably at
the expense of others. It is true that the
turnover in shares on ’Change during the
period of control has been small com-
P ar ? d with sales during the unrestricted
P enod - But it is equally true that, what-
ever the sales, they have Been to a wg
extent forced disposals, with penalties
tluis imposed on people who can leas
anord penalties.
Reckless speculation on Stock Ex-
changes is of no more value to the nation
than the horseracing, dogracing and lot-
tery activity that seems to be the chief
post-war preoccupation of McKell and
his Government in N. S. Wales. But
industrial shares, over the years, have
n°t shown up as a field for speculation,
however much the gold-share market may
g° °ff its head occasionally. A free
sharemarket is essential to a return to
investment realities and industrial mcen-
B ve i n this country,
Through lack of freedom of enterprise
and lack of incentive, coupled with indus-
trial anarchy, we are in a production de-
pression now. . It can easily grow worse,
and is likely to do so so long as a Gov-
ernment incompetent or unwilling to deal
with those problems will not give private
enterprise a free hand within the laws, in-
dustrial and otherwise, of the land, so that
it may put its full weight into the tussle.
There is plenty of work for private
enterprise to do. There are all the war-
time arrears of civilian production to
catch up with. There is a vastly increased
spending power to be catered for. There
are great, hungry markets overseas call-
ing out for our goods. There is a huge
housing deficiency in the Commonwealth,
and this alone represents a source of
potential business activity for almost all
industries. There is the out-of-season but
projected rail-gauge unification scheme,
The prospect normally is one which
holds big promise for both wage-earners
and investors. But, instead, we have this
production depression on our hands. We
have crippling taxation of companies,
with no promise of relief, though there
has already been such relief in Britain,
Canada and the United States. There is
rigid price control in Australia on the
proprietary side of industry* but many
trade-unions are getting away with in-
creased awards and longer holidays. The
squeeze between costs and prices grows
daily greater. There are no indications
as yet that businesses which assisted the
nation during war-time by forgoing their
usual rate of profit will be given the
chance to recoup and expand now that
peace is here. At the same time, there is
little evidence that the Government has
achieved very much in the way of real
control of inflation.
The Commonwealth Government, the
control of which over capital-issues
expires with the National Security Act,
is asking the States for co-operative regu-
lation after the expiry of the Act. The
Federal objective is still to restrain com-
petition with Government borrowings, but
not, it seems, to restrict civil production,
which was one of the war-time aims.
Priority, it is said, will be given to pro-
duction of building materials, essential
furnishings and clothing, food for domes-
tic and overseas markets, plant for in-
dustry, power and the development of
essential transport. But the control will
still be bureaucratic and, therefore, poli-
tical and clumsy. In Britain the Govern-
ment proposes to make permanent its
powers to plan the nation’s investment
policy. In Australia we have too much
evidence that our Government is incap-
able of planning or administering any
major function effectively. The shipping
and coal chaos, the strikes, the monetary
and costs inflation, the shortage of food
and clothing and the housing breakdown
are all evidence of the value of its
“planning.”
The main supports to the sharemarket
at present are the banked-up supply of
money awaiting investment, the desire to
get out of interest-bearing stocks and into
equities, and the arbitrarily low rate of
interest offering on bank deposits, mort-
gages and public securities. Until these
supports are replaced by prospects of
increased, profitable production by the
industries represented on ’Change, by
lower taxation, wide employment in
necessary industries, a ready sub-
scription of Government loans and
interest levels that are low but
comparatively free, the strong demand
for industrial shares in this coun-
try can hardly be regarded as anything
but one of investment expediency. Buyers
of most shares nowadays get very little
net return from their holdings. They
simply feel safer with private enterprise
than with the Government or with
“money” investments.
The States have agreed to accept Com-
moriwealth dominance in the income-tax
field for seven years. In 1946-47 and
1947-48 the States will be paid fixed
amounts of about 17 p.c, more than they
are now receiving (£33 million). After that
the reimbursement will vary according to
population and income movements, but
the 1947-48 figure will be the minimum.
The States have accepted a formula for
distribution, after 1947-48, of the aggre-
gate reimbursement, the formula taking
note of present individual State reim-
bursements, population, schoolchildren
and sparsely populated areas.
* * * *
It has been suggested that the States,
in co-operation with the Commonwealth,
will control issues of capital by com-
panies when Commonwealth powers
under the National Security Act expire.
If such a thing comes to pass it is to be
hoped that the “control” will be fairer
and more economically awake than the
administration under Commonwealth
powers during the war. There are still
questions in the public mind as to why
Theodore-Packer newspaper interests in
Sydney got permission to raise £150,000
of capital about the time of the 1944
referendum when more essential indus-
tries were being refused. The Federal
Treasury’s control over land sales is a
scandal in its clumsiness and its anom-
alies ; there is an increasing public con-
tempt for these Government functions.
True, a check on inflation in land values
is desirable, not to say essential. But un-
less a more satisfactory job can be done
by the Treasury in controlling share issues
and land sales it had better not be
attempted. There are so many socialistic
rackets influencing the Labor Govern-
ments of Australia today that they cannot
be trusted with rigid control of the supply
of funds to private businesses. The
Federal Labor Administration in particu-
lar has shown that it cannot always be-
have impartially. Yet private enterprise
will have to be fairly and intelligently
treated if the country is to recover from
the production depression that developed
from war-time conditions, including
political conditions.
* * * *
The Coal Commissioner, Norman
Mighell, calculates N. S. Wales coal pro-
duction for 1945 at 10,176,254 tons, a
decline of 865,685 tons compared with
the 1944 output and a fall of 1,297,245
tons from the 1943 figure (11,473,499
tons). In 1942 the State’s output reached
what was described as a record of
12,236,219 tons, a figure 2,059,965 tons
above last year’s disgraceful total, not-
withstanding the increase in opencut pro-
duction from almost nothing to 523,000
tons during the period. The increase in
opencut output makes the underground
production look even worse than it seems
on first view.
* * * #
Australia, if it ratifies the Bretton
Woods currency agreement, will be called
upon to subscribe $2OO million to the
international money fund and a similar
amount to the international bank. At
the present rate of exchange that involves
a total of about £l2O million in Austra-
lian money. But not all the money has
to be passed over immediately. As to
the fund, each country must pay in gold
as a minimum 25 p.c. of its quota or
10 p.c. of its holdings of gold and U.S.
dollars, whichever is the smaller, the rest
in its own currency. Each member’s
initial subscription is to be paid in full
to the fund before the member becomes
eligible to buy currencies from the fund
with which to pay its overseas commit-
ments. It is not contemplated that the
full amount of quotas will be transferred
to some central bank or repository.
Initially 90 p.c. of the gold will be held
in depositories within the borders of the
five members having the largest quotas
(United States, Britain, Russia, China and
France); the currency proportions of all
subscriptions need merely be deposited to
the fund’s credit at an acceptable bank
within the country’s own borders. As
to the international bank, only 20 p.c.
of each member’s quota is likely to be
called up at once, and of this no more
than 2 p.c. will be demanded in gold or
U.S. dollars, with 18 p.c. in the member’s
own currency. The remaining 80 p.c.
is to be called up only in an emergency.
Headquarters of both the fund and the
bank are to be in the United States.
* * * *
Although it is rushing ahead with
plans for a standard-gauge in all Aus-
tralian railways and trying to make much
political capital out of it, the Federal
Tabor Government is Causing the Aus-
tralian Woolgrowers’ Council and the
National Council of Woolselling Brokers
some concern in the matter of wool mar-
keting. At a joint meeting in Sydney
last week it was decided to urge Can-
berra to set up its part of loint Organisa-
tion (decided upon by Britain, Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa) without
delay; J. 0., London, as the organisation
is called, has much work ahead of it, and
wool reipains the basic industry of Aus-
tralia. It cannot be relegated to second
place in Government plans where the
industry has entrusted the Government
with marketing arrangements. Wool,
fundamentally, seems to be superior for
most purposes to synthetics, but the
world will still have to be sold the idea.
There is a huge carryover to be dis-
posed of, and it is unlikely that the
United States will take it in a solid lump
in order to provide the Empire with
dollar exchange. ,
*** ♦ ‘
Various forecasts as to date of post-
war models and as to prices were made
by United States automobile manufac-
turers soon after the war with Japan
ended. The industrial war that is now
going on in the United States, particularly
in the steel and auto, industries, may
throw out all these prophecies. Canadian
Ford production has also been held up by
labor troubles at the Windsor works.


d
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
I Has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cl
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
et.li mirth in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■ . ..r——..i'u.m
STORoimßuphire
Worries'
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
tree trial offer. No obligation.
THE BODSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney-
fd
View through a Trouble Shootec
Wherever corrosion or metallic contamination are problems —in the
chemical, textile, brewing, dairying, and food-processing industries, to
name only a few Stainless Steel Tubing is the answer a real
“trouble shooter.”
Added to its corrosion-resistant properties are other advantages. It has
high mechanical strength. It can be bent, coiled, welded, threaded and
fabricated by ordinary engineering methods, to meet the needs of the job.
These tubes are available with either descaled (silvery matt) or polished
finish, inside and out, in gauges and diameters td suit any need. Our
nearest Branch Warehouse will supply you.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS STEELS
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
Steel Manufacturers—Head Office and Works: Waratah. N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney — Melbourne — Brisbane —Adelaide Perth
Baffled
Frustration is a common feeling among
all sorts of people now. It is so difficult
to go forward with the plans, whether in
the way of homemaking or business
establishment, that most citizens have
fostered in their hearts since before the
war began. Prior to the war many
people merely lacked the money with
which to go ahead, to further their
legitimate ambitions; nowadays money
is far more plentiful, but it is money that
has been produced under war-strain —
war-strain that has affected our capacity
to produce goods and services, that has
upset our arrangements for peace-time
production, that has brought into the seats
of Government the poorest types of ad-
ministrators with the greatest powers
(especially economic) ever granted by this
democratic people.
The strain of war has been a severe
one in this young country, in spite of
many shortcomings in our war effort —
Professor Copland insists that the burden
of war on Commonwealth citizens was
second only to that on Britain’s popula-
tion. While struggling with its war effort
the country was beset by bureaucratic
self-seekers, political racketeers, a vicious
black market, a white-anting and Red-
anting trade-union movement, a Labor
Government that has the most amazing—
and dismaying —affiliations, and a war-
time administration which, generally, has
been rotten with politics of the cheapest
order.
War necessity demanded that private
initiative be restricted in order to concen-
trate on the war effort; the restrictive
powers granted to officials have been used
far in excess of the demands of war, and
to an extent that amounts to gross politi-
cal abuse. Taxation, necessarily heavy
for war purposes, has been similarly
restrictive —and similarly abused. It has
placed middle- and high-income-earners
at a great disadvantage compared with
others.
On top of all this political mismanage-
ment of the country, and on top of the
bad seasons with which the land has
been afflicted for years, we are now fac-
ing a trade-union war against the nation.
Most of the leaders are Reds. Little
wonder that the soldier returning to in-
dustry, the young family-makers and the
youth of the Commonwealth generally
find themselves thwarted from the objec-
tives towards which their lives have been
shaped. Possibly a little marking-time,
some sorting-out and a good deal of re-
planning under conditions that have
undergone fundamental changes during
the war are unavoidable anyway. But
eventually the country must get down
to business. And to do that it will have
to deal with obstructionists and obstruc-
tionism; which will entail a thorough
doing-over of the Labor party in Aus-
tralia, particularly its “militant” and
Communist connections. As it stands
now the Labor party is becoming a strang-
ling vested interest.
With a sublime disregard for anything
of importance to industrial Australia
until a breakdown occurs, the Chifley
Government is evading the question of
when its powers under the National
Security Regulations will run out. It is
under these powers that the Government
still controls share prices, real-estate prices,
capital issues, imports generally, the
rationing of food and clothing, and a
multitude of other activities and func-
tions. It certainly has been announced
that clothing coupons will need to last
until November instead of June, which
suggests that the Commonwealth en-
visages clothing-control powers until the
end of this year, but whether by arrange-
ment with the States, by powers to be
asked for at another referendum or by
war-time regulations is not clear. If the
National Security Act is enforced until
the end of 1946 it will have run nearly
16 months after the conclusion of the
Pacific war, instead of the six months
stipulated in the Act. Of course, there
are differences of opinion (legal and
otherwise) as to when the war ended, but
one thing is very plain: the Chifley Gov-
ernment will use every trick it can think
of to defer the relinquishing of those
war-time controls which it has found so
convenient for political purposes and for
the covering-up of its administrative
failures. On the other hand, it has readily
fixed the date of “cessation of hostili-
ties” as September 2, 1945, as the earlier
this date the sooner will its obligations
to servicemen expire. Too ready to get
rid of obligations, the Government clings
to “powers.” The deplorable thing is that
the Government, whatever its intentions,
will not frankly discuss the position with
financial and industrial leaders. And so
the whole country remains in the dark
when it tries to plan ahead in the giving
of employment and the production of
goods. The essential things in our exist-
ence apparently must bow to the poli-
tical and parasitic.
* * * *
Lead is still a metal in critical supply,
though the Broken Hill mines provide
Australia’s requirements in full at £22 a
ton, the equivalent of £l7 12s. sterling,
and have done so at that price or lower
since the end of 1939. During the war,
also, Australian lead was sold to Britain
at a price far under the quotations on
the London Metal Exchange, which were
pegged at around £25 sterling a ton for
nearly six years. In June the sterling
price of lead was raised from £25 to
£3O, and on August 9 the contract with
Britain ran out. Since then the London
price of lead has been raised to £39
sterling. Quotations in New York are
higher still, partly because of an import
duty payable on lead. The Barrier mines
should now benefit from the higher Lon-
# don quotations, which, arc more than
double the average received from exported
lead in the war years, and more than
double the present Australian price. The
Broken Hill silver-lead industry has
always stood on its own feet, and during
the war and since it has been saving Aus-
tralia at least several pounds a ton 4 on
all lead used in the Commonwealth, the
price charged being well below the cost of
imported lead, even if that were available,
F * * * *
Australia’s position with regard to the
Bretton Wood financial agreement has
been made by no means clear. Certainly
our delegates to the conference approved
of the plans, but the Chifley Government
has not granted the people the courtesy
of a full and open discussion of the
matter Washington announces that Aus-
tralia together with Russia, Maoriland,
Liberia and five Central and South
American countries, has failed to ratify
the agreement signed by 44 nations in
1944. Possibly Chifley and his Cabinet,
in their maladroit way, feel that they are
“bargaining” with the United States in
not ratifying the agreement at the same
time as Britain. That is one very good
reason why all parties and all the
people should know what is going
on with regard to our overseas trade
and finance commitments. We have
been told that the wash-
up between Australia and America will
be a transaction separate from that con-
eluded by Britain. Possibly the Bretton
Woods question will be dealt with at the
same time as the lend-lease matter. But
whatever “plans Canberra and the re-
tUrneckEvatt may have, Australians are
being left lamentably uninformed aboUv
vital economic questions at present. The
great danger in under-cover working by
the Federal Labor Government on suen
issues is well illustrated by the industrial
mess now visible all over the Common-
wealth ■ the Government cheekily
thought it knew everything about in-
dustrial and economic problems and de-
prived the employer of most of his imtia-
tive, even when dealing with vicious trade-
union elements. The Government is really
such an administrative flop that it is prov-
ing a failure at the trade in which it
has most experience—shameless and ex-
travagant vote-buying.


Sciety
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Bo” : It was one of Sydney’s breath-
less, sweltering nights, and the two X.O.S.
middle-aged women waiting surrounded
by luggage on the main assembly plat-
form at Central Station were mopping
their faces. Presently a painfully thin
porter passed by. “Gee!” said one of
the women in a Joud voice, nudging her
companion. “Look at 7m. I never see
a bloke so thin!” The other stared at
the tenuous one. “By gosh, he is skinny,
right enough,” she agreed in an equally
loud voice. “Well, Dot, I s’pose you
an’ me’d git that way too if we was to
carry trunks around all day.” The porter
paused, then came across and stopped in
front of the last speaker. “Not neces-
sarily, Mum,” he said in a quiet voice.
“Elephants do it all their lives and it
don’t seem to make them much slimmer.
I’m afraid you’ll have to stop fat.”
* * * *
“Wodgil”; A pain in the neck to me,
as a listener to the gramophone records
turned on by radio stations, is the singer
who stops singing and recites the chorus
of the ditty he is rendering or manhand-
ling. A persistent offender is that very
self-satisfied baritone John Charles
Thomas, who does “The Lord’s Prayer”
as if he were complimenting the Almighty.
Songs are for singing, not reciting, and
the modern ballad, in which, as a rule,
a fairly good air (often stolen) is married
to indifferent lines, becomes a bore when
the music is suspended, except for the
accompaniment, to admit of the beefing
out of the words. But worse than Thomas
is a miscreant who calls himself “The
Inkspot.” “The Inkspot’s” singing is
scarcely endurable, but when he drops
into reciting in a flat, toneless negro voice
he becomes radio’s prize nuisance—and
that’s saying a mouthful.
• * * *
“Colbun”: Long acquaintance with
Dutch people has convinced me that
optimism is a leading feature in their
charming national character. A recent
ad. in the Brisbane press from, a Dutch
flying nurse, offering a £5 reward for re-
covery of a “fawn suitcase dropped from
a ’plane about 60 miles south of Bris-
bane,” might even savor of super-optim-
ism. It apparently fell out through the
bomb-bay of a Dutch Mitchell machine
on which the nurse was a passenger. But
if the ’plane’s compass course and ap-.
proximate position at the time of loss,
together with wind force and direction,
were to be stated, there should be quite
a reasonable chance of recovery if any
lads with N.G. experience of finding kick-
out supplies in rough country are in the
neighborhood. Return to owner is an-
other matter. Contents were described as
“lots of new clothes” bought in Sydney.
* * * *
“Hamer”: This is supposed to be the
age of speed; nevertheless many of the
records for quick going established in the
slow old days remain. The paddle-
jyheeler Brighton still holds the record
for the fastest trip between Manly and
Sydney, established on an occasion (be-
fore the motoring age) when an accident
at The Village made it necessary for
casualties to be got to Sydney Hospital
m a hurry. The Zealandia was sent to
the bottom of Darwin Harbor by Jap
planes with its speed record between
Sydney and Hobart still unchallenged.
No tram has ever travelled the distance
between Circular Quay and Waverley
Council Chambers as speedily as (for
a bet) did a four-horse bus which covered
the journey in 19min. 30sec.
* * * *
“Ex-Boy”: My favorite grouch against
headline subs is their mania for “exes.”
“Ex-Porter Becomes Governor of Bengal,”
“Ex-Miner Becomes Governor of New-
foundland” are recent examples. In this
democratic age these items are no more
pews than biting contests between dog
and man. As colonial Governorships are
not hereditary every new appointee must
have had a not very distinguished begin-
ning somewhere. Casey was once a science
student, Wavell a cadet at Sandhurst,
Isaacs an articled clerk. They achieved
gubernatorial status through building up
from those beginnings; in the same way
the porter and miner got there through
giving up portering and mining. It could
be said of Truman “Ex-Schoolboy Be-
comes President,” of the King “Ex-Middie
Becomes King,” and of Alphonso XIII
of Spain (an ex in his own right), who
was born some months after his father’s
“Say when. Comrade !”
death, “Ex-Unborn Babe Becomes Mon-
arch.” And wasn’t there an ex-Carpenter?
* * * *
“Garma”: “Lord Luvus” (B. 9/1 / ’46)
says none of the Rhodes Scholars has
achieved greatness. But what is his yard-
stick? I class Lieut-General Edmund
Herring, now Lieut.-Governor and
Chief Justice of Victoria, as a great
Australian and a credit to Melbourne
Grammar and to Oxford University, to
which latter seat of learning he went as
a Rhodes Scholar. And what about Aus-
tralian-born Dr. H. W. Florey, of peni-
cillin fame? He was a Rhodes Scholar
of the 1921 vintage.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne medico asks
why the Government doesn’t commandeer
motor-caravans, place them in public
parks where there are conveniences and
juse them to relieve the desperate housing
shortage. The answer is that bureaucracy
finds it much more amusing to use the
contraptions as a means of tax-extortion,
A discharged soldier recently tried to get
possession of one of these trailers in order
to house his family. He finds he has to
pay 12i p.c. sales tax on his mobile
home, which is costing £4OO already,
* * * ♦
“X.S.”: The statement of a fingerprint
expert at a Melbourne trial that it is im-
possible for fingerprints of different per-
sons to be identical was ndt accepted by
the jury. It was a housebreaking case,
and the only evidence submitted was a
fingerprint allegedly found on a box on
the premises. A re-trial was ordered.
“W.J.T.”: “Jasby” (B. 16/l/’46), de-
pendent for facts on A.A.P., is mistaken
in saying “Lord Haw Haw’s” fate de-
pended on his nationality. I attended the
hearing of Joyce’s appeal at the Law
Courts in Fleet-street. The intricate
arguments put forward by Slade, K.C.,
Joyce’s counsel, concerned not nation-
ality (Joyce had proved his American
citizenship at his Old Bailey trial),
but the fact that he was in pos-
session of a British passport (obtained
by misrepresenting his birthplace as
Galway) when he left England for Ger-
many in August, 1939. Slade’s task was
to break the ruling of Justice Tucker that
Joyce, by being in possession of a British
passport, was entitled to the King’s pro-
tection and therefore owed allegiance to
the King. The appeal Judges, Lord
Chief Justice Viscount Caldecoat and
Justices Humphries and Lynsky, were
faced with a difficult task because never
before in British legal history, except for
piracy, had an alien been convicted for
an offence committed outside the realm.
Slade took great pains to hammer home
this point, but to no avail.
“89” views Poland through a philatel-
ist’s microscope:
Poland is again a stamp-issuing country, its
latest issue being a pictorial series spqnsored
by the Lublin National Committee. Since its in-
dependence in 1918 Poland has had many stamp
issues. In 1933 and in 1938 stamps were
printed to commemorate anniversaries of the
Republic’s independence. The 1933 designs
featured the Cross of Independence, and those
of 1938, 13 in number, in pictorial fashion re-
called the glories of Polish history. The Polish
Legion, established in 1914, was celebrated in
stamp issues in 1934 and 1939. The first series
portrayed Marshal Pilsudski, the founder, the
badge of the Legion and glimpses of the
Legions of 1914 and of 1939 marching past the
marshal. Victory in a 1933 “circuit of Europe”
flight resulted in the issuing of designs illus-
trating the victorious aviators, Fr. Zwirko and
St. Wigura, with their ’planes, while the holding
of the International Ski Championships at
Zakopane, in 1938, was marked by the issue
of a stamp featuring a skier in typical national
costume. Acquisition of the disputed Czech
territory of Teschen in 1938 yielded another
issue showing ■ “Mother Poland” welcoming
home the territory, symbolised by a miner, a
woman and a Boy Scout. Poland has also
honored her great men. In turn there have
been featured Copernicus, Chopin, Slowacki,
■Sienkiewicz, Kosciusko, Pulaski and Joseph
Bern. Marie Curie, co-discoverer of radium,
was also commemorated, while in the political
sphere were Pilsudski, Paderewski, Moscicki,
Wojciechowski and—yes—Smigly-Rydz. In
addition-, Poland has produced an array of
pictorial designs, amply advertising geographi-
cal landmarks and features.
* * * *
“Four Point Seven”: Now war’s end
permits a return of peace-time naval
customs gun salutes to distinguished per-
sonages are again being fired; The battle-
ship King George V had her three-
pounder saluting guns refitted before
she left with the Duke for Hobart,
to return the salutes from fort and
ships in harbor. Saluting guns, as
guns these, days, are as obsolete as
muzzle-loaders, and appropriately
enough the* routine of their usage dis-
cards the methods of modern salvo-
timing, watches and constant speed
motors. The firing of a 21-gun salute is
timed by the warrant officer gunner in
charge with the age-old soliloquy; “If I
wasn’t a gunner I wouldn’t be here ; fire
one! ; if I wasn’t a gunner I wouldn’t be
here ; fire two! ” and so on. Quoted
in a sing-song time which the older dogs
take a malicious satisfaction in impart-
ing to the younger crop of war-time
gunners, the sentence times the salvos
perfectly.
* * * *
“Pawang” on a question of diet:
Two contrary statements recently appeared
in the same batch of cables from England.
Dr. Franklin Bicknell, a dietetic expert, solemnly
informed the Government that to keep Britain
healthy the food ration must be doubled. He
argued that health statistics gave a false
impression. On the other hand, the Registrar-
General’s latest quarterly return showed tr#
fSfcj? ", En f a " d “ d Wale” rS pct
1000—the lowest ever recorded—while tta
f a aew m ”o t w»' r Th ° f 38 I 0 0« ’’ ate
a new low. The expenence of a Vic-
tonan ex-p.-0.-w. may throw some light on
the situation. He slowly starved for three
years at Changi, and he attributes his survival
to rememberm® something a doctor had once
said to him in peace-time. He got the ’flu and
the doctor told him to take marmite to build
up his resistance. Before he went into prison
he managed to buy a quart pot of stuff
mell atC Tho lf % te r as , poonfui after each alleged
“y , rest °f his ration consisted of half
a t °l S at f y nce salt or sugar and
a cup of black tea without milk for breakfast
half a pint of watery soup with vegetables in it
five hours and another half-pint of rice
an . d his cobbers were terrified
of getting ben ben on this appalling diet, and
™ aay died but eventually the Australian
doctors worked out a balanced diet which kept
the prisoners just as skinny as ever but pre-
vented scurvy Some died of overeating on
their release, but even now the Victorian finds
himself a small eater.
* * * *
“G’pa”; “Jurumudi’s” reference (B.
2/1/’46) to the Javanese introduction tp
kerosene illumination had its counterpart
m early Melbourne, when William Stan-
ford, an American, imported the first
lamps and kerosene. He displayed them
at the s.-e. corner of Bourke and Russell
streets, and a rush set in to purchase. No
free list was necessary, and the profits on
the trade, combined with the Singer sew-
ing-machine agency, made Stanford a rich
man. He left his money to Stanford Uni-
versity, U.S.A. (established by his
brother). William’s fortune would have
been considerably larger had he not been
a liberal supporter of the spiritualistic
cause. He was also a patron of Australian
art. The site of his home is now occu-
pied by the Freemasons’ Hospital.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “Doing the Block” was an
evening social activity of Sydney citizens
50 years ago. Newspapers gave their
gossip columns such headings as
“Round the Block.” Shops did
not close until 8 or 8.30 p.m.
on week days—much later on
Saturdays. Saturday morning,
too, was a favorite time for the
promenade around Pitt, Market,
George and King streets, ex-
tended to the G.P.O. in Martin-
place as time went on. The
Block was the very kernel of
Sydney; land values and rentals
within its borders were several
times higher than those of places
just outside the pale. This heart
of the city has expanded re-
markably, Marching with the
growth that has extended to
Elizabeth-street on the east,
Park-street on the south and
Hunter-street on the north has
been a tendency among big busi-
nesses of a kind to group to-
gether, whereas, the thought of
having close rivals was anathema
to the traders of a former gen-
eration. A Rip Van Winkle
from the Sydney of 50 years ago
would be as astonished at this
development as at the enormous
expansion. Also, he would feel
heart-sick at the complete van-
ishment of the old sociable
“Block.” Where crowds now
stream, all strangers to one
another, old friends met and were intro-
duced to new ones - Man y of Sydney’s
romances of former days began on “the
Block.”
* * * *
„ T . , . . ,
G.K. : Lincoln in his Gettysburg
speech was quoting when he used the
famous definition of democracy. Wycliffe,
+ iajxe tvui • a j j. -I
translated the Bible in 1384, wrote it
into his preface. “The Bible is for the
government of the people, by the people
and for the people.” Abe was a diligent
Bible reader,
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: The announcement that
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer are to produce a
based on Henry Handel Richardson’s
tr j[ o gy fhe Fortunes of Richard
Mahony, with Greer Garson and Gregory
Peck in the main roles, makes me wonder
the fllmateure haven’t yet discovered
th,s Australian wntei:s earlier and■ m my
osamoo,ftoa novel Guest. The
fory, of the young man who went o
7 T “t, C T P ? Y
forgot what he came for when, dreaming
, o£ . hls future °. n a b , r . ld ,f’ ha saw a * ovel >'
la <*y P assin g- has a J‘ the ele ” e “ s £ “ r ?
™gmflcei,t screen drama with the must-
genius who was the ladys lover to
B ,ve . significance to the ensuing conflict,
Richard Mahony z wonderful book,
but > bein S essentially the study of a
has ,‘ £s hm.tations The Getting
°f Wisdom, the story of the authoress s
schooldays at the P.L.C. in Melbourne,
thS
of her fame, revisited her hometown and
asked to be allowed to address her old
sc bool she Was refused permission, and
Getting of Wisdom isn’t to be found
.
in the school lioraiy.
TIRED CRICKETERS.
“The moan of the tired cricketer has been heard
for years, yet never in the history of the game
have players been so well paid and their physical
comfort so well looked after.”
—Neville Cardus in “S.M.H.”
Time was when our cricketers bounded
To action, for all to admire,
Of skill and endurance compounded,
Tough mixtures of whipcord and, wire.
They bent all their energies yearly $
To keeping their muscles in tune;
Why now should chaps weaken so early
And weary so soon?
You have all the tricks and the tickets
For experts to mingle and mix;
Hard hitters to rattle the pickets,
Tried trundlers to skittle the sticks.
You’ve nothing to learn in the roughness
Of drives or the smoothness of cuts,
But what of intestinal toughness,
Termed vulgarly guts?
It’s there that to measure and head up
To old-time exemplars you fail.
Stout fellows who never were fed up
With cricket or moaned they were stale.
From the start to the close of the season
They battled determinedly through.
And it’s hard to discover a reason
Why you shouldn’t, too.
No game is esteemed of such worth and
Distinction, in south or in north,
As planting three sticks in the earth and
“Defending the same with a fourth.”
And never in all its long story
Has it offered its votaries so
Rich remuneration in glory—
And alsp in dough.
Forbear then to whinge that you’re weary.
That too much of it gets on your nerve.
Fas est et ab hoste doceri
As Neville himself might' observe.
Take heed of his dictum and stick it
In your hat, for there’s nothing, they say,
To which, be it music or cricket,
He isn’t au fait.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Spasebo”: In a world which fills the
columns of the papers with daily horror
stories of two-headed babies and new-
born infants weighing less than an ounce,
it was gratifying to stumble on a man
who really values children. It was in
the waiting-room of a hospital in Mel-
bourne and an anxious-looking citizen
was obviously there for a certain pur-
pose. A nurse came in and told him he
had just become a father—in triplicate.
He danced with delight, kissed the nurse,
shook the hands of everybody present
and announced that he was the most
fortunate man in Australia.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The inscription on an obelisk
about 3ft. high at the side of the Pennant
Hills-road, about a mile from Pennant
Hills (Sydney) railway station, has always
had me puzzled, and I have never found
anyone who could explain it. The in-
scription reads: “There and Back, 20
Miles —Answer a Fly.” I am told the
obelisk was erected by the Red Hill
Observatory, at one time situated on the
opposite side of the road, the stone be-
ing used in connection with base lines
on trig, surveys, but the observatory
officers were not responsible for the in-
scription. There is no place anywhere
in the vicinity called “There and Back,”
though in the early days there was a
settlement called “Nowhere” a few miles
back in the bush.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: I’m really becoming
afraid to pick up a N.Q. paper for fear
of some other tragic recorded example
of the devastation wrought there by the
awful climate. In a single recent week
four more unfortunates fell victims
to it. A Barcaldine lady was cut
off at 80 after a mere 62 years of
northern residence, A North of
Ireland man who came to Charters
Towers in 1884 has died at Ayr aged only
82. A native son of N.S.W. who, at
the age of 12, was helping to drive bul-
lock teams westward from Rockhampton
before the rail went through, remained
in the North, with the result that, at
Ayr, he has passed into the silence at 86,
leaving a mere 32 descendants. And
now, at Mackay, a Sydney-born lady,
transplanted in childhood to that deadly
latitude, has succumbed to it at 92. How-
ever much the misguided scientists may
strive to persuade us against the evidence
of our own eyes, that climate , is certain
to get them eventually.
“She's beautiful, Clarence—how DO you give your subjects that
alluring look ?”
“J.D.W.”: Residents over a wide area
of the North Island (M.L.) have read
with relief expert opinion that the pro-
longed volcanic activity of Mt. Ruapehu
has begun to wane. The eruption has
had some unexpected effects, ranging
from “Ruapehu throat,” blamed on sus-
pended dust in the atmosphere, to coat-
ings of ash on windows and vegetables
hundreds of miles away. From 150
articles of various kinds treated during
one week a Taihape dry-cleaner extracted
a bucket and a half of the dust. The
cockies fear long-term results. The
stomach of a beast killed in Taranaki
held 101 b. of volcanic ash, and flavor
and quality of cream have been affected
by tainting. Some farmers argue that
the ash being spread over the grasslands
and carried into the rivers may leave its
mark on stock for some time. -
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: An unusual combination
occurred at the New Norfolk Police
Court when Mrs. D. V. Curtain sat on
the Bench alongside Mrs. A. Curtain-
Grahame, her daughter. The mother
was one of the first of the Apple Island’s
women jay-pays. Her J.P. daughter is
a leading social worker.
H* ♦ *
“Oxmead”: I suppose that Persians,
like Irishmen, had a perfect right to
re-christen their country by some reput-
edly more ancient name, but the press
of the outside world has never taken
very kindly to “Iran.” After all, it s
been Persia for so many centuries that
I can’t help wondering how long it is
since Persians were Iranians. The Romans
certainly didn’t know them as such; and
it is more than doubtful if the Greeks
did. You may look in vain for Iran, or
any variant thereof, in a Latin dictionary,
whereas Persia, Persis, Persicus and so
on are all duly noted. The only English
writer that I recall who gives both words
a turn is Matthew Arnold in his “Sohrab
and Rustum.” In that poem the country
itself is always Iran, but the inhabitants
are nevertheless invariably Persians.
« * * *
“Eve”: I am half-way through what
the cafe calls lamb-stew. I remember
reading in The Bulletin that the import-
ance of traces of cobalt in the diet of
sheep is getting to be recognised in
Australia and New Zealand. The import-
ance of traces of sheep-flesh in lamb-stew
is not recognised by the proprietor of
my hashhouse.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I see that Lockley Shaw,
president of the Australian Theatie
Movement, met with a refusal from the
Victorian Fisheries and Game Depart-
ment when he asked the Zoo for
the loan of a koala for a produc-
tion of his play “Monigan,” dealing
with bush life. I don’t know whether
the F. and G. Department based its re-
fusal on humanitarian or aesthetic grounds
but if I had anything to do with
it I would ban all animals from drama.
I have never seen one that wasn’t a dis-
aster, from the Alsatian that Maurice
Moscovitch used as a were-wolf which
sucked the blood of maidens in a mystery
drama at the Melbourne Royal to the
kookaburra which sat motionless on a
fence through three acts of “Gumtree
Gully” at the old Palace. The were-wolf
(or were-hound) jumped leisurely through
a window into the bedroom of the sleep-
ing heroine, looked blandly at the audi-
ence and then, remembering its cue, went
up and sniffed her bedclothes and strolled
back through the window. The trouble
with animals on the stage is that, like
some actors, they can’t identify them-
selves with the proceedings.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne got into the
world’s news when Leonski, an American
soldier, murdered three women, but no
major crime by an Australian soldier has
been reported in Victoria since the out-
break. Yet in 1942 there were 23,000
Australian soldiers a.w.l. on the main-
land, and 8000 of these are supposed
to have hitch-hiked to their homes
in the southern State. The autho-
rities believe there is no hidden
store of weapons and ammunition in the
“DADDY!”
underworld of Melbourne, though a few
extra illicit weapons may have got there.
More than 20,000 freshly demobilised
soldiers landed in the metropolis in one
week with their pockets full of money.
The only disorder reported was a
highly spectacular slogging match in
Swanston-street, which ended as suddenly
as it began. Melbourne certainly deserves
Lud Mayor Connelly’s beer gardens if
only on the score of good behavior.
* * * •
“S.T.S.”: The good old legal ex parte
got stretched a bit lately in a Port
Adelaide court. A case was heard in
that way—with the person chiefly inter-
ested absent —and a sailor was fined £lO
and costs for indecent language and re-
sisting the police two days before. On
the intervening day he had “sailed for
Asiatic ports.”
* * * *
“Ano”; Tests with the new English
anti-malarial drug, paludrine (M 4888),
at the Army Research Unit at Cairns
(N.Q.) show that it has several advantages
over the German atebrin in that it doesn’t
stain the skin, is effective against both
benign and malignant malaria and is
much cheaper. Brigadier Hamilton
Fairley, the Melbourne man in charge of
the tests with Dr. D. G. Davey (Man-
chester), declares paludrine to be “a
triumph for British chemotherapy and the
greatest anti-malarial drug known.” It
is expected to prevent malarial recur-
rences.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Cigarettes run beer a
good second in the obsession stakes in
Melbourne. A suburban builder hard
up for lime advertised that he would
pay a bonus of a carton of gaspers to
anybody bringing him three bags of the
stuff or over. The next day he had all
the lime he could use,
* * * *
“Craiser”: I see that Queensland’s
Premier Cooper, disagreeing with Mel-
bourne’s Lud Mayor Connelly, thinks
national costumes are a relic of barbarism.
Some are infinitely more beautiful than
the international costume now worn by
businessmen in Madrid, Moscow, Lon-
don, Tokyo, New York and Melbourne.
The international costume generally con-
sists of a sac suit, a hard felt hat or
harder bowler and a handbag. It is truly
barbaric inasmuch as it is a convention
imposed by tailors and takes no account
of differences in environment and climate.
The makers of the national costumes of
the past were often wonderful artists and
craftsmen and their products are still
thought worthy to be placed in art gal-
leries —a room is devoted to Czech,
Hungarian and Bulgarian national cos-
tumes in the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne. The international costume would
hardly get into a gallery though it might
get into a museum, as did the cable tram
of Melbourne. So I can’t see the slight-
est objection to Lud Mayor Connelly’s
suggestion of a national costume for
Australia. The only difficulty is how to
bring it about. The Lud Mayor has
already been snowed under by suggestions
ranging from gumnut hats to split skirts,
but none does more than exhibit poverty
of imagination.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: An elderly couple in
Melbourne went one better than the
Sydney example (B. 16/1/’46) in crash-
ing the gates of the modernist Parnassus.
They bought an old house and one wet
Saturday afternoon started to clear
out an attic. It was littered with boards,
paints, palettes and brushes and had obvi-
ously been once used as a studio. Neither
having ever put a stroke on canvas, both
had a go at painting a picture. They were
so charmed at the results that they sent
them to a contemporary exhibition. The
husband won a prize and the wife got
an honorable mention.
» * * *
“Ceg”; “Adelaide” (B. 9/l/’46), men-
tioning a property sale in that city, goes
on to say that more could have
been obtained had a “ceiling price” not
been fixed. The owners were unfor-
tunate in that they were not selling to
some such institution as the Common-
wealth Bank, which does not have to
bother with ceiling prices, valuations or
the approval of the Delegate for the
Treasurer to the sale. When the Bank
buys, as it has been doing lately in
several country towns in Victoria, fancy
prices can be paid. It isn’t fair, but what
is fair in the way business is conducted
in Australia nowadays?
* * * *
“Pookie”: Historians of the atomic age
will doubtless draw a moral from the
experiments of Dr. I. B. Watson, as de-
scribed in Kenneth Walker’s The Diag-
nosis of Man. The doctor had an over-
whelming curiosity concerning fear-
conditioning, and experimented on his 11-
months-old son Albert, who had an affec-
tion for white rats. By systematically
banging a heavy steel bar immediately
behind the infant’s head whenever a pet
rat came near the doctor succeeded in
destroying the child’s innocent liking for
rodents. Also, one may imagine, any
lingering affection for Watson pere. The
doctor reports:
After Albert had recovered, the experi-
ment was repeated. This time the infant
began to whimper The instant the rat
was shown the baby began to cry. Almost
instantly he turned sharply to the left, fell
over, raised himself on all fours and began
to crawl away so rapidly that he was
caught with difficulty before he reached
the edge of the table.
The result of this was that Albert at last
was terrified not only of rats but of rab-
bits, dogs and anything of a furry nature:
cottonwool, sealskin coats and Dr. Wat-
son’s head. And all to prove something
that was known to the Swiss lake-dwel-
lers- of half a million years ago.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: Add to “Eureka’s” tally
of country pubs with diversions for cus-
tomers (B. 26/12/’45) a Northern
Queensland hotel with something out of
the ordinary in the way of murals.
Garnet Agnew, whose black-and-white
work appeared sometimes in The Bul-
letin, spent some of his latter days at
Cooktown (Q.), and there put in some
work on the walls of one of the town’s
few remaining hotels. A visitor may now
wander round the saloon, sinping his
beer and gazing at scenes depicting the
days of the Palmer goldrush or at cari-
catures of local residents.
ELEGY.
“A stout, middle-aged woman at Jaffrey
Hampshire) was found accidentally strangled by the
strings of her corsets.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
On the cruk of the matter I must join issue
Bearing in mind the war she waged *
On the spread that augments the middle-
aged
With increments of redundant tissue,
Till, born at last from the depths of mental
And physical anguish, comes despair ...
So I, as she found release, would swear
Her death was in no way “accidental.”
And every woman whose figure owes
Its shape not to Nature, hut to Art,
In mortal strife with her girdle knows
How full was the buxom lady’s heart.
No wonder, then, that she suicided
With the nearest weapon that Fate provided.
N.S.W.
P. M. LUSK.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: When Curyo Charlie
got into Wawpit on the morning of the
annual sports he was badly in need of a
“bank,” and pricked his ears when he
discovered there was to be a pigeon-shoot
before the sports began. He brooded for
an hour or so, studied the clear, bright
morning and the layout of the shooting
ground; then he found a small boy,
parted with some of his small store of
silver and bound the youth to his service
with promise of more. Presently the
shooters congregated, the traps were filled
and the event was on. When the favorite
in the first sweep stepped to his mark
he was twos on first barrel. Charlie bet
against him on the nod, then took out
his large, red-bordered handkerchief and
blew his nose. “Pull! ’’ roared the shooter;
the bird flew ; he fired and never touched
a feather. His second barrel was no
better. Charles collected four more bets
that thus acquiring his “bank”
for the afternoon’s festivities. And, after
shooters and punters and onlookers had
departed Curyo amply rewarded his
ally, who’d sat a quarter-mile away in
the scrub, catching the sun in his mirror
and flashing it against the gun every time
Charlie used his large, red-bordered
handkerchief.
* * * *
“Bufo”; Southern sentimentalists who
rush into print about the sweet birdsong
of the bush dawn, with its tiny muted
violins ushering in the coming day and
the rufous-breasted whistlers bursting into
melody, ought to come up to S.Q. in
summer for an earful of the real tiding.
Here the dawn-ushering specialists are the
cooee birds, he with yells that can be
heard miles off, his spouse with loud,
harsh rattles like a self-starter gone wrong.
The uproar usually reminds the kooka-
burras of the story about a girl accepting
a lift home with a commercial traveller
and how his car broke down, and they
guffaw and chuckle over it for ten
minutes. The weary sleeper has just dozed
off when the cooee pair start again, this
time with a peewee accompaniment
which brings the sun up with a sudden
jerk and wakens the magpies for break-
fast. Yes, I know that Gould said
it was impossible to find words for the
beauty of their carol, but he was speak-
ing of grown-up magpies. The voices
of their two young, trained by the mis-
guided females of this house to squawk
and screech outside the kitchen window
until early breakfast is thrown out to
them, are describable only in Australian
words which that respectable English
naturalist wouldn’t have known. Any-
how, they’ve brought me out of bed to
utter this fervent protest against the dawn-
birdsong racket. Can’t some birdlovers’
society train the idiotic fowl to give it a
rest till breakfast-time?
* * * *
“Notaden”: At long last justice has
been done to the husbands of Australia’s
crocodile community, hitherto regarded as
wasters who left nest-building to their
long-suffering wives while they played
about and looked for chances of a snack
off some unwary bather or other article of
food. The libellous accusation has been
unmasked in all its heartless falsity at
the Mt. St. John Zoo near Townsville
(N.Q.), where a gentleman crocodile was
seen busily engaged in hard construc-
tional work on the nest where his spouse
had deposited a batch of eggs shortly
before. More than that, the gallant fellow
did his work in full daylight and regard-
less of bystanders.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Young Sam had taken on a
job in the town, and the brightly-colored
ties and socks he invested in had Dad’s
patience turning handsprings. Criticism
and argument failing, the old bloke’s pro-
tests dwindled to a snort at each fresh
aggravation until the week-end Sam
arrived home with a green and purple
check sports coat. At the same time came
Michael. “Keepin’ dry, Dad,” greeted
Mick. The old bloke leaned forward un-
certainly. “Whassat? Dry? Yair;
cripes, yair.” “Dams gettin’ low, too,
ain’t they?” added Mick. Dad cupped
a fist behind his ear. “What’s gettin’
low?” he shouted. “The dams? You
bet they are.” “Dropped in t’ see if I
c’n borrer y’ single furrer,” explained
Mick. Then, as the old chap appeared
not to hear; “Cripes, what’s a matter,
Dad?” he asked, puzzled, “Y’r ears
goin’ on y’?” Again the old bloke cocked
his head and strained forward painfully.
“Me ears? Aw, no, they’re awright,” he
explained, “It’s that blasted new coat
o’ Sam’s. So flamin’ loud a man can’t
’ear nothin’.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Hanged by the neck at
Pinaroo (S.A.), a fox on a telegraph pole,
with the head jammed between the pole
itself and a stay supporting it. There
were blood marks of a struggle for life,
and the animal is supposed to have taken
itself by surprise while climbing up after
a bird.
*■* * *
“Bogaduck”; A veteran sheep drover
is a bad man to quarrel with, especially
if he has been in the one district so long
that he has memorised every creek and
waterhole in it. Old Fred is our star
man; nobody has ever yet rubbed him
the wrong way and got away • with it.
One newcomer had a hard try; he was
the new owner of a big property where
Fred had always been welcome to turn
a travelling mob into a little paddock in
"Will I put 'im out of ’is misery ?”
the bracken down by the road and to
come up to the homestead for a feed and
a yam. But when Fred strolled up to
introduce himself the new man ordered
him to get out and stay out. By way of
reply Fred went straight to his van, got
a pair of wirecutters, cut a fence and
drove his whole mob through the pad-
dock and down to the big swamp. To
the enraged owner’s threat of ringing up
the police at once Fred blandly replied
that he, too, would use the telephone—
to report to the Shire Council that a
certain reserve had been fenced off and
that it was about time provision was
made for travelling stock to water there.
The owner duly received the notice from
the Council. Next month was the open-
ing of the duck season, and the same
property was again invaded, this time
by an army of shooters led by old Fred
who showed them just which portions of
the swamp and lagoon bore the broad
arrow on the map. Next time Fred came
by with a mob the new owner, who had
been given some advice by his neighbors,
went down to the road to invite him in.
He also gave old Fred a mob of sheep to
deliver for him. “I know he’ll look after
them properly,” he explained. “You
can’t bluff him out of his rights.”
* * * *
“Blime”: At the beginning of the fourth
round Jerry picked up his brimming glass
and made for the door, calling on Buff
and Happy to give him a hand. “Hey,
where y’ going with that glass?” Bung
called curiously, following the trio out-
side, Silently Jerry handed the beer to
Buff and began to shin up the verandah
post. Reaching the top he leaned down,
collected the beer and, squatting on the
roof, solemnly drained the glass. Bung
gaped, glanced at the other two and
tapped his head suggestively. Then, to
the figure on the roof, “Hey, what’s the
big idea?” he asked. Jerry passed down
the glass. “Aw, nuthin’ much,” he ex-
plained breezily; “only Happy bet me
there wasn’t no such thing as getting one
on the house at this pub.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: I suggest to “Drone-
stung” (B. 2/1 /’46) that the reason why
his wild hive showed bees of various sizes
was that the brood combs had been
too long in use. Examination of aged
brood combs will show them lined with a
filament similar in texture to the bee’s
wing. This is the residue of the pupa’s
cocoon, and over hundreds of hatchings
it will accumulate so that it sensibly re-
duces the size of the cell. It is a
curious fact that the infant bee, which
spends all its embryonic period enclosed
in the one cell, can grow no bigger than
that cell.
* * * *
“Bungarley”: Goat-teated cows (B.
9/1 / ’46)? For four years our Tarcutta
Valley (N.S.W.) herd included “Twain,”
a robust type of grade Jersey with a
roomy and pendulous udder carrying two
large teats. She milked and tested well
up to average, probably due to the fact
that each teat carried two milk channels,
thus drawing from four sections above.
She was bred at Brungle, near Gundagai,
and we got her cheap at a clearing sale
on the vendor’s assurance that she was
worth her keep. There was no sign what-
ever of rudimentary teats.
* * * *
“G’Roper”: One of the war’s readjust-
ments. Prior to 1940 sulphur, used in the
making of sulphuric acid, necessary for
the manufacture of superphosphate, was
imported in the refined state into W.A.,
with, of course, the inevitable lumpers’
strike demanding increased pay for un-
loading. Shortage of shipping and
Italy’s entry into the conflict made sul-
phur scarce. Native ability sought a sub-
stitute, finding it in the deposits of pyrites
around Ravensthorpe in the southern part
of the State. As innocuous as ordinary
gravel, this iron sulphide admits of no
excuse for excessive handling charges;
it can be unloaded with the implements
used for handling coal. Poured into
special grate furnaces it becomes self-
consuming once it is properly alight, giv-
ing off sulphurous acid gas, which, com-
bined with steam, yields sulphuric acid in
abundance. The residue, oxide of iron,
is at present dumped, but would if finely
ground give a paint pigment in quantity
sufficient to cover every iron roof in
Australia.
* * * »
“B. A. Ker”: To the astonishment of
the district old Ted Bullen returned from
the city with a wife, and, con-
fusing all his critics, hadn’t kicked her
out six months later. Then a pair of
magpies nested in the blue-gum near the
clothesline. The first aerial assaults
only frightened the elderly bride, but
when one swoop by an aggressive parent
knocked her glasses off she demanded a
purge. Old Ted gave his verdict
promptly: “Them birds is only prertect-
in’ their ’ome and kids like any other
dinkum Aussie. They ain’t goin’ to be
touched. And,” he added darkly, “if
anything ’appens to ’em next week while
I’m away, somethin’s goin’ to ’appen to
you.” Subdued, his spouse accepted the
decision —until a surprise attack startled
her into dropping the washing into the
dust. More in anger than in sorrow she
reached down the double-barrel. De-
spite the waverings and wobbling of the
weapon some of the shot found the target.
Maggie stopped chortling, croaked, took
off, faltered in mid-air and expired on
the lean-to roof of the kitchen. Several
days later the body began to make its
presence smelt, but Mrs. Bullen, knowing
her hubby’s deficient sense of smell, de-
cided that the effluvium - was preferable
to the trouble a confession would cause.
A sudden rainstorm, however, changed
her plans; she packed up and left. Old
Ted, although admittedly glad to be a
bachelor again, reckoned: “Women is
queer creatures! Fancy ’er runnin’ out
on a man like that, and fer no reason!”
Apparently the tank water didn’t taste
amiss to him —in spite of the fact that
part of its catchment was the kitchen
lean-to.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Every conceivable insect
pest seems to have descended upon us this
season. In the case of the vegetable-
devouring caterpillar we have an insect
ally in a wasp, which is busy all day
long paralysing caterpillars with its sting,
carting them off to its nest tunnels and
depositing them inside after laying an
egg on each ; when the egg hatches the
larval wasp will feed on the drugged
carcass of the caterpillar. I counted
nearly 120 of these wasp nests in a square
yard of dry soil, so the number of grubs
killed by this useful insect is beyond
counting. Yet in a store a few days ago
I heard a man ask for sulphur and the
storekeeper reply that he had sold out,
as everyone was buying it to “kill these
wasps which are swarming on the tomato
plants and eating them.”
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: Martin accompanied the stock
inspector on his official visit to the lumpy-
jawed beast in the home paddock. “Yes,
cancer,” came the diagnosis presently.
“She’ll have to be destroyed. I’ll get my
rifle.” Martin glanced round uneasily,
and as the inspector went towards his car
he whistled Nigger and sent the cow to
the far corner of the paddock. The in-
spector scowled, and started in the same
direction. Presently the cow came to-
wards them down the fence, stopped, and
the inspector raised the rifle. “Get hold
of her. Nigger,” yelled Martin, spoiling
an easy shot. “We might get her in the
corner,” he added hastily, ignoring the
other’s frown. “There, now —try her
there.” “What, from this distance?”
gasped the stock bloke, “Wait on, though,
here she- comes again.” Once more
Martin’s bellow prevented an easy victory,
and the stock man was protesting volubly
when the owner again
called to him to try his
hand. It was a bad
target, but, feeling
rather fed up, the rifle-
man let fly; and a
second shot brought her
to her knees. Martin
surveyed the carcass.
“Righto,” he remarked,
“I’ll skin her.” Then,
looking round with an
air of satisfaction,
“Lucky she come into
this corner, ain’t it?
Only place in the paddick there’s any
timber t’ bum her with.”
* * * £
“The Heel”: Larry had been spinning
for the new schoolteacher, who boarded
at Grogan’s, and one evening in the pub
he sheepishly announced his impending
nuptials. “You’re getting a darned nice
girl,” said Bung, when the toast had been
drunk, “but how the hell you got a
chance to do any courting with that tribe
of Grogan kids beats me.” “It was easy,”
said Larry with a grin. “I useter scatter
a handful of ‘hundreds and thousands’
in the woodheap. Never saw a single
kid all the evening.”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Shot an old red ’roo the
other day and, leaving him apparently
dead, went off after the rest of the mob.
Coming back an hour later I found the
poor devil still alive though paralysed
from the chest down. > He was licking his
“wrists” as I came up and there was evi-
dence, both forearms being wet to the
shoulder with saliva, that his tongue had
been busy for a long time. Now any
sheepman knows how a fly-blown ewe
will lick and nuzzle at the crutcher’s arms
at times when she must be suffering tor-
ture from the burrowing maggots, the
pull of the shears in the matted green
wool or the burn of the sheep dip. It
looks as though, in both these cases,
there must be a reason for the licking
quite different from that which prompts
a horse, a cat or a dog to lick one’s
sweating arms —probably for the taste of
the salt. It would be easy to say that
the modve was a subconscious remember-
ing of the comfort derived by the joey
or lamb from mum’s udder or teat and
it’d probably be wrong. Can the Cpun-
cil suggest any explanation?
MOON MOTIF.
Now fancy wanders ghostily
A strange white world the moon has made;
On the fiat each separate tree
Silent beside its pool of shade.
Wan wanderer of ancient Night,
This is the same unearthly light
Haunted the dreams of priests and seers,
And down the thousands of the years
Have midnight poets mused their fill
With lifted faces lit and still.
Lovely and lonely is the moon,
Whether at first uprising,- soon
She stands a glory, large and low,
Apricot on deep indigo,
Or vanishing, when night is gone,
Pale white on blue, a ghost of dawn.
Old Moon, I think you even are
Lovelier than the throned star
Of evening, stationed but not still,
Quivering bright above the hill.
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES DEVANEY.


“Bo”: “Y’ hear a lot about intelligent
dorgs an’ horses,” said Dapto Dick,
“but nobody ever stops to think that a
good cat has brains enough to beat
the lot of ’em. Take me own mouser,
Tibby. I got a wireless set a while back,
an’ I noticed that when the music was
goin’ real loud the mice used to pop
out o’ their holes to listen. Well, one
night I’m sittin’ in the hut. I had the
wireless turned down low because I’m
trying to concentrate on a game o’
patience. I hears a scratchin’ noise but
don’t take no notice. Then I hears it
again an’ looks up. Spare me days if
it ain’t Tibby! She’s by the wireless set,
standin’ on her hind legs, an’ she’s tryin
to turn the volume knob full on!”
“Narrin”: It was hot and I was on
the living-room floor, flatter than the
lizard that argued with the steam-roller,
when the kitten lounged in. He saw my
bare arm and, despite the heat, couldn t
resist attacking it tooth and nail. I put
up with that for a while, then rolled him
over and ruffled him up a couple of times,
whereupon he detached himself, slouched
away a couple of feet and collapsed at
full length in such an attitude of utter
prostration that I laughed aloud. At
the noise his Nibs turned his head, stared
reproachfully in my face and then, like
the crack of a whip, sprang at my arm
and savaged it with the nearest approach
to ill-temper I’ve ever known him to dis-
play. Now I had a pony stallion once
who liked to be played with and who
played back, very gently unless you
laughed at him. Then he bit in real
earnest. Many cats seem keenly sensitive
to laughter, and you can make even a
dog uneasy if you laugh at him long
enough ; but how do animals know when
they’re being laughed at?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a blazer of a
day and from our camp on the billabong
we looked longingly up at the pub.
“There’s nothin’ worse,” Mat ruminated
aloud, “than a tight publican.” I sadly
agreed. In the billabong, which was
fairly shallow and connected with the
river by a narrow inlet, there was a swirl.
We watched it idly, then Mat suddenly
got up and called me. After we’d thrown
a few logs and branches across that in-
let he led the way to the pub. A half-
dozen locals sat around the bar. We sat,
too, daring the publican’s eye. “Hot,”
remarked Mat. “Yair,” they said.
“Oughter be good for fishin’,” added
Mat. Silence. Then a grey-headed cove
said “Garn, y’ can’t ketch cod in the
middle of the day when it’s hot an’ still
like this.” Mat violently announced that
you could, that he knew more about fish,
etc., and in about five minutes he was so
wild he cried, “Gimme a line an’ a bit o’
meat an’ I’ll bet anybody I can land one
in ten minutes.” They took him up to
the tune of thirty bobs’ worth, Bung pro-
duced a line and bait and everybody
beaded for the door. “Here, wait a
minute,” Mat said, “I ain’t givin’ my
secrets away. You all wait here with my
mate, he’s got the money.” And he ran
down to the river. In 10 minutes he
was back, a four-pounder on his hook
and we collected and shouted. What’s
more, I got a quid from the grey-head
for pitching him a fanciful tale of how
Mat knew where to catch ’em. I wonder
if he ever tried it.
» * * *
“Looby”: Nature gives the clues and
scientists follow them. Before the war
more than nine-tenths of the onions eaten
in Britain were imported from the
Continent. The war scotched these
sources of supply, and success of home-
production then called for increased
hostilities against the weeds in the onion
crops. Sprays of solutions of sulphuric
acid were found to knock out nearly all
the annual weeds without spoiling the
onions. One reason: Cylindrical onion-
leaves are upright and waxy, so that the
spray either runs or fails to penetrate,
whereas most weeds have flat leaves set
more or less horizontally and, possessing
no waxy surface, are thus exposed to the
acid.
* * * *
“Munja”: “Koros Tumas” is as in-
accurate as he is amusing (B. 5/12/’45).
Lakatois are widely known from Fak-Fak
(Dutch N.G.) to Rossel Island and Sud-
Est. For tobacco, Girigiri (half-inch
cowries) or Goldlip (mother of pearl),
excellent models, could be obtained at
"It’ll make a snifter bridal car , Jim —git y’ as far as the church , anyway.”
Madang, Lae, Wewak and Hollandia,
which is quite a step from Moresby. Out-
side the coastal towns handoufs by the
whites were few and far between. Planters,
etc., expected their “pound of flesh” in
the past, and got it—-at six bob a month.
Prospectors permitting their carriers to
“bot” overlong on native villages were
asking for trouble, as were the dopes who
hired coastal boongs for high-altitude
stuff. Results were rapid and unvaried,
pneumonia and death and desertion by
the living. On the Kokoda Track, Fuzzy
was a stretcher-bearer, first-class. As a
carrier, through swamps, rain forests and
over 12,000 ft. razor-backed ranges, he was
a world-beater. Malingerers and loafers
were not unknown, but, taking him by
and large (and admitting “sentiment”), I
find the memory of Fuzzy infinitely
sweeter than the memory of pillaging
wharfies and Commo.-inspired “coalies”
when the Game -was on.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Typical of this part of S.A.
are the gum creeks, green shady oases
cutting through the blazing heat of the
white-clay flats at the foot of arid, stony
slopes. The creeks are flooded with
ancient slates and the “sand” and fine
gravel derived from these, and every lump
of the blue or grey slate is spattered as
though there had been a shower of rain.
But the drops on the boulders are sticky
with sugar, as the ants know very well.
Among the stones, too, are little white
discs, “manna,” which the ant popula-
tion harvests. High up in the gum-trees
“ fortissimo, you cows —he s gone to sleep
again!”
cicadas, froghoppers and perhaps lerp in-
sects are sucking the superabundant Sap
from the great trees. Some of it spills
in droplets to the rocks, where the water
evaporates, leaving the sugar. Some of
it is exuded by the froghoppers, who,
preferring to stay in one place with theii
beaks; thrust deep into the bark, don’t
need much energising tucker and so give
off a large amount of the sugar they take
in, to the delights of the ants, who attend
the hoppers as assiduously as they do
the garden aphis. What narks me is that
sugar is rationed, and more tightly by a
strike than by a war, while along hun-
dreds of miles of gum creeks the sweet
stuff is spilling unheeded to the ground
every day. Perhaps one day some nosey
scientist will find out how to harness the
energies of the more sedentary Hemip-
tera.
* * * *
Will Lawson: “Sternwheeler” (B.
9/1 1 ’46) isn’t quite right concerning the
name of “Goodnight,” a point on the
Murray not far below Echuca. It was
not a captain but a farmer whose voice
comes echoing down the years. On a
misty night a steamer ran very close to
the bank, on which stood the farmer, and
when the steamer swept by only a few
feet away he called out, “You’re right;
goodnight.” The skipper wrote down
“Goodnight” on his chart as a landmark
to remember to keep out. There is no
town at Goodnight. A name which
should also be recalled is Cadell Rock,
below Rufus Reach, a dangerous lump of
stone right in the middle of the river,
named after Captain Cadell. Just what
Rufus Reach is named after nobody
seems to know.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jimmy Beggs and Frank
Horton, both somewhat elevated, got into
a political argument in the lane beside
the store just on dusk. Words changed
to action, and pretty soon they were
prancing round each other and making
wild swipes. The mob gathered round,
including the storekeeper, who had just
finished unloading some goods into his
cellar. Horton, jumping back from a
swing of Jimmy’s which came fully within
a yard of his nose, went through the open
cellar flap and disappeared. Jimmy
patised, peered anxiously into the gather-
ing darkness and then gasped
“Gripes, what a smack! Must
ha’ knocked him clean outta
sight.” The mob, quick to seize
on a joke, gathered round
Jimmy, feeling his muscles and
expressing awe and admiration,
whereupon James swelled visibly.
Meantime Horton, unhurt,
climbed the cellar steps to the
store, passed through the front
door and round into the lane,
where he yelled “All right, Beggs,
y’ blankard. You was lucky that
time. Now” Jimmy jumped
and faced about. “So y’r back,”
he cried; “well, by cripes, I
knocked y’ inter the middle o’
the night, didn’t I? An’ I can
do it again.” But the mob de-
cided it had gone far enough,
so they dragged Jimmy to the
cellar and dropped him down,
then seized Horton and rushed
him up the street. But Horton
got loose and rushed back again
and fell into that cellar, and
therefrom issued sounds of com-
bat until the Law arrived with
a hurricane lamp and lumbered
the pair of them for trespass and
damage to property. As they
left the court, poorer by £2 16s.
each, Jimmy Beggs said mourn-
fully “Whatinell does it matter
who’s in power, the worker
suffers just the same.” “Too blanky
right ” Horton echoed fervently.
jjc H 1 ♦
“C.E.”: When Bill and his missus first
came to Dry Hill their property was a
stretch of virgin bush. Full of enthusiasm
they started in, the trees and scrub falling
in a face before. Bill’s axe and being
heaped for burning by Mrs. Bill. Next
a house was built on the clearing, and the
farm began to take shape. Some time
later Mrs. Bill decided the place looked
bare and, after much planning and
trouble, bought various imported orna-
mentals and planted round the home.
Followed years of disappointment and
renewals, and finally decision. “You
know, we’re silly to try and grow those
fancy sorts,” Mrs. Bill announced. “The
native trees are used to the soil and
climate. They’re hardier and, if you ask
me, they’re just as handsome.” Bill,
heartily agreeing that “there weren’t no
better trees than our own gums,” there
followed several trips into the bush, and
the house became surrounded with small
and stunted seedlings that seemed bent
on dying. Renewals have been constant,
the water doled out to the avenue has
kept the house on meagre rations for
years, and what beats Bill is “how them
acres of giants that was cleared off ever
got there in the first place.”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: It is rather a pity
that “Puffinus’s” pocket Oxford dictionary
(B. 19/12/’45) wasn’t published early
enough for Captain Coffin, commodore of
the “bluenose” fleet that of old worked
the W.A. south coast, to carry a copy.
To the cap’n any male pig was a hog ;
and those Yankees literally knew their
onions. Not only did they bring along pigs
but often a couple of expert gardeners.
Scurvy was the seaman’s scourge in those
days, fresh vegetables the remedy. The
W.A. south-west coast shows many fer-
tile flats and islands. Landed on some
such spot the gardeners soon had the
virgin soil producing, the ship calling
periodically for supplies. Which again
explains why natives, thought by the
British to be meeting whites for the first
time, proved unaccountably hostile.
* * * *
“Propalong”: The Local Member had
buttonholed old Myall and was giving
him the benefit of his opinions on the
Disabilities of- the Marginal-land Farmer.
“Now, take the case of Alec Matheson,”
he commanded. “Alec was allotted five
thousand acres, part of which he cleared
and sowed with wheat. Now Alec had
six girls and five sons, and when he died
the property was, of course, divided
equally among the boys. Now, Mr. Myall,
what I maintain is this: in a region like
this a thousand acres is not enough to
support a family. Of course, the Mathe-
son boys have done road-work and so
on, but —and this is my chief contention
—each of the boys has married. Take
Bob; he’s got four sons already. Four
sons, Mr, Myall, each to have an equal
share of a thousand paltry acres in ten-
inch rainfall land. And each of those
sons due, in time, to grow up, marry and
rear sons of his own. Well, what’s the
answer?” He paused dramatically. Old
Myall looked across wistfully at the pub.
“One o’ them rabbit exterminators, I
reckon,” he murmured and drifted pur-
posefully towards Murphy’s.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The red dust and gravel
lay deep in the ruts along the road,
making treacherous going for a bike.
Young Jack, the carpenter’s offsider, re-
gretted his offer to “bring them battens
from the mill” before he had gone a hun-
dred yards. Several side-skids frayed his
temper, and the “thump, thump” as the
long ends flapped up and down didn’t
improve matters. With that premeditated
malignity which inanimate things reserve
for such occasions, the battens contrived
to work close to the rider’s neck, part a
little, then suddenly close together—with
a juicy wrinkle of neck in the crevice.
The effect was startling—and sudden.
Before mounting again. Jack untied one
of the strings that held the ends together
and tied it tightly around the middle of
the bundle. After three false starts the
journey was continued. By now the load
had developed a new technique. Gradu-
ally working loose from the binding at
the front end, the long strips began to
gently “fan” out, scissors fashion, some
pivoting steadily to the left and some to
the right. Splinters rasped against the car-
rier’s neck, while battens slapped him
under the chin, scratched at his face and
rode up over the back of his coat collar.
Doubting his ability to start again if he
stopped, Jack suffered and kept going.
Then it was that the two girls came out
of the track. One smiled at the distressed
rider and tossed a bright “Hello, Jack.”
Risking biting off his tongue, Jack re-
sponded: “H-h-hullo, M-Madge.” “Your
friend’s a gentleman, I must say!”
snapped the other loudly: “He didn’t
even raise his hat!” And that was why
Jack finished up with a foot through the
front wheel, a handle-bar up his coat
sleeve, his trousers leg caught in the chain
and battens surrounding him red-skin-
wigwam fashion.
THE LITTLE CREEKS.
The little creeks are blithesome as they turn
and twist about; , . , , -
They gossip with the drinking birds and laug
at leaping trout , ,
That flash frorrf dappled flood-carved pools,
where gum and willow meet
And sheltering cattle chew their cud, swee
grass about their feet.
The little creeks . . . they loiter as they watch
the frogs at play, . ~
Or, shouting, race down rocky stairs to tumble
into spray. , . , ..
They twinkle under maiden-hair, white clematis
and musk, _
Then turn to smiling mirrors for the silver
stars at dusk.
The little creeks are friendly streams, they take
you to their hearts,
And soon each jolly, chuckling voice a rare
content imparts.
Proud and aloof the rivers wind their slow
course to the sea,
But little creeks spill happiness wherever they
may be.
VICTORIA.
H. E. RAMSAY.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of %
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
GIVES MAXIMUM INSULATION
AGAINST HEAT, COLD AND SOUND
L
INSULATION IS NOT A
luxury—it is a neces-
sity that greatly reduces
fuel bills in winter, keeps
homes healthily cool in
summer and ensures rest-
ful relief from noise.
d
Prefabricated Plywood and normal
Plywood panels embrace the very
maximum of efficiency in insulation.
The panel shown includes a three
inch section of insulwool which gives
protection from heat, cold and sound.
Plywood itself has a much lower heat
conductivity than other building
materials —it keeps the heat out in
summer and in during winter.
To the insulation problem of con-
struction or alteration, Plywood is
the economical, speedy and efficient
answer.
FREE ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET on the uses of
Plytvood is available. Send
name and address to . . .
Secretary, Australian Ply-
wood Board, or the Plywood
Distributors’ Association in
your State.
as*
ssami
THE PRODUCT OF THE AUSTRALIAN PLYWOOD BOARD
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Germany—East or West?
(From an “Atlantic Monthly” report of
political trends in Europe.)
There are many Britons, and they
include some influential men in the
Labor party, who believe that for the next
20 or 30 years European diplomacy will
revolve on the decision whether Germany
is to drift into the Soviet or the Western
orbit.
The British Labor Government reckons
with Germany’s early emergence as a
peaceful democratic nation. Labor re-
jects the view that militarism is an incur-
able German malady. After the First
World War, Germany waited seven years
before gaining admittance to the League
of Nations. This time, if some members
of Britain’s Labor Government have their
way, Germany will enter the new United
Nations organisation in five years or less.
The revulsion of the West against the
Potsdam settlement is expected to come
faster and more furiously than did revul-
sion against Versailles. In his first public
review of the Labor Government’s foreign
policy, Bevin spoke against the attitude
of revenge.
Bevin believes that Germany must cease
to be'an economic slum. Who knows
better than British Labor folk, he would
ask, that a slum is unsuitable for cultivat-
ing the arts of peace and democracy? The
British view is that a poverty-stricken
Germany, hostile and frustrated, even
without arms, will remain a hotbed of
ferment.
Russians in Poland.
(From a report by a N.Y. "Times” staff corre-
spondent.)
One of the most frequent questions
that a correspondent travelling in Poland
is asked is “When is the American Army
coming to liberate us from the Russians?”
As incredible and preposterous as this
may seem, it is a widespread notion,
heard most often from educated and in-
telligent Poles,
The people of Poland to-day have
ample reason for disliking the Russians.
First stands the fact that Poles and
Russians have been antagonists for cen-
turies. This ancient animosity was in-
tensified in 1939 when the Russians helped
the Germans partition Poland for the
fourth time in 250 years. This was not
completely effaced by the Russians’ sub-
sequent arrival in the role of liberators,
especially when their liberating extended
to a lot of Polish property with a zeal
hardly distinguishable from the Germans’.
Russian authorities have, in fact, ad-
mitted that the Red Army, when it got to
Poland, regarded it as enemy territory and
drew little distinction between it and
Germany.
The Russians have looted Polish indus-
try. The Moscow-created Polish Pro-
visional Government’s stand on this is
that in the “old Poland” territory the
Russians took chiefly armament works
built up by the Germans during the occu-
pation and in the new western territories
of Poland the Russians took only 30
per cent, of the industrial equipment. A
lone observer is not in a position to re-
fute these appraisals, but in themselves
they are an understandable pretext for
resentment by the average Pole.
The Russians have herded farm animals
by the thousand eastwards across Poland.
A lot of them were going right past the
American Embassy in Warsaw, until one
day the route was abruptly changed.
Russian “supply” troops by the thou-
sand are settled down on the Polish
countryside (the official figure is more
than half a million Polish acres now
being farmed by the Red Army) herding
cattle and using, all other agricultural re-
sources.
The Russians stripped the Polish ports
of Danzig and Gdynia of most of their
cranes and other maritime equipment and
have taken at least three of the harbors’
four important floating drydocks.
This correspondent has visited Polish
hospitals that have been stripped of their
linen and other essential supplies by the
Russians.
Fortress Under London.
(From a London “Times” description. The
site under which this war-time secret fortress
was constructed will be specially familiar to
every Old Digger who got to England.')
One by one the secrets of war-time
London are being disclosed. It is now
known that when London was threatened
with invasion three underground build-
ings were constructed, at strategic points,
to house the nation’s leaders and certain
Government departments. The largest of
these buildings was on the site of an old
gasholder in Horseferry-road, Westmin-
ster, and it became known as the “Horse-
ferry-road Citadel.” Its purpose was to
shelter the War Cabinet, the Chiefs of
Staff and their immediate staffs to the
number off 2000 in the event of mass
bombing or enemy landings dislocating
or destroying the usual centres of admin-
istration.
Thousands of Londoners must have
walked along Horseferry-road and Mar-
sham-street and never realised that be-
neath their feet was a citadel equipped
with the most modern products of science
and engineering. The entrances were in-
conspicuous. One was through a gap
in a hoarding and two were described as
“holes in the ground.” In this subter-
ranean headquarters were three miles of
corridors and nearly a thousand rooms.
The fortress (as it may be called) was
bomb-proof and poison gas-proof, and
had its own power plant, water supply and
radio station. It would have been fully
used if a last-ditch stand had become
necessary, and could have carried on for
three weeks without contact with the out-
side world had London been besieged.
So strong was this underground fortress
that experts believe that if an atom bomb
had been dropped on it the steel and con-
crete crust, nearly 12ft. thick, would have
been sufficient protection.
The heart of the fortress was a minia-
ture power station, with four Fetter diesel-
electric generating sets developing in all
1500 h.p. Sunk 60ft. below street level,
and with fuel supply for nearly a month,
the fortress was provided with light and
power and with an air-conditioning plant
which could be operated by pressing a
button, and would give protection against
an Y k n °\vn poison gas.
Ihe Citadel was sunk in some of Lon-
don’s marshiest ground, and the seeoaee
trouble, which was one of the principal
engineering difficulties in building Vic-
toria station, not far away was ever
present in this building. The founda-
tions of the citadel incorporated a double
wall. Water leaking through the outer
wall was picked up in a cavity between
the two walls and pumped out into the
mains, and similar pumps disposed of
water coming from certain springs just
outside the walls. The working of the
complete generating, ventilating, condi-
tioning and pumping plants was under
the direct observation of the shift engi-
neer in his office by means of a compre-
hensive system of visual and audible
warning signals.
In July, 1944, a flying bomb fell within
30 yards of the main entrance, but the
structure suffered only slight superficial
damage and no one was hurt. A police-
man on duty had just time to shut the
blast-proof door.
Air War Ahead.
(Condensed from a “Collier’s” article by the
U.S. Air Force leader General Carl A. Spaatz .)
At some point in the future, possibly
not too distant, speeds will be reckoned
in thousands, not hundreds of miles an
hour. Robot ’planes may stalk the air
lanes, controlled by an internal “brain”
or by a mother aircraft or by instruments
on the ground. Lethal rockets will flash
through the stratosphere scores of miles
above the earth, carrying atomic war
heads.
It will be necessary to “black out” not
only light, but also heat and magnetism
if we are to rely on defences. Radar
bomb sights and heat-seeking missiles
will “find” even underground targets un-
less they have thorough anti-heat-and-
magnetism insulation, and such protection
would be difficult and costly, if not im-
possible.
Thus, we may never see another war
so mild and so slow as World War 11.
or one with as little destruction of life
and property. Never again will we be


• '
P If 'V,
8?
HAVE YOB
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mltcbei
P. T. W. Black. 1 Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
■— -
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
Ns
1 \o
&* K,
HE RIGHT KNIFE
FOR EVERY MAN . .
Whatever the outdoor man—
or boy desires in knife
equipment, he can obtain it in
a Whittingslowe. All Whit-
tingslowe knives are strongly
built and the blades are care-
fully made, ground and tem-
pered in the best Sheffield
tradition.
7 TOOLS IN ONE. Combining pen-
cil sharpener, blade sharpener, bottle
opener (screw top), bottle opener
(crown seal), tin opener, screwdriver,
three-inch rule.
mm
&
POCKET KNIFE. Strongly made,
complete with bottle opener. Handy
pocket size, with attractive nickel
finish.
CLASP KNIFE. Heavy blade, can
and bottle opener. Blackened finish.
A similar knife is obtainable with a
marlin spike.
STOCKMAN’S KNIFE. One general
purpose blade, one castration blade.
Very strongly made. Solid brass
handle.
HUNTING KNIFE. 6-inch blade,
strong polished wooden handle. Sup-
’ plied with leather sheath. Also avail-
able without the can opener in handle.
*
♦
*
I
V'
Keep Them Keen With An
EVERLASTING KNIFE SHARPENER
The Whittingsiowe Everlasting Knife Sharpener
quickly puts a keen edge on cutlery or any type
of blade. Long-lasting sharpening discs are self
adjusting and quickly and inexpensively replaceable.
WHITTINGSLOWE ENGINEERS LTD., CHELTENHAM, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
R S 3 Me WE26
If any illustration in ‘*THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
able to prepare after war starts. Unless
we stand in sjlit-second readiness we will
lose a future war.
Examining carefully the concrete signs
of the extraordinary time ahead, I wish
to try to wrap some meaning around this
idea of readiness, meaning, in terms of
air war, a new kind of warfare which
only cut its baby teeth on Coventry,
Berlin and Hiroshima.
The atomic bomb itselfiffs surely in its
infancy. It is hardly likely that the
power of the first two bombs dropped
could not be increased, in later versions,
three, twenty or a hundred times. So
we have a relatively “perfect” explosive.
But there is another clue to the adole-
scence of air power which is more im-
portant in a way because fewer people are
familiar with it. The form of aircraft,
both as to frame and propulsion, now
is undergoing revolutionary changes.
Recent experimental aircraft, few of
which saw combat, represent radical new
ideas in design and motivation. We have
only begun to learn what these ’planes
can do.
Not uritil the last few months of World
War II did any ’planes appear which did
not have the same salient parts: wings,
tail, propeller. But now propellerless
’planes, powered by jet engines, have
shown startling speeds and rates of
climb. The pilotless V-2 rocket, which
with refinements may become a critically
effective weapon, was wingless. The
current project of aviation engineers is
an “all-wing” ’plane.
The future is one of super-explosives
and super-aircraft. We have barely
scratched the surface..
There is no doubt that tomorrow’s
atomic bomb wifi be many times worse
than the two we have dropped. As for
tomorrow’s aircraft, models now on the
drawing-boards are expected to double
present bomber ranges. ’Planes which
will be in production within a few years
will be able to fly 13,000 miles.
Just as the atomic bomb rendered
obsolete the bomb-carrying capacity of
the mass formation of bombers, so the
picture of air war with conventional
’planes is being made to seem antiquated
by current experiments. It is a picture
useful only to prod the imagination to
accept the almost incredible things that
are probable in the near future. On the
other hand it is not a picture meant to
reduce the reader to a state of helpless
terror. True, this is no time to be smug
but neither is it a time for fright. It is
a time to set up a “defence.”
I have placed this word “defence”
under suspicion because it no longer
means what it did in 1941. Then it had
a Maginot Line implication of holding
off the enemy until you were able to
build up an offence. In terms of the
future that would present the impossible
problem of shooting down all lightning-
swift atomic missiles an aggressor sent
against you for month upon bloody
month unftl you came up with some to
hurl back at him.
Such “defence” is out. The only real
defence has become a total offence, one
that would be aimed at smashing the
enemy’s whole organism and would
“counter” his offence incidentally in the
process.
We must prepare an offence to
“counter” that must be an overwhelm-
ing action planned and ready for instant
release to obliterate all the “invader’s”
military, industrial and political bases. It
must be total in every way, designed to
destroy an enemy’s home base and spare
him nothing.
If another bully nation arises, the
only way we can avoid such a war is to
be able to win it —instantly and decisively.
Such readiness would make any dictator
think twice. It would be offensive
readiness for utter devastation of the
aggressor’s home front before his attack
crippled us.
Our first offensive forces might be
directed against the attacker’s known
military bases, but then we would pro-
ceed without pause—or possibly simul-
taneously—to pulverise his industrial
centres. Through secrecy or defences
not now known, some of an attacker’s
military bases might survive our initial
offensive. But immediate blows against
his means of civilisation and military
support, his industrial and economic areas,
would make his continuance of the
struggle pointless and bring a quick sur-
render.
In planning our national defence we
need to become offence-minded. Our
habits of strictly defensive thought must
be weeded out. We need a national psy-
chology of offence. I am not advocat-
ing by any means a psychology of
aggressiveness. On the contrary, “psy-
chology of offence” indicates a recogni-
tion of the necessity to plan and prepare
a real offence as a realistic defence, an
admission that it will be futile in the
future to try to ward off attack by simply
holding our arms before our face, and
a determination to meet any blows any-
body might direct against us with blows
of our own on a five-to-one basis. No
device foreseeable for the next few years
is likely to prevent the nation with the
fastest and strongest offence, at the start
of any future war, from winning. It
would be tragic to concentrate on defence
to the extent of weakening offensive
power. However, this does not mean that
we should ignore actual defences.
The possibility now appears to be that
the losing nation in any future war in-
evitably would reach a state closer to
total wreckage than anything we have
seen yet —a nation-wide Hiroshima. But
the damage to the nation with the superior
offensive, that is, the winning nation,
might be mitigated by defences. These
would include revolutionary types of anti-
aircraft missiles and fighter ’planes. Their
speeds will be beyond .any comparison
to speeds of to-day. There will
be fuses like today’s radio’ fuses permit-
ting atomic explosions within pre-set dis-
tances of desired targets.
But, again, most such instruments seem
to have greater offensive potentialities
now than defensive, and as long as science
continues to run in its present broken
field, the big edge probably will stay with
attack. For instance, it is foreseeable that
we can make a rocket like the German
V 2 devastatingly accurate, but how we
could “defend” ourselves against it is not
so clear.
There does exist a barrier to the quick
general attainment of 1000-mile-per-hour
speeds—the phenomenon called “com-
pressibility.” It means that as an aircraft
approaches the speed of sound (764
m.p.h. at sea-level, 664 at 35,000 feet),
the air actually compresses and piles up
in front of it so that the ’plane is shoving
along an encumbering air mass. The
motion of a propeller tip or a wing be-
comes extremely erratic when this hap-
pens. An aircraft at this speed pitches
and lunges uncontrollably, and the pilot
usually bails out or crashes. A possibility
is an airframe which actually will change
shape after take-off to adapt itself to
aerodynamic requirements or different
speeds. But, however it comes about, air-
craft that will exceed the speed of sound
are on the way.
The fast-moving field of electronics sug-
gests additional fascinating and terrifying
possibilities. Undoubtedly radar will be
improved to “see” more clearly and
farther than it does now. It already has
been revealed that we have experimental
fuses capable of guiding missiles to their
targets, such as factories, by their sensi-
tivity to heat, light and magnetism. Piloted
aircraft may be equipped to launch
smaller, pilotless aircraft with control
from mother ’plane, ground or within.
These new achievements make the
handwriting on the sky seem to say
with bold clarity: Air Offensive.
This is not meant to be a preachment
against the sailor and the foot soldier.
They would have vital parts in a future
war. But all stress is being laid deliber-
ately on air power here because, despite
our regard for its worth, too many of
us, impressed by the fact that the airplane
has looked substantially the same for the
past 10 years, haven’t grasped its mean-
ing even for the present, not to mention
the future.
Major de Seversky has predicted that
“within 10 years aircraft as we know it
today will go out of existence.” If so,
as seems likely, the warplanes of World
War II shortly will be museum pieces, fit
only for exhibition as antiques to be won-
dered at by a new generation.
War would be won or lost before any
new plans could be made or new weapons
built —-before anything could happen
except release of the attacked nation’s
own long pre-planned and pre-imple-
mented air offensive if it had one.
Death will travel almost entirely in the
air. The chief responsibility for our secu-
rity thus rests squarely on the nation s
air power. The all-important initial crisis
of any future war must be met by the
Air Force we have when war starts.
“Come to Britain.”
(From London “Times:”)
The Travel Association, planning its
“Come to Britain” campaign for 1947,
estimates that the tourist industry could
earn for Britain in a single year three or
possibly four times the amount of the
service of the American loan, and, in
doing so, would bring benefits to every
section of the community and to every
department of industry and commerce.
The association is sponsored by the Gov-
ernment.
Lord Derby, president of the associa-
tion, has stated that £100,000,000 should
be the target for normal years so far as
the value of this invisible export is
concerned. A membership campaign
launched in July last has succeeded in re-
viving the interest of pre-war members


■
-
: .
4 M 5 .
t
•*; 7j"? *
■
a I r x v
* When Tzu Chang ashed about the art of progress
the Master replied)— 1 hinh carefully over your plans and
then carry them faithfully into execution.” Confucius—
from The Analects.
Modern plant managements will do
well to ponder the wisdom of this
eternal truth, particularly when con-
templating the installation of new or
additional steam generating equip-
ment.
To-day “careful” planning means
specialised planning and Babcock’s
amassed knowledge ... accruing from
seventy-five years experience of steam
engineering ... is freely available to
all steam users who esteem the wis-
Jom of specialised planning.
Here, then, is the means of imple-
menting your planning ... let us
study your individual requirements
. . . give you the benefits of our
lengthy research and practical experi-
ence in the design, fabrication and
erection of steam plants and,
through keen co-operation, bring
your plans to successful fruition.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W,
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . ,
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
TIME HAS PROVED /T H E SE K V.l C t E OF BABCOCK BOILER PLANT.
m
m
—; I j
ue
books
WORLD
ii
/?.
dew
&<y
M
/Sea
M
1k
ot
u
etc
at
June
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct,
Nov.
Dec,
Jan,
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
MEMOIRS OF A MOUNTAINEER _ F. Spencer Chapmen
CLOUDLESS MAY —.— Storm Jamieson
BEING MET TOGETHER Vaughn Wilkins
CRICKET COUNTRY Edmund Blunden
THE SMALL BACK ROOM _ Nigel Balchin
CLUNY BROWN —.— Margery Sharp
SO MANY LOVES Leo Walmsley
THE RAZOR S EDGE —.— « . Somerset Maugham
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MTHS—£I-17-6 12 MTHS £3-15-0 (inc.)
MORGAN S BOOK SHOP, 9 Castlereogh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of "World Books." I enclose £ / /
My Name is..
Address.
WORLD
BOOKS”
is a book club
which releases a
selected modern
book in a special
De-Luxe Edition
to members each
month. These
books cost only
5/9 ecach, ir-
respective of the
regular selling
price of the
book, and are
members' own
property.
and in adding many new members. The
funds of the association are derived from
its members, which include municipalities,
transport undertakings, hotels, caterers,
tourist agents, entertainment concerns,
brewers and commercial companies. For
the present financial year the Govern-
ment has agreed to double the grant
by contributing £1 for each £1 subscribed
by members.
A national publicity pool committee has
been formed with the object of pooling
the nation’s resources in oversea publicity
and co-ordinating the efforts of the
various transport interests. Technicolor
travelogue films featuring British scenic
and historical attractions will be shown
throughout the M.G.M. circuits, which
cover 15,000 cinemas in the United States
and first-class distribution throughout the
For Europeans the war has been, more'
than you can ever realise unless you have
sifted firsthand through the material and
human wreckage, an unprecedented
catastrophe. Here you find our own kind
of civilisation with its veneer peeled off
by a desperate universal obsession for,
bread, for shelter, for warmth. The
familiar homilies of our folklore and
faith no longer have validity. All the
love and tenderness, the affections and
loyalties, of ordinary human relation-
ships have fled before the struggle
for mere survival. The news headlines
of large political issues do not tell you
tn f: The little people, sitting on their
rubble heaps or in their foodless and
heatless homes, do. Just to restore their
bodies and souls, let alone rebuild their
lives, is an immense responsibility in the
face of which the disagreements, the pos-
turings, the stalling and chess playing of
diplomats seem nightmarishly unreal. —
W. B. Courtney; “Collier’si”
world. It is expected that these films will
be released over the next five years, be-
ginning next spring. Work is in hand on
the production of a number of publica-
tions for distribution in large quantities
and in different languages. Other forms
of publicity include broadcast talks,
articles and news in the oversea press,
advertisements in periodicals circulating
oversea and posters for display oversea.
The most fruitful field for immediate
attention is considered to be among the
millions of service-men and -women of
the United Nations who have served in
Britain during the war.
After Stalin.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by
Eugene Lyons, author of “Stalin, Czar of All
the Russias” and other authoritative studies
of the U.S.S.R.)
After Stalin —what? After Stalin—
who?
Unfortunately, too many who attempt
to answer such questions allow their hopes
to affect their judgment.
In this writer’s view the demise of
Stalin, far from ending a dictatorship,
may even fortify it. The death of Lenin
made way for Stalin. The passing of
Stalin is altogether unlikely to alter the
basic Soviet system or the machinery of
power built up since 1917.
Despite its revolutionary origin, the
Kremlin regime is one of the oldest and
strongest in the world. In 28 years it has
evolved a police apparatus and a hier-
archy of privileged officials which will
weather any storm. They stood up under
the terrific impact of nearly two years
of defeats in war, with the Germans hold-
ing most of European Russia and with
casualties counted by the million. The
strain of Stalin’s death would be minor
by contrast.
Stalin, it is true, has gathered dicta-
torial power in his own hands. But he
dictates through a new ruling class, com-
prising several millions of upper-bracket
officials, military leaders and industrial
specialists. All of them have a life-and-
death stake in the permanence of the
Soviet setup. Although Stalin is the dic-
tator, this whole class constitutes the
dictatorship.
Whatever difference there may be
among the ruling elements, the first effect
of Stalin’s death would be to draw them
more closely together for common de-
fence. The importance of surviving as a
group is certain to outweigh all inner
rivalries. Only after the stability of the
regime is assured is there likely to be a
struggle for control within the regime.
However, nothing short of a full-parade
revolution, a complete overturn equiva-
lent to the one in 1917, could convert the
thoroughly totalitarian Soviet Govern-
ment into anything resembling an Anglo-
Saxon type democracy. The problem of
who would take Stalin’s place, therefore,
is less vital than it seems on the surface.
Stalin himself has never indicated a
successor publicly in words. In action,
however, he has left little doubt that
Viacheslav Molotov, 56, once Premier and
now Commissar of Foreign Affairs, is his
heir-apparent. Molotov has been pushed
forward on every occasion both inside
Russia and in the conduct of Soviet rela-
tions with the outside world. Despite his
shortcomings intellectually and as a per-
sonality, he is one of the few “old Bolshe-
viks” still in authority. Continuity ot
power, linking the Lenin and the Stalin
periods with the post-Stalin era, is a vital
consideration, and Molotov is the only
one who could provide that continuity.
Whether he would be able to maintain
his position of leadership against other
ambitious contenders is another problem.
It took about four years after Lenin's
death before Stalin’s succession was firmly
established.
Andrei Andreyev is often mentioned
as a possible successor and so is Andrei
Zhdanov. Both of them are members of
the all-powerful Politburo headed by
Stalin. Andreyev is 50, Zhdanov 49. Both
of them have been at Stalin’s right hand
in the conduct of this war.
The youngest of the leaders frequently
listed by observers among the possible
heirs to Stalin’s mantle is George Malen-
kov, 41, Vice-Chairman of the Council
of People’s Commissars ; his star has been
rising steadily.
These three do not exhaust the list. In
Russia a man’s public prominence or
title in the Government is less important
than his influence inside the ruling party.
A surprise successor consequently is
always possible.
But if you must bet on the basis of
present appearances, put your money on
Molotov as the Stalin-to-be.
Yes, But How, Uncle Joe?
(Condensed from N.Y. “Times.”)
When Senator Pepper asked Generalis-
simo Stalin whether he wanted to send
him away from his interview with any
special message, the Russian leader “hesi-
tated” and then said:
Just judge the Soviet Union objectively.
Do not either praise us or scold us. Just
know us and judge us as we are and base
your estimate of us upon facts and not
rumors.
It is an excellent prescription, but how
are we to follow it?
A Russian observer in the U.S.A. [it
goes also, of course, for Australia],
whether a Soviet journalist or an
official of the Soviet Government, can
travel wherever he likes, see what he
wants to see, talk with anyone he wants
to talk with, and send back to Russia,
wholly without censorship of any kind, a
report on any given situation which is
based to the best of his ability “upon
facts and not rumors.” But this is not
true in reverse.
The visitor to Russia can travel only
where the Government wishes him to
travel, see only what he is permitted to
see, and talk only with people the Govern-
ment wishes him to talk with. He cannot
separate facts from rumors, because the
Government will not give him the means
to do so. And when, on the basis of evid-
ence which is often insufficient, he pre-
pares his report for transmission, he must
I cannot share the general pessimism
about Britain’s future. Despite the
present evidence. I am convinced that
the qualities which made Britain great
are still the working heritage of the
British people. Plenty of economic
factors are out of kilter. The balances
abroad which finance world trade are
gone. The coal is hard to mine. Ship-
ping is tight. Industrial techniques and
organisation are antiquated. The people
are tired. The face of Britain is scarred.
But underneath there is still Britain.
Britain enters a further period of hard
work. So what ? It is good to work
hard. When a nation sits back and
strives to take its ease, then is the time
to watch out. Britain still has a great
deal of its primary resource —the old and
unlimited capacity to get things done.
t lt may be what used to be called mud-
dling-through, but it still works. And
though Britain is a slow starter, when it
gets going the machine grinds long and
fine. Within a year, lam convinced,
Britain’s recovery and reconversion will
begin to impress the world. What has
been lost in time-lag will, perhaps, be
compensated for in steadiness. And in
quality.—“ Christian Science Monitor’'’
editor Erwin D. Canham, returned from
visiting post-war Britain.
submit it to a heavy-handed censorship
which is more interested in the propa-
ganda values than the “objectivity” of
his findings.
That is also true wherever, outside of
the U.S.S.R., Russian influence is para-
mount today. For months the U.S. Gov-
ernment was placed in the humiliating
position of begging Russia to permit
American newspaper correspondents to
go into countries in Eastern Europe —
Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, etc. —which
hacj been liberated from German domina-
tion with the aid of American arms.
\yhen those correspondents at last were
permitted to visit such countries they
found obstacles placed in the way of
transmitting their dispatches.
Moreover, what has been happening in
Russian-controlled Europe has been hap-
pening also in Russian-controlled Asia.
We are so accustomed to Russian “black-
outs” that it has seemed to be the most
natural thing in the world that we should


o
=3^
&
fi
\
m
IH
S'
&
o
%
1
tfat-i
m
mt
wy
U
m
S«
.. .“a Girdle round the Earth
>?
—Shakespeare
No longer a “Midsummer Night’s Dream”—
but a fully accomplished fact—is the encircling
of the globe by fast modern aircraft in this new
Age of Flight.
Qantas plays a major role in world air
communications . . . speeding passengers
and mails on Empire Routes, as accredited
Air Representatives of the Commonwealth
Government—and as Australia’s International Airline.
Qaritad Snifu'te^i'urayo
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
ALUMINIUM ENAMEL
3 'OX cJUL of vrui&oJUxro*iM, !
A bright, clean, rust-resistant
and heat-resistant silver finish
with a brilliant sheen.
f-ORS
Twffeifc.
QUICK*DRYING ENAMEL
The miracle finish for interior
decoration. Hard, tough,
waterproof, with a brilliant
lustre. For all wood or iron
work in bathrooms, kitchens
and living rooms. Easy to
apply—long lasting.
SoUjpJlA*
PAVING ENAMEL
‘D'ujlA oJ> 'fuxAxL 0/6 -ouyrx, 1
Brilliant lustre, quick-drying,
waterproof. This iron-hard
surface is ideal for garage
floors, concrete paths, steps,
verandahs, passages. It is
guaranteed to withstand
heavy foot traffic.
Victorian Distributor: T. S. NETTLE-'
FOLD & SONS PTY. LTD. Queensland
Distributor; BROWN & BROAD LTD.
Tasmanian Distributor: A. ti. WEB-
STER & SONS PTY. LTD. Made by
TAYLOR’S PAINTS PTY. LTD.,
Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W.
J9.S
TaMsoTk^airtt —
thi& 5 Y&ojvb cJ-e&t!
now be told not an inkling of what is
happening in Soviet-controlled Korea.
The moment the Soviet armies occupied
Manchuria, the inevitable headline read;
“Soviet Blackout in Manchuria.”
This policy defeats its own purposes.
Inevitably it feeds rumors instead of
clearing them away. It creates suspicions.
It handicaps good relations. It makes
difficult certain actions which would
otherwise be simple. When, for example,
the American people are asked to make
a very large loan to Russia, it is natural
that they should want to be in the posi-
tion of acquiring as much knowledge
#bout Russia and Russian policies as any
prudent private creditor would desire in
similar circumstances. Certainly in private
transactions of this kind' full and willingly
granted access to all relevant information
is the sine qua non of extending credit.
Present Russian policy does not encour-
age the acquisition of such information.
It does not encourage that mutual con-
fidence which alone can serve as a sound
basis for the pooling of efforts in such
matters, for example, as control of offen-
sive weapons like the atomic bomb.
English Church Losses.
(From a London "Times” report.)
A report of the Central Council for the
Care of Churches, entitled “Salving the
Art Treasures of the Church,” contains a
comprehensive account of the losses in
architectural and artistic treasure in
churches damaged or destroyed by enemy
action.
Generally, they are considered to
be far less than might have been expec-
ted. Several places in the west of England
were used for the safe storage of valu-
ables from Southwalk, Exeter, Salisbury,
Portsmouth and Lichfield cathedrals.
Loss of medieval work is small. Not
one of the great cathedral churches was
lost, and only a very few have been dam-
aged, and in no case is the damage irre-
parable. Only one medieval church of the
first rank, Coventry Cathedral, was lost,
and that was architecturally in the class of
the greater parish churches. Of the Gothic
parish churches of the first or second
rank, and of those full of superb fittings,
monuments and screenwork, none has
gone save Coventry. The nearest
approach, perhaps, ifl the third rank are
the two London churches of All Hallows,
Barking, and St. Olave, Hart-street, with
St. Peter and Holy Cross (Temple),
Bristol and perhaps St. Martin, Coney-
street, York and St. Andrews, Plymouth,
In St. Martin, York, and St. Andrews,
Plymouth, restoration is possible.
The losses of churches of the English
Renaissance are much more serious, and
a lamentably high proportion of classical
churches has gone. The most serious
losses in the city of London are: St.
Andrews by the Wardrobe ; St. Augus-
tine, Old Change ; St. Bride, Fleet-street;
Christ Church, Newgate-street; Holy
Trinity, Minories ; St. Mary the Virgin,
Aldermanbury; St. Mildred, Bread-
street ; St. Nicholas, Cole Abbey; St.
Stephen, Coleman-sireet; St. Swithun,
London Stone; St. Vedast, Foster-
lane ; St. Andrew, Holborn; St. Anne
and St. Agnes ; St. Lawrence Jewry; St.
Mary-le-Bow; St. Stephen, Walbrook.
There has been irreparable loss in the
destruction of the splendid series of Re-
naissance monuments hidden away in the
clerestory of the Round Church.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
At the close of the First World War, in 1919,
Clemenceau made it plain that if the United
States and Britain, the only countries then in
the world who could do it, would jointly give
France a guarantee against future German
attack, a second world war would be prevented.
If not, not. Joint action, which alone could
do the trick (again as Clemenceau made clear),
was prevented by a public opinion which on
both sides became embittered about extraneous
matters —debts, “who won the war?” Uncle
Shylock, Uncle Sap, Britain’s Six League Votes,
Ireland, India, Imperialism, Naval Competi-
tion. All this stood in the way of a common
policy and pooling of power which, by steps
even as simple as the one urged by Clemen-
ceau, might have prevented the worst of all
wars. — Norman Angell; “American Mercury.”
* * * *
“It is as certain as anything can be certain
in this uncertain world that the countries of
Asia will not submit willingly to any empire or
any domination and will revolt against it. It
will be a continuing revolt of millions, with
passion behind it, which even an atom bomb
will not suppress, and from ’that revolt will de-
velop that terrible thing, the third world war.”
—Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, presiding at an all-
India States peoples’ conference; London
“Times” report.
* * * »
A new television pick-up “eye,” more than
100 times as sensitive as any previously used
in the studios, which performed the feat of
clearly showing a television studio scene by the
light of a single match, was demonstrated in
a studio of the U.S. National Broadcasting
Company. The new electronic eye was turned
on a special performance of the rodeo at
Madison Square Garden, given for visiting men
of the United States Navy. Most of the arena
and performers in action could be seen vividly
without a hint of the shadows or blackouts
that have accompanied previous pick-ups with
ordinary means.— N.Y. “Times.” <
* * * *
Mr. Charles D. Torvell, scientific adviser to
the British forces in the Far East, stated at
the Liverpool Rotary Club that 27 soldiers back
in Britain from the fighting in New Guinea
were totally blind through eating what looked
like ordinary English cherries. The fruit was
discovered at the end of 1942. The lay name
for - it was “finger cherry,” and it looked and
tasted like an English cherry. One or two
of these “finger cherries” were eaten without
anything happening, but soldiers who ate nine
or 10 were totally blind within a few hours.
So far science has found no means of restoring
sight in these cases. As soon as the properties
in the fruit were discovered the authorities
destroyed as many of the trees as possible.—
London “Times.”
* * * *
China knew well enough that she was sur-
rendering her shadowy claim to Outer Mongolia
when she signed her recent treaty with Russia,
agreeing to a plebiscite in that /arid Asian
region. Results of such plebiscites, conducted
under Russian auspices, are foregone conclu-
sions. Complete returns showed 400,074 votes
for “independence” and none at all to the con-
trary. In other words, it never occurred to
a single soul in Mongolia to vote for the
ancient link with China. Perhaps the fact
that every voter was required to sign his
ballot had something to do with the result. —
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Most of the residents of Prague with whom
I have talked, including some of the “panic
Reds,” as Czechs are called who have only
recently blossomed out with red stars bearing
the hammer and sickle in their buttonholes,
say that the Communists could not possibly
carry the country if the elections were held
now. Thrifty Czechs have reacted badly to
Russia’s seizure and transporting out of the
country of the industrial machinery which be-
longed to Czechoslovak as well as British and
American businessmen. They have refused to
accept the Moscow argument that the last
owner of the machinery was the German Army,
and that therefore it is legitimate war booty.
—.Prague correspondent, Chicago “Sun.”
* * * *
At no time was there any indication that
General MacArthur was trying to “make policy”
or do anything more than carry out his com-
mission as Allied commander in Japan and to
get the most with the least men. He acted
through the Emperor, as was agreed in the
terms of surrender, because it was clear that
the Emperor, despite a lot of hopeful Marxist
denial, could persuade the Japanese people to
accept the Allied terms and live up to them.
There are people who would prefer another
million casualties to any peace involving re-
tention of the Emperor. To most Americans
the price seemed high. However, once the
policy was decided on, it is hard to understand
the hymns of hate against MacArthur for carry-
ing it out. The motives behind the criticism
of MacArthur’s generally wise and farsighted
administration were . mixed. There was the
genuine fear that we were “giving Japan back
to the Japanese.” There was also, as “Human
Events” suggests, the Communist “hope for
as much disorder and breakdown of social
organisation in Japan as possible,” so as to
enable “Russia and the Communist party to
take a hand in the internal Japanese situation
find profit by the inevitable result of vengeful
measures; i.e., Japanese hatred of America.”
—“Saturday Evening Post. 1 ’
# %
The British jet-propelled Meteor set a world
record by flying 606 miles an hour. While this
’plane carried no passengers, aviation enthusi-
asts promptly began envisioning trans-Atlantic
flights at ten miles a minute. At that “rate the
’plane would keep pace with the sun, so that
a passenger leaving London at .noon would
arrive in New York at noon —the same noon.
If the ’plane had enough gasoline, it could' go
on to Honolulu and get there the same noon.
Just when the passenger would eat lunch is
not clear. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* . * , * *
A rocket that, the Americans are told, can
soon be flown to the moon can, much sooner,
be flown to New York or Chicago, and few
believe that the secret can be kept for long
or share Congressional confidence that a reply
has been found. In the light of this there may
be soon a real popular movement in America
for putting teeth into the new world organisa-
tion and a growing popular resentment against
the Power that seems to be 'against teeth,
Russia. What was a minor hobby of the press,
the insistence on. free news, may become a
national issue. The atomic bomb cannot be
made in a corner, but it may be made secretly
in Samarkand, while it cannot, in peace-time,
be made secretly in Tennessee. A country that
has no Official Secrets Act is going to be handi-
capped in dealing with Russia on even terms.
The world, it will soon be said, cannot exist
hopefully, half-public, half-secret. — Manchester
“Guardian” special correspondent.
*
There is a widely-held opinion that the
United States should destroy its huge surplus
of arms from the Second World War instead
of disposing of it, on any terms, to other Gov-
ernments. Unless that is done, those who hold
this view are certain that, as in the period
between the two global wars, surplus arms will
be the means of breeding and fighting small
conflicts that will undoubtedly lead to World
War HI and, in the meantime, make it impos-
sible for the United Nations Organisation to
effect real disarmament. After the war that
ended in 1918 the victorious Governments, in-
cluding that of the United States, began to sell
their excess arms. Some were more conscien-
tious and responsible than others, according to
officials today who were active in the matter,
but the record of all was bad. Italy is recalled
as having by this method furnished the arms to
South America that made possible the Chaco
war, and all the victors permitted weapons to
be sold in China, which the local war lords
used in the civil conflicts that preceded the un-
declared war with Japan.— Arthur Krock;
Washington correspondent N.Y. “Times.”


For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
—— i All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O, Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
Vi VII Hi ■■
ys-r* v
\ u / /:
\wwri
PORTABLE—FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES ON
STANDS.
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and
built to tit your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very
attractive and some pur-
. chasers have reported re-
covering their full outlay
in one season.
THE MAXIMUM PATENTED OUTLET.
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor.
The patented Coupling is the only one on the market that has
positive flexibility, for it can be coupled in any dirdbtion to an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight.
Quotations given for plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres.
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
Agents: SMITH & GUUYAS PTY., LTD., 154-156 Clarence St., Sydney.
Telephone: M 2977.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY., LTD., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Box 21 South
Brisbane. ’Phone, J 1456.
WEEDING & CKOSSLEY Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne, ’Phone, MX 4889.
MSI 953 hi
fd
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Om MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
HTS
LYS
PROOF
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
vm
mm
Map
mmmmm
mm
... >x:
X.
mm
i MM »
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable&from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney:
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
r Handling Sheep.
“Bugaldie”: The drover’s job is to get
the sheep in his charge to their desti-
nation In the best condition possible, with-
out loss, in a given time —six miles a
day. A good drover’s dog will, especially
oh an unfenced stock route, allow the
stock to get a big spread on, even getting
to the lead if necessary to steady them,
so that they will keep picking all the
while; but he will not let one sheep stray
away from the mob.
Lack of water in summer is the hardest
thing on travelling sheep, and where the
watering-places are a couple of days’
travel they cut up very badly. Once they
get really thirsty they won’t feed, and
when they eventually get to water they
don’t seem to recover. Where a yard or
a secure camping-place is not available
for the night the drover carries his ropes
and pegs, and in a few minutes con-
structs a secure yard.
The sheepman, when he has to do a
job with his sheep, wants to get it done
in the quickest time possible, so what he
wants is a good forcing dog. With ewes
and lambs, which are pigs to drive, you
have to walk when your “dog turns
hoarse” and “bark” when your “horse
turns dog.” Discretion must be used with
poor sheep. Wethers and young sheep
are usually good to drive, but watch that
the leaders don’t run the tailenders off
their feet, resulting in a trail of knocked-
up sheep from the paddock to their im-
mediate destination. In hot weather it
is advisable to get your sheep moving
early in the morning. The art of yard-
ing sheep, or putting them through a
gate, is to sing them—that is, force them
hard on to the fence either side of the
gate, then literally make them ring towards
the opening, and through they go. It
is remarkable how few sheepmen do this,
but it is the one and only way. An under-
standing dog is worth two men ; a show
dog a nuisance, and a biter an abomi-
nation.
It does not hurt to drive ewes heavy in
lamb, provided there’s an ample supply
of nutritive food available, and they
are not kept hungry for too long. It’s
a great time to shear ewes on the point
of lambing under those conditions, but if
there’s no feed, and they are starved for
too long, they’ll die like flies.
Rust and Eureka.
“8.C.”: The north-west of N.S.W. is
great wheat country with its short fal-
lows and big yields without super., but
it is only so through the constant efforts
of departmental wheatbreeders to keep
it supplied with rust-resistant varieties.
The peculiarities of north-west soil and
climate (early summer rains and humidity
on heavy black and red soil) made rust
so prevalent that for many years wheat-
growing there was given the go-by.
With the evolution of Ford wheat it
looked as though rust was overcome _and
all the land from Quirindi to Inverell,
west to Moree and south to Quirindi
again, burgeoned into wheat. Growers
"Put the billy on, Ma —here comes a visitor
in other parts, used to regarding a 10-
bagger as a good crop, heard of 15- and
18-baggers taken from the same paddock
year after year. There was, of course,
another snag in that such crops fre-
quently lodged in rain and high wind, but
the pick-ups on modern headers mostly
handled that successfully.
But it is one thing to breed a rust-
resistant wheat and another to keep it so.
Presently Ford was taking rust and other
resisters had to be found. There were
hopes, more or less justified, for Pusas
and Fedweb, but it was S. L. Macindoe’s
creation, Eureka, which was the winner
—for a time. Macindoe got it from a
Kenya crossbred crossed with Florence
and an FI plant and then mated with
Dundee. That was in 1932. Fixed and
named. Eureka was given to north-west
growers six years later.
Eureka treated rust with disdain. In
trials in which Ford went down so badly
to rust as to yield practically nothing,
Eureka and Eureka II yielded plump
grain heavily. But within 10 years rust
had overcome Eureka’s resistance and by
1942 the Department was warning
growers that it had broken down. In
the recent north-west harvest the warning
was borne out direfully and the victory
lay with the disease again.
However, wheatbreeders weren’t idle.
The Department had evolved Charter,
Yalta and Celebration, the University
Gabo and Kendee. Gabo —which did
well around Bingara this year—and
Charter, are the only two actually re-
commended, but grcfwers are invited to
try trial strips of the others. Agricultural
instructors at Gunnedah, Tamworth and
Inverell are the men to see about it. As
for tfris business of rust overcoming
apparently-resistant varieties, Macindoe
puts it this way:
Research at Sydney University indicates
that the Eureka wheats have become sus-
ceptible to stem rust since 1942 as the
result of the appearance of a new “variety”
of stem rust known technically as a new
biotype of Race 34. Apparently, however,
these wheats have so far retained their
high resistance to stem rust in W.A. and
S.A. This would indicate that the new bio-
type of stem rust has not so far spread to
those States.
Macindoe and his kind don’t get head-
lines. But the Australian wheat industry
would be a sorry show without their con-
stant vigilance and enduring though fre-
quently heart-breaking work.
A Soil Survey.
“Crowchewer”: A soil, land-use and
erosion survey of part of County Vic-
toria, S.A., is described in Bulletin 188
of the C.S.I.R. About 600 square miles
of the county was surveyed in response
to a request by S.A. Department of Agri-
culture, which wanted to find out about
soil erosion and factors contributing to
it in a typical wheat area.
This is the first attempt in Australia to
map and classify erosion on a large area,
and a simple system was devised for the
purpose, since used satisfactorily in Vic-
toria.
A study of land-use in the area was
also made, and types of land usage were
related to different degrees of erosion. In
connection with this a preliminary in-
vestigation of the effect of different forms
of land-use, particularly crop rotations,
was made on soil structure. How faulty
land-use practices, such as two-year crop
and fallow rotations and over-grazing,
increase surface run-off, cause surface
sealing of fallow land, decrease infiltra-
tion, lower fertility and ultimately accele-
rate both sheet and gully erosion has
been investigated.
It was found that control of erosion in
the area can only be achieved by adjust-
ment of the stocking rate, lowering it on
the natural pastures of the hills, widening
of the wheat rotation to a three- or four-
year course, use of contour banks and
furrows and other measures, such as re-
tention of stubble. This is the kind of
survey that should be going on all over
Australia.
Rutherglen Bug.
“Field”: Only effective treatment is a
0.1 p.c. solution of D.D.T. made up by
mixing one gallon of the 20 p.c. commer-
cial emulsion in 200 gallons of water.
Insecticides previously used eradicated the
pest only temporarily, whereas D.D.T.
prevents reinfestation of the crop for
periods of three weeks or more. An
application of 200 gallons per acre will
give a good coverage and effective con-
trol ; larger quantities—2oo-300 gallons—
are necessary for fruit trees. Cost is
about £3 per acre.
A 2 p.c. D.D.T. dust was successful on
vegetable and vegetable-seed crops such
as cabbage, carrot, celery, onion, potato
and tomato, all of which have been
heavily infested. Usual quantities of dust
may be used, dependent on the maturity
of the crop, cost being about 9d. per lb.
It is illegal to market fruit and vegetables
containing more than 10 parts per million
of D.D.T. ; where growers use it in the
above quantities there is little danger oi
exceeding this tolerance. Further, be-
cause of the long period of effectiveness
of the spray, it may be applied three
weeks before harvesting.
Drift Control.
“Big Billy”: That soil drift can be
arrested has been clearly demonstrated
by F. A. Meagher, Murrayville (Vic.),
wheatgrower and dual winner of the
Hanslow Cup for drift control. Con-
clusions reached after 20 years of trial
and error are: Preserve, where possible,
vegetable cover of any kind; adopt


oO5E$
CevEBRATeV
LOTION
EYE
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co M Pty- Ltd King street. Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
f
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
inp- is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine 't&w’&lOV POWDERS 1/.
SKIN LiOTION 2/8
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/8
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
SOLD
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street - - - Brisbane
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
OUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWEK that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
dfd
How to get
More for your Money
« , . whatever you’re planning to buy
. *
Is.
m
w
m
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3a. 6d.r POST FREE. "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
When a lot of people went the same things,
then prices go up. That is one of the reasons
for many of to-day’s high prices.
Australia, we must all remember, is recovering
from the tremendous strain of war, and during
the recovery period there will be unavoidable
shortages of many goods. While these con-
ditions last, every big or little thing you buy
that you can possibly do without will make
shortages even worse and send prices stilf higher
on what is left.
By saving your money now, you will help to
keep prices down. When goods are plentiful
again will be the time to make good use of the
money you save now —for then you will get
more for your money in everything you buy.
Meantime, put savings into more Bonds, more
Savings Certificates, more Savings Stamps. You
can buy Certificates and Stamps at any time,
and you can invest now any amount from £lO
upwards in the £70,000,000 Security Loan
opening on March 12th. Interest begins
immediately. See your Bank or Stockbroker.
5 THINGS TO DO TO
HELP KEEP PRICES
■ DOWN
1. Spend wisely. Get
full value. Buy only
what you really need.
Save all you can.
2. Share and share alike
the goods available
don’t "blackmarket.”
3. Keep your own prices
down. Don’t take ad-
vantage of shortages to j
ask more for your goods j
or services.
4. Pay your way
settle your debts, make
no new ones.
5. Invest your savings,
at better than bank in-
terest, in Commonwealth
Bonds, Savings Certifi-
cates and Stamps. When
goods are plentiful again
you can make good use
of the money you save
now—for then you will
gel more for your
money in everything you
buy.
Be a Saver, Not a Spender-Help Keep Prices
Issued by the Commonwealth Loans and National Savings Organisation
N57.113;12S
lengthy rotations; use plenty of super.;
conserve fodder in good seasons; sow
cereal varieties with heavy straw to hold
the soil, as straw is almost as important
as grain ; consider advisability of grow-
ing early varieties.
C.Q. Weather Lore.
“Sarina”: In Central Queensland a
northerly wind with clouds hurrying to
the south or south-east means a thunder-
storm during the summer (B. 19/12/’45).
The storm or storms will come from
south or west; if a great deal of cloud
hurries to meet it, it will very likely
yield good rain. If not, it will probably
be dry or productive of very patchy rain.
If a day breaks fine with jagged chunks
of placto-cumulus (these clouds are high,
white-or-black flakes, associated with
mares’ tails or cirrus) floating up from
south or west, look out for a storm. They
should increase in size and darkness dur-
ing the day; if they dwindle off, and the
wind alters from northerly to easterly or
southerly, there will be no storm. Fleecy
clouds working up from south or west,
while lower-altitude clouds hurry south-
wards, invariably mean thunder in the
afternoon or evening.
South-easterly and easterly winds on
the coast herald coastal showers. When
there’s a south-easterly blowing, and low-
altitude cumulus or nimbus clouds are
coming off the ocean, no storm will occur,
however much high-altitude cumulus is
coming from the interior. However, this
high cloud may yield light continuous
rain with the lower clouds giving addi-
tional heavy showers at intervals.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Though the disc
plough is often used in paspalum pad-
docks (B. 17/10/’45), the stiff-tined culti-
vator does a better job of breaking up
matted roots and putting new vigor into
a weary stand. When thinking of making
fresh paspalum pastures choose rich,
black soil country if possible. Paspalum’s
a liability on dry, sandy country.
“Bill On our C.Q. coast soils,
which consist of alluvials, residual silts,
clay loams and loams, potatoes grow well
without much manure (B. 2/1/’46). We
only grow ’em as a sideline, cane being
our chief crop. Phosphates and potash
are present in the soil; green-manuring
boosts the soil nitrogen. Nitrogenous
fertilisers and super, are always carefully
handled ; careless handling of sulphate of
ammonia has ruined many a promising
vegetable crop in N.Q. There is less
disease if a fresh paddock is found for
spuds each year, but disease cannot be
avoided if inferior seed is sown.
“C.S.”: Supplies of anti-toxin for
pulpy kidney will be made available, free
of charge, to sheep-owners willing to con-
duct trials under these conditions, laid
down by the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories: (1) Presence of entero-
toxsemia must be confirmed by diagnosis
by a district vet. or at the Vet. Research
Institute. (2) Owner agrees to leave, as
a control, 50 p.c. of lambs unvaccinated.
(3) Vaccinated lambs to be suitably
marked for identification. (4) After vacci-
nation the two groups to be kept under
identical conditions. (5) The owner to
keep daily records of mortality in each
group, and to supply them fortnightly to
the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories
through the district vet. Applications to
the Director, Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories, Parkville N. 2, or to the
district vet. (stock inspector).
“Will C.”: Provided there is no chance
of the fire getting away midsummer’s the
best time for burning off lantana scrub.
Qet a fire in the thick dead stuff at the
base of the clump, and the fire will go
right through, burning green and dry
matter alike. Soon as the ashes are cool,
get in and clean up the charred remnants
with a caneknife. The stools can be
pulled out by hitching a team of nags
to ’em. Then scatter Rhodes or Guinea
grass seed to consolidate the newly-won
ground.
“Bennie”: To dress an oilskin coat,
dissolve one part of soap in 10 parts of
water, using weight measurements. Pour
into the mixture a boiling solution of
alum, as much as it’s possible to dissolve
in the water. Give the mixture time to
settle, subsequently pouring off the liquid.
Then wash the alum soap. Dry the in-
soluble residue, finally dissolving it in
benzine. Apply to the material with a
brush.


For truly
delicious cliocolates
remember ....
ROMANCE
c
g)
-tj)
aS
This famous chocolate
assortment will again he
made as soon as conditions
permit.
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
SPRAY «*Q ID
Hi
.. don’t eat with the flies
Don’t let dirty, annoying flies invade your dining-room and spoil good,
wholesome food. Spray with Q ID, Quick Insect Destroyer, ten minutes
before serving a meal—kill these pests and eat in comfort.
QID contains deadly D.D.T., plus quick-action Thanite, with the result
that when QID is sprayed, every Fly, Mosquito and other insect soon
come tumbling down to the floor, never to rise and worry you again—
Q I D makes certain of that.
You will find Q I D still pleasantly perfumed to do away with rank “fly-
spray odor,” and for this reason, Q I D is most suitable for spraying in
rooms that are frequently occupied. Spray with QI D daily, and keep
your home insect-free.
“THE SPRAY THAT INSECTS FEAR”
fd
SMOKE-OH!
4- 4* 4* *l*
“Who was it said ‘A little goes a long way,’
and of what was he thinking?” —"New Idea.”
Probably of butter on a boarding-
house table.
+
Let s, suppose you have an attractive hus-
band, and he has looked twice at the Other
Woman.” — Woman’s paper.
This needn’t be more than a glancing
blow.
4* *l* 4*
“She took the loud-speaker part of the nurse
into baby’s room.” — “Woman.”
Thus eliminating the static.
“Laundries are working overtime to make
up the leeway in their work.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Tearing into it again.
“It is a fact that the Department of the
Interior has received a number of requests
from those anxious to stake claims on the
moon.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
But with the lesser pull of gravity there
is always the danger that someone Will
jump them.
Weighty Matter.
“She yearned to be surrounded by slim and
athletic lovers, but she finished up marrying a
20st. businessman.” —Excerpt from novel.
“Let me have men about me that are
fat”
Caesar declared. This lady, though, did
not. ~
At slim and supple men she set her hat —
But a fat lot she got!
Nat.
“In Grandma’s day, legs were strictly anony-
mous. No lady had legs.”— Woman’s paper.
Yet she walked all over Grandpa just
the same, t
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There are 25,000 named and known back-
boned animals.” — “World's News.”
No Federal Labor Minister is num-
bered amongst them.
"You'll have to shave it off, I'm afraid — it’s
sapping your strength
Recognition.
“In a Los Angeles court a Marine private
pleaded mental cruelty on the part of his wife,
who nagged him because he hadn’t a commis-
sion.”
“It’s perfectly disgraceful,” my wife
said for the seventeenth time. “There’s
Mrs. Sproggins up the street; her hus-
band’s a captain, and the way she goes
on about it you’d think he was General
MacArthur. And What do you do about
it? Nothing. You just sit there, quite
content to be a private, and never think
how I can hardly face Mrs. Sproggins at
the Red Cross. She even suggested last
week that I should salute her. It’s not
as if he’d even been in the army half
as long as you have, either. You’ve got
no ambition.”
“No, dear,” I sighed.
“You don’t even try,” she went on
with scarcely a pause for breath. “If
you’d only do something, like asking
some of the officers for afternoon tea, or
taking the colonel for a drink after work.
You simply never consider me at all.”
“No, dear,” I admitted.
‘Well, I’ll just have to do it myself,
that’s all. I’ll go and see the colonel
about having you made a major. That
will fix Mrs. Sproggins. You might look
almost presentable in a decent uniform,
instead of that bag of a thing you wear
And it’s no use you making a fuss.
They’d never think you had enough in-
itiative to ask me to go and see them.”
It was decent of them to promote me
to lance-corporal. But I can’t under-
stand why the C.O. recommended me
for the George Cross.
Plum.
* * . * *
The Difference.
O doleful bard, your moving ditty
Unloosed my tears, unlocked my pity ;
Yet I surmise that mournful measure
Afforded you unbounded pleasure.
F. M.
4* 4- 4* 4<
‘ “Found, Castlereagh-street, bag containing
baby.”— Advt. in daily paper.
Somebody has been left to carry it.
• i 4 T
“The sleek pageboy bob has com-
pletely gone to the head of the
young.”— Woman’s paper.
But many remain a shingle
short.
*❖ * *
Proof!
“Do modern girls really learn any-
thing at school which benefits them
later in life?” — Woman’s paper.
The girl in luxurious furs
stepped out of the limousine.
She spotted a friend of hers, and
paused to speak and to preen.
“Oh, hello, dear,” she said. “You
are not so well-dressed as I. But
don’t get it into your head that
you can’t be —if you’ll try. We’ve
both left school two years. My
success is plain to see. Remem-
ber our French-without-tears?
Well, my pet, I’ve learned to
say ‘Oui’!”
Yair.
“Ars Longa”
“Some modernist painters claim there is a
strong affinity between the occult sciences and
their own art, due to the fact that they con-
centrate on portraying the utterly abstract
through the realm of their subconscious selves.”
—Radio lecturer.
Roscoe - Ratbagge, the great exponent
of ultra-surrealism, put down his brushes
and gazed in rapt admiration at the work
he had just completed.
It was a striking picture. The idea for
it had been a pure inspiration, the dictates
of his inner sub-soul which his hands and
brain had blindly obeyed. Either that, or
it was the result of something he had
seen after all the bombo and curried
prawns he’d had the night before.
In the left foreground, leaning against
half an eviscerated, orange-colored cat,
was an enormous, horrific eye from which
dripped several octagonal cogwheels. In
the right foreground a serrated claw, stick-
ing out at right angles to an elephan-
tiasis-stricken arm, was clutched around
a windpipe convoluted around the out-
side of a Prussian-blue pipe-like neck
which was bisected by a yellow bicycle
pump. In the middle distance the de-
tached, elliptical head of a bearded baby
spat menacingly at a milkcan which had
a pair of green corsets around it, while
in the background a flock of purple-and-
pink striped, winged, semi-circular tele-
graph poles were flying through horizon-
tal rain past a row of perfectly square
mountains from which trees grew upside
down.
Roscoe at last threw back his long,
dank hair in a gesture which he hoped
would look leonine and turned to his
short-haired companion standing beside
him.
“It is my masterpiece!” he said, with
simple modesty. “Although I have
poured into it the essence of my
soul. Dementia, I think I can claim to
have put into it some of your own beauty,
too. Perhaps I captured that when I was
dreamily gazing the other day at _ the
cement works. Now, my sweet, in token
of the love I bear myself I am going to
allow you to choose a name for this opus.”
The young woman thus addressed took
off the thick-lensed, iron-rimmed glasses
she was wearing, the better to con the
work before her. She gazed at it long
and then announced her decision.
“I’ll call it ‘Passion in a Boiler Shop,” ”
she exclaimed. “It does express some-
thing half holy, half pneumatic. From
some angles it possesses the spirit of some-
thing beautifully bloodstained; from
others it seems to portray something of
the ecstasy of nymphs sandpapering water
bubbles.”
Roscoe stepped back and renewed his
appraisal of his masterpiece through half-
closed eyes. “ ‘Thoughts of a Subter-
ranean Balloon’ would more aptly de-
scribe the strong emotional impacts,” he
declared at last. “It shall be that! I will
just be in time to enter it for the exhibi-
tion. But before I offer it for the world’s
delectation I shall as usual consult
Madame Hagg, the crystal-gazer. It is
only meet, after all, for both of our arts
are really out of this world.”
Ten minutes later Roscoe, his precious
canvas clutched in his hand, sat opposite
the seer, who was gazing absorbedly into
the crystal ball. Presently she put her
fingers to her temples and spoke in a
trance-like voice,
“I see,” she quavered, “a critic coming
to the exhibition. He is looking at your
painting and is unerringly interpreting it.
He”
But Roscoe had leapt up, wild-eyed,
clutching his long hair. “My God!” he
groaned. “Is my picture as bad as all
that?”
There followed a crash. Roscoe had
fallen, stricken senseless with the shock.
Well, stricken, anyway. He was already
in the other condition.
Bo.
Graveyard Item.
Over the graveyard shone the moon.
While eerily the gnarled old trees
Waved rustling branches in the breeze.
Awaking from its day-long swoon,
A ghost arose with horrid stare.
A current news-sheet chanced to blow
Against its bony ankles, so
It picked it up and read with care.
At length it put the news-sheet by
And gave a deep sepulchral sigh ;
Then, turning towards its earthy bed,
It said,
“Thank heaven that I’m dead!”
T. W. NATHAN.
Justification.
“I have yet to find a climate which does
not form a good excuse for drinking whisky,”
—“Sunday Sun.”
For those who live in frigid climes
There’s nothing like a drop betimes
To warm the cockles of the heart.
And if in tropic zones apart
You stew and sweat, what could be wiser
Than whisky as an appetiser?
Elsewhere, of course, excusing’s tougher,
But he would be a purblind duffer
Who’d fail to see it were ungrateful
To praise in lesser brews the fateful
Doings of chance, that cast his lot
In climates neither cold nor hot.
D. H. E.


Missing Friend.
ERNEST HAROLD WATKINSON, formerly of Kyne-
ton, Victoria, or anyone knowing his whereabouts, is
requested to communicate at once with PALMER,
STEVENS & RENNIOK, Solicitors, Kyneton, Victoria.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO VICTOR WILLIAM MASTBRTON formerly of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA MASTERTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4100 of 1945 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the twenty-eighth day
of February 1946 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. R. De OOEK Solicitor 107
Liverpool Street Sydney.— (0.5.) C- K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE '
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
•M
'
VJ
PM
World Traveler
&
<p
m
k
?
29
The Air Age opens with this plane. Every
major nation is now on the route of the
Lockheed Constellation, for seven airlines
have picked this plane to launch long-
awaited global air transportation.
Powered by four Wright Cyclone engines,
the Constellation is the largest land-based
transport ever placed in service. It carries 55
passengers in ultra-modern comfort at 300
miles per hour. It will cross the Atlantic in
11 hours or cruise from New York to Buenos
Aires in the space of a day. It gives air trav-
elers lower fares, higher speed and extra
comfort.
Together, the Constellation and its Cyclones
will make a neighborhood of the world.
i
T>wmj
AMR POWER FOR A WORLD AT PEACE
Wright Aeronautical Corporation, Paterson, New Jersey, U. S. A. • A Division of Curtiss-Wnght
REPRESENTATIVES; AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E. I. HEYMANSON & COMPANY, MELBOURNE
CRAVEN A
m
!**-
5785
.. aie always
smoUtfhudt!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
E SPECIALLY
PREVENT
mmi 8
RE THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Australian Steamships, Past and
Present. —3694.
To buy an early edition of The Bulletin Re-
citer. —3695.
Information Sought.
Some information about the production of
jute ?
White jute {Capsularis) is sown in February
and harvested in the June-September period,
while the stronger fibre Olitorius is sown in
February and harvested in the August-Octqber
period. The plants are cut just after flowering,
bundled, and left for two to three days to
allow the leaves to wither and drop off. The
bundles are then submerged in water for a
period varying from ten days to three weeks.
The retting process consist's of the fermentation
of the soft' pith of the plant which dissolves
and leaves the fibre, which can then easily
be separated from the stick. The fibre is then
washed, dried and made up into bundles ready
for market.
* * * *
Cheapest and best method of eradicating
Johnson grass?
Apply, in December, a 10 p.c. solution of
sodium chlorate at the rate of 450 gallons
per acre. The strength of the solution is
secondary in importance to the quantity, as
immediate penetration is assured if the sodium
chlorate is applied with large quantities of
water. For best results the solution should
be applied when the ground is moist, and must
be spread both on the foliage and on the
ground at the base of the plant.
* * * *
(1) If the deeds of a freehold block of land
are handed to a person by the owner, without
anything in writing, just previous to the death
of the owner, has the person any legal right to
the land or would they revert to the Crown?
(2) If the rates on the land are unpaid, has the
council a right to sell the ground?
(1) Possession of the deeds-alone confers no
right to the land, but if the holder can estab-
lish his legal title to the land he can, upon
making proper application, have it transferred
to his name. It would not revert to the Crown.
(2) No.
Brief Answers.
G.E.: It would appear that the contact
springs of the energising coils have failed, but
substitutes can be obtained from the County
Council. Ring M 4407, extension 348 Z.F.:
Both statements are correct. The delegates at
Bretton Woods evolved a plan of which they
all approved, and agreed to recommend its
adoption by their respective Governments. No
country is bound by the Bretton Woods agree-
ment until its own Government agrees to be-
come a member of the World Bank and Stabili-
sation Fund V.A.: The book is published
annually by Adam and Charles Black, 4 Soho-
square, London, and costs 7s. 9d E.C.: If
the coin is a twopenny piece (weighs two
ounces) and in Mint condition, it has a col-
lector’s value of 10s.; ss. if showing signs of
wear. If it is a penny piece (weighs one
ounce) its value is 3s. if in Mint condition, or
Is. if showing signs of wear C.A.A.: Send
address P.D.: (1) The Commonwealth Par-
liament has 111 members, N.S.W. 150, Vic. 99,
Q. 62, S.A. 59, W.A. 80 and Tas. 48. (2)
Ask the R.S.L J.G.E.: Eve Langley was
born in N.S.W. and has lived in Maoriland for
about 10 years A woman becomes
a de facto wife by living with a man without
going through the marriage ceremony. She
has no claim to an allowance if a separation
is effected, hut if there are children as a
result of the union, they are entitled to be main-
tained by their father... J.C.8.: The Mel-
bourne Technical College conducts, by corre-
spondence, a course in surveying. Write to the
Registrar of the Board of Surveyors, N.S.W.,
the Lands Department, Sydney, or to the
Chief Mining Surveyor of the Mines Depart-
ment.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.L.: If that’s what dawn does to you, sleep
in.jN.S. Delighted to learn of the death
of the swagman named Bill and his dorg named
81ue... .A.E.W.; Parody should be a form of
criticism; yours is hardly more than a quip.
D.H.R.: Certainly it is better to sing than
to burst; but you are not singing very tune-
fully when the crab eludes your “grab”.... !
W.A.H.: At least you’ve put an old emotion
about the sea into words both new and strange:
“I come to roar with you” C.D.L.; Have
you really seen trees that stand like “a ;
treacherous bull”? L.E.8.: Try prose
D. 8.: The thought’s considerably better than
the expression of it J.T.; Might suit a
woman’s paper V.G.L.: The genuine feel-
ing can hardly break through that flat rhythm
and (“rodent”) sometimes artificial diction....
F.O’C.: More sting less stench would improve
the atmosphere of the poem... .R.L.S.; A
“prose-poem” is really as improbable a
monster as a bandicoot-eagle G.M.: “The
Hurricane Lamp” is a light that failed
W.R.McK.: Out for a duck.


Bahrein Native turning
big valve on pipe-line . .
rms
MAN
■works-for
This man is one of the 2,400 workmen on
the world’s newest and richest oil-field in the
Persian Gulf. He opens a valve and “black
gold” 1,000,000 galls, a day flows into
the huge, modern refining plant. He is but
another of the vast CALTEX army who
bring you the world’s finest petroleum pro-
ducts, through your nearby CALTEX dealer
to give unequalled performance in your car.
WMF
5/125
m
mu
m
QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
fd
What are YOU Going to Do With 1946-
Waste it, Or Make If WORK For YOU?
Sutctse.
UAVE you thought about it—SERIOUSLY ? It’s YOUR problem! The most
1 important thing in your life is your CAREER. Training for a Good
Position is well worth-while. It not only enables you to occupy a High
Place in the community; it also brings Congenial Employment,, Comfort,
Social Success —the things to be desired in life! During more than 60
years’ Experience, STOTT’S has helped tens of thousands to achieve
oiOTT’S can help YOU! Note a few of STOTT’S 300-odd Courses:-
All Australian Exams
Accountancy Exams
Architectural Courses
Arithmetic, Algebra
Amateur Wireless
Agricultural Courses
Advert/ment Writing
Bookkeeping (Farm
Mercantile, Station)
Business Eetter W/g.
Bankers’ Institute
Building Construction
Builders’ Est. & Ten/g
Buttermakers’ Exam
Boiler Attendant’s
Commercial Art
Cartooning, Sketching
Civil Engineering
Concrete Engineering
Coal Mining
Drawing, Illustrating
Dynamo Attendants
Dairy Supervisors
Dairy Farming
Draughtsmanship
Dresscutting
Expressive English
Estate Agents
Electrical Engineering
Electric Wireman’s
Elec. Eighting/Power
Engine Drivers
Freelance Journalism
Fashion Illustrating
Farm Bookkeeping
General Education
Government Exams
Geometry
Gas & Oil Engines
Handwriting
History/Geography
Herd Tester’s .Exam
Journalism (F/lance)
Literary Courses
Law (Commercial)
Languages
Mathematics
Memory Training
Mech. Engineering
Mech. Draughts/ship
Municipal Engnr/ing
Motor Engineering
Nurses’ Educational
Oil Engines
Pharmacy
Police Entrance Exam
Public Speaking
Road Engineering
Secretaries’ Exams
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Story Writing:
Showcard, Ticket W/g
Sketching:, Cartooning
Shire Clerks’ Exams
Stammerers
Surveying
Structural Engineer/g
Struc. Draughts/ship
Steam Engineering
Sanitary Engineering
Teachers’ Exams
Ticket Writing
Touch Typewriting
Timber Measurements
Testers & Graders
University Exams
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
Wireless Engineering
nr.,l Mail Coupon to Nearest Address
/7 TECHNICAL
/ I toll'd CODDESPONDEHCE
COLLEGE
HisAU OX’ IIOH IN EACH STATE;
100 Bussell Street, MELiBOUBNE.
149 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
290 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE,
50 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
234 Murray Street, PERTH.
Dear Sirs, —I am interested in
Please send particulars free.
Name
Address
5.8.346 Age
COMING DOWN FROM TIP-TOP
By BRIAN JAMES.
IT is eighty miles from Tip-Top to
Laidlaw, and many of these miles
stand almost on end. It can be freez-
ing at Tip-Top with frost an inch high
on damp ground, while Laidlaw is growl-
ing at “an early summer this year, all
right.”
Laidlaw swelters on its river plain
almost the whole year round, the
air as heavy and lethargic as the fat cows
in the fields, and the Graham, forgetful
of its sparkling youth in the mountains,
as slow and sluggish and inevitable as
time itself. Once in a while from Tip-
Top a breath of life comes down on to
the lower Graham, keen as a knife, thin
and pure, and folk say “Another westerly;
three days of it as like as not.”
There is a road to Tip-Top from Laid-
law, and the map calls it a highway and
marks it Good all the way, and Very
Hilly the last twenty miles or so. The
Very Hilly is soundly descriptive, the
Good a matter of taste and experience.
For a mile the Highway is ostentatiously
concrete, then for three miles modestly
asphalt, and after that it is subject to
acts of God in the way of storm-water,
and to the tender mercies of jinkers and
timber trucks. It crosses the Hannah at
Battle Ford, and undulates, with endless
corrugations, to Bumble’s Greek. Then
it climbs towards Heaven, drops down to
Jasper’s Brook, where there are two very
big sawmills, and up from the Brook in
more determined fashion than ever,
through miles of magnificent hardwoods
and one long stretch of brush where the
road is a muddy ribbon on the floor of
a dark-green trench.
On shelves and shoulders of the range
are the little towns, hardly villages really:
Bimeby, pungent in sawdust and filled
with the strident song of the saw; Glen-
muir, pretty in its cherries and apples ;
Hogan’s (where is Brady’s pub); Floren-
tine, where the people are all German;
and Nassau, where they are all Irish.
There are side tracks, too, where little
roads dodge the big trees and take the
bumpy roots in their stride. Before the
Japanese war there were signposts on all
these directing one to Ivanhoe, or Cob-
ham, or Binda Binda, or Rathdrum —
cattle stations on the upland country.
At Wallaroo the road climbs the last
steep pinch and comes on to the Tip-top
Plateau. Here are a big gallows, a high-
roofed butchery and the post office, store
and dwelling of one Amos, who is butcher
as well as postmaster. The next six miles
are the rolling Tip-Top high plain, pep-
pered here and there with sally trees and
belly-high in grass. Big Hereford steers
are grazing everywhere, and turn their
mild white faces at the sounds of traffic.
Then it is Tip-Top itself: a store, a pub,
a school and eight other houses—just
eighty miles from Laidlaw.
HEIGHTS and depths are the same
things—it merely depends on where
you are —but to the eye the depths are
always greater, and so the journey coming
down from Tip-Top always takes on more
the air of danger and adventure.
There is a daily service car each way,
and this day it was Ernie Fleming’s day
on. He does the trip, to and from, three
times a week, and alternates with Jack
Cook, the other driver on the run.
Ernie is not a man to inspire any great
confidence. He is woefully thin and dys-
peptic-looking, and with an air of im-
pending doom upon him. He has a sharp
nose, sharp cheek-bones and sharp shoul-
ders that in his less bright moments almost
clasp his ears. Hatless always, his great
crop of yellow hair somewhat resembles
the crest of a cockatoo. His blue eyes
often peep in points of angry light from
half-shut lids, as though he has just been
insulted, or is about to be insulted, and
in either case it is a fighting matter.
This morning he pulled up ip the clear
frosty air before the Lord Roberts Hotel,
his starting point, and Mat Casey came
out.
“How are you this morning, Ernie?”
Ernie brightened a little at that.
“Rotten, Mat! Fair rotten!” He held
a peppermint in his fingers. “Just living
on them lately. Just dying on my feet.”
Mat is rotund and jovial, and has no
intention of ever dying—seeming to think
that this misfortune is entirely reserved
for others. He was easily sympathetic.
“Gawd, but I’m sorry, Ernie. I wish I
could do something to help you.”
“Thanks, Mat.” Ernie was a little more
cheerful now. “There’s nothing anyone
can do. Anyway, you can only die
once.”
Mat went into the hall and reappeared
with luggage, followed by two stout,
elderly ladies. They looked doubtfully
at the service car, and even more doubt-
fully at the bony wisp of a driver. One
spoke to Ernie. “Is it safe, do you think,
Driver?”
“Is what safe?”
“The car and everything, you
know?”
Ernie really , hoped so ; one couldn’t be
sure, of course. Then, as solace, “You
can only die once.”
Mat Casey grinned aside in most
friendly and reassuring fashion and the
two old ladies drew comfort from his
round, red face and entered the car.
It is a big car, heavy and strongly built,
having much the appearance of a hearse
that has seen better days. He crawled
on to the flat roof, and Mat handed the
ports and cases up to him. The car shook
with age as he fixed things with tarp. and
rope up above. One of the old ladies
called out “It won’t fall off, will it, Driver?”
Ernie didn’t think so. There was all
the uncertainty of human life and human
affairs in his assurance.
'"THEY bowled and bumped along the
| knobby, blue-metal surface of the
highway. It .was that freezing time when
the first rays of the sun steal through the
trees and send rosy flushes on the strands
of white mist in the hollows. The old
ladies wrapped rugs round themselves and
tried to get warm. Ernie crouched over
the wheel, his shoulders sharper and more
forward than ever. There are big boxes
here and there by the roadside, about four
feet from the ground, and either nailed
to trees or on stumps and poles. Letters
for posting and orders for supplies are left
in the boxes for Ernie to pick up. An
ingenious system of signals indicates
whether the boxes need attention or
not —white flags on sticks or green boughs
prominently displayed. When these
showed, Ernie with effortless skill brought
the car to a stand by the box. At inter-
vals he put peppermints into his mouth
for his indigestion, and at other intervals
he inserted some sort of white tablet —to
counteract the peppermints.
A mile from Wallaroo Mr. Delaney,
all spruced up, was taken on board. Mrs.
Delaney, nursing the “youngest,” and with
an inordinate number of small Delaneys
standing shyly or peeping from behind her
ample skirts, saw him off. Once a month,
it was to be gathered, Mr. Delaney left
his small run and his big family to go
to Laidlaw —on business. So engrossed
did he become in this business that it was
difficult to get him home again. Mrs.
Delaney spoke privately to Ernie about
it. “You’ll see that Jack picks him up
this afternoon —won’t you, Ernie?”
Ernie glanced over his shoulder, dis-
approval in his eye. “I’ll tell Jack, any-
way.” Mr. Delaney didn’t seeem at all
affected.
THERE was a long wait at Wallaroo
for the mail and meat orders for the
next thirty miles or so. Mr. Amos brought
the meat in a wheelbarrow, after the mail-
bags had been stowed away. Ernie
checked over the parcels of meat. “There
isn’t one for Ted Winter,” he announced.
“There isn’t —and there won’t be. You
can tell him no more tick. I’m finished,”
Ernie said he’d tell him. Then Mrs.
Amos embarked with her two daughters
for the journey to town.
All this time the car had been slipping
gradually, a quarter inch at a time, down
hill. The old ladies were terrified. “Oh,
it’s only the hand-brake,” said Ernie.
“Mightn’t the car get away when you’re
not here?” asked one of the old ladies.
Ernie thought it might. You never
could tell. So far, however, it hadn’t.
At the Binda Binda turn-off a small
boy, in a highly breathless state, arrived
at the same time as the car. Ernie pulled
up. The boy could only wave his arm
towards the timber, which seemed to in-
dicate that someone was coming. Ernie
waited. The boy’s mother, and her sister.
and three leggy little girls were eventu-
ally to be seen hurrying along the track
in irregular formation. They all got in.
It nearly filled the car.
Ernie jolted round a bend —almost a
hairpin—that headed a deep ferny gully.
“That’s the spot!” said Ernie over his
shoulder at the two old ladies. He
sounded cheerful. The old ladies didn’t
know about “the spot.” Mr. Delaney
explained, since it came within the
chapters of local history, and he also
sounded very cheerful with the horror of
it. “He smashed his car to smithereens,
you know.”
“Who did?” asked the first old lady.
“Mr. McKenzie. Good old B.R. of
Mauchline.”
“Was he hurt?” from the second old
lady.
“Brand new Chrysler, too! Only just
taken delivery of it!”
The two old ladies glanced, as far as
room would permit, down the ferny gully,
now fast receding on their left.
“You won’t see a skerrick of that car,”
said Mr, Delaney. “It went over and over
and over and then smashed over a cliff
near the bottom!”
“He was drunk,” interposed Mrs.
Amos.
“The steering jammed more likely,” Mr.
Delaney said.
“Was he hurt?”
“Hardly a scratch. Would you believe
it?”
The old ladies breathed their relief.
Mr. Delaney went on, “Which was a
pity—in a manner of speaking—for his
neck was broken. Dead as mutton, of
course, when they found him.” Mr.
Delaney delivered this in the tone of one
who regrets a good miracle going to
waste.
The old ladies looked terror-stricken.
AT Florentine Jacob Schmidt became a
passenger. Jacob is extremely wide
of beam and terrible in his patriotism.
The sight of Jacob made Mrs. Amos
patriotic, too, and hostile. She took out
her knitting as a protest against the
Schmidts —though there wasn’t much
space for the needles. Jacob is a
pleasant, voluble old fellow, and he had
two sons in New Guinea: “I tink ve
soon peat dose Yaps, eh!”
At Hogan’s Mick Brady himself came
out of the pub and collected the meat.
“Don’t go a minute, Ernie; the old
woman’s going down with you. Ready
almost.”
Mr. Delaney went into the pub, pre-
sumably to hasten Mrs. Brady. She
appeared soon after, stout and fearsome
in stiff, rustling, black clothes. But she
was jolly and good natured just the same.
She crushed into a place and took one
of the leggy little girls on her knee.
“Gracious!” said the second old lady,
“will we have a crowd like this all the
way?”
“We haven’t started to pick up yet,”
said Mrs. Brady. “It’s Friday, you
know.”
At Glenmuir there were a stack of
cherries and two cans of cream by the
roadside. These all went on to the roof.
At Bimeby a small crowd of sympa-
thisers brought forward one Paddy
Hayes. Paddy is a hairy giant. Just now
he was filled with whisky to withstand
the pain. His grievance against the mill


INVINCIBLE
Since 1906
INVINCIBLE
O.
m
w
The New 1946 INVINCIBLE Single Cyl-
inder four-cycle MARINE MOTOR,
known as the “FISHERMAN'S FRIEND”
is now in full production. Rated at 5 to
6 H.P. at medium revolutions it develops
up to 8 H.P. at higher speeds. 4J” Bore
—4i” Stroke—Weight 240 lbs. Equipped
with Impulse Starter Magneto, “Schebler”
Carburetor, Bronze Water Pump, Water-
cooled Exhaust Manifold —Runs on Petrol
or Kerosene —The ideal Engine for Boats
from 18 ft. to 24 ft. with speeds from 8
to 10 miles per hour.
Price £69
including Clutch and 14 Propeller.
Write for illustrated Catolog to-day.
MOTORS Piy LIMITED
53 North George Street, Sydney
Established in 1906.
It any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
„ ' J
i-'Z:
in
; i
WlMml
n
m
■
m
:■:•••
ii
y
f(
s.
-y
X
•.
a»
a
J Till
SHUTS
COMMONWEALTH ROLLINS MILLS PTY. LTD.,
Port Kembja, N.S.W.
OUT of the flaming cru-
cible of war have come new and
improved grades of sheet steel. One
of the results is that kitchen appli-
ances of the future are likely to be
lighter, stronger, more efficient and
attractive than anything we have
known in the past. Their design will
be highly functional, and stoves and
refrigerators will be integrated into
the architecture of the kitchen ... a
new beauty and a new convenience
for a new world.
One of the many improvements
developed in COMROL Sheet Steel
is in enamelling sheets, which will
give a better porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances.
manager, however, was greater than the
pain, for Paddy had crushed his eibow
at the sawmill and blamed the manager
for the mishap. Seating rearrangements
were made for Paddy’s accommodation.
He and his crushed elbow filled what was
left of the fron! seat; his voice and his
grievance and the smell of whisky filled
the whole car. “Hurt?” said Paddy.
“My bloody oath, she does!”
Ernie remembered an uncle of his who
died “of much the same thing.” Paddy
didn’t doubt it, though he wasn’t going
to die himself, and he’d get even with
that manager yet. How the manager
had crushed Paddy’s elbow was never
made quite clear, but Paddy said he was
a of a man. The old ladies could
hardly believe that, and withdrew all
sympathy from Paddy. The others were
used to sawmills and discussed matters
more dispassionately.
IT may have been the lesser altitude, or
1 the contemplation of Paddy’s elbow,
or the fact that peppermints were doing
their appointed task, or that the brakes
were getting worse, or the steering was
a bit cranky—whatever it was, Ernie was
becoming more light-heartedly pessimistic
every minute.
At the second mill a half dozen lean
and stringy young fellows were waiting.
“Plenty room! ” answered Ernie. “Plenty
—on the roof!”
They got on to the roof with the
cherries and cream and luggage ; and legs
dangled down everywhere. They kept up
a shocking conversation with Paddy, down
below, from which it appeared that the
Almighty had little reason to be proud
of his creation of mill managers. The
old ladies pretended they could hear
nothing of it, though the pretence was
rather feeble. In any case, they were now
so submerged at the back that their
emotions didn’t matter.
Just beyond the mill came the tragedy
of the Bells. Mrs. Bell and the three
youngest were waiting below some slip-
' rails. She had a stony and resigned look
on her hard face, but was trying to be
nonchalant at the same time. The baby
was crying and the second youngest
grizzling and the third youngest very sub-
dued.
The insertion of the Bells was a prob-
lem. Mr. Delaney and Jacob were rele-
gated to the roof, which left a dicky-seat
for Mrs. Bell and the baby; the others
just squeezed in.
“It’s come to this at last, Ernie! Use
your handkerchief, Violet! But we
can’t really be worse off. We
were only working for the bank.”
Paddy Hayes forgot the mill manager
to contemplate the perfidy of the bank,
which "was driving the Bell family off
their holding.
A rickety truck groaned and squeaked
through the slip-rails. It was piled high
with a nightmare of old furniture. In
the cab were the driver, Joe Haslett, Mr.
Bell and the three older children. It was
a tight squeeze. The sight of Joe aroused
Mrs. Bell to a new bitterness. “What
could we do but get Joe Haslett? And
he’s charging two quid for the trip. Wipe
your nose, Violet. After all we’ve done
for the Hasletts! ”
The truck turned into the road. There
were at least two generations in the chairs
and tables and wardrobes and dressers.
It all looked mournful. Mrs. Bell sur-
veyed it grimly. Hanging from the tail-
board was a wire cage and in it was a
bedraggled white cockatoo. He was rais-
ing his voice. Violet said rather proudly
“Bet he’s swearing!” On the tailboard
itself was a line of heads protruding from
holes iji corn-sacks. The heads belonged
to the last of the fowls —big, black Buff-
Orpingtons, At the end of the line, with
head further out than the rest, was a
rooster with a big red comb. He seemed
to be talking to himself. 'At the sight of
the fowls and rooster Mrs. Bell broke
down. It was terrible to hear her weep.
A racking sort of sob, with insufficient
tears to support it.
Paddy Hayes offered, after a decent
interval, the delicate consolation “That’s
the bloody banks for you!” It helped
Mrs. Bell wonderfully; and she was also
helped very considerably by Ernie’s clap-
ping on speed—it nearly left Jacob
behind —and passing the truck.
AT Bumble’s Creek a little clergyman
interviewed Ernie about getting to
town. He was shy and mild and simper-
ing, and looked very good. Ernie told
him he could try the top. “Do you think
it safe?” asked the little clergyman.
Ernie didn’t think it was safe at all,
but reckoned that that hardly signified.
There was nothing safe about the car
anywhere. Lucky if they got to town
alive: it just depended.
The little clergyman decided, against
all his instincts, to risk the top. He
climbed up and sat near Jacob. Jacob
was pleased and talked loudly about the
“yaps,” but not as loudly as a mill-
worker from Bimeby conversed through
the roof, with Paddy. It was frank, plain
talk, and the little clergyman was shocked,
He had a strong impulse to intervene,
but was uncertain whether to do so on
account of the offence that was obviously
being given the Deity or on the score of
ladies present. He stole a timid glance
at the scrawny, loose-limbed mill-worker,
and decided that he would do nothing
for the present,
In the meantime, the Haslett truck and
the furniture went by again. The cage
was swinging and banging about, and
the cockatoo did not appear to be
enjoying it. There was an air of
passive acceptance about the fowls,
but the rooster had withdrawn his head
from the hole in his sack, and hadn’t been
able to find the opening again. Instead,
a scaly leg, with a white cord attached,
had come through in its place. Jack-
pointed out this interesting circumstance
to jfi s mother, and even thought it amus-
ing- Mrs. Bell commenced to cry, how-
ever, a soft sort of crying that might
easily go on for hours. And there was
no comfort to be looked for from Paddy
Hayes. Paddy, in spite of his grievance
and crushed elbow, had gone off to sleep
—in which he snored mightily and jerkily.
Where the road broadened, Ernie man-
age(j to pass the truck again, and there
was n 0 good reason why he shouldn’t
have kept the lead, only a case of cherries
f e fi o ff the car. Ernie didn’t seem at all
upset at the mishap. He went back and
raked together the spilt cherries with his
fingers and jammed them into the case,
The bottom had burst open, and Ernie
banged this on with a stone. The case
was put back in its place. The furniture
careered past once more. Mrs. Bell con-
tinued to weep.
Battle Ford and the Hannah came into
view at last. The Bells were going no
further, “That’s it, Ernie, the old place
of the Jordans, you know.”
Ernie knew and pulled up by a very
cheerless-looking house, weatherboard
an d nearly paintless. For some obscure
reason the house had been built almost
on to the road as though its youthful
ambition had been to be a pub. Mrs.
Bell cried again at sight of the house, and
the furniture waiting.
THERE wasn’t any more room inside
after the departure of the Bells ; it
only meant that the passengers could
swell out again to nearly their normal
size.
A half-mile from Laidlaw Ernie
stopped and addressed the men on the
roof. He explained the laws as to the
overloading of public conveyances. He
might be “booked” if he drove through
Laidlaw with a crowd on the roof. In
fact, the law didn’t like anyone on the
roof. Would they walk the rest of the
way? The mill men from Bimeby were
very sure they wouldn’t walk the rest of
the way. The little parson from Bumble’s
Creek was encouraged to stay on at the
firm stand of the Bimeby men. Jacob
and Mr. Delaney thought it a pity to
interfere with such solidarity, and also
stayed on.
“All right,” said Ernie, “I don’t mind.
There’s only Sergeant Frost to dodge,
and I can do that by going round the
back way.” According to Ernie Sergeant
Frost was a “fair swine,” and “always
laying” for him.
Ernie drove round the back streets
for the garage and headquarters; and
fifty yards from home ran slap into the
sergeant who was at a spot where he’d
never been known to be before. He
viewed the car with a delight he found
hard to conceal. And he “booked”
Ernie. Ernie declared that it was
the way things always panned out
for him. He put a couple of tablets into
his mouth to undo as far as possible the
damage done by the peppermints.
Away in the west, over the broad
bosom of‘the Graham, were the blue and
purple of the big ranges, dim and soft
in their distance, asleep in the noonday
sun. Tip-Top, and a road endlessly wind-
ing, were b\it dreams in that sleeping.


US?
Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day’s
conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 67 years’ prac-
tical experience in the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S„, Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIC3H STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Bo
Ns
ESP
(L
df
The WILD CAT COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ • £' £
1935. .420,683 40 p.c. = 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936. .666,940 70 „ ~490,000 176,940 ,2,658,771
1937. .940,628 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938. .605,153 90 „ ~630,000 2,738,552
1939. 40 „ ~280,000 76,841 2.815,393
Shares written up, £246,576 .. 3,061,969
1940. .520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
1941. .575,052 40 ~ ~280,000 295,052 3,597,409
1942. .462,326 40 „ ~ 280,000 182,326 3,779,735
1943. .368,826 35 ~ ~245,000 123,826 3,903,561
1944. .365,455 35 ~ ~ 245,000 120,455 4,024,016
1945. .327,410 35 „ ~245,000 82,410 4,106,426
Including provision for depreciation and
unexplained reserve movements, the
North’s net earnings for the half-dozen
war years to close of last accounts
averaged £436,576, compared with an
average of £532,266 for the six preceding
years. Chief single factor responsible for
the decline was a contraction of 37 p.c.
in output of ore from the mine. Major
contributing items were lifts amounting
to 70 p.c. wages, 93 p.c. power cost, 53
p.c. cost of general supplies, and reduced
return from investments. The average
grade of ore treated declined slightly,
but mill efficiency improved—the metal-
lurgical staff recovered more of the three
chief metals from the feed.
Last term 330,225 tons (down 73,660
tons) ore, averaging 14.7 p.c. lead, 8.20 z.
silver and 11.6 p.c. zinc, were mined. The
contraction, due to industrial holdups in
which 21 working days were lost, more
than offset the gain from better overseas
prices for lead and zinc. Part of the in-
creased price was absorbed by a lead-
bonus addition to the payroll. The fol-
lowing comparison of p. and 1. figures
shows what happened in terms of
money:
Revenue — 1941. 1944. 1945.
Mine products . . £ 1,741,318 £ 1,535,137 £1,529,355
Investments .. 184,786 103,223 84,623
£1,926,104 £1,638,360 £1,613,978
Expenditure—■
Mine . . . . 1,054,658 1,121,869 1,103,539
P. and 1. item 405,821 233,249 241,555
Loss, ' investment 598
£1,461,077 £1,355,118 £1,345,094
Net profit .. 465,027 283,242 268,884
Gross return from mine products slipped
£5782 ; and the return from investments
was £18,600 lighter. Net saving in ex-
penditure was £10,024, leaving the
declared net result £14,358 lighter at
£268,884. The difference between this
figure and the £327,410 of profit shown
in the introductory table represents the
allowance for depreciation (£75,000)
and addition of £15,526 to stores replace-
ment reserve, less an unexplained re-
duction of £32,000 in general reserve.
The reduction might have some connec-
tion with the writing-off of shares held in
Shale Oil Investigations, following the
winding up of N.Z. Petroleum. The
£327,410 is equal to 2s. 4d. per ss. share.
The div. was kept at Is. 9d. per share, or
35 p.c.
Prospects of a better showing at next
balance are bright enough, though it
might be a year or two yet before the
supply of labor and materials enables ore
treatment to be stepped up to pre-war
level of over 500,000 tons p.a. The
demand for lead and zinc can be expected
to strengthen as world industrial activity
gathers momentum. And the statistical
position of both metals contains no threat
to prices, the position of lead being the
more favourable of the two. The British
war-time contract with the Barrier cos.
ran out in August last. But no difficulty
is anticipated in disposing of production,
upon which local demand has first call,
the balance being available for export.
It is mainly to this export surplus that
shareholders have to look for increased
earnings and any lift in the div.
In Australia the price of both lead and
zinc is fixed at £22 a ton f.o.b. Port Pirie,
arjd has been since Feb., 1940. In Lon-
don the price of lead per ton advanced
from £S2S to £S3O in June, 1945, and to
£S39 ( = £A4B 155.) on Jan. 15, 1946.
Spelter has been steady at £S3I ss.
(=£A39 Is. 3d.) per ton for some time.
Expressed in Australian currency, De-
cember New York prices—they include
import duty—were lead £44 os. 9d. a ton
and zinc £57 4s. 3d. a ton. The recent
lift in the price of silver from 2s. to
4s. 7d. an ounce (Aust. currency) should
be very helpful to producers, too. The
Barrier output of the white metal is
almost entirely absorbed by the Com-
monwealth Government.
At June 30 last ore reserves were fig-
ured at 5,183,000 tons (down 250,000
tons). Excepting a block of 64,000 tons,
no ore below 2600 ft. has been included
in the calculations, whereas the diamond
drill has proved continuation of the main
ore-body to 3220 ft. Other bore holes indi-
cate likelihood of the lode continuing
toward the de Bavay fault at about the
same average pitch as above 2600 ft. Also
a series of drill holes is being put out
to test the possibility of ore occurrence in
the Alma anticline, east of the main lode
and parallel with it. No. 2 shaft has been
deepened to 3004 ft., and a hoisting engine,
to haul maximum ore output from
4200 ft. working two shifts, or from
5000 ft. working three shifts, has been
ordered.
Early installation of a pipeline con-
necting the Darling River at Menindee
with Stephen’s Creek reservoir promises
to solve the water problem.
Balance-sheet figures present an at-
tractive picture:
1940. 1944. 1945.
Shares in other cos. £1,313,637 £1,537,468 £1,553,468
Stores . . . . 90,008 167,444 151,908
Concentrates on hand 12,514 8,402 17,899
Debtors .. . . 443,837 374,104 308,350
Cash, etc 187,196 374,875 456,905
Liquid assets .. £2,047,192 £2,462,293 £2,488,530
Less liabilities* .. 325,220 267,821 247,115
Liquid surplus .. £1,721,972 £2,194,472 £2,241,415
* Excludes provision for tax, etc., now £154,219.
The liquid surplus was equal to 16s. per
share when the books closed. The mine
figures at £457,907, and plant,' etc.,
£2,261,322.
On the market the f.p. ss. shares are
at their ceiling price of 565. 6d., at which
figure the immediate return is a shade
over 3 p.c. on a 35 p.c. div. basis. After
allowing for surplus liquids at June 30
last, the investor at 565. 6d. who looks
for his money back, plus 6 p.c. p.a., counts
on net earnings averaging 94 p.c. over
the next 30 years.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 149,622 8J p.c. = 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ ~ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937. . 200,114 10 „ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 111 „ 160,894 53,303 728,385
1940.. 192,210 10 „ „ 143,017 49,193 777,578
1941.. 194,343 10 ~ „ 143,017 61,326 828,904
1942.. 198,818 10 „ ~143,017 55,801 884,705
1943.. 193,179 10 „ ~143,017 50,162 934,867
1944.. 188,984 10 „ ~143,017 45,967 980,834
1945.. 184,813 10 „ ~ 144,742 40,071 1,020,905
The position is better than the figures
in the table suggest. They relate to the
parent holding co. only, which 36 years
ago stepped in where there was waste in
buying and selling, as well as overlapping
in organisation, and reduced both to the
benefit of shareholders and the public.
Of the 22 operating subsidiaries, which
are in the jam- and fruit-canning and
-preserving business, etc., 11 are in Aus-
tralia; the other 11, comprising seven
manufacturing and four merchandising
units, are in Maoriland, S, Africa and
Britain.
In Australia all the co.’s factories have
been affected by shortage of labor at vital
peak periods. A year ago the pack of
*
canned fruits fell to about half the 1939-
40 figure, owing partly to the labor posi-
tion and partly to loss of export trade on
account of the shipping position. But
much fruit previously canned, and more
besides, was able to be diverted to manu-
facture of jam, output of which more
than doubled during the war, owing to
heavy service demands in the s.-w. Pacific
area. Exports from the co.’s S. African
subsidiaries to the U.K. have expanded
to about eight times their pre-war volume.
The next table, which shows combined
net earnings of the entire organisation,
after deducting outside interests, gives
shareholders a truer picture of the posi-
tion ; —•
Net income— 1939. 1944. 4945
Australian .. . . £192,667 £158,153 £230,497
Other sources . . 75,622 78,667 89,179
Total •• . . £268,789 £236,820 £319,676
Although the labor problem continued to
affect output last term, removal of the
embargo on jam exports enabled the co.
to resume limited overseas shipments.
Service demands again took the bulk of
the co.’s output. Net earnings from Aus-
tralian sources stepped up £72,344, while
returns from outside Australia were
£10,512 better. The net return from all
sources (£319,676, up £82,856) was 22 p.c.
on the £1,453,173 of capital, as against
16.5, 19.4, 19 and 17.4 p.c. back to 1941.
It needs to x>e remembered, however, that
capital has the support and assistance of
£2,080,868 of visible reserves. On the
two combined the year’s profit was 9 p.c.
The cautious board kept the div. at 10 p.c.
Overseas trade used to account for
about half the co.’s total Australian pro-
duction. The shipping problem and em-
bargo on jam exports deprived the co.
of the markets it had built up in Britain
and elsewhere. Though service demands
more than filled the gap, their evapora-
tion means that the industry is now. faced
with the problem of rehabilitating its
export markets. Fruitgrowers as well as
canners and processers are involved.
Meanwhile, the co. expects a fall in prices
for all its canned goods, owing to the
immediate decline in service requirements
and continued pressure of supplies. The
board is opposed to the Federal Govern-
ment’s suggestion to set up a partly
public-owned export trading corpora-
tion, preferring to “stand on its own feet
and develop its own trade by appoint-
ment of special agents, reinforced by
occasional visits.”
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion further improved:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £1,430,173 £1,430,173 £1,430,173
Outside interests* 79,477 108,382 111,094
Creditors, etc. . . 419,858 636,366 705,274
Tax reserve, etc... 159,478 492,513 541,084
Suspense account. . 7,691 16,456 •
Freeholds, etc. . . 69 7,92 8 8 01,8 9 7 809,082
Plant, etc. .. 279,590 375,508 ■ 404,484
Stocks . . .. 872,099 1,374,741 1,348,852
Debtors . . . . 785,068 1,088,381 1,050,465
Shares . . . . 101,245 103,694 107,511
Cash, etc 745,328 923,556 1,258,640
Goodwill .. .. 62,542 50,935' 50,935
Suspense aeount. . 3,036
* Including proportion reserves.
Cash, etc. —the etcetera is £599,111 of
Government bonds—was strengthened by
£335,084 last term. Including provision
for taxation and other contingencies, but
leaving suspense accounts (mainly inter-
co. debts) out of the reckoning, the more
or less liquid' surplus (£2,519,110) was
£157,617 stronger than at the previous
balance.
On ’Change buyers offer 555. 9d. (ceil-
ing price) for the f.-p, pound ords., at
which figure the return is 3.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
(book value, consolidated accounts) is
48s. 3d.


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
an * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
HEAITHY ,
HAtK f
0
Rub in a few drops of
McMahon's every day
to make the hair lustrous
and soft . . . and to
keep dandruff away.
AND SCALP
It runs
on 801 l
Bearings
I mmoc\icr,_J
As essential in -a
home as a wheel-
barrow.
The “Lightning” is designed and priced for
the private individual, farmer, industrialist
It is built on an all-steel, wheelbarrow type
frame, perfectly balanced for wheeling or
tipping. Primarily designed for mixing better
concrete, the “Lightning' handles
poultry and pig food with equal efficiency.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES
WM. HMJGHTON & CO. Pty. ltd.
Melbourne . Sydney . Brisbane . Perth
Made by Lightourn « Co.. Ltd., in Australia,
e
O'D
1
3 Generations of Australia’s armed forces have
honoured loyal toasts in Tintara Gold Label Port,
and celebrated Victories in Amontillado Sherry,
Tintara Gold Label Muscatel, the Tintara
Sparkling Wines —Champagne, Hock,
Moselle and Burgundy —and Tintara
Old Brandy.
I often wonder what the Vintners buy, 1
One half so precious as the poods they sell. '
Omar Khayyam
It.SWC
m
goes the
chocolate that
speaks up for
itself . ..
m-
-4
r.
Chocolate experts will tell you
that they judge the quality of chocolate
by listening for its snap. The louder the snap,
the better the chocolate. You’ll hear Small’s
Club Chocolate break with the loudest of
snaps every time. Because it breaks with
the proper, clean brittle snap, Small’s Club
Chocolate is on its own for summer eating.
df
d
It’s a fact! We pro-
duced our Small’s
Club Chocolate es-
pecially for men. It’s
NOT so sweet. That’s
why we called it “Club”
Chocolate. But the girls
took one taste. Loved it.
Now the men have to
share it with the girls.
Ask for
Small’s Club Chocolate in
the famous black and white wrappers
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
June, Income. Exes. Surplus. Ord. Div.
£ £ **
1935.. 347,900 237,467 110,433 40 p.c. = 80,000
1936.. 390,821 285,860 104,961 55 „ „ 137,buw
1937.. 515,056 372,013 143,043 15 „ „ 40,33 d
1938.. 628,566 512,502 116,064 30 „ „
1939.. 878,220 785,508 92,652 10 „ „ 39,340
1940.. 989,815 770,111 219,704 20 „ „ 58,/OO
1941.. 819,108 773,311 45J57 K' l
1942.. 964,284 830,970 127*11 26.0p.c.=
1943.. 894,619 812,542 82,077 K' l
Net Loss.
1944.. 752,459 875,039 122,580 Nil
Surplus.
1945.. 803,602 751,846 51,840 Nilf
* Prefs. received a regular 8 p.c. p.a. ( £16,000).
t Pref. div. paid (£18,390) represented final div. on
8 p.c. prefs. redeemed and interim div. on
new 7 p.c. prefs.
Treatment of higher-grade ore and
reduced expenditure, owing to closure of
No. 2 (overburden) mill, were mainly
responsible for the improvement in last
year’s net result. On capital as it now
stands the £51,846 of profit, second-
poorest showing for over a decade, cov-
ered pref. capital redemption charge
(£20,000 p.a.), pref. div. (£21,000 p.a.)
and 3.6 p.c. oh ord. capital.
Main factors responsible for errafic be-
havior of earnings since war began have
been shortage of labor, delay in obtaining
equipment, the overburden problem and
rising costs. Removal of overburden, the
biggest problem on the mining side,
reached its peak in 1942, and remained
above pre-war level for the next two years.
The increase in ore milled was not pro-
portionate to the increase in overburden
handled, and averaged assay values de-
clined, reaching their lowest point in 1944,
when a loss of £122,580 showed up. Here
are production, treatment and assay
figures, made available for the first time
since 1939:
Sulphide
Waste Ore , Assay —n
Discarded. Treated. Gold Copper.
1940.. 954,105 tons 633,280 tons 2.53dwt. 0.70 p.c.
1941.. 1,364,887 ~ 890,800 ~ 1.67 „ 0.66 „
1942.. 1,780,064 ~ 863,880 „ 2.08 „ 0.69 „
1943.. 1,527,064 „ 826,850 „ 1.99 „ 0.59 „
1944.. 1,148,685 „ 909,200 „ 1.51 „ 0.46 „
1945.. 746,361 „ 549,350 „ 2.72 „ 0.6 f „
The fall in tonnage and higher grade of
ore handled last term were due to closure
of No. 2 mill, owing to the manpower
problem, and extraction of more ore from
the reserve section of the mine, mainly
No. 5 bench. Only 46.4 p.c. of mill feed
was overburden as against 80.5 p.c. for
the previous year. A lower ratio of con-
centration and better recoveries (58.1 p.c.
gold and 85.6 p.c. copper) also helped.
The smelter produced 3379 tons blister
copper, containing 3338 tons copper,
43,0350 z. gold and 17,9910 z. silver.
Unit costs rose;
f Cost per Ton— s
1944. 1945.
£ s. d. £ s. <j.
Mining, total material . . 3 6.04 4 9.01
Treatment No. 1 Mill . . 7 7.80 7 i .56
Smelting, copper produced 25 15 6.60 27 10 1.00
Power, per k.w. hour .. 0.50 0.59
The extra sulphides from No. 5 bench
and roasting of more lower-grade concen-
trate were responsible for the lift in the
mining and smelting figures.
The co. should be able to make a
better showing for the current term,
though shortage of labor still stands in
the way of full-scale production, and the
overburden problem is likely to prove
troublesome for some time yet. Gold
recovery has moved up to over 60 p.c.
The first of two 2\ c.y. electric shovels is
in operation —it does the work previously
performed by three steam shovels. The
other one has not yet arrived from Eng-
land. And Treasury assurance of £lOO
a ton for copper for two" years from
July last has been received.
The mine is in two sections divided by
an andesite dyke, with the higher values
to the west, at lower levels than yet
worked, and below the overburden.
Latest estimate is that 8,115,890 tons
overburden remains, of which 1,236,276
tons will probably be milled, leaving
6,879,615 tons to be dumped. Over a
million tons is expected to be discarded
during the current term. Ore reserves
at June 30 last were approx. 5,452,000
tons, averaging 4.23dwt. gold and 1.86
p.c. copper, of which 1,291,000 tons
might be mined by other than open-cut
methods.
When the books closed current assets,
including stores (£174,671), totalled
£441,990. The amount coming to out-
siders was £27,724. The mine figures at
£64,069, and plant £840,415. The
£593,000 of capital is in 300,000 7 p.c. £1
cum. prefs. (redeemable 1959) and
2,348,000 ords. of 2s. 6d. each. On the
market Bs. 6d. is offered for the ords.
“Craiggie Moore”: A circular to Aus-
tralian shareholders of Gt. Boulder, issued
by M. A. Dwyer (Adelaide), rejoices at
the election of Lt.-Col. Shand-Kydd as a
director and the defeat of the retiring
member of the board, J. C. Gardner. It
claims that Shand-Kydd’s election is a
vote of no confidence in four out of the
five members of the board who supported
Gardner. Something is also said about
Shand-Kydd getting 1,067,030 votes to
Gardner’s 823,258. What is not men-
tioned is that about 800,000 of Shand-
Kydd’s total represented votes given by
the de Bernales interests. Some Aus-
tralian shareholders fear that, if and
when de Bernales nominees control the
board, the domicile of the co. will be
shifted to Australia and a new corpora-
tion formed. They don’t mind the change
in domicile, but dislike any prospect of
acquiring other assets.
* * * *
Hill 50 South, N.L. (W.A.), has taken
a 12 months’ option over the Evanston
gold mine on the Yilgarn field. Vendors,
Ridge Brothers, began treatment in a
small way in 1936, and in 1940 a , plant to
handle 1500 tons a month started up.
But owing to war difficulties, shortage of
manpower, and refractory ore, work
ceased about the middle of 1943. In all
nearly 50,000 tons were treated for a gold
recovery valued at approximately
£250,000. Accumulated residues are esti-
mated by the vendors to contain another
£150,000 worth of the yellow metal, as
well as some arsenic. Purchase considera-
tion for mine, residues and plant is not
disclosed. Hill 50 is offering 50,000 of
its 200,000 unissued 4s. shares. Only 2s.
a share is to be called at the moment,
leaving 2s. to come when required.
* * * *
Several Adelaide cos., some with more
assurance than substance, are interested
in the new Hampton Plains gold find near
Coolgardie (W.A.). Altogether over 100
blocks have been taken up, and wealth is
said to have been found on 23 of them.
The brake put on speculative activities by
the Government has prevented a boom
developing. The de Bernales group has
abandoned an option on one block, re-
cently described in the press as a good
thing.” The same option holder is
crushing 800 tons from another claim to
determine average grade of the ore so
far opened up. To date history of the
Hampton Plains field shows that deposits
have failed to live at depth.
* * * *
Output of Collie, Westralia’s sole pro-
ducing coalfield, was 543,362 tons last
year or about 15,000 tons less than the
year before. The Stockton mine was
again the main source of supply with
112,781 tons. About 800 men were em-
ployed on the field.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) paid a
second and final liquidation dividend of
15s. 2.2 d. per 100 shares on January 26.
The first dividend of Bd. a share
was paid in December, 1943. Liquidation
was decided on a month or so before
that Co. was floated during the height
of the 1935 boom to acquire a block
south of the then rich Yellowdine mine.
Getting nothing from shallow prospecting
here, it bought the Newfield mine, near
Bulllinch, for £12,000 cash. From this
show over £BO,OOO was taken and Is, 6d.
paid in dividends. The lode cut out a
few feet below the 100 ft. level.


•'NV
NS
m
jug
AUSTRALIAN
ft' TO DEVELOP
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES
Li
< u*|
The “MARS”
6 in. LATHE
For fine work at
High-speed
The
“HERCULES”
Shin. LATHE
“The little GIANT of
the Lathe World 99
J
L;
mm
IBy*
|w Ipil
:
-
:
M
■
wm
11
The“VENUS”
Tin. LATHE
High-speed, Sturdy,
Accurate
The “ATLAS”
Bin. LATHE
n High-speed
General Purpose
Workshop Lathe
m
. . .. . '
m
The “MARS
10 in.
engine
LATHE
All Lathes Quick Delivery
The ‘MARS’ High-Speed
PLANER
Mars Machine Tools are distinguished hy the
following outstanding features:—
ACCURACY—BuiIt to Schlesinger standards of
Accuracy.
2. BALANCE All necessary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced, eliminating vibration,
3. FINISH —All surfaces are machine ground.
4. SMOOTH RUNNING -All Gear Teeth are
generated.
5 - VE G “ S^J d , ge LITY - All La * es Detachable
The “MARS”
PLAIN MILLER
V
mmm
The “MARS”
Horizontal
boring
mill
The “MARS”
SHAPER •
mmsmsm
.
The “MARS”
Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Get full details and illustrated literature from the Manufacturers,
or from any Agent listed below:
Distributing Agents:
N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & CO. PTY, LTD., 139 Clarence
Street, SYDNEY.
N.Z.: MOTOR SPECIALTIES, LTD., Anzac Avenue, AUCK-
LAND. Branches throughout the Dominion.
I
m
m
J. & O’S. Advt.
BR
D
6
E
S
T
R
E
T
V
A
L
L
Y
B
R
S
E
B
A
N
® ,NG ™ E WIDEST “NGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (EXCEPT CANADA AND GREAT BRITAIN)


ft
s!
e-2
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
From a battleship’s electrical equipment to
emergency lighting in great hospitals. Exide
serves you in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide,
It will still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
NR EVERY PURPOSE
3.45
PERTONAL ITEMS
Like most of his predecessors of this
war, Australia’s latest V.C. winner.
Private Frank Partridge, an Bth
Battalion militiaman, is country born
and bred ; he conies from Upper Newey
Creek in the North Coast district of
N.S.W., and is the son of an old
Digger, He earned his Cross on Bougain-
ville a few weeks before the Jap sur-
render, when thrice wounded, he rushed
forward under heavy fire and retrieved a
Bren gun (the gunner had been killed),
hurled a grenade into a bunker, flung
himself after it and killed the only sur-
viving occupant in a hand-to-hand fight.
Though weak from loss of blood he re-
mained in action till other wounded had
been evacuated. The citation says “The
serious situation was retrieved only by
the outstanding gallantry and devotion to
duty displayed by Private Partridge.”
The new V.C.s name has now been added
to the roll of the nation’s heroes, but it
went on to the map of Bougainville the
day after the action, when the ridge on
which it was fought was officially styled
Part Ridge.
The career of Archibald John Clark
Kerr, newly-appointed British Am-
bassador in Washington, whom the
British Government has dispatched
to study the situation in Java, is
an outstanding example of the way in
which a professional British diplomat
covers the globe. He has served in every
continent except Australia —his latest
assignment brings him to our back door
—and few men in the Service can have
travelled more widely. After apprentice-
and journeyman-diplomat experience in
Berlin, Buenos Ayres, Washington, Rome,
Teheran and Tangier he was sent to
Cairo, where he acted as Counsellor from
1923 to 1925. From Egypt he went to
America as Envoy Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary (that resounding
title given to a representative whose
appointment has nothing extraordinary
about it and whose powers are definitely
limited) to the Central American repub-
lics. Next he headed south for Chile,
holding the same post there and picking
himself a Chilean bride before packing his
traps for a four-year stay in Stockholm.
From Sweden he was ordered to Iraq as
Ambassador; thence in-1938 to Chung-
king (following Knatchbull-Hugessen)
and, four years later, to Moscow. On
the eve of his departure on the Java mis-
sion Clark Kerr’s appointment to the
Washington job was announced and
he was created a baron. Old friends are
hoping he will choose his title from his
Lanarkshire birthplace —“Lord Cross-
basket” would be a welcome addition to
the Peerage.
William Webb, Queensland’s Chief
Justice, who goes to Tokyo as Australian
representative on the International Mili-
tary Court which is to try the big guns
of the Jap war criminal list, should know
something of the subject. He was ap-
pointed in 1943 to inquire into Japanese
atrocities in the Islands, and his report,
issued a few months ago, was a shocking
revelation of savagery. Born in Queens-
land 59 years ago, he climbed by way of
Brisbane Crown Solicitor’s office to the
Industrial Bench and the Supreme Court,
in 1940 succeeding James Blair as State
Chief Justice. Before his elevation to
the Bench he made two trips to Britain
on Privy Council appeals. Royal commis-
sions are his hobby. Accompanying
Webb as assistant prosecutor will be his
brother-Judge of Queensland Supreme
Court, Alan James Mansfield,
This year’s Archibald Prize entries in-
cluded a fair sprinkling of persons “dis-
tinguished in politics,” if the terms of the
Prize are literally accepted. There’s a
portrait of John Curtin, posed awk-
wardly ; there’s a Senator Tangney with
a chocolate-box unreality ; there’s R. G.
Casey, recognisable but undistinguished,
though recognisability is a merit in a com-
petition where so few reached even that
moderate level of praise ; there’s Artie
Fadden looking as startled as the day the
censure motion unseated his Govern-
ment ; and Tommy White, M.H.R. for
Balaclava (Vic.) is there also. Just to
make weight, somebody else put in a
picture of Billy Cook, the jockey.
Capt. Dick Tobin went to Scotland just
before the war to watch over the build-
ing of Adelaide Steamship’s Morialta for
the S.A. Gulf Trade. He’s back in
Adelaide now, but his ship hasn’t arrived
yet. As soon as she was completed the
British Government requisitioned her
(with Capt. Tobin in command) for ferry-
ing troops to Scapa Flow and the Faroes.
Highlight of her three years on that job
was when she carried the King during
his review of the Fleet at Scapa Flow
in 1942. Next year she was switched to
the Mediterranean, where she transported
many thousands of troops. When she
comes to Australia she’ll be able to show
some scars gained in an argument with
a mine as a memento of her war service ;
Capt. Tobin shows an M.B.E.
Retired from the Chair of Educa-
tion at Otago University, M.L., Prof.
Richard Lawson, M.A., Litt.D., Dip. Ed.
Appointed in 1924 the prof, rendered dis-
tinguished service to the cause of educa-
tion and culture. Born in 1876, he spent
12 years as principal at Warrnambool
College, Victoria, and eight years as lec-
turer on education at Melbourne Uni.,
where he won his Doptorate of Litera-
ture. As a mark of its appreciation the
University Council appointed him Pro-
fessor Emeritus.
Ernest Old, a veteran cyclist of Fitzroy,
Melbourne, is planning another jaunt, this
time to Adelaide. To be sure his joints
are in good condition he has cycled to
Bendigo and back. Last year he covered
1136 miles. Old is 71 and neither trains
for his expeditions nor diets. He is a
brother of the late Francis Old, M.L.A.,
who was a Minister with Dunstan.
Alick Scott Osborne, who follows Chol-
mondeley Darvall as g.-m. of Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, climbed to the
job from a junior’s stool at Coonamble
(N.S.W.) by way of city and suburban
branches, various departments of Head
Office and the Chief Inspectorship. As
Assistant Secretary he had a big hand in
the negotiations for the absorption of
Bank of Victoria in 1927 and he spent
the following year gaining experience in
specialised branches of banking in London
and U.S.A. After his return he became
OVERDRAFTS AND FAT LAMBS.
manager 0 f Head Office, Assistant
general-manager and Chief Inspector. In
his youth Osborne was a keen yachtsman
—the same sport took his young brother
Fred into the R.A.N.V.R., where he col-
lected a D.S.C. and bar. Nowadays A.S.O.
golfs, but his favorite hobby is his farm
at Koorawatha. Dubois has shown the
banker’s ears pinned back, swearing that
when wheat or wool are being discussed
they quiver slightly, and when the conver-
sation turns to fat lambs there is a defi-
nite flapping. This may be due to interest
in the influence of these factors on his
bank’s or the nation s finances or it may
be Koorawatha calling.
Brigadier Ray To veil, the man who
defeated stopgap Premier Macfarlan for
Brighton seat, thereby fulfilling a
Bulletin prophecy that Mac’s Govern-
ment would be out of its misery in twice
ten days, has been a soldier in
two wars and an accountant between
them. He enlisted as a private in the
last war, got his commission in the field,
RIBBONS AND POLITICS.
and ended up Brigade Major of the 4th
Infantry Brigade with a D.S.O. This
time he was in command of the 26th
Brigade and served with it in the M.E.,
getting three mentions in despatches and
a C.B.E. and a bar to his D.S.O. Born
in 1890 at the seaside suburb he repre-
sents he is acting Deputy Adjutant
General at Melbourne H.Q.
At 92, F. W. Heath, chairman of
directors of two of the oldest establish-
ments in Melbourne —Robertson and
Mullens’s bookshop and Gaunt’s, the
ancient jewellery firm —is probably the
toughest veteran in Australia. He climbs
stairs in preference to using lifts and his
grasp of affairs is as good as that of
any man of half his years. He can re-
member his arrival from Plymouth as a
boy of 11 when he joined Willis and Co.,
the leading booksellers of the time. He
became managing director of Gaunt’s in
1893 and was honorary timekeeper for
the V.R.C., V.A.T.C. and Royal Show
for 45 years.
James Francis Byrnes, U.S. Secretary of
State, has always been a believer in the
value of compromising on small points
in order to preserve influence on big ones.
A few years ago he said “If you start
giving in too much on big issues you
may as well go home.” He was talking
of national politics then, but he obviously
believes in the same creed for inter-
national affairs. A South Carolina man,
Byrnes was a court reporter, journalist,
newspaper proprietor and lawyer before
his home State sent him to Congress in
1911. After 14 years in the Represen-
tatives and six in the discard he came
back as Senator in 1931 at the beginning
of the Roosevelt era. When war came
his support of Lease-Lend was a big
factor in getting Senate approval of the
Bill. In 1941 he became a Supreme
Court Judge, but after a year F.D.R.
made him Director of War Mobilisation.
He stepped do\vn from that post last
April and almost immediately jumped into
his present job. In 1940 Byrnes was a
good bet for Vice-President, but he
missed the Democratic nomination that
year and again in 1944, Now, as Secre-
tary of State, he is heir presumptive to
President Truman.
H. M. Caire, appointed assistant general
manager of the Savings Bank of S.A.,
joined the bank in 1912 at the age of 14.
He has specialised in mortgage business,
and what he doesn’t know about mort-
gages isn’t worth tearing up. An all-
round athlete, he has played A Grade
cricket and baseball, and represented his
district in S.A. Amateur League football.
Wing Commander Harry Melville Day,
R.A.F., who was shot down over
Germany in 1939 and for the rest of the
war made a hobby of escaping from Ger-
man prison camps, has been awarded the
D.S.O. and 0.8. E. He made nine prison
breaks, sometimes alone, sometimes in a
party as in the tragic tunnel escape from
Stalag 111 when the Nazis shot 50
prisoners as a reprisal. On that occa-
sion he reached the Baltic before recap-
ture; another time he got as far as
Poland. A prisoner from the second
month of the war, he finally broke clear
two months before the surrender. Day’s
awards are for trouble-making behind the
enemy’s lines. Twenty-four other in-
veterate prison breakers who led the
enemy a chase all over Germany were all
recognised in the Honors List.
“F.S.”: If the past is any criterion, Sir
Kenneth Clarke and Professor Randolph
Schwabe, who have been appointed joint
overseas advisers to the Felton Bequest
for the purchase of works for the
National Gallery of Victoria, will soon
be very much-talked-about men. Con-
troversies have raged round every one of
their predecessors, of whom there have
been eight, and in the cases of Randall
Davies and Frank Rinder the argument
waxed so fierce that they were invited out
to Melbourne without anything being
made any clearer. Sir Kenneth has been
director of the National Gallery in Lon-
don, keeper of fine arts at the Ashmolean
at Oxford, is 42 and a connoisseur and
commentator. His stable companion is
Slade Professor of Fine Arts at Univer-,
sity College, London, and as that institu-
tion is one of the most conservative art
institutions in Britain modernists are
likely to find him wrong, whatever he
chooses. He is the author of works on
fashion and on armor, and has a reputa-
tion as a draughtsman. The pair will have
to advise on the disposal of £150,000 of
accumulated funds to start with.
Brigadier R. H. Nimmo, who is to
command the Australian brigade in
Japan under Lieut.-General Northcott,
is a Queenslander with a pastoral back-
ground, for he was born on the family
property, Oak Park (N.Q.). Educated at
the Southport School, he graduated from
Duntroon in 1914 and joined the sth
Light Horse, A.1.F., as lieutenant, and
served on Gallipoli, in Egypt and Pales-
tine, gaining a mention in dispatches.
Between wars he held various military
appointments and was a colonel in the
Second A.1.F., when he was appointed
as brigade commander in the Armored
Division. Later he became brigade com-
mander, Darwin, and subsequently
D.A.Q.M.G. 2nd Aust. Corps. Regarded
as one of the most brilliant cavalry
graduates from Duntroon, Brigadier
Nimmo has been equally well known
as a polo player and cavalry sportsman.
Capt. J. P. Williams and Diver J.
Johnstone, of the Commonwealth Salvage
Board, have added another victory to
their long list of wins over Davy Jones.
After eight months’ work they have
hoisted the steamer Santhia from the
muddy bottom of the Hooghly River in
Calcutta. The vessel was embedded in
thick clay and silt, and other salvage ex-
perts had written her off, but to the team
that recovered the Niagara’s gold it was
just another job.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 57, Thomas Gordon Fleming,
medical practitioner. Served in France through-
out World War I, winning M.C. and two ‘men-
tions.” ,
In Sydney, at 77, Edward Featherston Phibbs,
one-time Chief Collector of Customs at Rabaul.
First went to New Britain with the A.I.F. m
1914; returned as Customs man.
In Melbourne, Thurlow Smith, veteran pro-
cess engraver and a member of the George
Patterson firm. Originally apprenticed to Pat-
terson-Shugg, he became a partner in Omega
Photo Engravers, and was later managing-
director of the C. H. Taylor concern. His son,
Lieut. Bradford Smith, was posted missing in
a commando unit in New Guinea.
At 86, George Cockran, of Bengal, Mutta-
burra district (Q.). A native of Hunter River
(N.S.W.), he selected land at Narrabn in 1887,
later moved to Moree and then to the St.
George district (s.-w. Q.), and finally to
Bengal in 1910. .
At the Old Colonists’ Home in Melbourne,
at 84, Thomas Richard Noall, after a lifetime
of reciting. The last years of the veteran
elocutionist’s active career coincided with the
first days of radio, and he was often heard
over the air. , , ,
In Melbourne, at 85, Millard Johnson, a
pioneer of motion pictures and co-director witn
W. A. Gibson of “The Kelly Gang,” the first
full-length film to be made m Australia, ine
original firm, Johnson and Gibson, later be-
came Union Theatres.


INVESTMENT ADVICE FREE
TO MEMBERS OF THE SERVICES
TKe newspapers repeatedly draw attention to
losses by servicemen who are persuaded to invest
their savings in business propositions the real worth
of which they are unable to assess through lack of
adequate knowledge or experience.
This Bank is anxious to assist in protecting ser-
vice personnel from such risks, and the managers of
the Bank have the necessary training and experience
to enable them to advise on any such proposals.
If, therefore, any serviceman or woman feels that
it would be helpful to discuss an investment pro-
posal with one of this Bank’s managers, his services
may be freely availed of without cost or obligation
of any kind. 5
MANAGERS MAY BE CONSULTED AT
MELBOURNE 271-279 Collins Street
SYDNEY 342-346 George Street
BRISBANE 180-182 Queen Street
ADELAIDE ~ , 76 King William Street
PERTH 48-54 George’s Terrace
HOBART Cr. Elizabeth & Liverpool Streets
and at any of the National Bank’s 35 1 City, Suburban
and Country Branches throughout Australia.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
iii
m
m
m
w
m
mmm
m
m
W®B
P
S -.' :
N
with
W
pioneer..
In the not-tdo-distant future, you cdh
once more make your reserved seat in a Pioneer
Road Cruiser your modern-style Magic Carpet, from
which with fascinating variety, hundreds of memor-
able scenes will unfoid themselves before you. Soon
now the luxurious comfort and courteous service of
Pioneer Tours will again weave an excitingly
different holiday atmosphere about your travels as
you smoothly journey through the real Australia
you've always wanted to see. Advance information
is now available . . . learn
to-day what Pioneer plans
for to-morrow I
©®r
fours
HEAD OFFICE: \ 465 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE, C.!.
THE SERVICE MAN
Inquiries on Disasters.
“Ek Bum”: The handing by Mr.
Churchill to New York “Life” of a copy
of a speech which he made in a secret
session of the Commons on April 23,
1942, has peculiar aspects. That an
American weekly should have been chosen
for first publication sets a new British
tradition for retired Prime Ministers.
Possibly it was a matter of shock
tactics to force the inquiry which it is
known that the Churchill Government
intended to hold at the end of the war.
The Attlee Government seems to have
other views.
Mr. Churchill said at the Commons
session that 100,000 Singapore defenders
had surrendered to 30,000 Japanese after
five or six days’ “confused but not very
severe fighting.” The 100,000, he said,
had been gathered in Singapore by Feb.
3, and on the night of Feb. 8 5000 Jap-
anese found lodgment on the island and
were reinforced till the 30,000 were there.
The Japanese had not stated the number
of prisoners taken at Singapore, but it
“does not seem that there was much
bloodshed.”
The thing looks like a bit of Churchill-
ian carelessness. The records available
do not suggest that there were 100,000
British Empire and Dominion troops in
Singapore. And the cold assertion that
the Japanese had not stated the number
of prisoners taken does not coincide with
the facts. Three or four days after the
fall pf Singapore they claimed, officially,
65,000 prisoners, including 8000 wounded.
On Feb. 26 they increased their esti-
mate to 73,000. At no time has it ever
been suggested publicly that Singapore
had 100,000 defenders.
Mr. Churchill continued:
Australian accounts reflect on Indian
troops and other credible witnesses dis-
parage Australians.
If Mr. Churchill had read the Austra-
lian press he would have known that
sections of it criticised everybody and
everything, being in a condition of
hysteria. There is plenty of evidence to
support his remark that in April, 1942,
there was an endless field for recrimina-
tion. The Prime Minister proceeded:
Which way will the Japanese go? Where
will the Japanese strike next? Australia
naturally fears an immediate invasion, and
the United States, which has accepted
responsibility for everything east of a line
drjwn to the west of Australia, has sent,
and is sending, continuous and strong rein-
forcements.
We have transported back to Australia
a large part of the A.I.F. from the Middle
East. We do not see here that the Japan-
ese could get great advantages by invading
Australia in force. By so doing they would
commit themselves to a very formidable
campaign a.great distance from home, with
American sea power operative on their
communications.
The Japanese doubtless will do their
utmost to threaten and alarm Australia,
and establish lodgments and bases in
northern Australia in order to procure the
greatest locking up of the Allied forces
in that continent. We have done and will
continue to do everything in our power to
sustain our kith and kin.
I have also procured from Mr. Roose-
velt a substantial reinforcement of United
States troops for New Zealand, whose atti-
tude and morale have been admirable. But
neither Britain nor America must be drawn
into immobilising in Australia undue
numbers of the limited forces which they
can transport across the sea within any
given period.
The statement of Mr. Churchill’s
opinion was in line with the best military
opinion in Australia and among the
American high command at the time.
Strategists of the Ward-Beasley type
differed.
The publication of the Churchill speech
has made some inquiry on Singapore’s
fall more than ever necessary. All the
criticism of the Australian effort or of
part of it in Malaya cannot be put down
to the ignoble motive of jealousy to which
General Gordon Bennett attributes it.
Some of it appeared in official American
mi Ji!u ry repor . ts - . ,
Whatever inquiry is held should be
by a joint British - Australian - Indian
commission modelled on the Gallipoli
commission, on which Australia’s Andrew
Fisher sat. The Australians concerned
should go on to and report separately
on the tragedies of Rabaul, Ambon and
Java, and of the Darwin bombing of
February 19, the need for which inquiry
is still greater from an Australian point
of view.»
War-criminal Trials.
The trials of Japanese charged with
atrocities committed on the bodies of
prisoners of war, very many of them Aus-
tralians, continue to be ill-reported in
Australian daily papers which found
roods of space for the court-martial of
a great Australian fighter-pilot op matter
of small importance.
Last week the Australian military court
at Labuan heard charges of killings
against 25 Japanese—evidence in one
case was that 11 prisoners had been given
cigarettes while their guards told them
how they were to die—and charges of
ill-treatment of prisoners from the 2/21st
battalion at Ambon are being heard at
Morotai. Of 2500 Australians at San-
dakan, in Borneo, only 38 and a group
of officers, removed previously, were re-
covered.
Thus far the trials have resulted in 62
Japanese being sentenced to death. At
the week-end none of the sentences had
been carried out. In Adelaide the R.S.L.,
through its president, Eric Millhouse,
K.C., demanded “proper and adequate
punishment: we look to the Federal
Government to see that sentences are
carried out.” But it was suggested in a
Sydney Sunday paper that “Labor” aver-
sion to capital punishment had inter-
vened.
Then there came to mind the case
in which an American paratrooper found
guilty of murder in Brisbane —crazed with
drink, he did; in a woman he had picked
up—was taken out of Queensland Labor
territory into a United States island zone
for execution. But the Sunday paper,
reporting Mr. Forde at Morotai, said he
repeated a statement made at Canberra;
“The Commonwealth Government will
not save Japanese criminals sentenced
to death.”
Ward Defence Scheme.
Though the Defence Committee reported
that standardising of railway gauges is not
“imperative from the defence aspect,” the
seven Premiers approved of a programme
reckoned at a cost of just on £224,000,000,
of which the Commonwealth Government
is to find half. 1
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Ward’s “change of
gauge” railway scheme is well worthy of
the brain which took credit for having
upset the so-called “Brisbane Line”
strategy, replacing it with a plan under
which Australian troops were to be flung
against Japanese invaders of the North,
at the end of communication lines a
couple of thousand miles long and with-
out transport vehicles to service them.
Fortunately, Mr. Ward’s scheme of
defence was a myth—there were no
troops and no supplies—and no Japs
arrived.
It is to be hoped that this new scheme
will be a myth also.
The cost, of course, is nothing—to Mr.
Ward. The estimate produced last April,
when the idea was brought forward, was
£206,000,000, spread over 30 years,
£76,000,000 to be allotted for immedi-
ate spending. Let it be analysed on that
basis.
In terms of geographical subsidies,
£206,000,000 means putting a capital
impost of £6O per square mile on
the whole of Australia, productive, popu-
lated, or otherwise. On settled land it
comes nearer to £2OO per square mile.
It is about £29 per head on the popula-
tion. And, of course, that would be con-
tingent on the scheme actually costing
£206,000,000. When any Government
scheme comes within the estimate, the
Commonwealth Auditor-General will fall
down dead. Also, if any Government
scheme, operated by a Labor Govern-
ment, is completed to schedule, or even
within twice the estimated time, the moon
will turn green.
The Sydney Dock
The Graving Dock at Sydney was an
urgent defence work, and economy in its
construction was vital. But it took nearly
twice as long to build as the moderate
timetable provided, and three times as
long as a much larger dock in South


Missing Friend.
. T'jvnisr'P knowing the whereabouts of BRUCE
THOMAS GRAND, son of the iate Grand and
„ 1o+ „ p’liith Lilian Grand, late of 7 Jtaieign
Gardens London, England, who it is understood came
to Australia Item England * to^ h %S'V|uSTEES i
401 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria. He will
hear something to his advantage. _
Public Notice.
T GIOVANNI RISTUCCIA, of Italian nationality,
Lnn t Tiri ri Italy, and resident 24 years in Aus-
traUa now reading at 13 Water Street Lidcombe.
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES. —In Divorck.
trr> MARGARET HAY. —-TAKE NOTICE that
RALPH lA HAY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
374 of 1945 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may appearance at tte
Divorce ofice Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Divorce urace . - -
the First day of April next and obtain a copy
the petition without charge from WILSON & CHAPIN
Solicitors 14 Martin Place Sydney—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Deputy Registrar in Divorce.
¥BCBCEBIS CiDINI ® ¥BCECEEH CiDIM
¥B€BCEB?S CiBINI ® ¥BCBCEBSS QIN
VICKERB CiBIM ® ¥BCBCERS QIN
V©. 21.
HOW TO PREPARE
FOR THE LIFT OR ESCALATOR
YOU WILL HEED • ♦ •
Tbe lift or escalator you will need to meet tlie challenge of tKe
post-war to-morrow can be placed on order*—mow.
No immediate payment is asked—but we look to you to place your
order in good faitb. The plan is tbis-bave your anticipated traffic
conditions surveyed now. Approve tbe plans now—and place your
order. We will issue you a Priority Certificate and. according to its
sequence, so will work commence on your installation tbe moment
present restrictions are lifted. Cancellation of your order will be
accepted any time till work is started and costs will be based on
present rates witb variations either way to your account.
1 i .
Forward-looking executives interested in taking action to meet the
future are invited to call tbeir nearest Waygood-Otis office. No
obligation.
The lifts or escalators you order now will embody the Iqtest advancements and practices
in the field of vertical transportation. Our engineers will advise you in drawing up the
specifications to ensure you obtaining the Lest type of lift to suit your business and
anticipated traffic conditions.
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD . ~ INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE , BRISBANE , ADELAIDE , PERTH , HOBART . NEWCASTLE
VERTICAL t ft' AKSPORT ATION
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” lakes your fancy, write
lo the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Africa. It cost £10,000,000 against an
estimated £4,000,000— three times as
much as the venture in South Africa, tor
which coal and steel had to be impoite
under war conditions.
It will be remarked that the Dock was
built within the compass of five years,
thus providing only one sixth of the
space-time of the railway scheme, strikes
being excluded from the Ward-Clapp
calculation.
The Wards have taken no account of
extra running costs, as the railways go
progressively into operation, or of the
deterioration and maintenance costs due
to climate or of actual losses on running
which will have to be capitalised. The
tremendous 1930-39 railway deficits were
ignored.
The new lines which are contemplated
are not likely ,to produce more revenue
than the existing 2000 miles of Common-
wealth Lines, which in the year before
the war had only a gross revenue of
£547,000 and working expenses of
£642,000. The argument that outback
lines will develop the country and lead
to a great and profitable increase of stock
has not been borne out by facts in the
past. The country on the Alice Springs
line was showing signs of overstocking
before the railway went through from
Oodnadatta.
All this leads up to the certainty that
the money could be far better spent.
Obliging Mr. Ward
Mr. Ward said last April: “In my
opinion half the cost will be for labor
and half materials.”
For the preliminary section 3,000,000
steel sleepers and 12,000,000 timber ones,
with 26,500,000 superficial feet of sawn
timber, will be needed —a laughable am-
bition in a country whose steelworks are
closed periodically by Communist strikes
and which lives from hand to mouth tor
electric power to keep the lights of its
big cities burning because of the repeate
disruption of the N.S.W. coal industry.
The scheme as put forward last April
was designed: —-
(1) To build a 4ft. line from Fre-
mantle to Kalgoorlie, which means that the
present 3ft. 6in. line will become a chronic
1 (2) To change the sft. 3in. lines of Vic-
toria and S. Australia to 4ft. B*m.
(3) To convert the 3ft. 6in. Port Pine
Broken Hill and Silverton Tramway lines
to the new standard gauge. _
(4) To build a new “strategic line from
Bourke, via Cunnamulla, Charleville, Black-
all Longreach, Winton and Hughenden, to
link the Townsville-Dajarra line.
(5) To link Dajarra, via the Barkly Table-
land, to Birdum.
(6) To convert the Darwin-Birdum and
all the Queensland lines to 4ft. 8 2 -m. gauge.
The whole plan would involve the con-
version of 5470 miles of railway and the
construction of 16,000 miles more.
After Mr. Ward had put forward his
plan, the Queensland Government came
to r light with a loud yell of fear.
The Bourke-Winton line was due to
run through the richest of the Queensland
western sheep country, and seemed bound
to suck the wool and other trade to Syd-
ney. The districts were already served
with railways to the point of financial
embarrassment,
Mr. Ward, however, is an oblig-
ing fellow. Although a change pro-
posed by Queensland Labor made the
railway valueless for eastern-coast defence
by disconnecting it from the coastal rail-
way systems, and then inland f®®ders
across the Dividing Range, Mr. Ward
agreed to take his railway back to the
Cooper and run it up through Nocka-
tunga, Windorah, Monkira, Bouha,
Dajarra and the Barkly Tableland.
This plan has certain unemployed-relief
and other advantages.
(a) The line will cost immensely more to
bU (M since it runs through desert cattle country
and will run through comparatively low-carry-
ing sheep country (when 20 years or so,of sheep
acclimatisation and improvement may have put
sheep on the Barkly), it will cost less to run,
and camouflage will be easy, either in the rainy
season, when the floods are over it, or m the
dry, when the sand blows in and hides it.
(c) It will give an opportunity to lengthen all
the State Government lines to join up with it,
bringing more capital expenditure.
[d) It will help to win Maranoa at the next
election.
At present, the largest town on the
Bourke-Birdum route has a population of
not more than 700 permanents, and there
are throughout not more than six or
seven people of all ages per mile of rail-
way. Yet it is proposed to serve this
with a heavy-gauge line—an enterprise
comparable to building a line from New-
castle to Adelaide via Sydney and Mel-
bourne. And the impudent excuse is
“defence.”
A Naval Problem
The theory apparently is that any
enemy who invades will land at Darwin
and will wait for attack until (strikes
permitting) Mr. Ward and his colleagues
send the Australian Army overland to
deal with him along a route longer than
from London to Istanbul.
To be organised for this vital purpose
is a permanent force of about 30,000
half the troops needed to look after the
unarmed residue of the lost Asiatic in-
vasion forces in the New Guinea area
alone. The British and 40,000 Dutch are
to take care of Japs in the Dutch East
Indies. . .
The problem of conquering Australia is
a very simple one. If an enemy can
take (a) Newcastle, (b) Sydney, (c) Mel-
bourne, (d) Fremantle, all hope of
defence is over. War industry, communi-
cations, food supply are all tied in knots
in those centres. Without Fremantle
defence and supply cannot operate in the
west. Sydney, Newcastle and Melbourne
hold much more than one third of the
population of the continent and the bulk
of crucial war industry.
Cut those knots and the rest of Aus-
tralia will fall apart. They are all on
the sea coast. Only a Paddington
politician would believe that an enemy
would carry the means of transport tc
North Australia over a few thousand
miles of ocean and then proceed to ride
2000 to 3000 miles overland to his first
main objective when he can come in
direct with his carriers from the Pacific.
Island Importance
The truth is that the defence of Aus-
tralia must be sited far outside Its shores
in the surrounding ring of islands, A
flight across the United States by a
jet-propelled ’plane in 4hrs. 13min.
(2470 miles) makes it clear that in the
next war Rabaul will be within three
hours’ flying of Sydney. The only
defence which will serve is a first-
class navy (with integral air power) and
first-class island bases from Norfolk
round to Timor, linked with British
Asian-Netherland E.I. and U.S. Pacific
defences. The vital transport is a power-
ful mercantile marine of our own, with
facilities to increase both it and a naval
and coastal defence strength.
European Lessons
As for railways, the Germans had
the most intensive, most flexible, best-
planned and best-equipped military rail-
ways in Europe. On their frontiers,
guarded for defence by vast rivers and
high mountains, were the even more in-
tensive railway and tramway and canal
systems of industrial Belgium, Holland
and Northern France. But by the time
those railways were needed, they, in the
main, had ceased to be workable under
the blast of the R.A.F. And so had Hitler s
great and expensive Autobahnen, built at
the cost of tens of millions sterling.
The Allied motor transport, which
handled nearly 80 divisions, and which
moved the British spearhead force—
against existing enemy defence 211
miles from Normandy to Antwerp in
five days, was only improvised. But it
had all railway systems licked hollow tor
the purposes of mobile warfare. An
Montgomery’s drive from Alamem to
Tunis speaks for itselft
Railways these days may be still useful
for large-scale base accumulation pur-
poses. ‘ But railways are only work-
able so long as a squadron ot
rocket Typhoons is not in control.
What the position will be m
years can be left to the imagination.
The scheme of Mr. Ward is sheer non-
sense. It is distinguished only in that it
represents the biggest bit of squander-
and-waste ever proposed even by a Labor
politician. But unemployed servicemen
must be served—and it is proposed to
make navvies of great numbers of them.


will
mmM
r/
X /
& ■
wpvXW
‘M
piiW
Bill
""
v
t*
mu
9
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
BfIEKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also “TOP DOG” Products
SPORTING NOTIONS
Tranquil Star won the six-furlongs William
Reid Stakes in grand style at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, lifting her wins to 23 and her win-
nings to £29,626, and getting a great reception
from the crowd as V. Hartney, smiling broadly,
brought her back to scale. She carried 8.12,
was always going great guns up with the lead-
ing bunch and dominated the particularly smart
field in the run home. /
The Reid Stakes starters included such as
David’s Last, Bootle, La Patrice, Versailles,
New Yorker, Tea Cake, Marocain and such
fast others as Unfurl and Carbonne. The
latter pair led them along, with the grand old
marc about fourth, and there was no question
about the winner once they rounded the corner.
Tranquil Star winning convincingly from the
bottomweight, Veileme, and Unfurl. The
crowd’s applause was pure admiration; Tran-
quil Star started at 25 to 1.
It was a sensational day. In that event the
promising three-year-old Old England fell dead;
he had played up a bit at the start, and his end
was caused by an internal htemorrhage. In the
five-furlongs Niddrie Handicap for two-year-
olds, won by the South Australian Upheaval
from Tribunal and Natural, three came down;
in the main distance event, the 12-furlongs
Cranmallan Handicap, won by Various from
the hurdlers Project and Hiatus, Judith Louise
toppled; and there was also a fall in the
Warrook Hurdle, won by the maiden Gyrone
from Fugleman and Ashton.
Other features of the day included the return
to the saddle of cross-country rider L. Meenan,
who was on Fugleman; A. Breasley, who, hav-
ing his first ride after a holiday, came down
with Kinetic in the Niddrie Handicap, and got
off with an injured knee;‘and H. Badger, who,
after running a close second on Tribunal, tried
to bring off his old Badger finish on the good
miler Medicine in the Caldermere Handicap,
but just failed to overhaul Macready, with The
Ritz third.
The day’s other race, the mile Tweedside
Handicap for three-year-olds, was very easily
won by the Valiant Chief colt Invasion Chief,
from the topweight, Kindergold, and Tilston.
The lastnamed, a Titan colt raced by his
N.S.W. breeder, F. W. Hughes, seemed to be
a bit hampered on the rails and should do
better on a bigger track. Kindergold should
take a lot of beating at seven furlongs.
Two of the worst runs of the day were those
of Peter Lalor in the distance event and La
Patrice in the sprint. Peter Lalor, who has
won at the Valley, performed very poorly, but
it can be said for La Patrice that she likes
*more room than this track affords. David’s
Last carried topweight in the sprint, giving
Tranquil Star 61b., on the day an insult to that
lady. Still, the last of the Davids ran a grand
race, and he might win anything up such a
course as the Flemington straight six.
Luckiest, and it might be said gamest, two-
legged competitor was the former successful
Queensland and not so successful N.S.W. rider
G. Bougoure. He had a fall on Heliograph
in the Niddrie, and Heliograph had to be de-
stroyed. A couple of events later Bougoure
rode a splendid race on Various. L. Mc-
Clusky, the third to come down in the Niddrie
(on Talma), broke a leg, and McCloud, on
Judith Louise in the Cranmallan, was hurtled
through the air like a projectile from a rocket-
gun, but without injury. J. Pearsall had a
nastier spill from the hurdler Sir Grand, and,
with McClusky, went to hospital.
Only the guiding spirit of the Melbourne rac-
ing crowd can explain why Fugleman was
backed to odds-on in the Hurdle; possibly a
matter of loyalty to Meenan. The event, the
first on the programme, presaged the sensa-
tional day. First, Mercury Bay’s saddle
slipped and he had to be taken back to have
it fixed. Then it was found that the David
mare Boumeith was lame, and she had to be
sent back and all bets accordingly adjusted to
tote odds. As if that wasn’t enough, when the
barrier failed to rise properly several of them
were held up by it and River Clyde was moored
there with some of it fast round his neck.
The heavily-backed Fugleman had run very
badly in Adelaide before coming over. He
seemed to prop, as if hurt, after leading over
the last jump. Anyway, it’s doubtful if Meenan
ever rode better than on that losing mount.
One of the best riders over the jumps Australia
has ever seen, he should, with luck, have a
great season ahead. So, no doubt, should
Breasley, who easily won last year’s jockeys’
premiership and who, before deciding to have
a few weeks’ holiday, started this year off by
riding the first three winners at Flemington on
January 1. „
* * * *
At Randwick on Saturday the full sisters
Chaperone and Civic Pride, both by Ajax-
Aulqne, started the warmest favorites of the
day, but while the two-year-old Chaperone
won the Sledmere Handicap in grand style, her
year-older sister finished a bad last of ten
starters in the six furlongs’ Challenge Stakes.
A pity Chaperone was not given a run in this
year’s Gimcrack Stakes. It seems she would
surely have won it and thus given her sire
again the Breeders’ Plate-Gimcrack double,
which went to his credit last year per Mag-
nificent and Civic Pride. Those who secured
6 to 4 about Chaperone when she won at her
only previous start could reckon themselves
extremely fortunate; against a much stronger
field in the Sledmere she started at 7-to-2 on.
Again drawn badly, with only two outside
her, she was taken by Mulley straight and con-
fidently to the front, and cantered past the
judge with six lengths to spare, doing the five
furlongs and a bit in an even minute. When
she bumps some real opposition, such as Havoc
or Superfort may provide, All Love’s record
58-j- sec. for the five may easily be shaken.
Civic Pride, who gives signs of being a
somewhat temperamental lady, started at 7 to
4 for the Challenge. The Felcrag four-year-old
Cragsman seemed to be her undoing. D.
Munro rode Cragsman apparently with the
idea that the favorite was his chief opponent,
and when the filly dwelt a little at barrier-rise
he had the edge on her all the way into the
straight. With a furlong to go Civic Pride
had had enough of it, but the colt was not
equal to going on, either; last year’s winner,
the Felcrag mare Felbeam (W. Cook), putting
in a sterling run to win comfortably by a
length from Earl Pentheus and Silverelda.
A. Mulley rode a double: Chaperone and
the Royal Step five-year-old Royal Peer, who
downed Royal Janette and Fort Denison in
the mile Paddington Weller. Apprentice F.
Williams also landed a double, getting Tin Mine
home from the fast-finishing Spearex and
New Idea, in the 10-furlongs Encourage, and
having an easy win on the Talking filly Lisp
in the mile Valicare Handicap for three-year-
old fillies, beating Double Gift and Flowers,
who finished on well. After finishing second
last in the 10-furlongs January Handicap Night-
beam was reported a casualty, the event going
to Falcon Knight from Britannic and Grand
Fils.
* * * *
At Randwick on Monday the ex-Queenslander
Bernbqrough had yet another of his over-
whelming wins, coming from behind as they
turned for home and cantering in four lengths
ahead of War Eagle. He’s going to be a very
tough nut for the best of them in Melbourne.
The Anniversary Handicap went to old Grand
Fils (his second win in the race) from Lady
Marie and Shining Night.
Monday’s meeting at Caulfield saw the bril-
liant Crown Gem score again, though rather
narrowly, from Composer, with British Boy
third. The Dhoti filly Hawa Rani also had
another win; and in the main event, the 12-
furlongs Australia Day Handicap, Macclesfield
won very narrowly from Huntingdale, with
Pledget third.
* * * *
For the second successive season a filly was
acclaimed the “horse of the year” for 1945
in America. She is the three-year-old Busher,
one of the Louis B. Mayer string, and “the
greatest money-winning filly of all time.” The
filly to take the honor in 1944 was Twilight
Tear. The previous greatest money-winnina
filly was Top Flight.
* * * *
The Solray inquiry in Melbourne was more
than anything else a demonstration of the value
of a long memory in following racing. Solray,
after finishing down the road in dry, dusty
conditions at Moonee Valley one Saturday, a
week later won a similar race in heavy going
at Mentone, where he was very heavily backed"
Connections had no trouble establishing that all
the gelding’s wins had been on heavy tracks.
* * * *
The David stock, which rounded off a par-
ticularly successful season last year by taking
both legs of the Victorian Grand Nationa
double, started the present year just as remark-
ably. The first main sprint of the year, the
Standish Handicap at Flemington on January 1,
was won by the five-year-old David’s' Last,
one of the few entires of the breed; and at
Moonee Valley on January 5 the six-year-old
David mare Boumeith won the first hurdle of
the year. Both David’s Last and Boumeith
are blacks; David was a brown.
Bay David (David-Linderana), who won last
year’s G.N. Hurdle, was the fifth David horse
to do so in six years. Meenan, who rode
him, also rode the first of them, Cheery
Jack, and the other three were Saul, Claudette
and Zalmon. Then Quixotic (David-Miss
Quex) won the Steeple, bringing last season’s
winnings of David progeny, represented by a
dozen winners and eight minor placegetters,
to £16,565 and the total winnings of his stock
to £65,850. Quixotic was preceded by Giant
Killer and Santa Casa as G.N. Steeple winners
sired by ( David, while David’s other good
jumpers of the past have included David Spear
(Australian Hurdle) and two Australian Steeple
winners in Dark David and Zalmon. Of
David’s dozen winners for 1944-45—they won a
couple of dozen races among them —six were
winners over the jumps during the season and
others had previous jumping wins to their
credit. Most of his non-jumpers are sprinters.
Another interesting breeding note has been
the rapid success of three “young” sires in
Titan, Ajax and Dhoti, all of whose eldest
progeny are at present three-year-olds. Titan,
a son of the grand English sire Hyperion, has
not yet produced any one really outstanding
performer, but he’s a model of consistency.
Seven of his first crop won as two-year-olds,
others have scored since, and his second crop
two-year-olds are carrying on the good work.
Ajax has produced seven winners from what
have been seen so far of his two crops, includ-
ing such class as the dual Derby-winner Mag-
nificent, the crack filly Civic Pride and this
season’s Breeders’ Plate winner Havoc. At the
end of the 1944-45 season Ajax headed Dhoti
from the point of stake-money won, with £B2Bl,
as compared to £7070, but since then Dhoti
has forged ahead with several winners and
placegetters, and two champions in the full
brothers Royal Gem and Crown Gem, until
towards the end of 1945 he was at the head of
the Australian sires’ list—a feat without prece-
dent for a sire of such short standing.
* * * *
Racing takes a big upward move in S.A. with
its resumption in the country districts. Betting
being legal on a racecourse, but illegal any-
where else, districts with a course felt them-
selves unfairly treated when it was not being
used. So the sport is being revived in half a
dozen of the larger towns.
* * * *
Post-war racing revivals in England have
included the Gimcrack dinner, which was held
in December. It commemorates the great little
grey horse Gimcrack, who raced marvellously
in England and France over 250 years ago.
Standing only a shade over 14 hands, he was
unbeaten on seven different tracks in England
in one year. Sold to France, the game little
fellow won his owner there a huge sum by run-
ning 221- miles well within an hour. Back in
England, he raced till he was 12 before going
to the sfud.
Odd that, whereas Gimcrack remains to this
day one of the strongest arguments for racing
them late —he wasn't laced till he was four
years old —the Stakes bearing his name at Rand-
wick is the medium for racing them young. It
was not quite so much so as usual in the


Kiffi
JUST RIGHT fOR firmG
t
* 9 99997 Uf9l i M in on
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airwayl
f
Made b? FORD SHEHINGTON LTD.
Mafiufi'dufm’uf CIO B fTfc Travel Coses
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
elOt*
VO*
JOB
Dy
<O.
A.T.L offers you without obli-
gation constructive advice in
connection with any post-war
production problem involving
tools, gauges, instruments or com-
ponents which must be engineered
to limits of super-accuracy.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY i » * • MELBOURNE « • , . PERTH i • • • BRISBANE
ATL4-E
recent season, when, because of fodder re-
strictions, early fillies’ races were abandoned
or postponed; the Gimcrack Stakes here,
unlike the race of the same name m England,
being, of course, for fillies only. The last
English Gimcrack was, as most of them are,
won by a colt, Lord Derby’s Hyperion product
Gulf Stream, who beat the Aga Khan s filly
Rivaz The belated Randwick Gimcrack—
won by Sweet Chime (Le Grand Duc-Kon-
mako) from Gold Taj (a subsequent winner) and
Tibalina —was hopefully hailed as a means
of establishing whether racing them young really
affects fillies adversely. That, of course, is
preposterous, since the postponement was for
only a matter of months, and one such trial
could prove nothing. On the other hand,
Randwick Gimcrack winners notoriously do
not go on to become great mares when they’re
older. * * *
* ♦ * •
' Evidently they remember in America that
Phar Lap came there from Australia. Tribal,
certainly no Phar Lap, though a useful galloper,
taken over there to race as one of Louis B.
Mayer’s record money-winning string, was
allotted 8.9 for the Santa Anita Handicap to
be run on March 9. That rated Tribal only
91b below the topweight, Thumbs Up, who
won the rich event last year carrying the same
weight that he was given this time, 9.4. Also,
it put the Sydney horse only 51b. below First
Fiddle, on performances the best handicapper
in America. This ninth Santa Anita is for
$lOO,OOO added money.
* * ♦ •
Australian cricketers and others who
have toured South Africa will remember
the Wanderers’ Club ground, one of the
most famous in S’African sporting his-
tory, The ground is to be no more, hav-
ing been expropriated by the Railways
Administration, The Wanderers took it
to the Supreme Court, but lost.
« * * ♦
The Services tour: —
Though the Services team didn’t win a match
against the mainland States —buttressed to full
strength—they have played the game in fine
spirit. The side’s prominent pre-war players
were Hassett (Test), Pepper, Sismey, Williams,
Carmody, Cheetham, Whitington and Miller
(Sheffield Shield). The others are about up
to club standard. Still, in England they won
two, lost two and played a draw in “Victory
Tests” against teams which contained Ham-
mond, Edrich, Hutton, Ames, Robins, Fish-
lock, Wright and other notables. In the heat
of India 10 matches were played (one “Test”
lost and two drawn); and they scored 4722 runs
averaging 34.98, against 4864 averaging 34.01.
Stay-at-home critics have criticised the Ser-
vices players for their “tiredness,” but manager
Johnson’s cable to the Board of Control on
Dec. 9 objected to the lengthy Australian tour
mapped out as “unreasonable and drastic,”
after which it was amended. Also, some sec-
tions of the press tried to foment dissension
among the players, but the tour has been a
pleasant one among a happy band of good
fellows.
The 1914-18 A.I.F, XI began without a great
pre-war player, but when the 1921 team left
for England Collins, Pellew, Oldfield, Taylor
and Jack Gregory were included. And Hassett,
Miller, Pepper and some of the other Services
players have done well enough to attract the
selectors’ eyes when the English XI comes to
Australia at the end of this year or the Aus-
tralian XI goes to England in 1947,
Services v. Queensland ended in a sparkling
rush for runs. Behind 38 on the first innings
(296 to 334), Services closed at 227 for eight
wickets in the second knock, and, set 189
runs to win, Queensland got within four runs
of victory for five wickets when time was up.
For Q., Morris (ex-N.S.W.) got a fine double
(104 not out, 66 not out), and substantial help
came from McCool (11 for 176) and Tallon
(caught three, stumped two). Miller (Services),
with 4 for 49 in the second innings, 6 for 123
for the match, showed what a fine bowler he
is when the side is up against it.
Max Thomas’s 151 not out in Tasmania’s 315
for four wickets is the highest score against
the Services in Australia. With Morrisby (82),
136 were put up for the first wicket. The
Services scored 459: Stanford 153 (his best
innings so far), Cristofani 80 and Hassett 59.
Miller had to retire with a leg injury,
* * * *
Victoria v. South Australia match at Mel-
bourne provided the lowest scores of the sea-
son. Vic. began with 186 (I. Johnson 39,
Barnett 30), but S.A. crashed for 76 (Waite
25). Vic’s 276 in the second knock (of which
Meuleman’s 150 was a fine effort) set S.A, 387
to win, but only 210 for seven wickets were
on the board at “time.” R. Craig (93),
Hamence (56) and Dooland (six wickets for
115) were good individual efforts for S.A, *■
* * * *
N.S.W. v, S.A. match at Sydney was put
through in just over nine hours, the home
team winning by an innings and 51. On a
good wicket 17 batsmen were out on the first
day and 12 on the second day (Starr did not
bat). Left-hander Alley (129 in about three
hours), Saggers (37) and Gulliver (30) got 201
of the N.S.W. 271. B. Dooland (a right-
hander of promise who bowled with hard luck)
took 4 for 92 and P, Ridings 3 for 67. S.A.
crashed for 140 (Klose 68 and Ridings 22) and
80 (Dooland 23). Lindwall (9 for 77), Toshack
(5 for 50) and O’Reilly (4 for 54) did the
damage. Saggers did not give away a sundry
and caught five batsmen.
* * * *
Bromwich and Quist had an easy
straight-sets win (6-3, 6-1, 9-7) to make
their fourth successive Australian doubles
tennis championship. Quist also won the
title with Turnbull in 1936 and 1937.
Len Schwartz and Max Newcombe (of
S.A.) reached Saturday’s final by downing
Pails and Brown, 6-2, 6-3, 8-6., Australia’s
Davis Cup “possibles” grow in number.
♦ * * *
Hockey Bennell, unwinding a punch for
the first time in his lengthy career (or it
may be that his opponent can no longer
“take it”), had an easy task opposed to
Tommy Hunter at Leichhardt With a
straight left he knocked Hunter halfway
through the ropes in the fourth round,
and had him down twice in the ninth.
In the meantime he piled up points with
counter punches after making his oppo-
nent miss, and he was so far in front at
the final bell that the verdict was a mere
formality.
Boomed fights are often bad fights, and
the one between Dave Sands and Alec
Buxton at the Sydney Stadium was not
one of the agreeable exceptions. No
previous Australian opponent had been
able to master the Royal Marine’s aggres-
sive methods, but against Sands Buxton
did very little leading, and was well beaten
on points. Now and then he rushed at
Sands with wild swings, and on at least
two occasions went close to diving over
the Newcastle lad’s shoulder. A nicely-
timed right to the body floored Buxton
for “eight” in the eighth round,
* * * *
There’s been some caustic comment in
America on the Louis-Conn world heavy-
weight title scrap set down for June 19
at the N.Y. Yankee Stadium. Gene
Tunney is reported as alleging that Conn
“has been a playboy for the last five
years,” and “is in no more condition to
fight than I am, or less.” Tunney offered
to bet ten thousand dollars that welter-
weight Ray Robinson would beat Conn
over 15 rounds. In the year’s ratings by
the boxing paper the “Ring” Conn isn’t
mentioned in the dozen heavyweights
listed. Neither is Joe. The “Ring” gives
first place to Tami Mauriello, rating the
British champion, Bruce Woodcock, fifth.
Woodcock is to fight cruiserweight
champ. Freddie Mills in May, probably
at Dublin, taxation on stoush in Eire
being 20 per cent., whereas in England it’s
48 per cent.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
A quarter of a million people saw the
march of men of the Royal Navy, and
the children were in their element. Any-
body who had an idea that Australia
was getting indifferent to the silken ties
of Empire had the illusion shattered by
the reception these men received. The
cheers given by naval ratings for their
Admiral at the reception given to them
by Mayor and Councillors at the Town
Hall were heard outside in Swanston-
street. There has been no lack of host-
esses for the men, and the City Council
arranged for many of the visitors to be
driven into the country.
Most outstanding event of the visit was
the reception given by Vice-Admiral Sir
Philip Vian and the officers of Indefati-
gable, Implacable, Glory, Armada and
Tuscan, on board H.M.S. Glory at Port
Melbourne. The ship was dressed and
Visitors were met at the top of the gang-
way by the Officer of the Watch and a
party of naval ratings. They then made
their way through intricate passages,
decorated by flags to the top of the lift,
where they were greeted by their hosts.’
After that they passed on to tfle hangar,
also decorated with bunting, electric
lights and masses of gladioli and minia-
ture trees, some of them laden with
golden mandarins. From this setting the
guests, who numbered about 300, saw an
illuminated fighter ’plane.
Among the guests were Acting
Navy Minister Drakeford, his wife
and three daughters—Gilda, Muriel
and Mrs. R. Robertson. With Com-
mander Showers was his wife, charm-
ing in a floral frock and small
white hat. The Linton lady, her arm in
a sling because of a fractured wrist, came
with son Dick. With her father, Cr.
Pedersen, was Alma, looking chic in a
black frock highlighted with blue. A
small black and blue hat carried on the
color scheme.
Air Vice Marshal George Jones and
his wife, she in soft floral tones, looked
in at the reception before going on to
Government House for the dinner given
to the Admiral and naval officers by the
Governor and Lady Dugan. Mrs.
Marchant-Penfold, one of the hostesses
while the ships are in Melbourne, was
busy gathering up guests for dinner and
dancing at Claridge’s. With Lieut.
George Lord, R.N., on leave in his home
town, was Graham Fuller, ex-R.A.N.,
now ready to begin University life. Two
of the most attentive hosts were Lieut.
H. G. (“Fido”) Kenelm-Bramah and
Commissioned Gunner [T] T. J. Lynn.
The T in brackets means Torpedo. The
highlight of the party was the closing
ceremony. Right on the tick of seven-
thirty, the lift went to the flight deck
level, on it the band of the Royal
Marines. With a fanfare of trumpets
guests were silenced and all officers stood
to attention. Then the band played the
hymn, “The Day Thou Gavest, Lord, Is
Ended,” which w'as followed by another
fanfare of trumpets and then another
hymn. This was the Musical Sunset
Ceremony, and it ended with the National
Anthem.
It was fitting that the first big dinner
party given by the Governor and Lady
Dugan since the war should have been
in honor of the admiral and officers of
the First Aircraft Carrier Division. A
feature of the evening was the music, sup-
plied by the Royal Marines Band. The
State dining-room has never looked more
lovely. The tables were centred with silver
candelabra from which candles shed a
soft amber light, alternated with bowls
of mixed flowers in tones of pink. In
the drawing-rooms, where the guests
chatted after dinner, mixed blooms deco-
rated the mantels and were set in bowls
on high pedestals around the rooms.
Visiting naval officers were guests of Sir
Winston and Lady Dugan at late-after-
noon parties.
S. M. Bruce and his wife having
returned to the city of their birth, lead-
ing citizens gathered to welcome them
at the invitation of the Lord Mayor.
Reception was held in the Town Hall, and
plants of variegated foliage in the window
ledges and bowls of gay cannas grouped
on pedestals decked the room. Lord
Mayor Connelly referred to the guest of
honor as “a great man and a great Aus-
tralian.” When Mr. Bruce rose to re-
spond he was received with prolonged
applause. The last 12 years have dealt
kindly with him. Bronzed by the sea
voyage and evidently in excellent health,
he spoke wittily and interestingly. “For
heaven’s sake,” he said, on the subject
of diplomatic representation, “send of
your very best abroad, especially to Lon-
don, because London is still the centre
of the diplomatic world.”
The hostess was the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Bernard Heinze. Over her navy
blue and white patterned frock she wore
a full-length navy blue coat and her small
navy blue straw boater was banded in
white grosgrain ribbon with a red bow
and flower in front. Mrs. Bruce was
smart in black crepe, her pleated skirt,
allied to a long fitting bodice, finished
with Patou pink eyelef-worked cuffs on
the short sleeves and a matching collar.
Her small black hat featured a cluster
of pink ostrich feathers in front. The
Fraser lady favored a hat of lime-green
feathers and crimson roses worn with a
black ensemble.
The Angliss lady was smartly tailored.
She had taken a few minutes off
from caring for the new baby her
daughter, Mrs. David Knox, has just
presented to them, the baby’s mother
being still ill in hospital. Baby’s other
grandparents, knight Robert and the
Knox lady, were also at the reception.
Mrs. H. Coleman brought son Kevin to
represent his father, who was away on
official business. Kevin is just out of
uniform, and after a four-years’ interlude
is going back to the University to finish
his law course. With Harold Rabling
was his elegant American-born wife, her
smartly-cut black frock topped by a small
black hat crowned with white roses.
Archbishop Booth and Mrs. Booth were
among the guests, and with Dr. Irving
Benson was Mr§. Benson.
Judy Allen, pictured here by Broothorn,
is Convenor of Auxiliaries for the Oppor-
tunity Clubs. She has packed the best
part of a year’s activities into three
months, and has substantially increased
the movement’s funds in the process.
Before taking on this work Judy was a
member of the Town Hall Entertainments
Committee, and helped to raise many
thousands of pounds during the war years.
She was also secretary for the “Radio
Riot,” organised by women journalists
and radio women for the Florence Night-
ingale Trust Fund for War Nurses. Judy
has a very infectious smile, and is always
bright, and these two qualities have in-
spired new enthusiasm in the task of
forming new auxiliaries in the suburbs.
The Opportunity Club is usually to be
found in an industrial area. Each night
young people of both sexes meet for
games, handicraft instruction and other
interests. In this way they are led along
the way to citizenship. Judy gets mem-
bers to interest themselves in finance-
raising ideas, and she moves about also,
meeting and. telling groups of the work
which must be done among young people.
She has two sons, students at Scotch
College.
A marriage of interest in N. S. Wales
took place at the Methodist Church,
Caulfield, last week when Della, daughter
of Mrs. H. G. Weber and of the late
W. J. Wilkinson, exchanged vows with
John Moon (ex-R.A.N.R.), twin son of
the R. J. Moons, of Yarrawonga, formerly
of Barellan, N.S.W. Bridal array was a
low-waisted gown of white lace, a bou-
quet of gardenias, water-lilies and white
gladioli and a hand-embroidered tulle veil
mounted on a headdress of stiffened
lace. Bridesmaid Lois Wilkinson (sister
of the bride) wore blue organdie.
An interesting visitor is Col. Jean Begg
of the Y.W.C.A. At morning tea she
talked of her trips through various coun-
tries and spoke of the'work done by the
Y.W.C.A. for women in war-time in
many lands.
From Sydney
Randwick last Saturday was a delight.
A freshening breeze blew into the faces
of the stands. Melting torsos < became
firm again as from a cool shower, the
voice of the race announcer was brief in
the land, and there seemed a note of sym-
pathy for the feelings of the loser in the
music of the band. Another pleasure was
that the attendance was comparatively
small, so that there was no pushing or
scrambling. Maybe the A.J.C. doesn't
count that such a blessing.
Saturday was the first day of the Anni-
versary meeting, and as usual this mid-
summer date brought out the coolest of
printed silks and washing frocks. White
1 rocks and white shoes were in great
favor ; so were large and shady hats until
their wearers reached the stands. Then it
was a case of the clutching hand.
Small hats fussy with flower and tulle
had a gay and carefree look, and a filly
named Chaperone muttered to herself
To blazes with being a wallflower; the
back of my shoe to the lot of them,” and
led the field all the way in the Sledmere
Handicap.
Mrs. Douglas Swanson, who had been,
until the afternoon of the previous day,
Violet Manning, popular publicity writer
lor the Red Cross, revealed her secret to
a crowd of happy and congratulatory
friends. Mrs. Swanson was cool-looking
as a hedge rose in her pink sheer frock
and white shady hat. Violet and her
groom met some years ago in Singapore.
Douglas, who was a p.o.w. in Changi
camp, is manager of the Chartered Bank
of Batavia. Marie Coen, again in civvies
and very nice deep-blue suit and white
hat they were —was with mother Mrs.
J. Coen. Captain Joseph Coen, just
home last week, was one of the
family group, t Margaret Salenger’s
hibiscus-red suit was admired; so was
Mrs. George Edwards’s white outfit. Her
gold bracelet was circled with tiny joy
bells, and the collar of her frock was
gold-sequined. Acting State Governor Jor-
dan and his lady were at the meeting.
Twenty years ago the staff of Grace
Brothers started a yearly collection for
the hospitals. Come war or depression
or strikes the money rolled in. The 1945
harvest was £1490. This was divided
among the Royal Alexandra Hospital
for Children (which got the plumpest
packet in its Christmas stocking—£B2o),
the Royal Prince Alfred, which got £320,
Parramatta District Hospital £lOO, Dal-
wood Homes £lOO, Newtown Day
Nursery £75 and the Ellen Desailly
Kindergarten £75.
Pianist Lili Kraus captured the Town
Hall audience last Thursday when she
was the soloist in the Fourth Concerto of
Beethoven. This was the first-of-the-
year concert of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, with Percy Code
conducting. This musician, whom
Sydney took to its heart from her
first recital, will play again in the Town
Hall on February 2, 7 and 9, and these
appearances will start her inter-State tour
for the A.B.C. Photograph by John Lee.
By car and by smart-looking pinnace
200 guests journeyed to the wedding of
Margaret Moore and Chaplain John
Robertson Barrie, R.A.N. This was cele-
brated in the chapel of the Balmoral
Naval Depot, where the bridegroom is
chaplain. It is the first wedding en-
tered in the register. There were gladioli,
delphinium and a cloud of shasta daisies
in the decorations, and the setting was
right for the bride in her soft white satin
frock and Carrickmacross veil. The re-
ception was in the wardroom. Mrs.
Barrie’s home was at Cremorne ; her hus-
band’s at Turramurra.
Matron Emily Beaver, who was for
eight and a half years in charge of the
Blind Women’s Haven at Wooflahra, re-
signed from that position last December,
As a token of their appreciation of her
kindly service the women’s auxiliary of
the Industrial Blind Institution arranged
an afternoon in her honor. There was a
presentation, too, made by the Alfred
Davidson lady. The gift was a leather
handbag into which was neatly fitted a
cosy cheque.
The women’s section of the Australian-
American Co-operation Movement had a
grand night last week, starting with cotfee
and sausage rolls in the Historical
Society’s gallery and ending with a film
that is a real bit of Australia. After
the coflee-drinking the 200 or so members
and friends went downstairs to the con-
cert hall, where everything was set for the
him. That was timed for seven o’clock,
and five minutes before it started presi-
dent Florence Taylor was presented with
a pair of pottery book-ends, very mod-
ernistic in design, and a sheaf of flowers
definitely in the prima donna class.
The speaker who made the presentation
described Mrs. Taylor’s work as president
as that of an architect who had planned
and designed a bright pavilion to the
more ambitious structure of the main
(and male) group. Mrs. Taylor, who wore
graceful black chiffons and a black lace
hat, made a speech of thanks, and called
tor a hand for secretary Mrs. Ted Scor-
field, whose Laura hat of stiffened white
net was among things approved.
The color picture which took up a great
part of the evening was titled “Yarra-
wonga to the Sea,” and was the
story of the Murray. It followed this
great waterway of Australia from the
Kosciusko country through its wander-
ings and windings, through country that
was smooth as a bit of English parkland,
past rocks and gullies and tablelands so
worn with the weight of snows since the
beginning of time, so denuded in un-
numbered years of erosion, so carved by
the persistence of flowing water that be-
side them the Sphinx and the Pyramids
would seem irresponsible toys.
Albury, Wodonga, Echuca and the fas-
cinating Mildura became part of this
river story. Here in the irrigated valleys
were grape and melon, wheat and sheep
and pomegranate. There were fabulous-
looking oranges, too ; but no housewife
in Sydney ever sees those. It is an excit-
ing picture for Australians. One of the
highlights is the Hume dam. Robert
Agnew made the picture ; the story was
read by Price Conigrave.
Olga Jean Perry, Arts Graduate of
Sydney University, and Colin Arthur
Stapleton, B.Sc., 8.E., are in the engage-
ment news. The news that the two had
made up their minds to wed was an-
nounced last week. Both graduated at
Sydney University. Colin is the only son
of the A. Stapletons, of Parramatta ; Olga
Jean’s parents are the F. J; Perrys, of
Concord.
The three Montgomery sisters, whose
home is in Atherton, North Queensland,
are having a grand holiday together.
They are part of it in Sydney
and part in the mountains. Camilla,
8.A., travelled from Cairns to join pianist
Berenice, who often gives recitals over
A. Carmel, who has just gained her
B. and completed a special course in
bacteriology, topping her year, came up
from Melbourne for the family re-union.
In the Municipality of Waterloo there
are great engineering works. Here are
rope works, here are factories for chew-
ing gum and sweets and chemicals and for
almost everything. Waterloo is vital and
virile, a regular he-man suburb. And its
newly-elected mayor is a woman. She is
Mrs. Mary Veronica Neilson, the district’s
first woman alderman and a third-genera-
tion Australian. She is the mother of six
children, three boys and three girls. Two
of her boys are just back from the Middle
East.
A woman with a clear voice was talk-
ing to a friend with whom she was lunch-
ing one day last week. Her voice could be
heard distinctly; “No. dear, my aunt is
not exactly ill, but she has never been the
same since she came into that money. You
know, dear, when a woman has nothing
to worry about she becomes depressed.”
Journalist Isabel Gullett was bustled
into the Rachel Forster hospital two
weeks ago. This was the sequel to an
accident. She is, however, now able to
have callers, and these flutter in from
all points of the compass. Her well-
lighted and cosy little room is perched
on the fourth floor of R.F., and through
it the breezes blow even on the hot days.
Peter Truman, of Wollstonecraft, is
stepping out as a composer. He has
written the music of a march, the lyric
for which was written by Kerwin Mae-
graith (the two also created “Anzac
House”). There was quite a ceremony
when the complete original copy of
the work was received by Rear-
Admiral Sir Philip Vian on the flight
deck of H.M.S. Implacable. The march
was written specially for the Royal Navy,
and composer and lyricist had the joy of
hearing it played by a full Royal Marine
band. It is named “British Pacific Fleet.”
Royalties go to the War Veterans’ Fund.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 |d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The New View of Law
A new manner of regarding the re-
lationship of law to the individual has
grown up recently. A former concept
was that the law applied without fear or
favor to all classes of the community.
Today its application tends more and
more to be brought under political and
unethical influences. Both law and Par-
liament are thus brought into disrepute.
Labor Governments are not entirely to
blame, but they must bear a large and
increasing responsibility. When large
bodies of men were deliberately and
wantonly breaking the law the Prime
Minister’s justification for not enforcing
it was that it would serve no useful pur-
pose to institute wholesale prosecutions,
and he was “not prepared to crucify the
workers.” When the N.S.W. Minister
for Public Works and Local Govern-
ment hinted that prosecutions would not
be instituted against offenders who com-
mitted other than “flagrant” breaches of
gas and electricity restrictive regulations,
he offered the opinion that these regula-
tions were an infringement of the liberty
of the subject—as if all laws did not in
some measure impose restriction.
When the Stevens Government in
N. S. Wales was looking round for means
to enable it to reduce the huge deficit
left by Lang it did not hesitate to raid
the State Superannuation Fund, and
when an earlier Government wanted to
break a contract it did so by legislation
which deprived the otfier party of all
possibility of redress, though he had
done nothing to justify cancellation of
the contract.
Instances such as these and they
could be multiplied— bring the law and
the makers of it into contempt, and the
result has been a disregard for law which
is growing today amongst all sections of
the community.
Isn’t it time we got back to the old
way of life, when Governments legislated
for the community as a whole; when the
law was enforced and people respected it;
and when Ministers of the Crown con-
sidered the first of their responsibilities
to uphold it —a duty imposed upon them
on taking their oath of office? — Lex
(N.S.W.).
Freedom of the Press
If the press is to justify the freedom it
enjoys it should muzzle “special corre-
spondents” who write about subjects on
which they have nothing but a fund of
ignorance. Imagine our feelings (in the
Navy) when reading in a Sydney Sunday
paper, after the fall of Crete, that if
the Navy had been used there things
would have been different. That opinion
emanated from a very deep bomb shelter
in London.
Now we have to read articles running
down a great soldier who made a vow
that he would return to his men, and
kept it. Give credit where credit is due.
I think Australia owes her freedom to
General MacArthur’s inspiring leader-
ship. He attended to his soldiering and
had no time for social affairs. It would
seem that now that politicians’ pulses
have steadied they are becoming jealous
of a great man. — Sextant (R.A.N.).
Collie Coal
My Commissioner’s attention has been
drawn to an article (B. 26/12/’45) in
which reference was made to the good
record of Collie coalminers during the
war. It was stated that they maintained
their output “and, according to their
member, they would have increased it
substantially but for hindrances for which
they were not responsible; among other
things, a still-lingering prejudice against
Collie coal which the Government Rail-
ways Department shares. Because of
this, the employees in some of the mines
worked fewer than four days a week
when the Railway Department was im-
porting coal.”
Without in any way dissenting from
the general tenor of the commendation,
the Commissioner feels that in the
department’s interests he must correct the
statement quoted. For very many , years
the policy of the department has been,
and is, to use 100 p.c. of Collie coal and
there is certainly no departmental pre-
judice against it. Except for a relatively
small quantity used on special services
to avoid fire risks, imported coal is only
used when Collie is not available in suffi-
cient quantity to meet departmental re-
quirements, and even under those con-
ditions the usage of imported coal repre-
sents not more than 5 p.c. of the total
consumption. If Collie coal were at all
times available imported consumption
would not need to exceed 1 p.c. of the
total. —C. Reymond, Deputy Secretary
for Railways (W.A.),
Transport in a Mess
The special committee to find out what
is wrong with Government transport in
N. S. Wales will produce many reasons,
none of them very convincing, because
no one in authority wants to face the
truth, which is that when a business sells
goods or service at less than cost it be-
comes necessary to increase prices or
reduce costs.
A comparison of tramways and bus
staffing the first and last years of the war
is interesting. In 1939 staff was 1251
salaried, 9386 on wages; in 1945, 1964
salaried, 11,331 on wages. While the
staff on wages rose about 27 p.c. the
salaried staff showed a 57 p.c. increase,
making an ill balance. In 1939 there was
a profit of £11,505; in 1945 a loss of
£95,027, though fare-paying passengers in-
creased by 156,296,683.
Working expenses in 1934 were
£3,516,042 ; in 1942, £4,858,289 ; so the
increased revenue of £1,068,063 was just
mopped up. During the years politicians
. have been giving away more concessions
for vote-catching purposes than the in-
dustry could stand. Sections were length-
“ It hurts me to have to do this, madam”
ened and fare concessions granted to such
an extent that the million extra
passengers paid an average of only lid.
each—and the minimum fare is 2d.! The
politicians (later to seek for themselves
superannuation payments of £6 per week)
repudiated payments to the staff super-
annuation fund in 1931, an action that
would have landed ordinary civilians in
the Courts. In 1939 the service had to
find £112,920 for retired employees; in
1945, £179,012. A vast re-organisation
is both necessary and urgent. — Keg
(N.S.W.).
The Bachelor Soldier
“Captain Spike’s” outburst (B.
12/12/’45) prompts me to defend the
married man.
Is there any proof of “Capt. S.’s” asser-
tion that single men were the first to
enlist? More single than married en-
listed, true, but there is a far higher per-
centage of fit men among single men
than among the married, So enlistments
must necessarily be higher.
“Capt. S.” claims the single blokes suf-
fered because they were picked for
“sticky” jobs, such as paratroopers and
commandos, but since when have men
ever been detailed for transference to
these units? They were made up of
volunteers, comprising single and married
men. Single men were paid less, were
they? Maybe, but who were always the
bloated capitalists in camp on pay-day?
After all, wives are entitled to some-
thing to eat back here, and the greater
part of the married soldier’s 6s. 6d. a
day was given over to that end.
Finally, perhaps the reason the child-
less husband is hurried home is to give
him a chance to remedy that condition
while the single man is still lacking a
soul mate.— Pte. Spikelet (Q.).
New Order in Fruit-growing
A perusal of the third report of the
Rural Rehabilitation Committee would
reveal to Loxtonians (S.A.) the reason
why Dedman threw a cold douche on
their big irrigation project.
There is a promise that the mistakes
of past settlement will not be repeated.
Never again will fruit be produced with
reliance merely on its attractiveness to find
consumers. The technique is now to be
reversed. The consumer is first ap-
approached, cajoled and persuaded as to
certain deficiencies. When it is estimated
he is ready to buy more fruit permits will
be granted for an apportioned number of
trees to be planted.
The consumer’s fruit desire is to be
suitably maintained while the trees are
growing, perhaps by rationing, since such
is recognised as sufficient propaganda in
itself and is being widely discussed as a
very desirable method of dealing with
gluts.
However, should this be unsuccessful,
the Switch-over Board patrols will report
on any change in consumer demand so
that peach-trees can be rooted out and
replaced by peanuts or pumpkins. —
Whacko (S.A.).
A Price-control Loophole
The retail price of many commodities,
particularly wearing apparel and foot-
wear, is being inflated by a system to
which the Prices Control Department at
Canberra should give some curious con-
sideration.
When producing new lines in war-time
manufacturers were required to • submit
samples to Canberra for costing. More
recently they have been permitted to in-
troduce new lines conditionally on profit
not exceeding that obtained on similar
products in the past.
The margin of profit'generally allowed
is moderate, but some manufacturers have
arranged for warehousemen and distri-
butors to handle practically all their pro-
duction, and the mark-up of these middle-
men is anything from 10 to 20 p.c. 1 his
involves additional sales tax, as well as
extra retailers’ profit: consequently the
public has to pay much more for many
commodities than under previous condi-
tions, when manufacturers sold the bulk
of their output direct to retailers.
Scarcity of goods, with demand much
in excess of supply, has constrained re-
tailers to tolerate these methods of ex-
ploitation, but they are now showing signs
of dissatisfaction. So far they have not
mustered up sufficient courage to com-
plain, fearing that their supplies might be
cut off. — Fair-Go (Q.).
Cut Out Conferences
The Falls of Niagara are nothing to
the constant stream of politicians, pro-
fessors, union secretaries, university lec-
turers, business “executives,” civil servants
and men in all sections and grades ot
the services who are continually travel-
ling in trains, ’planes and ships, allegedly
to attend conferences.
These people are only crowding
out citizens prepared to pay their own
way who really have business of import-
ance to transact.
It is about time those who pay the
piper for these holiday jaunts took a
tumble and instructed their “heads” to
use the airmail or, in urgent matters, the
telephone.
Large sums are being wasted annually
on conferences from which absolutely no
benefit results to anyone except the joy-
riders who attend them. —A. M. (W.A.).
Disposal of Aircraft
Many people must wonder what will
be done with all the warplanes of the
R.A.A.F., now that peace is here. I
sometimes wonder myself, being respon-
sible for about £lO million worth of them.
Except for those needed for escort
duties and patrol work in parts of the
South Pacific still harboring unsurren-
dered Japanese, the serviceable machines
are being flown back to Australian depots
for storage. This storage, entailing con-
tinuous attention and care, is far more
deleterious to the machines than actual
flying. More crashes occur in aircraft
which have been standing unused for
several weeks than in those which have
been continuously in operation, even
though the idle machine is much newer.
Corrosion takes very rapid toll of the
efficiency of delicate instruments and
fittings. This happens in our Australian
climate as well as in the humidity of the
tropics, and means that all stored air-
craft will need complete overhaul within
a very short period if they are to see
service again.
The ’planes we have are obsolete in
any case. What with jet propulsion,
rocket projectiles and atomic explosives,
barely one of the R.A.A.F. operational
types of aifcraft used in the war just
concluded will be of the slightest use in
the next. Why pot run them all into
the Pacific, or burn them, without spend-
ing more rponey and keeping more men
from demobilisation by bringing them
back to Australia?
The Australian public would, no doubt,
be appalled at what would be appar-
ently such a tremendous waste of its
money, but it would be cheaper in the
end.
It costs about £15,000 to completely
overhaul a Beaufort or Beaufighter—
almost half the original cost —and the
storage of aircraft must run into a sub-
stantial figure each week. What are we
saving them up for? They will rot on
the ground in spite of all scientific in-
genuity in preservation, and are put*
moded and almost useless ajready. They
cannot be converted to civil use even
for transport purposes. They are as
dead as last week’s newspapers. Even
their usefulness for training purposes in
Australia will be nil in one or two years.
Sometimes I think it would be a good
thing if the grass they are standing in
caught fire and burned the lot. —H. D. S.
(R.A.A.F.).
A Digger’s Tribute to the R.N.
It is a pity that some of those people
who sneer at Britain and the British had
not the opportunity of coming home
from New Guinea and such places on
Navy ships. It will be a long time be-
fore any of the 2000 troops who re-
turned in the aircraft carrier Implacable
will listen to anything against the British.
They fed us on the kind of food we
hadn’t been game to dream about for 12
months, plus cups of tea morning and
night. They entertained us royally with
concerts and pictures. In fact, they did
everything they could to make the trip
comfortable. And on top of all that they
got us from Wewak to Sydney in just
over four days.
Yes, these Britons will do us, especially
when we remember previous voyages on
cattle tramps manned by Indonesian mer-
chant seamen, on M.N. pay! As far as
those dusky brothers were concerned the
cattle holds in which we travelled in
those days were good enough for white
trash. —K. G. P. (A.1.F.).
“No Victimisation”
No matter how unjustified or senseless
a strike may be, “no victimisation” always
figures prominently in the alleged terms
of settlement. In plain words it means
“no punishment for law-breakers and
trouble-makers, however much their con-
duct merits it.” It is a guarantee in
advance that no attempt will be made to
seek out the real causes of a strike and
mete out justice so that, in the interests
of the community, future strike-mongers
may think twice.
I suggest a law whereby the real victims
of a strike —proprietors of ruined busi-
nesses, farmers, sick people, and decent
workers thrown out of employment—
shall have power to initiate proceedings
against their persecutors. Penalties
would have to be salutary and, in the case
of union officials convicted of a second
offence to entail automatic disqualification
from holding any similar office. Such
a law would end surrenders to mobs by
weak Governments ; the so-called “right
to strike” would be decided by a Supreme
Court Judge instead of a Trades Hall
junta. “No victimisation” of strike insti-
gators has proved a sorry failure ; “no vic-
timisation” of the public may yield better
results. —J.A.S. (Q.).
Red Ruffianism
Statements by correspondents that Rus-
sian soldiers everywhere have indulged in
rape and looting are, of course, met by
our local Reds and fellow-travellers with
the reply “propaganda.” I have just
finished reading Sholokhov’s The Den
Flows Home to the Sea, the story of the
Cossack revolt against Moscow in 1920.
In this book rape by Reds is a com-
monplace. One reads of women and girls
so abused in the conquered Cossack vil-
lages as to be unable to walk. But the
Russians evidently see no shame in it,
for Sholokhov’s books are published with
the blessing of the Stalin regime.— Char
(W.A.).


;'■ i||l|
M
.
<-:■:■ ’
' " :
S*'"' **~
ir~~pt
■
.... <
- fS*® .
;:V '■
' . ’
** m m t
A graphic aerial view of the
Iron Monarch, S.A., main source
of iron ore for Australia’s steel
industry. Working faces, ore
crushers and the. conveyor to
storage bin are clearly visible.
fmshs r.
n
m
||i M
! ST *1
&>hi" '
; * ,v ■ * >*JiH
:
i*l
IK !
** I
mi
■
I
%
lii
'«■*' f
I—l1 —1$ —^
■ -
Gives Australian Industry
a Flying Start
Atypical instance of the vision and enterprise of
our pioneers in successfully utilising long-dormant
natural resources is provided by the development of the
Australian iron and steel industry.
Through the co-ordination of operations a sound effi-
ciency has been attained, one practical result being that,
by world standards, Australia is most advantageously
placed in regard to steel supply.
The steel industry’s strength has been truly created
from within, toe raw materials required emanating from
widely distant parts of the continent.
Iron ore from Iron Monarch, South Australia, New-
castle coal, and limestone from Rapid Bay, S.A., and
Melrose, Tasmania, meet at the Newcastle Steel Works
bla*t furnaces. Here, at the rate of thousands of tons per
day, these raw materials emerge as molten iron. While
in the molten state, the iron is fed into the open hearth
furnaces in which it is refined into steel.
This versatile product is required for the manufacture
in Australia of the thousand and one articles requisite to
modern living; it serves our transportation needs, and such
nationally-vital activities as housing and ship-building.
Maximum employment and production are the twin
essentials for national prosperity. The steel industry
provides the most effective
aid towards the attainment
of these desired goals.
%
I mm
m
S
Coal being undercut by a mechanical
coal cutter at the B.H.P. Lambton Colliery,
N.S.W., wh ere coal-mining operations are
completely mechanised.
£
The blast furnace plant at the New-
castle Steel Wotks where iron ore, coal
(in the form of coke), and limestone are
smelted into iron.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED
Offices also at Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.
STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. SHIPYARD. WHYALLA, S.A.
