

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
a The Bulletin
“The Bulletin," 9 VoL 67 —No. 3489
Wednesday, December 25, 1946
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
HALL AND STAIRCASE OF “STAFFORD HOUSE.”
the finest private House in London, “Stafford
House” was built for the second son of George 111 in 1825
and was later owned by the Duke of Sutherland for his town
residence. The upper storey was added by Sir J. Barry, who
designed the imposing staircase shown in this view. “Stafford
House” was bought by Sir W. H. Lever, later Lord Leverhulme,
in 1912, renamed “Lancaster House” apdipresented to the nation
as a home for the London Museum. In the time of Queen Victoria,
when it was still known as “Stafford House,” the first floor of the
building housed a notable collection of paintings, including
works by Murillo, Giambattista Moroni ancl his disciple
Van Dyck.


Learn . i.
fm^eJoun^
This Book FREE to YOU I
SI Oil’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street. Melbourne E ‘
cI JT HERE AND MAIL-
Please send, without obligation., your New Fr,*
Book tel explaining how to Write tor Profit n.
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin " J ‘
My Name ..
My Address
S.E. UG
AGE
The Red Page
A DOGGED NOVEL
Frank Dalby Davison’s Dusty (Angus
and Robertson) —a novel that won £5OO
in the Melbourne “Argus” competition—
is the life story of a sheep-dog, half-dingo
and half-kelpie.
The opening chapters, describing the
meeting and mating of Dusty’s parents,
the birth of the pups and the killing of
the mother, are misleadingly conventional.
The difference between Henry William-
son’s Tarka the Otter and most other
animal stories is that Williamson is a
naturalist with a special and intimate
knowledge of wild life and a passion
lor the whole of nature: every leaf, every
stick, every stone, and everything that
walks or creeps or swims Dr flies. An
English stream is a whole world to him,
but to Mr. Davison in the opening
chapters—the book improves later in this
respect—a bush creek is merely a creek ;
ferns, bush plants, wildflowers, all of
which a Williamson would know by
name, are merely “undergrowth” ; birds,
ants, lizards, all the creatures that animate
the bush, are absent. And in this genera-
lised, conventionalised, almost abstract
world the story of “romance,” mother-
hood and tragedy is told in familiar
terms, pleasantly enough, but without
distinction.
By page 52, however, the special quality
of the novel has made itself apparent.
The half-dingo pup is by this time in
the possession of an old bushman named
Tom and is kennelled in a hollow log in
a yard at a remote sheep station;
Legs stepped over the wire-netting. Boots
advanced towards him.... There were the
sheds and fences and the house. These
stayed in one place and were therefore of
a nature with trees, rocks and bushes
then there were the horses that came and
went in the area between the house and the
sheds highly mysterious because they
came and went sometimes just as horses,
and sometimes with other creatures, Tom
included, on their backs; or else they
moved about drawing after them objects
that, without them, were of the nature of
sheds and fences.
Mr. Davison, clearly, is going to attempt
to get inside the dog mind..
Hie difficulty of carrying a story of
this kind beyond short-story length is,
ot course, that dogs have limited minds.
And a limited range of action. No dog
ever wrote a poem, or played Test cricket,
or kept a shop and charged double the’
nxed price for cigarettes. Yet small boys,
who are often nearly as intelligent as
dogs, have made admirable subjects for
fiction; and Mr. Davison shows that
something pan be done even with the
mind of a sheep :
The sheep baulked when they came to
the opening. It was the first hold-up of
the morning. There was no reason known
human intelligence why the front sheep
should suddenly and unanimously decide
against passing through the opening It
was twelve feet wide, there was no ob-
struction, and there wasn’t a sheep in the
mob that had not been through scores of
gates... The. leaders stood in line at the
gateway looking at the ground between the
posts as if words of grave warning were
visible to them there.... His sudden ap-
s thai i an y th ing he did,
# startled the leaders from their contem-
plative trance. One or two bounded
thiough the gate and the others bounded
then ?’ followed, jumping Over
nothing when they came to the gateposts.
This is not merely a faithful piece of
description; it seems fairly clear that
Mr. Davison is permitting himself the
irreverence of a smile at the sheep. His
poi trait of Dusty’s mind is without
humor. It is both helped and hampered
by a kind of dogged reverence. It might
be taken as significant that except once
m the puppy stage when he scratches at
an imaginary” inhabitant of his coat
Dusty is never troubled by fleas. *
All tianslations are to some extent
colored by the translator; and Dusty
being a translation into English of the
mind of a dog, is a good deal colored
—or, rather, toned down—by Mr. Davi-
son whose attitude to his hero resembles
that ot a strict but sympathetic parent
anxious to explain away all major faults
and not at all inclined to expose any
comic idiosyncrasies. There is a similar
refusal to look at old Tom, the dog’s
owner, with anything but extreme sym-
pathy, verging on sentimentality. One-
suspects that Tom is something of a
loon, a crank, a hatter; but one is
allowed to see him only as a noble ok
bushman.
The result is that neither the man nor
the dog is a character fully “in the
round” ; and as Dusty is robbed of his
comic attributes when he is at the sheep
station —th§ normal dog, besides being
noble soul, is a comedian, a rake,
sycophant and a scoundrel—so, when he
takes to the bush and becomes a sheep-
killer, is he robbed of some of his dra-
matic stature. Mr. Davison adopts the
kind of humanism, or caninism, that says,
m effect, “Dusty is not really a murderer ;
it’s only the dingo in him,” and the dog,
killing the sheep and lurking alone in the
bush, is not afflicted with a sufficiently bad
conscience to make his inner conflict and
his final .state of pariahdom as dramatic
as they might be. Most dogs when they
commit far lesser crimes than sheep-
killings show signs of guilt and fear ; and
Dusty, who “obeys his dingo nature”
v ® r y complacently, might much more
effectively have been portrayed as the
half-kelpie, degenerating from guilt to
ferocity.
Because of this unwillingness to por-
tray the dog “in the round” the novel
does not wholly succeed in sustaining
interest as a drama of canine character.
Dusty, on the whole, is a dull dog and
the book progresses in a weaker and less
artistic way as a string of adventures.
The present commentator found himself
chiefly admiring Mr. Davison’s per-
sistence in adding episode to episode.
And yet, doggedly, the book does go on
from chapter to chapter; and doggedly
one goes with it. For, apart from its
incidental attractions —the bush lore and
bush descriptions as the narrative warms
up, the excellent account of the dog-
trials there is at all times, to some
extent compensating for its disadvantages,
the advantage of Mr. Davison’s rever-
ence, 0 his sensitive interpretation of the
dog mind; limited, dealing only with
certain chosen aspects, but still both
appealing and intriguing. Mr. Davison is
at his best- when describing the pup’s
first steps into outlawry, straying from the
homestead, chasing rats and proceeding
step by step toward the killing of sheep;
and there is, too, a notable scene towards
the end when, having reverted to clingo
but briefly renewing his contact with man,
Dusty silently follows a horseman
through the nieht.
Theatre .
In its opening pages All for Hecuba, by
Micheal MacLiammdir (Methuen ; Angus
and Robertson), leaves an impression of
something mighty like a pose. It is like
wandering in through a hot-house and
every now and then being hit a stagger-
ing blow by the left petal of a prize
orchid. It recalled an experience in a
Sydney movie-house one night when the
management had decided to try a hand
at atmospheric effect; achieved by spray-
ing the stalls and dress-circle with scent
and putting scented powdfer in the pro-
grammes. As Gracie Fields could have
said: “Oh, we never stank so much in
all our lives! ”
. The MacLiammdir effect, however,
isn’t anything like movie-house vulgarity.
Far from it. Indeed, the complete oppo-
site : an overdone exquisiteness; a
Wilde-ish pose of intoxication with the
sound of scented words. Not only
separate words, which can be scentily
potent enough, but a scent-pervaded
manner. The very accent is scented. This
sort of thing: “Still it was summer
wherever we went, and the days smelt of
red hawthorn and pinks and asphalt and
golden syrup for tea.” Or, if that doesn’t
convey the idea, “lace that foamed round
her wrists and quivered opulently on an
excitable bosom,” or, to come down from
these altitudes, “a wild and purely
sensual desire to be a shop-assistant in a
Cork drapery establishment.”
Fortunately, in view of what’s to come
later, this sentence happens early in the
piece:
Craven was too shattered to be herself,
and Hubert, the best of companions, was
sad and remote, though he remained out-
wardly as luminously elegant as on the day
when, more than a year before, he had
our lives in exquisite clothes on
the Petite Comiche carrying a covered
basket that contained a cat of more than
usually frightful reputation to a smart little
villa where dwelt an English aunt.
Still a fair whiff of the scent; but read
on a tram, swaying from side to side, on
the way home, across the bridge, to the
North Sydney hill, that looks down over,
the roofs of Kirribilli, to the blue water,
°{ Port Jackson, huddled with ships,
whose dark sides, echo the distant roars,
of the Farpnga Zoo lions, it is so damn’
bad that the hope which springs eternal
in the reading mind and certainly needs to
bounds up like a wallaby in instant re-
cognition of a fellow human being. In
short, it’s bad enough to have human
promise in it j and whatever lingering
doubt there still might be about that is
completely wiped out by another sentence
a little further on:
* realise as I write these words,
still unrepenting for myself, though not for
™y f/iend, that we made our theatre in
Dublin, that a profound though I think
unspoken urge of the movement in Irish
life that was begun by Yeats, and of which
theme the labors of our generation are but
a development, has been not only to shape
a literature and a theatre, but' to recreate
a capital out of a provincial town, to set
a faintly fluttering heart a-beat once more
m Ireland’s body, surely of all tasks the
most enthralling.
There can be no further doubt; nobody
could write as badly as that and not be
human. And shortly these strange sign-
posts prove most accurate. No doubt
growing familiarity with the MacLiam-
moir style has something to do with it;
but other qualities assist. The book is
subtitled “An Irish Theatrical Autobio-
graphy,” and it soon begins to read com-
pletely true to label. That is, it’s not
merely the customary actor-playwright
autobiography. It’s an account of Irish
(and other) theatrical life, with the author,
of course, taking a part in it, but viewing
it all objectively. His own part he
amazingly plays down, giving the spot-
light to all the various others of the com-
pany, and bringing in an assortment of
non-theatrical characters, from landladies
to eminent writers. Instead of anything
of a prig, he turns out a most likeable
fellow; instead of an affected he proves
an uncommonly effective writer.
His characters —there are scores of
them, and “characters” seems the exactly
right word for them—are projected with
the clearness to be expected of a fine play-
wright, which is what MacLiammdir
happens to be, as well as his being an
actor whose successes have included
Hamlet. The whole company is there;
touring the small places of Ireland ; start-
ing and working in the Gate Theatre in
Dublin ; going to Egypt and the Balkans.
He lets them all do their own talking ;
the lively talking of gifted people living
on the knife-edge between hysteria and
despair. He watches and depicts them,
catches the tone of their speaking voices,
delves into the secrets of their art. He
prefers to shine the light on any of them
rather than on himself, and an effect of
this is an impression that he would be a
very fine Hamlet indeed. It would not
be all black tights and a classic profile;
this is an artist; he could think as Hamlet.
The total result is a warm, rich story
of a broad current of very engaging life
theatre ; mostly in Ireland—over about
the past 20 years. There are superficial
resemblances to what there is of theatre
in Australia, but the contrasts are far
more impressive, calculated to make any-
one think of things cultural in Australia
with a shudder. In the resemblances, this
could certainly have been written here:
For the artist in these countries [Eng-
land, France, America] there is no question
qt sacrifice, of self-imposed provincialism
m serving at the altars of his own land.
Ihey have London or Paris or New York
for workshop and home, and in all these
cities there lies somewhere amid the bricks
and mortar the reward that some day may
crown his labor; recognition, fulfilment,
the passport to his own world in other
countries. But for the Irish artist there is
the choice between the possibility, on the '
one hand, of a significant failure or a
significant triumph in England or .America,
and on the other of an easy ana not tux-
pleasant obscurity or of a small local suc-
cess m his own country. For Ireland can
offer few bays. She is too small and too
poor to offer many, besides being too
mistrustful of her own judgment to offer
what she has to those who feel impelled
to stay with her.
That holds here not only for theatre
but for all things cultural, including writ-
ing. In writing it holds even more
strongly here; MacLiammdir, for in-
stance, could have written every bit as
well as he has done of a corresponding
cultural life in Australia—theatre, writing,
painting—and his chance of getting it
published in London would have been
Buckley s. That—it needs some emphasis-
ing now that publishing is getting a go
on again—is a one-way traffic. Australia
is a handy market for British publishing ;
but these days they seem to want nothing
Australian over there. Even America is
better. Otherwise the Australian writer
has to go abroad and cease to be an Aus-
tralian writer, or else make what he can
of what small public there is, and against
the strong flood of British-published com-
petition.
Nor is there here for anybody at
present the sort of cultural support which
made it possible for the Anew McMaster
company to tour the smalls of provincial
Ireland, with Shakspeare this kind of
place and this kind of result:
At Cappoquin, where we arrived on a
July day that quivered and shone like a
dragonfly in the golden haze, there were
cows and dogs asleep on the road....
An enchanted place, with mountains, woods,
and river, but so small that my sister, who
arranged such things for Mac, decided that
we could only play there for three nights.
But as every single inhabitant of the town
came to each performance, leaving the little
streets in utter desertion after eight o’clock,
and as their number was further enforced
by dwellers in more rural districts around
the town who in their own words “came
streaming down out of the mountains”
night after night, we were encouraged to
play there for a week.
The audience, its size simply that
of the local population, figures in
MacLiammdir’s pictures of the life with a
cultural significance corresponding here
to the significance of the crowds on the
racecourses and the beaches;
We played in a boathouse, and in order to
reach the stage one had the choice of walk-
ing through the packed and emotional
audience during the performance, or climb-
ing a step-ladder that led from the water’s
edge to the back of the stage, where one
had roughly a foot of dizzy boarding be-
hind the skycloth on which to balance
one’s way to the dressing-rooms. We
naturally chose the latter method of
approach and departure, and having pre-
viously plotted with several .boatmen, all
of whom had the national passion for
intrigue, and a fine faith in our boating
integrity, we would climb down the ladder
during those inevitable acts when one’s
services are not required by Shakspeare,
unless one is playing the title part, and
make our escape on the river. And we
would float for what seemed to be hours
together, fully made up and clad'in the
silk and velvets of the Renaissance, on
twilit waters as iridescent as a beetle’s wing.
No doubt such tours of Ireland’s smalls,
playing Shakspeare in such places to such
audiences, are still going on. The players
are not mere fly-by-night barnstormers,
but fine, sometimes notable and very
sincere artists, from London and else-
where, as passionately interested in their
art as their audiences are in their play-
ing. As Irish as his name, MacLiammdir
—the Micheal is doubtless Irish for
Michael—left the McMaster company
with the English actor Hilton Edwards,
and together they launched the Gate in
Dublin. There the pattern is rather dif-
ferent ; they play Ibsen, O’Neill and many
others as well as Shakspeare; become a
company with a young lord on the board
footing the bulk of the bills. They rival
the famed Abbey Theatre in, it seems,
forcing culture on Dublin. At least that
is the impression to be gathered from
the ’ MacLiammdir and other strictures
on the place ; no doubt deserved, but they
kept going for 11 years there; to be
compared with the sad thing the profes-
sional theatre is in, say, Sydney.
MacLiammdir’s numerous portraits of
his fellow-actors are often brilliant de-
pictions of artists at work. He has no
need for malice; by letting them talk
and chatter away like characters in a
novel or a play he has them putting in
enough of the self-satirical to make the
portraits lifelike. There are too many
of them of the same bright quality to
single any out; they are —men and
women —his fellow-artists, pushed for-
ward by his own singular fondness for
observing them in preference to exhibiting
himself. They are of the texture of his
story. His depictions of eminent non-
actor characters who wander into his
story and out again are just as effective,
adding something to what is known
already about them, as in this paragraph
from his several pages on the greatest of
them, Yeats:—*
The people who dismiss him as a man
by saying that outside his work he was a
poseur, whose rudeness and arrogance were
unbearable, are those who cannot have
known him. Of course he could pose, of
course he could be both rude and arrogant.
He could indeed be anything he chose, and
the ability to assume all these qualities at
will is a bare necessity of life for him who
would spend his time in Dublin, whose
passionate and almost quixotic worship of
mediocrity is coupled with an instinctive
mistrust of the first-rate, a permanent sense
ot discomfort in its presence, and a
malicious determination to drown it in a
storm of envy and belittlement.
Further from the Yeats portrait:
His tempo in conversation was as skilful
ail j i as variety as a fine actor’s
and had about it something of bewilder-
ment and of bizarre surprise. “The popu-
jar theatre,” he said unexpectedly one day,
breaking abruptly from a description of
Beardsley and booming out his words as
though he were speaking from a great dis-
tance, “had corrupted the audience of my
youth,” and a sudden stillness fell as he
crumbled his bread while I waited for an
utterance and Lady Gregory passed me the
butter. But the slow smile, as George
Moore had said, “trickled back into his
countenance” and he began a superb story
of a man who sat in the gallery at the
first London performance of the “Doll’s
House.” The man had not enjoyed his
Ibsen at all, and after the slamming of the
door when Helmer cries “She has gone!”
he called out, “Yus, and so ’as my bloody
shilling!”
A few sentences from some pages of
monologue by MacLiammdir’s landlady
in Galway (where he started a subsidised
Irish-speaking theatre) will indicate the
quality of his unprofessional characters:
,_ “ a year ago, wait now, yes,
t'would be a year, I was coming home by
the Long Wall and I saw like it would be
thousands of stars moving west in the dark.
‘O God, look down on us,’ said I, ‘is it
stars we have now prancing through the
mud,’ and wasn’t it a big troupe of cats
looking for devilment and I gave a big
shout like a clap of thunder; ah, yes,
they have the power of speech of course.
There was a big white cat' in Tuam one
time and she'd the best of Irish and Eng-
• lish on the tip of her tongue, but not a
particle of Christian feeling”
Maybe that landlady is the explanation
of the Shakspeare tours through the Irish
smalls. Multiply her by enough to make
up an audience, and what an audience it
would be for “A Midsummer Night's
Dream!” Perhaps it isn’t a rising of
feeling for culture we ourselves be in need
of at all now. Maybe our need is just a
foine boatload of landladies from Gal-
way.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
PYRWX
i
s
Lnstantane
GAS V
▼
I 9
t ri
i
aii
i :S:«
W«i
llli
■■■
¥xiix¥:
S£SS«
® •>
* m
t. m&m
m
■•: V-
N
ilis»
——
15*2
»
ulti-Tap
HEATER
Guarantees an immediate, continuous
Ml “BBT W MB tt «h M
supply of; BEAUx hot water
throughout your home
PYROX heaters are made from highest grade materials by skilled Australian artisans
trained in precision workmanship. To find ALL the features in one water
heater may sound too good to be true, but they are definitely guaranteed to be
incorporated in the PYROX Heater. The PYROX is modern and stream-lined in
appearance for it is totally enclosed in a beautiful vitreous enamel casing, which
can be easily kept clean. The price of the PYROX Heater is £23/15/7
MODEL No. NA32Z
is the most suitable
size for the
average family.
SH
m
i i
?rrr
Lkrrn:
nr
Q
rr
i i
i^rr
OXC
rr
3*o®
:F
rrr
rrr
rnirngi
rr
rr
WWh
• Baths and Stoves —
Ground Floor, Goulburn Street.
'Phone M 2401, Ext. 204, and ask
for further particulars of the
"PYROX"
★ Note these features . . .
Low Gas Consumption because of high
thermal efficiency.
No Storage, therefore no heat losses
through keeping water hot when not
required.
No Escape of Unburnt Gas from Main
Burner.
No Possible Danger From Careless-
ness, Ignorance or Confusion, because
wrong manipulation is impossible.
No Condensation.
Gradual and Gentle Lighting of Burner
without popping.
No Damage to Heater in Case of
Increased Gas Pressure or Failure
of Water Supply.
Draught Diverter Incorporated.
Because of its Attractive Vitreous
Enamel Casing, the Pyrox can be
easily kept clean.
■


(TITN Do you need a
Personal
[Loan?
If you're troubled with money
worries or need funds for some
useful purpose, call and see one
of our experienced officers. Maxi-
mum financial assistance is pro-
vided at the lowest possible cost.
For instance, THIS IS HOW YOU REPAY A 12 MONTHS' LOAN:
Repayment of loans may be arranged for periods up to 3 years.
Enquire—Personal Loans Department, 4th Floor.
Sural Sank
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the band when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23L) 243- ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
BRAN DAD ER£
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
ddTfdt experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUEK & CO. UU, BIRMINGHAM. ENa
9*JTM/££
CAP/r/U TO CAPITAL
TWTrST s air tins ttstmt*
I
*
fc*.
i
_ -, x • *
ONE FARE FOR ALL.. THE LOWEST !
Flying with Trans-Australia Airlines opens a new era for the
Australian travelling public. TAA’s “one fare for all” brings
speedy, luxurious air travel at a cost of approximately 3d. a mile.
For further particulars
see daily classified columns.
(QvtfSbtea
Sydney
Sydney
Sydney■
Sydney -
Sydney■
Sydney -
Sydney -
• Melbourne
- Canberra ...
Brisbane ...
Adelaide ...
Perth
Hobart
Launceston
6 Flights Daily
2 Flights Daily
3 Flights Daily
2 Flights Daily
1 Flight Daily
1 Flight Daily ,
1 Flight Daily .
... £5 10
... £1 18
... £6 1
... £lO 8
... £25 1
... £lO 16
£9 7
Children under 4 yrs. free (1 per adult pass.), under 15 yrs. fare
AUSTRALIAN " * - * ~ -
6
3
6
3
6
9
0
NATIONAL
AIRLINES
COMMISSION
D 2-33-46
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courseL
of BAREO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKU
Condition Powders and apply BAREO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BAREO lodine Dog Soap.
f
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Missing Friend.
Re JAMES SCOTT, son of George Scott, Lowborn
Ferry, Otago, N.Z. Some time ago labourer N.
Q’land, last heard of N.S.W. Inquiries being
made by his sister, Margaret Scott, and Trustees
G. Scott, deceased. Anyone knowing whereabouts
above please write DUNCAN & MACGREGOR,
Solicitors, Dunedin, N.Z.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*.
To buy The World As I See It, by Einstein.
—3915.
To buy, copies of “The Lone Hand" for
April 1912, February 1913, and December 1913.
—3916.
To buy The Pastoral Aims of Canterbury
N.Z., by L. G. D. Acland, and Those Were
the Days, by Reid.—39l7.
Information Sought.
What is the difference between the processes
of etching and dry-point engraving?
In etching a metal plate (copper or zinc) is
coated with wax and the design scratched on
to the wax. The plate is then placed in a
shallow dish of nitric or sulphuric alcid, which
bites away the metal where the wax has been
removed. In dry-pointing the drawing is
scratched on the bare metal with a sharp tool.
Both are printed in the same way.
What is the spray solution applied to tomato
plants to control or minimise wilt ?
Dissolve loz. tartar emetic in one quart of.
water; mix i cup of the solution in 1| pints
of water and one teaspoonful of sugar, and
spray the plants every week. During the treat-
ment all watering should be done in a depres-
sion at the base of the plants.
What captains of English Xl’s in Australia
and Australian Xl’s in England have topped
the batting average?
England: A. Shrewsbury (1867), W. G. Grace
(1873-4, 1891-2), Stoddart (1894-5), MacLaren
(1901-2). Australia; Murdoch (1880, 1882,
1884, 1890), McDonnell (1888), Darling (1899),
Bradman (1938).
Cast of the film “The Overlanders” ?
Dan McAlpine, Chips Rafferty; Mary
Parsons, Daphne Campbell; Sailor (“Sinbad”),
Peter Pagan; Pa Parsons, John Nugent Hay-
ward; Ma Parsons, Jean Blue; Elen Parsons,
Jean Grieve; Corky, John Fernside; Les, Ron
Richards; Charlie, Frank Ransome; Manager,
Sam Tolhurst; Police sergeant, John Fegen;
Jacky (first abo.), Clyde Combo; Nipper
(second abo.), Henry Murdoch.
(1) Are there any regulations that forbid the
lighting of fires in N.S.W. bush country or
State forests? (2) Is there any penalty for
trespassing on State forestry reserves?
(1) There are regulations that prescribe pen-
alties for lighting unauthorised fires on State
forests and timber reserves. National Security
Regs, prohibit the lighting of fires for burning
off, etc., during certain months except under
permit issued by the local council. Where the
nearest boundary of the land is within two
miles of a State forest or timber reserve, the
holder of the permit must give the Forestry
Commission or the Forest Officer notice of
his intention to burn. (2) No exception is usually
taken to any person passing through a State
forest unless it is for some illegal purpose,
while the use of these reserves by the public
for recreational purposes is normally encour-
aged provided no damage is done. In time of
extreme fire danger, however, people, except
those with business on the lands, are discour-
aged from entering them. The local Forest
Officer should be consulted when in doubt about
anything.
(1) Who controls the Hume Dam? (2) Has
any private body or overseas capital any con-
trol over it? (3) What use is made of the
stored water power?
(1) This dam was constructed for the River
Murray Commission by the N.S.W. Dept, of
Works and the State Rivers and Water Supply
Commission of Victoria, and these two State
authorities maintain and operate the dam on
behalf of the River Murray Comm. (2) No.
(3) The purpose of the Hume Reservoir is,
in accordance with the River Murray Agree-
ment, to regulate the flow of the upper Murray
for the purpose of maintaining supplies of
water for domestic and stock requirements
along the length of the river; to meet needs
for irrigation in the three States concerned;
and to maintain the river at a navigable depth
from Mildura to tire sea. The only hydro-
electric power which has been developed up
to the present has been for use at the dam
and also for a period during the war to supply
the military camp at Bonegilla. Arrangements
have been finalised for the N.S.W. and Vic.
electricity authorities to instal and operate
power plant from which the electricity generated
will be shared equally between the two States.
What explanation is there of the occurrence
of quicksands in creeks?
They occur wherever conditions are favorable
to the formation of patches of very fine sand
mixed with water. In many cases this sand
is mixed with clay or calcium carbonate, which
retains water while surrounding pure sand is
firm. Some so-called quicksands are actually
beds of fine mud overlaid with sand.
Brief Answers.
Lex: If the documents were lost through
negligence the cost of replacing them must be
borne by the solicitor G.McM.: Assuming
the child to have been legally adopted the
normal relationship of parent and child exists
and the father is at common law entitled to
the child’s custody. On application to the
proper court by the mother, it would consider
what was best for the welfare of the child
and order custody accordingly H.R.M.:
Write Divisional Meteorologist, Weather Bureau,
Brisbane.. . .T.E.8.: (1) In England a game
of polo is divided into seven periods of eight
minutes, while in America the divisions are
eight minute periods. (2) Mass-o-kism.
(3) The only lawful Russian political organisa-
tion is the Communist party. (4) Inbreeding is
used with cattle, but not inbreeding as under-
stood in human relations. It means breeding
close to a line of blood and demands expert
management in mating and culling progeny...»
M.E.: (1) The verb “to be” takes the nomina-
tive case before and after. “It is I” is correct.
(2) “I shall” is the first person singular future
tense of “to be”; “will” is correct only after
the second and third persons. (3) “Them” can
be used to represent inanimate objects, because
it is the plural of “it” as well as of “him.”
(4) Nouns such as “com flakes” are plural
Cootamundra: Write to the Director, Melbourne
National Art Gallery PJ.O’C.: There were
referendums held on military service on August
28, 1916, and December 20, 1917. The voting
on the first was 1,160,033 against and 1,087,557
for, while in the latter votes recorded were
1,181,747 against and 1,015,159 for B.G.F.
and J.E.8.: The Commonwealth Printer, Can-
berra, A.C.T A.G.; The chances are 99,999
to one against winning the first prize with a
single ticket... .H.A.D.: The J.P. may read the
document to ascertain whether it contains any-
thing of a scandalous nature R.L.McL.:
Mr. John Quinn died some years ago and his
stud is no longer in existence. Further in-
formation may be obtained from Mr. N. Miller,
Littledale, Cootamundra, N.S.W C.M.:
(1) Marriage is lawful whether conducted by
an authorised clergyman or by a registrar. No
double ceremony is required by law. (2) All
necessary formalities will be attended to by
clergyman or registrar if application is made
personally in advance 1.R.R.: Little is
known about him in Australia. Suggest you
write to his publisher, George G. Harrap and
Co., Ltd., 182 High Holborn, London.


Missing Friends.
KENNETH HUGH GARTRELL.
WOULD the abovenamed, who left South Australia
in November, 1929, seen in Melbourne shortly after,
or any person having knowledge of him, please com-
municate with his father, ARTHUR H. GARTRELL,
8 Kitchener Avenue, Dulwich, South Australia?
TO GEORGE WILLIAM STANTON formerly of 83
Michael Street North Fitzroy in the State of Vic-
toria Taxi Driver but now of parts unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MABEL JEAN ROBERTSON
STANTON of 21 Ross-Smith Avenue Frankston in the
said State Married Woman has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the grounds of a
repeated act of adultery and adultery in the conjugal
residence UNLESS you enter an 'appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts William Street Mel-
bourne in the said State on or before the 14th day
of January 1947 the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a Decree for dissolution of marriage may
be granted and you, may be ordered to pay costs
If you intend to defend this suit you must also file
an answer in the said office on or before the 24th day
of January 1947— EUSTACE L. J. MURPHY, of
40 Queen Street, Melbourne, in the said State,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
RE KEITH BLYTH.—WiII any person knowing the
whereabouts of KEITH BLYTH, a former jockey of
Melbourne and Bombay, India, kindly communicate
with F. W. ROBSON, Solicitor, 403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne ? Telephone MU 5231.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue. .
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
1
Here's a case that will stand the rough and
tumble of school use . . . that weighs and costs less than leather
. . . that is weatherproof and smart-looking! The Globite School
Case is a convenient size ... 16 inches long . . , and it keeps
school books in better condition. Ask to see one . . . feel how
light it is! Globites are being manufactured as fast as materials
and manpowfer permit.
GLOBITE
SCHOOL
CASES
Manufacturers: FORD SHERINGTON LTD. (Wholesale only}
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli*
DETAILS AND PRICES color will reprodupe Typing, Writing,
ON APPLICATION. Plans. Music, etc.
Buth entirely In Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■ ■■
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’e
everyday wear.
All mens-ivear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
IN AUSTRALIA'S INDUSTRIAL
l&TBB
*nc6
ar e Dvn neCeS SQrv CUrCf Cy. Bar
n Uyn vmicaUy k f rev °hin a AL '
tJijMaa* h ?‘° n^d
I T ,va *lS-j, M °cb ine “•««-
etQc hQhu r> iQ rthes JW
asa:a=: aa^^ Bridge* Ve
lice;
nsed Wanuf Ccf
*—hjs*" *"
V n # 4U
MEEH AN j Te
metals
•"SSSSSS,**
v dels^r
?o*z c d d 4Sr,o
a A o p . 6G^ ond '';^e., d6^
moflv e Wort.
l»L *
Motive Wort
*‘ e '«»c olEs .
L&TBe 5/zl nch
'**»** a,*l° low>
'° fines, Co sf ®* cer K fi ' ,oth ® Plus
Vaw - su P rr-
jjU* * y ail d Utility' e lti
****7, ¥* chi ne Tools ft.
aa-ywi
m
*
MAR I*' 1 *'
MARS
CO. PTY. LTD
L
*£*ij*°*£*£ ag **t Ss
Too, s
& Uee »sJa n<i . T UllS '
Co -. Ltd Ti p Western , sZ>aae
lr-«t c?- ci,n^
£iP}«^Et^‘ a ’
cfr ,to ” 2 "s^ e °"“'*®" tIM -
-4 *
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
N amP nnd address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions vol “ nla "%
N Submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor .
F.J.; Call “The Cattle” home.... IX.McC.:
It is vaguely familiar... .N.R.W.: The Femi-
nine Hat” is just about the dizzy limit.....
P.K.: Only the tobacco shortage could explain
the immense sorrow of “Song of the Cigar-
ette” X.R.A.N.: Something in Morning
Memories,” but how did you persuade silence
to rhyme with “sombre”? G.V.K.; Cheer
up E.J.McI.: Swaggies and faithful dawgs
shot on sight N.N.: There are bats in the
old barn all right... .8.5.: Like the thought
but the style hardly exists W.H.C.: What
exactly is “the soul of sylvan tone’ ?
Spinifex: “It Shouldn’t Be Allowed.” No, it
shouldn’t S.E.T.P.: The ghost aroused a
hollow groan.... A.G.E.: Lightweight
C.H. de St. J. 8.: “The critters sure are thirsty.”
Say, pardner, why don’t you plug ’em with
your six-shooter?... .P. 8.; You make us
blush A.J.W. ; Say it in prose G.N.:
None of our waistcoat buttons popped off when
we read it L.K.J.: Not quite, but we would
like to hear from -you again G.L.: “The
Fine Partnership” was dissolved and is coming
back under common' cover... .R.L.: “Great
white waves” do not shatter with a “metallic
clang,” not even on Bondi beach C.M.:
Your spelling is atrocious... .P.R.: The
limerick gets into print at last:
There was an old man of the West,
Who sported a bullet-proof vest.
When they said “Take it off,”
He replied “Sure enoff!”
And collected ten slugs in his chest.
P.J.; So the ghost was only a “white cow
after all”; not quite original G.L.: Con-
tributions written on both sides of butcher’s
paper in very runny ink returned with surpris-
ing speed.,.. F.0.V.: Even “modern sonnets”
must have 14 lines —not 46....5.A.: “Blue
Lightning was slow to leave the barrier. ..
but no, he makes a forward moye... but no,
he drops back.. . but no, the jockey draws
the whip . .. but no, he is checked . .. but no,
Blue Lightning has a clear run. He wins...
but no, there is a protest.” But no, thank
you D.R.; The dailies will probably like
“A Cute Actor” W. 8.: The essay written
by your daughter for her intermediate exami-
nation is not for u5....P.J.: So “there is am
insect gets on to your typewriter at night and
cannot reach the shift-key for making capitals,”
resulting in:—
Ever heard of “Archie the Cockroach”? He’s
been doing it for years T.K.: A little too
thin from the reader’s point of view, but come
again N.P.: We bellowed, but The Bulletin
Vice Squad put its foot down on it
J.C.R.: Where did you get the local color —
from a guide-b00k?... .L.D.: To reach the
yarn we had to read the wearisome explana-
tions of the club bore who told it and the
tedious comments of his audience...-A.C.:
You seem under the spell of the mistaken-
identity plot. All three are much the
same —and poor N.P.I A rather uncouth
description of a pothouse brawl S.E.: Too
many unimportant characters obtrude....
A.H.M.: Runaway wife’s thoughts and actions
are stereotyped W.C.8.: Can’t swallow the
drunk who mistook Boggabri for Sydney; not
that we want to cast any reflection on Boggabri.
S.M.E.: Exaggerated farce of that type has
been out of date for '5O years J.H.G.: Dan’s
experience at Slippery Sam’s shanty was very
little different from that of other shearers at
other shanties A.T.A.: You certainly believe
in making your villains bad and your heroines
good G.W.: There’s only a week to go, but
that effort must surely rank as the worst of
1946 D.R.D.: We admit that it has a
beginning, a middle and an end, but that’s
about all it has got S.L.: Blackmailer was
blackballed Pitcairn Islander: Post the next
one in a bottle, and there’s just a chance that
it will never reach us F.R.: “The Chain
Smoker” is puffing homewards.. . .TX.; A
little sub-editing on your part might work
wonders... ,D.D.: Every summer we are
assailed by a “Swarm of bees, buzzing the bass
section of Nature’s orchestra.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.C.: The jockey weighed in light J.T.R.:
Instead of easy-flowing lines you put down
something resembling barbed-wire... .P. 8.:
Everything about them suggests copies
T.H.G.: Same gags recently appeared in an
American paper. We .want original work or
nothing S.S.: Sharper tones called for in
your washwork... .C.W.G.: As dejected as a
cat that has been out in the rain all night
M.F.C.: Worse drawings have possibly been
published, but not in these pages V.P.: It
wasn’t worth the effort... .H.C.D.: You can
draw a chimney, but Santa Glaus had you
beat’... .E.S.T.: Suspect that you used a rock-
ing horse as a model for that buckjumper
W. 8.: Your clown didn’t score a laugh....
D.M.: “If they’re no good to you, what can
I do with them?” Try raffling them among
your friends..’. .J.R.D.: Wash drawings are
muddy and jests at least half a century old.
. ...G.M-A.: Sayings of small children are
seldom amusing outside the family circle....
H.L.H.: Sketches “dashed off in a couple-of
minutes” generally end up in the basket....
S.D.: More suited for a children’s comic
newspaper... ;L.T.: Linework too hesitant and
scratchy, and the humor is lifeless P.D.:
The fact that the plumber is a female and the
person in the bath a male doesn’t make that
gag new A.S.: We want humorous draw-
ings, not designs for chocolate boxes.
say boss
ive been
on boss
and seen
the queen
and boss
shes sweet
you seen
the queen
boss eh.


RED RANGE
BY JAMES HACKSTON
RED RANGE was in the doldrums
and had been so for some time;
nothing much happening and
hardly any gold being discovered,
tne last find was when Charlie the Chink
unearthed the four-ounce nugget and, fol-
lowing on this “rich” find, the big Red
Range rush set in.
But after looking about for the best
P ar } u a w hore the famous nugget
had been found, and no more big slugs
turning up, the rush lost its enthusiasm
i both of them chucked it and went
back home; Morgan to continue milk-
ing his cows, and the rest of the rush to
finish cleaning out his dam.
Nothing else much had happened to
stir the town up. There’d been no big
social event such as old Mathieson,
owner of Willa Willa and Bungowanna-
winme stations up north and part-owner
of West Willy Willy Downs, coming
down from his stations to light up the
Cross Roads Hotel for weeks on end with
his spending. Unfortunately for the hotel,
and for Red Range in general, old
Mathieson had retired to his cellar at
Bungo.
There were tales that when he was on
it, and wanted the servant to fetch him
another drink, so good was he with the
rifle that he never had to get out of bed
to press the bell, but pressed the button
with a bullet; also that he had shot all
the spots clean out of the big leopard-
skin that hung on the wall. But shearers
spread the rumor that he shot the leopard-
skin only when it crouched on his bed-
post to spring at him. Old Mathieson was
a man of character.
If it would be stretching it a bit to say
that his acres ran over, almost, into two
States and that on the one side it would be
freezing, or his sheep drowning in floods,
while, at the same timg, on the other
side, there were a heatwave and a drought
and his sheep dying for want of feed or
being destroyed by bushfires; still, it would
be giving some idea of the size of his
“selections.” Chaps in Red Range used
to work out how long it would take the
nearest train to travel round old
Mathieson’s boundaries, and when they’d
worked it out, would throw out their
chests for the Mathiesons, who had never
cut the people of Red Range, but actu-
ally knew them.
Sheep! The thriving sheep-stealing in-
dustry was practically kept operating by
old Mathieson, and, had it not been for
him, many professional sheep-stealers
who had followed in their fathers’ foot-
steps would have had to get out of the
sheep business and go in for horses, which
were not so good, or cattle-duffing; not
so good either. Also, most of those
lonely, romantic-looking campfires of the
bush, where the true spirit of mateship
hung out, were supplied with choice lamb
cutlets and sweet freshly-killed mutton
by old Mathieson, although he himself
was not always aware of that fact.
And now, having retired from public
appearances, he had left it to young
Mathieson to carry on the famous family
tradition of buying up wine for the ladies,
beer for the bar, and being one of the
boys. But even young Mathieson hadn’t
been on it at the Cross Roads Hotel for
some considerable time; too considerable
a time for Mrs. Popp, proprietress of the
Cross Roads ; and she was wondering if
young Mathieson, as a dutiful son, was
getting drunk with his father up at the
homestead or, if not that, going on the
spree elsewhere.
So Red Range
was really in the
doldrums; n o
gold; no wild
drinking an d—
as per past goings
on at the hotel —
no loving. The
Cross Roads Hotel
used to specialise
in providing pretty
barmaids for the
big spenders. Some
pretty big drink-
ing had been done, too; and al-
though the Cross Roads Hotel had no
private cemetery for the convenience of
its patrons, as the pub at Argo Plains
had, it hadn’t lagged far behind. The
pub was drifting now and Mrs. Popp saw
no likelihood of a change unless she
did something herself to rejuvenate
things.
But as Alf Hodgson said, when dis-
cussing the matter with Mrs. Popp, there
was nothing much for Red Range to
make a comeback on ; the gold was done,
and as for making an agricultural district
of it —well, it seemed to him that the
only thing their land would be suitable
for would be for growing asphalt paths,
railway lines, tram rails and concrete foun-
dations ; and he laughed at his own joke.
Then, suddenly, he stared bard at his
glass of beer and kept staring at it so
that Mrs. Popp asked him if another
“plowfly” had got in it, and when he
shook his head vacantly but still kept
gazing into the glass she snatched the
glass away—“Vone ov dhose tamn gock-
roaches”—and poured him a fresh glass.
But Alf Hodgson was now staring fixedly
into space, with a light in his eyes, as if
some vision had suddenly appeared be-
fore him. “By gum!” he said, and
banged the bar. “It stands to reason!”
The vision that came to Alf Hodgson
not only carried him off his own feet,
but also carried Mrs. Popp off her neat
little feet, too —for herself and her own
interests, of course. But Alf Hodgson’s
dream was not for himself (although the
first ten minutes of the revelation did
bring him three free drinks on the house)
but for the town of Red Range, the
people of Red Range, the whole wide
stretching district. And more than that:
for the benefit of Australia as well. It
seemed now, as he said over his fifth (also
enthusiastically shouted), as if fate had
stepped into the life of Red Range and
destiny had decreed a great and glow-
ing future for the town.
“Annudder dhrink mit me, Halfe. You
haf obened my eyes und I zee a gread
vuture vor everypody; vor Vred Vrange
und vor my ’odel, doo. Dhings vhill re-
durn as dhey vos pefore. Yez, und I
vhill ged a peautiful ghirl ub vrom der
cidy do enderdain all de poys und”—she
laughed—“ ’elb make my vortune, doo.
Bud ve musd nod led der grass grow
under our feed, Halfe! Vod vos id dhey
zay? Strigke vhile der iron vos ’od.”
He said that it was a wonder he hadn’t
thought of it before. “No, not a beer
this time, Mrs. Popp ; I’ll have a whisky.”
Here was Australia seeking a site for a
Federal Capital and nobody in Red
Range had given it a thought. Why, it
was sticking but a mile—Red Range was
the very place for it; main road, river
not far off—yes, it was made for it.
Chance of a lifetime! Opportunity
knocking at the door if ever opportunity
had knocked on a door. Yes! it was
knocking now!
“Haf anudder vhisky, Halfe! Ve vill
gall a meeding und ’old id ad dhis ’odel
next veek to sdard der pall rolling ”
“Halfe” raised his seventh (five beers
and two whiskies). “By gum! wouldn’t
it just make things hum? By gum, it
would! Good old Red Range, capital of
Australia.”
AS the future capital of Australia, Red
Range, its people and their cultural
pursuits might have been summed up as
follows:
Red Range was on the Scrubby, still
there when it had no water in it, and was
bounded on the north by the storekeeper,
who’d almost ruined himself several times
giving the citizens of the town too much
credit; and the southern boundary was
the pub. The western boundary was
Schroeder’s orchard, and it was bounded
on the east by the paddocks where the
hares lay in the tussocks and mushrooms
grew in season.
Red Range could not claim to be the
birthplace of any famous racehorse or
poet, nor had the Red Range coach ever
had the good fortune to be stuck up by
some bushranger of standing, so Charlie
Ogilvie, who mostly drove it, will never
be mentioned in the school history books.
Charlie Ogilvie, the greatest singing
coachdriver from Bourke-street to Cook-
town. He hardly ever stopped singing,
sandwiching his talk—when he had to
say something—in between the words of
his songs. People would hear that Simp-
son’s bread was way down upon the
Swannee Ribber and that they were
hanging men in Ireland for Anderson’s
meat or Chandler’s kerosene. When'
perspiring residents were too hot to swipe
the flies out of their eyes they’d hear
Charlie coolly “roaming in the gloam-
ing.”
When the people of Red Range missed
the coach, and had to pad the hoof into
the town for provisions, they’d take the
short cut across Shag Flat and then
through the cemetery. Shag Flat was
called Shag Flat in accordance with Aus-
tralian nomenclatural practice, because
there were no shags and never had been
any. However, the cemetery offered the
deep shade of the cypress trees; and for
those who, on a hot day, had to lump
home a half-size bag of flour or sugar,
it was a boon to be able to dump the load
and, sitting on the cool white marble of
the more influential graves, feel the cool-
ness seeping through them. In addition
to this service, the cemetery played a
cultural part in the lives of some of the
Red Range boys and girls, who used to
visit the cemetery to study and make
copies of the fine Old English lettering
that graced the wealthier of the tomb-
stones ; this for the purpose of entering
for the five-bob prize for the best letter-
ing at the annual show. Some com-
petitors kept up with the new tombstones
for this purpose.
Red Range had no church or library,
but everybody had (4s. 9d. a quarter) the
History of the World in 194 parts, with a
picture of the Royal Family on the front
page of each part; Costumes of the
Nations in Color (153 parts—3s. 9d. a
quarter), with a picture of the Royal
Family printed on the front page of each
part; Famous Historical Pictures of the
World in 817 separate parts, and with a
picture of the Royal Family on the front
page of every part. There were also
Famous Ruins of the World. Homes of
the Great, How to Cure Gripes in Horses,
The Soul of Man and A Cure for Ants.
It had taken quite a number of in-
domitable canvassers to sell the Red!
Range people these publications (on terms)
and it took a greater number of still
more indomitable collectors to get the
money. The subtle art of tricking the
book collectors was practised assiduously
by the younger set in conjunction with
the more subtle art of tricking the trooper
in regard to their dog licences.
This was an industry Trooper Caldecott
was interested in, and it would not have
been Red Range without Caldecott riding
slyly, sneakingly and determinedly along
the back tracks or through the protec-
tive scrub. Apart from providing the
trooper with an absorbing interest, this
competitive spirit between die law and the
children was a good training (and one
that proved most beneficial in after life)
for the boys and girls of Red Range.
The art of hiding dogs in the scrub
called for great tact and training. Dogs
had to be trained never to bark when
the trooper hove in sight, and when a dog
in hiding began frothing at the mouth
with a mad and most unreasonable desire
to bark, the child had to be able to apply
a suffocating hold that would stifle the
bark without throttling the dog.
For amusements Red Range arranged
no socials or gatherings save the tradi-
tional and national tin-kettling which,
gave them an outing now and then ; but
as there were few marriages in Red
Range the tin-kettlers sometimes tin-
kettled some family where the husband
had been away working for several
months and had just returned home.
Once they tin-kettled the Pipers, when
Piper came home, not knowing that
Molly Piper, his wife, had cleared out
with Foggy Mullins.
Red Range had no big miners’ club,
but there was the Prospectors’ Associa-
tion (headquarters: Hanrahan’s shack,
where some of the philosophers used to
meet to discover the Welcome Nugget
all over again). The association closed
down, however, when Hanrahan (famous
prospector who discovered the big find
at Century Creek)
moved into a
humpy close to
the town rifle-
range down south,
where he fos-
sicked for the
spent bullets that
always rolled
from the butts
into the little
gully on the left.
Lead was bring-
ing a fair price
then.
There were no
empty houses in
the district; none of those dark, dismal,
foreboding-looking testimonials to defeat
that stare darkly from black ominous
spaces where window curtains once hung.
When it happened that one of Red Range's
residents deserted, the balance of the
residents went along and wheeled the
deserted house away in bits and added
it on to theirs. This practice saved Red
Range from looking like a deserted
mining town,
A LF HODGSON talked so much
about the Red Range Federal Capital
Site Movement that people said he’d
be standing for Parliament one of these
days if he did not take a pull on himself.
He made calls and talked with every-
body ; conversed with paddocks and
logs, informed gum-trees that they’d be
electric-light posts of the future. During
the first three days of his campaign he
ate two full meals with people (sweets
with one of them), and had a few more
beers on the house at the headquarters
of the Capital Site Movement.
At the bar he was so eloquent that Jim
Pellett was converted from a prognos-
ticator of gloomy happenings into a new
man ; a visionary who now foresaw
nothing but success and prosperity ahead.
Jim Pellett used to go in for warning
people about things, and used to walk
over to their places of a Sunday and
present them with the potato blight or
advance them a grasshopper pest. His
most important prognostication was when
he gave tuberculosis to Morgan’s cow
that had the lump on its left side;
and then gave it to Morgan and his
family through the cow’s milk and sent
Mrs. Morgan’s hair white almost. “You
coughin’? You spittin’? You spittin’
blood?” and all the Morgans spat for
evidence until Morgan got the inspector
out and put-an end to the family’s spit-
ting to see if there was “any red in it.”
But Jim Pellett now presented the
people with a public library, a national
gallery and a theatre in advance and
turned their sheds into up-to-date shops,
laid gas and water on, provided electric
light and named the main streets after
them.
Old Beck was not enamored of these
rosy pictures for the future, though, and,
after informing Jim Pellett that if any-
body so much as dared come nosing about
his land he’cl put a charge of shot into
them, bolted inside, grabbed his old
blunderbuss and came tearing out to put
a charge of shot into Jim Pellett.
Beck lived in a house that might have
been painted as an early historical relic
of a great city; a faded, bleached, grey
house that merged in perfect tone with
the grey paddocks and bleached fences ;
the chimney with that correct artistic
slant and the rest of the jolace sufficiently


lopsided and falling to pieces to break
any suggestion of stiffness or hardness ,
with, as a color note, a host of fine big
Scotch thistles.
He used to march out of his lurching
gate of an evening before sunset, with his
old blunderbuss of a single-barrelled gun,
and let fly at the sinking sun as it slipped
down cautiously behind the skyline , and,
when the boys of the district swam in his
dam, would sometimes sneak on them and
introduce himself to their presence with
“I never take a sitting shot,” and then
sit on the bank and wait for them to give
him a running shot. So the boys would
keep on swimming until the shadows be-
gan to steal out thin and long over the
land, the trees come up in silhouette and
Beck’s target be-
gin to sink down
behind the world.
Then movement
came into the sky ;
sudden bursts of
light lit the clouds ;
speared thro ugh
them; dark grey
masses sprang into
being; crimson
splashes rolled and
sank; golden
patches came shoot-
ing up and in the tumbling array
of changing light and shadow, the
sun now moving away; the last thin
rim sinking. “I never take a sitting shot,”
Beck would then say and let fly with his
one barrel at his target again.
Red Range’s Beck was more original
than most towns’ Becks, and Jim Pellett
said that he should have had more sense,
calling on such a silly old jay-bird, and
Alf Hodgson agreed with him and de-
clared that under no circumstances
would a silly old jay-bird like Beck be
asked to attend the first meeting of the
Red Range Federal Capital Site Move-
ment. No, certainly not!
But, determined as Alf Hodgson was
not to have Beck at the meeting, he was
as equally determined to have Mr. Keller
at the meeting. Mr. Keller was poor,
but when the citizens of Red Range
passed him they’d all look reverently at
him. Mr. Keller could —and did; at all
times —recite Shakspeare.
And now the first meeting to lay the
foundations of a great city was held.
There were Alf Hodgson, first dreamer;
Jim Pellett, second dreamer; Ted
Jingles, Red Range’s chief humorist;
Morgan, quite recovered from his tuber-
culosis ; Otto Jepp, owner of the fiercest
dog in the district; the well-known Lofty
Chandler, father of the well-known Red
Range Brides; Mr. Keller, and other in-
fluential gentlemen who were also well
known in the district for their restless
and indomitable energy in waiting for
something to turn up.
At the earnest request of Alf Hodgson,
Mr. Keller was appointed to the chair,
in which position his fine Shakspearean
voice was heard to advantage, and added
that necessary note of learning and
dignity to the proceedings. There were
several toasts, of course, and then, in
keeping with the spirit pf the occasion.
Red Range was not only the only possible
site for the capital, but was the capital.
As the beer flowed they subdivided
their paddocks and sold their blocks at
a big price per foot and not by the acre,
if you please, and, after they’d built the
Town Hall and other noble structures,
Mrs. Popp shouted drinks all round, and
out of gratitude they built her a two-
hundred-room hotel to accommodate all
the nobs and members of Parliament.
During the meeting Mr. Keller’s Shak-
spearean voice said “ ’Sdeath” so often
and so richly and dramatically, and its
.owner worked his Shakspearean eye-
brows so dominatingly each time, that
the Red Range Federal Capital Site Com-
mittee was greatly impressed with the
learned interjection and felt some great
purport in its meaning. The more beer
Mr. Keller drank the more often he re-
peated it. Then Ted Jingles began to
say “ ’Sdeath,” and then Morgan said
“ ’Sdeath.”
At twelve-ten the new railway line
was constructed and it ran most
considerately—past their front gates, and
then, as a respite after such a heavy
undertaking, the chairman was asked to
recite Shakspeare, in reply to which invi-
tation Mr. Keller said “’Sdeath!” three
times and, raising one hand nobly,
pointed a litle shakily to where the future
was represented, and said that he would
not recite any of the great bard’s im-
mortal lines at this stage, but would ask
the gentlemen assembled to wait, ’Sdeath,
until Red Range had a fine theatre of its
own where Shakspeare’s plays would be
produced and where, he hoped, he him-
self would have the honor of producing
them, and bring Hamlet, Falstaff, Shy-
lock to Red Range. Following on this
burst of oratory Jim Pellett erected the
Shakspearean theatre and appointed Mr.
Keller to the position of manager and
producer. ’Sdeath! he did,
0
And so, after one for the road, the ex-
hilarating meeting broke up; and they
all managed to get home without
colliding with the all-night trams and
buses.
In the bar next day, when the flies
swam in the beer, “ ’Sdeath” was fired at
them instead of the old familiar adjec-
tives, and from then on Mr. Keller’s cul-
l tural influence was most apparent, not
only Within the precincts of the hotel
itself, but all through the district. Even
Red Nolan, the leading bullock-driver,
adopted it; and although it took him
some time to induce his bullocks to accept
it, they did so in the end and put an
extra bit of ’energy into their pulling
when it was applied to them.
AFTER the first meeting the Red Range
Federal Capital Site Comnlittee (bob
in and the winner shout) met on a Sun-
day (to suit everybody), with Scotty, head
of the hotel reconnaissance staff, perched
on the hotel roof scanning the flat, far-
stretching paddocks for sight of Trooper
Caldecott. Of course, Mrs. Popp realised
that when Red Range became a “gread
cidy” a more subtle and refined way of
outwitting the law would have to be
employed,
Sunday at Red Range, though, would
not have been Sunday without Scotty
sitting on the hotel roof and Trooper
Caldecott riding along the soft, silent
side-tracks that led to the Sunday trad-
ing : Trooper Caldecott in his white, tight,
well-filled corduroys sitting up straight;
and at the same time horsemen, buggies,
carts, gigs and jinkers spreading out
simultaneously from the vicinity of the
hotel like the spokes in their wheels,
drivers and riders all taking a most in-
dustrious interest in the sudden beauty
of the landscape (as the trooper passed)
and, in addition, enjoying furiously the
Red Range air that was so invigorating
and bracing on the Sabbath only.
Mrs. Popp now, very thoughtfully,
presented Red Range with twelve elm-
trees to be planted along the road to
make a nice shady avenue for the Gov-
ernor-General to drive under, and the
Site Committee met to thank Mrs. Popp
for her generous interest, thanked her,
planted the twelve trees, and, on the
strength of it, made history by going on
the slate and sticking up a few rounds of
drinks. This done, the committee decided
to call a big meeting of citizens from
far and wide for the purpose of collect-
ing funds to boost the capital claims of
Red Range and not, as some scoffers
hinted, to square up the sum of
£1 14s, 6d. that was now on the slate
against the Red Range Federal Capital
Site Movement. *
Mrs. Popp’s next move was to an-
nounce that she had sent to the city for
a fine barmaid, and it was not long before
Nell arrived; Nell, who was to reign
during the famous capital site movement
—and jubilations ; Nell, who, for pro-
fessional reasons, used the lowest-cut
blouses that had ever been seen in Red
Range. Standing at the bar and looking
at her in one of her black decoys, a de-
scriptive writer would have said that you
could see down the soft, deep, little gully
of shadow that lay, or ran down, between
the little white hills of her breasts. Her
hair was dinkum gold—no alloy in it ;
and she was the biggest rush that had
ever been at Red Range,
Nell was all to the mustard. On her
first Sunday afternoon she sat with young
Bob Marlow on the big, grey, wise-look-
ing old log that slept in the hotel pad-
dock ; and, when it was Herby Carter’s
Sunday, went for a spin with him in his
newly-painted j inker, which Herby had
done up specially for her. For Geoff
Hayes she chose sitting no farther afield
than the hotel,verandah; but for Tom
Lumsden she sat in the old creek-bed
and played gently with the sand and
said how soft it was.
Just about this time, though, Mrs.
Popp took the new queen of Red Range
into her confidence, and informed her
that the movement to make Red Range
the capital of Australia would be a great
thing for everybody; for the hotel and
for Nell, too. And if it did not come
off —well, in the meantime—and she
poked her little fat finger, with the also
fat diamond on it, into Nell’s soft side
and laughed. “I haf made id my pusi-
ness do led young Madhieson know vod
is habbening in Vred Vrange und dhad
I haf a lovely ghirl mit me now.”
“And who is young Mathieson?” Nell
as ked
Mrs. Popp laughed. “Oo is young
Madhieson! Vhell, Nhell, ’e is der
vhealthiest young man for toushands of
miles round; zo vhealthy dhad ’e gould
puy dhis ’odel a toushand dimes over
und nod gare.” She winked slyly at
Nell. “Und ’e gould puy you, Nhell, eef
you vos sensible.” Mrs. Popp then went
down into the cellar and brought up a
small bottle of wine. “Ve vhill haf a
fiddle dhrink mit ourselves und dhrink do
each odher’s sugcess.”
Naturally enough, the Butler boys re-
turned home (as per precedent) from
breaking-in up north to see the new bar-
maid, They were horsy chaps; and bar-
maidy, too, if you can put it that way,
and were known for the fine sprees they
went on, which were not far below the
sprees of the great master drinkers of the
past who had put Australia on the map
alcoholically.
To the Butlers, going on the spree was
a serious event; a rite, ritual, a part of
their being, just as the abo, goes walkabout,;
They came down from Gabbie Gabbie
and Tom’s Lagoon and, with their usual
ritual to be performed, it worked out
something like this: they’d clip and
curry-comb their horses; the saddles
would be polished, and the bridles, too ;
they’d clean their riding pants, and oil and
shine their leggings, polish their spurs ;
and when all these rites had been seri-
ously performed then, one day, as men
with a mission to perform, a task of
honor and duty to be done, a pilgrimage
of high resolve, set off, riding three
abreast (but not with undue or unseemly
haste), to their Cross Roads shrine; riding
with great dignity and looking like three
young Lochinvars (instead of one) come
out of the north instead of the west.
There was a courtliness about them; a
dignity and grace.
The moment they would be sighted
riding in this austere and orderly manner
the locals would nod knowingly—the
Butlers were off on the spree again. Rid-
ing down the long straight road, as riders,
they were a credit to the district, each
sitting his mount as correctly as a trooper.
They might have been a chosen Red
Range escort escorting a brand-new
Governor to the opening of the Tom’s
Lagoon duck season.
And their manner so restrained too!
None of your “G’ day. Missus!” to
females passing along the road, but,
“Good morning, Mrs. Morgan,” or who-
ever it was; and their hats sweeping off
in a gentlemanly manner and with
courtesy, each hat coming right off the
head and not one of those half-hearted
twists, tilts or pulls; and if not with the
sweeping gusto of a Captain Moonlight,
or Dick Turpin, still, with an old-world
atmosphere. And when meeting fellow-
gentlemen on the road it would be,
“Good morning, Harry” (or it might
have been Ernie or Jim); not a drunken
“Hullo, you baldheaded old lizard!”
“What oh! Dingo! What are you steal-
ing now?”
When they’d get to the hotel, Scotty
would attend to their horses with a genial
hospitality, and they’d slap him buoyantly
on the back in spite of the fact that they
knew, and he knew, that in a few weeks
time it would be Scotty’s official duty to
threaten them that, if they did not leave
the hotel, Mrs. Popp would send for the
trooper; that they, singly, or all three
together, would be staggering aggressively
round the hotel yard imploring Scotty,
as a good fellow, to fight them himself
or beseeching him pleadingly to go into
the hotel and bring Mrs, Popp out so that
they could punch the “avaricious old
(canine term used here) on the (so and
so) nose.”
But on the first day of their arrival at
the hotel, Mrs. Popp would come out and
take Martin by the arm and show him a
new pig, or a new prize rooster she had
bought or some improvements she had
made about the place since she had last
thrown them out, as if Martin were her
long-lost brother ; as if she would not be
telling them a little later on that they’d
spent their money. All this, with the two
brothers pottering after them, patting the
Queensland heeler (“Good old Skipper! ”)
that was destined, as night follows day,
to be rechristened later on, “lousy
mongrel,” in conjunction with the re-
christening of Mrs. Popp.
After they’d
gone through
their cash, Mrs.
Popp would give
them credit for a
while and then
issue her usual
ultimatum: n o
more beer on the
premises, but if
they’d go home
their demijohn
would be filled.
Sometimes they
accepted this ultimatum ; sometimes they’d
retire to the clump of gums opposite the
hotel and deliver oratorical bursts of frank
opinion concerning Mrs. Popp and Scotty,
with the Queensland heeler, the new pig,
the prize rooster or whatever it was that
Mrs. Popp had shown them, thrown in.
If a swaggie happened to be in residence
at the gums at this particular time, one
of the Butlers would invite him to fight,
and then they’d both shape up to each
other picturesquely, and after holding the
graceful pose for a while relax and re-
sume their verbal blasts against Mrs.
Popp, the pig, or the rooster, the Queens-
land heeler and maybe a kangaroo-rat
that had previously been known to them
as Scotty.,
Sometimes, when in a better mood,
they’d get on their horses and gallop
the hotel down; and on such occasions
the bar-door had to be shut to keep the
three horsemen out. And then they’d
buck and prance their horses up and down
the hotel verandah while they requested
the blood-sucking old German to bring
them a drink, while the swaggie opposite,
maybe, was shaping up professionally to
one of the inoffensive gums, or wildly
throwing his hat up into the air or, out
of the gladness of his heart, dancing the
sailor’s hornpipe or an Irish jig.
AND now down from the famous north
(as Mrs. Popp had planned) came
one and only son Mathieson (as far as
was known), ardent fossicker of the red
heart and the warm soft lip, to look Nell
over and, at the same time, buy up for
everybody and celebrate, in advance, Red
Range, capital of Australia.
Young Mathieson had achieved fame,
apart from buying up for the ladies, and
“the bar,” for having shot the largest
wedgetail eagle ever shot, which hung
—wings outspread—on the wall at the
homestead.
There was almost a traffic jam at the
Cross Roads when he arrived, and all the
sympathetic wanderers of the bush began
to congregate. The club cry, “Young
Mathieson’s on it,” spread.
Royal Sovereign, who generally came
through Red Range on his matrimonial
tour much later, put in his snorting ap-
pearance, and Muddy Bancks, his stud
groom, stabled his charge at the head-
office of the Red Range Federal Capital
Site Movement; and Red Nolan dis-
covered that three of his bullocks had
developed a new and strange affliction
which necessitated his having to spell his
team indefinitely in the hotel paddock;
and all the lost horses strayed in the
direction of the head-office of the Capital
Site Movement; Morgan’s three straying
cows mysteriously so, too; and citizens
(male) found it most necessary to call in
at headquarters in regard to certain sug-
gestions they had in mind to help the
movement.
The big general meeting of citizens
from far and wide to be held for the
purpose of raising funds, and not to
square the amount that was on the slate
against the Red Range Federal Capital
Site Movement (now £3 75.), was arranged
to be held on the Saturday night, and
Mrs. Popp, with the future owner of
Willa Willa and Bungowannawinnie
stations and also part-owner of West
Willy Willy Downs on her premises, and
with the knowledge that his cheque-book
was upstairs in his room, was in great
spirits and suggested that it would be a
good idea to hold a race-meeting in the
hotel paddock. In days gone by the Red
Range Cup used to be run there; but
there hadn’t been a meeting for a long
time.
“Ve gould haf der Vederal Gabidal
Gub,” she said, “und Misder Madhieson
gould ride, doo.”
So it was decided to run the Federal
Capital Cup and Mrs. Popp donated five
pounds as prizemoney. So, with a race-
meeting in the afternoon and the big
capital site meeting in the evening, things
were, mounting up to make it a great
day.
On the Saturday many good hacks were
hung up at the hotel and there were some
good buggy horses, too ; enough to make
a good field for the Federal Capital Cup.
The Butlers each rode a good horse and
young Mathieson, as befitting the future
owner of wide acres, rode one of the
Musket clan. And the young squatter
was sailing along well with Nell, too ; so
much so, in fact, that the barmaidy
Butlers were not in it.
Mathieson told Nell all about his
eagle; and the Butler boys, not to be
outdone, showed their prowess on the
horse by giving an exhibition of fancy
riding out on the road in front of the
hotel, to the unbounded joy and delight
of Messrs. Curlew, Puffer, Droughtface
and company, who danced and sang and
cheered die fine entertainment from their
position under the gums.
But in seeking to show Nell how daring
they were, the Butlers broke all precedents
by getting into trouble with Mrs. Popp
at the beginning of their spree instead of
at the end of it. Mrs. Popp, with a
squatter boarder, objected to the three
Butlers riding into the bar and turning
the head-office of the capital site move-
ment into a steeplechase course. She re-
fused (most unorthodox for her) to
supply them with any more liquor at all,
whether they went home, or did not go
home; whether they came with their
demijohn or a bucket, or a tin-pannikm ;
drove, rode, walked, or crawled on their
hands and knees for it; pleaded, cursed,
sang, or wept for it. ..
It was in connection with the demijohn
that Don Butler had earned fame foi
Red Range. Don Butler never lost a
demijohn. Sometimes he’d go galloping
as if the devil himself were behind him;
other times he’d walk his horse and, as
{Continued on page 10.)


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fftre, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —>
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
For 68 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security folf the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
Office: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
Correspondence.
Australian News and Information
Bureau,
New York, November 25, 1946,
Col. Robert R. McCormick,
Editor and Publisher,
Chicago “Daily Tribune.”
Dear Sir, —I was glad to notice in your
issue of Friday, November 22, that your
correspondent, Harold Smith, admits that
the Australians, as well as the Americans,
have retained the respect of native
peoples of the Far East.
In other parts of his address to the
Union League Club, however, Mr. Smith
apparently lived up to the best tradition
of the “Tribune” for wilful distortion
of facts and presentation of only one side
of the case.
My frequent appeals to you for an
approach of at least moderate decency
and fairness to my country have never
met with any response beyond further
distortion of facts, so I feel disinclined
to waste much time or paper emphasising
truths which you obviously know, but
prefer to ignore.
If there is any interest in facts in any
part of your organisation, the pertinent
ones with regard to Australian adminis-
tration of New Guinea are available at
this bureau, and will be most willingly
forwarded on request.
Very truly yours,
GAVIN S. CASEY,
Director.
the CHICAGO tribune’
November v 2?1946
Dear Mr Casey
You might credit Mr Smith
with kindness in not calling attention
to the fact that yours is a nation
of criminals' descendants.
Tours"sincerely-
TIRED feet?
this treatment
A Cuticura Soi
and Cuticura
raentapplicati
it,and enjoy r<
comfort. C
Ointment. €o
Talcum Powd
the famous
Hot, tired fee
trio.
532
r
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MEDITERRANEAN AND MIDDLE EAST.
The short-lived outbreak of civil war
in Persia was but another, and the latest,
sign of the general unrest that has been
seething throughout the Middle East since
the war’s end. In Persia and Irak, in
Turkey, in Egypt, Palestine and in Greece
(if the Near East is included) there has
been almost unceasing conflict. Not all
the causes of unrest are internal. Com-
mentators, divided according to their
political color, attribute the disturbances
in a large measure to the pressure of
either British or Russian diplomacy. The
U.S. comes in for its share of blame,
Jamil M. Baroody, writing-in “Asia and
the Americas,” declares that “trouble
is brewing all over the Middle East.” He
states that “the factors causing it may
be summed up under three headings:
(1) The conflicting interests of the Big
Three and to a lesser degree France;
(2) the intense nationalism which has
gripped Islam during the past thirty
years ; and (3) a social awakening brought
about by intensified contact with the West
during the war.
“The Middle East has a strategic im-
portance second to none. It always was
and will remain a bridge and cross-
ways between continents. Forming an
integral part of Asia, it at the same
time is her best gateway from the West.
The area is probably the world’s richest
in oil and possesses other abundant re-
sources. The Big Three know that any
Power which can solely control the
Middle East might eventually control
Asia,
“Britain fears that access to the
Mediterranean through the Dardanelles
and to the Persian Gulf across Iran is still
a predominant factor in Russia’s Middle
Eastern policy. To counteract Russian
penetration she has repeatedly solicited
Russia to join her in respecting the terri>
torial and political integrity of Turkey
and Iran. Supported by the U. S.,
Britain has to a large extent gained the
confidence of the Turkish and Iranian
Governments. Russia, on the other hand,
claims that Britain and the U.S. have
in great measure obtained a supreme
economic and geopolitical mastery over
the Middle East.”
Agreeing with Baroody that “the whole
Mediterranean basin is boiling, but that
the hottest spot in the world today is the
Middle East,” the Chicago “Tribune”
finds the chief cause of trouble in the area
comes from the threat of an expansion
of Russian influence there.
“Russia’s immediate objectives are to
burst through to the Mediterranean and
the Persian Gulf. During his alliance with
Hitler, Stalin offered to join Moscow to
the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo axis. Prince
Konoye, the former Japanese Premier,
said that Stalin’s terms were that Iran
and India be acknowledged as Russia’s
future sphere of influence. German
documents captured by American army
intelligence disclosed that Molotov also
sought Soviet control of the Dardanelles,
a free hand in Irak and Iran, and enough
of Saudi Arabia to give Russia control
of the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Aden
guarding the approaches to the Red Sea.
Hitler considered these demands exces-
sive, and, instead of acquiescing, attacked.
Russia, promptly switching sides, became
a democracy fighting Germany at the
side of Britain and Mr. Roosevelt, whose
Atlantic Charter provided for no terri-
torial aggrandisement. It didn’t matter
to Stalin which was the winning side, just
so that he was on it, nor did victory
shared with Britain and America alter his
long-range objectives. He still proposes to
have what Hitler wouldn’t give him, even
if Britain, his erstwhile ally, is cast in
the role of the loser.
“To install Russia on the Mediter-
ranean, Stalin insists that Russia be ad-
mitted into the rule of the former Italian
colonies of North Africa ; that Bulgaria,
formerly a German but now a Soviet
satellite, be granted a corridor to the
Aigean at the expense of Greece and that
Turkey hand over control of the Dar-
danelles. In the Middle East Soviet am-
bitions are expressed through pressure
upon Turkey to surrender the north-east-
ern areas of Kars and Ardahan; upon
Iran to bring the oil-rich province of
Azerbaijan under Russian control, and
upon Afghanistan, gateway to the passes
of India.
“Britain is resisting as best she can.
The U.S. everywhere is in the middle of
the struggle.”
In the “World Report” view “Russia
is meeting a real setback in her pro-
gramme to expand her influence. Britain
and the U.S., with the enthusiastic help
of Kings and Priine Ministers from Tehran
to Cairo, are stemming a tide that re-
cently was running strongly against the
Western nations.”
The “World Report,” too, finds “oil
and military security chiefly at stake in
the controversy. Almost a third of the
world’s oil reserves lies under the moun-
tains and sands of countries around the
Persian Gulf. American companies con-
trol about 42 per cent, of the estimated
reserves, British companies about 50 per
cent., Dutch and French capital most
of the remainder. Russia owns no pro-
ducing wells in the Middle East outside
her own borders, but has a promise of
rights to vast but undeveloped oil lands
in Northern Iran.
“Military security, closely linked to
control of oil reserves, is of prime im-
portance, Britain must find new bases
for forces leaving Egypt. The Suez
Canal is a jugular vein of Common-
wealth security, linking England to the
raw materials and manpower of the
East. The Persian Gulf, now patrolled
by the British Navy, is a waterway to
the Indian Ocean and the trade routes
of the world. Russia has a long southern
frontier in common with Iran, and is
only a day’s drive from Irak. Russian
interest in the Kurdish tribes, in the
Democrats of Azerbaijan, in the politics
of Iran, in the aspirations of the Arabs
brings Soviet influence over the borders,
deep part of the world rich in
oil. These factors of oil and security
give significance to latest moves in the
Middle East that add up to a setback
for Russian influence.
“In Iran the Left-wing Tudeh party,
friendly to Russia, is losing strength. In
Irak the Government is jailing trouble-
makers in an anti-Communist clean-up.
In Saudi Arabia King Ibn Saud has
issued a decree banning Communist
activity. Egypt also has taken measures
against Communists. Turkey has a new
Cabinet in which Right-wing conserva-
tives predominate. In Palestine Arab
leaders have invited Russia to fish in their
troubled waters. The manoeuvre has a
tongue-in-cheek appearance, however.
No Palestinian seriously believes the
wealthy Arab leaders want more tbqn
moral support from Russia, and that at
a safe distance.
“These setbacks for Russian influence
are the latest phase in a struggle between
Russia and Britain in the Middle East
that has been going on since long before
the birth of Josef Stalin. Presumably it
will continue long after he is gone. Each
move and counter-move, however, is
important to world peace.
“Russia’s is a long-range programme,
Russians seek oil for an expanding
economy. They want friendly or sub-
servient Governments on their borders.
Perhaps they also seek an outlet to the
Indian Ocean, Temporarily, Britain, the
U.S. and local rulers have checked Soviet
expansion in the area. But lasting
stability is unknown in the Middle East,”
Concerning the strategic importance of
Iran to Britain, Walter Sullivan, writing in
“Free World,” quotes the last-century
speeches of Lord Curzon:
Iran is “the strategic frontier of the
British Empire.” She and her smaller
neighbors form the only bridge from Europe
to India, and so are chessmen in “a game
for domination of the world.” Since
Russia is “a positive menace to the Indian
Empire,” e lran has assumed strategic im-
portance “which is indisputably great when
it is remembered that closely pressing upon
Persia (Iran) and upon Afghanistan is the
ever-growing momentum of a Power whose
interests in Asia are not always in accord
with our own.”
Sullivan points out that “from time im-
memorial the great invasions have come
across Iran, for India is enclosed by a
ring of mountains which circle from
Burma to Iran. The strategy of the
ancient conquerors still holds for a
mechanised army. The mountains must
be flanked by a route through Iran, where
railroads, highways and ports on the
Caspian provide means of supply. An
attack on India across the plains of Iran
has almost countless precedents.”
He believes, too, that “Iran seems even
more strategic to Russia now than it did
before the war. The Russians may rank
it equal in importance with Turkey, which
controls the entrance to the Black Sea.
The English, on the other hand, have
not changed their old conviction that a
Russian ‘Manchurian Railway’ across Iran
to a ‘Port Arthur’ on the Persian Gulf
would turn the line of land defences upon
which India counts for security. If
Britain permitted Russia to gain a port
on the Gulf, Curzon once said, T should
impeach the British Minister who was
guilty of acquiescing in such a surrender,
as a traitor to his country.’ ”
The “World Report” looks to the pos-
sibility that “the struggle of the Powers
in Iran may boil down to the unofficial
division of the country into a zone of
influence for Russia in the north and an-
other zone for Britain in the south.”
Closely linked to the problems of the
Middle East is the problem of the Medi-
terranean, and the “World Report” sees
Russia “increasing her pressure on Turkey
and Greece in an attempt to get into that
vital seaway, Britain and the U.S., de-
termined to kefep it under Western control,
are backing up Greek and Turkish re-
sistance to the Soviet. The struggle now
begun is to be long and dangerous.
“The dangers involved are important.
The U.S., Russia and Britain all recognise
this fact. All are willing to make con-
cessions, but they are to make them re-
luctantly, always clinging to minimum
objectives that are difficult to reconcile in
a compromise.
“Russia considers a place in the Eastern
Mediterranean and control of the Dar-
danelles as vital to her defences. To this
end she is adding to the turmoil in Greece
by encouraging her Balkan satellites and
the Greek Communists to oppose the
British-supported monarchy. Russia also
demands that the Turks negotiate with
the Soviet alone over the Dardanelles.
Britain fears that such a partnership
would make Turkey subservient to
Russia, enabling Russia to reach the oil
of the Middle East, outflank Greece and
threaten Suez, thus relegating Britain to
a secondary role in world affairs. A pro-
British Greece and an independent Turkey
as the guardian of the Straits is Britain’s
minimum demand. The U.S. would
prefer to see a strong Greece, capable
of defending her own frontiers without
Britain’s help. She also would agree to
some degree of Russian participation in
the control of the Dardanelles, but views
Russian domination of Turkey and
Greece as a threat to her own interests.
“Regardless of the outcome of Russia’s
drive to get control of the Dardanelles,
Britain and the U.S. now recognise that
Russia is within reach of the Mediter-
ranean and must be reckoned with in
that sea. The Western Powers, therefore,
are shifting their defence plans.
“Russia’s plan for forcing Turkey to
accede to her demands is a squeeze, an
attempt to encircle Turkey from the west
through Macedonia and the Aegean, and
from the east through Iran. Britain and
the U.S. are blocking these moves.
“In Greece there is civil war on a
small scale. The danger is that the civil
war may become a Balkan war, possibly
involving British and Russian troops.
Greece’s three neighbors to the north,
Albania, Yugoslavia and Bulgaria, are all
controlled by pro-Russian regimes. Soviet
Army troops still occupy Bulgaria. Their
garrisons are within 100 miles of Salonika.
“The new defence being developed by
the British High Command with the
knowledge of the U.S. is geared to the
fact that Russia is the only potential
enemy in sight. Russia could sever
the ‘lifeline of Empire’ that runs
through the Mediterranean and Suez,
Germany cut it through Italy, Sicily and
Libya, forcing the British and Americans
to supply the Middle East and Egypt
across and around Africa. Russia could
cut it with bombers over Suez and the
Eastern Mediterranean. To meet this
danger, Britain is creating a new system
of defence in depth calculated to defend
the Western Mediterranean from bases
in Britain, Gibraltar and Malta, and to
hold the Middle Eastern approaches to
India and the Indian Ocean from Africa.
“The African anchor in this scheme
is to be at Kenya and Tanganyika on
the shore of the Indian Ocean. It is
probable that Britain would prefer to
use Italian Somaliland on the Indian
Ocean, or Italian Eritrea on the Red Sea,
if she gets them when Italy’s colonies are
disposed of. The transfer of Britain’s


bases from Alexandria and Haifa does
not mean she is to abandon the Medi-
terranean. Cyprus, the spearhead of
Britain’s present plan of defence, is to
hold the same position in the new plan.
Britain and the U.S. will not give up the
Eastern Mediterranean without a struggle.
The first line of Anglo-American defence,
or the starting points for initial offensives,
now is pegged to Greece, with its superb
harbors and its control of passes to the
Danube Valley; to Cyprus, with its ex-
cellent terrain for airfields, and to British
land and air bases in Irak, on the Tigris
River route to Turkey.”
The “World Report” believes that “the
result of the firm U.S.-British attitude
is evident throughout the Mediterranean
and the Middle East. Irak and Trans-
jordan, both contemplating union that
would facilitate Britain’s defence, have
dropped suggestions that British troops
be removed from Arab countries.
Negotiations on the Anglo-Egyptian
treaty, which will call for the removal of
British troops from Egypt, are slow and
may be slower. Turkey shows no sign of
faltering in its resistance to Russia.”
Does U.S. Face Depression?
There has been a certain worried
searching of the American economy for
signs of coming depression, and not only
in the U.S. itself. Some observers have
seen in the doubts expressed within the
British Labor party about the Govern-
ment’s foreign policy a fear of economic
breakdown in the U.S. The “World
Report” says that “at the core of this
first revolt against England’s Socialist
Government is an economic question:
What happens to the British economy,
now facing a staggering task, if the
American economy to which it is closely
tied suddenly goes into a tailspin? In
other words, can Britain stand the shock
of an American depression?
“Feap of a full-size depression in the
U.S. are widespread in London. The only
question is how big it will be, and how
long it will last. Londoners regard
American price and security movements
as repeating the history of the period
after World War I. They see danger in
a U.S. attitude that nothing can be done
to avert a recession. They think few
Americans realise that, as the key
economy in the world, a stable U.S. is
as important to others as to America.
“What happens to the British economy
in the event of a U.S. recession is what
worries Britain. A sharp decline in U.S.
prices would close America’s doors to
British imports and would stimulate U.S.
business to expand exports in competi-
tion. The value of London’s overseas
investments would decline as world prices
dropped under pressure. A U.S. Congress
might withdraw from commitments
abroad. More of the burden, in that
case, would fall on Britain.
“The Republican victory emphasised
the conviction among British Socialists
that the U.S. will indulge in a wholesale
return to free enterprise, without controls.
Effect of this, it is feared, will be to en-
danger economic stability in the rest of
the world.”
The “United States News” in a review
of business prospects arrives at the con-
clusion that “a recession, or shakeout,
is looming. The first signs of trouble
ahead are appearing in securities and
commodity markets. There are signs,
too, that businessmen are making plans
with more caution. The certainty of an
approaching adjustment is generally
accepted.”
In its view the “start of the recession is
likely to be at some point in the first three
months of 1947. Downturns in produc-
tion of goods and in employment promise
to be scattered and mild through the first
half of next year, but will be more severe
in the second half. Duration of the set-
back can be estimated at approximately
12 months. The low point is likely to
be reached near the end of 1947, Extent
of the recession probably will be moder-
ate compared with 1920-21, or with
1937-38. Even at the bottom, industrial
activity is expected to be near the level of
1941, which, by all pre-war standards,
was a peace-time boom year. No repe-
tition of the 1929 collapse appears likely
in the near future.”
This prospect, the “News” believes,
“rests upon the assumption that there will
be no major prolonged strikes. With
strikes, the recession would come more
quickly. Strikes, in fact, could promise a
setback more severe than in either
1920-21 or 1937-38.
“Signs pointing to a puncture of the
first post-war boom are these: Price dis-
tortions are unprecedented. Wholesale
prices of farm products are about 147 per
cent, above 1939, while prices of other
products are up only 37 per cent. Resi-
dential construction costs are 60 per cent,
higher than in 1939, but rents are up
only 4 per cent. Similar distortions are
found in the relation between production
costs and finished-goods prices, and are
developing between income payments and
retail prices. Living costs, in fact, already
are biting into the buying power of con-
sumers. High-priced food and clothing
are forcing families to revise their plans
for buying automobiles, radios, re-
frigerators, washing-machines and dozens
of other durable products, the production
of which is counted upon to assure pros-
perity.
“Official figures indicate that incomes,
after taxes, for 21 per cent, of non-farm-
workers have failed to keep pace with
rising living costs; that 48 per cent, of
the workers have managed to keep in-
comes abreast of prices or only a little
better, and that only 31 per cent, have
scored substantial income gains in rela-
tion to prices. An econonjy geared to
mass-production can scarcely operate
for long at a high level unless income
payments are sufficient to buy the output
of industry. That condition does not
prevail when more than two-thirds of
the wage- and salary-group find that prices
are squeezing the ability to buy. Fewer
than a third of wage- and salary-earners
are in a position to maintain usual living
standards, and, in addition, make large
purchases of relatively expensive goods
at current prices.
The “News” thinks “a decline in new
orders, and in suppliers’ production, likely
some time in 1947. Unemployment
promises to rise as production falls. High
wage rates will accelerate this trend, as
employers move to lay off workers to
reduce costs. The fact that wage rates
have increased during a period when out-
put per worker is low will give employers
an added incentive to lay off workers
more rapidly than orders drop.
“Prevailing con-
struction costs
appear almost cer-
tain to put a
damper on build-
ing. It appears
necessary for costs
to decline and for
rents to rise before
a steady and bal-
anc e d building
boom can get
under way. In
the interim, a,
slow-down in con-
struction would
have a far-reach-
ing effect on in-
dustrial orders.
“Offsetting fac-
tors that promise
to cushion the de-
cline are these:
Consumer savings,
in the aggregate,
are at a record
height. These
savings are con-
centrated in a rela-
tively few families,
and sample sur-
veys indicate that
the bulk of sav-
ings is not in-
tended for spend-
ing except in case
of necessity. They
will, however, be
available for
necessary pur-
chases. Private
debt is at a relatively low level. This is
true for consumers as well as business
firms. Potential demand is strong for
houses, household appliances, auto-
mobiles and other costly items.
“General effects to be expected from
recession are these; Farm products might
fall as much as 36 per cent, in price be-
fore an upturn. Price declines for other
than farm products are not likely to be
so excessive. Employment will decline
significantly. Some factories, in fact, now
seem to be employing morie workers than
they need for current production. This
surplus, as well as part of the normal
working force, is likely to be laid off
when demand for goods fails to meet
expectations. Wage and salary payments
will reflect the decline in employment;
independent businessmen will feel the
effects of lower production and lower
trade; dividends will slip along with
profits.
“Strikes and demands for wage in-
creases in 1947 also are likely to be dis-
couraged by general business trends.
Employers’ attitudes may harden, and
workers are likely to become more job
conscious. Efficiency in production can
be expected to increase after the down-
turn begins. Materials shortages will not
be so likely to stall assembly lines, and
workers can be expected to become less
inclined to loaf on the job or to be
absent. This will improve the ability of
manufacturers to withstand price declines,
since costs also will be lower.
“In general, however, supporting
factors are outweighed by depressing
factors. Supporting influences, at best,
promise to soften the decline rather than
to prevent it. The six months immediately
ahead give every indication of a
continuing boom, with high prices and
a high volume of sales, A general price
break at retail levels is in prospect for
the April-June period of 1947, with con-
ditions of relative depression prevailing
from mid-1947 until mid-1948.”
What to do with Communists?
J. Edgar Hoover’s statement, as
Director of the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation, that Communists are a
“growing menace” to the U.S., and that,
although active Communists in the
country might number only 100,000, for
every party member there are at least 10
others who follow the party-line, has
focussed attention on the question
whether it might not become necessary
for the Government to take active mea-
sures against the party.
The “United States News,” recalling
events immediately after the First World
War, sees the possibility of a new “Red
hunt.” “Last time, in 1919 and 1920, the
drive was against anarchists. Communists
and revolutionaries, • The raids were
directed principally against aliens.
Federal agents rounded up about 3000
persons associated with the Communist
party and the Communist Labor party.
Hundreds of them were shipped out of
the country as undesirable aliens. This
time the public temper has not yet
reached such a pitch. There are signs of
growing pressure in Congress, however,
for some kind of action. New power for
the old Committee on Un-American
Activities may be in the wind. Among
the general public there is a growing irri-
tation now, as before, with Russian tac-
tics, both abroad and in the U.S.”
Jersey, U.S., “Journal.”
STRANGLEHOLD.
The “News” IS of the opinion, how-
ever, that “'difficulties may stand in the
way of any real effort to bring the Com-
munists of today under control.” The
majority of them are now probably
Americans, and fills makes them harder
to get at.
“ T i,o ' 1.-j. .l p
The weapons in the hands of the
Government are not suited for a war
against the Communism of today. An
alien who belongs to an organisation that
j 6 ~ % _
advocates the overthrow of the Govern-
ment by force can be deported. Amen-
can citizens who teach the overthrow of
tbf. finvprnmpnt nr inin n prmm dedi-
the Government or join a group neai
cated to* that teaching can be lined
$lO,OOO or sentenced to 10 years’ jail,
The legal problem of attacking Com-
munis* thus comes down to two issues:
first, proving that a man is a Communist ;
and, second, proving that the Communist
party advocates the overthrow of the
y . c
Government, Most of the laws that
made possible this attack on Communism
were passed shortly before the U.S. en-
tered tho war Since then the Com-
tered me war. since men me tom-
mumsts have done their best to make
prosecution difficult,
“Pfimmnnist tactics have been changed
Communist tactics nave been cnangea
to meet the situation. Only the official
leaders of the party are out in the open
as avowed Communists. Most of the
~ , . , j .
others who are party members do not
admit it. The party line now carefully
avoids any words that might mean the
nvprthrnw nf thp Government Histori-
overthrow oi me Government Fusion
cally, it is not hard to connect the pre-
sent party with the party that was
launched in Chicago in 1919 aiming to
‘cnnnner and destroy’ the Government
conquer ana aestroy me uovernmenu
But Courts are inclined to look at what
a man has been doing lately. ‘Front’
organisations are used to do the party’s
work. Instead of standing on their own
feet as a political party the Communists
do their work by manoeuvring into posi-
tions of influence in labor unions and in
innocuous-sounding ‘front’ organisations.
The International, which once openly
linked American Communism with Mos-
cow, has been officially disbanded. Thus,
on the surface at least, the party today
has no direct connection with a foreign
Power.
“The result has been to drive Govern-
ment officials in two different directions.
Firing Communists from Government
jobs has become accepted practice. In
hiring the Civil Service Commission goes
further. It requires only reasonable doubt
of an applicant’s loyalty to refuse him a
job. In determining this it uses several
yardsticks. Among these are registering
to vote for the Communist party, circu-
lating nominating petitions for Com-
munist candidates, taking an active part
in ‘front’ organisations and following the
devious switches in the .party line.
“Taking Communists to court on
charges of advocating the overthrow of
the Government is another matter. One
attorney-general, Francis Biddle, decided
formally during the war that the Com-
munists did advocate the overthrow of
the Government. But the Supreme Court
twice dodged the chance to rule on this
point. Lawyers think it would be hard
to prove legally.
“If a Red hunt occurs —as a result of
new laws or of a change in the tactics of
the Communist party—the U.S. Govern-
ment will be well fortified with evidence.
In 1920 Attorney-General Palfher said
he had files on some 70,000 individual
suspects. Today the Government files on
individuals would run into the hundreds
of thousands. Exhaustive digging during
the war by the F. 8.1., the Army, the
Navy and several other agencies has pro-
duced a voluminous record.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The activities of the Tudeh party are un-
disguisedly Russian in inspiration; its tactics of
fomenting opposition to the central Govern-
ment under color of promoting much-needed
reforms present a real danger to the integrity,
as well as to the independence, of Persia.
It was the Tudeh which figured as the maui
instrument in the Russian design of clamping
Soviet influence upon north Persia by the estab-
lishment of a puppet State in Azerbaijan. —
London “Times.”
* Jfc Jfc *
Russia’s grandstand play for disarmament is
one of the biggest and most dangerous hoaxes
ever perpetrated on a war-weary, tax-burdened
world. Russia could not disarm now if she
wished —not unless she changed both her form
of government and her foreign policy. Being
a police State, she requires an enormous force
to maintain the Soviet order. And, as the
world’s sole remaining empire that is expanding,
with numerous annexations present and future
to keep in line, she needs a large army. Russia,
therefore, has no intention to disarm. So what
is now going on in the U.N. is a combination
propaganda drive and fishing expedition.
Foreign Minister V. M. Molotov is seeking (1)
to make the world believe that Russia wants to
disarm and that the democracies do not and (2)
to find out certain details regarding U.S. arma-
ments, especially the atomic bomb. At Geneva,
in 1928, Maxim Litvinov (then Soviet Foreign
Minister) did the same thing. He got up be-
fore the old League of Nations and proposed
“total disarmament.” Then, as now, nothing
was said about any real inspection to see to it
that nobody cheated. The only result was a
torrent of talk and considerable pro-Russian
propaganda. The proof of a nation’s sincerity,
when it talks disarmament, is: Will it agree to
genuine international inspection? If it refuses,
it is because it has something to hide, and
we’d better look out. — William Philip Simms in
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * •
Regardless of the outcome of the legal moves
which surround the controversy of John L.
Lewis and the U.S. Government, the die has
been cast for new labor legislation. Organised
labor has reached the peak of its power and
every change now will be toward the restriction
of its monopoly. Union labor has abused the
powers and special privileges given to it. The
so-called rights of labor now have come into
jeopardy. Inherent rights such as the right to
work or to quit work never will be disturbed.
But the so-called right of two or more indi-
viduals to conspire and persuade others to
commit acts of economic violence and the
privilege of such a group to monopolise the
job-giving power by means of the closed shop
will presently be taken away. The American
people are beginning to see nation-wide
unions as a form of tyranny and despotism
and, in the case of the coal controversy, they
have seen actual insurrection—defiance of the
Courts and of the Government itself. If organ-
ised labor had set out to commit political
suicide, it could not have chosen more effective
strategy. It has mistaken the good nature of
the American people for continued tolerance of
union labor’s usurpation of power. Several
unions enjoying nation-wide power have de-
veloped an arrogant leadership that has actually
gone to the point of carrying on class-warfare
propaganda not unlike that of revolutionaries in
other countries. Now the American people are
beginning to understand it all as a method of
setting up a super-government which, by means
of political action committees and other devices,
has been used in an attempt to run the Gov-
ernment itself. The days of appeasing such a
destructive movement are over. An economic
recession faces America because 16,000,000
workers have been exploited by a few men in
wage drives that have cut the purchasing
power of the dollar for the other 44,000,000
workers. The organised power of any group
to control or dominate the economic life of the
country is about to be destroyed by legislation.
The coal strike has been a salutary influence
in opening the eyes of the American people.—
David Lawrence in N.Y. “Sun.”


the day wore on, get drunker and
drunker himself; so drunk that he
couldn’t get out of the saddle. At the
hotel they’d fill the demijohn, place it
in front of him, shove his hand on it
and then, with a wild whoop, land a
resounding wallop on his horse’s rump.
Genius did the rest.
And so, for the first time in their lives,
the famous demijohn was not raced back-
wards and forwards from the hotel and
the Butlers hurled blasphemous bursts
of oratory from the clump of gums
opposite and, to break the monotony,
offered to fight Curlew or Droughtface
or Puffer, while inside the hotel the beer
flowed, the corks, popped, and Nell held
court in royal fashion; and the young
squatter king drank and gave himself
over to the admiration of beauty. And
now more gigs and j inkers and traps
began to arrive at the headquarters of
the capital movement and of the Federal
Capital Cup and so bright and busy was
the day that Jim Pellett said ’Sdeath it
was and Alf Hodgson said “It stands
to reason!”
At three o’clock most of the men who
had a good horse, and could get on,
entered for the race; all except the three
Butlers, who had been ordered off the
hotel property by Mrs, Popp, backed
up by their past friend Scotty, who again
threatened that he’d have to go for the
trooper.
Young Mathieson, leading the field,
set off for the big log that had been
the starting-post in the past, and the rest
of the field —sixteen in all —followed.
They got off to as good a start as was
possible, and were on their way when
suddenly, from the direction of the hotel,
a wild call for help echoed. And there
was Mrs. Popp in her tight black silk
dress dancing her plump little figure ex-
citedly about the hotel yard and squeal-
ing for help, Scotty bursting his lungs,
too, and at the same time the Butlers
bringing fresh fame to Red Range: first
town to have its barmaid kidnapped.
They’d grabbed Nell and disappeared
with her up the long white road ; but
not riding this time like gentlemen, but
with the abandon of the Red Indian
and the outlaw.
The brave riders in the Federal Capital
Cup turned in their tracks and instead of
riding to win rode to the rescue of Nell,
led by young Mathieson. The sixteen
riders tore back to the hotel, swung out
of the front gate, wheeled in a cloud
of white dust and set off in pursuit, while
the gentlemen in residence at the gums
opposite linked hands joyfully and
danced in high glee and then, unlinking
hands, held their coat-tails out and
danced most daintily, tipping the earth
gently with their t(4es and cavorting and
gambolling like lambs at play.
Red Range saw the three Butlers
galloping up the road as if each one of
them had a devil all to himself behind
him, with Don Butler now holding on
to Nell instead of holding on to the old
familiar demijohn, Nell screaming like
an engine coming round the cutting and
kicking like an unbroken colt, her black-
stockinged legs beating the air from out
a whirlpool of white foaming under-
clothing.
Never had the locals had such an
eyeful of feminine charms and loveliness
on the staid old Red Range road before.
The moment the Butlers spotted
Mathieson and the Federal Capital Cup
field on their tracks their faces lit up;
for they cape of good bushranging stock
(on the mother’s side and also on the
father’s side), and to be pursued was in
their blood.
They took off from the main road and
raced off over Owen’s paddock, and from
then race was a cross between a
steeplechase and a kangaroo hunt with a
touch of rough-riding thrown in. Over
the yellow-grey paddocks ; over the logs
and stumps; up Look Out Hill and
down the other side raced the Butlers
and the cup field, with Don Butler still
hanging on to Nell and Nell losing weight
every minute.
“Shook the soul out of me,” she said
afterwards, “Fairly shook the soul out
of me.”
And according to certain men of Red
Range, Nell had a soul all right. “When
she plays the piano! When she plays the
piano!” It was then that they felt that
wistful sadness that hung about her.
Alfie Cummings told her that he had a
bit of land and would put up a nice
shack for her and make her happy, that
there was good money in pigs ; pigs in
movable sties. Movable sties kept pigs
clean. Nobody in Red Range kept pigs
in movable, clean sties. Then Alfie
Cummings went on the booze ; on the
booze miserably. Ernie Lang, though,
worked it out that he could play the
piano to her; so he got in touch with a
big city piano-teaching company—how
to play the piano without music. But
he hadn’t a piano, so he made a copy of
the hotel piano keyboard and painted a
duplicate of it on a sheet of bark he cut
and practised on it in his shed.
Nell’s charms and allurements being of
the fully-developed type and, conse-
quently, too, much extra weight even for
a good horse, Mathieson and his fol-
lowers caught up with Don Butler, and
Mathieson, feeling thankful for the fine
opportunity given him to help rescue a
lady in distress, asked the Butlers to
come back to the hotel and have a drink
with him; in reply to which invitation
the Butlers sadly replied: “Mrs. Popp
won’t serve us J”
“Won’t serve us\ r ” And Mathieson
swore that when he ordered drinks he
got ’em; and he walked his horse mag-
nificently round the Butlers, particularly
round Nell; and the blood-relation of
the great Carbine swung his tail.
And then, without argument, Mathie-
son and his guests went riding back to
the Cross Roads Hotel; not with the
wild mad joy of the outlaw but in comely
fashion, the lady now riding with the
sole Mathieson heir, with ne’er a kick of
one of her shapely legs, nor offering one
more glimpse of foaming underclothing.
WHEN Mathieson and his cavalcade
arrived back at the hotel Mrs. Popp
forgave his guests, “der tevils,” and Nell,
feeling more supple than ever after her
kicking exercises* reigned again.
And now the disappearance of Nell
became the subject for good humor and
banter, and the Federal Capital Cup that
never reached the winning post was also
a subject for mirtlj; but the company had
hardly settled down again to steady
drinking when news came that the Over-
landers were coming. The Overlanders
from Queensland! Coming down from
the north and passing through (and over)
Red Range.
Never before had the famous Over-
landers come through Red Range, and
from lip to lip, house to house, and along
the roads the news spread. A plume of
descending dust heralded their approach,
and as the plume drew nearer and nearer
people ran out on to the roads, chased
across paddocks, and kids scuttled up
trees to see how far off they were. First
sight of them was obtained just before
sunset; and before the sun had dipped
down Red Range was enveloped, and
some of the houses began to look like
small bleak islands in a brown sea. The
cattle caused no trouble,. though, bar
drinking up an odd dam or two and in-
conveniencing Beck. Beck’s house was
one of the bleak islands, and he could
not get out on to his favorite vantage
point, from which, at the psychological
moment, he always shot the last of the
sun. And it was soon obvious, too, that
the mob was going to settle for the night.
So, with the moon now riding, and the
cattle and the township settled down, the
Red Range Federal Capital Site Move-
ment held the big—very big—meeting.
A great crowd had turned up. There
were the Fullaloves and the Tomlinsons ;
the Croziers and the Kytes ; Will Sawyer
and Dan Sawyer ; James Maddison and
Old Abercrombie and Bill Gorkrodgers,
too ; the Hoares, the Kemps, the Tul-
lochs; Daddy George, Pratt and all the
rest of them ; not forgetting Frauendoffer,
the spiritualist whose spirits opened his
doors for him and also, as true gentle-
manly spirits, closed them again after
him. The old German had, at one time
or another, communed with the spirits in
most people’s homes and, when the
spirits were not quick with their rapping
on the door —“Vos dhere any spirids mit
us donighd? Dwo knogs vor yes” (which
the young ones arranged)—he’d stand
up, rub his fat stomach and say in a
stentorian voice; “I vos now magnedize
meinself! ”
Beck, of course, was not at the meet-
ing; but Mr. Keller, still chairman, re-
cited lines to the effect that the meeting
had been called to raise funds to further
the capital site movement, and every-
body cheered, and from then on many men
spoke and many men drank many toasts.
Young Mathieson shouted several
times for the meeting, the committee
shouted (on the slate), and Mrs. Popp
said that the arrival of the Overlanders
in Red Range for the “virsd dime in
’isdory” was a good omen ; and while
Scotty brought in more drinks Nell came
and stood beside the young sheep king,
and the young sheep king pressed his
head firmly but softly on Nell’s breast
and, at the same time, kissed most
tenderly the little shadow that slept be-
tween the little white hills of her breasts ;
in reply to which gallant action Mrs.
Popp assumed a most motherly pose and
said that it was a very ‘‘preddy pic-
dure,” and the Red Range Federal Capi-
tal Site Movement cheered to the echo.
After that there were more toasts, and
after completing the toasts the meeting
sat back to enjoy itself without toasts
and went on just drinking. A festive air
was given the gathering when Mary the
hotel cook (single ; 255. and keep) came
in and handed Ted Jingles one of Muddy
Bancks’s printed cards concerning the
terms on which Royal Sovereign entered
into the bonds of matrimony, and Ted
Jingles secretly pinned the card (with
young Mathieson’s name written on the
card over Royal Sovereign’s name) on
the yolmg squatter’s back. Mary then
placed cards (as per her precedent) under
men’s pillows at the hotel. Mary had
three children. And there was a very
pretty picture to be seen under the gums
opposite where, in the moonlight, a
couple of gentlemen who also drank at
the young squatter’s expense added a
romantic touch to the proceedings. The
taller of these two guests travelled a
broken concertina with him, and while
he was playing most soulfully and
drunkenly (the latter predominating) a
well-known dreamy waltz his mate, with
his arms round it, waltzed, also dreamily
and romantically, with one of the young,
slender, tender, white-limbed gums.
Some of the drovers went down to the
hotel while the others took it in turns
with the cattle, and a drover’s voice sang
as he rode round the mob;
“Turkey rhubarb, Turkey rhubarb,
Turkey rhubarb I sell;
I come all the way from Turkey Rhubarb Land
To make you all well;
My name it is Sam”
Everything was going well with the
cattle, and very well with the meeting, and
Jim Pellett had built the underground
railway for Red Range and was just
topping it off with a fine cathedral —with
chimes—when Frauendoffer, after singing
a fiery song in German, promised the
assembled company a war between Eng-
land and dbrmany and that, when it was
over, he would present Red Range with
the victorious German flag; in reply to
which, Mr. Keller said, “ ’Sdeath! a
German swine! ” and Alf Hodgson stood
up, rubbed his hand round and round on
his stomach, and, amidst much derisive
laughter, bawled out that Germany would
have to magnetise herself before that
could happen.
It now looked as if a small national
row was brewing, with Mrs, Popp’s face
looking cloudy, too, when, from the
stable. Royal Sovereign’s shrill scream
travelled far into the night—as a stallion’s
scream can —and at the same moment, the
three drovers who were then present made
a wild rush for their horses as the echoes
of the heavy cannonading thunder of
Beck’s old blunderbuss echoed high above
the stallion’s screams.
And then the rushing; the shouting;
men running; galloping hooves; hacks
breaking away; the stallion kicking his
stable-door down; the sow squealing; a
thundering mass of cattle tearing by;
fences crashing; the verandah posts of the
hotel going; the grey paling fence at the
side going; Nell frightened ; Mathieson
holding her bravely; Mrs. Popp throw-
ing up her hands excitedly; and as the last
of the desperate mob thundered past men
staggering out to find their hacks; Red
Nolan standing like a statue and looking
as if he could see his team of bullocks
being consumed as Sunday roasts by in-
nocent citizens in a far city and, as Ted
Jingles said afterwards, citizens who
wouldn’t be able to eat their grilled steak
even with the help of a crosscut saw.
In the silence which followed, every-
body then said to fill them up again. Yes,
their horses would be all right! Fill them
up again! And what with the excitement
of the afternoon and the night it was too
much for them and, as often happens
with man when he is upset, they turned to
the solace of more drink and went on a
glorious spree; the whole lot of them,
every mother’s son of them. And so
began the great classic, the first spree
ever held in Australia in connection with
the capital of Australia.
All through the night and on and into
the next day (the Sabbath) it continued,
and as scouts had discovered that Trooper
Caldecott luckily, on this Sunday of all
Sundays, was way up the Murray fishing.
the beer ran without Scotty having to be
on duty on the hotel roof.
About the only man who did not see
the spree out was Mr. Keller, of Shak-
spearean fame. He, while everybody
else was busily engaged drinking and
talking and laughing and dozing, slipped
quietly away from the bright scene and
returned to his crib down on Briar Flat,
where, with much agility, and also with
much speed, he made a neat and hurried
swag of the few things he possessed and
then struck off across country singing
merrily, but quietly and soothingly to
himself as he went; singing: “Li tooral
I ooral X ooral I”—and giving no atten-
tion to any of the famous bard’s lines
save one, which he recited joyously, “He
who steals my purse steals trash,” and
which he sandwiched, most joyously,
every now and then between the words of
“Li tooral.”
NEXT morning, opposite the hotel,
Messrs. Droughtface and Puffer were
still sitting dazedly high up in the gums
and looking as if they’d never come down
again in case the devils they had seen
returned again.
As for Red Range in general, people
were surprised to learn that bullocks were
mechanically-minded and had taken
things to pieces ; unpicked buggy wheels
and rolled the rims down their paddocks,
and removed the shafts as well. Another
thing they discovered was that bullocks
had a liking for the company of fowls
and had taken quite a number with them,
as mascots evidently/to bring them luck
on the trip. And another thing that sur-
prised them was that certain bullocks
had taken their womenfolk’s towels and
other washing that had been left on the
line, evidently to wipe away the perspira-
tion during the hot stages of the tour.
After the dust had settled, and Red
Range had recovered from the effects of
the Queensland bulldozers going through,
Aff Hodgson, Jim Pellett and most of the
members of the committee adjourned to
headquarters again to gather together the
threads of the capital site movement and
put things, as they said, on a sound basis.
At headquarters, Mrs. Popp was still
doing good business; the movement of
things of late having brought all her old
friends back again, and new ones as
well; and the young sheep-king was still
there. When they got to the hotel Alf
told Mrs. Popp that he was going to fix
up another meeting now to put the move-
ment on a sound basis —get the money in.
“Yez,” said Mrs. Popp, “und der virsd
dhing now iz vor der gommiddee do bay
me vhad dhey owe me.”
“Of course,” said Alf.
“Und,” said Mrs. Popp, “I haf made
oud my pill vor you already und I vand
you do bay me now.” She took a piece
of paper from under a whisky bottle.
“ ’Ere id vos; dhirdy-seven pounce den
chillings. Dhad’s der iod.”
“Thirty-seven pounds ten shillings!”
said Alf, all of a fluster. “Why, Mrs.
Popp, we couldn’t have stuck up drinks to
that amount! ”
“Vhell,” said Mrs. Popp, “you vos,
und dhad’s der amound you vos owe
me.” She shrugged. “Unless you vos
vand do gall me a Jiar,”
“Oh, no,” said Alf, “but I didn’t think
we could have drunk that much?”
“No,” said Mrs. Popp, again shrugging,
“ov gourse nod. Men nefer do dhink
dhad dhey vos sphend whad dhey
sphend ; nod vhen dhey ged der pill.”
Alf made no comment. /.
“You know,” said Mrs. Popp, “yone
gan’d puy vine, nod vine, Vor nodhinks.
Vine gosds money!”
“Wine! ” said Alf flabbergasted. “I
don’t remember any of us buying wine.”
“No, ov gourse nod ; ’ow gould you,
or any ov you, remember. You vos all
zo tamn dhrunk.”
“Oh well,” said Alf putting a brave
front on it. “We’ll pay you as soon as
we get in the money that was promised.”
Mrs. Popp raised her eyebrows. “Bud
you haf der money! ”
Alf repeated it. “Have the money!”
“Yez,” she said, “der shairman haf der
money. Misder Madhieson gif heem
fifdy pounce do ’elb der movemend.”
Alf breathed again and said that that
was fine, and my word, what a good sort
Mr. Mathieson was; and he said that
he’d certainly pay Mrs. Popp at once, he
didn’t know about the fifty pounds; and
he turned to Jim Pellett and said that he
reckoned poor Mr, Keller, ha, ha, ha,
hadn’t got over his big meeting yet, he
hadn’t been sighted off the coast since,
and would Jim jump on his horse and go
over to Mr. Keller and get the money.
And Jim jumped on his horse and rode
over and found the deserted crib and
raced back and told Alf that there was
no one there; that he’d cleared out, and
Alf looked at the ceiling dazedly and
then changed the expression to one that
would go with committing a murder.
Young Mathieson came through from
the little back bar then, pushing Nell in
before him, and Mrs. Popp told him that
{Continued on page 32.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 67—No. 3489
Wednesday, December 2S, 1946
“‘LABOR’ EVERY TIME!”
“Touching the persistent reports that Princess Elizabeth is to marry Prince Philip of Greece, ‘News of the World’ points out that the King would have to summon the Privy
Council ‘to ascertain the views of the Dominions and others interested,’ consent of the Privy Council, at a meeting which all P.Cs. may attend, being provided for under
the Royal Marriage Act."
“What about running a defeated member of Our Party for Prince Consort?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P, H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A GREAT EXPERIMENT.
Millions of individual human beings
in the war-stricken countries, the children
especially, have reason to be grateful all
their lives for U.N.R.R.A.; on a mass
scale, beyond measuring, it probably has
saved the whole world from terrible
things. To appreciate what it has meant
to individual men, women and children
it would be necessary to go into the
stricken countries —China, Greece, Italy,
Poland and others—and talk to those it
has helped, but some idea of the general
picture can be had from its own and
other reports.
Largely an American experiment
President Roosevelt’s humane mind origi-
nated it, and America bore by far the
greatest cost —it has been a much bigger
organisation than has been generally
known. Apart from its headquarter
groups, it has employed as many as
10,000 workers actually on the spot in no
fewer than 39 countries, handling food,
medical supplies and the like, repre-
senting in cost those kinds of astronomi-
cal sums that are almost meaningless.
The necessity and the size of the job can
be measured by the fact that even such
an organisation, with such resources, has
been inadequate for more than preventing
the worst. The right measure, however,
is not what it failed to do but what it
did accomplish.
The utter impossibility of the full task
is seen in the fact that in China alone
in this present year there were 33,000,000
persons faced with starvation. The whole
U.N.R.R.A. organisation and resources
could not have coped with that, and
China was only one stricken country. In
fact the shipments to China in the three-
months period covered in the latest
U.N.R.R.A. report were only enough to
have provided 181 b. of food per starving
person for the quarter. Mainly lack of
transport in China made even that distri-
bution impossible, so, of the thirty-three
millions, several times the population of
Australia would be added to China’s
frightful human price of war. The head
of an American inspection mission re-
ported that, though he had visited famine
areas in India, he had never seen such
heartbreaking scenes as those in China.
Faced with a problem of that size,
U.N.R.R.A. was of course inadequate.
It could only do its best. In the worst
of the famine areas it had kitchens cap-
able of feeding 17,000 people daily; yet
in one city alone the deaths from star-
vation totalled 18,000. Food was only
an item of the U.N.R.R.A. job. In
Greece and elsewhere, an effort had to be
made to replace the war-wrecked trans-
portation. In China the cost of this was
twenty-two million dollars for the quarter,
including complete steel bridges and loco-
motives, Tugs, landing craft and other
war-service vessels went to China’s rivers;
deep-sea fishing vessels and hundreds of
lesser fishing craft—some of them from
Australia—were set to work helping in
the struggle for food. A million doses of
vaccine were flown in to check rinderpest
among the cattle. Above all, there was
the need to intensify the fight against
the spread of human diseases plague,
spinal meningitis, cholera, smallpox.
By June U.N.R.R.A. was able to report
that its efforts in China had “succeeded
in preventing the calamity of a wide-
spread scourge of disease” ; of special
direct importance to Australia ; full value
for its contributions to U.N.R.R.A.
The most moving aspect of the
U.N.R.R.A. achievement its hand of
mercy to children—is shown by the report
on Greece. For the quarter dealt with,
the orphan population of that country
was officially reported as 45,876 full
orphans and 325,000 half orphans, almost
17 per cent, of the country’s pre-war
population. Worsened by the near star-
vation that has been the general lot there,
with children especially the sufferers,
tuberculosis doubled in Greece during
the war and is still increasing. Normally
malaria has a million sufferers a year
in Greece; during the war this number
tripled. U.N.R.R.A.’s attack has been
with as much food and medical supplies
as could be secured. Under a special
child-feeding programme 750,000 Greek
children have been given one prepared
meal every day, in addition to 500,000
others on supplementary rations. The
U.N.R.R.A. mission reported that 75 per
cent, of all children between,six and 16
were suffering from defects caused by
malnutrition ; but U.N.R.R.A. can report
that the younger group now shows less
signs of malnutrition effects than the
older ones,
A visitor to Greece has reported a
fierce side of the problem outside
U.N.R.R.A.’s actual province. This is
the unknown number of Gredk young-
sters of both sexes who during the war
went wild, and remain wild, living like
animals in mountain fastnesses. They still
live, this visitor' reports, the same life of
theft and crime that they had to resort
to for self-preservation during the war.
U.N.R.R.A. hoped that its child-feeding
programme would tempt some of them in.
Greece can also serve to indicate the
remarkable variety of the calls upon
U.N.R.R.A. in war-stricken lands. The
tale runs from rebuilding many of the
500 railway bridges destroyed during the
war to battling to save crops from
locusts; in the spring a locust threat of
disaster to crops “was quelled by use of
200 tons of U.N.R.R.A. sodium arsenite,
12,000 tons of sulphur and 4000 tons of
copper sulphate which arrived in time.”
A similar war on locusts was part of
U.N.R.R.A.’s job in Sardinia —“a full-
scale war against an army, four layers
thick, 2\ miles wide and 30 miles long,
advancing on crop land? and leaving a
barren waste behind.” The islanders went
into the attack with brooms, firesticks,
rakes, shovels and scalding water;
U.N.R.R.A. came in with 200 motor
vehicles, 100 trailers, 200,000 tons of
poisoned bran. Emergency shipments of
sodium arsenite were flown from England.
Flame-throwers, hydrochloric and sul-
phuric acid and gammexane had to be
thrown into the fight, to save not only
the crops of the island from the worst
locust plague in fts history but the* crops
of Italy as well; at one stage, even with
that crop-saving battle won, the entire
Italian peninsula had on hand only six
days’ supply of food.
The same story of varied help, with
additions of scores of thousands of dairy
and working animals, farm and industrial
tools and equipment, and always food
and medicines, goes for the many other
countries. Merely as an example, in the
reported quarter of this year U.N.R.R.A,
sent into Poland alone “25,000 draft
animals and over 10,000 dairy cattle,
more than 115,000 hatching eggs and
16,632 tons of seed, 79,918 tons of
fertilisers and more than 5000 tractors.”
As well, ploughs, harrows, planting equip-
ment, binders and hand tools in untold
numbers ; also adding the necessary
touch of grimness—“1000 mine detectors
for clearing farm lands of mines.”
To Yugoslavia as* another merely
typical example—went 7132 tons of medi-
cal supplies, as well as the necessary
doctors and entire hospital units to com-
bat typhoid and typhus outbreaks. The
U.N.R.R.A. report on Yugoslavia adds
a singularly grim note —a larger pro-
portion of one-legged men and women
in that country than in any other; a
result of primitive surgery for the leg
wounds which war-time Yugoslavia
lacked the means of treating.
Another grim note is that Yugoslavia,
or the Communist part of it, has not been
grateful. Lack of gratitude to “the
United States, Canada and Britain, arch-
angels of U.N.R.R.A,,” has been noted
elsewhere. W. B. Courtney, “Collier’s”
leading European correspondent, has
given the reasons why the chief
benefactor countries have abandoned
the great experiment. They have
been irritated, Mr. Courtney reports,
“by the attempts of the Soviet Union
to curry special credit through gifts
over and above U.N.R.R.A.,” while
“making exclusive trade agreements freez-
ing out the Western Powers,” and, while
officially a member of U.N.R.R.A., “re-
fusing contributions to its wheat pool,
although one of the biggest growers of
wheat, known to have had an excellent
harvest,” and with “surpluses enough for
political favorites.” As well the bene-
factor countries became fed up over
events concerning U.N.R.R.A.:
Sullenness towards its missions in receiv-
ing countries beyond the iron curtain;
sporadic Polish charges against U.N.R.R.A.
of politics; reports of Tito’s pictures being
pasted on U.N.R.R.A. crates in Yugo-
slavia; use of U.N.R.R.A. trucks for mili-
tary purposes in Albania; confidential ad-
vices of U.N.R.R.A. vehicles being used
to run Soviet guns from Yugoslavia and
Albania to Communists in northern Greece;
and further advices that Russia used
U.N.R.R.A. for espionage.
On that sorry note of ingratitude and
double-dealing the story of the grand
experiment comes to an end. Its work
due to finish early in the New Year,
U.N.R.R.A. hands over to U.N.0., which,
however, will not attempt anything like
the same scale of humane effort. The
world’s possible tragedy is that the same
causes that wrecked the great inter-
national experiment of U.N.R.R.A. may
also wreck the great international experi-
ment of U.N.O.
The Sovereign Remedy.
As an individual, the f.-a.-q. trade-
unionist is as good a worker as there is
anywhere, and as good a fellow. It is
not in his nature to be cruel to the weak
and stlffering. He has an inherited re-
spect for law and a genuine, if rarely
voiced, pride in his country and its insti-
tutions and the great community of
English-speaking nations of which it
forms part. His family life is decent;
he is a faithful husband and an affection-
ate father.
Yet, banded together in unions with
larrikin elements, and false and faithless
leadership, masses of these good fellows
have done things which, tried by any test,
are cruel and wicked; lawless and
dangerous.
They have been parties to a campaign
of blackmail, designed to coerce em-
ployers, public as well as private, into
granting concessions forbidden by the
industrial laws and regulations of their
own Commonwealth “Labor” (jovern-
ment and the Governments of the States,
only one of which is not “Labor.”
Their unions and the unions associated
with them have deprived whole communi-
ties for weeks together of fuel and trans-
port ; of coal, coal-gas, electric power and
Government railwa/ services. In their
wild and wanton courses these unions
have arrested their country’s recovery
from the twin disasters of war and
drought; have condemned many of the
men who won the war to go on pigging
it in dosshouse rooms, huts, garages and
stables; have given an evil and world-
wide notoriety to Australian ports, hot-
beds of strikes, boycotts and slow-motion
handling (to say nothing of organised
and unpunished theft), and have inflicted
hardship and misery (death in some cases)
upon multitudes of innocent people, their
own womenfolk and children among
them.
And their strikes against Govern-
ment railways, if not the strikes against
public-utility companies, have taken on
the aspect of civil war.
Beyond all doubt, many, if not most,
of the decent members of these unions
object to the poisonous strikes into
which they are dragged; but in the cir-
cumstances what can they do? They have
always been responsive to the call of
mateship; “don’t scab on your mates! ”
has a well-nigh irresistible appeal. By
their silly “Labor” leaders, as well as their
silly union leaders, now quarrelling, they
have been trained to accept the lesser of
two loyalties, the union before the State
or the Commonwealth. If minded to
resist the mob they get no support from
coldfooted “Labor” Governments, even
in the case of a strike against these “Gov-
ernments,” or from a certain type of em-
ployer, who is very free with his counsels
of perfection. And they are unorganised
and unvocal, whereas the larrikin ele-
ments are shrewdly concentrated and the
leaders of these elements, whether Com-
munists or alleged “moderates” bidding
hard against the Communists, possess the
gift of the gab.
What is more, as decent unionists
well know, resistance to the mob is
fraught with the imminent risk of violent
assault as a sequel to the gutter-bred
abuse always forthcoming, and, if per-
sisted in, with the certainty of being
hounded out of the job and out of the
union, with the wife and children equally
condemned to persecution and penury—
for the wild beasts of the jungle are not
more savage than union bosses and mobs
in pursuit of a so-called “scab.”
And when strikes are ordered, decent
unionists are never directed by “Labor”
Governments to keep on working or to
return to work, with protection promised
or—“ Labor” Governments being what
they are —implied.
After one of the criminal strikes which
darkened the first post-war year, to which
the greater part of the nation had looked
forward with longing and hope, it was
here stated that “what is going on in
Australia is uncontrolled larrikinism, the
most wicked and dangerous form of
larrikinism this country has ever known,
since it has a foreign inspiration and
purpose, hits at whole communities and
aims at placing larrikins in supreme
control.”
The proved remedy for larrikinism is
law, enforced without fear or favor. It
should begin by protecting the individual
worker at the point of his job and his
civil rights, guaranteeing the exercise of
his constitutional right to join the union
of his choice. It should protect him
against the larrikins who, because he wants
to work peacefully and lawfully in his
vocation, threaten him with violent assault
and with expulsion from his calling and
his home. It should extend the protection
by vetoing arbitrary taxes on his earnings
and by requiring controllers of trade-
unions to furnish annual and audited state-
ments of income and expenditure. And it
should arm industrial tribunals with power
to require full and precise lists and ad-
dresses of union members and to impose
drastic penalties, including directions for
the freezing of the funds of supporting
unions, Labor Councils and the A.C.T.U.
in the event of a strike against an award
which has become the law of the land.
Since that was published President
Truman, no very stern character, has
strangled a nation-wide railway strike in
the birth and broken an inter-State coal-
miners’ strike, in the latter case by in-
voking United States law against the strike
promoter, Lewis, and his union. Mr.
Lewis, bold as brass when he imagined
that the national powers would not be
exercised, was reduced to shivering com-
pliance and lasting insignificance when a
Federal Judge had done with him and
his organisation. Meantime, the Wes-
tralian Arbitration Court, through its
President Dunphy, smashed a Govern-
ment railway strike by imposing sub-
stantial fines on the strike promoters and
warning one particularly insolent speci-
men that he had placed himself “in
danger of a criminal prosecution.”
If I have anything more from you I will
have you arrested. Any suggestion of a
linking up with another union in an en-
deavor to force this issue amounts to con-
spiracy under the Criminal Code, and the
penalty for all who are engaged in it is
three years’ hard labor. I leave you now
with the wish that you will come back to-
morrow morning and let me have your
decision. '
When the fines were announced and it
was given out that other proceedings
were in preparation the “decision” was
for a return to work within 24 hours.
And then, of course, the “Labor” Gov-
ernment ran true to the form of “Labor”
Governments (“ran” is right), saying, in
effect, to the whipped but impenitent mob
“Welcome back, boys; everything’s for-
gotten and everyone’s forgiven.”
Nevertheless this Westralian Judge has
given a lead to the Australian nation, as
President Truman has given a lead to the
American nation. Where power reposes
in firm hands, any English-speaking
people can put down internal enemies,
whether the internal enemies draw their
inspiration from Moscow or from local
larrikinism —whether they call themselves
Communists or unionists.
Dismissed and Dismissable.
Of two Imperial Conferences a learned
author has written that in 1926 there was
adopted the report of the Inter-Imperial
Relations Committee, which laid it down
that “the Governor - General of a
Dominion is the representative of the
Crown, holding in all essential respects
the same position with relation to the ad-
ministration of public affairs in the
Dominion as is held by his Majesty the
King in Great Britain” ; and that in 1930
there was a reference to the Governor-
General as “representative of his Majesty
only.”
The learned author quoted Professor
Jenks;
Who then is to advise the King upon the
appointment of a Governor-General....
He will take the advice of his Prime
Minister in the Dominion; in the case of
Australia, that of his Prime Minister in
the Commonwealth.
Whereupon the learned author:
Now Jenks’s logical inference seems to
justify the further inference —equally logi-
cal —that determination of the appoint-
ment of a Governor-General is also a
matter exclusively of local or Dominion
concern. But the possibility of the dis-
missal of a Governor-General illustrates the
serious position which may arise when a
Governor-General who has been nominated
by Ministers representing one political party
is holding office during the administration
of other political advisers.
The learned author allows that “serious
disputes may easily arise under such cir-
cumstances” :
The new Ministers may, in order to pre-
vent any dispute arising which could lead
to the exercise by the Governor-General
of reserve powers, procure the latter’s dis-
missal at the commencement of their term of
office. If such a practice is adopted by one
political party it will undoubtedly be fol-
lowed by the other or others A Gover-
nor-General certainly runs the risk of
immediate dismissal if, in any circum-
stances, he runs counter to the will of
the Ministers holding office.
The learned author is Dr. Evatt, and
the extracts are taken from his King and
His Dominion Governors, published in
1936. In this volume there are several
references to Mr. McKell, described as
“an able and experienced member of
various Labor Cabinets,” who along with
the other members of the 1932 Lang
Ministry was dismissed by Governor
Game for “a direct breach of Common-
wealth law.” The L.A. does not agree that
the dismissals were on the facts justified,
“although no person can confidently
assert that Sir P. Game was guilty of a
breach of constitutional duty,” but he
agrees in advance that a non-“ Labor”
Government could secure the dismissal
of Mr. McKell if his Administration
foisted that party politician on the nation
as the King’s representative.
The Opposition must be glad that its
enemy has written a book.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Christmas Day—1946.
A lot of Australians this Christmas Day
can thank their lucky stars that they are
Australians and at home in their own,
the luckiest country in the world.
Troubles we have had in plenty from
all sorts of causes, ranging from drought
to weak government, war and work-
stopping, but the cure-even for drought
has always been within ourselves, and
we’ve only ourselves to blame. Still, by
comparison, we take this Christmas Day
in a general condition of health and com-
fort and safety which peoples of other
countries can only dream about.
All the same, there are abundant signs
that next year will not be so good. The
continuing drought, the Communist con-
spiracy, the growing lack of essential
materials and the persistent failure of pio-
duction are making theriiselves felt. In
Queensland alone there were nearly
10,000 unemployed this month, because
of drought in meat and sugar industries,
and claims for unemployment relief since
June in that State reached 25,774. The
Commonwealth Statistician says Savings
Bank deposits dropped £2,000,000 in Sep-
tember and £3,000,000 in October. In
Sydney there was a sudden increase in
the cash-order business.
These may be small signs. Add them
to idle ships and mines, drought-blasted
wheat- and sheep-farms, crippling taxa-
tion, excessive Government spending, a
failing dairying industry, “go-slow” in
factories, big and little strikes and only
an optimistic “Labor” politician could
contemplate the immediate future with
equanimity.
Meantime, we are healthy, we have
plenty of food and a wonderful climate
and we have survived the catastrophe of
1939-45. To some extent we are justi-
fied in making it a merry Christmas,
Back to Barbarity.
War is barbarous at the best of times,
but the more that comes out regarding
the recent war the lower the reversion to
bestiality that occurred in it is shown to
have been.
The latest additions to the hideous list
are being made in the prosecution of the
major Jap war criminals at the Tribunal
in Tokyo. It has been stated that some
25 per cent, of all British taken prisoner
by the Japs were either killed or died in
captivity. In the Allied military cemetery
at Thanbyuzat, Burma, 1163 Australians,
nearly all victims of the atrocities com-
mitted on the Siam-Burma railway, are
buried. And Australian prosecutor Jus-
tice Mansfield told the Tokyo tribunal
that “the mistreatment of Allied war
prisoners and civilian internees” had “re-
sulted from a general policy of the
Japanese forces and of the Japanese Gov-
ernment.”
That is barbarity on a national scale
—bestiality employed as deliberate
policy; a policy which could not have
been carried out unless agreement with
it and willingness to perform it were
general also. It suggests that changing
the Japs may be a long process. The
indicting of a whole people is probably
as dubious today as ever it was, but it
may be worth remarking that the warn-
ing against doing so dates from a time
before propaganda thought-conditioning
of whole peoples had been brought to the
present-day pitch of an evil art. The
same means might perhaps serve to
thought-condition whole peoples into
something less like beasts; but it would
be criminal folly to put all trust- in that
hope and none in such security measures
as increased population and defence.
There are so many who could be
thought-conditioned as the Japs were, and
the strength of Australia is such a thin
shell in comparison.
Lawbreakers and Friends.
South Australia, Victoria, N. S. Wales
and — for a time — Tasmania have
all been involved in strikes by the
Federated Gasworkers’ Union, Whose
secretary is one of those “moderates.”
In each State the strike weapon
was brutally applied at the period of the
year when it can be best used to plague
and intimidate the public ; and in three of
the States there are “Labor” Govern-
ments, the strike-promoters being thus
complete masters of the situation.
The striking unionists are, by general
industrial standards, well paid and well
treated. They have no unemployment,
and gas companies are rigidly controlled,
their dividends limited and the sales of
their shares hedged about by statutory
restrictions to prevent exploitation of
consumers. The union has legal means of
redress of grievances, being registered m
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
which “Labor” is supposed to support.
It preferred blackmail, with its concomi-
tants of hardship and misery to house-
wives, heartless cruelty to hospital cases
and spoiling of the holidays of hundreds
of thousands of women and children.
In Sydney the strikers have, of course,
been a law to themselyes. Even if the
companies concerned had been willing at
once to concede the £6 18s. a week and
four weeks’ annual holidays demanded,
they could not have done so without
breaking the Arbitration Court award
and the wage-pegging regulations, as
“modified” by Mr. Chifley. So the strike
ran its normal course, with larrikinism
predominant.
Strikers first attempted by threats,
obstruction and abuse (to one observer
“so filthy that one wondered whether it
had its origin in a human brain or a cess-
pool”) to deter volunteers from keeping
up supplies to the people. Tacks and
broken bottles were strewn on the roads
as much as three-quarters of a mile from
one works to hamper transport. When
all this failed lawbreakers decided to
go back to work for the time being, and,
being admitted on an agreement to carry
on, they basely broke it and used their
foothold to shut down the plants.
The essential fact in the matter is that
the companies—public-utility companies
carrying on lawful service for the benefit
of the whole community and not
obstructing the men from using their legal
remedies to obtain their demands —were
denied protection of every sort.
Requests for protection against the
obstruction of the roads with tacks and
broken bottles were® met by a rambling
statement from the Police Commissioner ;
GAS-STRIKE FANCY (AND THE NAME’S NOT CLANCY).
he had not received “instructions,” which
he would “have to have in writing” be-
fore he could “act.” Nobody has yet
tried the experiment of spreading a few
boxes of tacks in front of Mr. Mac Kay’s
garage or trespassing in his home for the,
purpose of putting his stove and refrigera-
tor out of action, to see what “instruc-
tions” he would need before making an
arre st
When the Opposition in Parliament
attempted to use its traditional rights
to air the public’s grievance the gag was
applied on the ground that the matter
was sub judice. Then came a servile
Ministerial surrender to the union’s de-
mand that the gasworks should be tem-
porarily “taken over” and run under
conditions to suit the strikers.
It is characteristic of the crowd in
office that intimidation has not been
punished or .pven discouraged. Penalties
were threatened, but only against victims
of the larrikin outbreak. No punishment
for any of the strikers who cut off the
gas; a £5OO fine for the mother who
turned it on at a prohibited time so that
she might boil water for the baby’s bath.
With N.S.W. “Labor’s” “settlement” of
the strike came the announcement that
“a complete tie-up of trams, trains, buses
and road transport” in Sydney and New-
castle would be urged early in the New
Year to enforce demands upon the
“Labor” Government, which, incidentally,
is the worst and most callous employer in
N. S. Wales. And now, perhaps, the gas
companies will offer to “take over” the
Government trams, trains and buses.
"Healy" Gets Hot.
When the Queensland Labor Council
heard about the bill which gives the
Industrial Court power to order secret
ballots of unionists on strike questions,
obliges unions to supply it with a list of
members and impose fines (fairly substan-
tial, though insufficient) for breaches, it
sank into a kind of leaden sullenness.
From this sulphuric jets presently
escaped, notably from the mouth of the
Communist secretary—Healy, or what-
ever his name may be since his police
record got an airing; it was. McCracken
when the fellow arrived from other
countries, beginning with Northern
Ireland.
The Labor Council executive (meaning
Healy, alias McCracken) had “demanded”
that Minister Gair receive a deputation,
and furiously condemned the provisions
for ballots, registers and fines. Mr. Gair
was not at home to the deputation and
the executive (Le., Healy) resorted to
threats:
We will not tolerate punitive measures
against the presidents and secretaries of the
unions....We will not be a party to turn-
ing the union movement into an informa-
tion recording apparatus for the Court....
We shall now b'e compelled to launch a
campaign against the obnoxious provisions
of the bill and, in doing this, we shall seek
Federal assistance.
The last could mean more trouble for
“poor old Holloway,” who can be guaran-
teed to meet it in the usual Holloway
style. But the Healy fulminations failed
to stir the union movement. A meeting
called to discuss the bill lapsed for want
of numbers —the first such lapse for years.
A second meeting managed a quorum,
but unanimity was missing and some dele-
gates drifted away before it was over.
This time Healy emerged with a call
to unionists to “defy” the bill. But
Queensland unionists are obviously tired
of being ordered about and pushed
around by McCracken-Healy, Perhaps
they regard this architect of strikes and
boycotts and protector of “our Inder-
nesian comrades” as a fit candidate for
deportation under the still-existing Com-
monwealth law. And the Hanlon Gov-
ernment, with bitter memories of the
meatworks, waterfront and coalmining
strikes in which Healy-McCracken cut a
characteristic figure, and with unpleasant
anticipations of a meeting with the elec-
tors —the same who rejected the Deputy
p.M. and the party candidates for the
Senate—is in no accommodating mood.
Clumsy Colwell.
During the Budget debate Henry
Gullett’s soldier son suggested a sub-
title for the Minister who, as he
said, has “blathered, bullied and
blustered when referring to the press”
“the Minister for No Informa-
tion on Immigration.” It would cer-
tainly be appropriate. Neither in Par-
liament nor out of it has anyone been
able to get any express statement from
this Minister about the number of refu-
gee Jews he has been the means of bring-
ing into this country, some of whom
have come from Palestine and others
from the new Communist paradises in
central Europe. He invariably uses the
term “a limited number,” apropos of the
past as well as the future, and he never
gives the limit, if he has any, except the
sky.
As for the scores of thousands of
British immigrants of whom Mr. Calwell
has made himself the paper patron, the
only body for whom actual arrangements
have been made are the 600 single men
being taken from Britain’s tragically
insufficient building-labor force to run up
houses for civil servants at Canberra. The
British Government parted with the first
200 of these men most reluctantly, and
though it is difficult for any member of
the Attlee Government to voice a protest
against any feature of Australian
“Labor” policy, one of the Ministers
couldn’t help using the word “regret.” In
point of fact this particular business is
stamped with all the callousness which
has marked the Calwell crowd’s relations
with the war-wasted mother country; of
a piece with its selfish and churlish op-
position to the Food for Britain move-
ment. Even a Communist has been
moved to a sort of criticism, and only in
exceptional circumstances would a Com-
munist say anything disconcerting to his
party’s referendum and general-election
allies.
The Communist in question is Com-
rade Thomson, general secretary of the
Building Trades Federation, with head-
quarters in Mr. Calwell’s own city, where
on September 28 Mr. Calwell got the
Communist vote, though in other years
Communists denounced him as a leader
of Catholic Action. Back from “a visit
to England and Europe” on one of those
1.L.0. conferences which are costing the
taxpayers hundreds of thousands of
pounds, Comrade Thomson said “build-
ing tradesmen are more urgently required
in Britain than in Australia.”
Whole areas have to be rebuilt because
of war damage. The one aspect of life in
Britain today which could cause a political
upheaval is housing.
Obviously the British Government will
prevent any further exodus of building
laborers to Australia. Indeed, it seems to
have gone cold on the whole Calwell
scheme, which has been dangled before
Australia for 18 months, arid fustian
about “getting ships somehow, even if
we have to build them in Australia,”
won’t improve the situation. A cool pro-
posal that aircraft-carriers should be
placed at Mr. Calwell’s disposal was met
with a polite' (and unanswered) inquiry
whether Australia would undertake to
man them. Another consideration is that
British ships sent to this country are held
up whenever the Waterside Workers’
Federation chooses to hold them up, and/
that is often.
For the moment, in his rattled condi-
tion, Mr. Calwell became unmindful of
“Labor’s” necessities in the electioneering
line. Going to Adelaide for a “confer-
ence of Federal and State officers on
migration,” he made an astonishing ad-
mission as to the immediate “manpower
needs” of South Australia and Queens-
land. Those of the one Liberal State
amount to 13,060 persons, 6928 of them
adult males, and those of the “Labor”
State to 6840 persons, 4500 of them
adult males. So with little more than
half the population of the “Labor” State,
and with vastly inferior resources in fuel
and raw materials, the Liberal State can
find a much greater amount of work for
the willing. A dreadful certificate to
come from a “Labor” Minister, especially
with Assembly elections in preparation in
both States a fact of which the
Minister for No Information on Immi-
gration has no doubt been tartly reminded
from Queensland.
A Costly Failure.
The value of an Opposition that will hit
hard when the occasion .calls for it was
demonstrated when the McKell Govern-
ment was faced with the charge that its
Housing Commission was a washout.
Mr. Treatt, after reminding the Par-
liament that nobody had yet been able
to get from Housing Minister McGirr the
cost of Housing Commission “units,”
quoted the Auditor-General’s figures to
show that administrative costs alone were
£ll7 per building, whether of brick, fibro-
cement or weatherboard, whether house,
hutment or “sleep-out”:
Estimates, 1945-46.
Money
Item. Estimate. Spent.
New vehicles £3,755 £6,657
Publicity 250 1,333
Stores, provisions, stationery 1,250 7,212
Working expenses .. 15,551 40,000
Vehicle maintenance .. 350 3,652
£21,106 £58,854
Staff: From 46 with total salaries of
£6089 in 1942-43 to 658 with total salaries
of £217,159 this year.
According to Mr. Treatt it cost the
taxpayers £245,885 for 2108 various struc-
tures. The Assembly was about to vote a
sum of £257,562 for housing, all of it for
administrative purposes only. “The Gov-
ernment is terrified to divulge the actual
home-building costs.. . .Even the Prime
Minister is ‘seriously disturbed’ at the cost
of home-construction in N. S. Wales” ;
and his new Housing Minister has ad-
mitted being worried about the bricklay-
ing average, 300 a day.
This, and more, so stirred the usually
comatose Housing Minister, Mr. McGirr,
that he rumbled like an angry volcano,
accusing the Opposition of being “angry”
—which it was, and with reason—bleat-
ing that the Housing Commission had
built 4111 dwellings since the war, then
having to admit that 1200 of them were
converted army huts. Then the gentle-
man fell into abuse of people who had
built homes “on the North Shore line,”
and wanted to know “where these men
get the money to build their £5OOO
homes.” One of “these men” is one of
his own colleagues.
There was more mudslinging from the
McGirr lavabed, but it left the Opposi-
tion still demanding details of costs. For
some days the McKells brooded ; then
not Housing Minister McGirr but Labor
Minister Hamilton Knight, “who ad-
ministers the Building Operations apd
(Continued on page 10.)


h
m
i
I 6575
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
CRAVE NA
quality Is something you |
can rely on always
I ■
Building Materials Control Act,” crept
into print in “S.M. Herald” with a wordy
article which announced the formation of
a “State Development Council” to “allo-
cate building materials” and. moaned
about housing “difficulties,” saying
nothing about the effect of strikes and
inept administration. The gentleman
with the martial name who habitually
crawls to strike committees wound
up with a piteous appeal for co-operation
from all and sundry so that the Housing
Commission might achieve “its target of
15,900 dwellings” by June, 1947.
No returned serviceman or anybody
else of the thousands sharing back
verandahs with other people need regard
this as anything but the first shot in an
election campaign.
POLITICAL POINTS
Another earthquake, followed by tidal
waves, has hit Japan. Though not of the
dimensions of the 1923 horror, in which
99,331 persons were killed, 103,733
injured and 43,476 never accounted for
(they were set down as missing), it was
very destructive, and British soldiers,
though not Australians or Americans,
were among the casualties. Some damage
was done at Kure, and fatal Hiroshima,
where there are British posts, saw hun-
dreds of houses shattered once more. The
Americans were swift with relief measures,
as they always are.
With deep respect, “S. M. Herald’s”
Canberra* correspondent reports, truly,
that “the customary placid calm of the
Prime Minister was disturbed last week.”
The objects of his anger were the
A.C.T.U., its general secretary, Mr. Monk,
Mr. J. V. Barry, K.C., Arbitration Judge
Foster, and his own Minister Holloway.
His anger arose from the series of state-
ments they had made about the Gov-
ernment’s amendments of the wage-pegging
regulations, and suggestions that the
amendments appeared to confer only an
illusory benefit upon trade-unionists.
It all suggests that there will be a real old-
time (1916 and 1931) split in the camp
next year.
Secretary of the Federated Gasworkers’
Union, which has been running strikes in
four States, is the septuagenarian Crofts, a
“moderate,” which demonstrates once
more that “moderates” can be every bit
as mischievous as militants if not more
so. The Crofts union embarked on the
strikes with a “divide and conquer” pro-
gramme. From the Hobart company it
got part of what it claimed, and it used
the concessions wrested from that small
show to demand complete surrender from
three mainland companies. In this, de-
spite the existence of two sympathetic
“ ‘Labor’ Governments,” it failed. It
will take the union a long time to recover
what it lost in wages, and a still longer
time to regain the goodwill of the savagely
injured communities.
The first bushfire day of the season in
Victoria revealed a defect in the new
system of fire-prevention, only two
R.A.A.F. planes being available for
spotting. During the latter war years
eight were on fire patrol. It is now re-
ported that, owing to lack of necessary
maintenance personnel, only four can be
made airworthy at any particular
moment. So Canberra’s post-war defence
scheme can’t defend one State even from
occupation by natural causes.
Over the week-end Cain announced a
plan to make Victoria completely inde-
pendent of N.S.W. coalminers. A new
brown-coal open-cut, similar to Yallourn,
two briquette factories and ancillary
services costing £14,500,000 are proposed
at South Morwell, as a first stage in the
development of the Latrobe Valley coal-
field, South Gippsland. From this field
122,500,000 tons can be won to a depth
of 320 feet, the enterprise will employ
2000 people and the intention, optimisti-
cally estimated on present-day conditions
and prices, is to produce briquettes for
19s. a ton. Independence is to be achieved
by 1961 if unionism co-operates. Bliicher
said of London: “What a city to sack.”
“What an enterprise to hold up,” some-
body might murmur.
“S. M. Herald,” discoursing on its city’s
gas strike, mentioned “the small pres-
sure which some suburban houses enjoy,”
The reference, of course, was to the plea-
sure which housewives derived from
cooking their Sunday dinner over a one-
candle-power gas jet, but the writer must
have had in mind the classic remark of
Mr, Stevens —“Mr. Weaver has been en-
joying bad health for some time.”
At last —a national present to the
British people comparable with the great
gifts they have received from Canada and
South Africa. A vast consignment of
butcher’s meat, sent with the sole stipu-
lation that “every domestic consumer”
should share in it, and thankfully received
with the undertaking that a rebate of
sd. would be allowed in every case, free
distribution of portions being impractic-
able. From “Labor” Australia? No ;
from Argentina —Fascist Argentina.
The Cains dropped their Wheat
Stabilisation (Enabling) Bill on the ground
that, other wheatgrowing States having
held up their bills pending referendums
of growers, there was no point in going
on with it. Since the thing cannot be
implemented without State enabling bills,
Pollard, who inherited “stabilisation”
from Scully, along with the Commerce
and Agriculture portfolio, must be wish-
ing he’d come from Tasmania or some-
where where they don’t grow wheat for
export.
Victorian “Labor” struggled into recess
with night-trotting and mid-week-racing
measures on the list of bills passed. Also
there are to be pensions for retired and
defeated members “in ratio to their
length of service” —if the general public
will stand them. But the Government
shelved its dog-racing bill, whereupon
the “president of the Greyhound Owners,
Trainers and Breeders’ Association”
erupted savagely about “influential in-
terests” and the “blow to the poor man’s
sport.” The last has a familiar, if jarring,
ring.
Observing the basic-wage increase and
seeing no increase in old-age pensions, a
Brisbane organiser of pensioners (yes,
they’re organised, too) said to a news-
paperman “It is a crime in Australia to
be old, sick and poor.” It is a worse
crime to be old and self-reliant. Many
an aged couple who saved up enough to
ensure them £3 ss. a week are worse
off than pensioned pairs, with their
tram and radio concessions and their
rate-free dwellings.
On the eminent authority of a Sydney
daily paper, it was stated that Mulley,
a jockey, aged 23, was retiring, “hav-
ing made enough money out of
racing” to buy a sheep and cattle
property near Dubbo (N.S.W.) and
“live comfortably for the rest of my
life,” The young man had the wedding
of the season last month, and he must
have made nearly all of his money during
the war period, a period of crippling
taxation for persons on fixed incomes.
The A.J.C. stepped in with a summary
suspension, and when last heard from the.
youth was moaning that the account of
his wealth was grossly exaggerated.
Destination and cargoes of inter-State
shipping are controlled by a Shipping
Control Board. Working and handling of
the same ships are controlled by a Steve-
doring Industry Commission. Both
bodies are controlled by the Common-
wealth “Government,” which, in turn, is
controlled by the Waterside Workers’
Federation, which is controlled by the
Communist party. Yet people wonder
why Australian shipping and wharves are
in a dreadful mess, with ships tied up
almost everywhere and others sailing
empty from one place to another.
The fight for control of unions
gets closer to open violence every day—
at least in Queensland. At Alligator
Creek meatworks A.M.I.E.U. men refused
to sweep out a truck because it had been
unloaded by F.E.D.U. men. A works
representative who tried to talk to argu-
ing unionists had fine coal emptied over
him by a cranedriver, whereupon
A.M.I.E.U. men bombarded the crane-
driver with coal. Then there were “scuf-
fling” and “a demonstration” and the
inevitable strike. The Industrial Court
declared the strike illegal; apparently
that was all it could do, until new powers
outlined in the Gair bill are formally
transmitted to it.
These fellows who launch transport and
gas strikes never pause to consider the
effects in hospitals, let alone homes in
which the housewife has taken too much.
In Adelaide quite early in the piece, the
harassed matron of a maternity hospital
stated that, for lack of gas, it was “no
longer possible to boil bowls for confine-
ment cases, to sterilise instruments or to
give young babies their hot milk.” And
her nurses were having to work double
time because of union banditry. In Mel-
bourne, the B.M.A. executive issued the
grave warning that, the hospital situation
being desperate, complete deprivation of
gas would cause deaths, for which
doctors could take no responsibility. This
merely brought sneers from Monk, the
A.C.T.U. secretary —“the usual B.M.A.
propaganda ; the ingenuity of man has
declined to a deplorable degree if the
medical profession cannot sterilise instru-
ments without gas.” An appalling example
of strike-bred callousness and levity, for
in other matters Monk is not a bad sort.
Recent reactions to “Labor” appoint-
ments must have convinced Canberra
that it would be inexpedient to send the
killed Frost to Moscow as Maloney’s
successor, especially as Maloney is still
throwing his weight about, so a “career
diplomat” is to get the job. But “Labor”
has discovered that Ceylon is “politically,
strategically and commercially important
to Australia,” so the Cingalese are to get
an Australian Commissioner. There are
no prizes for guessing his identity.
With half the world already prospecting
Antarctica, the P.M. gave it out that Aus-
tralia will, “if possible,” take a hand in
the game this summer. It recalls that
dreadful early-1945 announcement that
“Labor” would, “if possible,” contribute
“a token force” to Mountbatten’s army of
liberation converging on fell Singapore.
President Truman’s “reparations repre-
sentative,” Edwin Pauley, has formally
blamed Russia for the wrecking of Man-
churia, saying that the looting of food
and machinery has left the Manchurians
cold and hungry and ripe for violence.
There are what he calls “long-range
strategical reasons,” but he suggests that
it needn’t have happened, adding that
“large stores of Japanese arms and muni-
tions captured by the Russians somehow
found their way into Chinese Communist
hands.” A very diplomatic way of
putting it.
The P.M, receives some correspon-
dence : —•
(1) From Hanlon, the Queensland Premier,
asking for a royal-commission inquiry into
Hanlon charges, one being the Q.P.P. had
conspired witn Customs officers to injure
“Labor” Governments.
(2) From Pie, the Q.P.P. leader, asking for
a royal-commission inquiry into Hanlon’s
charges.
(3) From Pie: A request for a Taxation De-
partment investigation of Pie’s affairs.
And deals with it in the familiar way:
(1) Referred to Dr. Evatt; (2) no decision;
(3) copy of letter and enclosures forwarded to
Taxation Commissioner.
After which, presumably, Chifley retired
to the peaceful old town of Bathurst,
where a man can smoke and be decisive.
From a Melbourne “Herald” article
—most unusual for a daily paper these
sport-crazed times;
The war increased the pressure for
favoritism. Much of it was directed to
getting men out of the fighting services.
The Adjutant-General’s Branch at Vic-
toria Barracks had to build up a big
section, largely staffed with uniformed
officers, to cops with the requests for pre-
ferential treatment which members of Par-
liament relayed from all parts of the
country and which the Minister, with little
or no discrimination, passed on to a har-
. assed Department.
But surely the “Herald” doesn’t imagine
that that was the only or the final pro-
cedure?
Maloney, now Public Enemy No. 1 to
Communists, failed to get the McKell
“Labor” nomination for Newtown, rep-
resented in the Lang Labor interest by
Mrs. Fowler ; but he remains an M.L.C.,
and is conducting his anti-Com. campaign
with undiminished fervor. He has had a
leader-page article in a London Sunday
paper, the “Dispatch ” in which he said
“I lived better on the dole in Australia
during the depression than the average
Russian worker lives today,” and
described the Workers’ Paradise as a
police-ridden State in which near-
starvation” is the lot of the serf who
can’t keep up with the star piece-workers
and death or banishment the penalty for
“coming to work late.” Commonplaces
in Australia since Maloney set out to Tell
All, but startling in Britain, where
Leftist journalists still try to keep the
lid on.
The Queensland Premier has announced
that persons already established in Aus-
tralia can now nominate relatives and
friends from the U.K. for free and
assisted passages to his State. But Cal-
well is the final arbiter-and it would be
well for Queenslanders interested to study
the shape of their nominees’ noses and
the spelling of their names.
One of the crowd of bills shoved
through Parliament before it “adjourned
for Christmas” was a measure continu-
ing the infliction of 19 Ministers of State.
Even while members were scurrying
away Mackenzie King, who has no use
for wanton extravagance in any form,
had arranged to place the Canadian
Navy, Army and Air Departments under
one Minister Claxton, previously
Minister of Health. Australia has a
Minister of Defence (Dedman), a
Minister of Munitions (Armstrong), an
Army Minister (Chambers), a Navy
Minister (Riordan) and an Air Minister
(Drakeford), each with a staff and a car
—almost the finest model on the roads.
Populations: Canada, 12,000,000 ; Aus-
tralia, 7,400,000.
E. M. Horsington, who has been
M.L.A. for Sturt (N.S.W.) since October
10, 1922, has lost the party
He was a member of Lang’s second
Ministry for a few hectic months —
actually, from May 27 to October 18,
1927; and Lang’s “Century” points out
that the reject “will qualify for his £6 a
week pension, and, in addition, will par-
ticipate in the Waratah fund,” sub-
scribed for Caucusites defeated in a pre-
selection ballot or at the polls (“Tom
Keegan collected £1006”); in short,
Horsington should be on “Easy-street.”
He won’t if the Opposition wins the elec-
tion and repeals the Assembly Pensions
Act, as it should at the first opportunity.
There has been an unaccustomed bustle
of activity in the External Affairs Depart-
ment —perhaps the Doc. rushing about
looking for some forgotten “Labor” re-
ject to appoint as Minister to Spain so
that he could be recalled in accordance
with the U.N. decision.


BLACKMARKETEERS TURN IT ON.
“The toast is ‘Labor,' gentlemen!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”; There were some unusual
features in the Sydney case in which Wil-
liam Joseph Cable was found guilty of
poisoning his wife with strychnine. Cable
was a policeman with a good record, and
at the trial was.highly spoken of by his
associates. His wife was a very pretty
woman, and they were to outward appear-
ances happy with each other and their
children. In addition Cable received £5
a week from his father-in-law in return
for slight services—a subsidy which was
not likely to continue after his wife’s
death. Yet he became infatuated with a
married woman, and, as the Crown pre-
sented the case, carried the twin burdens
of a horrible murder on his conscience
and the fear of detection on his mind.
His work as an officer brought him in
contact with Gap suicide cases. The idea
of getting his wife, under pretence of
helping him in his work, to write a fake
suicide note probably seemed foolproof,
but he overlooked the possibility of her
mentioning the fact to others. She did
mention it, and thus the paper that was
meant to clinch the suicide plea became
damning evidence.
** * * *1
“F.S,”: Alfred Felton’s Christmas
box to Melbourne this year is the
largest purchase his Bequest has made
since the Rembrandt. It includes a
Turner water-color, six valuable antiques
and a Veronese which cost £12,000.
National galleries seldom make mistakes
when they go back 100 years or more for
their pictures. It is when they deal with
contemporary art that they make all
their bloomers. The National Gallery
once had a chance of getting for nothing
one of the "finest collections then exist-
ing of Van Goghs, Renoirs, Monets,
Gauguins and Rodins —the same works
today would cost at least half a million.
The offer was made by a Sydneysider,
John Russell, of Darlinghurst, the son
of a wealthy Sydney engineer. Russell
went to Paris at the height of the im-
pressionistic movement and became a
painter of considerable talent and a close
friend of Van Gogh. He had plenty of
money, and he made his collection on
his personal tastes at a time when these
artists were the jokes of Paris. When
he made his offer to the Melbourne
gallery it was probably regarded as a
joke. Still, the gallery has two links with
Russell. He married Marianna Antio.
netta Matiocca, the model for the Joan
of Arc which now decorates the front of
the institution and the lovely “Minerva
Sans Casque” of Rodin,
* * * *
“G’roper”: You don’t mishandle tram
or bus tickets on W.A. Government
transport routes*; the law long ago
decided that the passenger buys only
the ride, the ticket remaining Gov-
ernment property. Chewing, as practised
in Hobart (B. 27/11/’46), would be re-
garded as a deliberate mutilation and
liable to a fine.
*• * • *
“Flaneur”: When Italy caved in there
were in Singapore harbor a few Italian
submarines which had been running tin
and rubber from Malaya to Bordeaux.
The Nips asked the crews to state where
their allegiance lay, and those who
plumped for Victor Emmanuel instead of
Mussolini were thrown into chokey,
where they rubbed shoulders with us for
2i years. Most of them were not bad
fellows, and were soon accepted without
comment. A couple of them had been
operating off the east coast of America
when the U.S.A. entered the war, and
they claimed to have sent an enormous
number of American ships to the bottom
in those early days. However, they com-
plained that once they began their run to
Singapore they had never an easy
moment as a result of the constant
chivvying by British planes and ships.
* ♦ * .
“Ek Dum” meets an admiral;
Chancellor-of-the-Exchequer Dalton, who
told the Commons during the discussion
of the Trafalgar Pensions Bill that Nelson’s
daughter, Horatia, left no descendants, should
have known better, especially since his
father had something in common with one
of the descendants. Horatia, far from leaving
no descendants, lived up to the best tradition
of the Victorian age; she had eight children.
I have talked with the son of one of them,
a great-grandson of Nelson—an old admiral
who harbored pleasant memories of Australia,
which he visited as navigating commander
in the Ophir when she brought George V
and Queen Mary here to inaugurate the
Commonwealth. Mr. Dalton should have re-
membered that descendant, since his own father,
an old gentleman with whiskers like a shearer’s
blanket, visited Australia as tutor to the prince
who was to become George V when the lad
made his first visit to this continent in the old
Britannia. The Nelsonian offshoot whom I met
(Admiral Philip Nelson-Ward) was a smooth
old salt with a good many wars to his credit,
Seem Dave and Kale'll be home for Christmas, I'll spruce the letter-box
up with a coat o’ paint."
topped off with a period as convoy commander
during World War I. He had a striking facial
resemblance to the hero of Trafalgar when
seen at some angles. I believe he died a little
before World War 11.
* * * *
“Primer”: The reason so few men were
in the Eureka Stockade on the Sunday
morning the police and soldiers attacked
was the password given out the previous
evening—“ Vinegar Hill.” This password,
of evil memory, caused droves of Irish-
men to leave the stockade. The revolt
at Ballarat was mainly a movement of
Irishmen intent on giving England a kick
in the pants for ’4B. As for the leader
striking a blow for democracy, some of
those Communists who have captured
Eureka should make a trip to Chines and
have a word with old-timers there.
“Tackline S.”; The bloke in the dDe-
fence Department who issues old guns
can’t believe in the obsolescence of wea-
pons. In Ballarat (Vic.) some muzzle-
loaders dated 1843 have tallies showing
that they were “lent.” At Eureka Stock-
ade there are four more surrounding the
hiemorial. These are not marked “lent.”
The man who dished them out must have
been a temporary official.
* * * *
OTook”: Reading that a film on the
life of Paganini is to be made
brought to mind the fabulous legends
which sprang up around this maestro.
For no reason other than his sheer virtuo-
sity, the people of his day took him for
a no-good character collaborating with
the Devil. Some claimed that they could
see the outline of a forked tail stuffed
down the leg of his trousers, others that
a satanic individual stood behind him
while he played and guided the move-
ments of his bow. Not surprising really
in view of the superstitions of his day.
Nothing looks more uncanny than the
execution of a faultless technique. A
first-class Kelly-swinger always gives me
the impression that he employs some-
thing more than mere skill, a carpenter
hammering in 60 nails with as many hits
affected me the same way, and watching
Walter Lindrum for the first time was one
of the most weird and eerie experiences of
my life. I could almost hear the grem-
lins chuckling to themselves as they
hopped about the table, pushing the balls
everywhere but the wrong place.
* ♦ * *
“Flathead”: I looked at the little gal-
lows and other chalk-marks which the
policemen had drawn on my tyres, and
thought I would like to live in America.
Over there, the parking situation is an
even greater problem, but has been
lessened by the authorities installing the
“Parking Meter.” Working on the same
principle as the penny-in-the-slot gas-
meter, it allows the driver to stay by
the kerb for as long as his supply of
small coins lasts. On driving up, he in-
serts in the meter on the footpath the
number of coins necessary for the time
he anticipates parking. He can then
depart, and, provided he does not exceed
the time limit, can be confident of not
becoming a marked man. Around
Christmas time, these meters are a boon
to revellers. One, well oiled, had draped
himself over the meter, and when forcibly
removed by police, he strongly protested
“I put in my nickel; I’ve got twenty
minutes more to go,”
* * * *
“Melbn”; Professional detachment? A
lorry drawn by a pair of powerful horses
crashed into a van in Bourke-street and
the terrified animals, detached from their
vehicle, dashed down the crowded pave-
ment, scattering pedestrians in all direc-
tions, throwing some to the ground and
trampling on others. Then, leaping over
the bonnet of a car, much to the astonish-
ment of the woman driver, they charged
into Elizabeth-street, finally being brought
to a stand by sheer exhaustion. Ambu-
lances arrived and carried the injured off
to hospital. Half an hour after the ex-
citement had subsided the attendants in
a jewellery-shop adjacent discovered that
the lock of a showcase had been broken.
At the height of the terror a thief had
calmly walked into the shop and
abstracted a tray of jewels worth £lOOO.
* * * *
“Loc”: Coolest customer recently to
hand was a man in Idaho, U.S.A., who
entered a pawnshop there and asked to
see a pistol they had in the window. He
bought it and inquired if the firm had
any cartridges to fit. They produced a
box which he also bought. After being
shown the intricacies of the weapon by
the proprietor, he was instructed how to
load it. Greatly obliged, he did so, held
up the proprietor, and walked off with
the petty-cash drawer under his arm.
* * * «
“Uco”; Few things date more quickly
than newspaper posters. On the fourth
day of the Sydney Test, at three in the
afternoon, I passed three poster-boards
side by side in George-street, On behalf
of their rival rags they informed the
world; “Bradman 111: May Not Play,”
“Bradman Prospects: Latest,” and
“Bradman Will Bat Today.” A few
doors further down the street a radio
was announcing “A neat shot through the
covers sends Bradman on to 120.” For
all I know the posters were still there
when Don got out at 234.
“Wusslean”: In Sydney for the Test,
I met a Melbourne acquaintance, and
made some remark about the game.
English by birth, but resident in Aus-
tralia for over 30 years, he snorted some-
thing about the country going clean mad
on cricket, and changed the subject.
Shortly afterwards in the hotel lounge he
put down the morning paper with the
contemptuous comment: “These Sydney
papers never print what you want to
read.” “What were you looking for?” I
asked. “The English football results,” he
replied ; “my Melbourne paper gives them
every Monday. I like to keep up with the
old home-town team.” * '
“Niloc”: Our arrival at the Second
Test coincided with a great roar of
horror, and we bolted the last 50 yards
to see if Bradman was out. All was well,
the yell being of the sympathetic variety.
It is certain that the man who dropped
that bottle of beer on the concrete will
be among the first to write to the Board
of Control to demand that the spectators'
area be regrassed. He was a bit under
the weather, but the seasonal spirit of
goodwill prevailed, and a few minutes
later, having produced a second bottle
from somewhere, he opened it, poured
out a glass and offered it to Compton,
fielding near the fence. Compton looked
as though he would like to, but refused,
whereupon the generous one stepped back
in amazement, tripped over a spectator
and smashed what remained of his brew.
When last seen he was bumping
his head up and down on the concrete
to the accompaniment of the wailing of
strong men around him.
m * * *
“Plop”: This is the season when
American film stars shed their old hus-
bands and blossom out with
new ones. In a recent
divorce case one young
woman declared bitterly
that her husband, after five
months’ absence, turned up
one morning and demanded
to know why his breakfast
was not ready. From the
other side there was the
henpecked husband who
spent his married life dodg-
ing things hurled by his
missus, but finally put his
foot down when she ordered
him to stand in a queue to
buy stockings. His plea was
granted. Divorces in U.S.A.
—one in every three mar-
riages—mean that husbands
are paying $20,000,000 ali-
mony a week to their
former wives. Answers to a
questionnaire posted to
some of these wives by
psychologists of a univer-
sity showed that two-thirds
of them, whose spouses
could not keep up their
payments, were happy in the
thought that they were
languishing in jail. Three
hundred women made per-
sonal calls at the university
to enlarge on the simmering
data they had already sup-
plied. One divorcee who
had had her husband jailed
for non-payment asked that he be turned
loose again, as she had learned that “he
was having the time of his life there.”
The ex-husbands try to get even. One
enterprising gent, went to the trouble of
collecting 12,000 cent pieces to cover his
monthly payments, while another irked
his missus by mailing her cheques stuck
firmly to lolly-pops.
* * * #
“Pitt St.”: Walking along Sydney’s
George-street the other day I saw a
small crowd gathered round a shop
window. In it was displayed a cigarette-
case, full of cigarettes, and two packets
of cigarettes, the latter obviously designed
to catch the eye and draw attention to the
case. There was also a small notice,
“These cigarettes are not for sale.” “And
I suppose,” remarked an indignant
citizen, “if some poor devil puts his boot
through the pane and grabs the smokes
a tough magistrate will give him six
months. It isn’t fair to tempt people
like that.”
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: A N.S.W. station-owner
preserves a coil of wire which he claims
is a relic of the telephone communication
his grandfather established with a neigh-
boring station 60 years ago. The tele-
phone arrived first as an interesting toy ;
probably the first to find a useful appli-
cation for it were the station-owners.
Telephone exchanges were established in
Sydney (with 37 subscribers for a start)
and Melbourne, where Byron Moore
(long V.R.C. secretary) was. one of the
promoters —he boasted to the end of his
days that his telephone number was Mel-
bourne one. When the Government
took over private phones became illegal;
but until the network was spread into
the country districts many stations main-
tained the lines with their neighbors
without interference.
ROUND PEGS FOR SQUARE HOLES.
When Labor Ministers have got a billet,
One with a handsome monetary yield,
To fill, and you are wondering who will fill it
Out of a wide and eligible field,
It’s odds you won’t have long to wonder,
brother.
The prize is earmarked, one may safely
guess,
As a reward for somebody or other
Who’s lost the number of his Caucus mess.
The post, it’s true, may call for some specific
Knowledge and mastery of this or that,
Something essentially scientific
Or helpful to a would-be diplomat.
But those who’ve qualified in such directions
Will stand no chance against the sturdy
souls
Who’ve done their dash in party pre-selections
Or copped their walking-tickets at the polls.
Strange that the stone the builders have rejected
And discontentedly aside have thrown
Should presently be just the one selected
In some new setting for a cornerstone,
And that a man no longer reckoned suited
A lone electorate to represent
At home, should be dispatched abroad, deputed
To act as spokesman for a continent!
The qualities in which they place reliance,
You learn, when choices such as these are
made
Are not sustained apprenticeship to science
Or lifelong study of the needs of trade.
Far better to have been a “Labor” member
Whose hopes of staying one were brought to
wreck
When, seeking re-election last September,
He definitely “got it in the neck.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: Brisbane is
again in the midst of its annual dress-
reform-for-men uproar. Coatless males
have been refused meals at public restaur-
ants, scolded in Parliament, excluded
from courtrooms, sneered at in trams
and chased out of churches. Latest effort
is a queer-looking garment known as a
“shirt-coat” and resembling a somewhat
ornate shirt with its tails tied round the
wearer’s waist. The only really suitable
and comfortable male attire on a genuine
Brisbane 95 p.c.-humidity summer day is
a pair of bib-and-brace overalls, cut off
at the knees, and fitted with a cane hoop
at waistline to facilitate a pleasant upward
draught. With sandals, a panama hat,
and a lightly recorked bottle of iced beer
in the rear pocket, even Queen-street dur-
ing a December lunch-hour would seem
pleasant. Only an absurd prejudice on
the part of the law against consuming
alcoholic drinks in public places has pre-
vented me from demonstrating the
costume personally; but the beer is an
essential feature of the reform.
* * * *
“Passun”: To test our business abilities
on the not-so-ignorant Chinese villagers
in the walled settlements on Hainan
Island we sometimes managed to sneak
away from a work party. One day,
armed with tradeable clothing, my cob-
ber and I passed safely through a gap in
the wall and made for the humble dwel-
lings well off the beaten track. We were
suddenly halted by a very ancient
Oriental who grabbed my companion,
put a filthy hand on his mouth and then
touched his own toothless gums. The
affinity discovered, the old boy gibbered
as though it was a great joke. My cob-
ber produced from a pocket in his shorts
a battered upper denture, minus most
anterior teeth, and before his toothless
twin knew what was happening shoved
them in the ancient’s mouth, saying
“Changey, changey. Shaku yen.” He
eventually got 50. No doubt the old
bloke became head man or village priest
“Must you smoke?”
on the strength df the dentures and got
his money back.
* * * *
“Flip”: When we saw a man walking
down George-street, Sydney, trailing a
fully-bearded billygoat on a string and
informing the world in general that he
had just won it in a radio quiz “session,”
we shuddered. First were the normal
quiz “sessions,” then those depending for
their laughs on the fact that if the par-
ticipant couldn’t answer correctly h£
would have a custard tart spread over
his face. Then came the type of quiz
from which the man had won his billy-
goat, followed rapidly by the singing
commercials. These all came from
America, so it must be only a matter of
months before the latest plague to hit
Yankee radio audiences is also with us.
“Hullo, listeners —this is 'Wizzo ’ the magician ."
Picture yourself listening to what price
your only winner paid. The phone rings
and, groaning, you answer it, A voice as
sweet as sugar says “Good evening. Is
your radio turned on? What ‘session’ are
you listening to?” Cursing, you slam
down the receiver and return to find you
have missed the prices. The phone rings
again. Another voice, this time from a
rival station: “Good evening. Is your
radio” but you hear no more, as you
have torn out the phone connections.
* * * ♦
“Nakhoda”; An anthropologist, in-
ducted into the Army on special work,
was given accommodation in an aban-
doned dwelling on a Pacific island.
Snakes were amongst his interests, and
during his sojourn he made a large col-
lection. A call came for him to proceed
for a week to another island, and, having
no means of securing his reptilian
museum, he emptied them out of their
boxes, gave them the freedom of the
dwelling, locked the doors and windows
and departed in a corvette. As she was
moving out of the harbor a naval
unit arrived and signalled for accom-
modation for a few days. The o.c, ashore
signalled Blank asking him if the new-
comers could have: his house, “They can
have it, but they’ll see snakes,” was the
rejoinder. The anthropologist never got
back to his island depot, so he doesn’t
know what they made of his cryptic
message.
» * * *
“Flam”: In Rabaul I questioned a
Japanese naval officer about those giant
snails. He reported:
In early 1943 the chief veterinary officer
of a Japanese division called at Palau on
his way to Rabaul and brought from there
a sackful of the snails. He sent the sack
to Kabanga Bay, about 40 miles from
Rabaul, but the transport personnel sampled
the contents and only a handful remained.
The vet. was very annoyed, but he scattered
the snails in the open to multiply. In 1944
reports came in that giant snails had been
found along the coast road from Rabaul to
Kokopo and Cape Gazelle. Apparently on
the way to Kabanga the previous year some
had been dropped and multiplied. From
May, 1944, self-maintenance was com-
menced in earnest, and it was found that
the snails were a menace to vegetation and
hindered cultivation. Belatedly, army
orders were issued that no snails were to
be taken out of the Kabanga area, and
measures for their destruction were to be
adopted. Despite this the snails continued to
increase. It became necessary to dig trenches
round all gardens. Food supplies were
running low and rations were supplemented
with paw-paws and other wild vegetables,
but many paw-paw trees were destroyed
rTdlu^of' t the’'snaSfestedTel increased
about two miles per month. After the
capitulation, vigilance was relaxed and the
spread continued unchecked.
This officer was not able to learn any
details of the spread to New Ireland,
where the damage in the Kavieng area
has been particularly severe. He heard
that the entire vegetation of a small
island in the Saipan group was destroyed
by this same species. Intended originally
to satisfy one veterinary officer’s palate,
the giant snails are now an immediate
menace to a large and fertile territory.
* * * *
“Findy”: Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
unearthed from somewhere or other a
letter alleged to have been written by
W. G. Grace to a “Port Adelaide friend”
in 1874, It consists of abuse of colonial
“snobs and yahoos” and explanation of
how he “humbugged” the professionals
of his team into thinking they were to
travel first-class and then “quietly packed
them in second-class and chanced it.”
The screed continues:
They were sulky from the day they
started They shall pay for it when we
get back, if my influence has any effect
with the clubs engaging them. However,
as I had pecuniary interest in the affair, I
was obliged to keep sweet with them
we pulled through respectably, and I have
the money, which is the only thing I
wanted I didn’t want to fraternise with
the tinkers, tailors and snobs who are the
great guns in your cricketing world. To
take their money was a fair thing in return
for work done, but to hobnob with a lot
of scum was a very different thing
Australia is a fine country, but wants
steeping for 24 hours in the sea to rid it
of the human vermin crawling over it.
There was more of it in the same strain,
with fake marks all over it. If it is 70
years old it most probably originated as
an attempt at satire in some newspaper
of the day. But if it can be proved that
Grace wrote it I’m prepared to eat
as much of the G.O.M.’s beard as the
“D.T .” can exhume.
♦ * * *
“Jemac,” with reverence:
One of the most appealing spots in Japan is
the War Graves Cemetery six miles out of
Yokohama. Circled by wooden hills it sleeps
in an amphitheatre which was formerly a Jap
recreation and memorial park. IJp.wn a hilly
road stooping in forky zig-zags ydujenter by a
gravelled drive, to the left the vjpfte wooden
Administration buildings Aus-
tralian Lt.-Colonel A. Greve and his War
Graves Unit, to whom is due the credit for the
cemetery, and a British plot in which are buried
members of the Hong Kong V.D.C. and other
civilians who died under Jap occupation. Be-
yond, on the slope of the western hills, are the
Indian p.-0.-w. graves. From them a flight of
marble steps leads across and down a lawny
terrace to a pearl-shaped pool, lying mute as
a dream, the imagery of flowering water-lilies
reversed in the crystal of its surface. And on
its other side, 250 white crosses shining in
ordered array at the head of their chrysanthe-
mum borders mark the graves of our own
prisoners who died in Japan. These chrysan-
themum borders are being replaced by five kinds
of flowering hedges, so that the graves the
whole year round will be edged with blooms.
Beyond the Australians lie Canadians, their
graves, leading up the eastern slope, a pretty
mosaic against the green shrubbery of the hill.
After a diligent search it is estimated that all
the Australians who died as prisoners-of-war
in Japan are now buried in this lovely Aus-
tralian-tended spot.
# * * *
“Bondi Beachcomber”: Government
by regulation, imperative in the Army,
grated on men who felt that they had
the nous to figure, out some things for
themselves. Diggers returning from the
somewhat relaxed atmosphere of the
islands were especially hit, and “Hullo,
it’s on again!” was the most commonly-
heard phrase in northern staging camps.
At one N.Q. landing place we paraded
to hear the camp regulations, which be-
gan with the usual warning against
a.w.l. —“Do they think a bloke’s gonna
shoot through on his way home?” —and
going right through to anti-malaria mea-
sures. “Sleeves,” read the. sergeant, “will
be fastened at the wrist at sunset, which,
until further notice, shall be 1800 hours.”
He frowned at the ripple of laughter, de-
manding to know “What was the blanky
joke?” Apparently he’d been anchored
on the regulation-bound mainland for so
long that he failed to see anything funny
in the Army decreeing the time the sun
was to set.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; I see that Shakspeare’s
“Henry VIII” has been the subject of a
union dispute on Broadway. The
Musicians’ Union claims that it should
be classed as a musical, because the in-
tervals must be regarded as an integral
part of the play, and this will provide
the conductor of a nine-piece orchestra
with an extra 80 quid a week. I don’t
think the Bard would turn in Tiis grave
if he heard about this desecration. He
certainly wrote a couple of scenes in the
first act and about half the second scene
in the third act and possibly the first
scene in the last act. The rest came
most probably from the lesser
hand of Fletcher, with possibly
some touching up by Massinger,
These two threw in a pageant, a
trial, a coronation, and for full
measure a christening, and put the
hodge-podge on with great splen-
dor at the Globe Theatre on June
29, 1613. It would have gone
down well with an audience
which liked spectacle and glamor,
but, unfortunately, wadding from the
cannon discharged in the first act
set fire to the theatre and burned it
to the ground. I hope this doesn’t hap-
pen when it is revived on Broadway,
because fires in American theatres have
a habit of burning hundreds of people
and I’d like to see the conductor draw
his extra £BO.
* * ♦
“Fancar”; Though “Hackshaw” (B.
27 /11 / ’46) does prove that boy
“actresses” in no way restricted Shak-
speare as to characterisation, there must
have been times when £he dramatist’s
heart was wrung by their limitations.
Cleopatra complains that if she were to
grace Octavian’s triumph in Rome she
would be compelled to “See some squeak-
ing Cleopatra boy my greatness,” while
Hamlet, interviewing the players, “prays
God” that “her ladyship’s” voice is still
“uncracked.” Then there is the Bard’s
own partiality for the assumption of boy
parts by his heroines, possibly a tacit ad-
mission that the boys, after all, were best
in boys’ parts. More than the quality of
their acting, the supply of boys suitable
for female roleS must have been limited,
and outside the historical plays there are
few older women. Probably Shakspeare
had no qualms over dispensing with
mothers for his heroines; neither
Ophelia nor Desdemona would have had
her tragedy with a commonsense mother
to help and advise her, nor would
Miranda, with any sort of mother, have
been forced to listen to the eternal mono-
logues of Prospero.
* * * *
“Macnell”: A flotilla of five corvettes
in close-order line ahead was navigating
narrow Raven Channel off New Guinea.
There was barely room for the little ships
to squeeze through, and when a sudden
rain squall blotted out the leader’s signal
to decrease speed the last ship of the
line sheared up alongside the quarter,
then bridge, of her next ahead. The
runaway’s captain was noted for his in-
tense partiality to “a cuppa , tea,” and as
the ships thrashed alongside, only match-
less seamanship preventing their grinding
together, his neighbor, cup in hand,
shouted from his bridge: “Don’t come
inboard, George—l’ll pass you a cup!”
* * * *
“Bethune”: Beasley’s protest against
Brain Trust load’s alleged slur upon
Australians by referring to them as bush-
rangers was a pathetic example of a mah
with a chip on his shoulder. Snubbed
by 8.8. C., he asked the worried Attlee to
‘‘discipline” that organisation and load.
I doubt whether the silly old prof, really
intended the word bushranger to mean
what Beasley thought it meant. English-
men have used the word before in quite a
different sense from our accepted usage.
Towards the end of World War I some
verses appeared ip Austin Harrison’s
“English Review” singing the praises of
two Diggers seen walking along the
Strand: “terrible, fine, strong men.”
All the Germans in Berlin town_
Couldn’t put those two Australians down.
The title was “The Bushrangers,” and
from the context the intention was far
from derogatory—the writer seemed to
consider the word as more or less a
synonym for bushmen. My tip is that
Joad had “bushwhacker” in mind. Why
else should he link bushrangers with
farmers?
WHAT, MORE?
“There have been rumors in Canberra of a secret
committee, said to be looking into the question of
higher salaries for members of Parliament.”
— “S. M. Herald
The job of fixing fair emoluments,
From time to time for these industrious gents
Who make our laws undoubtedly presents
No easy task.
The only thing on which it’s safe to bet,
From past experience, is—the more they get,
The more they’ll ask.
Wages must rise, one hears on every side;
The rising cost of goods to be supplied
Therefrom, it’s iterated far and wide,
Such step empowers.
And Canberra, ’(would seem, admits they
ought
To lift, and adds by way of afterthought
“Including ours.”
There, too, you’ll note, our legislative stars,
Our sturdy Senators and M.H.Rs.,
Are up against financial jolts and jars
In various fashions;
And find a difficulty to subsist
(Like Oliver whose other name was Twist)
Upon their rations.
The fact is clear, from Canberra to Perth
Our statesmen know exactly what they’re worth
And know as well of what there’s now a dearth
On larder shelves. •
Hence, whatsoever brand of politics
Is theirs, they’ll ever claim the right to fix
Their screw themselves.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


.Vy
/
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD.—ESTABLISHED 1848
% m
ifiei d
Hff eHy
OH
wm:;
Fort Denison (Pinchgut) in Sydney Harbour con-
tributes to the safety of shipping as a lighthouse
and meteorological station. Its light and power
are supplied by Clyde Batteries
CEYDEbatteries
SAFETY FIRST!
The BEST car
safety-device is
a CAREFUL.
.1
Wherever the need for stored electrical energy, Clyde
Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and home lighting
have proved their efficiency and long life.
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Ltd.. Granville, N.S.W
Merchandise Sales Division:
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
goes the
chocolate that
speaks up for
itself ...
/
w
i
Chocolate experts will tell you
that they judge the quality of chocolate
by listening for its snap. The louder the snap,
the better the chocolate. You’ll hear Small’s
Club Chocolate break with the loudest of
snaps every time. Because it breaks with
the proper, clean brittle snap, Small’s Club
Chocolate is on its own for summer eating.
r.
ov'S
!CCV«
&
C.OV
c*°
\ot
*****
*
W
It’s a fact! We pro-
duced our Small’s
Club Chocolate es-
pecially for men. It’s
NOT so sweet. That’s
why we called it “Club”
Chocolate. But the girls
took one taste. Loved it.
Now the men have to
share it with the girls.
Ask for
Small’s Club Chocolate in
the famous black and white wrappers
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
Fop Sale.
DWARF SUGAR GUM SEED 1/- packet.
Postage 2id. v
W. BAILEY, P.Q., ELMORE, Victoria.
THE SERVICE MAN
Tokyo Trial.
“Ek Dum”: Reports of the trial of
major Japanese war criminals for atro-
cities committed in the war in Asia are
bringing frightful recollections at Christ-
mas-time to the sorrowing relatives of
many Australians,
Of the Siam-Burma railway, of fear-
ful memory, the Australian prosecutor.
Justice Mansfield, said that the Japanese
turned the project into a living
morgue. Of the prisoners engaged on it,
29 per cent, were Australians, and in one
camp alone 44 per cent. died. The
martyrs worked 12 to 20 hours a day. In
all the sweat, heat and rain of the jungle
their clothing hung on them until it rotted
pff in some cases there were no fresh
issues for 15 months.
Quotation of the Geneva Conventions
was laughed at. Lieut.-Colonel Kappe,
an Australian intelligence officer, was told
that the Japanese engineers were prepared
to give their own lives to complete the
work, so the prisoners must also be pre-
pared to sacrifice their lives.”
Between Burma and Australia there
was quite a large quota of non-Japanese
Asiatics who were collaborating with the
fiends that did these kinds of things to
Australians, not only in Siam but in
Borneo. Today many of these collabora-
tors are heroes to Communists, being
“our Indernesian comrades,” and the
Dutch, some of whose devoted soldiers
shared the Australian captivity and who
showed a more loyal spirit towards Aus-
tralian interests in the time of deepest
peril than many Australians did, are
treated as enemies. After the Japanese
laid down their arms three Australian
officers were butchered by “our Inder-
nesian comrades.” The Australian
Government” has not only not avenged
them but has evidently forgotten them.
Still Out of Step.
Ek Dum”; Defence is a subject of
major interest in every country in the
Pacific except Australia.
The United States, after several impor-
tant inquiries dealing with Pearl Harbor
and other operations, is busily reorganis-
ing its bases, its armament and its com-
mands to implement the lessons learnt
from the war.
New battleships and cruisers have been
built embodying the latest lessons in
rocket armament and the painfully
earned knowledge of the possibilities of
wholesale robot attack, especially in naval
warfare (apropos, Australia’s new de-
stroyers have been condemned by Ad-
miral Lord Tovey—they are underarmed).
Strategy has been revised to v meet new
weapons. Tactics have been revolution-
ised. Training has been altered and has
become so technical that every infantry-
man of the next war will be a skilled
artisan or mechanic of 1914-18 standard.
Geography has acquired a new angle.
On every point which commands strategic
routes, even from hundreds of miles
away, the hold of the occupier has been
tightened. The Russians are hastening
to pull down the iron curtain in front of
the Kuriles and Saghalien, their spoils of
the war in. which they didn’t fight. The
United States is making a searching ex-
amination of Pacific island bases.
In every country except Australia com-
t pulsory military training of manpower
in peace-time has been accepted. It is an
axiom that conscription in some form
must operate, not merely for a few casual
days, but for the months which are
necessary to equip the modern citizen
soldier for his task. Even Britain,
with a fairly strong standing army, has
broken with tradition —its Labor Govern-
ment has agreed to a compulsory training
scheme.
With all this safeguard is linked up a
general plan for the integration of all
types of force under a single command
in single areas, a general plan universal
everywhere except in Australia. Here
the allotment of Ministerial duties is gov-
erned, not by the necessity to provide a
close-knit and centralised control which
can use all forces in common, but by
the necessity for providing sinecures for
men who, without the pull of political
power, could not earn a corporal’s pay in
a cookhouse.
The disparity between Australian and
other efforts is pointed by the fact that
the reorganisations affect areas directly
concerned with Australian defence.
There is now an overall American
command in the Far East (General Mac-
Arthur), in the Central Pacific (Admiral
John Towers), in Alaska and the Aleutians
(Major-General Craig); and there is a
strategic airforce based in the U.S., and
presided over by Australia’s old friend
General George Kenny.
In Australia there is no co-ordination.
The effective naval command is not even
seated ip Australia. Each section of the
forces goes its own sweet way. But this
does not matter, since there will soon be
no forces strong enough to stop an attack
by Siam or El Salvador,
Norway Sets an Example.
“Ek Dum”; Norway’s Parliament, so
soon as the country was free, set up an
independent tribunal which, without fear
or favor or respect for influence, has
now made a striking report upon events
before and immediately after the German
invasion. The report holds the Gov-
ernment of 1940 responsible for failing
to draw the correct conclusions from the
international situation and for failing to
prepare for its second line of policy—
the waging of war on Britain’s side.
The commission found that measures
taken on the outbreak of war were
inadequate. Coastal fortifications were
not fully prepared and naval defence
detachments which had been called up
were released. Minefields were not laid.
The brunt of the criticism falls on the
Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister,
Dr. Koht, who neglected to convey to the
Ministry information from officials
abroad which would have enabled the
country to mobilise and carry out an
effective minelaying programme at latest
by April 5, 1940, five days before the
attack. The order for mobilisation was
not issued till April 8. Partly this was due
to the fact that the Army and Foreign
Ministers were working in separate com-
partments without co-ordination with the
Prime Minister.
At the same time the 1940 Government
is praised for its courage in determining
to continue the struggle abroad and in
rejecting the German demand that
Quisling should be placed at the head of
a coalition Government; also for the
great achievement of saving the Norweg-
ian merchant fleet, which played a vast,
and perhaps at one stage decisive, part in
the sea campaign.
Lastly the stand taken by the Supreme
Court, whose members refused to function
further in December, 1940, is praised:—•
The Supreme Court gave the whole in-
cipient resistance movement a foundation
that was in accordance with Norwegian con-
ceptions of law. Its members and their
leader (Supreme Court Justice Paul Berg)
can look back with pride on their action.
The report is to be placed before the
Storthing, which will remit it for review
to its protocol committee before passing
it on to the Upper House, which will 4
decide whether there is room for further
action against any persons guilty of weak-
ness, failure or laxity.
Canberra Will Not Copy
This wholesome Norwegian precedent
is unlikely to be followed by Canberra,
though an inquiry into the events sur-
rounding the first months of the Pacific
War is badly needed.
Such an inquiry, among other things,
would demonstrate the utter falsity of
the Brisbane-line lie and reveal the self-
styled saviors of the country as a jabber-
ing lot, odd-men-out with their allies in


LIMITED. ENGLAND
RAYON
m
m
M
m
VVThen you are consid-
” ering the purchase
of new clothes, you will
find it advantageous to
ask for dresses and
lingerie made with
Courtaulds rayon.
If you prefer to make
your own things .at
home, the lovely fabrics
made with Courtaulds
Rayon Yarns provide
quality and service as
well as beauty.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS s
Melbourne- Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Head Office - Ltd.,QualetaHouse,l7sFlindersLane.
Sydney - - Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd.,BroughtonHouse,lBlClarenceSt.
Brisbane - Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street.
Adelaide K. T. Flint, 178 Rundle Street.
Perth - -A. C. Mackie,
Economic Chambers, William Street.
f
3590 A
An OPPRESS -ion of satisfaction |
• \
—as lie liglits his
\ V \ \ 1 It//
// / I 1
every move in which they were con-
cerned. It would strip bare the tales of
their formulation of plans for the Pacific
overall campaign and prove that their
own scheme achieved nothing but to give
military authorities the world over a
grim laugh in a period of gloom. It
would establish that Britain and the
United States made the overall campaign
of 1942, including that for the defence
and use of Australia, without even con-
sulting the “saviors” about the details.
Brett, Not MacArthur
Finally it w T ould put a new complexion
on their behavior towards the campaigns
in Malaya, Ambon and Java, and it
would destroy the validity of the story
used with such effect during the 1943
election campaign, that “Labor” planned
the coming of General MacArthur and
asked that he be sent.
Just before General MacArthur arrived
“Labor” policy was that the war could
not be won unless “Labor” was placed
in a position to direct strategy and fight
Japan with other people’s nationals. Just
before the general surprised “Labor” by
arriving “Labor” had suggested that
General Brett should be supreme com-
mander in the Anzac area—of course
under “Labor’s” direction.
Such an inquiry would also show that
"I adroit big-game hunting has Us points, but
for real thrills give me fishing !”
—apart from the respected advice of
sections of the Australian higher com-
mand —Australian influence on the gen-
eral conduct of the war in the Pacific was
nil save in one particular: the Govern-
ment’s insistence on keeping its militia
in cottonwool and not allowing militia-
men to be beyond the Equator, even to
bear a part in the rescue of the survivors
of the Australians taken in New Guinea,
Ambon, Java, Timor and Malaya.
A Dustcloud in Persia.
“Ek Dum”: The “war” in North
Persia, trumpeted in loud accents by
Moscow and the New York press alike,
proved a very tame affair.
The Red Army before it left Persia
established in the Contiguous province of
Azerbaijan a Persian Communist party
(Tudeh) which had its roots and bolt-
holes in Russia. At the time this body
was formed Russia was trying to force
the hand of Turkey, from which it was
trying to snatch the provinces of Kars
and Ardahan, along the borders of which
it had large numbers of troops arrayed.
Azerbaijan was of great strategic import-
ance to the Red Army in case of hostili-
ties, both for attack on Turkey and to
fend off intervention from elsewhere.
Great trouble was taken not merely to
establish the virtual independence of
Azerbaijan from Persia under Russian
suzerainty, but to develop general dis-
order throughout Persia.
Last June the Persian Government was
forced to make concessions to the rebel-
lious province and to the Communist
party. The main influence in bringing
this about was the fact that Russia was
in a position to exercise decisive pressure
and that, because of the food position,
Persia could not afford to do without
Azerbaijan.
Under the June agreement Azerbaijan’s
Communist leaders graciously agreed to
remain in Persia, thgir “national
Parliament” accepting the status of a
provincial council with control of three
parts of the provincial revenue. Three
Tudeh members were elevated to the
Persian Cabinet,
In October, however, the Persian Prime
Minister, Qawam-es-Sultani, apparently
became tired of the manceuvrings of his
Communist bedfellows. The Shah dis-
solved Parliament and called for an
election. The Tudeh party of Azerbaijan
prepared for the polls ip the usual Com-
munist manner, feeling apparently safe
under the prdtection of Moscow, and
assured that if it could keep control of
the Azerbaijan polls it could secure con-
trol of Persia, since a united election
from the most pppulous province would
certainly provide domination of the new
Parliament.
On November 22 the Persian Govern-
ment decided that it would send troops
from Tehran to see fair play and pre-
vent Communist intimidation.
The threats and promises which fol-
lowed both from Moscow and Tabriz
were dreadful to hear. The Azerbaijan
Commos, for their part, issued a manifesto
calling on the population to fight “the
imperialist invaders” tooth
and nail. Moscow issued
warnings that the approach
of troops would be con-
sidered a threat to Russian
security and would endanger
the Russo-Persian treaty,
which the new Parliament
will be called on to ratify.
Tabriz Radio shouted, on
December 4:
After all our efforts and
bloodshed we shall defend our
republic to the last drop of
our blood. We are willing to
carry out the orders of our
leaders, who will lead us
against these foreign secret
forces which are supporting
Falangist Spain and whose
blind tool the Tehran Govern-
ment has become.
The Persian command
girded up its loins and crossed
the border ready to do or die.
It was greeted with flowers
and cheers. The only signs
of the gentlemen who were
determined to shed “the last
drop of their blood” con-
sisted in a dustcloud moving
swiftly the Russian
border.
The same day it was dis-
covered that, on all strategic
routes across Afghanistan, an
American company had se-
cured contacts to build the
roads and bridges along the
routes which lead from
Russia to India, under the
very nose of Moscow.
And the next week the Turkish Gov-
ernment ordered a number of Com-
munist bodies, including the deep-rooted
Workers and Peasants Socialist party, to
disband. .
The Second/First.
“E.D.”: The 2/1 M.-G. Battalion
A.I.F. has formed a historical committee
to tell the story of its wanderings.
It was one of the battalions formed in
1939 to round off the corners of the new
triangular brigades as the first machine-
gun battalion in A.I.F. history. It came
from all parts of Sixth Division to
Rutherford, including samples from New
Guinea and the N.T., as well as from
the six States.
The first commander was a happy
gunner, later Brigadier Prior, and the
atmosphere was not duplicated in any
other part of the A.I.F. The battalion
was in England, Egypt, Greece and
Crete,' Syria, New Guinea and Borneo.
And its Vickers guns were with it to the
end.
There are plenty of legends about the
unit, grave and gay—of how, for in-
stance, survivors left Greece with their
own weapons and with a few of other
people’s, everybody being loaded like a
Christmas-tree, only to have the old
Costa Rica sunk under them ; of the four
captured officers in that show, of whom
the three unwounded ones escaped, as did
many other men of the battalion, some in
adventures as strange as any that befel
Pompey’s men; of the man who swore
before the King, and of the destruction
of the Ikinji Bagh theatre by fire.
Extracts from diaries, thumbnail
sketches, photographs (on loan), verse
and other material will be welcomed by
the secretary, Unit History Committee,
20 Dulwich-avenue, Dulwich, S.A.


ADVT
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Reginald James Bartley commences his
fourth term as Lord Mayor of Sydney.
He first put on the robes in 1943, was
re-elected the following year, stood down
in 1945 and came back for a third dose
this year. In former times a couple of
terms usually brought a knighthood, but
Bartley’s time at the Town Hall has co-
incided with “Labor” rule in Macquarie-
street, so he has had to forgo the cus-
tomary handle to his name. “Labor”
broke its rule 20-odd years ago to knight
Ben Fuller; but Ben, “Mo’S” patron
(“Pass right along there! ”), was a
“sympathiser.” Bartley is a solicitor. He
was Mayor of Vaucluse in 1941-42, and
as Lord Mayor was president of the
N.S.W, branch of the A.C.F.
Transfers among Australia’s overseas
representatives take Alfred Stirling to
Washington and Keith Officer to Moscow.
Stirling has been holding the fort as
High Commissioner to Canada since the
retirement of Thomas Glasgow, and
his appointment as Minister to Washing-
ton, where Norman Makin is the Com-
monwealth’s first Ambassador, coincides
with ex-Army Minister Forde’s arrival in
Ottawa. It wasn’t his first visit to
Canada—he was there in 1933 as a;
member of the Australian delegation to
the British Commonwealth Relations
conference at Toronto. Stirling, a Mel-
bourne-born barrister, joined the External
Affairs Department in the thirties and
spent some years in the High Commis-
sioner’s office in London. During the war
he was Counsellor to the Australian
Legation to the Netherlands while the
Dutch Government was in exile in
London. Officer is at present Australia’s
Minister at The Hague. Moscow won’t
be new territory for him—he was there
as Counsellor when J. J. Maloney was
Minister. A World War I Digger—he
won the M.C. and O.B.E.—he is
probably the most experienced man in
our diplomatic service, and in addition to
Moscow and The Hague has served in
London, Washington, Tokyo and Chung-
king. ,
The Townley brothers of Hobart have
other claims to fame besides their string
of chemist shops scattered around the
city. A.G., a lieutenant-commander in
the Navy, was in the thick of things when
the Jap midget subs were sunk in Sydney
Harbor in May, 1942; R.C., drawn here
by Morrissey, topped the poll in Denison.
His fine war record—in the Middle East,
New Guinea and Borneo —his popularity
as a businessman and as a former
prominent cricketer and footballer and
ŢASMANIAN M.L.A.
his strong stand for Diggers and home-
seekers were all contributing factors to
his success.
One of the few Australians to share
with Lord Tovey the distinction of being
awarded the American Legion of Merit
is an Adelaide man, Lieut.-Commander
“Gerry” Heyen, well known in coastal
steamers before he joined the Phosphate
Commission’s Triaster in the Nauru and
Ocean Island trade. A R.A.N.R. man,
Heyen was navigating officer of auxiliary-
cruiser Kanimbla early in the war and
later became hydrographic officer with a
U.S. Task Group. He took part in 16
Pacific landings and is entitled to wear
six stars on his Pacific-Asiatic ribbon, also
the ribbon commemorating the Liberation
of the Philippines, tte gained the Legion
of Merit for outstanding work during
attacks on Okinawa. Heyen comes of
a family of seamen. He has brothers in
the game and his father was for years
skipper of the Kintore, trading from Port
Adelaide to S.A. outports. ,
Another naval man to wear an Ameri-
can decoration is Commodore John
Malet Armstrong, Second Member of the
Naval Board, Melbourne. His distinction
is the Navy Cross, awarded for his part in
the Lingayen Gulf action, when he Was
captain of the Australia when she under-
went dive-bombing attacks for five days.
He had been appointed to the command of
the Australia on the death in action of Cap-
tain Deschaineux; prior to that he was for
two years Naval Officer-in-Charge, New
Guinea area, in which capacity he did a
very fine job. • For the Lingayen Gulf
show Armstrong was also awarded the
D. 5.0., which was pinned on him by the
King when he led the R.A.N. men in the
Victory March through London.
No section of the community will be
better pleased at the retirement of Pro-
fessor Augustin Lpdewyckx, the distin-
guished professor in Germanic languages
at the University of Melbourne, than the
‘Age” comps. Making three shots at the
name in a short valedictory par. they got
it “Lodewyckx,” “Lodewyeckz” and
“Lodewkeckx.” The professor has been
one of the university’s most popular
figures for 31 years. Born in Belgium in
1876 he gained high scholastic honors,
and was co-author of a standard Dutch
dictionary, but he hasn’t spent all his life
in the academic cloisters. After five years
of a language professorship at Victoria
College, Stellenbosch, South Africa, he
joined the Belgian colonial service and
travelled extensively in Africa from 1911
to 1914. Later he traversed the wildest
parts of Iceland. A prolific and engaging
writer, he has contributed hundreds of
articles to Dutch, German, Belgian and
Australian papers, published a history in
German of German settlement in Aus-
tralia and was president of the Overseas
Journalists’ Association. Among other
things, he is a Knight of the Icelandic
Falcon.
“Jobber”: May I be permitted to in-
troduce Jennifer Rees, whom the stork
delivered at Cootamundra early this
month? Jennifer is a seventh-generation
Australian on one side~of the family and
a sixth-generation on the other, being a
descendant of “Granny” Oakes—the first
white child born in Australia of free
parents—and of Mrs. Blanche Weston of
Horsley, Prospect (N.S.W.), also one of
the earliest starters. If anyone can pro-
duce a purer merino than Jennifer I’ll
“dip me lid and stand aside.”
Exactly why Melbourne’s police chief,
Alexander Mitchell Duncan, is labelled
chief commissioner when he is the only
commissioner nobody has ever been
able to discover. However, his appoint-
ment, made in 1937 in succession to
General Blarney, has been reaffirmed for
another three years. Born at Dufftown,
Scotland, in 1888, Duncan was educated
in his home town and the London Metro- 7
politan Police Force, where he rose to the
position of chief inspector to Scotland
Yard s C.I.D. He took up his present
situation just before the war, and one of
his biggest jobs was organising Mel-
bourne’s defence against expected Jap
raids with a force depleted by enlist-
ments. He has modernised Mel-
bourne’s crime - detection system, in-
troduced a psychological section and
mobile and wireless equipment which
visiting specialists from Britain declared
to be in advance of London’s. He is
proud of the fact that under his rule
Melbourne has never had a crime wave,
except in the columns of the dailies.
Successor to Wellington’s (M.L.) re-
tired bishop, Herbert St. Barbe Holland,
is Reginald Herbert Owen, M.A., a
graduate of Oxford Uni. Ordained in
1918, the new bishop was a select
preacher at Oxford in 1926 and at Cam-
bridge in 1935. Till 1934, when he was
made a Fellow and Chaplain at Brasenose,
Oxford, he was headmaster at Upping-
ham. Early in the war he was appointed
chaplain to the Navy, and put in five
and a half years watching over the
spiritual welfare of Jack Tar. Since
then he’s been back at Brasenose.
Brigadier Alan Wendt, new president
of S.A.’s Royal Aero Club, was farming
when World War I broke out. He joined
the A.I.F. and put in four years with
the Light Horse on Gallipoli and in Sinai
and Palestine, collecting a wound and a
mention in dispatches as souvenirs. When
he cams back to Australia he joined the
family firm —the Wendts are old-estab-
lished Adelaide jewellers— at the same
time soldiering on with the A.M.F. He
retired from the command of Sixth
Cavalry Brigade in 1940. For years
Wendt has been a keen Aero Club man ;
he got his pilot’s licence in 1930.
“Confed.” with a Bilbo story;
The Bilbo graft case (B. 11/12/’46) got into
the cables the other day when Ross Collins,
a Democrat from Mississippi, knocked down
one qf the witnesses. Collins was one of
Bilbo’s opponents last July. On that occasion
Bilbo told an audienoe: “Ross Collins is
saying ‘Bilbo ought to be retired.’ No man
knows more about being retired than Ross
Colhns. .He’s been retired more times than
any man in Mississippi.... In 1910 when three
men got on the train at Starkville to assassinate
me. Ross Collins was sitting beside me.i But
when he saw those men coming at me with their
drawn guns, he retired... .He retired to that little
room of public convenience you’ll find in every
railroad car in the country.... and nobody but
his laundryman knows how scared he was.”
Possibly Bilbo was forgetting the version of the
alßur he gave the press in 1910. It was slightly
different and ran like this: “Mr. Collins had
.been forced to stand in the corner at the point
of a gun Mr. Collins was absolutely helpless
render me any assistance, for an overt act
on his part might have resulted in the death
of us both.”
Gordon Steege, pictorially libelled here
by a man who claims to be his pal, has
resigned from the R.A.A.F., which he
joined as_ a cadet in 1937, to become a
patrol officer in New
Guinea. He went to
the Middle East early
in the war and com-
manded a flight in
No, 3 Squadron in
the desert. A D.F.C.
came his way in
March, 1941, by
which time he had
shot down seven
enemy planes. He
increased the tally
to nine before trans-
ferring his attention
to Nips. In the
Pacific he saw
action at Moresby
and Kiriwina, v col-
lected a D.S.Ch and
was sent as group-
captain to command
R.A.A.F. forces at
Manus. Steege liked
what he saw of the
islands so much that
he has resigned his
N.G. PATROL
OFFICER.
post as director of ops. to join the ser-
vice which has already produced such
men as the Champions, Jack Hides, Mal-
colm Wright, D.S.C., and Les Williams,
M.C.
“C.Q.”: That demonstration of visual
portrait painting (B. 18/12/’46) would be
simple enough for Percy Leason ; he had
an extraordinary visual memory and
could put into a cartoon in a few moments
a piece of agricultural machinery he
hadn’t seen since his boyhood in the
Wimmera or a new model car that had
passed him in the street that morning,
and not even the expert could challenge
him as to detail. One of his last painting
feats before he left this country for U.S.A.
was to paint portraits of the surviving
full-blood abos in Victoria. He found
about 20 of them at Lake Tyers and eight
more in other places. The 28 portraits
were completed in about six weeks.
Already translated into several Euro-
pean languages and in its ninth Austra-
lian edition, Tarlton Rayment’s novel
Valley of the Sky, which won the
British Empire section of the £5OOO All
Nations Novel competition in 1936, is
having a Czech edition. It should appeal
to the readers of that closely-populated
country, as it deals with the plains, wood-
lands, streams and river flats of Gippsland
as Alexander McMillan, their first ex-
plorer, first found them. The Victorian
naturalist and author is one of the best-
known of Australian writers overseas. An
apiarist of distinction, Rayment’s monu-
mental monograph, A Cluster of Bees,
has been ranked by Professor Wheeler, of
Harvard, with the works of Fabre, Wal-
lace, Bates and Belt. He started out as an
artist, but finding surrealist art beyond
his comprehension turned to the simpler
facts of natural history. He makes nature-
study films, draws his own illustrations
and speaks over the air on occasion.
Among A.I.F. troops the impression of
Frank Forde’s first visit to northern
“battle areas” that lingered longest was
ARMY MINISTER.
of a pair of knobbly knees sticking out
below khaki shorts. When Army Minister
Cyril Chambers returns from giving the
Occupation Force in Japan the once-over
the Diggers’ mental image of him will
consist in large part of a whacking great
cigar. When he sat for Coventry’s sketch
he laid aside his smoke for a moment,
which is a pity, as Army colleagues who
remember him in Moresby and North
Australia back in 1942 regard him as in-
complete without it,
Dead in Sydney at 88, C, Brunsdon
Fletcher was editor of Sydney “Morning
Herald” from 1918 to 1938 and had been
a journalist in Brisbane and Sydney since
1893. A Somerset man, he came to Aus-
tralia in his early ’teens, was educated
at Newington and Fort-street and joined
the Survey Department of N.S.W. After
qualifying as a surveyor, he practised for
some years in N.S.W. *and Queensland
before drifting into journalism with Bris-
bane “Courier.” After five years he be-
came editor of that paper and in 1903
he switched to the “Herald” as associate-
editor, holding that post till he succeeded
Tom Heney in the editorial chair at
the end of World War I. Fletcher pub-
lished several books, on Pacific problems,
collections of articles on a diversity of
subjects and an autobiographical work,
The Great Wheel. His last book. Black
Knight of the Pacific, was published only
last year. In his retirement the fine old
boy sometimes found his way to 'The
Bulletin office and was always a. wel-
come visitor.
Into the silence:
At Kiama (N.S.W.), at 54, Michael Robert
Ryan, solicitor. Educated at St. Ignatius
College, he carried on the legal firm established
sixty years ago by his father, Kieran Ryan.
In London, at 75, Arthur Mason, formerly
London representative of the A.B.C. City
organist of Sydney in the long ago, he went
to London for the Sydney “Morning Herald”
in 1907. In 1932 A.B.C. made him their
London rep. His weekly organ recitals were
a feature of St. James’s, Piccadilly, until the
church was bombed out in 1940.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Mary Isobel Guthrie, wife
of ex-Senator J. F. Guthrie. Born, in M.L., she
was a daughter of the late J. T. Wright, of
Wright, Stephenson and Co.
In Brisbane, at 55, Stanley Phillips, former
Public Relations Officer of the R.A.A.F.,
Queensland secretary of the A.J.A., former
secretary of the Queensland Rugby Union,
Q.L.T.A. Warehouses Cricket Association and
Brisbane Rugby League. From 1926 to 1939
he was a well-known radio sporting commen-
tator with special interest in yacht racing.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
It is not often that the Great Festival
and the publishing day of The Bulletin
fall on the same day of the week. So
this Christmas calls for something very
special in the way of greetings to readers
of this Letter. Even the genius of
Charles Dickens could not go beyond
the blessing called down by Tiny Tim.
Still, here’s a favorite line from an old
Christmas carol: “Let nothing you dis-
may!” That’s such a valiant wish it
carries us with a high heart into the New
Year.
When English comedian Tommy
Trinder was in Algiers entertaining the
troops, he had for his interpreter a
little French girl who spoke beautiful
English. One day she said to him: “Mr.
Trinder, which is the largest theatre in
England?” and he replied, “The Palla-
dium.” Then she said, “Who is the star
at the Palladium?” Tommy Trinder said,
“I am.” The young girl shook her head.
“Oh, no, Mr. Trinder. You are not the
star of the greatest theatre in London,
you talk too common.” And if an easy
and heart-to-heart way of telling the story
of the common woman and man in
England during the years of trial is “talk-
ing common,” then Tommy Trinder did
so last week at the Trocadero. He told a
story of endurance and courage of a
people who are learning to do without, in
support of his appeal for Food for
Britain. The party was given in honor of
Mr. Trinder by the Royal Empire Society,
and about 500 members followed the talk
with great interest. Mrs. Trinder, who
came with her husband, wore a green
frock and carried a shady-white hat. She
was presented with an armful of flowers
by Mrs. A. Spain, wife of the president
of the Royal Empire Society. Colonel
Spain introduced the speaker, and Jack
Cassidy, K.C., made the speech of thanks.
R.E.S. secretary. Dr. Wheatley, looked
well after his holiday in Tasmania.
How many Sydneyites know that
Robert Wallace, Vice-Chancellor of
Sydney University, is Patron of the Celtic
Society? He has held that high office
for a year, and as Patron at the Society’s
end-of-the-year party he made his
maiden speech. This tall, good-looking
academician has a warm sort of chuckle
in his voice, and when he told of Geoffrey
of Monmouth’s drawing of the long bow
in the matter of the ancient glories of
Wales and its Kings who reigned before
Caesar, the whole company of Celts
gathered to listen chuckled with him.
And Scots-by-descent laughed outright
when the Vice-Chancellor, himself an
Aberdeen man, lifted a quizzical eye-
brow over Boyce of Aberdeen’s history of
the Scot. David Craven was the night’s
singer, and Jessie Webster the accompan-
ist. President Clement Hoskuig considers
the party an outstanding Celtic Society
success. Incidentally the Vice-Chancellor
retires in March of next year, after nine-
teen years of strenuous and successful
administrative work at Sydney Univer-
sity.
Only the sausage-rolls had cold hearts
at the United Services Institution last
Friday. That was owing to the gas re-
strictions. All the guests came along
with hearts warm and gay, and the result
was a very merry Christmas cracker of
a party. Lieut.-General F. H. Berry-
man, G.O.C. N.S.W., the institution’s
president, and Mrs. Berryman were
the host and hostess, her (frock
of black and daffodil silk and shiny
black straw hat and his uniform a per-
fect alliance. The party filled the insti-
tution’s rooms in History House with
bright summer frocking and gay fantasies
of hats. There were very few uniforms ;
even Admiral Moore was in a dinner-suit.
There was a Morris family party —
the Neil Morrises and their son, just out
of the Army, came with Captain Keith
Morris and his wife and their ex-Army
son Barry. Mrs. Keith wore a tiny
berry-red hat with flowered silks rich in
convolvulus blues. Hats as enticing as a
savory were worn by Mrs. Persia Porter
and Mrs. Rollo Kingsford Smith. Colonel
Spain squired daughter Mrs. Russell. Dr.
Graham Drew was there, a little nostalgic
over the medieval charm of Cambridge.
Air Commodore Lachal, Brigadier
Galleghan and Brigadier Holland
were among the many hosts handing
champagne cocktails to their guests.
Other items of note: a printed silk frock
on which white little ballerinas circled
in sprightly fashion, and the 800 new
books (many of them to be had nowhere
else in Sydney) on the library shelves.
Up the North Shore line they are still
talking about the late-afternoon party
given by the H. E. Taplins in their Killara
home. This was the sort of affair that
starts about five and goes on into the
evening hours. Last Saturday there was
an Oberon edition of the party. The
Taplins’ home, Little Rapids, at Duck-
maloi (it’s a few miles out of Oberon),
was blazing with lights and iridescent
with cocktails. There was a Christmas-
tree, too, because in the country your
friends always bring the children, and,
anyway, that side of it was small daughter
Jennifer’s merry-making.
A month after she had arrived in
London direct from Sydney and the
Frances Scully school of ballet, Elaine
Fifield (of Strathfield) had an audition
with Covent Garden principals and was
chosen to dance in the current opera
season. Elaine, before she was 16, won
the 1944 scholarship—valued at £2OO
sterling—to the Royal Academy of
Dancing in London, but had to wait till
after the war to take advantage of her
prize. She has studied singing and music,
is a very good pianist and speaks three
languages quite fluently. Since she
started dancing as a child Elaine has
passed with honors all grades of the
Royal Academy’s examinations. After
her appearances at Covent Garden, she
will go on to an engagement? with the
Sadler’s Wells Company, thus adding an-
other Australian to the stage of which
Australian Robert Helpmann is so bril-
liant a lead. Elaine’s mother made the
voyage with her, and a few weeks ago
her father set out to visit them —carrying
among his luggage two-dozen pairs of
precious satin toe shoes. Elaine prefers
the Australian-made shoe.
Shop decorations this Christmastide
were wishy-washy, tinselly and inartistic.
Anyway, why do stores think they must
put dazzle everywhere but on their
counters? Most women shoppers are too
distraught trying to cope with shopping
lists to be anything but faintly peeved by
the unexpected in their surroundings.
Let all the glitter and razzle-dazzle go
into the children’s sections —the toylands
and such. Not that the kiddies weren’t
well looked after this year. Santa Claus
saw to that. The genial old gentleman
arrived in the city by reindeer post, by
flying-boat and every sort of transport
and took up his residence in every big
store. The children were not at all sur-
prised at meeting him in half a dozen
different places on the one day, and
broke into smiles and eager waves of the
hand each time they caught sight of him.
Up at Anthony Hordern’s, on Brick-
field Hill, Santa was snug in his ice
palace even on the hottest day. His
young visitors embarked on the Polar
Star, and made the journey to him past
ice mounds from which polar bears were
taking a dip, past the magic treasure
chest. As many as 3000 a day before
the holidays whispered their requests into
his ear, and once the holidays started the
numbers bounced out of reckoning. In
this store the same Santa Claus has
listened for 17 years to the whispered
desires of Sydney children.
One store had a bright blue pony in
its window. It was a very smart steed,
its tail and mane freshly barbered and
curled. Over one doorway a chime of
bells played softly in the breeze. Sur-
rounding the bells were tiny angels in
flight. “Oh, look,” said one mother to
her tiny son, “look at the little babies.”
The whole roof of another establishment
was turned into a place of amusement
for the small ones —everything free—•
rides in a miniature train, and rides on
a giant rocking horse, and an aeroplane
merry-go-round. In the windows of a
bicycle shop Santa was seen pedalling
for dear life, a. bicycle on his back—
a present for somebody in Cootamundra,
Aubrey Halloran no doubt would say.
A wedding of interest in Sydney’s music
circles is that of pianist Joan Dawson to
’cellist Gladstone Bell, of the Conser-
vatorium staff. This took place at the
Pitt-street Congregational Church. The
bride, who is the younger daughter of
the William C. Dawsons, wore an after-
noon frock of hydrangea-blue silk, and
a white hat gardenia-trinuned. The some-
thing old in the picture was a point lace
handkerchief that had been carried by
her mother on her wedding day. Sister
Hazel maided in leaf-green frock. Frank
Hutchins was the best man. Toasts at the
Albany followed the quiet ceremony.
The Sydney de Vries couple had their
silver wedding anniversary on Saturday
—celebrations on their return from Leura
about the end of January.
All through last week cricket fever
again ran high. Young matrons and
matrons not so young, debs and sub-debs
as well ashmen went out by the thousand
to watch the Test. The weather being
mostly perfect, cool, simple frocks, some
on tailored lines, were the universal wear.
Wives of the cricketers were seen almost
every day of the match. Mrs. Sid Barnes
didn’t miss one. Elizabeth Northcott
went in company with Mrs. Sydney Smith,
and Dutch violinist Willem Noske and
his wife were eager spectators.
Mrs. E. Hempton, president of the
N.Z. Association, has now two watches of
which she is justly proud. The first was
presented to her by the N.Z. Soldiers’
League about 20 years ago, for work
done in the interest of its members. The
second was handed to her by N.Z. Trade
Commissioner W. Taylor, at the Associa-
tion’s Christmas party held last week at
Federation Hall. This was the highlight
in the evening’s gaieties. In making the
presentation on behalf of members, Mr.
Taylor had many words of praise for the
work done by the association under
Mrs. Hempton’s leadership. The associa-
tion has taken up the cause of the
R.A.A.F., and in a few months has raised
something like £lBO for the neurosis
clinic.
The little sheep earns its board and
keep all right. He turns his coat into
every conceivable form of cosy covering.
Good news, too, is that mothproof
blankets are now procurable. They were
on show at a recent exhibition in London.
Also on view were furnishing felts for
the nursery, tapestries and wool fire
screens. These last were made during
the war by R.A.F. fighter pilots. A non-
shrink lightweight worsted-covered quilt
and pile fabric toys attracted attention.
Royalties from the American sales of
her first novel. Wild Orchard, continue
to come rolling along to author Mrs.
Isabel Dick, of Manly. Last word of it
was that it had been chosen by one of
the book societies as its novel of the
month, and the result was a stream of
shekels across the Pacific, The book was
published simultaneously by Harrap in
Australia and London. Mrs. Dick, who
is a grandmother, has only recently taken
to the making of books. She has a new
novel now in the press. Another Manly
writer to have her first novel published
by Harrap is Lyle Stevenson, the title of
whose book is The Years Between.
Banker C. R. McKerihan is now presi-
dent of the Woollahra Music Club and
Mrs. Barbara Bennett secretary. They
were elected at the recent general meet-
ing in place of Mr. Justice Roper and
Mrs. C. R. Lorenz, who had done good
work during their two years of office.
From Melbourne
Most spectacular wedding seen in this
city for some time was that of Rosemary,
only daughter of Sir Robert and Lady
Knox, of Greenknowe, Toorak, to Major
Robert William Lindsay, only son of the
Hon. Mrs. Robert Lindsay, of Perth,
W.A., and the late Major the Hon. Robert
Hamilton Lindsay, formerly of Jhe Royal
Scots Greys. St. Paul’s Cathedral, where
the ceremony was performed by the
Archbishop of Melbourne, Very Rev.
J. J. Booth, was made more beautiful by
the Madonna lilies massed at the altar.
The bride, who was given away by her
father, wore an Empire-styled gown of
ivory duchesse satin allied to a bodice
of heirloom honiton lace, the bodice
low-cut and with puffed sleeves. The long
graceful train swept out from a full-flow-
ing skirt and was covered by the filmy
tulle veil. Her headdress of orange
blossoms, finished with clusters at each
side of the head, held the veil in place.
Streamers of Lindsay tartan ribbon fell
from the bouquet. The bride’s only
adornments were her mother’s diamond
necklace, lent for the occasion, and the
bridegroom’s present, a diamond brooch
in the form of a grenade badge of the
Grenadier Guards.
There were seven bridesmaids; Hazel
Leonard, Pamela Myer, FelicityTfarrison,
Sandra Baillieu, Roma Windeyer, Jane
Heath and the bride’s cousin, Anne
Murray. Their gowns were of white
marquisette, the low-necked bodices edged
with lattice-patterned Guipere lace, and
the tiny puffed sleeves and the hip-line
featured the same trimming. Their
picture-hats of stitched white net and
tulle were banded with turquoise-blue
velvet which tied beneath their chins.
They carried bouquets of Madonna lilies.
Little Virginia Noel Smith was the train-
bearer. A.D.C. to the Governor-General,
Captain A, D. Ramsay, was best man;
groomsmen were Captain John Blood,
A.D.C. to Sir Winston Dugan, and
Messrs. Fraser Caddie, Colin Clarke,
Michael Clarke, David Landale and Peter
Rose.
A kilted piper piped the bridal proces-
sion to the marquee in the grounds of
Greenknowe, where the reception was
held. The interior of the marquee was
massed with pink carnations and gladioli.
The bride’s table was set with silver
candelabra and bowls of Christmas-lilies.
Lady Knox covered her short black frock
with a white black-embroidered hip-
length jacket and wore a large black hat.
Mrs. Lindsay chose a heavy black-and-
silver brocade frock and small black hat.
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith was in black with
wide picture hat of burnt straw. Mrs.
Norman Myer was also in black.
Mrs. David Turquand-Young (the
former Kay Esmond Jones, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Ernest Jones), who has just
returned to Australia for a visit and will
later join her husband in Nyasaland,
Central Africa, was a guest.
After years of excellent work for the
Y.W.C.A. Mrs. Essington Lewis has re-
signed. At the meeting at which the
newly-elected president, Mrs. T, C.
Rentoul, presided, glowing tributes were
paid to the retiring president. Mrs. Ren-
toul is the widow of the Rev. T, C.
Rentoul, former Secretary-General of the
Methodist Church. She has been actively
associated with the Y.W.C.A. for two
years, and before that was a vice-president
of the Women’s Services Club at Kurra-
jong House, where she came in close
contact with the work of “Y.” Mrs.
Rentoul in a short address stressed that
the need for hostels with a happy home-
like atmosphere had never been more im- *
portant. An informal tea-party, at
which Mrs. Essington Lewis was guest of
honor, was given by the board and staff
of the Melbourne Y.W.C.A. prior to the
meeting.
A draped frock of soft hyacinth-blue
chiffon with an off-the-face hat of mid-
night-blue was worn by Jennie Connolly
for her marriage at Scots’ Church to
Frank Wood Goldie, of Scotland. Mrs.
Connolly, who is the eldest daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Falkiner,
was .unattended, but small son Nicholas
was in the bridal group. Douglas
Graham, cousin of the bride, was best
man. Relatives and close friends were
invited to a late-afternoon party by Mr.
and Mrs. Franc Falkiner, of Upper Mur-
ray, with the lovely Toorak home of Mrs,
Hamilton Sleigh for its setting. Mrs.
Falkiner’s frock of smoke-blue crepe,
tiered from shoulders to hem, was worn
with an off-the-face hat of pink straw and
ribbon.
The party was a day out for the
Falkiner clan. Mrs. Ralph Falkiner, of
Woodend, chose a hat of black trans-
parent straw with her black-and-white-
printed frock. Mrs. Ron Payne (formerly
Dod Falkiner) wore a draped frock of
crimson crepe. Mrs. John Taplin (Bea
Falkiner) favored a Chartreuse slim-fitting
frock, with dark-red roses and green veil-
ing as a hair adornment. The Taplins
have just arrived from India ; he is a
former Indian Army officer hoping to
settle soon in Australia. Mrs. Otway
Falkiner, of Widgiewa (N.S.W.), was
there; “Trav” Falkiner, of Moonbria,
Jerilderie, brought his fiancee Deirdre
Dalton, whose beige ensemble was worn
with a small beige hat banded in brown.
Mrs. Molly Graham was cool and sum-
mery in a frock of white crepe, her
buttercup-yellow hat being circled with
white flowers. Other guests included
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, who wore an out-
size in pink picture hats with her smartly-
tailored black frock. Her mother, Mrs.
J. Halbert, and sisters Mrs. George Vasey
and Thelma Halbert were there, Mrs.
Vasey is just back from Perth, where she
attended a conference concerning war
widows.


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
fd
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE,
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 6J p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1937. .259,659. 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 7 Ba
Written off. £41,533.. .178,001 88,526
1938.. 295,770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 7 aQ Qfi „ 170 iRQ
Written off, £43,682.. .. ) 8y ’ yOiS
1939. .280,984 8125 14 p.c.—154,000 7 i,, qoa 90Q
Written off, £47,055 _ f 71,804 250,293
r-—Pref. N
6i p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
1940. .240,333 8125 1,031 14 p.c.=154,000 I „ S 9 O , Q „
Written off, £44,476 f *82,993
1941. .229,866 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 „ Qn „ BQ
Written off, £43,945 ) 2»u,289
1942.. 184.875 8125 16,500 14 p.0.=154,000 \ 9 , 9 Ifi7
Written off, £44,372 ) 252,16/
1943. .223,954 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7
Written off, £44,216 f Z53, ‘ J80
From staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 263,280
Post-war restoration res. £128,592 391,872
1944.. 225.058 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 go*
Written off, £42,550.. .. 395,755
1945. .251,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 468,300
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 .. 508,484
Prom tax reserve, £70,511 .. 578,995
1946. .254,140 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 654,510
For this big and prosperous newspaper
organisation the first post-war year was
one of preparation for things to come.
Retarding factors were a limited supply
of newsprint and delays connected with
delivery of plant and erection of buildings.
Still, the co.’s own publications and its sub-
sidiary interests all continued to progress.
The “Herald,” Melbourne’s unchallenged
evening broadsheet, and the “Sun,”
morning competitor of the “Argus” and
“Age,” lead the Commonwealth’s daily
circulation field with net sales of 352,000
and 363,000 respectively, an increase of
32,000 and 26,000 compared with a year
ago. Broadcasting interests 3DB and
3LK also contribute to the pool, and so
do the progressive associated journals
“Courier Mail” (Brisbane) and “Adver-
tiser” and “News” (Adelaide). Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills, in which H.
and W. T. was a prime mover and now
holds 434,700 shares, is about to step
up annual production from 30,000 tons
to 70,000 tons, and will presently ask the
public for £1,000,000 of debenture money
and for £750,000 of 4\ p.c. pref, capital.
A bit more newsprint became available
during the year, but the price advanced.
There was a substantial increase in the
pay-roll, owing to reinstatement; of ser-
vice personnel and wage lifts. Delivery
and other costs stepped up, too, and are
likely to further increase. Still, all this
was more than offset by revenue from
extra circulation and increased advertising
rates. After setting aside £150,000 (up
£2,542) for taxation and including £5525
dropped from somewhere into reserves,
the net result was figured £2970 better at
£254,140. That includes £42,409 “pro-
vided” as depreciation hut “added to re-
serve for post-war restoration of stocks
and plant.” This reserve (now £259,176)
is tax free; if not ultimately wanted for
the purpose for which it was created it
is to be tossed into the general lay-by.
As for depreciation (deducted from assets
concerned in the published accounts), the
chairman said a year ago, that reserve
had “grown almost to the proportions of
the capital account itself.” The £254,140
of profit shown in the table covered pref.
requirements and 20.8 p.c. on the
£1,100,000 of ord. capital, compared with
20.6, 18.2, 18.1, 14.5, 18.6, 21 and 16 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at 14
p.c., of which 2 p.c. is still labelled bonus.
The policy during the war was to put
the co.’s quota of newsprint into sales.
Its journals have thus emerged with low
advertising content (revenue from this
source dropped more than 60 p.c.), but
increased circulations. As more paper
becomes available the advertising content
will expand, and the board expects an
increase in rates, which will be partly
offset by the lift in thft basic wage. New
high - speed presses and rotogravure
color equipment are on order from
Britain, premises are to be “ex-
tended over neighboring blocks,” and
before long the co. expects to be a “pub-
lisher in the national field.” Meanwhile
the price of imported newsprint has shot
up £lO a ton —Canadian is now £4l (£l6
10s. pre-war) and Tasmanian £32 a ton
—and other costs continue to climb.
Finances are in good trim:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Stock.. £416,322 £322,687 £231,586 £500,895
Debtora,
etc... 189,816 144,219 332,828 407,954
Shares in
other cos. 726,985 893,470 725,985 725,444
Cash, etc. 16,933 227,826 654,832 370,474
Liquids £1,349,556 £1,588,202 £1,945,231 £2,004,767
Liabilities* 115,540 152,866 208,337 193,447
Surplus £1,234,016 £1,435,386 £1,736,894 £1,811,820
Freeholds,
etc... 465,456 475,025 474,691 472,148
Machinery
and plant 238,052 163,896 91,704 121,692
Net
assets £1,937,524 £2,074,257 £2,303,289 £2,405,160
* Excluding tax reserve, £194,493, 1945 ;
* £150,338, 1946.
Stocks, largely paper, were up £269,309
last term. The improvement in the net
asset position was £101,871.
The ords. at 765. 9d. (ceiling) return
3.5 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis, or 4.1 p.c,
on a 16 p.c. distribution. The 6£ p.c.
and 6 p.c. prefs. at 335. and 30s. 6d.
yield 3.9 p.c, in each case.
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 68,517 12i p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20,276 ~ 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit .. 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 3,886 367,500
1943.. 83,825 9 „ „ 75,095 8,730 376,230
1944.. 85,478 9 „ „ -75,095 10,383 386,613
Inner reserves disclosed, £87,850 .. 424,463
From tax reserve, £20,000.. .. 444,463
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. = 75,095 11,071 455,534
1946.. 87,076 9 „ „ 75,681 11,395 466,929
The curtain is kept drawn over the
figures of the operating subsidiaries. Still,
the organisation has proved a good profit
earner, with a healthy financial back-
ground, arid there are indications that
management continues to follow a pro-
gressive policy. The div., which reached
16 p.c. before the war, has averaged
8.8 p.c. over the last seven years. But
the one-for-one bonus-scrip issue in 1940,
when the main section of the business was
passed to Peters Ice Cream Pty. (paid
capital £1,000,000, all held by the parent),
makes distributions since worth double
the declared rate on capital as it stood
before the gift.
The Ice Cream Co., which is still the
backbone of group earnings, continues to
show “satisfactory” profits. Last term the
collapse of service demands was more
than offset by growth of civilian trade
(rationed during the war), despite power
restrictions and rail-transport difficulties,
which bumped up costs. Through this
offshoot the parent is also interested in
three inter-State associates —Peters Arctic
(Q.), Peters (Vic.) and Peters (W.A.) —all
in the ice-cream business and all giving
a very good account of themselves.
Second-largest contributor to the pool
is Peters Creamery Pty., operating at
Taree (N.S.W.), and in which the parent
holds the 150,000 f.-p. £1 ords. It was
formed about eight years ago to supply
the other co. with cream, and has grown
into one of the leading milk condenseries
in the Commonwealth. Here, too, “satis-
factory” profits are reported. Last term
additions were made to premises and
plant, and an agreement with co-operatives
in the district is said to “partly offset the
influence of drought conditions on the
intake of milk and cream from the co.’s
suppliers.”
Another offshoot, Peters (S.A.) Pty., in
which the parent holds 10,000 f.-p. £1
ords., was formed last term. It awaits
Treasury approval for purchase of a
property in Adelaide, and plant and
equipment are on order.
A further important development dur-
ing the year was purchase of a “substan-
tial” interest in the old-established dairy-
produce business of Foley Bros. Pty.
(Sydney) and Foley Bros. (London), Ltd.,
thus making marketing as well as pro-
duction of dairy produce a family matter.
The deal, settled after the books were
ruled off, will appear in the next
accounts.
The operating concerns sent along
enough for the parent to show £87,076
(up £1598) of profit, equal to 10.3 p.c.
on average capital, compared with 10.3,
10.2, 10, 8.4, 9.2 and 10.5 p.c. back to
1940, The div, was kept at 9 p.c., and
prospects of that rate being maintained
during the current term are encouraging,
despite the recent lift in the basic wage.
Here is as much as the parent’s pub-
lished accounts tell: -r-
-1940. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £834,306 £834,383 £844,255
Creditors* .. .. 57,736 11,719 11,573
Plant .. .. 117,831
Shares in subsidiaries 783,046 1,156,000 1,166,000
Shares other cos., etc. 97,337 90,811 90,811
Debtors . . .. 165,701 1,670 1,676
Cash and bonds .. 126,180 90,701 102,261
* Includes provision for taxation.
During the year Is. 2d. was called on
169,247 contribs., making them paid to
10s. 6d. each, and holders will welcome
a similar call, to be made at an early
date. It will lift paid capital to £854,128
in 1,248,391 shares of 14s, each, of which
the contribs. will be paid to 11s, Bd. and
the balance fully paid.
At the ceiling price of 31s. 6d. the f.-ps.
return 4 p.c. on a 9 p.c, div. basis. The
ceiling for the contribs. is 20s. When
restrictions are lifted in the New Year,
this figure can be expected to strengthen
a little. Net tangible cover is 30s. lid.
per pound of paid capital, subject to the
position in the subsidiaries.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1936.. 30,019 8£ p.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 „ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
1938.. 36,871 9j „ „ 28,375 8,496 40,948
1939.. 37,121 10 „ „ 29,868 7,253 48,201
1940.. 21,319 8 „ „ 23,895 —. 45,625
1941.. 21,579 6 „ „ 17,920 3,659 49,284
1942.. 16,221 5$ „ „ 16,427 49,078
1943.. 18,342 6 „ „ 17,921 421 49,499
1944.. 19,942 6 „ „ 17,921 2,021 51,520
1945.. 18,121 6 „ „ 17,921 200 51,720
1946.. 18,077 6 „ „ 17,921 156 51,876
This old-established catering and re-
freshment business, which has 41
branches in and around Sydney, had just
emerged from its troubles, following a
policy of property-purchase on borrowed
funds during the booming 1920’5, when
altered conditions ushered in by war
slowed down the rate of net earnings.
Turnover expanded. The troubles were
rationing, price-fixing, shortages of staff
and materials and ascending costs, in-
cluding taxation, together with growth of
competition. Many of these troubles re-
main, and it is difficult to say exactly
when earnings are likely to be substanti-
ally relieved of the burden. Indeed, the
recent lift in the basic wage will further
narrow the co.’s margins. Much will
depend upon the extent to which the
prices commissioner eases the pressure by
allowing the co. to increase its charges.
Last term continued rationing of meat,
tea, butter and sugar and shortage of
staff and materials stood in the way of
the management’s desire to widen the
variety of goods and service offered.
Also, the gas and electricity rationing of
a year or so ago, owing to Labor’s anti-
social tactics —repeated again this Christ-
mas —and higher prices for some raw
materials both restricted trading and in-
creased costs. After allowing £14,652
(down £44) for depreciation and some-
thing for taxation, the net result (down
T. & G. MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
RECORD EXPANSION
The Seventieth Annual Meeting of the Society was held on
Monday, 2 3rd December, at the Society’s Head Office in
Melbourne.
New Business
The Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said;
“New Business completions in the Life Depart-
ments were eminently satisfactory, 132,669 poli-
cies assuring £22,127,522 having been issued; an
increase of £6,886,477 over the previous year’s
aggregate sum assured. This is a record total
and is a tribute to the popularity of the Society
and evidence of satisfaction in its dealings with
the Public. In the Accident Department the
sums assured were £6,905,497, more than double
the previous year’s total. None of this Business
was obtained in the United Kingdom or other
distant parts of the Empire, the whole of it
having been derived from Australia and New
Zealand.
“Last year I strongly advocated, as a means
of lessening the danger of inflation, that as
much as possible of the excess purchasing-powef
in the hands of the Public be diverted to Life
Assurance. I am happy to record that this
Society and other leading Offices have substan-
tially increased their new business completions.
Other forms of thrift, such as Savings Bank
Deposits, are helpful in temporarily restraining
inflationary tendencies, but Life Assurance re-
moves surplus money from purchasing-power
for a longer period and provides for regular
savings in future years. Further expansion
of new business should be of benefit to the
community.
“Group Assurance operations were particu-
lady successful, an increasing number of em-
ployers realising that the establishment of
a subsidised Group Assurance Plan is necessary
for the preservation of a happy relationship be-
tween employer and employee.
Income and Payments to Policyholders
“The Income increased by £759,538 to
£9,083,468. Maturity Claims show a normal in-
crease, while the experience of Death Claims
was entirely satisfactory. Payments to Policy-
holders amounted to £3,740,806, an average of
£12,000 for every working day in the year.
Assurance Funds
“The Funds have grown to £50,263,309, the
increase, £3,341,917, being the largest ever re-
corded. In recent years our investments have
been confined largely to Government Securities,
The total amount contributed to War and
Security Loans reached £24,788,865. Mainly
for this reason the rate of Interest earned was
lower at £4/0/11%. However, as the require-
ments of the Governments diminish, it is antici-
pated that the loan programmes of Local
Bodies will expand. There should also be a
growing demand for mortgage money, particu-
larly under the Society’s popular Home Pur-
chase system, when industry begins to function
more smoothly than at present, so that other
suitable avenues for investment of the funds
should be opened.
Taxes
“The total paid in taxes last year amounted
to £219,243, of which £183,374 represented In-
come and Land taxes. The amount payable
in taxes under existing Statutory provisions is
proving to be a strain on the funds of the
Policyholders in view of the fall in rates of in-
terest. Your Directors are firmly of the opinion
that Life Assurance savings are of such benefit
to the community that they should not be sub-
iect t 0 the burden of taxation.
,
* he Actuar y * Report
“The Actuary reports that changing financ;al
conditions have necessitated a review of the
valuation bases and that the valuation this
year has been made on the assumption of an
interest rate of 2i% per annum except for
pure endowments and deferred annuities, for
which the rate used was 3%. A surplus of
£990,342 was recorded, and the Actuary recom-
mends that after reserving £45,000 for actuarial
contingencies, the greater part of the balance
be allotted as reversionary bonuses, maintam-
ing the same scales as for the previous year.
The Accident Department continued to make
exceptional progress. It is closely interlocked
with the Life Department, with mutual advan-
tages to both. This close correlation has been
mainly responsible for the accumulation of the
surplus in the Accident Department, from which
£lOO,OOO is being transferred to the reserve
funds of the Life Department.
Value of Life Assurance
“Coming at a time when old-age pensions
and social security benefits have been in-
creased, the completion of such a huge volume
of new business is highly gratifying. It indi-
cates that the public desire the fullest security
and protection and that, far from being satisfied
with the necessities of life which social security
benefits should provide, there is a desire for
real comfort, not only for the Policyholder in
old age, but also for dependants of the Policy-
holder after his death. The satisfactory Ve-
sponse last year denotes, too, an abiding faith
in the voluntary co-operative system, under
which a Mutual Life Society is established as
well as. a complete satisfaction with the Society’s
Service and Management,
Reinstatement of Ex-Servicemen
“The reinstatement of ex-servicemen and
women has proceeded smoothly and satisfac-
torily and their rehabilitation has engaged our
close attention. Facilities have been granted
for refresher courses of study, and opportuni-
tics have been created wherever possible for
advancement in the service. These splendid
young people have settled down to their tasks
with zeal and enthusiasm and have impressed
us with their wish to co-operate in every way
with the Management. I take this opportunity
to thank all members of the staff for their loyal
and valued services.
“Since the last Annual Meeting, Mr. Robert
McDonald found it necessary, on account of
his failing health, to retire from the Board of
Directors after holding office for more than 26
years. The Board accepted his resignation with
regret and duly recorded its appreciation of
his long and valued service with the Society,
Mr. Richard Arnold Rowe, Chairman of the
Stock Exchange, Melbourne, was appointed to
fill the vacancy, and, in my opinion, Policy-
holders are very fortunate to have secured his
services.”
The retiring Directors, Col. Sir Charles E.
Merrett, Kt., C.8.E., V.D., and Messrs. A. W.
Relph and R. A. Rowe, and retiring Auditors,
Messrs. A. McK. Hislop and C. A. Holmes,
were re-elected.


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
PATENTS, trade marks,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASBEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS —EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone
8W4931
Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
O’SULLIVAN
PTYITD '
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
<yyiote than
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
.*• .. .
vs
M oney not
a Cure-all
MONEY will never be —• can
never be—the miraculous
cure-all that the advocates of
monetary reform would have us
believe.
Our Australian Standard of
Living depends not on the
volume of money in circulation
but on the volume of goods
and services available to the
consumers or users.
The business of the Banking
system is to supply to manufac-
turers and traders such money
as they need for the production
and marketing of these goods and
services. The amount goes up
or down with the level of bus-
iness activity, and is governed
by that level.
This Bank, already serving
thousands of customers, stands
ready to supply Credit in full
measure to competent individ-
uals and companies for all con-
structive purposes.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1 83 r 4
with which is amalgamated
THE BJUW OF VICTORIA LTD.
£44) was approx. 6 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 6, 6.6, 6.1, 5.4, 7.2, 7.1 and
12.4 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at 6 p.c., and the co. might have diffi-
culty in netting sufficient to cover that
rate during the current term. Average
div. was 6.2 p.c. over the last seven years,
and 9.2 p.c. for the four years before
that.
New plant, ordered in 1943, is now
arriving, and extensions to factory pre-
mises are in hand. During the year
£110,144 was lopped off mortgages and
the co. went to its bankers for £79,040,
thus reducing the interest-bearing debt by
£31,140:
1940. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £298,682 £298,682 £298,682
Overdraft .. .'. 23,799 79,040
Mortgages .. .. 127,744 119,144 9,000
Creditors* .. .. 72,230 60,521 69,884
'Freeholds .. .. 296,527 305,477 306,128
Leaseholds . . . . 20,173 5,977 5,590
Plant, etc 112,982 79,691 75,755
Stocks .. . . 19,781 21,782 24,969
Shares other cos. . . 79,105 79,105 79,105
Debtors . . . . 10,674 10,239 4,033
Cash .. . . 37,799 36,757 21,863
* Includes provision for taxation.
When the books closed outside liabilities
exceeded more or less liquids by £27,954,
an improvement of £3829 over the
twelvemonth. What shareholdings turn
in isn’t mentioned. The Newcastle co.
(paid capital £14,526) again paid 12 p.c.
Other holdings include the scrip in Pear-
son’s Fish Cafe, Sargents (Wholesalers),
which does the buying, and City Estate
Property Estates,
The market hopes for the best and
prices the pound ords., covered by 235.
sd. in net tangibles, at 30s. 3d., at which
figure the return is 3.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis.
The incentive motive is being applied
in industry from top to bottom these
days.* At an extraordinary general meet-
ing in London on December 19, share-
holders in New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, whose mine adjoins Zinc Corp.’s
at the Barrier (N.S.W.), were asked to
fix the annual remuneration of the chair-
man at £5OO, and of each other member
of the board at £250, plus a sweetener of
2 p.c. of any profit that remains after
shareholders are paid a 10 p.c. div.,
such sweetener to be divided equally, or
as the board decides. In addition, the
board asked for 2 p.c, of any profit
over and above paid capital (now
£846,474) arising from sale of the under-
taking, or any part thereof, other than
sales in the ordinary course of business.
There are four directors, John R. Govett
(chairman), knight Clive Baillieu, L. B.
Robinson and W. S, Robinson, with F.
A, Crew as alternative, all of whom are
also on the board of Zinc Corp. Assum-
ing that the co. paid 10 p.c. or better
out of profits equal to 20 p.c. on capital
as it now stands, the chairman would be
entitled, on an equal distribution, to
receive £923 and the other directors
£673 each. If net earnings were equal to
40 p.c., the chairman would be entitled
to £1769, and other members of the
board to £1519 each. Reasons for the
other possible 2 p.c. rake-off on capital
profit are less readily understandable.
* * * *
“Joburg”: Finance and Mines Minister
Hofmeyer recently said chief dangers
threatening goldmining, and therefore
South Africa’s economic structure, was
the continued upward trend of costs,
which was putting out of action mines
at present showing a small margin of
profit. In a bit of special pleading for
a rise in the price of gold, knight Ernest
Oppenheimer, boss of a number of big
producing cos., told the press that
dearer costs might bring about a lift.
While it was admitted that the
dollar was the cornerstone of Bretton
Woods currency schemes, and its de-
valuation therefore opposed, there was
some subtle hairsplitting taking place in
the United States, where pressure was
being brought to bear on the Treasury
to revalue gold. The statutory par value
of the dollar is 15 5/21 grains gold nine-
tenths fine. The U.S. has requested the
International Monetary Fund to accept
this valuation as the par value at which
it will buy and sell dollars. In September
last Mr. Snyder, Secretary of the U.S.
Treasury, said that “the stand taken by
the Administration should allay any
rumors that the Fund might require the
U.S. to devalue its currency.” Neverthe-
less, London has taken up the cry for an
all-round increase in the price of the
yellow metal in terms of currencies of all
countries participating in the Bretton
Woods plan.
* * * *
Victory Tin, NX., has been launched
in Melbourne to work a sluicing property
at Stannifer, seven miles from Tingara
(N.S.W.). Nominal capital is £lO,OOO in
£5 shares, of which 1400 are offered and
underwritten. The vendor takes 400
paids for leases and plant, and the pro-
moter, I, L. Moore, 200 paids for transfer
of his option, etc. E. L. Dettmann re-
ports that boring has disclosed 500,000
c.y., averaging Hlb. t. 0., over an area of
10 acres, and there is reckoned to be an-
other 500,000 c.y. of slightly-lower grade
further down the lead. The plant is ex-
pected to handle 5000 c.y. a month, at an
estimated cost of £75 a week. On that
basis, and assuming the oxide assays 75
p.c. tin, profit would be about £490 a
month with tin at £376 a ton, the local
price for high-cost producers.
« * * *
Shortage of labor and materials pre-
vented Maude and Yellow Girl, Glen
Willis (Vic.), from stepping up production
to mill capacity (20,000 tons p.a.), and
from making the progress desired with its
programme of development. Operating
results over the last four years compare
as follows:
Recovery. Div.
Crushed, Gold, Av. Profit. Per Amt.
June, 1 otis. Oz. Dwt. £ Share. £
1943.. 11,120 4739 8.9 14,553 2/- 9000
1944.. 10,654 3697 7.2 1,008 1/- 4500
1945.. 10,215 3519 6.9 1,656 -/6 2250
1946.. 10,065 3540 7.0 1,671* -/6 2975
* Loss.
Last term’s loss was written after credit-
ing working account with a gold-tax re-
fund of £3214, In the previous year
£5190 was credited on this count. Mining,
treatment and development costs rose
from 645. 9d. in 1945 to 71s. Bd. a ton
last term. Ore reserves of average mine
grade above No. 9 level are put at
57,735 tons (up 4435 tons), of which
35,030 tons is probable ore not yet opened
up for recovery. Shaft sinking has been
completed to No. 10 level, where ore
first encountered was low-grade, but
values improved as the drive pushed
north, and now match those on the levels
above. More labor recently became avail-
able, and a better showing is expected at
the close of next accounts. When the
books closed mine and plant stood at
£49,891, and current assets totalled
£19,245. There was £2353 coming to
outsiders. Issued capital is £119,000, of
which £56,171 is in hand. The pound
shares, paid to 13s. 4d. each, fetch 245.
or thereabouts on the market.
* * *
Operations of Cocks Eldorado (paid
capital £137,500 in 10s. shares),
Wangaratta (Vic.), were again disap-
pointing for the year to September 30
last, and the outlook is not very bright.
Early last term it was decided to abandon
the ground downstream, to which the
dredge had been turned, and the machine
had to work back through its own tail-
ings. Just as this had been done and
profitable ground entered again the large
settling dam broke, causing damage to
dredge equipment and filling the operat-
ing paddock with slum, which was diffi-
cult and expensive to remove. Repairs
cost £2704 and took five weeks, during
which time no dredging could be done.
Operating results over the last five years
compare as follows:
Ore Av. Av. Net
Treated, Value, Cost, Profit. Dividends.
Sept., O.y. C.y. O.y. £ P.c. £
1942.. 401.460 6.86 d. 4.20 d. 21,218 16 = 20,625
1943.-2,079,490 6.57 d. 4.33 d. 8,415 5 „ 6,875
1944.. 820 5.54 d. 4.19 d. 7,831 5„ 6,876
1945.. 1.680.930 5.22 d. 5.02 d. 879* Nil
1946.-1,747,860 5.59 d. 5.26 d. 425 Nil
* Loss.
Last term mining resulted in a loss of
£llO, but £535 was received in interest,
rent, etc., leaving a net profit of £425.
Immediately ahead of the dredge, which
has been re-equipped with new buckets
and rollers, is some 4,000,000 c.y. (about
two years’ work), bored to average 6d.
In front of this again is 2,168,000 c.y.,
value of which has yet to be determined.
Examination of adjoining areas failed to
disclose further pay dirt. When the books
closed the mine figured at £51,390,
dredge,, etc., £63,089, liquids £25,197.
There was £3093 coming to outsiders.
The market prices the scrip at ss, 9d. or
thereabouts.
* * * *
Western Queen, which has been un-
successfully hunting for a worth-while
mining property in Westralia for some
years, has taken an option (terms
not broadcast) over the old Lady Gladys
leases at Mulline near Menzies, and is on
the lookout for plant for exploratory
work. At end of May the co. held cash
and shares with a book value of £5308,
and said to be worth more. Those on the
register were recently asked for another
penny (expected to turn in £2411), making
the shares fully paid to Is. each.


CAM mm BECOME A
NEW PRIMARY INDUSTRY/
liiiiii
m
Pi
9
ymt-
\~V —u„
V
W
mi
r
».. T ,—
J
MEGGITT LIMITED back Australian
growers in far-reaching plan
Meggitt Limited firmly believe that, in
the raising of regular linseed crops,
Australia will quickly find a new
primary industry, highly profitable to
the grower and vitally valuable to
many of Australia's secondary
industries.
The Federal and State Departments
of Agriculture also share this opinion
with Meggitt Limited, and have fully
co-operated by developing a rust-
resistant variety of linseed suitable
to Australian conditions.
So selected growers are being issued
free with this seed, with a guaranteed
price for the harvested linseed crop.
Each year a much greater acreage
will be sown by a progressively in-
creased number of farmers. Thus, very
shortly, Australia's newest primary
industry should be Australia's own
independent source of linseed oil, vital
to her secondary industries.
B : M jb
l»
mm
'• i f>’ A '
' m it
I I
>S>S3«
- *■
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Linseed Oil Meal, Linseed Sheep Nuts
Head Office: 67 York St., Sydney. Box 1555, G.P.0., Sydney. Works: PARRAMATTA, N.S.W.; MELBOURNE; ADELAIDE.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT.
“Welcome Home”
Melbourne’s most pressing problem,
the housing shortage, has at last reached
the footlights in “Welcome Home,” by
Jim Crawford, and produced at the New
Theatre by Hilda Esson.
The action takes place in a room in a
house in Fitzroy to which comes Bill
Halliday, a soldier on the eve of dis-
charge. He finds his young wife in oc-
cupation, and there is a passionate re-
union. Then Aunt May Thompson turns
up, a far from pleasant person, followed
by Ida Thompson, her daughter, and it
transpires that there are more citizens
off stage who are sharing the Halliday
homestead, which is less like a connubial
nest than a North Australian antheap.
The communal bath is under the kitchen
table, nobody can be turned out because
there is nowhere else to go to, and a
story is gradually unfolded which makes
the soldier wish he was back in the com-
parative privacy of New Guinea. The
play closes with everybody expressing a
determination that the whole system must
be altered.
Roma Joy Williams, Peter Sainthill,
Sue Rodgers and Norma Russell acted
the piece as something with which they
were acquainted. Its characterisation
was good, and its main weakness was
that it was rather* like a dramatisation of
a “Herald” leader.
Volterra
Volterra’s farewell recital at the Sydney
Town Hall called for a minimum of
thunderous chords from the masters. For
a sonata the pianist went to early Beet-
hoven —a Beethoven of the quiet serene
mood before the frustrations and bitter-
ness and approaching deafness lashed him
into the passionate outbursts of his later
works. The D Major, opus 28, written
when Beethoven was 31, has lilt and
laughter in it, and this Volterra evoked
with a touch akin to the mood. Bach’s
Toccata, Adagio and Fugue retained its
coruscating showiness under the pianist’s
supple fingers. Schumann could have
been represented by no better work than
his “Etudes Symphonic,” with all nine
studies. Four Chopin pieces—the B Flat
Minor mazurka, the A Flat Major
waltz, the B Major nocturne (one of the
composer’s lesser-known but most beauti-
ful short works), and the Scherzo No. 1 in
B Minor—left no doubt of Volterra’s
high ranking as an exponent of Chopin.
Willem Noske
Dutch violinist Willem Noske made his
first Sydney appearance at the Town Hall,
with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra.
He gave the impression of being a good,
competent violinist, of original and highly
developed talents. But in the Max Bruch
G Minor Concerto no real test is made
of a violinist, and the Robert de Roos
Concertino gave play for technical skill
only in the technical sense. At the first
concert Noske’s playing seemed a shade
too austere, and his personal mannerisms
were, at times, more interesting than his
music. More will have to be heard of
him. The Sydney Symphony Orchestra,
under Percy Code, acquitted itself well,
particularly with Wagner’s “The Flying
Dutchman” Overture and Schubert’s “Un-
finished Symphony.”
Orchestra and Choir
The N.S.W. Junior Orchestra and
Choir, under the baton of Professor Carl
Sauer, was heard in a well-balanced pro-
gramme at the Sydney Town Hall. Best
of the night’s work was done in the
first movement of. the Schubert B Minor
Symphony (“The Unfinished”). A
novelty was a performance of the Chopin
A Minor Polonaise with orchestra and
piano with the conductor as soloist.
Beethoven’s “Egmont” Overture and
Wagner’s March from “Tannhauser”
were other works, though a certain
raggedness—due mainly to the players’
too-deep concentration on their scores to
the exclusion of the conductor —partly
marred the latter. There is solid material
here, though, and the leader, Myra Mere-
dith, revealed a nice touch in a violin
solo, Schumann’s “Nocturne.”
At the Talkies.
“The Rake’s Progress”
There is nothing particularly rakish
about the progress of the central char-
acter of this Sydney Embassy film. The
son of a respectable M.P., he is sent down
from Oxford for decorating one ot toe
spires with an enamel receptacle, ai *s at
coffee in South America, and is then
the cause of a divorce case by spending
the night in a hotel with a friend s wife.
Since he is about the tenth on the lady s
list, it’s reasonable to assume as the
friend does —that the blame is well distri-
buted. The young man then takes light-
heartedly to driving racing motor-cars,
marries a Jewess —on a commercial basis
—to save her from the Nazis in Austria,
takes her to England, where she divorces
him after he has fallen in and out of
love with her, then fallen again for his
father’s secretary and killed his father
in a car accident.
The young man meets his end by mak-
ing a very costly mistake —as captain of
an armored car during the war in Europe
he directs his vehicle across a bridge to see
if it is mined. There are less expensive
ways of finding out, but it rounds off the
yarn and permits him to die in traditional
manner with “a smile on his Ups” and
bottle of French champagne in his hand.
For most of the way the film is a good,
plausible and straightforward character
study with Rex Harrison turning in his
customary intelligent acting.
“The Jolson Story”
This, at Sydney State, is the best
musical film released in these parts for
a long time. Its moments of sentimen-
tality are not the kind that make you
screw up your programme in horror, and
it has a property very rare in films —one
feels sorry when it ends. If Larry Parkes’s
interpretation of A 1 Jolson is an accurate
one —and that seems very likely—it’s
not hard to realise why people liked to
hear him sing. Jolson, it is recorded, had
a way of singing that would make his
audience laugh or cry, not as they de-
sired, but as Jolson did. In the film
Larry Parkes attempts the same thing
with a fair measure of success —although
Jolson’s voice has been dubbed into the
sound-track to help him along.
“Canyon Passage”
This, at Sydney Victory, is another
pioneering opus done out in technicolor,
and, despite the unbelievable vividness of
its scenery, it has the merits of a hero
and a villain, who stage a thoroughly
slap-up brawl, and of a horde of Indians
who seem really red and really wild and
who take noisy, unrestrained delight in
scalping their victims. Patricia Roc is
the dark-haired wench and Susan Hay-
ward the red-haired ditto ; one is en-
gaged to rugged young trader Dana
Andrews and t’other to storekeeper Brian
Donlevy, who is weakly and wickedly
gambling away ids customer’s gold dust.
Another male suitor expands the romance
to polygonal proportions before the In-
juns hop in and clean up the loose ends.
“Dragonwyck”
As an added attraction to this current
offering at Sydney Century it may be
announced that Rip Van Winkle slept
here—the rather sombre doings of the
film are set in the Catskills, and concern
an early Dutch landholder who main-
tains a kind of feudal state, his property
' being worked for him by a hundred or
more cockies on something less than a
share-farming basis. The gentleman
dwells in a gloomy castle called “Dragon-
wyck,” haunted by the ghosts and
memories of his ancestors, has driven
one wife insane and murders her so that
he can repeat the process on another.
His second target is Gene Tierney, who
registers the three or four necessary
emotions with mechanical precision.
Vincent Price plays the “heavy” very
heavily, and that admirable actor Walter
Huston tosses in a few moments of good
work as a plain, God-fearing farmer.
Artbursts.
A “Christmas, 1946,” show at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, has 32
paintings, ranging in price from six to
50 guineas, and in quality from fairly
good to poor. Rupert Bunny’s “Clearing
Weather, Sanary,” is disappointing—striv-
ing for delicacy the artist has achieved
only emptiness or, at least, dull under-
statement. Arthur Murch’s “The Catch,”
on the other hand, is vital, man and boy
and fish showing both red and glistening;
Justin O’Brien’s “Adoration of the Kings’
is the usual bright and pallid group—a
kind of rococo Byzantine, a long way
after Byzantium; Roland Wakelin’s
“Avenue in Winter,” despite various and
obvious faults, has cool patches of color,
and “The Hills of Bathurst,” by Lloyd
Rees, has hard outlines of trees and a
severe photographic quality of light, but
also a massiveness of structure which
claims attention. D. Orban’s “Village
on the River” is interesting, but inferior
to his best work, and Russell Drysdale s
“Portrait of a Woman,” with a familiar
type of subject, is quieter and surer
than the majority of his paintings.


ft
"n r\>
<rr/?
3
N
■r?
jj
%
“OSRAM” BRIGHTENS
HOME LIFE
With Henry Smith you’ll sympathise,
He suffered trouble with his eyes;
The cause, of course, was feeble lights,
That’s why he couldn’t read at nights,
Which made him cranky with his wife
And kids, and filled the home with strife.
But brightness now replaces gloom.
They’ve "OSRAM” lamps in every room. .
O f° r
an
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Guaranteed by:
Stfeefatc C& ffiy. sct.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The ff.(S.C. of England,j
SYDNEY* NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH
HOBART • LAUNCESTON
Missing Friend.
TO ALEXANDER CUTTING formerly of Box Hill
in the State of Victoria but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AMY ISABEL
CUTTING has instituted proceedings against you
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne within twenty-one days of the publication
of this advertisement the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs AND
FURTHER if you intend to defend the said pro-
ceedings you must cause an Answer to be filed in
the said Office within thirty-one days of the publi-
cation of this advertisement. THIS ADVERTISE-
MENT is inserted by C. M. S. POWER, of 283
Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Run at Randwick on Saturday, the Villiers
Stakes, worth 1000 guineas plus sweepstakes
to the winner, went to Native Son. It looked
a very open race, with Immediate and Putt-
ham eventually joint favorites at sevens; the
winner drifted in the betting, eights and tens
being available at starting time, though as short
as 5 to 1 had been laid.
Reasonably weighted at Bst., and with Briscoe
up, Native Son went straight to the front, to
make all the running. Despite his top weight of
9.6 Ipimediate, never far back, ,was looming
dangerous at the distance, with Wellington
also putting in a run, but both were safely held
by the winner, who clocked a smart 1.36} for
the mile and 19yds. For two other races over
the same distance times were 1.38 and 1.39 t.
Since the false rail is in use more often than
not at Randwick, it would be a good idea to
give credit where due by recording separate
track records fop these odd distances.
Raced by W. W. Kirwan, Native Son is a
four-year-bid brown gelding by the Liraond
horse Veilmond, and is the third son of that
sire to win a Villiers, previous ones being Rod-
borough and Rimveil.
A remarkable feature of Saturday’s racing
was the success of Queensland jockeys. In the
Villiers, as well as Briscoe riding the winner,
G. Moore was on Immediate and N. Sellwood
on Wellington. Sellwood came down specially
to ride Wellington, but took four other mounts
and filled a place every time, including a dead-
heat for first. In the 10-furlongs December
Handicap he rode Skip Bomber (at long odds
despite a recent win); in a grand finish Skip
Bomber deadheated with Kiaree, ridden by N.
McGrowdie, another ex-Queenslander. A good
effort on the part of Kiaree, who was conced-
“ Wot's bitin him — I’m the one who should be annoyed.”
ing the other almost two stone. Codicil col-
lected what remained of the prizemoney.
Briscoe rode a treble of winners, leading off
with the hitherto unlucky Merry Matthew filly
Chanson Gai, who beat Tattling and Herbert
River in the Three-year-old Handicap. Chan-
son Gai ran erratically over the final half fur-
long, which cost Briscoe a term of two months’
suspension. His other, winner was another that
has had poor luck, The Tiger, also by Merry
Matthew and part-owned by the A.J.C. chair-
man, A. G. Potter. The Tiger did really well
to win the 12-furlongs Encourage. After miss-
ing the start and being last in the early stages,
he commenced to make up ground with six
furlongs to go and sustained the run right to
the post, fairly outstaying Abokina and Binnia
Lassie.
„ ‘ . "• " , ", , ’
Sweltering in a particularly sticky afternoon,
punters found little comfort m the results of
mpst events. The only favorite to do the right
thing was Mandova (J. Thompson), hard
pressed to down Prince Mohican and Sovereign
in the December Juvenile.
I,’* , * *
A photo.-finish tower has begun to rear an
extraordinarily ugly and obstructive head be-
hind the judge’s box at Randwick. Occupants
of the Members’ Stand were taking a poor view
of the thing, but the judge must have wished it
had been completed in time to deal with the
December Nursery for fillies, in which Shading,
Nizam’s Ring and Profound went over the fine
with nothing between them. The judge placed
them in that order, with half-head margins. By
Brueghel from the Claro mare Gold Tinge,
Shading was having her first run, and more
than repaid her yearling cost of 500 guineas,
Time for both two-year-old events, run'®over
five furlongs and 11yds., was quite fair at LIT
A Welter Handicap went to the Emborough
gelding Souvenir (H. Russell), comfortably beat-
ing Edinburgh and Constable.
* * * *
On Saturday at Moonee Valley—a charity
meeting in aid of various hospitals, though as
favorites and second favorites won almost every
race bookmakers must have regarded it as a
benefit meeting for punters—H. Badger was
given the job of trying to break Mokan’s run
of stiff luck: with Unkovitch in the saddle the
Lord Paramount gelding had finished second
at his previous three starts. Sent out favorite
for the Lord Mayor’s Handicap of a mile and
a half, Mokan this time at least enabled his
backers to cut their losses, deadheating for first
with the rough ’un Miss Prim. Apprentice W.
A. Smith on Miss Prim rode a great race, stick-
ing beside the favorite all the way and match-
ing his every move. The pair led into the
straight and staged a fine tussle to the finish,
where Smith’s vigor drew a little extra effort
from the Blank mare, enabling her to draw
level after she had appeared beaten off. An
outlay of £1 on the win tote would have very
nearly repaid the owner of Miss Prim the 35
guineas he paid for her at a dispersal sale. It
was the third deadheat in two days racing at
the Valley, where the camera is not yet in use.
Apart from Miss Prim, the only exception
to the run of short-priced winners was Cherry
Boy, an aged Cimbrian gelding whose recent
and past form quite justified the long odds
offered against him in the Alfred Hurdle.
Ridden by R. Dean, he led practically all the
way to pass the post five lengths in front of
Tralee, with the favorite, Kookaburra, eight
lengths further back.
The nominal coincidence of a horse named
Touch And Go being ridden by a jockey named
Finger may have accounted for some of the
solid support accorded the combination in the
Benefit Handicap, but more than mere coinci-
dence was needed to upset the warm favorite
Wandilow (A. Breasley), who won very
narrowly; Touch And Go second and Caudate
third. Also a favorite, Hellenist (J. PurteU)
in the Hospital Highweight jumped out smartly
from the rails position and led throughout to
down Lord Beaufort and Doughboy.
At the fixed weights of the Juvenile Stakes
the Hellespont colt Hororata was slightly pre-
ferred to the John James filly Del Rose.
Nevertheless the filly, ridden by Sam Martin,
had the best of it in a tight finish with
Hororata and another colt, Birmingham.
Dhutia, one of the Dhoti breed, ‘ran an
improved race suggestive of a coming win.
Both divisions of the six furlongs Victoria
Handicap were open affairs, the first going
to Vaninka (R. Hutchinson), who just touched
off St. Dandy and Merasia. Kinderson (L.
Tournier) took a second-and-a-half longer to
down Regeen and Bannerette in the second
division, bfit he won comfortably.
* * * *
111-health has'forced the resignation of
A.J.C. secretary G. T. Rowe, who first joined
the club in 1900, became assistant sec. in 1919
and succeeded C. W. Cropper to the secretaiy-
ship in 1931. New sec. W. N. Parry Okeden
comes from a Queensland grazier family ana
did the secretarial job for several Queensland
country clubs before the war, in which he saw
six years’ service, earning a D.S.O. and ending
as a lieut.-colonel. He’s been learning the ropes
at the A.J.C. as acting-secretary over the past
six months.
* * * *
As happens time and again to racing people
who figure over-prominently in the press lime-
fight, jockey A. Mulley has had a sudden fall
from grace, the A.J.C. having suspended him
indefinitely for reasons to be disclosed to the
youth in person.
, * * * *
For Randwick (Boxing Day):
Mersey Stakes: Sweet Chime, 1; Tattling, 2;
Laurette, 3. Trial*Stakes: Prince Verity, 1;
Fbe jjger, 2; Abokina, 3. Summer Nursery:
The Groonij 1; G wen Roe, 2; Prince
B rue gfi e i 3. .December Stakes: Temeraire, 1.
Chisholm Handicap: Wellington, 1; Melgoda,
2 Souvenil% 3. summer Cup: Silver Link, 1;
o pen Airj 2; Kiaree, 3. A.J.C. Handicap:
Silent, 1; Lord Neith, 2; Johnny Zero, 3.
„ *, T ~ * * *
Second test:
Apart from a few fifth-columnists whose
voices infiltrated from the Hill trying to get
Barnes out, after he’d been batting for only
three days, the huge Sydney crowds—upwards
of 50,000 on the Monday, and 196,253 alto-
gether—took the second Test quietly,
As in Brisbane, Bradman added his cus-
tomary quota of records. It was an astonishing
performance, because on appearances you
wouldn’t have given him a, tail-ender’s chance
of doing it. He was never exactly a Hercules,
even of the pocket variety, but he always used
to look compact and most decidedly lively,
When he came out to continue his innings
on the Tuesday, he looked thinned down, some-
what frail and tired. He’d had a recurrence of
gastric trouble, and as well was limping from
a ricked leg muscle that had made him send
Meuleman to substitute in the field,
The limp got worse after a run or . two.
Barnes several times walked the length of the
pitch apparently to express regrets for having
called him on too short a one—a run that the
old Bradman would have made two. Something
like 50 runs must have been lost in the day
through missed singles.
It was like watching a three-legged horse
winning races, because, though he seemed to
be in trouble with himself all the time, and
looked as if he should have been in bed, Brad-
man just went on- scoring with all his old
capacity. The man looked different, but the bat
didn’t. By stumps on the Tuesday his first
Test century at Sydney Cricket Ground had
been added to his extraordinary fist, and had
been raised to 234 for good measure. With
Barnes (who’d been doggedly there since the
innings .began on the Saturday, and who also
totalled 234), he shared a world-record fifth-
wicket partnership of 405, which was also, of
course, a Test record for that wicket, and was
as well a record for any wicket in a Test in
Australia.
It was Bradman’s second successive century
in the current Tests, putting him still further
in a claSs by himself in Test centuries and
double centuries. He had one bad few minutes,
when Wright, who bowled excellently but with
stiff luck, beat him two or three times in an
over. He eventually went l.b.w. to Yardley,
and soon after Barnes joined him, c. Ikin, b.
Bedser. The stumps total was 571; England’s
first innings had totalled 255.
The Australian score having been rapidly
taken to 659 on the fifth day, Bradman de-
clared with a couple of wickets in hand, giving
the Englishmen about 20 minutes before
lunch, chasing a lead of 404. And, instead of
any playing stolidly for a draw, they at Once
set off to chase it. There was nothing brighter
in the game than Hutton’s very fast 37, mostly
from boundary shots; then the English opener
had the wretched luck to knock down his
wicket, after playing one from Miller apparently
safely. He and Washbrook had hit up 49, and
by stumps Washbrook, Edrich, Compton and
Hammond had lifted the total to 247.
It was a good fighting effort, but the tail
wagged limply on Thursday, and all were out
soon after three o’clock. Australia, by an
innings and 33 runs; two up and three to play
in the series.
Altogether, with Hutton’s and Bradman’s fine
batting, Wright’s and Johnson’s grand bowling,
Evhns’s and Tallon’s excellent ’keeping, and,
above all, the sporting quality of the invaders,
a topnotch game of cricket. There has never
been a more likeable English team. They give
the impression of being well aware that what’s
going on is a sunny game, that it’s a pleasure
to be playing—all the more remarkable because
they’re nearly all professionals.
Hammond and co. went to Newcastle at the
week-end for an easy two-day match, one
item from which deserves a place in the annals:
Washbrook, c. De Nourcey, b. Pickles.
Bruce Dooland, replacing Meuleman for the
third Test, is, at 23, one of the youngest of
first-class players. A right-hand slow bowler,
he has this season taken 4 for 88 for Aus-
tralian XI v. M.C.C. at Perth, and for S.A. 3
for 142 v. M.C.C., 4 for 229 v. Victoria and 4
for 173 v. N.S.W.
. >
For the Brisbane Test 77,344 paid £13,100;
in Sydney 196,253 paid £26,544 —both records
for the grounds, but not for Australia; ,350,534
and £30,124 were the figures at Melbourne in
1937.
Of 31 Tests played in Sydney Australia has
won 17 against 14, and in the full total of
Tests Australia has a lead of 59 to 55, with 31
drawn. Bradman has skippered in six wins
and has a" chance this season of equalling
Noble’s and Armstrong’s eight.
In Sheffield Shield last week Victoria piled up
543 v. Queensland at Melbourne, Loxton
getting 232 not out and Ring 145. In Adelaide,
S.A. scored 603 (Hamence 132 and Ridings
166) and N.S.W. 461 (Lukeman 118).
* * * *
Differing from its luck in much happier
lands, sport of all sorts took a severe
shaking in Britain during the war, but
even the bombing couldn’t block it alto-
gether. A typical example was the
Thames Hare and Hounds, the oldest
cross-country club in the world (vintage
1868). It reached the stage where the
average age of its rep. team was 41. Cam-
bridge Uni. beat these old buffers by only
three points.
• * sf: ifc
Considered the heaviest hitting welter
now in the business, Clem Sands (lOst.
81b.) tried to knock Tommy Ward (10st.
91b.) clean out of Leichhardt Stadium, but
to most of his swings the Scotch-Aus-
tralian wasn’t at home and he proved
tough enough to take anything that did
land. Sands flung them furiously in the
first few rounds. Ward, fighting back
hard from then on, took it so well on
points that the customers almost got
down to applauding the referee.
Ex-amateur champ. Billy de Belin (lOst.
put up his best professional per-
formance to date against Jack Kirkham
(lOst. 101 b.) at Sydney Stadium. More
aggressive than in previous scraps, De
Belin won the first five rounds beyond
all doubt, and though Kirkham staggered
him several times so many straight lefts
landed on the Kirkham dial that De
Belin on points was a’ foregone conclu- ■
sion.


Hies (Hi SECRET!
OF
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
mwmmMi
insulation with
0
Write for full facts and
particulars to-day. They
will be freely given.
s *9ot
)E© # -•
insulation
PTY.
LTD.
HMD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Strwt. Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collin* Street, Melbourne: Shall Houia,
Nth. Tarraca, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 144 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM; .Shall House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane, FLOWER. DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth; New Zealand Agent; WINSJONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N.. Christchurch, Dunedin.
NOW .
mL
is the time
to ensure that your estate will be administered in
accordance with your wishes.
Have your Will properly drawn by your solicitor.
Re-read and revise it from time to time, taking
into consideration any changes which occur. Mak-
ing a Will is important, but keeping it up to date
is equally necessary to ensure that your wishes will
be carried out. We shall be very glad to discuss
this matter with you at any time.
Write for Booklet
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. BOND, CHAIRMAN
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON
F. H. WAY
E. V. T. WHITTLE
(MGR.)
N. L. SHAW
(ASST. MGR.)
COUNTRY REP.;
BRUCE MACDONALD
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of H.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Minerva, Sydney
The Minerva Theatre, Orwell-street,
near King’s Cross, Sydney, was the brain-
child of David Nathaniel Martin, a Perth
(W.A.) young man who went east and
who, early in life, was interested in writing,
publicity and “show business.” He came
to Sydney, worked with Paramount and
Universal Pictures and ran the Liberty
picture-theatre successfully for three and
a half years, then, late in 1937, pro-
moted Minerva Centre, Ltd., which aimed
to build, as well as the Minerva, a larger
theatre —the Paradise —in Macleay-street.
Protesting at the time that he was a show-
man, not a financier, Martin took 3500
£1 ords. as his promoter’s cut, accepted a
five-years contract as managing-director,
and left the raising of the remaining
£50,000 of ord. capital to a Sydney
’Change firm. The issue was by no means
rushed by the public, and later on the
venture was to suffer from scarcity of
funds.
Conceived as a flesh-and-blood house,
the Minerva was designed in the first
place, architecturally, by Bruce Dellit;
but Dellit had a disagreement, and
walked off the job, dying not long
afterwards. Other people found them-
selves strained financially by their
interest in the project, which en-
countered constructional as well as
financial difficulties. Fortunately for the
venture at this time it was able to dis-
pose of the Paradise site to the City
Council as a park.
Built at a cost considerably above esti-
mates, the Minerva opened in May, 1939,
while the paint on the walls was still
wet, with “Idiot’s Delight’^—an ominous
play about the war that was about to
break. “Stars” were Lina Basquette and
Henry Mollison —Lina has since made
news on and off the stage in the U.S.A.
The association with this team ended
abruptly during the course of the next
play, in which Joy Howarth, then just
returned from her legal battle in the
U.S.A. with George Brent, also appeared.
Within five months of the theatre’s open-
ing war was declared.
Minerva made losses, the shares
slumped, there were “differences,” and
Dave Martin left the board, to
come into the scene again (apparently
profitably) as lessee of the theatre, with
“Mr. David N. Martin presents.” Noel
Coward took a bow before the footlights
after seeing “Design for Living” on the
Minerva stage. Minerva Centre itself in-
curred losses until 1943 ; at June, 1942,
the deficit had grown to £16,245, and a
year later there was a debt of £29,747.
Capital was then £57,835 in 53,500 ords.
and 4340 prefs. In the early stages the
shares fell to a dismal figure, and J. C.
Williamson, Ltd., bought a parcel. Other
interests were quietly picking up shares.
Pan-Australasian Theatres (Whitehall
Productions) then a lease of the
theatre; this concern is controlled by
Kathleen M. Robinson, who owns 3614
“A” £1 shares and 30,500 “B” shilling
shares (the one other “A” share is held
by Roland Walton). With American
troops in Sydney in force all theatre
takings revived, and, in a roundabout
way, Minerva Centre, Ltd.j as a landlord,
benefited —slightly. A first profit of £9
was earned for 1942-43.
For ja, period following Whitehall’s
taking v over of the Minerva stage Mr.
Martin seemed to be concentrating on
“Cyril Would make a splendid draughtsman — he's so arty and
temperamental."
other enterprises, including the Tivoli
Theatre. But he made a significant re-
appearance in Minerva affairs:
During the 1942-43 terra David N. Martin
returned to the board, following the disposal of
J. C. Williamson’s interest in the co, and E. J.
Tait’s resignation from the directorate. With
Mr. Martin as “financial consultant” Minerva
bought (out of the proceeds of a lease-
premium) shares in Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Pty., which owns the majority of shares in
Tivoli Circuit Pty., operating the Tivoli Theatres
in Sydney and Melbourne. At this stage the
Minerva Theatre was leased to Tivoli Circuit
for six years, subject to a sub-lease by Pan-
Australasian Theatres until June 24, 1947.
Whitehall Productions continued to put on the
shows.
In the following year Minerva (Martin now
managing-director) added to its holding of
Tivoli Celebrity shares, and it acquired scrip
valued at £3349 in Potts Point Development
Pty. Including tax-free income from the new
investments, profits rose from £3520 in 1943-44
to £6051 in 1944-45.
In 1945-46 profit from rentals and invest-
ments was £8132, including £2083 of tax-free
income. Pref. div., including arrears, of £2376
(about half tax-free) has been paid, and a 5 p.c.
ord. div., calling for £3175 (£1986 tax-free),
has been declared.
During the last financial year Minerva Centre,
Ltd., issued 10,000 new £1 ords. (to. whom
not specified), and at the same time acquired
a £10,024 (book value) interest in Tivoli Circuit
(6666 fully-paid £1 shares), added £2266 to its
holding (£20,382, now 82,155 fully-paid shilling
shares) in Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville and £2500
to its Potts Point Development holding (now
£5849, representing 5841 £1 shares).
At June 30 last, allowing for dividends,
there was a p. and 1. debit carried forward of
£6925 and preliminary exes, of £3512, together
partly offset by tax-free income suspense
account (£2741). The Minerva Theatre, includ-
ing easements over adjacent properties, figured
at £59,756.
Shareholders have since agreed to sell the
theatre to an unspecified buyer for £87,000
cash; out of which £9OOO is to be paid to
Tivoli Circuit for the surrender of its lease ex-
piring on June 34, 1950. The net figure of
£78,000 shows a profit of nearly £20,000 over
present book-value, less depredation, and this
surplus should offset all visible intangibles and
establish a capital-assets reserve.
It is proposed that E. A. Nettlefold, chair-
man of Minerva and of Tivoli Circuit,
swap 3341 Potts Point Development £1 shares
for a similar number of Minerva £1 ords., and
that 14,279 £1 5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. in Theatre
Holdings, Ltd., be exchanged for a similar
number ofmew Minerva ords. The 20,000 ords.
issued by Theatre Holdings are held as follows:
Elizabeth Bay Estates Pty., 11,500; Bellevue
Development Co. Pty., 5000; D. N. Martin,
1000; E. A. Nettlefold, 1000; G. E. Duncan,
1500.
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville has a controlling
interest of 41,250 £1 shares in Tivoli Circuit
Aust. Pty. Bellevue Development Co. and
Elizabeth Bay Estates Pty. are “substantial
shareholders” in Minerva Centre.
The circuitous methods of finance behind the
entangling combination of companies is further
shown when it is realised that, in addition to
Minerva’s present and proposed shareholdings, „
Theatre Holdings has 10,841 £1 shares in the
Potts Point co., 171,770 shilling shares in
Tivoli Celebrity and 1000 £1 shares in Tivoli
Circuit.
Also, Potts Point holds 6075 shares in Tivoli
Circuit and 25,096 in Tivoli Celebrity. Eliza-
beth Bay Estates Pty. owns 3341 Potts Point
shares and 11,500 in Theatre Holdings,
David N. Martin is a director of Theatre
Holdings, Elizabeth Bay Estates, Bellevue De-
velopment, Potts Point Development, Tivoli
Celebrity and is managing-director of Tivoli
Circuit and Minerva Centre, Ltd.
Dave Martin plays leading role on the
financial side. In this jig-saw puzzle of
interlocking companies (few people have
heard of most of them) and directors the
pint-sized Bellevue Development Co. Pty.
holds a key position. And in this con-
cern Mr. Martin owns 2500 out of the
4900 fully-paid ords. issued and 5000 of
tihe 10,000 contribs. —more than half the
capital.
Next, Bellevue Development (with
12,583 shares) and D. N. Martin (with
3375) control more than half the capital
in Elizabeth Bay Estates Pty., which has
an issue of 29,001 ords.
Elizabeth Bay Estates in turn owns
11,500 of the 20,000 ords. issued by
Theatre Holdings Pty.
Theatre Holdings and Elizabeth Bay
Estates control more than half the
£23,367 capital of Potts Point Develop-
ment Pty.
Bellevue Development, Elizabeth Bay
Estates, David Martin and others associ-
ated with Martin in the interlocking com-
panies recently held approximately halt
the ordinary capital pf Minerva Centre,
Ltd.
And now Elizabeth Bay Estates figures
as one of the recipients of the 14,279
Minerva ords. to be swapped for the same
number of Theatre Holdings prefs. The
precise, ultimate interest of Bellevue De-
velopment and Mr. Martin, direct and in-
direct, in the Minerva Centre, Ltd., is not
quite clear at the moment, but it appears
to be the influential one. And a year ago
the D. N. Martin group held more than
half the shares in Tivoli Celebrity Vaude-
ville, which controls the co. running the
Tivoli Theatres.
Dave Martin, showman, appears to
have developed into a remarkably dex-
terous financier. Interest now centres on
what Minerva will do with its £78,000 of
cash once the theatre sale goes through,
and what the theatre is to be used for.
The lease held by Whitehall Productions,
which is outside the Martin group, expires
next year. The Minerva Theatre has—
to date —undoubtedly helped a great deal
in keeping Sydney “show business” alive.
Even the least sophisticated of basic-
wage earners knows that the new 7s. rise
is not all gain. After tax it will average
about ss. 4d. Costs of production, on the
other hand, will rise by the full 7s. plus
further pay-roll tax (2d.) plus sales-tax,
where applicable —a total of more than
7s. 2d. But wage-earners won’t be called
on to meet all increased costs —not im-
mediately, anyway. Rents, where con-
trolled, won’t rise under present con-
ditions. Even in industries where there
are serious cost-increases not all of them
will be passed on in higher prices. Most
Government and municipal works and
public services will be unable to recom-
pense themselves directly through prices.
It has been admitted by the Prime Minis-
ter that some prices will have to rise, but
claims are to be individually considered
by the Prices Commissioner, with conse-
quent delays. There are signs that the
Commissioner will be even harder
to move than usual. And Mr. Dedman
recently quoted with approval the
opinion of “Commpnwealth experts”
that an increase in wage-costs “would
provide a useful check to a possible un-
healthy over-expansion of industry.” Mr.
Dedman is impressed by the “evidence”
of Dr. Coombs in the 40-hour inquiry
that shorter hours would contribute “to
a more cautious approach to the develop-
ment of new manufacturing enterprises
.... and the present time for its introduc-
tion seemed favorable.” These staggering
opinions are almost as original in their
way as a Ministerial complaint that the
war ended too soon ; peace had found
the Government economically unpre-
pared, it was admitted.
$ $ * *
The various Australian Stock Ex-
changes will open on Monday, January
6, free from Treasury control, but sub-
ject to restriction in the rise of “ceiling”
stocks to a schedule provided by Stock
Exchange committees. According to this,
stocks jammed at a ceiling between 10s.
and 40s. will be allowed to rise Is. daily;
the rise will cease when a seller declares
or business is done at or under the new
price. In the 40s. to 80s. range maximum
rise is 2s. daily; 80s. to 100 s,, 35.; 100 s.
to 3005., 55,; over 3005., 10s. Where the
shares are valued at under 10s. the daily
rise will be 6d. Forward dealing will not
be allowed for the present.


ARMY
FOLDING WIRE PLIERS
Very strong and durable—double lever,
fully guaranteed. Makes easy work of
stoutest wire. Size lOin. folded, 13Jin.
opened, weight l-Jlb. Worth 7/6 each.
Q.P.S. Price
Complete with cord 2/- each
Postage 1/- extra.
Order a supply at once whilst stocks
last. (The Trade Protected.)
Queensland Pastoral
Supplies
BOWEN ST. (off Ann St.), BRISBANE.
DEVELOP
your
PROPERTY
Hi}:'..
25
M
with the help of the 66 Wales
99
Years of shortage of manpower and materials
have left their mark upon many properties.
Many men on the land will now be anxious
to make improvements which had to be
postponed during the war.
In planning for future production, the first
step is to see that your finances are well
looked after.
The Bank of New South Wales invites en-
quiries from primary producers who have
sound projects for the development of their
properties. Each proposal will be considered
on its merits.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
El RSI BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporoted in New South Wales with limited liability
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINCE 1909
Product of the Neptune Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.—
marketers of quality petroleum products through-
out Australia since 1909.
Neptune Oil Go. Pty. Ltd ■ (Incorporated in
Apparently the directors of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, formed under the
Bretton Woods Agreement, do not expect
to be able to accept the prevailing rate
of exchange in every member-country, or
that in force on October 28, 1945, as the
ultimate, fair rate for the purposes of
the fund. Political and economic stability
is still looked for in many parts of the
world. In their first annual report to
the board of governors the executive
directors of the fund state:
Many countries have only begun to re-
cover from the devastation of war; and
the reconstruction of their economic and
monetary systems will take several years.
The war-time economic controls of many
members of the fund are still in force.
Inflation, in varying degrees of intensity, is
in progress throughout much of the world.
International trade and international invest-
ment are only partially restored. Concrete
measures for international economic co-
operation, in spheres other than the finan-
cial, are not as far advanced as had been
earlier hoped. International political co-
operation leaves much to be desired.
The United States and Britain have de-
clared that the prevailing dollar-sterling
parity will be the basis on which other
currencies will be valued —the dollar-
sterling link, in other words, represents
the keystone of the fund’s currency
system. And, presumably, the dollar’s
link with gold—3s dollars to the ounce —
will remain also.
Some questions have been asked of the
fund directors since ratification of the
agreement. Britain asked whether sterling
could be devalued without objection in
order to maintain employment at a time
when it had an adverse balance of over-
seas payments. The directors ruled
that devaluation to correct chronic
unemployment arising from pressure
on the balance of payments was
permissible, provided devaluation was
necessary to correct a “fundamental
disequilibrium,” but added that they
would decide whether such action was
necessary. Commenting on this, the
National City Bank of New York has re-
marked : “Since so much depends on in-
terpretation, this ruling still leaves un-
answered the question as to how much
solid meaning there is in the statutes of
the fund calling for the maintenance of
stable currencies.” America asked
whether the fund could allow its resources
to be used beyond the provision of tem-
porary accommodation when balance of
payments were against a country —
whether, in fact, resources could be used
for finance relief, reconstruction, arma-
ments or large or sustained outflows of
capital. * It was ruled that assistance will
be given in the more limited sense only.
But it appears that the fund, like the bank,
may make long-term loans, though purely
fo; the purpose of currency stabilisation.
* * * *
Australasian Petroleihn, searching for
oil in a big way in Papua, is about to
issue 470,000 new £1 shares. Entitled to
participate will be Vacuum Oil Co. Pty.,
D’Arcy Exploration Co. and Nominated
Holdings, the wholly-owned subsidiary
of Oil Search, Ltd., in which the Aus-
tralian investing public has its sole interest
in the venture. The proportion of Aus-
tralasian Petroleum shares held by Oil
Search through its subsidiary is about a
fifth; it was able, through the issue of
more shares itself, to take up its quota in
the last £205,000 of capital put out by
the operating co, earlier this year. With
the raising of nearly £700,000 of capital
within a year it will be seen that a deter-
mined effort is being made by the com-
bined enterprises to find out whether oil
is or isn’t available commercially in New
Guinea. Well over £1,000,000 had been
spent on the search by Australasian Petro-
leum and Island Exploration up to the
time of the Jap invasion, and by then a
borehole on a carefully selected site had
been sunk to a depth of over 5000 ft., at
Kariava, on the Vailala River. This river
enters the sea about 200 miles along the
Gulf of Papua north-west of Port
Moresby, and the boresite is 75 miles up
the river, in difficult country. Resumed
drilling has since taken the borehole down
to 5546 ft. No oil has yet been reported,
but apparently signs are still regarded as
favorable. Several anticlinal structures
have been discovered on the co.’s ex-
tensive Papuan permit area, and the
search —aerial, geophysical and gravi-
metrical —has been thorough, as well as
costly. New specialists and equip-
ment have been brought from the United
States to extend the survey. The drilling
equipment employed is modern, and is
quite capable of going down to 10,000 ft.
if necessary. There are at present
1,672,036 ss. shares issued by Oil Search,
Ltd. In order to maintain its interest in
the prospecting venture the issue will
probably be increased. Sellers ask ss. 6d.
for the scrip on ’Change.
He sfc 5*5 *
In Australia as well as in Britain, Trea-
sury blessing is being given to new
company issues where a premium on the
shares is charged—that is, where the
market for the old scrip is strong enough
to warrant the charging of a premium.
Latest major issue to be put out at a pre-
mium is that of Drug Houses of Australia
—314,531 £1 ords. at 275. 6d. each. Others
have been Lamson Paragon, McPhersons,
New Broken Hill and Zinc Corporation.
The issue of shares at a premium is,
from the political point of view, a bad
thing; it gives a false appearance to
dividends, since profits are distributed to
shareholders as a percentage of share
capital only, not of share capital plus
premium capital. The ostensible object
behind Treasury preference for the issue
of capital at a premium is to keep the
yield to the investor in new share issues
down to a point where there will not be
a glaring margin over Consols rates. But,
eventually, if the new capital of both
kinds can be profitably employed, profits
of the industry concerned will seem to
be exceptionally high—misleadingly so
because capital actually employed, by
reason of share premiums charged, is
greater than the share capital. This may
not help the Consols market at all, but it
will provide industrial agitators with
more fuel for false argument.
* * * *
During 1945-46 the N. S. Wales Hous-
ing Commission completed 871 per-
manent dwellings, 440 “emergency”
houses, converted 404 military hutment
units and erected 94 sleep-outs. In addi-
tion, it tied up acres of land and stacks
of building materials out of all proportion
to the work it actually did.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Betcha”: Bill rode through the gate
into the hill paddock. “Righto, Sooner,”
he nodded to the dog. The tyke ignored
him, “Hey, go ’way there,” Bill ordered,
waving an arm towards the distant jum-
bucks. The dog dropped to his haunches
and took a screw at the weather. Bill
tried again. He ordered, reasoned, swore
and raved, while the sheep-dog listened
disinterestedly, “Awright, if y’ won’t
put ’em into the clover,” snorted Bill,
“I’ll muster the damn’ things meself.”
The day was hot; but the sheep,
scattered in twos and threes in the shade,
had other ideas, and Bill, giving up after
a hard fight, turned homeward. Sud-
denly, in a small cultivation paddock
near the house, the dog spotted a mob of*
woollies and began mustering. Bill
whistled and yelled in an effort to bring
him back, but the dog worked steadily
until he had the sheep jammed against
the gate, “But, blast y’, I don’t want ’em
out,” roared Bill. “They’re gettin’ fat
on that clover.” The dog barked and
jammed the sheep tighter, till with a sigh
Bill threw open the gate. At the yards
they met Dad Thompson. “Hear
Waller’s havin’ trouble with pulpy kidney 1
in his sheep,” informed Dad. “Feed too
rich, they tell me. Lost quite a lot in his
clover lately. Didn’t y’ hear?” “Well,
no, but...” Bill eyed his dog with re-
newed respect. “Gripes, so that’s where
Sooner’s bin goin’ lately.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: A week before Christ-
mas he arrived in Hamley Bridge
(S.A.) and booked in at one of the two
pubs, casually announcing that he had
come to look over the land in the hills
above the village with the object of
running “a few thousand merinos.” The
bar-loungers eyed his immaculate tussore-
silk suit, his neatly-trimmed grey beard,
the large watch-chain across his vest and
the fiver he threw across the counter at
his first shout. Presently there arrived
in Hamley sundry stock and station
agents from surrounding districts, and
these and the local agents competed for
his favors. They drove him around the
district in motor-cars, showed him acres
of hill country, talked largely of carry-
ing capacity, rainfall and wool cuts.
When they could each got him away from
the others and inveigled him into parties
at their own homes or shooting trips up
Stockyard Creek. He spent Christmas at
an agent’s and was fed and feted exten-
sively. The day after Boxing Day we
came upon him strapping a portmanteau
in his room. “Well,” he said, “we’ll have
one drink, mates, an’ then I got t’ get
back t’ Freeling.” Absorbing the drink
we asked whether he’d bought any land.
“Who, me? I work in a store at Freeling.
That’s just me way of havin’ a good
Christmas without spendin’ much.” Ten
minutes later, tussore suit and beard as
neat as ever, he was on the train to
Gawler.
* * * «
“Tummas McN.”: If old Hairy Barr
(B. 11/12/’46) was silly enough, as
“Niloc” says, to seek “high-voltage
fences” to keep his cattle in he deserved
all he got. Doesn’t “N,” know the usual
charge in an electric stock fence is six
volts?
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Wippegong” says
(B, 20 /11 / ’46) that “politicians could
hardly be expected to learn from mag-
pies.” For a while I questioned his state-
ment. For the past month my early-
morning rest has been disrupted by the
clamor of a pair of fledglings who ap-
peared to be dissatisfied with the efforts
of the electors —sorry, parents—to pro-
vide them with nourishment. Those
birds could open their mouths wider and
emit more noise to less purpose than any
other pest in existence. More, they
failed to grasp the sad fact that the limits
of endurance were being reached, and
appeared to be completely flabbergasted
when their exasperated providers rounded
and evicted them from their comfortable
positions. As I said, I questioned “Wip-
«pegong’s” statement for a while. But here
the analogy ended. Did those birds ob-
tain other lucrative positions from more-
fortunate colleagues? They did not.
They started to work. No, I suppose
politicians couldn’t be expected to learn
from such foolish birds.
* * * *
“Nearly 92”; That bloke who took his
dog hunting in a T-model Ford (B.
11/12/’46) and found the thing jumping
when the hound rested its head on the
self-starter must have got one of the
later models. None of the T-models I
ever wrestled with carried a battery,
though I believe there were a few so
equipped just before the model went out.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were tightening up
the wires with a forked stick when the
boss appeared. I drove in the peg,
twitched the wire as Mat unrolled it
from the fork, and then we dropped the
tools and joined the boss, knowing he
wanted to talk about the job. He looked
thoughtfully at Mat and said “Do y’
know who invented that way of strain-
ing?” Mat shook his head. “Old bloke
named Archimedes first got the hang of
it,” said the boss. “Aw,” Mat answered.
We talked about the job, and presently
the boss drove off. I’d noticed that Mat
was somewhat pensive and asked “What
“This way —see?”
y’ thinkin’ about?” He frowned
thoughtfully. “Well,” he said, “I
reckoned I’d run into pretty well every
fencer from Gippsland t’ Merrywine-
bone, but I never heard of any old Archie
Meedies.” “Me neither,” I answered. I
forgot about it, but the day we got our
final cheque Mat said to the boss “Y’
know, I bin puzzlin’ about that old
Archie Meedies that y’ reckoned invented
the roller-strainer. He bin about here
lately?” The boss seemed startled, then
he said “I don’t think he ever got to
these parts. He was a Greek, y’ know.”
“Well, cripes,” Mat said, astonished, “I
never thought them blokes ever did any-
thin’ but run eat-up joints,” The boss
seemed to think it was funny.
* * * *
“Sarina”; It’s a custom to blame
dingoes or snakes for the disappearance
of many small dogs in this N.Q. district,
but I wonder how many tykes really come
to their end tangled in vines in heavy
scrub. The prickly lawyer is a well-known
trapper of dogs and men, but the much
more plentiful lianas can be very nasty.
I saw a kangaroo-dog run a wallaby into
a thicket, whereupon he became so mixed
up with a mass of trailing lianas that I
had to work for five minutes with a sharp
knife to extricate him. He would never
have got clear unassisted. Horses also
are completely helpless in the grip of
these immensely strong “monkey ropes” ;
a neighbor has lost several from this
cause on a scrubby creek-bank.
* * * ♦
“Lub”: “Knew a cove once with a
tame goanner he’d trained as a sort o’
watchdog at his camp,” related Alf the
Whistler. “The flamin’ thing c’d even
bark in a wheezy fashion. There’s a
nacheralist pitches his tent at a waterhole
near by, an’ from what he hears he gets
mighty interested in Charlie’s pet. After
screwin’ it orf he offers Charlie a tenner
f’r the goanner: he tells him it’s a
speeshies wot’s never bin heard of before,
an’ says he wants t’ preserve it in spirits
f’r the mooseum. Charlie, who don't
seem t’ be listenin’, jumps up an’ shakes
his hand. ‘Orright,’ Charlie ses; ‘but
y’ll have t’ leave him in me hut till y’re
ready t’ go.’ A couple o’ days later the
nacheralist lobbed at the sidin’ in a tear-
in’ hurry. Ain’t the train in yet?’ he
bellers. ‘This part o’ the country ain’t
safe f’r me. I had a rare goanner pickled
in whisky at that hatter feller’s hut, an’
this mornin’ I found the old chappie
paralytic drunk on the floor,’ ‘But
Charlie’s harmless when he gits that way,’
someone told him. Aw, ’twasn’t Charlie,’
he ses. ‘That damned goanner chased
me flat-out down the road f’r a mile an’
a half!”’
* * * *
“Quiz Kid”: I liked E. J. Brady’s
poem “MacArthur’s Time” (B. 27 /11/ ’46),
but did the Sydney dames of that period
wear the crinoline? As a dress the
crinoline did not come into vogue until
the middle ’forties, being designed especi-
ally to meet the costume needs of young
Queen Victoria during her child-bearing
period. Thus the crinoline had a long
fashion run, persisting well into the
’sixties. The great immigration of the
gold-rush period brought it to Australia,
where it met with speedy condemnation,
its wide sweeping frills catching fire all
too readily at cooking fires in the open
or in the wide-open hearths of the colonial
homes.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Eyre’s own idea of
Wylie’s faithfulness (B. 27/11 /’46), re-
corded in the personal handwritten
account which is now in the Westralian
archives, was that the blackboy had no
option but to stick to his white
man. Prior to his epic journey Eyre had
visited W.A. with a shipment of stock,
which he drove from Albany to York.
Wylie was engaged for that drive, being
one of the Albany tribe. Returning east,
Eyre took ship from Fremantle, Wylie
with him, the hope being that the small
coaster might be able to call in at King
George’s Sound and there drop the boy
with his home tribe. But the call was
omitted and Wylie went on to Adelaide.
The two recreant blacks, murderers of
Baxter, were N.S.W. natives. Although
after the killing they repeatedly tried to
lure Wylie away from Eyre’s side he
knew well that he could expect scant
mercy from them ; sooner or later, as the
whim seized them, they would knock
him on the head, that being the pleasant
abo, custom when dealing with natives
outside their own nation. Thus “Biro” is
wrong in considering Wylie as being
a sort of Quisling ; he owed no allegiance
to the N.S.W. boys, who were more alien
to him than the white man, whom in his
mystic abo, way he probably regarded as
“nyanga,” a black ancestor reborn as a
white. And for such fidelity as he showed
he was rewarded ; from the slim Albany
commissariat Governor Hutt released a
pair of blankets, an axe and enough
food and tea for Wylie to give a feast to
his tribe.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: No need for cockies
to lack cigarette-papers. Dutch Indo-
nesians in p.-0.-w. camps taught us to use
the inner sheath of the corn cob. Picked
when green, boiled and dried between
the pages of a book, it makes an excel-
lent cover and there are no harmful
effects,
* * * *
“Zake”: It is no uncommon thing for
a newchum, realising he is bushed and
wandering off in the hope of coming to
human habitation, to arrive back approxi-
mately where he started, having trav-
ersed in the meantime roughly a wide
circle. There seems to be a scientific
explanation somewhere for such an
action, which has occurred too many
times to be coincidental, and a medical
oddity I came upon might supply it. Of
some hundreds of human skeletons which
have been accurately measured, every one
has been found to have one leg slightly
shorter than the other. Walking in urban
places man can easily rectify any idiosyn-
crasy of his pins by keeping an eye on
landmarks, which he does unconsciously.
But faced with a wilderness of sand or
scrub, with the legs allowed to take their
natural course and no trained eye to keep
them on a straight course, the uneven-
ness in leg-length, no matter how seem-
ingly slight, must have its effect, in the
same manner as a vehicle having one
wheel smaller than the other will naturally
go in circles.
* ♦ * ♦
“Rooster” Is “Wippegong” kidding
(B. 27/11 / ’46) ? The beaks, or bills, of
birds rival human hands for dexterity in
grasping.- A study of them readily reveals,
too, the co-ordination of tongue and beak
in gathering food. The brush-like
tongues of the honeyeaters and lorikeets,
for example, permit absorption of the
nectar without damaging the blossoms
with the delicate beaks; woodpeckers
emulate the lizards for catching insects
with swift flicks of the tongue; and
though it is said birds possess a poorly-
developed sense of taste, the soft tongues
of parrots suggest the contrary. As for
the yellow robin gathering up eight or
ten whiteants without dropping one, a
swift can catch between 20 and 30 flies
in mid-air in quicker time than the
robin takes to perform the feat on the
ground. The tongue, of course, is essen-
tial for lapping up water, but “W.” must
have overlooked this little detail.
* * * *
“Pateppi”; A post in the corner of the
paddock was encrusted with the earth-
works of whiteants. Eight feet away was
a large meatants’ nest. I scratched the
rotten post with a piece of wire and
some termites tumbled to the ground.
A solitary meatant, pottering about in
the apparently aimless manner of the
kind, stumbled on a termite, seized it and
headed back along the semi-circular track
that led to its nest. Then I witnessed
the insect-world’s equivalent of a gold-
rush. Within two minutes the meaties
were moving in thousands in a direct
line from nest to post. Each ant raced
up to the post, grabbed a termite and
immediately raced home. Soon they
'were swarming over the post dragging
whities from every nook. In about 10
minutes the field was played out. Now,
the walls of the whiteant passages were
very soft ajnd the meatant is quite a re-
spectable digger. Why then hadn’t the
meatants tried to break into the termite
citadel without waiting for human assist-
ance?
* * * *
“X.E.D.”; Andy was fed up with the
long hours and never-ceasing toil on'
Raddle’s back-country dairyfarm. The
pay was good, though, and he was on a
happy footing with his boss. “How about
a day orf once a week?” he asked
Raddle. “Well, it’s pretty hard t’
let y’ have time orf jist now,” Raddle
said. “An’ y’ shouldn’t be pinin’ f’r sport
after all them games of crib we had larst
Sundee night. Still, if y’ like, I’ll send
in t’ the store fT a game o’ snakes an’
ladders an’ we’ll knock orf half an hour
earlier one night an’ have a few rounds
o’ the board,”
* * » *
“Mark Time”: The mosquito, accord-
ing to the legend of a N.Q. tribe, was
“invented” as punishment for a nagging
wife. Fed up with the ceaseless yapping
her lord jumped into his canoe and lit
out for the sunset in search of peace and
quiet. Seeing him getting out of her
clutches the indignant gin grabbed up an
armful of poisonous prickly plants—how
she could do this without harm to herself
is not made clear—and hurled them
after the escapee. However, an abo. god
took pity on the harassed man and
changed the wind so that the nettles came
flying back at the lubra, at the same
time changing them into mosquitoes.
*_♦ * *
“Blime”: I’d been thinking of trying
the little stream in the gully for trout,
and, spotting old Ben plying a rod en-
thusiastically some miles above camp,
I prodded the nag downhill. “Any luck?”
I called. Ben turned his crayfish mug.
“You bet y’r moleskins,” he beamed.
“Cripes, fancy us never even tryin’ ’em
before! Get down an’ I’ll show y’.”
He glanced up and down stream, then
dived off eagerly through a patch of
blackberries, leaving me to follow pain-
fully. I caught up as he stopped to eye
a dark pool. “No, that ain’t ’er, neither,”
he flung over a shoulder as he started
once more. “Up ’ere ; c’mon.” Dreams
of a string of whacking big trout boosted
my aching joints over a granite outcrop
and I slid down the far side to see the
old bloke excitedly pointing out a long,
narrow hole under the bank. “That’s
about it,” he grinned. “Deeper, see, an’
not so fast, with reeds round the edge.”
“Y-yes, but where’s” “Mine?” he
gabbled. “Aw, mine’s about four miles
downstream, but this is near enough t’
give y’ the idea, see, so y’ll know the
sort o’ place where I got me beaut nibble
this mornin’.”
WITCH-DOCTOR.
Hidden in the dismal swamp
On a hillock of the ground
Tucked among the sago damp.
There the wizard may be found.
There his black familiar, too,
Hastes to feed the glinting fire
As they heat the awful brew
That the hearts of men desire.
Ghastly things go in the pot,
Gleaming livid in the glare
Till the whole is hissing hot;
Then the wizard makes his prayer:
“Oh! ye little Gods, ye Vampires,
Make my brewing to succeed;
By the Ever-burning Fires
Hearken ye unto my need.
Let my mess start men to singing,
Make them carefree for an hour
Till at last comes cock-crow, bringing
Throbbing heads and tempers sour!”
So, far in the silent glade
Far from Provost’s harsh abuse
With his faithful boong to aid —
Wizard Smith makes jungle juice.
QUEENSLAND.
BILL SOOTT.


“Bo”: He rolled up to Ned Sander-
son’s, dumped his swag 'outside the
kitchen door and said “Any chance
of a job, shipmate?” Ned, who
had employed a sailor some years before
and recalled with a gladdened memory
what a useful and hardworking hand he
had hired, welcomed him as a long-lost
brother. The ex-mariner had a wash in a
basin and asked Ned what he’d do with
the bilgewater, giving other patent
manifestations of his former calling that
deeply intrigued the Sanderson kids.
Next morning Ned aroused him at around
three o’clock to get in the cows. The
new hand sprang out of bed with an
urgency that brought an admiring glint to
his employer’s eye and in a few jiffs was
ready. He worked steadily, but just
after seven o’clock, when Mrs, Ned
called them for breakfast, the new hand
couldn’t be found. He was in his bunk
fast asleep. Ned woke him and demanded
to know why he wasn’t up. The salty one
heaved up on a wave of indignation.
“Y’ had me up f’r the middle watch,” he
“How clever, Doctor —I see you're independent of these gas troubles."
roared, “an’ I done it, didn’t I? Well,
I’m just come below for me sleep an’ I
don’t want to be disturbed, even if y’ are
the blanky skipper. Now nick off.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Seeing the jumbuck spends
his life looking for any silly excuse to
lie down and die, it is surprising he
doesn’t take advantage of so legitimate
a reason as being hamstrung. Had heard
a woolly would recover from such an
injury, but hadn’t seen it happen till pre-
vailed upon not to slit the throat of a
young ewe handled roughly during shear-
ing. With her leg swinging helplessly
and the ends of the big sinew contracted
to about three inches apart, she was
turned into a paddock and left unmo-
lested. Several weeks later she was put-
ting the injured member to the ground
uncertainly, and it wasn’t long after that
I noticed her running round again as
good as ever. Investigation showed the
sinew neatly grown together, though how
the severed ends, once released, ever
came close and held long enough to knit
is beyond me.
* * * *
“E.V.S.”: The “sting” in a death
adder’s tail having been proved to be
neither defensive nor offensive but merely
a lure, there remains its alleged ability
to spring from the ground in attack.
Can anyone supply irrefutable evidence
of this? Museum authorities are more
than sceptical. Ditmars, the famous
herpetologist, is seemingly unaware of it,
and indicates that between one-third and
one-half of a snake’s length is the utmost
limit of its striking range. Five-feet, by
the slender fer-de-lance, is in his belief
the greatest known. Loveridge’s Reptiles
of the Pacific gives nine inches as the
adder’s range limit, which on an average
length of two feet for this reptile would
correspond to Ditmars’s estimate. To
strike a man on horseback the adder
would have to spring between three and
four feet clear of the ground, which for a
very heavy, though muscular, snake seems
structurally impossible.
« * * •
“Ex-Mister”: I certainly don’t envy
the white observers who are accompany-
ing the Japanese whaling fleets to the
Antarctic. For five months and more
they will touch at no port, will sight land
rarely and that at least 20 miles away,
and will get no fresh vegetables. Vita-
min pills are a poor substitute for a bit
of real greens. The factory and trans-
port ships on which they will live are
considerably out of date. Living quarters
on them are cramped, and long before
the voyage is over will be malodorous and
chronically stuffy. To this will be added
the continuous smell of raw whale and
the cloying reek of the extraction gear,
which is expected to yield 17,000 tons of
whale oil. Whale meat will necessarily
form a main item in their dietary, and,
excellent as it is for a change, six months
of it will certainly pall. Add to these
and other discomforts the continual
and inescapable company of 700-odd
Japanese and any honest sailorman will
thank Neptune that he isn’t there to en-
dure it.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Dummy was held
to be the surliest and most silent man
west of the rabbit-proof fence until his
counterpart arrived. Him the gang
christened Rowdy, and speculated,
mentally and in good cash, on which of
the two would first break his apparently
natural silence. The odds were slightly in
favor of Dummy, who, under the influ-
ence of liquor, appeared to soften, while
Rowdy’s permanent frown deepened.
Came Christmas, and most of the mob
settled in at the little bush pub past
which we were building the road.
Under the influence of beer, hilarity
and general good-feeling, Dummy un-
bent sufficiently to smile and joined,
as far as his nature would permit,
in the jollifications. His frown, how-
ever, reappeared whenever he glanced
towards Rowdy imbibing by himself on
the corner of the verandah, glances and
frowns becoming more frequent, and be-
ing returned with interest. Suddenly, as
though actuated by a spring, the two
leapt to their feet and, meeting half-way,
joined in the bloodiest and most violent
fight that the gang had witnessed. It
was fought in silence, save for the thud
of blows and the gasps as breath was
driven from bodies. As a battered
Dummy was led back to the bar and his
unconscious opponent revived, the mob
“Bat we’re doing it this way for a bit of publicity."
discussed the possibility of a long-standing
feud. Questioned, Dummy intimated by
gestures that he had never before met
Rowdy and didn’t know him from Adam.
He was quite prepared to let the matter
drop, but beer and questions were plied
freely and finally his face cracked into
a shamefaced grin. “Aw,” he said, in
the longest speech he was ever heard to
make, “bad-tempered cow. A man
oughter be sociable at Christmas,” Then
a lot of bets were settled and the mob
returned to the business in hand.
* * * •
“Frank Mauri”: Native sleeping-
baskets on the Sepik River (New Guinea)
protect the natives from mosquitoes, but
they aren’t responsible for the absence of
malaria (B. 4/12/’46). The mosquito
carrier of that country is Anopheles
punctualatus, which doesn’t thrive in those
swampy wastelands. Its favorite breeding
places are sunlit pools and artificial de-
pressions such as wheel-ruts and pig-
wallows, slightly muddy for preference.
But those sleeping-baskets are popular
among the police-boys, who endure the
mosquitoes in the jungle until the village
has retired and then quietly move in. It
is only necessary to take position at the
door of the basket and call, “Come out,
Kungjigoru.” There is no chance of the
malefactor making a getaway,
* * * *
“C.E.”: “Nice day, Mr, Grouch,” re-
marked George, looking up from his
order-book as the other entered the store.
“Good growing weather.” Old Grouch
shook his head. “Don’t like it,” he
growled. “Real droughty conditions.
Prob’ly won’t rain f’r munce.” The fol-
lowing week there was a good downpour,
followed by warmth and occasional
showers. “Nice weather, Mr, Grouch,”
George greeted again. “Ideel for the
crops.” “Don’t like it,” , protested his
customer. “Settin’ in too early. Sure
t’ finish bad.” The showery weather con-
tinued, and the country was looking its
best when Grouch entered the store a
couple of months later. “Grand season,
Mr. Grouch,” beamed George. “Feed
everywhere, eh?” “Don’t like it,” replied
Grouch, his eyes narrowing. “Breed too
many flamin’ pests. Grasshoppers ’ll be
here in droves directly.” A month later,
Grouch was once more in for supplies.
“Got the ’hoppers beaten, Mr. Grouch,”
remarked George. “They tell me that
’erial spray they’re using wipes ’em out
in a face.” The old chap paused thought-
fully ; then shook his head. “Don’t like
it,” he complained grumpily. “Now
how’s a man t’ git a bit o’ fish-bait?”
* * * *
“Kenwood”: There is no “mystery”
about she-oak and its “sex classification”
(B. 11/12/’46). Guilfoyle gives “sheac”
as the native name for a couple of
species, and obviously she-oak is a cor-
ruption. “Zake” makes the mistake of
taking common names at their face
value. There are no oaks, native of Aus-
tralia. The so-called forest oak, river-oak,
swamp-oak and she-oak are all mem-
bers of the genus Casuarina —a Latinised
fopn of the word cassowary; the bunch-
lets supposed to resemble the plumes of
the bird. Furthermore “silky-oak” isn’t
oak —no relation whatever to the oak
family ( Quercus ). If it was really oak, it
wouldn’t be squandered on pineapple
cases, tomato boxes and the like, Re-
garding the “sex classification” of she-
oak, botanists have agreed that for pur-
poses of nomenclature all trees are
feminine. Hence the well-known oak of
Britain is Quercus pedunculate, not
pedunculatus, which it would be if mas-
culine.
* * * . * .
“Loc” i In an entomological quiz ses-
sion I would rate the bee as knowing
most of the answers. One example of
their inherent nous comes from France,
where beekeepers use, not the regular
square frames for wax, but those shaped
in a pentagon, or roughly like the end
of a barn. Their idea is that when any
disease hits the hive they can cut out in
the shape of triangles the pieces of
comb affected and replace them by tying
new comb to the old. . One French
apiarist noticed that about four days
after he had performed several such
grafts there were neatly arrayed on the
alighting board of the hive all the pieces
of string he had used. On looking into
the works he discovered that the bees,
not wanting to have their happy home
cluttered up with refuse, had removed the
string and cemented the sections to-
gether with wax. This particular hive
had never been faced with a problem of
the kind before. A peculiar feature was
that they removed the pieces of string in
their correct order. Had they removed
them haphazardly the whole comb would
probably have collapsed.
* * * T
“Hanko”: Choom was navigating the
dray when it scraped against the grain-
shed tank and tore out its tap. We
plugged the hole with a bag and bucketted
what water was left in the ruined tank
into a furphy. It took time, and the
boss was fuming around an idle drill
when we got to the paddock with the
seed wheat. **A good tank busted and
all this time wasted,” he stormed. “But
think on all water us have saved ’ee,
sir, come rainy day, loike,” said Choom.
The boss laid his head on a bag of super,
and groaned dismally.
* * * ♦
“Herbert Dawson”: “Frank Mauri”
(B. 27/11 / ’46) states that “heelers are not
used in the north; the cattle are far too
wild.” In this part of Queensland
(the Upper Dawson country) heelers are
used by contract scrubber-runners to
catch and “bail-up” the big bullocks and
bulls that are too tough propositions for
nine out of 10 scrub-riders. And when
I say “scrubbers” I don’t mean just the
common-bred stock that coastal dairymen
refer to by that name, but the real wild
animals that for generations have bred
and run free in the vine-scrubs of tlie
rough country. I have a two-year-old
dog, bred by a neighbor who always has
good ones. This particular dog has a
fault. He is too severe for quiet cattle,
the sort I have most to do with. But I’ll
wager he would stop any cow or young
beast, however wild, and, with another of
his temperament and hardiness, any bull
or bullock between the Gulf and the
Bight, for long enough anyhow to enable
the “coachers” to be brought up ; and a
beast dealt with by two heelers that bite on
the gallop regardless of kicks thinks twice
before leaving the shelter of the mob
again. In any case, if the northern cattle
are too wild for dogs, how do the stock-
men get them? As regards “The Over-
lahders,” the question of wildness surely
doesn’t arise. With a big mob on a long
overland trip there are no “wild” cattle
for handling after the first day or two.
Dogs would be used only for poking up
stragglers on the tail that might stand
in patches of scrub or in deep gullies.
Recent rodeo performers from America
were so taken with Queensland heelers
they took many pups back with them.
BUSH COBBERS.
I have some cobbers in the Bush, a very sound
variety
Not noted—so you’d notice it—for overmuch
of piety. . t
They are not tittle-tattle men
But timbermen and cattlemen;
I swap a yarn and sink a pot at peace in their
society.
Convention does not cramp their style; their
ways of life are spread
Along the open spaces where the Anzac type
was bred.
Slow-speaking, rough-and-ready men,
Yet sterling, staunch and steady men,
Who never are in funk-holes found when
trouble glooms ahead.
I’m sending forth no pretty cards for Christmas
or New Year, . • ...
I’ll hammer out a rhyme instead to wish them
all good cheer,
Dinkum blokes who have not sat in
School or college, learning Latin,
And small acquaintance have with Art and
Poetry, I fear!
Fred Clark, whose eye for stock is like an
ancient eaglehawk’s,
Whose legs from constant saddle use are bandy
when he walks;
Tommy Hall and Ikey Warren
Need no phrases fine and foreign—
They know the way an Aussie to another Aussie
talks.
Tom Dorran and his ginger pup with goodwill
I anoint — , „ . ,
That juice, at least, I keep on tap for friends
about the joint;
And Mac, Monaro Highlander,
And Karl, the Aaland Islander,
Whose jokes enliven night and day the pub
at Gipsy Point.
The sleeper-cutters and the lads who strip tan-
bark from trees;
The wags of Cann and Wangrabelle, who never
took degrees;
All subscribers, round the Border,
More or less to law and order —
I lift my foaming pot of ink and sound a toast
for these.
I’ve ridden over forest trails and sailed across
the bars,
And grubbed with them and camped with them
beneath the Gippsland stars;
That alone sufficient reason
Is for wishing at this season
Their smokes may come in cartons, their beer
arrive in jars.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


'■vT
S’"',
r
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
> FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
n.M.L. & F. Leads!
It leads in its standards of appraisal, grading, lotting and
auctioneering—and, as a result, it leads in the securing of
the maximum price per lb. for every item offered.
The Australian, Mercantile, Land' & Finance Coy. Ltd.
leads also in the complete service it provides its clients—
service such as only a company with its wide facilities
can provide.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 186 S
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A3.22.7J
LYSAGHTS
PROOF
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
f
df
d
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY, GUARANTEED.
from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney
SPECIFY "IYSASHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE WAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Queensland Fat Lambs.
“Sheepo”; I don’t agree that Queens-
land will soon be producing enough cross-
bred ewes for Queensland and a few
over for N.S.W. (B. 27/11/’46), at least
not while present wool values hold.
There’ll always be a shortage of first-cross
ewes suitable for fat-lamb mothers. For
many years these ewes have been at a
premium, and in spite of the high prices
they invariably bring few merino advo-
cates have been tempted to introduce
British rams into their flocks.
Fat-lamb breeding in Queensland or
any other State can never reach the stage
it could until there are larger water-
conservation and irrigation schemes.
Young lambs and their mothers must
graze on the most succulent pasture, and
in areas subject to periodical droughts
this isn’t always to be had. Large areas
of Queensland could produce lambs were
irrigation schemes established. Until
they are the industry can’t develop very
much.
Mating Hints.
“Bopeep”: First consideration is to be
certain the rams are pure-bred and suit-
able to local conditions. Select rams
from flocks with a high breeding con-
stancy and a proven record.
Going to extremes in order to out-
breed undesirable features can bring
disastrous results. Correction of any de-
fect must be gradual, yet it is not un-
common to find some graziers mating big,
plain-bodied rams oUa 60’s wool with
wrinkly ewes of a 70-72’s type.
The progeny of such a mating should
be obvious, but though some graziers
are good judges of sheep many know
little of wool and spinning capacity.
It would be an advantage if State De-
partments of Agriculture distributed to
woolgrowers a small booklet setting out
the ethics of breeding. Technical terms
could be avoided, the matter explained in
simple terms that anyone could under-
stand. It is essential that quality of
wool be kept up, and uniformity of the
flock is the best way to do it. Rigid cul-
ling of ewes and wise selection of rams
mean the difference between success and
failure.
Linseed.
“Mr.”: W. H. Poggendorff, plant-
breeder, writing in the “N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Gazette,” comments favorably on the
new variety Walsh (B. 11/12/’46). Some
of the more favored wheat districts are
suitable for the crop, and Poggendqrff
specifies an area enclosed by a line join-
ing Inverell, Tamworth, Werris Creek,
Gunnedah, Narrabri, Moree and Bogga-
billa. He names also Molong and Wood-
stock and the Murrumbidgee irrigation
area. He wouldn’t advise coastal dis-
tricts, which as a rule have a high
atmospheric humidity during the early
summer when the crop is ripening. The
crop qeeds a good, well-distributed rain-
fall or irrigation over the period April-
October.
Poggendorff advises sowing from mid-
April to the end of May, and stresses the
need for a firm, finely-worked seedbed on
fallowed ground. The recommended
sowing rate on dry land is 281 b. to the
acre using all the tynes on the drill and
401 b. under irrigation. An inch is the
usual depth of sowing, but this will vary
according to the nature of the soil. Fer-
tilisers aren’t recommended, as super, and
sulphate of ammonia alone or in combin-
ation have failed to give any significant
increase in yield. The crop should be
"Just the thing for the hot Weather. Keeps the flies off."
ripe and ready to harvest early in De-
cember, when the plant will be dry, brittle
and yellow-tfrown, with the seeds rattling
in the bolls.
Hand-milking.
“Rooster”: Fantastic claims by hand-
milkers that they can milk 60 to 80 cows
more quickly and thoroughly than
machines sound too good to be true.
A cow in full milk will yield up to two
and a half gallons twice a day. On an
average seven to eight cows an hour
would be good going. One man would,
at this rate, milk a large herd in eight
hours. Four men might do it in two.
A six-unit machine would go through
them in an hour.
The art of hand-milking is not so much
in the strength of the hand as the flexi-
bility—which is precisely why women are
still the best milkers. A cow will relax
the teat muscles sufficiently to ensure a
free flow only when the hands release and
squeeze rhythmically the near and off
teats. Thus, although a woman’s hands
cannot be compared in strength to those
of a man, by consistent and regular pres-
sure, together with a gentle approach,
she contrives to milk faster than a man.
Udders and milkers’ hands should be
carefully washed before milking. A thin
smear of vaseline will reduce frictional
heat and render the teats soft to handle.
Most sores on teats are nearly always
due to foreign matter picked up while
resting in the paddock. The hands of the
milker, too, should be free from callouses.
Calloused hands make the cow restless.
Finally, while washing the udder, a
little gentle massaging is in order, pro-
vided it isn’t finger-massage. Use the
flat of the hand in a downward series of
strokes. It puts the animal at ease. But
don’t try to milk as fast as a machine.
It can’t be done.
Manures.
“Milton”: Touching “A New Sheep
Disease” and “Artificial Fertilisers” (B.
30/10/’46), there is a theory that the
W.A. trouble is connected with the use
of super. An early strain of sub-clover
is alleged to be the cause of a fall in
quality and productivity of sheep in
south-west W.A. In New Zealand and
Victoria farmers claim improvements
by discontinuing super, and using organic
manure on their pastures.
As small-farm methods are imprac-
ticable on the majority of Australian
sheep farms the use of super,
cannot be dropped, and until research
finds a remedy the stockowner should
strive to give a balanced ration. This
may be done in W.A. by bush feed, which,
even though of poor quality and scanty,
gives roughage and variety at the time
(early autumn) the first clover appears.
If the land has been denuded of native
feed either by “improving” or “flog-
ging,” which is common, hand-feeding
is necessary.
To Keep Fowls Going.
“Ager”: Avoid sudden changes of
diet. Hens take these changes very much
in earnest and sometimes go on strike
about it. They stop laying and a partial,
if not a full, moult results. Observe the
hens’ habits. Some hens are bullies,
stopping the more timid ones from ob-
taining enough food to produce eggs.
Take the bullies out of the yard and a
better result will follow.
See that there is enough nest accom-
modation, Some hens are temperamental,
and no matter how good the feeding is
they will not respond. Don’t put drink-
ing water into any old iron pot or tin,
which are gr£at harbors for germs of all
kinds ; they are hard to clean or disin-
fect. Use enamelled drinking vessels,
kept in the shade. There’s nothing worse
than sun-heated water. It causes death
and at least disturbs the health of the
birds and so decreases the egg-supply.
Laying hens should be always spare
and hard. A fat hen is using all the best
of its food for its own fatness and can-
not lay as it ought. If some hens are on
the fat side reduce their food and in-
crease the amount of bran. Cull unprofit-
able birds out of the flock.
Weeds in Queensland.
“Bill C.”: In Queensland the spread of
noxious weeds is a more pressing prob-
lem in grazing districts than soil erosion.
The C.S.I.R. is not satisfied with chloratic
and arsenic sprays for dealing with hardy
established weeds since costs are high
and effects likely to be local and
temporary. The introduction of insects
that feed on certain weeds and hold them
in check in other countries is not very
satisfactory, as the insects as often as not
turn on various other plants in preference
to their usual grub plants. For ex*
ample, of eight different insects brought
from the U.S. and loosed on the noogoora
burr only one didn’t tackle sunflowers
and artichokes in addition to the burr.
That potential ally hasn’t done much
good yet.
The C.S.I.R. points out that “overgraz-
ing and overcultivation of fertile soils”
lead to grasses and farm crops being
choked out by mint weed, khaki weed
and similar pests. Experienced men must
agree with this, and also observe that fire,
when used to clean up long, dry grass in
a drought, opens the door to any drought-
resistant weed pest.
Nut Crops.
“E. 2”: Walnuts and filberts do well
in cooler parts; almonds are best for
districts with a mild winter where late
frosts don’t occur. No great deal of
attention is required for any of these,
and a few trees on the farm give profit-
able returns.
River fiats and similar country grow
huge walnut trees, and 40 feet between
them would not be too much. Two-year-
old budded trees of Wilson’s Wonder or
Freshford Gem will bear well after a
couple of seasons; seedlings may take
10 or 12 years. Protection from stock and
rabbits is necessary till the trees are well
grown, when they make fine shade and
shelter. Two or more varieties of filberts


THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
The Only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
• Excellent climate.
• Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
• Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
• Matrons are trained Sisters.
• Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
Entrance Scholarships.
Four Entrance Scholarships, valued at
£5O per annum become £6O when the
boy reaches the age of 14), are available
for 1947. These are tenable for five years.
Entry forms and scholarship conditions
may be obtained from the Headmaster.
Candidates may sit at approved centres.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc., Headmaster.
m
Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
RECORD ENTRY FOR
NEW ZEALAND
NATIONAL YEARLING SALES
JRENTHAM STABLES, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND
JANUARY 16th, 17th, 23rd, 24th, 1947 464 YEARLINGS
JANUARY 27th Approximately 120 Brood Mares, Stallions, Untried Stock, Racehorses in Training, etc.
THESE SALES PROVIDE THE LARGEST PERCENTAGE OF WINNERS OF ANY SALE HELD
• IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD
CATALOGUES AVAILABLE from WRIGHT. STEPHENSON & CO. (Aust.) PTY., LTD., Sun Insurance
Office, 34 Queen Street (P.O. Box 4339), MELBOURNE, Victoria, who will arrange all details for Aus-
tralian buyers desiring to attend t.he Sales or have purchases made on their behalf.
112 Classic Winners Catalogued Since 1929
This is the Twenty-first Anniversary of the
New Zealand National Sales. This year’s
catalogue includes statistics proving an extra-
ordinary high percentage of winners catalogued
for sale each year. This is claimed to be the
highest in the world. Since 1929 the remark-
able total of 112 classic winners have been
sold, including 28 Derby winners, 26 St. Leger
winners, 15 Oaks winners and 43 Guineas
winners, an average of more than six from
each catalogue. Every leading breeder in New
Zealand sends the pick of his yearlings to
these Sales, none being retained for his own
racing. With the exception, in odd years, of a
filly or two retained for breeding, buyers can
select the very pick of the youngsters bred in
the Dominion, Another great indication of the
quality of the yearlings sold was given at the
recent New Zealand Cup Meeting. The winners
of the first five races on the programme were
all bought at the Sales as yearlings and in-
cluded Catterick Bridge, by Foxbridge, winner
of the £5lOO N.Z. Cup, 2 miles, bought for
500 guineas, and Royal Tan, by Royal Chief,
winner of the N.Z. Derby Stakes of £3OOO,
bought for 450 guineas. Not only do the Sales
produce year after year innumerable classic
winners, but many of the greatest horses to
race on the turf in Australia and New Zealand
were bought at these Sales as yearlings, in-
cluding the great champion Phar Lap, winner
of £70,000, Beau Vite, winner of £27,770, in-
cluding the AJ.C. Metropolitan Handicap,
and four other winners of this race —Waikare,
Sir Regent, Royal Chief and Nightbeam—the
noted racehorse and sire, Veilmond, the dual
Sydney Cup winner, Mosaic, the dual Derby
winner, Theo, the great racehorse and sire
Defaulter and 18 winners of the great two-
mile races of Australia and New Zealand, the
Melbourne, Sydney, New Zealand, Auckland
and Wellington Cups. These remarkable re-
sults are an outstanding tribute to the extra-
ordinary quality of the catalogue. New Zea-
land pastures and climate are unsurpassed for
producing vigor, constitution, stamina and steel-
like bone. The yearlings are naturally developed,
which ensures soundness and long life. It is
these characteristics, together with the excellent
breeding incorporated in New Zealand-bred
yearlings, that have earned for the New Zealand
Sales their reputation of producing the largest
percentage of winners of any sale. This year
the selection of yearlings will be the largest
and most representative ever offered for sale
in this part of the world, a total of 464 year-
lings—264 colts and 200 fillies; thus a wonder-
ful selection is offered to buyers. Already a
remarkable number of two-year-olds purchased
at last year’s Sales have won races in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand as follows: Lady
Christine by Christopher Robin (2), Fellow-
ship by Robin Goodfellow (1), Ninnid by
Balloch (1), Demonic by Defaulter (1), Veine
d’Or by Beau Vite (1), Sea Lad by Tiderace
(1), Yelveline by Theio (1), Petre Mar by
Croupier (1), Ticotime by Broiefort (1), Shirley
Fox by Foxbridge (2), Niloch by Balloch (1),
Master Roe by Beau Repaire (1), Soar by Ninth
Duke (1), Zorro by Lo Zingaro (1), Garry by
Broiefort (1), Farhad by Nizami (1), Sea
Flower by Neptune (1), Ladyship by Foxbridge
(1), Kumari by Arvakur CD, Deep Sea by
Nizami (2), Nizam’s Ring by Nizami (1), Fel-
lowship by Robin Goodfellow (Aust. 1).
Not only do the New Zealand National
Yearling Sales have a larger percentage of
high-class winners than any sale held in any
part of the world, but the prices are about
the lowest of any sale. An indication of the
values is shown by the fact that the top 35
yearlings last year realised from 1000 guineas
to 4750 guineas and averaged 1746 guineas,
whereas a total of 270 yearlings were sold for
an average of 563 i guineas. The previous year
the over-all average was 470 guineas.
70 Leading Sires Represented.
FOXBRIDGE*, six times champion sire and
Australasian record holder with a total of
£62,10H last season, has 18 representatives,
13 colts and 5 fillies. BALLOCH*, half-brother
to the noted sires Beau Fere, Mr, Standfast
and Gay Shield, has 31 representatives, 20 colts
and 11 fillies. Two of his first crop of four
three-year-olds have already won as well as
two of his first two-year-old runners.
CORONACH*, winner of the English Derby
and St. Leger, has 11 representatives, 6 colts
and 5 fillies. In New Zealand he has sired
the Derby winner, Coronaire, the St. Leger
winners, Balgowan and Western Front, the dual
Guineas winner, My Bonnie, recently exported
to England, and a host of other brilliant win-
ners. NIZAMI*, the brilliant grey son of
Mumtaz Mahal, has 18 representatives, 15 colts
and 3 fillies. He has already sired in his first
two seasons at the stud no fewer than 12 in-
dividual two-year-old winners. NEPTUNE*,
half-brother by the great sire, Hyperion, to the
Derby winner, Blue Peter, has 12 represen-
tatives, 3 colts and 9 fillies. He has com-
menced his first season brilliantly, Pelias win-
ning the Tamahere Stakes, while Sea Flower,
bought for 1600 guineas, and Ultimate, bought
for 2000 guineas, ran first and second in the
C.J.C. Spring Nursery Handicap. BULAND-
SHAR*, sire of the new champion, Soneri,
and of the great High Caste, has 13 represen-
tatives, 8 colts and 5 fillies. ROBIN GOOD-
FELLOW*, second in the English Derby, who
left good stayers in England and a host of
promising stayers and the Australian record-
breaker, Blue Trout, in New Zealand, has 24
representatives, 15 colts and 9 fillies. The half-
brothers, BEAU REPAIRS by Beau Pere and
ROYAL CHIEF by Chief Ruler, have 14
representatives, 10 colts and 4 fillies. Royal
Chief sired a Guineas winner in his first season
and the New Zealand Derby winner, Royal
Tan, in his second season. Beau Repaire is
the sire of Beau le Harve, winner of the Avon-
dale Stakes, Welcome Stakes, etc., and of other
promising winners. AIRWAY*, by Fairway
and a half-brother to the Ascot Gold Cup
winner, Umiddad, has 13 representatives, 5
colts and 8 fillies. These are his first crop
bred in New Zealand, but he has sired winners
in England and Ireland. FINIS, winner of the
Substitute Gold Cup and half-brother to the
Derby winner, Felstead, has 17 representatives,
14 colts and 3 fillies. His first crop to race
this season show great promise. BATTLE
SONG*, winner of the Irish St. Leger, etc.,
and closely related to The Buzzard, has 15
representatives, 11 colts and 4 fillies. He has
already sired a number of classic winners in
New Zealand. KINCARDINE*, sire of the
great racehorse, Kindergarten, and other noted
stayers, has 9 representatives, 4 colts and 5
fillies. PROBATION*, a good English winner
by Trimdon from Light Sentence, a sister to
Rhodes Scholar (Eclipse Stakes) and closely
related to Lawmaker, has 21 representatives,
10 colts and 11 fillies, his first crop. NINTH
DUKE*, by Blandford, but from the same
family as Foxbridge, and who is proving a
very consistent sire of winners, has 12 repre-
sentatives, 6 colts and 6 fillies. REVELATION*,
a highly-successful son of Manna, whose run-
ners have an extremely high winning percent-
age, has 7 representatives, 5 colts and 2 fillies.
RINGMASTER*, sire of the Derby winner
Rink, and the brilliant Subdued, unbeaten two-
year-old, has 5 representatives, 1 colt and 4
fillies. SALMAGUNDI*j the most outstanck
ing son of Phalaris in this part of the world,
has 8 representatives, 4 colts and 4 fillies.
FELOUS*, three-quarter brother to Midas,
second in the Derby to Dante, has 5 represen-
tatives, 4 colts, 1 filly, his first crop. Other
successful sires represented include the con-
sistent BROIEFORT*, by Blandford, with 9
representatives, High Caste’s half-brother,
ARVAKUR, by Beau Pere, with 15 represen-
tatives. THEIO*, a brilliant sire of two- and
three-year-olds, has 10 representatives. TIDE-
RACE*, by Fairway, a very consistent sire of
high-class winners, has 11 representatives.
STOURBRIDGE, an English son of the great
sire, Lang Bian, has 5 representatives.
PHEROZSHAH*, a good sire of English win-
ners and second in the Derby to Mahmoud,
has 2 representatives, his first crop. The great
stayer and classic winner, BEAU VITE, by
Beau Pere, whose stock are likely to reach high
class, has 15 representatives. The following,
all sires of winners, are represented as shown:
BRER FOX, by Foxbridge, 6; CAMBRIA
PARK, by Kilbroney, 6; CHATSWORTH*,
by Dastur, 8; CHRISTOPHER ROBIN*, sire
of brilliant winners in New Zealand, 3; CON-
TACT, Sydney Cup winner, 7; CROUPIER,
2; DIATOMOUS, 1; HAZRAT*, 1; IRISH
LANCER, 1; JOVIAL SON, 1; LEGATEE,
2: LEIGHON, 8; LO ZINGARO*, 3; MAR-
TARMA, 3; MEDIEVAL KNIGHT*, 7;
NIGHTLY, 2; the Melbourne Cup winner,
NIGHTMARCH, 4; ORELIO, by Limond, 4;
PAPER SLIPPER, by Paper Money, 6;
RHODES SCHOLAR, 6; SOLICITOR
GENERAL*, 2; SPIRAL, 3; TE HERO, 5;
TWEED ll*, 4; VAALS, 2; TRENCH
FIGHT, 1; ST. BOSWELLS*, 1; PHALERON
BAY*, 1; SIR BEAU, 6; the brilliant BEAU-
LIVRE, 6; and the young sires HELIOS*, by
Hyperion, I; BALLATER, 3; BEAU LEON,
3; BLACK MAJESTY, 2; DOLOMITE, 2;
GAY BOY, 1; MALIBU, 1; MARIE’S ACRE,
1; MARSHALL HALL, 1; the grand stayer
OLD BILL, by Siegfried, 3; and the young
English horse PARCHMENT*, by the Derby
winner Papyrus, 5. The progeny of these sires
include close relatives to most of the great
horses who have raced in Australia and New
Zealand in recent years.
In addition to the record offering of yearlings,
there is also a record catalogue of 120 Brood
Mares, Stallions, Racehorses in training and
Untried Stock.
Sale of English Mares.
On the final day a special catalogue of six
young English mares from noted winning
families and by Derby winners and other noted
sires will be sold. These mares have been
mated to the champion sire, Foxbridge by
Foxlaw, the successful English and Irish sire,
Columcille by Foxlaw, and Sun King, a win-
ner by Hyperion at miles. These mares in-
clude direct descendants of Chelandry, Sceptre,
Amphora, 9 Gas and Princess Sterling. Special
catalogues will be available.
Transport to New Zealand.
Buyers who intend to visit the Sales in person
are reminded that January is the most favorable
time of the year in New Zealand, when Aus-
tralians can enjoy the equitable climate for
which the Dominion is renowned. It is recom-
mended that immediate applications for book-
ings by air or sea should be made and cables
should be despatched early for accommodation
in New Zealand.
Buying Commissions.
Buying commissions will be executed on
behalf of absentee racing men and breeders
and every attention will be given to the fulfil-
ment of such orders. All such purchases will
be accompanied by a prior Veterinary Certi-
ficate of Soundness, but the buyer accepts all
risks from the fall of the hammer. If required,
the Auctioneers are prepared to make arrange-
ments to have yearlings bought at the sales,
broken in and further developed in New Zea-
land before shipment.
Inquiries and applications for, catalogues are
invited, and should be forwarded to the MEL-
BOURNE OFFICE OF MESSRS. WRIGHT,
STEPHENSON & CO. (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
as above, or to the Joint Auctioneers: —
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.,
Customhouse Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Branches throughout the Dominion and in
England.
PYNE, GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
should be grown, as they require cross-
pollenation for cropping.
Almonds thrive under the same treat-
ment as peaches, to which they are
closely related, and two or more varieties
blossoming at the same time will be
needed for best results. They also give
fair returns when grown as a breakwind
or hedge. All kinds of nuts command
higher prices if the shells are clean and
free from stain.
Fodder Trees.
“Agro”: One of the most useful
fodder trees is the carob ( Ceratonia
siliqud). It grows 20-30 ft. high and
branches out widely, making a fine shade
tree as well. When established it bears
masses of long beans, which are readily
eaten by stock. One tree alone furnishes
a big supply of food.
The well-known kurrajong {Brachy-
chiton diversifolia), so favored for street
planting and for avenues, is also a valu-
able fodder tree, being extremely
drought-resisting and otherwise hardy.
Another tree greatly favored by stock
is the weeping pittosporum ( Pittosporum
phillyrceoides), a native of the dry areas,
therefore very hardy. This fine tree is
so favored by sheep that in some inland
districts where it is growing in its natural
state it is in danger of becoming extinct.
If the planting of the trees is distributed
over as many paddocks as possible, stock
can be readily fed without being shifted
from their normal quarters.
Young trees must be securely protected
against stock until they are well ad-
vanced. One attack on a young tree
might prove fatal.
Hints for the Farm.
“P. O’Day”: Almonds make splendid
windbreaks in hill country, and in
southern N.S.W. the best varieties are
Brande’s Jordan (large, good bearer),
Burbank’s Seedling (a hardy type) and
Hatche’s Nonpareil (thin shelled). These
varieties will pollinate each other.
“Bumble”; Queen bees deteriorate
rapidly after the first season, and if they
are allowed to continue their colonies
dwindle and become unprofitable. The
position may be improved by the bees,
which will supersede the failing queen in
their own time, but often the hive will
become too weak to raise a first-class
queen, and recovery will take unduly
long. As strong hives are needed to
gather profitable honey crops, one of the
first rules in the apiary should be to en-
sure seasonal replacements with vigorous
young queens of good stock and quality.
“Bennie”; When clearing land for
tobacco ringbark the timber at least 12
months before the land is required for
cultivation. This lessens the expense and
makes the job lighter. As far as possible
all timber should be carted off instead of
burnt. Tobacco plants which are forced
to grow where ash remains on a burnt-off
field will more than likely have coarse
and unsaleable leaves.
“Bill' C.”: When borers are detected
early in citrus branches the branches may
sometimes be saved. First heat a length
of thin wire red hot and push it into the
hole until you find the borer, which is
instantly killed. Then remove the wire
and fill the hollow with soil, plugging it
in tightly. Another but more expensive
way of killing borers is to push pellets of
cottonwool previously dipped in carbon
bisulphide into dying branches and then
seal all holes in the branches with soap
or putty. The fumes are rapidly fatal to
insect life, but are harmless to plants.
“Moira”: Where water is scarce
shrubs are better than flowers to beautify
the garden. Roses will bloom for nine
months of the year if kept pruned and
cultivated. Hips should not be allowed
to form and the soil should be well
mulched with leaves and straw. Manure
should not be used unless water is avail-
able. Christmas-bush, crepe myrtle and
waratahs are hardy once established, and
flowering peach, plum, quince, etc., are
easily grown and can be used for indoor
decoration when in bloom. For shade
about the home wilga, kurrajong and
many varieties of wattle are useful and
lovely. Lucerne-tree makes a useful
hedge where bees are kept, but must be
a distance from fences because stock are
fond of it. '
“Sundowner”: Advantages of silage
over hay are (1) silage is succulent and
laxative and is therefore more suitable
for stock in a dry period, particularly
valuable for lambing ewes and milking
cows on dry feed ; (2) silage is not
inflammable ; (3) it is secure from pests ;
(4) it can be made during showery
weather; (5) it can be made from some
plants which are unsuitable for hay; (6)
when weedy crops are converted into
silage weed seeds are destroyed; (7)
silage occupies less space and (8) when
properly made there is less loss of
nutrients.
Kimberley (W.A.) is on the
poor horse country compared with
most Q f Territory, Queensland and
g OU ( ; f l Australia. Colts are always cut
proud and never broken in under three.
older if possible. I have some which were
not broken until six or seven years of
age and they are outstanding as solid hard
W orkers, with plenty of sting. They
seem to resist the walkabout disease
better than horses broken in at the usual
age.
“Mr.”; To preserve a sheepskin soak
it for about 18 hours in water containing
4oz. salt to the gallon. Then scour the
wool with soap and water, squeeze out
without wringing and stretch the skin on
a frame. Remove all flesh and fat with a
blunt knife, and paint with a solution
made up of 41b. salt and 41b. alum 'in
4gal. water. When partly dry give another
coat, repeating until the skin has received
five coats altogether, never allowing any
one coat to dry right out before adding
the next. Leave on the frame until quite
dry.
“Jonnick”: Though a neglected paint-
brush may be hard as a stone with dry
paint it can be brought back to use by
boiling it slowly in vinegar and then
letting it simmer for an hour or so. When
softened it may be pulled apart with the
fingers and given another warm up and
soak in fresh vinegar. Two such treat-
ments will soften the hardest brush.
But the vinegar must be of a fermented
brew —can’t guarantee success with syn-
thetic vinegar.
“Iris”: Root vegetables and silver-beet
can be sown until January and will keep
in the soil until springtime.
“Moira”; If the weather is cool when
pumpkins and melons are blooming, early
setting of fruit will not take place be-
cause of the absence of bees. Pollen
from the male flowers can be dusted on
to the female flowers by shaking. The
female is distinguished by a bulbous
stem below the flower. It is not so easy
to pollenate chokos, but experimenting
can do no harm. Tomatoes can be pol-
lenated by hand, and will often set fruit
earlier for this attention. The saime
applies to squashes and marrows,
cucumbers, etc.
“Overange”: Ever tried the weight
scheme for mouthing? Weights— two
hobblechains are good—are attached to
leather laces which are run through rings
on the roller and attached to the bit-
ring, one on each side. Each lace has
a stopper attached so that the weights
can fall only a certain distance, and so
can pull the colt’s head back only so far.
It gives even mouthing, making the colt
carry his head stylishly and giving no
cause for rearing over.


New
Cream Deodorant
Stops Perspiration
I Docs not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
8 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
8 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
No waiting to dry. Can be
used right.after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Anrid is the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
Also in oid. jars Belling toilet ood *
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
safely
At all chemists & stores
M/,
N
%
■
/I\
Merry Xmas to all at our Office and Works,
To our Staff, our Technicians and Draughtsmen;
To the Typists and Bookkeepers, Cashiers and Clerks,
To Apprentices, Foremen and Craftsmen;
To all who have helped in this difficult year.
Sincerely we wish you the best of good cheer.
I
Season’s greetings to Tyre Dealers—big ones and small.
To our Shareholders, Customers, Salesmen;
Our Consultants, Distributors, Wholesalers all.
To Victorian and New South Walesmen; .
From Queensland to Tassie—S.A. to the West—
We say Merry Xmas and wish you the best.
Happy Yuletide to all—both the Jacks and the Jills —
Of the Rubber and Cotton suppliers.
And the Rayon and Metal and Chemical Mills
And the Car using our tyres;
To Car and Truck Owners now, Dunlop presents
Its best Xmas wishes and warm compliments.
Xmas greetings to all Sporting “Pros” and the blokes
Who are Sport and Departmental Storemen,
To the General and Chain Stores, and Footwear Storefolk,
To the Phone girls. Assistants and Floormen;
To our Drivers and Packers and Shippers and such,
A Happy New Year and—thanks very much.
Merry Xmas to people whose names may have missed
A particular personal mention
Such as Lawyers, Insurance men—all on the list
With the Auditors for our attention;
And a Health to Competitors—big ones and small
For your effofts in keeping us “right on the ball.”
Xmas greetings to everyone—and a last word
About Dunlop Goods shoppers are short of—
We hope “forty-seven” to which we’ve referred
Will supply them—plus some you’ve not thought off
May this “forty-six” Xmas be one to recall
With the coming New Year as the best of them all.
I
D 349
the “shairman” had run away with the
fifty pounds he had given him, and young
Mathieson said, too bad, they’d better
get after him, the old rogue, and he put
his arm round Nell and waltzed her back
to the little back bar. Alf then said
that they’d hold a special urgent meet-
ing at the hotel at once to get the money
in, but Mrs. Popp said that it would be
better if they held their meetings away
from the hotel in future and not get into
debt and that, anyway, she would have
some big travellers from the “cidy” stay-
ing with her and they’d want the “gom-
middee” room “do haf a brivade game
ov cards.”
At that moment young Mathieson
swung Nell off her feet in the little back
bar and, carrying her into Mrs. Popp,
asked Mrs. Popp what would he do with
her, and Mrs. Popp gave him a sly dig
in the ribs and said that there was no
need for him to ask her what to do with
Nell, he “vos know all righd vhad do
do mid ’er.” She then told him that she
had given him the big front room —“der
besd room in her ’odel.”
And as Alf and the committee stood
dumbly by Mrs. Popp told two strangers
in the bar that she had arranged to hold
a big race meeting in a fortnight’s time in
place of the race the “zilly Budlcrs” had
ruined, and that “Misder Madhieson”
had donated a handsome prize for the
“Vederal Gabidal Gup.”
Just as the dejected-looking Red Range
Federal Capital Site Movement Com-
mittee was filing oht of the bar Mrs. Popp
came up with them and said that stealing
money was only what they could have
expected from a man who “vould gall a
shendleman like Misder Frauendoffer a
Sherman svine,” and then turned round
and faced Alf Hodgson and, rubbing her
stomach with her little fat hand, said
“Und like Shermany, you will haf do
magnedize yourzelf, Halfe ’Odgson!”
Jim Pellett looked up at the sky know-
ingly and said it looked to him, the way the
weather was going lately, that the country
was probably in for another big drought.
The members of the Red Range Federal
Capital Site Movement Committee smiled
a brave, sickly smile as they left thirstily,
each them declaring vehemently
that he’cWnever set foot inside Mrs. Popp's
so-and-so hotel again. Thirty-seven
pounds ten shillings! No, never set foot
inside her so-and-so hotel again. Twelve
weedy little elm-trees! Huh! Frauen-
doffer, the old German swine! That
lousy old thief Keller! Shakspeare!
SO the capital site agitation and en-
thusiasm waned and Red Range never
achieved its dream.
Nor did Red Range ever see those
movable pig sties—kept pigs clean—but
a little shop was opened in the city some
time later called “The Sweet Nell,” and it
was rumored that the golden-haired lady
who ran it had been financed by a
wealthy young squatter up north.
Of course, Frauendoffer never pre-
sented that flag to Red Range; a matter
which Red Range had a hand in, too.
Also, and quite contrary to what local
wives had prophesied, the Red Range
Brides all married comfortably and suc-
cessfully. As for Beck, he continued to
shoot the sun every evening until the day
of his death ; the single exception being
the day the Overlanders came, and he
had to put up with the next best thing
and take a running shot at the moon just
as it hopped behind a bank of cloud
Red Range made no further move to
become great and the Gabbie Gabbie,
Willa Willa, Bungowannawinnie, Argo
Plains, Boona Boona, Fog Creek, Toni’s
Lagooif, Waddy Heights, Kangaroo Point
and Red Range Banner continued to give
all the news of the district without having
to increase the size of the paper. Red
Range could claim one interesting feature,
though; a feature that no other town
could boast of, and that was that the
roof of one residence in the town was
* patched with the keyboard of a piano.
Sometimes down the years, when a
breath came out of the past, the women-
folk would look at their menfolk, and,
with a wink for the benefit of the rest of
the family, or a sly nudge in their ribs,
say that they were getting tired of the
noise of the all-night trams and buses;
that the underground railway beneath
the house was shaking the place to pieces,
or that they simply couldn’t stand the
noise of the traffic any longer.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divop.ce.
TO CLARENCE PEROIVAL LUXFORD.—TAKE
NOTICE that NANCY SEAL LUXFORD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2461 of 1946 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-
sixth day of February One thousand nine hundred
and forty-seven and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSIEURS E. A. LEASE &
NICHOLAS, Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
(ii.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Home economics expert
makes suggestion
for your IVew
Home
■
Mrs. Olwen Francis
one of Australia’s lead-
ing home economics
experts, a graduate in
arts at the Adelaide
University makes sug-
gestions to help home
planners. Mrs. Francis
has written many books
on home-making her
latest "Talking about
Food” is now in pre-
paration.
Put your Kitchen near the
Front door. Think of all the
■times you have to answer the
door each day. Think of all
the footsteps you’ll save.
He * *
Put your Laundry next to
the Kitchen so that you can
keep one eye on the copper
and the other on the stove.
That saves more footsteps.
He * He
Put a Service Cupboard in
your Kitchen (the same as
they have in flats.) Plan kitchen
cupboards so that the lower
row gives a continuous work-
ing bench surface around the
room. Statistics show 34" to
35" to be most comfortable
working height. Shallow cup-
boards above give head room.
Hs * *
Have an electric light in
pantry, linen closet and all
cupboards.
Walls that save work.
Cane-ite walls make it easy to
have rooms that are stream-
lined, They give a room a
finish that does away with any
need for a lot of pictures or
ornaments that make work.
* * *
You keep your home quiet
with Cane-ite walls and ceil-
ings because Cane-ite is sound
absorbent.
* * *
Better reflection of light
is provided by Cane-ite’s
special ivory finish for ceilings
—has suede-finish texture that
fully reflects light without glare.
* * *
Even temperature in rooms
is important. Cane-ite pro-
vides insulation. Resists
Summer heat and Winter cold.
Makes it much easier to main-
tain even temperature through-
out year.
Insulate and Decorate with
[P
Wallis and Ceilings
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants everywhere
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“An old-time remedy for ear-ache was to heat
a raisin and press into the suffering member.”
— “World’s News.”
Nowadays you simply switch off the
wireless.
•fr 4* 4* 4*
“Ventriloquist’s dummy receives income-tax
demand.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
Why not? After all, politicians pay
tax.
“Are you certain my cigar smoke wont turn you chappies up?”
“Black eyes are supposed to denote wit.”
—Daily paper.
Particularly of the offensive type.
“Eskimos believe that by adopting a new
name late in life, they will be able to prolong
their life span.”— “World’s News:”
Many Hollywood actresses should live
to 200.
“The wife of Lord Henry Howard had
children, all but two of them sons.” — “Sun.”
By the Lord Harry!
•b 4* *i*
“Men admire girls who blush.”
v —“New Idea”
But few men find scope for admira-
tion.
“Match your sunglasses to the shape of your
face.” — Sunday paper.
This lends enchantment to the spec-
tacles you present.
“The Britishizone of occupied Germany is to
be run by the Germans on a plan based on the
Australian Constitution.”
All that need be done now to ensure
their utter prostration for the next gener-
ation is to send them Doc Evatt and
Eddie Ward and a 14-point referendum
to argue about.
•F
“Richard, by now, was drinking more than
ever. Jean saw through his excuses like an
open book.” —Magazine story.
Forever amber?
Bar-bound.
“Battleships and luxury ocean hners are
selling at bargain prices in America.”
—■ ‘Sunday Telegraph .
Let those who have the means to buy
A liner or a battleship
And sail the seas or take a trip
Beneath the velvet tropic sky
Do so ; but mortals such as I
With neither piles of gold nor scrip
Must let such splendid bargains slip,
Dismiss the subject with a sigh.
But if, in spite of all we thirst
For scenes exotic, let’s not fret
That we’re not millionaires or crooners;
A little waiting, at the worst,
Will put an end to our regret
When bargain-rates apply to schooners.
D. H. E.
Nocturne.
To a damosel’s window above
An itinerant troubadour sang
Of his hopeless and undying love
Till the echoes disconsolate rang,
While in dolorous accents he moaned
Of the lack of result to his suit. ...
This and similar themes he intoned
As he pensively plucked at his lute.
Though the maiden indulgently smiled
On the singer, his serenade ended
On a cadence unwontedly wild
Asa cascade of missiles descended,
And a manlier voice rent the night
With a cue to begone, and a taunt
That was bitter, but probably right —■
“Thou premature crooner, avaunt!”
P. M. LUSK.
The Prototype.
“The inventors’ prize at the 1946 Paris Fair
was won by an instrument which imitates the
violin, ’cello, bassoon, flute, oboe and saxo-
phone.”
My only invention in the musical line
was a one-man band, which I dreamed up
after a lobster supper.
From my position as conductor I con-
trolled the whole works. The eccentric
motion of the baton was transmitted by
cords and pulleys to the bows of the
stringed instruments, which swung in
unison, if not ip tune. A pair of bellows
under each foot kept the woodwinds
going, with the exception of the saxo-
phone. To get the characteristic note
from this instrument, I had it mounted
on a stand with a chronically sick duck
concealed in its innards.
The fingering meant more pulleys and
cords, attached to a harness on my
shoulders and hips. The shruggings and
wrigglings were difficult to master, but I
was helped by a study of hula-hula and
jitterbug technique. The remaining
vacant parts of my anatomy came in
handy for the percussion instruments,
and my skill in producing a roll of drums
by wiggling my ears earned high praise
from the critics.
The piano had me baffled for a while,
but I finally mastered it by mooring a
hungry tom-cat to a wire running length-
wise along the keys. The release of
artificially-alarmed mice from a trap-
door on to the keys would produce chords
and arpeggios that were distinguishable
even above the rest of the orchestra.
Sending a powerful electric current along
the wire served to eke out any deficiencies
in the saxophone’s high ratfes.
My orchestra never performed outside
a few local dances, but I still claim for
it a niche in history. In both the haunt-
ing timbre of its music and the charac-
teristic movements made by its conductor,
it was the direct ancestor of the modern
dance-band.
PLUM.
Confidential.
“Your hairdresser’s confidence is a precious
thing.”— Woman’s paper.
After I got into the chair and he had
encased me in the shroud, I stuck my
finger inside my collar as he began to
apply the neck bandage, thus allowing
myself to breathe during the coming
operations. <*?
“Is that pulling?” he asked as the
electric clippers climbed up my skull.
“It is a bit,” I replied. “Perhaps it
would pull fewer chunks of fibre out if
you were to get down to second gear.”
As he hacked out another swathe he
said confidentially: “You know, these
modem inventions aren’t always an im-
provement. Give me the good old hand
blades every time. But of course my
customers demand the quicker method.
Hair’s getting a bit thin on top, sir.
That’s through not having a singe after
each haircut. The cut hair bleeds, and
that weakens the follicles.”
“As a matter of fact,” I put in, “I
wouldn’t have any other but weak fol-
licles. Strong follicles only encourage
hair to be aggressive, and that means it
will keep standing up on end. As it is,
I can browbeat my hair into submission
now. What do you know for this after-
noon?”
“I’ve heard Lord Snooks is an abso-
lute cert, for the Flying. You’ll soon be
needing the sander running over this
patch, sir, instead of the scissors.”
“Good,” I replied. “I wish you’d in-
stall one. The droning sound would have
a far greater soporific effect than the snap
of scissors. What do you think of
Deadlegs for that race?”
“Not a ghost, sir. He could only finish
twelfth at Canterbury last August with
seven-two up in a weak field. Today he’s
in class company. In any case, I know
for a fact that he’s on the ice—the stable’s
oscar’s going on his stable-mate Wheezer,
who might be a good place bet at a fair
price. Have you ever tried Scalpo, sir,
for dandruff? I noticed some on your
collar as you came in.”
“Impossible!” I protested. “Why, I’ve
never handled any Scalpo in my life.”
“I mean the dandruff, sir. Those white
flakes you see on the shoulders of your
coat. A sure sign that your hair is on
the way to falling right out. My brother
lost all his hair in the 1919 ’flu epidemic
—didn’t have a skerrick left. I put him
on to Scalpo and now he’s got a mop of
hair that thick and wiry it blunts my
scissors. It’s only two and nine the
bottle, sir.”
“I’d hate to develop wiry hair,” I said,
“It’s too dangerous during electrical
thunderstorms. Got any particular fancy
for the Welter?”
“I can’t see anything to beat The
Bender. Randwick’s his happy hunting
ground. I believe he’s jumping out of
his skin. The cousin of one of my cus-
tomers delivers bread to the trainer’s
niece, and she says he’s unbeatable. After
all, you must go on good inside oil
rather than try to pick ’em on form. They
tell me, too, that the Mysterious Lady
Punter is putting a few thousand on it,
so it’s good enough for me to risk a few
bob on. Your hair looks as if it could
do with a good oil shampoo—the scalp’s
all clogged.”
“I wouldn’t have it any other way,” I
replied adamantly. “Without it my hat
wouldn’t stick to my scone half as well,
I was thinking of splashing a bit on
Boobook—heard anything about him?”
“You’ll be doing your sugar in cold
blood, sir. He hasn’t raced since he ran
second-last at Gosford. Hasn’t got over
that old fetlock trouble of his, either,
Anyway, he was never any good at any-
thing over a mile. A mile and a half
will be well beyond him. You’ll have a
singe, sir?”
“No, thanks,” I said, “I heard of a
fellow catching fire once getting a singe,
He’d just washed his hair in benzine,
Well, I’ll be seeing you.”
•** • _ •
On the Monday morning I put my
head in at the saloon door just as the
hairdresser was confidentially telling a
customer of the awful dangers attending
the development of emasculated follicles,
I took out the roll of notes I’d just col-
lected from the “settling.” I flicked them
and said: “Deadlegs, Boobook—remem-
ber? The ones you said had no hope—
thanks for the tip. You can give me a
bottle of that Scalpo—l’m polishing the
car this afternoon. Oh, and by the way,
you forgot to prune the hairs that sprout
out of my ears. Good morning.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others per line.
Preference
“Preference for returned men is wrong.
There should be jobs for all and no pre-
ference.” I am getting used to hearing
that cry, but it really struck home during
a “pick-up” at the local labor office where
I was registered as an owner-driver of a
truck. There were four applicants for
three vacancies and the other returned
men and myself got them. The fourth
driver put up an argument, and after the
roll-call it waxed hot and strong.
There was work for all, because the
vacancies for laborers were not com-
pletely filled, and I could have foregone
the driving and swung a shovel. Un-
fortunately I did not see eye to eye with
that scheme. Certainly there should be
jobs for all. By the same token, a re-
turned man has earned the right to make
his choice—for a few years at least.
If anyone thinks that swinging a pick
and shovel for eight hours a day at
navvy’s wages is adequate return for the
Desert, Greece, Crete and New Guinea,
then it’s high time he was disillusioned.
—B. J. L. (Q.).
Arbitration
Direct action seems to be the key-
word of all industrial disputes nowadays,
this measure being claimed as the only
way to force immediate arbitration. Un-
fortunately this appears to be only too
true. In almost every recent case of in-
dustrial unrest in South Australia —which
once prided itself on its clean industrial
slate—immediate attention has been given
to cases where direct action has brought
matters to a head.
In cases where formal application has
been made to the Court, it has taken
months to get similar attention, and
weekly the instances grow. Industry has
been speeded up and labor is being geared
to the new tempo, so settlement of dis-
putes should be aligned with this pro-
gress. As there appears to be no alterna-
tive to industrial arbitration, the system
itself needs overhauling, the first step be-
ing a speeding-up. The appointment of
more arbitrators is an obvious need. —
Sha-Sha (S.A.).
Time, Gents!
If the N. S. Wales liquor referendum
results in later closing the working con-
ditions of a minority will automatically
\ deteriorate. The responsibility for this
will be on the heads of unionists, who
make up the bulk of the voters and whose
eternal cry is for better conditions. The
old union ideal of “a better spin for the
workers” will have been amended to “a
better spin for the drinkers.”
This alteration of attitude is typical of
the loud-voiced upholder of union ideals.
The man who taps on the door of a
closed shop or sends his kid round to the
side door of the grocer on Sunday is
very apt to be the fellow who calls a stop-
work meeting on the wharves to decide
against overtime. A fair go is what he
wants —for himself.
This being so, the referendum may be
carried. It will be interesting then to
await the reactions of hotel employees.—
Bondi Beachcomber (N.S.W.).
Pity the Poor Punter!
When Victoria’s “Government” busied
itself with mid-week racing, coursing
control and night trotting, “sports”
noted approvingly that the State’s vital
interests were to be neglected no longer.
Then the increased the
betting tax, and the “sports” are still bel-
lowing at the betrayal. One of them,
mentioning Bernborough, said, “I laid
£7500 to £lOOO on him in the Caulfield
Stakes and it cost me £3 10s. Under
the new tax it would cost me £75.”
This poor chap, “on a day when
favorites are at a short price,” might
spend “as much as £12,000” on innocent
amusement, and £l2O of that would be
taken under the new tax. He threatens
to go to Sydney or Brisbane, as
“I refuse to be saddled with heavy taxes,
win, lose or draw.” Other sufferers re-
port similarly.
Could Victoria survive the loss of these
worthies? — Yarrasider (Vic.).
H.M.A.S. Canberra
I was disappointed with “Macnell’s”
description of the loss of H.M.A.S. Can-
berra (B. 14/8/’46), and, as a survivor,
I should like to make corrections.
Australia (the flagship) was not in
company at the time. She had been de-
tached the previous evening and sent to
the transport anchorage off Guadalcanal
for a conference on the progress of the
landings. Had she been present she
would have probably been sunk instead
of Canberra. Her departure left us in
the van and, as first ship of the line, we
copped the lot,
Canberra was not outlined by the fires
onshore. It was a jet-black night with
tropical thunderstorms passing over, and
when I raced on deck after the alarm
buzzer had been sounded I realised it
only too well. We were many miles off-
shore, anyway, and any fires there were
well and truly obscured by the murk.
The first hit was definitely not from
any torpedo. In fact, there is no proof
that Canberra was torpedoed at any time
during the action. If she was it was on
the starboard side, not port. The first
intimation we got of the presence of the
enemy was the bursting of star-shells
behind us, followed closely by a salvo of
h.-e. which burst on the four-inch gun
deck, wiping out most of the four-inch
gun crews. The flag deck, bridge and
after-control then got it in quick succes-
sion. The four-inch gun deck and the
flag deck were hit only a few seconds
after I had crossed them (at speed), and
the hit on the bridge just beat me there.
I have cause to remember this part of
the proceedings.
Canberra did not list to port, but fo
starboard. The shells passing through
her from the port side holed her below
"No, We DON’T Want anything today!"
the water-line to starboard, and she im-
mediately began to settle in that direc-
tion. Many of us, marooned in the bows
by the fires burning fiercely amidships,
remember it only too well, as at one
stage just after dawn we spent several
anxious minutes hanging over the port
guard rails, expecting the old girl to lurch
over on to her starboard beam ends any
second. She was listing 30-40 degress
by this time.
It was much longer than two hours
from the first salvo until she was finally
sunk. The attack took place at 1.45 a.m.
and she was still well afloat after 6 a.m.
In fact, there’s no knowing just how
much longer she would have remained
afloat. When the U.S. destroyers took us
off some time after 6 a.m., the cruiser
Chicago was ordered to sink her by gun-
fire as quickly as possible—an incident
which probably gave rise to the “furphy”
that Canberra had been sunk by the
Yanks and not by the Japs. The last we
saw of the scene as Patterson carried us
away, shivering and bedraggled and
mostly in the nude, was Chicago pumping
eight-inch shells into her hull to hasten
the end. — Pay-bob (R.A.N.).
The R.A.N. and Communism
A comment based on the circulation
on Garden Island of the Communist rag
“Corvette” (B. 13/11/ ’46) is capable
of being misconstrued. The sea-
going forces of the R.A.N. detest
Communism with all the fervor that
travel-opened eyes and ordinary decent
instincts of mateship have engendered.
The regulation that “Communistic
literature found aboard H.M.A. ships
is directed at the wellbeing and
efficiency of the whole service, and must
be reported immediately,” is still in force
afloat.
I described in The Bulletin the
attitude to two Commo agitators who,
because of slight internal trouble, boarded
an Australian cruiser alongside Garden
Island mouthing their usual jargon about
“getting organised.” In five minutes they
were “organised,” one flung down the
gangway and the other over the ship’s
side into the harbor, and the sailors,
ashamed and disgusted, fallen in on the
foc’s’le ready for work.
Several Australian destroyers, and
Australians serving in bigger British ships,
sailed regularly to Murmansk. After
fighting their way through all a
triumphantly-savage enemy could hurl
against them, and braving for hundreds
of miles navigational hazards and dis-
comforts hardly equalled elsewhere on
the seven seas, they were met by units of
the Russian Navy—a couple of ice-
breakers just out from Murmansk.
Alongside, they watched Russian women
in gangs in this “workers’ paradise”
line up and on backs and heads carry
loads a decent Australian wouldn’t ask
a donk to carry. An ugly incident was
narrowly averted when a burly Scotch-
man from a British cruiser, seeing an
overcoated Russian guard prod a laden
woman with his rifle butt, leaped ashore
and laid the guard flat on his back
Conda (R.A.N.).
Queues
They are long, but very few citizens
realise that they sometimes extend half-
way round the world.
Once, as a suburban storekeeper, I
could give my weekly order to a smiling
traveller, assured of prompt delivery and
a month’s credit. Now I must order by
mail or ’phone or call personally for the
goods, and, in any case, can seldom be
sure of getting the lines I want when T
want them. Dribs and drabs, hours of
waiting and curt refusals are the order
of the day.
On making a com-
plaint to the “heads” I
was told that the whole-
salers had the same
worries as myself. Send-
ipg travellers round!
would be silly when there
was no certainty of
stocks being available.
Factories treated the
warehouses in the same
manner, and in turn they
had to wait for the
erratic arrival and un-
loading of ships. Some-
times the ships failed to
bring the cargoes, or the
stuff was held up in
(foreign ports for want
of ships.
This information may
not be very helpful, but
it may enlist your sym-
pathy for the man be-
hind the counter of the
small shop when he fails
to produce your favor-
ite brand. He is at the
end of a very long
queue himself, and would
be happy to serve you
if the rest of the world would co-operate.
—Sorry (S.A.).
Darwin
That description of the damage done
by troops at Thursday Island could apply
equally well to Darwin (B. 13/11/ ’46).
Darwin houses were stripped of all their
furnishings; locked cases were broken
open and rifled; articles too large or
cumbersome for easy looting were de-
liberately smashed up and buildings were
torn down or set on fire. It seemed to
be nobody’s business to stop this orgy of
destruction. Japanese looters could not
have behaved worse.
It will take years to efface the effects
of Japanese bombs rained on Darwin
and it will take a generation, or more,
to efface the effects of military control
of Darwin. Many Darwin houses had
been built up high on concrete pillars
to avoid the ravages of whiteants. Under
military control stocks of lumber were
piled up against these concrete pillars
and became food for the . whiteants,
which ate their way into the woodwork
of the houses. Many of the buildings
are now unsafe for occupation.
One bitter aftermath is the dislike
which the townsfolk evince towards men
in uniform. —J. L. (N.T.).
Waste
My morning train takes me past a
fine example of official waste. At a
time when labor, timber, trucks, bricks
and other building materials are at a
premium, I have watched the transfor-
mation of an isolated, useless block of
land into a small park complete with
concrete paths and stone kerb.
Since about three months ago there
have never been fewer than five men on
the job and today there were 12. First,
although quite small, the block had to
be cleared, Theri, because it was low-
lying, three trucks were used to cart earth
to fill the depression. Then came a
grader plus a couple of extra “lookers-
on.” Following that, a concrete-mixer
was moved in and paths were dug and
laid in concrete. The latest move is to
widen the road which skirts the block.
after which, no doubt, something else will
require doing. . , .
If local-government bodies can t set
the example how can the Government
expect to control building and labor to
the best advantage?— Fedup (N.S.W.).
Wage-pegging
Like every other regulation it can be
dodged. The men work on a fixed quota
which can easily be produced in four or
five hours. Then the hands go on piece-
work for extra pay. The union limits
the amount of piece-work to a certain
quota. As each man reaches his limit he
knocks off and is free to sit around and
amuse himself. Often an hour or so is
thus enjoyed by the wage-slaves before the
gong goes, and a good time is had by all.
The scheme is really a form of black-
market in labor. It suits the boss and
workers concerned for the time being, as
they have a virtual monopoly of their
special market. Competition would kill
their goose. — Howsat (S.A.).
Latin
“Kros” (B. 13/11/ ’46) holds that the
most cogent reason for the study of Latin
is the assistance it gives in grasping our
own tongue. .How does a knowledge of
Latin help any more than a knowledge
of Anglo-Saxon, French, German, Greek,
Sanskrit or any of the other languages
English is derived from? It is doubtful if
D. H. Lawrence, Aldous Huxley, Bertrand
Russell, Wells and Shaw had anything like
the command of Latin that Johnson and
Milton had, but they can express them-
selves in English as well as the old-timers.
I don’t suppose Henry Lawson would
have recognised a Latin irregular word
if it had bitten him, but he knew as much
about the English language as any pedant
who can tell you th© Latin root of every
word in the dictionary, but can’t say
anything creative with them. —F. S.
(Vic.).
For Black Marketeers ,
Colbert had a way of dealing with
the 17th-century equivalent of the
black marketeer. Anyone who over-
charged, or who manufactured inferior
material for sale, had to stand two hours
in a public place with a record of hjs mis-
demeanor and a sample of the faulty
goods tied to him. How many black
marketeers would continue in their crimi-
nal vocation after this treatment or after
having their names and conduct broad-
cast over all radio stations in Australia?
—Sam (N.S.W.).
A National Theatre
I see that the Council for the En-
couragement of Music and the Arts is
sponsoring a Commonwealth Theatre
Movement which wants to establish a
National Theatre, The NT. aims to
produce good drama, ballet and opera
cheaply enough to make them accessible
to all and “to protect the arts of the
theatre from the inroads of commercial-
ism.” In its final form it hopes to include
professional ballet and opera companies,
with schools of dramatic art, ballet and
opera, each with professional full-time
instructors as directors and employing
musicians, playwrights, designers and
technicians. To bring these worthy aims
to fruition it is asking for an addition
to the entertainments tax or a special tax
on imported movies.
Few would say that they didn’t want
good drama, opera and ballet and few
that they didn’t want to protect those
arts from commercial inroads, but would
the way the C.T.M. wants to go about it
produce that? The only good drama in
Australia has been produced by in-
dividuals. Alan Wilkie started out with
the absurd dream of performing all the
37 plays of Shakspeare at a time when
the Bard was anathema to the commer-
cial theatre. He had actually succeeded
in producing over 20 when he was
knocked out by the depression, Gregan
McMahon made a lone-hand effort to
produce the best work of modern play-
wrights and did it for 20 years despite
fearful ups and downs. When he died
a committee, mainly of university pro-
fessors and intellectual art appreciators
like the C.E.M.A., took over the concern
and in a few months finished it off com-
pletely without producing one play.
Borovansky has performed the miracle
of creating an Australian ballet of prob-
ably the highest standard, though how it
will get along now that it has become
more or less an adjunct to the commercial
theatre is another story. Beresford
Fowler still plugs away in Melbourne
doggedly adhering to the classics. How
long would any of these devoted gentle-
men have lasted if they had been civil
servants?
The subsidy the C.T.M. is after would,
in effect, make it a Government depart-
ment, and Government concerns are
notoriously commonplace and mediocre.
An official National Theatre would be-
come indistinguishable from the Depart-
ment of Information, especially as it
would probably have a Mr. Calwell as
director.— Cauboy (Vic,).


Tobacco
Most brands of tobacco and cigarettes
that were well known in pre-war days
are now being extensively advertised in
the press, on posters and in window dis-
plays. Yet it is many a long day since
I obtained a particular brand by asking
for it at a tobacconist’s. Invariably the
reply is, “Sorry, we have only such-and-
such,” referring to either a very poor-
quality weed or to a very expensive one.
Can anyone enlighten me as to the pur-
pose of heavy advertising of goods which
sell these days without a penn’orth of
publicity?— Wusslean (Vic.).
Strikes
Some years ago a Labor Senator was
dispatched to a mass meeting of strikers
in Newcastle to see what he could do. He
was met by a number of union
leaders, driven around the city on a sight-
seeing expedition and then taken to the
best hotel, where a sumptuous dinner had
been arranged, wines and cigars included.
On his way to the meeting he asked about
the payment for his entertainment, and
was amazed to learn that it all came out
of “strike funds.” His feelings changed
to disgust when he stood up before his
woe-begotten hungry audience. His
speech was brief but very effective he
told in simple language how their strike
pay was being used, and apologised for
having been an unwitting party to the
extravagances. The strike ended.
Present-day conditions may not be en-
tirely analogous, but it’s certain union
leaders don’t suffer the same financial
embarrassments as do the poor unfor-
tunates who have to worry along with
depleted incomes while a strike is in pro-
gress. The burden falls even more
heavily upon the women and children
of the workers, and also on shop-
keepers and small traders who are ex-
pected to give credit when no money is
available. There would be fewer strikes
if union leaders had to forgo their own
salaries or wages while the workers were
idle.
Union leaders are generally chosen for
their dominating personalities and
ability to defend the rights of the
workers. They have to agitate for better
conditions and adjust grievances when
they arise. Naturally it follows that a
man’s ability as a leader is enhanced by
the number of disputes he can handle
successfully. To make his own position
secure he has to ferret out as many
grievances as he can. Many “troubles”
are pointed out to the men and exag-
gerated in order to obtain subservient
response.
The question of wage increase is
always an easy incentive for strikes, but
what is the public expected to believe
when workers discard their earnings for
weeks at a time and reveal their ability
to carry on with the meagre strike pit-
tance? Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost to the workers with every strike,
and losses are rarely overtaken by added
increments in the weekly pay.
The U.S. Supreme Court has laid it
down that one man cannot be allowed
to endanger the livelihood of hundreds of
thousands of people and bring misery
and suffering to millions of others. Aus-
tralia should take a leaf from the same
book.— Chas (N.S.W.).
Postage Rates
As a philatelist I exchange correspon-
dence with many parts of the Empire.
From one of my cobbers in the Bahamas
I recently received a letter weighing
nearly an ounce which came by registered
air mail for the equivalent of fourpence
(a l|d. and 2i~d. copy).
A lesson for Australia, it shows how
postage rates have been reduced in other
parts of the Empire since the end of the
war. Yet here we are still mulcted by
the old-time war measure of on every
letter. A sure and easy money-spinner
raking in many thousands of pounds in
ill-gotten revenue. — Cungevoi (Q.).
Music in Schools
Surely it is time the Victorian Edu-
cation Department did something for the
musical education of its pupils. For
many years now the subject has been
almost entirely neglected in Victorian
schools.
Departmental excuses about shortages
of specialist music-teachers merely call
for extra censure. Certainly there are not
enough of these teachers, but the de-
ficiency existed long before the war and
is a direct result of lack of official
encouragement. When music-lovers pro-
test about the inadequacy of State-school
teaching, up goes the usual departmental
smoke-screen and pompous extracts from
the curriculum are quoted, proving to the
entire satisfaction of the Education
Department that every child leaves the
school primed with the music of the ages.
That he subsequently prefers Louis Arm-
strong or Smoky Dawson to Beethoven or
Mozart is to be attributed to his natural
depravity rather than to a dismal edu-
cational failure.
In actual achievement the average pupil
does not even approach the requirements
of this curriculum, which, since music is
not an examination subject, is nobody’s
business. The results axe abominable,
and the pupils not only fall short in sight-
reading and general voice production, but
also lose interest in good music.
Remembering the approval lavished on
music in schools by educationists as
diverse as Plato and Confucius, its
proved therapeutic value in cases of
emotional tension, and its obvious practi-
cal possibilities in enriching the life of
the average citizen, the lethargic
departmental approach is inexcusable
Harmony (Vic.).
The Birthrate
A ybung couple expected a visit from
the stork. They spent three months in a
frenzied hunt for a home and finally
secured a sub-standard dwelling. Then
followed a month of weary searching for
a hospital willing to book a bed. Next
came the coupon-counting, queueing up
and scrounging for the dozens of things
necessary. Everything being in short
supply, each item was won only after
some battling.
Finally, instead of a leisurely trip to
the hospital with a margin of safety, the
expectant mother had to wait until the
last anxious moment before being rushed
to the hospital.
All these things were duly noted by
other young couples, several of whom
“Are you SURE you've no letter marked ‘Private and confidential for
Ichabod Shugg?”
openly declared that, rather than incur
such hardships, they would postpone their
donation to the population. There may
be other reasons for small families. I
have only stated some about which there
can be no argument. — Procrast (S.A.).
Whyalla
“N.1.J.” (B. 20/11 / ’46) says he re-
fused to join the ironworkers’ union at
Whyalla (S.A.), and was threatened with
blackball. Why not? Evidently he was
prepared to accept the wages and condi-
tions of the union award, but was not pre-
pared to assist in obtaining them. For
that reason the shop delegate acted cor-
rectly in demanding that he join the
union.
“N.1.J.” states that workers receive free
medical attention. For his information
the men pay 6d. a week, which is de-
ducted from their pay. The doctors are
in turn paid by the company and ap-
pointed by it. This is a disadvantage as
the company carries its own
tion and often has to be challenged when
it refuses to pay. '
Workers at Whyalla pay 9d. a week
into the hospital and played a big part in
building it, but the control of it is in the
hands of the company, which has four
representatives on the board against three
from the people. Workers unfortunate
enough to be in hospital cannot obtain
social benefits because they are con-
tributors. They would be far better off
in a Government hospital.
As for the housing position it is a fact
that there are a few five-roomed houses
rented for ss. a week, but they are wood
and iron and are occupied only by a few
old residents. The majority of workers
have to buy their houses through the
company or the bank, and if repairs are
made they are booked against the occu-
pier.
The company does run the dairy. It
was previously run by the vendors, who
paid good wages and conditions to their
employees. The company lengthened the
hours from 44 to 56, and shortened the
wages from £6 10s. to £5 Is. The milk
supply is not as good—hundreds of
gallons of mijk have to be brought from
Laura. The dairy is a showplace for
visitors like “N.I.J.!’ who do not stay long
enough to check up on the information
supplied to them by the company, and
who are not sure of their facts, otherwise
they would sign their name to statements
that they wish to have people believe.
Finally, the rabbit-proof might
assist to keep the likes of “N.1.J.” out.
J, P. Brazel, secretary, Pirie-Why alia
branch, Fed. Ironworkers’ Association.
Army Equipment
It is evident that “Ex-R.S.M.” (B.
11/12/’46), doesn’t know much about
Army equipment in the field. As one
who tramped the Owen Stanleys and the
Finisterres, I can say that no boot ever
made did a better job than the Australian
Army pattern. Kangaroo hide with
rubber soles would have been a riot on
Shaggy Ridge. For that show we were
issued with the normal boot, this time
fitted with metal sprigs. Experienced
N.G. veterans lost no time in prying off
the sprigs with their bayonets and, once
committed to climbing muddy equivalents
of the goat track, the rookies very quickly
did the same.
At various times most of us managed to
get hold of both U.S. and Jap. boots,
with and without rubber fittings. They
were quickly discarded as useless by all
who tried them. Has “Ex-R.S.M.” ever
climbed a precipitous bank of black mud
with rubber boots, with or without a
tread? Without a tread, there’s no hold
of any kind. With a tread, there’s a
hold in the first couple of steps, then the
treads are filled with mud and the boot
is useless for climbing.
The beauty of the webbing haversack
is that, wet or dry, it fits to the shape of
the back and shoulders, which it wouldn’t
do if it were lined with metal tubing. I
know the tubing could be shaped, but all
men haven’t the same shaped back, and
what would fit one man would be torture
to another.
As for buckles* has “Ex-R.S.M.” ever
weighed the brass buckles on the issue
pack? He’d need to carry a gross of
them before he became even conscious
of their weight. And speaking of weight,
what soldier ever carried anything he
didn’t need? Only the rookie and the
fool. The first soon got sense, and the
second is no doubt still wandering around
somewhere bent double as usual.
It shouldn’t be necessary, either, to
have to remind “Ex-R.S.M.” that great-
coats do other things besides keeping off
the rain, things which the prettiest water-
proof ever invented can’t do. I, for
one, wouldn’t care to be caught in the
snow with a waterproof, no matter how
tastefully lined it might be.
As a soldier of the late war, and a
member of the pre-war militia, I’ve tried
out the Australian soldier’s equipment
under every possible condition —in the
desert, snow, rain water and in New
Guinea mud. I’ve yet to see better
equipment issued by any army.— Nexa
(N.S.W.).
“Marketing”
There is a form of profiteering which
has prevailed for a number of years and
which is still being maintained at the ex-
pense of the community. It is quite legal,
and is made possible through the estab-
lished methods of marketing, which are
based upon the system of fixing prices
according to supply and demand. Such
a system may be equitable for import
and export trade, but it should not be
applied to home-grown products for local
consumption.
Prices are increased when goods are
scarce, under the fallacious impression
that all growers have suffered loss be-
cause of adverse conditions and should
receive additional payment to offset the
lessened output. Such is far from the
truth. Generally, when crops fail —in cer-
tain districts only—the loss is complete,
and goods that reach the city markets
represent the full harvest from sections
of the country that have been unaffected.
They are the lucky ones who scoop the
pool and are enriched at the expense of
their less-fortunate brothers on the land,
who (adding insult to injury) have also
to pay the iniated prices occasioned by
their misfortune.
Last season, for example, the price of
cauliflowers reached the exorbitant figure
of 48s. a dozen instead of the usual price
of about 12s. That actually meant that
about 75 per cent, of the growers suffered
loss while the other 25 per cent, enjoyed
a glorious harvest, amassing, in some
cases, more than four times their esti-
mated profit.
Unfortunately the erratic system
applies to all kinds of • vegetables and
fruit —they all have their good and bad
seasons —but invariably the locality of
rain, plentiful or scarce, brings exag-
gerated wealth to some and poverty to
others —and the public pays every time.
There is yet another point which has
far-reaching effects on the public purse.
Once prices have been inflated they rarely
return to normal. Each “high” sets a
new standard. Growers aim to keep up
the prices for possible adverse conditions
in the future. When gluts have occurred
there is a tendency to scrap, or dig-in,
sections of their crop rather than to flood
the market, with the possibility of price
reduction. As many can remember,
there was a time when apples were so
plentiful that cargoes of them were taken
out to sea and dumped rather than dis-
tribute them at less than the normal cost.
No one grudges a fair and equitable
return to the producers, but inflated prices
only benefit a section of them. The only
remedy is to fix a maximum charge based
upon normal conditions. —C.E. T.
(N.S.W.).
Tax and Servicemen
I was a pilot-instructor in the R.A.A.F.
—flight-lieutenant on discharge. Some six
months later, in December, 1945, I re-
ceived from the Taxation Department
an assessment for the year to June 30,
1945, totalling £52. This rocked me until
I realised that tax deductions of about
£4O had been made from my pay during
my service.
On visiting Area Finance I was told
that there was probably a group certifi-
cate in the Taxation Department covering
my deductions. Search produced a stack of
R.A.A.F. group certificates, and after a
lengthy wait mine was discovered. With
it I was able to reduce the assessment
considerably, but I’m wondering just how
many hundreds of R.A.A.F. types have
received assessments for 1945 and paid
up without having a search made for
their group certificate.
Judging by that stack there is either a
great number -of unassessed R.A.A.F.
incomes or a great many fellows have
been stung for more than they owed.
Surely those group certificates could have
been credited against the taxpayer’s
account by the department instead of
placing the onus on the taxpayer to make
a personal application. —T.H. D.
(N.S.W.).
Price-fixing
Does price-fixing really work? A
survey of the profit-and-loss accounts of
several companies reveals that profits are
still away up. Many, in fact, are still
within easy distance of the profits earned
in war years—when most things were
made on a “cost -plus” basis —and some
show increased profits even after
allowing huge amounts for taxation.
I hadn’t given the matter much thought
until I was recently appointed to a new
job and had to delve into the means
whereby invested capital is made to show
a profit. It seems that there is a system
sanctioned by the Government of ensuring
a margin of profit to all concerned —in
fact, the margins are laid down by the
Prices Branch and a handsome profit it
is in most lines. Take toys, for instance.
A manufacturer turns out an article
for Is. He can then sell it direct to the
public, or to a distributor, who has ex-
clusive rights. On the other hand, he
can sell to several warehouses for dis-
tribution or he can sell direct to retailers.
The average manufacturer uses the dis-
tributor and warehouse method, adding
his margin of profit—in this case 25 p.c.
—which makes the selling price Is. 3d.
The distributor is allowed 10 p.c., making
the price Is. 4£d. to the wholesaler, who
in turn adds another 25 p.c., plus 10 p.c.
sales tax, bringing the price to the re-
tailer up to Is. lOd. The retailer is
then allowed by law to add another 40
p.c. as his share of the profit and the
article is marked up at 2s. 7d. selling
price. That is the fixed price of the toy,,
so that an article costing Is. to make
finally brings 2s. 7d. Magnify the original
cost and you can understand why things
are so dear.
The fault, of course, lies in the number
of people handling the transaction. Prices
are surely fixed, but by no means at a
minimum level of profit, which is strange
since the interest rates of banks and the
like are fixed at a level greatly below
those quoted. Perhaps banks are models
of efficiency, and business isn’t. — Fedup
(N.S.W.).


s
i
m
&
7A
JsJtz.
n
f/j
/
&s
m
\<<
m
///
n.
MOTOR OIL
When
the plains
are
‘sizzling’
fd
■P
*
BEFORE TOURING. LET YOUR GARAGE OR SERVICE STATION
DRAIN, FLUSH AND REFILL YOUR ENGINE WITH SHELL MOTOR OH-
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
